GOUTY SYNOVITIS. about the size of a shilling, is more efficacious ; it withdraws with the serum a nood deal of the urate of sodium. The part should he kept warm : cold, thoush it often for the time may seem grateful, prolongs and aggravates the attack, and may even he dangerous by causing the inflammation To recede to some internal organ (retrocedent gout). Therefore the part should he wrap- ped in licrht cloths, wrung out of a hot solution of bicarbonate of potassium i crr. x-fsj), to which may he added some extract of belladonna or tincture of opium! Or absorbent cotton-wool, into which some strong spirit of cam- phor has been shaken, may cover the part, and generally the tenderness is such that the weight of the bedclothes must be supported on a bed-cradle. The treament of irout in the intervals of attack must depend on its sthenic or asthenic quality. ~ In the former variety, food and drink must be limited, and especially the nitrogenous elements kept very low : stimulants, as far as possible, should be avoided, or, if some must be given, it should be old. pure whiskey, or sin. largely diluted. The kidneys should, be encouraged to free action, but not stimulated—an indication which I have found best fulfilled by digitalis; the action of the skin also must be aided—an occasional hot-air bath is often useful. Of great importance is proper regulation of the bowels and liver; this, no doubtrmay be effected by eolchieum in proper combina- tion; but, as pointed out a short time ago, the drug has certain disadvantages. Some practitioners give a hydragogue cathartic every morning, and with certain strong constitutions this may be advantageous; but it does not pre- vent the tendency to portal congestion. I have found the resin of podo- phyllum, in ^ grain doses, very useful for this purpose.1 If more purgation be desirable, the saline purse can still be given occasionally before breakfast. The patient should be encouraged to drink freely of alkaline waters, which are most easily taken in their effervescent forms. Atonic gout is more difficult of management, and must be more closely watched, as the possibility of lead poisoning, or of serious renal disease, must not be overlooked, while at the same time aberrant forms of the malady are more common in this than in sthenic gout. The treatment may be more tonic; a full diet, and a certain amount of claret or of hock may be allowed : the vegetable bitters, bark, or quinine, and even the lighter forms of iron may be giveu. Vith these, some bicarbonate of potassium or ammonium, or the iodide ot' potassium may be combined, especially if lead poisoning be suspected. But in the meanwhile the sufficiency of the excreta must be maintained. Ash-leaf tea, so highly recommended by certain writers, is both a bitter and a diuretic, but is void of any specific or very potent action in gout. Certain natural alkaline waters and baths are frequently very valuable in either form of gout. Vichy. Aix-la-Chapelle. Baden-baden (especially the lithia spring), and Carlsbad waters are probably most useful in sthenic, but may, if used only for a short time, also benefit asthenic gout. Afterwards, a stay at some of the more slightly charged springs, such as Vildbad. Tbplitz. Gastein, Bath, or Buxton, will probably be desirable. In the atonic form it will generally be desirable to begin with these latter, and to end with any of the lighter ferruginous spas—Sehwalbach Spa. Tunbridge Veils, etc. The stronger springs of the Pvrenees are onlv suitable to cases of verv marked debility. 1 The formula which I employ is this : Podophylli res. gr. j : Tinet. zingiberis, :'5:; ; spt. vini rectiflcat. fgj. A teaspoonful in water, twice or thrice a day.