929 pott’s disease of the spine. way it becomes pedunculated, and its fundus, or most dependent part, acquires dimensions quite out of proportion, often, to the size of its attachment. The abscess when in this condition has been aptly compared by Follin and Duplay to a leech, gorged with blood, hanging on to the column. The direc- tion the purulent collection tends to take—viz., a direction downwards along the front of the column—is to be explained by gravity, by the less resistance offered in this position, and by the decided resistance offered to the progress of the abscess by the structures at the posterior part of the spine. The path- ology of such an abscess is identical with the pathology of like abscesses else- where. It will be obvious that the abscess will at first occupy the hollow or angle produced by the deformity, and this circumstance will explain the fact that large collections of pus may form in front of the dorsal spine, in this disease, without any injurious pressure been exercised upon the lungs. The contents of the cyst vary. When small, the pus is usually curdy, and con- tains flaky matters with, possibly, some bony debris. When of large size, the matter may still present a curd-like appearance, although more usually it is tolerably thick and homogeneous. Varieties of the Abscess.—There are cases where the abscess may remain closely adherent to the seat of disease at the spine, and after attaining a cer- tain size may cease to grow. To such collections the name of vertebral abscess may be given. It is obvious that they could not be detected during life; that they would indicate but a comparatively slight or non-progressive form of the disease, and that they might afford examples of resolution or spontaneous cure. More usually, however, the abscess increases, and advancing towards the sur- face ultimately discharges itself from some part of the exterior of the body. Considerable variety is shown in the direction or route whereby these sup- purative collections reach the surface, and this variety in routes has led to some variety in names. The situation of the bone-disease will obviously modify to some considerable extent the point at which the abscess will ulti- mately present itself. If the disease be in the cervical spine, the abscess usually discharges itself at some point about the sides or back of the neck, although it may in rare cases present itself behind the pharynx (post-pharyngeal abscess), or open into the gullet or trachea, or pass down into the thorax, or wander to the anterior part of the neck. If the disease be in the dorsal region, the suppu- ration will usually follow the course of the psoas muscle, and thus reach the groin (psoas abscess). Or it may incline backwards and discharge itself in the loin (lumbar abscess); or it may extend no lower down than the iliac fossa (iliac abscess); or it may pass that district and reach the gluteal region, or the perineum (gluteal abscess, etc.). Even when all these routes are exhausted, the abscess may still present itself in other and more unusual situations. When the mischief is in the lumbar spine, the abscess most commonly points in the lumbar or iliac regions, or may follow the course of the psoas muscle, or present itself in one of the less usual situations to be hereafter described. It will be most convenient to give a very brief description of each of these varieties of abscess depending upon Pott’s disease. Psoas Abscess.—This form of abscess is most usually met with in disease of the lower dorsal or upper lumbar region ; but it may occur with spinal caries I in any part of the dorso-lumbar portion of the column. If the abscess commences in the dorsal region, the collection is placed behind the pleura, and gravitates along the front of the vertebrae until it reaches the diaphragm. It may pass through the diaphragm, either by creep- ing along by the side of the aorta, or by making for itsel f a passage through that partition by inflammatory absorption. Its subsequent course has been vol. iv.—59