FRACTURES OF THE VERTEBRiE. 749 1 Circular No. 3, S. G. O., Aug. 17, 1871, p. 129. almost inevitably prove fatal, and all that the surgeon can do for them is to mitigate suffering by administerining opiates and stimulants. The following example will serve to illustrate one dangerous sequel which sometimes, perhaps often, presents itself in cases of simple vertebral fracture, namely, traumatic myelitis:— Private John Hackey, Co. E, 6th Cavalry, aged 30, received, at Fort Waco, Texas, March 5, 1870, by falling from the second floor of a building occupied as barracks, a fracture of the fourth cervical vertebra. Complete paralysis, both sensory and motor, of the lower extremities, and of most of the trunk and upper extremities, immediately ensued. He was admitted to hospital without delay. But, on the morning of the 7th, he died of acute myelitis, about forty-eight hours after the accident. His intelligence remained unimpaired throughout. The treatment was sedative and stimulant.1 The paraplegia which immediately ensued, in this case, appears to have been due to concussion of the spinal cord, for no mention is made of com- pression of the cord from displacement of bone nor from any other cause. The symptoms of concussion ran quickly into the symptoms of acute inflam- mation of the spinal cord, and death soon ensued. In the following instructive case, there occurred simple fracture of the fifth cervical vertebra, without displacement of the fragments, and compression of the spinal cord from extravasation of blood at and around the seat of frac- ture :— Fig. 773. Private Emmet J., Co. A, 5th Infantry, aged 19, in diving from the bank of the Arkansas River, near Fort Lyon, Colorado, July 3, 1868, for the purpose of bathing, struck his head against the bottom, and immediately became powerless in the legs and arms. He would have drowned had no help been given. He was carried on a stretcher to the hos- pital, lying on his abdomen. Upon admission, at 1 P. M., the pulse, respiration, and temperature (although not counted) seemed normal; the pupils were unaffected; there was priap- ism. Power soon returned to his arms, although it was feeble. His extremities remained warm; and, when touched, sensa- tion was found more acute, that is, less blunted, in the left than in the right leg. He complained of feeling dead below the neck. No irregularity or distortion of the spine was revealed by a careful examination; but, there was tenderness over the fifth cervical vertebra. A sinapism was applied to the nape of his neck ; and, in an hour, he asked to be turned over, that is, on to the back. At 5 P. M. the pulse was 104; respiration 18 ; temperature 105°. Ice was applied to the upper part of the spine, a saline aperient was prescribed, and small pieces of ice given to be held in the mouth. At 9 P. M. the pulse was 100 ; respiration 24; temperature 102°; he was catheterized, and placed on a water-bed. On the morning of the 4th, the pulse, respiration, and temperature were all lessened. Cold applica- tions to the spine were continued in the form of iced water, and the catheter was used twice during the day. At 5 P. M. the bowels were moved involuntarily. On the 5th, the temperature sank considerably below the normal (Fig. 774) ; sensation in the lower extremities was abolished; and the respiration was abdominal, that is, diaphragmatic. Dry rubbings were presci’ibed, with tonics, and nutritious food. On the 6th, sensation had partly returned to the left leg, and the breathing was better, there being more movement of the chest. By the 11th, the patient was able to pass his urine without a catheter, but sensibility did not return to the right leg. On the morning of the 13th, he had a chill, which recurred on the morning of the 14th, and again in the afternoon. After this, his countenance became dusky, and the temperature rose during the next Showing fracture, without displacement, of the body of the fifth cervical vertebra. (Spec. 5724, Sect. I, A. M. M.)