14 INJURIES OF BONES. Fig. 581. Diagram supposed to represent extra-capsular fracture of the cervix femoris. Au impossible line of fracture. acter, direction, or exact mode of application of the fracturing force, or in the conditions of resistance, or perhaps in the shape of the bones them- selves. The dominant lines of breakage are singularly constant; and although they have been pointed out in regard to certain special fractures, they have been overlooked in the general study of these injuries. Xo such uniformity exists in the case of china, marble, or plaster. A howl or statue, struck or thrown down, may be shattered into fragments of the most fantastic and apparently capricious shapes. Or if several exact models of a femur were made in plaster, and force ap- plied to them, they would be cracked, shivered, or broken off short, in the most ir- regularway. The annexed outline (Fig. 581) is taken from a cut which has been used by eminent authors as a representation of ex- tracapsular fracture of the cervix femoris ; but I will venture to say that no one ever saw such a fracture, and that any one will be convinced of its impossibility who will look at a vertical section of the head and neck of the femur. What the dominant lines really are, will be shown when the discussion of fractures of this part comes in order. Only a brief review can be given here of the mechanical conditions of the skeleton ; but the general principles laid down will be found to be verified in the case of special bones and their fractures. Upon an exterior survey, it is at once seen that the long bones are narrow in their shafts, and expanded at either end for the purpose of strengthening the articulations. It will be also noted that they are almost without excep- tion curved, and that many of them are twisted in a marked degree. These irregularities of form are more pronounced in some skeletons than in others. Some of the bones, notably the lower jaw and the femur, are strongly bent. Upon making sections—of the femur for instance, this bone affording the most striking example—it will be seen that the shaft consists of a tube, with thick and strong walls, which gradually pass toward either end into a thin shell, filled with a network of cancellous bony tissue, of which more will be said presently. The aggregate of osseous substance is the same throughout; so that an inch of the length, taken from the middle of the shaft of the femur, will weigh about the same as an inch of the length cut near either end. Sec- tions of the pelvis and scapula will show a very analogous arrangement be- tween their hat and their spongy portions ; and the same may be said of the vertebra1. In other words, the structure of all bones is adapted to the bear- ing of either strain or pressure, or both. Where, as in the shafts of the long bones, strain is to be provided for, the material is massed in tubes of ade- quate thickness of Avail; and it will always be found that this thickness is greatest on the concavity of curves. On the other hand, where, as at the articulating ends, pressure is to be sustained, the bony substance is spread out so as to give surface. Allusion Avas just made to the backing up of the thin shell, thus formed, by reticular tissue ; and this deserves special notice. Everywhere in the spongy bones, as Avell as in the articular ends of the long bones, the lamellae forming this network run at right angles to the sur- face, so as to receive the pressure directly upon their extremities, and thus to