TUMORS. 628 even if it be not indeed the sole, agent. The growth of the tumor is effected in the same fashion, by the continued new formation of gland-tissue. Characters and Course of Adenomata.—Some of the new formations of gland-tissue are congenital. The dermoid tumors contain excellent examples of gland-tissues, especially of sebaceous and sudoriparous glands. It is prob- able, too, that most, if not all, of the alimentary glands are congenital. Unless they are congenital, adenomas are almost invariably developed during adult age. Thus, the adenomas of the breast are found chiefly in women from twenty to thirty years of age; the adenomas of the salivary glands in young or middle-aged adults; those of the nose, the tongue, and the skin, at a corresponding period of life. The adenomas of the rectum are among the very few glandular tumors which are found, not very rarely, in young subjects. Most of the adenomas are small, and few of them attain a very large size. When it is remembered that the polypi of the nose, uterus, and rectum are among the glandular tumors of those parts, the truth will at once be recog- nized that they rarely form large tumors. The true adenomas of the breast are among the smallest tumors which grow there. The chronic enlargements of the prostate which are adenomatous are very seldom large. The actual growth of all these tumors is, too, very slow, so that to attain even their small size may occupy several years. Appearance after Removal.—The adenomas of the breast, the salivary glands, the thyroid, and some of those of the prostate, are circumscribed, lobulated tumors, inclosed in a firm, fibrous capsule. Those of the breast are often united to the gland by a slender cord. On section, all these tumors exhibit a compact structure, very much resembling the appearance of an active gland, a portion of the pancreas, for example. The compactness of the section is often broken by the presence of small cysts which are not un- usual in these growths. The tumors of the skin and tongue are, in the same way, generally circumscribed and inclosed in capsules. A singular exception to this rule occurs in the disease which goes by the name of elephantiasis of the nose, and which consists in an irregular and most disfiguring enlargement of that part. Most of the enlargement is due to a great increase in new for- mation of sebaceous glands, but the disease is a continuous outgrowth, not a distinct and separate tumor. The adenomas of the interior of the nose, the uterus, and the rectum, however, are almost invariably polypi, and differ very little in appearance, if at all, from polypi of the same regions which are only partly formed of glandular structures, or which contain no glands. They are firmer than the mucous polypi, but, like them, are covered by mucous mem- brane. The microscopic structure of the adenomas depends, naturally, upon the variety of the disease. The racemose adenomas consist of a large number of single cavities or acini, of round or slightly elongated shape, each inclosed in a membrana propria and lined with epithelium. The membrana propria consists, in whole or part, of a layer of endothelial cells; the epithelium, of one or several layers of spheroidal, or cubical, or columnar cells. Most of the acini .are furnished with a small, central lumen. Sometimes they appear to have no definite arrangement, but usually they are disposed in lobules, or clustered around the end of a small duct. Several small ducts, with acini placed thus around their terminations, may join to form a larger duct, as in the normal gland. But at this point the resemblance ceases, for no main ducts exist. When first these glandular structures were developed they were, as may be judged from the description of the development, in connection