REMOTE EFFECTS OF SRINAL INJURIES. 873 1 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1856, pp 156, 157. restlessness and general hypersesthesia of a severe character. Tetanic spasms and opisthotonos ensued. The remote effects of spinal injuries are to be still further traced in the occurrence of chronic spinal arachnitis of a fatal character, without the super- vention of any vertebral joint inflammation whatever. Sir W. Gull has recorded the following instructive case of traumatic, chronic, spinal arachnitis:—1 A railway porter, aged 22, strong and muscular, liad his neck and shoulders squeezed between the buffers of two carriages, on September 20, 1855. For three or four weeks afterward, he was unable to work, and felt much pain in the right arm, as also in the scapular region and down the back, especially between the seventh and tenth dorsal vertebra. The pain was increased by any sudden twist of the body, and extended to the abdomen. About the first of February, 1856, he was again obliged to quit work, on account of the severity of the pain along the spine. On Feb. 6, he was admitted to the hospital under Dr. Addison’s care. There were pain on pressure over the Sower dorsal vertebra, pain in the abdomen, and occasional tingling in the hands and feet. The abdomen itself was full and hard, with pain on suddenly turning the back, extend- ing from the ribs below the umbilicus. Nothing abnormal was found in the chest; pulse 78 ; tongue furred in the centre; bowels regular; appetite defective. He was treated by cupping, mercurials, and laxatives. On the lltli, the pain in the back was increased He also had headache, and his nights were restless and disturbed by dreams. The shooting pain in the abdomen continued, and it was noted that the integuments were remarkably hot and dry. The pulse was 72, with a noticeable sharp- ness in the beat. From this date he became slightly affected by mercurial action, and was apparently improving. He left his bed for several hours in the day, without incon- venience; still, however, complaining of his former symptoms, and of pain through the chest. On the 28th he had general febrile symptoms, with cough, and hurried breathing, and signs of pleurisy at the base of left lung. The abdomen was tense; constipation ; pulse 112 ; sleep disturbed by dreams, and by frequent spasmodic twitch- ings of the extremities. He complained very much of pain in the lumbar region, on each side of the vertebral column, and down the sacrum. On March 11, there was retention of urine. On the 13th, slight delirium, and a marked decline of strength. He was scarcely able to move his legs, but the sensation on pinching was acute. He lay supine, sinking to the foot of the bed, his arms being too weak to help him to sup- port himself. From this date he rapidly became worse, with much cerebral oppression. The urine drawn off daily by the catheter was ammoniacal, with large deposit of phos- phates The feces escaped involuntarily. Frequent convulsive twitchings, both of the upper and lower extremities. Breathing hurried and laborious. Tongue dry and brown. Pulse 108 On the day before death, he lay nearly insensible, frequently moaning and sighing, pulse 90, feeble and irregular; urine copious, and drawn off by catheter, feces passed involuntarily. On the 17th he died, about six months after the accident Autopsy.—No injury of the vertebras or ribs was discovered ; spinal canal and exter- nal surface of the spinal dura mater healthy. On opening the dura mater, the spinal arachnoid appeared remarkably thickened and flocculent, from the effusion of lymph beneath it. The effusion was greatest on the posterior surface of the cord along the me- dian line, but at the lower part of the cord (a segment of it corresponding to the lower cervical and eighth upper doi’sal vertebra only was allowed by the friends to be exam- ined), the effusion extended around it to the anterior surface, and upward for a short distance. The cord itself was not softened; and, on repeated microscopical examination of the cord-substance, at different sections, no traces of exudation were discovered. The theca vertebralis had undergone no alteration, excepting that the inner layer was rather opalescent. One or two very small fibroid plates on the visceral arachnoid. The flocculent effusion covering the cord (that is, found in the meshes of the pia mater), presented under the microscope the usual appearances of inflammatory exudation on serous surfaces in the stage of organization into permanent adhesions. Examination