805 INJURIES OF THE SPINAL CORD AND SPINAL NERVES. and left the hospital with only slight weakness in the left leg, and with the head bowed slightly forward. Subsequently he fell and broke his spine again. Thirty-four days after that he died exhausted from bed-sores and colliquative diarrhoea. The autopsy revealed fractures of the fourth and fifth cervical vertebras, which had united; the callus had been broken by the second fall. “ Opposite the point of com- pression, the cord exhibited an annular constriction, abrupt and well-marked, and very analogous to that presented by the intestine in some cases of strangulated hernia. When incised longitudinally at this spot, the color and consistence of the cord were found altered to a brownish hue, and to the density and firmness of fibrous tissue; a small circumscribed spot, about a line in extent, was especially characterized in this way. The membranes were also more adherent here than elsewhere.” It was inferred that the seat of this peculiar change was that of the original lesion of the cord, and that the morbid appearance constituted a true cicatrix of the spinal marrow.1 Moreover, this case shows that the process of re-uniting the filaments of the spinal cord, when lacerated by vertebral fractures or dislocations, is not a rapid one, and that certainly several months, and possibly several years, must elapse before it can be accomplished. M. Bro wn-Sequard’s experiments upon animals prove that in them reunion may take place after a wound of the spinal cord, so that its lost functions may return.2 Furthermore, this eminent observer has sometimes seen a nota- ble return of lost functions (rachidian) in animals, when their spinal columns had been fractured and their spinal cords crushed.3 The investigations of MM. Masius and Van Lair,4 in regard to the regeneration of the spinal marrow, show how great the reparative power of this organ really is. These experi- menters divided the spinal marrow in frogs, and at the end of from two to four months obtained undoubted evidence that these frogs had regained sensi- bility and voluntary motility in their hind legs. In other frogs, histologi- cal examination showed a more or less complete regeneration of the spinal marrow. The fact that eases of long-standing infantile spinal paralysis are cured— cases in which there can be no doubt of the existence of the spinal lesion (atrophy of the anterior cornua)—is of itself sufficient evidence to prove that the reparative power of the spinal cord is very great. (Hammond.) Like- wise, it will be remembered that four examples of reunion of the spinal cord in the human subject, when it had been gashed by cutting instruments, were presented on pages 799, 800 {supra). There can therefore, be no doubt, that the nerve-filaments of the spinal cord may reunite when they have been severed by simple fractures and dislocations of the spinal column. The treatment which such wounds of the spinal cord require, has already been laid down while discussing the simple fractures and dislocations of the spinal column that cause them. Briefly stated, it consists, (1) in withdrawing the vulnerating body from the cord-wound by reducing the fracture or dis- location ; (2) in placing the severed cord-filaments in the condition most favorable for reunion by maintaining perfect rest of body ; and (3) in turning aside any phlogosis which would retard or prevent their reunion, by leeching or cupping, cold applications, and counter-irritants, used externally, and by opium or morphia, potassium iodide, and ergot, given internally, according to the indications for their employment. Injuries of the Spinal jSTerves.5—In fractures and dislocations of the vertebrae, whether simple or compound, the roots of the spinal nerves are 1 Op. cit., pp. 358, 359. 2 Experimental Researches applied to Physiology and Pathology, p. 17. New York, 1853. 3 Lectures on the Physiology and Pathology of the Central Nervous System delivered before the Royal College of Surgeons of England, p. 250. Appendix. Philadelphia, 1860. 4 Archives de Pliysiologie, t. iv. p. 268. s See Figure 790, p. 788.