CYSTS OF NEW FORMATION. 657 Some of the cysts which are formed in cavities due to arrests of develop- ment must also properly be reckoned among the exudation-cysts; those, for example, which are formed in the processus vaginalis of the spermatic cord, in the Wolffian body, and in the ligamentum latum. II. Cysts of Xew Formation. Extravasation-Cysts.—The second class of cysts, those of new formation, includes several varieties. First, are the extravasation-cysts, formed by changes in and around a blood-extravasation. The surrounding tissues become con- densed, and connective tissue is developed, in some instances certainly as the product of inflammation, hut not always of inflammatory origin. The inner surface of the cyst-wall may be lined with endothelium. The blood may be absorbed and replaced by serous fluid; or it may be changed, as in coagula- tion, the wall of the cavity being roughly lined with clot and the expressed serum occupying the centre. The serum may contain blood-crystals and pigment-molecules. In the same way in which an extravasation becomes inclosed within a cyst-wall, a foreign body may acquire a sac and become the solid contents of a cyst. Parasitic Cysts.—To the cysts of new formation belong the sacs which are formed in connection with parasites: echinococcus, cysticercus cellulosse, and others. Cysts formed in Areolar Tissue.—It appears probable that some cysts are formed by the expansion of areolar spaces of connective tissue. A num her of adjoining spaces thus expanded and fused together by the absorption or attenuation of the intervening tissue, form a cavity sometimes of consider- able size. The immediately surrounding tissue is condensed, and forms a fibrous wall which may be even lined with endothelium. The contents of such a cyst are generally clear, serous fluid. Many of the adventitious bursae are attributed to this cause. Even the bursa«over the patella is often regarded as an adventitious bursa formed in this fashion, and the bands which are sometimes found crossing its interior are thought to be the remains of fibrous partitions which formerly separated the areolae from which the bursa was developed. Some of the congenital cystic tumors, the cystic hygromas, are thought to be developed by the expansion and fusion of areolar spaces, but others of them have been traced to a connection with lymphatic vessels, and a few are supposed to be developed in connection with the remains of foetal structures. Cysts formed dy union of Papillary Processes.—Another method by which cysts are newly formed is by the growing together of certain portions ot adjacent papillary processes, while other portions of them arc separated by fluid. Such cysts are developed more commonly in connection with tumors than in the natural textures. They are lined with the same variety ot epithelium as that which covers the papilhe, generally columnar. Cysts from Changes in Cells.—Last of the cysts of new formation, but certainly not least, for they are more truly wholly of new formation than some of those which have been described, are (lie cysts which are due to changes in cells. By proliferation a group of cells is produced, of which the outer form a capsule, and those which lie next a cellular lining for the capsule, vol. iv.—42