DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 414 tremity instead of probe-pointed, can be entirely withdrawn from the canula. From near the top of the trochanter, downward on the outside of the limb, is made an incision 1| inches long, and extending down to the bone. Across the centre of this, another incision, equally deep, and slightly exceeding at either end the breadth of the bone, is drawn. The periosteum is now peeled away from both back and front of the bone, and as far as possible to its inner side. By passing the finger into the depth of the wound, behind the femur, the surgeon now can feel the small trochanter and the ilio-psoas tendon, above and outside which is a space bounded further out and higher by the curved femoral neck. The instrument above described is taken in" the other hand and passed in front of the bone, and thence around it, until the finger-tip feels the end of the tube present itself in this space; the spring being protruded, now passes behind the bone, comes into sight, and is withdrawn, bringing with it a strong silk ligature which, in its turn, carries around the bone a chain-saw, with which the junction of the neck to the shaft is severed. In my cases I have found no occasion to divide the soft parts, either muscle or tendon, but have been able to bring the limb into position after some little traction. In the after-treatment the thigh should be much abducted, so that the necessary parallelism of the erect posture may cause depression of that side of the pelvis, thus compensating for the unavoidable shortening (see page 383). Of these various methods the following must be said: It is of doubtful advantage to aim, by removing portions of bone, to procure a false joint. It certainly is very questionable whether a greater prospect of mobility is attained by such removal; it is probably the after-treatment rather than any other factor which determines the condition of mobility or the reverse. Nor is a joint, in the usual acceptation of the term, attainable; if such could be formed, it would not, I believe, be a very reliable support, since muscles are placed to maintain posture, or confer movement, at a particular part of the skeleton, and we can- not by art transfer the functions to another part. A firm, fibrous union, if strong enough to support the weight, yet flexible enough to permit some movement, would be useful; but, as said above, this is unattainable by remov- ing portions of bone. For does experience show that the mobility, verified shortly after the operation, is persistent; the tendency has always been towards complete stiffness.1 Thus, the method of Sayre and the second method of Yolkmann I take to be unnecessarily severe, and in so far (Volkrnann’s certainly) unnecessarily dangerous.2 Gant’s operation appears to be the mitigation of one deformity by the sub- stitution of another; for the upper fragment is of considerable length, and, if the hip be flexed at an angle calling for operative interference, for instance, at something like a right angle, that fragment must protrude greatly, and the whole of its length be lost to the limb. [The Editor’s experience with Mr. Gant’s operation has led him to form a more favorable opinion of it than that expressed in the text. The bone-section being made but a short distance below the lesser trochanter, the projection of the upper fragment is incon- siderable, and the slight shortening is readily compensated for by the adapta- tion of a high-soled shoe.]3 Adams’s operation, division of the neck of the femur with a saw, is very valuable whenever the surgeon can be sure that a sufficiently long neck exists. It is inapplicable to most cases of anchylosis occurring after hip-disease, by 1 Such phrases as, “ when last seen some mobility still remained, hut was decreasing,” are usual in the history of these cases. 2 Volkmann considers that, in children, simple section, without removing any bone, may suffice. 3 [An interesting study of this subject has been published by the Editor’s colleague, Dr. H. R. Wharton, in the American Journal of the Medical Sciences for July, 1S83.]