383 HIP-DISEASE. the abductors become most markedly contracted, and the thigh is thrown out- ward, without, however, losing its flexion. Subsequently the abduction disap- pears, and adduction takes its place. The cause of this change is quite occult; at present we are without any clue even to an inference as to its nature.1 Now it is upon these two positions of abduction and adduction that appa- rent lengthening and shortening of the limb depend; thus, abduction places the thigh at a certain obtuse angle with a line drawn between the two aceta- bula—for instance, at the angle a b c (Fig. 656); but the individual will not remain in that posture, with the legs straddled wide apart, but will get them more or less parallel, still maintaining the angle of abduction; the only possible way of doing this is to let the pelvis on the affected side droop, as the one knee is brought to lie near the other ; the skeleton then assumes the pos- ture seen in Fig. 657; that is to say, the angle a b c is maintained, the transverse Fig. 656. Abduction by separation of limbs. Fig. 657. Apparent lengthening. axis of the pelvis is oblique, one acetabulum lies below the level of the other, and therefore one knee is lower than the other. This is the “ lengthening” ot hip-disease; it is apparent only, no such thing as real lengthening being possible without either dislocation, diastasis, or fracture. Shortening is easily comprehended by similar observations regarding adduction ; the rigid thigh is now placed at an acute angle with a line between the two acetabula, but again parallelism of the two limbs will be sought, and in order to gain this, and at the same time to preserve the angle, the pelvis is lifted ; the line b c (f ig. 658) again becomes oblique, but in the contrary direction ; therefore the pelvis on the side of disease is lifted, and the knee of that side lies higher than the other. This is “apparent shortening it is that which occurs when the third, stage of the disease is first reached; but a real shortening whose nature will be immediately explained is afterwards superadded. We must particularly note here that the abducted (lengthened) limb would, if mea- sured from the spine of the ilium to the knee or malleolus, seem shorter than the other, because the whole crest is, by that posture, brought nearer to the trochanter, and therefore to the whole femur. On the other hand, because the . 1 g11 s°me cases, abduction appears to coincide with distension of the capsule, adduction with i s subsidence ; but these are mere occasional coincidences, and not, I believe, causally connected.