426 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. the man’s thigh near the knee, we can easily, with the advantage of the leverage thus obtained, move the bone into all sorts of positions, forcing it upwards or downwards, and rotating it in and out. These movements, indeed, are very much more easily carried out, and to a greater extent, than in health. But do what we will, the other hand placed upon the swelling can discover no trace of any neck or head to the femur. The bone evidently terminates above with the great trochanter. In some of the move- ments, especially in rotation outwards, we are conscious of crepitus, which is sometimes much more marked than at others. The patient says that he often himself feels this crepitus in the movements of walking. Turning back now to the front of the thigh, and examining the structures below Poupart’s ligament, we come upon something which is very singular. We feel a sort of narrow, bony splint, not wider than one’s little finger, which stretches obliquely downwards, and somewhat inwards, for about nine inches. Above, it is pretty firmly fastened (not, however, apparently by bone) to the anterior inferior spine of the ilium, but lower down it can be easily grasped, lifted from subjacent textures, and slid loosely to and fro. When the patient extends his leg, this process of bone is held tightly, so that it is evidently connected in some way with the quadriceps femoris muscle. It appears, in fact, to occupy the position of the superior tendon of the rectus. Besides all this, we note that both lower extremities are some- what wasted, the right especially.”1 If at some future period an anatomical investigation shall corroborate Dr. Buzzard’s view as to this growth of bone, it will be, as far as I know, the only instance of ossification of muscle which has been observed in this very curious disease. The anatomical changes just noticed show only a distant resemblance to those of arthritis deformans; the predominance of wearing away, the comparatively slight production of osteophytes. Fig- 673. and the tendency to complete luxation, mark a very real difference. If the knee here represented (Fig. 673) be compared with a like articulation affected with arthritis deformans, there can be no con- fusing the two diseases, even though some amount of marginal hyperplasia is to be traced about the Fig. 074. Bones of knee-joint; tibia worn away by patella ; hyperplasia of ar- ticular margin. (After Schreiber.) Upper end of humerus wgrn away. (After Charcot.) femoral surface. In no other joint-disease can there be found such complete wearing away, as is shown by the upper extremity of the humerus here repre- sented (Fig. 674). 1 Op, cit., p. 225.