INJURIES OF BONES. 242 It must not be forgotten that fat-embolism, of which mention was made at some length in the early part of this article, is especially apt to ensue upon fractures of the leg, in which the conditions upon which that pathological process depends are more fully met than in fractures of any other part of the skeleton. A peculiar form of fracture, affecting, almost if not quite exclusively, the lower part of the leg, was described with much accuracy by Gosselin,1 nearly thirty years ago. Both bones are broken; but it is the lesion of the tibia which is important. This bone yields to a force of which torsion is a princi- pal element, according to some observers the only one ; but I think that there is ground for believing that there is first a flexion or cross-breaking strain. However this may be, the tibia sustains, first, a V-shaped fracture, the apex of the V presenting downward, and in some, if not in all the cases, on the antero-internal face of the bone, instead of along its crest. From this apex, or from a part of the V (‘lose to it, there runs downward a fissure, always in a spiral direction, to cross the ankle-joint, from behind forward, and then to run upward and join the main fracture at some other point. I think that the mode of production of this fissure will at once suggest itself in the lateral pressure of the apex of the V against the sides of the corresponding part of the lower fragment. This is the explanation admitted by Tillaux,2 who has given a very clear and practical discussion of the Avhole subject. These fractures have been designated as V-shaped, wedge-shaped, spiroid, or helicoid; but none of these terms adequately describe them. The V-shaped portion is of importance only as, under torsion, causing the fissure; it does not act as a wedge; “ spiroid” is at best a mongrel word, and neither it nor “helicoid” is suggestive of the very long and really but slightly curved line in which the bone splits. Tillaux thinks the phrase “ oblique fracture of the leg” a good one, with the addition, if another epithet be required, of the word “helicoid.” I venture to suggest that “ Y-fractures of the tibia” would con- vey the idea of the essential features of the lesion. Hulke3 says that the fracture of the fibula, in these cases, always has more or less of the V-shape ; and that this bone sometimes gives way at more than one point. Tillaux gives an instance in which it remained intact. There are obvious reasons why fractures of the kind just described should be attended with danger of serious consequences. Besides the involvement of the ankle-joint, the damage done to the bone itself is extensive, and the medulla can scarcely escape bruising, hemorrhage into its substance, and in- terference with its nutrition. Hence, arthritis, osteo-myelitis, pytemia, or septicaemia, may ensue, and cost the patient his life. Yet these risks are often successfully met, as in cases recorded by Gosselin. Two specimens are known to me, one in the Mutter Museum and the other in the Wistar and Horner Museum at the University of Pennsylvania, in which union has taken place in a very perfect manner, the line of the fractures, however, being clearly traceable.4 Fractures of the leg at its lower part have been sometimes said to be analogous to those at or just above the wrist; but it seems to me that this idea is apt to lead to error. Supra-malleolar fractures are in some small de- gree similar to those of both bones of the forearm close to the wrist; but even here the resemblance is but slight and superficial. 1 Gazette des Hopitaux, 1855 ; Mem. de la Societe de Chirurgie, tome v. 1855 ; and Bulletin de la Societe de Chirurgie, tomes vi. et ix. See also Clinical Lectures on Surgery, translated by Stimson, pp. 90 et seq. 2 Op. cit., p. 1149. 3 Holmes’s System of Surgery, vol. i. p- 1043. 4 For further information in regard to these fractures, the reader is referred to the articles and works before quoted ; also to au interesting paper on the subject, by Dr. R. M. Hodges, in the Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, Jan. 11, 1877.