145 FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. the projection forward of the upper end of the lower fragment would be in great measure, if not altogether, obviated, since the muscles which cause it would thus be relaxed. The posture, although not as comfortable for a length of time as the rectangular, would still not be unendurable, and would not need to be maintained after the process of union had begun. The method by extension, advocated by Allis, has already been described. It is recommended also by Ingalls.1 A most important matter, in the treatment of all these cases, is the making of passive motion. This ought, in my opinion, always to be begun as early as possible; but the proper time varies with circumstances. When the line of fracture is wholly outside of the joint, and the latter does not become swollen by effusion within its cavity, I think it well at the very first dressing to grasp the lower part of the arm firmly, but gently, and to slowly and quietly make flexion, extension, pronation and supination, not to extreme degrees, but freely enough to exercise the whole joint. Properly done, this process involves no risk of disturbing the fragments, nor is it followed by any pain, tenderness, swelling, or other evidence of inflammation. Even if the joint is involved in the breakage, I think that as soon as the inevitable inflammation has subsided, passive motion may be very gently made, and with advantage; perhaps, at first, the movements may be limited to pronation and supination, and flexion may be added subsequently, extension being postponed on account of the risk of tilting the lower fragment forward. Should marked irritation ensue, it may be allayed by hot fomentations, by poulticing, or by the local use of lead-water and laudanum, and no further attempt should be made for a few days, perhaps for a week. When stiffening of the elbow has already occurred, whether early or late in the progress of the case, it is very desirable to overcome it; and the means to be adopted with this view must vary according to circumstances. If it is early, an attempt should be made to change the angle from day to day, or oftener. This may be done either by employing different splints, with slightly varying angles, sub- stituting at each dressing a fresh one, or by the use of a single splint with a hinge corresponding to the elbow, and with the two portions movable by means of Stromeyer’s screw (Fig. 612). A modi- fication of this appliance has lately been proposed by Keen, consisting simply in attaching the screw by curved arms, so as to place it well over at one side, and avoid interference with the bandaging of the arm to the splint. I think advantage is some- times gained by poulticing the joint for a day or two previous to attempting to change the angle. Violence should never be used in these cases. An important point to be noted is the degree to which flexion can be made, and the character of its limitation. If the forearm is checked at an angle of say 30°, there is reason to believe that the lower fragment is tilted forward; and this is the more likely if extension can be carried beyond its natural limit. In such a case, it becomes a question whether an attempt should be made, under anaesthesia, to correct the abnormal position of the lower fragment, or to do the same thing by gradual means—changing the posture of the limb by dressing it in a state of flexion; or it may be, especially if the previous history of the case shows the joint to be readily inflamed, that the more prudent course will be to let things remain as they are, notifying the patient or his friends that there will, probably, be a permanent limitation of movement. 1 Medical News, Jan. 7, 1882. VOL. IV.—10 Fig. 612. Hinged splint for elbow, with Stromeyer’s screw.