171 FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOREARM. Nothing special need, be said in regard to it, as each lesion is as independent of the other as if the limbs belonged to different bodies. Compound fracture is very rare in this region; except in gunshot injuries, or in railroad or machinery accidents, indeed, I do not know that it is ever seen. The neighboring bones and soft parts would in such a case be likely to be also involved, and the sum of the injury would be great enough to demand amputation. In a number of instances recorded by Hamilton and others, the lower extremity of the ulna has been driven through the skin, having had the carpus torn away from it along with the distal fragment of the radius; but here the fracture is still a simple one, and the lesion just mentioned is a complication only. Bryant1 mentions a very curious complication, produced by a fall from a height, in a man aged thirty. “ There was an impacted Colles’s fracture of the right radius, and a vertical fracture of the head of the same bone into the joint.” A much more common complication, especially apt to occur in cases due to direct violence, is fracture of one or more of the carpal bones, the scaphoid and semilunar being those oftenest affected. Epiphyseal separations of the lower end of the radius have been spoken of by some authors ;2 but they do not present any special features as compared with ordinary fractures in this region. When, as happens in a small proportion of the cases, the fracture is the result of a fall on the back of the hand, the distal fragment is driven forward, so that the articulating surface looks toward the palmar instead of toward the dorsal aspect of the limb. The leverage is then exerted in the direction of flexion, and not of extension, and the hand is bent forward, so that in the state of pronation it makes an angle downward with the forearm. Of this I have lately seen a striking instance, which will be further spoken of in con- nection with the subject of treatment. In such cases the symptoms are very nearly the same as in those of the ordinary form of the injury before detailed; but there is a slight difference in the character of the deformity, such as will readily be understood. The lower fragment, instead of rising up on the dorsal surface, drops forward, and the “silver-fork” shape of the wrist is much less distinct. The course of these cases is extremely variable. Unfortunately, an oppor- tunity is not seldom presented of seeing the results of treatment so inefficient as to amount to almost nothing. Often the deformity is uncorrected, and the patient goes through life with the wrist misshapen. But as union takes place, and as the irritation in the sheaths of the tendons and in the neighbor- ing soft parts subsides, the usefulness of the limb is restored, and the hand regains its strength, except for actions consisting in pushing, and such as require its complete flexion on the forearm. When the force has acted on the back of the hand, it is extension that is apt to be thus interfered with, and the member acquires a claw-like appear- ance, aggravated in one case which has come under my notice by nerve-lesions, impairing the nutrition of the part, shrivelling the fingers, and totally abolish- ing strength and freedom of motion. Under proper treatment, however, a far more favorable condition of things is brought about. Union generally takes place readily, and if the fragments have been put into proper apposition, the shape and strength of the wrist, as well as the motions of the part, are completely restored. Between these two extremes—union with great deformity and union with perfect restoration of shape, there are of course innumerable gradations. In 1 Manual for the Practice of Surgery, 2d Am. edition, p. 788. 2 Holmes, Surgical Treatment of Children’s Diseases, p. 254; R. W. Smith, op. cit., p. 165.