406 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. done at the time when the other steps are taken. If they are depressed and funnel-shaped, they can rarely be divided without cutting off their neck, and leaving a gap in the midst; if this is on the side of deflection, the hole may, in stretching, tear. Hence it is better to divide such depressed cicatrices some days before the chief operation, and, by moving them frequently over subja- cent parts, prevent them from again becoming so closely attached. This little procedure is generally so painless that it may be done without using an anaesthetic. The change of position, or restoration of movement, is to be effected, under deep anaesthesia, by the judicious, yet resolute application of manual force. The object of the procedure is to break through the thickened tissue of peri- synovial impediments, or of bands of adhesion, and also to rupture the shorter and thicker, impeding attachments of false anchylosis. If these parts be merely stretched, inflammation, or sometimes considerable pain without demonstra- ble inflammation, follows, and the operation will have been useless, or even injurious; but rent cicatricial bands very rarely inflame, especially if the rupture be complete. The surgeon’s object should be effected by a series of jerks, carried out thus; the limb should always first be impelled in a direc- tion opposite to that in which we wish to move the joint; for example, if w7e desife to flex a limb fixed in too straight a position, we first extend it still further, rupturing probably a few bands, and then flex it till a sufficiently decided resistance is encountered; next let the part recede a little towards extension, in order to gain a little impetus, and then by a rapid, but not vio- lent, motion towards ttexion, rupture the first and probably chief impedi- ment. We press the limb again towards flexion until other obstacles occur, and repeat these manoeuvres until all are overcome, or at least until all has been done that is considered safe and desirable. If any point has been, during examination, found to be painful in the way indicating the presence of bands of adhesion, it is well to steady the part during their rupture by pressing firmly with the thumb on the painful spot. Hut during this process the beha- vior of tendons and bands of fascia, and of cicatrices, must be carefully watched; should the former tighten sufficiently to evidently impede movement, they must be divided, while, if the hindrance come from scars, these must be separated. The after-treatment must at first be directed to prevent or minimize inflammatory consequences: entire rest must be secured, and cold, in the form of ice-bags, should be employed. If merely change of position have been the object of treatment, rest may be maintained until completion of the case: if mobility have been aimed at, passive motion must be employed on the third day, unless some inflammation have set in. This must of necessity be to a certain degree painful; if too much so, an anaesthetic may be again administered, and indeed, if necessary, reiterated. In the manipulation of each joint, certain methods of movement should be adopted, and certain precautions used, which need only very brief mention, because the above general directions give a great part of what is necessary. Shoulder.—Method.—One hand is placed with the palm on the acromion ; the fingers and thumb grasp between them the head of the humerus. The first movement is to be rotation outward and inward, effected by holding in the other hand, the elbow bent at a right angle. The arm is then brought in front of the body till the elbow lies over the lower costal cartilages, and then it is placed behind the trunk. Afterwards, circumduction is used in an increasingly wide circle. Caution.—By no means let the arm be abducted directly from the side at an early stage of the process, lest it be dislocated downward.