110 INJURIES OP BONES. is sewed to the portion of the first which is behind the back, and its ends are brought up over the shoulders, one to be tied to the point of the first, and the other to come over the broken clavicle and down to the base of the first triangle, to which it is firmly fastened. Fox’s apparatus, which has been extensively used in the United States since 1828, and is still employed by many surgeons, consists of a padded ring for the sound shoulder, an axillary pad of wedge shape, and a sling for the elbow of the injured side; the pad and sling being furnished with tapes in front and behind for attachment to the ring. Levis’s apparatus1 (Fig. 601), is constructed on the same principle, but the padded ring for the sound shoul- der is dispensed with, a band over the back of the neck and front of the sound shoulder being substituted for it. To this the elbow-sling is attached by a band across the patient’s back, and two across the chest. Ur. Levis uses straps and buckles instead of tapes, and keeps the elbow by the side —not drawn forward. Professor Moore has proposed2 a bandage, which he calls “ the figure- of-8 of the elbow.” He keeps the arm parallel to the axis of the body,with the elbow close to the trunk, and uses “a shawl or piece of cotton cloth, which when folded like a cravat, eight inches in breadth at the centre, should be about two yards long. Placing this at the centre across the palm of the surgeon, he seizes with this hand the elbow of the patient which corre- sponds with the broken clavicle. The two ends of the bandage hang to the floor. The one falling inward toward the patient is carried upward, in front of the shoulder and over the back, making a spiral movement in front of the shoulder; this is entrusted to an assistant. The outer end is then carried across the forearm, behind the back, over the opposite shoulder, and around the axilla. This meets the other end, which may be carried under the axilla and over the shoulder of the opposite side, thus making the figure-of-8 turn around the sound shoulder. This twist, it will be seen, makes also the figure-of-8 turn around the elbow of the affected side.” The forearm is to be supported, with the elbow acutely flexed, by means of a sling. Hale3 has modified this dressing by the addi- tion of an adjustable back-sling, to be tightened during the day, and loosened at night. AVbat is known as Sayre’s apparatus4 consists of two broad bands of adhe- sive plaster; one surrounds the upper part of the arm of the injured side, and thence runs across the back and round the thorax; the second, beginning in front of the sound shoulder, passes over it, and diagonally across the back to the opposite elbow, thence up again, embracing the whole forearm and hand, to be fastened at or near the point of starting. A longitudinal slit 1 Am. Journal of the Medical Sciences, Jan. 1856. 2 Transactions of the Medical Society of the State of New York, 1870. 9 Medical Record, May 27, 1882. 4 Bellevue and Charity Hospital Reports, 1870. Fig. 601. Levis’s apparatus for fracture of the clavicle.