EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. 530 longitudinal incision through the tendo Achillis to meet the first wound. Mr. Holmes’s method seems to me preferable. In this mode of performing the operation (Fig. 750), an incision is made on the level of the upper portion Fig. 750. Excision of the calcaneum. of the bone, beginning at the inner edge of the tenuo Achillis (which it divides), and then passing around the back and outer surface of the foot, as far forward as a point midway between the heel and base of the fifth meta- tarsal bone. From near the anterior end of this incision, a second is made at right angles to it, passing downwards to the beginning of the grooved inter- nal surface of the os calcis. A flap is thus marked out, which includes the cut peronei tendons, and which is then reflected from the bone ; the ligaments of the calcaneo-cuboid joint are next divided, when the calcaneum itself can be slightly displaced imcards, thus rendering easier the division of the various ligaments which unite it to the astragalus. This having been accomplished, the bone is again twisted outwards, and cautiously separated from the soft tissues on its inner side. The calcaneum having been removed, a strip of oiled lint is placed in the cavity which is left, and the limb secured, with the foot at a right angle to the leg, by adjusting an anterior, moulded splint, or the bracketed wire splint recommended for the after-treatment of excision of the ankle.1 Southam, of Liverpool, and Lund, of Manchester, have still further sim- plified the operation by making but a single external incision, beginning as in Holmes’s method, and carried forward to a point midway between the tip of the malleolus and the projection of the fifth metatarsal bone. Ollier’s method consists in making an incision on the outer side of the tendo Achillis, extending from a point nearly one inch above the level of the tip of the external malleolus to the external tuberosity of the calcaneum ; a second incision passes from the lower end of the first, along the outer side of the foot, to a point half an inch above and in front of the base of the fifth 1 See Fig. 747, page 526.