858 INJURIES OF THE BACK. to the injured part, great tenderness is discovered, together with crepitus and one or more lines of depression corresponding to the fracture and displace- ment. On introducing a finger into the rectum, and pressing against the coccyx, both crepitus and abnormal mobility may be detected. With a finger of one hand in the rectum and the fingers of the other hand applied externally, the kind and degree of the displacement can for the most part be readily de- termined. The displacement usually consists in a forward projection of the inferior fragments, as was observed in the example of sacral fracture above related, and is due to the operation of two causes, (1) the blow itself, and (2) the contractions of the gluteus maximus, coccygeus, and sphincter ani muscles. Lateral distortion is not likely to occur, because the lesser and the greater sacro-sciatic ligaments would counteract such a change in the position of the fragments. Moreover, paralysis of the bladder and rectum may likewise be present, inasmuch as both organs receive nerves from the sacral plexus. Prognosis.—Of the three examples mentioned above, two ended in death, and but oue in recovery. The successful case, however, shows that when simple fracture of the sacrum is not complicated with other lesions, especially with injuries of the pelvic viscera, the fragments on being placed in apposi- tion readily unite, and recovery speedily ensues; for in that case the union on the twenty-eighth day was already so firm that the patient sat up in bed, resting of course the whole weight of her trunk upon the injured bone in so doing. When, therefore, fractures of the sacrum do not end in recovery, the fatal result is generally due, not to the fractures themselves, but to lesions of the adjacent pelvic viscera with which they are associated. Unhappily, how- ever, any application of force that may suffice to disrupt the sacrum, is very liable to do so much harm to the neighboring pelvic organs, at the same time, as to make a fatal result inevitable. Thus, it appears that the prognosis in sacral fractures depends rather upon their complications than upon the frac- tures themselves, and that, it is generally unfavorable. When the lesion consists in the breaking off of a layer of bone attached to the cartilage at one or both of the sacro-iliac synchondroses, that is, in modi- fied diastasis, the issue is not of necessity mortal. Dr. Banks1 has recorded an example of this lesion in which there was displacement upward to the extent of one inch, and still the patient recovered. Moreover, a cure is sometimes obtained in still more unpromising instances, where the fracture is compound, and at the same time complicated with injury of the bladder; for Dr. Bur- lingham2 has reported a very remarkable case of compound fracture of the sacrum in which the urine flowed for some time through the wound, and in which, notwithstanding this condition of affairs, the patient entirely re- covered. Treatment.—Fractures of the sacrum should always be reduced when prac- ticable, and the reduction can generally be effected without much difficulty when the fracture is situated in the lower half of the bone (which is the part most liable to be broken), especially if it happen to be transverse. Reduction is to be effected even when the displacement is but slight, because, from the close proximity of the rectum, any displacement whatever of the fragments that might be allowed to remain, would correspondingly tend to irritate that viscus, and to excite suppurative inflammation in the loose connective tissue between it and the injured bone. It should be remembered in this connection that death resulted from such a suppuration, six weeks after the accident, in the case the specimen from which is preserved in the Royal College of Sur- geons (mentioned above), and that, as might well be expected under the circum- 1 Atalanta Medical and Surgical Journal, May, 1866. 2 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, April, 1868.