TUMORS. 562 origin. It is probable that many tumors which are now regarded as sarcomas, are in reality endotheliomas, but at present this is only probable. Thus far we have not learned to recognize with certainty the essential structural characters of the endotheliomas, for very few pure examples of them have been described. As it is necessary to admit that there are certain defects in the anatomical method of classification, so is it also necessary to allow that the nomenclature is not perfect in all respects. The tumors composed of simple tissues are very properly named in accordance with their structure. Tumors composed of fibrous tissue are fibromas; tumors composed of bone are osteomas. But the tumors which have no named prototype, the sarcomas and carcinomas, possess no natural name. Old names have therefore been applied to them; the term carcinoma has been retained for that part of the old class of cancers which is derived from epithelium; the term sarcoma has, at the suggestion of Vir- chow, been recalled and applied to the embryonic growths which are derived from connective tissue. It might of course be possible to replace these terms by others more suitable; to replace the term carcinoma, for example, by epi- thelioma, used as most French pathologists are in the habit of using it. But in German and English-speaking countries this change would be fraught with the gravest inconvenience, and would lead during many years to great con- fusion. For the term epithelioma, in these countries, is already applied to a particular form of carcinoma, and its occurrence in medical literature would, therefore, be associated with continual uncertainty respecting the sense in which it was employed. The use of the present terms is sanctioned by custom, and, probably, the precision which might be attained by the substitution of more correct terms, would be more than counterbalanced by the inconveni- ence which would be produced. The following nomenclature of solid tumors will, therefore, be here adopted, cysts being separately considered:— I. Connective- Tissue Tumors. II. Epithelial Tumors. 1. Lipoma, 2. Fibroma, 3. Chondroma, 4. Osteoma, 5. Myxoma, 6. Lymphoma, 7. Myoma, 8. Neuroma, 9. Angeioma, 10. Sarcoma, 11. Endothelioma. 12. Papilloma, 13. Adenoma, 14. Carcinoma. Round-celled, Spindle-celled, Giant-celled, Mixed-celled. Spheroidal-celled, Squamous-celled, Cylindrical-celled. The above nomenclature differs in certain respects from those generally followed. Thus, a sub-class of “ mixed-celled sarcomas” is introduced to make a place for many tumors which would otherwise be left unclassed. Again, the carcinomas are not divided, as usual, into hard, soft, epithelial, etc., but into spheroidal or glandular-celled, squamous-celled, and cylindrical or columnar- celled, according as they are derived from, and present the characters of, one or other of these different varieties of epithelium. All the hard and soft carcinomas fall within the first sub-class, the flat-celled epitheliomas within the second sub-class, and the cylindrical epitheliomas within the third sub- class. No distinction is made between hard and soft carcinomas, because it has become gradually apparent during many years that, whatever minor dif- ferences may exist between them, there are no differences which can be deemed