803 INJURIES OF THE SPINAL CORD AND SPINAL NERVES. the 11th, a dusky hue of the countenance was observed, as if the blood were imper- fectly aerated. On the 12th, the breathing became labored and attended with moist rales. The dyspnoea increased; and, on the 13th, he died. An autopsy was made by myself on the loth. The missile had penetrated the root of the neck as stated above, gone through the sterno-mastoid muscle, and, avoiding the great vessels, struck the body of the first dorsal vertebra well in front and slightly to the left of the middle line, bored a hole through the body of this vertebra backward, downward, and toward the right, penetrated the spinal canal, lacerated the theca vertebralis on its front and right sides extensively, cut the spinal cord partly in two, fractured by its impact the right lamina of the second dorsal vertebra, with comminution (it had also fractured indirectly the left lamina), and lodged on the right side of the spinous process of the same vertebra, having passed through'the spinal column from before backward, and somewhat obliquely from left to right and from above downward. The fragments were small and did not press upon the cord. The lungs held somewhat more blood than normal, were also moderately cedematous, and the air-passages contained a quantity of frothy unstained liquid. There was moderate inflammatory action, adhesive in character, in the theca vertebralis. It was confined, however, to the immediate neighborhood of the wound. There was no pus. The undivided portion of the cord was pulpefied (contused), and stained with blood, but it did not appear to the unaided eye to be inflamed. The autopsy of this patient shows that gunshot wounds of the spinal cord are essentially contused and lacerated in their nature, while his clinical history exhibits the symp- toms of concussion, contusion, and laceration of the cord, as might reasonably he expected. The loss of sensibility and voluntary motion below the cord-lesion, indicates that the functions of the cord as a conductor of impressions to and from the sensorium were entirely destroyed by the wound, and the loss of reflex motor action shows that the functions of the cord as a nerve-centre were likewise sup- pressed by the concussion. When bronchial effusion with moist rales occurred in this case, the man could not get rid of it by coughing and spitting; and, therefore, his dyspnoea rapidly increased until death from suffocation took place. It is worthy of remark that, when complete paraplegia results from injury of the spinal cord at the root of the neck, the power of inspiration is generally preserved, but the power of expiration, as needed particularly for coughing and shouting, is entirely lost. The traumatic lesions of the spinal cord that result from simple fractures and dislocations of the vertebrae, consist of contusion, stretching, laceration, and complete division. Many examples have already been presented. In Mr. Cline’s famous case of resection or trephining the spinal column, the cord was found to be three-fourths torn through, and the remaining portion was bruised. Occa- sionally, the cord is found to be lacerated in the manner depicted in the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 792). It represents the appearance which the spinal cord and mem- branes presented in the case of a soldier whose spinal column was fractured by the limb of a tree falling across his loins. A wood-cut to illustrate the vertebral lesion (transverse simple fracture of the first lumbar vertebra) was given on p. 757, supra, Fig. 775, together with the clinical account of the case. Necroscopy showed that the spinal meninges were torn entirely across* excepting a few Fig. 792. Showing laceration of the spinal membranes and cord caused by sim- ple transverse fracture of the first lumbar ver- tebra. (Spec. 150, Sect. I, A. M. M.).