121 FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 3 British Med. Journal, I)ec. 24, 1881. the reader to the very full discussion of them by Gurlt, merely remarking that the influence of muscular action is distinctly traceable in the displace- ment of the fragments in these cases. R. W. Smith1 has recorded a case examined by him after death, in which the greater tuberosity, together with a very small portion of the outer part of the head of the bone, had been completely separated from the shaft of the humerus. This portion of the bone occupied the glenoid cavity, the head of the humerus having been drawn inward so as to project upon the inner side of the coracoid process; it was still, however, contained within the capsular ligament. Nothing was known of the history of the injury, which was of ancient date. In all these cases of fracture occurring in the immediate neighborhood of the shoulder-joint, there is apt to be a very abundant deposit of' new bone in irregular, stalactiform shapes, and this is one chief cause of the impaired free- dom of motion which generally ensues upon such injuries. In this, as in many other respects, there is a very marked analogy between fractures in this region and those which affect the corresponding portion of the femur. Along with the separation of the greater tuberosity, and in consequence of it, there is apt to be a displacement of the tendon constituting the long head of the biceps muscle. If the lesser tuberosity is also broken off, the tendon may slip forward and allow the head of the bone to be pushed outward; otherwise the subscapular is will tend to rotate the whole humerus inward, and thus add to the appearance of depression below the acromion, as well as to the increase in breadth of the shoulder. Epiphyseal disjunctions are sometimes met with at the upper part of the humerus. About the fifth year of life, the head and tubercles become con- solidated, and the mass thus formed unites with the shaft at or near the twentieth year. Examination of a vertical section of a young bone shows that the line marking the epiphysis begins at the axillary margin of the head, and runs across, rising slightly toward the centre, in a direction nearly hori- zontal, to terminate at the outer side just below the tuberosity. Hence it is evident that the epiphysis, like a cap, rests with its concavity upon the con- vex end of the shaft. Below this the bone tapers somewhat decidedly; and, as before said, the surgical neck of the humerus, in the adult bone, comprises all between the upper part of the tuberosities and the insertion of the teres major, the lower boundary being but ill-defined. Fractures of this part have so much in common with epiphyseal separa- tions, that I have thought it best to discuss them together, merely pointing out the clinical differences existing between the two. Bouchut mentions that Foucher saw, in a girl aged 13, the upper epiphysis of the humerus separated by muscular action, in taking a frame down from a wall above her head. An abscess formed, and death ensued in about seven weeks, when the diagnosis was verified by an autopsy. Hutchinson2 mentions a case in which, by a fall from a mast, both the upper and lower epiphyses of the humerus were detached. A somewhat similar case is reported by Macnaughton Jones;3 a double fracture of the humerus, near the neck and near the elbow, with separation of a longitudinal fragment from either ex- tremity of the shaft. All fractures of the humerus between the tuberosities and the shaft proper of the bone, present the peculiarity, that there is a short upper fragment, acted upon by strong muscles, the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, subscapularis, and teres minor, the effect of which is to roll the head of the humerus over 1 Op. cit., p. 178. 2 Med. Times and Gazette, March 10, 1866.