CLASSIFICATION AND NOMENCLATURE OF TUMORS. 563 essential. Carcinomas which feel hard to the touch, have in many instances the typical structure of soft carcinoma. A hard carcinoma of the breast may be the parent of soft carcinomas in the liver. Glands, secondarily involved from a soft carcinoma, may present the characters of hard carcinoma. The tumors formerly called cylindrical epitheliomas (or, worse still, cylindromas), are not considered as epitheliomas, because they have nothing more in com- mon with the flat-celled epitheliomas, either in structure or in properties, than they have with the spheroidal-celled tumors. They are therefore placed in a separate sub-class, as cylindrical or columnar-celled carcinomas. Colloid, melanotic, and villous cancers are omitted from the general scheme of classi- fication, for reasons which will be mentioned in the section on carcinoma. The modifications of nomenclature which have just been mentioned, have been introduced into this scheme in order to render the anatomical classifica- tion more perfect. There is no reason, because all the classes have not been named in accordance with strict anatomical principles, that the chief sub- classes should not be so named where it is possible. The sub-classes of car- cinoma are, therefore, made to harmonize with the sub-classes of sarcoma, and I believe rather with advantage than with detriment to general con- venience. However perfect the general system of classification may be, the classifica- tion of individual tumors is always liable to be attended with difficulty. Every tumor is not typical in structure. Every tumor is not composed only of one tissue. The metamorphoses which tumors or parts of tumors undergo obscure their fundamental structure. Nevertheless, most tumors, even if they are not typical in structure, may, with care, be referred to the class to which they properly belong. And tumors which are composed of two or several tissues, may be referred to the class to which the bulk or most of the tissues they contain belong. For certain of these tumors, compound names may need to be adopted. A tumor which consists partly of fibrous, partly of glandular tissue, may be termed an adeno-fibroma, or a fibro-adenoma, as one or the other of these tissues preponderates in bulk or in importance. A tumor composed partly of fat and partly of fibrous tissue, may, in a similar fashion, be termed a fibro-lipoma, or a lipo-fibroma. The mere addition of small portions of a second tissue to a tumor consisting chiefly of one tissue, ought not to be denoted in the name unless some peculiar feature in the second tissue renders it desirable to recognize it. The main difficulty arises in connection with the classification of tumors whose tissues are markedly or largely metamorphosed. The errors which may be produced by faulty classification and recording of these metamor- phosed tumors have already been alluded to, and need no further mention, except to point out the necessity of placing all such tumors in the class to which their basis and essential tissue naturally refer them. But another trouble lias arisen from these tumor transformations, namely, a faulty nomen- clature, which has led to much confusion in the study of onkology. The osseous transformations, especially, have led to the use of several terms which are neither necessary nor desirable. Of such are osteo-sarcoma, osteoid-sar- coma, osteoid-cancer, osteoid-chondroma. The sense in which these terms were originally used has, for most of them, long since been forgotten. Each of them has been employed in more than ojie sense, and when either of them, except perhaps the last, is now employed in medical literature, it is quite uncertain, unless it be accompanied by an explanation, which of several meafi- ings is to be attached to it. “Osteo-sarcoma” may mean a sarcoma contain- ing bone, a sarcoma growing from a bone and containing bone, a soft tumor growing within a bone. “Osteoid-sarcoma” and “osteoid-cancer” are applied to malignant tumors occurring in connection with a bone, and to ossifying and