INJURIES OF BONES. 222 who, by a fall, striking the knee against a glass “ marble,” sustained a frac- ture of the patella downward and inward. The patella may be brokenneither by direct force or by muscular action, or by both these causes combined. The mechanism by which the bone is made to yield in the first case, is plain enough, as its spongy and easily crushed texture would ill fit it to resist a sudden blow—such, for example, as the kick of a horse. Muscular action does not produce the effect by tearing the bone apart, but by the pull exerted upon the upper portion of the bone, while its lower part is fixed by the ligamentum patelhe, and the resulting leverage over the lower end of the femur. According to this theory, which has re- ceived the sanction of most of the leading authorities, this fracture is due, like so many others, to “ cross-breaking strain.” Malgaigne suggests that in some of these eases the bone has been weakened by previous injury, and that in some there have been pains, or other indications of pathological change; but there have certainly been many instances in which nothing of the kind has been known to have occurred. Perhaps it is too obvious to need argument, that in many cases the muscles are in a state of tension when direct violence is applied to the bone, and that this condition aids materially in overcoming the resistance of its structure. Desault1 relates the case of a patient who was cut for stone, and who, in a consequent convulsion, broke both patel he at once. Marcy2 reports that a woman, aged thirty-eight, in an effort to save herself from falling, met with the same misfortune. Sir A. Cooper3 mentions another case, and Johnston4 another. Callender5 has recorded one, to be again referred to, and one was seen by Beauvais.6 Callender has recorded7 two cases in which a different mechanism was thought to have obtained:—- “ I. M., aged 45, laborer, fell 20 feet, from a ladder, on his knees. There was great effusion into the right knee-joint, with fracture extending through the condyles of the femur, and comminuted fracture of the patella, without much displacement of its pieces. The injury was treated on a double-inclined plane, and the patient was discharged with a useful knee-joint. We had no doubt but that this patella was broken after fracture of the femur, by displaced fragments being driven against the articular surface of the bone. In the museum of St. George’s Hospital is a transverse fracture of the patella, without laceration of the fibrous covering of the bone, produced by violence acting from within, in a case of compound fracture of the lower end of the femur, one of the frag- ments of the femur being driven against the deep surface of the sesamoid bone.” The line of fracture may be almost exactly transverse, or it may be more or less oblique, and in a few instances it has been seen to be longitudinal. One specimen, without history, in the Musee Dupuytren, has been accepted as an example of incomplete fracture, involving only the articular cartilage and a small portion of the underlying bony structure, and not extending to the lateral edges of the bone.8 It does not seem to me to be unquestionably of the character claimed for it. Sometimes the bone gives way at more than one point. Bryant mentions a specimen, in Guy’s Hospital Museum, in which there were four fragments, united by ligamentous bands. There is one in the museum of the Pennsylvania Hospital,9 described as follows: “ The bone has been fractured into five fragments, which are all bound together by a thin, 1 Treatise on Fractures, Luxations, etc. Edited by Bichat. Caldwell’s translation, p. 299. Philadelphia, 1817. 2 Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, October 8, 1874. 3 Op. cit., p. 230. 4 Lancet, November 8, 1873. 5 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, 1870. 6 Medical Times and Gazette, Oct. 9, 1880 ; from L’Union Medicale. 7 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, 1870. 8 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d ed., vol. i. p. 1028. 9 Catalogue, p. 35 ; No. 1146.