862 INJURIES OF THE BACK. » Ibid. Ibid., p 248. * Ibid. admission catheterization was required, but after that his water passed freely. There was no other sign of paraplegia.1 The specimen represented by Fig. 800 was obtained from the cadaver of a soldier, aged 19, who was wounded at West Point, Va., May 7, 18G2, and who died in Judiciary Square Hospital, at Washington, on the 23d, with symptoms of pyaemia, sixteen days after the. wound had been inflicted. The injury was reported as a “gunshot wound of the lumbar region near the nates, and also through the lower part of the right chest.” “Post- mortem section of the injured parts showed a deep wound of the sacrum ploughing the bone,” as is well shown in the accompanying wood-cut.2 In the following instance the sacrum was transversely grooved or perforated by a small-arm missile:— Corporal Amos E. C., aged 18, was wounded at Chancellorsville, May 3, 1863, by a conoidal musket-ball, which entered the left buttock behind and above the great trochanter, and emerged through the right side of the sacrum. He remained in the hands of the enemy for nine days, during which time his wound was entirely neglected. On June 14 he was sent to Washington, and was admitted to Douglas Hospital in a very nervous, weak, and anasmic condition. There were bed-sores over the projec- tions of the hips, back, and sacrum, so that it was impossible to lay him in a comfortable position. lie died on July 9, apparently in consequence of these bed-sores. Autopsy— Pleuritic adhesions were found, but no signs of peritoneal inflammation. The sacrum, as shown in the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 801), was perforated from side to side, with loss of substance at the junction of the fourth and fifth pieces of the bone. The fragments were carious, and there was a slight osseous deposit on the anterior surface.3 The specimen of shot fracture of the sacrum which is represented by Figs. Fig. 801. Fig. 802. Showing the saernm grooved transversely by a conoidal inusket- ball. (Spec. 1B42, A. M. M.) The saernm and last lumbar vertebra. A ball is impacted in the left upper sacral foramen. (Spec. 2902, A. M. M.) Fig. 803. Posterior view of the same specimen. 802 and 803, was obtained at the autopsy of a soldier, aged 23, with the fol- lowing history:— He was wounded at Spottsylvania, May 10, 1864, and taken to a field hospital ol the Fifth Corps. On the 14th he was transferred to Carver Hospital, at Washington. “ The missile entered about two inches to the left of the sacrum, passed a little down- ward and to the right, fractured the sacrum, and remained in the wound. When admitted, the patient was not much emaciated; there was great pain, with tumefaction of the abdomen ; the bowels were constipated, and there was complete retention ot urine. The bladder was greatly distended with urine ; the pulse about 140; the tongue thickly coated with dark-colored fur; sordes on the teeth. There was also partial