324 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. a crackling to be communicated to the hand, of a sort that reminds one of what is heard when sand gets between the teeth. iSfot unfrequently this crackling is quite audible—a coarse and rough, but not a hard grating. The patient may, after a time, recover, and perhaps permanently ; but very often some imprudence in diet, some exposure or over-fatigue, or simply a loss of health, may bring on recurrences which occur again and again, till the patient is obliged to confess to himself that the joint is getting weaker and more painful. At this time the signs of diathetic influence are sufficiently marked. The patient is distressed, perhaps irritable, never quite free from pain. The tem- perature rises at night. The tongue is white, perhaps creamy, and marked at the edge by the impress of the teeth. The breath has a faint odor. The urine is very acid, depositing lithate of ammonium, or the red sand (uric acid). The joint itself is somewhat tender and hot, in some cases red; its move- ments of flexion, and more especially of extension, are limited and painful. Fluctuation, if it can be detected, is rather distant, there being evidently a solid thickening between the wave of fluid and the skin. If there have been but little fluid effusion, or if fluid, previously abundant, have disap- peared, crackling is distinct. The shape of the swelling is very characteristic; it is not, especially when there is little excess of fluid, round, like the enlarge- ment of either serous or strumous synovitis, but is angular or square ; it is to palpation tough and leathery, and has somewhat abrupt edges; that is to say, in tracing with sufficient pressure the form of the limb from its middle downward, all is normal till the hand, arriving at the neighborhood of the joiiit, detects distinctly the abrupt edge of the hard, elastic swelling; this is very distinctly felt at the bursal prolongations. By this time the limb-seg- ment above, and, to a less extent, that also below the joint, will have become considerably wasted. The disease no longer intermits, although it may fluctuate. The muscles, which formerly were somewhat painful and tense, now begin to twitch at night, and those twitcliings soon develop into regular starting pains, which often, in this disease, are extremely severe, and are not merely limited to the period of falling asleep. Occasionally a slight movement will bring them on, and at the same time a sort of spasm in the limb, which is very distressing, and which causes a sort of pain in the joint, as though it were being slowly forced asunder. The limb wastes very rapidly, and the cord-like muscles feel hard beneath the skin. Tenderness about the joint is slight, save at a spot a little inside the patella, which often will not bear even slight pressure ; and here is the chief seat also of the pain. The heat about the part is consider- able ; redness is only observed in the earlier stages, but I have constantly ob- served, in older cases, a peculiar, dark, almost brown, appearance of the skin. Abnormal mobility is in the late stages very frequent, and is often accom- panied by a particularly harsh grating—a smooth but hard crepitus—and sometimes by severe pain and by spasmodic contraction of the flexors. The more hydropic joint-rheumatism is at its commencement a milder affection, though, if not cured, its later stages lead to very considerable evil. It also begins with fluid effusion, which gives, as a rule, no pain further than a dull aching, with a sense of distension and weakness. If there be any pain at all, it comes on after prolonged exercise or over-fatigue. Perhaps, too, while using the limb, a sharp, quick pain, leaving for some minutes a con- siderable remnant, may occur. The joint is more rounded than in the other form of rheumatic synovitis. The positions of ligaments and tendons are less distinct than in acute sero-synovitis.1 Palpation very readily detects fluc- 1 After a certain duration these parts are not designated at all. The joint, more especially in the case of the knee, assnmes the shape of a ball.