SPRAINS, TWISTS, AND WRENCHES OF THE BACK. 701 This example affords a good clinical illustration of the traumatic lesion of the kidneys, by which powerful blows on, or violent contusions of, the lumbar regions, ai'e not unfrequently accompanied. The renal symptoms were very clear. They were shock, pain in the bruised and torn kidney, which extended downward along the course of the corresponding ureter, with retraction of the testicle on the same side, and smarting at the urethral orifice. The urine was bloody, and, at times, contained also coagula which had been moulded in the ureter. At such times the act of urination was very difficult, and the difficulty lasted until the coagula had passed through the urethral canal. Their voidance was always followed fey copious urina- tion, and by a sense of great relief. The hsematuria continued for three weeks, but the patient gradually recovered. From the nature of the vulnerating force, from the presence of shock, from the intensity and persistency of pain in the injured kidney and its ex- cretory duct, etc., from the long continuance of hrematuria, and from the severity of the renal symptoms in general, it is but just to infer that the renal lesion in this case was extensive, and probably consisted of laceration as well as contusion of the renal parenchyma. Notwithstanding, the patient slowly regained his health. This point is of much practical importance; for, aside from other considerations, the happy result helps to show that rupture of the kidney is an accident from which recovery is more common than it is from a similar lesion of any other important viscus. The next case belongs to the same category as the last:— Lieutenant H. T. Burrows, Co. C, 7th Maryland Vols., was struck May 5, 1864, by a fragment of shell, on the left lumbar region. He was treated during one week at the second division hospital of the Fifth Corps, in the field. Severe pain and difficult micturition, with hsematuria, led to the belief that laceration of the left kidney had resulted. On the 12th, this officer was sent to Washington, and there was treated in quarters. He recovered ; and, on June 8, he was placed on court-martial duty.1 Besides the examples just related, there were also observed, during the late civil war, “ a number of cases of recovery in which there was reason to sus- pect the existence of laceration of the kidney, or, at least, of severe contusion of its substance. Unfortunately, they are not reported with fulness or pre- cision of detail.”2 Taking these cases, however, for what they are worth, they will serve to increase considerably the aggregate of instances in which trau- matic lesions of the kidneys, attended with hsematuria, and caused by lumbar contusions, have eventuated in <?ure; and, for this reason, I have thought it worth while to mention them. Mr. Shaw refers to the case of a woman who had been bruised in the loins, from the falling in of the roof of her dwelling; and who, it was claimed, had sustained a renal lesion thereby.3 Albuminuria also was present. When great strains or wrenches of the vertebral articulations in the lumbar region are caused by alighting upon the feet in falling, the kidney may be extensively ruptured at the same time, as happened in the following instance reported by Dr. Anders:— A well-built lad, aged 15, fell from the second floor of a house to the ground, with- out becoming insensible. He said that he struck the ground first with his feet, and then with his right hip. No external mark of injury, excepting a slight purplish spot over the right trochanter. No fracture of any kind, and no symptom of concussion of the brain or spinal cord. He could not walk very well, but was able to move his ' Ibid., p. 21. » Ibid., p. 20. * Holmes’s System of Surgery, 2d edition, vol. ii. p 363, foot-note