FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 129 It very often happens that fractures of the shaft of the humerus are united with scarcely any perceptible deformity; and in the Museum of St. Bar- tholomew’s Hospital1 there is a “section of a humerus, in which a fracture of the shaft at the attachment of the deltoid muscle has been exactly united, so that both the walls and the cancellous tissue are uninterruptedly continu- ous ; and except by a slight deviation of its axis, and a small external deposit of new bone, the situation of the Fracture could hardly be discerned.” Some- times, however, the deformity is very great, when the fragments are allowed to overlap one another; yet even in these cases the usefulness of the limb is not necessarily impaired. The vessels and nerves, as a general rule, escape injury, except in cases of compound fracture. Laurent2 relates one case, communicated to him by Ri- chet, in which a boy ten years old had a fracture of the right humerus, one fragment of which wounded the brachial artery and gave rise to an aneurism, which was cured by ligation of the vessel above and below. Malgaigne quotes two cases in which suppuration ensued ; but this is very rare. In- stances of the almost complete absorption of this bone after fracture have been referred to in the general part of this article.3 Occasionally cases are met with in which, in the course of union of fractures of the humerus, nerves are entangled in the callus or pressed upon by it, with the result of causing pain or paralysis, or both, of the limb. Generally it is the museulo-spiral nerve which is thus interfered with. Trelat4 reports, that a young man, in consequence of a fracture of the left arm, had an exuberant callus which, by inclusion, caused paralysis of the parts supplied by the above- mentioned nerve. An operation was performed, the nerve being disengaged, and the projecting part of the callus being resected. Two months afterward movements began to be possible, and the functions of the limb were gradually restored. Tillaux is said to have referred to a similar case seen by him. Gross5 speaks of having seen two cases of wrist-drop from pressure of callus upon the museulo-spiral nerve, in cases of fracture of the humerus; he says that the only remedy is the removal of the callus, but does not state whether by operation or by local medication; nor does he give the results in the two cases which he cites. Agnew6 mentions such a condition, in a boy aged ten years,and says: “As the absorption of the redundant callus took place, and under the stimulus of an electro-galvanic current, his improvement was quite noticeable.” The treatment of fractures of the shaft of the humerus is simple enough in principle, but much difference of opinion has existed as to its details. Re- duction can generally be effected without great difficulty, and the line of breakage is not often so oblique as to prevent the fragments from being kept in good position. Yet, as has been already stated, no other bone has offered so many examples of non-union. My own belief is that the true explanation of this fact is to be found in the leverage upon the lower fragment, exerted by the forearm and hand, which can only be counteracted by care in securing the whole arm—the upper fragment as well as the lower. Ho matter hovv exactly an apparatus is applied, if it does not extend upward sufficiently to get a purchase upon the portion of bone above the seat of fracture, there is danger of deformity, if not of failure of union. But if the fragments are controlled, the forearm may be simply supported in a sling across the front of the chest. I am inclined to urge this, from having more than once or twice 1 Catalogue, vol. i. p. 139. 2 Des AnSvrysmes compliquant les Fractures, p. 42. Paris, 1875. 3 See page 45. 4 Gazette Medicale de Paris, 23 D6c. 1882. 8 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 976. 6 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 887. VOL. IV.—9