808 INJURIES OF THE BACK. Gunshot Fractures of the Coccyx.—In shot wounds of this sort, the lesion of the hone is commonly but a small part of the whole injury. There were seventeen oases of shot fracture of the os coccygis reported during our civil war, of which six, or 35.3 per cent., were fatal. In twelve cases, with live deaths, the coccyx was the only bone involved; in four cases, terminating favorably, there were attendant fractures of the sacrum ; two, one of which was fatal, were associated with fractures of the pubis. In one case a ball is said to have been found imbedded in the coccyx. In all the fatal cases, death appears to have resulted from the injuries sustained by other parts. Still, visceral lesions were less frequently present as complications of shot fractures of this bone, than would be anticipated from its anatomical relations.1 In regard to treatment, the irregularity and variety of the complications preclude the establishment of any special rules. The early removal of sequestra and foreign bodies is, of course, indispensable. Free though cau- tiously directed incisions may be requisite to prevent the burrowing of pus. Extreme attention to cleanliness, and to the prevention of fecal accumulation in the rectum, as well as watchfulness over the state of the bladder, are precautions that must not be overlooked.2 The wounds must be dressed antiseptically, and drainage tubes must likewise be inserted, in many cases, in order to insure that no confinement of inflammatory products shall take place. Coccygodynia.—The damage sustained by the sacro-coccygeal and other spinal nerves, in connection with injuries of the os coccygis, often gives rise to an exceedingly painful state of the soft parts overlying the bone, which has been denominated coccygodynia. The accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 810), which indicates the numerous nerves of sensation that are distri- buted over the coccyx, and to the lower part of the rectum as well as to the margin of the anal aperture, shows at a glance the anatomical and physiological explanation of this dis- tressing affection. For the relief of coccygodynia, it was advised by the late Sir James Y. Simpson, to introduce a narrow bis- toury between the soft parts and the bone, and completely sever the con- nections between them. Should this simple procedure fail, and the symp- toms continue severe, it may be neces- sary to excise the bone itself. When caries or necrosis is present, excision of the bone is always necessary. In regard to operative procedures, Van Onsenoort and Ollier have extir- pated the coccyx for caries, and Yott, Simpson, and many others have per- formed the same operation with im- punity for neuralgia (coccygodynia). 1 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, Second Surgical Vol., pp. 252, 253. 2 Ibid., 253, 254. Fig. 810. a, Sacrum, b. Coccyx, c, Tuberosity of ischium. d, Greater sacro-sciatic ligament, e, Lesser sacro-sci- atic ligament, with pudic nerve on its posterior aspect. /, Sphincter ani. g, Levator ani. h, Fatty and con- nective tissue. 1, Pudic nerve and its branches. 2, Posterior branches of the 2d, 3d, and 4th sacral nerves proceeding to posterior aspect of the coccyx. 3, Sacro-coccygeal nerve distributed over apex of the coccyx and adjacent soft parts. (Hilton.)