ARTHROPATHIES FROM INJURIES AND DISEASES OP NERVES. 423 wards treated three other cases of rheumatism on the same principles. Their success led him to conclude that rheumatism was a spinal neurosis, and his theory met with a certain support; nor is it at the present day forgotten or negatived. Whether this view of rheumatism can or cannot be maintained, it is evident that the doctrine of a neuropathy producing an arthropathy was here distinctly formulated. In 1846, Dr. Scott Alison read, before the Medical Society of London, a paper on arthritis occurring in the course of paralysis.1 Two cases are described, the patients in both having been perfectly healthy until attacked by hemi- plegia ; in both, after a few days, certain joints (wrist, knee, foot) became swollen and painful. Both patients died; and it is much to be regretted that, although autopsies were made, the joints do not appear to have been examined. A case recorded by M. Vigues is in this connection of primary importance. A man received a sword-wound, which divided the left lateral half of the spinal cord, producing paralysis, with preservation of sensibility of the parts below. After the lapse of twelve days, considerable swelling of the whole extremity was observed, and shortly afterwards hydrarthrosis of the knee-joint. In two days this was followed by sloughing bed-sores over the right buttock and right half of the sacrum.2 Weir Mitchell relates the case of a soldier who was, at Gettysburg, wounded over the outer part of the right clavicle, the ball passing out over the scapula ; the paralyzed condition of the arm showed that the brachial plexus was involved. The joints of the lingers and wrists afterwards became slightly swollen and excessively tender to movement, but ultimately recovered under the use of the induced current.3 These cases show that, in consequence of paralysis from disease or injury of the nervous centres or trunks, joints lying in the course of supply may become the seat of certain forms of disease, concerning the nature of which we have no very clear anatomical data, but which clinically may be described as belong- ing to two categories: The one is inflammatory, leading to considerable effu- sion into the synovial sac, and generally yielding after a certain time; the other, also inflammatory, is accompanied by less effusion, but tends to the production of anchylosis. Either form of disease may follow any sort of lesion —gunshot, incised, or punctured wound—of the cord or of nervous trunks ; or, indeed, such bruising as may be produced by dislocation or by efforts at reduction ;4 or again by disease of, or pressure on the cord, as by angular spinal curvature.5 At first the paralysis, especially if rapidly produced,.is accom- panied by cutaneous thickening, oedema, and other signs of impaired nutri- tion, which may mark any deeper disorder; then, after a few days, the joint- malady, being more persistent, becomes apparent. Indeed, it is probable that the joint-disease does not commence till the tenth or twelfth day; it is then found either to affect several small joints, as those of the fingers or toes, or, if it attack a large articulation, to be usually limited to that one. The swelling is sometimes trifling, sometimes, especially if a large joint be affected, considerable (effusion); the skin is somewhat reddened and perspires freely. Generally, flexion rapidly supervenes, but I have known considerable over- extension to occur in the fingers. Extreme tenderness both to touch and movement is usual. This condition is very obstinate, and may outlast by weeks all other symptoms of the injury. If, for instance, this have been a bruising or wounding of nervous trunks, even after all evidence of inflam- mation has subsided, the joints may remain stiffened and painful on move- ment, and indeed, may not recover their whole range of mobility until after 1 Lancet, 1840, p. 278. 2 Journal fie Pliysiol., t. iii. p. 47. 3 Injuries of Nerves, p. 169. Philadelphia, 1872. 4 Weir Mitchell, op. cit. 5 I am not aware that any joint-disease has been observed in connection with slow pressure on nervous trunks, such as occurs in cases of tumor or aneurism.