CAUSES OF FRACTURE. 7 long bones were separated and movable at their epiphyses, the motion being generally accompanied with a distinct crepitus. The bones were also much enlarged in their circumference; the bones of the forearm and the femur were greatly curved; the fontanelles were unusually open; and the clavicles were entirely wanting. The child was of full size, but looked feeble. It died in a condition of marasmus six months after birth ; at which time some degree of union had taken place at several of the points of separation, the limbs having been supported constantly with pasteboard splints and rollers.” A case was reported by Collins to the Manchester Medical Society,1 in which a condition allied to rickets seemed to have been brought about in a child by the deficiency of casein in the mother’s milk. The child was born January 2, 1882 ; when first seen, January 13, the left femur presented every appearance of having been fractured and recently united. On the 30tli, the left humerus was found to be broken; on February 20, the right humerus, and on February 24, the right femur. Each fracture was at the centre of the shaft, and there was in no instance any evidence of violence or injury. There Avas no history of syphilis; the child’s bones Avere curved. All the fractures united readily. As illustrative of the more pronounced cases of rickets, I may quote from Malgaigne2 a case recorded by Jacquemille:— The patient was “ born of healthy parents, but affected from his first year with gene- ral rachitis, which had flattened his ribs, distorted his spine, and curved all the long bones except the humerus. He could not walk till five years old, and remained always excessively small and feeble. Toward the age of twelve, in climbing a wood-pile, he fell and broke the right arm at the middle. The fracture was simple, and united per- fectly. At fifteen, trying to get up behind a carriage, he lost his footing, and fractured both thighs ; which uniting with deformity, he was permanently crippled on the right side. At seventeen, he broke the left arm. At twenty-eight, he broke the left thigh, at a different point from before. Finally, at thirty-two, he again broke the right thigh, likewise at a new point. The case was now lost sight of.” Mr. R. Harwell3 lately showed to the Pathological Society of London— A girl, aged 17, but apparently very much younger, who presented a most extraordi- nary series of deformities. Her family history threw no light on her condition, which was not congenital. In her mental development she was juvenile rather than weak, and she had not reached puberty. Very few of her bones were free from deform- ity. Both humeri were much bent, but especially the right; so that, on that side, whereas the humerus measured seven inches and a half, the length of the arm from acromion to olecranon was only four inches and a quarter; again, the right tibia meas- ured nine inches and a half, but the length of leg was only four inches and a half. This was owing to the bone, at about the lower fourth, being bent back on itself, so that it ran upwards and parallel to the rest of the bone. The left olecranon process was greatly lengthened, and placed at an obtuse angle to the shaft of the bone The bones, a few years ago, had been remarkably brittle, and still remained so, but to a less degree. Between the ages of 9 and 13, she had broken her arms four times, and her lower limbs on several occasions. There was no bending of the ribs, nor any enlarge- ment of the epiphyses. Mr. Barwell did not think that the case could be classed either with rickets or with osteo-malacia. lie had had under his care, some years ago, a boy Avho presented similar deformities, but less marked, and he had endeavored to straighten the femur. On cutting doAvn to it, however, he found that on the slightest force the chisel sank through the whole structure of the bone, 1 Brit. Med. Journ., May 13, 1882. 3 Traite des Fractures et des Luxations, tome i. p. 20; Translation, p. 33. 8 Brit. Med. Journ., Dec. 9, 1882.