DEFECTS IN THE PROCESS OF REPAIR OF FRACTURES. 49 Dwight,1 it would seem that the difference is never very great, but varies within somewhat narrow limits. Garson measured carefully the lower limbs of 70 skeletons, of various ages from 12 years upwards. He found that only seven, or 10 per cent, of these, had right and left limbs of equal length, and in two cases only did the femur and tibia of one side correspond respectively to the femur and tibia of the other. In the remaining five cases it was by com- pensation that the limbs were equal; the tibia being shorter where the femur was longer, or vice versa. He found the tendency to variation greater in the femur than in the tibia. In 25 instances, or 85.8 per cent.., the right limb was longer than the left, the average difference being 3.3 mm. In 38 in- stances, or 54.3 per cent., the left was longer than the right, the average dif- ference being 4.8 mm. The left limb, therefore, was not only more frequently longer than the right, but the difference between the limbs was greater, on an average, when it was the longer than when the right was the longer, the greatest difference in the latter case being 8 mm., whereas in the former it was 13 mm. Over the whole 70 cases, the left limb was 1.5 mm. longer than the right. On farther analyzing the differences:— “We find that in 41 cases the left femur is longer than the right, and in these its aver- age preponderance is 3.8 mm.; in 20 cases the right is longer than the left, the average preponderance being 2.9 mm.; and in 9 cases the bones are equal. Again, in 24 cases the left tibia is longer than the right, the average preponderance being 3.0 mm.; in 29 cases the right is longer than the left, the average preponderance being 2.6 mm.; and in 7 instances the bones are equal.” Garson hints at a very important matter, which will probably have already occurred to the reader—that there may be inequalities between the ossa in- nominata of the right and left side, wdtich may be either compensatory or otherwise as regards the unequal lengths of the corresponding limbs. This point, which has not yet been at all satisfactorily investigated, would ob- viously affect the bearing of the results above quoted upon the surgical meas- urements of limbs as ordinarily made, from the anterior superior spines of the ilia to the inner malleoli. Dwight says, in regard to the clavicle, that he found only six pairs equal out of 22 cases examined by him. The greatest difference noted was .39 of an inch. In all but two of the cases of inequality, the left clavicle was the longer. It must not, however, be inferred that the correction of shortening likely to result from fractures of the long bones is a matter of small importance, or that the surgeon will be justified in neglecting it wrhen called upon to treat such injuries. On the contrary, careful attention should always be paid to it; measurements should be made from time to time, especially during the earlier period of each case, and suitable means adopted for overcoming any tendency to overlapping of the fragments. When shortening occurs from loss or absorption of portions of bone, it is of course wholly unavoidable. In the former case, the fact of the loss will be known, and in the latter it may be inferred from the absence of overriding; the fragments will be in proper relation, and even if at first there is some ex- uberance of callus, the bone will eventually be almost normal in shape. Shortening is, indeed, under any circumstances, of much less moment than angular or rotary displacement, either of which must very gravely affect the 1 Hunt, Phila. Medical Times, Jan. 16, 1875, and Am. Journ. of the Med. Sciences, Jan. 1879 ; Cox, Am. Journ. of the Med. Sciences, April, 1875; Wight, Arch, of Clin. Surgery, Feb. 1877, and Proc. of the Med. Soc. of the County of Kings, 1878 ; Roberts, Phila. Med. Times, Au". 3 1878; Garson, Journal of Anat. and Physiology, July, 1879; Dwight, Identification of the Human Skeleton, Boston, 1878. VOL. IV.—4