787 INJURIES OF THE SPINAL CORD AND SPINAL NERVES. ment to that end be employed at once, than if it be postponed to a later period. Gunshot wounds of the spinal dura mater not unfrequently occur. In cases where they are present, the vertebrae are always fractured, and the spinal cord, likewise, is generally injured. Many examples have been presented in the foregoing pages in which the theca vertebralis was torn by gunshot mis- siles. Sometimes, as in the case of Soteldo (p. 780), the bullet penetrates the theca and lodges therein. In others, it perforates that membrane, and leaves behind an orifice of emergence as well as of entrance. In others still, it tears a furrow transversely across the tube which the theca vertebralis forms when in situ, and partially divides the same. The amount of thecal inflamma- tion aroused by gunshot injuries is in most instances, I think, not great. At an autopsy which I made some years ago, in a case in which the last-named form of injury was found, I was rather surprised at the absence of inflamma- tion, although the patient had survived the casualty twelve days, and I made the following note at the time concerning it: “There was moderate inflam- matory action, adhesive in character, of the theca vertebralis. It was confined to the immediate neighborhood of the wound. There was no pus.” It is my belief that the spinal dura mater is normally endowed with a wonderful ability to resist traumatic lesions and their consequences. But injuries of the spinal arachnoid and pia mater not unfrequently cause inflammations of a destructive character therein, which will be discussed under the head of Traumatic Spinal Meningitis. Moreover, suppurative inflammation of the connective tissue, and abscess, may occur between the spinal dura mater and the vertebral column, in conse- quence of the injury thereof, especially when the latter has sustained a simple fracture without displacement; two examples of this have already been pre- sented under the caption ot' latent fractures of the vertebras. (See p. 755.) Injuries of the spinal meninges are often attended by extravasation of blood within the theca vertebralis, and compression of the spinal cord result- ing therefrom. Many instances have been mentioned in the foregoing pages, and eight additional examples will be presented in the next section of this article. Treatment.—Incised and punctured wounds of the back, which penetrate the theca vertebralis and let out the cerebro-spinal fluid, should be treated by immediate closure and antiseptic dressings for the wounds themselves, and by absolute quietude for the patients. Gunshot wounds involving the theca vertebralis require for treatment the removal of all foreign bodies, such as blood-clots and loose fragments of bone, as well as bullets and bits of clothing, the employment of antiseptic dressings, with drainage-tubes, and perfect rest for the injured spine. Simple fractures or dislocations of the vertebrae, which do injury to the theca vertebralis, should first be “set” or reduced if possible, and then in- flammatory action in the injured parts should be restrained by abstracting blood with leeches or cups, by applying cold, and by securing perfect rest for the injured structures. Injuries of the Spinal Cord and Spinal Nerves. The histological elements of the spinal cord, its nerve-fibres, ganglion-cells, minute bloodvessels, and connective tissue, are so lacking in strength and solidity that, were the cord as a whole not protected from the effects of exter- nal violence by an elastic medium, the cerebro-spinal fluid, which everywhere surrounds it, the elementary structures that compose it would be disintegrated