G20 TUMORS. coma and carcinoma, on which stress was just now laid, is important, because , the result of similar operations practised for epithelioma, is so little successful that the question has been raised whether it is justifiable. Sarcomata of the Antrum.—Sarcomas of the antrum may be round-celled or spindle-celled, and one or two instances of mixed-celled tumors have been de- scribed, in which giant-cells were present. The round-celled tumors are rather more frequently met with than the spindle-celled, and, probably,the preponder- ance would be still greater were it not that ossifying fibromas have not infre- quently been described as ossifying fibro-sarcomas, and have thus been classed among the spindle-celled sarcomas. In the structure of these ossifying fibromas, coarse fibres, which may be mistaken for the fibre-like cells of some spindle- celled tumors, are present in large numbers. But a careful study shows that they are fibres and not fibre-cells, and the course of the tumors is that of fibroma, not of sarcoma. The consideration of tumors of the antrum is rendered difficult by the impossibility, in the large majority of cases, of dis- covering the precise origin of the disease. It might be thought that it was enough to know that it occupied the antrum, but when the great difference in the properties of the central and sub-periosteal tumors of bone is remem- bered, it may easily be conceived that differences of origin of the sarcomas which grow into the antrum, may involve important differences in their pro- perties. The account of these tumors has not, therefore, tbe same scientific value as tbe account of tbe tumors of which the point of departure can be clearly ascertained. Nevertheless, there are some features which they possess in common which are highly interesting. Characters and Course.—These growths appear in some instances, especially in young subjects, to be caused by the irritation of a misplaced tooth which has been found, on removal of the tumor, imbedded or encysted in its sub- stance. Tbe disease is much more common in adults than in children, but is not uncommonly met with in young adults, about, or a little beyond, twenty years of age. From this period to quite old age it may frequently be observed. It appears rather more common in males than females. Most of the sarcomas of the antrum are soft and very vascular; they vary much in color and ap- pearance, some being white and opaque like the typical medullary cancer, some gray, puffy, and blotched with blood, some brown or yellow-brown; they are not encapsuled, but may be contained within a shell of bone formed by "the expanded antrum; they seldom contain cysts, although the antrum is peculiarly subject to cystic affections ; they fill the entire cavity, expand and in time destroy the bone, and then affect the surrounding structuies; they may be partly ossified, or calcified, or chondrified, but these changes, although they may occur in every part of the tumor, seldom transform large portions of its structure. Fibrous tissue occurs more abundantly than any other, so that some of tbe sarcomas are largely composed of fibrous tissue. By the growth of a sarcoma of the antrum a well recognized deformity of the jaw and face is speedily produced, for the tumor is usually very active, and the rapidity of its growth permits no doubt of its malignant nature. But, to rapid growth is frequently added implication of the skin of the face, with discharge from the nose and mouth. And, unless the disease be interfered with, the cheek may ulcerate and a fungous mass protrude. The diagnosis between sarcoma and carcinoma of the antrum cannot, I ' think, in many instances, be made, but carcinoma does not generally attack persons as young as many of those who are tbe subjects of sarcoma. The diagnosis from carcinoma is not, however, as in the case of tumors of the larynx, very important, for in the antrum tbe course of tbe disease and the treatment applicable to it are the same in both diseases.