INJURIES OF BONES. 58 with soap and hot water, to which, for persons of relaxed fibre especially,, some whiskey or spirit of camphor may be added. This is not only agree- able to the patient, but, I believe, is positively beneficial. As the union of the bone becomes more and more firm, the muscles of the limb may he stimulated by gentle friction and pinching, in order to prepare them for the renewal of their functions. Fractures of the lower extremity must he allowed to become perfectly con- solidated before the apparatus is left off, and then the limb must be accus- tomed by degrees to the dependent position before any attempt is made to bear weight upon it. A patient will sometimes use crutches for a few days, and feel his way, as it were, until he finds that he can support himself upon the repaired member. In the ease of the upper extremity, as the bone becomes more and more firmly united, the splint may sometimes be cut oft*' piece by piece at either end, so as give the limb gradually increasing liberty; and in this way the use of the hand may be almost imperceptibly regained. Care and judgment are as necessary in these latter stages as in the very first attentions to the case. In fact, each portion of the treatment of a case of fracture has its own duties for the surgeon, and its own risks for the patient. At first, the reduction and the dressings must be carefully, thoroughly, and skilfully executed; while the process of union is going on, attention must be given to keeping up the proper relations of the fragments; and towards the end, the safe and complete restoration of function must be provided for. At any of these stages, neglect may be disastrous. As to the treatment of the complications which may arise in a case of frac- ture, very little need be said. These intercurrent disorders should in general be dealt with as under other circumstances; they may assume such import- ance {e. g., tetanus or pyremia) as to overshadow entirely the local injury. The management of compound fractures may be best described in connection with the fractures of the several bones, as it differs in different regions of the body. Treatment of Delayed Union and False Joint.—When the surgeon finds that the fragments are still movable upon one another at the end of the time when union might reasonably be expected, he should consider whether any constitutional defect or disorder exists, or any local condition, to which the failure can be attributed; and if such hindrance can he discovered, appropriate treatment must be instituted. Should the patient he a pregnant woman, otherwise healthy, she may be encouraged to hope that the bone will knit after her confinement shall have taken place. As a general rule, the use of a solidifying dressing is most distinctly indi- cated in these cases; and my own choice is always either the plaster-of-Paris or the silicate-of-potassium bandage. It should he applied with the utmost care and accuracy, so as to keep the fragments absolutely in place, the whole limb being encased in it; and it may be left undisturbed for a much longer time than would he safe at an earlier period. On its removal, after the lapse of three or four weeks, if no change can be detected, the two portions of the limb should be firmly grasped, and the fragments rubbed together with some force, until some pain and soreness are induced. The apparatus should now be re- applied, as carefully as before, and kept on for perhaps two weeks, when the parts may be examined, and the rubbing repeated if necessary. Should there be absolutely no increase of firmness, the friction may be employed daily, with shampooing or massage of the whole limb, for three or four days; or the skin may be stimulated by a blister, or by painting it with tincture of