461 EXCISION OF THE LOWER JAW. wardly, the joint can be opened from the front, and disarticulation completed. (Fig. 692.) The edge of the knife must, throughout the operation, be kept close to the bone, lest the trunk of the facial nerve, or the internal maxillary, or even the external carotid artery, should be accidentally wounded. Liga- tures having been applied to the bleeding vessels, and hemorrhage from the bone having been, if necessary, checked by the use of the Monsel’s solution or the hot, iron, the external wound is closed with sutures. If there is any tendency to retraction of the tongtie, it should be kept well pulled forwards, by fastening externally the ligature which was passed through it, with strips of adhesive plaster. Until the wound has united, the patient’s diet should be limited to liquid food, which may, if necessary, be administered through a tube. The portio-dura nerve and the parotid duct are occasionally divided in this operation, and temporary facial paralysis, and sometimes a troublesome parotid fistula, therefore result. To avoid the risk of these complications, Dr. Lizars, of Toronto, recommends, instead of the incision above described, one passing from the commissure of the lips outwards towards the ear; he finds that disarticulation can be readily effected from within the mouth when its orifice is thus enlarged. Metallic caps, arranged to fit the teeth of the remaining portions of the jaw, and connected by a spring to a similar appliance fitted to the teeth of the upper jaw, are sometimes employed to prevent the part from becoming disturbed by the action of the muscles. I have not, however, found it neces- sary to apply such an apparatus in those cases in which I have operated, and according to Mr. Heath it is never required, since the bone quickly resumes its normal position without assistance. Removal of the entire lower jaw may be effected by means of a U-shaped in- cision dividing both facial arteries, as advised by Sir William Fergusson; or, as preferred by Mr. Heath, the lower lip may be split in the median line, and the flaps dissected back on either side. Partial excisions of the lower jaw, in cases of gunshot injury, appear to have been practised by Desault and Fischer, in the latter part of the last cen- tury, but the first case in which partial removal of this hone was performed for tumor, was that of Deaderick, of Tennessee, in 1810. Ten years after- wards, according to 0. Heyfelder, disarticulation of half the jaw was effected by a surgeon named Palm, while extirpation of the entire jaw, at one sitting, appears to have been first performed by Blandin, in 1848. The results of excision of the lower jaw are very favorable. I have not had occasion to remove the entire bone, but have excised large portions in six or seven cases, four of which were disarticulations, and only once with an unfavorable result. This was a case of malignant disease, in an old man, and it was also neces- sary to remove part of the floor of the mouth, the side of the tongue, and a portion of the palate; death occurred two (lays subsequently. The most extensive statistics of lower-jaw excision, with which I am acquainted, are those collected by Weber, which I borrow from the sixth edition of Prof. Gross’s System of Surgery :— Nature of operation. Whole number of cases. Cured. Relapsed or died Complete extirpation ..... 20 19 i Disarticulation of half the jaw If) 3 117 36 Excision in continuity ..... 246 200 46 Aggregates. ..... 419 336 83