581 MYXOMA OR MUCOUS TUMOR. Appearances after Removal.—The most typical examples of myxoma pre- sent a jelly-like appearance; are colorless, or faintly tinged with yellow or gray ; and are very translucent. The consistence of the tumor may vary from that of the softer varieties of cartilage to a softness bordering on diffluence. The entire tumor may appear homogeneous, or it may he divided by fibrous bands into more or less separate lobes. The characters of the varieties of the disease are very diverse; many of them may be foretold from a knowledge of the structure of the tumor. Thus, the presence of fat imparts a yellowish color and more opaque character to the growth. Large numbers of cells also cause opacity, and even so far transform the tumor that it becomes medul- lary or brain-like. The very vascular growths are altered and disfigured by the numerous vessels which they contain, and by numerous and often con- siderable hemorrhages. The pure myxomas seldom form very large tumors; indeed, it is not usual to observe a tumor as large as a man’s closed fist, and the tumors of certain parts, the nose, for instance, are invariably of quite small dimensions. Their form may vary exceedingly, for, while the typical form is spherical or spheroidal, the tumors of the nose are always polypoid. Those of the nerves are generally elongated, after the manner of neuromas, and the hydatid mole of the placenta presents the grape-like appearance with which we are familiar, and which probably depends on the papillary origin of the growth. It may easily be understood that the minute structure of tumors which vary so much in their general composition, is likely to vary considerably. The minglings with other tissues are so numerous that the essential structure of myxoma is, in many instances, so obscured as to he with difficulty dis- cernible. The microscopic characters have already been described in the defi- nition. But attention may he further directed to the homogeneous or very finely granular character of the matrix, and to the extreme delicacy of the cells, for, not only are their processes fine, and long, and delicate, but the bodies of the cells are often so vaguely outlined, and their details so indistinct, that they at once convey to the mind an impression of that fragility which consti- tutes one of their properties. The cells are generally furnished with a single nucleus, more clearly defined and evident than the body of the cell. The blending of mucous with other tissues is extremely interesting. Thus, the bands or individual fibres of fibrous tissue separate to form intervals of vary- ing width, occupied by typical mucous tissue. The double-contour cells of hyaline cartilage mingle with the stellate or spindle cells of mucous tissue in a perfectly clitfiuent basis. Fat-cells, either single or in groups, lie scattered in meshes formed by the anastomosing processes of the typical myxoma-cells. The fat-cells are probably formed by a transformation of the myxoma-cells similar to that which takes place in the development of fat from mucous tis- sue. The precise method by which cartilage is transformed into mucous tissue is not so well known, hut the basis-substance probably softens or lique- fies, and the new cells are formed by a change in the cells of the cartilage. It is not improbable that mucous tissue is capable of being transformed in turn into cartilage, and perhaps into fibrous tissue. It is, as Virchow has pointed out, an embryonic tissue, but an embryonic tissue which may he maintained as an independent tissue. Its stability, however, appears to be of a very low order. Metamorphoses and Combinations.—The combinations of mucous with other tissues have been mentioned when speaking of the varieties of myxoma. That most of these tumors are not combination tumors will be gathered from what has preceded. They are merely masses in which the transformation into a higher and more stable tissue is in progress, but has not been completed.