250 INJURIES OF BONES. fragment projecting inward, and the outer side of the foot being drawn up. In some recorded cases there has been atrophy of the bones also. The procedures resorted to for the relief of this condition have been of various degrees of severity. Norris1 quotes Dupuytren2 as authority for the use of combined pressure and extension, and cites a case thus treated with success by M. Desgranges, four months after the receipt of the injury. Forcible refracture has been found effectual. Malgaigne cites cases from Bosch and Oesterlen, and one has been reported by Mussey.3 In 1851, I witnessed the performance of an operation of this kind, by Dr. W. E. Horner, on a leg broken twelve weeks previously ; the result was perfectly successful. Brainard4 made refracture easier by first drilling the bones at the abnormal angle; ten days afterward the callus yielded readily, and a good result was obtained. Hunt5 resorted to similar means, and with ultimate success, although the patient’s life was for a time in great danger. Section of the callus was first performed, according to Malgaigne, by Oes- terlen in 1815 ; afterwards by Dunn,6 Portal,7 Ivey,8 Barton,9 Mutter,10 and Josse.11 Norris mentions that he knew of similar operations by Warren, of Boston, and Stevens, of New York, and cites one by Rynd, of Dublin. I myself witnessed one such operation by the late Prof. Joseph Pancoast, and believe that he had others, never published. The modern method of subcutaneous osteotomy, which seems admirably adapted to the treatment of deformed union in some situations, cannot be so readily employed in cases affecting the leg, for obvious reasons, unless the chisel is substituted for the saw. Dr. Fenger, of Chicago, has published12 accounts of three cases in which he obtained success in this way. Another was reported,13 and the patient, a man fifty-eight years old, shown to the Leeds and West Riding Medieo-Chirurgical Society, by Mr. Jessop, of Leeds; the case was one of Pott’s fracture, which had firmly united in such a posi- tion as to render the limb useless. A section was made through the fibula, 21 inches above the ankle, and another through the base of the inner mal- leolus ; and union was obtained so that the limb became straight and useful. Compound fractures of the leg are always serious injuries, and are of very common occurrence in hospital practice. The damage to the soft parts may be due to the fracturing force, as in railway accidents ; or it may be produced bv efforts to walk on the part of the patient, by which the broken ends are thrust through the skin. Occasionally, the displacement being irreducible, the skin gives way over the projecting fragments, and a fracture at first sim- ple becomes compound subsequently. Sometimes the fracture of one of the bones only is compound, that of the other being simple. Often in these cases the question of amputation presents itself, and must be settled upon principles elsewhere laid down. If the attempt to save the limb be decided upon, I think it right to cleanse the parts thoroughly with carbo- lized water; reduction should then be accomplished, the wound closed, but with suitable provision for drainage,14 and dressings applied. I prefer hot 1 Contributions to Practical Surgery, p. 113. 2 Injuries and Diseases of Bones, Syd. Soc.’s translation, pp. 63, 66, and 68. 3 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, April, 1851. 4 Chicago Med. Journal, Jan. 1859. 5 Philadelphia Med. Times, Oct. 26, 1872, and Surgery in the Pennsylvania Hospital, p. 151. 6 Med.-Chir. Transactions, vol. xii. p. 181. 7 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, Oct. 1841, from an ItaUan Journal. s Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1839. 9 Med. Examiner, Jan. 8, 1842. 10 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, April, 1842. 11 Quoted by Malgaigne. 12 Medical News, April 15 and 22, 1882. 13 British Med. Journal, April 14, 1883. 11 See an excellent article by Markoe, on Through-drainage in Compound Fractures of the Le^, in the Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, April, 1880 ; and a paper by Dr. E. Mason, with its’discussion by the New York Surgical Society, in the Medical News, Jan. 7 and Jan. 14, 18S2.