64 INJURIES OE BONES. 1 Western Journal of Med. and Surgery, Oct. 1842. 1 Op. cit., p. 56. lished a certain tolerance in the tissues which does not exist in a healthy limb suddenly subjected to violence. Moreover, the surgeon should be on his guard against all the avoidable sources of trouble, and may, before operating, assure himself that the patient is in such a state as to reduce the chances of failure to a minimum. On the other hand, however, there are risks which must be run ; and the question is always to be carefully considered, whether the object to be gained is sufficient to justify taking them. For the condition of some limbs affected with pseudarthrosis is by no means intolerable. Many a man is able to earn his living in spite of such a drawback, especially if it is the upper extremity which is affected. Even without any prothetic apparatus, such a thing may be. Thus Dr. Sut- ton1 reported the case of a man who was shot in the arm,theball passing through the humerus just above the condyles. It would appear that no very strict treatment was pursued. After some weeks, he regularly bent his arm every day. This arm got well with the elbow stiff, and a false joint at the place of fracture. The artificial joint supplied the place both of the elbow-joint and of the rotary motion of the forearm, in a very perfect manner; and the man was able to do a good day’s work at any kind of labor. Norris2 quotes a number of analogous cases. It must further be remarked that the surgeon must be cautious in his promises to the patient as to the amount of benefit to be derived from opera- tion. Although, as a general rule, the union of the broken bone may be expected, there may be a failure; and even if the main object be accom- plished, there may be drawbacks to the ultimate result, which will cause much disappointment to the patient if his hopes have been raised too high. In illustration of this I may mention a case which came under my notice some years ago:— R. G., aged 36, sustained a fracture of the right femur in December, 1865, in Nevada, and was kept in bed six weeks, with a screw extension apparatus. No union taking place, a seton was passed June 10, 1866; this failing, a steel screw was introduced November 3, and kept in for seven weeks. Abscesses formed on either side of the patella during that time, but the bone became firm. When I saw him several years afterwards, he had three inches shortening, the lower fragment being behind the upper. Only slight fiexion of the knee was possible. He could walk very well, and all day, but not fast. Had this patient been assured, after the manner of some over-sanguine sur- geons, that he would be able to walk as well as ever, he would have had just cause of complaint, although the ultimate result was perhaps the best that could have been obtained. Amputation has been resorted to in some cases of pseudarthrosis. It is of course only justifiable when the limb, after a thorough trial of all reasonable means, not only fails to unite, but remains in such a condition as to be a burden to the patient. Thus when the bone affected is in the lower extre- mity, and the fragments very loosely connected, the usefulness of the limb as a means of support and progression is lost, and the patient may be disa- bled from obtaining a livelihood. Or if there be extensive necrosis, or ab- sorption of a very large portion of the bone, so that the member hangs dangling like a flail, it may be a mere incumbrance. Persons in good pecuniary circumstances may often be enabled by means of prothetic apparatus to obtain a fair degree of use of a limb which would otherwise be only in the way ; and even among the poor this should be sug- gested as a possibility. For example, if the humerus be the bone concerned, an appliance for its external support may, even if rude and homely, give the