712 INJURIES OF THE BACK. tions, 5 occurred in the cervical and 1 in the dorsal region. The nature of the lesion was verified by a post-mortem examination in every one of the 10 cases in which a cervical vertebra was injured; and thus, pure dislocation was found, beyond question, in one-half, or 50 per cent., of the cervical cases. It was found in 2 between the fourth and fifth vertebrae of the neck; in 2 between the fifth and sixth ; and in 1 between the last cervical and first dorsal vertebrae. In each of the other 5 cases of injury to the cervical portion of the spine, the lesion consisted of dislocation and fracture combined. All of the examples of 'pure fracture were found in the dorsal region. Three examples of dislocation combined with fracture were also found in this region. The instance of pure dislocation in the dorsal region, above mentioned, occurred between the eleventh and twelfth vertebrae. The ligaments normally con- necting these vertebrae were ruptured at all the joints between them, and the body of the eleventh was thrown forward. In the remaining 7 cases of injury to the dorsal portion of the spine, there was no autopsy; but the lesions occurred about the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth vertebrae. Professor Porta’s memoir and Mr. Bryant’s article mark the commence- ment of a new epoch in the surgical history of vertebral injuries. Some forty years before, Mr. Lawrence had demonstrated, as already mentioned, that the body of a vertebra, as well as an articular process, could be disjointed from its fellow without being attended by any fracture. They, however, went much further, and demonstrated that pure dislocations of the vertebrae were not, by any means, extremely rare lesions; that, on the contrary, they occurred about as frequently as pure fractures of the vertebrae in civil prac- tice, and that dislocations combined with fractures were met with in the spinal column at large much oftener than either of these lesions. Mr. Bryant went further still, and showed that pure dislocations were mostly found in the cervical region, but seldom in the dorsal and lumbar regions. In 1867, awakened interest in this neglected branch of surgery was also manifested in America, by the publication of Professor Ashhurst’s instructive essay on Injuries of the Spine, with an analysis of 394 cases, the clinical his- tories of which he had examined. His investigations, after making due allow- ance for all possible errors, strongly confirm Mr. Bryant’s conclusions on the last-named point. Of these 394 cases of spinal injury, 124 are reported as pure dislocations; 104 of them being in the cervical region, 17 in the dorsal, and only 3 in the lumbar region. Now, admitting that in some of these cases reported as pure dislocations of the vertebrae, there must also have been lesions of bone, perhaps quite limited in extent, but still constituting frac- tures of the vertebrae with which the dislocations were complicated, the rela- tive proportions would not be destroyed, nor even essentially changed (it is probable), for an error of this sort is not likely to occur in a greater percentage of cases in one of the spinal regions than in another. But enough has been said to indicate that, since the days of Delpech and Abernethy, of Baron Boyer and Sir Astley Cooper, great additions have been made to the stock of our knowledge concerning this important class of spinal injuries. Here it may be well to say that, when a vertebra is dislocated, the ver- tebra itself, together with the part of the spinal column resting on it, is usually moved forward upon the next vertebra below it and the rest of the column. That the displacement in vertebral dislocations is generally anterior, results from the fact that the forces causing them generally act from behind, and, having ruptured the column, they drive the upper part of it forward, in which direction this part is also drawn by its own weight and by muscular action, while the lower part remains unmoved. This, Professor Porta verified in 17 out of 26 cases, and anterior displacement was doubtless present in other instances. Hence the upper is usually considered to be the portion of the