DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 334 Hydrops Articuli, Hydrarthrus, or Hydrarthrosis. The names above given are derived simply from a symptom which accom- panies several forms of malady, and therefore these terms include more than one kind of disease. We have to do with an increased effusion into the joint, which (1) originates in a demonstrable inflammatory attack; (2) begins without demonstrable inflammation and continues without further change than the thickening caused by the presence of the fluid ; or (3) is accompanied or caused by great hypertrophy of the fringes (rheumatic hydrarthrosis). Many cases of joint-dropsy follow immediately, others more remotely, after acute synovitis ; and in some of these cases there is strong reason to believe that a fibrinous concretion, left behind, has become adherent to some point of the synovial membrane. Clinically, this idea may be confirmed by observing, in the early part of the case, that, the patient refers a frequent and sharp pain to a certain spot which is not commonly the seat of such sensation.1 Of course, however, in many of these cases there is no sign, no reason to suspect the presence of such a body. The inflammation, whether it have been more or less antecedent, appears to have changed the secreting or the absorbing- functions of the synovial membrane, producing a congestion, often extremely well-marked after death, either general or in patches; the latter, I believe, more usual, except in old cases. Mere congestion, produced by venous obstruction higher up the limb, never produces hydrarthrus. Passive oedema, either as in general anasarca, or as that caused by pressure on the femoral vein from aneurism, spares the joints. Even though the limb be swollen almost to the point of bursting, no excess of fluid occupies the synovial cavity. Pathological Anatomy.—I have had the opportunity of making exami- nations in several cases of this afiection: one after fifteen months during which the lad had been quiescent, the case having begun in an acute syno- vitis, and others after four and more than seven years of chronic disease respectively; in both cases, of course, an abnormal amount of fluid was found in the joint. Besides this, there was in the former considerable redness of the whole synovial membrane, very marked in the folds on each side of the patella; but in one point of the subcrural sac was a spot of extreme hyper- emia. The fringes, especially round the patella, were a little more evident than usual; and hanging by a narrow stalk from the crucial ligaments, was a little hygroma. The cartilages were milky, sodden, and a little soft. I look upon the patch of excessive congestion in the subcrural prolongation as having been probably the cause of the hypersecretion, and upon the other changes as secondary. In examining the other cases, which from the first were chronic and non-inflammatory, I found a remarkable condition of synovial membrane. The fluid in the joints was very yellow, albuminous, lubricating, but not thready. The cut edge of the synovial membrane exhibited a yellow pulp not unlike that of an over-ripe orange; in the older case this was, where most developed, If inch, and in the more recent f inch thick. It was soaked in, and possibly derived its color from, a similar fluid to that in the cavity; in its sub- stance were a great number of little chambers communicating freely with one another, and varying from a microscopic size to such as would contain a No. 4 shot. The inner surface was composed of rounded or conical eminences 1 It would seem that such a concretion, either by exercising a certain traction on the point of attachment, or otherwise, may produce a congestion or distension of vessels favorable to the effusion of much fluid. A mere soft, lipomatous, false body will have the same effect, the disease proving incurable till the growth is removed.