44 INJURIES OF BONES. to use a broken limb before the callus has become firm, may so disturb the newly developed tissue as to postpone its ossification for a time. At the present day scarcely any surgeon can be found who would make use of ioet dressings to a fractured limb after the inflammatory stage; and hence the prolonged employment of such applications, as a cause of delayed union, need be only mentioned as a matter of history. Tight bandaging, it is to be feared, is sometimes practised, especially by surgeons in the country, who cannot frequently visit their patients; yet it is all the more dangerous under such circumstances. That it may induce gan- grene of the limb is well known; hut when not sufficient for this, it may very probably so far interfere with the nutrition and innervation of the part as to delay the process of repair. Occasionally the interposition between the fragments of a portion of muscle, of a separated splinter, or of a foreign body, may cause a long delay in union, or, unless either removed or absorbed, may wholly prevent it. A curious case is quoted by Norris,1 “in which the fragments of a clavicle, separated to the extent of an inch by the subclavius muscle, were united together very solidly by two bridges of newly-formed bone, in the centre of which the muscle, itself ossified, was imprisoned.” Necrosis or other disease of one or both fragments may hinder consolidation, until by appropriate measures the disease has been set aside or the necrosed portions removed. The ligation of the main artery of the limb, sometimes rendered necessary by a wound, has occasionally been thought to interfere with the union of a fracture by cutting oft’ the vascular supply. But, in other instances, as in a case recorded by Mr. Bransby Cooper2, the process of repair seems to take place quite as readily as under other circumstances. As to the effect of nerve injuries upon the repair of fractures, there is a decided conflict of evidence. Thus Travers3 gives the following case:— A man had his fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae fractured and dislocated by the falling of a load of gravel upon his loins as he was working in a pit. At the same time the bones of his right leg and his left upper arm were fractured. These were adjusted and set; the lower limbs, bladder, and rectum were paralyzed immediately, but the loss of sensation was gradual, and both sensation and motion were partially restored before his death. He lived eight weeks, notwithstanding two attacks of peritonitis. At the end of five weeks the fractured arm was perfectly united; the bones of the leg were unchanged, and exhibited not the slightest advance toward union; but at the time of his death some thickening of the fractured ends had taken place, and the process of union seemed to be at length commencing. On the other band, Kusmin4 found that, in animals experimented on by him, the callus was larger and harder on the side on which the nerves had been divided. This was still the case after four or five months. The process of ossification was more rapid, and the result was true bone. The bony formation in the cartilaginous callus occurred in the earlier stages as a meta- plastic process. The first signs of ossification began in the coaptated frag- ments in the neighborhood of the outer periphery of the old bone, and under the periosteum, markedly earlier and to a greater extent when the nerves had been divided. The amount of mobility at the seat of fracture, when the consolidation is hindered by any of the circumstances now mentioned, varies somewhat; but 1 Op. cit., p. 48. 2 Lancet, Dec. 5, 1840. * Further Inquiry, etc., p. 436. 4 Ueberden Einfluss der Nerven-durchschneidung auf die Callus-bildung bei Fracturen. Allg. Wiener Med. Zeitung, Nos. 33, 34, und 35, 1882.