765 FRACTURES OF THE VERTEBRAS. consciousness, and completely paralyzed up to the neck as to both sensation and volun- tary motion. The neck was very stiff1, but no irregularity of the vertebrae could be per- ceived. He was treated by venesection and by cupping the back of the neck, “and, using proper remedies, a capability of moving the head gradually returned.” The bladder was paralyzed, and catheterization required. After some weeks, the ability to micturate at will appears to have returned, and he was able to defecate by taking senna. After some weeks, also, “ a certain amount of motion was restored to the head and neck, and sensibility to the same extent; but the rest of the body remained perfectly para- lyzed and insensible.” Many years afterward, it was noted that there was nothing abnormal to be felt about the spine; that no costal movements occurred during respi- ration ; that there was perfect loss of voluntary motion in the lower and upper extremi- ties, with almost perfect loss of sensation in the same ; that his bowels were never moved without medicine (senna) ; and that his urine was very offensive when he caught cold, at other times not so offensive, but always a little so. His urine was acid. He felt a distinct pain in the bowels occasionally, and now and then an aching in the loins. When sick, he vomited with great difficulty. Erections of the penis were frequent, and lasted a quarter of an hour, with slight escape of seminal ffuid occasionally. Four- teen years after the original injury, he was upset whilst being dragged about in a little four-wheeled cart by a boy, and, as he could not put out his hands to save himself, he fell to the ground with great violence; this led to some chest affection, which caused death in a few days. A complete autopsy could not be obtained ; but the specimen was procured, which is portrayed in the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 776). In it the bodies and arches of the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical vertebrae are seen blended together by bone. The body of the sixth vertebra is displaced and projects backward into the spinal canal. The intervertebral substances have disappeared, but their out- lines are still marked, and their places occupied by bone. Every one must admire the perfect union which has taken place by new bone ; and if nature could have done as well with the spinal cord, this patient might have perfectly recovered.1 Mr. Bryant, likewise, mentions the case of a gentleman, aged 29, whom he saw, November 25, 1870, with complete paralysis of the whole body below the fifth cervical vertebra, caused by a fall upon the neck, who was still alive in 1877, breathing solely by the diaphragm ;2 exactly as the man, whose case Mr. Hilton has reported, did for fourteen years, and until he perished in consequence of another accident. These examples of recovery from cervical fracture have been presented in order to encourage surgeons to give every possible care and attention to the treatment of cervical injuries attended by paralysis, with the hope of obtaining the same happy result. Recoveries from fractures of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae have been recorded in so many instances, that these lesions now are often, perhaps gene- rally, considered to be quite amenable to appropriate treatment. This results in great part from the fact that the spinal cord, in adults, not only ends in a rounded point at the first or second lumbar vertebra, but also becomes, in the lower part of the dorsal region, a leash of nerves, the cords of which are wrapped in a strong fibrous covering; and, for this anatomical reason, being able to freely slide on each other, they glide out of the way of the displaced fragments ot broken vertebrae, and thus escape serious damage. As for successful examples, Mr. Hulke3 records a very interesting case of recovery from fracture of a dorsal vertebra. Baron Dupuytren4 gives two cases observed at the Hotel-Dieu. The first was that of a mason, aged 28, who, by a fall, fractured his spinal column about the tenth dorsal vertebra. Paralysis came on in two days. He was treated by cupping, by rest in bed, etc.; and, in two months, he recovered. The second case was that ot a washerwoman, who fell from a second story upon her feet, and then upon her back. I lie tenth, eleventh, and twelfth dorsal vertebrae projected backward, and her right lower extremity was paralyzed. She was treated by bleeding, by rest in bed, etc.; and, in four months, she recovered. ' Op. cit., pp. 65-67. 2 Op. cit., pp. 203, 204. 3 Medical Times and Gazette, February, 1874. 4 Diseases and Injuries of Bones, Sydenham Society’s translation, pp. 356, 357.