FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 217 there is a specimen1 of separation of the condyloid epiphysis, along with transverse fracture in the middle third of the hone, in a boy run over by a railroad car; also another of the former lesion only, without history. Even in this small list of cases, the course and results presented a marked variety. Sometimes amputation became necessary, once excision; in Hamil- ton’s case there was anchylosis of the knee-joint, and some shortening of the limb. Callender’s patient did much better; union took place in six weeks, and sixteen months later there was no sign of atrophy. Another very favor- able result occurred in a case treated by Puzey.2 A boy aged sixteen was playing leapfrog, and alighted with his legs farther apart than usual; he fell, and was taken to the hospital with one leg at an angle of about 130° with the femur—looking, it is said, like genu valgum. Under ether, the joint was found all right. “ The lower end of the thigh was now steadied, and by gently pushing the leg toward the middle line, the limb was straightened, and in so doing there was clearly felt the soft crunch and crepitus which is generally noticed in straightening out a greenstick fracture; further exami- nation made it evident that what had occurred was a separation of the con- dyloid epiphysis, not quite complete at its upper aspect.” Eight months after the accident, this patient was seen again, with a good straight limb and perfect movement of the knee-joint. As to the diagnosis in these cases, very little can be said. The age of the patient, and the characters of the fracture—its want of obliquity, its nearness to the joint, and the smoothness of the fragments—will be the chief points to be relied upon in distinguishing this lesion from ordinary supra-condyloid fracture. The treatment must consist in thorough reduction, and then in placing the limb at complete rest in an easy position, especial care being taken to pre- vent eversion or inversion of the foot. Extension may be called for if syno- vitis of the knee should ensue, but need not be as energetically made as in fracture of the shaft. Minute directions need hardly be given as to the means of following out this course, as they do not differ from those employed in other cases. Fractures of the condyles of the femur are not very seldom met with as the result either of direct violence, as from railroad or machinery accidents, or ot indirect, as from falls on the knees. They generally occur in male adults, and present numerous varieties according to" the seat and direction of the fracture, the amount ot bone involved, the degree of comminution, and the severity of the damage done to the soft parts. The majority ot these injuries atfect both condyles, and many of them are T-fractures, the bone being broken across transversely, and the lower frag- ment split down into the joint. I shall speak first of fractures of this kind, and afterward of those which concern one condyle only. Sometimes the transverse fracture is quite low down, sometimes much higher. _ Thus in the pathological cabinet of the Hew York Hospital there is a specimen3 “ from a man who had had his right knee jammed between the side of a ship and a box of two tons’ weight, a few days previous to the am- putation of the thigh. The shaft was fractured very obliquely a couple of inches above the condyles, the inner one of which, moreover, had been crushed inward toward its fellow, and was traversed by several gaping fissures, which incompletely separated it into several fragments.” Another4 is described as follows: “ 1 racture of the femur, four inches above the knee, accompanied 1 Catalogue, p. 31, No. 1132. 3 Catalogue, p. 97, No. 177. 2 British Med. Journal, Oct. 21, 1882. 4 Ibid., p. 98, No. 181.