352 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. My own experience of this malady, which has not been small, inclines me so far to the views of Demme, as to think that incisions should not be made merely for routine’s sake, but that there are, nevertheless, certain cases in which either extreme tension or early suppuration renders incisions abso- lutely necessary, and that then, if judiciously employed, they are salutary. The treatment, therefore, should be carried out on the following lines: After administration, if needful, of a purge, the patient is to be placed on a nutritious and supporting diet, stimulants being in all probability necessary. Opi ates by the mouth or subcutaneously must be given. The limb is to be placed at entire rest on a splint, and especially should be slung; and of all local applications, compresses, put on hot and covered with thin mackintosh, are, in my opinion, the most efficacious; they cause transpiration, appear to relieve the distended vessels, and tend to keep the blood within the veins liquid and in motion.1 If it be wished to add the acetate of lead or tincture of opium to the fluid of the compress, there can be no objection. From day to day the part must be examined, attention being paid to any centrifugal spread of the inflammation, and more especially to any increase of swelling, or to fluctuation indicative of suppuration. When the deep, hard swelling softens, or the change of color, already described, takes place—which occurs in from five to fourteen days—an opening will, in all probability, be desirable. Occasionally these symptoms are not so strongly marked but that the surgeon may have some hesitation, in which case an exploratory trocar may be first introduced. In other cases, combined with the above symptoms, a spot may be found at which fluctuation is per- fectly distinct ; here an opening may be made long enough to admit further exploration with the finger. The great object in treatment at this stage, I have no hesitation in affirming, is evacuation of pus from the vicinity of the bone, as soon as detected. Hence, the opening must go through the perios- teum, and, if it have to extend through much thickness of tissue, effusion of any great quantity of blood can be avoided by making the deeper parts of the cut not very long, introducing into the periosteal wound a pair of dressing forceps, and, by rapidly opening the blades, tearing up the rest. The surgeon, however, must procure a sample of the pus, as free as possible from blood, and examine if any considerable quantity of oil float on its sur- face ; and if that be the case, he should perforate the bone. He need have no fear of missing the spot where intraosseous pressure is well marked, since it is quite sure to be opposite the place of subperiosteal abscess; nor need he lie under apprehension of doing harm. No complication of instruments is necessary; a simple, well-tempered, and sharp, carpenter’s gimlet is all that is required. Throughout the operation, care should be taken not to injure or unnecessarily tear the periosteum. When all is complete, the wound should be well washed out with an antiseptic; a solution of chloride of zinc, forty grains to the ounce of water, is, I think, the best, but carbolic acid may also be used. Unless very extensive, no part of the wound should he sutured, but it may be loosely filled with lint or absorbent cotton steeped in an anti- septic fluid. A drainage-tube should be passed into the furthest depths of the wound, and retained for at least a few days. Many cases under this man- agement completely recover. If, in spite of all" efforts, the disease continue to spread, a repetition of the operation, as far as may be wise or as the patient’s strength may permit, must be carried out. But if the spread be rapid and the appearances indi- 1 Demme recommends the application of a very strong tincture of iodine, 60 or 70 grains of pure iodine to the ounce of absolute alcohol, and this to be repeated to the verge of vesication. I have not traced any special advantage to this treatment ; it adds to the pain, and the horny condition left may give rise to subsequent trouble.