MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 910 movements, calculated to call into moderate and varied use the vertebral muscles, are to be strongly advised. The great point, indeed, to be aimed at, is the more efficient development of the muscles that should support the spinal column erect. It may be of some use to stimulate these muscles by baths, friction, or electricity, although properly directed exercise is, without doubt, the ttlore important feature in treatment. The patient should sleep upon a flat, horse-hair mattress, and during the day should assume for a cer- tain time the dorsal decubitus. The practice of lying for an hour or so daily prone upon the face will also be of service. Instruments and supports of all kinds should be avoided as calculated to do harm by inducing still less activity of the spinal muscles. In very severe cases, however, where the deformity is considerable, the use of instruments may be sometimes advised as a preliminary measure, and the circumstances requiring their use are identical with those that point to instrumental treatment in cases of lateral curvature, which is considered in another article. Upon the treatment of non- essential or symptomatic cyphosis, it is unnecessary to comment. Lordosis.—This term is applied to a curving of the spinal column ante- riorly, of such a nature that the convexity of the curve projects forwards. AN uh the exception of certain cases of congenital deformity, lordosis in- volves only a portion of the spine, and is therefore always “ partial.” It is usually met with in the lumbar region, and in that position consists merely in an increase of the natural vertebral curve. Etiology.—Lordosis may depend upon many causes. A certain amount of lumbar lordosis may be hereditary. “ Congenital lordosis” is a condition met with in certain monsters, and is accompanied by deformities that are usually incompatible with any but the briefest existence. It may be met with in any part of the spine. If in the cervical region, it usually depends upon some cranial deformity ; if in the dorsal or lumbar regions, upon some thoracic or abdominal defect. The curve in these cases is usually abrupt and extreme, and in some instances the lordosis may so involve the entire spine that the head rests upon the sacrum. Some lumbar lordosis, more or less of a temporary character, may depend upon position, in cases where undue weight is thrown in advance of the line of gravity of the body. Thus it may be seen in cases of peddlers and others who continually carry trays in front of them, and in ascites, in pregnancy, in ovarian disease, and, as a somewhat more permanent condition, in great obesity.1 The great majority of the cases of lordosis are compensatory to some other deformity elsewhere that deflects the line of gravity of the body. Thus arises a lumbar lordosis to compensate a forced flexion of the thigh, in instances of hip-disease. For like reasons is lordosis met with in congenital or unreduced dislocation of the head of the femur, in rickety deformities of the pelvis, and in rickety curvatures of the lower limbs. A lordosis may occur at almost any part of the spine to compensate an angular projection of the column developed at some other part. Cervical lordosis may depend upon the contraction of the scar after burns about the posterior part of the neck. Mr. William Adams figures a case of lordosis associated with a lateral curvature of the column, and like cases are referred to by others.2 3 Then again this deformity may depend upon paralysis. The paralysis that leads to lordosis may involve either the flexors of the spine (the abdominal mus- cles), or the extensors of the spine. In the former instance, the column is 1 Maisonabe (Journ. des difformites, No. 2, 1825) gives two cases where the lordosis of preg- nancy persisted after confinement. 3 Op. cit., page 74, fig. 10.