DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 354 were in early life, a very short limb would result. In all probability, there- fore, when an acute osteo-myelitis has caused separation and death of one or both epiphyses about the knee, amputation will be the best treatment, that which is most likely to save life, and that which will leave the most useful form of member behind ; a good stump being better than a short, feeble, and deformed limb. II. Chronic Articular Osteitis. Osteitis is much more frequently subacute and chronic than acute, so that, Tooth in private and in public practice, we constantly meet with the first-named varieties in different forms affecting adults and children. Chronic bone-inflam- mation may be due to various constitutional dyscrasise—e. y., syphilis, scrofula, or rheumatism—or may be merely traumatic and local. It is not desirable that I should here discuss the histology of osteitis further than may be neces- sary for the elucidation of our present subject.1 It must, however, be said that: (1) Osseous tissue, even that apparently solid case which surrounds the medullary canal of a long bone, is traversed and pervaded by channels containing vessels and membranes, and the small non-vascular districts between those canals are studded with stellate cells, which, together with their branches, subdivide the tissue into microscopic spaces; (2) the nutri- tion of the bone is effected by fluids conveyed along these channels, first, by the vessels into the Haversian canals, and secondly, from thence by the minuter passages, into the lacunar spaces; and (3) by means of these minute membranous ramifications, the periosteum and endosteum are placed in close interrelation.2 These are all concerned in the nutritive mechanism of the bone. In parts where, for the sake of combining inci’eased size with lightness, the bone elements, instead of being concentrated into an apparently solid mass, are scattered in thin plates inclosing interspaces (eancelli), vessels, and there- fore Haversian canals, need not be channelled through the tissue itself, but the cavities contain the arteries, and are lined by subdivided prolongations of the vascular endosteum ; nevertheless, lacunar spaces and cells are still necessary. In fact, bone is connective tissue the ground-substance of which has been hardened by the deposit of lime-salts, and in which the connective-tissue cells still persist, sometimes forming an integral part of the membranous con- stituents, sometimes scattered or arranged in the harder portions. As the health and life, or the disease and death, of ordinary yellow connective tissue depend on the action of these parts, so do the healthy and diseased nutrition of the ground-substance of bone depend upon the functional integrity or dis- turbance of the cellular elements, and of other cellular elements (migratory leucocytes) which may be added to them. An inflammation of areolar tissue may have either formative or destructive qualities. It may tend to tissue formation, whereby the inflamed spot becomes both harder and larger, or, in other words, is swollen and indurated. Bone, being rigid, does not often swell by the interstitial deposit of new tissue-ele- 1 My investigations and views on the process of inflammation in hones, and the points of dif- ference in my views from those of Billroth, are set forth in my work on Diseases of the Joints. 2 This view of the structure of bone might also he explained hy pointing out the similarity, nay almost the identity of appearance of the ramified connective-tissue corpuscles of connective- tissue, and the ramified lacunar spaces of hone ; if, for instance, we refer to two illustrations in Quain’s Anatomy, we see there excellent representations of the former bodies ; they also admi- rably portray the microscopic appearance of a thin portion, say a cancellar lamella, of bone; in solid bone as of a shaft, the elements are the same, only more regularly arranged.