3 CAUSES OF FRACTURE. Immediate Causes.—It would be vain to try to enumerate all the special forms of violence by which, in the complicated conditions of human life, bones are broken. But they may be classified under four general heads: direct and indirect violence, muscular action, and avulsion. Direct violence is that which is inflicted upon the bone at the point where the fracture occurs; such as a blow with a stick or a stone, the passage of a wheel over a limb, or the fall of a heavy body upon it. Here the momentum of the impinging mass is expended in overcoming the resistance of a portion of the bony tissue. Indirect violence is that which is transmitted through some length of the bone, which becomes an overtaxed lever; as, for example, when a man falls from a height, alighting upon his feet, and the femur gives way at some por- tion of its shaft. Here the resistance of the ground, acting through the foot and leg, fixes the lower end of the femur, while the momentum of the body continues to drive the upper end of this bone downward; and the natural curve of the shaft is increased until its texture gives way. As will presently be further shown, there is often also an element of twisting added to the leverage. 31uscular action, when it causes fracture, must either be extremely violent and sudden, as in cases of convulsion or very powerful effort, or the bone must be taken at a disadvantage, as will be further explained in speaking of the mechanism of fractures generally, as well as of those of special bones. Fractures by avulsion are those in which a small fragment of bone is torn away by the stress put upon ligamentous structures attached to it. They are more generally known at present as “ sprain-fractures,” and the observations to be made concerning them will be found in connection with fractures close to the joints, especially of the knee and ankle. So many illustrations of the foregoing statements will be given in dis- cussing the mechanism of fractures, as well as in describing these injuries as affecting special bones, that I shall dwell no further upon them here; only saying that in very many cases the agency of indirect force is greatly aided by the occurrence of muscular contraction at the moment of its application. Predisposing Causes.—Among the general diseases which have been thus ranked by authors, there are some which admit of much doubt. Thus, in regard to gout, rheumatism., and scurvy, there seems to be no evidence that they render the bones more fragile; although they may possibly, by crippling or weakening the limbs, make their victims clumsy, and less able to avoid "falls or escape violence. Yet it must be remembered that persons so diseased are obliged to take care of themselves, and to abstain from the active pursuits which would involve exposure to the usual fracturing forces. Scrofula has been placed by some writers in this category, but there is really no evidence that it belongs here. Its subjects are sometimes ill-nourished and feeble, and very probably their bones, like their tissues.generally, are weak in texture. But many of the scrofulous are strong and active, and in these there is no sign of fragility of the bones unless they are actually affected with caries, and not always then. After healing has taken place, the osseous tissue seems to be condensed and peculiarly firm, although the constitutional disorder may be still progressing. Syphilis has been assigned by some as a cause of fragility of the bones, and many cases are on record in support of their views. Berkeley Hill1 mentions a case in which a child six weeks old, already affected with snuffles and pem- phigus, sustained a fracture of the left humerus by the mother “ catching the 1 Syphilis and Local Contagious Disorders, 2d ed. London, 1881.