684 INJURIES OF THE BACK. a special tendency to suppuration, it frequently occurred in long transverse seton-wounds of this region that, their orifices having promptly healed and remained closed, their tracks, months afterward, filled up internally with puru- lent matter so as to form fluctuating tumors, which had to he lanced, inasmuch as the thick skin of the back was hut slowly pierced by ulceration. He likewise remarked: “Many surgeons err in trying to relieve such ailments by several small incisions, or even punctures, parallel to the spine; these afford no relief, and it is absolutely necessary, in such cases, to make incisions several inches in length, at right angles to the spine."1 It should also be stated, that, if the surgeon does not lay open the track of the ball, in such cases, dame Mature herself will not unfrequently do it by ulceration or sloughing. During the late civil war, I saw several examples of long, seton-like, transverse flesh- wounds of the back, in which the bridge of injured muscle and integument had been completely carried away by ulceration and sloughing, and the seton-like wound itself had been converted into an immense open sore whose long diameter extended transversely, that is, was perpendicular to the vertebral column. The cicatrices resulting from such wounds, as a rule, seriously impaired the functions of the injured muscles. Again, I also saw during the late civil war, several instances of long seton-like flesh-wounds of the dorsal region, which extended between the scapulae in a longitudinal direction, that is, were parallel to the vertebral column. These wounds had been received by men deployed as skirmishers, while advancing by crawling on their bellies over the ground. In some of them, the missile, having passed through the trapezius, tore for itself a way across the fibres of the rhomboid muscles, dividing them to great extent from above downward, and escaped from the integuments over the latissimus dorsi. In such cases, a considera- ble degree of disability always remained, owing to the contraction and agglu- tination of the injured muscles which ensued. Furthermore, Dr. Otis remarks concerning this group of injuries: “ There were some curious instances of long, circuitous, ball-tracks; and, among the fatal cases were noted several in which the projectiles had lodged under the scapula.”2 Dur- ing the late civil war, I several times had occasion to observe that the results were exceedingly unsatisfactory, in all cases of shot flesh-wound of the back, where the missiles lodged beneath the scapula. These patients often com- plained of having great pain in the injured region, and begged to have the missiles extracted by operations to which they were always ready to submit; the fistulous tracks made by the missiles remained open, discharging purulent matter, while the injured muscles became matted together in consequence of the inflammation and suppuration, and the movements of the injured shoulder always remained much restricted. In one of these cases, after the lapse of many months, the missile which had penetrated above the superior angle of the scapula, and lodged beneath that bone on the inner side of the serratus magnus anticus, sank downward by the force of gravity until it rested on the costal origin of the latissimus dorsi from the last three ribs. It was extracted by making an incision through the integuments and the latissimus dorsi. Thereupon, the patient’s sufferings, which had been very great, immediately ceased, and a fistulous channel, which had remained open and discharging, soon became permanently closed; but I do not think that the man ever regained very good use of the injured shoulder. Dr. B. Beck3 remarks, in substance, that when the fleshy covering of the back is injured, much depends on the depth to which the laceration of the muscles extends, the length of the shot channel, the amount of concussion (as 1 Quoted by Otis, op. eit., p. 429. 2 Op. cit., p. 430. 3 Chirurgie der Schussverletzungen, 1872, S. 448. (Quoted by Otis, op. cit., p. 430.)