INJURIES OF THE BACK. into, the spinal canal. Otherwise, the suppurative meningitis would pretty certainly have caused paralysis by compressing the spinal cord with the in- flammatory products. The clinical history of this lad’s case, interpreted by the post-mortem ap- pearances, appears to have been as follows: The blow on his back wrenched the saero-vertebral articulation, and caused a suppurative inflammation to be lighted up therein, particularly on the left side, and in consequence of this, purulent matter escaped in an outward direction, and led to the forma- tion of an immense lumbo-sacral abscess ; it likewise escaped in an inward direction, and caused the theca vertebralis to become softened and perforated, and extensively destroyed, and a diffuse suppurative inflammation, which extended upward to the brain, to be kindled in the spinal arachnoid. More- over, the account of the case presented above gives the symptoms by which each of these periods, or stages, in the progress of the case was characterized. The symptoms indicative of the joint inflammation were pain in and sore- ness of the joint itself, and these were to some extent relieved by leeching. The Fig. 811. Showing the lower part of the spinal cord, and the distribntion in the trnnk of the corresponding spinal nerves. (Swan.) a, The spinal cord, b, The posterior branches of the spinal nerves, proceeding to the muscles and integu- ments of the loins, etc. c, The radiating lines indicate the anterior branches of certain dorsal nerves which are distributed to the muscles and integuments of the upper half of the abdominal walls, d, The anterior branches of the lumbar nerves which are distributed to the lower part of the abdominal walls, ee, Anterior part of the abdominal walls. /, The rectus abdominis muscle, y, The obturator nerve. A, The diaphragm. (Hilton.) formation of the lumbo-sacral abscess was attended by a return of the joint- pain, followed by pyrexia, and by the appearance of a swelling which, on being opened, discharged purulent matter. The spinal meningitis set in with severe pain in the spinal column, and irritative fever, followed by extreme