DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 376 of fluctuating cases, rest is to be avoided. The patient must be directed to take as much exercise as he can without over-fatigue, thus promoting por- cellaneous polish of the hones, and preventing the encroachment of osteo- phytes so near those which spring from the opposite bone as to fix the joint altogether, or beyond the amount absolutely inevitable. It is to be confessed that when the disease has reached this stage, all that art can do is merely palliative ; the surgeon must direct his efforts to spare for his patient as much power of movement as possible. Syphilitic Affections of Joints. Syphilitic affections of the joints are very rare, and are among the latest manifestations of the virus. They assume two forms, arising either from gummatous deposit in the perisynovial tissue, or from periostitis of the articular end, which, when it occurs, is usually consecutive to periostitis of the shaft. Syphilitic Joint-disease from Perisynovial Gummata.—This variety, which is the less common of the two, only arises when gummatous products are plentiful in external parts, and in the viscera; the disease is rather an extension from the surrounding fibrous tissues of inflammation, caused by deposit within them of gummatous material, than a primary affection. But it must be confessed that little opportunity for anatomical study of this con- dition has as yet been afforded. The well-known case of Lancereaux1 is the only record of pathological investigation of this subject that I can find; it is unfortunate that the period during which the patient was under observa- tion is not mentioned, nor is any account given of the condition of the joints during life. After death, numerous gummata were found in various parts of the body, notably in the liver. Both the femoro-tibial articulations were enlarged, and each contained more than a glassful of a yellowish, turbid serum. The synovial membranes, thickened and at the same time injected, were studded with several small pseudo-membranous deposits. On the left side, a yellowish false membrane united the two layers of the synovial mem- brane ; on the right side, the synovial bursa of the rectus femoris was not changed. The articular surface of the left external condyle was eroded, and, as it were, ulcerated at one point. The articular cartilages of both patellae were eroded or ulcerated; there was a velvety condition over half their extent; but these changes were secondary, only the chief lesion affecting the fibrous tissues of the joint. On the right side, a part of the ligamentous tissue attached around the tibia was changed into a uniform, grayish- yellow, elastic mass, about an inch and a half thick at the median line. The mass resembled in many respects the morbid products met with in the liver, being like them formed by a gummy deposit. Except the fibrous band representing the ligamentum patellae, there were found in it only some fibrous septa, which appeared to divide it into several small tumors. The left joint was similarly affected, except that the cushion of fat behind the patella had not disappeared as completely as on the opposite side. The fatty mass had retained its normal appearance at the upper part; an anatomical exami- nation of the articular gummy masses showed a structure identical with that of the gummy masses in the liver. By comparing the results of this autopsy with the records of other cases, we may evolve a picture of the disease which is plainly to be understood. The disease is essentially chronic, and is occasionally remittent; it does not appear to affect any joint hut the knee; it may be double or single, and is 1 Treatise on Syphilis, Sydenham Society’s Translation, vol. i. p. 255.