799 INJURIES OF THE SPINAL CORD AND SPINAL NERVES. Compressions of the spinal marrow, arising from the displacements of dislocated and frac- tured vertebrae, have already been mentioned with sufficient particularity while presenting il- lustrative examples of the spinal dislocations and fractures which produce them. Compression of the spinal cord by foreign bodies which have entered the spinal canal, will be sufficiently illustrated by the subjoined ab- stract and wood-cut (Fig. 791):— A soldier, aged 40, wounded May 8, 1864, was ad- mitted to a General Hospital on the 18th, in a para- plegic condition, and died a few hours afterwards. Necroscopy A conoidal musket-ball entered over the lower ribs on the left side, and, penetrating deeply, had lodged between the lamina? of the second and third lum- bar vertebras and partly in the spinal canal, compress- ing and bruising the cord. (Fig. 791.) The bladder was distended.1 Compression of the spinal marrow by the products of inflammatory action, as, for example, by serous and by purulent effusion, will presently be discussed under the heads of Traumatic Spinal Meningitis, and Traumatic Myelitis. Wounds of the Spinal Cord.—Incised and punctured wounds of the back, which penetrate the spinal column, as well of those made by gunshot missiles, sometimes involve the spinal cord also, and divide it either partly or wholly. Three cases, in which incised or punctured wounds of the back extended into or across the spinal cord, have already been related. (Seepp. 675, 676.) In all of them the parts supplied by the cut filaments of the cord were paralyzed. Two recovered (one completely, the other partially) and one died. Inasmuch as the patient who recovered completely, had, for some time after the wound was inflicted, entire loss of voluntary motion and partial loss of sensibility in the right leg and thigh, it was believed that the divided portion of the cord had grown together again, or united, in the course of about two months, when the paralysis ceased in toto, and the cure was perfect. In the fatal case there was complete paraplegia, both motor and sensory, from the moment the wound was inflicted. Acute bed-sores (sphacelus) soon supervened, and caused death in thirty-six days after the injury. The cord had been completely divided by the knife, and there was no attempt at reunion. Dr. Eli Hurd2 reports a remarkable case of recovery from an incised wound of the spinal cord:— In jumping from a wagon, the man’s feet slipped, and he fell on his back. In at- tempting to rise be found his lower extremities paralyzed. Calling for help he stated that a chisel, which he had carried in bis coat-tail pocket, was sticking in his back ; to extract it, required the united efforts of several men. It measured five inches in length to the shoulders, was seven-eighths of an inch in width, and from one-fourth of an inch at the shoulders tapered to one-eighth of an inch in thickness at the cutting end. It had entered to the shoulders. During the extraction, the patient suffered very little, but said that he saw apparently vivid flashes of light, which were followed by total darkness. The wound was opposite the spinous processes of the lower dorsal vertebrae. Total loss of cutaneous sensibility below the wound, with total loss of voluntary motiop 1 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surgical Volume, p. 447. 8 New York Jourual of Medicine, 1845. Fig. 791. Showing the second and third lumbar vertebrae, with a conoidal musket-ball lodged between their laminae, projecting into the spinal canal, and compressing the cord. (Spec. 3523, A. M. M.)