pott’s disease of tiie spine. 949 axillae, and that can be lengthened or shortened at pleasure. The best ex- amples, however, are somewhat cumbrous. [A better form of apparatus than that described by the author is such as is shown in Fig. 812, the principal support being given by iron uprights on either side of the vertebral column. The cut illustrates the spinal brace devised by Dr. C. F. Taylor, of Xew York, which, with various modifications, is extensively employed in this country.] (3) The use of rigid Jackets with or without Sus- pension.—By the introduction of his now well- known “jacket,” Professor Sayre has caused almost a revolution in the treatment of Pott’s disease of the spine. When first introduced, this plan of treatment was very widely, blindly, and enthusiastically adopted, and was regarded by some as a panacea for all deformities of the back. Since that time a certain reaction has set in, and there are now not a few who condemn the use of Sayre’s apparatus as of little use, and as at least inferior to other modes of treatment. As is usual in similar cases, the truth probably lies between these two extremes, and I feel convinced that Sayre’s method affords an admirable remedy for Pott’s disease, but at the same time a remedy that must be properly and carefully restricted in its use. The details of Sayre’s method are too well known to require minute description. The main features are simply these—extension is applied to the spine by means of suspending the body (Fig. 813), and while in the extended posture a rigid jacket of plaster of Paris is applied to the trunk. The body is suspended by means of a collar beneath the chin and occiput, and by bands beneath the axilke; a tripod stand is used, and the suspending force is directed through a series of compound pulleys. (Fig. 814.) The first point to be discussed in this mode of treatment is the matter of suspension. By means of it the diseased sur- faces of contiguous vertebrae are drawn asunder, muscular contraction is over- come, and the column is restored—as regards its curvatures—to something more closely approaching the normal. Facts, however, are greatly needed that will throw more light upon the precise effect of suspension upon the diseased part. Fisher suspended the cadaver of a child who had suffered from Pott’s malady. The whole of the body of the first lumbar vertebra had been destroyed by disease, and the contiguous vertebrae were eroded. When in the recumbent posture, the diseased parts were in contact, but on suspension they became separated no less than a quarter of an inch. It must be remembered that the extending force is the weight of the body below the seat of disease, and that this force will be the greater as the carious part is higher up. It will also increase with the age of the patient and the development of the lower limbs, and will be much influenced by the extent of disease in the column, the destruction of ligaments, the amount of repair, and the degree of muscular contraction. Sayre has pointed out the increase in the patient’s height that is to be observed during suspension in cases of “ angular curvature,” but it must not be imagined "that this increase is due solely to a separation of parts at the seat of disease. Were it so, the ad- vantages of suspension would be very doubtful. He mentions, for example, the case of a man aged 19, with Pott’s disease, who gained three-fourths of Fig. 812. Taylor’s apparatus for the treatment of Pott’s disease of the spine.