734 INJURIES OF THE BACK. been observed in many other instances of this lesion that have been recorded. In several cases, too, dysphagia has been present; and, in one instance, the dis- located vertebra was found to cause a projection into the pharynx. In another case, paralysis of the upper extremities, convulsions, and hiccough wei’e pre- sent, but they disappeared on reducing the dislocation, and recovery ensued. In but one instance is it stated that there was no weakness of the limbs. More or less paralysis, however, was noted in almost all the examples of this lesion which are mentioned in Professor Ashhurst’s tables. While, in some of them, the paralysis was but slight, or quite limited in extent, and did not appear until some hours after the accident, in others, it was extensive, appeared instantly, and increased rapidly, so that death ensued in a few hours if reduction was not effected; in one case, where paralysis with dys- phagia instantly appeared,-death ensued in six hours, and, on dissection, incomplete unilateral dislocation of a cervical vertebra was found; in another case, where the accident instantly caused paralysis, death ensued in thirty-six hours under expectant treatment, and, on autopsy, unilateral dislocation of a cervical vertebra was found; in still another case, where death ensued in thirty-six hours, beside the dislocation, serous effusion on the arachnoid was found. In a case where paralysis, with congestion of the neck and face, was noted, death ensued in fifty-seven hours, and unilateral dislocation of the fifth from the sixth cervical vertebra was found, with rupture of the interverte- bral cartilage, and compression of the spinal cord by the displaced bone. Diagnosis.—'The recognition of unilateral luxations of the cervical verte- brae, when complete, is generally not difficult ; certainly it is much less dif- ficult than that of bilateral or symmetrical dislocations of these bones. The symptoms which characterize this lesion are the twisting of the neck, and the fixed position of the face turned more or less completely round toward the opposite shoulder, perceptible immediately after the accident ; the immo- bility, with the abnormal lateral curvature, of the neck itself; the abnormal position of the transverse process belonging to the luxated side of the mis- placed vertebra; and the tenseness of the muscles on one side of the neck combined with relaxation of those on its other side. Besides, the functions of the spinal cord or spinal nerves are, in general, more or less disturbed by the displaced bone, and, consequently, there is oftentimes observed in such cases paralysis of one or both of the upper extremities, with dysphagia, and sometimes also paralysis of the lower extremities, or paraplegia. D-ognosis.—The probability of a favorable issue is usually much greater in a case of unilateral dislocation of a cervical vertebra than it is in a case of bilateral dislocation of the same vertebra; for, in the former instance, the spinal cord usually sustains much less injury than in the latter. Moreover, unilateral dislocation of these bones is complicated with fracture much less frequently than bilateral or symmetrical dislocation. At all events, the statistics show that the prognosis is much more favorable if only one of the articular processes of a cervical vertebra be luxated, than it is when both are displaced. For example, among the twenty-nine cases of unilateral disloca- tion which are mentioned in Professor Ashhurst’s tables, there were twenty- one recoveries and only eight deaths. Furthermore, it is very instructive to note that, of the twenty-one recoveries, fifteen appear to have been achieved by reducing the dislocation, and four without attempting to reduce it, while in two instances the treatment is not stated ; and that, among the eight deaths, there was only one case in which reduction was employed, and that in this case the autopsy showed that the dislocation had been reproduced. The symptoms of peculiarly evil import are, a steady increase of the area in which paralysis is noted, dysphagia, the advent of difficult breathing, with turgescence of the veins of the neck and face, and the appearance of exopli-