716 INJURIES OF THE BACK. of parts, the odontoid process has greater strength than either the anterior arch of the atlas, or the transverse ligament. (2) The odontoid process is less liable to be fractured by external violence than the body of the axis at the insertion of the process. (3) The odontoid process is not fractured by being driven against the transverse ligament or anterior arch of the atlas.1 Again, it appears that the ligaments of the atlo-axoid articulation may be broken in detail, as it were, or one after another, by violently turning or rotating the head to one side, and that dislocation forward of the atlas may in this way be produced. In a violent rotation of the head to one side, the alar or check ligaments of the odontoid process are put upon a stretch, and twisted around this process. The momentum of the head is opposed by these ligaments alone, and, if at this time the head be inclined to either side, one of the alar or check ligaments, more tense than the other, yields first, and thus renders the rupture of both more easy. When the alar, check, or odontoid ligaments are once broken, rupture of the transverse and other liga- ments easily follows. It is not improbable that the dislocation in the follow- ing instance was produced in this manner by a powerful blow in the face:— A man, named Carter, was killed in a brawl, on the night of July 18, 1882. The blow was planted fairly in his face by his assailant’s fist. He dropped to the ground as if felled by an axe, and did not move afterward. An autopsy showed that death had resulted immediately from dislocation of the spinal column, and injury of the spinal cord, at the junction of the atlas and axis, the lesion being identical with that caused by hanging.2 Such a blow, planted on the man’s cheek while his head was already turned in the opposite direction, might, by rotating his head with great force still further in the same direction, readily break the odontoid or check ligaments first, and then the transverse and the other ligaments successively. Owing to the skull being articulated at its base, near the middle, on the summit of the cervical portion of the vertebral column, imaginary lines drawn from the point of junction to the farthest convexities on the skull’s periphery, will represent levers, which will acton the axis of motion in the cervical vertebne, with power commensurate to their different lengths. (Shaw.) In the case just mentioned, the portion of the head intervening between the malar prominence of the cheek and the occipito-atloid articulation would constitute a lever, through which the blow on the cheek would act with greatly augmented force upon the axis of motion in the cervical vertebrae; and, in this way, the odontoid and the other ligaments belonging to the atlo-axoid articulation would be successively ruptured, and the atlas would be dislocated upon the axis, as it were, by powerfully twisting the neck by means of force applied to the face. So, too, Louis, the famous French surgeon, in endeavoring to distinguish, among those who had died by hanging, the suicide from the victim of assassination, found that those who were merely suspended by a rope died simply from strangulation, while those who, after being swung off from the gallows, had their necks twisted, had also the first cervical vertebra luxated upon the second. Moreover, the hangman at Lyons having reduced the prac- tice of his infamous profession to its elemental principles, always produced disjointing of the neck by sitting on the shoulders of the culprit, and rotating the head and bending it to one side until he heard the crack which informed him that he had effected dislocation of the atlas upon the axis. (Boyer.) But traction (direct) of the head, especially when combined with rotation, is peculiarly dangerous in children, on account of its liability to cause luxa- 1 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, October, 1871. 2 New York Sun, July 22, 1882.