THE AXILLA. 16 in the groove between the pectoralis major and deltoid by the side of the cephalic vein. 3. The long thoracic (5) runs along the lower border of the pectoralis minor to the side of the chest, where it supplies the mamma and is hence sometimes called the external mammary artery. It anasto- moses with the internal mammary, intercostal and subscapular branches. A separate external mammary artery often exists in females and assists in supplying the breast. 4. The alar thoracic (3) is a small branch to the axillary glands. It very seldom arises directly from the axillary, but generally from one of the other branches. 5. The subscapular (15) is a large branch which runs along the lower border of the subscapularis muscle to the side of the chest with the long subscapular, nerve, and then supplies the adjacent parts, anastomosing with the long thoracic artery. An inch or less from its origin this artery gives off a large branch, the dorsahs scapulce (17), which winds round thelower border of the subscapularis muscle and, after giving an infrasc^ular branch, disappears through a triangular interval, bounded (as seen from the front) by the long head of the triceps,.the teres major, and the subscapularis. ^ 6. The anterior circumflex is a small branch which winds round the neck of the humerus beneath the coraco-brachialis and biceps, which it supplies, giving also a branch up the bicipital groove to the shoulder-joint. . 7. The posterior circumflex (12) is larger than the anterior, and winds behind the neck of the humerus to supply the deltoid, passing through a quadrilateral space bounded (as seen in front) by the teres major, subscapularis, long head of the triceps, and the neck of the humerus. . . The Axillary Vein lies to the inner side of the artery, bemg tne continuation of the basilic vein from the lower border of the teres major; at a variable point it is joined by the vena comites of the brachial artery, and having received branches corresponding to those of the axillary artery, and the cephalic vein immediately below the. clavicle, it ends in the subclavian vein. Brachial Nerves (Fig. 4).-The large cords of the brachial plexus are derived from the 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th cervical and the greater part of the 1st dorsal nerves, which make their appearance 111 the posterior triangle of the neck. The nerves coalesce and divide again in a manner which is not the same in all subjects (see Posterior Triangle of the neck), but the result is that they enter the axilla as three cords, lying to the outer side of the first part of the axillary