341 THE PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. The superior intercostal vein opens into the innominate vein. The Third Part of the Subclavian Artery has been dissected in the posterior triangle of the neck (p. 311). The Subclavian Vein is the continuation of the axillary vein, and has been seen to lie below the level of its artery in the third part of its course. It then passes in front of the scalenus anticus, which muscle separates it from the second portion of the subclavian artery; and lastly lies in front of and a little below the first part of the artery, with the phrenic nerve intervening on both sides of the body, and on the right side the pneumo- gastric nerve also. Each subclavian vein joins the internal jugular vein of the same side to form the innominate vein, and at the point of junction of these two veins the thoracic duct opens on the left side, and the right lymphatic duct on the right side of the body. Branches.—The external and anterior jugular veins open into the subclavian vein outside the scalenus anticus, and the vertebral vein just before it joins the internal jugular. The Pneumo-gastric Nerve (Figs. 179 & 180) (8th pair) is only seen m its cervical portion at present. It is enclosed in the carotid sheath, lying between the jugular vein and the artery, and enters the superior aperture of the thorax, passing, on the right side, between the subclavian artery and the innominate vein, and on the left side between the common carotid and subclavian arteries and behind the innominate vein. m Its Superior Laryngeal branch (14 & 9) curving forwards beneath the internal carotid artery, appears opposite the hyoid bone, and pierces the thyro-hyoid membrane to supply the mucous membrane of the larynx. Before entering the larynx, the nerve gives a small external laryngeal branch, which runs obliquely downwards under the sterno- thyroid muscle to supply the crico-thyroid, one of the intrinsic muscles of the larynx. The Recurrent Laryngeal Nerve (26 & 21) (inferior) is seen running along the side of the trachea between it and the oesophagus, and disappears beneath the lower border of the inferior constrictor of the pharynx It takes a different course on the two sides of the body; on the right arising from the pneumo-gastric in the neck and winding round the subclavian artery ; on the left arising in the thorax, and turning round the arch of the aorta. The Cardiac Nerves (17) are one or two slender branches of the pneumo-gastric m the lower part of the neck, running into the thorax to join the cardiac plexuses. 0 e