INTRODUCTION. 3 far as possible, conduct all his dissections as methodically^ and with as much care as if operating on the living body, and by this means he will do much to fit himself for his duties as a practical surgeon. The SKIN consists of two principal layers, the true skin or derma, and the scarf-skin or epidermis. In the dead body if at a 1 decom- posed, the epidermis or cuticle is easily separated, but should be cprefully preserved during the dissection, as it prevents the subjacent parts from drying. In removing the skin, the first incisions should be made at once through its whole thickness, and a corner being held with the forceps, the knife is to be carried with a sweeping movement beneath it, the edge being towards the skin and the back to the fascia, which should be left smooth and uniform. The under surface of skin neatly reflected is white, and the tissue beneath it more or less yellow. The SUPERFICIAL FASCIA consists of loose areolar tissue containing more or less fat. It contains the superficial blood-vessels, nerves, and lymphatics, and may in some situations be divided into two lavers. The" DEEP FASCIA is a dense fibrous layer, white and glisten- ing in appearance. It lies beneath the superficial fascia and forms sheaths for the limbs ; being attached to various ridges of bone, and sending processes (intermuscular septa) between the muscles. In cleaning muscles, it is essential to have the fibres stretched and rendered tense, which may be accomplished by moving the limb or applying the hooks. A muscle should invariably be cleaned along its fibres, the dissector beginning at one edge and advancing steadily to the other, and thus reflecting a complete layer of fascia ; the knife being held with the back to the muscle, to avoid injury to it. The attachments of a muscle (origin and insertion) should be most care- fully followed out, and studied on the separate bones ; but it is important also to clean the fascia from the whole length of the muscle, or it will soon look dirty. A muscle should always be divided, when necessary, midway between its origin and insertion, so that these important points may be preserved for study. The ARTERIES of a subject are usually injected, and it is impossible to follow out all the minute branches without this assist- ance ; but opportunity should be taken by the advanced student to repeat his dissection upon an uninjected subject, in which the rela- tions and appearance of the parts more closely resemble those of the living body. The main trunks of the NERVES and their principal branches are readily followed out, but their minute ramifications require b 2