THE HIP-JOINT. 120 the pectineus, the rectus and the femoral vessels; ^ Je PJ»* formis, obturator internus, and gemelli muscles, with the sciatic nerves and vessels lying upon them ; alee, the gluteus medius and gluteus minimus, and Mow, the tendon of the obturator externus The lap- joint admits of the movements of flexion, extension, abduction and adduction, rotation and circumduction. Flc^on is performed by the psoas and iliacus, and indirectly by the rectus femoris : ^an^j L gluteus maximus, and indirectly by the hamstrings The femur is adducted by the adductor muscles and pectineus, which at the same W rite the bone outwards ; it is abducted by thegluteus n^ns minimus, and tensor vagime femoris. flotation ^ is due to tTgTuteus maximus and the posterior fibres of medius and mmimu o the psoas, iliacus, pyriformis, obturator and gemelli muscles and quadratus femoris; rotation ***** to the anterior fibrof the gluteus medius, the gluteus minimus and tensor d The Capsnlar Ligament (Fig. 58, 8) when seen from behind J be found to be attached to the margin of the ^™>^ reach only about halfway down the posterior surface of the neck ol Te femur, the point to which it reaches varying m different subjects In fronC he capsule extends from the margin o the^-etabidun.to the anterior intertrochanteric line, and is strengthened by an oblique W of fibres extending from the anterior inferior spinous process to Leanterior inter-trochanteric line, to which thename, * o* W ligament has been given (Fig. 41, 9)- ine inferior attachment of the ilio-femoral liga- ment is more or less by two divergent slips, into the upper and lower extremities ot the anterior inter-trochanteric line, thus torm- ina- what Professor Bigelow has called the T-ligament (Fig. 57). The inner slip limits especially extension and rotation inwards ; the outer slip rotation outwards and adduction ot the femur, and both have an important influ- ence on the production of the several forms of dislocation of the head of the femur. A bursa intervenes between the tendon of the psoas and the front of the hip-joint, which occasionally . communicates with the synovial cavity through the capsular ligament. . It should be noticeW^^ ^ Fig. 57.-The mo-femoral.or T-ligament of Bigelow (from Bryant). Fig. 57.