THE CONSTRICTOR MUSCLES. 389 exaggerated, since (as will be afterwards seen) any ordinary incision may be made in the tonsils or "back of the pharynx without any risk of injuring the vessel, which lies quite to the side. The carotid takes a tortuous course in the temporal bone and eranium, making two sigmoid turns, one, the longer, in the petrous bone, and the other by the side of the sella turcica. In this part of its course it is more or less surrounded by a plexus of nerves derived principally from the sympathetic. The Ascending- Pharyngeal Artery (Fig. 203, 9) is one of the ascending branches of the external carotid artery. It arises near the bifurcation of the common carotid, and ascends by the side of the pharynx, and to the inner side of the internal carotid artery, to the base of the skull. It gives branches to the prevertebral muscles, anastomosing with the ascending cervical artery, and divides into meningeal and pharyngeal branches. The meningeal tranches are very small, and enter the skull by the foramen lacerum medium and the foramen jugulare, to supply the dura mater. The pharijngeal branches supply the pharynx, and turn over the upper border of the superior constrictor to supply the palate; they anastomose with the inferior palatine branch of the facial artery. The ascending pharyngeal vein opens into the internal jugular. [The constrictor muscles of the pharynx are to be cleaned in the •direction of their fibres, beginning at the lower border of the inferior constrictor. In order to see the origin of the superior constrictor, it will be necessary to remove the internal pterygoid on one side. The pharyngeal plexus must necessarily be destroyed in the course of the dissection, but the superior and inferior laryngeal, and the glosso- pharyngeal nerves are to be preserved.] The Inferior Constrictor (Fig. 205, 9) is the most superficial of the three muscles of the pharynx, the upper oblique border over- lapping the middle constrictor, and the lower straight border being continuous with the oesophagus. It arises from the side of the cricoid cartilage in front of the articular facet, and from the ala of the thyroid cartilage behind the oblique line. All the fibres are inserted into the median raphe. The recurrent laryngeal nerve passes beneath the lower border of the inferior constrictor, and the superior laryngeal nerve and artery intervene between it and the middle constrictor. The Middle Constrictor (Fig. 205, 10) is a fan-shaped muscle, which with its fellow of the opposite side forms a trapezium in the median line. It arises from the upper surface of the greatfcornu of the hyoid bone, from the lesser cornu, and from the stylo-hyoid liga-