K K 2 INNER SURFACE OF HEMISPHERE. ■parietal, which takes a curved course between the convolutions of the parietal lobe. . . The Temporal Lobe (t) contains three well-marked horizontal con- ■ volutions. The first (7) lies between the fissure of Sylvius and the parallel fissure, and the second (8) and third (9) are immediately below, separated from one another by the inferior temporal fissure. The second and third temporal convolutions are connected with the occipital lobe by the third (y) and fourth (8) annectent convolutions. The Occipital Lobe (o) is continuous with the temporal lobe, and contains three badly-defined convolutions placed horizontally, and named first (10), second (11), and third (12). TA slice of brain substance about an inch thick is to be removed from the right hemisphere, when the centrum ovale minus will be exposed.] The Centrum Ovale Minus is the oval mass of white cerebral matter, surrounded by convolutions, which forms the hemisphere. The convolutions will be seen to have a cortical layer of grey sub- stance superficial to their white substance, which is continuous with the centre of the hemisphere. Numerous minute points will be seen on the surface of the white matter, which are the puncta vasculosa or orifices of minute blood-vessels, from which blood exudes in the recent condition. The Inner Surface op the Hemisphere. [By slicing off one hemisphere to the level of the corpus callosum, a side view of the opposite hemisphere will be obtained, but to com- plete the study of the inner surface of the hemisphere a section ot a hardened brain should be referred to.] The Inner Surface of the Hemisphere (Fig. 256) at its anterior part presents two large convolutions, the upper, the marginal con- volution (1) (convolution of longitudinal fissure), and the lower, the convolution of the corpus callosum (2) or gyrus fornicatus, separated by the calloso-marginal .fissure (c m), which reaches the margin of the hemisphere and bounds the marginal convolution posteriorly. The Gyrus Fornicatus(2) is a well-marked convolution, which begins at the anterior perforated space in the base of the brain, and winds round the corpus callosum to the posterior part, where it becomes continuous with the upper internal temporal convolution or uncinate gyrus. Posterior to the marginal convolution, and continuous below with the gyrus fornicatus is the quadrate lobe (q), which is separated from