223 THE DIAPHRAGM. is attached to the greater end of the stomach by the gastro-splenic omentum, which is reflected from it to the diaphragm. It lies against the left supra-renal capsule and the diaphragm, and the tail of the pancreas touches its lower margin. The splenic vessels will be seen to enter the hilum or slit on its concave surface. Deep Dissection of the Abdomen. [The stomach, duodenum, pancreas, and spleen should now be taken away by dividing the oesophagus, bile duct, and vessels, and the liver should then be carefully removed in order to see the arrangement of the coronary ligament. The round and falciform ligaments should first be cut and the liver pulled down ; by carrying the knife along the attachment to the diaphragm the upper layer of the coronary ligament will then be divided, as well as the lateral liga- ments on each side which are formed from it. The vena cava and a part of the liver uncovered by peritoneum will now be exposed, the latter being attached to the diaphragm by areolar tissue, and when these are carefully divided, the right supra-renal capsule and the top of the right kidney will be brought into view. The vena cava must be again cut through at the lower margin of the liver, when it will only be necessary to divide the under layer of the coronary liga- ment (derived chiefly from the lesser bag of the peritoneum) to re- move the organ. The viscera should all be placed in a covered pan for examination during the time that the subject is turned. The Diaphragm is to be cleaned by stripping off the peritoneum as far as possible m the direction of the muscular fibres • and at the same time the inner surface of the flap of abdominal muscles still attached should be cleaned, in order to follow out the fibres of the transversalis. Care must be taken not to puncture the diaphragm and to leave the branches of artery and nerve ramifying on its surface The crura or muscular slips on each side of the aorta must be caretuily cleaned, and two tendinous arches over the psoas and quadratus luniborum muscles defined, for which purpose it will be temporarily^ ^ ^ ** °V6r t0 the °PPosite side The Diaphragm (Fig. 115) is found to be arched after death being concave towards the abdomen (particularly on the right side)' owing to the fact that expiration is the last act of life, and rising to the level of the fifth costal cartilage on the right but the sixth on the left side. It arises from the back of the ensiform cartilage and from the inner surfaces of the six lower ribs, where it interdimtates with the transversalis abdominis ; also from the ligam,enta arcuata externa and interna, of which the internal one passes from the bodv to the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, and the exter