THE LARYNX. 414 a. Epiglottis. Central portion of the same mem- Fig. 216. are four in number, two on each side of the larynx, the inferior pair, or chorda vocales being composed of yellow or elastic fibrous tissue. The superior ligament or false cord (h) has an arched direction and is much more slender than the inferior ligament. It is attached m front to the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, and behind to the projection on the upper part of the front of the arytenoid cartilage The inferior ligament or true cord [%) is horizontal^ direction, being attached in front to the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage below the superior ligament, and behind to the prominent anterior angle of the base of the aryte- noid cartilage. This is the free upper edge of the crico-thyroid membrane. The interval between the two true vocal cords is the rima glottidis. The Arteries of the larynx are de- rived from the superior and inferior thyroid arteries. The superior laryngeal artery, derived from the superior thyroid, enters the larynx through the thyro-hyoid mem- brane, and divides into ascending and descending branches which supply the muscles and mucous membrane. The inferior laryngeal artery, derived from the inferior thyroid artery, reaches the back of the cricoid cartilage and anastomoses with the superior artery. ~"^T^3^^ laiW lowing its ligaments 11>= • (from Wilson). Cuneiform cartilage. Superior thyro-arytenoidligament. Inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament, or chorda vocalis; the elliptical space between the two thyro- arytenoid ligaments is the ventricle of the larynx. Cricoid cartilage. _ Lateral portion of the crico-thyroid membrane. brane. n. Upper ring of trachea. o. Section, of isthmus of thyroid gland. p,p. Levator glandule thyroideae. L Body of os hyoides. 2. Its great cornu. 3. Lesser comu. 4. Ala of the thyroid cartilage. 5. Superior cornu. 6. Inferior corntu 7. Pomum Adami. 8 8 Thyro-hyoid membrane. 9? Lateral thyro-hyoid ligament. b Hvo-epiglottidean ligament. e Thyro-epiglottidean ligament. d. Arytenoid cartilage; inner surface. e. Outer angle of base of arytenoid cartilage. f. Comiculum laryngis. m