471 THIRD LAYER OF MUSCLES. vessels and nerves, which may be cut through and the limb removed. Between the rhomboidei and the senates will be seen an artery, which is the posterior scapular. The dissector of the arm will proceed at once with the dissection of the scapular muscles. The tendinous origin of the latissimus is then to be removed to expose the subjacent muscles.] The Third Layer of Muscles (Fig. 245) consists of the Serrates posticus, superior and inferior, and the Splenius, which is divided into splenius capitis and splenius colli. The Serratus Posticus Superior arises from the ligamentum nuchas, and the spinous processes of the seventh cervical and upper two dorsal vertebras; it passes downwards to be inserted into the superior borders of the upper four ribs, externally to their angles. The Serratus Posticus Inferior (Fig. 245, 16) arises from the spinous processes of the last two dorsal and upper two lumbar vertebras; it passes upwards to be inserted into the lower borders of the last four ribs externally to then angles. The serrati postici are antagonistic muscles, the superior raising the ribs, and being therefore a muscle of inspiration, the inferior depressing the ribs, and being therefore a muscle of expiration. TThe serrati muscles are to be divided and turned aside, when the posterior portion of the fascia lumborum covering the deeper muscles and united more or less with the origins of the latissimus dorsi and serratus posticus inferior, as well as with the subjacent muscles will be seen. The name of vertebral aponeurosis has been given to the continuation of this structure beneath the serratus posticus superior and over the deep muscles; this is to be denned and afterwards must be removed.] The Splenius (Fig. 245) is single at its origin, which is from the lower half of the ligamentum nuchas, and from the spinous processes of the seventh cervical and upper six dorsal vertebras. The splenius capitis (13), or upper portion, is inserted across the mastoid process and into the outer third of the superior curved line of the occipital bone, immediately beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle. The splenius colli (14), or lower portion, is inserted into the pos- terior tubercles on the transverse processes of the upper four cervical vertebras.* The splenii draw the head and neck backward, and thus assist in maintaining the erect posture. One muscle acting alone, draws the head over to the same side, i.e. it antagonizes the sterno-mastoid. * The splenius is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the vertebra) which gave origin to the levator anguli scapula).