334 SIDE OF THE NECK. The Superior Thyroid Artery (Fig. 177, 12) runs forward beneath the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone, and then down- ward to the thyroid body, which it supplies on its anterior aspect, anastomosing with the inferior thyroid artery from the ^kvian and with the thyroid vessels of the opposite side It gives ott a Zilhranch, which runs along the lower border of the hyoidbone, Z zZoAoses with the hyoid branch of the lingual artery upon the upper border ; the superior laryngeal branch, whrch P»»J£ thyro-hyoid membrane with the corresponding nerve ; and the « wo TrailvL* which anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side a ross the cr co-thyroid membrane. Also, a superfiaaI descending lrZh which supplies the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone, and from which the stemo-mastoid artery is frequently derived The crico-thyroid branch is considered to be one of the dangers seen n a ryugotomy, but the fact of its being parallel to the Me XlSSr~ly5 as it ordinarily is in the its division unlikely, whilst its small size would cause such an accident to be of slight importance. Tt Ltogual Artery (Fig. 177, S).-Only a very small port on of the llaoual artery is now visible, running transversely upon the ^idielon trictor of the pharynx immediately above the hyoid ^anrdisappearing beneath the edge of the hyog ossus muscle, Squally crossed by the digastric and stylp-hyoid muscles and tThypoghial nerve. The remainder of the vessel mil be given inthedjectionofthesute^^on. The Facial Artery (Fig. 1/7,4) l™ses U1J" ,.Pmark- beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and forms a remark Smoid urve as it lies in a deep groove on the posterior part of t submaxillary gbmd before reaching the J".^*^ Immediately in front of the masseter muscle; it will be followed. Tifttdissection of the face. Its inferior palatom branch may T >L™arin« between the stylo-glbssus and stylo-pharyngens miX r branch'between the stylo-glossus and —hll internus, and these will he afterward. to llhmaxilUnj branches (two or three) enter gjai^ tiThe facial frequently arises in common with the lingual artery, in which case the vessel passes beneath the hy^glossa ner e. The Occipital Artery (Fig. 177, l) is seen only n * It runs backwards .along the inferior border of the dlgastnc, and