THE ORBIT. 315 (Fig. 168). Eacli divides into an anterior and a posterior branch; the anterior branches of the upper and middle trunks form the outer cord, the anterior branch of the lowest forms the inner cord, and the three posterior branches unite to form the posterior cord (Lucas). The branches above the clavicle (Fig. 4, p. 18)— a. The nerve to the subclavius is a small branch lying on the front of the plexus, and derived from the trunk formed by the 5th and 6th nerves above the suprascapular nerve. b. The nerve to the rhomboids is from the 5th nerve, and piercing the scalenus medius passes beneath the levator anguli scapulee, to which it gives a branch, to reach the under surface of the rhomboids, in which it ends. c. The Supra-scapular nerve is the largest branch above the clavicle, and appears at the outer side of the plexus, being given off from the upper cord of the plexus (5th and 6th). It disappears beneath the trapezius to reach the supra-scapular notch. d. The nerve to the serratus magnus (posterior thoracic, external respiratory of Bell) lies behind the plexus against the serratus magnus muscle, and is derived from the 5th and 6th (and often from the 7th) nerves before they unite. e. A branch to the phrenic nerve of very variable size is given by the 5th nerve at the upper part, or sometimes the branch appears to pass from the phrenic to the 5th. A root to the phrenic is sometimes supplied by the nerve to the subclavius. /. Small branches to the- longus colli and scaleni muscles arise from the nerve3 close to the foramina. [If the time for turning the subject has not arrived when both the posterior triangles of the neck are dissected, the orbits should be at once proceeded with ; but if not now dissected they had better be postponed until after the dissection of the anterior triangle.] The Orbit. [The head being raised to a convenient height, the saw is to be applied to the edge of the skull close to the inner and outer angles of the orbit (the proper points being readily ascertained with°the finger), and the cuts carried into the orbit through the frontal bone With the chisel these incisions are to be prolonged back- wards till they meet at the sphenoidal fissure, wfen the triangle of bone can be readily tilted forward by a blow with the hammer Any small remnant of bone can be removed so as to expose full v tUXJo margm °f thG °ptic f°ramen ^ulHe leg