THE LUNGS. 463 part dichotomously) again and again, the tubes becoming cylindrical, the cartilaginous rings becoming merely plates, and at length disap- pearing when the bronchia become less than half a line in diameter. The muscular fibres, which were only at the back of the large bronchi, surround the smaller tubes, and can be traced further than the car- tilages. The fibrous and elastic coats may be traced into the smallest ramifications of the air-tubes, which thus become eventually membra- nous. The minute bronchia terminate in intercellular passages, in which the mucous membrane is covered with squamous epithelium. Opening out of the intercellular passages are the air-cells, or alveoli, the average diameter of which is -j-^-oth of an inch, and the septa be- tween which are formed by reduplica- tions of the lining membrane. (Fig. 241). Fig. 241. The air-cells collected around the ex- tremity of each minute bronchial tube form a lobule or infunclibulum, and these aggregated together form the substance of the lung, but the air-cells of one lobule have no connection with those of another. (Fig. 239). The pulmonary artery subdivides like the bronchus which it accompanies, giving a branch to each lobule, which ends in a plexus of capillaries distributed beneath the mucous membrane of the air-cells and their septa, and also on the walls of the inter- cellular passages; the capillaries of each lobule being distinct (Fig. 240). The pulmonary veins convey the arterialised blood from the lobules, and correspond to the branches of the arteries. They have no valves, and the veins of different lobules anastomose freely. The bronchial arteries, arising from the thoracic aorta, may be traced upon the bronchial tubes for some distance. They supply the substance of the lung, and their blood is returned partly by the bronchial veins and partly by the pulmonary veins. The bronchial veins open on the right side into the vena azygos, and on the left usually into the superior intercostal vein. The nerves of the lungs Fig. 241.—A diagram showing the dilatation of the ultimate bronchial tubes into intercellular passages, and the enlargement of the latter near the surface of the lung (from Wilson). a, a. Bronchial tubes. seon opening. b, b. Intercellular _ passages, on the c, c. Air-cells near the surface of the walls of which the air-cells are lung.