477 SPINAL NERVES. its course, lout only commences close to the transverse process of the atlas "by the junction of one or two minute radicles. The vein ac- companies the artery through the transverse processes of the vertebrae, and ends in the subclavian vein. The posterior division of the Suboccipital Nerve (Fig. 247, 7) (1st cervical) emerges between the occiput and atlas, and generally beneath the vertebral artery. It is of small size, and supplies branches to the recti and obliqui muscles and one to the complexus. The Great Occipital Nerve (Fig. 247, 9) is the posterior divi- sion (internal branch) of the second cervical nerve, and leaves the vertebral canal between the atlas and axis. It winds below the inferior oblique, giving a branch to that muscle, and then turns up- ward to pierce the complexus and trapezius muscles and supply the skin of the occipital region. Its external branch is of small size. The posterior division of the third nerve gives a branch which takes the same direction as the great occipital nerve but internally to it, and is joined with it. The suboccipital nerve often joins the internal branch of the 2nd, and the latter the internal branch of the 3rd (Posterior Cervical plexus). The Deep Cervical Artery lies upon the semispinalis colli muscle, and is exposed when the complexus is reflected. It is the posterior branch of the superior intercostal artery (p. 340), and reaches the back by passing between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib. It supplies the deep muscles, anastomosing with the muscular branches of the verte- bral, and with the princeps cervicis of the occipital artery. There is thus an anastomosis established between a branch of the carotid and a branch of the subclavian artery, which would enlarge if the common carotid artery were tied. Fig. 248.—The nerves of the back (from Hirschfeld and Leveille). I. Great occipital nerve. 2 & 3. Complexus muscle. 4 & 5. Splenius capitis. 6. Great occipital nerve. 7 & 8. Small occipital nerve. 9. Sterno-mastoid. 10. Semi-spinalis colli. II. Superficial cervical nerve. 12. Levator anguli scapulae (cut). 13. Eighth cervical nerve. 14. Sterno-mastoid (cut). 15. Trapezius. 16. Trachelo-mastoid. 17. Deltoid. 18. Transversalis colli. 19. Infra-spinatus. 20. Sacro-lumbalis. 21. Teres minor. 22. Erector spina;. 23. Teres major. 24. Lateral cutaneous of last dorsal. 25. Latissimus dorsi. 26. Obliquus internus. 27. Longissimus dorsi. 28. Lateral cutaneous of first lumbar. 29. Posterior division of first lumbar. 30. of sacral nerves. 31- „ >> >; of fifth lumbar. 32. Gluteus maximus. 33. Obliquus extemus. 35. Lateral cutaneous of last dorsal. 3?. j> >> of first lumbar.