332 SIDE OF THE NECK. vein. The needle is to be passed from the outer side, care being taken not to include the pneumo-gastric nerve or the sympathetic. On the dead body the vein is frequently empty, and is liable to be injured unless the sheath be opened well to its inner side. The operation below the omo-hyoid might be performed through a similar incision along the border of the lower part of the sterno- mastoid, but would be facilitated by dividing the sternal origin of the muscle. The sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles would require to he turned inwards, or even divided, in order to reach the vessel. The Internal Carotid Artery (Fig. 180, 2) ascends to the base of the skull, lying close to the pharynx and upon the prevertebral muscles, the vagus, and the sympathetic cord. It is first to the outer side of the external carotid and at the same level, and is crossed by the 9th nerve with the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and the posterior auricular and occipital arteries ; but it crosses the superior laryngeal branch of the pneumo-gastric. Its course is then deeper than the external carotid, from which it is separated by the styloid process with the stylo-pharyngeus muscle and glossopharyngeal nerve, and the pharyngeal branch of the vagus, until it finally enters the carotid canal in the petrous bone. The internal carotid will be more fully traced out in the deep dissection of the neck and pharynx. The External Carotid Artery (Fig. 177) is derived from the common carotid opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and, lying to the inner side of the internal carotid, ascends beneath the sterno-mastoid to a point between the ear and the jaw, where it gives off its terminal branches. It is crossed by two muscles and a nerve (the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles and the 9th nerve), and is separated by the styloid process with the stylo-pharyngeus muscle and glossopharyngeal nerve from the internal carotid at the upper part, where that vessel lies deeper than it. It is crossed by the lingual and facial veins, and enters the substance of the parotid gland behind the angle of the jaw, where it lies beneath the facial nerve and the commencement of the external jugular vein. ^ Its branches may be divided into three sets, each containing three Anterior set: 1, Superior Thyroid ; 2, Lingual 5< 3 Facial. Posterior set: 1, Occipital; 2, Posterior Auricular; 3, bterno- Mastoid * * The sterno-mastoid is perhaps more ^^^i^^t^ branches of the external carotid superior thyroid or occipital) t1 an n> nut itself, but is inserted here to complete the three branches of the posterior