THE LUMBRICALES. 137 divides into two digital branches—one to the outer side of the little toe, and the other bifurcating to supply the inner side of the little and half the next toe. A slender branch of communication between the internal and external plantar nerves may sometimes be found. It may be noticed that the nerves of the sole of the foot closely resemble those of the palm of the hand in their distribution, the internal plantar corresponding to the median, and the external plantar to the ulnar nerve ; the deep branches of the latter nerves also correspond. The Second Layer of Muscles includes the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis, with the small accessorius and iumbricales muscles, all of which should now be cleaned. _ The tendon of the Flexor Longus Digitorum (Fig. 70, 3) is single at the annular ligament and lies to the inner side of the vessels and nerves, but it will now be seen to cross beneath them and over the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis to the centre of the foot, where it has the fibres of the accessorius attached to its deep surface. It then divides into four tendons, which give origin to the lumbricales muscles and pass beneath the digital nerves to the four small toes where they enter the digital sheaths, lying beneath the tendons of the short flexor. Each deep tendon then passes through the slit in the superficial tendon, and is inserted into the base of the third or terminal phalanx. The Accessorius (Fig. 69, 8) arises from the under surface of the os calcis by two heads, between which the long plantar ligament is seen The inner head, which is fleshy and the larger of the two, is attached to the hollow in front of the greater tuberosity ; the outer head, which is tendinous, is attached to the bone in front of the lesser tuberosity and to the long plantar ligament. The muscle is inserted into the deep surface of the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, or rather, is connected with it, and then sends slips to the tendons con- nected with the second, third, and fourth toes. The Lumbricales (Fig. 67, 7) are four small muscles, which are so named from their fancied resemblance to earth-worms. They arise from the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum,-the most internal from one, and the rest from two tendons each,-and wind to the mner sides of the four small toes to reach their dorsal aspects, where they join the expansions of the extensor tendons. The action of the accessorius is to bring the line of traction of the flexor tendons into the centre of the foot. The use of the lumbricales d0uUM' but accor^g to Duchenne is similar to that0 th ■