100 INNER SIDE OF THE THIGH. from the middle cutaneous nerve, and the remaining branches can now be traced from the deep division. The nerve to the vastus interims (19) which arises close to the long saphenous nerve is some- tbmes (but badly) called the "short saphenous nerve" The nerve "he pe tineus (10) crosses transversely beneath the femoral vessels to the surface of the pectineus muscle, and gives a branch to the ^f^Sap^us Nerve (Fig. 49, M> is the longest branch of the deep division of the anterior crural nerve. It lies cloTe to the outer side of the femoral artery, and enters Hunter's canal with if; then crossing the artery it pierces the sheath appear- ^ beneath the sartorius at the inner side of the knee. In the thigh "gives a— nicating branch to the subcutaneous plexus on the inner side, and at the knee its patellar branch pierces the sartorius The nerve becomes cutaneous between the sartorius and gracilis, and runs down the inner side of the leg. Inner Side op the Thigh. TThe superficial muscle of the inner side of the Jhigh (adductor into view.] A few cutaneous branches of nerve to the skin of the inner side of . thf thigh will be found appearing below the adductor longus. They a vp derived from the obturator. , , ThP Adductor Longus (Fig. 47, 13) arises by a round tendon froJtht front of the * pubis° immediately below the crest and exWs to be inserted into the middle third of the inner border of SSlinea aspera. It is supplied by the obturator nerve T TrracilTs (Fie 49, 26) is the most internal of the muscles of k £k'S"and iisl by a broad thin tendon from the rami of the the thigh an\mSe;inDJtaotliesympliysis. It is a long riband-shaped nT^nt^th,n the semi-tendinosus, a bursa intervening internal lateral ligament of the knee. It is supplied by the obturator nerve. [The adductor longus is to down, in order to expose the Dranch of the of the pectineus and the p oas and-J™™^^ the profunda obturator nerve to the muscle is to be gie*£^ deep J^.] vessels are to be cleaned as far as exposed, witn tne ae ^