280 DEEP DISSECTION OF ABDOMEN, iliac « unite to form the vena cava teal column. Both arteries are covered in front 1J^the person^ run nnd are crossed by the ureter near their termination, hut the («/(is 1ST m Tddition by the rectum and inferior —c^vesseK The left artery Hes against the psoas magnus, hut the right artery he, npl t own vein It the lower part, and crosses t ie vein o the opposite side ahove. The left common iliac vem mil he seen tobe othe inner side of its own artery, and then to pass beneath artery to reach the vena cava, whilst the right vein is at firstbehind and to n to the outer side of the right artery until it unites with the eft Thus hoth the veins lie to the right of them respective M Thinly Branches from the trunks of the vessels are small twigs to tlie iliacus muscle and to tlie ureter. The Vena Cava Inferior (Kg. 116, 3) hes to the right of the aorta and in close relation to it. except at the upper part. It is toed by the junction of the two common iliac veins on to,, rgi of the fifth lumbar vertehra, and lies on the right of the vertebra! column as high as the liver; there it passes forwards to enter toe comm a» „ through which it reaches the quad- posterior horder ol that giana, uuougu i„„w ri<*t rilateral opening in the diaphragm. I receives the lumbar, n ht spermatic renal, right supra-renal, and phrenic veim, and«M* nasses through the liver the large hepatic veins open into it, and tons toe whole of the blood of the abdomen and lower extremities is "ExtornlriUac Artery (Kg. 149, 3) -aches from the polt of bifuicatiou of the common iliac to Poupartfs hgament wtee it becomes the femoral, its direction corresponding with a lone Ira™ from the umbilicus to a point midway between the symphysis nnbTand the anterior superior iliac spine. It passes along the brim It the tone pelvis, and is bound down to the psoas miracle on he outer s oe by a process of fascia, which includes both it and the veto and must be removed in order to expose them. The crural vem, and must^o ^ ^ ^ side o{ the (circumflex iliac) will he seen to cross he artery and c se to the ligament the vas deferens hooks round the epig^c a^ery, and descends into the pelvis to the inner side of the external mac artery,