451 THE (ESOPHAGUS. thyroid, which, has been traced down the front of the trachea to the innominate vein. The thyroid body is composed of numerous closed vesicles contain- ing a yellow fluid, but its function is not understood. [The right lung is to be drawn forward, and the pleura divided where it is reflected from the lung to the wall of the thorax, and the parts in the posterior mediastinum are to be cleaned. The muscular oesophagus will be at once seen, and the right pneumo-gastric nerve is to be traced to it and to the back of the right bronchus. On displacing the oesophagus the side of the descending thoracic aorta will come into view, but it will be better seen in the dissection of the left side. The vena azygos major will be seen to the right of the aorta, and between the two will be found the slender and collapsed thoracic duct. The intercostal vessels will be seen crossing the back of the space, and near the diaphragm will be found the splanchnic nerves from the sympathetic cord, which is itself outside the mediastinum.] The Posterior Mediastinum (Fig. 225) is the interpleural space behind the pericardium, bounded by the vertebra? behind, the peri- cardium in front, and the reflection of the pleura on each side. It contains the trachea, oesophagus, and the two pneumo-gastric nerves; the descending thoracic aorta, vena azygos major and thoracic duct; and, at the lower part, the great splanchnic nerve with some areolar tissue and lymphatic glands. The (Esophagus (Fig. 233, 29) is a muscular tube continuous with the pharynx. It begins opposite the 5th cervical vertebra, and can now be seen to lie to the left side of the median line in the neck. It then passes through the superior aperture of the thorax, being in re- lation with the left common carotid artery, and reaches the front of the spine, passing behind the arch of the aorta and being crossed by the left bronchus. It is now seen to pass in front of the descending thoracic aorta, which it crosses very obliquely, to reach the left side and pass through the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm, opposite the ninth or tenth dorsal vertebra. The oesophagus is from nine to ten inches in length, and consists of two layers of muscular fibres, the outer longitudinal and the inner circular, which are of the striped variety in the upper part, but of the unstriped variety in the lower part of the tube. Within the muscular coats are a delicate fibrous coat and a simple mucous membrane with tesselated epithelium, which is thrown into longitudinal folds when the oesophagus is not distended with food. The long meshes of nerve upon the oesophagus are derived from the two pneumo-gastrics and form the plexus qulaz. G 6 2