413 THE VOCAL COEDS. arytseno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane : the lower one spreads over the mucous pouch of the larynx, and was termed com- pressor sacculi laryngis by Mr. Hilton. Actions of the Laryngeal Muscles. The cartilages are moved upon one another by the several muscles, producing an effect upon either the tension of the vocal cords or the size of the opening between them—the glottis. The Crico-thyroidei draw the thyroid cartilage downwards and forwards on the cricoid cartilage, and thus tighten the vocal cords. The Thyro-arytcenoidei being parallel to, and attached to the same points as, the vocal cords, must necessarily by their contraction approximate the points of attachment, and so relax the cords. The Crico-arytmnoidei postici swing the arytsenoid cartilages out- wards, and thus dilate the glottis ; as can be easily shown by making traction upon the two muscles simultaneously with the points of a pair of forceps. The Crico-arytmnoidei laterales are antagonists to the postici, and bring the arytsenoid cartilages back to their old positions, and after- wards approximate them, thus narrowing the glottis. The Arytamoideus draws the arytaenoid cartilages together, and thus (according to Mr. Bishop) narrows the glottis ; but it may be doubted whether the superficial fibres which are inserted farthest out would not swing the cartilages upon their axes and thus widen the glottis. [A side view of the interior of the larynx is now to be obtained by cutting away the crico-arytsenoideus lateralis, with the vocal cords and mucous membrane of the same side, but the cricoid cartilage is to be left entire.] On a Side-view (Fig. 216) of the interior of the larynx will be seen the horizontal projections of the mucous membrane formed by the superior and inferior vocal cords beneath it. Between the two cords is the cavity of the ventricle of the larynx, and from the front i of this a probe can be carried into the laryngeal pouch or sacculus laryngis, which projects upward between the upper cord and the I thyroid cartilage. The mucous membrane is continued from the • ventricle into the sac, in which it is provided with numerous mucous | glands. [The mucous membrane is to be dissected from the vocal cords and their attachments are to be clearly shown.] The Vocal Cords or Thyro-arytsenoid Ligaments (Fig. 216)