455 DESCENDING THORACIC ARTERY. clavian artery and right innominate vein (p. 341). It is now seen to run backward to the right side of the trachea, along which it passes to the bifurcation, to form the posterior pulmonary plexus at the back of the right bronchus. The nerve then supplies the oesophagus, form- ing, with the nerve of the opposite side, a plexus of long meshes which has been called the plexus gules. Lastly the right nerve reaches the back of the stomach. Cardiac branches from the trunk of the pneumo-gastric nerve and from its recurrent laryngeal branch arise in the thorax, and the cervi- cal cardiac branches may also be traced out, and will be afterwards seen to join the deep cardiac plexus. [The left lung is now to be drawn forward, and the pleura removed in the same manner as on the right side. The oesophagus with branches from the left pneumo-gastric will be seen near the dia- phragm, and upon displacing it, the descending thoracic aorta will be brought into view with the left splanchnic nerves and vena azygos minor.] The Left Pneumo-Gastric Nerve (Fig. 234, 31) enters the thorax between the left carotid and subclavian arteries, and passes behind the left innominate vein. It then crosses the arch of the aorta, around which it gives its recurrent branch (21), and can now be traced to the back of the left bronchus, where it breaks up into numerous branches to the left lung and, after giving branches to the oesophagus which unite with those of the opposite side in the plexus gulce, terminates on the anterior surface of the stomach. From the left recurrent branch cardiac nerves pass to the deep cardiac plexus. The Descending Thoracic Aorta (Fig. 234, 32) is the con- tinuation of the arch of the aorta, and extends from the lower border of the fifth dorsal vertebra to the twelfth dorsal vertebra, opposite which it passes through the aortic opening in the diaphragm to be- come the abdominal aorta. In its course it lies at first to the left, but afterwards in front of, the bodies. of the vertebrae, crossing the vena azygos minor. It is crossed by the root of the left lung and, very obliquely, by the oesophagus, which overlies it near the diaphragm. The artery has the thoracic duct and the vena azygos major to its right side, and is closely invested by the pleura on the left side. Branches.—From the front of the aorta pericardiac, bronchial, ceso- phageal and mediastinal branches are given off, which can now be seen. From the back part of the aorta the right and left intercostal arteries arise, which will be afterwards traced.