THE MALE PERINEUM. 172 course inwards to the anus and lower end of the rectum, where it anastomoses with the middle hemorrhoidal branch of the internal iliac. Vence comites take the same course as the artery, and join the pudic vein. The Inferior Hemorrhoidal Nerve (Fig. 88, 13) is a branch ol the internal pudic nerve, or may arise separately from the lower part of the sacral plexus. In the latter case it takes the same course as the pudic nerve and is contained in the same sheath of fascia. The nerve takes a nearly transverse course in the perineum, lying superficially to the inferior hemorrhoidal vessels, and is distributed to the external sphincter and skin of the anus, giving a branch forward to join the superficial perineal nerves. The Perinceal Branch of the fourth sacral nerve is of small size and not readily seen. It appears at the side of the coccyx by piercing the coccygeus muscle, and is distributed to the external sphincter. Anterior Space in the Male. TThe scrotum being drawn up with hooks, an incision is to be made in the median line, extending from the central point of the perineum to within three inches of the extremity of the perns. The skin is to be reflected to each side, and the testicles held out of the way with hooks.] The Superficial Fascia of the anterior half of the perineum is divisible into two layers—superficial and deep. The superficial layer of superficial fascia is continuous with the fascia over the body, which it resembles, but is peculiar in the scrotum, since there involuntary muscular fibres are developed in it, which oive it a pink appearance and constitute the dartos. * The deep layer of superficial fascia (Fig. 88, 6) is brought into view by the removal of the superficial layer, but varies considerably m appearance in different subjects, being a distinct membrane m thin subiects, but not easily defined in fat ones. _ It is continuous with the deep layer of fascia of the groin, and is attached on each side to the front of the rami of the pubes and ischium nearly to the tuberosity. It then makes a turn around tiie trans- versa* perinei muscle on each side, and joins the deep perineal fasm or triangular ligament. A pouch is thus formed containing the, bulb of the urethra with its surrounding muscles, vessels, and nerves ana this is divided into two parts by an incomplete median septum This pouch is of importance surgically with regard to extravasation of urine. If extravasation should occur from rupture of the bulbous