54 BACK OF THE FORE-ARM. Fig. 20. ligament, and is prolonged to be inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. .. The Extensor Secundi Internodii Fol- licis (Fig. 20, 8) arises from the middle of the outer half of the posterior surface of the ulna (between the origins of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis above, and the indicator below), and from the ulnar half of the cor- responding portion of the interosseous mem- brane. Its tendon becomes superficial just above the annular ligament, through which it passes very obliquely in a separate division (the third) ; then crossing the tendons of the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior and the radial artery, it runs along the ulnar side of the extensor primi internodii to be inserted into the base of the terminal phalanx of the thumb. This muscle varies very much in.size. The Extensor Indicis (indicator) (Fig. 20, 9) arises from the posterior surface of the ulna below the preceding muscle (by the size of which its attachment is influenced), and slightly from the interosseous membrane. Its tendon is covered by those of the common extensor, and running through the fourth division of the annular ligament with them, is inserted into the common expansion on the back of the first phalanx of the fore-finger. The actions of the special extensors are im- plied by their names. They are all supplied by the posterior interosseous nerve. _ , J „e Ar+pw CFio\ 22, 8) arising from The Posterior Interosseous Aiteiy ^iB- **> ) » ine jrostenur *j artery, reaches the back ot the interosseous, a branch oi .lie umar «ute y, Fig. 20-Deep muscles of the hack-of fore-arm (from Wilson) 8. Extensor secundi internodii pol- licis. 9. Extensor indicis. 10 First dorsal interosseous muscle. The other three dorsal mterossei are seen between the metacar- pal bones of their respective fingers. 1. Humerus. 2. Olecranon. 3. Ulna. 4. Anconeus. 5. Supinator brevis. . . 6. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. 7. Extensor primi internodii pol- licis.