160 LIGAMENTS OF THE LEG. of the os calcis, to the under surface of the cuboid behind the peroneal gr°Thee' Calcaneo-scaphoid Ligament is a broad band of yellow elastic ligament, stretching between the lesser process of the calcaneum (sustentaculum tali) and the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone It performs the important function of supporting the head of the astrag- alus, which rests upon it, and in this is assisted by the tendon of the tibialis posticus, which passes immediately beneath it. lne upper surface of the ligament is covered with the synovial membrane of the astragalo-scaphoid articulation. Numerous interosseous ligaments bind the bones of the tarsus firmly together, and will be seen when the joints are opened. The Metatarsal Bones (Fig. 86, 9) are connected with the tarsus bv strong dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments. The dorsal ligaments are one to each metatarsal bone from the arsal bone with which it articulates ; but the second metatarsal, m additmn to its ligament from the middle cuneiform, has extra slips&oml the internal and external cuneiform bones, between which its base is WThe plantar ligaments are less regular, and are united with the slips from the calcaneocuboid ligament. i^-u+w The interosseous ligaments are short strong bands, and vary sligntiy in different subjects. There is always one between the interna cuneiform and the second metatarsal bone ; a second may exist between the external cuneiform and the same metatarsal bone ; and a third between the external cuneiform and the fourth metatarsal bone "Transverse dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments connect the bases of the metatarsal bones. * The Synovial Membranes (Fig. 87) of the foot, including the ankle-joint, are seven in number, and will be seen by opening the Rpveral ioints in succession. The 1st is the synovial membrane of the ankle (1), reflected over the upper surface of the astragalus, and upon the ligaments to the articular surfaces of the tibia and fibula ; it passes also between the tibia and fibula into the inferior tibio-fibular articulation The 2nd synovial membrane lines the posterior calcaneo-astraga ■loid articulation (11). , j The 3rd synovial membrane covers the head of the as ragal^ ad the concave surface of the scaphoid, being prolonged backwards into the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation (ill). The strong interosseous ligament connecting the under suriace