THE LEFT VENTRICLE. knife is then guided upwards between the flaps of the mitral valve, and an incision made through the front of the ventricle into the auriculo-ventricular opening. The finger is next to be passed from below into the aorta, followed by the knife, which is to be carried through the front wall of the ventricle close to the septum, thus isolating the right flap of the mitral valve. The incision is to be prolonged into the aorta between two of the semilunar valves, and it will be found to be necessary to divide the pulmonary artery which lies in front of the aorta, but care should be taken to do so above the pulmonary semilunar valves.] The Left Ventricle (Fig. 229, 8) resembles the right, but its wall is thicker and its cavity reaches to the apex of the heart. The columnce carnece, musculi papillares, and cliorclce tendinece resemble those of the right side, but are more fully developed. The left auriculo-ventricular valve consists of two portions, and is hence called bicuspid, or (from the resemblance to a mitre) mitral. The flaps of the valve are composed of the lining membrane of the heart, strengthened by tendinous fibres derived from the chordse tendinese like those on the right side, and are attached to the fibrous ring bounding the auriculo-ventricular opening. The right flap of the valve is anterior to the left flap, and is placed between the cavity of the ventricle and the orifice of the aorta, against which it lies during diastole of the ventricle. It is perfectly smooth on both surfaces, so as not to impede the current of blood into the aorta, thus differing from the left flap, of which the surface next to the wall of the heart is rough (Power). Between the anterior flap of the mitral valve and the aortic valves is a small space with aponeurotic walls— the intervalvular space of Sibson—which receives the aortic valves when distended in " diastole." The mitral valve acts during contraction of the ventricle (systole), and prevents the regurgitation of blood into the auricle. The anterior division of the mitral valve prevents the blood from flowing into the aorta, until the ventricle is fully distended and able to contract forcibly on its contents; and the pressure of the blood in the intervalvular space on the anterior flap of the mitral valve keeps the latter closed up to the end of the " systole " or contraction of the ventricle. The closure of the mitral valve accompanies the " first sound " of the heart, which is best heard at the apex. A bruit caused by disease of the valve would be heard in the same situation (Fig. 227, l.v.), and, if systolic, depends upon regurgitation through the valve, if diastolic upon roughness of the surface over which the blood passes from the auricle.