THE MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 474 called the Biventer Cervicis, from the fact that it consists of two fleshy portions or bellies with an intervening tendon. The erector spina} is one of the most important muscles for main- taining the erect position of the trunk, and the complexus in addition draws back the head. Occipital Artery (Fig. 247, 3).—The second portion of the occi- pital artery is now exposed in its course between the muscles attached to the occipital bone. It was traced along the lower border of the digastric in the neck, and, leaving that muscle, it now runs beneath the splenius capitis and over or under the trachelo-mastoid, lying above the border of the superior oblique muscle, and then getting on to the complexus close to its insertion. It lastly pierces the trapezius to reach the back of the scalp, being accompanied by the great occipital nerve, which appears through the trapezius (1). The Arteria princeps cervicis is given off from this portion of the occipital artery,'and divides into a branch to the trapezius and. a descending larger one, which latter passes beneath the complexus to anastomose with the profunda cervicis artery on the semispmaHs. TThe complexus is to be divided transversely, at the point where the great occipital nerve pierces it, so as to preserve the nerve un- injured, and the muscle is then to be dissected up from the coixlensed cellular tissue beneath it and turned outward The small muscles with the vessels and nerves of the suboccipital region are then to be dissected out, together with the semispinals muscle which nils the vertebral groove in the cervical and dorsal regions. All vessels and nerves are to be carefully preserved.] The Fifth Layer of Muscles (Fig. 247) consists of the two Eecti, the two Obliqui, and the Semispinalis muscles. _ The Rectus Capitis Posticus Major (Fig. 247, 8) arises from the spinous process of the axis, and passes upward and outward to be inserted into the outer part of the inferior curved line upon the occipital bone, and into a smaU portion of the space below it. The Rectus Capitis Posticus Minor (Fig. 247,6) is placed close to the median line, and is slightly overlapped by the preceding muscle It arises from the posterior tubercle of the atlas, and is inserted by fleshy fibres into the space below the inferior curved Hue on the occipital bone, close to the median line and to its fellow muscle of the opposite side. The Obliquus Inferior (Fig. 247, 18) arises _ from the spinous process of the axis, and is inserted into the posterior tubercle ot transverse process of the atlas. Around the lower border ot tins muscle the great occipital nerve makes its appearance. nmarAa The Obliquus Superior (Fig. 247,10) is the contmuation upwards