450 THE THORAX. already traced to the superficial cardiac plexus. The branches of this half of the plexus are distributed to the left side of the heart and the left lung, and also communicate with the superficial cardiac plexus. The Trachea (Fig. 233, 24) is now sufficiently exposed for the examination of its relations, but its structure will be given with that of the lungs. The trachea extends from the lower border of the larynx, about the level of the fifth cervical vertebra, to the level of the fifth dorsal vertebra, where it bifurcates into the bronchi. The trachea occupies the middle line, lying in front of the oesophagus and vertebral column, and has the following structures in front of it in the neck : the sterno-hyoid and -thyroid muscles with the deep cervical fascia ; the isthmus of the thyroid body with the inferior thyroid veins ; and the arteria thyroidea ima from the innominate, • if it exists. In the thorax it lies in the posterior mediastinum, and has in front the sternum with the remains of the thymus gland; the arch of the aorta and the nerves crossing it; the innominate and left carotid arteries (for a very short distance); and the left innominate vein. The Right Bronchus (Fig. 231, 17) is larger than the left, and has been seen to be posterior and superior to the pulmonary vessels in the root of the lung. It is about one inch long, and takes a more horizontal course than the left. The vena azygos major hooks round the right bronchus to open into the vena cava. The Left Bronchus (Fig. 231, 18) is nearly twice as long as the right, and takes an oblique course beneath the arch of the aorta, crossing the oesophagus and the descending aorta, and lying posterior to, but being visible between, the pulmonary artery and veins (p. 432). The Thyroid Body (Fig. 234, 19) has been seen incidentally 111 the dissection of the neck, but is now fully exposed for examination It consists of two symmetrical conical lobes, placed on each side of the upper part of the trachea, and united opposite the second and third rings of the trachea by the isthmus. The lobes are subject to great variations in size, and when much hypertrophied constitute Bronchocele or Goitre. The thyroid body is covered by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-tnyroid muscles, and occasionally a few muscular fibres pass from the hyoid bone to the isthmus, constituting the levator glandular thyroidece oi Soemmering. It is abundantly supplied with blood by the superior thyroid and inferior thyroid arteries of each side, and occasionally by an additional branch from the innominate. The arteries freely anastomose in the substance of the body, and return their blood by three veins on each side, viz., the superior and middle thyroid, which join the internal jugular vein, and the interior