THE SPINAL COED AND MEMBRANES. 479 The Coccygeal nerve emerges from the lower end of the vertebral canal and is distributed to the coccyx. The Posterior Divisions of the Intercostal and Lumbar Arte- ries divide like the nerves into internal and external branches, which accompany the nerves to the muscles of the back. The Sixth Layer of Muscles (Fig. 246) consists of the Inter- spinales, Intertransversales, Multifidus Spinas, and Levatores Costa- rum, which will not repay the trouble of dissection. The position of the Interspinales and Intertransversales is suffi- ciently indicated by their names. The Multifidus Spinas (16) fills up the vertebral groove beneath the erector spinas, arising from the articular processes of the cervical and lumbar vertebrse, and from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae and sacrum. The muscle is inserted into the spinous processes of all the vertebras except the atlas. The Levatores Costarum are twelve fan-shaped muscles passing between the dorsal transverse processes and the upper borders of the ribs. The Spinal Cord and Membranes. [To open the spinal canal, the remains of the muscles of the back should be cleared away as far as possible, when some part of the plexus of clorsi-sfpinal veins may be seen upon the vertebras. A block then being placed beneath the thorax so as to make the dorsal region prominent, a cut is to be made with the saw on each side of the middle line, so as to divide the laminas of the vertebras as far out as possible. Two or three of the arches being now removed with the chisel, the point of a spine-chisel or rachet is to be introduced into the canal and the rachet carefully hammered through the arches of the vertebras for the whole length of the spine, except the upper two cervical vertebras. The operation being repeated on the opposite side, the arches can be removed with the bone-forceps, and the canal will be thoroughly opened. On the inner surface of the arches will be seen the ligamenta subflava, which are described with the other vertebral ligaments (p. 420).] Upon opening the Spinal Canal some loose tissue and fat will be seen, together with the meningeo-rachidian veins, which are occa- sionally full of blood. These extend for the whole length of the spinal cord under the name of posterior longitudinal spinal veins, 13. Scalenus anticus with phrenic 16. Splenius colli. nerve. 17. Complexus. 14. Vertebral vessels in transverse 18. Semi-spinalis colli. process. 19. Splenius capitis. 15. Scalenus medius with brachial 20. Levator anguh scapula). cords in front. 21. Trapezius.