124 BACK OF THE LEG. three inches long, but its tendon is the longest in the body and is very slender. It is placed between the gastrocnemius and soleus, and crosses obliquely so as to get to the inner side of the tendo Achillis, by the side of or in common with which it is inserted into the os calcis. It is analogous to the palmaris longus of the upper extremity. The Soleus (Fig. 60, 5) is tendinous on its surface, to allow the corresponding tendinous expansion on the under surface of the gastro- cnemius to move freely upon it, and between the two is a quantity of loose areolar tissue. It arises from the oblique line of the tibia and from the inner border of the tibia in its middle third ; also from the posterior surface of the head and upper third or more of the fibula, and from a deep tendon which arches over the tibial vessels and nerves. The fibres end in a broad tendon, which joins that of the gastrocnemius in the lower third of the leg to form the tendo Achillis, the insertion of which has been seen. The muscular fibres are inserted into the deep surface of the tendon to within two inches of the heel. . By dividing the fibres of the soleus vertically and with care, a tendinous expansion on the deep surface of the muscle will be brought into view, which stretches across the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, and protects them from pressure during the movements of the limb. This deep tendon is an important guide in the operation of tying the posterior tibial artery, and must be divided • to reach it. The muscles of the calf extend the foot, t.e.t point the toes, the gastrocnemius and plantaris in addition flexing the leg upon the thigh ; or, when gastrocnemius also steaciyui0 0 internal popliteal nerve^ n ; fin S,n)erfuSi muscles of the back of the leg (from Wilson). Fig. 60.-Supeinciai mu» Tuberosity of os calcis. 1. Tendon of biceps. 2. Tendons of inner hamstrings. 3. Popliteal space. 4. Gastrocnemius. 5. 5. Soleus. 6. Tendo Achillis. t j_ uucivomj - 8. Tendons of the peroneus wngus and brevis. 9 Tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum.