THE PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. 379 the external and internal carotid arteries, it disappears between the superior and middle constrictors of the pharynx, and will be subse- quently followed to its insertion. The Stylo-hyoid Ligament lies between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, and gives origin to some fibres of the middle constrictor of the pharynx. It is attached above to the tip of the styloid process, and below to the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone. [The styloid process is to be cut through at its base and turned aside with the stylo-pharyngeus, when the careful removal of a process of fascia will expose the internal carotid, the jugular vein, and the eighth pair up to the base of the skull; with the loop between the first and second cervical nerves, and the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic] The Internal Carotid Artery (Fig. 201) commences at the point of bifurcation of the common carotid, usually opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. It is at first to the outer side of the external carotid, and, like it, is covered by the sterno-mastoid and platysma muscles, and crossed by the hypoglossal nerve with the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. It then lies behind the ex- ternal carotid, and is crossed by the styloid process and the stylo- pharyngeus muscle, with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and pharyn- geal branch of the vagus. Posteriorly it rests against the sympathetic trunk and the rectus capitis anticus major, and is crossed by the superior laryngeal branch of the pneumo-gastric. The pneumo- gastric nerve and internal jugular vein lie to its outer side in the whole of its course, and to the inner side is the pharynx with the ascending pharyngeal artery. The artery enters the carotid canal of the temporal bone, in which it will be subsequently traced. The Internal Jugular Vein (Fig. 201) commences outside the skull by the junction of the lateral with the inferior petrosal sinus, and lies to the outer side of the internal and common carotids in the neck, with the eighth and ninth nerves intervening, and in front of the rectus capitis lateralis. It receives no branch above the hyoid bone, but below that level it receives the superior thyroid, lingual, facial, occipital, pharyngeal and middle thyroid veins, and joins the subclavian vein to form the innominate or brachio-cephalic vein (p. 335). The Pneumo-gastric Nerve or Vagus (Fig. 201, 4) leaves the skull at the foramen jugulare in front of the vein, and in the same sheath as the spinal-accessory nerve. It follows the carotid artery