364 THE PTERYGO-MAXILLARY REGION. The muscle is inserted into the angle of the mouth, joining the orbi- cularis oris, and its middle fibres decussate with one another as they pass to their insertion. The buccinator is perforated by the duct of the parotid gland opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The Pterygo-Maxillary Ligament (Fig. 197) is a white fibrous band extending between the internal pterygoid plate and the lower jaw, close to the last molar tooth. By its anterior border it gives attachment to the buccinator, and by its posterior border to the superior constrictor of the pharynx ; it thus establishes the connec- tion between the cavities of the mouth and the pharynx, the mucous membrane covering its inner surface. The temporal, masseter, external and internal pterygoids, and buc- cinator are classed together as the Muscles of Mastication. The temporal, masseter, and internal pterygoid muscles close the jaws, but the masseter and internal pterygoid draw the lower jaw forward, whilst the temporal draws it back, thus producing the anteropos- terior movement. The lateral movements of the jaw are produced by the alternate action of the two external pterygoid muscles, which, if acting together, protrude the chin. The principal action of the buccinator is to keep the food between the teeth during mastication, but it also expels air from the mouth (and hence the name "trumpeter"), as is well seen m using the blowpipe. The muscles of mastication are all supplied by the motor portion of the third division of the 5th nerve, but the buccinator is also, and principally, supplied by the facial nerve (7th) ; as is shown by the fact that in paralysis of that nerve the buccinator fails m its action, and food collects between the teeth and the cheek. The Internal Maxillary Artery (Fig. 195) is seen m this dissection in its first and second portions, the third being m the sphenomaxillary fossa. One of the terminal branches of ^ external carotid artery, it arises in the parotid gland immediately behind tlie neck of the jaw. The First Part of the internal maxillary artery, with its accom- panying veins, lies, between the neck of the jaw and tlie interna LLl ligament. It gives off a descending branch, the Infenor dented, and an ascending branch, the Middle meningeal a. The Inferior dental artery (u) descends on the internal lateral ligament to the inferior dental foramen, by which it enters ^ lower jaw ; it then runs in a canal in the substance of that bone supplying the posterior teeth, and, after giving an vncisor branch to