THE PEKINiEUM. 168 scrotum is the anus or orifice of the bowel, and between the two is the true perineum, which will be seen to be marked by a median raphe. Around the anus the skin is thrown into folds, which it enlarged, form one variety of external piles. By drawing the anus slightly open, a white line will be seen, marking the junction of the skin with the mucous membrane, and corresponding to the separation between the internal and external sphincter muscles ^illie'femcde (Fig. 92) the scrotum may be considered to be split in the median line, to form the two labia majora, which however consist simply of cellular tissue and fat, and are continuous above with the mons Veneris, a thickened portion of the integument oyer the pubes (only partially seen in this view). The labia are united in front by the anterior commissure; they bound the vulva and are continued backwards to the anterior boundary of the perimeum, where they are united by the posterior commissure In z lemale who has not borne children, a small transverse fold of mucous membrane may be seen just within the posterior coinmissure, which is called the fourchette, and between the two is the fossa By separating the labia the clitoris will be seen at the upper part of the vulva, resembling a diminutive penis in appearance and struc- ture, and having a small and ill-defined glans and prepuce. The numphce or labia minora extend obliquely downwards trom each side of the clitoris, being connected both with the organ itself and its prepuce, and are lost in the labia majora and wall.of the vasina below. „ ,, r. • The vestibule is a triangular interval, with the apex at the cbtoris and the base at the orifice of the vagina, the sides being formed by the nymph*. An inch below the clitoris is the meatus urmanus, which is slightly prominent, and is placed immediately above the orifice of the vagina. The entrance of the vagina may be more or less occluded by a Jwmen which is a reduplication of mucous membrane, usually at a cret entl form with the concave border _ upwards The; myrtiformes are three or four little projections from the vaginal wall behind the hymen, and are independent of that membrane On each side of the vagina immediately in front of the ^%°***^™> are the orifices of the vulvo-vaginal glands or glands of Bartholin._lhe orifices of numerous sebaceous follicles will also be found scattered over the vulva. , • „ The true perineum of the female is between the posterior commas-