438 THE THORAX. produced from the posterior margin of the foramen from ahout the fourth month of foetal life, and gradually overlaps the anterior margin, so as to form an oblique opening for the passage of the blood from right to left up to birth. After birth the aperture gradually becomes obliterated, but not unfrequently a small oblique opening will be found, through which a probe can be introduced. [To open the right ventricle, its flaccid wall should be grasped with the left hand and the scalpel made to transfix it about half-way down, and well to the right side of the septum ; the knife being then carried towards the apex, the cavity of the ventricle will be opened. The left forefinger is to be passed up into the pulmonary artery, and will serve to guide the incision, winch is to be pro- longed into that vessel if possible between two of the_ semilunar valves. All clots being removed, the whole of the ventricle will be displayed.] The Right Ventricle (Fig. 228, a) consists of a main cavity, the walls of which are irregular, owing to the projections of the mus- cular substance of the heart; and of a smooth funnel-shaped portion (infundibulum or conus arteriosus) leading upwards and to the left, into the pulmonary artery. The projections on the wall of the ventricle are the columnoe carnece (h) (fleshy columns) of which three varieties are described : one in which the column merely stands out in relief, being attached to the wall of the ventricle in its whole length ; a second in which the column is attached at both ends but is free in the middle, so that a probe may be passed between it and the waU ; and a third variety called the musculi papillares (gj. These last project into the cavity of the ventricle and give attach- ment by their extremities to the chord® tendinem, or fibrous cords attached to the flaps of the auriculo-ventricular valve. The right auriculo-ventricular valve (e) consists of three portions, and is hence called tricuspid. The flaps are formed by a reduplica- tion of the endocardium or lining membrane of the heart, between the layers of which are some tendinous and muscular fibres, the former being continuous with the chorda? tendinese. The entire valve is attached above to a fibrous ring (zona tendinosa), which bounds the auriculo-ventricular opening, and is divided below into three portions, anterior, posterior, and internal.* The anterior division of the valve is the largest and is in contact * Tho tricuspid valvo is very irregular in its divisions, ^fj?^^ of only two flaps like the mitral valve, and at others hemg divided into torn or even six small portions.