THE KNEE-JOINT. 153 side of the internal condyle, and to the inner side of the head of the tibia, where it covers in the tendon of the semi-membranosus ; and is then continued to the upper part of the shaft of the tibia, leaving an interval through which the inferior articular vessels of the knee pass. The Capsular Ligament is a fibrous layer closely connected with the exterior of the synovial membrane and the inter-articular carti- lages, being attached to the margin of the articular surface of the tibia below, and above to the fascia lata and an expansion from the vasti. It blends with the posterior and internal lateral ligaments, and encloses the ligamentmn patellae and the external lateral ligament; it is strengthened by expansions from the several tendons, but is pierced by the tendon of the popliteus. [The tendon of the rectus is to be divided and drawn down in order to see the extent of the synovial membrane above the patella, since it reaches for a couple of inches above the articular surface of the femur and gives attachment to the Subcrureus, a small muscle arising from the lower part of the anterior surface of the femur. The synovial membrane is then to be divided on each side, as near the condyles as possible, and the patella turned down, when the ligamenta mucosum et alaria will be seen.] The Ligamentum Mucosum (Fig. 82, 10) is a process of synovial membrane attached to the notch between the condyles, from which it stretches to immediately below the patella. The Ligamenta Alaria (Fig. 82, 9) are two folds of synovial membrane with fringed borders, which are seen on each side of the ligamentum mucosum. [The ligamentum mucosum is to be divided and the patella turned down completely, when the bursa of the ligamentum patellae can be opened and seen. The capsular and posterior ligaments are to be removed, but the lateral ligaments are to be preserved and the crucial ligaments dissected.] The Intra-articular Ligaments are the two crucial, the coronary, and the transverse ligaments. Within the joint also are the two semi- lunar cartilages. The Anterior Crucial Ligament (Fig. 81, 2) is attached to the external condyle of the femur at its inner and back part, and passes oblkmely across the joint to be inserted into the top of the tibia in front of the spine, between the attachments of the internal and external semilunar cartilages, with the latter of which it is closely connected.