349 MUSCLES OF THE FACE. it the antihelix (5), tlie groove between the two "being the fossa of the Mix (7). The deep cavity leading to the meatus externus is the concha (9)/ and the little nodnle in front of it the tragus (10), the cor- responding nodule behind being the antitragus (11). The lowest part of the ear is the lobule, which consists of fat. The extrinsic muscles of the ear (Attrahens, Attollens, and Ketra- hens) have been seen in the dissection of the scalp. Various small muscles have been described as passing from one point to another of the cartilage of the pinna, but do not require special description. They can be sufficiently seen in Figs. 183 and 184, and will not repay the trouble of dissection. [The cheeks are now to be distended with cotton wool and the lips carefully sewn together. A little piece of wool may also be intro- duced beneath the eyelids with advantage. An incision is to be made from the temple in front of the ear, along the jaw to the chin (the scalp having been already dissected), and the skin is to be care- ful iy reflected towards the median line. A cut around the orbit and mouth will avoid interference with the eyelids and lips. All muscular fibres and vessels are to be carefully preserved, but the small nerves are to be cut away, together with aU the loose fat The parotid aland in front of the ear is to be preserved, and its duct traced across the face below the malar bone.] Muscles of the Face or Muscles op Expression. The Orbicularis Palpebrarum (Fig. 186, 4) is a broad muscle surrounding the orbit and attached to its inner angle, being continuous above with the fibres of the occipito-frontalis (v. p. 293) It arises from the internal angular process of the frontal bone, from the tendo ocuh passing between the nasal process of the superior maxilla and the inner extremities of the tarsal cartilages, and from the nasal process itself. Its fibres surround the orbit and are attached to the skin ; those passing on the lids are called the palpebral fibres (or palpebrahs muscle) and are attached externally'to the malar bone and external tarsal ligament. The orbicularis palpebrarum is the muscle which closes the eye- lids and is therefore the direct antagonist of the levator palpebral The Corrugator Supercilii will be seen by removing the portion 0 the orbicular* covering the brow. It arises from the inn™ of the superciliary ridge, and is inserted into the orbicularis about the centre of the eyebrow. uul tlle The Pyramidalis Nasi (Fig. 185, 1) is a small slip 0f mwlp lymg along the nasal bone, continuous with the occipito