MUSCLES OF BACK OF THE FORE-ARM. 51 the second division of the annular ligament ; and lastly beneath the third extensor of the thumb, to be inserted into the base of the meta- carpal bone of the middle finger (3rd meta- carpal bone). The Extensor Communis Digitorum (Fig. 19, 8) arises from the external condyle with the preceding muscles; from the fascia of the fore-arm, and from the intermuscular septa on each side of it. It ends in three tendons, which pass through the fourth divi- sion of the annular ligament with the extensor indicis and, the innermost having subdivided, the four tendons thus formed are inserted into the fingers in the following way:—Opposite the metacarpophalangeal joint each tendon sends slips to both sides of the base of the first phalanx, which are firmly bound to the phalanx and the metacarpophalangeal articu- lation ; it then expands upon the phalanx, being joined by slips from the lumbricales and interossei muscles j this expansion is stronger at the margins than in the middle; and its sides are prolonged to the third phalanx, whilst the middle triangular portion is attached to the base of the second phalanx. This division is artificial and must be made with the scalpel, since the three parts are originally united. The tendon of the extensor indicis joins the ulnar side of the first or outer- most tendon at the first phalanx. The three innermost tendons of the extensor are joined Fig. 19.—Superficial muscles of the back of fore-aim (from Wilson). 1. Biceps. 2. Brachialis anticus. 3. Lower part of the triceps, inserted into the olecranon. • 4. Supinator longus. 5. Extensor carpi radialis lougior. 6. Extensor carpi radialis brevior. 7. Tendons of insertion of these two muscles. 8. Extensor communis digitorum. 9. Extensor minimi digiti. 10. Extensor carpi ulnaris. 11. Anconeus. 12 13 Flexor carpi ulnaris. Extensor ossis metacarpi and ex- tensor primi internodii pollicis lying together. 14. Extensor secundi internodii pol- licis. 15. Posterior annular ligament. The tendons of the common extensor are seen on the back of the hand, and their mode of inser- tion on the backs of the fingers. E 2