45 THE ULNAR ARTERY. partly by the anterior interosseous branch of the median and partly by the ulnar nerve. The Pronator Quadratus (Fig. 16, 6) is the only muscle in the arm whose fibres are transverse. It arises from a somewhat oval surface on the front of the ulna below the origin of the flexor pro- fundus, and is inserted into the whole of the front of the radius, below the attachment of the flexor longus pollicis. This muscle is a powerful pronator of the fore-arm, and is supplied by the anterior interosseous branch of the median nerve. The Ulnar Artery (Fig. 17, 16) arises from the bifurcation of the brachial artery at the bend of the elbow, and at once takes an oblique course inwards beneath the median nerve and four of the muscles arising from the internal condyle (pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor sublimis digitomm). It lies first upon the insertion of the brachialis anticus, and then upon the flexor profundus di»itorum for the remainder of its course in the fore-arm, being- bound down by a process of deep fascia. It is joined in the middle third of its course by the ulnar nerve, which lies to its ulnar side for the rest of its course in the fore-arm. In the lower third of the fore- arm both artery and nerve lie comparatively superficially between the tendons of the flexor carpi ulnaris and the flexor sublimis (but slightly overlapped by the former), until they both pass over the annular ligament into the hand. Two venae comites are in close relation with the artery. Surgery (Fig. 7).—The ulnar artery is easily reached in its lower part by an incision two inches long upon the outer edge of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. The tendon being drawn a little inwards,'it would only be necessary to divide the intermuscular layer of the deep fascia in order to expose the vessel with the nerve to its ulnar side. The operation for tying the vessel in its upper part between the flexor muscles is impracticable on the living body, but the vessel may be reached on the subject by separating the flexor carpi ulnaris from the flexor sublimis digitorum until the ulnar nerve is exposed, when the artery will be found to its outer side. When the ulnar artery is tied, the circulation is mainly carried on by the radial through the palmar arches, and also by the anterior and posterior interosseous arteries, which anastomose at the back of the fore-arm. Branches.—1. The Anterior ulnar recurrent will be found between the brachialis anticus and pronator teres, running up in front of the elbow joint to join the anastomotica. 2. The Posterior ulnar recurrent is to be followed beneath the