42 FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. tion of the pronator teres ; (4) the radial origin of the flexor sublimis; t5) the flexor longus pollicis ; (6) the pronator quadratus ; and (7) the end-of the radius.* It has two vense coniites m close relation with it and gives the following branches :— Branches.—1. The radial recurrent runs transversely beneath the supinator longus and gives ascending and descending branches the ascending anastomosing with the superior profunda branch ot the brachial artery. . 2. Muscular branches are given off at various points to the adjacent m 3SCThe superficial wla arises near the root of the thumb and is of variable size. It runs forward, and generally beneath some of the fibres of the muscles of the thumb, to complete the superficial palmar arch formed by the ulnar artery. 4 The anterior carpal is a small branch which runs across the wrist beneath the deep tendons, to join a corresponding branch ot the ulnar artery at the level of the lower border of the pronator qUSurterv (Fig. 7).-The radial artery is readily tied, about an inch above^he wrist, by an incision one inch and a half midway between the tendons of the flexor carpi.radialis and supinator lonaus, when the vessel will be found lying immediately benea h the deep fascia with the venae comites in close connection, but with no nerve near. The artery may be exposed in the upper part by an incision two incheslong at anypoint in a Inie drawn from the c ntre of the bend of the elbow to the front of the styloid process of the radius the knife going at once down to the supinator longus, which muS then be carefully turned outwards The position of the W nerve to the outer side, in the middle third of the fore-arm, is to be borne in mind and the ligature passed from it When the radial artery is tied, the circulation is mainly carried on by the ulnar and its branches, the anastomoses at the palmar- arches being very free. miuimg the "^i^^SfTaM the flexor carpi radialis S££SotW so as to expose ^ roagUy the palm, and the sheath of the tendons dissected out (Fig. 15).j * The posterior relations of the radial artery are simply the muscles attached to the radius in their order from above downwards.