THE PROFUNDA ARTERY. 101 The Pectineus (Fig. 47,12) lias been already seen in relation with the femoral artery and forming part of the floor of Scarpa's triangle. It arises from the upper part of the triangular surface immediately in front of the ilio-pectineal line, and slightly from the line itself, and winds to the back of the femur to be inserted into the line lead- ing from the trochanter minor to the linea aspera, a bursa intervening. Jt is supplied by the anterior crural nerve. [The pectineus should be divided and turned aside, in order to bring the deeper parts into view.] Insertion of the Psoas and Iliacus.—The muscles form a single tendon, along the inner border of which, however, muscular fibres are continued for its whole length. The insertion of the tendon is into the back of the lesser trochanter, and the muscular fibres are prolonged for. a short distance below that point. The Adductor Brevis (Fig. 49, 18) has the superficial division of the obturator nerve lying upon it, and the deep division of the same nerve appearing between it and the adductor magnus. It arises from the front of the pubes below the adductor longus and between the gracilis and obturator externus, and is inserted into the whole of the line leading from the lesser trochanter to the linea aspera behind the pectineus. It is supplied by the obturator nerve. The action of the adductors is implied by their name, but they •act at the same time as external rotators of the thigh. The power ■of adduction can be carried beyond the middle line so as to cross the thighs over one another. The pectineus is an adductor and a flexor of the thigh, and the gracilis is in addition a flexor of the leg. All the muscles of the inside of the thigh are supplied by the obturator nerve except the pectineus, which receives its nerve from the anterior crural. The Profunda Artery (Fig. 48) has been seen to arise from the femoral artery in Scarpa's triangle about two inches below Poupart's ligament. It lies at first to the outer side of the femoral artery and against the iliacus and psoas, but then winds inwards on to the pectineus behind the femoral artery, which is separated from ■it by both the profunda and femoral veins. The profunda next winds between the borders of the pectineus and adductor longus and lies against the adductor brevis; then passing behind the adductor longus, it runs on to the adductor magnus, where it ends The profunda vein is superficial to its artery in the- whole of its course.