THE THORAX. 458 the right side; and beneath the vena azygos minor and the gangliated cord of the sympathetic on the left side. Each artery gives off a posterior branch close to the vertebra?, which passes backwards between the transverse processes to the muscles of the back, giving off a small spinal branch through the intervertebral foramen to the spinal cord and body of each vertebra (Fig. 225). The intercostal arteries lie against the external intercostal muscles at first, and are only covered by pleura. A vein and nerve are in relation with each artery, the vein being highest and the nerve lowest in most of the spaces, but the artery being below the nerve at first in the three or four upper spaces. The arteries then disappear beneath the internal intercostals, by the removal of one or two of which the vessels and nerves can be traced out. The artery soon reaches the lower border of the adjacent rib, along the groove in which it runs, being thus protected from injury in the operation of paracentesis thoracis. Lateral and anterior cutaneous branches are given off by both arteries and nerves, which have been already seen. The Intercostal Veins (Fig. 236) open into the azygos veins on each side. The vena azygos major of the right side has been already seen. The Vena Azygos Minor (Fig. 236, 18) commencing in the left lumbar veins (and often in the renal), pierces the left crus of the dia- phragm and receives the lower intercostal veins of the left side ; it has been seen to pass behind the aorta and open into the vena azygos major. The upper intercostal veins of the left side either open into the superior intercostal vein, or form a separate vein (vena azygos minor superior) which, communicating with the superior intercostal vein above, either terminates below in the vena azygos minor, or crosses the spine separately to open into the vena azygos major. The Intercostal Nerves (Fig. 234) are twelve in number and, with the exception of the first, accompany the intercostal arteries, and are distributed to the front and sides of the chest. The first nerve gives only a small branch to the first intercostal space, and then passes through the superior aperture of the thorax to join the brachial plexus. The Gangliated Cord of the Sympathetic (Fig. 233, 31) is placed over the heads of the ribs on each side of the thorax, just out- side the posterior mediastinum and beneath the pleura, being conti- nuous with the cervical portion of the sympathetic, the inferior cervical ganglion of which should now be dissected on the neck of the first rib.