THE CERVICAL PLEXUS. 345 this ganglion branches of communication go to the fifth and sixth cervical nerves ; thyroid branches are distributed upon the inferior thyroid artery ; and the middle cardiac nerve passes into the thorax, communicating with the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The Spinal-Accessory Nerve (Fig. 179, 5) (8th pair) appears below the digastric and close to the transverse process of the atlas. It pierces the deep surface of the sterno-mastoid muscle, giving branches to it, and then emerging, crosses the posterior triangle to the trapezius, which it supplies. The Cervical Plexus (Fig. 177) is formed by the anterior branches of the four upper cervical nerves, but the loop from the 1st nerve to the 2nd is of very small size, and cannot be well seen in this stage of the dissection. The 2nd, 3rd, and 4th nerves appear between the rectus capitis anticus major and the middle scalenus, lying beneath the sterno-mastoid. Each of these nerves communicates with the one above and'below it, and gives off superficial and deep cervical branches. The superficial branches of the cervical plexus have been already dissected in the posterior triangle, and can now be traced to their source,—the great auricular, small occipital, and superficial cervical branches to the 2nd and 3rd nerves, and the descending branches to the 3rd and 4th nerves. The deep branches of the cervical plexus are— 1. Communicating branches with the 8th and 9th cranial nerves and the sympathetic, which will afterwards be dissected. 2. Muscular branches to the rectus capitis anticus major, rectus minor, and rectus lateralis. 3. The Communicans noni (7) usually consisting of two branches from the 2nd and 3rd nerves, which join the descendens noni branch. 4. The Phrenic nerve (11) arising from the 4th nerve (or from the 3rd & 4th) and having in addition a branch of communication with the 5th. It lies upon the scalenus anticus, getting to its inner border at the lower part of the neck, and has a communicating branch from the sympathetic, and also, frequently, from the nerve to the subclavms from the brachial plexus. The phrenic will subse- quently be traced to the diaphragm in the dissection of the thorax. 5. Muscular branches are derived from the plexus, which «o to the sterno-mastoid levator anguli scapula;, and trapezius muscles, and also to the scalenus medius. '