200 INGUINAL HERNIA. being formed by the tunica vaginalis and one by the peritoneal sac (YSullevy.-Operation for Strangulated Hemia.-ln this operation the object is to reach and divide any tissue which presses upon the bowel and prevents its return within the abdomen. An mcision is made over the external ring, and the surgeon dissects carefully down through the several layers (which are never distinctly separable in practice) until he reaches the peritoneal sac, which is recognised by its bluish appearance. Passing the forefinger carefuUy around this he feels for the stricture, which may possibly be at the external ring (where it is easily divided), or more probably within the inguinal canal. Having discovered the stricture, he next passes the hernia- knife along the finger, and, using it or a director as a guide, insinuates t^e knife, held rial* beneath the stricture, and divides it by bringing the edge of the knife upwards and pressing it against the tissues with thThe§direction in which the superficial incision is made is of little consequence, but in the deep incision the rule is to cut oirectly upwards, so as to be parallel to the epigastric artery; for once a in the diagnosis between an external and an interna henna Tav occur owing to the parts becoming distorted and the abdomina Igs ZwnToge°ther in old-standing hernhe, it is well to be careful lest the artery should be divided. Radical cL of ff^-Yario™ operations have be«m suggested for the eure of rupture by obliterating the inguina canal, of which the principal are WmWs and Wood's. Wurtzer's operation con- isted in he invagination of the shin of the scrotum, which was Stened into the inguinal canal by a plug of wood, from which a neX passed transfixing the front wall of the canal. Inflammation wT, thus excited, and the portion of slrin remained m ntu for a time IniSwuggU up the canal, but was found to descend almost n"yatany exertion, and the operation has therefore been ^"n'consiets essentially hi closing the lower part of th -nguinafcanal and external abdWal ring eAer^ft£ ^ out the invagination of a piece of fascia. The left foretog« bem passed beneath the margin of the conjoined tendor,, a needle u- through the tendon and afterwards through the f e™d^^* pillars of the ring, and these three points are drawn together, thus occluding the canal.* * For full particulars of the modifications of this operation, the student is referred to Mr. Wood's valuable work on Rupture.