417 CARTILAGES OF THE LARYNX. On the side of the ala is an oblique ridge, extending from a.tubercle at the root of the superior cornu to another tubercle about the middle •of the lower border of the cartilage. The ridge gives attachment to the sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscles, and the surface behind it to the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. The inner surfaces of the alse are smooth, and in the receding angle formed by their junction seven structures are attached, viz. the thyro-epiglottidean ligament, the two pairs of thyro-arytsenoid ligaments (false and true vocal cords), and the two thyro-arytsenoid muscles, just externally to the inferior ligaments or true cords (Fig. 216). The Cricoid Cartilage (Fig. 215, 4) (*ptW elSos, like a ring) is a ring of cartilage, shallow in front (where it has been seen to be con- nected with the thyroid cartilage by a membrane, and has the crico- thyroideus attached to its surface), but deep behind, where it fills up a part of the space left between the posterior borders of the thyroid* The upper border of the deep portion presents two oval articular surfaces for the arytsenoid cartilages, external to which are the origins of the crico-arytsenoidei laterales. On each side, and near the lower border of the cartilage, are two small facets for articulation with the inferior cornua of the thyroid cartilage. The posterior surface is divided in the middle line by a vertical ridge, to which some of the fibres of the oesophagus are attached, the concave surface on each side giving origin to the crico- arytsenoidei postici muscles. The Arytsenoid Cartilages (Fig. 216, d) {apvraiva, a pitcher*) are two in number, and are of a pyramidal shape. The base of each cartilage is triangular, and articulates with the upper border of the cricoid cartilage ; its anterior angle gives attachment to the true vocal cord, and its external angle to the crico-arytsenoideus posticus and crico-arytsenoideus lateralis. The apex is curved backwards and inwards, and is surmounted by the corniculum laryngis. The posterior surface of the cartilage is concave, and gives attachment to the arytsenoideus muscle; the anterior surface presents a small tubercle for the attachment of the false vocal cord, and also gives attachment to the thyro-arytsenoideus muscle ; the internal surface is smooth, and covered with mucous membrane. The Cornicula !Laryngis or Cartilages of Santorini (Fie. 216,/) are two small conical cartilages connected with the apices of * This derivation has reference to the appearance of both cartilages taken together and covered by mucous membrane. In animals, which were th« E E