SUPERFICIAL PERINEAL VESSELS AND NERVES. 173 or adjacent portion of the urethra, either from external violence or from the unskilful use of a catheter, the urine is effused into this pouch, and, "being prevented "by the arrangement of the fascia from running back to the anus, and by the attachment of the fascia to the rami of the pubes and ischium from extending laterally on to the thighs, it necessarily distends the pouch and creeps up into the scrotum and groin. [The deep layer of superficial fascia is to be removed, and the superficial perinseal vessels and nerves dissected out.] The Superficial Peringeal Artery (Fig. 88, 5) is a branch of the internal pudic, aud arises under cover of the ramus of the ischium, to run forwards and inwards. It enters the pouch of fascia by piercing the lower border of the triangular ligament, and then passes over or under the transversus perinsei muscle, to run forwards and supply the superficial muscles of the perinseum and the integuments of the scrotum. The Transverse Perinaeal Artery (Fig. 91, 11) is a branch of the internal pudic arising immediately in front of, or with, the pre- ceding vessel. It runs towards the median line close to the trans- versus muscle, and anastomoses with the opposite artery and with the neighbouring branches. Veins corresponding to the arteries open into the internal pudic vein. The Superficial Perinaeal Nerves (Fig. 88) are two in number, and are branches of the internal pudic nerve. The external or posterior (3) nerve has a short course in the ischio- rectal fossa, where it gives a branch to the anus. It then pierces the reflection of the deep layer of superficial fascia, and gives branches to the scrotum, forming a junction with the inferior pudendal nerve of Soemmering. The internal or anterior (7) nerve accompanies the superficial perinseal artery, either over or under the transversus perinau muscle, and is distributed to the scrotum near the median line, where it unites with its fellow of the opposite side, giving also one or two' small branches to the levator aui. The Inferior Pudendal Nerve (Fig. 88, 1) (Soemmering) is a branch of the small sciatic nerve, which pierces the deep fascia of the thigh about an inch in front of the tuberosity of the ischium. It varies a good deal in size and distribution, but generally runs inwards and forwards to the scrotum to join the external superficial perineal nerve. [The superficial vessels and nerves are to be turned aside and the