FRONT OF THE UPPER ARM. 26 afterwards seen to anastomose with the interosseous recurrent artery. 4. The Inferior profunda, which arises at a variahle distance below the preceding, or in common with it, and passes with the ulnar nerve, behind the internal intermuscular septum. It runs with the nerve to the groove between the inner condyle and the olecranon, and there joins the posterior ulnar recurrent artery. 5. The Anastomotic, which arises an inch and a half above the elbow and runs directly inwards, piercing the internal intermuscular septum and supplying the parts about the elbow. It anastomoses with the inferior profunda and anterior and posterior ulnar recurrent arteries, and gives a branch to join the superior profunda behind the humerus. Irregularities of the Brachial Artery.—The point of bifurcation is occasionally much higher than, the bend of the elbow, so that two large vessels may be found side by side in any part of the arm from this cause, or from an extra branch (generally the radial) being given off high up. Vasa aberrantia, or irregular branches connecting the brachial or axillary vessels with either radial or ulnar arteries, are also occasionally found. The two profunda arteries not uncom- monly arise together, and occasionally there is an axis common to all the branches of the brachial. Venae Comites are in close relation with the brachial artery, and receive twigs corresponding to its branches : they unite with the axillary vein. Nerves of the Arm. The Median Nerve (Fig. 8, 6) is derived from the outer and inner cords of the brachial plexus by two roots, which embrace the axillary artery in the third part of its course. The nerve aftenvards lies to the outer side of the axillary artery for a short distance, and continues in the same relation to the brachial artery for about half its length; then, crossing either over or under that vessel, the median nerve lies to its inner side, and continues in the same relation to the bend of the elbow. The median nerve ordinarily gives off no branch in the upper arm, but occasionally communicates with the external cutaneous nerve. . The External Cutaneous Nerve (musculo-cutaneous) (Fig. 8, i) arises from the outer cord of the brachial plexus in common with the outer head of the median, and lies to the outer side of the median nerve and the axillary vessels for a short distance. It then pierces the coraco-brachialis obliquely (hence, n. pcrforans Casseni), and