106 THE BUTTOCK. the middle of the sacrum to the tip of the coccyx when if; the perineum and thigh have been dissected, it will only he necee^ to make another cut across the upper part of the hack of the thigh to allow the large flap of skin to he reflected outwards.J The amount of fat beneath the skin of the buttock varies consider- ably, and if there is a large quantity it will be a waste of time to look for cutaneous nerves. . The Cutaneous Nerves are descending and ascending. The descending branches will be found passing over the middle o the crest of the"ilium, and are the iliac branches of he last dorsal and first lumbar (ilio-hypogastric) nerves, the former being fiont of the latter. There are a few branches also derived from the pos- terior divisions of the lower lumbar and upper sacral nerves, ^hicn pass obliquely from near the middle line P The ascending branches turn round the lower border of the gluteus maximus, and are branches of the lesser sciatic nerve. [The portion of deep fascia covering the g^SfrfuteS inlront of the gluteus maximus is to be '^flexto^and maximus itself, the fibres being put on ^«^h^^older inverting the thigh, and the dissector beginning at the m£orue of the muscle on the right, and its lower border on the left limb. J The Gluteus Maximus (Fig. 51, 2) arises from the between the posterior third of the.crest of curved line on the dorsum ilii ;* from the side of the lower part ot Z .rum, and the side of the coccyx ; fromtte tendinous expansion over the back of the sacrum ; and from the surface of the great LcLsciat c ligament, which will be seen when the muscle is divided The^fib fs run downwards and outwards, and the upper two-third, of hrmuscle are inserted into-the fascia lata covermg the grea Lchanter (ilio-tibial band), the lower tlnrd being attached to he rough-Ige leading from the back of the trochanter major to the linea asoera of the femur, and into the fascia as well. outwards. It is supplied by tne lmenoi &iu sciatic nerve. . In describing the glutei muscles the dorsum mi is centered te have M curved liues, and not two as given by some authors. ,