393 MUSCLES OF THE PALATE. the aperture of the larynx by the passage of the food; hut that the epiglottis is not essential, is shown by cases in which the cartilage has been destroyed by ulceration, the process of deglutition still remaining perfect. Lastly the contraction of the oesophagus carries the food down to the stomach. The Palate. [The soft palate is to be stretched by inserting a hook into the uvula, and the mucous membrane is to, be removed from the upper surface of the palate and the neighbouring bones, so as to expose the muscles above the palate and the Eustachian tube. The levator palati will be found passing obliquely inwards, the azygos uvulee in the median line of the palate, and the tensor palati can be best seen by dividing the levator and detaching the fibres of the superior con- strictor from the hamular process, when the muscle will be found upon the internal pterygoid plate.] The Soft Palate (velum pendulum palati) is a musculo-membra- nous curtain attached to the posterior border of the hard palate in front, and with a free border behind terminating in the uvula. It consists of an aponeurosis attached to the palate bones, overlaid by expansions from the palatine muscles, and covered on both surfaces with mucous membrane, which on the oral surface presents a thick layer of mucous glands. From behind forwards the soft palate con- sists of 1. Pharyngeal mucous membrane; 2. Thin attachment of palato-pharyngeus; 3. Azygos uvulae ; 4. Levator palati; 5. Thicker attachment of palato-pharyngeus ; 6. Tendon of tensor palati; 7. Fibrous aponeurosis ; 8. Palato-glossus ; 9. Oral mucous membrane with mucous glands. The Azygos Uvulae (Fig. 207, 8) consists of two small muscular slips placed parallel to, and on each side of, the median line. It arises from the posterior nasal spine of the palate bone, and is inserted into the uvula. The Levator Palati (Fig. 207, 5) arises from the under surface of the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and from the under surface of the Eustachian tube. The muscle passes inwards above the border of the superior constrictor muscle, and is inserted into the soft palate by a broad expansion, which meets that of its fellow muscle in the median line. The Circumflexus or Tensor Palati (Fig. 207, 6) arises from the scaphoid fossa at the root of the internal pterygoid plate, and slightly from the under surface of the wing of the sphenoid; also from the outer surface of the Eustachian tube. The tendon descends verti- cally to wind round the hamular process of the sphenoid bone, where