REMOVAL OF THE BRAIN". 299 in their numerical order. The 5th pair (trifacial) will be found to be composed of two parts, the larger superior one being sensory, and the deeper one, which is anterior at its origin, motor in function. The 6th pair (abducentes) will be found nearer the median line. The 7th consists of two distinct nerves with a small intermediate portion. The anterior is the facial nerve, and the posterior the auditory, the intervening portion being called the pars intermedia. The entire nerve is seen to disappear through the meatus auditorius intemus with an accompanying auditory artery. The 8th pair consists of three distinct nerves. The most anterior fibres form the small Glosso-pharyngeal nerve, which pierces the dura mater separately; the next and largest portion is the Pneumo-gastric or Vagus; and the part coming out of the foramen magnum is the Spinal-accessory. The whole nerve disappears through the foramen lacerum posterius or jugular hole. The 9th (hypoglossal) nerve consists of two bundles placed near the median line, which pierce the dura mater at separate points to pass together through the anterior condyloid foramen. The Veins of Galen, which pass from the brain to the anterior border of the tentorium, should be divided so that the fold of dura mater may be quite free. The knife is now to be pushed through the foramen magnum so as to divide all the parts passing into the skull, viz., the spinal cord and its membranes, the two vertebral arteries, the small spinal vessels, and the two spinal accessory nerves ; and it should be noticed that the cord can be cut considerably lower than the point at which the vertebral arteries enter the spinal canal. The brain can now be lifted out of the skull, by slipping the fingers beneath the cerebellum and allowing the head to fall back. [Before placing the brain in methylated spirit, the dissectors should pick off the arachnoid and the pia mater from the base, and carefully lay out the nerves in the proper positions, taking care not to_ interfere with the arteries. The brain should be placed in a pan witn the base upwards, and with a piece of calico bandage beneath it, so that it may be easily lifted out; but if too decomposed to be worth preserving, the vessels of .the base should be dissected at once.] The Dura Mater and Sinuses op the Skull. The Dura Mater is firmly attached to the base of the skull and sends processes through the several foramina to form sheaths for the nerves. It is continuous with the dura mater of the spinal cord through the foramen magnum, to the margin of which it is closely attached.