MUSCLES OF THE FOEE-AEM. 39 Fig. 14. The Muscles (Fig. 14) from the inner condyle are five in number, four being flexors of the carpus and fingers, and one a, pronator of the fore-arm. Beginning from the outer side, their relative positions are :—1, pronator teres; 2, flexor carpi radialis ; 3, palmaris longus (which may be absent); 4, flexor sub- limis digitorum ; 5, flexor carpi ulnaris. All these muscles have a common origin from (1) the internal condyle, (2) the fascia of the fore-arm, and (3) the inter-muscular septa derived from it; but three of them, viz., the pronator teres, flexor sublimis digitorum, and flexor carpi ulnaris, have extra bony attachments. The Pronator Radii Teres (Fig. 14, 4) arises from the internal condyle above the other muscles; from the fascia of the fore- arm over it; and from the intermuscular septum between it and the flexor carpi radi- alis. Its second head is from the inner side of the coronoid process of the ulna outside the origin of the flexor sublimis, the median nerve lying between the two heads. It is inserted by a broad tendon into the middle of the outer side of the radius, immediately below the supinator brevis. It pronates the hand by rolling the radius on the ulna, and flexes the elbow, and is supplied by the median nerve. The Flexor Carpi Radialis (Fig. 14, 5) arises from the internal condyle in common with the remaining muscles; from the fascia of the fore-arm ; and from the intermuscular septa between it and Fig. 14.—Superficial muscles of the 1. Biceps, with its tendon. 2. Brachialis anticus. 3. Part of triceps. 4. Pronator radii teres. 5. Flexor carpi radialis. 6. Palmaris longus. 7. Part of the flexor sublimis di°l- torum; the rest of the muscle is seen beneath the tendons of the palmaris longus and flexor carpi radialis. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. fore-arm (from Wilson). Flexor carpi ulnaris. Palmar fascia. Palmaris brevis. Abductor pollicis. Flexor brevis pollicis. Supinator longus. Extensor ossis metacarpi and ex- tensor primi internodii pollicis, curving around the lower border of the fore-arm.