53 MUSCLES OF BACK OF THE FOKE-AKM. be fully pronated in order to stretch the fibres whilst being cleaned. The posterior interosseous nerve piercing the muscle is to be carefully preserved and its branches traced to the extensors.] The Supinator Brevis (Fig. 20, 5) has very oblique fibres, which are covered at the upper part by a tendinous expansion or inter- muscular septum, from which some of them take their origin. It arises from the external condyle ; from the external lateral ligament of the elbow ; from the orbicular ligament of the radius ; from the triangular space below the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and from the margin of bone below it as far as the attachment of the anconeus. Its fibres sweep round the radius and are inserted into the outer and back part of the neck of that bone above the oblique lines, with the exception of the bicipital tubercle and the posterior surface of bone above and below it. The supinator is pierced by the posterior inter- osseous nerve (which supplies it), and is separated from the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis by the posterior interosseous artery. It is a powerful supinator of the radius on the ulna. The Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis (Fig. 20, 6) is usually the only one of the special extensors of the thumb which has an origin from both bones of the forearm, though occasionally the next muscle has a double origin. It arises from the middle of the pos- terior surface of the radius for about two inches, the origin reaching across the bone from the interosseous line to the attachments of the supinator brevis and pronator teres ; from a corresponding portion of the posterior surface of the interosseous membrane ; and from two inches of the middle of the outer side of the posterior surface of the ulna, between the attachments of the supinator brevis and anconeus above, and the extensor secundi internodii below. The muscle " crops out" between the extensors of the carpus and fingers, and having crossed the extensor carpi radialis longior and the brevior obliquely, it passes on the outer side of the styloid process of the radius, through the first division of the annular ligament and over the radial artery, to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb (1st metacarpal bone), sending a slip to the trapezium and the short muscles of the thumb. The Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis (Fig. 20, 7) arises from the back of the radius immediately below the extensor ossis meta- carpi pollicis and close to the interosseous line, for a space two inches long and half an inch wide; also from the radial half of the inter- osseous membrane for a corresponding distance. Its tendon lies to the ulnar side of the tendon of the extensor of the metacarpal bone in its whole course, passing through the same division of the annular