266 THE pelvis. The Prostate Gland (Fig. 147, 17) is now seen in front of the Madder, and enclosed by a process of recto-vesical fascia which trams the capsule of the gland. It is placed over the commencement ot the third part of the rectum, and in front of, hut below the level of, the bladder. In old age the prostate is frequently enlarged m which case it presses upon the rectum as well as upon the urethra; the latter passes through its substance nearer the upper than the lower surface Within the capsule derived from the recto-vesical lascia is the special fibrous capsule of the gland ; between the two is the large prostatic plexus of veins. TA transverse cut is now to be made at the bottom of the recto- JyS which will allow the bladder to be drawn forward Xn a Stle dLection will expose the surface of the viscus uncovered by peritoneum and lying over the rectum.] The portion of the base of the bladder uncovered by peritoneum is triangular in shape,and is bounded on each and vesiculce seminales ; the base of the triangle is formed by the re- flection of peritoneum at the line of the entrance of the ure ers and the apex is at the back of the prostate. It is here that the bladder is opened when punctured from the rectum. A process of the recto-vesical layer of pelvic fascia can now be traced between the rectum and bladder, giving a covering to those organs, to the prostate, and to the vesicuhe seminales. The Vesicul* Seminales (Fig. 147, 14) are two convoluted sacs situated on the under surface of the bladder, and converging to enter e prostate close to the median line. They are somewhat expanded at their posterior extremities, which are about two inches apart and reach nearly to the recto-vesical pouch. They have the vasa deferent* lying close to their inner sides, and together they form the sides ot the triangle mentioned above. The mm defercntm become somewhat enlarged as they pass be- neaSthe bladcler ; they lie close to the inner sides of the resicul* and the duct of each vesicnla joins the corresponding vaa deferens at the prostate, thns forming the common cjacnlatory dmt. In the Female (Fig. 148), the short urethra will be seentap- obliquely upwards to the hladder ; and mimed >aelyb o« t ratb vagina passing up to the uterus, which must be held mjosttwn l>y^ string passed through ^ ,Th* reCtUm TS^taS position as in the male, but is rather larger ; and-t^J^T will be seen to pass from it to the posterior surface of the upper pait