410 THE LARYNX. The Lingualis Inferior is to be seen on the tinder surface of the tongue by removing the hyo-glossus. It is larger than the lingualis superior, and extends along the under surface of the tongue, giving ascending fibres which pass between those of the transverse muscle, and being closely connected with the stylo-glossus muscle. Glands of the Frcenum (Blandin).—By removing the mucous mem- brane on the under surface of the tongue near the tip, a couple of oval glands may be seen. They are similar in structure to the sub- lingual glands although distinct from them, and are sometimes united in front, forming a single mass of an arched form (Deville). The Nerves (Fig. 198) of the tongue have been already examined, but may now be followed out minutely. They are the Hypoglossal nerve (9th) to the muscular structure of the tongue; the Lingual nerve (5th) to the fungiform and filiform papillae on the dorsum and apex of the tongue ; the Glossopharyngeal nerve (8th) to the circum- vallate papillre at the base of the tongue and to the surface behind them. / The Larynx. The Larynx or organ of voice is closely connected with the hyoid bone and tongue. On tracing the mucous membrane from the dorsum of the tongue, it will be found to form three little frcena between the base of that organ and the prominent cartilage of the epiglottis ; these are the glosso^iglottidean folds (Fig. 213, 9). After being reflected over the epiglottis, the mucous membrane forms the two arytceno-epiglottidean folds, which bound the superior aperture of the larynx ; and is then carried to the interior of the larynx and over its posterior surface into the oesophagus. The Superior Aperture of the Larynx (Fig. 206) is bounded in front by the epiglottis, behind by the arytenoid cartilages, and on each side by the aryteeno-epiglottidean folds. On looking through it the Glottis or Bima Glottidis will be seen, i.e., the space between the two inferior or true vocal cords, which varies from a mere clunk to a triangular aperture with the apex forwards, according to the movements of the arytenoid cartilages. Above the true vocal cords will be seen the less distinct false cords, and through the glottis may be seen the interior of the trachea. This view of the parts deserves especial notice, as it is exactly that which is seen reversed when reflected in the laryngoscope. [The larynx is to be fastened upon a table by driving a^nai1 ■or pin through the tongue and putting the trachea on the stretch vnt| hooks, the anterior surface being exposed ; the extrinsic muscles ol