SURGERY OP THE ILIAC ARTERIES. 231 Br^-The epigastric and circumflex iliac arteries are given off pertm^en^^ to femoral hernia toe been already described (p. 90). Tbe jtbf« -ss A—•«—rr *^ssrs v ™lf ATiA is at first immediately outside the peritoneum, it Zrhowever P er es the transversalis, and a branch of it serves as Zffi^TLt muscle and the internal oblige. The artery ™mfl on. the crest of the ilium between the muscles, and anasto- Tses with the ilio-lumbar branch of the internal iliac and with the Sst lumbar artery. The vein has been seen to cross the external iltc artery an inch above Poupart's ligament, to open into the ^TXe*Y^e operations of tying the iliac arteries cannot be conveniently practised on the subject, as the muscles of the abdomen would be necessarily damaged. The following is the usual mode of f Pr^e^Sth~External Iliac aTterV) a iunated incision three and a half inches long is to be made about an inch above and parallel to Poupart's ligament (Pig. 117, a). The tendon of the external oblique and the fleshy fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles are to be divided in the same direction and to the same extent, and it is usual to divide the transversalis on a director to avoid the possibility of injuring the peritoneum. Care must also be taken not to divide the epigastric artery. The fascia transversalis, now exposed, is to be divided on a director, and the peritoneum is then to be carefully stripped up from the iliac fossa and turned forward with the viscera, the ureter and spermatic vessels generally adhering to the membrane and being therefore drawn out of the way. The finger can now reach the inner border of the psoas, at which the artery can be felt, but the sheath must be carefully opened before the needle can be passed between the vein and the artery. The vessel should be tied as nearly as possible midway between the origins of the internal iliac and epigastric arteries. The Internal and Common Iliac arteries may be tied through a