THE TRANSVERSE FACIAL ARTERY. 355 6. The Angular artery (21), which is the terminal branch and anas- tomoses with the ophthalmic. Surgery.—The facial artery may be compressed or tied immedi- ately m front of the masseter, where its pulsation can be readily felt through the thin platysma. The position of the coronary arteries immediately beneath the mucous membrane should be borne in mind in operating for hare-lip or cancer, as it is necessary to thrust the hare-hp pm deeply into the substance of the lip, in order to control the haemorrhage effectually. The Facial Vein commences at the inner angle of the orbit in the angular vein, formed by the frontal and supra-orbital veins. It then runs obliquely across the face to the edge of .the masseter, where it lies close to the outer side of the artery, and, after receiving the anterior internal maxillary branch from the pterygoid region, passes into the neck to join the internal jugular vein. It is crossed by the zygomatici muscles, but lies upon Stenson's duct. Its branches corre- spond to those of the artery. The Transverse Facial Artery (Fig. 187, 12) arises from the temporal artery m the parotid gland, and appears on the face above the parotid duct, to run transversely inwards towards the nose and anastomose with the facial artery. In a well-injected body the terminations of the infra-orbital and nfiltT arteneS^111 be ^ eme1^ at the -f-orbital and mental foramina, with branches of the 2nd and 3rd divisions of the th nerve. The infra-orbital foramen will be found between the Zl Z S STT18 l6Vat0r angllK °ri8> and tte m^ntal fora- men beneath the depressor anguli oris. The frontal and supra-orbital : te traced a the scalp has not W^SS about halt waVI tZ r l, ° °Ut traM™™ly into the parotid gland sutstance. One Seh l T™', Pfses throu«h towards the median line ] ° W tm0ei as lar as P™3ible The Facial Nerve (portio dura of the 7th pair) m, thq ^ -eaves the skull at the stylomastoid foramen, and „ff S 7> »tely the^W auricular, gastric, and Wo-kyZl^T A A 2