139 THE EXTERNAL PLANTAR ARTERY. The Adductor Pollicis (Fig. 70, 6) arises from the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones, and from the sheath of the peroneus longus tendon; and is inserted into the outer side of the base of the first phalanx: of the great toe, with the outer head of the flexor brevis. The Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti (Fig. 70, 7) arises .from the under surface of the projecting base of the fifth metatarsal bone and the sheath of the peroneus longus, and is inserted into the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the little toe with the abductor.* The Transversus Pedis (Fig. 70, 8) is of variable size, and con- sists of three or four small bundles, which arise from the transverse metatarsal ligament over the heads of the three or four outer meta- tarsal bones. It is inserted into the outer side of the first phalanx of the great toe with the adductor and part of the flexor brevis pollicis. The action of the flexor brevis pollicis and flexor minimi digiti is obvious; the adductor pollicis.acts towards the median plane of the foot, and the transversus draws the toes together and narrows the foot. The flexor brevis pollicis is supplied by the internal plantar nerve, the other muscles by the external plantar nerve. [The adductor and flexor brevis pollicis are to be cut near their origins and turned down, when the plantar arch of the external plantar artery with the accompanying nerve is to be fully traced out.] The External Plantar Artery (Fig. 68, 8) after turning round the accessorius muscle takes a deep course beneath the adductor and flexor brevis pollicis, but upon the interosseous muscles, to the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe.. This deep portion of the artery has been called the plantar arch, which is completed by the communicating branch of the dorsal artery of the foot entering the sole between the first and second metatarsal bones. Branches.—Three small posterior perforating arteries are given off by the plantar arch, which pierce the interosseous muscles to anasto- mose with the interosseous arteries on the dorsum. Four digital arteries arise from the anterior part of the arch ; the outer one goes to the outer side of the little toe, the others bifurcate to supply the adjacent sides of two toes each, and at the point of bifurcation send anterior perforating arteries to the back of the foot The digital arteries run on the sides of the toes with the digital nerves, and anastomose in the pulp of the terminal phalanx The communicating branch of the dorsalis pedis artery enters the be*iowdPP°nenS miniMi dm attaChed t0 the metata^l ^ne may occasionally