THE ELBOW JOINT. 73 The Elbow Joint. [The muscles about the elbow are to be removed, and great care must be taken in detaching the supinator brevis not to remove or damage the external lateral and the orbicular ligaments. Beneath the triceps close to the joint may be found a little slip of muscular fibre attached to the lower end of the humerus and the back of the joint; this is the Subanconeus, which is however often wanting or but slightly developed. All the muscles of the fore-arm and hand should now be removed to facilitate the examination of the wrist, &c. In removing the deep muscles of the fore-arm, care must be taken not to injure the interosseous membrane and the oblique ligament.] The articulation of the humerus and ulna is a good example of ginglymus, or hinge-joint, and therefore has lateral ligaments ; the articulation of the upper end of the radius is an example of diarthrosis rotator ius, the head being surrounded by a ring partly of bone and partly of ligament; and the articulation between the head of the radius and the outer condyle of the humerus is an example of simple arthrodia. The ligaments of the elbow are united together and form one general capsule, but may be divided into anterior, posterior, external lateral, and internal lateral. The elbow-joint has in front the brachialis anticus with the brachial artery and median nerve; behind are the triceps and an- coneus muscles. To the inner side are the muscles arising from the intern al condyle, and the ulnar nerve with the inferior profunda artery lies upon the internal lateral ligament. Externally the muscles arising from the external condyle, with the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery, are in relation, and the supi- nator brevis is closely connected with the external lateral liga- ment. The fore-arm is flexed by the biceps, brachialis anticus, and supinator longus, and indirectly by the flexors of the wrist and fingers. It is extended by the triceps and anconeus, and indirectly by the extensors of the wrist and fingers. Eotation of the radius upon the ulna and humerus, and consequently pronation and supina- tion of the hand are produced as follows —Pronation by the pronator quadratus and pronator teres, supination by the biceps, supinator brevis, and very feebly by the supinator longus. The Anterior Ligament (Fig. 32, i) is a broad membrane attached to the humerus immediately above the coronoid fossa and to the edge of the coronoid process of the ulna, and partly to the orbicular ligament of the radius. The Posterior Ligament (Fig. 33, 8) is thin and loose, and is