46 FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. flexor sublimis and flexor carpi ulnaris to the back of the prominent internal condyle, where, after passing between the heads ot the flexor carpi ulnaris, it runs in the groove occupied by the nlnar nerve, and anastomoses with the inferior profunda and anastomotic arteries. " 3 The Interosseous artery is a short trunk arising about two inches from the commencement of the artery, which is directed backwards to the interosseous space, where it subdivides into anterior and pos- terior interosseous branches. The posterior interosseous passes between the radius and ulna to the back of the arm, where it will be dissected. The anterior interosseous is to be foUowed down the front of the interosseous membrane, where it will be found lying with a branch of the median nerve between the flexor longus pollicis and flexor profundus digitorum, until it disappears beneath the pronator Ladratus to reach the back of the wrist. The anterior interosseous arterv "ives off numerous muscular branches ; a median branch to accompany the median nerve (sometimes of large size) ; and two nutritious arteries to the radius and ulna, winch are directed towards Carpal arteries, anterior and posterior, supply the front and back of the carpus, and anastomose with corresponding branches from ^TheMeLn Nerve (Figs. 15 and 17) enters the fore-arm between the heads of the pronator teres, and then passing between the origins of the flexor sublimis digitorum, crosses the ulnar artery to lie between the flexor sublimis and flexor profundus muscles. It is nlaced superficially between the flexor tendons near the wrist, and nasses with them beneath the annular ligament into the hand. P Brancnes.-The median nerve supplies all^he muscles of the front of the fore-arm except the flexor carpi ulnaris and half he flexor profundus, in the following manner :-As soon as it enters he fore-arni it gives branches to the pronator teres, flexor carpi radiahs, flexor-Hi-is digitorum, and palmaris longus, and, after: crossing S a inl™r arterv gives off the anterior interosseous nerve (Fig. 17 25). ^Z^n the front of the interosseous membrane giving Whes to the flexor longus pollicis and tlie outer half of the p oWus\ligitorum, and then beneath the pronator quadratus gffi supples) to'the front of the wrist-joint, where it gives a branch to the articulation. as will be seen in tlie dissection of the back of the band.