THE INFERIOR PALATINE ARTERY. 375 nerve, with an accompanying vein, being drawn upwards, the hyo- glossus will be seen and can be divided. The author has on two occasions tied the lingual artery without difficulty by this method, which is much more satisfactory than attempting to find the vessel opposite the great cornu of the hyoid bone, to which its relation is uncertain. The Lingual Vein has branches corresponding to those of the artery, and passes beneath the hyo-glossus to open into the internal jugular vein. Not unfrequently, however, a large vein lies super- ficially to the hyo-glossus, in addition to a smaller vein accompanying the artery. The Genio-hyoid muscle (Fig. 200, 6) arises from the lower of the two genial (or mental) tubercles close to the symphysis menti, and passes downwards immediately beneath the mylo-hyoid and close to the median line, to be inserted into the body of the hyoid bone. The Genio-hyo-glossus muscle (Fig. 200, 4) arises from the upper of the genial tubercles, and is triangular or fan-shaped, being inserted close to the median line all along the under surface of the tongue, and to the body of the hyoid bone above the genio- hyoid. The genio-hyoid and genio-hyo-glossus are elevators of the hyoid bone or depressors of the jaw, as they alternately take their fixed point above or below. The genio-hyo-glossus has an important action on the tongue, the posterior and middle fibres drawing up the hyoid bone and thrusting the tongue out of the mouth (and to the opposite side if acting singly), and the anterior fibres drawing the tongue into the mouth again, being assisted by the stylo-glossus. .Both the genio-hyoid and the genio-hyo-glossus are supplied by the 9th nerve. The Stylo-maxillary Ligament (Fig. 194, 6) will be seen attached to the angle of the jaw, which is turned up. It is a process of deep cervical fascia attached to the apex of the styloid process (where it gives origin to fibres of the stylo-glossus), and inserted into the inner surface of the angle of the jaw, where it is much gknds mtervenes between the parotid and submaxillary The Stylo-hyoid Ligament is a narrowband passing from the styloid process to the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone, where it The Inferior Palatine and Tonsillitic branches of the }mM