296 THE scalp. orbicularis palpebrarum, the anterior belly of the occipito-frontalis, and the attrahens aurem muscles. # • The Temporal artery [external carotid] is found m front of the ear, and after giving off small anterior auricular branches to the pinna ancl the middle temporal artery (which pierces the deep fascia above the zygoma), it divides into anterior and posterior branches, lne anterior lies upon the temporal fascia and is subcutaneous ; it reaches as far forward as the forehead to anastomose with the supra-orbital artery. The posterior turns back above the ear and anastomoses with the occipital artery. r„~+rt+W* The Temporal vein is formed by branches corresponding to those of the artery, and disappears in the parotid gland to join the internal maxillary vein, and form the external jugular vein. Surgery-It is on the anterior branch of the temporal artery tha the opfration of arteriotomy is performed when itis desixed toabstract blood from the head. In the operation it is necessary to make only a puncture in the artery, and, when sufficient blood divide the vessel, in order that the ends may be able to retract and urevent the formation of a false aneurism. ^TU Posterior Aurkular nerve (13) [facial] will be found immediately behind the ear and running over the mastoid P^-'T; panying artery. It is distributed to the posterior belly of the oeeipito frontalis and to the attollens and retrahens aurem muscles. The Posterior Auricular artery [external carotid] accompanies the nerve in this part of its course, and is distributed to the p una and to the skin behind it. Its vein opens into the «^™^S»-a. The Great Auricular nerve (23) P*d and 3rd cervical nerves] ascento to the pinna, to which it gives numerous branches pnnc pally ou ite The BrmM Occipital nerve (11) 2nd cervical nerve] w 11 be found about anTnch behind the mastoid process and just at the posterior marghi of the sterno-mastoid. It is a small nerve, and passes dir ctly upwards to the scalp, which it supplies-giving also occasionally a branch to the pinna. . „ , PTV;cai The Great Occipital nerve (15) [posterior division nerve! is a lar-e nerve, and will be found piercing the trapeziu. 1 1 7ZT\ " 31. Superficial cervical nerve. 26. Buccal nerve (5th). ^ ^ ^ nerve (5th). 27. Splenitis capitis. piatvsma 28. Masseter. 2?' infra-maxillary branches of facial 29. Sterno-mastoid. . 30. Supra-maxillary branches of facial ncive ^ , nerve (7th)-