195 INGUINAL HERNIA. verse processes, to the tips of the transverse processes, and to the spinous processes of all the lumbar vertebrae (together forming what is commonly called the fascia lumborum) (Fig. 103); 3, from the anterior two-thirds of the inner lip of the crest of the ilium, and 4, from the outer third of Poupart's ligament. Its insertion is into the middle line from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes, being insep- arably united with the internal oblique ; and into the ilio-pectineal line, forming with the internal oblique the conjoined tendon. Anatomy of Inguinal Hernia. This will be the best time for examining the parts concerned in inguinal hernia, winch is the protrusion of some part of the abdominal contents through certain openings in the region of the groin. To do this, the muscles shoidd be restored as nearly as possible to their natural positions, and the student will then see again the opening in the tendon of the external oblique called the external abdominal ring. Through this opening (the intercolumnar fascia having been previously removed) the spermatic cord with its vessels will be seen to pass, and on tracing it up by turning the muscles aside in their order, it will be found to disappear beneath the sharp arched border of the transversalis muscle. The tissue into which it disappears is the fascia transversalis, lining the abdomen externally to the peritoneum, and with a little care a hole may be artificially made in this fascia and around the cord, to which the name of internal abdominal ring is given. The opening of the in- ternal ring is necessarily artificial, because the fascia transversalis was prolonged upon the " cord when the testis was drawn out of the abdomen, and thus took the shape of a funnel, being hence called the infundibular fascia* (Fig. 100, i.) The Internal AbdoniinalRing (Fig. 101) is an opening in the fascia transversa^, placed midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine, and about half an inch above ve°S ^ immecHate1^ external to the deep epigastric ■ The Inguinal Canal (Fig. 100) is the space between the external and internal abdominal rings, an inch and a half in length and i, occupied by the spermatic cord. The simplest way therefore to study the boundaries of the canal will be to take them Tn the " relation to the cord which lies in it (Fig. 101) In front of the inguinal canal are 1, (in'its whole length) i) ■ The infundibular fascia has also been called the internal spermatic fasci o 2 ascia.