234 DEEP DISSECTION OF ABDOMEN. at the lower part by an expansion from the psoas parvus, when that muscle is present. The iliac fascia should be traced to Poupart's ligament, beneath which it passes to unite with the fascia transversalis in forming the sheath of the femoral vessels (v. p. 87). The Psoas Magnus muscle (Fig. 118, 6) arises from the sides of the bodies and roots of the transverse processes of the last dorsal and all the lumbar vertebrae, and from their intervertebral substances. A series of tendinous arches from which muscular fibres arise, con- nected with the intervertebral substance and upper border of each vertebra, will be seen to spring across the hollow in the side of the body to become attached to the lower border of the same vertebra and to the next intervertebral substance ; and thus the lumbar vessels are protected from pressure. The muscle passes along the border of the true pelvis in close relation to the iliac vessels, and disappears beneath Poupart's ligament to be inserted by a tendon into the back of the lesser trochanter of the femur. The Psoas Parvus (Fig. 118, 4) is a small muscle occasionally found upon the front of the psoas magnus. It arises from the bodies of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae, and ends in a long tendon, which is inserted into the ilio-pectineal eminence and part of the ilio- pectineal line, giving an expansion to the iliac fascia. The Iliacus Internus (Fig. 118, 8) lies in the iliao fossa, from the greater part of which it arises, as well as from the ilio-lunibar ligament and the base of the sacrum. A few fibres also are attached to the capsular ligament of the hip-joint. The fleshy fibres of the iliacus are united with the tendon of the psoas at its insertion into the femur. The psoas and the iliacus are flexors and rotators outwards of the thigh, but taking their fixed point below are flexors of the trunk upon the thisdi. This is seen in dislocation of the femur downwards into the thyroid foramen, when the body is always bowed forwards owing to the tension of these muscles. The psoas is supplied by the lumbar nerves, the iliacus by the anterior crural nerve. The Q-uadratus Lumborum (Fig. 118, 5) is the short muscle filling the space between the last rib and the crista ilii. It has its origin below, from the posterior portion of the inner lip of the crest of the ilium and from the.acljacent ilio-lumbar ligament; and ascends to be inserted into the lower border of the last rib, and by three or four slips into the tips of the transverse processes of the lumbar verte- brae. It is sometimes described as consisting of two distinct parts. The quadratus draws down the ribs and is therefore a muscle of expi- ration ; it is supplied by the posterior branches of the lumbar nerves.