210 THE PERITONEUM. of Winslow. This will be found by passing the finger carefully round the right border of the lesser omentum, immediately below the liver when its point maybe seen through the semitransparent double fold 'of the lesser omentum. To see the cavity of the lesser bag, an incision must be carefully made through the double anterior layer of the great omentum, when, if the parts are healthy, the bag will be readily opened and the finger passed through the foramen of Winslow will be clearly seen. Tracing it from the foramen, the membrane of the lesser bag will he found to form the posterior layer of the lesser omentum then to cover the posterior surface of the stomach, and to be prolonged down- wards to form the two internal layers of the great omentum ; after which it covers the upper part of the transverse colon and forms the unuer haver of the transverse meso-colon. It then passes up over the pancreas to the under surface of the liver behind the transverse fissure. The Foramen of Winslow (Figs. 107 and 108) is smvply a con- striction of the peritoneum dividing it into two parts, produced lw the TOSsa^e of the hepatic artery forwards and upwards to the Hver Wnen 'the finger is in the foramen it will feel the following Lmmdaries In front, the lesser omentum containing the hepatic ^He duct, and portal vein ; bjnnd,^^^^^ dfaphrngm and the inferior vena cava ; below, the hepatic artery (as it 2es forwards from the aorta); above, the lobus Spigeln of the hver. TSime. preferred to trace the two sacs of the peritoneum toother, which can be readily done m the following way. Be- ginning at the liver, one layer covers the front and the other he hack of the under surface of the organ, and the two meet at the lansverse fissure to form the lesser omentum. They then separate fo enclose the stomach, uniting at its lower border to form the anterior two layers of the great omentum; being reflected upon themsles they next form the posterior two layers, which separate toTnctse the transverse colon, forming the transverse meso-colon as they are prolonged to the spine. The two layers now eave Zther and the upper one (lesser bag) is prolonged over the one mo^.^d^er1irfece of the liver, where it commenced, pancreas to the — meSentery around the ^ -adder and 3ffi £°oVnto the liver, where the Besides tracing the peritoneum vocally_a^J-^J™^ should be traced horizontally as foilows. ^ transverse colon the circle will be found to be exceecimB y P