INTERIOR OF THE URETHRA. 281 Fig. 153. blind pouch directed backwards, just within which are placed the orifices of the common ejaculatory duct.* The Membranous portion (a) is the shortest and narrowest division of the urethra, and being placed between the two layers of the trian- gular ligament which meet below, its upper wall is somewhat longer than its floor, the former measuring about § inch, and the latter ^ inch (Thompson). The wall of this portion is thin and membra- nous, but it will be seen to be enclosed by circular involuntary fibres continuous with the circular fibres of the bladder and prostate. The mucous membrane is smooth, and presents no orifices ; it is fre- quently stained of a red colour. The Bulbous portion (d) is the part cor- responding to the bulb externally, and is about an inch long, but there is no line of demarcation between it and the spongy portion. The canal is dilated at this spot, and in the floor of it are the two minute orifices of the ducts of Cowper's glands, which rim obliquely through the wall of the urethra for some distance. The cut edge of the bulb will be seen to be con- tinuous with the corpus spongiosum, which surrounds the spongy or thl O^°Sf-i011 °f P°cul?5is isjiyen differ enty by various authors ; oni?nS^ 7 antd™on Place the interior, and Cruveilhier and Ellis vari^m?! ^' P^ °f th? VeI'U ^r™' The discrepancy arises from slight vanations m the shape and extent of the rid°-e. Fig. 153.-The bulbous, membranous, and prostatic urethra, with part oi the bladder, laid open from above (from Wilson). 1. Part of the urinary bladder: its internal surface. 2. Trigonum vesicae. 3. Openings of the ureters. 4. Uvula vesica;. 5. Veru montanum. 6. Opening of the sinus pocularis. 7,7. Apertures of the ejaculatory ducts. 8, 8. Openings of the prostatic ducts in the prostatic sinus. 9, 9. Lateral lobes of the prostate gland. a, Membranous portion of the urethra. b, b. Cowper's glands. c, c. Apertures of the excretory ducts of Cowper's glands. d, Commencement of the bulbous por- tion of the urethra. e, e. Upper surface of the bulb of the corpus spongiosum. /, /. Crura penis. ff, g. Corpus cavernosum. A. Spongy portion of the urethra