505 THE VELUM INTEKPOSITUM. some of the structures which have been seen in the main cavity of the ventricle, but under different names. The Hippocampus Major (Fig. 258, 3) » continuous with the posterior peduncle of the fornix. It is a prominent^convex body cor- responding to the *** fissure, and winds forward to the extremity of the cornu. Its anterior extremity is enlarged, and is marked with more or less distinct transverse grooves, and to this part the name Pes Hippocampi (1) has been given, from its fancied resemblance to the foot of an animal. ; . At the anterior border of the hippocampus major is a thm band ot white cerebral matter continuous with the corpus fimbnatum and therefore with the fornix, but now called the Taenia Hippocampi (Fi« 258 2) By lifting this up with the handle of the scalpel and turning it aside, a serrated free border of grey nervous matter will be seen which has been called the Fascia Dentata (4). This is the grey matter of the convolution which forms the pes hippocampi, as may be seen by making a transverse section of it. The Choroid Plexus of the descending cornu is continuous with the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle, and can now be seen to be connected with the pia mater through a slit immediately 111 front ot the taenia hippocampi (transverse fissure of Bichat). The Pes Accessorius or Eminentia Collateralis (Fig. 2o8, 5) is a projection of variable size at the commencement of the descend- ing cornu, and between the hippocampus major and hippocampus minor, corresponding to the collateral fissure. [By cutting through the fornix opposite the foramen of Monro, it can be carefully lifted up with the handle of the scalpel and turned backward, when some transverse markings on its under surface will be seen (from which it has been called the Lyra), and the velum interpositum beneath will be brought into view. By carefully scrapie away the brain substance with the handle of the knife, the continuity of the velum interpositum with the pia mater through the great transverse fissure may be demonstrated.] The Velum Interpositum (Fig. 259, 5) is a triangular process of pia mater carried into the interior of the brain through the great transverse fissure, which is now laid open. The continuity of the pia mater may be traced upon the upper surface of the cerebellum and the under surface of the posterior lobe of the cerebrum, and it may be followed through the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle to the base of the brain, where it appears by the side of the crus cerebri (v. p. 489). At each side of the velum interpositum are the choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles, and in the centre are two