43G THE THORAX. immediately, below the arch of the aorta, and gives branches to the front and back of the heart, which, are seldom seen. To it may be traced the left superficial cardiac nerve of the sympathetic, a cardiac branch from the left pneumogastric, and branches from the deep cardiac plexus. . The Great Vessels of the Heart (Fig. 226) have the following positions. The vena cava superior is to the right, and the pulmo- nary artery to the left, whilst between them the arch of the aorta is seen. The inferior vena cava can be seen piercing the diaphragm at the back of the heart, by drawing the organ upwards. _ The Cavities of the heart are to be opened in situ, and in the order in which the blood enters them. TThe right auricle is to be opened by one incision from the superior to the inferior vena cava, and another at right angles to it into the auricular appendage.] Bight Auricle (Fig. 228, ij.—The main cavity of the auricle is smooth internally, but in the appendix are the musculi pectinate or muscular bands "resembling a comb." The endocardium or lining membrane of the heart, is seen to be continuous with the lining membrane of the veins, and will be traced subsequently into the £LTt6XX6S The'krge openings into the right auricle are (1) the superior veua cava (3), which enters at the upper and anterior part; (2) tne inferior vena cava (4), which enters at the lower and back part; and (3) the coronary sinus (7), which enters close above (4) the aunculo- ventricular opening (9) and below the Eustachian valve. The foramina Thebesii are numerous small openings which are found in the wall of the auricle, corresponding to the anterior car- diac veins and the vense cordis minima?. The tubercle of Lower is a projection which is occasionally found in the wall of the auricle, between the superior and inferior vense ^The coronary valve (8) (valve of Thebesius) is a thin fold at the orifice of the coronary sinus, which serves to prevent regurgitation into it 111 The Eustachian valve (6) is a semilunar fold placed to the left of the vena cava inferior, and extending between it and the ami ^ ovalis immediately above the opening of coronary «^V^ served in the foetus to direct the current of blood torn ^™ vena cava through the foramen ovale. In the adult it is generally cribriform and often very imperfect.