THE FEMORAL SHEATH. 87 is the saphenous opening, which is obscured by the attachment of a portion of the superficial fascia, called from the numerous perfora- tions in it cribriform. If the cribriform fascia be carefully removed together with the small veins, the artificially produced saphenous opening will then be clearly seen.] The Saphenous opening (Fig. 39, o) varies considerably in dif- ferent subjects, and is generally best seen in the female. It is an oval opening half an inch wide, produced by a splitting and folding of the fascia lata at this point; the outer edge of the opening being formed by the iliac portion of the fascia which is attached to the whole length of Poupart's ligament, whilst the inner and deeper part is formed by the pubic portion of the fascia lata which, passing beneath the femoral vessels, binds down the pectineus muscle and is attached to the pectineal line. The outer border, which can be made sharp and semicircular with the scalpel, is known as the falci- form or sickle-shape margin (process of Burns), and over the lower part of this the saphena vein passes to open into the femoral vein. The superior extremity of the margin, where it joins Poupart's liga- ment and overlies the femoral vessels, is sometimes called Hey's ligament. The saphenous opening is the external aperture through which femoral hernia when of large size passes, and might there- fore well be called the external femoral ring, although strictly speak- ing there is in the undissected condition no definite ring, but merely a weak point in the fascia through which the hernia protrudes, pushing before it the cribriform fascia. The position of the thigh has considerable influence upon the condition of the saphenous opening, and its edges will be found to be relaxed when the thigh is flexed and adducted, the position in which the patient is placed when the " taxis" is applied for the reduction of a hernia. [An incision is to be made from the lower end of the saphenous opening transversely outwards for two inches, and a corresponding one immediately below Poupart's ligament, and the piece of fascia thus marked out and including the falciform process is to be reflected to the outer side.] Sheath of the vessels (Pig. 40, Jc).—Beneath the fascia lata in the upper part of the thigh will now be seen a delicate fascia, con- taining a little fat and covering the femoral vessels, called the sheath of the femoral vessels. This sheath is a tube, broader above than below and becoming gradually lost upon the vessels, the anterior part of which is continuous with the fascia transversalis, and the posterior part with the fascia iliaca of the abdomen, beneath Poupart's