435 VEINS OF THE HEART. aortic semilunar valves lie behind the third intercostal space, close to 'the left side of the sternum (Holden). For purposes of ausculta- tion the usual directions given are, the npper border of the third costal cartilage for the base of the heart, and a spot two inches below the nipple and one to the sternal side for the apex. The weight of the healthy heart averages lloz. in the male and 9oz. in the female. The anterior surface of the heart is convex, and is formed almost entirely by the right ventricle and auricular appendage, but the irregular border of the left auricular appendage appears to the left of the pulmonary artery. The posterior surface of the heart is flattened, and is formed by part of the right auricle, and the left auricle and ventricle, which last forms the apex of the heart. Each surface of the heart is grooved vertically and horizontally, marking the divisions between the auricles and ventricles. The anterior ventricular groove is near the left border of the heart, whilst the posterior ventricular groove is to the right, and they thus indicate the obJique position of the septum. In these grooves will be seen the descending branches of the coronary vessels. The Coronary Arteries (right and left) are the first branches of the aorta, and supply the substance of the heart. They are to be found one on either side of the pulmonary artery, with a plexus (coronary) of nerves accompanying each. The left coronary artery runs from right to left in the auriculo- ventricular groove, and gives a large branch to the front of the heart, which appears to the left of the pulmonary artery and runs down the anterior ventricular groove to the apex. The right coronary artery runs from left to right in the auriculo- ventricular groove, and gives a large branch to the back'of the heart, which runs along the septum to the apex. Both the vertical and horizontal branches of the two arteries anastomose, and supply branches freely to the substance of the heart. . '. The Veins of the heart do not correspond precisely to the arteries. The great cardiac vein runs up the anterior ventricular groove with the descending branch of the left coronary artery, but leaves it to pass along the horizontal auriculo-ventricular groove to the back of the heart. It becomes considerably enlarged and is then called the coronary sinus, and after receiving the posterior cardiac veins from the back of the heart, opens into the back of the right auricle. Some small anterior cardiac veins and other small veins called the venre cordis minima pass directly into the right auricle. The superficial cardiac plexus of the sympathetic is situated P j 2