£2 PALM OF THE HAND. the annular ligament, lying to its ulnar side, and immediately divides into a superficial and a deep portion. The deep branch (28) accom- panies the profunda branch of the ulnar artery between the muscles of the little finger, all of which it supplies, and will be seen again m the deep dissection of the palm. The superficial ^« subdivides into two digital branches which supply one and a half fingers, the iTer one tuning on the ulnar side of the little finger, and he other bifurcating at the roots of the fingers into branches for the radial side of the little and ulnar side of the rmg finger, the latter uniting with a branch of the median nerve. The digital nerves can be traced along the sides of the tendinous sheaths, lying superficially to the arteries and joining one another in the pulp of he finger, where the corpuscles of touch (Paccini) are developed like little biids noon a twig. A large branch also passes backward at the tip oi the finder to supply the matrix of the nail. The ulnar nerve gives a small branch to the palmaris brevis muscle* The Anterior Annular Ligament (Fig. 25, 1) is the broad band of fascia binding down the flexor tendons at the wrist, and is only a tl^Zl^n of the common fascia of the limb. It is attached tl scaphoid bone and to the ridge of the trapezium on the on er side and to the unciform process of the unciform bone and slightly ?o the pisiform bone on the inner side. The ulnar artery and nerve and the utaneous palmar nerves cross it, and also the tendon of the oalmaris lon«ms in part. (The tendon of the flexor carpi ulnan Snds an elusion over the ulnar artery and nerve, which must no bTnnstaken for the annular ligament itself.) When divided m he midTle its outer attachment will be seen to be perforated by the Sndon of the flexor carpi radialis, and to have beneath it the median neTve and the tendons of the flexors of the thumb and fingers. pTneath the annular ligament and closely connected with the tendons S medan nerve, will be found a quantity of loose bursal tissue, and median > M h generally, but not constantly, The use of this tissue is to facilitate the movements of the tendons Id ^occasionally becomes diseased, when flnid n> developed m >t I: coldembm quantity, and forms a fluctuating tumour above and ' i it will be observed that the number£««£-£yPj* ]£*£%?&L «&V^SrfffiS^ nerves, tbu.:- IS Eadial artery ; • • H fingers. 1 Median or Eaclial nerve . . 3* fingers. ,