327 PARTS BENEATH THE STERNO-MASTOID. The Cesto-clavicular or Rhomboid ligament (3) is a strong band of fibres of a rliomboidal shape, attached to the upper surface of the cartilage of the first rib, and to the rough impression on the under surface of the inner end of the clavicle, close to the articulation. [It is supposed that the clavicle has been cut close to the attach- ment of the sterno-mastoid in the dissection of the posterior triangle of the neck, but if this has not been the case it should now be divided. The inner end of the clavicle being then drawn up, the costo-clavicular ligament is to be divided, and the knife passed into the sterno-clavicular articulation from below and close to the clavicle. By this, one of the synovial membranes will be opened, and the other can be exposed by cutting from above close to the sternum, thus leaving the inter-articular cartilage uninjured.] The Inter-articular fibro-cartilage (4) is circular and fiat, and is thinner in the centre than at the circumference, being occasionally perforated. It is attached to the clavicle above, and to the sternum and cartilage of the first rib below, and by its circumference to the ligaments of the articulation. A synovial membrane is placed on each side of it. The sterno-clavicular is an arthrodial joint admitting of extensive movements of the clavicle in all directions. [The inter-articular fibro-cartilage is to be divided and the inner end of the clavicle dislocated, the fibres of the sterno-hyoid which are attached to it being separated. The sterno-mastoid (with the portion of the clavicle) is then to be turned back, being carefully separated froni the fascia beneath. The spinal-accessory nerve will be found to pierce it at the upper part, and some branches of the cervical plexus enter the under surface of the muscle.] Parts beneath, the Sterno-Mastoid Muscle. By the removal of the sterno-mastoid the following structures will be brought into view, which must be subsequently studied in detail. The posterior belly of the digastric and the stylo-hyoid, with the posterior auricular artery and parotid gland at the upper border, and the occipital artery at the lower border of the digastric. Lower down are parts of the splenius capitis, levator anguli scapulse, and scalenus medius, with the cervical nerves and lymphatic glands. In front, immediately below the digastric, the spinal-accessory nerve will be found, and the hypoglossal nerve arching forward over the carotid vessels. The common carotid, with the internal jugular vein external to it' and the pneumo-gastric nerve lying deeply between the two, will be found in a sheath of fascia above the border of the omo-hyoid and the descendens noni nerve lies either upon or in the sheath'and