THE TYMPANUM. 405 smaller palatine canals, and then runs forward on the hard palate, supplying it and anastomosing with the nasal or sphenopalatine artery at the anterior palatine canal. 2. The Vidian artery accompanies the nerve through the Vidian canal, and supplies the upper part of the pharynx and the Eustachian tube. 3. The pterygopalatine artery is very small, and runs backwards through the pterygo-palatine canal. 4. The nasal or sphenopalatine artery enters the nose by the sphenopalatine foramen, and gives branches to the mucous-mem- brane of the upper part of the cavity, which anastomose with the anterior and posterior ethmoidal branches of the ophthalmic artery. The nasopalatine branch runs down the septum of the nose with the naso-palatine nerve, and anastomoses with the artery of the septum from the facial trunk, and also with the descending palatine artery through the anterior palatine canal. The veins correspond, and open into the internal maxillary vein. The Otic Ganglion. [If the part is not too much decomposed, the otic ganglion may be exposed, from within, on the side upon which the internal pterygoid muscle has not been cut away. The levator palati muscle and the Eustachian tube are to be carefully removed, when upon the inner surface of the pterygoid muscle will be found the nerve to that muscle, which if traced, upwards will lead to the ganglion.] The Otic Ganglion (Fig. 212, 7) (Arnold's) is a minute body lying on the inner surface of the third division of the fifth nerve, and especially connected with the branch to the internal pterygoid muscle. Like all the cranial ganglia, the otic has motor, sensory, and sympathetic roots ; the motor root from the 5th nerve; the sensory roots from the auriculo-temporal nerve, and from Jacobson's nerve by means of the small superficial petrosal nerve of Arnold, which is connected posteriorly with the facial nerve in the temporal bone ; and the sympathetic root from that upon the middle meningeal artery. The otic ganglion gives branches to two muscles, the tensor tympani and the circumflexus or tensor palati, i.e. it supplies two tensors as Meckel's ganglion does two elevators (v. p.^8^.14 0 i± The Tympanum. [If the tympanum has not been damaged in the previous dis- sections, an attempt may be made to trace the facial nerve through the temporal bone, thus : the base of the skull being turned upward, the saw is to be carried through a line drawn from the stylo-mastoid