THE LARYNX. 412 Fig. 215. [To seethe crico-arytsenoideuslateralis and thethyro-arytsenoideus muscles, the superior and inferior cornua of one half of the thyroid cartilage should be cut through and the ala drawn forward, any tissue being detached from its inner surface to within a quarter ot an inch, of the median line. A vertical cut is then to be made through it there with strong scissors or the bone-forceps, and the piece is to be removed. The larynx being distended as before, the muscles can be readily dissected.] The Crico-Aryteenoideus Lateralis (Fig. 215,6) arises from the upper border of the side of the cricoid cartilage, and its fibres pass obliquely upwards and backwards to be inserted into the anterior aspect of the prominent outer angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. This muscle is al- ways more or less closely connected with the thyro-arytamoideus, which is above it, and is supplied by the inferior laryngeal nerve. The Thyro-Arytsenoideus (Fig. 215, 7) has a more horizontal direction than the preceding muscle. It arises from the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage immediately external to the inferior or true vocal cord, and reaches down to the crico-thyroid membrane, to which some of its fibres are attached. It passes backwards, the upper fibres being more oblique than the lower ones to be inserted into the anterior border of the arytenoid cartilage external to the attachments of the vocal cords. It is supplied bv the inferior laryngeal nerve. rif a second larynx can be procured, a very satisfactory way of Keeii /the thyro-aryta3noid muscles is to cut the thyroid cartilage horon ally a the level of the true vocal cords, when the muscles can beReadily displayed immediately outside them.] Above the preceding muscles a few muscular fibres may be traced to the epiglottis from both the thyroid and the arytenoid cartilage. These are the thyro-epiglottideus and the arytasno-e^loltodevs, 01tM ^ sets of fibres have been considered as one muscle under the nan —-^^^ of the thyroid cartilage removed 8" (from Wilson). 1. Left ala of thyroid cartihige. 6. gjjjg-^""-*. 2. Eight arytenoid cartilage. 7. 1 nyio 5 membrane, 3. Corniculum laryngis. °- 0ue hal/of the epiglottis. 4. Cricoid cartilage. ' TJ er vart 0f trachea. 5. Crico-arytccnoideus posticus. 1U- uppei pan. ui