277 MALE PELVIC VISCERA. sacro-sciatic ligament and the margin of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and leaves the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic fora- men, having the gluteal vessels and nerve at its upper, and the sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves at its lower border. It is inserted into the upper border of the great trochanter of the femur, and is supplied by branches from the upper sacral nerves. Pelvic Viscera in the Male. [The bladder with the urethra and the rectum having been removed as directed, should be laid on the table with the rectum uppermost and that viscus should be filled with cotton-wool and cleaned, and its muscular fibres exposed.] The Rectum is about eight inches long and is generally largest just above the anus, which will be seen to be surrounded by the sphincter muscle. The arrangement' of the peritoneum upon the rectum has been already described (p. 263), and the longitudinal muscular fibres will be now seen to differ from those of the rest of the large intestine, in being spread all around it instead of beino- coUected in three bands. The internal or circular muscular fibres become thickened near the anus to form the internal sphincter muscle, which is best seen when the bowel is opened. The numerous arteries entering the rectum are derived from three sources—the superior hemorrhoidal artery from the inferior mesenteric which may be traced to within three inches of the anus; the middle hemorrhoidal from the internal iliac; and the inferior hemorrhoidal from the internal pudic. The veins open both into the vena portce and the mternal iliac vein. The intestine being opened along its unattached border, the mucous membrane will be seen to be smooth, except near the anus where it is thrown into longitudinal folds by the sphincter Here also it frequently happens that hemorrhoids exist. Three'or four transverse ridges of mucous membrane (valves or folds of Houston) will be found from three to six inches above the anus, which occa- sionally cause difficulty in the introduction of a bougie or rectum, tu be. [The rectum is now to be carefully dissected from the bladder which is to be moderately distended with air nnrl flno ««j UAaa£ei, of the Denis and bladder £Z Ii^J1]'^1 ™e llnder surface of the penis and bladder being then placed before the ZT TT to dissect out thoroughly the whole of S^iaS^^J^ he is