THE RIGHT VENTRICLE. 439 with the anterior wall, whilst the posterior flap lies against the posterior wall, which is formed by the posterior part of the septum ventriculorum. The internal or left flap, which is the smallest of the three, shuts off the infundibulum from the general cavity of the ventricle. The auricular surface of the tricuspid valve is extremely smooth, for the purpose of facilitating the flow of blood into the ventricles ; whilst the surface which corresponds to the walls of the ventricle is- remarkably rough, from the prominences formed by the attachments of the chordae tendinese. The tricuspid valve acts during contraction of the ventricle (systole), and prevents the regurgitation of blood into the auricle; though even in health there is said to be a slight reflux, which has been termed the "safety-valve action" (King.) The internal division of the tricuspid valve serves to prevent the blood from flowing into the pulmonary artery, until the ventricle is fully distended and able to contract forcibly on its contents. The pulmonary artery is attached to a fibrous ring, which inter- venes between it and the muscular substance of the heart, but the lining membrane of the artery is continuous with that of the ventricle. The semilunar valves (m) of the pulmonary artery, two anterior and one posterior, are three reduplications of the lining membrane, strengthened by fibrous tissue wmich is collected principally at the attached border of each valve, the thin portion near the free border where the fibrous tissue is absent being called the lunula. The attached border is convex, and is fixed to the wall of the artery ; the free border is sub-divided into two slightly concave portions by a little fibrous body, called the corpus Arantii. The semilunar valves act during dilatation of the ventricle (diastole), and prevent the regurgitation of the blood from the pulmonary artery. The blood (which is venous or dark-coloured) is carried by the pulmonary artery to its bifurcation, and then by the right and left pulmonary arteries to the lungs, where it is aerated ; and is brought back to the heart by the four pulmonary veins as arterial or red blood. The pulmonary veins open into the left auricle. [The left auricle is to be opened by one incision on its posterior aspect, placed vertically midway between the pulmonary veins and another into the auricular appendage. The heart must be drawn well over to the right side to expose the cavity properly. ]