511 THE INFERIOR VERMIFORM PROCESS. corpora quadrigemina to the optic thalamus, their fibres decussating in their passage. The Valve of Vieussens (Fig. 260,13) (Velum medullars anterius) is the thin layer of white nervous matter stretched between the two superior peduncles of the cerebellum, and connected with the anterior extremity of the inferior vermiform process. It is narrow in front, but broader behind, where it has a little grey matter connected with it, and is often torn through, in which case the cavity of the fourth ventricle is exposed. The fourth pair of nerves arises from the middle line of the valve close behind the corpora quadrigemina (Fig. 263,15). [The preparation is to be turned over for the examination of the remaining peduncles and of the under surface of the cerebellum.] The Middle Peduncle (Fig. 261,4) (processus a cerebello adpontem) has been already seen at the base of the brain. It is the largest of the three peduncles, and the fibres pass across the pons from one hemisphere of the cerebellum to the other, constituting the super- ficial transverse fibres of the pons, which have been already dissected. The Inferior Peduncle (Fig. 261, 5) (processus a cerebello ad medullam) forms part of the restiform body of the medulla, and will he better seen when the fourth ventricle is opened. The Inferior Surface (Fig. 262) of the cerebellum is divided into two hemispheres by a deep fissure, the vallecula, at the bottom of which is the inferior vermiform process, which is to be seen by drawing the medulla oblongata well forward. Each hemisphere is divided somewhat arbitrarily into lobes, since the divisions between them are very uncertain. Beginning behind is the Posterior Lobe (11); next the Slender Lobe (10) ; and in front of that the Biventral or Digastric Lobe (5). The Amygdala or Tonsil (Fig. 253, 29) is a prominent lobe, close to the vallecula which it partially conceals. The Flocculus (Fig. 262, 4) is a small lobe immediately in front of the biventral lobe, which lies beneath the crus cerebelli, and is hence called the subpeduncular lobe. ■' The Inferior Vermiform Process (Fig. 262) is divided into the following portions. Most anteriorly is the Nodule (6), which projects into the fourth ventricle; posterior to this is the thin ridge called the Uvula (7), from the fact of its lying between the two tonsils ; behind this is the Pyramid (9), and- posterior to this again are a few trans- verse commissural fibres. By turning aside or cutting away the amygdalae, a layer of white matter will be brought into view, extending from the flocculus on