SO PARTS ABOUT THE SCAPULA. The Deltoid Muscle (Fig. 10, 6) arises from the outer half or third of the anterior border of the clavicle and from the lower border of the acromion and spine of the scapula. Its strong coarse fibres converge to a point, and are inserted into a rough surface of a triangu- lar shape on the outer side of the humerus in the middle of the shait, being embraced by the bifid origin of the brachials anticus, and closely connected with the insertion of the pectorahs major The action of the deltoid as a whole is to raise the arm to the level of the shoulder, i.e., to abduct'the humerus; but the anterior fibres will assist in flexion and the posterior in extension of the shoulder-joint. It is an example of power applied to a lever of the third order, and is supplied by the circumflex nerve. FThe deltoid is to be divided near its origin and turned down the circumflex vessels and nerve being preserved. In bursa lvincr between the deltoid and the shoulder-joint should be nowf as°its enlargement may be ^9^.™**^* n ioint The remains of the trapezius muscle are to be cut close to tlie Se of the scapula, and the thin fascia covering the mud. Aove and below it removed, the humerus being rotated inwards to put their fibres on the stretch.] The Parts beneath the Deltoid Muscle (Fig. 10) are-the Infra- spinatus, Teres Minor, and Teres Major muscles, and the long head of the Triceps, with the head and neck of the humerus. The quadrilateral and triangular intermuscular spaces referred to in the dissection of the axilla (p. 16), can now be seen from behtnd, when the quadrilateral or outer one will be found to be Wed by the teres major, teres minor, humerus, and long head of triceps ; the triangular or inner one, by the teres major teres minor, and long head of triceps ; and the vessels and nerve they transmit are now to be traced out. (A triangular interval between the teres major and the long and external heads of the triceps must not be mistaken for this latter space.) The posterior circumflex artery and circumflex nerve pass through the quadrilateral space ; he dorsalis scapula artery lies in the triangular space, and the large musculo-sprral nerve with the brachial artery will be seen between the heads of the '"The Supra-spinatus Muscle (Fig. 10, 3) occupies the supraspinal foS Srom the greater part of the fossa itself from£ upper surface of the spine, and from the fascia covering the muscle, the tendon passes beneath the acromion to be inserted into the _ort facet on the great tuberosity of the humerus, and slightly into the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint. In order to follow the