280 MALE PELVIC VISCERA. the ureters to the hack of the prostate, the existence of which as separate structures is doubtful. According to Dr• Pettigrew, whose beautiful preparations are in the museum of the College of Surgeons of England, the arrangement of the muscular fibres of the bladder is reducible to a series of figure-of-8 loops, the so-called circular fitee. depending upon compression of the two halves of the figure-thus 8 BenSth the muscular is the fibrous coat of the bladder, composed of loose connective tissue. [The bladder is to be opened along its upper surface dinal cut which is to be continued with a strong pair of sensors tCuXtne upper surface of the prostate and the whole length o.the urethra, £ the latter portion being a little to one Bide of the middle line.] Interior of Bladder and Urethra (Figs. 152 and 153).-The « membrane of the bladder, if healthy, will be pale and mo e " less in folds throughout, except near the urethra, where is the triangular space called the trigone vesicale or tngonum vestcce liua sPace0corresponds to that between the vesiculae semmales ex ernaUy L the sides of the triangle are about an inch and a half bug, bein- bounded by the orifices of the ureters, which will be lecog- S as httle slits in the mucous membrane. If a probe be in ro tLe i into one of the ureters, it will be seen to pass very obhquely trough the coats of the bladder, with which it is firmly iinited. The epithelium consists of three layers, the uppermost being flat- Ined tbe middle pyriform, with the large end uppermost and the smalts CeUS °f ^ deeP6St ^ Th'e Uvula vesicce is a small elevation of the mucous membrane at thP orifice of the urethra, which is not often seen The Urethra (Fig. 152) averages eight inches in length, and isdivided into the prostatic, membranous, bulbous, and spongy V°^e Prostatic portion (Fig. 153) lies in the prostate and is about an • i STanJei long On each side of it will be seen the cut sub- stance oi me i bottom of the prostatic portion ot tlie urethra is a ridge called tne^ prostatic sinuses 8), dividing the canal into two hollows called tn m and into which the prostatic ducts open. Un tne veiu near its posterior part will be found the #m poculans (6), a httle