THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 271 of which it disappears with the nerve, after giving off a small pubic branch to the hack of the bone, and also an iliac branch to the iliacus interims and ilium. The distribution of the obturator artery out- side the pelvis has been already seen on the right side (p. 258) but may now be followed out on the left side. When the obturator arises from the epigastric artery, there is generally a small branch running in the proper position with the obturator nerve (i\ p. 91). 6. The Pudic (13) and 7, the Sciatic (14) arteries can only be seen for a short distance within the pelvis, as they lie on the pyriformis to pass through the lower part of the greater sacro-sciatic foramen below that muscle. The pudic is generally smaller than the sciatic, and a little in front of it, but the size and relation of the vessels vary. Supposing the perinseum and buttock to have been dissected, the opportunity may be taken to trace the sciatic artery through the great sacro-sciatic foramen to its distribution outside the pelvis, and to follow the pudic in its course around the spine of the ischium, and through the lesser foramen to the perinseum, where it will be seen running close to the margin of the pubes. The three parietal branches from the posterior division of the internal iliac artery are, the gluteal, ilio-lumbar, and lateral sacral arteries. 1. The Gluteal (6) artery is a thick trunk, disappearing at once through the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, between the lumbo-sacral and first sacral nerves and above the pyriformis. It supplies muscular branches and a nutritious artery to the pelvis' and is distributed to the buttock (p. 110). 2. The Ilio-lumhar artery passes into the iliac fossa beneath the psoas and iliacus muscles j and then divides into a lumbar branch which anastomoses with the last lumbar artery, and an iliac branch which supphes the iliacus and the bone, anastomosing with the cir- cumflex iliac branch of the external iliac artery. 3 The Lateral sacral artery (often double) descends on the front of the sacrum, internally to the sacral foramina, to the coccyx where it anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side and with the sacra media from the aorta. In its course it gives branches which enter the sacral foramina, and to the pyriformis muscle The Veins corresponding to the branches of the internal iliac arW open into the internal iliac vein, with the exception^ the ilio hli and occasionally the lateral sacral veins, which join t^^S" veins. The internal iliac vein passes beneath its arte v to Z ^ aiac vein, which on the left side also receives