235 THE LUMBAR PLEXUS. Twelfth dorsal nerve (Fig. 118, 3).—Crossing the quadratic, and immediately below the ligamentum arcuatum externum, will be found a large nerve, the twelfth dorsal, which will be seen to disappear through the transversalis muscle, and must not be confounded with the branches of the lumbar plexus. The Lumbar Plexus (Fig. 118).—At the outer border of the psoas, and about midway between the last rib and the crest of the ilium will be found two small nerves (often united), crossing the quadratus obliquely and piercing the abdominal muscles immediately above the crest, and generally close together. These are the ilio- hypogastric (7) and ilio-inguinal (9) nerves, and their size varies, considerably in different subjects, one being often larger than the other, or there being one trunk* only which subdivides in the abdo- minal wall. The after-course of the nerves has been given in the dissection of the abdominal wall, the ilio-hypogastric being distri- buted to the skin of the lower part of the abdomen and by its dorsal branch to the buttock, and the ilio-inguinal emerging from the external abdominal ring to supply the scrotum. The' Genito-crural nerve (11) appears on the front of the psoas at its upper part, and is of small size. It descends on the muscle,, and divides into a genital (29) branch which accompanies the spermatic cord through the inguinal canal to the cremaster, and a crural (27) branch which runs under Poupart's ligament to the. outer side of the external iliac artery, and is lost in the skin of the. thigh. The External cutaneous nerve (15) appears at the outer border of the psoas just below the level of the crista ilii. It crosses obliquely to the anterior superior spinous process, close to which it passes under Poupart's ligament to the outer side of the thigh. (This frequently comes from the anterior crural nerve and is nearly transverse in its. direction.) The Anterior crural (23) is the large nerve lying close to the outer border of the psoas at its lower part, and imbedded in the iliacus. It passes under Poupart's ligament into the thigh, but in the abdomen gives branches to the iliacus internus muscle. The Obturator nerve (25) will be better dissected with the pelvis,, but if desired may be seen passing below the brim of the true pelvis to disappear through the upper part of the thyroid foramen. An Accessory Obturator nerve is occasionally found arising with the obturator nerve, which is then diminished in size. The accessory nerve passes over the brim of the pelvis beneath the psoas, and joins the obturator nerve on the inner side of the thigh.