THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 369 tongue. Beneath the external pterygoid the nerve is joined at an acute angle "by the small chorda tympani nerve (7), a branch of the facial nerve in the temporal bone, which passes through the tym- panum between the handle of the malleus and the long process of the incus, and emerges through the canal of Huguier at the inner side of the Glasserian fissure, to which it should now be traced. The Inferior Dental Nerve (Fig. 197, 18) has a branch of com- munication with the lingual trunk, and then descends upon the I pterygoideus interims, and afterwards upon the internal lateral -ligament, to the dental foramen. After entering the bone it -supplies all the teeth of the lower jaw, either directly or by its incisor branch (22), and emerges at the mental foramen with its accompanying artery. Immediately before entering the dental foramen it gives off the mylo-hyoid nerve (17), which pierces the internal lateral ligament with the accompanying artery, and, after running in a groove on the inner surface of the bone, is distributed on the cutaneous surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, and also supplies the anterior belly of the digastric. The Auriculotemporal Nerve (Fig. 197, 9) passes horizontally backwards behind the teraporo-niaxillary articulation, and often ias two roots of origin which embrace the middle meningeal artery. It then turns upwards in front of the ear through the parotid gland and is distributed on the temple (v. p. 294). It gives branches to the ear (auricular), to the parotid (of which it is the excitory nerve ac- cording to Bernard), and to the joint; and communicates with the Bacial nerve and with the sympathetic. The Submaxillary Eegion. The Submaxillary region has been partially dissected with the ulterior triangle of the neck. It is seen tc be bounded superficially oy the two bellies of the digastric muscle and by the lower jaw, thus >eing triangular in shape, and to contain the submaxillary gland and ; i portion of the facial artery. I [The facial artery is to be divided at the jaw and turned back with : on/of X 7 ^ Wifa m ^lo-hyoid muscle Wng^he tloor of the submaxillary triangle will be exposed, and on it? but ice will be seen the mylo-hyoid branch of artery and nerve deriverl com the inferior dental trunks, the artery anoLmosing tviti"IhS ubmental branch of the facial. By cutting through +1,p J\; ■ mscle at its insertion, detaching £ and tne ^jlXoi! Z void bone, and turning them back, the mylp-hyoid mutlt ^11 illy exposed, and should be put on the stretch hI LI % , l)e Lt ached to the larynx.] 1 Ltdl by means of a hook B B