THE SPINAL CORD AND MEMBRANES. 480 Fig. 250. and communicate both with the veins outside the vertebra and with the anterior longitudinal spinal veins at the backs of the bodies of the vertebras. By removing the fat and veins the dura mater will be exposed. The Dura Mater (Fig. 250, i) of the spinal cord differs from the dura mater of the brain, in being comparatively smooth on its exterior, and in not forming the periosteum of the vertebras. It also does not send processes into the spinal cord, nor has it any sinuses formed in it, but has numerous large veins on its outside. The dura mater, being opened by a longitudinal incision, will be found to be a tube firmly connected with the margin of the foramen magnum, where it is continuous with the dura mater of the skull. The tube is largest in the cervical and lumbar regions, but at the top of the sacrum it becomes imper- vious, and is continued to the coccyx by a small fibrous process. Sheaths are given to all the spinal nerves, and take corresponding directions, being nearly horizontal in the cervical region and gradually becoming more vertical below. In the sacral canal the sheaths of the nerves lie side by side with the fibrous continuation of the dura mater between them. By removing the transverse processes of two or three of the dorsal vertebras, the tubes of dura mater may be traced upon the nerves to the intervertebral foramina, and will be found to be lost upon the nerves themselves. TBy opening one of the tubes of dura mater the position of the aan4ion upon the posterior root in the intervertebral foramen will he seen The cord is next to be removed by carrying the knife alono- the outside of the dura mater so as to divide the nerves as far out as possible, those which have been thoroughly exposed by the above dissection being divided beyond the ganglion. The cord attaching the dura mater to the coccyx is to be divided, and the, sacral nerves cut as long as possible, and lastly the dura mater divided transversely at the level of the axis. The cord when removed is to be laid out on a table with the posterior surface uppermost.] too. 950 —Transverse section of the spinal cord and its membranes (from B* * Hirschfeld and Lcveille). 1 Dura mater 5- Subarachnoid space. 2. Parietal layer of arachnoid. 6. Anterior root of nerve 3. Visceral layer of arachnoid. 7. Ligameutum deuticulatum. 4. Cavity of arachnoid. 8. Ganglion on posterior root of nei ve.