318 THE ORBIT. of a reddish-brown colour, situated in the anterior and outer part of the orbit It is convex on its superior aspect, to fit against the orbital plate of the frontal bone ; concave beneath, where it is placed over the eye-ball. It secretes the tears, which its ducts, seven or eight in number, carry to the surface of the conjunctiva beneath the upper eyelid. TThe frontal nerve is to be divided, and a hook inserted into the upper eyelid so as to put the levator palpebral in the centre of the oibit on the stretch ; this muscle and the superior oblique are then to be cleaned, care being taken not to destroy the little pulley through which the tendon of the latter works.] The Obliquus Superior (Fig. 169, 3) » the most superficial muscle of the orbit at its origin, which is from the upper margin of the optic foramen, above and a little to the inner side oj.the levator palpebra. It lies superficially along the inner side of the orbit and ends in a round tendon which, passing through the trochlea or pulley- like rin- of fibrous tissue attached to the frontal bone, turns down abruptly to the eye-ball. The tendon becomes flattened near its m - sertion, and passes beneath the superior rectus to be murted on the outer side of the eye-ball, between the superior and the external rectus With a little dissection a delicate synovial membrane can be seen, lubricating the tendon where it passes through the trodden. The superior oblique is supplied by the 4th nerve on its orbital ^ The Levator Palpebr* Superiors (Fig. 169, 6) arises from the upper margin of the optic foramen, below the superior obkque muscle and partly overlapped by it; it is narrow at its origin, but expands m front to be inserted into the anterior surface of the tarsal cartilage ol the upper eyelid. It is supplied by the 3rd nerve. TThe hook is to be removed from the eyelid and fixed into the eve ball which is to be drawn gently forwards; the levator S£ 7s to cut> and the Httle brand\ °f ? ffS toSdto it! and the superior rectus, which is then seen, should be cleaned.] The Rectus Superior (Fig. 170, 6) arises from the margin of the optic Wen,below and alittle overlapped byth.leva£ p^to; and is inserted into the sclerotic coat of the eye-ball at its upper and anterior part. It is supplied by the upper division 0 the 3 d n n , which can be seen entering its under- surface when the muscle is divided.