or processus a cerebello ad pontem. Emerging from the side 0 the THE PONS VAROLII. ■town that each optic nerve has fibres derived from the opposite as pp^coS:r4h(thf brain!. It can he seen W^g=d the eras cerehri and beneath the middle lobe, and will he f *™^ traced to the corpora geniculates, to the optic thalamus, and to the corpora quaclrigemina. aUmteA close The Locus Perforate Anticus (Eig. 253, 6 is situated^ciose behind the olfactory nerve, and at the inner end of^the fissure o Svlvius. It is composed of grey nervous matter and is perfoiated by numerous small branches from the middle cerebral artery. The Fissure of Sylvius (Fig. 253, 5) runs outwards between he anterior and middle lobes of the cerebrum, and is middle cerebral artery. It corresponds to the margin of thelesser wing of the sphenoid bone when the brain is m stiu, and is divided xnto two portions on the outer aspect of the bram which will be subsequently traced. At the bottom of the fissure will be seen a few KSi^t coavolnldanB (gyri operti) aggregated together, to which the name Island of Keil or central lobe has been applied. The Crus Cerebri (Fig. 253, 14) (peduncle of the cerebruin) is one of two large white bodies, which appear at the anterior 1>order of the pons Varolii and diverge to enter the under surface of the^ cere- brum It is continuous with the anterior columns of the spinal coid through the pons Varolii. Winding round each crus are the optic tract and the fourth nerve, and between the two crura is he inter- peduncular space containing the tuber cinereum, the corpora albicantia, and the locus perforatus posticus. m The Third Nerve (Fig. 253, 9) (motor ocuh) is a good-sized nerve which appears with its fellow between the crura cerebri in front of rt.P nous Varolii The fibres are connected with the grey substance ^I^b niger), and may be traced to the floor of the fourth ^TheFourth Nerve (Fig. 253, 11) (trochlearis vel patheticus) is the smallest of the cranial nerves, and winds round the crus cerebri. It will be afterwards traced to the valve of Vieussens > The Pons Varolii or Annular Protuberance (Fig. 253, 16) is the large white body immediately behind the crura and in front of the medulla oblongata. It is more or less convex from side to side, but is slightly grooved along the middle line by the basilar artery. On each side is a round thick process of white fibres passing obliquely outwards and backwards to the cerebellum, which is the crus cenbelh