THE BACK OF THE THIGH. ;117 The Popliteal Vein (Fig. 55, 3) is formed by the junction of the anterior and posterior tibial veins at the lower border of the popliteus. The vein lies superficially to the artery, and to its inner side at the lower part of the space, but crosses to the outer side above. It receives branches corresponding to those of the artery and, at a variable point, the external saphena vein, which lies on the back of the leg between the heads of the gastrocnemius, opens into it. Some lymphatic glands are placed close to the artery, into which lymphatics, from the back of the leg, discharge themselves. The Back of the Thigh. [The skin left on the back of the thigh is to be removed, and the small sciatic nerve traced as far as convenient, after which the fascia cleaned ] 1&m 'and the hamstring muscles, with the sciatic nerve, > The Hamstring Muscles (Figs. 53 and 54) are three in number, viz., the biceps on the outer side, and the semi-tendinosus and semi- membranosus on the inner side. The biceps and semi-tendinosus, which arise m common, are superficial to the semi-membranosus near the tuber ischii, and the semi-tendinosus maintains this relation to the semi-membranosus throughout. The short head of the biceps will be found on the outer side of the lower part of the femur. The Biceps (Fig. 53, 19) or outer hamstring arises by its long head from the anterior or lower of the two surfaces on the tuber ischii in common with the semi-tendinosus, and from the great sacro-sciatic ligament. It crosses the great sciatic nerve and, by diverging from the semi-membranosus in the lower fourth of the thigh, forms the outer boundary of the popliteal space. The short head 20), which a71 °™ the °Uter Side of the linea asPera ™ ttgk as the insertion of the gluteus maximus, and from its outer division to ™£mjT £°f C°ndyle' an-d from the extemal ^ter-mus- thmnZ tII Tfe 18 Trted ^the outer Side of the hea* of the fibula. The tendon splits to enclose the long external lateral ligament and one portion of it therefore intervenes°between the Ion, and the short external lateral ligaments of the knee-joint (Fig 54 2) The Semi-tendinosus (Fig. 53, i9) arises by fleshy fibres in common with the tendinous origin of the biceps, from the anterio^ of the two surfaces on the back of the tuber ischi. It for^Tof the inner boundaries of the popliteal space, and endsTaTon.