THE BRACHIAL .NERVES. 17 artery ; lying to the inner and outer sides of and behind the second portion of that vessel; and the several branches derived from these trunks, and now to be examined, more or less surrounding the artery in its third part.* / Brachial plexus formed hy 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th cer- vical, and 1st dorsal nerves Outer cord Inner cord Posterior cord External anterior thoracic. External cutaneous. Outer head of median. Inner head of median. Ulnar. Internal cutaneous. Lesser internal cutaneous. Internal anterior thoracic. Musculo-spiral. Circumflex. Three subscapular nerves. The several branches are to be thoroughly identified, and their relations to the vessels ascertained (vide Axillary Artery) ; but the description of the majority is more conveniently taken at a later stage of the dissection. The External anterior thoracic nerve (n) is a small branch derived from the outer cord, going to the under surface of the pectoralis major, which it supplies. The Internal anterior thoracic nerve (io) is a small branch from the inner cord, which passes between the axillary artery and vein to supply the pectoralis minor and, after communicating with the pre- ceding nerve, the pectoralis major. The Circumflex (Fig. 3, 19) is a large nerve from the posterior cord, and lies behind the axillary artery for a short distance, leaving it then to accompany the posterior circumflex artery through the quadrilateral space already described, and winding round the humerus to the deltoid, to which it will be subsequently traced. Three Subscapular nerves (Fig. 4, 27, 28, 29) are derived from the posterior cord. The long subscapular nerve is seen at the lower border of the subscapularis muscle accompanying the subscapular artery„ and ends in the latissimus dorsi, sometimes giving a branch •also to the upper part of the teres major. The two shorter sub- scapular nerves will be better dissected when the arm is removed; they enter the subscapularis and teres major muscles, and supply them, The Posterior or long thoracic nerve (external respiratory of Bell) (16) lies upon the serratus magnus, which it supplies, and is one of the supra-clavicular branches of the brachial plexus, being derived * The brachial plexus may consist occasionally of only two cords when it enters the axilla; in which case a third cord is formed below the clavicle by the union of branches derived from these two cords, the relations to the artery re- maining the same as are given above. 0