343 THE SYMPATHETIC. The Hypoglossal Nerve (Fig. 179, 9) (9th pair) appears below the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, hooking round the occipital artery and then curving forward superficially to the great vessels. It then passes beneath the tendon of the digastric close to the hyoid bone, where it is seen in the angle between the two bellies of the muscle lying upon the hyo-glossus muscle, and finally disappears beneath the posterior border of the mylo-hyoid muscle to supply the muscles of the tongue (Fig. 180, 11). Its descending branch (ramus descendens noni) arises opposite the occipital artery, and runs downward and forward either upon or within the carotid sheath, to supply the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid muscles, and to form one or more loops with the communicans noni branch from the cervical plexus (Fig. 177, 7). The nerve to the thyro-hyoid muscle is a very delicate branch derived from the 9th nerve, just before it passes beneath the digastric. The Sympathetic (Figs. 179 & 180) in the neck lies behind the carotid sheath upon the prevertebral muscles. It is a greyish nerve which has three cervical ganglia developed upon it, of which only the upper two can now be seen, the lowest being on the neck of the first rib. The superior cervical ganglion (11 & 16) is a fusiform enlargement of the nerve behind the internal carotid artery, and lying upon the rectus capitis anticus major. It gives branches of communication to the 8th and 9th nerves, and also to the four upper cervical nerves; and 3. Pharyngeal branch of pneumo- gastric. 4. Glosso-pharyngeal nerve. 5. Lingual nerve. 6. Spinal-accessory nerve. 7. Middle constrictor of pharynx. 8. Internal jugular vein (cut). 9. Superior laryngeal nerve. 10. Ganglion of trunk of pneumo- gastric nerve. 11. Hypoglossal nerve on hyo-glossus. 12. Ditto communicating with eighth and first cervical nerve. 13. External laryngeal nerve. 14. Second cervical nerve loomno- with first. 1 0 15. Pharyngeal plexus on inferior constrictor. 16. Superior cervical ganglion of sympathetic. 17. Superior cardiac nerve of pneumo- gastric. 18. Third cervical nerve. 19. Thyroid body. 20. Fourth cervical nerve. nh -Left recurrent laryngeal nerve. 22. Spinal-accessory communicating with cervical nerves. 23. Trachea. 24. Middle cervical ganglion of sym- pathetic. 25. Inferior cardiac nerve of pneumo- gastric. 26. Phrenic nerve (cut). 27. Left carotid artery. 28. Brachial plexus. 29. Phrenic nerve (cut). 30. Inferior cervical ganglion of sym- pathetic. 31. Pulmonary plexus of pneumo- gastric. 32. Thoracic aorta. 33. (Esophageal plexus. 34. Vena azygos superior. 60. Vena azygos minor. 6b. GangUated cord of sympathetic