198 INGUINAL HERNIA. fascia and skin. Tims the number of coverings of both varieties is the same, the difference consisting in the substitution of the conjoined tendon for the cremaster muscle. Coverings of Inguinal Hernia. Oblique. mrecL Peritoneum or sac Peritoneum or sac. Pascia transversaiis (or infundibular Fascia transversalis. Superficial fascia. Superficial fascia. Skm. Bv dividing the fascia transversalis about half an inch to the inner side of the internal abdominal ring, there will be found an artery called the deep epigastric, lying between the two rings and mnmng in a line from the middle of Poupart's ligament to the umbilicus, and the varieties of inguinal hernia have been named external or internal according to their relation to this vessel. It is obvious that a hernia passing through the internal ring must be external to this artery, and hence oblique hernia and external hernia the same way, direct hernia protrudes.through the abdommal jail.to the inner side of the epigastric artery, and thus internal is the same as direct hernia. The anatomy of the parts concerned in hernia being fully compre- hended it will he readily seen that the direction in winch force is to b tpliedtoretnni to protruded bowel into the abdomen-com- monly called the tarn-must differ in the two cases ; and he student STld notice the effect which the position of the body and Imihs ha ml the tissues near the groin. Thus, wffh the body and leg* extended at full length, the lower part of the abdomen is rendered ton™ whilst if the thigh is flexed upon the pelvis and adducted and tke tady bowed forward, the structures become relaxed, and would more readily admit of the return of the protruded bowel. rSo/^-There are two varieties of oblique inguinal hei"med congenital hernia and mfmtik <,««*« tan-* »• ^rund^dX6*^'^ necessary to refer for a mo"to descent of the testis (p. 193) When in the abdomen it has the peritoneum attached to itejrarfaee,and during its descent into the scrotum it ^f^J*^^ °* peritoneum down with it, so that at first a tube exten ^^ss whole length of the inguinal canal (Kg. 98). By a natuial process