40 FRONT OF THE FORE-AEM. the pronator teres on one side, and the palmaxis longus on the other It ends about the middle of the fore-arm in a broad tendon, which, soon becomes rounded, and disappears at the root of the thumb to pierce the annular ligament and pass through the groove in toe trapezium/to be inserted into the base of the second, and slightly into the base of the third metacarpal bone. It is a flexor of the carpus and abductor of the hand, and is supplied by the median nerve. The Palmaris Longus (Fig. 14, 6) arises from the common attach- ment to the inner condyle; from the fascia of the fore-arm; and from the intermuscular septa on each side of it. Its long and narrow tendon passes superficially to be inserted into the strong palmar fascia in the centre of the hand, and slightly into that over the muscles of the thumb. It serves to make tense the palmar fascia, and thus protect the deep tissnes of the palm, and may slightly flex the hand when largely developed. It is supplied by the median nerve. _ The palmaris longus is frequently wanting, but it is occasionally largely developed, the whole length of the tendon being covered with strong muscular fibres connected with the flexor carpi radialis. The Flexor Carpi Ulnaris (Fig. 14, 8) arises from the common attachment to the internal condyle j from the fascia of the fore-arm ; and from the intermuscular septum between it and the adjacent muscle. It has an additional aponeurotic origin from the inner side of the olecranon process and from the inner side of the posterior ridge of the ulna for two-thirds of its length, this latter origin being common to itself and the flexor profundus digitorum. The muscle . is inserted by a flattened tendon (upon which the muscular fibres extend nearly to the wrist) into the pisiform bone, and slightly into the fifth metacarpal bone and the annular ligament Between the two origins of this muscle the ulnar nerve enters he fore-arm, after winding close behind the internal condyle, and both ulnar artery and ne?ve will be seen beneath a process of the deep fascia close to the outer side of the tendon near the wrist. It is a flexor of the carpus and adductor of the hand, and is the only one ot either the flexors or extensors of the carpus which is inserted directly into one of its bones. It is supplied by the ulnar nerve. The Radial Artery (Fig. 15, 17) * the smaller of the divisions of the brachial artery, and the part m the fore-arm ^ends from 1e bifurcation at the bend of the elbow to the root of It superficial in the whole of this course, except that at the upper part it is more or less overlaid by the supinator longus muscle the extent varying with .the muscular development of the arm. It lies at first between the supinator longus and the pronator teres, but in