THE ANTERIOR TRIANGLE. 325 oval tendon from the top of the sternum, and by a broad tendinous origin from the inner third of the posterior border of the clavicle. This latter is of very variable extent, and between the two heads of origin is a cellular interval, which may extend for some distance up the neck. The muscle is inserted across the mastoid process of the temporal bone, and into the outer half of the superior curved line of the occipital bone. The action of each sterno-niastoid is to twist the head and flex it, so as to throw the chin over the opposite shoulder ; if both muscles act together they draw the head and upper part of the spine forwards, as in rising from a piUow. The stemo-mastoid is supplied by the spinal-accessory nerve and by deep branches of the cervical plexus. Along the posterior border of and beneath the sterno-mastoid will be seen several smaU lymphatic glands (glandules concatenatce). The Deep Cervical Fascia, which has been traced from the spinous processes of the cervical vertebrae across the posterior triangle (p. 308), is now seen to cover in the parts included in the anterior triangle, and to extend to the median line ; the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid should be dissected up a little, and turned back to see the continuation of the fascia beneath it. The fascia gives sheaths to all the muscles of the front of the neck, and is continued into the thorax, where it is attached to the pericardium. It forms the sheath of the carotid artery, which is now to be seen beneath the sterno- mastoid. [Opportunity should be taken, before the tissues are in any way disturbed, to notice the parts involved in the operation of tyino- the S °ar0tl1d aiiery; , The V6Sf \ ™y be felt ^ indistinctly seen enclosed m a sheath of fascia, and the point where the ligature would h^^^^^16^™^^^ ^-mastoid and omo- faSia Tht t% & latt6r °f can now be seen through the fascia. The anterior triangle is then to be dissected.] The Anterior Triangle (Fig. 164) of the neck is bounded in front by the median line of the neck ; and behind by the sterno-mas- toid muscle. Its base is above, and is formed by the lower jaw and a line from the angle of the jaw to the mastoid process ; the apex is below, at the top of the sternum. The skin and superficial fascia, the platysma, the deep fascia, and the superficial nerves have been turned aside to expose the contents of the triangle, which are as foUows. The digastric and stylo-hvoid muscles are seen to cut off the submaxillary triangle, in which U lodged the submaxillary gland, resting upon the mylo-hyoid muscle Ween the jaw and the hyoid bone. Below the hyoid bone Z be