352 THE face. The Zygomatics minor (10), nmch smaller, usually looks like a part of the orbicularis palpebrarum ; it arises from the malax-bane L front of the preceding, and is inserted between it and the levator lfllvii mmerioris, with which it unites. of the jaw will be seen the insertion of the Platysma Myoides, continuous move or less with the orbicularis ons at the Se of the mouth, and with the muscles helow the hp Occasionally there is a strong slip passing transversely from the fascia over the masseter to the angle of the mouth, aud called the Bisonus Muscle The Depressor Anguli Oris (Eg. 186, , 3) (triangularis Pienrf) is a triangular muscle arising from the outer surface of he low jaw Mow and a little external to the mental foramen, and wserted into the an^le of the mouth. . x The Depressor Labii Inferior!* (Kg. 186 .2) (quadratus men a,ia from the outer surface of the lower jaw, between the symphysis ami he mental foramen, and ascends obliquely to meet its fellow m the median line at the lower Up, thus leaving a taangular mtmal "ThTllvlr Menti (Kg. 186, ,4) is a triangular muscle placed internal to the depressor of the lower lip, «*, ta» tte mcis.v fossa of the lower jaw and inserted into the shin of the ohm. It is [resected by'everting the lower Up and removing the mucous ^luXmuscles of the face, muscles of expression, are by the fecW nerve (portio dura of 7th). In health the muse es of the wo side of the Le antagonise one another, and an eomlibnum » Iconsdously maintained; but should the nerve of one side b d" or become paralysed from disease of the temporal bone, the Mance of power will be destroyed, and the face wiU be at once dratu to the healthy side by the preponderating muscles. Th paralysed side wiU remain immoveable, the eye will be open, and +T,p -natient will be unable to whistle, etc. The Parotid Gland is the largest of the salivary glands, aid * placea beTween the ear and the lower jaw, its superficial part over- ? il the masseter muscle and being called the soma faroMa. It S" — and as far bach as the and below, it is separated from the ^^J^^3one