229 COMMON ILIAC ARTERIES. over the vena cava, and both rest upon the external iliac arteries near Poupart's ligament, and are close to the epigastric arteries at the ring. In the female the spermatic arteries become the ovarian, and pass into the pelvis to ramify in the broad ligament of the uterus {Fig. 109, hf. The spermatic veins take a different course on the two sides, the left opening at a right angle into the left renal vein, and the right opening directly into the. vena cava ; which arrangement is said , to account in part for the more frequent occurrence of 'varicocele' on the left side. Dr. J. H. Brinton, of Philadelphia, has demonstrated the existence of a valve at the caval orifice of the vein of the right but not of the left side. The great length of the spermatic arteries is accounted for by the fact that the testicles were originally in the abdomen, opposite the point where the arteries arise, and that as they descended the vessels necessarily became elongated. The Inferior Mesenteric artery (Fig. 116, 12) supplies the lower half of the large intestine (v. p. 216), and its vein opens into the splenic vein. The Middle Sacral (Fig. 116, 18) is a small branch arising at the bifurcation of the aorta and passing down into the pelvis along the middle of the sacrum. It anastomoses with the lateral sacral branches of the internal iliac arteries, and its corresponding vein opens into the left common iliac vein. The Lumbar arteries (Fig. 116,14), four or five in number, arise in a double row from the back of the aorta and pass transversely, close upon the vertebras, beneath the gangliated cords of the sympathetic, and on the right side beneath the vena cava. Only small portions •of these arteries can be seen at present, but when followed out each will be found to divide into an anterior and posterior branch. Of these the anterior runs between the abdominal muscles, and the posterior passes between the transverse processes to the muscles of the back, giving also a branch into the vertebral canal through the mtervertebraUoramen, which supplies the membranes of the cord, and ends in the body of the vertebra. The lumbar veins open into the vena cava. The Common Iliac Arteries (Fig. 116, 16) are the direct con- tinuations of the abdominal aorta, and extend from the left side of the fourth lumbar vertebra to the sacro-iliac synchondrosis where «ach divides into the external and internal iliac arteries. The tMm common iliac is a little longer than the left, and the relations differ on the two sides, owing, principally, to the fact that the Uvo common