THE COVERINGS OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 89 Fig. 41. superficial fascia to the lower margin of the saphenous opening, and lies along Poupart's ligament, or, if of large size, may stretch the fascia sufficiently to mount over the ligament and. sim- ulate an inguinal hernia. The Coverings of a Femoral Hernia (Fig. 42) will be readily learned if the course it takes has been thoroughly under- stood. In its descent the intestine pushes before it (1) peritoneal sac, (2) sep- tum crurale, (3) femoral sheath, (4) cribriform fascia, (5) superficial fascia and skin. It must not be supposed that the surgeon will meet with these various coverings in ope- rating upon a strangulated femoral hernia, since he usually pays no attention to any of them until he reaches the sac or peritoneum, which is to-be recognised by its thin bluish appearance, and by the fluid generally to be seen : through its slightly transparent wall.* Surgery.—Operation for strangulated femoral hernia. The point of i stricture is very rarely at the saphenous opening, since it becomes so i much enlarged in an old hernia as to offer no resistance; and the t Jaw ofS?Wi?ff£ticularlI aSaillst fte common error of supposing xne sac ot a hernia to be smooth and glistening on its exterior. Fig. 41,-Section of the structures which pass 1. Poupart's ligament. "Wilson). 2, 2. Iliac portion of the fascia lata, attached along the margin of the crest of the ilium, and alon«- Poupart's ligament as far as the 10 spme of the pubes (3). \i 4. Pubic portion of the fascia lata, 12* continuous at 3 with the iliac portion, and passing outwards 13 behind the sheath of the femoral 14. vessels to its outer border at 5 where it divides into two layers ; one is continuous with the beneath the femoral arch (from sheath of the psoas (6) and iliacus (7) ; the other (8) is lost upon the capsule of the hip- joint (9). r The anterior crural nerve. Gimbernat's ligament. The femoral ring, within the femoral sheath. Femoral vein. Femoral artery; the two vessels and the ring are surrounded bv the femoral sheath.