286 FEMALE PELVIC VISCERA. form transverse rug* Two longitudinal ridges at the anterior and posterior surfaces of the vagina, have been named the columns of the vagina. At the upper part of the vagina the cervix uteri projects feto its cavity, and the vagina will be found to be attached togte on its posterior than its anterior surface. At the lower end will be found ^carunculce myrtles and remains of the vagina may be found tbe two small glands of Bartholin, the ducts 01 which open within the nymphse. : . Tbe Uterus (Fig. 157, i) is more or less pynform m shape, tne funt o?upper part of the body being broad and somewhat flattened ^2JLM and the lower end or cervix being cylmdnca. The cervix is perforated by the os uteri externum (os tmca3), a trans- verse opening which divides it into two lips, anterior and posterior, of which the anterior is the thicker. [The anterior wall is to he divided vertically with scissors, and the cut prolonged on each side towards the Fallopian tuhe.] Immediately within the os uteri on the posterior aspect of the eerv7™s seen a vertical ridge with oblique ridges radiatangtom it producing the appearance known as the arbor utm. A similar appelnceinthe mucous membrane of the anterior surface h cervix has been necessarily destroyed by the incision Above the canal of the cervix is the os intervm, which opens mto the general Cirl""e uterus is triangular in shape, the apex heing downwards and the extremities of the base corresponding with t e oXTof the Fallopian tube, It is lined by a smooth mucous membrane, in which are the orifices of numerous small glands. The uterus is composed of pale unstriped muscular fibre togeth r with I taU quantity of areolar tissue. In pregnancy the muscular fi^ros hecome much developed, and are divisible into three layers. The ner-ves of the uterus are derived from the hypogastric plexus of ae sympathetic, and Dr. Robert Lee has desenhed numerou I JSLZ the surface of the organ, and believes that the nerves eD&»n&g. W, 9) * found at the upper part of the W liLnont on each side of the uterus, into he angles of whicn ite two tuhes open. Each tube is about four inches long nd of very small calibre at the uterus, hut gradually «^j£f£ the fLriatel extremity, a trumpet-shaped "P^.f^^o^iS fringe-like processes ifirM). One of the ligament, 13) is attached to the ovary, and serves to direct tne