472 THE MUSCLES OF THE BACK. ( The splenitis capitis was seen in the posterior triangle of the neck, but the splenius colli was hidden by the levator anguli scapulae. At the upper border of the splenius the nearly vertical fibres of the complexus appear.* The Fourth Layer of Muscles (Fig. 246) consists of the Spinalis dorsi, the Erector spinas with its subdivisions, and the Complexus. The Spinalis Dorsi (Fig. 246,4) lies close to the spinous processes, arising from the last two dorsal and upper two lumbar spinous processes, and being inserted into the spinous processes of the upper six dorsal vertebras. The Erector Spinae (Fig. 246, 1) is the great muscle filling up the hollow at the back of the sacrum and lumbar vertebras. It arises from the posterior fifth of the inner lip of the crest of the ilium ; from the posterior surface of the sacrum ; from the transverse and spinous processes of all the lumbar vertebras; as well as from the aponeurosis covering the muscle. Opposite the last rib the erector divides into the sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi muscles, of which the sacro-lumbalis is the farther from the median line. The Sacro-Lumbalis (Fig. 246, 2) is the smaller of the two divisions, and passes upward and outward to be inserted into the angles of the six lower ribs. The Accessorius (musculus accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem) is placed internally to the sacro-lumbalis, and consists of muscular slips which pass from the lower six to the upper six ribs near their angles. The Cervicalis Ascendens (Fig. 246, 5) is placed internally to the accessorius, of which it is the continuation, arising from the upper four ribs, and being inserted into the posterior tubercles on the transverse processes of the lower four cervical vertebras, with the exception of the seventh, f The Longissimus Dorsi (Fig. 246, 3), the inner division of the Erector spinas, is inserted into the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebras, and into the ten lower ribs externally to their tubercles. The Transversalis Cervicis (Fig. 246, 6) is the continuation of the longissimus, and lies to its inner side, arising from the transverse * The student is advised not to burden his memory with the attachments of the remaining muscles of the back, with the exception of the small muscles ot the suboccipital region. He should, however, dissect the principal ones so as to be able to identify them, and to know their general positions. t The muscles forming the outer division of the erector spina' may be remem- bered by the first syllable of SACro-lumbalis, thus—Sacro-lumbalis, Accessouus, Cervicalis ascendens.