19 LATISSIMUS DORSI AND TERES MAJOR. upper ribs, there being two dictations attached to the second rib. The fibres have a general direction backwards to the inner surface of the base of the scapula, where they are inserted, but the first two dictations unite to form a thicker portion corresponding to the sur- face at the upper angle, while the last four form a still larger bundle, corresponding to the surface at the inferior angle of the scapula. These last slips interdigitate with the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The serratus magnus is a great muscle of forced inspira- tion, taking its fixed point from the scapula, which is firmly held hj the rhomboids and levator anguli scapulae muscles, and thus raising the ribs. If the muscle has the ribs for its fixed point, the scapula is drawn forward, the bone gliding over the ribs and a quantity of loose cellular tissue which lies upon them, and the strong bundle inserted into the lower angle serving to antagonize the levator anguli scapulas and rotate the scapula so as to raise the arm above the head. The serratus is supplied by the posterior thoracic nerve. Insertions of the Latissimus Dorsi and Teres Major.—The upper part of the latissimus winds round the lower angle of the scapula, which it envelopes in a sort of fold, and ends in a broad, thin tendon, which passes in front of the teres major to be inserted into the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus above the level of the teres major. The tendon of the latissimus dorsi, like that of the pectoralis major, : is twisted, so that the fibres of the muscle which were highest at their origin are lowest at their insertion, and vice versd, and it is the narrowest of the three tendons inserted into the bicipital groove. The teres major, which is fleshy throughout, passes behind the tendon of the latissimus, being more or less incorporated with it, and is inserted into the inner or posterior edge of the bicipital groove, i exactly opposite the pectoralis major, a bursa being formed between the insertions of the latissimus and teres. Opportunity should be taken, when the clavicle is divided by the i dissector of the neck, to trace the axillary nerves to their origins, and to study the brachial plexus, the description of which is given with the " Posterior Triangle." 21. Coraco-brachialis. 22. Intercosto-humeral nerve. 23. Ulnar nerve. 24. Subscapularis. 25. Brachial artery. 26. Lateral cutaneous branch of 3rd intercostal nerve. 27. Middle subscapular ner\ e. 28. Sbort subscapular nerve. 29. Long subscapular nerve. 30. Pectoralis major (cut), 31. Basilic vein. 32. Serratus magnus. 33. Latissimus dorsi. c 2