350 THE FACE. Fig. 185. above, and lost on the nasal cartilage, where it joins the tendon of the compressor naris. The Levator Labii Superioris Alaeque Nasi (Fig. 186,8) arises from the upper part of the nasal process of the superior maxilla close to the margin of the orbit; it widens as it descends, and divides into two slips, which are inserted into the alar cartilage of the nose and into the upper lip. The Compressor Naris (Fig. 185, 3) is to be traced beneath the preceding muscle to its origin from the canine fossa of the superior maxilla. The muscle is triangular in shape, and passes to be inserted on the bridge of the nose, where it unites with the opposite muscle and the pyraniidalis nasi. The Depressor Alas Nasi (Fig. 185, 7) is a small muscle which can only be properly seen by everting the lip (at a later stage) and removing the mucous membrane. It arises from the myrti- form fossa over the incisor teeth of the upper jaw, and is inserted into the posterior part of the columna and the ala of the nose. The Orbicularis Oris (Fig. 186, 7) is the sphincter muscle surrounding the mouth. It is joined by all the other muscles which are inserted into the lips, and specially by the tafldj naTor on each side, the fibres of which interlace With yt. It is attached to each side of the septum of the nose by a small slip (naso-labialis) FifieS a) and to the superior maxilla close to the canine tooth on Z h side by small slips whichhave^een^^ Fig. 185.—Muscles of the nose 1. Pyramidalis nasi. 2. Upper part of the levator labu superioris accrue nasi turned aside. 3. Compressor naris. 4. An anomalous slip. 6. Levator proprius alffl nasi anterior. 6. Levator proprius ala3 nasi pos- terior. 7. Part of the depressor alro nasi. (from Wilson, after Arnold). 8. Upper segment of the orbicularis oris. 9. Naso-labialis. ... , • 10. Fasciculi accessorn of tne orDicu- Inns 11 A small muscle termed by Arnold compressor narium minor ; it extends between the end of the nose and the alar cartilage. Its existence is doubtful.