THE POPLITEAL SPACE. 113 The Nerve to the Quadratus (Fig. 53) arises from the anterior surface of the sacral plexus, and passes with a branch from the sciatic artery beneath the obturator interims tendon to the quadratus and inferior gemellus. It lies against the back of the hip-joint, to which it gives a branch. The Pudic Nerve (Fig. 53, 7) from the sacral plexus, is seen lying on the spine of the ischium internal to the pudic artery. If the inferior hemorrhoidal nerve should happen to arise separately from the sacral plexus, it will be found accompanying the pudic in this position. The dissection of the popliteal space should be made before the skin on the back of the upper part of the thigh is removed, so that the re- lations of the parts in the ham may be undisturbed. The Popliteal Space. [A vertical incision is to be made in the middle line of the limb at the back ot the knee, extending for six inches above and the same distance below the joint. A transverse incision at each end of this will _allow the skin to be fully reflected. A few branches of the small sciatic nerve may be found in the superficial fascia, which is to be re- moved m order to expose the deep fascia.] Deep or Popliteal Fascia.-This is continuous with the fascia lata, being strengthened by the hamstring tendons, and stretches across the popliteal space to protect the vessels and nerves beneath. When the limb is extended it is tightly stretched, but is at once relaxed on bendmg the knee. I The fascia being removed, the hollow of the ham will be brought into view filled with loose fat, which is to be removed to expose the popliteal vessels and nerves. Imbedded in the fat of the popliteal space are some lymphatic glands, and it may be noted that there are no glands m the limb below this point. The boundaries of the space are to be carefully cleaned, care being taken, at the lower part, of two small nerves and a vein which run on the back of the leg. the Pophteal Space (Fig. 54) is a lozenge-shaped cavity at the back of the knee, which in the dissected state extends for some dis- tance above and below the joint. Its upper part is bounded externally by the tendon of the biceps ; internally by the tendons of the senii- tendmosus. and semi-membranosus muscles, with the gracilis and sir tonus more superficially. Its lower part has one of the fleshy heads" of the gastrocnemius muscle on each side, and on the outer side there is, m addition, the small plantaris muscle The floor of the space is formed at the upper part by that portion