282 MALE PELVIC VISCERA. anterior portion of the urethra, and expands again to form the glans ^The Spongy portion is the longest part of the canal, and averages five inches in length. Its calibre is somewhat smaller than that ot the bulbous portion, but it expands in the glans perns to form tlvz fossa navicularis, again becoming contracted at the meatus or orifice, at which point the urethra is as smaU as in the membranous portion, and occasionally smaller. Along the floor of the spongy portion numerous mucous follicles or lacunce,the orifices of which are directed towards the meatus ; a few similar follicles are situated on the upper surface of the urethra, one of which opposite the fossa naviculars is the lacuna magna. This can seldom be made out when the urethra is opened from above as here directed. The mucous membrane is smooth and pale m health but the student should notice carefully any traces of stricture which will probably be found, if present, in the bulbous V^J^\^ Hum of the posterior part of the urethra is columnar, but it becomes tesselated near the glans penis. Beneath the mucous membrane of the urethra there i a layer of longitudinal involuntary muscular fibre continuous with _the sub- mucous layer of the bladder (Ellis , and intermixed with fibious tissue iTcording to Hancock, circular muscular fibres also invest the whole length of the urethra at the same level. The Corpora Cavernosa Penis (Fig. 152, 14) are now seen to ' be two vascular bodies enclosed in fibrous capsules, winch unite to form a median septum between them, known as the septum pectvm- ZZeTe1 the comb-like appearance produced by apertures in J°rme { } it. The elastic capsule consists of two layers of fibres, longitudinal and circular, from which trabecules or processes are distributed through the vascular tissue of the organ. The attachment of the corpora cavernosa or crura penis has been seen in the dissection ot the perinamm. _ A transverse section of the penis (rig. i^) shows the reticulated structure of the corpora cavernosa, and of the corpus spongiosum which Fig. 154. 1. Dorsal vein. 2. Dorsal artery 3. Dorsal nerve. -Transverse section of the penis. 5. Septum pecthiiforme. G. Urethra, surrounded by coipus spongiosum- 4! Artery of corpus cavernosum. 1