133 THE FLEXOR BREVIS DIGITORUM. The centrcal portion of the fascia gives origin to muscular fibres "by its deep surface, and also by two intermuscular septa which will subsequently be seen on each side of the flexor brevis digitorum. The lateral portions of the plantar fascia are much thinner than that m the centre, and mainly cover the muscles of the great and little toes on the inner and outer sides of the foot, but there is also a strong band on the outer side running from the outer tubercle of the calcaneuni to the base of fifth metatarsal bone. [The central portion of the fascia is to be cut across about two inches from, the heel and may then be turned down over the toes without injuring the digital nerves, when the flexor brevis digitorum will be exposed m part and the intermuscular septa on each side may be seen. The lateral portions of the fascia are1 to be removed and the abductor pollicis and abductor minimi digiti cleaned ] The First Layer of Muscles consists of the flexor brevis digi- torum in the middle, the abductor pollicis to the inner side, and the abductor ininiini digiti to the outer side. The Flexor Brevis Digitorum (Fig. 67, 5) arises from the great tuberosity of the os calcis ; from the plantar fascia covering it (which has therefore been left undisturbed); and from the intermuscular septa on each side. It divides into four tendons, which pass through tendinous sheaths on the under surfaces of the four smaller toes, and are mserted each by two slips, into the bases of their second phalanges. Passing between the subdivisions of each tendon is the corresponding tendon of the long flexor, which goes to the terminal phalanx ; and thus the arrangement is precisely similar to that found in the hand, and he flex0r brevis might be spoken of ^ perforates, and the flexor longus as perforans. The sheaths of the tendons also resemble those of the hand, but JwT • B'«™lg °TeI the heads of the metatarsal bones, each SffL tJ°met ^ Proce8s «f l^ntar fascia (which splits to be attached to each side of it), and then extends to the base of the terminal phalanx The sheatt k 8t ;te each * mmtum vagmale) but^ thinner oyer the joints, so as not to hnpecte then: motion; and when divided, will be found to be lined by a synovial membrane which is reflected over the tendons, and from which bands (vrnada .«*») connecting the tendons withT sheath are derived. Small elastic bands ^XleetL ° each tendon of the flexor brevis with the front of the first X.1 exist as in the hand. 6 mst Phalanx The Abductor Pollicis (Kg, 67, 3) arises from the internal