384 ' THE PHARYNX. is generally much shrunken in a subject which has arrived at this stage of dissection. The vessels and nerves now to be examined have all ^en seen in part in previous dissections, and then from either the front or the lile They are now all seen from behind, and this must be borne m niind thoroughly, or it will lead to misconception of the description. ?he section of t ie base of the skull is seldom precisely simdar on 2 two sides, and it will generally be found advisable totaeto trace the parts first brought into view on one side and the caiotid artery etc., on the other, as in the illustration (* ig. 203). The Sympathetic Nerve (Fig. 203) with its superior and middl cereal ganglia is at once exposed, and some of its branches may be ^^e^„Uon (I2) is fusiform, and nearly an inch in length. It lies behind the internal carotid artery, and has small branches of communication with the following cranial nerves-the Isso-pharyngeal, the pneumo-gastric, and the hypoglossal. The tranches of communication with the ce*vical already seen (p. 343). The branches of distribution are, (1) the ZZ Lues, Lribuied upon the external carotid * branches ; (2) the pharyngeal branch, which can now be traced to the pharynx, where it enters into the formation of the pharyngeal plexus ; (3) the laryngeal branch to the superior laryngeal nerve; (4) the superior cardiac nerve, which has been already seen. _ ^The Middle cervical ganglion (18) is of small size, and- thyroid branches upon the inferior thyroid artery, and (2) the middle ^S^rilossal Nerve (Fig. 203, IO) is necessarily Joff ft tTe anterioyr condyloid foramen in making tbe dissection and should therefore be traced from below, where it will be found m rel" ith the occipital artery. The nerve is at first posterior to Jht internal carotid artery and jugular vein and ^^^SS them; and also between the pneumo-gastric and ^a^c« nerved with the former of which it has a communication, as weU as with the superior cervical ganglion of the-sympatheta, A smali branch, connected with the ninth nerve at one end and loose at the