328 SIDE OF THE NECK. forms one or more loops with the communicating branches from the cervical plexus. The bifurcation of the carotid will be seen about the W o til upper border of the thyroid cartilage, the internal carotid taslw upwards by the side of the jugular vein, with the external caret."! f ront of it, the anterior branches of the after reaching & ward beyond the stemo-mastoid. Near the clavicle are the omo- *Zstmo-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and, deepe, ■til ■mterior scalenus with the phrenic nerve upon it. On the lelt side phrenic nerve and anterior scalenus to open into the junction of the jugular and subclavian veins. A similar but smaller duct frisht lvinphatic) may be found on the right side. TheS Descended Noni Nerve (Fig. 177, 14) » now to be dissecteTout, It is either upon or within the sheath of the carotid "and is to be traced upwards to the 9th nerve (which croas* the carotid sheath just below the digastric muscle), and downvaids „ th muscles in the front of the neck which it sufflliev™- hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid. A branch, which may be doublLwill be found to come forward from the ceiwical plexusto £» the nerve and form a loop the communicans nom nerve (7), and comes 110m The A^tlrior Jugular Vein will be found of very variable size and near&e median line of the neck. It pierces the deep fascia, and outwards beneath the stemo-mastoid to open^^ sub- clavian or external jugular vein. Its size depends upon that ot the Sfamular, varying inversely with it. Just above the sternum, wftl a lutle fat, occupies an interval between two layers ot the de P ^rvical fascia which arc attached to the upper border of the sternum. I-The fascia is now to be removed from the superficial muscles of ftEStoSvta* «» carotii slieath Sll°uld bC leit mt° present.] The Sterno-hyoid (Fig. 176, ,4) is the most it is next to the median line, and only separated by a small ceiima d rvaffroni its fellow of the opposite side. It ^ of the fast piece of the sternum, fi^J^^^^Ui from the back of the inner extremity of the clavicle , into the body of the hyoid bone. v_.jw than the The Sterno-thyroid (Fig. 176, ,5) » teP^t ^fcT preceding muscle, by winch it is partly covered. It 4W«