431 THE PHRENIC NERVES. the vena azygos major, (5) the thoracic duct, (6) the greater splanchnic nerves at the lower part of the space, with some cellular tissue and lymphatics. [To examine the middle mediastinum, the ribs should be divided about three inches from their cartilages, and the pieces turned back to give more room, but care should be taken to divide the first and second ribs in front of the attachments of the scaleni muscles. The lungs are to be drawn away from the heart, and the layer of pleura reflected on the pericardium is then to be carefully removed (the phrenic nerves lying between the two being preserved), and the roots of the lungs cleaned without injuring the pericardium.] The Pericardium (Fig. 225) is a hbro-serous membrane inclosing the heart and is of conical shape, the base being at the diaphragm and the apex lost in the great vessels, where it is incorporated with a process of the deep cervical fascia, which serves to maintain the position of the heart. The fibrous layer is pierced by and gives an investment to all the vessels connected with the heart, except the inferior vena cava, which pierces the central tendon of the diaphragm within the line at which the fibres of the pericardium are incorpo- rated with those of the central tendon of the diaphragm. The serous lining consists of a parietal and a visceral layer, the former being in- separably united with the fibrous layer, and the latter covering the heart and being reflected on all the vessels for a short distance, but binding the aorta and the pulmonary artery together in a single tube of membrane. The Phrenic Nerves (Fig. 225, 4, 5) will be seen in the whole of their course, and should be carefully preserved. Arising from the 4th and 5th cervical nerves, and frequently by a small branch from the 3rd, they lie on the scaleni antici muscles in the neck, and then to the inner sides of those muscles upon the subclavian arteries. The two nerves enter the thorax on each side, and passing between the subclavian vein and artery, cross the internal mammary arteries from without inwards. The left phrenic nerve is then superficial to the left pneumogastric nerve, and crosses the arch of the aorta inter- nally to it; and both nerves pass in front of the roots of the lungs and between the pleurae and pericardium to the diaphragm, which they pierce and supply, the right having a small ganglion connected with it. The left nerve is longer than, the right, having to pass round the heart to reach the diaphragm, which is lower on the left than the right side. Accompanying each nerve may occasion- ally be seen the small comes nervi phrenici artery from the internal mammary.