THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. 23 Fig. 6. coracoid process, in common with, but to the inner side of, the short head of the biceps, from the tendinous upper part of which it also takes origin. It is generally pierced by the external cutaneous nerve, and is inserted on the inner side of the shaft of the humerus about its middle, and exactly opposite the insertion of the deltoid. It adducts and ilexes the humerus. The Brachialis anticus (Fig. 8, n), arises from the front of the shaft of the humerus in its lower half; it has two slips of ■origin, which embrace the insertion of the deltoid, and the fibres have also an ex- tensive attachment to the internal inter- muscular septum, and a smaller one to the upper part of the external intermuscular septum above the supinator longus. It is inserted into a triangular surface on the front of the coronoid process of the ulna, •covering the front of the elbow joint. It is the direct flexor of the fore-arm upon the upper arm. The biceps, coraco-brachialis, and brachi- alis anticus are supplied by the external or musculo-cutaneous nerve; and the brachialis anticus has an additional supply from the musculo-spiral nerve, which is •close to its outer border, lying deeply be- tween it and the supinator longus. The Brachial Artery (Fig. 8, 14) is the direct continuation of the axillary, and extends from the lower border of the teres major to the point of bifurcation into radial and ulnar arteries, which is usually a quarter of an inch below the bend of the elbow. The artery is superficial, or at least crossed by no muscle, in the whole of its course, and it gradually turns from the inner side of the arm to the middle of the bend of the elbow. ' In front it has the skin and fascia, with the basilic vein at the lower Fig. 6.—Muscles of the anterior aspect of the upper arm (from Wilson). 1. Coracoid process of the scapula. 2. Coraco-clavicular ligament (tra^ pezoid). 3. Coraco-acromial ligament. 4. Subscapularis. •5. Teres major. 6. Coraco-brachialis. 7. Biceps. 8. Upper end of the radius. 9. Brachialis anticus. 10. Internal head of the triceps.