THE INTEROSSEOUS MUSCLES. 67 The Deep Palmar Arch, the termination of the radial artery, will be seen appearing between the flexor brevis and the adductor pollicis muscles ; but by dividing the adductor near its origin and turning it aside, the entire arch can be traced from the point at which it enters the palm, between the heads of the abductor indicis. The deep arch has a slight convexity towards the fingers, and is placed upon the bases of the metacarpal bones, being completed by the deep branch of the ulnar artery. Before terminating in the deep palmar arch the radial artery gives off two branches, viz. :— 1. Princeps pollicis, a large branch of uncertain origin, and frequently arising from the radial at the back of the abductor indicis ; it passes along the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and then bifurcates to supply both sides of the thumb superficially. 2. Raclialis indicis, which runs on the palmar aspect of the abductor indicis to the forefinger, of which it supplies the radial side, giving a branch of communication to the superficial palmar arch, and anastomosing at the tip of the finger with the digital artery derived from the superficial arch. The deep arch gives some small recurrent branches to the carpus ; three perforating arteries to the dorsum, which pass between the heads of the three inner interosseous muscles ; and three interosseous arteries which run on the three palmar interosseous muscles to the roots of the fingers, and then anastomose with the digital branches of the superficial arch at their points of bifurcation. The tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis can now be easily traced through the groove in the trapezium to its insertion into the base of ' the second metacarpal bone. The Transverse Metacarpal Ligament (Fig. 35, 14) passes in front of the heads of the metacarpal bones, and is closely connected with the sheaths of the flexor tendons. It must be divided to follow < out the palmar interossei, which pass beneath it. The Interosseous Muscles are seven in number, three palmar and four dorsal. Two of the palmar interossei are readily seen, but I the adductor pollicis must be entirely detached from the middle 1 metacarpal bone in order to expose the remaining one. The Three palmar interossei (Fig. 27) are muscles placed in the ■ three metacarpal spaces between the fingers, and are numbered 1st :2nd, and 3rd from the radial side. They are arranged as adductors of the fingers to an imaginary line drawn through the long or middle finger, as follows :—The 1st palmar interosseous muscle "arises from the ulnar side of the 2nd metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the v 2