125 THE FLEXOR LONGUS DIGITORUM. The fonn of club-foot known as ' talipes equinus' is due in part to contraction of the muscles of the calf, and division of the tendo Achillis is practised for its relief. [The plantaris is to be divided and the soleus cut near its attach- ments to the tibia and fibula, when these muscles and the gastro- cnemius are to be turned clown, and the bursa between the tendon and the os calcis noticed. The posterior tibial vessels and nerve, partially covered by the deep layer of fascia, will now be exposed, and beneath them the deep muscles of the leg, with the popliteus covered by its lascia above.] J The Popliteus (Fig. 61, 6) is covered by a strong fascia which is derived from the tendon of the semi-membranosus, upon which the lower parts of the popliteal vessels and nerve rest. This must be removed to expose the oblique fibres of the muscle, and an incision must be made through the coverings of the knee immediately in front of the external lateral ligament to see its tendinous origin. The popliteus arises from within the general capsule of the knee (though outside the synovial cavity) by a round tendon, which is fixed to a distinct pit on the outer side of the external condyle, below and a little in front of the tubercle for the attachment of the external lateral ligament. The tendon passes through a groove in the bone and beneath the external lateral ligament, and after quitting the joint the fleshy fibres are developed, which are inserted into nearly the whole of the triangular surface on the back of the upper part of the tibia above the oblique line. upon the thigh, and has a tendency to rotate the tibia inwards, which is checked bv the arrangement of the crucial ligaments within the knee. The popliteus is supplied by a branch of the internal popliteal nerve. [The incomplete intermuscular layer of fascia of the leg beino- removed, the posterior tibial vessels and nerve are to be cleaned when the subjacent muscles will be found in the following posil tions :-flexor longus digitorum most internally, tibialis posticus in the middle, and flexor longus pollicis to the outer side.] P The Flexor Longus Digitorum (Fig. 61, 7) arises from the posterior surface of the tibia, below the oblique line and internal to the attachment of the tibialis posticus (from which it is separated ht an indistinct vertical ridge and an intermuscular septum attach, ! tn t *» of*e lmiscle reachineto ^ of the lower end of the tibia. It ends in a single tendon, which lies to