FRONT OF THE UPPER ARM. 24 part, and about the middle of the arm it is generally crossed by the median nerve (but the nerve may pass beneath the vessel); at the bend of the elbow it is also crossed by the bicipital fascia, and has the median basilic vein superficial to it. Behind it has first the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda vessels, which separate it from the long head of the triceps, and then rests upon a small portion of the internal head of the triceps ; next, on the insertion of the coraco-brachialis ; and afterwards upon the brachialis anticus for the rest of its course. To the outer side is the median nerve, with the coraco-brachialis muscle for a short distance, and afterwards the biceps muscle, which is the guide to the vessel in applying a ligature. To the inner side is the ulnar nerve as far as the internal inter- muscular septum, and afterwards, from a varying point, the median nerve, which continues in close relation to the vessel for the rest of its course. The basilic vein lies to the inner side of the artery in the upper part, after piercing the deep fascia. Surgery.—To tie the brachial artery (Fig. 1). An incision, three inches long, is to be made close to and exposing the inner edge of the biceps in the middle third of the arm. A little dissection parallel to Fig. 7. the muscle will expose the median nerve, and the artery will be found in close relation to it, and generally to its outer side in this position, but this will vary in different bodies. The needle is to be passed from the nerve, care being taken of the venae comites. When the brachial artery is tied, the circulation in the limb will be maintained by .the anastomoses between the branches of the artery above and below the ligature, viz., of the superior profunda, and possibly of the inferior profunda above, with the anastomotica magna, and with the recurrent branches of the radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries below. Pig. 7._lncisions for tying the brachial, radial, and ulnar arteries (fri Fergusson's " Practical Surgery").