DEEP MUSCLES OF THE FOUE-AEM. 43 The Flexor Sublimis Digitorum (perforatum) (Fig. 15, 16) is the only muscle of the fore-arm which has its origin from the three, bones of the arm. It arises from the internal condyle of the humerus and slightly from the internal lateral ligament of the elbow ; from the intermuscular septa between it and the more superficial muscles; from the inner side of the coronoid process of the ulna inside the pronator teres ; and from the whole of the oblique line on the front of the radius and part of the anterior border of this bone. Between the origins from the ulna and the radius is the median nerve. The muscle ends in four tendons, of which the two to the second and third fingers lie in front of those to the first and fourth fingers ; all pass under the annular ligament and through the palm of the hand to the second phalanges of the four fingers. The sheath of the finger which is exposed should be laid open along the centre, when it will be found to be thick opposite each phalanx (lig'amentum vaginale), but thin at each joint, and to be attached to the lateral ridges on the first and second phalanges and to the base of the third phalanx. The sheath is lined by a synovial membrane which is continued into the palm and from which bands (vinculo, vasculosa) pass between the flexor tendons and the phalanges. The tendon of the flexor sublimis (perforatus) will be seen to be flattened on the first phalanx and split to give passage to the tendon of the flexor profundus (perforans), the two slips of the flexor sublimis being; inserted into the sides of the second phalanx, and the tendon of the flexor profundus into the base of the third phalanx. The flexor sublimis is a flexor of the phalanges and then of the carpus, and is- supplied by the median nerve. The position of the ulnar artery, between the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris and the innermost tendon of the flexor sublimis in the lower half of the fore-arm, is now to be noticed, and by a slight separation of the tendons the -ulnar nerve can be seen lying close to the ulnar side of the artery. This is the point where the ulnar artery is usually tied. [The flexor sublimis is now to be divided near its origins and turned down without injuring the median nerve, from which a branch may be traced to the deep surface of the muscle.] The Deep Muscles (Fig. 16) of the fore -arm are the flexor longus. pollicis to the radial side, the flexor profundus digitorum to the ulnar side, and the pronator quadratus, a small square muscle with transverse fibres, to be seen above the carpus by drawing aside the tendons. These are now to be cleaned, all vessels and nerves being carefully preserved.