29 PAETS ABOUT THE SCAPULA. of the front of the fore-arm may he proceeded with first. Since in some dissecting-rooms the dissector of the arm has no part in the back, the following directions are given for the removal of the limb :— [The two superficial layers of the muscles of the back comprise the trapezius, latissimus dorsi, rhomboidei, and levator anguli scapulae. These having been divided, the suprascapular artery and nerve and omo-hyoid muscle are to be traced to the upper border of the scapula, and the posterior scapular artery followed between the rhomboidei .and the back of the serratus magnus. If the clavicle has been already divided in the dissection of the neck, the scapula can now be drawn away from the ribs and will be seen to be attached solely by the serratus magnus, between which and the ribs is a quantity of loose areolar tissue which enables the bone to glide smoothly upon the thorax. The serratus magnus having been divided, and the clavicle cut at its middle if still entire, the axillary vessels and nerves are to be severed after being tied together, and the entire limb removed from the trunk.] Paets about the Scapula. [The limb having been placed on the table, it is advisable to identify again the several insertions of muscles on the scapula, cutting each muscle to about an inch in length.] The trapezius extends along the whole length of the 'upper border of the spine of the scapula and for the outer third of the posterior border of the clavicle. The omo-hyoid arises from the upper margin of the scapula close to the notch and from the transverse ligament. The levator anguli scapulae is inserted into that part of the base of the scapula which is above the spine, the rhomboideus minor into the part opposite the spine, and the rhomboideus major into the base below the spine, by means of a tendinous arch to which the muscular fibres are attached. The serratus magnus is inserted into •the inner surface of the base of the scapula for its whole length, but the fibres are much thicker at the upper and lower angles than in the centre. The small insertion of the pectoralis minor is attached to the inner border of the coracoid process, which also gives origin to the coraco-brachialis and the short head of the biceps. [A small block is now to be placed beneath the lower border of the^scapula so as to put the deltoid on the stretch, and the remainder of its fibres are then to be cleaned, notice being taken of one or two small branches of the circumflex nerve which turn round its posterior border, and of a few descending acromial branches from the superfi- cial cervical plexus (Fig. 5,. i) winch supply the skin of the shoulder.]