338 SIDE OF THE NECK. a. The superior epigastric branch enters the fibres of the rectus abdominis muscle, and anastomoses with the epigastric Wl o the external iliac, thus establishing a communication which becomes of ^parbice in any case of obstruction of the aorta or iliac; ~ 8 I The musculophrenic branch supplies the diaphragm, and runs outwards to anastomose with the intercostal arteries, as well as witu the nhrenic branches of the abdominal aorta, Tke other branches of the internal mammary are (c) cams » yhrenici, a small branch accompanying the phrenic nerveandseldom feen ; M) mediastinal and (e) pmcartlMC branches to those parts from which small branches pass to form the "sub-plenral mediastmal tderas " (Turner) ; (/) anterior inUrcostab to the intercostalspace, ^miring witt other intercostal branches ; and (,) perforate tranches to the pectoral muscles and to the mamma. The vena amvites of the internal mammary artery unite to open into the corresponding innominate or braohio-aephahc, veto. 3 The Thyroid Axis (Fig. 1V9, 25 is a short thick trunk anam from th anterior surface of the subclavian close to the scalenus, wnich divides immediately toto three branches, (.) mtoor (6) transversal colli, and (.) supra-scapular or transver"™ a The Inferior Thyroid artery runs upwards and inwaids, across th^braf artery and behind the carotid sheath and sympatee trunk, to the posterior aspect of the thyroid body m_ winch itanasto moses with its fellow of the opposite side, and with both the superior thyroid arteries. Besides atsophageal, tracheal, and a maUl«*nw Uryngeal branch, it usually gives off a branch close to * origin, he JriAv cervical, which ascends upon the ^ «J * scalenus anticus and rectus capitis auticus major, supplying the pre vertebral muscles and anastomosing with branches of the vertebral " The Infers Thyroid veins pass down the front of the trachea and frequently have a transverse commumcatmg branch. They open toTtle iimominate veins, the right crossing obliquely over the in "T Tim TmZerse Cervical artery runs transversely outward in front :^itt"'The *_ ^ opens into %^T^ue,,ly of small size or "[ posterior scapular arising from the third pari of *e ™^ C. The Sapra-sccipufar arfffl-J/ runs outward m Uont