THE LATERAL VENTRICLE. 501 waad, becoming united with the gyrus fornieatus and pacing W Zt seia dentate. It then makes a sudden bend an inch, this hook-like process, from which it derives its name, he- coming united with the taenia hippocampi. •sJoOatma Fissure (Co) separates this last f™^£°» inferior temporal convolutions, which are very irregular It causes ^prominence in the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle known as the eminentia collateralis. The Jta«* Mm do) ^ that immediately ahove the un mate the taenia hippocampi, and continuous below with the uncinate gyrus. The Interior of the Brain. The Cmtrum Ovale Majus is seen by slicing the opposite hemi- sphere to the level of the corpus callosum. Itis the great white mass 1W by the continuation of the fibres of the corpus callosum into thXmispheres, the grey convolutions surrounding its circumference. TheTorpus Callosum (Fig. 257, 4) forms the great commissure of the brain, and consists of fibres passing transversely from one hemi- phe e to the other. It is nearer the anterior than the posterior ex- tremity of the brain, and in the median hue forms the floor of the ongitudinal fissure, being slightly arched frombefore;bf™dsJ)n a vertical section (Fig. 266, 6) it will be seen to bend abruptly^ante- riorlv to pass to the base of the brain, thus forming the genu and to ^continuous posteriorly with the subjacent fornix by a thrckened nortion which has been called the splenmm. • 1 On thl surface of the corpus callosum and in the middle line is a loWmlinal depression, the raphe, which is bounded on each side by tV WrolecTs called the nerves of L^eisi. Externally to these axe some transverse markings called the lineee transversa, which are grossed beneath the gyrus fornieatus by the longitudinal fibres form- ing the covered band of Beil. The Lateral Ventricles. TTo onen the cavity in each hemisphere called the lateral ventricle, the corpus callosum is to he carefully cut through about half an inch from the middle line, until the delicate serous memhrane lining the ventricle is seen; the handle of the scalpel should then be used to „.,m^.MJi.^m^i^yua ■ffliwiiwiii JMiiiriiwrtH