108 THE BUTTOCK. will be examined in succession. In order to clean the museles, the thigh must be well rotated inwards, and m the case of the gluteus medius, it must be crossed beneath the opposite limb.J The Gluteus Medius (Fig. 53, 2) arises from the dorsum ilii between the superior and middle curved lines, and from the fascia covering its anterior part. The fibres converge to be mserted into the outer surface of the great trochanter, extending obliquely from its posterior superior angle downwards and forwards. The anterior boier of the gluteus medius is united with the minimus, which lies beneath it. The insertion of the gluteus medius is best seen when the muscle has been divided. TThe gluteus medius is to be divided close to its origin without iniurincr the -luteus minimus, the separation from which is marked bv Artery ? and hHuterior borders of the muscles having been Belated with the scalpel, the gluteus medius is to be turne^0wn without injuring the vessels and nerves beneath A bursa will be found on the great trochanter beneath the tendon.j The Gluteus Minimus (Fig. 52, 8) arises from the dorsum ilii between the middle and inferior curved lines, being united by its anterior border with the gluteus medius. It is mserted into the anterior surface of the great trochanter. , . . n„+ The two smaller glutei muscles assist in mamtaining the erect posture by fixing the pelvis on the femur, or if the pelvis be fixed, they act as abductors and rotators of the thigh, the gluteus mminiu and the anterior portion of the medius rotating inwards, and^ the posterior portion of the medius rotating outwards. They are both suvvliecl bv the superior gluteal nerve. ThPy^iformL (Fig- 52, 9) is only partly seen m he dissection of the buttock. It arises from the front at the ateral mass 0the sacrum between the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th sacral foramina and often from the great sacro-sciatic ligament; and passing out of he great sacro-sciatic foramen ends in a round tendon which is ^nserted mto , distinct depression at the posterior part ^^^^ great trochanter. The muscle is occasionally divided mto.two par* by the passage of a portion of the great sciatic ^ fibres. The pyriformis is an external rotator of the thigh, and supplied by branches of the sacral nerves within the P*}™- In order to see the remaining muscles satisfactorily, he scia&c nerves should be drawn aside over the tuberosity of the ischium The Obturator Internus and Gemelli (Fig. 52, tendon of the obturator internus is now seen, the muscle ansing fiom