THE PERINEUM. 167 may at least be passed, or if an organic stricture should exist, it will be necessary to use a smaller instrument. When the handle of the instrument can be depressed between the thighs, the student may judge of its having entered the bladder by the readiness with which it passed, and by the ease with which the end of the staff can be rotated in the bladder. In all cases, however, it is advisable for the student to introduce his left fore-finger into the rectum, in order to ascertain that the instrument is not in a false passage, and also in order to appreciate the thickness of the coats of the bladder, the size of the prostate, and the course the catheter would take on the living body. In the Female Subject it will be advisable to examine the position of the urethra by separating the labia, before attempting to introduce an elastic catheter. It will be seen that the orifice of the urethra is separated from the clitoris by the space known as the vestibule, and that it is close above the entrance to the vagina. To pass the catheter, the student should stand on the right side of the subject, and having passed the left fore-finger between the thighs and labia, should place it at the anterior edge of the orifice of the vagina; the flexible catheter being then passed along the fore-finger can be slightly raised so as to enter the urethra, and will be felt in its passage through that canal by the finger at the orifice of the vagina. It will be well to practise the operation once or twice with the parts exposed to view, and then to repeat it with a cloth thrown over the pubes, as would be done in actual practice. The Perineum. [The perineeum is now to be fully exposed by bringing the buttocks of the subject to the edge of the table, where they are to be raised upon a block. The thighs are then to be flexed upon the abdomen, with the legs bent; and the body is to be secured upon the table with a cord passing beneath it from one knee to the other, a block being placed lengthways between the knees to keep them sufficiently apart. The staff' is to be retained in the male urethra, and secured in its place by tying a loop of string round the penis, and fastening it to the handle of the staff.] External Appearances.—In the male the skin is of a darker tint than that of the rest of the body, and is more or less covered with hair, which should be removed. In front will be found the scrotum, containing the two testes, and obscuring at present the root of the penis and deeper portion of the urethra. Behind the