494 BASE OF THE BKAIN. pons is the fifth nerve, and overlying it (in this position) is the sixth pair of nerves. The Fifth Nerve (Fig. 253,13) (trifacial, trigeminal) is the largest of the cranial nerves, and consists of two portions, motor and sensory, of which the motor is the smaller and the anterior. The nerve arises from the side of the pons Varolii, a few fibres of which intervene be- tween the two roots ; but its deep origin can be traced to the floor of the fourth ventricle. The Sixth Nerve (Fig. 253, 15) (abducens oculi) arises from the anterior pyramid of the medulla oblongata close to the posterior border of the pons, and slightly from the pons itself. It may be traced deeply to a nucleus in the floor of the fourth ventricle. The Medulla Oblongata (Fig. 253) is the upper part of the spinal cord, and extends from the upper border of the atlas to the lower border of the pons, being about an inch and a quarter in length. The medulla oblongata contains all the elements of the spinal cord, which are continued through it to the great brain, and has in addition a special body, the olive or olivary body, and a number of grey nuclei for the origin of several nerves. It will be impossible to see more than the superficial anatomy of the medulla at this stage, the rest will be taken with the dissection of the cerebellum. The medulla is divided into two symmetrical halves by an Anterior Median Fissure, which is continuous with the anterior fissure of the spinal cord. On either side of the fissure is the rounded Anterior Pyramid (corpus pyramidal*) (20), which is continuous with the anterior column of the cord ; the two anterior pyramids decussate across the median fissure at the lower part of the medulla. The Lateral Tract (24) is continuous with the lateral column of the spinal cord. At the lower part of the medulla it is broad, and is placed between the anterior pyramid and the restiform body, but at the upper part it is narrowed and pushed aside by the projection of the olivary body between it and the anterior pyramid. The Olivary body (22) is an ovoid projection close to the anterior pyramid and immediately below the pons, but is separated by a groove from the surrounding parts. Some white fibres arching below and over the olivary body have been called the arciform fibres. The Restiform body is only slightly seen at the side of the medulla in this view, but will be afterwards dissected with the fourth ventricle. The Seventh Nerve (Fig. 253) consists of two portions, the portio dura or Facial nerve and the portio mollis or Auditory nerve, the 1