INTRINSIC MUSCLES OF TONGUE. 409 Fig. 213. The papilla fungiformes are scattered over the tongue, but par- ticularly at the tip and sides. They are globular in form and have slender attachments to the surface of the tongue ; they are of a dark red colour and are covered with secondary papillae. The papillae conicce and filiformes exist all over the tongue, but are most extensively developed at the tip. The conical papillae are covered with minute secondary papillae, and the filiform are prolonged into thread- like processes, wThich in the carnivora are developed into spines. The orifices of mucous follicles may be found among the papillae on the dorsum of the tongue, and behind the papillae circumvallatce are numerous compound racemose lingual glands, which lubricate the posterior portion of the organ. Beneath" the mucous membrane is a fibrous layer or corium, which gives attach- ment to many of the muscular fibres. In the centre of the tongue and dividing it into two symmetrical halves is a fibrous septum, the existence of which is marked by a raphe in the median line. The Intrinsic Muscles are the Lin- gualis Superior, the Lingualis Transversus, and the Lingualis Inferior. The Lingualis Superior extends along the surface of the tongue immediately beneath the mucous mem- brane, being connected with the septum internally. The Linguadis Transversus constitutes the chief bulk of the tongue, and is placed beneath the lingualis superior. Its fibres are attached to the median septum and pass outwards to the mucous membrane, giving passage to the ascending fibres of the lingualis inferior. Fig. 213.—The tongue with The raphe, which sometimes bi- furcates on the dorsum of the tongue, as in the figure. 2. Lobes of the tongue; the rounded eminences on this part, and near its tip, are the papilla) fungifonnes. The smaller pa- pilla:, among which the former are dispersed, are the papilla! conicaj and nliformes. Tip of the tongue. its papilla; (from Wilson). 4, 4. Its sides. 5, 5. The V-shaped row of papillae circumvallatae. 6, Foramen caecum. 7, Mucous glands of the root of the tongue. 8, 8. Epiglottis. 9, 9. Frcena epiglottidis. 10, 10. Greater cornua of the hyoides. OS