143 THE EXTENSOR PKOPRIUS POLLICIS. muscular septum between the extensors and the peronei. The mus- cular fibres are continued upon the tendon to the annular ligament,, through the outer division of which it passes, and at once°divide& into four tendons for the four smaller toes. The insertion of the extensors into the toes is similar to that of the extensors of the fingers, but on a smaller scale. The extensor tendons form an expansion on the back of the first phalanx of each toe, which is joined by the tendons of the corresponding lumbricalis and interossei muscles, and m the case of the second, third, and fourth toes, by the tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum ; this is continued forwards, the central triangular portion going to the second phalanx and the lateral stronger pieces to the third phalanx. The action of the extensor longus digitorum is principally to flex and abduct the foot, since it only extends the first phalanges of the toes, by means of short fibres connecting each tendon with the corresponding bone (Fi<* 73 3) The expansion on the second and third phalanges is connected with the interossei and lumbricales, which are the extensors of the second and third phalanges. (Compare the description of the fingers, p. 51 > The Peroneus Tertius (Fig. 72, 6) is often a part of the extensor longus digitorum. It arises, below the extensor, from the lower fourth of the anterior surface of the fibula; slightly from the interosseous membrane ; and from the septum between it and the peroneus brevis. I s tendon passes through the same division of the annular ligament Cm^ZZ* rZZ Pollicis (Fis- 72>5) ™bet— extensor digitorum in the lower third of the leg. It arises from the middle two- fourths of the anterior surface of the fibula, behind the ex- tensor longus digitorum; and from the adjacent part of the interosseous membrane. 1^ tendon passes beneath the an> nular ligament, and, crossing the anterior tibial ^r^Jnserted into the terminal phalanx of Pig. 73.-Insertion of extensors of toes (from Duchenne) phalanx of great toe Extensor longus digitorum. Fig. 73.