THE CAVITY OF THE NOSE. S98 that the incision shall pass downwards and outwards from the lower and outer angle of the orbit, the cut is to be carried into the spheno- maxillary fissure. The piece of hone will now he detached and may he removed, and with the hone-forceps any remaining hone is then to be taken away, so as to expose the whole extent of the superior maxillary nerve.] The Superior Maxillary Nerve (Fig. 208, i) (second division of the 5th) leaves the cranium at the foramen rotundum, and, having crossed the spheno-maxillary fossa, enters the infra-orbital canal and appears on the face at the infra-orbital foramen. It gives off the following branches:— 1. Orbital branch (temporo-malar) (4) which enters the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure, and divides into two branches (malar and tem- poral), which have been seen in the dissection of the face and scalp. 2. Sphenopalatine branches (6) which descend to Meckel's ganglion placed opposite the sphenopalatine foramen, and will be afterwards cl i s sc c t gcI • 3. Posterior dental branches (2) which supply the gums, and enter the canals on the posterior aspect of the upper jaw, to supply the molar and bicuspid teeth and to communicate with the anterior dental nerve. 4. Anterior dental branch (5) which arises from the nerve in the infra- orbital canal, and can only be seen by laying the canal open. It descends in a special canal in the wall of the antrum to the incisor and canine teeth, and has a communication with the posterior dental nerve. The branches of the dental nerves can only be traced to the teeth by removing the outer plate of the alveolus, but the expenditure of time and trouble necessary for this will not be repaid by the results. The facial branches of the superior maxillary nerve have been seen in the dissection of the face (p. 356). The Infra-orbital Artery accompanies the superior maxillary nerve. It is the terminal branch of the internal maxillary artery, and gives a branch to the orbit, and an anterior dental branch which accompanies the anterior dental nerve to the teeth. The infra-orbital vein communicates with the facial vein, and ends in the internal maxillary vein. The Cavity of the Nose. Tin making a section of the nasal cavities it will be found to be almost impossible to preserve the septum and the turbinate bonesot both sides uninjured, and the better plan therefore is to prwen e the septum carefully at the expense of the turbinate bone, oi: 0ne side, and afterwards to remove it so as to obtain a good vie* 01 tne