THE PTERYGO-MAXILLARY REGION. 359 The structures composing the upper eyelid are— 1. Skin. 2. Orbicularis palpebrarum. 3. Palpebral ligament. 4. Tendon of levator palpebral. 5. Tarsal cartilage. 6. Meibomian glands. 7. Conjunctiva. The structures in the lower lid are the same, minus the levator palpebras. This will be the best opportunity to dissect the Tensor Tarsi Muscle of Horner, by dividing the outer tarsal ligaments and de- taching the eyelids, so as to turn them over the nose and expose their internal surface. By removing the conjunctiva over the tendo oculi, the two little slips of muscular fibre will be seen above and below it. The muscle arises from the ridge on the lachrymal bone, and is in- serted into the tarsal cartilages and canaliculi. Cartilages of the Nose (Figs. 189 and 190).—Only the lateral cartilages and cartilages of the aperture on each side can now be seen, the cartilage of the septum being dissected with the Nose. The lateral cartilage is triangular, its posterior border being continuous with the nasal bone and the nasal process of the maxillary bone, and its anterior border being separated from that of its fellow of the oppo- site side by the edge of the septum. The cartilage of the aperture (alar) is semicircular in shape, and is bent upon itself in front, so as to surround the nostril in front.' It has no attachment to bone, being embedded in the dense cellular tissue of the ala nasi, in which there are frequently two or three little addi- tional nodules, sesamoid cartilages. The cartilages of the two sides adjoin at the tip of the nose, and are attached to the lateral cartilages by fibrous tissue. The Pterygo-Maxillary Kegion. [The head being kid on one side, the facial nerve and parotid duct are to be divided and turned forward, and the remains, if any of the parotid gland are to be cleaned out from between the ear and the iaw the auriculo-temporal nerve being carefully preserved. The siuW of the masseter muscle is then to be cleaned.] The Masseter (Fig. 186, 15) is the most superficial muscle of mastication and is divisible into a superficial and a deep portion, a