THE PERINEUM. 170 a thickened band of the nnstriped circular fibres of the rectum, and differs therefore in structure from the external sphincter, which is a voluntary muscle. TThe edse of the gluteus maximus is now to be defined, since it foiL the boundary of the dissection; it will .be found extending obliquely upwards and outwards (m this position) irom the tip ol the coccyx. The fat filling the space between the anus and the edge of the muscle is to be carefully removed piecemeal, care being taken to preserve the inferior hemorrhoidal vessels and nerve which run nearly transversely towards the bowel, and also a little branch of the fourth sacral nerve near the posterior part of the space, or ischio-rectal fossa.] The Ischio-rectal Fossa (Fig. 88) is the space on each side of the rectum, bounded behind by the gluteus maximus muscle and great sacro-sciatic ligament, in front by the pubes and triangular ligament. Its deep boundaries are, on the- inner side the levator am muscle, which slings the rectum, and has an oblique direction towards the middle line ; and on the order side, the obturator interims lying on the internal surface of the thyroid foramen. Both these muscles are covered by processes of fascia derived from the pelvic fascia ; that covering the obturator muscle being called the obturator fasaa, and that upon the levator ani being the anal fascia (see diagram of pelvic fascia). When the finger is pushed into this space, it is Prevented from entering the pelvis by the reflection of this fascia upon the two muscles, and on the surface of the body the fossa corresponds to the space between the anus and the tuber ischii. The ischio-rectal fossa is filled with loose granular fat, which is traversed by the inferior hemorrhoidal vessels and nerve On the outer side of^the space and behind the margin of the pubes, he pudic vessels and nerves, which afterwards pass forward through the an- terior part of the space, can be felt enclosed m a tube of fascia ; and it is here that the artery can be effectually compressed in cases of 'hfPTnorrhao'e after lithotomy. , sTiery -The tissues in the ischio-rectal fossa are more or less Wvfd in the several forms of fistula in ano, and the together with some of the fat and a small branch of art y will be more or less divided in the ordinary operation for ^J^™. affection. In the operation of lateral lithotomy the fossa is cut into, and care has to be taken not to injure the^rectum on the inner, or the pudic artery on the outer, side of the space The Levator Ani Muscle (Fig. 88, 18) mm withm *ejetm, heing attached to the back of the os pubis, to the spine of the ischium,