470 THE MUSCLES OF THE BACK. when acting together, crossing the arms behind. When the humerus is fixed, the muscle would draw up the trunk as in climbing, and may act as an extraordinary muscle of inspiration upon the lower ribs. It is supplied by the long subscapular nerve, and by the dorsal nerves which pierce it. [The trapezius is to be divided by a vertical incision near the spine, care being taken not to divide the subjacent tendinous origins of the rhomboidei in the cervical region. In reflecting the trapezius its tendon will be seen to glide over the smooth triangular surface at the inner end of the spine of the scapula. Care must be taken of the spinal-accessory nerve and the accompanying branches of the super- ficial- cervical artery. The posterior surface of the levator anguli scapulas and the two rhomboidei muscles are now to be cleaned.] Second Layer of Muscles. The Levator Anguli Scapulae (Fig. 245,10) arises from the pos- terior tubercles on the transverse processes of the upper four cervical vertebras, and is inserted into the base of the scapula opposite the supraspinous fossa. The anterior surface of this muscle has been seen in the posterior triangle of the neck, where the levator covers the splenius colli muscle. The Rhomboideus Minor (Fig. 245, n) is a narrow muscle arising from the Ugamentum nuchas and from the spine of the seventh cervical vertebras. It is inserted into the base of the scapula opposite the spine. The Rhomboideus Major (Fig. 245, 12) arises from the spinous processes of the upper four dorsal vertebras, being often united with the minor; and is inserted into the base of the scapula opposite the infraspinous fossa, the middle fibres being attached to a fibrous arch, which is connected with the bone at its extremities. The three muscles of the second layer act upon the scapula, the levator drawing up the superior angle, and the rhomboidei taring the lower part of the bone towards the spine, and thus tending to rotate the scapula and depress the glenoid cavity. The muscles are supplied by branches from the upper part of the brachial plexus and twigs from the cervical plexus. TThe posterior belly of the omo-hyoid is to be traced out to the scapula, and the levator, rhomboidei and the upper ha f of the latissimus dorsi are then to be divided, when the scapula can be drawn away from the ribs, and the posterior surface of the seriati s magnus miiscle with a quantity of loose cellular tissue between it and the ribs will be brought into view. This muscle is to be cgviaea by a vertical incision, and the clavicle being sawn through (it tms has not already been done), the arm will be attached only by tne