265 SIDE VIEW OF PELVIS. of distension, being in the anterior part of the pelvis when empty, but tilling the pelvis and rising into the abdomen when distended. The neck of the bladder is the narrowed portion attached to the prostate, and the remainder of the viscus is termed the body. The upper part of the body is the apex or summit, to which the obliterated urachus is attached, and over which the obliterated hypogastric arteries pass to the abdominal wall. The base or fundus of the bladder is the lowest part of the organ, which is seen to rest on the horizontal portion of the rectum, with the vesiculse seminales and vasa deferentia intervening. The peritoneum is reflected from the second portion of the rectum on to the fundus of the bladder at the level of the entrance of the ureters, and is then continued over the back of the bladder until it is reflected over the urachus to the abdominal wall, leaving the anterior surface uncovered. It should be noticed how much the extent of bladder uncovered by peritoneum, both above and below, depends upon the distension of the viscus ; since, in the contracted state its anterior surface is in contact with the pubes, whilst in the distended condition it rises above the bone and is in contact with the posterior surface of the abdominal muscles, and thus tapping above the pubes without injury to the serous membrane is possible. The depth of the recto-vesical pouch will similarly be found to vary, the peri- toneum reaching nearer to the prostate when the bladder is empty than when it is full; consequently the operation of tapping by the rectum can be only safely undertaken when the bladder is distended. Cripps gives the average distance of the recto-vesical pouch from the anus as 2| inches when both rectum and bladder are empty, and 3£ inches when the bladder is distended. The left Ureter (Fig. 147, 12) descending from the kidney is contained in the posterior false ligament of the bladder, and can now be traced beneath the peritoneum to its entrance into the posterior part of the fundus of the bladder, at a point nearly opposite the posterior extremity of the vesicula seminalis. The left Vas Deferens (Fig. 147, 8) can be traced from the testicle, and has been seen to turn down into the pelvis to the inner side of the external iliac artery, after leaving the inguinal canal It is now seen to wind over the back of the bladder, crossing the oblite- rated hypogastric artery, and to be continued beneath the peritoneum to the fundus of the bladder, where it hooks round the ureter to become internal to it; the vas will be afterwards traced to the prostate.