THE SUPRA-ORBITAL ARTERY. 317 Fig. 170. already been traced through the cavernous sinus to the sphenoidal fissure, where it occupies the highest position, and is now seen passing on the inner side of the orbit to enter the superior oblique muscle on its orbital surface; this arrangement differing from that, of the other muscles of the orbit, which are supplied on their ocular surfaces. The Frontal Nerve (Fig. 169, 8) [5th], the largest nerve entering through the sphenoidal fissure, lies in the centre of the orbit and divides at its anterior part into the supra-orbital and supra-trochlear branches ; these turn round the margin of the orbit to the forehead, the supra-orbital through the supra-orbital notch, and the supra- trochlear close to the inner angle of the orbit. Frequently the supra- trochlear nerve, the more internal of the two, is double. The Lachrymal Nerve (Fig. 169, 12) [5th] lies on the outer side of the orbit and passes to the lachrymal gland, which it sup- plies. It frequently sends a branch to the forehead close to the outer angle of the orbit, which forms a junction with the temporo-malar nerve. The Supra-Orbital Artery (Fig. 170, 8) is a branch of the ophthalmic artery, and accom- panies the supra-orbital nerve to the forehead. The Lachrymal Artery (Fig. 170, 12) is a smaller branch also from the ophthalmic, and supplies the lachrymal gland. The Lachrymal Gland (Fig. 170, 4) is an almond-shaped body Fig. 170—Arteries and veins of orbit (from Hirschfeld and LeveilleT 1. Pulley of superior oblique tendon 2. Levator palpebrae (cut). 3. Trunk of ophthalmic artery from which the frontal, nasal, and palpebral branches are derived. 4. Lachrymal gland. 5. Anterior ethmoidal artery. 6. Rectus superior (cut). 7. Posterior ethmoidal artery. 8. Supra-orbital artery. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. 16. Ciliary arteries. Ophthalmic vein. Origins of obliquus superior levator palpebns, and superior- i GCt US t Lachrymal artery. Optic nerve. Ophthalmic artery. Carotid artery. Cavernous sinus.