7 THE MAMMA. always nearer to the nail. When the finger is bent, the prominence at the articulation is due to the proximal phalanx, and the joint is below that point. The best rule, therefore, in amputating through the phalangeal articulations, is to bend the phalanx whichi is to be removed to a right angle with the one above it and to begin the incision at a point midway in the thickness of the upper phalanx, cutting transversely to a corresponding point on the opposite side The limb should be carefully bandaged from the fingers to the middle of the upper arm, and only uncovered as may be necessary m the progress of the dissection. (The arm being drawn away from the side an incision is to be made half an inch to one side of the median line of the sternum m its whole length, and to be joined at right angles by another running alone the whole length of the clavicle on to the acromion process and then?e in a vertical direction half-way clown the upper arm and then across the inner aspect of the arm as far as the posterior lold of the axilla Another incision is to be made transversely from the ensi- form cartilage, and must be carried beyond the posterior fold oi the armpit The large flap of skin thus marked out is to be reflected towards the arm, the dissector on the right side beginning at the lower end of the sternum, and on the left side at its upper extremity. J Beneath the skin is the subcutaneous fascia, which is often very fatty in the female. The mamma will also be exposed (an incision being carried round the nipple so as to leave it attached to the organ) in the female, or its rudiment in the male subject. In a well- developed body the fibres of the platysma myoides may be seen arising from the fascia below the clavicle. The Mamma, or breast, is a gland of very variable bulk lying upon the great pectoral muscle, from which it is separated by a quantity of loose cellular tissue. Its base is nearly circular, and usually extends from the side of the sternum to the margin of the anterior wall of the axilla, reaching from the third to the seventh rib in the vertical direction. Near its centre, and between the fourth and fifth ribs is the mamilla or nipple, around which is the areola of discoloured skin, the tint of which becomes darker as pregnancy advances. The nipple may be shown to be pierced by numerous small lactiferous ducts by introducing bristles into their openings, and its skin is thin and delicate. The gland consists of numerous lobules bound together by tough cellular tissue, and having a quantity of fat interspersed between them. Each lobule is abundantly supplied with blood-vessels and has a separate galactoferous duct. These last converge towards the