ARTERIES OF THE BRAIN. 486 where it becomes continuous with the arachnoid of the spinal cord. It gives sheaths to the cranial nerves as far as the foramina of exit, where they are reflected to join the parietal layer of arachnoid. Between the arachnoid and the pia mater is the Subarachnoid Space, which contains the cerebro-spinal fluid, and which, though existing all over the brain, is only easily made out in the following places :— The Anterior Subarachnoid Space (diamond-shaped space) is imme- diately in front of the pons Varolii, and is formed by the stretching of the arachnoid from one middle lobe of the cerebrum to the other, as far forward as the optic commissure. The Posterior Subarachnoid Space will be found beneath the cere- bellum on lifting up the medulla oblongata. This communicates Avith the subarachnoid space of the spinal cord, and with the interior of the brain by means of an aperture into the fourth ventricle, which may now be seen by removing the layer of arachnoid. The Pia Mater is a vascular membrane closely investing the brain and passing into the sulci between the convolutions, besides giving processes into the interior of the brain which will be subse- quently examined. It becomes more tough and fibrous as it ap- proaches the spinal cord, upon which its vascularity almost entirely disappears. [The arachnoid is to be removed from the arteries at the base of the brain, which are to be cleaned and the branches followed. It will now be possible to show the longitudinal fissure between the two anterior lobes of the cerebrum more clearly than before, and also the fissure of Sylvius between the anterior and middle lobes of each side, into which a large artery may be traced.] The Arteries of the Brain (Fig. 252) are derived from four great trunks—the two vertebral and the two internal carotid arteries. The Vertebral Artery (i) has been seen to be a branch of the subclavian artery, and has been traced through the transverse pro- cesses of the cervical vertebrae to the atlas. The artery pierces the dura mater between the occiput and the atlas, and enters the skull through the foramen magnum by the side of the medulla oblongata. At the lower border of the pons Varolii the two vertebrals unite in the Basilar Artery (6), which passes along the middle line of the pons Varolii to bifurcate at its anterior border into the posterior cerebral arteries (8). The Branches of the Vertebral Artery are :— 1. A small Posterior Spinal artery (3), which runs down the poste- rior surface of the spinal cord with its fellow of the opposite side.