418 LIGAMENTS OF T^E VERTEBRA. the arytenoid cartilages and with the aryteno-epiglottidean folds. They are composed of yellow fihro-cartilage. The Cuneiform Cartilages or Cartilages of Wnsberg (tig. 216 g) are two small bodies found in the aryteno-epiglottidean folds of mucous membrane, and are sometimes wanting. They are com- posed of yellow fibro-cartilage. The Epiglottis (Fig. 216, a) is composed of yellow nbro-cartilage shaped like a cordate leaf, and has been seen to be connected with the thyroid cartilage and the hyoid bone. It is covered with mucous membrane, upon removing which it will be found to be perforated especially in the posterior aspect, by numerous holes, in which mucous glands are lodged,/ ■ The large cartilages of the larynx are very apt to undergo calcareous degeneration in advanced life, and the epiglottis is not unfrequently thickened by disease or injured by ulceration. Ligaments of the Vertebra. [The ligaments of the spinal column are to be examined by re- moving all the remaining muscular fibres. J The Ligaments of the Bodies of the vertebra, are-1 the Anterior Common Ligament; 2, the Posterior Common Ligament; and 3, the Intervertebral Substance or Fibro-cartilage. The Anterior Common Ligament (Fig. 218, i) is a ro - of fibres extending down the front of the vertebral column, from the axis to the sacrum. The fibres are attached princi- pally to the intervertebral substances, and only slightly to the upper and lower margins of the vertebrae ; the deep fibres passing between the adjacent bones, but the superficial crossing three or more vertebra. The ligament when divided will be seen to be thicker opposite the bodies of the vertebrae than on the inter- Fig. 218. Fie 218 -Anterior ligament of the vertebra, and ligaments of the ribs s" (from Wilson). 4. Interarticular ligament connecting the head of the rib to the in- tervertebral substance, and separating the two synovial membranes of this articulation. Anterior common ligament. Anterior costo-vertebral or stellate ligament. Anterior costo-transverse ligament.