THE WRIST JOINT. 75 Kadio-Ulnar Articulations. Superior (Fig. 34, 3).—This is a part of the elbow joint, and con- sists of the Orbicular ligament, a strong flat band of fibres which is attached to the extremities of the lesser sigmoid cavity, and gives insertion to the external lateral ligament of the elbow, which must be removed to see the orbicular ligament satisfactorily. Middle (Fig. 32, 5).—The Interosseous ligament or membrane is the great bond between the shafts of the bones of the fore-arm, its fibres running obliquely downwards from the radius to the ulna. It is attached to the sharp interosseous borders of both bones in all their lower part, a space being left between the bones above, through which the posterior interosseous vessels go. The membrane has a large opening in it near the lower part for the anterior interosseous artery, and one or two smaller ones for its branches. The Round or oblique ligament (Fig. 32, 4) is very rarely seen, but is a band attached to the outer side of the coronoid process of the ulna and to the radius below the bicipital tubercle. Its direction is therefore the reverse of that of the interosseous membrane. Inferior (Fig. 35, 2) is formed by anterior and posterior ligaments, which are short fibrous bands passing between the extremities of the radius and ulna, and by an inter-articular fibro-cartilage which will be seen when the joint is opened (Fig. 37, 3). The Wrist Joint. This is a condyloid joint or hinge-joint admitting of considerable lateral movement,' and has anterior, posterior, and two lateral ligaments. The wrist joint has in front the radial artery, the tendons of the flexor longus pollicis, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor sublimis and profundus, with the median nerve, ulnar artery and nerve, and flexor carpi ulnaris. To the outer side, the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi and prirni internodii pollicis, with the radial artery and nerve. Behind, the extensor carpi radialis longior and the brevior, extensor secundi internodii pollicis, extensor communis digitorum, indicis, and minimi digiti, and the extensor carpi ulnaris (Fig. 24). The Anterior and Posterior Ligaments (Fig. 35, 3) are broad bands attached to the front and back of the lower end of the radius and to the front and back of the first row of carpal bones, beim- united with the ligaments of the carpus. The External Lateral Ligament (Fig. 35, 4) is a thick band