t 56 BACK OF THE FORE-ARM. side of the space in front of the elbow and beneath the supinator longus. The posterior interosseous nerve can now be traced running obliquely in the fibres of the supinator brevis, and at its lower border breaking up into muscular branches and an articular branch to the wrist lhe muscular branches supply the extensor carpi radialis brevior, extensor communis digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnans the three special extensors of the thumb and the indicator ; and the supinator brevis is supplied by a branch or two as the nerve passes through it, and must be divided to see them. The arhcular branch to the wrist is the continuation of the nerve, and reaches the interosseous membrane between the extensors of the first and second phalanges of the thumb ; passing beneath the latter muscle it rims to the back ot the carpus, beneath the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum, where a gangliform enlargement may be found. „..,,, The Radial Artery at the wrist (Fig. 22, 18).-After leaving the front of the lower end of the radius (p. 40) the radial artery lies a-ainst the external lateral ligament of the wrist-jomt, and beneath the extensors of the metacarpal bone and first phalanx of the thumb. It then winds over the back of the carpus, to the interval between the metacarpal bones of the thumb and fore-finger, where it is crossed by the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb, and lastly passes into the palm of the hand between the two heads of the abductor indicis (first dorsal interosseous muscle). The Branches (Fig. 22) of the radial artery at the wrist very commonly vary, but should be five in number. 1 The Posterior carpal (17) is a small branch which runs trans- versely close upon the bone immediately below the annular ligament, to ioin the posterior carpal branch of the ulnar and form an arch. From this two dorsal interosseous arteries are given, which run on the third and fourth interosseous muscles, and receive the perforating arteries which appear between their heads of origin. 2 The Metacarpal (20) is the first dorsal interosseous artery, and closely resembles the others. It runs on the second interosseous muscle, and at the root of the fingers often joins the digital branch from the front of the hand. . 3 and 4 The Dorsales pollicis (24) are two small arteries which are distributed 011 the metacarpal bone of the thumb; one is often wanting 5 The Dorsales indicis (22) is a similar branch, which runs along the metacarpal bone of the index finger. This is frequently repW by a large arterv which runs along the metacarpal bone and divides into branches to the fore-finger and thumb, being m act the radialis indicis, a branch of the radial in the palm, arising earlier than usual.