[sect. V. 162 THE SKIN. part of the skin (Art. 204). They proceed to multiply within the lymphatics (h) and at length completely fill them (i). From the 71 Fig. 150. Section of the bkin in eeysipelas bullosum. {Alum-carmine staining, mounted in Canada balsam: x 60) lymphatics filled with micrococci micrococci in the substance of the tissue necrosed tissue cellular infiltration jjfj fibrino-cellular infiltration n fibrino-cellular exudation the bleb h i k I m within a epidermis b corium c bleb or bulla d roof of the bleb e vacuolated epidermal cell / swollen cell and nucleus g 01 cavities produced by solution of epidermal cells, containing frag- ments of cells and pus-corpuscles lymphatics they pass into the connective tissue, where they form coherent masses (k) or chaplets. The tissue around these colonies becomes necrotic (l^, and presently inflammatory reaction is set up. The extravasated cells may be scattered irregularly through the tissues, or be arranged in elongated clusters. The extent of the necrosis is often slight, but at times it reaches a considerable magnitude and leads to serious loss of substance, as in gangrenous erysipelas. Fehleisen published quite recently the results of his experiments on the cultivation and inoculation of the micrococci which constitute the vii'us of erysipelas {Sitzungsberichte d. Wiirzburg. phys.-med. Gesell. 1882). Ziegler {Naturforscherversammlung in Salzburg 1881) made inoculative experiments (Art. 204) on rabbits, but they all led to a fatal result. Fehleisen while confirming Ziegler's work was able to preserve the animals alive, and to watch the process of repair to its issue in complete recovery. He cultivated the micrococci 'purely' on gelatine impregnated with peptonised meat-infusion, and effected a successful inoculation on the human subject with micrococci of the fourth ai-tificially-cultivated generation ; perfectly typical erysipelas was induced. After these experiments the specific significance of the micrococci can hardly be doubted.