THE SKIN. [sect. V, 194 been described as pachydermatocele (Valentine Mott), elephan- toid molluscura (Nelaton), and elephantiasis mollis (ViRCHOw); to distinguish it from acquired elephantiasis (Art. 395) we may perhaps designate it congenital elephantiasis. The affection does not always take the form of circumscribed tumours, but sometimes gives rise to extensive and general thickening and overgrowth of the skin (dermatolysis), which lies in loose overlapping bulges and folds like that of a hippopotamus or elephant. Fibromata of various sizes are met with which are not neuro- matous. They form hard or soft nodes seated in the skin or subcutaneous tissues. Keloid is a very rare variety of fibroma. It takes the form of tuberous or discoid or band-like growths seated in the corium beneath the papillary layer. The papillae and epidermis are intact. When fully developed the growth consists almost exclu- sively of bundles of coarse fibres. In its earlier stages it contains numerous spindle-cells. Cicatricial keloid must be distinguished firom true or spon- taneous keloid. It grows in the substance of a scar, and is therefore not covered with papillae. In other respects it may resemble the true keloid. The disease called ' Addison's keloid', and now known as morphoea, is in no way related to these affections: it is a hypertrophic condition, somewhat resembling scleroderma (Art. 396). The genesis and significance of the multiple cutaneous fibromata have been worked out by von Eecklinghadsen {Die multiplen Fihrome der Haut und ihre Beziehung zu dan multiplen Neuromen Berlin 1882). He investigated with the utmost care their relations to the various constituents of the skin and their development from the fibrous sheaths of the nerves, and thus made clear many facts that were before unexplained. He also examined their connexion with the fibromata (false nem-omata) of the nerve-trimks, and with several alHed aflPections of the sldn such as elephantiasis mollis. Bruns • {Virch. Arch. vol. 50) and Czerny {LangenhecMs Arch, xvii) had already pointed out the close connexion of the latter affection with multiple neui'o- fibroma. VoN Eecklinghausen gives in his tract a summary of the hitherto published cases and memoirs. He regards the elephantoid hypertrophic folds of the skin, refen-ed to in the text as dermatolysis, not as due to the extension of a neurofibromatous gi'owth, but as a primary neuropathic affection similar to neuropathic papilloma. Labb^ and Legros {Journ. de Vanat. et de la physiologic 1881) describe a circumscribed hypertrophy of the papillae associated with hyperplasia of the touch-corpuscles. They call it papillary nem-oma. On keloid see Langhans (Virch. Arch. vol. 40); Babesiu (Viertelj. f. Derm, u. Syph. TO); Warren {Sitzungsher. d. Wiener Akad. 1868); Fagge {Guy^s Hasp. Rep. 1868); Kaposi {Hebra's Diseccses of the sMn in, with fiu-ther references); Duhring {Diseases of the skin 1882). 400. In addition to the inflammatory and tumour-like cuta- neous growths there are others (mostly in the form of warty thicken- ings of the skin) in which all the constituent elements of the skin take part without any notable change of structure. They are most frequently met with in the face and form gland-like often hairy