GALL-STONES. CHAP. LXII.] 347 (3) Stones consisting of bilirubin and calcium-salts, or of biliverdin and calcium-salts, are rare and usually small. (4) Stones consisting of calcium carbonate are very rare. 509. The exact way in which gall-stones are formed is not fully understood. In many cases foreign bodies are found within them, and we know that such bodies introduced into the biliary passages become crusted over. For example, a round-worm, which has crept into the common duct and there died, becomes covered with a coating of granular matters precipitated from the bile. When the calcium-compounds and the cholesterin are dissolved out from a gall-stone, the insoluble residue is a nitrogenous body (Hoppe-Seyler). It is probably derived from the remains of cast- off epithelium. No mucin can be detected, at least by chemical means. Stagnation and decomposition of the bile seem to favour the formation of gall-stones. Certain conditions of the general nutri- tion are probably not without influence, seeing that the stones are much more common in patients of mature age than in younger patients. Cholesterin is soluble in the sodium-compounds of the bile- acids, and thus a cholesterin-stone may be redissolved if the bile with which it comes in contact is not already saturated with cholesterin. The combinations of calcium-salts with the bile-pig- ments, on the other hand, are not soluble without actual decom- position (Hoppe-Seyler). 510. The effects of the formation of gall-stones vary greatly in different cases. Often the wall of the gall-bladder is affected very slightly even when it contains a large number of stones. Gall-stones give rise to very painful attacks (gall-stone or biliary colic) when they become impacted in the common or the cystic duct. Stones formed in the gall-bladder and in the ducts them- selves are frequently discharged into the intestine through the common duct. But if one of these lodges or lingers in the duct, retention of the bile ensues; and this may give rise to dilatation of the ducts and to infiltration of the liver with bile. The liver-tissue may thereupon become degenerate or inflamed (Art. 512), while the parts around the impacted stone become also inflamed or even ulcer- ated. If the stone is near the mouth of the common duct the in- flammation and ulceration may extend to the papilla at its mouth, and in this way set the stone free. Stones may escape from the gall- bladder into the intestine (duodenum or colon) directly: this of course can happen only when inflammatory adhesions have already been set up between the intestine and the gall-bladder. In unfavourable cases the stones break through into the peritoneal cavity or into the retroperitoneal tissue, or inflammation of the wall of the gall-bladder extends to the serous surface and peritonitis is in- duced.