THE SKIN. [sect, V. 202 transformed into a dark greyish pulp or a continuous slough. The subcutaneous tissue becomes necrotic and suppurates beneath the slough, the pus usually breaking through at several points. The slough is ultimately cast off, leaving an open granulating wound. 406. Lichen (according to Hebra and Kaposi) is an eruption of papules, which remain as such throughout, and do not pass into any other form of efflorescence. Lichen scrofulosus is a chronic affection, in which pink or brownish flattened papules are formed, each capped with a small scale. It is met with chiefly in scrofulous patients, and usually affects the trunk. According to Kaposi it is due to inflammatory infiltration and exudation in and around the hair-follicles and sebaceous glands, and in the neighbouring papillae. The scales are composed of epithelial cells which accumulate round the openings of the follicles. Lichen rnher amminatus is characterised by the appearance of scattered hard red nodules, each capped with a little knot of epidermal scales, and tending to coalesce into irregular desqua- mating patches. In the course of years the affection may extend over the entire surface of the body. The process starts in and around the hair-follicles (Hebba, Kaposi, Neumann), beginning with hyperplasia of the cells of the outer root-sheath; cellular outgrowths from the follicles penetrate the surrounding structures, and the papillae and rete Malpighii become infiltrated with cells or themselves undergo proliferation. In lichen ruber planus the papules are flattened and umbilicated, they are red or dull pink, and the continuous patches into which they coalesce have a shining waxy look and do not desquamate. 407. Affections of the hair and nails. Each hair according to its size has a definite period of existence. When this is at an end, the hair is shed and its place is taken by a new one. The replacement is effected by the cells at the tip of the papilla ceasing to grow and multiply, in consequence of which the old hair with its inner root-sheath is separated from the papilla. The young hair is then produced by the renewed growth of the cells of the papilla left behind on the separation of the old hair. Long thick hairs live longer than short and fine ones. To maintain the uniform growth of the hair as a whole a constant relation must be kept up between the loss of old hairs and the production of new. When this relation is disturbed by hindrances to production, the result is alopecia or baldness. Kaposi distinguishes the following forms. Alopecia adnata, or congenital absence of hair, is seldom an enduring condition. Alopecia (clavities) acquisita is natural in old age (alopecia senilis), but it may appear at any period of life (alopecia prematura). I