284) [SEf'T. VIT. tHE ATJMEXTARY TRACT. The extent of the invaginatioii varies much. Where the intes- tine is very loose and moveable a very considerable length of it may be involved. Thus, for example, the lower portion of the ileum with the caecum may be thrust into the colon, and work downwards until the ileo-caecal valve reaches the sigmoid flexure or even the rectum. The mesentery being severely dragged upon and its vessels compressed, the invaginated jDortion of the bowel becomes highly h\iDeraemic and oedematous. Presently inflammation is set up^ and this may lead to adhesions between the enclosed and enclosing segments : necrosis and gangrene usually ensue. It is a compara- tively favourable issue when the whole of the invaginated segment necroses and separates so as to be cast off completely; the upper portion becoming adherent and its channel continuous Avith that of the lower, recovery may and in some cases does take place. The cause of intussusception is not certainly made out. Ac- cording to Leichtenstern it depends on paresis or partial para- lysis of a limited jDortiou of the bowel. When this occurs an energetic peristaltic movement of the jjortion immediately above may thrust the latter into the flaccid or paralysed portion; and then continued peristalsis rapidly increases the invagination. Prolapse of the bowel implies its escape through some normal or abnormal opening. The anus is the only possible normal opening, and through it the rectum may protrude. Prolapsus recti (or ani) occurs during violent straining at stool, especially when the intestine is relaxed by chronic inflammation. The protruding bowel forms a kind of tumour covered with mucous membrane: it often becomes inflamed or gangrenous, particularly in cases where by adhesions or constriction the prolaj^se has become irreducible, 470. Non-specific inflammations. The varieties of inflam- mation described in Arts. 420—-428 are all met with more or less frequently in the intestine. Catarrhal inflammation (intestinal catarrh) or enteritis is especially common. I^he catarrhal secretion may be serous, mucous, purulent, or of some intermediate kind. In the colon the amount of mucus secreted is sometimes enormous. Catarrhal enteritis is usually an acute disorder and ends in com- plete recovery. But in many cases the acute forms as well as the chronic leave behind them permanent structural change in the intestine. Even in the milder forms the connective tissue lying between the crypts of Lieberkiihn becomes infiltrated with liquid and extravasated cells. The epithelial cells pour out an excessive qviantity of mucus, and become loosened from their sub-structures or fall away altogether. According to BoHM desquamation of the epithelium is characteristic of poisoning with arsenic and with some substances of "the muscarin-group. If this process goes too