CHAP. XXVIII.] INFLAMMATIONS OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. Ill of organisation; it is indeed scarcely correct to describe it as tissue at all. Less often it becomes more fully developed, and then it is more permanent in its character. Its structure usually bears- little resemblance to that of normal lymphoid tissue, and often is so like neoplastic or tumour tissue that it is difficult for the histologist to be sure whether an enlarged lymphatic gland is really a tumour or merely a hyperplasia. The diagnosis in such cases depends much more on the clinical facts than on the structural appearances. The tumour-like enlargements of the glands met with in chronic lymphadenitis are divisible into four groups according to their histological structure: (1) small-celled hyperplasia with a tendency to caseation or suppuration, commonly described as scrofulous lymphadenitis; (2) large-celled indurative hyperplasia; (3) trabecular or reticular indurative hyperplasia; (4) tuberculous enlargement. Clinically all these varieties are referred to as lymphoma. 339. Scrofulous lymphadenitis, or small-celled hyperplasia of the lymphatic glands, is closely related to ordinary acute lymphadenitis and is in fact often a terminal stage of an acute inflammation, though it generally runs throughout a subacute or chronic course. The glands swell to a considerable size. Some- times a single one is affected, sometimes an entire group such as the cervical or mesenteric glands. At first the glands are soft and greyish on section; then caseous foci develope, or the whole gland is changed into an opaque white cheesy mass, which may be dry or pulpy or creamy according to the amount of water present. The tissue surrounding the caseous foci is in the early stages soft and greyish, consisting of lymphadenoid tissue infiltrated with inflammatory products; after- wards though still cellular it appears denser and firmer and contains a considerable amount of fibrous tissue. The capsule of the gland is especially liable to be thickened. In the early stages the chief microscopic change which appears is the great accumulation of small leucocytes in the meshes of the adenoid reticulum. Few larger cells are visible, though cases differ in this respect. Sometimes a number of epithelioid cells are developed, and are aggregated in clusters; and now and then giant-cells appear. The reticulum itself seems little altered at fu'st; but later on it breaks down here and there. When necrosis or caseation sets in the usual degenerative metamorphoses are visible; the cellular tissue is replaced by a mass of detritus, and only the nuclei at the margins where the dead tissue passes into the living can be brought out by staining reagents. In recent specimens this marginal zone is seen to contain numbers of fatty cells and pale co- agulated masses. Occasionally the necrotic disintegration is preceded over a greater or less extent by uniform homogeneous degeneration.