CHAPTER XVII. EUPTURE OF THE COATS OF THE VESSELS. 308. Aneurysms and varices may burst (Arts. 304 and 306), and this is the commonest cause of spontaneous haemorrhage. But rupture may also occur in undilated vessels, when inflamma- tory and degenerative changes have reduced the natixral resisting power of their walls. Lastly, various forms of injury may bring about the rupture of healthy vessels. Simple increase of blood- pressure does not lead to rupture in vessels that are really healthy. When an artery gives way the ensuing haemorrhage is great; it continues until the pressure of the blood accumulating in the tissues is as great as that Avithin the bleeding vessel. The mass of gore and infiltrated tissue produced when the extravasated blood coagulates is called an arterial haematoma. The rent in the vessel is closed by an aggregation of cohering white blood-cells, which solidifies into a colourless button-shaped plug projecting inwards and outwards from the plane of the rent (ScHULTZ). The plug within the vessel is after a time partly absorbed, and bulged outwards by the pressure of the blood. A sac is thus formed the interior of which communicates with the lumen of the vessel, while the exterior wall is mainly formed by colourless fibrin and the clots resulting from the primary haemor- rhage. Such a sac is called a false or spurious aneurysm ; and is distinguished from a true aneurysm by the fact that the coats of the vessel form no part of its wall. If plastic inflammation is set up owing to the presence of the clots, an external sac-wall of granulation-tissue may be formed, and this may develope into cicatricial tissue. The fibrinous sac of the false anemysm may give way again and lead to fresh haemon-hage. In other cases the rent in the vessel is effectively closed by the transformation of the fibrinous plug itself into fibrous tissue. According to ScHULTZ this transformation is due to the white blood-cells which lodge in the cavity of the sac, and assume the functions of formative cells. White blood-cells likewise lodge in the meshes of the fibrinous