[sect. VII. THE ALIMENTARY TRACT. 266 serous membrane {peritonitis deformans), may give rise to shrinking or other deformity of the stomach. Partial alterations of form are due to local disease. Ulcers (chiefly along the lesser curvature) which heal and become cicatrised lead to retractions and con- strictions, which may be so extreme as to give the stomach the form of an hour-glass, or to bring the cardiac and pyloric ends into contact. New growths in the stomach-wall may have like effects. Gastric diverticula are very rare. Displacements of the stomach as a whole may be caused either by changes in the surrounding parts or by disorders of the organ itself. References:—-Penzoldt, Die Magenerioeiterung Erlaugen 18*75 ; Landerer, Die angeborene Stenose des Pylorus Tubingen 1879 ; Demme, Die Magenenoei- terung beim Kinde, Jahreshericht d. Kinderspitales Berne 1882. 455. Hypertrophy of the muscular coat is observed in like conditions to those which are associated with dilatation, namely in cases of pyloric obstruction. It is rarely met with unaccompanied by such obvious anatomical lesions as explain its development; when these are absent we are driven to refer it to functional disturbance of some kind (Nauwerck, Deutsches Archiv f. klin. Med. xxi). The hypertrophy is most marked near the pylorus, less so about the fundus ; it may be very considerable. Notable thickening of the walls of the stomach may follow upon chronic inflammation (Art. 456), and is common in carcinomatous disease (Art. 461). In both cases the thickening is mainly due to fibrous hyperplasia, though the mucous and serous coats and at times the muscular coat partake in the change : cases are however not rare in which the muscular coat is decidedly hypertrophied. The fibrous thickening which accompanies carcinomatous disease is often very great. Gastric polypi are papillary outgrowths from the mucous membrane of an inflammatory kind (Art. 456). They vary from the size of a pea to that of a hazel-nut or more, and very frequently enclose small cyst-like cavities. No new glands are formed in them, although by the overgrowth of the interglandular tissue single glands here and there may seem enlarged. Such inflammatory polypi are to be distinguished from the villous or papillomatous neoplastic growths or true tumours which may occur in the stomach. Atrophy of the coats is met with in conditions of general cachexia, and in cases of dilatation. Fatty degeneration of the muscular fibres takes place, and according to R. Maier colloid degeneration also occurs. When the fibrous elements become hyperplastic the muscle-cells may be compressed and undergo atrophy, while the glandular structures also dwindle and degene- rate (Art. 456). 456. Inflammation of the stomach or gastritis. In recent acute catarrh (acute gastritis) the mucous membrane of the