282 [sect. VII. THE ALIMENTARY TRACT. take place. The venous efflux i.s impeded, and engorgement, transudation, and haemorrhage result. The coil becomes purple and swollen, and liquid gathers in the sac; and these factors con- spire to intensify the strangulation. If nothing is done the intestine sooner or later becomes gan- grenous, and violent inflammation of the hernial sac ensues. The intestine becomes discoloured, turning brown or bluish-black ; at the point of strangulation it is paler and somewhat greyish. Pre- sently jDerforation takes place, and at the boundary between the living tissue and the dead, that is at the inner border of the strangulating constriction, definitive suppuration is set up. 467. Incarceration of the intestine, with obstruction and stasia of the faeces, may occur within the abdomen as well as in an external hernia. This has been called internal strangulation or intestinal obstruction. In the first place it must be remembered that within the peri- - toneal cavity there are pouches or recesses of peritoneum not visible outwardly, which are either normal or dependent on congenital ano- malies. In these pouches coils of intestine may become incarcera- tetl as in external hernias, and they are sometimes spoken of as cases of internal hernia. Among such pouches we may mention the lesser or omental sac of the jDcritoneum bounded by the stomach, pancreas, liver, and spleen, and communicating with the greater sac through the foramen of Winslow; the duodeno-jejunal fossa, between the upper part of the mesentery and the spine; the subcaecal fossa, on the mesial side of the caecum; and the intersigmoid fossa, beneath the mesocolon of the sigmoid flexure. Coils of intestine may slip into and be incarcerated in any of these pouches. The duodeno-jejunal fossa may indeed enclose the whole of the small intestine (retroperitoneal hernia). In rare instances sacculations of the diaphragm may contain coils of intestine, giving rise to diaphragmatic hernia. Cases are more common in which abdominal viscera escape into the thorax through actual rents in the diajDhragm (Thoma, Virch. Arch, vol. 88). Sometimes in consequence of plastic inflammation false mem- branes and adhesions are formed within the abdomen, and if these enclose gaps or pouches, internal incarceration may occur. If the opening through which the coil of intestine slips is narrow, or if the coil is nipped, stasis and all the other symptoms of strangulation may be produced. The like may happen when the .omentum or the mesentery contains abnormal perforations or gaps. Another cause of intestinal obstruction is twisting of the bow^el on itself, or volvulus. It can occur only in the more moveable parts of the tract, and is due partly to peristaltic movements, especially when the tube is very unequally distended, and partly to external violence, such as a blow ou the abdomen. The twist occurs at the