THE SPLEEN AND THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS. [SECT. III. 118 And we laiow as little the reason why one lymphoma should continue to be a purely local affection, and another of the same texture should lead to meta- static infection of other gi-oups of glands or of organs which normally contain no gland-tissue. Klebs has suggested that leukaemic lymphoma may be an infective dis- order due to an extraneous virus, and he has therefore classed it with the infective granulomata. This view has much in its favour, but we are at present unable to advance any definite proofs of its correctness. References :—Art. 328; ViRCHOW, Krankhafte Gesclninilste il; Wunder- LiCH, Arch. d. Heilk. vii; Murchison, Path. iSoc. Tram. 1870; Langhans, Vireh. Arch. vol. 54; Potain, Diet, encyc. d. sciences mM. (2nd ser. 1870) vol. Ill; Humbert, Des vAoplasmes des gang, lyniphatiques Paris 1878 ; von Wini- warter, Arch. f. klin. Chir. xviii. 344. Soft lymphadenoma or lymphosarcoma is a soft almost fluctuating or difQueut growth, with a light-grey or greyish-white or greyish-red tint on section. It is sometimes speckled with small red islets corresponding to dilated vessels or small extravasations. An abundant turbid juice comes from the section when scraped. The tissue surrounding the gland is not usually altered, though sometimes neighbouring glands cohere and coalesce into a single mass. Sometimes caseous patches occur within the growth. The juice consists of small leucocytes, mingled with a few larger and often multinuclear cells, spindle-cells from the walls of the vessels, red corpuscles, and free nuclei. When examined with the microscope the follicles are seen to be greatly enlarged, the fibrous parts of the medullaiy tissue have disappeared, and the whole section of the gland has become like the cortex. In pencilled sections the reticulum is seen to be thickened; it has nuclei at its nodal points, and includes a multi- tude of lymphoid elements. The growth is thus due to a development of tissue similar to that of the normal gland-follicles. The affection extends in some cases only to one or two glands, in others to whole groups. Other parts of the lymphatic system are very often affected at the same time, especially the malpighian follicles of the spleen and the lymphadenoid tissue of the alimen- tary canal, as it exists for example in the follicles of the tongue, the stomach, and the intestine. In young patients the thymus may likewise be affected. But lymphadenoma may also develope in parts which normally contain no lymphadenoid tissue, such as the bones, liver, kidneys, ovaries, etc. The behaviour of the blood varies, and two varieties of the disease are distinguished accordingly. In many cases no change can be detected, or only a diminution in the amount of blood. This variety is called by various names such as Hodgkin's disease (from its first describer), adenia (Teousseau), lymphosarcoma in a restricted sense (ViRCHOW), malignant lymphoma (Billroth), and pseudoleukaemia (Cohnheim). In the second variety the white corpuscles of the blood are increased in number (leukaemia). The growth is then described as leukaemic lymphoma or leukaemic lymphadenoma. The examination of the blood suflices to dis-