[sect. V. 186 THE SKIN. forms an enormous tumour reaching to the knees or lower, and may weigh upwards of a hundred pounds. 396. The affected parts of the skin in elephantiasis may be dense, hard, rough, and white (elephantiasis dura), or soft and greyish (elephantiasis mollis). When the tissue is cut into, a more or less abundant escape of lymph takes place : where the lym- phatics are much dilated (elephantiasis lymphangiectatica) the lymph may flow away in considerable quantity. The blood-vessels may be dilated and hypertrophied, or alto- gether unaltered. The subcutaneous and even the deeper-lying con- nective tissue may be involved in the general hypertrophy. The surface is either smooth (elephantiasis glabra), the horny layer being unaffected, or rough and warty (elephantiasis verrucosa) or tuberculated (elephantiasis tuberosa), or covered with papilloma- tous excrescences {elephantiasis papillomatosa). The horny layer is frequently thickened and altered, forming a covering of coherent scales or plates: the condition is sometimes described as acquired ichthyosis (Art. 397) or keratosis. The structure of these elephantoid thickenings varies greatly. When they follow upon eczematous or ulcerative affections they are usually cellular and akin to granulation-tissue : sometimes they contain nodular aggregations of cells exactly resembling tubercles, and the lymphatics and the tissue around them are crammed full of lymphoid cells. On the other hand the tissue is in many cases poor in cells and coarsely fibrous in texture, giving one the impression that the normal fibrillae are not so much in- creased in number as in individual thickness. Between these extremes there are numerous transitional forms, varying in the proportion of cells they contain and in the coarseness and abun- dance of the fibre. The hyperplasia is in general uniform, but cases occur in which the thickened tissue is beset with irregular nodules, or in which the new tissue is more abundant round the sweat-glands and hair-follicles. The papillae are more or less enlarged. The hyperplasia is probably to be regarded as resulting from an over-nutrition of the parts, which again depends on some inflammatory alteration of the vessels. Cell-multiplication is further favoured by the partial occlusion of the lymjDhatics. This obstruction is well marked within the lymphatic glands, which are often hyperplastic in consequence of chronic inflammation. The production of lymph being increased and its outflow impeded, the tissues become saturated and the lymphatic vessels notably en- larged. Scleroderma is a rare aud very peculiar aftectiou of unknown origin, which attacks adults. It takes the form of local or general stiffening and hardening of the skin without any apparent external cause : it is somewhat rapid in its onset, and then remains stationary or passes away, to be succeeded by a fresh