CHAPTER XXXV. INTRODUCTORY. 359. The skin is a somewhat complex structure, which fulfils not merely the passive office of covering and protecting the organism, but also certain active functions of an important kind. It serves as an organ of touch, as a regulator of the body-tempera- ture, as a secretory organ with a definite secretion, and as an excreting and absorbing organ subserving among other purposes the adjustment of the gaseous constituents of the tissues. In accordance with the nature of its physiological functions it is in close relation both with the tissues and with the outer world. No other organ in the body has so many different tasks to perform, and none is so constantly exposed to extraneous influences. Its close relations with the rest of the body and with the outer world account sufficiently for the fact that it is especially liable to disease and injury. The mechanical, thermal, and chemical in- fluences to which it is perpetually exposed often induce in it morbid changes, chiefly of the inflammatory kind ; while vegetable and animal parasites settle in it and affect it injuriously in various ways. The disorders which are induced by the direct action of injurious agents are classed as idiopathic skin-diseases. In like manner the skin may be affected by morbid influences from within, arising from changes in the blood or the juices, or indirectly from disorders of the heart, liver, kidneys, genital organs, nervous system, etc. Disorders which appear as the manifestation or the result of a primary disorder having its chief seat elsewhere are classed as symptomatic skin-diseases. In view of the endless variety of injurious agencies by which the skin may be affected, it is plain that no good end can bo served by treating the pathology of the skin on purely aetiological lines. Moreover, the fact that the same injury may give rise in different individuals to very different affections, and that conversely different injuries may produce the same ultimate effect, affords