CHAP. XLI.] AFFECTIONS OF THE SEBACEOUS GLANDS, ETC. 201 405. Inflammatory affections of the sebaceous glands and hair-follicles. Acne is the general name given to localised inflammations surrounding the hair-follicles and associated seb- aceous glands (Fig. 160), It gives rise to small red nodules or pimples, in which may be noticed the dark head of a comedo, or a minute collection of pus. The tissue around the hair-follicle and gland may be simply hyperaemic and infiltrated with cells (Fig, 160 h), or suppurating; and according to the intensity of the inflammation are distinguished the varieties acne in- durata, acne punctata, and acne pus- tulosa. The extent of the inflam- mation also varies greatly. Ultimately however the sebaceous gland, and often the hair-follicle also, are de- stroyed. The cause of the inflammation is probably to be found in some anomaly of the glandular secretion. It is easy to understand that if the secretion stagnates and becomes in some way contaminated, it may act as an irritant on the surrounding tissues. Acne mentagra {sycosis non-par a- sitaria or folliculitis barbae) is a sup- purative peri-follicular inflammation. It gives rise to papules and pustules, which are usually perforated by hairs. The parts affected are the beard, and sometimes the scalp. Parasitic sycosis resembles the non-parasitic affection; it is due to the invasion of a fungus (see under tinea tonsurans, Art, 411), Boils or furimculi are due to inflammation of the tissue surrounding a hair-follicle or sebaceous gland, being distinguished from the pimples or pustules of acne by the much greater extent and intensity of the inflammation. A hard dark-red swelling is produced, containing in the centre a ' core' or slough of necrosed tissue: as the tissue around suppurates the core is loosened, and ultimately cast off when the boil ' breaks', Carbuncle or anthrax simplex resembles a boil in many points, being a firm more or less circumscribed deep-seated inflammation of the skin; but it extends over a greater area, and gives rise to a firm livid swelling which may reach the size of the palm of the hand or more. The swollen and infiltrated skin usually necroses, and is Fig. 160. Veetical section theough an acne-p0stdle. (After KAPOSI: slightly magnified) a epidermis b inflammatory infiltration of the corium surrounding the gland and hair-foUicle and of the neighbouring papUlae e c sebaceous gland the con- tents of which have been mostly evacuated; the remainder consists of pus and fatty epithelial detri- tus d the hair-foUicle connected with the gland (in oblique sec- tion) e altered papillae