[sect. I. BLOOD AND LYMPH. 28 ducts of fatty degeneration by fat-granule cells. In like manner other minute particles or even living tumour-cells may reach the blood. But the lymphatics are not the only channel; it is not rare for the blood-vessels to be entered directly. A tubercle developed in the vessel-wall may break up, and be in part swept off by the current. Tumours, such as cancers, may likewise break into the vessels, and tumour-cells may be conveyed from them to remote points. Moreover, when vessels are wounded extraneous organic matters such as fat may gain direct access to the blood; indeed after wounds involving adipose tissues the blood is almost always found to contain oil-globules. 265. Extraneous corpuscular matters may reach the blood in the same way as those derived from the tissues of the body itself. Inhaled coal-dust or steel-dust may pass through the pulmonary lymphatics and reach not only the glands but from them the blood itself, and similar minute solid matters may gain access directly from wounds. Here as before the migratory cells play an important part by taking up the foreign matters into their substance and carrying them to a distance. Of such foreign matters animal and vegetable parasites are unquestionably the most important. We have already discussed in the First Part the conditions under which such parasites gain an entrance. Their invasion of the blood is partly passive, and partly active. So far as it is passive the process is that just described; but many parasites have moreover the power of active penetration of the tissues, and so make dii'ect avenues of entrance for themselves through the vessel-walls, while they also use the pre-existing lymph-channels. It must also be remembered that many para- sites, and chiefly the vegetable kinds, have the power of multipli- cation within the blood; so that every drop may contain a multitude of individual organisms. The best examples of this are afforded by the anthrax-bacillus and the sj)irillum of relapsing fever. In the case x>f the other bacterial affections this process of multiplication within the blood has not yet been demonstrated, though there are many disorders in which brood-colonies are met with in the smaller blood-vessels, as in pyaemia (Art. 199). Among animal parasites the Filaria sanguinis (Art. 235) is the only one which occurs in great numbers in human blood. Tri- chinae, when they do enter the blood, stay only a short time in it. As to the seat of the Distoma haematobium or Bilharzia see Art, 2.39 ; and for Echinococcus see Art. 248. The entrance of air into the blood-vessels deserves special mention. It most frequently results from wounds of the great veins in the neighbourhood of the thorax; but it may also occur in consequence of ulceration into the veins, as in cases of gastric ulcer (Jurgensen), or after parturition through the open uterine