306 [sect. VIII. THE LIVER AND PANCREAS. whose source is the colouring-matter of the blood—and glycogen, elaborated from the carbohydrates which are brought to the liver. A series of interchanges are thus continually going on between the glandular substance of the liver and the blood which circulates through it. Matters of various kinds are taken up and transformed in manifold ways within the liver-cells; while some substances such as fat are simply deposited or stored in the cells, and may remain unchanged for a considerable time. As certain of the normal con- stituents of the blood are transformed and secreted by the liver, so also abnormal substances circulating in the blood may be taken up from it and excreted by the same channel. In this way arsenic, antimony, lead, copper, mercury, and sodium indigosulphate, are separated from the blood and cast out of the body. In consequence of the work thus thrown upon the liver, it not infrequently shows signs of degenerative change. This is most apparent when from any cause the physiological demands upon it become excessive. When for instance in pernicious anaemia (Art. 261) the disintegration of red blood-corpuscles is greatly increased, we have not only the accumulation of pigmentary detritus around and within the lobules (Art. 480),"but also an actual infiltration of the liver-cells themselves (Fig. 181). Cases occur in which almost every cell contains yellow, brown, or orange granules of pigment Fig. 181. LiVEE-CELLS INriLTBATED WITH YELLOW PIGMENT FROM A CASE OF PEENIOIOTJS ANAEMIA. (Stained loith perosmic acid and carmine: x 350) a pigment-granules b cells undergoing fatty degeneration (oil-globules stained black) containing iron, especially along the central parts of the trabeculae where the intercellular bile-canals run. Quincke has shown that the liver-cells also enclose colourless granules containing iron, as may be seen by the greenish-black tint they assume when treated with ammonium sulphide. The presence of the pigment-granules is generally made apparent to the naked eye by the pale brownish- red tint they impart to the liver-substance.