THE SKIN. [sect. V. 144 extreme cases the epidermis rises in blisters or blebs (Art. 370) from the papillary layer. Active hyperaemia is not always easy to distinguish from inflammation, into which it often passes as a second stage. The erythematous affections (such as those due to mechanical injury, to heat, etc. and those occurring symptomatically in connexion with dentition, dyspepsia, etc.) are usually accompanied by a certain amount of inflammatory exudation. Acne rosacea is characterised by bright-red spots, nodules, and tuberosities containing dilated blood-vessels, which develope slowly over the surface of the nose and cheeks. Its growth is due to long-continued distension of the cutaneous vessels, sometimes associated with enlargement of the sebaceous glands. 361. Recent haemorrhages in the skin give rise to red stains which do not disappear when pressed with the finger. When they form small irregular specks they are called petechiae, larger elongated or ramified streaks are called vibices, and still larger irregularly-shaped stains are called ecchymoses. When the haemorrhage gives rise to a nodular or papular irregularity of the skin, it is called lichen haemorrhagica or purpura papulosa; when the extravasated blood is collected into a tumour or raised patch it is described as an ecchymoma or haematoma; when it raises the epidermis into a large vesicle or bleb it is a haemorrhagic bulla or blood-blister. The seat of haemorrhage varies; usually it is in the corium and papillary layer, and thence the extravasated blood passes up under the epidermis and either raises it from the underlying layers or penetrates among its cells. If the blood gains entrance to the sweat-glands and escapes through their ducts, we have haemat- idrosis or bloody sweat. The changes passed through by the colouring-matter of ex- travasated blood (Art. 68) may be followed with the naked eye in the case of cutaneous haemorrhages. The bright red of recent blood passes through bluish-red and yellowish-green into brown. After a time the discoloration disappears as the pigment is absorbed, and the altered blood which has penetrated between the epidermal cells comes to the surface and is shed with them. Cutaneous haemorrhages are distinguished into idiopathic and symptomatic. Spontaneous haemorrhages are grouped together under the general name of purpura. The spontaneous or purpuric haemorrhages are symptoms or consequences of certain affections, some of which are at present ill-understood. The hae- morrhages which accompany some forms of small-pox (variola haemorrhagica or purpura variolosa) may become very serious indeed. They begin as small irregular specks, wliich in a few hours expand and coalesce into great blood- stained patches. Plague, bites of serpents, septicaemia, scarlatina, endocarditis, and other infective and toxaemic conditions are often accompanied by cutaneous haemorrhages in the form of petechial or livid spots, due to changes in the blood or in the vessel-wall, or occasionally to embolic lodgements of bacteria in the arterioles of the skin. Purpura (poliosis) rheumatica is a peculiar affection which sets in with