324 [sect. VIII. THE LIVER AND PANCREAS. through the kings, and may there also give rise to secondary suppuration. Primary suppuration within the liver, that is to say suppuration unaccounted for by the existence of some focus of infection elsewhere in the body, is rare in temperate climates. In the torrid zone hepatic abscess (' tropical abscess') is a very common affection, and it is frequently impossible to detect a source of infection in any other organ or part. In a large number of cases however the hepatic abscess is preceded by dysenteric disease of the bowel. There is still another avenue by which an irritant capable of exciting inflammation may reach the liver, namely the common bile-duct. When the biliary channels are somehow diseased so that bile is retained and stagnates within them, concretions may be formed, and these appear to favour the entrance of noxious matters into the liver. Fig. 186. micrococcus septicus in hepatic capil- IiAEIES. {Forming zoogloea: aniline- brown staining : x 350) 494. When a bacterium (such as the micrococcus of pyaemia. Art. 204) capable of giving rise to inflam- matory change enters the liver through the blood, it lodges first in the capillaries (Figs. 186, 187 c) and afterwards in the smaller venules. Then it forms colonies or zoogloea, which presently fill up and it may be distend the vessels. After a short time the liver-cells become turbid and swollen, the}' lose their nuclei, and soon break up into fragments of various sizes (Fig 186). As the colonies multiply they spread more and more widely through the vessels, so that soon a great number of affected lobules have their capillaries (Fig. 187 c), and often their intralobular veins (c e), crammed with bacteria. The necrosis of the liver-cells (6) advances steadily with the advance of the invasion. These changes are accompanied by intense inflammation of the interlobular tissue {d) and the veins (e), which gives rise to an abundant cellular infiltration of the tissue around. This is the first stage in the formation of an abscess. Soon the infiltra- tion of cells and exuded liquid becomes more marked, and the necrotic cells break up and liquefy. A collection of pus is thus produced, and a hepatic abscess is formed. This is in brief the course of the process ; but of course it may be modified in numerous ways. Thus the micrococci may settle in the connective tissues, or a number of lobules may be simul- taneously affected and break down, and so on. Abscesses starting in wounds or in the bile-du.cts (Art. 512) will naturally exhibit