[sect. II. THE VASCULAR MECHANISM. 84 Minor degrees of inflammation are hardly if at all to be recognised post mortem, the redness generally disappearing soon after death; only when the lymphatics and their contents and surroundings have undergone considerable inflammatory change are the traces plainly visible. Under the microscope however it is not at all difficult to make out the inflamed lymphatics which ramify from the neighbourhood of an inflamed area. The histological changes associated with lymphangitis are mainly these:—the contents of the lymphatics are much more abundant, and much richer in cells, than normal lymph; it is often purulent in appearance; in other cases it is fibrinous or fibrino- purulent; where the inflammation is purulent the endothelium of the lymphatics is shed or disintegrated, in milder forms it is swollen and protuberant; occasionally subdivision of nuclei and cells is observed; the tissues surrounding the vessel, and the vessel-wall, are infiltrated with migrated cells, and the blood-vessels are con- gested ; only in the mildest cases of all is the change limited to swelling and desquamation of the endothelium. The outcome of lymphangitis is either complete restoration ad integrum by re-absorption of the exudation and regeneration of the lost endothelium, or necrosis and .abscess of the vessel and the tissue surrounding it, or lastly fibrous hyperplasia and induration of both. The latter occurs in chronic inflammatory conditions, and may lead to the obliteration of the vessel. The infective granulomata may invade the lymphatic system, and the lymphangitis set up often exhibits no special peculiarities; but actual granulomatous change may likewise be induced, and then exhibits its specific characters. In this respect tuberculosis is the best example, as the affection is propagated with special readiness by way of the lymphatic vessels (Art. 122). References on lymphangitis and the associated changes:—ViRCHOW, Virch. Arch. vol. 23; LoscH, ibid. vol. 44; Baumgarten, Cent. f. d. med. Wiss. 3, 1882, with further references. On tuberculous disease of the lymphatics see Klebs {Virch. Arch. vol. 44); LiSpine {Arch, dephysiol. 1870); Poneick {Berl. klin. Woch. 1877); Weiqert {Virch. Arch. vol. 88). 315. Inflammatory processes affecting the wall of a lymphatic and the surrounding tissue, pressure from without, the irruption of tumours or parasites into the channel, and other like causes, may bring about the occlusion of the vessel. If the number of lym- phatics thus obliterated is not great, while other vessels remain open so that the lymph of the part can find an exit, no further change is usually induced. Even the thoracic duct may be occluded without serious danger, for other collateral paths are opened up. But if the efflux of lymph is entirely prevented, as in filarial disease (Art. 235), engorgement of the vessels with lymph ensues and the lymphatics become gradually dilated, forming what is called lymphangiectasis. This affection may however develope without demonstrable impediment to the outflow of lymph, gene-