CHAP. XXXII.] INFLAMMATIONS OF SEROUS MEMBEANES. 133 and purulent inflammation; for various intermediate or fibrino- purulent varieties occur in which the exudation is pus-like, while at the same time it contains soft white cellular flakes and curds of fibrin. The organs are in such cases covered with a film of puiiilent fibrin, and may be cemented together by it. The exudation sometimes becomes putrid, that is to say it becomes discoloured and foul-smelling. This is most apt to occur in abdominal inflammation, depending on septic processes in the uterus or its appendages, or on the escape of faecal matters from the intestine. The putrid exudation contains multitudes of mi- crococci, single or in chaplets, and occasionally microbacteria. In all recent inflammations whether flbrino-purulent, purulent, or putrid, the membrane is intensely injected, its connective tissue infiltrated vnth. leucocytes, and its epithelium destroyed. The pus- corpuscles of the exudation rapidly become fatty and break down. Purulent effusions are much less readily absorbed than serous effusions. Death often intervenes while the inflammation is at its height. In favourable circumstances the absorption may be com- plete; but usually the liquid parts only are removed, while the fatty disintegrated pus-corpuscles become condensed to a caseous mass which long lies unabsorbed, and may ultimately become calcareous. As the presence of the pus keeps up the inflammatory process granulations and fibrous tissue may at length be developed, producing fibrous bands and adhesions of great extent. Thus the pleura, where it is in contact with a circumscribed purulent eff'usion (empyema), becomes covered with granulations and in time thickens into a dense tough fibrous membrane. If the pus is absorbed or removed by operation the thickened layers of the pleura grow together into a stout cicatricial adhesion. General purulent peritonitis and purulent pericarditis usually end fatally while the inflammation is still at its height.