295 SYPHILIS OF THE INTESTINE. CHAP. LIV.] Ulcers of any great size are usually very irregular in their outline. Some are rounded, but more are oval or at least elon- gated, the longer axis being transverse to the axis of the bowel: others again are sinuous and spreading. The borders are infiltrated, but in the larger ulcers not uni- formly so. The grey or reddish raised edge is here and there beset with yellow nodules, and characteristic grey and yellow nodules appear on the floor. The depth of the ulcer is irregular, and sometimes small islands of undestroyed mucous membrane rise as greyish-red protuberances from its floor. Where the ulceration is extensive, not only are the mucosa and submucosa attacked but the muscular and at length the serous coats are invaded by the tuberculous infiltration. On the serous surface the grey tubercles appear in groups or beaded rows, the membrane in the neighbourhood being red and injected. Only in rare cases does tuberculous ulceration come to a stand- still and issue in cicatrisation. As a rule it advances steadily, involving more and more of the bowel until the patient dies. 476. Syphilis of the intestine. Apart from the mucous patches frequently met with, about the anus in syphilitic patients (Art. 379), there is a form of ulceration of the rectum also due to syphilis and occurring chiefly in women. It extends three or four inches up the bowel, and is usually separated by a distinct line from the healthy mucous membrane. The ulcerated surface is remarkably uneven and irregular, and is generally interspersed with strips and patches of more or less undermined epithelial tissue. The borders of the ulcer are undermined in like manner. This appearance is due to the fact that the inflammation attacks chiefly the submucosa, and destroys it more rapidly than the over- lying strata. The ulcer yields an abundant purulent secretion. As it is met with almost exclusively in women suffering from syphilitic disease of the genital organs, it is probably due to infection conveyed to the rectum by the secretions escaping from the vagina. Syphilitic ulceration of the colon or small intestine is extremely rare. 477. Intestinal mycosis (enteromycosis hacteritica) is a general term, including several distinct affections. Strictly speak- ing it is applicable to tuberculosis, to typhoid, and perhaps to some forms of dysentery. Usually however it is confined to intestinal anthrax, and to various forms of meat-poisoning (Arts. 204, 206) by which changes in the intestine not dissimilar to those of typhoid are sometimes produced. In intestinal anthrax we have not only diffuse and wide-spread catarrh of the bowel, but also localised changes. These take the form of small circumscribed haemorrhagic patches, with bluish-red or brownish-red borders and, a greyish or greenish yellow slough in