[sect. IV. THE SEROUS MEMBRANES. 126 they too are ultimately absorbed. Extravasations in the mem- brane itself or in the subserous tissue are dealt with in the manner described in Arts. 112—116. As the blood disintegrates, either before or after its complete absorption, urobilinuria or haemoglo- binuria is observed. VoN Recklinghausen (Virch. Arch. vol. 26) was the fii-st to investigate with success the process of absorption of foreign substances (such as milk, tinted liquids, and blood) in the abdominal cavity. Ponfick {Virch. Arch. vol. 48) and Cordua (l/eb. d. Resorp. von Bhitergiissen Berlin 1877) have made out certain further details. They injected fibrinous or defibrinated blood into the abdominal cavity, and found that the defibrinated blood was very rapidly taken up, and that almost without alteration. Tliis observation has a practi- cal value, for it suggests the possibility in the human subject of successful transfusion of defibrinated blood into the abdomen instead of into a blood- vessel. The blood-cells so absorbed sm-vive when they reach the circulating blood. Unchanged blood when injected into the abdominal cavity is much less readily absorbed, as clots form which become aggregated into considerable masses. These by their close contact with the serous membrane set up inflammation, are fixed down by exudations, and receive a covering of mi- gratory cells. Large formative cells with an abundant protoplasm then appear on the surface of the clot. They are developed from the white blood-cells, and presently lead to the formation of new fibrous tissue, while new vessels are produced by off-shoots from the vessels of the serous membrane. Mean- while the inner parts of the clot are disintegrating and dissolving. The red coi-puscles are changed to grains of pigment or are talcen up by carrier-cells (Art. 68), or give up their colouring-matter which is deposited in the form of blood-crystals, while the albuminous detritus is absorbed. Other matters capable of absorption, such as recent dead tissue, and to some extent tissue hardened in alcohol, are dealt with in like manner. Bodies that cannot be absorbed are usually overlaid with fibrous tissue and so fixed down. If they are altogether insoluble and non-irritating (like glass) they may remain for long in the cavity without setting up any inflammation. 350. Large accumulations of serous fluid in the body-cavities are very frequent. The accumulation is described as ascites, hydropericardium, or hydrothorax, according as it occurs in the abdominal, pericardial, or pleural cavity. The fluid is colourless or pale yellow, clear or opalescent, and sometimes after death it is found to be turbid from the presence of shed epithelium. Sometimes too it contains a few delicate shreds of fibrin. If jaundice is present, the fluid may be bile-stained; if haemorrhage has occurred it may be blood-stained. If any solution of continuity has occurred in the larger lymphatic vessels of the abdomen, the ascitic fluid may be rendered white and milky- looking by the chyle which escapes (chylous ascites). The effused fluid is poor in formed elements. Occasionally flakes of shed ej)ithelium are found, in the form of large nucleated granular cells, containing fat-globules or otherwise disintegrating. Lymphoid cells are scanty. Haemorrhagic effusions contain bloodrcells; chylous effusions contain lymphoid cells and fine granules and drops of oil. When a tumour exists in "the cavity the effusion may contain tumour-cells, which are usually in a state of fatty or mucoid