260 [sect. VII. THE ALIMENTARY TRACT. 450. Catarrhal inflammation of the oesophagus is marked chiefly by epithelial desquamation; but little mucus is poured out in the chronic forms, and in the acute forms it is absent. The desquamated cells give the mucous surface a dull whitish or yellowish tint. Sometimes minute superficial ulcerations occur. When the inflammation is caused by the presence of a foreign body, a deep ulcer is often formed at the spot where it is in contact with the wall. In chronic catarrh the mucous membrane may become hyper- trophied, and papillary or polypous outgrowths are apt to arise from its surface: the muscular coat may also show signs of hypertrophy. If the mucous glands become obstructed they give rise to granular prominences which are liable to break down and leave minute ulcers. Varicose veins are not infrequently met with in the oesophagus in elderly patients. They Lie in the submucosa, and give rise to small livid prominences of the mucous membrane. When these become eroded minute ulcers exactly resembling the ulcers of chronic catarrh are formed, and are described as varicose ulcers. Serious haemorrhage sometimes occurs when a varicose vein gives way. Croupous and diphtheritic inflammations are rare. They occur most frequently in connexion with typhoid, cholera, measles, scarlatina, small-pox, pulmonary tuberculosis, and pyaemia: they very seldom indeed accompany ordinary diphtheria. Sometimes in the course of small-pox regular variolous pustules appear in the oesophagus. Phlegmonous inflammation occurs either localised or diffused over a considerable area: it is however an extremely rare affection. If the collection of pus which forms in the submucous tissue breaks through the surface, complete repair and recovery may ensue. When the phlegmonous abscess is larger, undermining a considerable portion of the mucous layer and breaking through it at several points, some part of the cavity of the abscess may persist unhealed after its evacuation : it becomes gradually covered over with epithelium growing in from the sites of perforation. This variety of inflammation is due to wounds or corrosions, or to the extension upwards of a phlegmonous inflammation of the stomach, or to purulent inflammation extending inwards from the surround- ing tissues. Corrosive substances like sulphuric, nitric, hydrochloric, or carbolic acids, caustic potash or soda, blue vitriol, etc. give rise to more or less wide-spread destruction of the oesophageal tissues. If the acids are dilute the epithelium alone may be destroyed, becoming white and turbid and falling away from the mucosa. If the corrosive action goes further, the mucous membrane in its whole thickness is transformed into a grey or brown or black slough traversed by blackened blood-vessels, and sometimes the muscular coat is destroyed likewise. If the patient survives violent