831 CHAP. LX.] HYPEBTROPHIO CIRRHOSIS OF THE LIVER. The variety of inflammation which starts in the bile-ducts, or so-called biliary hepatitis, has certain peculiarities. It generally arises in connexion with retention of bile, and engorgement of the biliary canals (Art. 512). The inflammation is at first confined to circumscribed patches, usually round in shape and infiltrated with bile-pigment. The patches lie either in the interlobular tissue or within the lobules. The inflammation is sometimes of the plastic or formative type, and sometimes purulent. Kecent inflammation of the liver is always accompanied by swelling of the whole organ, which is more marked as the in- flammation is more extensive. Minute patches of inflamed tissue may not be recognisable by the unaided eye, but when they reach any perceptible size they appear grey or greyish-red. When fibrous tissue is developed in consequence of antecedent inflammation the enlargement of the liver becomes still more marked. This secondary enlargement is naturally greatest in cases where the affection extends over the entire intra-hepatic portal system, and thence spreads to the lobules. The appearance of the liver at this stage exactly resembles that described in Art. 480 as the condition of infiltration, and represented in Fig. 180. The difference is merely that in the interlobular tissue and in the lobules we have accumulations not only of pigment or of leucocytes but also of formative cells and fibrous tissue varying in tint from greyish or reddish to yellow or greenish according to the amount of blood and of bile-pigment present. The yellow or greenish staining is most marked when the outflow of bile is hindered by the development of fibrous tissue and the retained bile stagnates and forms concretions in the ducts. The lobules themselves may appear brownish-red, brown, yellow, or grey according as they contain more or less of blood or bile. The enlargement of the liver by the growth of new fibrous tissue is sometimes so great that the weight rises to three or four kilogrammes (seven to nine pounds) or more. The condition might be aptly termed hjrperplastic fibroid induration, but it is usually spoken of as 'hypertrophic cirrhosis.' The surface of the liver is smooth, the tissue dense and tough. When the lobules are invaded by the growth of fibrous tissue their outlines are indistinct or entirely lost. The liver can of course become larger in this way only when the new fibrous tissue which is added more than counterbalances the liver-cells which are atrophied or destroyed. In many cases this is actually the case throughout, that is to say up to the death of the patient. But in other cases the progressive atrophy of the parenchyma is so great that the volume of the liver as a whole diminishes again. When the fibrous overgrowth is at all extensive the diminution of volume is not so great as to reduce the size of the liver much below the normal. This last is much more likely to happen when