182 THE SKIN. [sect. V. form larger nodes and tubercles [lupus tumidus). In a few weeks retrogressive changes set in: if the nodules are absorbed the epidermis becomes wrinkled and desquamates (lujms exfolia- tivus) leaving a scar-like patch behind; if they soften and break through the surface (lupus exulcerans or exedens) rounded ulcers are formed, with soft and reddened margins and red granulating floors, secreting pus and often becoming crusted over. The ulcers may heal by scarring and skinning, or warty growths may appear on the floor [lupihs verrucosus or papillaris). If the nodules are at the outset irregularly scattered the affection is described as lupus disseviinatus, if they are arranged in sinuous lines as lu,pus serpiginosus. Lupus most commonly attacks the nose, but it very often occurs elsewhere on the face, in the neck, ears, mouth, nostrils, pharynx, larynx, and on the limbs, rarely on the trunk. The successive ulceration and cicatrisation of the skin may in the course of years give rise to very remarkable deformity and dis- figurement. Leprosy has already been treated in Art. 131. The skin in this disease may be covered with flattened or nodular patches of cellular infiltration, which are red, brown, or white on the surface, and end either in desquamation or ulceration; the leprous patches and sores contain the specific Bacillus leprae (Art. 206). According to voN Eecklinghausen the separate nodes and tuberosities develope chiefly around the cutaneous nerves. The ulcers formed by the disintegration of the nodes may become very deep and wide, and lead to the separation and loss of portions of the limbs (lepra mutilans). In lepra maculosa the skin is disfigured by diffuse pigmentations interspersed with streaks and patches of white. Eeferences on leprosy :—Arts. 131, 206 ; Behrend, Schmidt''s Jahrhiicher vol. 192 (a full summary of recent work); Kaposi, Hehra's Diseases of the skin IV; HiLLis, Leprosy in British Guiana Loudon 1881 ; DuHRiNG, Diseases of the skin 1882 ; Damsch, Virch. Arch. vol. 92. On lupus see Hebra and Kaposi, Diseases of the shin vol. rv; Virchow, Die krankhaften Geschioiilste; Axjspitz, Wien. med. Jahrh. 1864; Lang, Vierteljahrs. f. Derm. u. Syph. i, ii; Kaposi, ihid. vi; Jarisch, ibid, vii ; Friedlander, Virch. Arch. vol. 60; Thoma, ihid. vol. 65 ; Thin, Med. chir. Trans, lxii (1879).