53 ENDOCAEDITIS AND MYOCARDITIS. CHAP. X.] The cause of the inflammatory exudation is in some cases at least to be set down to the settlement of morbific organisms in the tissues. Klebs {Arch. f. exp. Path, ix) afid Ebertii {Virch. Arch. vol. 72) have demonstrated the presence of microparasites in endocarditis. Whether the granular masses represented in Fig. 125 are really micrococci is questionable, for the staining is not very intense. Ziegler met with a case of acute vegetative endocar- ditis, in which metastatic inflammations of the heart-substance and of the kidneys appeared, and in this he found colonies of micrococci in the blood- vessels of the affected organs. Nauwerck recently found numbers of similar colonies in a case which proved fatal after fom- months' dm'ation. The colo- nies existed not merely in the thickened vegetations of the valves, but also in the still unaltered parts of the endocardium and in the muscular wall. Endocarditis most commonly occurs associated with rheumatic afi^ctions, especially with acute general rheumatism, now regarded by some as of micro- parasitic origin. But it is also found in other conditions, as in measles and scarlatina, and in fatal cases of nephritis, pneumonia, typhoid, septicaemia, etc. Very commonly too it developes in patients who are sinking under chronic suppurations, especially in the course of ulcerative cancer, or phthisis. Leyden says it also occurs after gonorrhoea. These facts point on the one hand to the conclusion that endocarditis is produced by bacteria, and on the other hand that the bacteria are not always of the same form, perhaps are of different species. In other words the aetiology of endocarditis is probably multiform, not simple (Art. 204). 282. The ultimate course of endocarditis varies in different cases. The superficial granular masses and the investments of fibrin overlying the vegetations are incapable of organisation. Small portions or patches may be absorbed, or may become calcified. Very often the growth softens and portions of it are swept off by the blood-current; and calcified masses may be swept off in like manner. In either case embolism is the result. As necrosed masses are thus washed out excavations remain which are practically ulcers; they may be small or large. In so- called ulcerative endocarditis the destruction of tissue goes deeper still, so that a valve, for instance, may be deeply and extensively eroded by ulceration. In this way the weakened and infiltrated tissue which remains may give way under the pressure of the blood, and a sacculation, or acute valvular aneurysm, may be produced; or the process may go further and lead to perforation, and even to the detachment of a considerable fragment of the valve. Similar ulcerations may involve other parts, such as the chordae tendineae, which may in this way be severed from their valvular attachments. Ulcerative endocarditis is usually the result of pyaemic or septic infection. The vegetative and ulcerative forms pass gradually into each other, so far as their anatomical manifestations are concerned. The ulcerative form has usually been compared to the diphtheritic inflammations of the mucous mem- brane, but this is less than the truth; the vegetative form is likewise a diphtheritic inflammation with coagulative necrosis of the solid tissues. The two forms seem moreover to differ aetiologically; the pernicious or ulcerative type being associated with septic or pyaemic pi-ocesses, the vegetative with articular rheumatism. Eberth (F?'?rA. Arr/>. vol. 57 and Corresp. f. schweiz. Aerzie 1872) was the first who demonstrated the presence of bacteria in