THE INTESTINE IN TYPHOID. 291 CHAP. LIV,] dull or opaque. The epithelium separates within a few hours after death. The follicles of the small intestine are swollen, and grey or bright pink in colour. Apart from the epithelial desquamation which is mainly a post-mortem phenomenon, microscopic examina- tion reveals only a somewhat intense cellular infiltration of the mucosa and submucosa, and sometimes even of the serous coat. When death does not occur till a later stage of the disease, the appearance of the intestine is notably different. The contents are scanty and less liquid, and at the same time they show more signs of the presence of bile. The mucous membrane is pale or slate- coloured, or it may be injected and beset with minute haemo- rrhages. Ulcers occur, especially in the colon and lower part of the ileum. Sometimes the large intestine has almost the same look as in dysentery (Art. 472). The special virus of cholera is as yet unknown. Koch and others have found peculiar bacilli in the intestinal mucous membrane of cholera patients, but they have failed to reproduce the disease in animals by inoculation or otherwise. The experiments and observations hitherto made leave the question of the genesis of the disease imsettled. For summaries of the reports of the French and German Commissioners sent to Egypt in 1883 see Practitioner (March 1884) and Bi-it. med. Journ. (2, 1883 and 1, 1884). 474. Typhoid (or enteric) fever is an infective disease, due (according to Klebs, Eberth, and Koch) to the invasion of a specific bacillus (Art. 206). The morbid changes in typhoid appear chiefly in the lower part of the ileum and the upper part of the colon; they are seldom met with much higher or much lower in the intestine. The changes consist essentially of a necrotic inflammatory infiltration of the follicular structures and the parts around them, accompanied by a catarrhal inflammation of the rest of the mvxcous membrane. In the first few days of the attack the mucous membrane of the lower part of the ileum and its agminated glands or Peyer's patches are intensely congested and uniformly swollen. Soon the swelling of the patches becomes more marked, raised and winding- ridges not unlike the cerebral convolutions in miniature appearing on their surface. The swelling extends more or less quickly over the whole of each patch, so that it has in general the look of a raised bed or garden-plot projecting above the general surface. When the swelling is at its height the ridges are generally levelled up as it were, and are no more distinguishable: the surface of the patch is then smooth or pitted with minute de- pressions corresponding to the sites of the individual follicles. The solitary follicles form rounded nodules by virtue of the same process. When this stage (of swelling) is complete the patches and follicles, which at first were bright-red in colour, become pale and creamy-white. 19—2