242 THE ALIMENTARY TRACT. [sect, VII. due to syphilitic infection are frequently observed, especially about the tongue. In the tertiary stage gummata are formed, varying in size from that of a pea to that of a hazel-nut. They especially affect the tongue and are seated partly in the mucous membrane and partly in the muscular structures. When they break down they give rise to deep and spreading ulcerations. If the ulcers heal the scars are usually coarse and puckered. Langenbeck states that cancers are apt to develope from gummatous nodes and scars {Langenbeck's Arch. xxvi). Iiupus often extends from neighbouring parts to the mucous membrane of the mouth, and causes more or less extensive destruction of tissue (Art. 392). Tuberculosis seldom attacks the mouth, but when it does it is chiefly the tongue which is affected. Tubercles are developed in the mucous membrane; the surrounding tissues become in- filtrated and presently become caseous and break down. When such a caseous patch breaks through the surface layers, a tuber- culous ulcer is produced. The edges and base of the tongue are favourite seats. The floor and margins of the ulcers are hard and densely infiltrated. When the tuberculous disease seizes on the muscular substance the greater part of the tongue may become studded with tubercles and infiltrated with granulation-cells. With regard to leprosy and glanders see Arts. 131, 133, 392. Parasitic affections. 436. The oral cavity is always infested by a multitude of vegetable microparasites, which gain entrance to it from without and find in it a fitting soil for their growth. Moulds, yeasts, and bacteria are all met with; of the latter micrococci and sarcinae occur as well as bacilli and spirilla. Most of these fungi have no pathological significance ; they are mere saprophytes subsisting on the remains of food and the dead or desquamated epithelium which lie decomposing in the mouth. Where cleanliness is not observed they may occasionally set up putrefactive decomposition and so cause irritation and inflammation. Pathogenous organisms, however, often gain access to the mouth as well as these non-pathogenous forms. The tuberculous bacillus is constantly found in the sputa in cases of tuberculous phthisis, and in this way must occasionally lodge in the tissues of the mouth. And we have already pointed out that tuberculosis of the mouth does occur (Art. 435). The ray-fungus or Actino- myces (Arts. 134—135) attacks the tongue and jaws, producing the peculiar affection called actinomycosis (Fig. 174 B). By way of a correction to the account of actinomycosis given in the first volume (Arts. 134 and 135) we may here note that though Israel was the first to observe and describe the ray-fungus in the human subject, it was PoNFiCK who first recognised the true nature of the disease, and declared it {Berl. klin. Woch. 1879, Breslau. iirztl. Zeitschr. May 9, 1879) to be identical