THE SKIN, 170 [sect. V. up they are cast off as scales. If the irritation is still more intense or the skin highly susceptible, a considerable area becomes pain- fully red and swollen {eczema erythematosum), On this vesicles ^rise, which are at first clear but soon become purulent (eczema pustulosum). When the upper shell of the vesicles is removed (as by scratching) the exposed surface pours out liquid and is said to ' weep' (eczema madidans). The epidermic surface deprived of its horny layer by desquamation or otherwise has oftea a deep-red tint (eczema ruhrum). Crusts are formed by the evaporation of the sero-purulent exudation poured out on the surface (eczema cnostosum), and pus sometimes gathers beneath the crusts (eczema impetiginosum). In other instances new epidermis is formed be- neath the crusts; when the crusts are cast off the surface then looks red and brawny and scales are freely shed (eczema squamo- sum). As the disease disappears the skin gradually recovers its normal appearance, though some slight pigmentation often remains (Kaposi). An eczematous eruption consisting of pustules of the size of a small pea, and drying into scabs without rupturing, is often described as impetigo. Much larger pustules, seated on an inflamed and reddened base and drying into brown scabs, constitute ecthyma. Impetigo contagiosa is a contagious eczematous erup- tion (TiLBUEY Fox, Brit. Med. Journ. 1864; Unna, Viertelj. f. Derm. u. Syph. Vii). It chiefly attacks ill-fed or weakly children, and affects the head and limbs: vesicles as big as a cherry-stone arise on a reddened base, and presently dry uj) into yellow crusts. The inflammatory process in eczema is often chronic, and the skin is then beset with vesicles, pustules, scales, and scabs, all at the same time. The textural changes in the cutis consist of serous and cellular infiltrations of the fibrous tissue. The cellular infiltration is especially dense in the pustular and impetiginous varieties, and the subcutaneous tissues are often infiltrated in the same way. As regards the epidermis, some of the cells of its mucous layer perish in the vesicular stage, and some are compressed and stretched into fusiform or other shapes. The liquid exudation contains numbers of leucocytes, which are found not only in the vesicles but also scattered among the unaltered epidermal cells, and even in their interior. In many cases the epidermis perishes outright, and even the papillae may be destroyed when the inflam- mation becomes suppurative (eczema impetiginosum). The after-effects of eczema are various. Slighter forms leave no trace behind, the skin being restored ad integrum. If the papillae have been injured or destroyed they are not replaced, and a cicatrix is produced. Chronic eczema gives rise to pigmentation, and to hypertrophy of both epidermis and corium: when the hypertrophy is great the skin appears thick and dense as in elephantiasis; when the papillae are likewise enlarged the surface becomes warty and tuberculated. Hypertrophy of the epidermis