THE VASCULAR MECHANISM. [sect. II. 38 section is the aortic bulb ; the middle section has somewhat thickened walls and forms the ventricular portion ; the posterior section is thin-walled and forms the auricular portion. By the continued bulging and growth of the ventricular portion the aortic bulb and the auricular portion are brought into approximate juxta- position, and sometimes seem to twist round each other. The ventral bulge of the ventricular portion indicates the position of the future apex. The next step is the separation of the ventricular portion into two chambers. This begins to take place about the seventh week by the development of a low crescentic fold from the inner surface of the right wall below, while an evanescent notch appears at the corresponding spot outside. The fold gi'ows rapidly vipwards towards the auriculo-ventricular opening, where it is in relation both with the auricular portion and the aortic bulb. For a time therefore communication between the ventricles is free over the top of the septal fold. Tlie septum of the am-icles begins to appear about the eighth week as a low crescentic fold, starting from the anterior wall of the auricular portion and the upper edge of the ventricular septum. In the tenth or eleventh week two other folds grow up from the posterior wall, one coming forward to meet without adhering to the anterior fold, and forming the valve of the foramen ovale; the other fold is the Eustachian valve. The auricular septum thus remains incomplete until after birth, when the valve iisually coalesces vrith the margin of the foramen ovale, and the latter ceases to be patent. The division of the arterial bulb begins, about the seventh week, by the development of an internal septum proceeding from the distal end towards the ventricles. Two channels are thus formed from the single cavity, and the direction of the septum twists in such a way that the anterior channel (pulmonary artery) becomes continuous with the cavity of the right ventricle, and the posterior channel (aorta) with the cavity of the left ventricle. The septum ultimately meets and joins the septum of the ventricles. The two primitive aortas form the first or primitive pair of aortic arches and converge dorsally and posteriorly to form a single trunk. Between the as- cending and descending limbs of each arch are developed fom* secondary aortic arches, while the primitive arches almost entirely disappear. The great arterial trunks are derived chiefly from the three lower secondary arches, but portions of the primitive and of the highest secondary arches persist in the internal and external carotids. 271. Defects of development in the large arterial and venous trunks are of grave import. Such defects are very much more frequent in the arteries than in the veins. Thus we may have absence or imperfection of the septum of the aortic bulb, so that the aorta and pulmonary artery rise from a single stem. Or the position of the septum may be abnormal, whereby the aorta is displaced to the right; in extreme cases it may even arise from the right ventricle. Of the vessels which are not directly connected with the heart the most interesting is the ductus arteriosus (ductus Botalli), which unites the pulmonary artery with the descending aorta. It naturally becomes occluded and impervious after birth, but in many cases it remains patent, especially when defects in the aorta or pulmonary artery make its persistence necessary to life. This happens notably in cases of atresia of either trunk; if blood is to reach the branches at all it must pass from the pervious trunk through the ductus into the other.