CHAP. LIV.] INFLAMMATIONS OF THE INTESTINE. 285 far or lasts too long, the lost epithelium fails to be reproduced and the intestinal wall becomes atrophied. When slight such atrophy is not apparent to the unaided eye, or at most it gives the wall an unusually smooth and level apjoearance. Under the microscope the glandular layer of the mucosa is seen to be thinned and wasted. The crypts may lose a half or two-thirds of their depth, and the villi of the small intestine are slender and stunted. After an attack of ulcerative catarrh, in Avhich not only the epithelium but the underlying connective tissue is injured or de- stroyed (Art. 421, Fig. 1(37), the atrophy is usually much more marked. The ulcerated portion of tho bowel is covered with mucus, pus, and whitish granulations and shreds of tissue; these last are simply the necrosed remains of the glandular layer, which has become infiltrated and broken down. The ulceration is in fact associated with diphtheritic necrosis of the mucous membrane, and in such cases not only the upper layer but the whole of the glandular mucosa may perish, leaving the muscularis mucosae covered with nothing but a film of nucleated connective tissue (Art. 417, Fig. 165). The muscularis mucosae as a rule is very slightly altered. Its unstriped fibres are only in rare cases found to be thinned, or atrophied, or fatty. The submucosa is generally unchanged; when the ulceration goes deep it may be infiltrated with leucocytes or thickened from subsequent fibrous hyperplasia. The lymphadenoid follicles are iu the slighter forms of catarrh but little affected; at most they are somewhat eularged. Some- times in suppurative or ulcerative inflammations they are more markedly altered, and may then perish by suppuration, giving rise to what is called follicular catarrh. They may leave behind small pitted ulcers known as follicular ulcers. Catarrh ending in atrophy is commonest in the large intestine, and especially in the caecum. Nothnagel found that iu 80 per cent, of the adults he examined there were traces of atrophy in the large intestine, at times confined entirely to the caecum. The ascending colon came next as regards frequency, and then in diminishing order the lower part of the ileum, the remainder of the colon, the upper jDart of the ileum, and the jejunum. In children intestinal atrophy is often met with, following on acute and subacute, as well as on chronic, catarrh. The muscular coat is usually unatfected, but here and there it may be atrophied, or in catarrh from venous engorgement it may be hypertrophied (Nothnagel). It is not very liable to degenera- tion, but sometimes as in phthisis it is found to be fatty (Wagner). Lastly, there is a congenital form of atrophy, a hypoplasia of the muscularis which is not made up in later life (Nothnagel). In chronic catarrh atrophy is occasionally associated with the development of hyperplastic growths. They take the form of indurations of the submucosa or polypous excrescences rising froni,