THE PANCREAS. 353 CHAP. LXIII.] In other cases the cause seems to be retention of the secretion or the presence of concretions in the duct. It is rare as a primary affection, though it is said to be sometimes a result of spirit- drinking (Fkiedreich), and of syphilis congenital or acquired. In a few cases gummatous nodes have been observed. Tuberculosis of the pancreas is very rare; though in cases of the general affection caseous nodules are occasionally met with in the gland. Tuberculosis of the lymphatic glands embraced or overlaid by the pancreas is less common. Carcinoma is the chief of the primary tumours found in the pancreas. It usually gives rise to hard dense nodes seated in the head of the gland. Soft medullary and colloid cancers are rare, as are all forms affecting the middle part or the tail. Sometimes however a cancer starting in the head invades the whole gland, transforming it into a single tumour which may reach a great size. The cancerous infiltration ma,j extend into the surrounding tissues, invading thus the common dupt, diiodenum, stomach, gall- bladder, spiiie, lymphatic glands, peritoneum, liver, etc. Numerous metastatic growths are frequently fori^ed in the parts named. When the common bile-duct is attacked, retention of bile and jaundice may result; and the closure of the canal of Wirsung may lead to cystic dilatation of the secretory ducts in the tail of the gland. The adjacent veins, such as the vena cava, portal vein, and superior mesenteric vein, are sometimes encircled and gripped by the cancerous growth ; the result is thrombosis or other serious disorder of the circulation. Primary sarcoma of the pancreas is extremely rare. Of secondary growths carcinoma is again the only form that needs to be mentioned. Cancer of the stomach and of the duo- denum are those which most frequently induce the like in the pancreas. Metastases derived from cancer in more remote organs are much less common. On pancreatitis see Cruveilhier (Anatoinie path, part xv, vol. i), Klob (Oesterr. Zeitsc/ir. f. pract. Heilk. vi 1860), Birch-Hirschfeld {Arch. d. Heilk. 1875), Nathan {Medical Times 2, 187{»), Chiari ( Wien. med. Woch. 1876, 1880, Med. Times 1, 1880), Fraenkel {Zeitschr. f. Ein. Med. 1882). Chiari observed in several cases complete necrosis and separation of the pancreas. In one case the pancreas was entirely broken down, and escaping by a perforation into the intestine was passed per anvm. This patient (who recovered) was suffering at the time from gall-stones, so it is possible that the suppurative inflammation of the pancreas was secondary to inflammation of the bile-duct. On cancer of the pancreas see Frerichs {KUiiik d. Lchcrh-ankh. Diseases of the liver i London 1860), E. Wagner {Arch. d. Heilk. 1861), Lucre and Kleb's {Virch. Arch. vol. 41), Davidsohn {Ueb. Krehs d. Bauchspeicheldriise In. Diss. Berlin 1872), Strumpell {Dcutsch. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxii), Moore (.Si! Earth. Hosp. Rep. 1881, 1882), LoscH {St Petersburg, med. Woch. 1883), Wesener {Virch. Arch. vol. 93), Chiari {Prag. med. Woch. 1883, a case of secondary sarcoma). S. P. A. 23