CHAP. XLI.] AFFECTIONS OF THE HAIE AND NAILS, 203 In the baldness of age the skin exhibits the changes described in Art. 364; but it is to be noted that they do not appear till after the hair has disappeared; they cannot therefore be the cause of the baldness. Alopecia premaUira may be idiopathic or symptomatic. In the former case the hair falls off without visible disease of the skin. When the denudation takes the form of isolated patches the affection is described as alopecia areata {area Gelsi or porrigo decalvans). In some instances it extends to every spot on which hair occurs. As to its cause, some authors regard it as a micro- parasitic affection (Eichhorst, Virch. Arch. vol. 78; Lassar, Deutsch. med. Woch. 1881; Thin, Proc. Roy. Soc. 1881, Brit. Med. Journ. 2, 1882, the associated fungus being named by him Bacterium decalvans), while others with much less reason speak of it as a trophoneurosis. In senile alopecia obliteration of the capillaries supplying the hair-papillae has been noticed. In the premature form the follicles sometimes appear stunted and atro- phied. The causes of symptomatic alopecia are better understood. Any inflammatory process which seriously disorders the nutrition of the skin, such as eczema, erysipelas, acne, lupus, syphilitic eruptions, etc. may give rise to baldness. The continuous develop- ment of the hair from its bulb is interfered with, and the hair thus ceases to grow and is shed. If the papillae are not destroyed the hair may afterwards be reproduced. Alopecia due to chronic exudative affections of the skin, such as psoriasis, lichen ruber, or eczema, is described as alopecia fwrfuracea or pityrodes. Seborrhoea is a common cause of bald- ness. The hairs are imperfectly formed, and they therefore fall off sooner than they should do; they are replaced only by thin downy hairs, and after a time no new hair is produced at all. The nails are frequently misformed or defective, and abnormally thin or brittle, especially as a result of inflammations or of direct injury. 4)08. Overgrowth of hair {hypertrichosis, hirsuties, poly- trichia) may be congenital or acquired. The whole body or isolated parts of it may be abnormally hairy. Congenital hairiness seems to be hereditary in some families. Cases are known in which not only the trunk and limbs, but also the greater part of the face and even the nose, have been covered with hair. Hair on the chin and upper lip in women is not uncommon. Moles and pigment spots are often abnormally beset with hair (Art. 398). Overgrowth of the nails in length and thickness is frequently met with, and they are often at the same time distorted, rough, or tuberculated. Excessively long nails become cui-ved into claws (onychogryphosis). When they become excessively broad they are