85 CHAP. XVIII.] THE LYMPHATICS. rally in connexion with repeated attacks of local hj^eraemia or inflammation, but at times also without any such apparent cause. Lymphangiectasis following parasitic obstruction and inflamma- tion is chiefly observed in the form of cutaneous and subcutaneous hyperplasia known as elephantiasis. The skin is thickened and on section allows an abundance of clear lymph to escape from the dilated lymphatics. The degree of the dilatation varies of course in different cases: sometimes the epidermis is raised in blisters and bullae by the accumulated lymph. Dilated chyliferous lymphatics are very often met with in the mesentery: the usual cause is obstruction due to inflammatory or neoplastic growths seated in the mesentery or thoracic duct. Some- times the obstruction is due to lymphatic thrombosis. The dilated vessels look like straight cylindrical ridges or convoluted saccular or beaded cords; their contents are either white and limpid or pulpy and caseous. Lymphangiectases, not associated with engorgement or inflam- mation, are generally congenital or depend on congenital defects. The affection known as lymphangiectatic macroglossia and macrocheilia, a peculiar overgrowth of tongue and lips, is due essentially to dilatation of the lymphatics of the parts. Lymphan- giectases of the skin such as are often met with in the inguinal region, scrotum, labia pudendi, and on the thorax, are of the same nature. They sometimes form circumscribed tumour-like swellings and are hence classed with tumours as lymphangiomata (Art. 152). It is not possible to draw a sharp line between the swellings which we may fitly call tumours and the others. The rupture of lymphatics and lymphorrhagia have been referred to in Art. 31. On the consequences of closure of the thoracic duct see Heller {Deutsch. Arch. f. klin. Med. x); Turner {Edin. med. Journ, 1859); Stilling {Virck. Arch. vol. 88). On lymphangiectasis and lymphorrhoea see Ai'ts. 31, 152 ; Georjevig {Arch. f. klin. Chir. sii); Fetters and Klebs {Prag. Vierteljahrssehr. 125); Manson {Med. Times and Gaz. 2, 1875, and The Filaria sanguinis hominis London 1883); Wienkowski (Wien. med. Woch. 33, 1877); Desert {Des dilatations lymphatiques, Thfese de Paris no. 131, 1877); Lesser {Zudwig's Arbeiten 1872); Quincke {Arch. f. klin. Med. xvi, with references to cases); NiEDEN (Virch. Arch. vol. 90); Wegner {Arch. f. klin. Chir. xx); Lewinski {Virch. Arch. vol. 91). On macroglossia see Barker {Holmes's Si/st. of Surg. II London 1883, with references). 316. In addition to the lymphatic tumours described as lymphangiomata we have a class of growths specially affecting the lymphatic vessels, and known as endotheliomata or endo- thelial cancers. They have been described chiefly as tumours of the serous membranes, of the pia mater, and of the skin j and they are either flattened and diffuse, or circumscribed. According to the principles already laid down (Art. 166), they are to be reckoned as sarcomata, characterised by endothelial proliferation and by the