THE VASCULAR MECHANISM. 76 [sect. II, aneurysm which leads to the absorption of the bone it presses upon. The abdominal aorta is likewise a common seat of aneurysms, which may reach a very considerable size. The popliteal artery is the vessel most subject to aneurysm after the aorta; and then follow the other trunks, namely the carotid, subclavian, innominate, axillary, iliac, splenic, hepatic, renal, hypogastric, etc. The sacs formed in these arteries are very seldom of anything approaching the size of aortic aneurysms. True cirsoid aneurysms affect chiefly the common iliac and its branches, anastomotic aneurysms chiefly the vessels of the head. Somewhat indefinite dilatations are occasionally met with in the trunk of the pulmonary artery, but they are scarcely to be described as aneurys- mal ; in rare cases the valvular sinuses are more or less abnormally bulged. Large aneurysms of the pulmonary artery are very rare. Aneurysms of the smaller arteries of the brain are of considerable importance. Aneurysmal sacculations of the arteries of the base may reach the size of a pea or of a bean. In the smaller arteries they are naturally smaller, and often cannot be made out without a lens (miliary aneurysms of Chaecot). General or diffuse dilatation is met with chiefly in the basilar artery. The small aneurysms met with in the twigs of the pulmonary artery in phthisis have a special interest. They are formed in consequence of inflammatory destruction of the vessel-wall starting in the adventitia, and belong in part to the class of hernial aneur- ysms. 304. Consequences of aneurysm. An artery which has once become aneurysm ally dilated never returns to its normal state; the dilatation rather tends steadily to increase. The walls at the same time become thinner, inasmuch as the inflammation set up is unable to furnish any efficient substitute for the loss of healthy tissue. The consequence is that the sac ultimately gives way at some point or other, and, especially in the case of aortic aneurysms, fatal haemorrhage ensues. Dangerous haemorrhage may follow the rupture of arteries that are by no means large, notably those of the brain; fatal cerebral haemorrhage or apo- plexy is a very common occurrence. So too the rupture of minute aneurysms in the lungs often leads to fatal haemoptysis in phthisis. It is only in comparatively small arteries that the aneurysm is completely obliterated by the filling up of the sac with cicatricial tissue; probably the formation of such tissue is always preceded by the deposit of thrombi in the sac. The thrombi are then replaced by fibrous tissue in the manner described in Arts. 255 and 256. In large aneurysms we frequently find massive firm laminated decolorised or mottled thrombi more or less completely occupying the cavity. At various points we may find evidence of partial pro- liferation of the elements of the inner coat in contact with the