64 THE VASCULAR MECHANISM. [sect. II. occurring within suppurating wounds and ulcers. Inflammation and necrosis extend by continuity from the surrounding tissues to the vessel, destroying first the adventitia and then the other coats. The wall appears thickened and yellowish or greyish in colour; the intima is turbid, yellowish or greyish, and infiltrated with pus. Often the brittle or rotten vessel gives way, and haemorrhage follows. Secondary haemorrhage in wounds, haemo- ptysis from phthisical lungs,haemorrhage from cancerous ulcerations, etc. are all of this nature ; and in the same way fatal bleeding may occur from suppurative inflammation of the umbilical cord in infants. At times', as in tuberculosis, the necrotic process takes on a caseous character. Suppuration in wounds is chiefly conditioned by the invasion of micrococci. Sometimes purulent arteritis with necrosis is due to the entrance of irritant matters into the blood, as happens in embolism where the emboli are virulent or infective (Art. 116). When the destructive process spreads from the vessel to the neighbouring tissue abscesses are formed. The pus-corpuscles which in these processes accumulate in the substance of the vessel-wall are in part derived from the vasa vasorum, in part from the surrounding vessels. Purulent phlebitis occurs under the same conditions as puru- lent arteritis. The walls of the veins are thickened and dis- coloured, and the intima is turbid. The lumen very frequently contains fresh or softened and puriform thrombi. The purulent inflammation of the vessel may be preceded or followed by coagu- lation of its contents. The relation of the two processes is often as follows: incipient inflammatory change in the vessel-wall gives the condition for thrombosis; a thrombus forms, and is invaded by micrococci; it then breaks down into a puriform irritant mass, which in its turn intensifies the inflammatory change in the vessel- wall to the pitch of suppuration and necrosis. Examples of the process (known as thrombophlebitis) are frequently met with; as in the radicles of the portal vein near ulcerated patches in the intestine such as occur in dysentery, and in the veins of suppu- rating wounds. If the softened and infected thrombi pass into the general circulation we have pyaemia and metastatic abscesses as the result. 292. Hyperplastic arteritis in its early stages is best studied in cases of what is called acute aortitis, an affection which however is rarely seen exemplified in the post-mortem room. It is rapidly fatal only when it is very extensive ; minor cases usually recover. The changes it produces are exactly similar to those described under endocarditis and myocarditis. The inner linins; of the affected vessel looks turbid and some- what loosened, or grey translucent granulations rise from its