CHAP. XXIV.] DEGENERATIONS OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. 105 the blood-vessels. Sometimes the sinuses are most affected: in other and more usual cases it is the follicles and interfollicular septa. The capsule is frequently more or less thickened. When a markedly amyloid lymphatic gland is closely examined, it gives one the impression that the masses of amyloid substance are partly the lymphoid corpuscles transformed into shining blocks, and partly the reticulum and septa which have become swollen and hyaline. Eberth however has shown (Firc/i. Arch. vol. 80) that the lymphoid corpuscles very rarely if indeed ever take part in the amyloid change. The shining amyloid blocks, which are of about the same size as the corpuscles, are really derived from the degenerate reticulum. The process of degeneration begins with a hyaline thickening of the reticular trabeculae (Fig. 133 a). Then the trabeculae become nodulated (h) and form contiguous blocks or lumps. The nuclei of the reticulum (c) often remain unaltered for an astonish- ingly long time. They ultimately become very pale {d), cease to stain blue with methyl-violet, and then break up and disappear. The lymphoid corpuscles diminish in proportion as the reticulum thickens, and may here and there disappear entirely. In the larger vessels it is chiefly the media which is affected, in the capillaries it is the adventitia. Hyaline degeneration of the lymphatic glands has quite recently been described by Gornil ; it has a certain resemblance to amyloid change bvit is essentially distingiiished fi'om it by the absence of the reaction with iodine and methyl-violet (Art. 63). The change in some instances affects mainly the blood-vessels of the gland (Wibger, Virch. Arch. vol. 78), which are transformed into hyaline tubes by the thickening of their walls and the narrowing of their channel. In other cases hyaline masses are formed from the reticular cells; the hyaline masses are probably related to the colloid substance (Art. 56). Their presence is recognisable by the whitish somewhat opaque trabeculae which run through the greyish-red tissue of the gland. Calcification often sets in when the degeneration reaches a certain stage. There is another variety of homogeneous degeneration which deserves mention. It is met with chiefly in glands which are the seat of large-celled hyperplasia (Art. 340), or of tubercle (Art. 342). It was shown in Art. 39 that this variety of degeneration is closely allied to caseation (Art. 333). Some authorities (such as Arnold, Virch. Arch. vol. 87) see in it a special kind of degeneration, which only in its advanced stages leads to caseation. Eeferences :—Cornil, Journ. de Vanat. et de la phys. 1878 ; Cornil and Kanvier, Man. Path. Hist. vol. I; Wieger, Virch. Arch. vol. 78 ; Peters, Virch. Arch. vol. 87 ; Vallat, Virch. Arch. vol. 89 ; Virchow, ibid. vols. 85, 89. 333. Patty degeneration, calcification, and necrosis of the lymphatic glands occur mainly as consequences of inflammatory disease. Fatty change and soft caseous necrosis are best exempli- fied in connexion with the specific inflammations of scrofula and tuberculosis. A lymphatic gland already altered or enlarged, and it may be pigmented, exhibits on section one or more isolated caseous foci, or is transformed entire into an opaque white cheesy mass contained in a fibrous capsule. In later stages such glands