132 [sect. IV. THE SEROUS MEMBRANES. and easily broken down; in other cases they are not to be separated without tearing the heart-wall. If the exudation has been highly fibrinous, fragments of unabsorbed fibrin may lie for long between the two surfaces, and may ultimately become calcified. A like change occasionally involves the new tissue itself, and thus the heart may come to be surrounded with a carapace of calcareous plates. Pericardial adhesions are a common cause of cardiac hypertrophy (Art. 279). Plastic pleurisy occurs as an independent affection, and also as an accompaniment of various pulmonary inflammations. Slight attacks give rise to a moderate amount of pleural thickening, and to the formation of delicate adhesions. After long-continued or often-repeated inflammation very dense and extensive false mem- branes may be formed, and the resulting adhesions may be extremely firm and tough (see the Chapters on pulmonary affections). The absorption of the effusion is often slow, especially when it becomes condensed to a cheesy consistence. In this case it may become calcified, as may also the new-formed fibrous tissue in the adhesions. Plastic peritonitis likewise occurs independently, and also as a secondary result of various inflammatory affections of the abdomin- al viscera. In the latter case it is usually localised to the neigh- bourhood of the affected organ, such as the liver, spleen, ovary, stomach, etc. Simple thickening of the peritoneum is a less common result; but it does occur, especially in connexion with the spleen (see Art. 321). Adhesions are usually formed, and are slight or dense according to the duration of the inflammation. Delicate false membranes are very apt to be the seat of haemorrhage (haemorrhagic peritonitis). In general peritonitis, which is primary and chronic, very considerable thickenings of the membrane may be produced. They may be diffuse or localised, and are sometimes scar-like or even cartilaginous in density. The mesentery when so thickened usually contracts; the omentum may shrink into a kind of roughly-twisted rope {yeritonitis deformans). The various organs are extensively adherent, the loops of the intestines being sometimes glued into a single mass, while the liver and spleen may be completely enclosed in adhesions. The effused liquid may be scanty or abundant, and the proportions of albumen and of cells it contains vary with the stage and intensity of the inflammation. The peritoneal inflammation here described occurs chiefly as a result of intense engorgement of the abdominal vessels, such as follows upon valvular disease of the heart or hepatic disease: and it may be accompanied by an abundant dropsical or ascitic effasion. 354. Purulent inflammation of the serous membranes is either primary, or developed from an originally sero-fibrinous inflammation by an increase in the inflammatory migration of blood-cells. No sharp line can be drawn between sero-fibrinous