281 C.HA1\'LIV.'] STRANGULATION OF THE INTESTIXE. 466. Wheii a hernia is once established, further .changes in the parts usually follow. The hernia may increase in size by the inclusion of more of the abdominal contents. The sac stretches and becomes thinner, or new portions of the peritoneum are (4ragged into it. In consequence of the slight mechanical lesions to which the hernia is exposed a certain amount of inflammation is usually set up. The sac thereby thickens, and the folds of peritoneum at the neck cohere so that the channel of communica- tion between the sac and the abdominal cavity becomes thick- walled and inextensible. The serous covering of the included intestine, and its mesentery, and of the omentum, become thick- ened in like manner. Lastly, adhesions may be set up between different parts of the sac, or between different loops of intestine and the sac-wall. The omentum is very apt to adhere to the sac. These changes very rarely indeed lead to cure by the closure and obliteration of the empty sac; on the contrary they usually make matters worse. The thickening and adhesions of the serous surfaces diminish by degrees the mobility of the included viscera. The neck of the sac becomes narrower, constricting its contents more and more. At length the contents can no longer be returned to the abdomen; the reducible hernia has become irreducible. When the contents of a hernia (reducible or not) are so constricted pr compressed that the included intestine becomes impervious and its circulation seriously impaired, the hernia is said to be strangu- lated or incarcerated. Strangulation or incarceration may be due to simple nar- rowing of the neck of the sac or of the orifice through which it passes; or it may arise from inflammatory constriction of the intestine within the sac; or a loop of intestine Avithin the sac may slip between two edges or bands of false membrane or into a gap in an included piece of omentum; or a piece of omentum may be squeezed into the neck of the sac and so compress the intestine; and so on. A narrow orifice, a band of false membrane, etc. may strangulate a loop of intestine without any abnormal distension of the latter by its contents. This may happen suddenly, for example, when the intestine is forced through a narrow orifice by an unusually deep respiration. This is sometimes referred to as ' elastic' strangu- lation. More often however the strangulation is dependent on some increase of the intestinal contents, the orifice of the sac being- narrow ; this may be called ' faecal' strangulation. The faeces accumulating in one coil of the intestine within the sac compress the other included coils in such a way as to nip them; stoppage or stasis of the contents takes place and the peristaltic movements are interfered with (Kocher). Presently the first coil is nipped in like manner, as the distended intestine presses up against the narrow neck of the sac. When a coil of intestine or a part of the omentum is constricted and. strangulated, disturbances of .the circulation almost always