CH. XXXT.] EFFECTS DUE TO DISORDERS OF THE CIRCULATION. 127 degeneration. Highly fatty detritus if present in any quantity may give the fluid the look and consistence of whey. We have already described the conditions under which fluid accumulates in the serous cavities (Arts. 23—25). The main cause of increased transudation from the vessels is obstruction of the venous outflow, aided by damaged or degenerate condi- tions of the vessel-walls. Ascites is most commonly due to uncom- pensated cardiac disease, pulmonary emphysema, or degenerative change in the kidneys. It is also common in liver-disease by which any considerable extent of the portal territory is obstructed, and it often accompanies the development of abdominal tumours. According to Quincke {Deutsch. Arch. f. Jclin. Med. xxx) it may make its appearance in girls about the time of puberty without apparent cause, disappearing as soon as menstruation is established. The most immediate result of serous effusion is the displacement and compression of the organs it involves. This is very apparent in the case of the lungs, which may be thrust back against the spine by a large pleural effusion. The compression of the heart and abdominal viscera by effusion into their respective serous cavities is less marked, as the pericardium and peritoneum are capable of great distension. But even then serious impairment of the functions of the organs may ensue. Extreme ascites presses up the diaphragm and impedes the breathing; a great pericardial effusion may interfere with the action of the heart, chiefly by impeding the diastolic expansion. If effusion occur simultaneously in the several cavities the disturbance of the visceral functions may become very grave. The anatomical changes observable in the serous membranes in dropsical conditions are often very slight. They may be little more than result from the soaking of the serous and subserous tissue; or perhaps the veins may appear more or less dilated. After long-continued dropsy due to engorgement whitish thick- enings and fibrous adhesions make their appearance on the surface of the membrane. The former are chiefly due to alterations in the epithelial cells, which are more or less swollen, partially lifted from the fibrous basis-tissue, and in process of desquamation or fatty degeneration. Proliferous cells with an abundant protoplasm and two or more nuclei are also to be met wdth. The vascular engorge- ment thus induces catarrh with desquamation and multiplication of the epithelium (Fig. 142). The fibrous tissue is often largely infiltrated with leucocytes, and these may after a time proceed to deyelope into new fibrous tissue, producing diffuse circumscribed thickenings of the serous membrane, and adhesions of separate parts.