185 CH. XXXIX.] INFLAMMATORY HYPERTROPHIES. to a remarkable size, and look like heads of cauliflowers. The papillae as they grow tend more and more to subdivide; they are composed essentially of vascular fibrous tissue, but they always contain a number of leucocytes, and the base on which they stand is always more or less infiltrated. The lymphatics in the neigh- bourhood may be extensively inflamed, as appears by the accumu- lation of cells within and around them. Inflammatory papillomata may in like manner grow from the floor of an ulcer, especially such as occurs in connexion with chronic impetiginous eczema (Art. 385). They may cover a wide area and give rise to diffuse warty thickening of the skin (Art. 395). They usually possess an abundant cellular stroma, and might almost be described as consisting of granulation-tissue. The epidermal strata are occasionally absent, but they may be present and notably hypertrophied. Scales and crusts of epidermal cells are frequently formed. 395. Acquired elephantiasis {elephantiasis arabum, pachy- dermia) is a chronic and extensive hjrperplasia of the skin and subcutaneous tissue. The various affections which have been described as elephantiasis (arabum) are certainly not all of the same nature; but if we except what is sometimes called elephan- tiasis mollis or fibroma molluscum (Art. 399), an affection depending on some congenital condition, they are all associated with some cause which gives rise to long-continued or often-repeated inflam- mation of the integument. We said in Art. 394 that eczema was sometimes to be regarded as an inflammatory process leading to hypertrophy of the papillae. This hypertrophy may extend to the cutis and subcutaneous tissues and lead to notable thickening of the entire skin, especially in the legs. Other chronic inflammations may like eczema lead to a pachydermatous condition of the skin: such are, for instance, chronic varicose ulcers, and chronic inflammation of bones lying immediately underneath the skin. Many of the forms of elephan- tiasis, and especially those to which the name is more properly restricted, take their rise in frequently-recurring erysipelatous in- flammation. Tropical elephantiasis is now generally recognised to be ultimately due to the presence of the Filaria sanguinis hominis (Art. 235), a parasite which infests the lymphatics of the scrotum and lower limbs, and gives rise to inflammation and obstruction of the lymph-current. Acquired elephantiasis may affect very various parts of the body, but is chiefly met with in the genitals and lower limbs. The enormous thickening and overgrowth of the integuments lead to great deformity, which is especially noticeable in the case of the lower limbs. As the leg becomes more and more thickened the distinction between foot and leg is gradually lost, and the limb at length looks like an elephant's. The scrotum may grow till it