THE ALIMENTARY TRACT. [sect. VII. 248 various situations, more especially in or around the fraenum of the tongue. These are referred to as cases of ranula, and have long been objects of considerable surgical interest. Notwithstanding this the manner in which they arise has only recently received a satisfactory explanation. VoN Recklinghausen has shown by careful anatomical investigations that the true or classical ranula is in fact a cystic dilatation of one of the main ducts of the glands of Nuhn and Blandin, two small mucous glands situated beneath the tip of the tongue. The duct is obstructed probably by inflammatory changes either within or around it, and the part behind the obstruction (which need not be complete) becomes distended with the secretion poured out by the gland-cells. The contents of the ranula consist of a clear viscid or ropy mucous liquid, resembling the white of an egg; it may be quite colourless or stained pale yellow or brown or pink. It contains no saliva. The cyst itself is usually globular or ovoid and lies close by the fraenum. Besides this form of ranula (the typical form), there are other cysts which are loosely classed with it. Wharton's duct, leading from the submaxillary gland, may be distended into a cyst. The cyst in this case is usually fusiform or cylindrical, though at times it becomes more distinctly globular. The occlusion of the duct is in general due to inflammation or to the formation of salivary concretions or calculi. The ducts of the sublingual glands (ducts of Rivini and Bartholin) may also become distended into cysts lying beneath the tongue; and dermoid cysts are met with in the same situation. According to RosER congenital cysts of the neck (Art. 8) may be displaced inwards so as to lie beneath the tongue, and sometimes simulate ranulae. They often contain sebaceous matters. Cysts occur in other situations, but much less frequently. Thus they are found at times in the muscular substance of the tongue and in the mucous membrane of its base. Such cysts are usually small, but now and then they attain a very considerable size (BocHDALEK, LoTZBECK, Hammerich). They are due to the dilatation of the glands that occur at the base and around the root of the tongue. The mucous glands of the lips may in like manner be trans- formed into cysts, which vary from the size of a pea to that of a hazel-nut. The origin of raniila, as we liave said, has been recently investigated with gi'eat care by von Eecklinghausen (Virch. Arch. vol. 84). He reviews criti- cally the various observations and theories already published, and describes the results of his own work on the subject. The classical ranula he proves to be due to the dilatation of the duct of the mucous glands at the tip of the tongue. He rejects the suggestion of Fleischmann that it originates from a mucous bursa lying on the surface of the genio-glossus muscle. This biu'sa has been sought for in vain by various investigators; and moreover the true ranula always possesses a well-developed cylindrical epithelium. BocHDALEK (Oesterr, Zeitschr. f. pract. Heilk. xii, 1866), Lotzbeck