119 CHAP. XXIX.] TUMOURS OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. tinguish the varieties; iu other respects the affections are identical. (On the changes in the blood see Art. 260; on those in the spleen see Art. 328.) The leukaemic increase of the white blood-cells very often leads to considerable deposits of them in the various tissues. The deposits may be diffuse or in agglomerated masses, and must not be con- founded with the lymphadenoid growths. Lanqhans (Virch. Arch. vol. 54) has proposed to call both varieties by the one name of adenia, distinguishing them as simple adenia and lenkaemic adenia. Some such distinction would be better than the present confusion. We do not know the ultimate cause of the difference between the two varieties; cases are known in which the simple form has passed into the leukaemic, and inversely. The spleen is affected iu both forms. In simple or non-leukaemic cases it is sometimes firm, sometiufes soft, the follicles are enlarged to the size of a hazel-nut, and are greyish-yellow, vascular, and ecchymosed. It is rare for the spleen to be more intensely affected than the glands; while iu leukaemic adenia the affection of the spleen is often the most marked feature of all. Eeferences:—Arts. 260 and 328; Cornil, Arch. ff<fn. ii (1865) p. 207; CoHNHEiM, Virch. Arch. vol. 33; Hodgkin, Med. chir. Trans, xvii (1832); Eberth, Virch. Arch. vol. 49; B. ScHULZ, Arch. d. Heilk. 1874. 345. Hard lymphadenoma or lymphosarcoma occurs as a primary gTOwth most frequently in the superficial lymphatic glands; other gi'oups may be attacked in the further course of the affection. For example, if the affection start in some of the cervical glands, the rest of the cervical glands, and the thoracic and abdominal glands lying near the large vessels, are attacked in succession. The glands are transformed into firm tough elastic or hardened knots, forming dense clusters in combination. Single glands may reach the size of a walnut. The section of such a knot becomes very slightly concave, and but little juice runs from it; it looks pale yellowish-white, and may be translucent or opaque ; sometimes small haemorrhages appear in it. The capsule and surrounding tissue seldom exhibit any great degree of fibrous thickening. On microscopic examination the lymphadenoid structure is seen to be preserved (Langhans), while the cells are increased in number and the reticulum is thickened. The cells resemble the ordinary lymphoid elements, a few being larger or multinuclear. The strands of the reticulum are broad and fibrillated, and they seem multiplied so that the network is closer and its meshes smaller than in a normal gland. The follicles and sinuses are no longer distinguishable. The adventitia of the vessels is thickened and is made up of shining fibrous bundles. Fatty degeneration, calcifica- tion, or softening rarely supervene. In later stages the follicles of the spleen may be affected, and be changed like the glands into hard nodules. The spleen is never primarily affected in this form of lymphadenoma. Similar nodules may be developed in the lymphadenoid tissue of the alimentary canal and in the thymus.