CHAPTEK XLII. PARASITIC AFFECTIONS. 409. Vegetable parasites. The Hj^^liomycetes or moulds (Arts. 213, 222), which infest the human skin form jointed mycelial filaments (hyphae) and spores (conidia) (Fig. 161). Various names are given to the groups of filaments and spores according to the form of the affection or dermatomycosis which they produce. The filaments and spores are found chiefly in the epidermoid structures of the skin, and especially in the hairs and hair-follicles. The filaments penetrate between the cells, loosen them from each other, and ultimately separate them from their nutrient base; the disintegrated cells then serve for a soil to the growing fungus. Hyperaemia and inflammation are set up, and in consequence scales, vesicles, pustules, and scabs, are developed. The fungi have no perceptible effect on the system as a whole. They do not attack all skins, but only those which exhibit a certain predis- position, though it is hard to say wherein this lies. The mycoses of the skin are divisible into three main forms, known as Favus, Tinea tonsurans, and Pityriasis versicolor. In addition to these familiar dermatomycoses there are others which are also ascribed to the invasion of fungi, such as alopecia areata, psoriasis, and contagious impetigo. They have been already described. The bacterial aflPections of the skin have hkewise been treated of; they are variola (Art. 388), erysipelas (Art. 375), phlegmon and malignant pustule (Art. 390), leprosy (Arts. 133 and 392). 410. Favus (tinea favosa or crusted ringworm) chiefly attacks the scalp, though it is also met with in other parts, such as the nails. It is characterised by the formation of pale-yellow cup- shaped friable crusts usually perforated by hairs, the so-called favus-cups (scutula). The crusts vary from the size of a pin- head to that of a sixpence. According to Kaposi the favus-cup begins as a minute yellow punctiform spot perforated by a hair and lying beneath the epider- mis. In a few weeks it grows to the size of a pin-head, and then appears as a pale-yellow cup-shaped disc showing through the skin. On section the disc (Fig. 162) is seen to consist of mycelial fila- ments and spores lying beneath the horny layer of the epidermis (absent in the figure) in an excavation of the skin. If the cup is removed the surface of the excavation has a red and moist appear- ance. The cup itself is whitish and friable, and may be teased out