CHAPTER LIX. HYPERTROPHY AND REGENERATION OF LIVER-TISSUE. 492. When from any cause the glandular cells of the liver are destroyed, as in phosphorus-poisoning, the tissue may to a certain extent be repaired or renewed by regenerative multiplication of the remaining cells. How far the process of regeneration can go we do not as yet fully know ; but we may well suppose that it is possible only when the loss of substance is small and the general structure of the lobule not gravely damaged. We suggested in Art. 490 that the process of regeneration starts from the liver-cells within the injvired lobule, and it certainly seems highly improbable that an entire lobule or any part of one should be developed from the epithelium of the biliary ducts. As to the histology of hypertrophy of the liver-tissue there is but little to say. Enlargement of the liver is chiefly due to deposits of fat or of amyloid substance, to new-formed fibrous tissue, or to infiltration with leucocytes (as in leukaemia). In a few cases the enlargement of the liver has been found to be congenital, the structure being normal. Ricketty children not infrequently have remarkably large livers (Beneke). And in adults abnormal size of the liver is now and then discovered, without any assignable cause for the enlarge- ment. Inasmuch as the volume of the organ may vary in health within somewhat wide limits, it is difficult to say at what point an enlargement is to be regarded as morbid. The statement some- times made—that the liver in diabetes is apt to be very much enlarged—cannot be corroborated by the author. The lobules of an abnormally large liver are not usually en- larged, and hence one must assume that their number is increased. As regards the size of the liver-cells, it is known that this varies under physiological conditions; it is therefore difficult or impossible to detect what we may call cellular hypertrophy, if it exists. Sometimes when one part of the liver-substance perishes the remainder seems to enlarge; but on closer examination the local s. p. A. 21