CHAPTER XXVIII. INFLAMMATIONS OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. 336. Acute lymphadenitis. Acute inflammation of the lymphatic glands is usually set up by irritants brought to them by the lymph. In many cases the irritant can be proved to be bacterial, in other instances its nature cannot be ascertained. An inflamed gland is swollen, and often greatly swollen. On section it appears red, and moister and softer than usual, and it often contains haemorrhagic patches. The abnormal redness may be confined to the cortex, or extend' also to the medulla. During the later stages the redness decreases again; and the section becomes mottled, or uniformly greyish, yellowish, or white. The condition of the tissue varies with these changes of tint. Where it is red, the blood-vessels are dilated and distended with blood; the reticulum both without and within the follicles being likewise distended with cells and liquid, while red corpuscles are often found lying free in the parenchyma. Where the tissue is pale, the accumulation of colourless cells has gone on, while the hyperaemia has diminished. The reticulum is seldom notably altered at first, but as the inflammation proceeds it usually breaks down here and there. The number of glands affected by the same inflammation varies much; sometimes a single one, sometimes an an entire group, is attacked. It is difficult to determine with certainty the source of the leucocytes which gather in the reticuhim of an inflamed lymphatic gland. The lymphoid cells of the follicles normally multiply by subdivision, and it is possible that in inflammatory conditions the multiplication may be increased. But we cannot exclude the possibility that part at least of the intruding leucocytes are derived from the lymphatics or blood-vessels. 337. The further stages and terminations of the acute inflammation are different in different cases. It may end in resolution and complete restoration, or in necrosis, gangrene, caseation, suppuration, or fibrous induration. But before reach- ing such terminations certain changes pass over the lymphoid