8 [sect. I. BLOOD AND LYMPH. In the case of pure white thrombi, only the colourless elements of the blood separate out. When the necessary local conditions for coagulation are set up at any spot (on the intima of the heart or of a vessel) the clots adhere to the surface, and gradually increase in size by successive additions. At first the cellular elements of the mass are distinguishable; but in twenty- four hours the -outlines of the cells disappear, and the mass is transformed into homogeneous or finely-granular fibi'in. The thrombus grows by the addition of colourless elements like those in which it began. If red corpuscles are entangled with the others, it may gradually become more and more tinged with red. If the red corpuscles are precipitated per solium or inter- mittently, the thrombus will exhibit strata of red and white. This alternate precipitation, which leads to the formation of mottled thrombi, is most likely to happen if the blood is alternately at rest and in motion at the site of the deposit. The fuudameutal investigations on the subject of thrombosis are those of ViRCHOW (Gesamm. Abhandl. 1856, Hand. d. spec. Path, i), who made out by experiment the conditions of intravascular coagulation and its effects on the circulation. Zahn has shown {Virch. Arch. vol. 62, and Rev. med. de la Suisse rom. 1881) that the formation of a thrombus in the blood-vessel of a frog may be directly observed under the microscope; one has only to injure the vessel mechanically or place on it a crystal of common salt, and coagula- tion at once begins. In this way the behaviour of the white corpuscles has chiefly been made out. Quite recently Bizzozero {Centralb. f. d. med. Wiss. 1882, Arch. ital. de hiologie i, and Virch. Arch. vol. 90) has observed in Uving blood certain small colom'less disc-like bodies, about half the size of the ordinary white corpuscles. These he calls " Bhttpltittchen" or blood-plates, and regards as identical with Hayem's haematoblasts (Ai't. 35). In blood taken from the vessels in the usual way they break up into the knots of granules described by Max Schultze and others. According to Bizzozero coagulation takes place when the blood-plates begin to break up in a liquid containing fibrinogen ; and he maintains that they form the essential con- stituent of white and mottled thrombi. Rauschenbach, a pupil of Schmidt's, has criticised these statements in a recent inaugural dissertation (Dorpat 1882). See also Wooldridge, Du Bois-Reymond^s Arch. 1883. 253. Thrombosis depends upon two factors; one is the morbid alteration of the vessel-wall, the other the retardation or stoppage of the blood-current. In most cases the two factors are in action simultaneously. In normal conditions coagulation is prevented by the ever-re- newed contact of the blood with the living endothelium of the vessel- wall (Brucke). If the endothelium die in consequence of disease of the inner coat of the vessel, or if the blood is in part prevented from fresh contact with the endothelium by stagnation or cessation of the current, the influences which inhibit coagulation are inter- fered with. In accordance with this view we find that thrombosis is commonest where there is degeneration or inflammation of the lining membrane of the vessels or the heart, or where the circula- tion is impeded by such causes as compression or occlusion or dilatation of the vessels, fatty change in the heart, etc. Direct