163 CHAP. XXXVIII.J INFLAMMATIONS OF THE SKIN. 376. Psoriasis is a chronic disease of the skin characterised by the formation of dry glistening white scales. They are piled upon each other in small heaps, or over large discoid patches, which have a definite red slightly raised base that is easily made to bleed (Kaposi). The eruption begins in minute brownish-red nodules which in a day or two become covered over with epidermal scales. If the scales are removed a bleeding point appears on the reddened base. When the nodules are numerous and discrete the disease is distinguished as psoriasis punctata; where the patches and scales are larger we have psoriasis guttata and psoriasis immnixblaris. As the disease passes away the base becomes pale and the scales are shed; the skin may at once assume its normal appearance or remain pigmented for a time. Often the patches heal in the centre while the margins are still advancing; in this case the affection is named psoriasis annularis or gyrata. The disease may occur at imj spot, but it chiefly affects the region of the knee and elbow, the scalp, and the sacral region. Both the hair and the nails may be destroyed in the course of it. The histological changes induced by psoriasis relate essentially to the epidermal cells, the papillae, and the upper strata of the corium. The two latter are more or less densely infiltrated with leucocytes; and when the disease has lasted for some time hyper- plasia of the superficial fibrous tissue and the papillae is usually set up. The morbid process may occasionally extend to the deeper layers of the corium and the subcutaneous connective tissue. As regards the epidermis, the mucous layer and especially the inter-papillary parts of it appear overgrown. The cornification of the surface layers of the epidermis is interfered with ; the cells as they come to the surface appearing simply to shrivel and dry up, while the mutual cohesion of the layers is loosened. E. Lang (Viertelj. f. Derm. u. Syph. 1879, and Sammlung klin. Vortrdge 208) announced that a fungous growth was always present in the patches of psoriasis; he named it Epidermidophyton and regarded it as the exciting cause of the disease. It formed filaments and spores and was found in the deeper layers of the heaps of scales. Ziegler has not been able to verify the discovery, having found nothing in the diseased patches biit occasional micrococci, and these can hardly be regarded as the specific virus. On the histology of psoriasis see Neumann {Med. Jalirb. 1879), R Robinson {New York Med. Journ. 1879), Jamieson {The histology of psoriasis Edinburgh 1879), Thin {Brit. Med. Journ. I, 1881). 377. Pityriasis rubra, or general exfoliative dermatitis, is a peculiar affection of the entire skin, the only symptoms of which are_ marked redness and desquamation; neither papules nor vesicles nor pustules are ever formed (Kaposi). The scales are sometimes small, but they are often of considerable size. After a time the skin becomes smooth, shining, thin, and tense; the hair falls off; and when the disease has lasted for a year or more. 11—2