CH.XL.] NON-INFLAMMATORY HYPERTR0PHIP:S AND TUMOURS. 191 in the cell-clusters themselves. When the clusters are few in number they give lise to no visible change on the surface of the skin, but when they are more abundant they cause the surface layers to project into small flattened or tuberous prominences. The groups of cells are in general distinct from each other, and occasionally exhibit a certain regularity of arrangement into columns disposed at right angles to the surface of the skin. When they are very abundant and the intervening fibrous tissue scanty, the regularity is lost and the affected part seems made up of cells scattered \iniformly through the tissue and separated partly by blood-vessels. The overlying epidermis and the interposed fibrous tissue frequently contain yellow or brown pigment, but the cells them- selves rarely contain any. Such pigmented spots form the basis of freckles, sun-spots, mother's marks, warts, moles, and pigmentary naevi. Freckles (ephelides) are small irregular brownish spots seen, usually on the face, in young people, and generally disappearing with advancing years. They sometimes however persist throughout life. Mother's marks (lentigines) are larger and more definite in size and dark-brown in colour: they are either congenital or appear in infancy, and then remain unchanged throughout life. Moles and pigmentary naevi ai-e congenital patches of various sizes, either level with the skin or slightly raised, and varying from yellow to brownish-black in colour. They are often beset with hairs which are stronger and stouter than those in the neigh- bouring skin; they are then called hairy moles (^naevi pilosi). Warts {verriicae) vary in diameter from 1 to 20 millimetres. When the characteristic clusters of cells lie chiefly in the cutis and only to a small extent in the papillae, the surface of the wart is smooth. When the papillae are more extensively invaded (Fig. 158 e) the surface becomes somewhat rough and tuberous. When (I Fig. 158. Skotion through a soft wart. {Aniline-brown staining: x 10) a epidermis c cellulai' growth in the cutis h cutis t' cellular growth in the papillae