THK VASCULAR MECHANISM. 56 [sect. II. the formation of tendon-like scleroses or thickenings (Ai-t. 277), composed of glistening white bands or patches of dense fibrous tissue. As endocarditis is generally present at the same time, the endocardium will show similar tendinous streaks and patches on its surface. Not infrequently some of the muscular trabeculae are transformed into coarse fibrous cords. The new fibrous tissue (Fig. 126 e) when fully-developed is dense and almost ft-ee from cells; if the inflammatory process is kept up, it may still contain infiltrated leucocytes (A) in some spots. The muscle-cells have in many places disappeared; in other places, especially near the periphery, they remain but show evident signs of atrophy (d). When the inflammation is more recent, the tissue is greyer or more reddish, and richer in cells and in vessels. At first nothing is seen but an infiltration of small cells, amid which the muscle-cells appear in various stages of disintegration; and sometimes haemorrhage occurs. The disintegrated muscle-cells are not afterwards replaced. The smaller scleroses have no serious effect on the heart's function; but the larger ones which involve a considerable extent of the muscular substance may have a very harmful effect. The new tissue is not contractile, and so does not take a share in the general contraction of the heart; while if it is at all pliable or distensible the blood-pressure may force it to give way and bulge into a sacculation, and thus an aneurysm of the heart is formed. Purulent myocarditis usually accompanies pyaemic infections, and is due to bacteria which have reached the heart-muscle through the coronary arteries. Small yellowish or greyish abscesses are formed. They may break inwardly, and lead to cardiac ulcer; or outwardly and set up pericarditis. Larger myocarditic abscesses may lead to rupture of the heart. As we have said, the aetiology of myocarditis corresponds in general with that of endocarditis; but there are certain irritants which may set up myocar- ditis though they do not usually affect the endocardium. Thus according to Leyden {Zeitschr. f. hlin. Med. iv) the poison of diphtheria often causes myocarditis, while endocarditis is a rare compUcatiou. Rosenbach (Virck. Arch. vol. 79) found granular and waxy degeneration of the heart-muscle in diphtheria. Leyden moreover states that the virus of small-pox, of epidemic meningitis, or of relapsing fever, may bring about myocarditis. On the myocarditis and sclerosis that foUow myomalacia see Art. 277.