293 CHAP. LIV.] THE INTESTINE IN TYPHOID. becomes loosened at its base and edges from the surviving struc- tures, and in a few days is cast off. After the separation of the sloughs, an erosion or typhoid ulcer is left, the floor of which generally looks smooth and clean. The borders of the ulcer are at this stage still swollen and in- filtrated. The ulcers usually remain coextensive with or very slightly overpass the area of the infiltrated patches and follicles; they rarely invade the tissue beyond. Cases however occur in which, especially around the ileo-caecal valve, extensive tracts of mucous membrane are attacked and disintegrated by the advance of the ulcerative process. In the vertical direction it seldom goes beyond the mucosa and submucosa. It is only when the infiltration of the muscular coats has been extreme that they too break down and ulcerate. In exceptionally severe inflammation the serous coat also may be attacked, but never to the same extent as the overlying layers; perforation and fatal peritonitis may occur in such a case. The processes of absorption and repair begin at various stages of the disease. If no necrosis takes place, the swelling of the patches goes down as the infiltrated material is absorbed: the patches thereupon become less stiffly turgid, and once more hyper- aemic. Red corpuscles escape from the damaged vessels, and the tissue takes on a red or blood-stained tint which presently turns to a slaty grey. The infiltrated borders of the typhoid ulcers become reduced and softened and hyperaemic by the same steps. Often enough considerable haemorrhage ensues, leading not only to haemorrhagic infiltration of the tissue but to actual escape of blood into the intestinal canal. As the healing process goes on the softened and overhanging borders of the ulcer become adherent to the floor; the latter is gradually covered over with delicate granulations, and soon receives an investment of epithelial cells. The site of a former typhoid ulcer appears for a long time after as a smooth shallow depression, devoid of glands and follicles, slaty-grey in colour, and situated in the midst of a Peyer's patch itself discoloured in like manner. The characteristic inflammation of the lymphadenoid structures of the intestine in typhoid is sometimes accompanied by an inflammation of the corresponding mesenteric glands. They are at first red, swollen, and oedema- tous (Art. 336); but as the accumulation in them of leucocytes and lymphoid elements becomes more marked they take on a light-gi'ey tint. The swelling either subsides from re-absoqjtion of the infiltrated matters, the gland be- coming soft and hyperaemic ; or it terminates in partial necrosis, and opaque greyish patches appear within the substance of the gland. These patches may likewise be absorbed at a later stage, but they often become caseous or calcified. The spleen is usually swollen, and inflammation of the throat, especially affecting the follicular structures of the pharynx, is not an imcoramon accompaniment. With regard to the bacillus of typhoid see the references in Art. 206 ; and also Eberth, Virch. Arch. vol. 83, Samml. klin. Vortriige uo. 226 ; Klein,