THE OESOPHAGUS, CHAP. LII.] 261 inflammation results, which is usually suppurative and now and then leads to perforation. When however the suppuration causes the necrosed tissue to separate, the wound may become scarred over; if the muscular coat has been destroyed the scar invariably contracts and gives rise to extreme constriction of the tube. Patients who are much emaciated and bedridden sometimes suffer from gangrenous ulceration of the pharynx. Grey or black sloughs form on the anterior and posterior wall at the level of the cricoid cartilage, which are presently cast off leaving ulcers behind them. The affection is due to the continuous compression of the tube between the larynx and the spine, the extreme relaxation of the muscles permitting the larjnix to sink down on the yielding pharynx. It is therefore of the nature of a bed-sore or decubital necrosis (Art. 33). Syphilitic inflammation and ulceration of the oesophagus are extremely rare. 451. Connective-tissue growths are not common in this region, though fibroma, lipoma, myxoma, and sarcoma are some- times met with. As a rule they form globular polypous-looking tumours. This is especially true of fibroma, which occasionally developes in the lower part of the pharynx behind the larynx and hangs pendulous within the tube. Papillary outgrowths from the mucous membrane are more common : they somewhat resemble warts in general structure. Carcinoma is however by far the most important of the neoplasms affecting the oesophagus. It may appear at any point of the tube, though it is most frequently met with in the lower third. It gives rise to isolated or annular infiltrations, which speedily break down iuto ulcers. Sometimes the protuberant parts of the growth are entirely removed by ulceration, while the base and margins of the sore continue to be infiltrated with cancer-tissue. The disease extends in the first instance to the muscular coat, and then to the adjacent tissues and organs. The connective tissue surrounding the oesophagus becomes indurated and beset with nests of cancer- cells : then the trachea, bronchi, pericardium, heart, pleura, lungs, etc. may be successively invaded. Perforation may result from the ulceration, and then ulcerative disintegration spreads rapidly through the previously infiltrated organs. The neighbouring parts are always more or less inflamed. Primary cancer of the oeso- phagus is a squamous epithelial carcinoma (Art, 173). With regard to thrush see Arts. 436 and 449,