[sect, V. THE SKIN. 200 Asteatosis, in which the sebaceous secretion is diminished, is rare as an idiopathic affection. It is usually secondary to other affections like ichthyosis, prurigo, psoriasis, pityriasis rubra, leprosy, etc. The skin becomes dry and fissured, and is shed in scales or flakes. 404. Various disorders of the skin are due to the accumul- ation of sebum in the glands or ducts in consequence of some obstruction of the outlet. The obstruction is usually diie to the drjdng of sebum or the deposit of dirt at the mouth of the duct. Comedones are small elevations of the skin due to plugging of the sebaceous ducts, or of the common opening of duct and hair-follicle. When the plug is squeezed out it appears as a whitish and somewhat firm pear-shaped or cylindrical mass of the size of a pin-head, the superficial end being stained black or brown. It consists of sebum and horny epidermal cells, and often contains minute hairs, and the mite called Demodex folliculorvm (Art. 225). According to Unna (Virch. Arch. vol. 82), the staining of the 'head' of the comedo is due to the presence of pigment either free or contained in the horny epidermal cells. Comedones usually occur on the forehead, cheeks, and chin, and occasionally on the chest. Milium (grutum or acne alhida) consists of small roundish white or yellowish elevations of the skin, due to the accumulation of sebum and epidermal cells in sebaceous glands whose outlet has become obliterated. Occasionally the accumulation may distend the tubes of the associated hair-follicles into cysts of considerable size. The skin of the eyelids is a favourite seat. When the nodule is incised and the contents evacuated, they are often found to be concreted into a firm and sometimes even stony core. Wens or sebaceous cysts {atheroma or steatoma) are due to the collection of more or less fluid secretion distending the lumen of the sebaceous gland, its duct, and the neighbouring hair-follicle into a cyst, which may be as large as a walnut or even considerably larger. The contents of a wen may be soft and pulpy or firm and friable. They consist of fatty detritus, sebum, epidermal cells, and sometimes tablets of cholesterin and hairs, all enclosed in a capsule made up of layers of epithelial cells and fibrous tissue. They are usually seated on the scalp, more rarely on the back of the neck or on the face, trunk, and limbs. Sometimes papillary outgrowths covered with epidermoid cells arise from the inner sm-face of the wall of a sebaceous cyst, and may increase in size so as to fill up the cavity. Forster (Wurzburger Verhandlungen x) has described this as dry cancroid; it may in time become calcified. Chiari (JVaturfor- scherversamm. in Salzburg 1881) has met with a case in which the internal layers of cells became dry and horny, the fibrous capsule becoming at the same time contracted. Atheromatous cysts are sometimes formed at the site of persistent branchial clefts (Art. 8).