283 CHAP. LIV.] INTUSSUSCEPTION OF THE INTESTINE. mesenteric attachment, the two limbs of the coil crossing each other over the mesentery. The channel of the intestine is occluded and the mesenteric circulation stopped. Untwisting is prevented by the weight of the distended coil and the pressure of the rest of the abdominal contents. Twisting of the sigmoid flexure or of the small intestine may result in a kind of knotting between the two, the attached end of the twisted coil of one part becoming encircled by a loop of the other. 468. Stenosis and atresia are not infrequently the result of inflammation of the wall of the intestine itself. The serous coat may become inflamed, and so indurated, cicatrised, and con- tracted ; or ulcerative inflammation of the mucous membrane may result in the formation- of new fibrous tissue, which subsequently contracts. Carcinomatous ulcers, the floors of which tend to become indurated and contracted (Art. 478), may have the same effect; while tumours and other gi'owths developing within the canal or pressing on it from without may obstruct and* ultimately occlude it. Dilatation of the intestine is most commonly due to reten- tion of faeces, or other contents such as flatus. Tumours, and abnormal relaxation or softness of the wall, may also give rise to dilatation. Usually all the coats are dilated together: sometimes however the muscular structures are here and there pushed aside, and the mucous and submucous coats bulge through, producing saccula- tions or false diverticula of various sizes. Sacculations may also be due to the bulging of the wall in its whole thickness. Perforation of the bowel is in general due to some localised textural change, especially to ulceration of the mucous surface, necrosis, or softening occasioned by suppuration in the neighbour- hood of the part. Perforation may of course be caused by mechani- cal violence. The result of perforation, unless the lips of the wound im- mediately close, is local or general peritonitis due to the escape of faeces. The peritonitis is localised when by previous inflam- mation adhesions have been set up around the point of perforation. If faeces escape into the portion of the peritoneum so circumscribed a faecal abscess is produced; this may break either outwardly or into another part of the intestine. 469. A not uncommon kind of displacement or dislocation of the intestine is that known as intussusception. In this a higher part of the bowel slips into or is invaginated by a lower, rarely the reverse. Recent intussusceptions are most frequently met with in the small intestine in young children, especially in those who have died of cerebral or intestinal affections.