CHAP. II.] INTRAVASCULAll COAGULATION OR THIIOMBOSIS. 11 The most unfavourable issue of all is the puriform or yellow softening of the thrombus. In this case the thrombus is trans- Ibrmed into a dii'ty or reddish yellow, foetid, pus-like cream or pulp. This contains a multitude of pus-corpuscles and a large proportion of a finely-granular matter, which consists in part of fatty and albuminous detritus, and in part of micrococci. The latter frequently form groups or colonies, and are probably to be regarded as the exciting cause of the softening process. Such puriform thrombi act destructively on the surrounding tissues and set up inflammation. The iutima of the vessel becomes turbid or opaque; and suppurative inflammation begins in the tunica media and tunica adventitia, extending to the tissue enclosing the vessel. Soon the entire thickness of the vessel-wall is infiltrated, and takes on a dirty yellowish or greyish appearance. Ultimately the tissues undergo putrid disintegration (Art. 291). If the puriform matters are carried by the blood-current to distant spots, they there produce necrotic and putrefactive changes in the tissues, and set up suppurative inflammation. The entire process, in which puriform softening of a venous thrombus is associated with suppurative inflammation of the vessel-wall, is described as purulent thrombophlebitis. It is due in the first instance to the causes which lead to thrombosis, and in the second to the access of micrococci to the thrombus. In other cases the inflammation of the vessel-wall is primary, and the thrombosis a secondary effect. The purulent form is most com- monly met with in the neighbourhood of septic wounds and ulcers. 255. The most favourable issue of thrombosis is in organi- sation of the thrombus. By this is meant the replacement of the fibrin and corpuscles by vascularised fibrous tissue. The new fibrous tissue is mainly the product of an inflamma- tory process, it is developed from migrated white blood-cells. Regenerative multiplication of the endothelial cells plays but a subordinate part, or none at all. The thrombus itself takes no active share in the process; it is a lifeless mass, a foreign body, and as such sets up inflammation in its neighbourhood. The inflammation runs the same course as other constructive or plastic inflammations. The histological changes follow exactly on the lines of those described in Arts. 108—111; and the behaviour of the tissues towards the foreign body (the thrombus) is identical with that described in Arts. 112—116. The process by which a thrombus is organised resembles most closely the plastic inflamma- tion of a serous membrane. A blood-vessel has indeed a certain anatomical analogy to the serous cavities, being mainly distinguished by its particular configuration and by the special structure of its walls. In the first stages of the organising process we observe that the vessel-wall is here and there infiltrated with small leucocytes, the