CHAP. LVIII.] ACUTE YELLOW ATROPHY OF THE LIVER. 317 The section is usually of an ochreous yellow, and the contours of the lobules are obscured. Or the yellow tint may appear only in some spots, while others are pale or dark red (so-called ' red atrophy'). The single lobules are uniform in colour, or now and then show variously tinted zones. In the latter case the periphery is greyish and semi-translucent, while the central parts are of various shades of yellow, and now and then the very centre is red. The differences in size, consistence, and colour are due partly to differences in the condition of the liver-cells, partly to the amount of blood present in the vessels. As regards the liver-cells, they are found in the most diverse stages of degeneration, from mere dropsical and cloudy swelling to complete disintegration into masses of fatty and albuminous detritus. At the same time the cohesion of- the several cells is loosened. In the ochreous parts few if any cells remain unaltered. Those that are least altered are turbid and beset with granules and oil-globules; the most altered consist of little else than drops of oil of various sizes, while many are completely broken up or in process of solution (Fig. 184 e f). In the greyish semi-translucent parts a few normal cells remain, but the greater number are disintegrated and replaced by irregular clumps of colourless albuminous granules, grains of yellow pigment, and small and large drops of oil. At many points even these remains of cells have disappeared and the intercapillary spaces contain nothing but liquid. The detritus has been partly dissolved and partly removed by the lymphatics. The amount of blood present in the vessels varies much : when present it gives to some parts the red tint to which we have alluded. What is called 'acute red atrophy' is in fact 'yellow atrophy' associated with a more than usually abundant supply of blood to the parts. Naturally the red appearance becomes more appreciable as the fatty detritus of the disintegrated tissue is dissolved away or otherwise removed. The brown or darker yellow tints are due to pigment-granules which lie in the tissues that remain. In the later stages of the affection the periportal connective tissue is slightly infiltrated with lymphoid cells or leucocytes; in the earUer stages these are absent. When the process is still more advanced leucin and tyrosin accompany the oily deposits, or at least become apparent some hours after death. 490. Acute yellow atrophy is thus characterised texturally by a fatty degeneration of the liver depending on a rapid disintegra- tion of the albuminoid constituents of the liver-cells. The aeti- ology of the process is not always the same. In a few cases it is an accompaniment of recognised infective disorders, especially of traumatic septicaemia. In other cases its causes are unknown, and then it would seem to be an idiopathic or at least a primary