THE VASCULAR MECHANISM. 54 [sect. II. ulcerative endocarditis. Since then the fact has more than once been verified (Maier, Virch. Arch. vol. 62; Bubkart, Berl. klin. Wock. 1B74; Sansom, Lettsomian lectures London 1883). Perforation of the valves as a consequence of inflammation is not to be con- founded with so-called fenestration, often found as a congenital anomaly in the sigmoid valves above the lines of contact in closure. This condition differs essentially from the other, not merely in the difference of its site but in the absence of inflammatory infiltration or fibrous thickening around the hiatus. 283. Results of endocarditis. If an attack of endocarditis does not prove fatal in its early or acute stage, certain plastic or formative inflammatory processes are set up at the affected spot, which result in the formation of n&w tissue and the cicatrisation of the defect. The tissue in which the new formation starts is that which has not succumbed to the severity of the disease ; the tissue in fact which is infiltrated but not necrosed. The raw material for new tissue is present, and the fixed cells of the old tissue are intact. For weeks and months after the commencement of the disease the thickened tissues of the inflamed valves are still notably infiltrated with young cells, and may here and there have the appearance of ordinary granulations. Very probably the migi'ated leucocytes, and it may be the proliferous fixed cells, act as the builders of the new tissue ; and their activity is maintained by the formation of new capillaries. These plastic processes lead to more or less considerable thicken- ings of the endocardium. In the ventricles and auricles they appear as dense opaque white patches, which may be indefinite or sharply circumscribed. The segments of the valves are thickened, hardened, coherent, and deformed in a multitude of ways. The tendinous cords are likewise thickened and shortened, and their ramifications abnormally adherent. Degenerative change frequently attacks these inflammatory thickenings, and that in any of the forms mentioned in Art. 276. Fatty degeneration, and atheroma with calcification, are the commonest forms. The result of these changes very often is that the valves are rendered functionally imperfect. Thickening and adhesion lead to narrowing of the ostia, or stenosis ; retraction or deformity of the segments and cords to imperfect closure of the ostia, or incompe- tence. Both stenosis and incompetence may exist at the same orifice. It would be impossible to give in detail all the varieties that occur. In mild cases the thickening is slight and confined to the free margin of the valve and perhaps one or two of the cords. In severer cases the normal configuration of the valvular apparatus may be entirely lost. Thus the mitral opening is often reduced to a mere chink at the end of a funnel-like projection, surrounded by dense, firm, and all but immovable masses of fibrous tissue. If calcification ensue the parts round the ostium may become perfectly rigid and immovable.