CH. XL.] NON-INFLAMMATORY HYPERTROPHIES AND TUMOURS. 195 prominences. On the nose they appear as large irregularly lobu- lated swellings known as rhinophymata (Hebra). They consist essentially of a thickening of the fibrous tissue of the skin with hyperplasia and cystic dilatation of the sebaceous glands: occasion- ally adipose tissue is developed in the thickened cutis. The result is the elevation of the papillary layer with the overljdng epidermis (thickened or not) into circumscribed projections. Molluscum contagiosum (epithelioma molluscum, molluscum epitheliale, sebaceous wart, endocystic condyloma) is the term com- monly used to designate a peculiar tumour-like growth in the skin, the variety of other names proposed indicating that authors are not yet agreed on the exact pathological significance of the affection. Some English and French authors, with Hebra and Kaposi, regard mollmciim contagiosum as due to a distension of the sebaceous glands with accumulated cells, in which some of the cells undergo a peculiar metamorphosis. Others like ViRCHOW, Bizzozero, Manfredi, Perls, and Thin, consider it to be a purely epidermal growth not starting in the sebaceous glands. According to them it is a simple hyperplastic growth of epidermal cells, starting in the hair-follicles (ViRCHOW) or in the inter- papillary portion of the rete Malpighii (Bizzozero, Manfredi). Nodes as large as a pea or larger are thus formed, and may be gi-ouped in clusters. On section their structure appears to be racemose or gland-hke, the nodes being made up of nests of epidermal cells separated by fibrous septa. The cells on the outside of the clusters are columnar. In the centre of the nests lie peculiar bodies like swollen starch-grains, either free or enclosed in cells. These bodies are characteristic of the affection, and are by some regarded as degenerate epithelial or epidermal cells, by others (Klebs, Bollinger) as parasitic organisms. As the affec- tion occasionally appears simultaneously in persons who live together it is often regarded as contagious (Virchow) ; but this is denied by other observers, and apparently with good reason. The name molluscum contagiosum is due to Bateman {Delineations of c^itaneous diseases (Plate LXi) London 1817). Virchow regards the conta- giousness of the disease as established (Virck. Arch. vol. 33), and names it epithelioma. 0. Simon {Deutsch. med. Woch. 1876), C. Bock { Viertelj.f. Derm, ■u. Syph. ii), Bizzozero and Manfredi {Arch. p. I. scienze med. i), hold that the disease originates in a redundant multiplication of the cells of the rete Malpighii. The latter authors also describe how the characteristic 'molluscum bodies' are derived from epidermal cells. According to Thin {Joza-n. of Anat. and Physiol. 1881) groups of small gr-anules make their appearance in the cells of the hair-follicles, and then in those of the surface layers of the skin ; these gramUes are afterwards transformed into homogeneous masses. The epi- dermal cells begin then to grow downwards into the fibrous layers of the cutis, and in the gi-owing cells similar homogeneous bodies appear. For cases see Fagge (G'^iy's Hosp. Rep. 1870), Dyce Duckworth {St Earth. Hosp. Rep. 1868, 1870), Hutchinson {Clinical Surgery vol. i London 1878), MoRisoN, Thin, etc. {Path. Soc. Trans. 1881). As against the contagious nature of the affection it may be mentioned that inoculation with the matter taken from the tumoiu-s does not tend to reproduce it. 13—2