227 CHAP. XLVI.] INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. cells take on the appearance of a kind of coarse mesh-work (c) almost or altogether devoid of nuclei. The subepithelial areolar tissue (cl) is beset with filaments of fibrin and leucocytes. Haemor- rhages (/) are not uncommon. Inflammations of this kind, in which the tissue itself coagulates into a solid mass, are called diphtheritic. When the necrosis and coagulation extend only to the epithelium we may speak of the process as superficial diph- theritis. As we said in speaking of the croupous membrane it is by no means necessary that the whole of the epithelium ultimately affected should perish at the outset; some part of it at least may perish secondarily, in consequence of the inflammation. Superficial diphtheritis occurs chiefly in the organs of the throat, but the conjunctiva and the epithelium of the urogenital organs are also occasionally attacked. The structure of the re- spiratory organs and the intestine seems not to favour this form of inflammation. When their epithelium perishes from any cause it is usually shed or dissolved away, and a croupous false membrane is fonned instead of the diphtheritic coagulation. It thus appears that croupous inflammation and what we have called superficial diphtheritis are very closely related. Speaking genei-ally the distinctive characters of the two processes are chiefly conditioned by the structm-e of the mucous membranes which they afiect. Still it is convenient to assign distinctive names to them, and to reckon all cases in which the epithehum coagulates en masse as diphtheritic. Necrosis and coagulation of the tissue are the distinguishing features of diphtheritic inflammation; whether it is superficial or deep its natiu-e is the same, the mere seat is of secondary importance. Inasmuch then as the croupous membrane consists essentially of coagulated exudation, croupous inflanomation is at once distinguished from superficial diphthei-itis. Nothing but confusion can result from speaking of the latter as pseudo-croup or pseudo-diphtheritis. True croupous inflammation may occm' in mucous membranes that are normally covered with stratified epithelium, when the superficial cells have been destroyed and shed. 425. Deep or parenchymatous diphtheritis affects a greater extent of tissue than the superficial form. It is characterised by the coagulation not merely of the epithelium but also of the un- derlying coimective tissue. The affected patch is swollen and assumes a whitish or grejash tint, the discoloration extending through the epithelium to the connective-tissue structures. The epithelium in some cases is lost altogether, and then the diph- theritic patch consists of dead connective tissue only (Fig. 171). The patch is turbid and granular in texture, or it may be homo- geneous, or composed of amorphous hyaline blocks (b). The nuclei are always more or less completely lost. The small vessels (e) which permeate the patch show signs of a homogeneous transforma- tion of their walls. The dead tissue is separated from the living by a zone of cellular infiltration (c). Fibrinous filaments (d) are seen here and 15—2