315 CHAP. LVIII.] FATTY INFILTRATION OF THE LIVER. ly leads to atrophy of the central parts of the lobules (Art. 483). So also where the fibrous framework of the organ becomes hyper- trophied, as in indurative hepati- ^ tis (Art. 497), the liver-cells are usually compressed and atrophied, (i^p Mechanical pressure from without '"'^ or within may have the like effect, The latter is observed in the neigh- f§M bourhood of tumours and other new-formations growing in the liver: amyloid disease (Art. 491) Fig. 183. Atrophied liver-oells affords a good example. The liver- (x ^50). cells are usually deformed and flat- 4 simple atrophy with pigmentary tened (Fig. 183 B), or drawn out deposits into long spindles. ^ ^ivev-cem atrophied by compression The atrophied cells are usually beset with brown and yellow pigment-granules. These are probably due not so much to re- absorption of bile already elaborated and excreted as to some dis- turbance of the process of secretion itself The ill-nourished cells are unable to perform their normal bile-producing function, and as the coloured iron-compounds are no longer adequately separated and excreted, they perforce remain in the cells. In certain cases however the cause of the pigmentation may lie in some increase in the normal disintegration of the red corpuscles (Art. 481). 487. Fatty infiltration. The liver in health always contains a certaia amount of fat, which lies in the liver-cells in the form of large and small globules (Fig. 184 ab c). This fat is partly brought to the liver ready-formed and there deposited, and partly elaborated from albuminoid substances in situ. The former fat is either derived directly from the food, or has been elaborated from albuminoids in some other part of the body. In morbid conditions the fat contained in the liver may be enormously increased ; the increase depending either on increased production or supply, or on diminished consumption, or on both. When fat accumulates as a deposit in the liver, from increased supply or decreased consumption, we have what is called simply fatty liver, or fatty infiltration. When the accumulation is great the liver is enlarged, and post mortem feels firm to the touch, holds little blood, and has a uniform opaque pale-yellow tint. The in- dividual lobules are somewhat , enlarged. When the quantity of fat present is not so great, it lodges chiefly in the peripheral parts of the lobules. These parts con- sequently look pale, while the central parts are brown or reddish ; and the mottled appearance thus produced has led some to describe this variety as fatty nutmeg-liver. If the fat be still less abundant the general brownish colour of the lobule prevails. /