343 TUMOURS OF THE LIVER. f!HAP. LXI.] Cancerous metastases usually take the form of nodes, which vary much in number and sometimes pervade the entire liver. According to their stage of development they may be small, measuring only 11—20 mm., or so large as to measure 2—10 cm. in diameter. The smaller growths when they lie beneath the capsule appear as whitish patches, the larger project above the surface and are sometimes umbilicated. The overlying part of the capsule is usually congested and injected. When the nodes are both large and numerous the liver is enlarged, often enormously so, and its surface is uneven and tuberous. The nodes on the anterior edge can often be felt through the relaxed abdominal wall. On section the tumours appear white or yellowish-white with perhaps a tinge of red. The centre of a large node is not uncommonly found to be opaque, fatty, and softened, so that scraping yields a pulpy mass rather than a juice. Caseous and haemorrhagic patches are also met with. The form of the primary carcinoma determines to a great extent the characters of the secondary growths. When the primary tumour (as in the stomach or intestine) is soft and medullary, the secondary tumours are also soft: they are hard and firm when the primary tumour (as in the pancreas or breast) is firm or scirrhous. Melanotic cancers give rise to brown or black metastases in the liver. The surrounding liver-tissue is visibly compressed, and it may or may not be sharply marked off from the tumour-tissue. The smaller nodes are usually ill-defined, the larger ones are more distinctly circumscribed. But in this respect something depends on the structure of the tumour: the softer varieties are more apt to thrust back the surrounding tissue, the firmer usually infiltrate it. The liver-tissue itself is brown, yellow, or yellowish-green, the last being a sign of retention or stagnation of bile. When the cancerous growths are numerous, the liver-tissue remains only in islands or narrow bands surrounded or encroached on by the advancing neoplastic tissue. 506. The formation of these metastatic growths is due to the invasion of the liver by germinal cancer-cells, which are brought to it by the blood-vessels, and (very rarely) by the lymph- atics. In by far the greater number of cases the germinal cells reach the liver by the portal vein. The places where the cells lodge and develope are in the smaller branches of the interlobular veins or in the capillaries of the lobules. The first stage in the development that can be made out is the multiplication of the imported cells within the capillary where they have lodged (Fig. 199). Then the capillary becomes dis-