THE ALIMENTARY TRACT. 276 [sect. VII. is however generally lost as the disease advances, and large cell- nests arise from the tubular structures, which are merely covered over with cylindrical epitheliiim, the interior consisting mainly of polymorphous cancer-cells. The stx'oma is not abundant, and is often infiltrated with small leucocytes. As the growth ulcerates its base almost always becomes indurated and thickened by fibrous hyperplasia or cancerous infiltration. (3) Scirrhous cancer appears in the form of diffuse thick- ening and induration of the stomach-wall, especially the pyloric part of it. The pylorus itself is usually more or less constricted. The inner surface of the diseased region is covered partly with thickened mucous membrane, partly with the exposed and in- durated fibrous tissue belonging to the submucosa. On section the various coats are distinguishable, but each is more or less thickened by fibrous hyperplasia. The author is of opinion that so- called scirrhus is often nothiug but induration of the stomach-wall, partly cancerous and partly fibroid, left as a secondary result of the ulcerative disintegration of a soft cancer (Art. 173). (4) Colloid or gelatinous cancer takes the form both of nodular swellings and of diffuse and wide-spread infiltration of the stomach-wall. In each form the neoplasm contains patches of trans- parent jelly-like appearance, or consists almost entirely of colloid substance. The growth often spreads to the jDeritoneum, and there speedily gives rise to large semi-transparent colloid growths, which are more or less richly supplied with blood-vessels. On microscopic examination it appears that the colloid masses are partly derived from the cancer-cells, partly from the fibrous stroma of the growth (Art. 173, Figs. 69 and 70). Colloid cancer may appear in very young patients, while the other forms are almost entirely confined to persons in the decline of life. (5) Squamous epithelial cancer is rarely met with in the stomach. It affects the cardiac end and the neighbouring parts of the oesophagus. The connective-tissue growths of the stomach have very little pathological interest. A few cases of nodular sarcoma, fibroma, and myoma, have been recorded.