CHAP. VIII.] ATKOPHY AND DEGENERATION OF THE HEART. 43 Fia. 122. Fatty DEGENERATION OF THE MUSCLES OF THE HEABT (x 350) the trabeculae of the right heart; the delicate and often regular yellowish streaks recalling the gi'ain of some fine cabinet wood. Less intense degrees of fatty change are indi- cated by simple yellowish discolouration; but cer- tainty of diagnosis is often only to be attained by the aid of the microscope. A fatty muscle- cell is interspersed with minute colourless dark- bordered oil-globules, whose number varies much according to the degree of degeneration which exists. At times they are so numerous that both nucleus and striation are overlaid and dis- appear. But even in such extreme cases the globules do not coalesce into large drops. Fatty degeneration of the heart is usually very gradual in its onset. It is most commonly a result of valvular lesions, pulmonary emphysema, or general anae- mia, that is to say of disorders involving malnutrition of the heart-substance. According to Eichhorst (Die troph. Beziehungen d. New. vagus z. Herzmuskel Berlin 1879) section of the vagi is followed by fatty degeneration of the heart. Acute fatty change is likemse observed in the course of infective and toxic affections. In such cases a stage of cloudy degeneration (Art. 48) precedes the fatty change, the muscular fibres assuming a peculiar greyish- yellow tint and a dull fish-like lustre. The muscle-cells look as if powdered, and contain fine albuminous granules which disappear when treated with acetic acid. In the later stages fat-globules appear. If the fatty degeneration of the heart is extreme it may lead to rupture of its walls, and so to fatal haemorrhage. 275. Fatty degeneration of the endocardium is to be dis- tinguished from the like change in the heart-muscle. It appears in the form of circumscribed patches of an opaque white colour. The connective-tissue cells of the intima (Fig. 123) are found to be filled with larger or smaller oil-globules. These patches are most com- monly seen on the valves, and especiallythe mitral valve. They may be quite small, or may cover the greater part of the valve. They usually occur in aged per- sons, whose vascular system elsewhere shows signs of analogous change. But they may also be found in younger persons, and even in children, especially such as have died of general marasmus or anaemia, or from some imperfection of development in the vascular system. Fig. 123. Section of fatty endo- CAEDIUM. {From the mitral valve of a child dead of scurvy; perosmic acid prejiaration: x 350)