CHAP. XLIX.] STOMATITIS. 239 may reach a considerable thickness. Fissures and cracks often appear on the surface of the lips and at the angles of the mouth, and these may exude liquid and become covered with crusts. They may pass by degrees into small ulcers. Catarrhal stomatitis is generally the result of some mechanical or chemical irritation of the oral mucous membrane: when the irritation is local, like that caused by a carious tooth, the stomatitis is likewise local. But there are also many specific poisons that set up inflammation within the mouth. In measles a spotty or macular eruption appears, in scarlatina a punctate or diffuse scarlet eruption. In small-pox, chicken-pox, herpes, pemphigus, and in foot-and-mouth disease, there are eruptions of vesicles and pustules, which pass through the same stages as those of the skin (Art. 370). Erysipelatous inflammation may extend from the skin to the mouth, or may actually begin in the mouth, causing dark or livid redness and much swelling and sometimes even vesiculation (Art. 375). The tongue is the part most affected, inasmuch as not only the mucosa but the intermuscular connective tissue become densely infiltrated with liquid and migratory cells. Aphthous stomatitis is a peculiar form of the catarrhal inflammation. It is distinguished by the appearance on the catarrhal mucous membrane of small whitish or slightly yellowish patches (aphthae) from the size of a hemp-seed to that of a split-pea. The patches are isolated or grouped, and are most abundant over the tongue and lips. They are surrounded by a livid border, and may coalesce into lai'ger patches or streaks, though these seldom reach any great size. These aphthae consist of a solid fibrinous exudation lying between the fibrous tissue and the epithelium (Bohn). The exudation may be re-absorbed, and the aphthae then disappear. More commonly however the thin epithelial covering is broken through, the fibrinous film is exposed, and gradually separated and extruded by regenerative gi^owth of the epithelium advancing beneath it from the margin. As the epitheliiim is reproduced simultaneously with the separation of the fibrin, no ulcers are in general produced ; sometimes however suppuration is set up in the zone surrounding the aphthae. The eruption occurs in successive crops and may thus be kept up for weeks. Aphthous inflammation has been compared (Bohn) with im- petiginous eczema of the skin (Art. 385). It occurs chiefly in children who are teething or otherwise subject to inflammatory affections of the mouth. It also occurs in connexion with sore throat (angina), and with pneumonia, gastric catarrh, the acute exanthemata, diphtheria, ague, whooping-cough, etc. It is rarely met with in adults, though it has been observed in women duringf menstruation, m pregnancy, and during the puerperal period. The affection is entirely unconnected with any invasion of fungi (Art. 436).