THE ALIMliNTARY TRACT. 288 [SECTr VII. kind of factitious mucous membrane. Fistulae occasionally com- municate with the bladder or vagina. Specific poisons like those of syphilis, tuberculosis, and dysen- tery, and cancer in the ulcerative stage, may give rise to morbid changes of a similar kind. There may even be periproctitis with- out any antecedent rectal ulceration, especially in connexion with pyaemia, ty23hoid, acute rheumatism, and puerperal septicaemia. / Eeferences on typhlitis and perityphilitis :—Mattehstock, Gerhardt's Handh. d. Kinderkr. iv ; Bierhoff, Arch. f. klin. Med. xxxvii; Cornil, Arch, de physiol. 1873; Wolfler, Arch. f. klin. Chir. xxi; Steiner, Zur path. Anat. d. Wurmfortsatzes Basle 1882; Crisp, Trans. Path. Soc. 1859 (foreign bodies in the appendage). 472. Specific inflammations. Dysentery is an inflam- matory affection of the large intestine, due to the action of a specific virus. The exact nature of the virus is unknown, but it is probably bacterial. The affection is epidemic, endemic, or sporadic in its occurrence.- The changes set uj) in the intestine closely resemble certain non-specific inflammations of the colon, especially such as depend on retention of faeces or accompany septic poisoning. For this reason the exact significance of the term dysentery is not easily fixed, inasmuch as it is often impossible to say from the post-mortem ajDpearances whether these are the result of specific infection or not. Moreover it is not imj)ossible that the so-called endemic dysentery of different countries may be really due to different specific poisons. The intensity and extent of the dysenteric inflammation varies in different cases. It may be restricted to the rectum, sigmoid flexure, and descending colon, or it may reach up to or a little beyond the ileo-caecal valve. Often too in the same case the various jDarts of the tract are variously affected. In recent cases the mucous membrane is highly congested and swollen, and generally beset with minute extravasations of blood. The epithelial svirface is overlaid with a glairy blood-streaked mucus. This presently becomes more slimy and blood-stained, and interspersed with the flaky fibrinous shreds and films (described in Art. 470) which indicate the beginning of superficial necrosis of the mucous membrane. Soon the necrosis is made sufficiently evident by the a^Dpearance of erosions and losses of substance. We might perhaps distinguish a catarrhal and a diphtheritic form of dysenteric inflammation, but in practice the one passes insensibly into the other and the distinction is inappreciable. In slighter cases the necrosis and loss of substance are at first merely supei-ficial (Fig. 177/); but the deeper structures are successively attacked, and in severe cases the greater part or the whole of the glandular layer of the mucous membrane at particular spots may perish. The necrotic tissue is reduced to a turbid granular mass, in which the structural .elements and the nuclei of .the. cells soon cease to be recognisable.