MALFORMATIONS OF THE STOMACH, 265 CHAP. LIII.] and the chai-acteristic appearances are more frequently seen in hot weather than iu cold. Eeferences on mechanical dilatation and fermentation within the stomach:— KussMAUL, Deut. Arch. f. klin. Med. vi; Jukgensen, ibid, vii; Penzoldt, Die Magencrweiterung Erlangen 1875 (with full references); Leube, Ziemssen's Cyclop. VII, Deut. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxiii; Nadnyn, ibid, xxxi; Poensgen, Die motor. Vernchtungen d. menschlichcn Magens Strasburg 1882; Budd, Organic diseases of the stomach London 1855 ; Fenwick, The stomach and duodemun Loudon 1868; Ewald, Die Lehre von d. Verdauung Berlin 1879 ; Rosenbach, Samml. klin. Vortriige no. 153. On gastromalacia see Elsasser, Die Magenenceichung der Sauglinge Stuttgart 1846 ; Leube, Ziemssen's Cyclop, vii; Kundrat and Wiederhopeii, Gerhardfs Handb. d. Kinderkrankh. iv; Thorspegken, Deut. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxiii ; W. Mayer, Gastromalacia ante mortem, ibid, ix, In. Diss. Leipzig 1871. 454. Congenital anomalies. The storaacli is occasionally absent in acephalic monsters. More rarely it is found to be abnormally small, in foetuses which are otherwise well-developed. Complete atresia of the pylorus is very rare, but stenosis or abnormal contraction is more frequent (R. Maier). Of congenital anomalies of form we may mention abnormal constrictions of the body of the stomach, giving it an hour-glass shape; and the occuri'ence of partitions abnormally subdividing it. In cases of Situs transversus or lateral transposition of the viscera (Art. 11), in persistent fissure of the abdomen and thorax (Art. 9), and in congenital deficiency of the diaphragm, the stomach is as a rule misplaced. Sometimes the vertical position of foetal life persists in the adult. Acquired anomalies of form and position are more common. Dilatation may be due to congenital or acquired stenosis of the pylorus. But it may occur independently of pyloric obstruction, as a result of abnormal position or adhesions, of distension from excess of ingesta, or from textural changes in the walls (Art. 453). In extreme dilatation the stomach occupies a large extent of the abdominal cavity, extending backwards rather than forwards. It may reach from the left side of the diaphragm to the symphysis pubis, compressing the bladder and covering over almost the whole of the intestinal convolutions. The left half of the lesser curvature runs parallel to the spine, in continuation of the line of the oesophagus: the pyloric half bends up at a sharp angle towards the liver. The greater curvature lies along the left side of the abdomen, the pylorus being dragged downwards and backwards and the hepatico-duodenal ligament stretched. The coats of the stomach may be thinned in every part or, according to the cause of the dilatation, may be thickened at various spots, especially in the neighbourhood of the pyloric end. Acquired contraction or constriction of the stomach is due either to functional inactivity of the organ as in prolonged starva- tion, or to inflammatory or ulcerative disease leading to cicatricial contraction. Peritonitis, followed by adhesions and contraction of the