273 CHAP. LUl.] ULCER OF THE STOMACH. Any kind of injury which causes a localised textural lesion of the mucous surface of the stomach, and so exposes it to the un- checked action of the gastric juice, may be the originating cause of H gastric ulcer. Probably the commonest of such causes are venous engorgement, haemorrhage, and arterial anaemia (ischaemia) due to embolism, spasmodic contraction, or sclerosis. In other cases mechanical injury, or corrosion by caustic substances, may afford a starting-point. AuniECHT has succeeded in producing typical gastric ulcers in rabbits by injecting cantharidin under the skin (Cent. f. d. med. Wiss. 31, 1882). He regards these ulcers as depending primarily on an intense haemorrhagic inflammation of single gastric glands (gastradenitis). Gastric ulcer runs a chronic course, but the first stages of its development are often somewhat rapid. After severe burns of the skin, for example, ulcers of the stomach and duodenum are some- times very rapidly induced, probably in consequence of some vascular obstruction or thrombosis due to disintegrated blood- corpuscles (Art. 262). Round ulcers are most frequently met with in the neighbourhood of the lesser curvati^re, then i;ear the pylorus, and least frequently in the duodenum. 4fi0. Dangers in gastric ulcer. When an ulcer has once formed it may heal up, provided it is not too large. For this it is necessary that a good circulation should be established in the structures of the floor and margins; the tissue thus becomes alkalised and fortified against the action of the gastric juice, and the formation of granulations and cicatricial tissue becomes possible. Small ulcers may heal without leaving any marked scar. Ulcers of any size give rise to dense puckered scars, which by their contraction may cause considerable deformity of the stomach. An ulcer near the pylorus may lead to dangerous stricture of the orifice. One great danger in gastric ulcer arises from the risk of haemorrhage from small or large arteries, which become eroded in the course of the ulcerative process. The haemorrhage may recur again and again and lead to extreme anaemia, or a single great haemorrhage may bring about death directly. On post-mortem examination it is not rare to find in the floor of the ulcer the eroded vessels, either patent or closed by thrombi, from which the bleeding has taken place. Occasionally one of the larger vessels, such as a main branch of the coronary or splenic artery, is found to have given way. A still greater danger is that of perforation into the peritoneal cavity. This may happen whether adhesions have been set up between the stomach and neighbouring organs, or not. In the former case the adhesions are torn asunder and the contents of the stomach escape. Fatal peritonitis is the usual result. The organs which adhere to the floor of the ulcer, such as the s. r. A. 18