THE SEROUS MEMBRANES. 130 [sect. IV. of the serous membrane (haemorrhagic inflammation). The fibrin forms threads and curdy flakes, which are transhicent and yellowish, or opaque and whitish, according to the proportion of leucocytes they enclose. When very abundant the fibrin is pre- cipitated on the surface of the inflamed membrane and forms a thick adherent layer. The surface of the layer is usually rough and occasionally even villous in appearance, as in the case of the heart (cor villosxmi), or it may take the form of reticulated or lattice-like prominences recalling the look of the reticular stomach of a ruminant. When the amount of liquid effused is small and the fibrin abundant, thick false membranes are formed between the visceral and parietal layers of the serous membrane. The extent of the inflammation varies much in different cases. In one case only a single patch of the pericardium may be inflamed, and in another the whole surface of a lung. When the exudation has reached a certain point the inflam- matory process ceases and, unless new irritation sets up new in- flammation, the process of repair begins. This primarily consists in the absorption of the efi"usion; but it is generally associated with the formation of new fibrous tissue. The liquid portions are of course the most easily absorbed; but the quickness wdth which this is effected is not always the same. If the blood-vessels and lymphatics readily resume their functions, the lymjohatic channels and stomata being again opened up, the effusion may very speedily disappear. If the mouths of the lymphatics remain closed, the absorption may be very slow indeed. Fibrin is less readily absorbed; but it is ultimately made more easy of absorption by disintegration and solution. Now and again residues remain unabsorbed, and these usually become calci- fied. The presence of fibrinous masses which act as dead or foreign bodies and set up renewed inflammation may bring about the development of inflammatory fibrous tissue. From four to six days after the beginning of a fibrinous pleurisy or pericarditis small new-fomied vessels can be seen passing from the connective tissue of the serous membrane into the fibrinous masses which overlie it; they are made very apparent if the fibrinous covering is gently peeled off. This is a sign that tissue-formation has begun. In the deeper layers of the fibrinous membrane (Fig. 141) formative cells (/) can already be seen, and these are the builders of the future fibrous tissue. The epicardial tissue {a) is beset with a multitude of leucoc}^es {d), the blood-vessels (c) are crammed with blood, the lymphatics (e) with cells and granular coagula. Leucocytes are aggregated in the meshes of the fibrinous membrane, and from them are de- veloping formative cells (/), distinguished by their large transjaarent vesicular nuclei and their granular protoplasm. They are of vai'ious shapes, and form connexions with the epicardial tissue and Avith each other. Fibrous tissue is ultimately developed from their