247 CHAP. XLIX.] TUMOURS AND CYSTS OF THE MOUTH. patches of lymphadenoid tissue; the neoplasm is then in fact a com- bination of lymphangioma and lymphadenoma. In other cases the tissue contains an extraordinary amount of fat, the tumour being then most fitly described as lymphangio-lipoma. The dilated lymph-spaces are usually small, but sometimes they become distended into globular cysts, from the size of a pea to that of a cherry (cystic hygroma). The lymphangiomatous growth is often confined to the tongue proper, but it may extend to the neighbouring parts, or new foci may appear in the tissues of the root of the tongue. It would seem that the largest cysts are met with in the latter situation. From the root of the tongue the growth may extend in various directions, occasionally passing down towards the pharynx or upwards to the palatal structures. Of the "other congenital or infantile growths within the mouth we may mention the teratomata (Arts. 13, 178), Lipoma, fibroma, myxoma, and sarcoma also occur; they form tumours which vary much in size and seat. Of the tumours which develope in later life sarcoma and carcinoma are the most notable. Sarcoma mainly affects the gums (sarcomatous epulis), and as a rule starts in the deeper-lying structures like the periosteum or bone-marrow. It forms rounded tuberous growths, usvially somewhat firm in consistence. When it starts in bone it contains bony trabeculae in its substance (osteo-sarc- oma, Art. 165), or sometimes giant-cells (myeloid sarcoma, Art. 159). Carcinoma (in the form of epithelioma) attacks the lips, tongue, and gums. It begins as a small nodule, or a circumscribed hard greyish infiltration of the mucous membrane. Presently this becomes a palpable node projecting above the surface. The infiltrated tissue ulcerates, and around the ulcer the cancerous infiltration spreads more or less rapidly. If the diseased tissue is not removed, the cancerous ulcer may reach an astonishing size, especially in the case of the tongue and the gums. Adenoma of the mucous glands is a rarer form of tumour; it gives rise to circumscribed nodular growths. References on lymphangioma of the mouth :—Art. 437; Billroth, Beitrcige z. path. Eistologie Berlin 1858; ViRCHOW, Virch. Arch. vol. 7; Maas, Arch. f. klin. Chir. xiii ; voN Winiwarter, Arch. f. klin. Chir. xvi; GiES, ibid. XV ; Wegner, ibid, xx ; Arnstein, Virch. Arch. vol. 54. On Lipoma of the tongue see Weber {Pitha u. Billroth's Handb. d. Chir. vi), GossELTN {Paris medical 20, 1881). On epithelioma see Barker {Holmes's Syst. of Swgery ii London 1883). 439. As we pointed out in Art. 433, when the mucous glands are chronically inflamed they may become distended with accumul- ated secretion, and thus form small cysts of retention. Dilated lymphatics may likewise give rise to cysts, knoAvn as cystic hygromata (Art. 438). In addition to these varieties there are a number of other cystic structures, which occur in the mouth in