CHAP. LX.] SYPHILITIC INFLAMMATIONS OF THE LIVER. 333 have no great scientific value, as the forms constantly pass one into another. It is enough to distinguish the hypertrophic conditions from the atrophic; and even then it must be borne in mind that these conditions merely represent different dogi'ees or different stages of what is essentially one and the same process. C'harcot and Gombault have contended that biliary hepatitis (Ai-t. 498) alwaj's corresponds to the hypertrophic form ; but this is incorrect, for inflammations starting from the bile-ducts do not always lead to hypertrophic indm-ation (Ai't. 512), while the latter is often a result of inflammations starting from the portal vein or hepatic artery. Jaundice, which may be present or absent in cases of cirrhosis, does not by itself indicate either one form or the other; for both may in certain cases lead to retention of bile by obstruction of the smaller ducts. Eeferences:—Bright, Medical Cases London 1827, Gui/''s Hosp. Rep. 1836; BuDD, Diseases of the liver Loudon 1857 ; Frerichs, Klinik d. Leherkrank- heiten, Diseases of the liver (New Syd. Soc. trans, by Murchison) London 1862; E. Wagner, Arch. d. Heilhmde iii; Liebermeister, Beitrdge zur path. Anat. u. Klinik d. Leberkrankheiten Tiibingen 1864 ; Habbrshon, Guy''s Hosp. Rep. 1871 ; Laennec, Traits de Vauscultation nyfdiate Paris 1826; Charcot, Legons sur les malacl. dufoie et des reins Paris 1877 ; Zenker, DexUsch. Arch, f. klin. Med. x; Cornil, Arch. de. physiol. 1874; Hatem, ihid. 1874; Thierfelder, Ziemssenls Cyclop, ix. Atlas d. path. Histologic; Jaccotjd, Traits de path, ii; Brieger, Virch. Arch. vol. 75 ; Kussner, Samwlung klin. Vortriige no. 141 ; Nicati and Eichaud, Travaux du laboratoire de la rue des Fdbres cl Marseille 1881; Hamilton, Journ. of anat. and physiol. xiv; Charcot and Gombault, Arch, de physiol. 1876, Lepons sur les maladies du foie, Progres medical 1876, Legons sur diverses formes de scUrose Mpatique Paris 1879 ; Schmidt, Zur path. Anat. d.. Leherdrrhose In. Diss. Bonn 1880 ; Ackermann, Virch. Arch. vol. 80; ,Wyss, Virch. Arch. vol. 35 ; Hanot, Arch. g4n4rales de mid. 1876 ; Surre, Etu,de sur diverses formes de scl&ose hepatique Paris 1879 ; Popopf, Virch. Arch. vol. 81 ; Posner, ibid. vol. 79; Simons, Deutsch. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxvii; Mangelsdorf, ibid, xxxi; Beloussow, Arch. f. exp. Path, xiv; Litten, Charit4-Annalen v (1878); Foa and Salvioli, a rch. per le scienze med. 1877; Teuppel, Ueber hepatitis sequestrans In. Diss. Tubingen 1878 ; Carl, Ueber hepatitis sequestrans In. Diss. Tiibingen 1880 ; Sabourin, Revue de mdd. 1882 (finds that the intralobular veins are frequently occluded in cirrhosis) ; Aufrecht, Pathol. Mittheil. ii (1883). Fol, Salvioli, Litten, Legg, Popopf, Beloussow, and others have produced artificial hepatitis by ligature of the common bile-duct in dogs, rabbits, and guinea-pigs (Art. 512). Syphilitic hepatitis. 499. Acquired syphilis may give rise to certain diffuse in- flammatory changes in the liver, which from an anatomical point of view closely resemble the forms of cirrhosis we have just considered. The syphilitic nature of the lesions can therefore be determined only when other affections more characteristic of the disease are present. But diffuse change of this kind is less common as a result of syphilis than are certain circumscribed and localised lesions, of which we seldom see anything but the terminal stages in the post- mortem room. At various points, but chiefly in the neighbourhood of the sus- pensory ligament, the surface of the liver is scarred and contracted or puckered, the peritoneal covering being thickened. If a section