[sect. I. 24 BLOOD AND LYMPH. lighter in colour; they may measure 4—6 micromm. instead of 6—8 micromm. in diameter. This condition is referred to as micro- cythaemia. In some forms of anaemia, as in chlorosis and lead- poisoning, both abnormally small and abnormally large red corpuscles (microcytes and macrocytes) are found. Occasionally cells that are singularly altered in sha^ae and partly broken up are met with, a condition known as poikilocytosis. As regards the diagnosis of such cases, it must not be forgotten that very soon after the blood has left the vessels the cells undergo very various changes, by con- tact with the air, evaporation, etc. Even when the blood is taken with the greatest care we can hardly make the examination with- out causing some of the cells to be deformed. It is common enough to see them actually assuming angular, tuberculated, or stellate forms. Microcj'thaemia and time poikilocytosis are probably due both to defective production and to excessive and abnormal destruc- tion of the corpuscles; of these the latter is perhaps the chief factor. The causes of the blood-changes here described are in part those already given (Art. 258) as producing anaemia and hydraemia. The changes are however also exhibited in the diseases known as chlorosis, pseudoleukaemia, simple and haemorrhagic purpura, and scurvy. They are most pronounced in the grave disorder known as progressive pernicious anaemia. In the latter the dej)en- dence of the blood-change on some organic affection can often be clearly demonstrated, but there are many cases in which the cause of the rapid destruction of the corpuscles cannot be discovered (idiopathic anaemia). Nucleated red corpuscles have often been found in the graver forms (Cohnheim, Virch. Arch. vol. 68; Litten, Berl. hlin. Woch. 1877, 1880; Ehrlich, ibid. ] 880; Hayem, Arch, de physiol. 1883). The changes which occur in the red corpuscles and in the haemoglobin of the blood in anaemia have been much investigated within the last ten years. Special attention has been given to the examination of the blood in jDernicious anaemia ; by which term the highest grade or extreme of anaemia is implied (Quincke). Comparative examinations have likewise been made of the less extreme varieties, such as occur in chlorosis, after severe haemorrhage, in simple purpura, in scvury, in the puerperal state, in chronic tuberculosi.s, in gastric carcinoma, in nephritis, etc. Of the numerous papers on the subject the following may be mentioned :— Addison, Collected Works (New Syd. Soc.) London 1868; Biermer, Corresp. f. schweiz. Aerzte ii (1872); Zenker, Deutsch. Arch. f. Uin. Med. xiii; Immermann, ib. xiii, and Zie^nssen's Cydopctedia, vol. xiii; Vanlair and Masius, Be la microcytMmie Brussels 1871 ; Trousseau, Clin. Medicine v ; PoNPiCK, Beji. klin. Woch. 1873 ; Quincke, Virch. Arch. vol. 54, Sammlung Uin. Vortrdge 100, and Arch. f. klin. Med. xx, xxv, xxvii; Pye-Smith, Virch. Arch. vol. 65 ; Quinquaud, Arch. g4n. de in4d. Sept. 1879 ; Muller, Die progr. perniciose Andmie In. Diss. Zurich 1877 ; L:fipiNE, Bulletin g4n. de Th4rap. 1876, Revue mensuelle 1877 (with analysis of pubhshed cases) ; Byrom Bramwell, Bdin. med. Journ. 1877 ; Eichhorst, Die prog. pern. Andmie Leipzig 1878 ; Penzoldt, Sitzungsher. d. phys.-med. Soc. zu Erlangen 1878 ; BizzozERO, Centralb. f. d. med. Wiss. 8, 1881 ; Frankenhauser, ibid. 1883; Waldstein, Virch. Arch. vol. 91; Laache, Die Andmie Christiania 1883. For