32 BLOOD AND LVMPH. [sect. I. The brown flakes and granules found in these deposits have not always the same composition. They are in part proximate derivatives of the blood-pigments such as bilirubin and haematoidin, formed directly from haemoglobin ; partly ferro-albuminoid bodies (Quincke); and partly other compounds of iron such as the hy- drated sesquioxide (KuNKEL, Virch. Arch. vol. 81). The liver and spleen may be unable to deal with the increased amount of material brought to them when the disintegration of corpuscles in the blood exceeds a certain limit; that is to say, they may not be able to destroy it or to eliminate it with the bile. Hence these organs may show signs of more or less temporary pigmentation or of deposits of iron-compounds (Quincke, Kunkel); and the same is occasionally seen in other organs. Part of the iron deposited may possibly be derived directly from dissolved haemoglobin which has not undergone change in the interior of carrier-cells. Quincke moreover affirms that such deposits of iron may occur when from any cause the formation of new corpuscles is interfered with. The iron-compounds naturally formed are not utilised speedily enough in forming blood, and are not at once eliminated from the body. The above account of the formation of pigment-gi-anviles containing iron rests mainly on the researches of Quincke and Kunkel. It is to a certain extent confirmed by the case described by Hindenlang {Virch. Arch. vol. 79), in which pigmentary infiltration of many of the organs was obsei-ved in a patient dead of puqDura, in whom a large extravasation of blood had imdergone absorption. The liver, spleen, pancreas, kidneys, and other organs contained yellowish-brown pigment-carrying cells, and yellow and brown flakes and gi-anules of free pigment. Kunkel examined the pigment and foimd it to consist of hydrated ferric oxide with a mere trace of haema- tin; while, as Ziegler convinced himself, the appearances were exactly those of the pigmentary infiJtrations found in other hke cases. It may therefore be granted that in such cases pigments may be formed containing iron, which are not at all or only remotely related to haematin (Ai"t. 68). Quincke, who demonstrated by chemical tests the presence of iron in pigmented sections, foimd it occurring diffused or as minute granules in the lymphatic glands, liver, and kidneys. He calls the condition siderosis, a term that is in itself not inapt, though it has already been applied to the deposit of inhaled steel-dust in the lungs.