254 [sect. VII. THE ALIMENTARY TRACT. subject of scarlatinal diphthei-itis {Jahrhuch der Kinderheilk. new series xivj and compared it with the diphtherial affection. He regarded the pathological processes in the two cases to be different, as judged both by the naked-eye appearances and by the character of the histological changes. Ziegler is however quite unable to agree with him in this point: the poison of scarlatina may induce in the fauces exactly the same histological changes as those which are characteristic of diphtheria. In a still more recent and very suggestive paper {Die experimentelle Diphtheric Leipzig 1883) Heubner seems to have now arrived at a like conclusion. He indeed affirms that localised diphtheritic inflammation of a mucous membrane may be set up without micrococci, and then the inoculation of any kind of micrococci may suffice to induce the general disease. 445. Phlegmonous inflammations and abscesses are more common in the fauces and tonsils than in the mouth itself. They begin with intense redness and swelling of the affected parts. The exudations and pus collect in the loose meshes of the sub- mucosa, giving rise to abscesses of various sizes, which at length break through the mucous membrane. The commonest causes of such suppurative inflammations are mechanical injury followed by some septic infection, and glanders, S3rphilis, anthrax, etc. Retro- phar3mgeal abscesses are occasionally due to caries of the cervical vertebrae. Abscesses about the throat are dangerous inasmuch as they may lead to the erosion and rupture of blood-vessels, or may directly or indirectly involve the entrance to the larynx. This last accident is generally brought about by the induction of oedema in the mucosa or submucosa of the glottis, which often accompanies the formation of an abscess in the neighbouring parts. In rare cases phlegmonous inflammation may issue in gangrene. Dark and discoloured patches are formed, which rapidly extend and disintegrate. Gangrene is most commonly observed in connexion with small-pox, typhoid, dysentery, and diphtheria. 446. The syphilitic affections of the throat resemble those of the mouth. Simple catarrhal inflammation, the formation of granulomatous foci or gummata, ulceration, and scarring, are all met with. Scarring may give rise to very considerable distortion and deformity of the parts. Tubercle and tuberculous ulceration occur chiefly in the larynx. The surrounding tissues are sometimes markedly oedema- tous. The tonsils are not infrequently attacked by tuberculosis. Lupus is most apt to affect the soft palate; it is rare in other parts, such as the larynx. The infiltrated tissue breaks down and large unsightly ulcers are produced. Lupus of the face generally accompanies the affection of the mucous membrane. Papillary growths and mucous polypi sometimes occur around the uvula and the border of the soft palate, but they are not very common. Cysts of retention, of small size, now and then arise from dilatation of the mucous glands. Tumours are rare in the region of the throat, but both con- nective-tissue and epithelial growths are occasionally met with.