249 THE TEETH. CHAP. XLIX.] {Memorabilien xv, 1870),and Hammerich {Ueb. Schleimcysten d. Zungenwwzel Wurzbiu'g 1877) have written on the cysts that are found at the base of the tongue. According to ViRCHOW, Reubold, Bohn {Die Mundkranhh. d. Kinder Leipzig 1866), Denis, Billard, and others, in most infants the mucous membrane of the palate (in the neighbourhood of the raphe and anteriorly) is more or less beset with white miliary nodules of various sizes. They are developed in the second half of foetal life, and are due to an accumulation of epithehal cells in the mucous glands of the hard palate. They may fairly be described as mihum or comedones of the mucous membrane (Art. 404). Changes affecting the teeth. 440. By far the most important morbid change affecting the teeth is that known as caries, a gradually progressive disintegration of the enamel and dentine. First of all an opaque white spot (which may sometimes be discoloured green or black) appears on the transparent enamel. Here the prisms of the enamel are loosened and to some extent broken down. Then by degrees the dentine is attacked, and once attacked it usually disintegrates very rapidly. Decalcification ot the dental tissue precedes the carious disintegration. In the advancing margin of the diseased area the tubules of the dentine appear to be widened (Klebs, Leber, and Rottenstein) and surrounded by bright rings. Presently the tubules are seen to contain a granular mass, which turns blue when treated with iodine and increases in bulk at the expense of the bright rings. This mass is found to consist of micrococci and bacilli. According to Klebs it is they that are the destroyers of the dental tissue, inasmuch as they have the power of decalcifying it. They are enabled to penetrate the substance of the teeth by the accidental formation of cracks or flaws ia the enamel. Klebs has also shown that the mortar-like 'tartar' which often covers the teeth contains multitudes of micrococci and bacilli mingled with calcareous particles. He maintains that the or- ganisms are able to precipitate calcium-salts from the nutrient materials they assimilate. A very common result of caries is inflammation of the pulp or of the alveolar periosteum. The irritants which directly induce it are perhaps the bacteria which are present in the disintegrated dental substance, and set up septic decomposition around them. The inflammation of the pulp and periosteum may pass into suppuration. In this case the surface of the gum in the neigh- bourhood of the diseased tooth is red and swollen (gum-boil or paruUs), and presently suppuration sets in and extends to the deeper tissue of the gum, forming an alveolar abscess. This breaks externally, and if the suppurative process around the root of the tooth continues, we may have formed an alveolar sinus or fistula. Sometimes the inflammation extends beyond the region of the root of the tooth and gives rise to an extensive periostitis of the