DIPHTHERIA. 253 CHAP. L.] In addition to the formation of these patches there is always a certain amount of oedematous swelling of the tissues, which in the case of the tonsils and the parts around the glottis frequently becomes extremely marked. If the patient survives repair takes place by the extrusion of the false membranes, regeneration of the necrosed parts, and re-absorption of the exudation. If the necrosis has extended deeply cicatrices may be formed. Now and then the alfection takes a more dangerous turn, gangrene setting in and causing very rapid and extensive destruction of the tissues. A certain amount of croupous exudation very often accompanies the development of the diphtheritic membranes. Some of the grey or yellowish patches may consist simply of coagulated exudation, such as characterises simple croupous inflammation. These patches are apt to be formed at spots where the epithelium has been stripped off 444. Pharjmgeal diphtheritis may be the result of various noxious agencies. It can be produced in animals by the action of certain corrosive substances properly applied to the mucous mem- brane. In man it is most commonly observed in connexion with various infective diseases, such as scarlatina, measles, typhoid, small-pox, and diphtheria. It is the characteristic symptom of the latter. Diphtheria is an infective disease, met with chiefly in children. The virus enters the system usually by the mucous membrane of the phar3mx, and it first of all sets up local inflammatory changes there. The changes may be simply of the nature of catarrh, or they may be more intense and more dangerous. In by far the greater number of cases the various processes of diphtheritic inflammation are induced. But in many instances the epithelium is simply shed, and circumscribed yellowish typically croupous false membranes are formed from the coagulated fibrinous exuda- tion. Gangrene is a rarer complication. The mucous membrane of the respiratory organs—larynx, trachea, and bronchi—is usually affected at the same time as that of the throat. Where the epithelium is cylindrical the inflammation is generally of the croupous type. It seems now highly probable that diphtheria is due to an invasion of micrococci. When the affected epithelia are examined in the early stages of the disorder, we find in and upon the inflamed spots heaps and clusters of micrococci (Fig. 170 g and Fig. 171 a) such as do not normally occur in the mouth or throat. These are regarded as the virus of the disease, and they are supposed to affect the system in general through the vessels of the pharynx. We have not here space to describe in detail the various controversies that have arisen as to the nature of the virus of diphtheria. The most important references have been given in Art. 204. Heubner recently investigated the