THE LIVER AND PANCJREAS. [sect. VIII. 318 affection. Probably in these cases also it is due to some kind of microparasitic infection. In support of this view it is to be noted that Klebs has on several occasions discovered micrococci crowding the hepatic vessels in cases of acute yellow atrophy unaccounted for by the presence of any other source of infection. But apart from causes of the nature of infection, it is known that certain poisons, notably phosphorus, may give rise to degene- rative changes closely resembling those we have just described. In phosphorus-poisoning we may have various degrees of change, from mere turbidity of some of the liver-cells and the formation of a few oil-globules to extreme and extensive fatty disintegration of the liver-substance generally. In a few days after a poisonous dose of phosphorus has been taken the greater part of the liver may be broken down into fatty detritus. The changes begin in from six to twenty-four hours, and first appear round the periphery of the lobules. The cells become turbid and swollen, then oil- globules appear which as a rule soon run together into larger drops as the cell disintegrates. The colour of the liver in phosphorus-poisoning is greyish- yellow or yellow, and the organ feels greasy and doughy. In the early stages, that is before the liver-cells are entirely disintegrated and before their remains are absorbed, the liver is enlarged. Sometimes small haemorrhages take place into the tissue. When these are confined to the portal areas peculiar rosette-like figures are produced by the extravasated blood. Now and then the liver looks as if bile-stained. As the degeneration advances the secre- tion of bile is more or less interfered with. In the later stages leucin and tyrosin are deposited, as in acute yellow atrophy. After a time the tissue of the atrophied liver is seen to contain clusters and more or less cylindrical groups of large epithelial cells. These are considered to be gland-cells, and to indicate the beginning of a process of regeneration and repair. Some observers regard them as derived from the epithelium of the bile-ducts, others from the surviving liver-cells. The author's observations incline him to support the latter view; he believes that the surviving liver-cells may have the power to multiply and build up new liver-tissue. The longitudinal groups or cylinders sometimes include large cells with abundant protoplasm and very large nuclei (occasionally of double the normal size), and these at least would appear to be proliferous cells. CoHNHEiM {Allg. Path, ii Berlin 1882) and others distinguish the aftection known as icterus gravis or malignant jaundice from acute yellow atrophy of the liver. The former is marked by complete suppression of the biUary secretion and by intense jaimdice ; both of these symptoms may be absent in typical cases of the latter. Eeferences on acute yellow atrophy :— Frerichs, Diseases of the liver ii (trans, by Murchison, New Syd. Soc.) London 1862 ; Klebs, Handb. d. path. Aiiat. i Berlin 1869 ; Zenker, Deutsch. Arch. f. klin. Med. x (1872) ; voN Winiwarter, Wiener med. Jahrb. 1872; Lewitzky and Brodowsky,