CH. VII.] MALFORMATIONS AND MALPOSITIONS OF THE HEART. 39 It is always to be remembered in connexiou with this subject that many of the minor anomalies ai-e merely the necessary results of other more fundamental malformations. Thus the malposition of the septum of the aortic bulb may involve the displacement of the aorta to the right (Rokitansky), and there may in consequence be a defect in the ventricular septum, even though it is suffici- ently developed to have met the septum of the bulb had the con- ditions been normal. Similarly a primary defect in the ventricular septum may lead to secondary deformities elsewhere (Ortii). If the right auriculo-ventricular orifice should be narrowed or closed, the blood from the right auricle must pass into the left auricle; and this will naturally prevent the closure of the auricular septum. And so generally, a defect at one point is to a certain extent compensated for by a corresponding abnormality at another. Not infrequently the connected series of malformations is highly com- plex, so that it is not always easy to make out their mutual relations. Summing up we may say, that the causes of cardiac mal- formations are to be sought either in lack of developmental energy, or in imperfect co-ordination of the several stages and processes of growth, or in inflammatory disease attacking the heart in utero. According to Forster the chief forms of cai'diac malformation are the following. (1) Absence or deficiency of the septum of the aortic bulb, with deficiency of the other septa ; of this there are various degi-ees :— (a) the heart is in two parts, one corresponding to the ventricidar portion and the other to the auricular portion (6) the heart has two auricles and one ventricle. (2) Atresia or stenosis of the aorta or pulmonary artery, with partial deficiency of the septa :— (a) aorta narrow or impervious ; pulmonary artery conveys blood to the aorta and its branches through the ductus arteriosus ; auricular and often ventricular septum imperfect; left ventricle ill-developed, right ventricle large (6) pulmonary orifice narrow or impervious; lungs supplied with blood from the aorta through the ductus arteriosus; auricular and ventri- cular septa generally imperfect, the latter may be closed ; this form is not infrequently met with in clinical practice. (3) Defective metamoi-phosis of the arterial arches :— (a) stenosis of the aortic arch above the entrance of the ductus arteriosus ; the latter remains patent and conveys blood from the pulmonary artery to the descending aorta (b) transposition of the great trunks; aorta rising from the right, pulmonary artery from the left ventricle ; septa deficient; more rarely the great veins are likewise transposed (c) aorta and pulmonary artery both rise from the right ventricle. (4) Patency of foetal apertures, the arteries being normal. The commonest example is offered by the foramen ovale ; minor defi- ciencies in the auricular septum have no effect on the circulation. The