THE VASCULAK MECHANISM. [sect. II. 44 Amyloid degeneration likewise attacks the connective tissues of the heart. A slight amount of amyloid change, only to be made out by proper reagents under the microscope, is not uncommon and may occur in any part of the heart-wall. Well-marked change recognisable by the naked eye is rare. When it occurs (Art. 59), and extends to the fibrous tissues of the endocardium, myocardium, and pericardium, these become remarkably thickened. The thick- ening may be uniform and smooth surfaced, or it may be irregular and nodular; so that, for example, the surfaces of the valves may become remarkably rough and granular. Within the heart-wall the amyloid tissue forms patches and swathes and bands, between which the muscular tissue is apt to atrophy. The amyloid tissue is distinguished from the ordinary fibrous tissue by its greater translucency and firmness. Where the fibrous tissue is vascular, the amyloid change is particularly apt to attack the walls of the vessels. 276. Hyaline and mucoid degeneration of the endocar- dium is very common. It may almost be regarded as a physiological change accompanying old age, when the endocardium, especially that covering the valves, undergoes a certain amount of thickening; it merely implies an increase of connective tissue. But it not in- frequently takes place in an irregular manner, leading to the forma- tion of flattened or nodular or even pectiniform prominences on the surface. Such growths are chiefly found near the free edges of the valves, but they also occur at their bases and on the tendinous cords. The corpora Arantii of the aortic valves are very apt to be thickened in this way. A certain amount of textural change is usually associated with the thickening of the tissues. The fibrous texture is gradually lost and the tissue becomes homogeneous, while the nuclei dwindle and disappear. This homogeneous or hyaline change with thicken- ing somewhat resembles amyloid degeneration; but it may appear simultaneously with the latter, it generally occurs under altogether distinct conditions, and it gives no reaction with iodine. The homogeneous degeneration may ultimately lead to necrosis of the affected tissue, which thereupon becomes turbid and breaks up into granular detritus. Not infrequently fat is formed in the tissue before necrosis sets in; and calcareous salts may likewise be deposited. Such changes are included under the term atheroma. The affected spots have first a dull white look, but when calcareous deposits have been made the tissue becomes hard and rigid and of a brilliant white colour. As a sequel to homogeneous degeneration in old age, or at times independently of it, we may have mucoid degeneration. The tissue assumes a clear jelly-like appearance, readily distinguishable from the brilliant white of the thickened calcareous patches. The change occurs in spots, generally in the neighbourhood of the mitral and