69 CHAP. XIV.] INFLAMMATIONS OF THE VESSELS. fibrovis and less rich in cells. The middle coat is either little altered, or here and there atrophied and fibrous. There is nothing specific in the histological character of the process; all we can say is that in the ordinary non-syphilitic inflammations of small arteries it is unusual to have so abundant an infiltration of cells as in syphilitic inflammations, and that the adventitia especially is not so subject to marked alteration. The thickening of the vessel-wall in syphilis is often very considerable ; it may indeed become so extreme that the lumen of the affected artery may be almost or entirely occluded. The walls of the veins are likewise subject to gummatous syphilitic inflammations. The diagnosis of syphilitic arteritis rests in general more on the nakecl- eye appearances than on the minute histological characters. The specific nature of the affection -will be determined mainly by the presence of other localised syphilitic affections, especially of a gummatous kind. If these last are not found, we must not pi'onounce the disease to be syphilitic unless we can find sure signs of it elsewhere, or unless we have excluded all other possible causes for the vascular changes. There are no certain histological criteria for deciding on the presence of syphilis (Heubner, Die luetische Erkrankung der Gehimartenen liQv^zig 1874; Ziejnssen's Cyclop, xii). Even the abundance of cells found in the adventitia is not pathognomonic, for in the cerebral vessels especially tuberculosis may give rise to exactly similar appearances. See Bristowe {Trans. Path. Soc. 1859); Hughlings Jackson {London Hosp. Reports 1868); Baumgarten {Virch. Arch. vols. 73, 76, 86, the last contains a number of references); von Langenbeck {Ai-ch. f. hlin. Chir. xxvi); Fried- lander {Cent.f. d. med. Wiss. 1876); Ehrlich {Zeitschr.f. hlin. Med. i); Huber {Virch. Arch. vol. 79); Birch-Hirschfeld {Arch. d. Heilk. xvi); Lancereaux {Gaz. d. Hop. 21, 1876); Greenfield, Gowers, and other.s {Trans. Path. Soc. 1877-78). 296. Tuberculous inflammation of the vessel-walls is very common, inasmuch as arteries and veins running through tuberculous organs are readily invaded by the disease. Tubercles and more diffuse tuberculous patches may appear in their walls; and if the granulomatous focus becomes caseous, the vessels undergo the same transformation. If the diseased vessel be an artery it often ruptures and gives rise to haemorrhage; if it be a vein the disintegration of the wall may admit products of dis- integration and bacilli into the blood-current. The result is an eruption of tubercles at the spot whither the bacilli are carried by the blood. Fibrous hyperplasia may also be set up as a consequence of tuberculous inflammation. Most commonly it is the adventitia which becomes thickened, though at times a like thickening is met with in the intima. It may become so considerable that the vessel is almost or quite occluded. The same result may follow when thrombosis is set up in a vessel whose wall is beset with tuber- culous granulations. Eeferences :—Rindflethch, Ziemssen's Cyclop, v; Martin, Rechcrches anat.- path. Paris 1879 ; Cornil, Journ. de Vanat. xvi; Kiener, Arch, dephysiol. vil; MuGGE, Virch. Arch. vol. 76; Arnold, ihid. vol. 88; Weigert, ihid. vols. 77, 88.