THE SPLEEN AND THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS. [SECT. III. 90 The spleen contains besides certain special structures known as malpig^hian follicles (or corpuscles). They are composed of lymphadenoid tissue, continuous with the cellular connective tissue sheathing the arteries and forming indeed but a modification of it. They contain colourless cells only, and their blood-vessels are narrow capillaries, which unite and open into vnde venous channels or sinuses at the periphery of the follicles. The colour of these lymphoid follicles is therefore pale or greyish-white. The capsule and the trabeculae contain numerous unstriped muscular fibres, which are arranged mth some regularity. The outer form of the spleen is somewhat variable, but it is generally more or less flattened or tongue-shaped. It is often remarkably lobulated, or at least deeply indented. Small detached spleniculi, from the size of a bean to that of a hazel-nut, are occasionally found near the spleen. Misplacements of the spleen are common, and it is occasionally wanting altogether. 318. The functions of the spleen are as yet imperfectly ascertained. It is very probable that the red corpuscles are broken up within its meshes; that is to say that worn-out or useless red corpuscles pass into the splenic tissue (Art. 268) and there undergo further changes. According to Quincke and KuNKEL a part of the iron contained in the red corpuscles which are disintegrated is utilised in the formation of new ones, while another part passes into the liver for elimination. Recent researches have thrown doubt on the formerly-accepted theory that red corpuscles are manufactured in the spleen itself The most recent investigators are divided on the question, Neumann being against the older view, and TizzONi for it. BizzozERO rejects altogether the idea that blood is normally manufactured in the spleen after the close of the foetal period; but he thinks the spleen may resume such a function in certain peculiar conditions, as in anaemia. So much at least is sure, that the red corpuscles met with in the splenic pulp are not new-formed, but have escaped from the blood-vessels; and that they either return to the blood after undergoing some alteration, or are destroyed. If new cells are furnished to the blood by the spleen at all, they are colourless cells derived from the lymphadenoid sheaths of the arteries. The view that the worn-out and useless red corpuscles are brought to the spleen and there broken up is supported by patho- logical facts. When the disintegration of red corpuscles in the blood is by any cause (such as malaria. Art. 268) increased, the number of cells containing red corpuscles and pigment, and the amount of free pigment, in the spleen is likewise increased. The organ may indeed become thereby stained of a deep russet or slate-colour. We may suppose that the increased disintegration sets free more pigmentary matter than can be utilised in the formation of new