THE MUCOUS MEMBRANES. [sect. VI. 222 and the meinbrane recovers. The epithelial cells begin to be shed, and the secretion is rendered turbid by their presence. These cells vary of course in appearance with the character of the mem- brane to which they belong. From cylindrical epithelium we get cylindrical cells (3), which are swollen and translucent or altogether in a state of mucoid degeneration (Art. 55). Goblet-cells (6), ciliated cells (5), squamous pavement cells (ii, 12, 18), are all met with in catarrhal secretions. Where the epithelium is stratified the poly- morphous cells of the deeper layers (19) may be shed with the superficial cells. When the secretion thus contains a considerable proportion of shed epithelial cells we have what may be called epithelial catarrh. In the later stages we may have not only an excessive desquam- ation of the epithelium, but also an abundant extravasation of leucocytes from the superficial blood-vessels. Many forms of catar- rhal inflammation are thus characterised by an almost puralent secretion, and are described as purulent catarrh. The leucocytes may be small and uninuclear, or may ajDpear multinu clear in con- sequence of the breaking-up of their nuclei into fragments (1,13, 20). In recent cases they are often swollen and slimy-looking, and con- stitute the so-called mucus-corpuscles (13). Sometimes spherical cells are met with, which contain transparent globules of mucus in their interior (7); and the smaller leucocytes may at times penetrate into the substance of the degenerate and desquamated epithelial cells (8). Such cells have been mistaken for brood-cells. In chronic catarrhs some of the cells undergo fatty degeneration (9); while others contain particles of dust or soot (10) derived from without. The components of the catarrhal secretions above referred to are such as come from the mucous membrane itself. Many extrinsic substances may however be found mingled with these. In catarrh of the bladder we often find crystalline deposits from the urine mixed \vith the mucous secretion ; the secretion of intestinal catarrh is always mingled with matters derived from the food. Bacteria are also very frequently met with (4, 14, 15, 16, 17, 21), in the various forms of micrococci, bacilli, and spirilla. They are in part to be regarded as unimportant accidental impurities, in part as irritants inducing or maintaining inflammation. It is impossible at present to decide the part taken by the different forms. 421. Catarrhal inflammations of the mucous membrane ai'e usually transient. The characteristic symptoms sooner or later disappear and complete restoration follows. Sometimes however the process becomes chronic, and then certain secondary changes are induced. In addition to the alterations in the secretion and the epithelial cells already mentioned, a membrane aflfected with catarrh shows signs of cellular infiltration in the connective tissue of the mucosa and often also of the submucosa; and this infiltration is in some cases very considerable. When complete restoration takes place