29 CHAP, v.] SOLID IMPURITIES IN THE BLOOD. sinuses. If not rapidly absorbed the bubbles of air behave like small solid bodies and produce like results. 266. It may be taken as a general law that no foreign body can for any long time remain in the blood; it is either deposited, or destroyed, or eliminated from the circulation. It may be deposited in very various localities; a large body will naturally lodge in the heart or a great vessel, a smaller one may pass into a capillary. If a large quantity of air enters the right heart from a venous trunk, it forms with the blood a bulky froth which the contractions of the heart are unable to propel effectively. The result is that little or no blood reaches the left heart, the blood-pressure in the aorta sinks, and the patient quickly dies. If however the quantity of air which enters the blood is small, or its entrance slow, it is carried on in the form of minute bubbles and may circulate throughout the body. Larger quantities may produce local disturb- ances of the circulation and so interfere with the cerebral or respiratory functions ; but after a time it is all absorbed. Small bodies such as fat-globules or pigment-granules generally lodge in the capillaries of the various parts. Certain organs seem to be favourite seats for such lodgements; such are in especial the spleen and liver, and frequently also the kidneys and bone-marrow. The observation may often be verified on the post-mortem table, but it may also be experimentally demonstrated (Ponfick). The cause of the preference for these organs probably lies in their anatomical structure, in consequence of which the blood-current through them is unusually slow. As regards the spleen an additional factor comes into play in the permeability of its vessel-walls; this specially favours the extravasation of small bodies from the blood-current, and in particular such as are enclosed in contractile carrier-cells. The process of deposition is most easily followed in the case of pigmentary matters, such as disintegrated blood, or iron-compounds, or granular colouring-matters inhaled or injected into the blood. The spleen-pulp may in such cases become'deeply stained, and sections of the liver may also show the effect in a very instructive manner. In the latter instance the deposit lies chiefly round the periphery of the lobules. At first the foreign matters are seen to lie within the vessels, but afterwards they partly pass out of them into the tissues. This escape is generally effected by the help of contractile carrier-cells (Arts. 112—114), but free corpuscular matters may escape from the capillaries directly, especially from those of the spleen. The behaviour of bacteria in the vascular system has already been discussed (Arts. 199—200). The embolic occlusion of arteries by larger foreign bodies, and its results, are described in Arts. 29, 33, and 255—2.57.