148 [sect. V. THE SKIN. hairs may spring out of one follicle, being developed from a single papilla successively, or from several papillae seated in secondary saccules within the chief follicle. The follicles may be shrunken and atrophied (Fig. 143 h) or distended with accumulations of epidermal cells mixed with small hairs (c); in many of them the papilla disappears altogether. The shrunken follicles are cylindrical or conical, or distorted and sacculated. It often seems as if the root-sheath were attempting to bulge here and there into new follicles. Wlien the follicle is much shortened it simply looks like the duct of a sebaceous gland. The follicles are hardly ever entirely destroyed (Neumann) ; even when the root-sheath disappears the pit or sacculation remains, and is often crammed with comified epidermal cells. Fig. 143. Senile atbophy op the skin. (Section from a highly degenerate part of the skin of the forehead; the hair-follicles are shrunken and contain epidermal cells and retained sebum: after neoma nn) a cutis, with turbid granular spots c cornified cells filling the hair- in it follicle h shrunken hair-follicle with the d distended sebaceous gland outer root-sheath A certain number of the sebaceous glands disappear from the denuded atrophic patches; others are stunted and shrunken; and others again are distended with retained secretion into cysts (Fig. 143 d) which may grow to some size (milium or grutum); they occur chiefly in places which have been covered with haii', such as the scalp. The sweat-glands are not perceptibly altered. Localised atrophies of the skin in the form of whitish streaks and patches are frequently observed in persons of mature age over the buttocks, the trochanters, the anterior margin of the pelvis, the knees, etc. Women who have been pregnant usually have shining white streaks (lineae albicantes) on the surface of the abdomen, and sometimes on the thighs and buttocks. According to Langek {Anzeiger d. Oesell. d. Aerzte in Wien May 1879, Loiid.