81 CHAP. XVII.] RUPTUKE OF THE COATS OF THE VESSELS. sac-wall, and develope into large and active formative cells; these presently get the upper hand as it were, and the fibrin gradually disappears. Fibrous tissue is developed, and new vessels are formed in it, connected partly with the lumen of the old vessel and partly with the vessels of the neighbouring parts. The wall of the vessel itself takes no active part in the process; while the clots lying around it are absorbed. Wounds of veins heal in the same way as those of arteries; it is rai-e for a sac or false varix of any size to be formed. See Klebs {Bdtnige z. Anatomie d. Schusswunden 1872); Czerny (Virch. Arch. vol. 62); Schultz {Deutsck. Zeitschr. f. Chir. ix); Pfitzer (Virch. Arch. vol. 77); Holmes {Syst. of Sxirgery ni London 1883); Barwell (intern, cncyc. of Surg. Ill London 1883). 309. Sometimes, in consequence of disease or injury of one or other of the arterial coats, the inner and middle coat give way, while the adventitia resists the stress of the blood-pressure. The result is that the blood does not at once escape out of the vessel, but strips the middle coat away from the adventitia. A-blood-tumour is thus formed which is called a dissecting aneurysm. This variety of false aneurysm is chiefly met with in the ascending aorta, and in the smaller arteries of the brain. In the latter case spindle- shaped dilatations are produced, which are bounded externally by the adventitia while the tube formed by the intima and media runs through the axis. In the case of the aorta the adventitia is generally stripped loose over a considerable extent. The stress of the blood may indeed separate the adventitia from the other coats throughout the entire length of the aorta, and up the larger trunks; the dissection being only limited by the vessels passing into tissues which bind them down with some firmness. The mass of blood thus intruded between adventitia and media may be of quite remarkable thickness. See Peacock {Path, of the heart and arteries Edinburgh 1849); Fried- LANDEB (Virch. Arch. vol. 78); Faggb {Med. chir. Tram. 1869, with cases). 310. The varicose aneurysm deserves special mention. It is occasionally produced by the adhesion of a true aneurysm to a vein, the adhering tissues of the walls becoming gradually absorbed, so that a free communication is at length formed between artery and vein. In other instances a false aneurysm may become connected with a vein, as when an artery and vein are simultane- ously wounded by the same puncture. A true aneurysm inter- venes between the two vessels in the former false aneurysm in the latter case: we must thus distinguish true varicose aneurysm from false varicose aneurysm. 311. Occasionally as the result of a wound we may have a direct connexion of the channel of an artery with that of a vein; so that arterial blood pours into the vein without passing through s. p. A. 6