CHAP. II.] INTE A VASCULAR COAGULATION OR THROMBOSIS. 15 of the fibrin, which may give rise to lacunae in the thrombus. These lacunae become transformed into blood-channels, which by and by become connected with the capillaries originating in the vasa vasorum. 256. The account just given applies in the first instance to the organisation of thrombi in ligatured arteries. But the process in other cases is exactly similar. If a marasmic venous thrombus of some standing is examined, the inner coating of the vein is found infiltrated with cells, and the margins of the clot are transformed into gi'anulation-like tissue, or even into vascular fibrous tissue. In the case of parietal thrombi in the larger arteries, or in the aorta, the process of organisation is very slow. Even old thrombi may show no distinct sign of organisation; and in other instances small patches of immature fibrous tissue may be found on the surface. The thrombi that occupy aneurysmal sacs are very slowly and imperfectly replaced by fibrous tissue. The process by which wounds in blood-vessels are healed up is analogous to organisation. Schultz has shown that after haemorrhage ceases a thrombus composed of cohering white blood- cells occupies the site of the wound. This plug may bulge out- wards under the pressure of the blood, but the sinus so formed is again filled up with white blood-cells. These thereupon proceed to develope, new vessels penetrate the mass from the surrounding parts, and a cicatrix is at length produced (Art. 308). In the course of time the fibrous tissue which replaces a thrombus shrinks more or less. The plug of scar-tissue formed after ligature may thus become extremely small, the vessel becoming pervious up to the point of ligature. The plug formed in the continuity of a thrombosed vessel may almost disappear, leaving behind only a thickening of the vessel-wall or a few bands or threads across the lumen. When this occurs the blood may be enabled to flow through the reopened channel Avithout sensible obstruction. 257. In Art. 254 we said that when a thrombus softens and breaks up, fragments of it may be swept off into the blood-current. We said also, that when the softening is puriform the matters thus swept off excite inflammation and suppuration at the points where they settle. We have next to consider the fate of the less noxious fragments swept off from recent thrombi, especially the looser quickly-growing red kind, or from thrombi undergoing simple softening. Such a fragment, or embolus, if it is too large to pass through the capillaries, will become wedged in one or other of the smaller arteries, and generally at a point of bifurcation. Thus an embolus starting from one of the systemic veins or from the right heart will lodge in a pulmonary arteriole. The first result of the lodgement in the vessel, or embolism, is that fresh deposits of fibrin take place on the plug, so that] it soon occludes the vessel completely, even if too small to do so originally. The effect on the