CH. XII.] HYPOPLASIA AND DEGENERATION OF THE VESSELS. 59 disappearance of some constituent (such as the muscular fibres) of the vessel-wall, the resixlt of inflammatory or degenerative change. Fatty degeneration of the vessels is the most frequent of all the degenerative changes to which they are subject. It usually attacks the inner and middle coats, more rarely the adventitia. Fatty change of the intima is most commonly exemplified in the aorta, but it is frequent enough in the larger arteries, including the pulmonary artery. The slightest degree of fatty change is not apparent to the naked eye. More marked degrees are characterised by the opaque whitish or yellowish appearance of the affected spots, which are usually somewhat irregular in outline. The surface is at first smooth, but in later stages it becomes uneven or velvety. A Fig. 127. A Cells from the iktima of the aoeta showing fatty degeneration. (Seen on the flat) B Patty capillaey from the brain. {Perosmic acid preparation: x 350) The process begins with the fatty degeneration of the cells, which become filled out with oil-globules (Fig. 127 A). If the change proceeds further the arrangement of the oil-globules ceases to be so definite as it is in the figure; they not merely occupy the place of the cells but also accumulate between the fibres of the intercellular ground-substance. In still more advanced cases sub- endothelial cavities are formed by softening. At this stage leucocytes generally appear, which have migrated from the vasa vasorum, and take up the fatty products of disintegration into their substance; it is in this way that fat-granule carrying cells arise. The favourite seats of fatty change in the aorta ai"e immedi- ately above the valves, and at the places where the large and small arteries are given off. The change is most common in anaemic and in aged patients. In the pulmonary artery it seems most favoured by causes producing stagnation in the pulmonary circulation, in consequence of which the carbonic acid of the blood is imperfectly removed from it. Spots of fatty degeneration occur in