CHAP. XXXVIII.] INFLAMMATIONS OF THE SKIN. 179 progressive molecular death of the border-tissue. The edges and base are at first thickly infiltrated with cells, and these as they near the surface pass through successive stages of degeneration and decay, and at length form a layer of structureless detritus. A soft chancre may give rise to lymphangitis and bubo, but not to syphilitic disease. (3) The hard chancre. When a patient is infected simul- taneously with the venereal poison which gives rise to soft chancre and with syphilis, the base of the soft chancre. becomes indurated about the third or fourth week after infection. The soft chancre is thus converted into a hard chancre. If the soft chancre has healed quickly the characteristic induration appears in the cicatrix. When sj^hilis is communicated without the simple venereal poison the first thing seen is a papule, which appears in the third or fourth week after infection. The papule extends laterally, and in eight or ten days becomes scaly or breaks down into an ulcer secreting a small quantity of serous or slightly puriform liquid, which presently dries up into a crust or scab. At the same time the base becomes indurated and forms a definite cartilaginous or parchment-like disc under the skin. This indurated sore is described as the initial sclerosis of syphilis, or the true Hunterian chancre. It is due to a dense cellular infiltration of the integu- ment, without any very special histological features. Cornil's statement {Legons sur la Syphilis Paris 1879; Syphilis London 1882) that the indurated tissue is infiltrated to an extreme degree is correct; but infiltrations quite as intense are met with in other forms of granulomatous ulcer—notably in tuberculous affections. The reason why the infiltrated tissue is so hard seems to be—that the fibres of the connective tissue persist unchanged for a consider- able time, while in the soft sore they very speedily break down. The infiltrated cells are at first uniformly small, but in the later stages they are larger, epithelioid, and often multinuclear (Art. 128). The induration sooner or later disappears, the parch- ment-like form being the first to go. If no ulcer has been formed, a scar-like unpigmented spot is left behind; if an ulcer has been formed a regular scar takes its place. (4) The gummatous ulcer, Gummata of the skin (the papular or tubercular syphilide) may give rise to a second variety of syphilitic ulceration. Nodes of various sizes are formed in the skin or subcutaneous tissue, and are either re-absorbed or break down and ulcerate, the ulcers having indurated bases and edges, and often spreading over a wide extent. When the secretion as it dries forms a thick raised crast over the sore, the affection is described as syphilitic rupia. It is characterised by its infiltrated border. For the structure of gummata see Arts. 129 and 130. (5) The scrofulous ulcer. This begins with the formation of cellular nodes or nodules which appear in the skin or subcut- 12—2