CHAPTER XXXIV. TUMOURS AND PARASITES OF SEROUS MEMBRANES. 358. Primary neoplasms are not often met with in the serous membranes. Some of them belong to the epithelial, and some to the connective-tissue class. Of the former the most interesting are the tumours hitherto described as endothelial cancers (Wagner, Schulz, Birch-Hikschfeld, Neklsen). They affect the pleura, and less often the peritoneum, and generally take the form of multiple flattened nodular growths, white in colour, and either isolated or connected by neoplastic bands, the intervening serous membrane being more or less thickened. A certain amount of serous or sero-fibrinous effusion is usually present. The growths give rise to metastases; and in the case of the pleura these secondary growths chiefly affect the peribronchial fibrous tissue, the bronchial glands, and the muscles of the thorax. The tumour is characterised by the presence in it of nests and clusters of epitheUal cells (Wagner, Schulz, Neelsen) which at the periphery of the growth have often a columnar appearance. The nests and clusters lie in a dense fibrous stroma, and follow exactly the course of the lymphatic vessels. They are usually said to arise from the multiplication of the endothelial cells of the lymphatics, but this appears to be very doubtful. As it can be shown that the surface epithelium of the serous membrane is in a state of active proliferation (Neelsen), and gives rise at least to some of the columnar elements of the growth, it is more natural to refer the development of the neoplasm generally to the prolifera- tion of the epithelium of the primitive body-cavity (Art. 348), and thus to reckon it as a genuine carcinoma. Fibroma and myxoma are the commonest of the connective- tissue tumours, but even they are rare; sarcoma is very rare. Waldeyer has described a single case of plexiform angiosarcoma of the peritoneum. Tumours of the subserous tissue are more common, especially fibroma, lipoma, and sarcoma. Tumours of the mediastinal tissue are comparatively common, and may reach a very great size.