CHAP. XIX.] STEUCTURE AND FUNCTIONS OF THE SPLEEN. 91 corpuscles or eliminated through the liver, and so it accumulates in the spleen. Foreign matters circulating in the blood are specially apt to be deposited in the spleen (Art. 266): it is clear that the diminished current in the wide capillaries and veins, and their pervious walls, greatly favour such deposition. On the structure of the spleen see Klein {Quart. J. mia'o. sci. 1875, Atlas of Histology Loudon 1880). The more recent researches on the functions of the spleen have been those undertaken by Neumann {Arch. d. Heilk. xv, Berl. klin. Woch. 20, 1880, Zeitschr. f. klin. Med. ill), Fol and Salvioli {Arch. p. I. scienze med. iv), BizzozERO {ibid. l, Arch. ital. de hiol. i), TizzoNi {Acad, dei Lined x Ser. .3, Arch. ital. de hiol. i), Korn (Virch. Arch. vol. 86), RoY {Camh. Journ. of Physiol, in), Winogradow {Cent. f. d. med. Wiss. 50, 1882). Neumann pronounces definitely against the view that during extra-uterine life the spleen takes any part in the elaboration of the blood. Bizzozero, Fol and Salvioli are of opinion that after serious haemorrhage the spleen does aid in manufac- tm'ing new blood. TizzoNi likewise thinks that blood may not only be destroyed but produced in the spleen; resting his opinion on the results of extirpating the spleen in dogs. The proportion of haemoglobin in the blood rises shortly after the operation; in about two days it returns to the normal, and then sinks more or less below it, to rise again after a certain interval. The last effect is due to the fact that not only is the blood-destroying fimction of the bone-marrow increased but also the blood-prodncing function. He finds that extirpation is occasionally followed by reproduction of splenic tissue in the form of numerous (60 to 80) nodules lying in the omentum, and more sparsely in other parts of the peritoneiun. These cellular nodides when mature consist of malpighian follicles, pulp, and a capsule ; and they may coalesce into larger masses. They contain yoimg nucleated red corpuscles. FoA disputes Tizzoni's account of the structm'e and function of these nodules, and does not beheve that they have any relation to the presence or absence of the spleen {London med. Record July 1883). Roy has discovered that in health the spleen expands and contracts rhythmically by means of the muscular tissue contained in its capsule and trabeculae ; and he believes that the circulation of the blood thi'ough the organ is maintained not by the general blood-pressure but by the force of these rhythmical contractions.