275 CHAr. LIII.] CANCER OF THE STOMACH. tuberous growths. In other cases metastases occur in the peri- toneum generally, and in the liver, lungs, etc. The liver is the commonest seat of the metastatic growths, the germinal elements being conveyed by the portal vein. Gastric carcinoma most frequently takes the form of soft fungous tumours arising from the pyloric end and along the lesser curvature; tumours arising from the fundus and general or diffuse cancerous infiltration are more rare. When the tumour projecting into the cavity of the stomach has attained a certain size, its central parts usually break down and a carcinomatous ulcer is produced. Such an ulcer is distingu.ished by its raised rampart- like borders. Its floor is generally formed by the submucosa, which is thickened by fibrous hyperplasia or cancerous infiltration. The former is a result of chronic irritative inflammation. The fibrous tissue of the muscular and serous coats is often the seat of extensive hyperplasia, causing the whole of the affected region of the stomach to appear thickened and indurated. A very similar appearance may be due simply to cancerous infiltration. Occasionally the neoplastic tissue within the cavity of the stomach becomes entirely disintegrated, so that the surface of the ulcer appears smooth and level. When in such a case the stomach- wall is not visibly beset with nests and clusters of cancer-cells, but is simply indurated in consequence of fibrous hyperplasia, the affected region may wear the look of a simple non-malignant or fibroid induration. Cases occur in which no cell-nests are to be made out even when the tissue is microscopically examined: and then the only evidence forthcoming as to the cancerous nature of the disease may be the metastatic growths to which it has given rise, 462. Five chief forms of gastric cancer are distinguished according to their histological structure. (1) Medullary carcinoma (Art. 173) takes the form of soft fungous excrescences or low rounded swellings, chiefly about the pyloric end of the stomach. As the central parts break down these growths give place to ulcers with raised borders, white and pulpy in appearance. The new growth starts in the gastric glands. Structurally it is distinguished by the presence of an exti'aordinary number of cell-nests or loculi, w^hile the stroma is but slightly developed. Beneath the ulcer the wall of the stomach is nearly always indurated or infiltrated. This form produces numerous metastases. (2) Destructive adenoma (adenocarcinoma, Art. 169) also gives rise to soft nodular growths, which presently break down and ulcerate. The neoplasm is distinguished by the presence of tubular gland-like structures, which often possess a simple cylind- rical epithelium (Fig. 174 A, Art. 431), and thus closely resemble normal glands; hence the term adenoma. This close resemblance 18—2