50 THE VASCULAR MECHANISM. [sect. II. cells, so that adipose tissue appears not only on the surface, but also in the intermuscular septa. In extreme lipomatosis the endocardium may also contain adipose tissue,, and the function of the heart may be seriously interfered with. The fact that hypertrophy of the left ventricle is associated with certain acute and chronic renal affections has been variously accounted for by various authorities. Some look for the cause of the hypertrophy in a general increase of the volume of the blood (Teaube, Bamberger), others in some change of its composition (Bright, Senator, Ewald), others again in a wide-spread change (arterio-capillary fibrosis) in the walls of the smaller arteries (Gull and Sutton). Buhl refers it to 'post-inflammatory over-nutrition' of the heart. The outcome of recent research undoubtedly is—that cardiac hyper- trophy following upon renal disease is dependent on increased arterial blood- pressure. CoHNHEiM explains the increase of pressure thus: the degree of tonic contraction {i. e. the calibre) of the renal arterioles is determined simply by the proportion of urinary matters contained in the blood which circulates through them; the supply of blood to a diseased kidney is as great as to a healthy one; if abnormal resistances are interposed beyond the renal arterioles, in the capillaries or glomeruh, for example, the pressure in the renal arteries and so throughout the system must rise. The most likely view is—that the increase of arterial pressure is due to increased resistances in the arterioles throughout the entire body. When cardiac hypertrophy is induced by primary renal disease, we must conclude that the resistances to the circulation outside the kidneys have been increased in consequence of the renal affection. The increased resistance is due to a contraction of the arterioles, and this is brought about either by the direct action of the urinary matters in the circulation, or by reflexes from the kidneys, or by stimulation of the vaso-motor centre. References:—Traube, Gesamm. AhhaTicl. ii,iii; Johnson, Med. chir. Trans. XXXIII (1850), LI (1868); Gull and Sutton, ibid, lv (1872); Buhl, Mitth.path. Inst, zu Miinclien 1878; Bamberger, Samm. klin. VortrdgellZ; Ewald, Virch. Arch. vol. 71; Senator, ibid. vol. 73; Grawitz and Israel, ibid. vol. 77; Israel, ibid. vol. 86; Cohnheim, Allg. Path, ii; Eo'y, Proc. Camb. Phil. Soc. IV (1881); Zander, Morbus Brightii u. Herzhijpertrophie In. Diss. Konigsberg 1881, and Zeitschr. f. klin. Med. iv (with an elaborate discussion of the various theories); Discussion, Trans, intern, med. congress vol. i London 1881.