CHAPTER LXII. THE GALL-BLADDER AND BILIARY DUOTS. 508. Biliary concretions and gall-stones are by far the commonest abnormalities in the contents of the gall-bladder and biliary ducts (hepatic, cystic, and common). They occur as a rule in elderly persons, more particularly in the gall-bladder. The concretions are friable granular yellow masses. The gall-stones or biliary calculi, which may be as small as a millet-seed or as large as a hen's egg, are rounded or ovoid, or angular and facetted. The latter is the case when several gall-stones have lain together in contact within the gall-bladder, the former when they have lain singly in the bladder or in one of the ducts. The colour, consistence, and density of the stones vary with theii' composition. As a rule they are somewhat soft, the surface pale gi-eyish-white, yellowish, or brown deepening to black, and either smooth or rough as the case may be. On section there is usually a dark-coloured nucleus consisting of a combination of bile-pigment (bilirubin) and calcium-salts, surrounded by a lighter shell or crust containing crystalline plates of cholesterin radially disposed. The different sjDecies are distin- guished according to the constituent which is most abundant. (1) Stones consisting of cholesterin. These usually contain a pigmented nucleus, are single or multiple, greyish-white or yellow- ish-white in colour, smooth or rough on the surface, slightly trans- lucent, with sometimes a kind of pearly lustre. The fractured surface has a radiate crystalline appearance, and often shows traces of stratification. The stones are soft in texture. When stained with bile they are sometimes yellow or greenish or brown. WHien mixed with calcium-salts they are friable and chalky. (2) Stones consisting of cholesterin and pigment are the commonest of all. According to the proportion of pigment they contain they are yellow, brown, black, or brownish-green. They are frequently present in enormous numbers and distend the bladder or ducts to a remarkable extent. They often contain a considerable amount of calcium carbonate and of magnesium-salts.