76 ANEURYSM. CHAP. XVI.] simultaneously affected by active disease or degeneration. Sclerosis and atheroma are the commonest causes, especially when the media also undergoes degeneration. In other cases affections of the ad- ventitia may lead to aneurysm, when they are such as extend also to the media and set up inflammation or muscular degeneration there. All these affections diminish the elasticity and strength of the arterial wall, so that it stretches and gives way before the pressure of the blood. In accordance Avith the common mode of genesis, we find the intima in most aneurysms highly atheromatous; the muscular elements of the middle coat are fatty and disintegrated or lost altogether; and the elastic fibres show signs of granular change. The media or intima or both may here and there be wanting entirely; while the adventitia is usually thickened and infiltrated with inflammatory exudations. . A form of aneurysm whose genesis is different has been described by PoNFiCK {Virch. Arch. vol. 58) under the title of the embolic aneurysm. Fragments of calcified endocarditic vegetations lodge as embolisms in the wall of an artery, it may be in the brain for example; there they bore or work their way into the tissue of the wall, until at length it gives way and a sacculation is formed. Another special form is the so-called hernial aneurysm, produced by the hernial protrusion of the inner coats through a weak or eroded place in the outer coat or sheath, Charcot {Senile and chronic diseases (New Sycl. Soc.) 1881) thinks that aneurysms start in degeneration not of the intima but of the adventitia, the inflammatory thickening of which induces atrophy of the muscular coat. Ziegler's observations lead him to believe that this mode of development (from periarteritis followed by muscular atrophy in the media) does occur; but in the arteries of the brain, on which Charcot specially bases his conclusions, the process generally starts with the intima. The accumulations of infiltrated cells seen in the adventitia in such cases are secondary (Virchow, Virch. Arch. vol. 3; Charcot and Eouchard, Arch, cle physiol. 1868; Liouville, An4vrysmes miliaires Thfese de Paris 1871; Koth, Corresp. f. schweiz. Aerzte 1874; Krapft, Die Entstehung der ivahren Aneurysmeyi In. Diss. Berne 1877). For references to aneurysm depending on embolism see Church {St Barth. Hosp. Reports 1870), Goodhart and others {Trans. Path. Soc. 1877). 303. Seats of aneurysm. Aneurysms most commonly occur in the thoracic aorta; they may be diffuse, fusiform, or sacculated. Theii' favourite seat is the ascending and transverse parts of the arch. They often reach an astonishing size, and press against the sternum and costal cartilages, or against the lungs and the spinal column, according to their position. Soft or yielding parts are pushed aside or compressed, rigid parts like the bones of the sternum or spine are eroded or absorbed. The costal cartilages and intervertebral discs resist the pressure better, so that while the vertebral bodies are often deeply excavated the discs persist almost unchanged. The tissue immediately surrounding an aneurysm is in some parts infiltrated with inflammatory products, in others thickened and fibroid. It is the inflammation set up around the