CHAP. XLVII.] INFECTIVE GRANULOMATA AND TUMOURS. 233 creamy pus. When they heal they give rise to irregular puckered scars. In horses the affection attacks chiefly the mucous membrane of the nose; it is rare to meet with it elsewhere, though some- times the entire alimentary canal is beset with the characteristic nodules. Glanders of the mucous membrane in man is on the whole a rare affection. Lupus affects the mucous membrane of the nose, mouth, pliarynx, laiynx, and perhaps the vagina; in course and appear- ance it exactly resembles the skin-affection (Arts. 132, 392). Leprosy (Arts. 131, 392) appears as a nodular or diffuse infil- tration of the mucous membrane of the mouth, pharynx, larynx, nose, and eyes. The nodules break down and give rise to leprous ulcerations. 431. The most important tumours of the mucous membranes are unquestionably adenoma and carcinoma. Other kinds are on the whole rarely met with, though cases are recorded of lipoma (in the intestine), sarcoma (intestine, uterus), myxoma (vagina), fibroma (uterus, stomach), and Ijanphoma. The tumours which originate in the connective tissue usually take the form of rounded swellings projecting above the surface of the mucous membrane. Adenoma (Arts. 167—169) appears in two different forms; either it is confined to the mucosa, or it extends iato the sub- mucosa and thence into the surrounding tissues and organs. The first form gives rise to polypous tumours whose general structure corresponds closely with that of the mucosa; that is to say though the glandular elements are larger, more numerous, and less regular than in the normal tissue, they exhibit the tjrpical gland-structure characteristic of the membrane. They may most appropriately be described as glandular hyperplasias of the mucous membrane. The second form of adenoma, described as destructive adenoma, adenocarcinoma, or sometimes epithelioma, also agrees in struc- ture with the glandular type, but its mode of growth and its tendency to invade the surrounding tissues distinguish it sharply from the other form. Both adenocarcinoma and simple carcinoma take their origin in the lining epithelium of the surface, or in the epithelium of the glands. They form tumours that vary much in size and con- sistence. They both tend to infiltrate not only the mucosa but the submucosa and deeper tissues, the infiltration resulting in the transformation and destruction of the invaded structures. Fig. 174 A illustrates this point very clearly. The neoplasm has started in the mucous glands of the stomach and thence invaded the several coats, altering and destroying their structure in its progress. All cancers (adenocarcinomata and carcinomata) of the mucous membrane ultimately break down and ulcerate, giving rise to what are called cancerous ulcers. Blood-vessels are sometimes invaded