[sect. V. 158 THE SKIN. completely and the nucleus is broken up and disappears. The cell is thus replaced by a cavity {g) containing liquid. Several such cavities next coalesce by the solution of the cell-membranes, and so larger and larger cavities (vesicles or blebs) are produced. As the sevex'al vesicles become more and more distended the cells lying between them, whether healthy or degenerate, become compressed and stretched or otherwise distorted (Fig. 147). The vesicles of small-pox, herpes, eczema, and many other eruptions are formed according to the same general plan, but with manifold differences in details. The epidermal changes especially are apt to vary; thus in some cases the cells are speedily transformed into homogeneous glassy flakes or into granular coagula, in others the nuclei break up into fragments at an early stage, and so on. The above account of the process of vesiculation differs in many points from those given in most text-books and in many dermatological memoirs. It lays much more stress than is usual on the disintegi-ation and solution of the epidermal cells as factors in the process. The author claims however that the account is the outcome of his own researches and those of Touton, who worked imder the author's direction. Figs. 145 and 149 are taken from Todton's preparations, and are discussed in his paper entitled Vergleichende Untersuchungen iiher die Entstehung der Hautblasen Tubingen 1882. The student may also refer to the papers of Weigert {Anatomische Beitrdge zur Lehre von den Pocken Breslau 1874) and Unna {Virch. Arch. vol. 69, and Vierteljahrsschriftf. Berin. u. Syph. v). 372, The vesicles just described are always loculated, owing to their mode of origin. As they arise from a number of contiguous Fig. 148. A small-pox vesicle passing into the pustdlab stage. (Injected preparation stained with haematoxylin: x 25) a horny layer b mucous layer d cutis e the vesicle / cavity of the vesicle /] pus-corpuscles g epidermal detritus and pus-corpus- cles lying between the papillae h papilla infiltrated with cells i umbilication over the thin part of the cap of the vesicle 2] margin of the vesicle where the cap is thicker