[SECT. V. 152 THE SKIN. vesicles goes on at the margin while the centre recovers we have herpes circina- tus, characterised therefore by its ring of vesicles ; if a vesicle persists in the centre it is herpes iris. Erythema with large blebs or bullae is erythema hullosum. A brown pigmentation usually remains behind after the eruption declines. When vesicles have formed scales and scabs are left. The affection lasts from two to four weeks ; its cause is unknown. (4) Erythema nodosum {dermatitis contusiformis, urticaria tuherosa) is characterised by the formation of large blotches or rounded nodes usually on the lower limbs. It is sometimes ushered in by slight fever. The blotches are slightly elevated or not at all, and are bright red at the margins and purple at the centre. In two or three days they begin to fade, passing through tints of blue, yellow, and green. The exudation being chiefly serous absorp- tion is rapid, and the affection leaves nothing behind it but a sUght staining of the skin. (5) Traumatic erythema is produced by irritation of the sldn, mechan- ical, thermal, or chemical. Mechanical irritation is exemplified by the friction of clothes or of two parts of the body in contact; the effects of thermal irritation by burns or frost-bites of the first degree ; chemical irritants are such as tiu-pentine, mercm'ial ointment, dilute acids, and the poison of insect-stings. The cutaneous inflammations or swellings induced by frost are called chilblains or perniones. Erythema is an occasional result of the use of certain medicaments such as quinine, copaiba, or belladonna (van Harlingen, Arch, of Dennatology 1880 ; Duhring, Diseases of the shin Philadelphia 1882; Lewin, Untoward effects of drugs Detroit 1883). (6) Roseola, or the rash of circumscribed red spots which occurs in connexion with certain general disorders of the system, is allied to the exudative erythemata. It is described, from the condition with which it is associated, as roseola rheumatica, choleraica, typhosa, aestiva, infantilis, etc. (7) Pellagra (jJial rosso, mal del sole, risipola lomharda, Lombardiau leprosy) is a peculiar disorder met with in the north of Italy, Southern France, Spain, and Roumania. It appears as an erythematous rash on the exposed parts of the body in spring and summer, and disappears in autumn with desquamation of the epidermis. Marked disturbance of the health may occur; the patient becomes debilitated, and nervous symptoms often follow. The disease is apt to recur in succeeding years (Matr, Hehra's Diseases of the skin (New Syd. Soc.) i; Kaposi, Path. u. Therap. d. HautJcr. Vienna and Leipzig 1880; Scheiber, Viertelj. f Derm. u. Syph. n; Winternitz, ibid. III). (8) Urticaria or nettle-rash is an eruption of wheals which rise and disappear very suddenly. The wheal is white or yellowish, and is bordered by a zone of red. Sometimes small vesicles or j)apules are formed. The rash is either caused by external irritation (such as the stings of nettles, of jelly-fish, or of insects), or it is a symptom of some irritation elsewhere, esj)eciaUy in the alimentary canal. h. Eruptions with considerable exudation: tubercula, squamae, vesiculae, pustulae, crustae. 368. The affections we have next to consider are described collectively as phlyctaenoses, and are distinguished from the erythematous eruptions by the more intense character of the inflammatory changes involved. In many of them moreover the