[sect. V. THE SKIN. 196 401. Among the connective-tissue growths starting in the cutis angioma, lymphangioma, and sarcoma are somewhat common forms. . Angiomata appear as bright or dark red often slightly-raised patches in the skin. They have already been discussed in Arts. 148—151; and the lymphangiomata, which when extensive give rise to soft tuberous swellings without discoloration, have been referred to in Art. 152. Sarcoma takes the form of nodular tumours, more or less raised above the surrounding surface; sometimes they are even pedunculated or mushroom-shaped. They are usually solitary, but now and then instances occur in which a number of sarco- matous growths appear in the skin simultaneously or in quick succession. Cutaneous sarcoma may be round-celled, spindle-celled, or mixed. The commonest form is the round-celled, of which both large-celled (Fig. 50, Art. 159) and small-celled varieties occur. Melanotic and alveolar sarcomata are also not uncommon. The latter (Fig. 54, Art. 161) start in cellular warts and pigment- spots, and correspond closely with these in their general structure. When they start in pigment-spots or pigmentary moles the sub- stance of the tumour is pigmented. Like other round-celled sarcomata these are malignant. Spindle-celled forms may also start in warts or cutaneous fibromata. But all the forms may arise in portions of skin that previously appear altogether normal. Lipomata of the skin and subcutaneous tissue are very frequently met with, and sometimes reach a great size. The region of the shoulder is a favourite seat. Myxoma and enchondroma are less common than lipoma, and osteoma is rarer still. Myxoma and myxofibroma are generally connected with the external genitals in women. Xanthelasma or xanthoma is a peculiar growth, taking the form of pale or brownish yellow circumscribed patches (xanthelasma planum) or nodules [xanthelasma tuberosum), which may be isolated or aggregated into groups. It occurs chiefly in the neighbourhood of the eyelids and on the cheeks, and consists of a hyperplasia or new-formation of fibrous tissue, in which fat is subsequently deposited. Similar spots and nodules, often described as xanthoma, are produced on the eyelids by the enlargement of the meibomian glands and the deposit in the overlying skin of a pale yellow pigment. Occasionally the affection becomes multiple, or even universal {xanthelasma multiplex). In many cases of this kind jaundice has preceded the skin-affection, and some authors have regarded the latter as connected with the circulation of bile-pigment in the blood. This is certainly not true of all cases. 402. Epithelioma (cutaneous cancer or cancroid) is by far the most important of the epithelial neoplasms of the skiu. Its mode of growth has already been described in Art. 170 (see Fig.