CHAP, v.] 31 SOLID IMPUEITIES IN THE BLOOD. Many of the extraneous substances entering the blood are soluble and destructible, and such always disappear after a longer or shorter time. Thus inhaled particles of chalk-dust are dissolved in the blood ; fat, which circulates in great drops, rapidly disappears; and micro-organisms likewise break up and are absorbed, so soon as they cease to find the vital conditions that are necessary to them. Even embolic plugs of considerable size (such as fragments of thrombi, of diseased valves, etc.) are in time dissolved and disap- pear (see Arts. 114—115 and 254—257, where the effects of septic or infective embolism are described). Emboli consisting of living cells may proceed to grow and develope at the spot where they lodge. This happens, for example, in the development of secondary tumours (Art. 174). 268. The question as to what becomes of disintegrated red corpuscles has a special interest. We have already said in Art. 260 that the lifetime of a red corpuscle is but brief; according to Quincke {Deutsch. Arch. f. hlin. Med. xxvii) it is probably not longer than two or three weeks. At the end of that time it becomes functionally inactive, is taken up by the white cells, and eliminated from the blood. QUINCKE says this happens chiefly in the liver and spleen, possibly also in the bone-marrow. The red coi-puscles and their debris enclosed in the white cells of the spleen- pulp are transformed into coloured or colourless ferro-albuminoid compounds, which may be micro-chemically demonstrated either in the soluble or the granular form. From the spleen and marrow, perhaps also from the liver, some part of these iron-compounds passes again into the blood, being utilised in the formation of new red corpuscles; the remainder is excreted by the liver-cells. If however the destruction of blood-cells becomes so excessive that haemoglobin appears in solution in the plasma, the kidneys take part in the eliminating process, and haemoglobinuria is induced. Haematogenous and biliary pigments which have passed into the blood (as from old haemorrhagic patches, for example) are excreted in the urine as urobilin (Kunkel, Virch. Arch. vol. 79). The more insoluble parts of the red corpuscles reach the spleen, liver, and bone-marrow; and there the normal process of disinte- gration becomes intensified so as to meet the demand on it thus occasioned. In these organs numbers of cells can be seen which contain fragments of red corpuscles, or brown and yellow flakes and granules of pigment; and similar flakes and granules also occur free. The pigmentation of the organs may in this way become very intense. The kidneys also generally contain frag- ments of pigment in the glomeruli, tubules, and interstitial tissue. PONFICK has pointed out (Berl. klin. Woch. 1877) that such deposits are often associated with serious textural and functional changes in the kidneys, and especially with the formation of tube-casts and fatty degeneration of the renal epithelium.