CHAP. XXXVIII.] INFLAMMATIONS OF THE SKIN. 167 removed, the healing process is notably delayed. The exudation of liquid and cells continues for some time longer, the deep-red surface secreting a more or less turbid liquid (catarrhal exudation). But presently this ceases and the epidermis is reproduced. This more protracted process of repair is to be looked for when the injury caused by the burn extends to the papillae and deeper layers of the cutis. The blisters caused by cantharides are of much the same character, but the swelling and solution of epidermis is usually less sudden and less extensive. Denucleated continuous masses are sometimes formed from the necrosed epidermal cells. We may perhaps remind the student that bm-ns may be of very different degi'ees of severity. It is sufficient for most purposes to distinguish three degi'ees. In the first there is merely erythematous reddening of the skin: in the second bUsters are formed: in the third some portions of the fibrous structures are destroyed (Art. 389). Many transitional grades exist between these; for example, in biu-ns of the second degi'ee it often happens that not all of the epidermal layers become necrotic, but only the surface layers. Accordingly the general course of the process and the accompanying series of textm-al changes will vary in diSerent cases. The solution of the epidermal cells in the exuded liquid is in fact seldom so complete or so general as might be inferred from the text, and the surviving cells may be strangely distorted and displaced (Art. 371). When the injury is very severe, so that inflammation of the denuded structures persists for some time, pus-corpuscles may be foimd not only in the surface strata, but also in the fibrous structm-es beneath. 382. Miliaria crystallina or sudamina are small watery vesicles covered by a delicate film of epidermis, which sometimes appear in the course of puerperal fevers, typhoid, acvite rheuma- tism, etc. and last for a few days. They occur chiefly on the trunk. In this as in other vesicular eruptions, the epidermal cells are partly dissolved, the solution being preceded by serous infiltra- tion of the papillae as well as of the epidermis. After a short time the epidermis is reproduced beneath the vesicle, whose contents are at first mainly liquid but afterwards contain cells. When a new homy layer is formed the contents are enclosed as it were between two shells. The cellular infiltration of the cerium persists for some time, the lymphatics especially continuing to retain the extravasated cells with which they are filled. 383. Herpes is an acute affection running a tjrpical course .(Kaposi), characterised by the formation of clusters of watery vesicles on certain parts or regions of the body, and passing tljrough a definite cycle of stages within a short period of time. The eruption first appears as a group of minute papular eleva- tions of the skin, which rapidly become infiltrated with watery serum and become vesicles. This is the climax of the process: the vesicles last one to four days and then dry up into crusts. Beneath the crusts regenerative proliferation of the epidermis