[sect. VIII. THE LIVER AND PANCREAS. 316 Fatty livers are met with most commonly in corpulent patients; but they are not rare in cases of lung-disease associated with much emaciation. In the latter we must suppose that the accumulation is due to defective consumption of the fat. The fat usually takes the form of large drops which distend the cells (Fig. 184 6) ; though at first it is de- posited in smaller globules {a c). As the fat is re-absorbed the large drops break up again into smaller ones. 488. When the disintegration of albumen within the liver be- comes excessive, while the supply of albumen is not sufficiently maintained, the process assumes a degenerative character and is described as fatty degeneration. In slight cases the liver-cells are more or less thickly beset with oil-globules (Fig. 1816), but are otherwise little changed; where the degeneration is advanced the cells break down altogether (Fig. 184/). Simple uncomplicated fatty degeneration is well observed in extreme anaemic conditions, such as that known as pernicious anaemia. Here the process is characterised throughout by the formation of very minute oil-globules, and is often accompanied by pigmentary infiltration. Fatty degeneration frequently sets in with cloudy swelling (Art. 48) of the cells, which enlarge and become turbid and granular. The liver as a whole thereupon assumes a muddy greyish or greyish- yellow tint, and sometimes looks as if boiled. This stage of the degeneration is met with in many forms of infective disease, such as typhoid, relapsing fever, small-pox, scarlatina, septicaemia, erysipelas, yellow fever, etc., and in poisoning by antimony, arsenic, sulphuric ether, and phosphorus. In most cases the turbidity and swelling disappear and the cells recover their normal aspect. In other cases the process passes into fatty degeneration and disintegration of the affected cells. These changes are most marked in phosphorus-poisoning and in acute yellow atrophy. 489, Acute yellow atrophy. The affection so named is characterised by a great and sudden diminution of the size of the liver. Within a few weeks or it may be days the liver loses as much as half its bulk. The shrunken organ is remarkably flaccid and soft, and here and there may even give the feeling of fluctua- tion. Sometimes however it is firmer, the surface being smooth or wrinkled in different cases. Fig. 184. Fatty liver-cells (X 400). ^ a c cells with several oil-globules b cell with one large drop cl ceU with many minute globules ef ceUs completely disintegrated into fatty detritus