CHAP. VIII.] ATROPHY AND DEGENERATION OF THE HEART. 47 of the fixed tissue-cells of the suiTonnding parts; but the muscle- cells are not reproduced. After a time the affected area is thus filled up with fibrous tissue containing a certain number of cells in its meshes. The muscle-cells which survive lie embedded in the new-formed tissue ; and if haemorrhage has occuiTed the tissue will also contain flakes and granules of pigment. To the unaided eye the presence of the scar-tissue is manifested by its greyish translucent look when recent, and its glistening white colour when more mature; the scar moreover seems to ramify through the muscular substance. Such scars are referred to as fibroid indurations or scleroses of the heart, and may thus represent the last stage of a localised softening. The bulk of the scar is usually less than that of the muscle it replaces, so that the heart-wall is abnormally thin at the affected spot (Art. 285). Myomalacia cordis has hitherto received but little attention as an integral process ; it has been treated under many and various partial names. Clinical observers generally confound it with myocarditis or with fatty degeneration ; though it agrees in strictness with neither. The affection is really an anaemic necrosis. Fatty change and inflammation do in fact at times accompany it, but not as chief or primary conditions. Cardiac softening is altogether comparable with cerebral softening, or encephalomalacia. It is not a rare affection, and when at all extensive it brings about death by failure or rupture of the heai"t. It has been treated of by Tautain {De quelques lesions des arteres coronaires comnie cause cPalteration du myocarde Th^se de Paris 1878), and Laveran {Union med. 23, 1878): compare also Wilks and MoxoN, Path. Anat. p. 122 London 1875; Huber, Virch. Arch. vol. 89 and ZiEGLER, ibid. vol. 92 ; Fagge, Trans. Path. Soc. xxv (1874); Turner, Trans, intern, med. congress vol. i London 1881. Samuelson {Zeitschr. f. klin. Med. ii), and Cohnheim with v. Schulthess Rechberg {Virch. Arch. vol. 85) have recently investigated experimentally the effect on the heart of closing the coronary arteries. According to the latter clamping the coronary artery in the dog has no immediate effect on the heart's action, but after some 30 to 60 seconds the aortic blood-pressm'e sinks suddenly to zero, and the heart stands still in diastole. Samuelson operated on the rabbit and attempted to close and open the coronary artery alternately; he generally found that the aortic blood-pressure sank gradually. As in man the closure of the arteries must usually be gradual and at most affects only certain branches, the clinical symptoms usually differ somewhat from those which the experiments might suggest. The affection is manifested by gi-adually increasing failiu-e of the heart's action, with angina pectoris and pulmonary congestion. In cases of myomalacia we may sometimes see in the neighbom'hood of the softened fibres muscle-nuclei which are enormously enlarged, and stain very readily. Ziegler is unable to say what this may signify. In his researches on the subject he was never able bo detect any sign of regeneration of muscle, so that there seems no reason to regard the appearance as evidence of any formative process. It is probably due to simple swelhng or imbibition. Lancereaux, Iwanowsky, Putjatin {Virch. Arch. vol. 74), and UsKOW {ibid. vol. 91) have pointed out that in various chronic affections of the heart certain changes take place in the cardiac ganglia; the changes may be degenerative or inflammatory.