164 [sect. V. THE SKIN. general marasraus and death ensue. The only textural change which has yet been made out is a moderate amount of cellular infiltration in the cutis and papillary layer. No special changes occur in the epidermis, apart from those associated with desquama- tion ; though in late stages some small-celled infiltration may be observed in isolated patches. The skin is generally much atrophied, the rete Malpighii being greatly thinned, while the papillae are dwarfed, and the corium and its fibrous bundles have much the same look as in senile atrophy (Art. 363). The sebaceous glands and hair-follicles are obliterated. See Hbbha (Viertelj. f. Derm. u. Syph. iii), Geber {ibid, iii), Fleischmann {ibid. iv). For cases see Ddhring {Diseases of the skin Philadeli3hia 1882). 378. Prurigo is a disease beginning in infancy and generally persisting throughout life. It consists of often-recurring eruptions of miliary nodules or papules, which are pale or pinkish in colour, hard and rough to the touch, and accompanied by severe itching. They may be scattered irregularly over the body, but they are often confined to the extensor surfaces of the limbs, the flexor aspects being quite free (Kaposi). Around the papules there is a certain amount of cellular infiltration derived from the papillary vessels. When the affection has existed for some time the changes in the skin are more marked, and the inevitable scratching sets up eczematous inflammation. 379. Papular syphilides are of two chief kinds, distinguished as the small papular (or miliary) and the large papular (or lenticu- lar) syphilide. The small papular syphilide or syphilitic lichen consists of small nodules of about the size of a pin-head arranged in clusters or rings; as the eruption fades desquamation takes place, and shallow pits remain in the skin. The large papular syphilide consists of sharply-defined hard nodules as large as a hemp-seed or larger, which increase in size by marginal growth. As they fade and desquamate they leave behind pits, which at first are pigmented but afterwards assume a glistening white appearance. Papules are sometimes formed on the palms and soles, and result in membranaceous desquamation: this constitutes what is called palmar or plantar (syphilitic) psori- asis. The separate papules are recognisable in the earlier stages of the affection, but after a time they coalesce, and difiuse infiltra- tion, with callous thickening of the epidermis, is all that appears. Mucous patches or condylomata lata are also classed with the papular syphilides. They are flattened discoid elevations covered with a moist greyish exudation. They develope from originally discrete papules in parts where folds of skin are in contact and keep each other moist, such as the labia, perineum, anus, scrotum, penis, and axilla, and occasionally the mouth.