CHAP. VIII.] ATROPHY AND DEGENERATION OF THE HEART. 45 aortic valves; the corpora Arantii of the latter are favourite sites. In mucoid degeneration the ground-substance of the tissue becomes liquefied, with the formation of mucin. In extreme cases the ground-substance may entirely disappear. Fatty and calcareous change is often associated with the mucoid change. Inflammatory processes are very apt to be set up in connexion with the various degenerations described in this Article, and with the necrosis which they frequently induce. Such processes lead to infiltration of leucocytes around the foci of degeneration ; and in this way new fibrous tissue may occasionally be formed. 277. Myomalacia cordis is the name given to a peculiar softening of the muscles of the heart, consequent on arterial anaemia (ischaemia). The commonest cause of such anaemia is disease (such as sclerosis or atheroma) of the nutrient arteries of the heart, the coronary arteries and their branches ; more rarely it may be due to coronary embolism. The softened spots have different appearances according to their age and the amount of blood they contain. When the softening is recent, the spots are pale yellow and the tissue soft and fragile; sometimes the cut surface of a cross-section sinks in so as to be- come concave. If in consequence of the occlusion of an artery there has been an extravasation of blood from the capillaries, so that an infarct is produced, the softened patch becomes uniformly dark-red, or else mottled with red, brown, and yellow. After a time it turns greyish-yellow or rusty brown, and ultimately a translucent grey. Such patches are oftenest found in the wall of the left ventricle, especially near the apex; but they also occur elsewhere, as in the right ventricle. The papillary muscles may likewise undergo localised softening; or the entire muscle may be transformed into a greyish-yellow or semi-translucent mass. If the softening reach the endocardium thrombi (taking the form of cardiac polypi) may be formed over the spot. When the softening is so extensive as to include almost the entire thickness of the heart-wall, rupture of the heart will result, and blood escapes into the pericardial sac. The rent is generally irregularly serrated, and is seldom large. The tissue-changes underlying the varying appearances of the softened patches are partly retrogressive and partly constructive. The original ischaemia first of all brings about the destruction of numbers of muscle-cells. In the yellowish patches the muscular fibres are in various stages of degeneration and disintegi'ation. This can be demonstrated in teased preparations, in which irregular fragments of muscle-cells and masses of granular detritus are seen. Generally some formation of oil-globules has also taken place. Sections of the muscular wall show the destructive process even better than do the teased preparations. Fig. 124 represents a