280 [sect. VII. TITE ALIMENTARY TRACT. viscera such as the ovaries, bladder, stomach, liver, etc. Very large ruptures, such as occur in the inguinal region, may include the greater part of the contents of the abdomen, more especially the bowels. When a portion only of the intestinal wall or Meckel's diverticulum is included we have a case of what is called Littre's hernia (Littre, Memoires de I'acad. royale 1700). In a large number of hernias the sac is already formed before the viscera escape. Thus inguinal hernia may occur by the passage of the intestine into the persistent vaginal process of the peritoneum which is continuous with the tunica vaginalis of the testicle. This is usually the case in what is called infantile or congenital hernia. Hernia may also arise in consequence of some external stretch- ing force by which the peritoneum is dragged outwards. Thus a lipoma growing in the septum crurale, and pressing outwards as it increases in size, may drag upon and sacculate the peritoneum which is firmly attached to the septum. Something of the same kind takes place in umbilical hernia. Lastly, some local diminution of the resistance of the abdominal wall, or the giving way of muscles or fasciae and the relaxation of the peritoneum, may cause the latter to become sacculated under the pressure of the respiration. The following varieties of external hernia may be distinguished. (1) Inguinal hernia. This takes place in the groin, and is due either to the congenital patency of the vaginal process of the peritoneum after the descent of the testicle, or to a secondary protrusion of the peritoneum in the inguinal canal. In oblique or external inguinal hernia the neck of the sac passes down the canal from the internal to the external ring ; in direct or internal inguinal hernia the peritoneum is pushed from within directly through the external ring. In oblique hernia the orifice of the sac lies to the outer side of the internal epigastric artery, in direct hernia the orifice lies to the inner side of the artery. Inguinal hernia may reach a large size and contain the greater ^axt of the bowels. It is the commonest of all varieties, especially in men. (2) Femoral or crural hernia. This is due to the protrusion of the peritoneum beneath Poupart's ligament througli the opening closed by the septum crurale and traversed by the great femoral vessels. It is a common variety, especially in women. (3) Obturator hernia. In this the sac passes with the obturator nerve and artery through the obturator or thyroid foramen of the innominate bone. (4) Ischiatic hernia. Here the protrusion is through the ischiatic notch beneath the glutaeus maximns : it is rare. (5) Perineal hernia. Here the sac escapes between the anterior fibres of the levator aui: it is also rare. (6) Umbilical hernia. This is either congenital, consisting of a protru- sion through the unclosed umbilical ring into the root of the cord (Art. 9), or acquired, and is then due to the separation of the fibres of the linea alba at the umbilicus and dilatation of the orifice so formed. It may contain intestine or omentum only. The acquired form is most commonly met with in women who have borne children. (7) Ventral hernia. This is due to the general relaxation or stretching of the fibrous structures of the front of the abdominal wall, so that the peritoneum protrudes between the miiscles >vhich are thrust asiuider.