CHAP. II.] INTRAVASCULAR COAGULATION OR THROMBOSIS. 9 injury of the vessel-wall, if it extend to the intima, likewise leads to thrombosis. If a vessel be perforated by a small opening, the wound is quickly closed by white corpuscles which deposit them- selves around and over the opening, while a white thrombus gradually forms and projects into the lumen of the vessel. The various forms of thrombus are distinguished according to their relation to the lumen of the vessel. Parietal thrombi are seated on the walls, valvular thrombi on the valves of the heart or of the veins. If the thrombus occludes the vessel it is called obliterating. The first deposit is spoken of as primary or auto- chthonous, the accretions superimposed on it as secondary or induced. By such accretions a parietal thrombus may grow into an obliterating one. In this way, too, it not seldom happens that a thrombus originally white or mottled is covered over with a red thrombus: the first deposit takes place in blood which is still moving, this by degrees occludes the vessel, the current is stayed, and the blood then coagulates as a whole. The reverse occurs when an obliterating red thrombus contracts, and leaves the channel partly free again. Both cases are illustrated in the marasmic thrombosis of cachectic anaemic patients; in them the vascular system seems too capacious for the diminished quantity of blood in circulation, and in consequence the current is here and there abnormally slow or ceases altogether. Thrombosis may occur in any part of the vascular system. Cardiac thrombosis usually begins in the auricles, or in the crevices between the trabeculae carneae. In both sites the thrombi start from the deeper folds and involutions of the endocardium, but by continued apposition of fibrin they may grow into large polypoid masses projecting into the cavity, and are then spoken of as cardiac polypi. Coagula form in like manner upon the surfaces of inflamed valves. Both the parietal and the valvular forms of cardiac thrombi may grow to a very large size, and fill out the greater part of the auriculo-ventricular cavity. Thrombosis of the larger arteries may occur in the most various situations. In marasmic patients with highly degenerate arteries parietal thrombi, both white and mottled, may be formed in the aorta and adhere firmly to the inner coat. In the veins thrombi are most commonly formed in the pockets of the valves; whence they grow out and become obliterating thrombi. Or a thrombus primarily formed in a small tributary vein may grow out into the lumen of a larger vein. For example, thrombosis originating in a small vein of the lower limb may ultimately extend continuously till it reaches the vena cava inferior or even the heart itself. Thrombosis of the smallest vessels is usually the result of some disorder of the tissues, chiefly of the nature of inflammation or necrosis. Post-mortem clots. Thrombi which have been formed during life are in general easily distinguished from clots formed in articulo mortis or post mortem.