THE SKIN. [sect. V. 166 is •ultimately shed. With reference to the primary syphilitic affection see Art. 391. The various skin eruptions of syphilis dififer remarkably in appearance. A small papular syphilide seems to have little in common with a mucous patch, or a pemphigoid syjjhilide (Art. 386) with a papular eruption or a hard sore (Art. 391). Yet in all these cases the fundamental processes are closely related, and differ simply in degree and extent. In all of them the essential part of the process is the induction of circumscribed inflammations accom- panied by a comparatively abundant cellular exudation. The exudation usually shows no sign of commencing organisation, but is either re-absorbed, or cast off with the necrosed and disintegrated tissue in which it lies. Even when the seat of inflammation attains the form and texture of a patch of gi'anulation-tissue (Art. 391) suppuration and disintegration usually supervene. The essential element of the syphilitic eruptions is the papule; the consecutive appearance of scales or vesicles or pustules is of secondary importance, as are also, the mere size or extent of the affected area. 380. Lupus erythematosus is a disease which begins with an eruption of raised red specks or spots (Kaposi). They are depressed in the centre, or glistening and scar-like, or capped with a thin adherent scale. The reddened margin advances gradually while the centre becomes scarred over, and thus in the course of some months a red-bordered disc is formed {lupus erythematosus discoides). In other cases the disease advances not by the growth of old spots but by the continual development of new ones (lupus erythematosus disseminatus). The morbid process consists in an inflammation of the cutis, especially in the neighbourhood of the sebaceous and sudoriparous glands (Kaposi and Thin). The epithelium of the glands multi- plies, the epidermis is swollen, and scales and sometimes vesicles are formed on its surface. In the later stages both the epidermal and fibrous constituents of the skin become atrophied. See Hebra and Kaposi {Diseases of the skin iv), Geber (Viertelj. f. Derm, u. Syph. Ill), Thin {Med. chir. Trans. 1875), Sthoganow {Cent. f. d. ined. Wiss. 48, 1877). 381. Burns and blisters. When the skin is exposed to the action of heat in such a way that the epidermis is killed, while the underlying cutis and its vessels are injured but not killed outright, blisters are formed on the surface; in other words, the skin red- dened by congestive hyperaemia is raised into vesicles or blebs containing clear liquid. The changes through which such a blister may pass are various. Usually the lost epidermis is quickly re- placed by regenerative growth under cover of the homy shell of the blister (Art. 374, Fig. 149). The exuded liquid disappears by evaporation, and if after a day or two the dry shell of epidermis be removed the denuded surface will be found completely covered with new epidermis, and the injury is indicated only by the bright red tint of the spot. When irritant matters gain access to the denuded papillary surface, as may happen if the skin of the blister is prematui-ely