THE ALIMENTARY TRACT. 272 [sect. VII. insufficient to protect the parts frona digestion. The exposed strata of the tissue are dissolved one after another, and an ever-enlarging ulcer is produced, the so-called tdcus ex digestione (Art. 459). When thrombosis occurs in the vessels exposed by an erosion such an ulcer is wqtj apt to be produced. Melaena neonatorum is a peculiar form of haemorrhage from engorgement. It is a gastro-euterorrhagia, or bleeding from stomach and intestine simul- taneously, which appears in the first week or two of life, most commonly in the first to the third day. It occurs in strong healthy infants as well as in those who are born semi-asphyxiated ; and is probably due to some disorder or defect of the circulation after birth, such as often leads to temporary engorgement or congestion. If the mucous membrane be thus at any point infiltrated with blood, an ulcer may afterwards be readily formed. The stomach and duodenum are the commonest seats. According to Landau the arteries of the stomach and intestine are liable to embolism from fragments of thrombi forming in the umbilical vein and ductus arteriosus; and the embolism may give rise to haemorrhagic infarction, haemorrhage, and ulceration. See Buhl {Klinik f. Geburtskunde 1864), Spiegelberg {Jahrh. f. Kinderheilk. ii (new series) 1869), Landau {Ueber Melaena d. Neugebor. Breslau 1874), Eehn {Centralzeitung f. Einderh. i); Wiederhofer {Gerhardi's Handh. f. KinderJcr. iv). 459. Round or perforating gastric ulcer (ulcus rotundum, ulcus perforans, ulcus simplex, or ulcus ex digestione). ' Round' ulcer occurs in the stomach or duodenum, and very rarely in the lower part of the oesophagus. As we have said in Art. 458, it is due to the digestive action of the gastric juice, and takes the form of a circumscribed progressive necrosis with solution of the necrosed tissue. A typical perforating ulcer measures from one to six centimetres across, and in form resembles a flat funnel or saucer, inasmuch as the loss of substance in the mucosa or surface layer is greater than that in the other layers. Where the submucosa rests on the muscular coat a slight ledge or terrace can generally be made out. In ulcers that are not recent these relations often disappear, the loss of substance in the deeper layers (muscular and serous) becoming as great as in the more superficial ones. Such ulcers may be as much as eight to twelve centimetres in diameter. When the ulcer extends through all the coats, as it not infre- quently does, the adjacent organs, like the pancreas and liver, are usually found to be bou.nd to the stomach by firm adhesions and so come at length to constitute the floor of the ulcer. In such cases the cavity may become flask-shaped, the hole in the stomach-wall lead- ing into a larger excavation in or bounded by the underlying viscera. The margins of the ulcer are usually smooth, and not thickened; at most they are slightly swollen. On microscopic examination it appears that no appreciable amount of cellular infiltration precedes or accompanies the disintegration of the tissue. The inflammatory processes which give rise to the adhesions between the stomach and the adjacent organs, and to the thickening of the serous coat, are secondary to the progressive destruction by the gastric juice.