177 CHAP. XXXVIII.] INFLAMMATIONS OP THE SltlN. and is often surrounded by a ring of dark or livid blebs; a small umbilicated bleb sometimes covers the site itself. Now and then large tumour-like swellings arise, whose general configuration is that of a magnified pock (Koch), the umbilicated summit being dai"k-coloured and the margin formed by a yellowish circular elevation. When the blackened epidermal cap is cast off a clear liquid is poured out from the diseased tissue : no pus is ever formed. The swelling is due to sero-fibrinous and cellular exudation. The neighbouring lymphatics and glands speedily become affected. An affection of the skin resembling that due to anthrax may be caused by an invasion of micrococci, the infection starting as in anthrax fi'om some small surface wound. Occasionally it may be caused by the sting of an infected insect. The intensity and extent of the swelling is usually greater than in anthrax, and gangrene sets in around the site of infection. After the necrosed tissue is cast off the wound may cicatrise; but occasionally fatal blood- poisoning is induced. Another allied form, also due to bacteria, is the so-called hospital gangrene. It is a traumatic infective disease which may attack any wound, but is most apt to occur in connexion with minor surface wounds like those due to cupping or leech-bites. The micrococcus which causes it is specific. The infected wound assumes a dii'ty yellow or grey tint and becomes gangrenous. When the wound contains granulations they become discoloured and change into a yellowish creamy pulp which speedily breaks down and liquefies, and the wound secretes a putrid serous or sanious liquid. Gangrenous bed-sores are not to be confounded with specific hospital gangrene. They occur in emaciated patients with feeble circulation. Very slight pressure is therefore enough to cause necrosis of the skin. The affected parts are livid or black, and under the influence of ordinary septic organisms become putrid and break down. The commonest sites of such bed-sores are over the sacrum, great trochanter, and heel. They often extend through the skin to the tissues lying beneath. Cadaveric poison (so-called) is apt to induce grave inflam- mation leading to suppuration and necrosis. The affection normally continues as a local one, painful redness and swelling are set up round the infected spot, and these are followed by suppuration. In other instances the inflammation becomes diffuse and phleg- monous, or lymphangitis is set up in connexion with the local affection (Art. 314). When it becomes chronic, hyperplasia of the skin with enlargement of the papillae and thickening of the epidermis is produced. The knotty and tuberculated projections thus formed are spoken of as necrogenic or ' dissecting-room' warts. 391. Ulcers ofi the skin. A cutaneous ulcer is an open wound extending to the cutis, the tissues of the floor and margins s. p. A. 12