330 THE LIVER AND PANCREAS. [sect. VIII. concealed by the overljdng liver-cells; and as these latter shrink or disappear the ducts become much more distinctly visible. The hyperplastic connective tissue when fully developed is dense and fibrous; it usually contains but few cells, though in parts the extravasated cells still remain (Fig. 191 d and Fig. 192 c) as evidence of the inflammatory infiltration. Sometimes indeed they are so abundant that the new fibrous tissue looks as if it were itself infiltrated. The interlobular fibrous tissue is usually highly vascular. A certain portion of the portal vascular system is obstructed or obliterated by the inflammatory changes in the smaller vessels, but some of the interlobular veins always remaia patent (Fig. 191 e). As the portal capillaries are obliterated the circulation in the portal vein becomes obstructed. This leads to portal engorge- ment, to swelling of the spleen, to ascites, and frequently to haemorrhage. The lobular circulation is however not entirely interrupted, for the hepatic artery partly takes on the functions of the portal vein. The main branches dilate, the smaller branches increase in number, and furnish blood to the thickened and over- grown capsule of Glisson as well as to the lobules. But it must be kept in mind that, in the varieties of hepatitis in which the liver becomes contracted, this blood-supply is manifestly insufficient for the nutrition of all the liver-cells. The result is that the cells sometimes very rapidly undergo fatty and pigmentary degeneration and actual necrosis. The gradual obstruction of the portal circulation within the Uver leads to the opening up of the vascular connexions between the tributaries of the portal vein and the veins of the abdominal wall, the diax^hi-agm, the oesopha- gus, and the capsule of the kidney, the lumbar veins, and the spermatic veins. Now and then the subserous veins of the round (umbilical) ligament become dilated and continuous with the subcutaneous veins around the umbilicus, and so give rise to a tortuous plexus of dilated veins visible on the surface and known as a caput medusae. 498. The extent of the inflammatory change depends in the first place on the mode of diffusion of the irritant through the liver. Inflammation starting from the portal vessels and inflammation starting from the hepatic artery differ notably in this respect. The inflammatory change may be lixaited to one or more branches of the respective vessels, or it may extend uniformly over the territory supplied by one or by the other. Tn the former case the affected parts are scattered and isolated; in the latter the interlobular tissue throughout the liver is uniformly affected and altered. As the change extends from the interlobular tissue to the lobules and approaches the region of the intralobular veins, it of course tends to become more and more uniform and diffuse. Between the ex- tremes of a few isolated patches and an alteration of the liver-tissue which is uniformly diffused there may be any number of inter- mediate grades.