[sect. VII. 250 THE ALIMENTARY TRACT. jaw. In this way large abscesses are sometimes formed, and necrosis of a portion of the jaw-bone may result. References on dental caries :— Klenke, Die Verderbniss der Zahne Leipzig 1850 ; Neumann, Arch. f. klin. Chir. vi; Leber and Rottenstein, Untersueh. iib. d. Caries d. Zdhne Berlin 1867; Wedl, Pathologie d. Zahm Leipzig 1870 ; Klebs, Arch. f . exp. Path, v, Article Leptothrix buccalis in Realencyclop. d. gesammten Heilkunde ; Coleman, Dental surgery and patlwlogy London 1881; Discussion, Trans, internat. med. congress iii London 1881. According to Miller {Cent. f. d. med. Wiss. 13, 1882, Arch. f. exp. Path. xvi) the bacteria present in the mouth set up acid fermentations, and the acid produced decalcifies the dental tissues. Thereupon micrococci and bacilli penetrate the dentine and set up putrefactive decomposition in the decalcified tissue. 441. Tumours arising from or connected with the teeth are of two chief kinds. The one is spoken of as dental osteoma, the other as odontoma. Dental osteoma or exostosis consists of a diffuse or somewhat circumscribed thickening of the crusta petrosa or cement; and ought indeed scarcely to be reckoned among the tumours, as it is rather of the nature of an inflammatory hj^er- plasia. Very few cases of true odontoma have been described. So far as can be made out the small tumours so named (composed of dentine and enamel) arise from the pulp of the tooth in the early stages of its growth. Odontoma cannot be developed when the tooth is mature. Fibroma, myxoma, and sarcoma, may in rare cases be developed from the pulp as the tooth is being formed. Such growths are however much more commonly derived from the periosteum of the dental follicle, the alveolar process of the jaw, the bone-marrow, or the gum itself. These tumours, which arise close to the teeth or actually from their sockets, are included under the surgical term epulis. Some of them start in inflammatory granulation-tissue, but most are really sarcomatous (Art. 438). Cysts of the jaws may be produced by the morbid dilatation of the dental follicles. The cysts are seated on the alveolar ridge, and sometimes reach a very large size, some as large as an apple and larger having been described. Their contents are liquid, and occa- sionally rudimentary teeth are found in them (dentigerous cysts). References :—Virchow, Die hrankhaften Geschwiilste ii (1864—65); Magitot, M^moire sur les hystes des mdchoires Paris 1872 ; Uskopf, Odontom d. Unterkiefers, Virch. Arch. vol. 85 ; Salter, Holmes's Syst. of Surgery ii London 1883 ; Eve, B7-it. Med. Journ. 1, 1883. Hutchinson {Lond. Hosp. Rep. ii, 1865, Trans. Path. Soc. 1858—59, and Clinical Surgery xi London 1878) has pointed out that the permanent incisors, and especially the upper central incisors, of children suffering from congenital syphilis often undergo a peculiar arrest of development. They are either altogether stunted, or as they emerge from the gum their sides instead of being parallel converge, while the cutting edge is concave. After a time, the dentine being exposed, the cutting edge becomes deeply notched ; and vehen the tooth is full-grown it appears pointed or peg-shaped, with the crescentic notch truncating its apex, so to speak. The cause of this deformity is said to be a specific alveolar stomatitis during infancy (Baumler, Ziemssen's Cyclop, iii).