CHAP. LIII.] INFLAMMATIONS OF THE STOMACH. 269 sometimes transparent spherules epithelium of the cysts is cylin- drical (Fig. 176 c), and many of the cells have the appearance of typical goblet-cells. The larger cysts are occasionally beset with papillary ingrowths from their walls (Fig. 176 c). In all forms of chronic in- flammation, but especially in the ulcerative forms, the overgrowth of fibrous tissue may extend to the submucous, muscular, and even to the serous, coats. The wall of the stomach is thus thickened and indurated, while the muscular fibres are « more or less compressed and ^ atrophied. In other instances however the muscular coat be- c comes hypertrophied. of colloid substance. The / a Fig. 176. Section thbough a gas- tric POLYPUS. (Haeinatoxylin staining.- x 300) tubular gland with cylindrical epi- thelium fibrous stroma infiltrated with leu- cocytes papillary growths into the lumen of a glandular cyst 457. Phlegmonous inflammation of the stomach is rare; it may be general or circumscribed, the latter being the commoner form. The seat of the inflammation is essentially the submucosa (compare Arts. 390, 427). In the circumscribed form, more or less extensive abscesses may be formed and break into the cavity of the stomach. In the diffuse form the submucosa is at first greatly swollen and thickened, while the mucosa is unaffected or occasionally some- what swollen. The exudation in the submucosa is sero-purulent, and the mucosa is infiltrated with round-cells. Sometimes the infiltration extends to the muscular coat, passing chiefly along the intermuscular septa. In this way the serous coat may come to be affected in like manner. Both muscular and serous coats then become swollen, and the serous surface may be covered with purulent or fibrino-purulent deposits. After a time the submucous tissue appears to break u.p and dissolve, and the exuded pus breaks at various points through the mucosa. The latter becomes in some cases almost riddled with such perforations. The muscular coat may likewise suppurate. If the patient survive, the smaller openings may cicatrise over and so heal, but the larger frequently remain as cavities extending into the submucosa and ultimately become covered internally with a stratum of epithelial cells; such cavities may communicate with the cavity of the stomach by one or more openings through the mucosa. Croupous and diphtheritic inflammations of the gastric mucous membrane are rare. They are generally met with in con-