67 INFLAMMATIONS OF THE VESSELS. CHAP. XIV.] The changes in the middle coat seldom reach the same pitch as those in the intima; but here and there the normal tissue may be entirely displaced by new scar-tissue. Periarteritis leads to fibrous thickening and condensation of the adventitia. In vessels which lie freely in the tissues the thickenings are diffuse or aggregated into coarse bands or nodes. The latter variety has been described by KUSSMAUL and Maier as periarteritis nodosa. Hyperplastic phlebitis corresponds to hyperplastic arteritis, and like it is an inflammation leading to fibrous hyperplasia. The forms endophlebitis, mesophlebitis, and periphlebitis are dis- tinguishable. It is rarer than arteritis as a simple or primarily vascular disorder. The thickenings formed in the intima of the veins are by no means so remarkable as those of the arteries. Fibrous hyperplasia of the walls of the veins most frequently results from venous thrombosis, or from chronic parenchymatous inflammations of the surrounding tissues which have spread to the veins. KussMAUL and Maieb (Beutsck. Arch. f. klin. Med. i) met with a case in which the arteries of the most diverse organs were beset with nodes and nodules from the size of a pea to that of a millet-seed. The nodiiles were partly cellular and partly fibrous; they were seated chiefly in the adven- titia, but some of them were in the media. Meyer describes a like case (Virch. Arch. vol. 74). 294. The aetiology of the hyperplastic inflammations of the vessel-wall is not always the same. It is to be remembered that the inflammatory processes which lead to fibrous hyperplasia in any organ may all of them affect the included vessels, and may thus lead to thickening of the vessel-walls. Often the adventitia IS the coat most affected, but the other coats do not by any means always escape. These forms of arteritis and phlebitis are obviously due to the same causes as those which lead to the corresponding organic affections. Even the inflammations which are limited to th'e vessels them- selves are not always due to the same kind of irritant or injury-. The case resembles that of endocarditis, an affection which as we have seen may spring from more than one source. In the first place, the irritants or injuries which produce endocarditis may also produce endarteritis; the evidence of this being that in many cases both affections occur simultaneously. But it would seem that there are more varieties of injury capable of producing arteritis than of producing endocarditis; or at least that vascular inflamma- tions occur under conditions where it is unusual to find endocarditis. Of the causes which may set up chronic vascular inflammations the chief are syphilis and tuberculosis. 295. Syphilitic arteritis was first closely studied by Heub- NER, who showed that it is of frequent occurrence. It is found in two chief forms, that is to say either as an independent disorder, or as part of a local syphilitic affection. In the former the affected 5—2