CH. XL.] NON-INFLAMMATORY HYPERTROPHIES AND TUMOURS, 193 The new-formed tissue may invade the papillae directly, or may advance into the subcutaneous tissues. Fig. 159. Fibroma (neueofibeoma) molluscum. {Injected preparation, stained with haematoxylin: x 25) a vascular fibrous tissue b papilla thinned and flattened out by distension Von Recklinghausen by his careful and exhaustive researches has established the fact that the multiple fibromata of the skin are in reality neurofibromata or neuromatous fibromata (Art. 154). They are developed from the fibrous sheaths of the smaller cutaneous nerves, and thence invade the fibrous structures of the vessels, the sweat-glands and their ducts, and the hair-follicles. The softer varieties still contain nerve-fibres, which run axially through the tumours, or subdivide and lose themselves in their substance. In the firmer tumours the nerve-fibres cannot be traced. The fibrous change (hyperplasia) extends some little way up the nerve-fibre from the point where it enters the tumour. When a fibroma is carefully dissected it is seen to be made up of strands of dense fibrous tissue lying parallel to each other and united by loose cross-fibres. The structure of the whole growth is in fact plexiform, and so resembles that of the small neurofibromata which are found seated directly on the nerves. Multiple cutaneous neurofibroma is either congenital or begins to appear in infancy: it is never truly an acquired affection. Many cases have been shown to be hereditary. Where a pre- disposition is known to exist, frequently-recurring irritation some- times leads to the development of the affection. Very frequently it is accompanied by the growth of fibromatous tumours on the deeper nerve-trunks, which accords with the view of its nature already expressed. As the tumours grow they invade the fibrous sheaths of the various tubular structures seated in the skin, and occasionally reach an enormous size. In this case they give rise to the appearance of elephantiasis, the affection having on this ground s. p. A. 13