336 [sect. VIII. THE LIVER AND PANCREAS. TION OF THE LIVEE IN CONGENITAL SYPHILIR. (Frovianinjectedijreparation: x 150) The atrophied liver-cells are every- where separated from the capilla- ries by a stratum of fibrous tissue yellow, brown, and grey. The lobular structure is more or less indistinct, the cut surface having an even uniform structure. The induration and enlargement are due to an abundant over- growth of fibrous tissue, which extends with more or less uniformity not only along the portal sheaths but through the entire capillary network of the lobules. The result is that the liver-cells, where they still survive, are for the most part shut off from their capillaries (Fig. 195) by a stratum of fibrous tissue either homogeneous and containing few cells or fibrillated and cellular. The liver-cells thus sur- rounded and enclosed are more or less atrophied and distorted; in some places they disappear altogether. At the same time the configuration of the capillary network is remarkably altered. This form of diffuse fibrous over- Fig. 195. Diffuse fibeoid induea growth leads to a hypertrophic cir- rhosis of the liver in the manner already described; but certain other forms of induration occur in patients suffering from congenital syphilis which belong rather to the class of atrophic cirrhoses. There are also cases in which the fibrous overgrowth is confined to the sheaths of the larger branches of the portal vein, and often reaches an ex- traordinary development. The fibrous tissue is sometimes highly cellular, sometimes not. Gummatous hepatitis is another variety of s}^hilitic inflam- mation. It occurs in two forms, the miliary and the nodose. Miliary gummata or syphilomata are simply small circumscribed foci of inflammatory infiltration, seated partly in the interlobular tissue, partly in the lobules. The affection is thus a special modifi- cation of the syphilitic hepatitis already described. The nodules are scattered through the entire liver, or confined to particular regions; in the latter case they are usually aggregated into groups and clusters. The single foci are punctiform, or it may be as large as a pin's head: when recent they are grey, but afterwards they turn yellowish-white or yellow. The intervening liver-tissue is either unaltered or affected with diffuse interstitial inflammation. Some of the liver-cells within the inflamed area are broken down or necrotic. Nodose gummata are most frequently met with in patients who survive birth some months or years. When recent they form rounded or elongated and branched white patches with serrated or irregular margins. After a time the centre becomes caseous, and coarse cicatricial tissue forms about the periphery : as this contracts