OHAP. XXXVIII.] INFLAMMATIONS OF THE SKIN. 159 foci of degeneration and solution, fragments of cell-walls and compressed or distorted cells are left stretching across the cavity, and so form partial septa. As the vesicle developes these septa give way or dissolve one after the other, and the loculi run together (Fig. 148) into a single cavity traversed by mere shreds and fibres. Meanwhile the contents of the vesicle usually undergo certain changes. The first portions of the exudation into the epidermal layers are generally poor in cells. The cavities contain only a few fragments (Fig. 146 (/ (/J of disintegrated epidermal cells and a few migrated blood-corpuscles. But as the vesicle grows older the latter increase in number, and when it reaches a certain stage its liquid contents become turbid and at length purulent: the vesicle becomes a pustule. The stage at which this occurs is a late one in many vesicular eruptions (variola, burns); in others, as in eczema, it is early. Sometimes however the exudation is purulent from the beginning, and sometimes it contains red corpuscles, so that the contents of the vesicle are blood-stained. 373. When a dermatitis results in infiltration of the epidermis with vesiculation and pustulation, certain other changes usually ensue which lead to the formation of scales, and crusts or scabs. Scales {squamae) are small bran-like flakes, or larger thin white or dirty grey glistening lamellae or plates, or continuous membranaceous shreds, which are shed from the surface of the epidermis. The desquamation is called furfuraceous when the scales are branny; it is membranaceous when they are larger; and siliquose when the scales are chiefly composed of the homy shells of dried-up blebs. The scales occasionally cohere into irregular masses or thick cakes. The formation of scales depends in part on excessive production and in part on morbid alteration of the corneous cells. The patho- logical element of the process is this—that the cells forced up from the lower layers of the ej)idermis to the surface do not pass through the regular stages of cornification, but in consequence of the nutritional disturbance simply become as it were dried up. Scales may likewise be formed in consequence of some morbid change in the secretion of the sebaceous glands (Art. 403). Crusts or scabs {crustae) are formed by the drying of epidermic exudations. They usually result from vesicles and pustules whose contents have ceased to be liquid, but sometimes the primary exudation bursts through the swollen epidermal layers and is effused on the surface of the skin, where it dries. Scabs are often formed from exudations poured out on the denuded surface left after some loss of substance or excoriation of the epidermis, such as is caused by a scratch or graze; and fissures or rhagades in the skin usually become covered over with crusts. If the exuded liquid is serous the crusts or scabs are gum-like;