94 THE SPLEEN AND THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS. [SECT. IIL the form of fibrous hyperplasia of the pulp, trabeculae, vessel-walls, and capsule, together with enduring pigmentation. These changes are especially apt to occur when the hyperaemic condition recurs fre- quently (as in malaria), or when the inflammation takes on a forma- tive or plastic character. Diffused or circumscribed thickenings then appear on the capsule, and may take the form of flattened lenti- cular nodules, or large dense cartilaginous patches. Occasionally the entire capsule is transformed into a coarse scar-like fibrous mass (BiLLEOTH, Virch. Arch. vol. 23; WiLKS, Trans. Path. Soc. 1864). Adhesions of the spleen to the surrounding structures in consequence of inflammation (perisplenitis) are common; false membranes may thus be formed uniting the spleen with the dia- phragm, the splenic flexure of the colon, and the fundus of the stomach, and cause difficulty in dissecting out the spleen post mortem. But all such adhesions are not evidence of primary splenic inflammation; inflammatory processes set up in the neigh- bourhood of the spleen may induce secondary inflammation in the latter. The appearance of the spleen varies in such cases; it may be small and granular on the surface, or it may be considerably enlai'ged. The latter is notably the case in chronic malarial disease (ague-cake). The variety of size depends chiefly on the scantiness or abundance of the pulp; but the trabecular frame-work may be hypei-plastic and contribute to the general enlargement. The tint of the pulp also varies greatly. If it contains little or no pigment, it is bright red ; if pigment is abundant, it is brown or slate-coloured. Its consistence is firm, so that on section it is not easy to remove the pulp by scraping. The number of lymphoid cells in the pulp is on the whole inconsiderable; when pigment is present at all, these cells usually contain most of it in the form of yellow, brown, or black granules; free pigment also occurs. The endothelial cells of the venules and some cells of the malphigian follicles likewise contain fine granules of pigment. The trabeculae are more or less thickened; in marked cases the thickening may be recognisable by the unaided eye. It is only in very firm or hard spleens that the finer reticulum of the pulp is sensibly thickened. The walls of the arteries and veins are likewise thickened and pigmented, the pigment Ijdng free in the walls or enclosed in cells. The'changes in question are exhibited most markedly by patients who have suffered from malaria, but they are also met with in connexion with other affections, such as typhoid. The pigmentary changes are due to increased destruction of blood- cells in the blood and the spleen. 322. Inflammation of the spleen rarely passes into suppura- tion. When it does the colourless cells accumulate in the pulp and follicles in great numbers, giving the whole tissue a yellowish-