CHAP. LXII.] THE GALL-BLADDKR AND BILIARY DUCTS. 349 512. Inflammation of the gall-bladder (cholecystitis) and of the ducts has ah'oady been referred to in treating of interstitial hepatitis (Art. 498), and of the effects of biliary concretions. It is not an uncommon affection, and may be set up by the extension of an intestinal inflammation to the common duct and its branches, by stagnation or decomposition of the bile, or by irritant matters brought to the mucous membrane by the blood. Even the slighter forms may lead to obstruction of the ducts, retention of the bile, and jaundice ; the obstruction being due to excessive mucous secretion or to swelling of the mucous membrane. In more intense or more chronic inflammations the exudation from the ducts and gall-bladder may be purulent. The connective tissues are thickly infiltrated; and not infrequently the capsule of Glisson round the hepatic duct, or the peritoneum round the gall- bladder, are likewise intensely inflamed. This last is especially the case when the primary inflammation is of a necrotic character accompanied by diphtheritic excoriation and ulceration. Within the liver purulent inflammations of this kind give rise to small abscesses containing liquid bile and biliary concretions. When such abscesses are formed in the gall-bladder or in the larger ducts outside the liver, or when they lie close beneath the capsule on its surface, they are very apt to cause peritonitis. Chronic inflammation of the gall-bladder leads in general to thickening of its walls and to adhesions with the surrounding parts. The bladder frequently shrinks in consequence. The fibrous capsule around the ducts becomes in the like circumstances notably hyperplastic. Now and then the bladder and larger ducts appear beset with papillary outgrowths from the same cause. When such an inflammation of the ducts persists for a long time, or leads to persistent retention of the bile, the inflammatory changes extend to other parts of the liver. Brown or yellow granular biliary concretions appear in the interlobular tissue and within the lobules. The liver-cells perish at various points; and inflammatory infiltrations appear within the lobules and terminate in abscess or in fibroid induration (Arts. 496—498). Some authorities (Schuppel, Teuffel) have described the form of biliary hepatitis which terminates in abscess as hepatitis sequestrans (see Ait. 498 for references). Tumours of the gall-bladder and ducts are rare, carcinoma being the commonest form. As we have already pointed out (Art. 503) many cancers of the liver start in the smaller bile-ducts. Cancers of the gall-bladder begin as soft growths arising from the inner surface, which as they develope may extend to and invade the liver. Destructive adenoma (adenocarcinoma) of the duodenum sometimes developes at or near the opening of the common duct, and may obstruct or altogether occlude the passage.