CH. XII.] HYPOPLASIA AND DEGENERATION OF THE VESSELS. 61 The genesis of the hyaline deposit is not always easily deter- luiued. Some authorities hold that it depends mainly on the coagulation of extravasated red and white blood-cells. In other cases it is due to a homogeneous metaplasia of the connective tissue. Calcification of the vessels occurs chiefly in cases where the nutrition of the vessel-wall is impaired, and where the tissue has already undergone some antecedent degenerative change. Thus calcification in the arteries is a very common sequel of fatty change; and also of sclerosis or atheroma (Arts. 297 and 298). The cal- careous matter is deposited in the intima or media. In the former it is mainly the sclerosed or atheromatous patches themselves which become calcified; so that definite and coherent calcareous plates are formed, which may be removed entire. In the case of the media the process may go so far as to convert the whole vessel into a hard and rigid tube; this occurs most commonly in the larger and middle-sized arteries of the trunk and limbs. The inner surface of such arteries has often a ribbed or corrugated appearance, fine white circular ridges running round the wall. If the intima be peeled off (and it is usually very loosely attached), it is seen that the ridges spring from the middle coat. The intima itself is sure to be more or less atheromatous. The calcareous salts are deposited in small shining grains lying in the muscle-cells or in the intercellular tissue. In the middle coat of the aorta (Fig. 128) they lie irregularly in the spaces separating the elastic lamellae. Calcification of the capillaries is chiefly met with in tumours of the central nervous system. The veins may also be the seat of calcareous deposits, but much less frequently than the arteries. The deposits chiefly occur in di- lated and varicose veins, and then generally in the iimer strata of the middle coat. Necrosis of the vessel-wall is generally a result of an inflam- mation set up in the surrounding tissue and resulting in general necrosis and disintegration. Diphtheria and caseous tuberculosis are of this kind; and the vessels undergo changes analogous to the changes in the other tissues affected. But besides this acute necrosis there is a more gradual 'necrobiosis' of the vessel-wall in which the tissue first becomes homogeneous and then breaks up; it mainly affects the intima (Arts. 297—299). On hyaline degeneration of the vessels see Ai't. 63; Thoma (Virch. Arch. vol. 71); ZlEGiiER {Arch. f. klin. Med. xxv); Leyden {Zeitschr.f. Min. Med. ii); Weioert ( Virch. Arch. vol. 79); Junge (Arch. f. Ophthalm. v); Schweigger {ibid, vi); Oeller {Virch. Arch. vol. 86); Meyer {Arch, dophysiol. vii). ?^^^^^^^^^^^ Fig. 128. Caicification of the tunica media of the aorta. (The deposit lies between the elastic lamellae: x 250)