THE ALIMENTARY TilACT. 270 [sect. Vll. nexion with diphtheritic pharyngitis in cases of scarlatina or small- pox, and in infants who die of septic inflammation of the umbilicus. The croupous exudation takes the form of more or less extensive greyish-yellow false membranes ; but these very rarely extend over any large part of the gastric surface. In diphtheritic inflamma- tion the necrotic membrane may consist only of the superficial epithelial cells (and then appears as a small greyish j^atch) ; or it may include the whole thickness of the mucosa, which is then transformed into a grey or black slough. Ulcerations due to small-pox, tuberculosis, typhoid, or syphilis, are very rarely met with in the stomach. Corrosion of the stomach by caustic poisons is comparatively common. It is always associated with like changes in other parts of the alimentary canal above and below the stomach. In the latter case the changes may extend to the ileo-caecal valve, owing to the fact that the small intestine is much more easily affected by such poisons, even when much diluted, than the stomach. All corrosive poisons, whether acids or alkalies, when concen- trated give rise to sloughing and separation of the superficial layers of the mucous membrane (A. Lessee). The sloughs or eschars caused by sulphuric acid are greyish-white or ashy grey, dry and coarse in appearance, and brittle. In extreme cases the entire surface may be transformed into a charred-looking blackened mass. When recent the several elements of the tissue are still recognisable in the slough, though they are turbid and shrunken. The sloughs due to hydrochloric acid are similar. Nitric acid produces a yellow or orange slough. The colour of the less affected parts is pale purple or greyish. Oxalic acid gives rise to slight and superficial sloughs, which are white or greyish in colour. A concentrated solution of caustic potash acts like sul- phuric acid, but the sloughs are less brittle. . Parts that have been for some time in contact with the alkali become semi-trans- parent. Corrosive sublimate, carbohc acid, and arsenious acid, give rise to white sloughs. The mineral acids and alkalies are the most powerfully corrosive. Not only may all the coats of the stomach be destroyed by their action, but the neighbouring organs may be similarly corroded and discoloured. The liver and spleen are especially liable to be attacked, and then look almost as if they had been boiled. In the parts surrounding the sloughs, and in other places where the poison has been somewhat diluted, a more or less intense haemorrhagic inflammation is set up. The parts thus affected presently take on a brownish, greenish, or greyish-black tint, and are traversed by blackened vessels ; the slough at the same time softens or breaks down, and this more readily in the case of acids than of alkalies. By and by the dead tissue is cast off and liquefies. The most intense inflammation is that set up by the strong