CH. XL.] NON-INFLAMMATORY HYPERTROPHIES AND TUMOURS, 197 62). The epithelial proliferation may start not only in the epidermis but in the epithelium of the sebaceous glands and of the hair-follicles. Three varieties might thus be distinguished, but a more useful distinction is that based on the general charac- ters and appearance of the growth, inasmuch as it is difficult or impossible to say in all cases whence it first started. Thiersch distinguishes a flat or superficial and a deep or infiltrating form. The former is met with chiefly in the lip, forehead, and nose; and is characterised by the fact that the epithelial ingrowths and processes are short and shallow. It generally appears as a slightly raised ulcer with hardened or infiltrated borders, due to the breaking- down of a primary cancerous node. Its growth is usually very slow, and it may cicatrise at the centre while the marginal ulcera- tion continues to advance. In other cases the process of disinteg- ration is more rapid, and the ulcer steadily increases in depth and extent. This form is clinically described as rodent ulcer, and chiefly affects the upper part of the face. The stroma of an ulcerating cancer is always more or less infiltrated with cells, and these may be so abundant in some places as to give it the look of granulation-tissue. The superficial form seldom produces meta- static growths in the lymphatic glands or elsewhere. The deep or infiltrating form gives rise to irregularly-shaped ulcerations, due as in the former case to the breaking-down of nodular epithelial growths. From the floor and edges of the ulcer often rise large protuberant warty structures, giving the affection the appearance of a papillomatous tumour. This form produces metastases oftener than the other. Intermediate forms are not uncommon which it would be difficult to class definitely with one or other of the above; and other varieties having no resemblance to either of .them also occur. In fact the processes of cancerous infiltration, proliferation of the fibrous tissue, disintegration, and ulceration, may be combined in numerous ways, and give rise to great diversity of appearance in the several stages of the disease. Epithelioma most frequently attacks parts where epidermis passes into mucous membrane—such as the lower lip, nose, eyelids, prepuce, anus, external female genitals, etc. Occasionally it seems to start in warts or callosities or in scars. Some English pathologists insist on the distinctions between ordinary epitheHoma and what is clinically called rodent ulcer by English surgeons. One distinction drawn is that in the former the neoplastic cells are recognis- ably of an epidermal type, in rodent ulcer they are epithelial but not epidermal, having small nuclei and but little stability, as if derived from glandular cells: they have been supposed to be derived from the cells of the sweat-glands (Thin) or of the outer root-sheath of the hairs (Fox). See Thiersch {Der Epithdialkrehs Leipzig 1866), Moore {Rodent Cancer London 1867), Warren {Rodent Ulcer Boston 1872, Med. Times and Oaz. 1, 1880), Hutchinson {Clinical Surgery vol. i London 1875), Thin, Fox, Butlin, and others {Path. Soc. Trans. 1878—79, in which references to earlier literature will be found)