TUMOURS OF THE LIVER. 341 CHAP, LXI.] seed, the largest may be three to four centimetres across. The liver as a whole is of course greatly enlarged. The surface is smooth, as the nodules generally lie deep, only appearing (as white uneven protuberances) about the portal fissure. None of the various forms of hepatic cancer show any marked pe- culiarity of structure (Fig. 197). The epithelial cells often form mere atypical clumps or nests ; but cases occur in which they are arranged somewhat after the glandular type, the periphery of the nests being clothed with a layer of cylindrical cells. Sometimes too the alveoli of the fibrous stroma are simply lined with epithelial cells, without other contents. So far as can be made out by examination of sections, it appears that the neoplastic epithelial growth may start either from the epithelium of the bile-ducts or from the liver-cells themselves. It is sometimes possible to make out an actual com- munication between the cell-nests and the unaltered bile-ducts (Fig. 197). References :—Perls, Virch. Arch. vol. 56 ; Weigert, ibid. vol. 67 ; ScHUPPEL, Arch. d. Heilk. 1868, Ziemssen^s Cyclop, ix; Naunyn, Du Bois- Reymonds Arch. 1866 ; Waldeyer, Virch. Arch. vol. 55 ; Birch-Hirschfeld, Gerhardfs Handh. d. Kinderkr. viii; Wulff, Der prim. Leherkrebs In. Diss. Tubingen 1876. 504. Primary connective-tissue growths are very rarely met with in the liver; but cavernous angioma or erectile tumour is not so uncommon. Cavernous angiomata (Art. 150) form tumours as small as a millet-seed or as large as the fist, taking the place of a correspond- ing amount of liver-tissue. The liver is therefore not necessarily enlarged. Angiomata lying close beneath the capsule appear as dark or livid spots; on section they are dark-red. In the larger tumours the cavernous or spongy texture is easily recognised, the pale fibrous septa contrasting with the blood contained in the meshes and cavities. The larger tumours again are bounded by a fibrous capsule, while the smaller are continuous with the liver-tissue. As we have pointed out in Art. 150, the cavernous growth arises from a varicose dilatation of the capillaries of a lobule (Fig. 198), accompanied by the disappearance of the liver-cells. Proliferation of the intervascular connective tissue is a secondary phenomenon. The capsule of the larger tumours is formed essentially of the inter- lobular fibrous tissue surrounding the lobules. The intercavernous septa vary in thickness, hwi are usually thin and delicate. Cavernous angioma is thus strictly speaking no true neoplasm; it is due primarily to a localised atrophy of the liver-cells. Accord- ingly we find it most frequently in the atrophied livers of aged patients. Not infrequently the tumours are multiple, the liver being beset with a multitude of cavernous patches of the most various sizes.