THE ALIMENTARY TRACT. 298 [sect, VII. typhoid fever, tuberculosis, anthrax, and perhaps cholera and acute dysentery, are due to specific bacteria. The Schizomycetes (Art. 183) met with in the intestine belong to the classes of Sphaerobacteria (Micrococci), Microbacteria {BacteTiuni termo), and Desmobacteria {Bacilli, Clostridium). In rare cases the thrush-fungus attacks the mucous membrane, but in the intestine the conditions necessary for its development seldom occur. Of animal parasites the following may be enumerated. They are described in the Articles referred to. Cercomonas intestinalis, Paramoecium coli (Art. 250) Taenia mediocanellata or saginata (Art. 244) Taenia solium (Art. 241) Taenia nana, Taenia cucumerina (Art. 244) Bothriocephalus latus (Art. 249) Ascaris lumhricoides, Ascaris mystax (Art. 228) Trichina spiralis (Art. 232) Tricliocephalus dispar (Art. 230) Oxyuris vermicularis (Art. 229) Anchylostoma duodenale or DocJimius duodenalis (Art. 231). Of loose or foreign bodies met with in the intestine, the only ones which have any pathological interest are those which are produced in situ. To say nothing of the hardened scybalous masses produced by retention of faeces, there are certain stony concretions which have received the name of enteroliths, or intestinal calculi. They are found chiefly in the caecum, vermiform appendage, and colon, and more rarely in the small intestine; they usually lie in saccula- tions or diverticula of the wall. Three varieties have been distin- guished (Leichtenstern, Ziemssen's Cyclop, vii). (1) Heavy stony stratified concretions, the successive layers being white, yellow, and brown. These consist of magnesium phosphate, ammonio-magnesium phosphate, and organic matters. They are seldom larger than a chestnut, and are generally rounded in shape. They frequently contain some small foreign body as a nucleus. (2) Enteroliths of low specific gravity and irregular form, porous and somewhat elastic in texture. They consist of a felted mass of indigestible husks and other vegetable refuse, intermingled with indurated faeces and earthy or chalky matters. They vary in size from that of a chestnut to that of an orange. (3) Stones due to the long-continued use of certain mineral drugs, such as chalk, magnesia, and oxide of bismuth. In addition to these, which are formed in the intestine itself, we find gall-stones which have escaped from the bile-duct (Art. 508). Such concretions, and foreign bodies reaching the intestine from the exterior, may give rise to partial or complete obstruction of the bowel. Bodies lodging in the pouches of the rectum fre-