287 CHAP. LIV.] INFLAMMATIONS OF THE INTESTINE. phates and carbonates and so form faecal concretions or calculi (enteroliths, Art. 479). The inflammation thus set up may extend to all the coats of the appendage and then attack the contiguous structures, and in this way necrosis and gangrene with perforation may be caused. The issue differs in different cases. It is compara- tively favourable if the inflammation continues to be circumscribed, while the exudation is moderate in amount; protective adhesions and false membranes may thus be formed about the affected spot. It is very unfavourable when perforation takes place before ad- equate adhesions are formed; fatal peritonitis is nearly always induced. When perforation takes place into a part of the peri- toneum shut off by adhesions a burrowing faecal abscess is pro- duced, which may burst internally or externally. Sometimes the appendage is entirely obliterated by adhesive inflammation ; but if the inner or intestinal end becomes closed while the remainder continues to be patent, the natural mucous secretion may collect in the latter and distend it into a cyst. Typhlitis and perityphlitis are sometimes due to the extension by continuity of inflammation already existing in more distant parts of the caecum or colon. Tuberculous and typhoid ulceration localised in the vermiform appendage may give rise to dangerous lesions. (4) Colitis, or inflammation of the large intestine, is some- what common. Its peculiarities have already been referred to (Art. 470). The exciting causes are very various. Sometimes it is due to the stoppage and accumulation of faeces forming hard masses or scybala, sometimes to septic infection, sometimes to a specific poison as in dysentery (Art. 472). (5) Proctitis is an inflammation of the rectum. In many points it resembles inflammation of the vermiform appendage. Foreign matters and stagnating faeces are frequently the exciting agents; but disturbance of the circulation in the haemorrhoidal veins may likewise end by inducing inflammatory change in the bowel. Proctitis often results in the formation of ulcers, and of fibroid hyperplasia taking the form of induration of the rectal wall or of polypous excrescences. The inflamed surface is usually covered with a muco-purulent exudation. When the inflamma- tion and i;lceration extend deeply into the tissues of the wall of the bowel, the surrounding connective tissue becomes infiltrated and hyperplastic, or breaks down into abscesses containing foetid pus (periproctitis). The ulcers of the mucosa and submucosa come in this way to communicate with burrowing sinuses and fistulous tracks extending into the surrounding parts, which are called incomplete or blind internal fistulae. Circumscribed or enclosed periproctal abscesses may break outwardly, and then con- stitute blind external fistulae. Fistulae which communicate both with the rectum and with the exterior are called complete rectal fistulae or fistulae in ano. They become covered with a