[sect. V. 168 THE SKIN. takes place, the lost tissue is thus made good, and the crusts are gradually loosened and cast off. The vesicles of herpes take their rise in the deeper layers of the rete Malpighii; its cells swell up and become vacuolated (Art. 371), or become compressed and distorted as the exudation ac- cumulates. The contents of the vesicles consist of serum, fibrinous coagula, and pus-corpuscles, the latter especially in the later stages. The papillae are infiltrated more or less intensely with serous liquid and leucocytes, and occasionally haemorrhage takes place. Some- times this may lead to the destruction of a few of the papillae, and then a scar is left after the eruption passes away. Five forms of herpes are distinguished according to their seat and mode of origin. (1) Herpes zoster {zona or shingles) is an eruption of vesicles clustered over the area supplied by a cutaneous nerve; it is almost always imilateral. The contents of the vesicles remain clear for three or four days, then they become turbid and pm-ulent. Yellowish-brown crusts are formed as the vesicles dry up. Sometimes haemorrhage takes place into the vesicles. Bbight {Medical Cases ii London 1831) suggested the connexion of the eruption with disorder of a sentient nerve, and Barensprung {Charit4- Annalen ix, xi, Bi-it. For. Med. Cliir. Rev. 1862) demonstrated the fact, and showed that simultaneous changes sometimes occur in the spinal ganglia and Gasserian gangUon. Eayer, WEroNER, E. Wagner, Charcot, Kaposi, BoHN, E. Lesser, Neumann, and others have verified the observation, and have shown that affections of the cord and of the peripheral nerves may give rise to vesicular eruptions. The nerve-affections referred to are partly primary, partly secondary to some affection in their neighboiu'hood or to some mechanical injury. The moi-bid change is generally of the natm-e of inflam- mation or haemorrhage, in consequence of which nerve-fibres and ganglion-cells are injured or destroyed. Eeferences:—Kaposi, Wien. med. Woch. 1874, 1875, 1877, Lond. Med. Record 1876; BoHN, Jahrb. f. Einderheilk. ii (1869); Charcot, Diseases of the Nervous System vol. i (New Syd. Soc.) 1877 ; Haight, Sitzungsber. d. k. Wien. Ahad. 1868; Weidner, Berl. klin. Woch. 7, 1870; Wagner, Arch. d. Heilk. XI; Wyss, ibid, xii; E. Lesser, Virch. Arch. vol. 86; Neumann, Lehrb. d. Hautkrank. Vienna 1880; Ross, Diseases of tlie Nervous System i London 1883. (2) Herpes labialis {facialis) is an acute eruption of vesicles on the lips or around the mouth and nostrils. The vesicles last two or three days and dry up under a crast, without scarring. Its cause is unknown, but it is very often observed in connexion with pneumonia and intermittent fever, and more rarely in typhoid. (3) Herpes progenitalis {praeputialis) affects the penis, clitoris, or labia : its course is similar to that of herpes labialis. (4) Herpes iris and herpes circinatus are according to Kaposi the same as erythema iris and circinatus (Ai-t. 367). The vesicles occur on the back of the hands or feet and form separate or concentric circles; they fade after eight ot ten days. (5) Herpes tonsurans vesiculosus is a special form of tinea (herpes) tonsm-ans (Ai't. 411), an affection caused by a vegetable parasite. Circles of vesicles of various sizes are formed by successive marginal crops stai'ting from a centre : the older vesicles dry up as new ones develope. 384. Pemphigus is an eruption characterised by the forma- tion of vesicles and blebs varying in size from that of a small pea