246 THE ALIMENTARY TRACT. [sect. VII. that affect its muscular substance. Simple atrophy (Art. 46), fatty degeneration (Art. 50), and waxy degeneration (Art, 38) of the lingual muscles have all been described. They depend on local disorders of nutrition due to inflammatory conditions, or on neurotic disturbance in connexion with disease of the hypoglossal nerve and its nucleus in the medulla oblongata. Among the degenerative affections of the fibrous tissues amyloid change must be specially mentioned. It attacks the intermuscular fibrous tissue as well as that of the mucous mem- brane, and gives rise to isolated nodes or nodules, or (in the tongue) to a uniform lardaceous transformation. The muscles and mucous glands atrophy and disappear when surrounded by the amyloid substance. Atrophy of the gums and the alveolar parts of the jaws is apt to follow upon loss of the teeth, and is especially notable in advanced age. References on macroglossia :—Arts. 315, 438 ; Webeh, Virch. Arch. vol. 7, Fitha u. BillrotKs Handb. d. Chir. vi; Virchow, Die Jcranhh. Geschwiilste rii; Arnstein, Virch. Arch. vol. 54 ; Humphry, Med. chir. Trans, xxxvi (1853); Arnott, Trans. Path. Soc. 1872 ; Maas, Arch. f. klin. Chir. xiii; Wegner, ibid, sx; Clarke, Diseases of the tongue London 1873; Variot, Journ. de I'anat. et de la physiol. 1880 ; Poster, Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk. xviii (1882); Barker, Holmes's Syst. of Surgery ii London 1883. On hyperplasia of the epithelium :—Clarke, Practitioner Aug. 1874, Brit. Med. Journ. 1, 1874; Schwimmer, Vierteljahrs. f. Derm. u. Syph. v (1878); Voqel, Ziemssen's Cyclop, vii; Klebs, Arch. f. exp. Path, v ; Nedopil, Arch, f. klin. Chir. xx ; Hulkb, Trans. Clin. Soc. 1869 ; Neligan, Dublin Quart. J. Med. Science 1862 ; Debove, Le psoriasis buccal Paris 1873 ; Mauriac, De la psoriasis de la langue et de la muqueuse buccale, Union mM. 1873—74 ; R. Weir, Ichthyosis of the tongue, New York Med. Journ. March 1875 ; TriSlat, Bull. Soc. Chir. 1875; Tram, internat. med. congress vol. in London 1881; Dessoir, Be la langus noire Paris 1878; Barker, Holmes's Syst. of Surgery ii 1883. On amyloid change see Ziegler, Virch. Arch. vol. 65. Tumours and Cysts. 438. The most important of the tumours affecting the mouth in the early years of life are the angiomata and lymphangiomata. Angiomata are met with chiefly about the lips, appearing as dark- red or livid slightly-raised j)atches. Lymphangiomata occur in or about the tongue. Some of the tissue-changes included under the name of macroglossia are due to lymphangiomatous growths. In Art. 437 we mentioned that the hyperplastic fibrous tissues in the tongue and lips generally contain dilated lymphatics. Cases often occur in which such Ijrmphatics constitute the greater part of the substance of the tongue. The entire tongue—muscles, mucous membrane, and papillae—may be transformed into a kind of fine- meshed sponge or honeycomb. The spaces and meshes contain lymph, the septa between consist of delicate fibrous tissue inter- spersed with a few scattered muscular fibres. The fibrous tissue naay or may not be highly cellular. In the former case it contains