STOMATITIS. 241 CHAP. XLIX.] stomatitis, the first symptom is the appearance of a livid swelling on the inner surface of the cheek near the angle of the mouth, accompanied generally by a free flow of foul saliva; a patch of greyish-yellow infiltration then appears, and this speedily breaks down and becomes gangrenous. Sometimes vesicles or blebs arise on the gangrenous surface. The disease goes on to attack the outer skin of the cheek, giving rise first to a purplish spot on which a kind of blister appears. The spot then becomes black, and gan- grene sets in and spreads. As a rule the surrounding tissue is highly oedematous. The affection is generally confined to one side. Once the gangrene has begun the destructive process advances rapidly in all directions and may reach an astonishing extent. It is nearly always fatal. In rare cases the process comes spontaneously to a standstill, and the wound heals by granulation and cicatrisation, resulting in more or less grave disfigurement of the face. Noma is most frequent between the ages of two and twelve; it is rarely met with earlier or later. It attacks weakly or debilitated children, who are exposed to unhealthy conditions of various kinds. Suppurative inflammation of the mucous membrane of the mouth and the parts underlying should be distinguished from ulcerative stomatitis and noma. It may affect any part, but appears most commonly in the tongue and gums. In the latter it frequently arises in connexion with decayed teeth. The gum becomes red and swollen and presently pus forms beneath the surface; this is called a gum-boil or parulis. Suppurative inflammation of the tongue (glossitis) starts from a wound or ulcer, or from some acute inflammation like that due to erysipela- tous infection. According to the way in which the inflammation starts, the whole tongue or a limited part of it becomes notably swollen, and presently appears more or less extensively infiltrated with pus. When the abscess so produced is evacuated, repair is effected by cicatrisation. Eeferences on ulcerative stomatitis and noma :—Bohn, loc. cit.; von Bruns, Handb. d. operat. Chir. vol. I part 2, 1859; HiRSCH, Historisch- geograph. Pathologie ii 1864 ; Gierke, Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk. (new series) i. 435. The infective granulomata described in Arts. 117—135 are all of them met with in the mucous membrane of the mouth. Syphilis gives rise to primary, secondary, and tertiary lesions. Primary sores within the mouth resemble those of the skin (Art. 391). As secondary affections we have condylomata or mucous patches (Art. 379) on the lips and on the tongue, and also thick- ened opaline patches covered with milky-looking epithelial deposits and described as syphilitic psoriasis of the lips, tongue, or cheek; the latter resemble the superficial corrosions caused by appljdng nitrate of silver to the mucous membrane. Cracks, fissures, and ulcers s. p. A. 16