176 THE SKIN. [sect, V. the integument. The necrosis is followed by a definitive inflam- mation by which the dead tissue is separated, and then granula- tions and cicatricial tissue ai'e formed. Many corrosive chemicals act like high temperatures, and the effects of mechanical injury are often graduated in much the same fashion according to the intensity of the injury. Thus cuts and wounds which heal up without loss of substance may be dis- tinguished from those in which deficiency or destruction of tissue requires to be made good by the development of a bulky cicatrix (Arts. 106—111). It need hardly be said that the above account by no means exhausts the ways in which external injm'y may affect the skin. In speaking of temperatures we have had in mind only the direct effects of short exposure to somewhat high and somewhat low temperatures. But it is well known that exposure to temperatures differing little from the normal may produce notable effects on the skin if it is long continued or frequently repeated. Repeated cooling of the feet and hands gives rise in susceptible patients to what are called chilblains {pernioiies), that is to livid swellings of the skin due to inflam- matory exudation and often passing into suppm'ation. Similar remarks apply to many other varieties of injurious agency. 390. Of the cutaneous inflammations leading to suppuration and necrosis which have received special names (on account of their peculiar course or mode of origin) we must in the first place mention two—namely phlegmon or phlegmonous inflammation, and malig- nant pustule. Phlegmonous inflammation or cellulitis is due to the in- vasion of a micrococcus (Art. 204) which enters the cutaneous tissues at some wounded spot. In the living patient or after death the affected skin is intensely reddened and swollen. The swelling is due to an abundant infiltration of sero-purulent, fibrino- purulent, or simply purulent liquid in the spaces of the cutaneous and especially the subcutaneous tissues. In recent cases the micrococci are also to be found in these tissues. The violent inflammation set up and the consequent disturbance of the circulation lead to the death of the tissues over a greater or smaller area, and extensive suppuration results. Collections of pus, or phlegmonous abscesses, are thus formed in the skin and subcutaneous tissue, and they contain shreds and fragments of necrosed tissue. Phlegmonous inflammation chiefly occurs in the limbs. A special variety attacks the phalanges of the fingers and leads to an extremely painful swelling with partial suppuration : it is called whitlow {panaritium ox paronychia tendinosa). Malignant pustule or specific anthrax is an affection caused by the invasion of the Bacillus anthracis (Arts. 186,206). It almost always attacks parts that are habitually uncovered, and especially the face. In the skin it begins with redness and swelling which spread from the site of infection. This last soon becomes gangrenous