CHAP. XX.] HYPERAEMIA AND INFLAMMATION OF THE SPLEEN. 93 appears not red but greyish or pale reddish-grey; its volume is greater than in simple congestion, reaching perhaps the double or the quadruple of its normal size. The pulp is extremely soft, almost diffluent, the softness being often however due in part to commencing putridity: in extreme cases the capsule may be so strained as to rupture. In such a condition the spleen cannot be regarded as affected simply by excessive hyperaemia. The microscope shows that the vessels and pulp are not distended with red cells as in hyperaemia, but that both contain an extraordinary number of white cells; and it is these that give the tissue its greyish tint. Whence they come is not easy to determine, though it is highly probable they reach the spleen by the channel of the circulation. Possibly too the pro- duction of lymphoid elements within the malpighian follicles may be abnormally increased; but the follicles show little or no sign of increase in size. This form of enlargement of the spleen is in fact to be regarded as inflammatory, the evidence of a true splenitis. In support of this it may be mentioned that the exterior or capsular surface often shows signs of accompanying inflammatory change, such as turbidity of the capsule and deposits of fibrin upon it. It is of course more difficult to draw a hard and fast line between hyperaemia and inflammation in the case of the spleen than in other organs, for the spleen normally contains blood-cells which have escaped from the vessels. The cells lying in the swollen greyish pulp are in part exactly like lymphoid elements, in part larger and with clear vesicular nuclei. A considerable number of the lymphoid cells contain red corpuscles or fragments of such in their interior; a sign that the destruction of red corpuscles is not only not diminished but actually increased. As foreign matters circulating in the blood are apt to be deposited in the spleen, it is very probable that organised infective matters may in like manner tend to lodge there, and so lead to inflammatory vascular changes. Many such organisms are probably destroyed in the spleen. See Birch- HiRSGHPELD {Arch. d. Heilk. xiii), Fkiedkeich {Samm. klin. Voi-trdge 75), SocoLOFP (Virch. Arch. vol. 66), Fischl {Prag. med. Woch. 1879), Klein {Trans. Path. Soc. 1877). 321. The consequences of congestive hyperaemia and inflam- mation of the spleen are various. As the general disease passes away the infiltrative swelling of the spleen-pulp usually diminishes. The red and white blood-cells that remained lodged in the pulp are gradually passed on, and the spleen recovers its normal bulk and appearance. As the swelling declines cells may be found containing not only fragments of blood-cells, but also oil-globules; a sign that they are in process of decay. In other cases the changes may be more permanent and assume