161 CHAP. XXXVIII.] INFLAMMATIONS OF THE SKIN. with its contents continues to be thrust upwards, and when the new horny layer is complete it lies as it were between two horny shells, and is generally by this time dried up into a mere crust. The process is different when part of the cutaneous fibrous tissue, and especially the papillary layer, has become necrosed under the stress of the initial inflannnation (Fig. 146 l^). The gap thus produced is never completely repaired, and a depressed cicatrix remains; the ' pits' that follow the eruptions of unmodified small-pox afford the best example. Permanent alterations in the texture of the skin are very com- mon after long-enduring or often-repeated inflammations. They are of the nature of hyperplasia, or of atrophy, of the epidermal and fibrous structures. In the latter case the epidermis and corium may be notably thinned, and the papillae depressed and stunted. Hyperplastic changes leave the epidermis, and especially its homy layer, thickened and condensed, while the papillae and corium grow larger and stouter. Pityriasis rubra (Art. 377) is a good example of a cutaneous inflammation ending in atrophy; the thickening that follows chronic eczema (Arts. 385, 413) illustrates the hyperplastic condition. More or less permanent pigmentation is another common result of moderately intense inflammation of the skin. 375. Erysipelas is an acute inflammation of the integument depending upon traumatic infection ; it takes the form of gradually extending redness and swelling accompanied by a certain degree of fever. In the early stages the skin appears tense and shining and of a bright red tint. Presently it becomes more or less livid or brown, the swelling goes down, and the epidermis is thrown off in scales or flakes. Sometimes the exudation is more copious and tends towards the surface, in which case vesicles and blebs are formed, and the eruption is described as erysipelas vesiculosum or bullosum (Fig. 150). When the contents of the vesicles become purulent we have erysipelas 2Justulosum, which, as the pustules dry up into a scab, passes into erysipelas crustosum; or, if portions of skin become necrotic or gangrenous, into erysipelas gangrenosum. When examined microscopically the erysipelatous exudation is seen to be abundant, serous or fibrinous (Fig. 150 m m^) and highly cellular, and it infiltrates the entire thickness of the skin and the subcutaneous connective tissue. The vesicles and blebs are formed (Art. 371) by the liquefaction and disintegration of the cells of the rete Malpighii (e f g). The liquefaction commences in isolated spots, and thus the first cavities formed are separated by cells which are more or less stretched and distorted; but as the cavities coalesce these septa break down and disappear (c). The originating cause of erysipelas is to be sought in an invasion of micrococci (h i h), which gain entrance at some wounded S. p. A. 11