CHAP. XLII.] PARASITIC AFFECTIONS. 209 and either smooth and shiuing or dull and scaly on the surface. They occur chiefly on the trunk, neck, and flexor surfaces of the limbs, never on the hands or feet or on the face. The epidermis is readily scraped away from the patclies, and is found to contain the filaments and spores of a fungus called Microsporon furfur (discovered by Eichstedt in 1846). It grows in the horny layer of the epidermis and does not penetrate the hairs or their follicles. It does not usually set up any hyperaemia or inflammation. Pityriasis rosea (Gibert) or pityriasis maculata and circinata (Bazin) is au affection of the skin resembling ringworm, and it is stated that it is due to a fihimentous fungus. According to Behrend {Bed. klin. Woch. 38 and 39, 1881 : 34, 1882), who calls the disease Roseola furfiiracea herpetiformis, it is charac- terised by the formation of prominent rosy spots from the size of a millet-seed to that of a bean, which are covered with powdery epidermal scales. They generally occur on the neck, and thence spread quickly over the body, leaving the head, hands, and feet imaffected. The spots disappear in two or three days. In some cases the epidermal scales contain spores and delicate mycelial filaments. Hebra recently described (Wiener med. Blatter 1881) a peculiar itching mycosis of the slcin affecting the neck, elbows, and hams, and due to a fungus resembUng that of pityriasis versicolor. Small shining greyish-yellow flattened papules are formed, which are grouped in clusters or arranged in long rows. 413. Animal parasites. We have already described (in Arts. 225, 226, and 235) the various animals that infest the cutaneous tissues, and the affections to which they give rise. Here we need Fig. 164. Section of the skin in scabies. {Carmine staining: x 20) a horny layer traversed by numerous c cutis infiltrated with cells burrows d section through an adult itch-mite b rete mucosum, with hypertrophied e eggs and embryos of various sizes and infiltrated papillae / excreta of the itch-mite S. P. A. 14