CH. XXXVII.] DISCOLORATION AND ATROPHY OF THE SKIN. 149 Med. Record 1880) in such streaks the fibrous bundles of the cutis are stretched but not ruptured and the papillae are more or less obliterated. The white colour is due not so much to the thinning of the skin as to the parallel arrangement of the fibrous bundles. The white patches which follow upon anasarca are of a like nature. Cutaneous atrophies may be produced by pressure, either from within as when tumours force their way through, or from without as when callous l^arts press or rub upon other parts. Chronic inflammations and certain neuroses also lead to cutaneous atrophy, which has the same general characters as that described in the text. Xeroderma or parchment-skin is a peculiar affection described by Hebra and Kaposi (Diseases of the skin iii) which occurs in two main forms. In one the skin is dotted over with smooth spots of yellowish-brown, red, and white ; the epidermis is thin dry and parchment-like, being either smooth or furrowed and m'inkled; the cutis is thin and tightly stretched, shrunken, and devoid of fat: the affection is met with chiefly in children, and is progressive. In the other form, which is stationary, the skin is white and tense ; and the epidermis is thin and shiny and comes off in glistening scales. 365. Atrophy of the cutaneous pigment (achroma or leuko- pathia) may be a congenital or an acquired affection. When congenital it is described as albinism; when acquired as vitiligo or leukoderma acquisiticm. General or universal albinism consists in congenital absence of all the normal pigment of the body. Albinoes have a milk-white . or pinkish skin; their hair is yellowish-white and silky, the iris and choroid are uncoloured, and therefore show the red tint of the blood they contain. Albinism is not very common among Europeans, but it is common enough among negroes. Partial albinism also is often seen in negroes; they have one or more patches of white on the body, but the eyes are not devoid of pigment. Vitiligo sometimes appears without any discoverable cause. Some cases seem to be connected with certain changes in the cutaneous nerves (Leloir, Arch, de physiol. 1881). It takes the form of white or pinkish patches surrounded by a zone of increased pigmentation. Occasionally by the growth and coalescence of new patches the affection may extend over a considerable extent of the skin. White spots may follow upon inflammatory affections of the skin, such as boils, lupus, syphilitic eruptions, leprous growths, etc. Atrophy of the pigment of the hair (canities or poliosis) is a physiological phenomenon when it occurs in advanced age. The pigment-granules in the cortical substance of the hair diminish in number; but this is because the formation of pigment in the bulb is arrested (Kaposi), not because the pigment already existing in the hair is destroyed. In premature greyness the process is the same.