THE SPLEEN AND THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS. [SECT. III. 96 may extend over as much as a half or more of the whole spleen. In the early stages of their existence they appear as pale yellowish (anaemic) or dark-red (haemorrhagic) wedge-shaped patches with the base outwards, and on section project above the general level; in the haemorrhagic patches the decolorising process begins almost at once. The infarcts which one generally sees are either of one colour throughout, or the centre is pale while the margin remains dark. When decolorisation is well begun, the centre is brownish- red or orange or opaque grey or yellowish-white; the marginal zone, if there is one, will then be dark-red. When the red or haemorrhagic infarct is examined under the microscope it is seen that the veins, capillaries, and pulp are all distended with blood. The follicles are haemorrhagic only at their margins, the centres being unstained. In decolorised infarcts the red corpuscles appear in part disintegrated, and in part distorted and discoloured. The nuclei of the trabeculae are no longer visible, the trabeculae themselves being swollen and beset with oil-globules. The lymphoid elements are either gone, or in process of breaking up into granular and fatty detritus, and few nuclei are visible. At a later stage the reticulum and cells are alike transformed into a granular mass, in other words the entire tissue has perished by necrosis. Traces of the normal structure remain only in the marginal zone of the infarct, in which staining reagents still bring out the nuclei of the cells and the trabeculae. Plastic inflammation of the surrounding spleen-tissue accom- panies the necrosis, a congested zone of demarcation is formed, and the necrotic mass is by degrees re-absorbed. After a time a dense shrunken radiating cicatrix is formed in the site of the infai'ct; it is often pigmented, or flecked with shining white spots. Large infarcts are sometimes imperfectly re-absorbed, so that the cicatrix encloses a necrotic caseous patch. If bacteria or other septic virus reach the seat of infarction, purulent or putrid inflammation may be set up instead of the changes just described. See Billroth (Virch. Arch. vol. 23), Cohnheim (Untersuch. iib. d. embol. Processe Berlin 1872), Litten {Unteisuch. iib. d. haem. Infarct Berlin 1879), GuiLLEBEAU {Die Histologic d. haem. Inf aretes In. Diss. Berne 1880), Weigert {Virch. Arch. vol. 79), Hamilton {Liverpool med.-chir. Journ. 5, 1883; the existence of the red or haemoiThagic form is questioned), Orth {Lehrb. d. spec, path. Anat. I Berlin 1883 ; the larger infarcts are stated to be nearly always of the anaemic form). English authors generally refer to such iufai'cts as fibrinous blocks or deposits.