THE VASCULAR MECHANISM. [sect. II. 86 formation of peculiar nests and clusters of cells lying in a kind of fibrous stroma; the structure thus resembles in many points that of carcinoma. But it must be noted that many tumours described as endotheliomata have been really genuine carcinomata, which had irrupted into the lymph-channels. This is true of many of the so-called endotheliomata not only of the skin but also of the serous membranes (Art. 358). The endothelial cells of the lymphatics may take part in the growth of any of the connective-tissue group of tumours; but they do not give rise to any special peculiarities of structure. The lymphatics very frequently participate in the growth and propagation of the epithelial neoplasms. This is notably the case with regard to carcinoma, which often breaks into the lymph- channels and there forms cancerous nodules and bands. Thus from a mammary carcinoma infection may spread to the lymphatics, not merely of the neighbouring surface tissues, but even of the pleura and subpleural connective tissue. In this way long trains and clusters of cancer-nodules may be formed following the lines of the pleural lymphatics. The share taken by the endothelial cells in the process of propagation is still under discussion. Many are of opinion that they give rise to cancer-cells. This is very far from being demonstrated, but it is perhaps possible. The author has observed in some instances that the endothelial cells were proliferous, but has no evidence that they became transformed into cancer-cells. Meanwhile it is probably true that if they produce tissue at all, it is fibrous tissue; that is to say they give rise to cancer-stroma, not to cancer-cells. On endothelioma see Art. 161 ; Koster {Die Entioickelung d. Cardnome 1869) ; Pagenstecher (Virch. Arch. vol. 45); Eberth (FiVcA. Arch. vol. 49); Arndt {ibid. vol. 51); Perls {ibid. vol. 56) ; Waldeyer {ibid. vol. 55); Wagner {Arch. d. Heilk. (1870) si); Neelsen {Arch. f. klin. Med. xxxi, with cases and references).