BLOOD AND LYMPH. [sect. I, 14 of the unoccluded lumen of the old vessel. The diagram (Fig. 119) may help to make clearer the appearance of an organised thrombus after ligature, and its relation to the walls of the vessel. It represents in a general way a longitudinal section through the cicatrix resulting from ligature. The site of the ligature is seen to be occupied by highly- vascular scar-tissue, which is connected with the adventitia outside the vessel (d^), but is also prolonged into the lumen of the vessel (d) so as effectually to occlude it. Close to the site of the ligature the various coats of the artery blend with the cicatrix. The vessels (e) of the fibrous plug are chiefly derived from without; but there are also openings in connexion with the lumen of the ligatured vessel itself. As we have said, the endothelial cells take little share in the formation of the cicatrix. At the site of the thrombus itself the endothelial cells have disappeared, there can therefore be no question of their multiplication. They can only multiply, if at all, along the line where the thrombus bounds the free lumen of the vessel. From this line they may proceed to cover over the upper surface of the thrombus with an endothelial layer; and it is possible that they may there take some part in the development of the new fibrous tissue. The organisation of thrombi has long been a subject of minute investiga- tion both anatomical and experimental. Of the more recent researches the following may be named : Schultz, Deiotsch. Zeitschr. f. Ghir. ix, and Ueb. d. Vernarhung d. Arter. In. Diss. Berne 1877 ; Raab, Arch.f. klin. Chir. XXIII (with full references), and Virch. Arch. vol. 75 ; Riedel, Deutsch. Zeitschr. f. Chir. vi (1875) ; Baumgahten, Diesogen. Organisation d. Thrombus Leipzig 1877 ; Durante, Wiener med. Jahrb. ni, iv; Senetleben, Virch. Arch. vol. 77 ; Tillmanns, Virch. Arch. vol. 78; Auerbach, Ueb. d. Oblitera- tion d. Arterien nach Ligatur In. Diss. Bonn 1877 ; Foa, Arch. p. I. sci. med. Ill; Hamilton, jEdi7i. med. Joxmi. 1880—81. The question most hotly discussed has been whether the white blood-ceUs are or are not the generators of the new iibrous tissixe ; and to this various answers have been given. Ziegler from his own investigations is constrained to side with those who assign the chief share in the formative process to the extravasated leucocytes. The process has been too often regarded as something sui generis; the ouly characters which distinguish it from other pathological tissue-formations are—that the process takes place mthiu a tube, and that dead tissue is being absorbed as new is being formed. Again, the question is asked whether the new tissue is formed by inflammatory granulations, or by regenerative or hyperplastic proliferation. The view taken above is, that the former is the commoner and the more important mode; but the active participation of the endothelial cells is not excluded. Riedel's observation is of interest in this connexion: he states that the inner sm-faces of an artery may be made to cohere without the formation of a clot, and that in this case the vessel is occluded simply by the multiplication of the apposed endotheUal cells. This seems to confirm the view we have taken, that it is the presence of the thrombus, together with the mechanical injury to the vessel-wall, which sets up the plastic inflammation. With regard to the canalisation of the thrombus from the lumen of the occluded vessel (a fact insisted on by Schultz), it seems probable that this is not at first a true vascularisation ; it is rather to be referred to the shrinking