THE MUCOUS MEMBRANES. [sect. VI. 232 also irregular, and consequently the outline of a tuberculous ulcer of any great size is usually without any regularity. Its margins are often red and swollen and beset with greyish and yellowish nodules, or they may be but slightly swollen and sharply cut or even undermined. The floor is uneven and often beset with yellowish nodular deposits. Sometimes papillary outgrowths of considerable size arise from the margins and floor of the ulcer. Complete repair very seldom takes place in a tuberculous ulcer. When it does it is by the separation and extrusion of the whole of the diseased tissue, healthy granulations springing up beneath it. From these cicatricial tissue is elaborated, which at length is covered over Avith epithelium growing in from the borders. In most cases however the process advances steadily, and if death does not intervene a very extensive destruction of tissue is the result, 429. Syphilis gives rise to simple catarrhal inflammations of no great severity, and also to granulating ulcers analogous to those of tuberculosis. The ulcers begin as soft greyish-white elevations of the mucous membrane corresponding to the syphilitic condyl- omata of the skin. These look like hyperplastic follicular struc- tures, but as a fact they do not start in the follicles. Cases do however occur in which the follicles are affected by syphilis; and then they become enlarged and speedily break down. The granulomatous syphilitic growths are seated chiefly in the mucosa and submucosa. When fully developed and about to break down they consist of simple cellular tissue exactly resembling granula- tion-tissue. The first thing to appear is an eruption of small soft rounded nodules, which are often highly vascular. Sometimes (especially in the larynx) this is accompanied by the appearance of larger nodulated growths. These growths break down and form ulcers which continue to advance by progressive disintegration of theu- margins and floor. The diseased tissue is greyish or yellowish in tint. When the process comes to an end puckered scars and papillary excrescences are left. Syphilitic ulcers of this kind are met with chiefly in the mouth, pharynx, larynx, vagina, and rectum (Art. 435). 430. Crlanders of the mucous membrane begins with the formation of small sub-epithelial nodules (Art, 135), which are generally larger than those of tuberculosis; sometimes indeed (as in the stomach) they are as large as a hazel-nut. Caseation, suppuration, and ulceration speedily ensue; the ulcers being covered over with yellowish muddy-looking shreds of necrotic tissue, while their margins are red and hyperaemic. The foci of infection are usually numerous, new ones forming in contiguity to the old ones, and in this way, as successive ulcers coalesce, large irregular sinuous open sores are formed. They secrete a dirty