120 THE SPLEEN AND THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS. [SECT. III. Metastatic growths occasionally appear in the liver, kidneys, lungs, etc. Leukaemia does not accompany this affection. Certain transitional varieties between hard and soft lymphaden- oma have been described. 346. Sarcoma of the lymphatic glands is a somewhat un- common affection. It occurs in single glands, or several of the same group are simultaneously affected and cohere into a nodular tumour. It often overpasses the limits of the gland and invades the adjoining tissues. Secondary growths are usually developed. Small-round-celled sarcoma, spindle-celled sarcoma, fibro-sarcoma, and alveolar sarcoma or alveolar angiosarcoma, are all forms which occur. The latter form has a somewhat carcinoma-like structure, the epithelioid cells being grouped in clusters within an alveolar stroma. It appears that the neoplasm may start in various parts of the gland-tissue. According to PuTiATA alveolar sarcoma begins in the tissue around the vessels. In other instances, especially in spindle-celled sarcoma, the connective-tissue framework is the primary seat of neoplastic proliferation (Winiwarter). Some authors, like PuTiATA, maintain that the lymphoid elements may be transformed into tumour-cells. See Langenbeck {Deutsche Klinik 47, 1860), Billroth {Beitriige z. path. Hist. Berlin 1858), Pdtiata {Ueb. Sarcom der Lymplidriisen, Yirch. Arch. vol. 69), voN Winiwarter {Arch. f. klin. Chir. xviii), Vaillard {Revue de mM. 1882). 347. Secondary growths. All the,forms of tumour which give rise to metastases may affect the lymphatic glands. Cancers especially are apt to do so, and the glands become enlarged and altered as the disease advances. On section they have a white marrowy look, and cancer-juice can be obtained from them by scraping. The altered glands have not always the same appear- ance, any more than the primary tumour from which they are derived. Indeed the typical structure of the parent tumour is often very beautifully reproduced in the infected gland. The secondary growths likewise pass through the same series of changes as the parent tumour (Art. 174). The gland-tissue is compressed and displaced by the cancerous growth. The cancer-germs brought to the gland in the first instance by the lymphatics begin to germinate in the sinuses. Cancer-nests are then formed, and the stroma of the tumour is developed out of the lymphadenoid tissue. In its first stages the cancerous change is often not ajDparent to the naked eye, and must be searched for with the microscope. Sometimes even the more advanced changes are not to be made out in fresh specimens without minute ex- amination. Sarcomatous metastases, like the carcinomatous, may originate in sarcoma-cells which have entered the gland throiigh the lym- phatic vessels.