CHAPTER XXIX. TUMOURS OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. 343. The non-inflammatory tumours of the lymphatic glands fall into two main groups, according to their histological structure. The first group includes all growths whose general type is that of normal lymphadenoid tissue; the second includes those in which the normal tissue is displaced by tissue of a different kind. The tumours of the first group are variously known as lymphomata, lymphadenomata or adenomata simply, and lymphosarcomata; those of the second group are chiefly sarcomata. The former are homoeoplastic, the second heteroplastic growths (Art. 138). It is not always easy to determine whether a given glandular growth, homoeoplastic or heteroplastic, is to be reckoned as a true tumour in the stricter sense of the term. Many of the homoeoplastic formations have the anatomical characters of hyperplasia, rather than of neoplasm. And these characters are to some extent borne out by the fact that the function of the gland often becomes more active as its growth increases, that is to say a larger number of white corpuscles are contributed by it to the blood (leukaemic lymphoma). On the other hand there are cases in which glandular growths of like structure exhibit the clinical characters of tumours, that is to say they form metastases and induce cachexia (malignant lymphoma); and the cachexia—taking the form of emaciation, dropsy, coma, delirium, etc.—may result in death. Owing to the difficulty of distinguishing neoplasm from hyper- plasia, we shall in what follows describe all the glandular growths under the general head of tumours, classifying them according to their structure. It is highly probable that closer investigation of the development of the glandular tumours will make it possible to distinguish the various forms more acciirately than we are at present able to do. We are now unable to give any explanation of the fact that of two cases of lymphoma which are histologically identical, one should involve alteration in the blood, and the other should not.