218 [sect. VI. THE MUCOUS MEMBRANES. conditions the epithelium is loosened and cast off in abnormal quantity; the fibrous tissue between the crypts is densely infiltrated, and often degenerates or suppurates (Art. 421, Fig. 167), so that the epithelium may in part be permanently lost. The glandular stratum is in consequence often wasted to the half or the third of its former thickness (Fig. 1G5), or the glands may disappear entirely (e) leaving nothing but a thin nucleated fibrous film. The muscularis mucosae is in general but slightly affected, though it too may become atrophied. The submucosa is usually little altered, unless the inflammation is very intense; and if the inflammation does not pass into ulceration, the lymphadenoid tissue of the mucosa remains almost intact. Fig. 165. Mucosa and submucosa of an ateophio intestine. {Alum-carmine staining: x 80) a glandular layer reduced to a half of c submucosa its normal thickness d outer muscular coat b muscularis mucosae e atrophy complete The mucous membranes of the stomach, uterus, etc. are affected in much the same way. Their glands are usually atrophied or obliterated, but in some cases they may undergo a kind of cystic degeneration. 418. The power of repair which the mucous membranes possess is exemplified in the rapid restoration of lost epithelium. But this restoration is only complete if the underlying fibrous structures are themselves uninjured, or at least effectively restored. If from any cause a small portion of the fibrous coat is destroyed, the regeneration of the corresponding epithelium is imperfect. If the portion destroyed is of any great size, repair is effected by granulation and. cicatrisation, or a chronic open ulcer is formed. As regards hyperplasia, the various merabranes comport themselves in different ways. Hjrperplasia of the uterine mucous membrane is very common ; in the bladder, oesophagus, and small intestine it is rare. The hyperplasia is manifested as a more or less extensive thickeniog of the membrane, or in the production