INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. CHAP. XLVI.] 229 them, and the deficiency is then made up by the formation of a cicatrix, which in process of time may be covered over with new epithelium. But the process often maintains its destructive char- acter for a considerable time, extending continually to greater depths, and often inducing intense purulent inflammation over a wide area around the initial lesion. Sometimes the necrotic inflammation takes on a ยง^angrenous character, that is to say micro-organisms penetrate the diseased tissues and set up in them septic or putrid decomposition. The affection is then much more grave, for the products of decom- position act as highly noxious irritants on the tissues that are still healthy. Definitive suppuration may however in this case also lead to the separation of the dead tissue from the living, and so allow the process of repair to begin. 427. Phlegmonous inflammation. In speaking of catarrh we said that the inflammatory process might become so intensified that it passed into the purulent form, that is to say into suppuration. In addition to this purulent catarrh we occasionally meet with a suppurative form of inflammation in which the exudation is purulent or fibrino-purulent, but is not like the former merely superficial. This form gives rise to diffuse purulent infiltration of the mucosa and submucosa, which may in consequence become enormously swollen and as it were saturated with pus. If the patient survives, large portions of the submucosa may break down and dissolve in the punilent exudation. This form corresponds to phlegTQonous inflammation of the integument (cellulitis), and is also described as phlegmonous. It occurs in the mucous membranes of the pharynx and stomach, and rarely elsewhere. It is due to some microparasitic infection. When the affection is recent the tissues are everywhere infil- trated with liquid and cellular exudations and with pus-corpuscles. Here and there granular and fibrillated coagula are seen, and presently the infiltrated tissue and the extravasated cells become necrosed. The cells then look turbid and granular, lose their nuclei, and disappear; and the epithelium and connective tissue perish in like manner.