225 CHAP, XLVI.] INFLAMMATOllY AFFECTIONS. Some of the glands may be obliterated altogether by the destruc- tion of their epithelium. In other cases new glands are formed, or • at least papillary outgrowths covered with epithelium spring up from the walls of the glandular cysts. The gro-\vths thus produced, which depend much more on fibrous than on glandular hyperplasia, often resemble tumours, and have been incorrectly described as adenomata (Art. 167). They occur chiefly in the stomach and uterus, and might appropriately be called inflammatory papil- lomata. When the membrane contains lymphadenoid tissue, this may likewise become hyperplastic under the influence of long-continued catarrhal inflammation. The follicles are enlarged and project as rounded nodules from the mucous surface. 423. Croupous inflammation. When a mucous membrane is so injured that its epithelium is here and there partially de- stroyed, and at the same time its blood-vessels are so damaged that an abundant exudation is poured out on the surface, coagulation of the latter may take place in the manner described in Art. 35. In this way a pale yellowish membrane (Fig. 169 a) is formed on the Fig. 169. Cboupous membbanb from the teachea. ( x 250) a section through the false membrane b upper layer of the mucous membrane, infiltrated with pus-corpusoles (dj) c filaments and granules of fibrin d pus-corpuscles surface, consisting of fibrinous filaments and granules beset with pus- corpuscles, or of shining homogeneous blocks (c) representing cells which have undergone coagulative necrosis. This false membrane is connected with the underlying structures by fibrinous threads, but it is usually loosely adherent, and can be readily stripped off disclosing the red hyperaemic mucous membrane beneath. An inflammation of this kind in which the surface exudations coagul- ate into a loosely-adherent false membrane is described as croupous. It implies a somewhat abundant extravasation of liquid and of cells, and the absence of such agencies as hinder coagulation. The epithelial cells are always more or less injured, being either S. p. A. 16