BLOOD AND LYMPH. 10 [sect. I. After death the blood usually coagulates in such a way that the red corpuscles are entangled and included in the clots ; on post-mortem examination we find the vessels containing soft dark-red gory masses. Sometimes however the corpuscles have time to separate from the plasma before the fibrin is formed; in such cases the clots are soft, moist, somewhat elastic, yellowish, and faintly opalescent. From these somewhat bacon-like clots the true white or mottled thrombi are distinguished by their greyish and more ojjaque appearance, and by their more or less marked stratification. They are moreover firmer, drier, and less elastic ; when torn across the surface is corrugated or step-like ; and finally they adhere to the wall of the vessel and generally distend it (Humphry), while the post-mortem clots are free. Under the microscope the thrombi are seen to contain a larger proportion of white blood-cells than the post-mortem clots. It is less easy to distinguish red thrombi from red post-mortem clots. The chief characters of the former are their greater firmness and dryness, and their adhesion to the vessel-wall. In less recent thrombi signs of decolorisation appear, by which the dark-red of freshly .coagulated blood passes into a lighter and brownish red. Not uncommonly we may find true thi-ombi overlaid and concealed by post-mortem coagulations. With regard to the effects of thrombosis upon the circulation see Ai-ts. 22—25 and 30. 254. Issues of thrombosis. The fully-developed thrombus is a somewhat firm and dry mass adhering to the lining membrane of a vessel or of the heart, its colour and structure varying as we have described. The comparatively small quantity of liquid it encloses is explained by the fact that the fibrin after its separation always shrinks, and so squeezes out the liquid from its meshes. This shrinking, when it occurs in an obliterating thrombus, may leave the channel of the vessel open once more. In many instances the contraction due to shrinking is very considerable. The fibrin is transformed into a dense mass, which may persist unchanged for a long time and ultimately becomes calcified. It is thus that the chalky concretions called phleboliths are formed in the veins. In the same way thrombi which are seated on roughened surfaces in the aorta or valves of the heart may become calcified; and may become sheltered from secondary deposits by the growth of an endothelial covering over them. Contraction with calcification is what we may call a favourable issue of thrombosis. The very common issue of thrombosis in soften- ing is much less favourable. Softening is distinguished as simple or red softening, and puriform or yellow softening. In simple or red softening the central parts of the thrombus are first of all changed into a greyish or reddish pulp, consisting of broken-down and shrunken red corpuscles, pigment granules, and colourless granular detritus. If the softening then extends to the surface layers, and if the blood-current is still flowing over the thrombus, the products of disintegration may be carried into the general circulation. This occurs both in the case of cardiac poljqoi and in venous thrombosis, especially when the tip of a thrombus projects from the orifice of a small vein into the channel of a larger in which the blood is still flowing. The result is the formation of emboli (Arts. 30 and 37, and 257).