305 CHAP. LV.] PIGMENTARY INFILTRATION OF THE LIVEE. into a sort of mesh-work, the nodules have exactly the look of lymphadenoid tissue. Noxious as well as innocuous matters may in like manner be deposited in the liver from the blood. Of these microparasites are the most important, inasmuch as their settlement in the capillaries may give rise to inflammation and necrosis of the liver-substance (Alts 493, 494). Structure of the liver. To imderstand aright the morbid changes of the liver it is necessary to have a clear and accurate idea of its normal structure. The chie to this lies in the distribution of the blood-vessels within the organ. The hepatic vein forms a kind of tree rising from the vena cava as a base ; the terminal branches are all of nearly the same size and each is at nearly the same distance fi'om its neighbours. To each terminal branch (Fig. 180 /) belongs a system of capillaries, which converge from all sides towards the branch. The system of capillaries belonging to each branch is of nearly the same extent, and is grouped about the branch like a globular fruit roimd the central stem. The group of capillaries corresponds to the struc- tm-al unit of the liver, the lobule or acinus (Fig. 180 a); the terminal branch or stem is the intralobular or central vein (/). The meshes of the gi'oup of lobular capillaries are occupied by liver-cells, in such a way that each cell is in relation to several capillaries, and each capillary is surrounded completely with liver-cells. When seen in section the liver-cells seem grouped in columns or series, alternating with the capillaries : these columns are sometimes spoken of as hepatic trabeculae. Where two or more Uver-cells are in contact the minute radicles of the bile-ducts take their rise. A fine groove runs along the surface of contact of each cell, and the grooves being apposed an intercellular canal is thus formed. The several canals intercommunicate and so give rise to a network of bile-capillaries. The number of lobules is very great. In the human liver they are in close contact with each other, and the lobular capillary-system of one in general communicates freely with that of its neighbom". This is however not always the case, for in many parts the lobules are separated by a space filled up with connective tissue. This interlobular connective tissue is called the ' capsule of Glisson', and serves first of all as a connecting framework for the several lobules, and secondly as a supporting sheath for the vessels which bring blood (arterial and portal) to the lobules and carry bile away from them. The latter vessels or bile-ducts are tubes lined with cyhndrical epithelium, and are connected with the intralobular bile-capillaries or intercellular bile-canals already described. The blood-supply of the liver is twofold ; there is an arterial system and a portal system of vessels. The portal vessels run between the lobules (and hence are called interlobular veins), and deliver their blood directly into the lobular capillaries. The arterial blood passes in the first instance into the capillaries which permeate the connective tissue of the capsule of Glisson (vaginal and interlobular capillaries), and thence passes with the portal blood into the lobular capillaries. Very little connective tissue accompanies the capillaries as they pass into the lobules, and it can be made out at all only by special methods of examination. The larger lymphatics lie in the interlobidar connective tissue and in the sheaths of the larger blood-vessels. 481. The liver is a secreting gland, in which chemical changes of a remarkable kind are carried out. The chief products of these are—the bile-acids (glycocholic and taurocholic), to some ex- tent derivatives of albuminoid or proteid bodies—bile-pigments, s. P. A. 20