CHAP. IX.] IIYPERTKOPHY AND DlLATAl'ION OF THE HEART. 49 for a stcatuvo of 167—115 cm.; or 150—190 ccm. for every 100 cm. of height. The growth of the heart is most rapid at two periods of life, namely during infancy, and at the time of puberty; it is much less rapid in the interval. In cases of hypertrophy the volume of the heart may rise to 500—700 ccm.; or 300—400 ccm. for every 100 cm. of height. 279. Dilatation of the heart is in part due to increased resistance opposed to the heart's contraction, and in part to textural change in its walls. Hypertrophy of the heart is the result of increased work, and is a true functional hypertrophy. It of course implies not merely that increased work is called for, but that the conditions as regards increased nutrition of the cardiac tissues are sufficiently favourable; if the conditions were unfavourable the only result of increased strain (that is increased resistance to be overcome) would be dilatation. The work required of the heart may be increased from various causes. Congenital narrowness of the aorta may induce hyper- trophy of the left ventricle even in an infant, if it is well-nourished. Other congenital affections leading to left hy3)ertrophy are— affections of the valves producing incompetency or stenosis of the aortic orifice (Arts. 281—284) ; affections of the arteries, such as atheroma or sclerosis of the intima (Art. 297), and aneurysms (Art. 303), both of which increase the arterial resistances; partial destruction of the renal epithelium, and disordei-s of innervation, by which two latter causes the functional activity of the heart is increased. Pericardial adhesions may likewise induce compensa- tory hypertrophy. Right hypertrophy is the result of disease at the mitral or pulmonary valves, and of affections of the lungs in which the capillary area is seriously diminished or extensive pleural adhesions are formed. Hypertrophy which follows as the result of visible anatomical lesions of the vascular system, or of the kidneys, or as the result of increased action due to nervous influences, is usually referred to as symptomatic hypertrophy. An idiopathic form of hypertrophy is also described, which is not referable to any increase in the heart's work; but this must be at least very rare. Even if in many instances we are unable to demonstrate anatomically the factors on which the hypertrophy depends, we cannot at once infer that during life no cause existed which involved an increased demand on the heart. Within recent years observation has shown that long-continued bodily exertion is particularly apt to cause func- tional hypertrophy; and according to Traube luxurious habits of life may produce a like result. Fatty enlargement of the heart, obesity or lipomatosis, is due chiefly to the deposit of fat in the subpericardial connective tissue. The normal investment of fat is abnormally increased by increased supply and decreased consumption. The connective-tissue cells normally free from fat are transformed here and there into fat- S. P. A. 4