CHAP. LVII.] DISORDERS OF THE HEPATIC CIRCULATION. 811 The centre of the lobule is dark-brown and usually sinks a little below the general surface of the section, while the periphery (according to the amount of fat jaresent) is pale-brown or yellow or even yellowish-white and projects slightly above the surface. When the change has gone still further the darker portions gradually overcome the paler, and here and there coalesce into continuous patches of brown, while the lobules generally are notably diminished in size. On microscopic examination the intralobular veins and the neighbouring capillaries are seen to be dilated or varicose; in extreme cases the dilatation affects all the capillaries of the lobule. The liver-cells which lie between the dilated capillaries are always more or less atrophied, and generally beset with yellow or brown pigment-granules. Similar granules lie around in the walls of the intralobular veins. The degeneration of the liver-cells is most marked in the central parts of the lobules, and in extreme cases some of the cells may perish outright, leaving nothing but a few granules and flakes of pigmentary detritus between the dilated capillaries. The interlobular connective tissue is usually unaltered, but now and then it appears to be hyperplastic and infiltrated with small cells. From its chief seat and its mode of origin this affection has been described as central red atrophy (ViRCHOW), and also as cyanotic or varicose atrophy or atrophy from engorgement. The liver itself is described in the post-mortem room as atrophic nutmeg-liver. 484. Occlusion of the blood-vessels of the liver, by throm- bosis, embolism, portal endophlebitis (sometimes called pylephleb- itis), or endarteritis, induces certain morbid changes that are worthy of mention. Sudden closure of the portal vein causes the secretion of bile to cease; but if the vessel is gradually obstructed and at length occluded, the secretion goes on. The nutrition of the liver itself is not endangered by the closure of the portal vein or of some of its chief branches, for the blood-supply brought by the hepatic artery suffices to maintain it in good condition. When the portal vein or its chief branches are gradually occluded, the arterial channels gradually widen and supply the liver with blood sufficient not merely for its own nutrition but also for its functional needs. Only the obstruction of the smallest of the interlobular (portal) venules, into some of which the arterioles pour their contents before these reach the lobular capillaries, need affect seriously the corresponding lobules; and that only because the arterial circulation of the lobules is thereby at some points interrupted or diminished as well as the portal circulation, and the liver-cells being completely starved of blood perish. The closure even of some of the branches of the hepatic artery