CHAPTER XXII. INFECTIVE GRANULOMATA OF THE SPLEEN. 327. Tubercle is very frequently found in the spleen. In attacks of general miliary tuberculosis miliary tubercles are nearly always developed both in the parenchyma and in the capsule. In chronic tuberculosis such tubercles as may happen to be produced in the spleen give rise to caseous nodes of various sizes. The tuber- cles are seated in the malphigian follicles, in the lymphoid sheaths of the vessels, and in the pulp. They may consist entirely of small cells or be caseous in the centre, according to their age. Gummata rarely develope in the spleen, though they are sometimes met with in both congenital and acquired syphilis. They may be single or multiple, and form grey and translucent or yellow and opaque nodes with grejdsh margins, according to their age. The greyish margin consists of cellular granulation-tissue, which is stained intensely with colouring reagents, and passes gradually into the normal tissue of the pulp. Syphilis may also manifest itself by a general hyperplastic enlargement of the spleen, which is observed mainly in the con- genital form of the disease. The spleen of a new-born infant weighs about nine grammes or 0"3 per cent, of the body-weight; in syphilitic infants the average weight of the spleen is, according to Bikch- HiRSCHFELD, some fourteen grammes or 0'7 per cent, of the body- weight. Its stroma is increased in amount, and the sheaths of the arteries infiltrated with cells. Birch-Hirschfeld found oil- globules and pigment-granules in the constituent cells of the j)ulp. On syphilis of the spleeu see Weil (Arch. f. klin. Med. xiii), Wever {ibid. xvii), Barensprung {Die hereditiire Syphilis Berlin 1864), Wagner {Arch, d. Heilk. iv), Mosler {Bed. Uin. Wocii. 1864), Gee {Brit. Med. Journ. 1, 1867), Gerhardt {Lehrh. d. Kinderkrankh.), IJirch-Hirschfeld {Arch. d. Heilk. 1875 and Gerhardt's Ilandb. d. Kinderkrankh. iv), Baumler {Zieinssen's Cyclop. Ill, for further references), Tepel {Path. Anat. d. hered. Syph. In. Di.^'j. Berlin 1874), Barlow {Path. Boc. Trans. 1877). 7—2