66 [sect. II. THE VASCULAR MECHANISM. Sometimes the adventitia (c) shows the most striking changes, being greatly thickened in consequence of abundant cellular infiltration and of nodular clusters of cells (d^) surrounding the vasa vasorum. The infiltrations in the media are also clustered around the vasa vasorum (d^), and often reach considerable size. The intima contains accumulations of leucocytes (d) in the meshes of its connective tissue, in addition to granular fibrinous coagula (e e^) which lie either within (e^) the distended meshes or on the surface (e). The cellvilar infiltratiou in aortitis is derived from the vasa vasorum, as is evidenced by the clustering of the cells aromid these vessels. Where the cells are more remote from the vessels, as in some parts of the intima, we conclude that they have migrated. Eeferences:—Koster, Sitzxmgsher. d. niederrhein. Gesell. f. Natur- u. Hdlk. in Bonn 1877; Koster, Die Pathogenese d. Endarteritis 1871; Jaccoud, Path, interne i, 1873; Stroganow, Recherches sur Vorigine des eUments cellulaires dans Vendarterite de I'aorte, Arcli. de,physiol. norm, et path. 1876; Winiwarter, Arch.f. klin. Chir. xxiii; Linger, Etude sur I'aortite aigue 1878; Jahn, Virch. Arch. vol. 72; Trompetter, Ueh. Endarteritis In. Diss. Bonn 1876; Talma, Virch. Arch. vol. 77; Giovanni, Arch. ital. d. biol. i; Cornil and Eanvier, Man. of Path. Hist, i, 1882, Arch, de physiol. 1868; Poulin, Gaz. hebdom. 1879; Israel, Vii-ch. Arch. vol. 86; Orth, Lehrh. d. spec. path. Anat. i, 1883. 293. If the patient does not die during the early stages of the disease, the process of repair begins and new fibrous tissue and capillaries are developed at the affected spots. When the exuda- tion has been slight it may be entirely re-absorbed; but if the inflammation is kept up fibroblasts are developed, and from them new fibrous tissue. Whether the fixed tissue-cells or the white blood-cells take the chief share in building up the new-formed tissue is hard to determine. Three forms of arterial inflammation are distinguished according to the coats chiefly affected, namely endarteritis, mesarteritis, and periarteritis; but the forms very frequently occur in combination. If endarteritis becomes chronic, and new fibrous tissue is formed in the intima, broad slightly raised plaques are produced, which often appear in large numbers and of great size in the larger arterial trunks, and especially in the aorta. As Fig. 129 (a) shows, they consist of dense fibrous tissue resembling scar-tissue; the normal structure of the intima is usually lost. New vessels are nearly always formed (Fig. 129 /). In other cases the new tissue is looser, more resembling areolar or mucoid tissue. Such hyperplasias of the intima are called scleroses (Arts, 297—298); they occur both in large and in small vessels, and in the latter may produce considerable coatraction of theii' calibre. The jDrocess has therefore been also described as obliterating endarteritis. Once it has begun it is apt to recur, increasing the size of the old patches and starting new ones ; it is thus progressive in its character. Mesarteritis is generally an accompaniment of endarteritis. Fibrous deposits appear in the middle coat, while the normal elements and especially the muscular fibres perish by degrees.