296 THE ALIMENTARY TRACT. [sect. VII. the centre. Sometimes the patch and the slough are larger. Bacilli abound in the patches and in the surrounding tissues, especially in the blood-vessels; and also in the swollen lymphatic glands corresponding to the affected parts. An affection of the bowel having exactly the same microscopic appearance is met with in septicaemic affections. In the case of a patient with disease of the spinal cord, who died of blood-poisoning from gangrenous balanitis and cystitis, the author found the large and small intestines beset with a multitude of small haemorrhagic patches, each with its central slough as above described. 478. Tumours of the intestine. The tumour-like inflam- matory growths, papillary or polypous in form, have been referred to in Art. 470. Non-inflammatory polypi of the same type are also met with, both congenital and acquired. They closely imitate the normal mucous membrane in structure, though their glands are often more abundant and at the same time more branched and con- voluted. These growths are known as glandular hyperplasias, and innocent or non-malignant adenomata. They are rare in the small intestine, but common enough in the rectum. When pressed or dragged, upon the pedicle may become so elongated that the polypus protrudes from the anus. Individual glands are some- times occluded and distended, giving rise to small cysts within the growth. Carcinoma is by far the most important of the neoplasms affecting the intestine. It is not very rare as an intestinal disease, though rarer than carcinoma of the stomach. The rectum, the sigmoid, splenic, and hepatic flexures of the colon, and the caecum, are the commonest seats. Rectal cancer sometimes extends only to the parts about the anus, but in other cases it invades the pelvic and abdominal viscera. Carcinoma of the small intestine is rare, but in the duodenum and especially in the neighbourhood of the opening of the bile-duct it is somewhat more frequent. Intestinal cancer takes the form of soft fungous tumours which are solitary and sharply circumscribed, or of papillary roughnesses and excrescences covering a considerable area. Infiltration of the intestinal wall with cancer-cells usually takes place at an early stage, and leads to thickening and induration. If this extends round, the whole circumference of the bowel, it is transformed into a thick-walled rigid tube; the rectum is the commonest seat of this indurative change, and less frequently the colon. In most post-mortem examinations of cases of this disease we find the surface of the neoplasm already broken down, leaving a cancerous ulcer with characteristically infiltrated borders. But sometimes the borders likewise are disintegrated and eroded, and then the ulcer has quite the appearance of an ordinary non- malignant inflammatory ulcer. In other cases the borders and