THK ALIMENTARY TRACT. 290 [sect. VII. to mark the site of the injury. In severe cases accompanied by great destruction of tissue, in which the acute specific inflamma- tion is succeeded by chronic inflammation, the whole structure of the bowel is altered in a remarkable way. Over broad ai'eas the glandular layer is almost or altogether absent; the deeper layers of the mucosa and submucosa look coarse and dense and indurated; the connective structures are hyperplastic; and the other coats are likewise tough, thickened, and unyielding. The channel of the intestine is usually narrowed, often so much so that a finger can hardly be introduced. The mucous membrane is only recognisable in isolated patches here and there, and these not infrequently assume the form of papillary or polypous outgrowths from the general surface. In the scarred and indurated portions of the bowel the sub- mucous connective tissue (and that of the mucosa if any remains) is thicker and denser than normal, and often shows signs of cellular infiltration. There may be no trace of the intestinal glands remaining, or only their lower parts ; while in some places portions of the glandular layer which have been separated and abstricted by the invading fibrous tissue may become distended with secretion, and form small cysts lined within with cylindrical epithelium. The muscular coats are traversed by dense bands of coarse fibrous tissue. A certain amount of chronic inflamma- tion, accompanied by mucopurulent discharge, is often kept up long after the acute disorder is at an end: this constitutes what is sometimes called chronic dysentery, or by the older authors coeliac flux. The author had the opportunity of examining certain cases in which epidemic dysentery had proved fatal in an early stage, and was able to demonstrate the presence of multitudes of micrococci in the affected tissues. They were foimd not only in the necrotic patches, but also in the neighbouring unattacked portions of the mucosa. They lay partly beneath the glands of the mucosa, partly in the lymphatics of the submucosa; that is to say in tissue which was still to all appearance sound. In these cases it would appear that the micrococci were concerned in the causation of the disease. Prior {Cent. f. Hin. Med. 17, 1883) records similar observations. In other cases which seemed precisely similar no micrococci could be discovered. For example, none were found in the case of the five natives of Tierra del Fuego who died of dysentery at Zurich in March 1882 (compare Seitz, Virch. Arch. vol. 91). 473. Epidemic or Asiatic cholera is characterised anatomi- cally by the presence of an acute inflammation extending over the whole of the intestine, accompanied by an enormously copious transudation of liquid through the mucous membrane. In cases which prove fatal in the first two or three days the bowel is found to contain a great quantity of a turbid greyish inodorous alkaline liquid, often mingled with minute shreds and flakes—the so-called 'rice-water' stools. The mucous membrane is moist, pink, injected, and swollen. Sometimes the serous surface is