THE SKIN. [sect. v. 208 The hair may be actually extruded by the growing fungus, and the papillae may become atrophied by pressure. At the same time the surrounding tissue is affected with more or less intense inflammation, which may take on an eczematous character. When the fungus settles in the nail {onychomycosis favosa), yellowish deposits or thickenings are formed, and the substance of the nail becomes loosened and softened. 411, Tinea tonsurans {herpes tonsurans or common ring- worm) is an affection produced by the filaments and spores of Trichophyton tonsurans (discovered by Gruby in 1844). It assumes a different appearance according as it occurs on hairy or non-hairy parts. Tinea tonsurans capillitii, or ringworm of the scalp, gives rise to bare circular patches from the size of a sixpence to that of a crown-piece, or to an irregularly scattered eruption, the hairs over the affected spots being broken off short and frayed at the ends. The surface of the patches is smooth or scaly, and their margins are reddened. Vesicles and scabs are occasionally produced. The patches may be few or many, and grow steadily in size until the affection is cured. On non-hairy parts rings of vesicles [tinea {herpes) tonsurans vesiculosus) and red scaly circular patches (tinea tonsurans squa- mosum) are produced, the affection being then generally described as tinea circinata or ringworm of the body. Sometimes a number of red spots appear in rapid succession at various points, and heal as rapidly without attaining any great size. Trichophyton tonsurans forms long slender and but little branched mycelial filaments; it produces spores within the body, but the mycelium is not aggregated into scutula like that of Achorion. It readily penetrates the hair-shaft, making it brittle or rotten. In scaly ringworm of the body the fungus penetrates the upper layers of epidermal cells immediately underneath the homy layer (Kaposi). When the fungus attacks the nails {onychomycosis tonsurans), they become opaque and split into laminae, becoming at the same time very brittle Sycosis parasitaria {tinea sycosis or barber's itch) is due to an inflammation of the skin and subcutaneous tissue accompanying the invasion by Trichophyton of the hairy parts of the face and neck. Exudation and suppuration are set up, and pustules, abscesses, and papillary growths, are the result (Art. 405). Eczema marginatum is an eczematous inflammation caused by Trichophyton, and affecting chiefly the genitals and the parts around them (Kaposi). 412. Pityriasis versicolor {tinea versicolor, mycosis micro- sporina) is characterised by the appearance of uniform pale or dark yellowish or brownish patches of various sizes and shapes,