CHAPTER XXXVI. DISORDERS OF CIRCULA.TION. 360. The activity of the circulation in the skin varies greatly even under physiological conditions, and its pathological variations are equally remarkable. Hyperaemia of the skin may be diffuse or circumscribed, and gives rise to a redness that disajopears under the pressure of the finger. The tint varies from pale rosy-red to dark blood-red or the livid purple of cyanosis. The congestion or engorgement of the vessels is limited almost entirely to the upper layers of the corium and especially the papillary layer. The hyperaemia may be active or passive. Active hyperaemia depends upon local injury (and is therefore idiojDathic), or upon vaso-motor influences (and therefore sjmiptomatic). Spots of hyperaemia when small constitute roseola, when large and diffuse ersrthema. Sometimes the hyperaemic parts are also notably swollen and the tissues saturated with transuded liquid; this is the case in inflam- matory oedema (Art. 24). When the hyperaemia persists for a time the epidermis is loosened and shed, and we have desquamation. And after the hyperaemia has disappeared, especially if it has lasted any time or has frequently recurred, a certain amount of pigmentary discoloration remains, due to the traiasformation of the extravasated red corpuscles into pigment. After death simple hyperaemia usually leaves no trace on the skin. Engorgement or passive hyperaemia generally gives rise to ill-defined bluish-red blotches. A small spot is called a livor or livedo, a more diffuse lividity constitutes cyanosis. Anaemia of the skin is manifested by its abnormal paleness, and may be local or general. It may be due either to direct external influences, or to stimulation of the vaso-constrictor nerves. Oedema of the skin, that is to say saturation of it with serous liquid, is due either to engorgement of the veins or lymphatics, or to increased permeability of the walls of the vessels. Oedematous skin is thick and puffy, and liquid runs from it when it is cut; in