114 THE SPLEEN AND THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS. [SEGT. 111. hyperplasia (or ' elephantiasis') of the gland, and we may dis- tinguish the trabecular or interstitial from the diffuse or reticular variety. The most typical examples are found in cases of elephan- tiasis of the skin and subcutaneous tissue. When the change has originated in the capsule or septa, the section of the gland is seen to be surrounded by a broad zone of fibrous tissue, and the greyish parenchyma is pervaded by lustrous white fibrous bands. In such glands the fibrous framework is always greatly increased in proportion to the rest of the tissue; the fibrous septa and sheaths of the vessels become thick fibrous cords (Fig. 138 b), and the essen- tial parenchyma is reduced to isolated patches (c) scattered through the gland, and compressed by the fibrous overgrowth. When the hyperplasia is more generally diffused, the gland on section has a uniform light-gxey tint and is uniformly dense and firm. 342. Tuberculous lymphadenitis is a very common and a very noteworthy affection. The tuberculous bacillus usually reaches the glands by way of the lymphatics; and as it sets up tuberculous disease at its point of entrance into the body, the affection of the glands is what we usually speak of as secondary. But cases occur in which the initial affection is slight or transient, and so may escape notice altogether; while the glandular affection appears to be primary. Thus we meet with tuberculous cervical glands in patients who show no signs of tuberculous or even of inflammatory disorder at any of the possible points of entrance of the virus—conjunctiva, nose, tonsils, pharynx, ear, etc. Tuberculous glands are often greatly enlarged, and are firm and fleshy in texture; the section being light greyish-red, or white, or yellow. The separate tubercles are only to be made out by close examination, or with the aid of a lens; they form small greyish- white translucent nodules. When they become caseous and so turn to an opaque yellowish-white, they are more easily detected. Some- times the tissue is on the whole more soft and juicy, and grey or greyish-red ; the tubercles appearing as light-grey or opaque white nodules, or aggregated into larger caseous foci. Now and then no tubercles can be seen by the naked eye at all, and it may even be that the appearance of the gland generally is altogether normal. ^ Tuberculous glands from the root of the lung are usually pig- * mented, and not infrequently indurated also. ' The number of tubercles present may of course vary greatly; it is often very large, and the individual tubercles have a perfectly typical appearance. The giant-cells of tubercle (Fig. 139 c) especially can be well studied in such glands. The formation of a tubercle begins with an accumulation of small leucocytes in the follicles and alveoli; and epithelioid cells with large nuclei are then developed out of the leucocytes. In stained preparations this transformation is manifested by the ap-