CHAPTER VII. MALFORMATIONS AND MALPOSITIONS OF THE HEART. 270. The development of the heart is so complex, and so dependent on the accurate co-ordination of many diverse stages and processes of growth, that its liability to malformation is not surprising. The chief abnormalities which occur are—insufficient size of the heart as a whole, and defective development of the septa and of the ostia. These are often associated with defects in the large vessels. The defects in the septa may vary from the entire absence of any partition to the persistence of minute openings which have no effect whatever on the functions of the heart. The com- monest defects are—patency of the foramen ovale, and deficiency of the ventricular septum beneath the aortic valves. Defects at the ostia are generally of the nature of valvular deformities. Some of these are unimportant unless they interfere mth the competency of the valves; such are excess or diminution in the number of valvular segments, and slighter anomalies in their form or relative position. When the malformation of the valves is such as to interfere with their functions by causing incompetency or stenosis, the case is more serious, and may become extremely serious. Many of the commoner valvular mal- formations, especially such as are of the nature of thickening, contraction, or adhesion, are referable to inflammatory affections in utero. Occasionally traces of such inflammations are to be found elsewhere than about the valves, and generally in the form of whitish thickenings on the surface of the endocardium (Arts. 281—283). Development of the heart. The heart is originally formed out of two lateral mesoblastic tubes which coalesce into an undivided straight tube. This single tube is continuous in front with the two primitive aortas, and pos- teriorly it receives the two vitelline veins from the vascular area. In conse- quence of the continued growth of the single tube it becomes doubled on itself into an S-shaped structure, and presently by slight constrictions three somewhat sacculated sections can be made out. The anterior almost straight