CHAPTER XXX. DEVELOPMENT OF THE SEROUS CAVITIES. 348. The primitive body-cavity is a large undivided space interposed between the alimentary tract and the body-wall, and shut off in all directions from the blood-vessels (Hertwigs). Until recently it was held that the body-cavity was directly connected with the vascular system; Haeckel indeed taught that it was originally in itself the first rudiment of a vascular system. But embryological research has now shown that this view is untenable. The blood-vessels and lymphatics arise independently of the body- cavity as excavations in the substance of the niesoblast, due to partial liquefaction of the tissue and the transformation of some of the cells into blood-corpuscles. The body-cavity on the other hand is originally a part of the primitive alimentary cavity or archenteron. Two lateral diverticula of this are formed and gradually abstricted from the central cavity which persists as the ultimate alimentary tract. These diverticula then converge ventrally and coalesce to form one cavity, the ultimate body-cavity; and this surrounds the alimentary tract except dorsally, where the primitive dorsal sep- tum between the diverticula persists as the mesentery. The con- nexions ultimately existing between the lymphatic system and the body-cavity are later and secondary developments (Hertwigs and Balfour). The mode of origin of the body-cavity indicates the true nature of its lining membrane. The cavity not being a mere lymph-space, like the sac of the arachnoid, is clothed not with endothelium but with an epithelium derived originally from the hypoblast. Under this single layer of epithelium lies a layer of connective tissue richly provided with blood-vessels and lymphatics, which latter communicate freely with the body-cavity through a multitude of ostia or stomata. The membrane formed by the layer of cells and the layer of connective tissue is known as a serous mem- brane ; and, after the differentiation of the general body-cavity, as peritoneum, pleura, or pericardium, as the case may be.