129 CHAP. XXXIl.] INFLAMMATIONS OF SEROUS MEMBRANES. We mentioned in Art. 95 that Cohnheim made his fundamental observations on the process of inflammation by means of experi- ments on the mesentery of the frog. In the human subject the omentum is very well adapted for microscopical examination, and that even without any special treatment; but the inflammations of the pericardium and pleura are also easily investigated. The first stage generally consists in the formation of an exuda- tion composed of blood-cells (Fig. 140 e) and liquid; and this collects in the meshes of the tissue or on its surface, while the epithelium desquamates and disintegrates (/). Only when the inflammation is very slight does the epithelium remain intact, or proceed to multiply: when the ii'ritation becomes at all intense and the exudation abundant, the epithelium perishes. Three chief forms of inflammation are distinguished according to the character of the exudation, namely the fibrinous, the sero-fibrinous, and the purulent. The fibrinous forms are often spoken of as adhesive or plastic, inasmuch as they generally lead to the formation of adhesions and false membranes between the serous surfaces. 352. Fibrinous and sero-fibrinous inflammations. In recent fibrinous inflammation the serous membrane is injected, and its surface turbid and dulled. The dullness appears especially when the surface is wiped; and is essentially due to the deposit of a light greyish or yellowish film of fibrin. If the deposit be at all thick, it may conceal the redness of the injection. The first fibrinous deposits take the form of minute granular or reticulated masses. The epithelium lying between the little masses is often intact, but it may begin to be shed. In the more intense inflammations the epithelium may be changed into a homogeneous or granular and generally denucleated membrane, that is to say it undergoes coagulative necrosis. Such fibrinous deposits may be unaccompanied by any large amount of liquid exudation. What there is present is rendered turbid by shed epithelium and migrated leucocytes. An inflammation of this kind is often referred to as a ' dry' inflammation (dry pleurisy, pericarditis, or peritonitis). It frequently results in adhesions of the serous surfaces. When the exudation is more abundant, liquid is poured out and accumulates in the cavities. The pericardium or pleura becomes notably distended at the expense of the lungs. In the abdomen the liquid gathers first in the dependent parts; but as the effusion increases the organs may be compressed, and the abdominal wall greatly distended. The proportion of cells and fibrin in the effusion varies greatly. When cells are abundant, the liquid is highly turbid; if red corpuscles have escaped from the vessels the liquid will be more or less reddened, and petechiae may be observed on the surface s. P. A. 9