THE SKIN, 172 [sect. v. inflammatory vesicles, by the destruction and solution of the cells of the mucous layer. But the affection is distinguished by the fact that the floor of the vesicles and blebs is occupied by large- celled vascular granulation-tissue (i) developed from the cutis and papillae. Infantile syphilitic pemphigus is not strictly one of the group of affections we are now discussing. It differs from them inasmuch as it includes the formation not only of an inflammatory exudation, but also of new-formed vascular granulation-tissue. It has been mentioned in this place because its ap- pearance to the naked eye so closely resembles that of the other phlyctaenoses. 387. Small-pox or variola is a general febrile disease charac- terised by the eruption of papules, vesicles, and pustules, and caused by the infection of the system with variolous poison. After a certain interval from the time of infection the skin becomes suddenly beset with hard I'ed papules of the size of a pin-head, sur- rounded by a red areola. Some of the papules enlarge and change into clear vesicles most of which are umbilicated, i.e. depressed in the centre. In two or three days the contents of the vesicles become turbid, and the vesicle becomes a pustule. At the same time the umbilication usually disappears, and a zone of intense hyperaemia is formed around the pustule. In three or four days it dries to a brownish scab, and this in a few days more falls off leaving behind a slightly pitted spot, which may be red or brown or white in colour: in a short time the spot also dis- appears. Frequently however the course of the disease is much less favourable. Some of the pustules do not heal up without cica- trisation, so that scar-like pits are left which at first are dark-red, but afterwards are white and permanent. This is especially the case when haemorrhage takes place into the pustule, or when the eruption is so copious that the pustules run together (confluent small-pox). The skin appears rough and tuberculated and is much swollen. When the cap of the pustule is forced off by the accumulating pus within, the suppurating corium is laid bare, and parts of it may become necrosed or gangrenous. The affected spots have a dirty grey or black tinge. The variety distinguished as haemorrhagic or black small-pox {variola haemorrhagica or purpura variolosa, Art. 361) is remark- able for the dark-red colour which overspreads the entire surface of the body as the fever sets in. Patches of haemorrhage appear, and soon enlarge in an astonishing way. Death ensues in a few days, and on post-mortem examination haemorrhages are found in various internal organs. In other cases a multitude of small hard papules appear on the skin, which is intensely swollen but not necessarily discoloured; haemorrhagic patches follow in one or two days, and speedily coalesce into larger ones. This form also is apt to end fatally.