18 BLOOD AND LYMPH. [sect. I. a condition described as oligocythaemia. This condition is frequently observed in fevers and in cases of lead or mercury poisoning; it is then an indication of impaired nutrition. In other cases we must assume that the cause lies in the imperfect working of the blood-making organs (Art. 261); but we are frequently unable to say where the fault lies, and then we speak of the condition as essential or idiopathic anaemia. If the elimination of water from the blood be interfered with, as in renal disorders, the blood becomes watery, and the condition is described as hydraemia or hydraemic plethora. Here the watery parts alone are out of proportion, the amounts of the other constituents present are normal. Hydraemia is less often the result of mere retention of water than of morbid diminution in the proportion of albumen contained in the blood, a condition which has been called hypalbuminosis. The diminution depends either on deficient supply or excessive consumption of albumen, or on both together. It is a common resu.lt of chronic disorders of digestion, long continued and profuse discharges from the bowels, dysentery,chronic suppurations, excessive secretion from certain glands (over-lactation), repeated haemorrhages, loss of albumen from renal disease, discharges from disintegrating tumours, etc. Or, as in idiopathic anaemia, we may be unable to trace its source. The proportion of haemoglobin in the blood is diminished both in oligocythaemia and in hydraemia. Normally the blood should contain some 14 grammes of haemoglobin per 100 cubic centimetres ; in anaemia the proportion may fall to 8, 6, or even to 3 grammes. Such blood is limpid, pale, and light red, having much the look of meat-washings. In oligocythaemia the decrease of haemoglobin is accounted for by the diminution in the number of red corpuscles. When the number is normal, either their size (Art. 261 on microcythaemia) or their haemoglobin must be reduced. Both cases occur. In the latter case the individual, corpuscles look strikingly pale under the microscope, as is observed in the blood of chlorosis. Anhydraemia is the opposite of hydraemia; it implies that, while the proportion of albumen in the blood is maintained, the proportion of water and salts is diminished. Blood of this kind appears viscid and tar-like in consistence and colour. In man it is oftenest the result of profuse watery discharges from the bowels, as in cholera, or of excessive loss of water by the skin. In many diseases the proportion of the fibrin-factors in the blood is altered. It is increased (hyperinosis) in all inflammatory disorders, but especially in croupous pneumonia, rheumatism, and erysipelas. It is commonly somewhat increased in hydraemia. The result is that when the blood coagulates the amount of fibrin formed is abnormally great. The proportion of haemoglobin in the blood is subject to considerable variation according to age (Leichtenstern, Untermchungen iib. d. Hiimoglo-