110 THE SPLEEN AND THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS, [SECT. III. elements. Many become fatty and break up into mere lumps of detritus; others undergo coagulative necrosis and change into pale turbid denucleated masses, or into granular flakes of fibrin. Others again are enlarged as if by dropsical swelling; or take on the appearance of formative or fibroblastic cells, being large and granvilar and having bright vesicular nuclei containing nucleoli. Then there are large cells containing within them other lymphoid cells or red corpuscles or fragments of these, and incorrectly called ' brood-cells.' Lastly, there are numbers of pus-corpuscles, with their nuclei broken into two or more fragments. These changes, only recognisable with, the aid of the microscope, are variously combined in different cases; they are followed by the more obvious transformations. Whea resolution occurs the altered leucocytes are re-absorbed and disappear. The gland becomes flaccid, and again appears hyperaemic; it then gradually resumes its normal condition. In suppuration patches of yellowish-white softening appear, and the tissue within them breaks down and liquefies. Not infrequently the entire gland breaks down in like manner forming what is called a suppurating bubo, and the inflammatory process then attacks the neighbouring tissues. If the gland is near the surface of the skin redness and swelling ai'e observed over the site of the bubo. The suppurating gland may then break into the suiTounding tissues, or outwardly if it be superficial. In other instances the pus is partly absorbed, and the rest becomes condensed into a caseous mass. In both cases plastic inflammation- is induced round the seat of suppuration: and fibrous tissue is developed round the remaining portions of the gland, if there be any, thus leading to induration; or round the caseous residue, which is thereby encapsuled. When the gland becomes necrosed, parts or the whole of the gland die outright, take on a dull grey tint, and become very friable or ' rotten.' If putrefaction follows, the tissue becomes dirty, foul-smelling, and semi-liquid. When the tissue was before highly hyperaemic or saturated with extravasated blood, the colour of the necrosed gland may be slaty or even black. Necrotic and putrefactive processes of this kind of course set uj) inflammatory and destructive change in the surrounding tissues. The obliteration and induration of the gland require longer time. They are the result of defective reproduction of the lymphoid elements and excessive production and substitution of fibrous tissue, and properly come under the head of chronic inflammation (Arts. 338—341). Caseation likewise belongs strictly to the domain of the chronic inflammatory processes. 338. Chronic lymphadenitis. The chronic inflammations of lymphatic glands are in general accompanied by increase of their bulk, due to the formation in them of new cellular tissue. This tissue is generally very unstable and reaches only the lowest stage