THE VASCULAR MECHANISM. [sect. II. 40 ductus arteriosus may remain open for a long time ; if the channel be narrow its patency has no importance. Minor deficiencies in the ventricular septum are less common ; they may become of importance if the function of the heart is impaired from other causes. (5) Atresia or stenosis of an auriculo-ventricular orifice. Here the auricle may be shut off from the corresponding ventricle; the septa are always deficient. (6) Deformity of the valves. The valves 'may be stunted, morbidly adherent, misshaxien, or abnormally subdivided in a multitude of ways ; the result may be incompetence or stenosis. The malformations above described are often incompatible with life. In other cases life is possible but the circulation is gravely disordered, which may be indicated during life by extreme cyanosis. Eeferences :—Forster, Handb. d. path. Anat. and Die Misshildungen des Menschen Jena 1865 ; Peacock, Malformations of the human heart London 1866 (with references to the earlier literatm-e); Maier, Allg. path. Anat.; RoKiTANSKY, Die Defecte d. Scheideiotinde d. Herzens Nierma, 1875; Orth, Virch. Arch. vol. 82; AssMUS, Deutsch. Arch. f. Jdin. Med. xx ; Reil, ibid. XVII; Rauchfuss, Gerhardfs Handb. d. Kinderkrankh. vol. iv Tiibingen 1878 ; Taruffi, Sidle mal. congenit. d. cuore Bologna 1875; Greenfield, Ti'ans. Path. Soc. XXVII (1876); Bn'SL, Zeitschr. f. Biologic XYi; Lorenz, Wien. med. Jahrb. 1880; Orth, Virch. Arch. vol. 82, and Lehrb. d. spec. path. Anat. vol. i Berlin 1883; Dilg, Virch. Arch. vol. 91. 272. It is not rare for the heart to be abnormally small in proj)ortion to the body-weight. The condition is described as cardiac hypoplasia. The heart is either abnormally small at birth, or it simply lags behind the body in its grovyth. Thus in adults the heart may be no bigger than it normally is in children of seven or eight. Such extreme cases are rare, but minor degrees are often met w^ith. ViRCHOW showed that cardiac hypoplasia is common in patients suffering from chlorosis or haemophilia. The aorta and arteries in such patients are usually narrow and thiu- walled; while the genital organs, and sometimes the entire bod}^ are ill-developed. General hypoplasia of the vascular system occurs in men as well as in women. As the growth of the heart is in a measure conditioned by the work it has to do, the increased resistance caused by the narrowness of the aorta may bring about a compensatory or functional hypertrophy of the heart-muscle. The abnormal thinness and narrowness of the great arteries are often associated with anomalies in their distribution; and corrugated or lattice-like irregularities of surface are also observed on the inner coat of the aorta. In such cases the aorta is peculiarly liable to fatty change, and to spontaneous rupture. The heart may be misplaced in the thorax ; the most notable case being that of transposition or dexiocardia. This is rarely a solitary malposition (Krieger, Ueb. reine Dexiocardie In. Diss. Berlin 1880), it is nearly always part of a general Sitiis inversus (Art. 11). In cases of fissural malformation of the wall of the thorax and