THE ALIMENTARY TRACT. [sect. VII. rise to minute whitish slightly-raised specks on the mucous mem- brane. These may be sparsely scattered or aggregated into groups on the inner surface of the lips and on the tongue. As they grow and multiply they coalesce into whitish or discoloured films. After a time the film is cast off, the surface beneath appearing red and sometimes eroded. The thrush-film may reappear on the same spot, and the affection may advance gradually till it reaches the pharynx and sometimes even the oesophagus. The fungus grows mainly in the middle layers of the stratified epithelium. The upper layers are thereby raised and shed. The filaments and spores are usually thrust between the cells, though sometimes they penetrate the cell-substance and multiply within it. From the middle layers the fungus may penetrate into the deeper layers and ultimately reach the fibrous structures. According to Wagner and Buhl it may even penetrate the blood-vessels. As it grows dovmwards it sets up inflammation in the deeper tissues. Young children are especially liable to thrush. The fungus may develope in the perfectly healthy mucous membrane of the new-born infant. Its growth is favoured by the use of cows' milk and starchy foods, and by imperfect cleansing of the infant's mouth. Among adults it is nearly always in cases of great weakness or wasting due to diseases like typhoid, septicaemia, phthisis, etc. that thrush makes its appearance. Eeferences :—Axt. 224; Eeubold, Virch. Arch. vol. 7; Burckhardt, Charite-Annalen xii (1864); Grawitz, Virch. Arch. vols. 70, 73; Eeess, Phys.-med. Gesell. zu Erlangen 1877—78 ; Bohn, loc. cit. ; E. Wagner, Jahrh. f. Kinderheilk. 1868. Hypertrophy and Atrophy. 437. The epithelium of the mouth, and especially that of the tongue, is continually being shed and continually renewed by regenerative multiplication. Whenever, as in catarrhal affections, the growth of new epithelium is increased, or the removal of the desquamated cells is impeded, whitish accumulations or deposits are formed on the surface of the mucous membrane. These deposits are often augmented by the remains of food, and by rapidly- growing fimgous parasites which settle in them, and in this way a continuous film or fur is produced. This may assume the most various tints according to the food used, and if the mouth be kept open may dry up into crusts and irregular flakes separated by cracks and fissures. Under long-continued irritation, such as is caused by the constant slight Motion of the tobacco-pipe, by fungous growths, or by syphilis, the oral epithelium may pass into a morbid condition resembling cornification. White streaks and patches on the tongue and cheeks are thus produced, which have received veiy various names. The milky opaline patches {plaques opalines) of syphilis have already been referred to (Art. 435). Schwimmer