136 [sect. IV. THE SEROUS MEMBRANES. The tubercles consist of close-set masses of cells {a), amid which it is seldom easy to distinguish the ordinary tubercle-elements from the products of epithelial proliferation. 357. In the third form of tuberculosis, referred to for dis- tinction's sake as adhesive tuberculous inflammation, the extensive inflammatory changes form the chief character. As in other adhesive or plastic inflammations, abundance of young trans- lucent cellular connective tissue is developed and forms false membranes and adhesions between the different parts. Grey or yellow nodules are scattered through the new-formed tissue, and very often there are also yellowish cheesy foci embedded in it or involving the sero-fibrinous films covering the organs. Tuberculous pericarditis commonly results in complete adhesion of the layers of the pericardium, though cases also occur in which a certain amount of liquid, cellular, or fibrinous exudation persists in the cavity of the sac. The new-formed tissue of the adhesions consists of delicate greyish-red granulations interspersed with dense fibrous bands, and contains grey or yellowish discrete tubercles as well as larger continuous caseous masses. Tuberculous pleurisy is most frequently met with in con- nexion with tuberculous disease of the hmgs. Here too the tubercles are seated either in the young vascular connective tissue or in the dense fibrous cicatrices which are formed. A certain amount of sero-fibrinous effusion is usually present; while the larger diffuse caseous masses are rarely seen. Tuberculous peritonitis is characterised by an abundant development of fibrous tissue, which forms adhesions and false membranes around and between the abdominal viscera. The omentum and mesentery are always more or less thickened ; the former is often transformed into a thick hard nodulated mass, or a mere distorted rope crossing the cavity of the abdomen. The new-formed fibrous tissue, and the thickened and infiltrated serous membrane itself, are beset with tubercles and caseous patches in varying numbers. There may or may not be a liquid ef^ision.