263 CHAP. LIII.] THE STOMACH. disturbances of the blood-supply leading to anaemic necrosis and haemorrhage, to abnormal secretion, or to oedema, we may have noxious matters conveyed by the blood to the membrane, and setting up in it degenerative changes of various kinds. Thus cloudy swelling and fatty degeneration (Arts. 48, 50) of the gland- cells are met with in connexion with many infective and toxic affections, such as small-pox, typhoid, septicaemia, and phosphorus- poisoning. Often the degeneration is so marked as to give rise to obvious macroscopic change, the mucous surface taking on a turbid greyish or yellowish tint. The stomach suffers also in connexion with other general diseases. Thus in cases of generalised amyloid disease the fibrous structures of the gastric blood-vessels are often affected by amyloid degeneration. 453. Morbid changes in the walls of the stomach involve more or less grave disturbance of its digestive functions. This disturbance again may set up others, and these may give rise to further morbid changes of a secondary kind. The gastric secretion in health is such as to induce in the ingested food certain definite chemical changes. If the secretion is from any cause deficient or morbidly altered, the ingesta may under- go abnormal decompositions. These are very often of the nature of fermentations set up by fungi of various kinds. These fungi or their germs are swallowed with the food; but in health they do not de- velope or multiply within the stomach, the gastric secretion being unfavourable to their growth. When however this property of the secretion is altered or inactive, the fungi are free to flourish. Over-distension of the stomach and stagnation of its contents favour the growth of fungi in it. Permanent dilatation may be induced by too frequent or too abundant meals; but it is more commonly due to some obstruction or to atony of the muscular coat. These again may depend on very various causes. In the first place the free passage onwards of the food may be interfered with by such causes as habitual stooping, tight-lacing, the pressure of abdominal tumours, etc. The same effect is produced, but in a much higher degree, by textural changes in the stomach itself— especially by stenosis of the pylorus, inflammatory infiltration and induration of the walls, gastric ulcers and cancers, adhesions to contiguous organs, degeneration and other affections of the muscular coat, etc. And when from any cause the digestive function is dis- ordered, the onward movement of the food may be hindered by the pyloric sphincter refusing to relax, the usual stimulus of the normally-digested chyme being absent (Brucke, Physiologie i). When any of these conditions give rise to considerable accumula- tion of undigested food in the stomach, the fungi grow and multiply, sometimes to an enormous extent. Micrococci, micro- bacteria, bacilli of the most various forms, sarcinae, yeast-fungi, all flourish luxuriantly. In the contents of an atonic and m