CHAPTER XXI. S. P, A, 7 DEGENERATIONS AND INJURIES OF THE SPLEEN. 325. Simple atrophy of the spleen occurs chiefly in aged or marasmic patients, especially in cases of long-standing anaemia. The organ is small, the capsule wrinkled and sometimes thickened. The pulp seems loose and pale, and the trabeculae stand out sharply. Under the microscope the cells of the pulp are seen to be scanty and the blood-vessels imperfectly filled. Amyloid degeneration is the most notable of the retrogressive processes affecting the spleen; two forms of amyloid spleen are distinguished—the ' sago ' spleen, and the ' bacon' spleen. In the sago spleen the malpighian follicles are the seat of the amyloid change. The spleen is generally somewhat enlarged and firmer than is normal. In the brownish- or greyish-red pulp lie light-brown hyaline translucent grains like boiled sago, somewhat larger than the normal follicles. When dilute solution of iodine is poured over the previously-washed surface, the grains become deeply stained of a brownish-red colour : a section steeped for a short time in methyl-violet and then washed in alcohol containing a little hydrochloric acid shows the grains red on a bluish ground. The uniformly lardaceous or bacon spleen is in general very considerably enlarged, and firm and resistent to the touch. On section the pulp shows diffuse or continuous patches which are hyaline or translucent, resembling somewhat the fat of fried bacon. Sometimes the greater part of the pulp is thus transformed, the normal tissue appearing in scattered islets only. The amyloid change mainly affects the trabeculae and the walls of the venous sinuses. The lymj)hoid elements of the follicles and the pulp-cells are affected secondarily. Amyloid trabeculae swell up greatly and become nodulated or varicose. The cells lying in the interstices become atrophied and so perish ; it is possible that some of them may be transformed into amyloid substance. Arteries whose lymphoid sheaths are degenerate may themselves either