CHAP. XXIIT.] HYPERPLASIAS AND TUMOURS OF THE SPLEEN. 101 cells. The section thus assumes a delicately mottled and speckled appearance, the brown and yellow atrophied and pigmented pnlp alternating with greyish and yellowish follicular nodules. The disorders of circulation consequent on these textural alterations often lead to the formation of haemoiThagic infarcts, and these according to their age appear as red, brown, or yellow patches. In old hyperplastic spleens the enlarged follicles are found to have lost their original structure, and form fibro-cellular masses without any clear trace of the reticular or lymphadenoid type. The pulp itself may become more or less fibrous. The changes just described may occur primarily in the spleen, or may follow upon like changes in the lymphatic glands and bone-marrow (Art. 344). In the former case a similar affection of the lymphatic glands is associated with the primary affection of the spleen. Afterwards tumours consisting of lymphadenoid tissue may form in organs which normally contain none of it. The splenic as well as the lymphatic hyperplasia is very often associated with leukaemia (Art. 260), and is therefore often re- ferred to as leukaemic hyperplasia. If no leukaemia exists, the affection is described as pseudoleukaemia or Hodgkin's disease, or as splenic (or lymphatic) anaemia. The latter description refers to the fact that patients suffering from the affection become profoundly anaemic and ultimately die of anaemic exhaustion. We know nothing of the cause of leukaemic or pseudoleukaemic hyper- plasia of the spleen. In some cases the affection has been preceded by some form of injury or infective disease, in other cases there has been nothing of the kind. We are as little able to say whether or not the two forms are identical. Their identity would seem to be indicated by the fact that they show no anatomical differences, and that one form may pass into the other. The affection may occiu* at any age. When the process begins in the lymphatic glands (as in so-called adenia) and attacks the spleen secondarily, it is the lymphoid follicles of the spleen which first exhibit a hyperplastic multiplication of their cells. References:—Art. 344; Hodgkin, i/ed c/m-. Trans. XYii (1832); Virchow, Virch. Arch. vol. 5, and Gesamm. Ahhand. 1856 ; Mosler, Path, und Therap. d. LeuJciimie Berlin 1872, with references to the earlier literature of the subject; PoNPiCK, Virch. Arch. vols. 56, 58 ; Birch-Hirschfeld, Gerhardt's Handh. d. Kinderkrankh. in; Cohnheim, Virch. Arch. vol. 33 ; Trousseau, Clinical Medicine (New Syd. Soc.) v ; Eberth, Virch. Arch. vol. 51 ; Langhans, Virch. Arch. vol. 54; Cornil and Ranvier, Man. Path. Hist, i; Murchison and Sanderson, Trans. Path. Soc. 1869-70, with cases and references; Green- field, GowERS, ibid. 1878; WiLKS, Gu^'s TIosp. Rep. 1865, Lancet 1, 1878, 329. If we leave out of account the hyperplastic enlargements of the spleen just described, which resemble the true tumours in .several respects and especially in the occurrence of associated metastatic growths, we find that primary neoplastic tumours of the spleen are very rare. Fibroma, sarcoma, and angioma, have been met with. Langhans has described (Virch. Arch. vol. 75) a case where an injury was followed by the growth of a pulsating cavernous angioma of the spleen with metastases in the liver, the