THE ALIMENTARY TRACT. [sect. VII. 286 the mucosa. When fully developed these last consist of fibrous tissue enclosing a few remains of glandular structures, which here and there are degenerated into closed cysts. Diphtheritic and croupous inflammations occur chiefly in the colon and in the lower part of the small intestine. The diph- theritic form closely resembles ulcerative catarrh, and is not easily distinguished from it. The intensely red and swollen membrane is covered with a thin but tough film or a broad continuous slough (Art. 472). This form is sometimes at least due to specific in- fection. Croupous inflammation is rarely very extensive, though now and then considerable portions of the bowel are found to be red and highly swollen and covered with a thin flaky fibrinous deposit. Small circumscribed croupous exudations are more frequently met with, associated with ulcerative catarrh and diphtheritic necrosis. Eefereuces :—Wagner, Arch. d. Heilk. ii (1868); Kundrat, Gerliard(s Handbuch d. Kinderkr. iv; Whitehead, Brit. med. Journ. 1, 1871 ; Wood- ward, Med. and $wg. history of the War of the Rebellion Part ii vol. 1 (medical history) Philadelphia 1879 (with references) ; Damaschino, Maladies des voies digestives Paris 1880; Kussmaul and Maier, Arch, f klin. Med. i\; Schwarck, Croup und Diphtheritis d. Darmcanals In. Diss. Bonn 1880; Leube, Ziemssen's Cyclop, vii.; Nothnagel, Zeitschr. f. klin. Med. iv (1882). 471. Inflammations of the bowel have received various names according to the particular parts affected. Several of these local inflammations exhibit peculiarities depending on the anatomical relations of their respective seats. The chief of them are the following. (1) Duodenitis, or inflammation of the duodenum, is usually associated with inflammation of the stomach. It not infrequently leads to obstruction at the mouth of the bile-duct, and thereby to retention of bile and jaundice (catarrhal jaundice). The duodenum is also the seat of simple or perforating ulcer corresponding to perforating ulcer of the stomach, and like it dependent on digestive corrosion (Krauss, Das i^^'^'fi''"^'^^'^^^^ GescJnvilr im Duodenum Berlin 1865). (2) Ileitis, inflammation of the ileum, is often marked by the swelling and prominence of the solitar}'- and agininated follicles. The former appear as reddish or greyish protuberant nodules, the agminated follicles as flat elevations, greyish-red or pink in colour and pitted with numerous little depressions. When these follicles break down they leave behind them follicular ulcers. (4) Typhlitis and perityphlitis imply inflammation of the vermiform appendage and the jiarts around it. The vermiform appendage is peculiarly adapted to catch and retain substances passing through the caecum. Mattel's Avhich have been swallowed—such as grape-seeds, apj^le-pips, cherry-stones, and the like—and faeces, may accumulate in the appendage and set up inflammation. Sometimes these become crusted over with phos-