CHAP. LXIII.] THE PANCKEAS. 351 lungs, or liver which give rise to engorgement of the abdominal veins. Cases however occur in which no such cause can be assigned, and in which we are constrained to assume that the cause is local; but it should be said that it is seldom possible to demonstrate this post mortem. Pancreatic haemorrhage may prove fatal, probably from some depressant or other action upon the semilunar ganglia or solar plexus of sympathetic nerves. Details of the morbid changes afifecting the pancreas will be found in Klebs's Handb. d. path. Anat. i, in Friedreich's Article in Ziemssen's Cyclop. VIII, and in Roberts's Article in Q,uain's Diet, of Med. London 1882. Klebs and Friedreich give full references to the older and the more recent papers on the subject. Pancreatic haemorrhage is discussed by Klebs {op. cit.), Zenker {Natur- forscherversammlung in Breslau 1874), Challand and Ruboni (Bidl. de la soc. med. da la Suisse romaiide 1877), Prince {Boston med. and surg. Journ. 1882), GussENBAUER ( Wie7ier med. Woch. 13, 1883, Medical Times 1, 1883). Zenker describes three cases in which the haemorrhage occurred in strong healthy men and speedily proved fatal. 514. Atrophy of the pancreas is met with in cases of general marasmus, and not infrequently in patients who have died of diabetes. The pressure of neighbouring parts, and overgrowth of the interacinous connective and adipose tissue, may lead to atrophy of the gland-substance by compression. In simple atrophy the acini dwindle and in some places disappear entirely. The affected lobules may look quite normal in colour, or they may be somewhat brown. Fatty degeneration of the gland-cells is likewise met with, and is characterised by the yellowish-white tint it imparts to the parenchyma. It may begin as simple atrophy. Lipomatosis or fatty infiltration of the gland as a whole is of a different nature. It is due to the transformation of the inter- acinous connective tissue into adipose tissue. It may be combined with a certain amount of glandular atrophy, so that in a sense the gland-cells may be said to be replaced by fat. Amyloid degeneration of the vessels and connective tissue of the pancreas is not uncommon in association with amyloid disease in other organs. The gland-cells remain unaltered, or here and there undergo fatty degeneration. Concretions are occasionally but not very often found in the pancreatic duct or its branches. They consist chiefly of calcium carbonate and phosphate. The smallest are as fine as grains of sand, the largest are about the size of a hazel-nut. They are usually round or ovoid, seldom angular or irregular in shape. The surface is sometimes smooth, sometimes uneven. Most of them are white or greyish-white, a few are distinctly grey or brown. They are commonly due to some interference with the free outflow of the secretion, and may occur in large numbers in the same .patient. Inflammation is usually set up around them, and leads