299 CONCRETIONS OF THE INTESTINE. CHAP. LI v.] quently do so. The result is of course stoppage of the faeces; and with this sometimes inflammation, ulceration, and perforation of the intestinal wall. NoTHNAGEL {Zeitsclii: f. liin. Med. iii) found that faeces frequently contain ii peculiar kind of monad. When dead the organisms appear as round sharp- contoured spherules, with little refracting power. When alive they are pear- shaped, with, an actively-moving flagellum at the pointed end. They change their form somewhat rapidly. In all probability they are quite harmless. On enteroliths and intestinal concretions of all lands see Leichtenstern {Zieonssen's Cyclopaedia vii). In liorses and horned cattle these are met with far more frequently than in human beings. The intestine of these animals jxlways contains fragments of vegetable refuse and hairs which have been licked off and swallowed, and such matters form a nucleus for concretions to grow about. The true calculi, met with chiefly in horses, are hard stony balls consisting for the most part of magnesium phosphate. The spongy or false stones consist of felted hairs and fibres which are merely crusted over. Balls are sometimes found composed entirely or almost entirely of hairs ; these go under the name of hair-balls or bezoars or aegagropili (from aypios a wild goat, mXos felt). In ruminants they usually lie in the caecnm or colon, in swine they are more ft-equently found in the small intestine. Friedlandeb {Bed. med. Gesellschaft 1882, Lond. med. Record 1881) recently reported the case of a joiner who was accustomed to suck shellac- varnish, and whose intestine contained a concretion consisting almost wholly of shellac. Alexander {Liverpool med.-chir. Journ. 1882) removed from the intestine of a fowl-dealer a bezoar containing a felted mass of downy hairs which the man had Hcked from his fingers while engaged in plucking poidtry. The origin and composition of intestinal calculi and concretions have been recently studied by Schdberg {Vircli. Arch. vol. 90). He asserts that the intestinal concretions of the herbivora consist chiefly of carbonates, while those of the caruivora are phosphatic. In man the composition of these stones varies with the food habitually used. For cases see Leichtenstern {loc. cit.); Brookhousb, Lancet 2, 1882; Feltz, Bidletin Soc. din. de Paris 1881-82 ; Kbr, Brit. mod. Journ. 2, 1881. According to Bienstock {Fortschritte cl. Medicin 1883) the faeces in health contain various forms of bacilli, of which three appear to have no effect on the contents of the intestine; while another induces the putrid decomposition of albuminoids studied by Nencki, Brieger, Salkowski, and Bergmann (Art. 191), and another effects the decomposition of carbohydrates. Of the last two the former is absent in the faeces of suckling infants. Micrococci are absent or scanty in healthy faeces.