60 [sect. 11. THE VASCULAR MECHANISM. like manner in the lining membrane of the veins when the circu- lation through them is chronically impeded. Fatty degeneration is common in the capillaries (Fig. 127 B), partly as the result of simj)le disorders of circulation, partly of changes in the blood itself such as are met with in infective diseases and in certain forms of poisoning (phosphorus or arsenic). The tunica media may be affected as well as the intima, the fatty change specially attacking the muscle-cells, which in conse- quence often perish outright. The general course of the process is the same as in the case of the intima; but its effect on the functions of the vessels is more serious. Thus degeneration of the middle coat may lead to rupture of the vessel; while calcification follows readily upon fatty change, and the vessel may thus lose its elasticity and contractility, and remain a mere rigid pipe. The cells of the adventitia are found to become fatty in con- nexion with like change either in the interior coats, or in the parenchyma of the surrounding organ; the change has no special significance. Not infrequently the fat found in the meshes of the adventitia is not produced there, but is merely deposited from the lymphatics. See on this subject Virchow (Virch. Arch. vols. 1 and 3, and Gesamm. Abhand. (1856) p. 493); Langhans (Virch. Arch. vol. 36). 288. Amyloid degeneration of the vessels is very frequently met with. As was pointed out in Art. 52 the vascular system is in a special way singled out as the seat of amyloid deposit. In the larger vessels the intima is most apt to be affected ; in the smaller vessels the media, and to some extent the adventitia. Hyaline degeneration (Art. 63) is the term used to describe certain morbid appearances in the vessel-wall, which have certainly not always the same significance. In the first place the term is applied to a peculiar transformation of the intima of the larger vessels, by which it is changed into a homogeneous connective tissue with few nuclei; in this atheroma often takes its rise (Art. 299). A second form of homogeneous change bearing the same name affects chiefly the smallest arterioles and capillaries; it is oftenest observed in the renal glomeruli, in the choroid, and in the brain. In the case of the capillaries the change is preceded by proliferation of the nuclei of the cells (Oeller) ; then homogeneous or hyaline deposits are formed on the exterior of the capillary tube, which are at first scattered but presently aggregate into masses encircling the tube. Thrombi are occasionally formed in the altered capillaries, and after a time they too assume a homogeneous appear- ance. In the arterioles the change may extend to all the coats of the vessel, or be limited to one only; the change may here as in the capillaries be preceded by proliferation of nuclei; and thrombosis may likewise be set up.