THE ALIMENTARY TRACT. [sect. VII. 278 mucosa and submucosa, to fatty and mucoid degeneration of its epithelium, and to amyloid degeneration of its connective tissue. There are however disorders of the intestine other than those connected with the mucous membrane, and affecting the viscus as a whole. The intestine forms a freely moveable tube lying in the abdominal cavity; it is therefore subject to misplacements and displacements of the -whole (or of its parts in relation to each other) -which may give rise to serious disturbances of its function and may even imperil the integrity of its structure. Disease or injury may also affect the intestine from its serous or peritoneal surface. 464. Congenital defects and misplacements. Absence of the -whole or of a large portion of the intestine is met with only in very ill-developed acardiac monsters. Minor deficiencies, constrictions, and occlusions, are somewhat commoner. The anal region is that -which is oftenest imperfectly developed. The allantoid cloaca may persist, that is to say the intestine and the bladder open into a common chamber or orifice. In such cases the bladder is frequently unclosed and the lower bowel absent, so that the ileum communicates directly with the cloaca. In less-marked cases there is merely an imperfect separation of the rectum from the urogenital sinus, into which latter the genital and urinary canals open in the foetus. The anus itself, which is developed from an invagination of the external skin, is wanting, and the condition is described as atresia ani or imperforate anus : and according as the lower end of the bowel is connected with the bladder, the urethra, or the vagina, the atresia is distinguished as vesical, urethral, or vaginal. When the rectum is completely separate from the urogenital sinus, although not in communication with the anal invagination, we have simple atresia ani: the rectum is usually ill-developed. The formation of abnormal septa in the continuity of the intestine is much more rare than atresia of its anal extremity. Abnormal shortness or length of the canal is on the other hand a much commoner anomaly. As common perhaps is the existence of what is called Meckel's diverticulum (Art. 9). This is a cylindrical or flask-shaped appendage, attached to the ileum about a metre or more above the ileo-caecal valve; it is a remnant of the omphalo-mesenteric duct. In rare cases it is connected by a cord with the umbilicus, and in still rarer cases it opens on the exterior just below the umbilicus. Its structure is the same as that of the small intestine. When the abdominal wall is congenitally fissured or saccula- ted, coils of intestine may lodge in the openings so produced. A piece of intestine lodged in a sacculation of the peritoneum is spoken of as a hernia (Art. 465), and a coil or other portion which escapes to the exterior through an opening is called a prolapse.