THE ALIMENTARY TRACT. - [sect. VII. 252 left (follicular ulceration). In chronic catarrhal conditions these changes in the follicles and tonsils may become very marked (angina or pharyngitis granulosa). At the same time the mucous membrane, especially that of the uvula, becomes thickened; and the mucous glands become hypertrophied or distended, and project above the surface like small granulations. Accumulations of shed epithelium and pus-corpuscles collect in the crypts of the enlarged tonsils, forming grey or yellowish plugs which occasionally become calcified. The tonsils may also become permanently enlarged as a result of chronic or often-repeated inflammation; in other cases they become atrophied or shrunken. When they are enlarged the chief seat of hjrperplasia is the lymphadenoid tissue, which appears more diffused and less markedly aggregated into follicles than is normal. When they shrink it is the lymphadenoid tissue which disappears, its place being partly taken by ordinary fibrous tissue. Inflammation of the tonsils is apt to issue in the formation of small tonsillar abscesses, which break through the surface and evacuate their contents. The site of such an abscess is afterwards marked by a cicatrix. 443. One of the most important forms of inflammation to which the throat is liable is the diphtheritic inflammation, most familiarly known in connexion with diphtheria. As we have already seen (Arts. 424—426), diphtheritic inflam- mation of a mucous membrane is associated with the necrosis of the epithelial layers only (superficial form), or of the epithelial and fibrous layers together (parenchjrmatous form). In the pharynx the process begins with the formation of small round greyish filmy patches on a red and swollen base. The grejdsh film is at first thin and soft, but presently it becomes thicker and more yellowish, or if haemorrhage takes place it becomes brown or black. The patches are sometimes few and isolated, or numerous and confluent, in which case they often form large dense masses or false membranes. At first these patches or masses are closely adherent to the underlying tissue, afterwards they are loosened and can readily be removed or are cast off spontaneously. Often the underlying surface of the mucous membrane appears to be intact; it is reddened but there is no perceptible loss of substance : this is the case in superficial diphtheritis. In other cases a visible erosion or ulcer remains when the false membrane is removed : this indicates deep or parenchymatous diphtheritis. The floor of the ulcer is red or dirty grey, the latter showing that the necrotic in- flammation has extended still deeper into the mucous membrane. The seat of the diphtheritic patches varies much in different cases, as may be observed in the living patient as well as post mortem. Sometimes the tonsils are the parts most affected, in other cases the palate and uvula, and often enough the epiglottis and the entrance to the larynx.