[sect. V. 192 THE SKIN. they constitute the chief seat of the cellular growth, they become enlarged and elongated, and the wart becomes papillomatous. The epidermis covering a smooth wart is not usually thickened, and the wart is therefore soft (verruca mollis or carnea). In the case of rough warts the epidermis is generally hypertrophied (Fig. 157 a), and between the elongated papillae are formed dense concentric clusters or ' pearls' of horny cells (Fig. 157 b): the wart is therefore hard {verruca dura). The significance of these cutaneous growths in relation to the aetiology of tumours has ah'eacly been discussed (Art. 179). Inasmuch as they are usually congenital or appear in the first few years of life, it is not uunatm-al to regard them as uutransformed remnants of embryonal tissue, which on occasion proceed to grow and to develojje after birth. Demieville has recently ( Virch. Arch. vol. 81) investigated the uatui'e of pigmentary moles and naevi, and thinks the cellular nests and clusters are derived from the adventitia of the blood-vessels. Von Eecklinghausen {Die multiplen Fibrome der Haul Berlin 1882), who deals mainly with soft warts, thinks the cell-groups are developed in the lymphatics and lymph-spaces, and regards the growth as a lymphangio-fibroma. The name cannot be regai'ded as very apt, for the term fibroma is inapplicable to a structure almost wholly made up of cells. Von Recklinghausen makes out that the cells first appear in the papillary layer of the cutis, and penetrate from this into the substance of the papillae themselves : but this is true only in certain cases. In papillomatous warts and in the smaller pigmented moles the characteristic cells often lie altogether or nearly so in the papillae. When the cell-groups are few in number they are seen to lie around the vessels, but when they are more numerous no such relation can be made out. 399. Fibromata of the skin are of two kinds, the hard and the soft. The soft variety is the more common, and is referred to as fibroma molluscum. The tumoui-s so called vary in size from that of a millet-seed to that of a man's head. The smallest of them lie embedded and hidden in the skin, but the larger ones (often spoken of as ' wens,' Art. 404) are generally protuberant and often stalked {fibroma ■pendulum). They are always soft and flaccid, and the surface is usually wrinkled. As a rule they are multiple and sometimes appear in enormous numbers, so that the skin is thickly beset with smooth or wrinkled or pendulous growths of all sizes. The skin of the trunk is the favourite seat. There are usually a few large tuberous growths among the multitude of smaller ones. The tumours consist of greyish semi-translucent moist-looking tissue, composed of thin flattened spindle-cells and delicate fibrillae. > Some forms are firmer than others: the less firm varieties are rich in small cells and the fibrillation of the intercellular tissue is indistinct; the firmer varieties have fewer cells and are markedly fibrous, but in no case is the tissue so coarsely fibrous as that of the normal cutis. The growths are developed in the reticular layer of the cutis (Fig. 159), and when they project above the surface of the skin the papillae are thinned and flattened out.