CHAP. XX.] HYPERAEMIA AND INFLAMMATION OF THE SPLEEN. 95 white tint. In very rare cases the entire substance suppurates; the spleen being changed into a grey or greyish-red creamy mass. Circumscribed suppurations are commoner. The tissue about to break down takes on a greyish or yellowish-white colour, and then becomes diffluent or liquid, forming splenic abscesses. These occur chiefly in pyaemic affections, and in relapsing fever (Ponfick) ; that is to say in affections depending on bacterial in- vasion of the blood. The tissue around a splenic abscess is generally discoloured and infiltrated with pus ; it is less usual for the abscess to be shut off by an enclosing membrane of granulation-tissue. The abscess often breaks through the capsule; and should the pus enter the peri- toneal cavity, fatal peritonitis ensues. But if adhesions have previously been set up between the spleen and the stomach-wall or diaphragm or colon, the abscess may break into the stomach or thorax or intestine. See Besnier (Ai-t. Rate in Diet, eneyclop. d. sciences med.\ Ponpick (Virch. Arch. vol. 60), MosLEK {Ziemssen^s Cyclop, viii), Wardell {Reynolds' Syst. of Med. v). 323. Passive hyperaemia of the spleen follows upon such disorders of the circulation as interfere with the flow of blood through the splenic vein. Such are affections of the liver on the one hand, of the heart and lungs on the other. Cirrhosis of the liver is the chief of the former class, inasmuch as it often leads to the obliteration of the greater number of the portal capillaries within the liver. When engorgement of the spleen has persisted for some time, the organ is usually found to be either normal in size or somewhat enlarged: it is rarely diminished. It is commonly more cup-shaped than in health, and the edges are more rounded. It is always firmer and sometimes actually hard, owing to the density of the pulp, which may be bright-red or dark in colour. Hardly any of the pulp can be scraped off from the section; the trabeculae stand out sharply; and the capsule is often thickened. The chief textural alteration in such a spleen is the increased amount of fibrous tissue it contains, the increase appearing in the trabeculae and in th"e walls and sheaths of the vessels. The venous sinuses are of course dilated. Occasionally the reticulum of the pulp is found to be slightly thickened. Anaemia of the spleen, such as follows upon great haemorrhage, is manifested by the very pale colour of the tissue. 324. Embolic infarctions of the spleen, or the cicatrices to which they give rise, are very often to be observed in the post-mortem room. The emboli are generally derived from endocarditic vegeta- tions or from thrombi of the heart or aorta. The infarcts are of various sizes; small ones may be as large as a cherry, larger ones