6 [sect. 1. BLOOD AND LYMPH. The abnormal matters which gain access to the blood may be in very various states of aggregation. Most commonly they are in the form of gases or liquids; but the blood is likewise not infrequently polluted by the admission of solid coi-puscular matters. These latter have by far the greatest interest to the pathologist, for they are demonstrable by means of the microscope. We cannot regard the blood as a liquid whose chemical composition is variable or indefinite. Experiment shows that the proportions of albuminoids, salts, iron, etc. which it contains are constant within narrow limits, and that its composition is main- tained by nicely-adjusted assimilation and elimination of material. We must therefore look upon any serious variation from the normal in the composition of the blood as a pathological phenomenon. The blood is in fact a definite living tissue. Although the changes that occur in the composition of the blood are by no means so important as were formerly believed, though we no longer consider the juices and 'humours' to be the seat of all diseases, yet we should be in error if we regarded the blood as nothing more than a solution of various chemical substances. The blood always contains living cells, and these fulfil definite vital functions. And even if the red corpuscles are so transformed from the ordinary cell-type that some deny their right to the title of living cells, the life and activity of the white blood-cells is un- mistakeable, and they are an essential constituent of the blood. In disease, too, the blood comports itself as a living tissue. We may have localised death or necrosis in a solid tissue, and we may likewise have a localised death of the blood. The retrogressive and formative changes in cells and intercellular substance, which we have recognised as the manifestation of diseased function in the solid tissues, have their analogues in the elements of the blood. Many of the morbid processes affecting the blood are thus manifested not merely by changes in its chemical composition, but by simultaneous changes in the form and quantity of its morpho- logical elements ; and in many diseases the morbid activity of the white blood-cells plays a highly important part.