THE SKIN. [sect. V. 174 liquid contents of the vesicle already contain numerous free cells and pus-corpuscles (/J. As the pock becomes a pustule the number of pus-corpuscles which pass into the cavity from the papillary vessels increases, and the shreds and septa break dowoi. The pustule dries into a crust, the infiltrated cells are re-absorbed, and repair begins under the crust starting from the margins where the epidermal cells are uninjured. A pock like that in Fig. 153 leaves no scar behind it, as nothing is destroyed which is not completely replaced. When the inflam- mation is more intense the process of healing is different, inasmuch as the papillae themselves break down or suppurate. Complete repair is no longer possible, and the site of the pock is marked by a cicatricial depression (pock-mark or pit). A pock in which the papillary layer suppurates is sometimes called a diphtheritic pock. Recent researches have made it probable that small-pox is due to the invasion of a specific bacterium (Art. 204). Weigert (Anat. Beitrdge zur Lehre von den Pocken Breslau 1874) thinks the first effect of the virus is to produce necrosis of the epidermal cells, and that all the other phenomena are due to the reaction set up in consequence of this necrosis. This view seems somewhat one-sided. Even if we grant that the virus has a destructive action on the epidermis, there appears no reason to doubt that it has also an injurious effect upon the vessels, producing in their walls the alterations which lead to the phenomena of inflammation. The early appearance of the exudation is in favour of such an inference, and the epidermal changes above described foUow naturally upon the exudation. Unna's statement (Virch. Arch. vol. 69)—that the pock is seated on the deepest or basal stratum {stratum luddmn) of the horny layer—Ziegler has not been able to confirm : but their researches were not carried out on the same part of the body. Ziegler found that the vesicles were seated above the rete Malpigliii only in cases where a certain amount of regenerative epidermal proliferation had taken place on the floor of the cavity. The mode in which this would tend to raise the pock towards the surface has been pointed out in Ai-t. 374 (Fig. 149). Fig. 153 shows how the regenerative growth of the epidermis near the papilla b on the left margin tends to thi'ust the vesicle upwards. The umbilication of the vesicle has given rise to some controversy. Rind- FLEiscH {Pathological Histology vol. i London 1872) and Hebra {Diseases of the skin i) think the roof of the cavity is held down by the persistence of the tubes of the hair-folUcles and sweat-glands. Auspitz and Basch ( Virch. Arch. vol. 28) maintain that the distension of the middle parts by the exudation does not keep pace with the elevation of the margins by infiltrative swelling. Wiegert states that the shreds and partial septa which cross the cavity suflQce to hold down the cap in its centre. Probably both the factors emphasised by the latter authors come into play. The vesicles of vaccinia, produced by vaccination, have the same structure and pass through the same stages as the variolous vesicle. The eruption does not tend to become general. Chicken-pox or varicella is a febrile disease characterised by eruptions of vesicles in successive crops, and caused by a specific contagium. The vesicles start in rosy shghtly-raised spots, which speedily become infilti-ated and distended with a clear Hquid; they are usually sm-rounded by a reddened areola. They may be as large as a split pea, and are sometimes umbilicated. In a day or two their contents become turbid, and then they rupture or dry up into dark adherent scabs. As the scab separates a reddish stain is left, which usually disappears in a few days.