[sect. V. 178 THE SKIN. being infiltrated with inflammatory products and undergoing progressive molecular disintegration. Many ulcers have granu- lations covering their floors, which however show no great tendency to cicatrisation. Ulcers vary greatly in their outward appearance. Usually the floor is covered with a greyish film consisting of pus and necrotic tissue. The surface of the floor may be smooth, or nodulated, or irregularly excavated. The edges may be raised or undermined, or abrupt and sharply cut or sloping ; they may be regularly rounded or sinuous or serrated. The surrounding parts may be intensely red and swollen or altogether unaltered, they may be hard and densely infiltrated or soft and oedematous. The liquid exuded from the surface may be scanty or abundant, limpid or thick and creamy. Crusts or gum-like pellicles are often formed as the exudation dries, or the ulcer may be covered over with a dirty-looking diphtheritic film. An ulcer is generally the result of necrosis befalling a portion of skin which has previously been infiltrated with inflammatory products. The progressive disintegration of tissue, in consequence of which the ulcer grows in size, depends either on something in the nature of the tissue, or on the character of the injurious agent which sets up the inflammation; the latter being the more frequent factor. The following varieties are distinguished by their special mode of origin. (1) The varicose ulcer. This is primarily due to engorge- ment and dilatation of cutaneous veins and consequent oedematous infiltration of the tissues: comparatively slight injury is then enough to induce abundant cellular infiltration, and this passes into suppuration and necrosis. The ulcer granulates readily, but does not heal so long as the exciting cause persists. Not only does it fail to 'skin over', but it often continues to extend over the surface and may reach an enormous size. The surrounding fibrous tissues become thickened in consequence of the long-standing- oedema and the formation of new tissue. The granulations have no special characters, and may be scanty or exuberant ('proud flesh'). The epidermis bordering on the granulations often thrusts in prolongations and ofif-shoots into the midst of them, but does not advance regularly over their surface. The tissues around and underlying the ulcer usually show signs of persistent engorgement, such as cyanotic discoloration, desquamation of the epidermis, dilated veins, oedematous infiltration, etc. The leg and foot are the commonest sites. (2) The soft chancre or chancroid. This is a contagious localised venereal affection, beginning some twenty-four hours after infection as a vesicle or pustule, and rapidly becoming an ulcer with a yelloAvish base and reddened border. It grows by