BLOOD AND LYMPH. 26 [sect. T. as in the case of bums, always brings about a considerable amount of disintegration among the corpuscles. Many of them crumble into fragments and dissolve (PONFICK, Klebs) ; others, without being actually seen to break up, are rendered functionally useless and presently disappear. The products of disintegration circulate for a time in the blood, and are then at length eliminated. Certain chemically-active substances act on the red corpuscles in the same way as high temperature; such are nitrobenzol (Filehne), potassium chlorate (Marchand), pyrogallic acid (Neisser), sulphuric acid (Leyden and Munk), nitrite of amyl (Hoppe-Seyler), certain mushrooms of the morel kind (Ponfick), and the venom of certain serpents (Halford). Ponfick has shown that when blood from one animal is transferred into the vessels of another the foreign red corpuscles become dissolved. In patients suffering from intermittent hae- moglobinuria Lichtheim showed that cooling of the cutaneous surfaces caused a great number of the red corpuscles to break up and dissolve in the plasma (Art. 259). Lastly in so-called melan- aemia, a result of malarial infection, the blood-change is due to the destruction of the corpuscles and the retention of the disintegrated products in the blood. The effect is that the plasma contains granular pigment either free or enclosed in cells or agglomerated into irregular masses. On the destruction of red corpuscles after burns see Ponfick {Natimfor- scherversam. Munich 1877, Berl. klin. Woch. 46, 1877), Lesser (Virch. Arch. vol. 79, with references), Catiano {Virch. Arch. vol. 87), Hoppe-Seyler {Zeitschr. f. phys. Chem. 1881), Tappeiner {Cent. f. d. med. Wiss. 21 and 22, 1881). On paroxysmal or intermittent haemoglobinuria see Lichtheim {Samm. klin. Vortrdge 134, with full references), Bollinger {Deutsch. Zeitschr. f. Thiermed. in), Boas {Arch.f. klin. Med. xxxii), Eosenbach {Berl. klin. Woch. 10, 1880), Ehrlich {Deutsche med. Woch. 16, 1881). On melanaemia see MosLER {Ziemssen's Cyclop, viii), Colin {Traite des fievres intermitt. Paris 1870), Arnstein {Virch. Arch. vol. 61), Kelsch {Arch, de physiol. 1875). On the effect of transfusion see Ponfick (Virch. Arch. vol. 62). On poisoning with potassium chlorate see Marchand {Virch. Arch. vol. 77), and with mushrooms Ponfick (Virch. Arch. vol. 88) and Bostrom {Phys.-med. Gesell. zu M-langen 1880). Birch-Hirschfeld {Be7-l. klin. Woch. 36, 1879) describes, under the name of epidemic haemoglobinuria of infants, a disease observed by Winkel in the Dresden Lying-in Hospital; it attacked suclding children, who rapidly perished with symptoms of destructive change in the blood, cyanosis, jaundice, haemoglobinuria, and petechial eruptions. Its cause is unknown.