CHAP. XXXVIIt.] INFLAMMATIONS OF THE SKIN. 169 to that of a goose's egg. The vesicles are usually preceded by red spots and wheals, but they may rise on what seems unaltered skin. The contents are at first clear and watery, or it may be slightly blood-stained; but afterwards they become turbid and purulent. The exudation at length dries up and crusts are formed, under which the lost epidermis is reproduced {pemphigus vulgaris). In other cases the regeneration of the epidermis does not at once take place, and the separation of the epidermal layer covering the bleb extends, so that at length a large area of the cerium may be denuded {pemphigus foliaceus). When the skin of the bleb is removed the exposed surface is red and moist until a crust is formed from the superficial exudations. In such cases the corium is always more or less infiltrated, and sometimes it may in part become necrotic and break down {pemphigus malignus and diphtheriticus). Granulations are then produced, but they too are very liable to necrosis (Kaposi). The smaller vesicles are usually loculated, the large blebs are single. The under-surface of the epidermal shell of the bleb is often beset with epithelial projections, which have been pulled out of the tubes of the hair-follicles. Foiir chief forms of pemphigus are distingiushed according to their clinical characters (Kaposi). (1) Pemphigus acutus is an acute affection manifested by an eruption of scattered blebs, with or without fever. The blebs last a few hours and then dry up into crusts. When these fall off the corium is covered with new epidermis, and the attack is at an end. (2) Pemphigus chronicus vulgaris is characterised by the formation of large tense blebs, accompanied by a certain amount of fever. The eruption takes place by successive crops. According to the mode in which the blebs are grouped, we have pemphigus disseminatus (scattered irregularly), pemphigus confertus (closely aggregated), pemphigus circinatus (in circles), and pemphigus gyratus or serpiginosus (in convoluted or imdulating lines). The disease lasts from two to six months, and sometimes ends fatally. GtIBLER {Gaz. de Paris 1881) asserts that febrile pemphigus is a bacterial affection. (3) Pemphigus foliaceus is the severest form of the disease. It is distinguished by its ]3rogressive character and the imperfect way in which the lost epidermis is reproduced. After months or years the entire surface of the body may be affected. The skin is then in places brown and parchment- like, in others red and weeping; the spots are covered with crusts and fissured in various ways. (4) Pemphigus syphiliticus is considered in Art. 386. 385. Eczema is a skin-disease which may be acute or chronic; the eruption consists of papules, vesicles, or pustules; the skin is more or less reddened and swollen, and desquamates, or ' weeps,' or is covered with large continuous scabs. Eczema is set up by ex- ternal irritation. When the irritation is slight the eruption con- sists of small papules, and thus eczema papidosum is the mildest variety. Somewhat more intense irritation causes small vesicles to arise, and we have eczema vesicidosum; when the vesicles dry