CHAPTER LVII. DISORDERS OF THE HEPATIC CIRCULATION. 483. Anaemia of the liver is either secondary to general anaemia, or the result of local causes. Thus pressure on the liver from without, or swelling of the liver-cells, may diminish the amount of blood present in the capillaries. The anaemic tissue is pale, and yellow or brown according to the amount of bile-pigment and of fat present in the cells. It must not be forgotten however that the distribution of the blood in the liver may be notably altered after death by the coagulation of the liver-cells and the pressure exerted on the organ by the neighbouring parts; and the tint may thereby be affected in a marked degree. Congestive hyperaemia is a very common condition of the liver, and may be either physiological (as after a meal) or patho- logical, as in the early stages of inflammation or in affections which determine an increased afflux of blood to the intestine. If the congestion is great the volume of the liver may be much in- creased, and its tissue assumes a livid or brownish-red hue. Passive hyperaemia or venous engorgement of the liver gives rise to very characteristic changes, especially when it has lasted for some time. As the liver lies very near to the right heart, every obstruction to the circulation (whether due to changes in the cardiac valves or in the lungs) which produces ' back-pressure' in the right auricle and descending vena cava, makes itself felt in the hepatic veins. The most usual causes of such obstruction are tricuspid disease, emphysema or cirrhosis of the lungs, and mitral disease. When the engorgement is of recent standing the liver appears enlarged and full of blood, while the central parts of the lobules are dark or livid. When it is more advanced the liver usually diminishes in size, and its surface is often uneven, granular, or somewhat irregularly knobbed. On section it has a characteristic nutmeg-appearance (hence it is called ' nutmeg-liver'), the dark centre of each lobule contrasting strongly with the pale periphery.