[sect. VIII. 348 THE LIVER AND PANCREAS. When concretions form in the ducts within the liver, more or less intense inflammatory change is frequently set up around them. This change may be limited to an abundant cellular infiltration of the duct-wall and the adjoining tissue, which after a time leads to the formation of new fibrous tissue (Art. 496). Or when the retained bile becomes decomposed the inflammation often takes on a destructive character and ends in an abscess : this again may break and lead to local or general peritonitis. Eeferences:—Beneke, Deutsches Arch. f. klin. Med. 1876; Fiedler, Jahresber. d. Gesell.f. Nat. imd Heilk. zu Dresden 1879 ; Schuppel, Ziemssen's Cyclop. IX, with full references ; Frerichs, Leberhrankheiten, Diseases of the liver II London 1862 ; Both, Correspondenzblatt f. Schweizer Aerzte xi (1881); Peterssen-Borstel, Gallensteinbildiong in ihrer Beziehung zu Krebs mid Eml- arteriitis chron. In. Diss. Kiel 1883. 511. We said in the last Article that the bile-ducts sometimes become dilated behind an obstructing concretion. The seat and extent of the dilatation depend of course on the seat of obstruction. Closure of the common duct leads to accumulation and stagnation of the bile in the gall-bladder as well as in the hepatic dvxct and its branches. Closure of one of these branches naturally affects the bile and the smaller ducts of the corresponding region and no other. A duct may be closed either by concretions forming within it, or by inflammatory growths or tumours in or near its wall. Parasites, such as the round-worm or the Distoma, sometimes creep into the ducts from the intestine, and occlude them. The secretion which accumulates behind an obstruction is not always simply bile. When the cystic duct is occluded it is plain that no bile can collect in the gall-bladder. When therefore this becomes distended it is owing to the secretion of a mucous liquid from the mucus-glands in its lining membrane. This condition is described as dropsy of the gall-bladder. Something similar takes place in the ducts. When a portion of a duct containing mucus-glands becomes abstricted, a mucous secretion may be poured out and distend it. Cysts of various sizes, and having smooth slimy walls, are thus formed within the liver. According to VON Kecklinghausen {Virch. Arch. vol. 84) this is the usual mode of origin of the small cysts which are found lying just beneath the serous membrane of the liver. In these cases there has at no time been any retention of bile; the vasa aberrantia of the biliary ducts (Ferrein) have simply become distended by the mucous secretion of their own glands. Some cysts of the liver are due to the distension of the lymphatics with accumulated lymph. When no secretion is poured into a gall-bladder whose duct is obstructed, the normal contents sometimes become inspissated or even calcified. The bladder itself usually shrinks; while if inflam- mation is set up within it its walls may become notably thickened or in some parts ulcerated.