CHAP. LIV.] DISPLACEMENTS OF THE INTESTINE. 279 But apart from these protrusions the intestine is very frequently misplaced, especially when some segment of it is abnormally short or long. Owing to its normally fixed position displacements of the colon are the most easily I'ecognised. The caecum, for instance, varies much in position; it may lie either below or above the line joining the anterior superior spines of the ilia. The level of the hepatic and splenic flexures differs much in different persons. The length of the sigmoid flexure and of the transverse colon is very variable. In some cases the latter may be absent altogether, the ascending and descending portions lying side by side on the right of the abdomen. Enterocystomata (Roth, Virch. Arch. vol. 86) are structures allied to the congeuital diverticula of the intestine. They are closed sacs filled with liquid, and exhibiting the same structure as the walls of the bowel. Two forms may be distinguished—(I) cysts due to the sacculation and absti-iction of portions of an otherwise normally developed intestine : (2) cysts due to some abnor- mality of development in the foetus. These latter may in reality be portions of the intestine of a rudimentary twin and therefore teratoid in character, or depend on the closure and separation of an anomalous diverticulum such as Meckel's. They may increase greatly in size fi'om accumulated secretion, and then become displaced from their original site. 465. Acquired deformities and displacements. Abdomi- nal hernia or 'rupture' in the stricter sense implies the escape from the abdominal cavity of some part of its normal contents either to the exterior or into some other cavity of the body. In external hernia some viscus which is covered with peritoneum escapes outwards through a normal opening which has become abnormally dilated, pushing before it the subperitoneal structures and the skin. The protruded layer of the parietal peritoneum forms the hernial sac. It can be absent only when the peritoneum has been torn or when the displaced viscus is extraperi- toneal (such as part of the bladder or caecum) and protrudes directly through some opening in the fascia or muscles of the abdominal wall. The other tissues which are forced outwards with the hernia are spoken of as the accessory coverings of the hernial sac. The inner layer or covering consists of the subperitoneal cellular tissue, which is usually thickened and toughened (peritoneal fascia). In femoral and inguinal hernia the true fascia (fascia propria) comes next, and is continuous with the fibrous structures bounding the orifice in the abdominal wall through which the hernia has escaped. At first the hernial sac is simply globular or saucer-shaped; when fully developed it is in general flask-shaped. The narrower part of the sac where it is gripped by the structures of the orifice is called its neck. The peritoneum is drawn into radial folds as it passes towards the neck of the sac. The contents of a hernia are very various. Most commonly they consist of a part of the omentum or small intestine, less commonly the caecum or colon, and still less commonly other