326 [sect. VIII. THE LIVER AND PANCREAS. may be single or multiple. The remaining parts of the liver show a greater or less degree of turbid swelling, sometimes accompanied by extravasations of blood which become slaty-grey in colour when putrefaction sets in. In abscess from a suppurating wound of the liver some traces of the original injury are usually to be seen. In biliary abscess (if we may so describe it) the pus is mingled with bile or with biliary concretions. When the abscess lies immediately beneath the serous membrane the latter is more or less intensely inflamed. The size of hepatic abscesses varies; it may extend to almost an entire lobe. Minute multiple abscesses sometimes coalesce into larger ones. In very many cases abscess of the liver, or the injury to which it is secondary, Ijrings about the death of the patient. But when death does not take place, granulation-tissue is developed around the abscess-cavity and forms for the rest of the tissue a kind of protecting membrane. Small abscesses may disappear, their con- tents being entirely absorbed; and a scar varying in size with the size of the abscess is left. Larger abscesses may becon^e notably contracted by absorption and inspissation of the pus. The inspis- sated pus is always enclosed by a tough and thickened fibrous wall, and sometimes becomes calcified. Abscesses frequently break into surrounding parts. This issue is the most favourable when adhesions have been set up between the liver and the wall of the abdomen or of the intestine, and the pus is then evacuated through the adherent parts to the outside of the body or into the bowel. Even rupture through the diaphragm into a bronchus is not entirely unfavourable; but rupture into the cavity of the pleura, pericardium, or peritoneum, is highly dangerous. General inflammation of the corresponding serous membrane is the result, unless the previous adhesions between the liver and other viscera are such as to limit the extension of the inflammatory process. Keferences:—Frerichs, Klinih d. Leherkrankheiten, Diseases of the liver II Loudon 1862; Virchow, Virch. Arch. vol. 4; Traube, Gesain. Abhaiidl. n; Rouis, Rech. sxir les suppurations end4m. du foie Paris 1860; Bamberger, Virchow's Handh. d. spec. Path. 1864; Buckling, 36 Fdlle v. Leberabscess In. Diss. Berlin 1868; Klebs, Handh. d. path. Anat. ii; Ackermann, Virch. Arch. vol. 45; Heinemann, ibid. vol. 58; Thierfelder, Atlas d. path. Hist. plate XV, Ziemssen's Cyclop, ix, with full references to the older papers ; M'CoN- NELL, Indian annals of med. sci. 1873; many papers by Murchison, Bris- TOWE, QuAiN, and others in the earlier vols, of the Trans. Path. Soo.; Murchison, Diseases of the liver Loudon 1877; Lebert, Arch. f. klin. Med. vi; BiRCH-HiRSGHFELD, Arch. f. HcUk. XIV; Hirsch, Handb.' d. histor.-geog. Path. II (trans, by Creighton, New. Syd. Soc). Chronic indurative hepatitis and Cirrhosis. 496. Diffuse chronic indurative hepatitis, like purulent hepatitis, depends on noxious influences which reach the liver by