151 CHAP. XXXVIII.] INFLAMMATIONS OF THE SKIN. The effect of such inflammations on the skin is generally very slight. The exudation being mainly liquid is readily and speedily re-absorbed, and there is often nothing left to indicate the existence of the affection. In some cases the surface layers desquamate in the form of thin scales and shreds, or if haemorrhage has occurred some slight pigmentation remains, though this also disappears after a short time. 367. The causes of these slight inflammations are exceed- ingly various. They occur after external injuries of many kinds, as accessory symptoms in certain infective diseases, and in affec- tions of the internal organs. Frequently no cause at all can be assigned; now and then they seem to be due to a neurosis of the vaso-motor mechanism. Special mention must be made of the following forms, among the many which ocoiu"; they are distinguished by their special course and symptoms. (1) The eruption of measles {morbilli, rubeola) appears fii-st on the face, forehead, and temples, and thence extends over the back of the neck, the shoulders, and the trunk. It forms dull red or raspberry-coloured patches of the size of the finger-nail or larger, with a tendency to crescentic grouping ; the patches are either level with the sldn, or slightly raised into papules correspond- ing to the openings of the hair-foUicles. The skin and subcutaneous tissue, especially in the face, are somewhat swollen and oedematous. The patches may rim together here and there but they never become quite confluent. In a few horns after its appearance the eruption becomes pale, leaving the skin faintly yellow ; and presently a slight branny desquamation follows. (2) The eruption of scarlatina appears first on the neck and clavicular region, and thence extends over the back and breast to the limbs. At first it takes the form of minute red dots closely crowded together and giving the skin a diffuse or uniform tint. The tint is at first pink, afterwards deep red, livid, or scarlet. The skin is swollen and infiltrated. The eruption lasts one to three days, and occasionally as long as six or seven ; it then fades and leaves the skin stained of a yellowish-brown. Afterwards the epidermis desquamates in flakes and scales of various sizes ; if the flakes are large the desquamation is called membranaceous, if small and thin it is furfm-a- ceous. Occasionally the eruption is papular, tubercular, or vesiciilar [scarlatina papulosa, vesiadaris, pemphigoides), and not iufi-equently it is haemorrhagic {scarlatina haemorrhagica). The exudation poured out into the connective tissue is somewhat rich in cells. (3) Erythema exudativum multiforme. According to Kaposi this afiection begins as an eruption of flat slightly-prominent circumscribed and scattered spots {erythema laeve) on the back of the hands and feet and the neighbouring parts of the arm and leg. The spots are at first the size of a pin-head but presently grow to that of a pea; they are vermilion in colour and turn pale when pressed. They grow at the margins while the centre becomes depressed and cyanotic; the larger spots may become confluent. Haemor- rhages not infrequently occur. As the red margin extends and the centre fades we have erytliema annulare ; if several rings encroach on each other we have erythema gyratum; a red spot surrounded by a pale , zone and that by a red zone constitutes erythema iris; if the emption becomes papular it is erythema papulatum; if there are wheals it is erythema tcrticatum or lichen urticatus; if vesicles are formed ei-ythema vesiculosmn. If the formation of