CHAP. LX.] SYPHILITIC INFLAMMATIONS OF THE LIVER. 335 liver-tissue becomes less and less visible, being reduced to mere isolated patches and fragments (Fig. 194 c) and at length in the fibrous zone disappearing altogether. Sometimes this is all that is found, but in other cases the fibrous node contains within it a caseous patch from the size of a pin's head to that of a cherry or larger. The patch if recent is surrounded by a grey semi-transluc- ent areola of cellular tissue (Fig. 193). In the later stages it is directly enclosed by the fibrous zone, though isolated cellular foci may persist for a long time in the neighbourhood of the node. Such a node is referred to as a gumma or gummatous node (Art. 130). In rare cases two or more gummata are included in the same scar, and occasionally there is none at all. Similar gummata are met with also in the deeper parts of the liver; there may be as many as thirty or more of them. When the scars are numerous the liver becomes lobulated by their contraction. As described in Art. 130 the centre of the node consists of homogeneous denucleated necrotic tissue, or of granular detritus: the grey areola and the cellular foci are made up of granulomatous tissue. The materials in the centre are the remains of the liver- tissue infiltrated and destroyed in consequence of the syphilitic inflammation. The inflammatory process resulted primarily in the formation of a kind of granulation-tissue; but this was not completely transformed into new fibrous tissue, part of it becoming necrotic and ultimately caseous. The non-formative or rather destructive character of the syphilitic inflammation is due either to some peculiar property of the syphilitic vii'us, or to the rapid occlusion of the smaller blood-vessels (portal and arterial) by specific endophlebitis and endarteritis. 500. Congenital syphilis also leads to hepatic disease. The affection takes the form either of cellular infiltration with more or less extensive fibroid induration, or of gummatous growths. These forms are met with not only in foetuses and in infants who have died soon after birth, but also in young patients who in their infancy have not shown the signs of the disease. When the cellular infiltration is slight the liver is not visibly altered, so far as can be made out by the naked eye. The micro- scope however readily proves the presence of extravasated leuco- cytes or granulation-cells. The interlobular tissue is usually the most affected, though infiltrated patches lying within the lobules are not uncommon. The leucocytes are often aggregated in greater numbers within the capillaries than outside them. In marked contrast to this, the mildest variety of the affection, we occasionally meet with cases in which the whole liver is beset with new fibrous tissue, and thereby remarkably altered, enlarged, and indurated. The liver-substance is either uniformly pale or greyish-yellow, or of the colour of flint (Gubler) mottled with