[sect, I. BLOOD AND LYMPH. 30 The fate of foreign bodies which have gained acceas to the blood has been the subject of several experimental researches by Ponfick {Virch. Arch. vol. 48), Slavjansky {ibid.), Ruppert (Virch. Arch. vol. 72), Soyka {Prag. nied. Woch. 1878), and others. Cinnabar, or coal-dust, or Chinese black was introduced into the blood of animals either directly, or through the pul- monary lymphatics by inhalation. These substances were found to become enclosed in contractile cells and to be depcisited outside the vessels in the spleen, liver, kidneys, and bone-marrow. The carrier-cells generally take up the foreign matters before they leave the blood; but in the spleen-pulp and in the marrow they may become enclosed after escaping. On the subject of fat-embolism see Scriba {Beutsch. Zeitschr. f. Cliir. XII, with full references), Flournoy {Contrih. d Vdude de Vemholie graisseuse Strasburg 1878), Hamilton {Edinburgh med. Journ. 1879), Jolly {Arch. f. Psych, xi), Jacobson {Holmes' Syst. of Surg, i), Mansell-Moullin {Inter. Encyc. of Surg. i). On the consequences of the entrance of air into the blood-vessels JuRGENSEN has recently published {Arch. f. klin. Med. xxxi) the results of his clinical and experimental investigations ; they partly bear out, and partly extend, the results previously obtained by Bichat, Magendie, Mdron, La- BORDE, Couty, and others. He states that air injected distally into the right femoral artery appears after 13 minutes in the left femoral vein, having passed through three capillary systems. The air may continue to circulate for hours, but is ultimately absorbed. When air enters the pulmonary vessels, dyspnoea with brief respiratory pauses is induced. When life is in danger the respiration is notably slowed. So long as air is in circulation the proportion of oxygen in the blood is diminished. 267. The ultimate fate of foreign substances which have been arrested in the blood-vessels or have passed into the neigh- bouring tissues varies according as the substances are destructible or not. Insoluble matters like cinnabar, coal-dust, etc, remain in the tissues permanently, or are in part eliminated from the body. Experiment shows that after many weeks some part of the sub- stance may still lie enclosed in cells within the tissues. During this time some movement of the substance always takes place ; the carrier-cells change their position and may even enter the blood once more. In this way part of the substance is carried to the exterior of the body, and that by various routes. In the first place glands like the kidneys, liver, or mamma, whose secretion passes out of the body, may eliminate the foreign substance "with the secretion. But it may also pass out through the mucous membranes, through the lungs, through wounded parts, or even through the skin; such is especially the case when active cell- migration is taking place at any of these sites. For examj^le, if we introduce a considerable amount of insoluble colouring-matter into the blood or lymph of an animal, and then induce inflamma- tion at any point, a large proportion of the migratory leucocytes will be found to have portions of the colouring-matter enclosed in their protoplasm. In spite however of these processes, by which the organism gets rid of its impurities, some part of the foreign substance will usually remain in the tissues; and if the substance is coloured a morbid or abnormal pigmentation of the organs may re.'^ult.