[sect. VII. THE ALIMENTARY TRACT. 240 On croupous and diphtheritic stomatitis see Art. 443; on corrosive stomatitis see Art. 450. The term aphthae has not always been applied to the same aftection. HIPPOCKATES describes the white patches of' thrush' (Art. 436) as aphthae ; and many authors still use the term in this sense, while others apply it to various other affections of the mouth. Nowadays common usage is more strict, and the term is confined to the form of stomatitis spoken of in the text (Bohn). See Billard {Maladies des enfants Paris 1823), Bohn {Die Mund- kranhheiten d. Kinder Leipzig 1866, and Gerhardts Haiidh. d. Kinderkrank- heiten iv). The foot-and-mouth disease of cattle is sometimes communicated to man, the infection being generally conveyed by the use of uncooked milk fi'om diseased animals. Small vesicles with whitish turbid contents appear on the mucous membrane of the mouth; they then rupture and leave behind dark-red slowly-heahng erosions. See Bollinger {ZiemssemJs Cyclopaedia III), PuTZ {Die Smclien u. Herdekrankheiten Stuttgart 1882), Demme {Bericht iih. d. Thdtigkeit d. Kinclerspiials Berne 1882). 434. Ulcerative stomatitis is an affection which always starts from the alveolar margin of the gums (Bohn). It begins with redness, swelling, and loosening of the gums around the teeth. The alveolar margin becomes rounded and swollen, with blunt processes rising up between the teeth: haemorrhage is not un- common at this stage. In the second stage the margin of the swollen gum becomes discoloured, and the tissue softens and breaks down into a yellowish friable mass. Ulcers are thus formed, which rapi«lly deepen, the surface being overspread with shreds of softened tissue. The ulcer- ative process may extend directly to the contiguous parts of the cheeks and lips, and may work downwards till it attacks the periosteum of the bony structures, leading to necrosis and the formation of sequestra. The affection is usually acute, seldom chronic; children are especially liable to it, but adults do not escape. It attacks persons who are badly nourished or debilitated by disease, such as scrofu- lous disorders, intestinal complaints accompanied by exhausting discharges, typhoid, diabetes, or scurvy. Damp, cold, and impure air seem to favoiu" its appearance. Local irritation or injury may also lead to it, as in cases of chronic poisoning by mercury, phosphorus, lead, and copper. All of these substances if they rej)eatedly gain access to the mouth may cause ulcerative inflammation. The form which is due to long- continued phosphorus-poisoning is very apt to extend deej^ly into the tissues, and so give rise to periostitis and necrosis of the bones of the jaws. Noma, cancrvm oris, or ' water canker,' is an affection allied to ulcerative stomatitis, but of a much more serious character. It may begin as an ulcerative stomatitis or apj)ear independently (Bohn). In the former case the disintegration of the tissue of the gums extends rapidly, and the tissue breaks down into a pulpy gangrenous or putrid mass. If the affection is not preceded by ulcerative