271 CHAP. LIII.] HAEMOKRHAGE INTO THE STOMACH. mineral acids ; oxalic acid, corrosive sublimate, carbolic acid, and arsenious acid, are much less active in this respect. If the patient does not straightway die, the corrosion-wounds may heal by cicatrisation. Where the corrosion has been exten- sive, very great contraction and deformity of the stomach and intestine may result. References on corrosion of the alimentary tract:—Caspar and Liman, Hanclb. d. gerichtlichen Medicin Berlin 1881 ; Bohm, Ziemssen's Cyclop, xvii; BiRGH-HiRSCHFELD, Lekrh. d. path. Anat. 1877 ; Virchow, Gharit^-Annalen VI, 1881 ; A. Lesser, Virch. Arch. vol. 83; Filehne, ibid. vol. 83; Taylor, Medical Jurisprudence Loudon 1883. 458. The gastric mucous membrane is very liable to haemor- rhage. Haemorrhage may be caused by traumatic injury through the swallowing of solid bodies or corrosive poisons, by inflammatory changes in the blood vessels, by ulceration, by venous engorgement such as accompanies portal obstruction in various hepatic disorders, scurvy, yellow fever, acute yellow atrophy of the liver, typhoid, etc.; in fact by local lesions and by general infective disease, by con- stitutional disorder and by changes in the composition of the blood as a whole. In rare cases haemorrhage may be due to primary alterations, such as atheroma and aneurysm, in the large vessels of the stomach and the neighbouring organs. The effused blood, which may be small or large in quantity, becomes rapidly brown or black as the gastric acids transform its haemoglobin into haematin. When the bleeding is due to the erosion or rupture of a small blood-vessel, the fact can in general be easily verified on opening the stomach. When the bleeding is 'capillary' or parenchymatous the tissue is infiltrated with blood and red, brown, or black in colour. Such infiltrated tissue is of course more or less completely deprived of circulating blood, and is consequently exposed to the digestive action of the gastric juice. It is therefore attacked and in part dissolved, and in this way an ulcer or 'haemorrhagic erosion' is produced. Haemorrhagic erosions of the stomach heal in the same way as those of other mucous membranes, unless some special obstacle stands in the way. If the loss of substance is at all considerable a reactive inflammation is set up, in consequence of which the surrounding parts become infiltrated with cells. Granulation- tissue and a cicatrix are produced, and presently become clothed with epithelium. The same process takes place in the healing of other lesions unaccompanied by notable haemorrhages, such as those caused by traumatic injury, corrosive poisons, etc. The result is different in certain conditions unfavourable for repair, as when the gastric acids are present in excessive quantity, or when the circulation in the parts around the erosion is interfered with for any reason, local or general (e.g. anaemia). In such cases the circulation in the floor and margins of the erosion may be