THE VASCULAR MECHANISM. 78 [sect. II. examples. The condition often affects the capillaries over a wide area. Capillary dilatations limited to particular spots are usually due to causes of a different kind. Some are congenital, as in so-called vascular naevi. These have already been treated under the head of angiomata in Art. 149. Fig. 132 gives an idea of their general disposition. Congenital dilatations of the capillaries are most usually met with in the skin; but they may occur elsewhere, as for instance in the brain (cerebral naevus). Acquired capillary ectases generally arise in consequence of some morbid change in the tissue in which they lie; they are common in parts that have undergone atrophy or shrinkage. It almost appears as if the capillaries were striving to fill up the space left unoccupied by the receding tissue (compare Ai't. 150 on the formation of cavernous angiomata in the liver). Similar ectases are found in new-formed tissue, whether inflammatory or neoplastic. In these cases it is generally the new-formed vessels which appear dilated. They have either been over-large from the beginning, or have been dilated by some not easily recognisable cause after their first formation. The capillary ectases occasionally met with in the brain ViRCHOW beUeves (Virch. Arch. vol. 30, with cases) to be in part congenital, and so to be properly classed with the uaevi; Koth is of the same opinion. If this be so the specimen figiu'ed in Fig. 132 fi'om a telangiectatic glioma might exemplify a congenital condition of the vessels, existing therefore before the development of the substance of the glioma ; but of course the point cannot be finally decided (Heschl, Wiemr med. Woch. 1868). The dilatation of the capillaries in atrophic or shrunken tissues and in new-formations is probably dependent on several factors. It is of course a necessary condition that the capillaries shall always be full of blood ; so that the shrinkage or atrophy must go on in such a way as not to exert pressure on the caijiUaries and so to empty them. 306. Dilatations of the veins are described as phlebectases or varices. They are very common, and occur chiefly as a conse- quence of mechanical hindrances to the emjDtying of the veins. Thiis they are met with in connexion with local or general engorge- ment, compression of the veins, venous thrombosis, imperfect action of the heart, etc. Their formation is favoured by unhealthy condi- tions of the vessel-walls or their surroundings. In accordance with their mode of genesis we find them occurring chiefly in places where the venous circulation is normally placed at a disadvantage, especially therefore in the lower half of the body. Their development may constantly be watched during life in con- nexion with the veins of the legs and anus. The cutaneous veins are either dilated uniformly and over a considerable extent, or bulged into fusiform or irregular sacculations. They are often at the same time elongated and convoluted, the bends of the convolutions being saccular. If two such sacculations