CH. XXXVII.] DISCOLORATION AND ATROPHY OF THE SKIN. 147 lu these affections the pigment is met with partly in the deepest layers of the rete mucosum, and partly in the corium. It takes the form of brown or yellow granules, but sometimes the cells are uniformly stained. The dyschromatoses are to be distinguished from true pig- mentations ; they are due to staining of the corium with various colouring-matters derived from the body itself or from without. Icterus or jaundice is one example, the skin being stained with bile; argyi-ia or silver-staining due to the long-continued medicinal use of salts of silver, and tatooing, are others. In jaundice the skin may be of any shade from lemon-yellow to dusky yellow or green: in argyria it may vary from slate-colour to brown, the dark granules of reduced silver lying chiefly in the cutis. In tatooing the skin is pricked with needles till it bleeds, and colouring-matter, such as charcoal, gunpowder, cinnabar, Prussian blue, or indigo, is then rubbed in; a certain amount of the granular- insoluble pigment is retained and remains in the cutis. 363. Simple atrophy implies a loss of substance in the several constituents of the skin, generally associated with some change of their structure. It may be localised or general, secondary or primary. In the physiological retrogression of old age or senile atrophy, certain textural changes take place in the skin which may occa- sionally become very highly marked. The skin becomes thinner, owing to the alteration of the papillary layer; in some spots where they are normally small the papillae may disappear entirely. The fibrous bundles of the corium become scanty, and often look turbid or granular in texture, the granules not disappearing in preparations put up in Canada balsam. The structure of the fibrous bundles may be visible or obscured; the latter effect being due to a kind of hyaline degeneration by which the bundles take on a swollen glassy look, not unlike that of solidified jelly (Neumann). The vessels of the skin are here and there obliterated, so that in injected preparations the meshes of the capillary network appear abnormally wide. Deposits of pigment in the form of yellowish- brown or dark-brown granules are often observed, and these lie either in the cells of the rete or around the vessels of the cutis. 364. The changes in the cutis are accompanied by corre- sponding changes in the epidermis. The softer strata become thinned out, so that the horny layer is separated from the papillae only by a few layers of cells. The horny layer is dry and brittle, and often scaly or branny (pityriasis tabescentium). Here and there aggregations of the epidermic scales take place, forming whitish patches of various sizes. The hairs fall out and are not renewed, the hair-follicles being either empty or producing only a kind of down. Several downy 10—2