153 CHAP. XXXVIII ] INFLAMMATIONS OF THE SKIN. duration of the aflfection is greater, and recovery is less easy or less complete. The inflammatory infiltration may be diffuse or circumscribed. In recent eruptions the cellular exudation lies chiefly in the neighbourhood of the veins. Degenerative changes in the epi- dermal cells and fibrous tissue may precede, accompany, or succeed the exudation. In later stages proliferation of the cells and fibrous tissue is set up, and brings about repair or hyperplasia as the case' may be. The efflorescence or mode of appearance of these inflammations of the skin is very various. The infiltration may be local and circumscribed, forming papules; or it may be extensive and diffuse, giving rise to remarkable swellings. The epidermal layers may be beset with vesicles, pustules, scales, crusts, or scabs; or there may be loss of part of their substance, and the exudation may be poured out on the free surface. The varieties of cutaneous inflammation or dermatitis such as we are considering differ widely in their general clinical course. Some are acute, others are chronic and occasionally last for years. Their exciting causes are likewise exceedingly various, so that it is difficult to lay down any general proposition with regard to their aetiology. 369. The exudation, whether localised or diffuse, consists of liquid, of coagulated fibrin, and of cells. The latter are the most easily recognisable constituent, and in hardened sections are often the only one which the microscope can detect. In slight cases the exudation may be limited to the neighbourhood of the papillae (Fig. 144 i); in other cases the cutis (Fig. 144 A; and Fig. 146 in) and even the subcutaneous tissues are thickly infiltrated ; and the epidermis may also (Fig. 144 / ^ h) be saturated with exuded liquid. The proportion of extravasated cells in the exudation may be small or large. Kecent and copious exudations (Fig. 145) are usually poor in cells, older and slowly accumulating exudations are richer (Figs. 144 and 146). When the exudation coagulates (Fig. 144 k) granular and fibrous masses are formed. The liquid effused into the connective tissue lies partly in the lymph-spaces and meshes, partly in the lymphatic vessels (Fig. 144 /). The liquid poured out from the papillae passes also into the epidermal layers ; and the accompanying cells insinuate themselves between the epidermal cells (Fig. 144/), and afterwards actually penetrate them. The epidermal cells become in this way distended ifg) or vacuolated (Fig. 146 e f), and the protoplasm and nucleus are displaced. The nucleus may persist for a time, but it ultimately either swells up or crumbles into fragments and so perishes. The cell-membrane withstands destruction longest, but it too may at length dissolve (Art. 371).