180 THE SKIN. [sect. V. aneous tissue. They are simply foci of cellular infiltration, and greatly resemble gummata in the initial stage. They occur chiefly in children. As they break down they give rise to indefinite ulcers with soft oedematous borders, which bleed very readily and secrete a creamy pus. Similar ulcers are formed when subcut- aneous lymphatic glands break down and suppurate. (6) The true tuberculous ulcer of the skin is very rare. In diagnosing it we have to depend on the presence of undoubted tubercles in the base of the ulcer or in the surrounding tissue. We mentioned in Ai't. 206 that Klebs had discovered small bacilli in excised portions of hard chancres. Aufrecht on the other hand found micro- cocci in syphilitic mucous patches {Cent. f. d. mad. Wiss. 13, 1881). Bekmann {New York Med. Jonrn. Dec. 1880) describes micrococci and bacteria in the lymphatics around the initial sclerosis. Birch-Hirschfeld has recently announced (Cent. f. d. med. Wiss. 44, 1882) that not only the primary sore but also the giimmatous nodes contain small bacilli (1 micromm. in length), some lying fifee in the tissues, others enclosed in cells. He considers these to be the vehicle of the syphilitic contagion. Tuberculosis of the skin appears in the form of ulcers, and of nodes and nodidar clusters of cells. It is very questionable whether all cellular nodes and ulcers containing tubercles are produced by the action of the tuberculous virus. In this counexion it must be remembered that lupous gi'anulations also contain tubercular aggregations of cells. On cutaneous tuberculosis see KosTBR {Cent. f. d. med. Wiss. 1873); Friedlander {Samm. klin. Vortrdge 64, Virch. Arch. vol. 60); BizzozERO {Giorn. d. acad. di med. e chir. 1874); Brodowski ( Virch. Arch. vol. 63); Chiari (Wiener med. Jahrh. 1877, Viertelj. f. Derm. u. Syph. vi); Hall {Ueb. Tiiberculose d. Haut In. Diss. Bonn 1879). 392. Granulation-tissue may (as we have seen) be produced in many ways and as the result of very various processes. All inflammations which involve destruction of tissue may give rise to it in the process of healing and cicatrisation. Sometimes however the granulations become as it were redundant, and do not pass into the stage of cicatrisation. In this way they may take on a quasi-independent character and form tumour-like aggregations of considerable size, the so-called granulomata. Non-specific inflam- mations, such as eczema, may be followed by such granulomatous overgrowth; but it is in general associated with certain specific infections, and the growths are therefore referred to as the infective granulomata. We have already partially considered them in Arts. 128—135, and the tubercular syphilide or gummatous ulcer of the skin has been mentioned in Art. 391. Here therefore there is little further to say about the group in general. Lupus is a skin-afifection characterised by the formation in the sub-epidermal layers of nodular patches of granulation-tissue (Fig. 154 d). Sometimes these nodules have the structure of the tuber- cles of tuberculosis, sometimes they consist entirely of small leuco- cytes with occasional capillaries {d). The eruption of the nodules is accompanied by diffuse cellular infiltration of the cutis and papillae (c), and by the formation of strings of cells (/) running with the lymphatics. Redundant multiplication of the epidermal cells is