160 THE SKIN. [sect. v. if it contains blood they are brown or black: purulent exudations diy into dirty brownish-yellow scabs. The form and size of the scabs vary with their mode of origin. The skin around them is always somewhat reddened, and their base is swollen. 374. The issue of the processes we are considering is generally in recovery and repair, but permanent alteration of the skin is not an uncommon result. When recovery is about to begin the signs of inflammation gi-adually disappear, and the exudation ceases. Part of the exuded liquid, namely that within the fibrous tissues, is absorbed ; that which lies on the surface, together with the dead and disinte- grated epidermal cells, is thrown off, and the defect is made good by regenerative multiplication of the cells around. 4 f / Fig. 149. Blister prom a burn in process op healing. {Section through the skin of a cat's paw forty-eight hours after a bum: alum-carmine staining, mounted in Canada balsam: x 25) ^2 new-formed horny layer a homy layer b rete Malpighii c corium d new-formed epidermal cells, under- going differentiation into layers at d^ e the old degenerate epidermis / pus-corpuscles g secondary exudation h sweat-gland The multiplication takes place chiefly along the line where the rete Malpighii borders on the cavity of the vesicle (Fig. 149 d); but some share in the process is also taken by the uninjured inter- papillary cells, and by the epithelium of the sweat-glands (h) and hair-follicles. The process of repair begins soon after the vesicle is formed, in bums it begins on the second day: masses of cells are produced which advance gradually over the denuded and depressed papillae (d). When the multiplication has reached a certain point, differentiation into layers begins to be perceiDtible (c^,); and often at the margin of the vesicle the layers are complete, even to the homy surface layer, before the central parts are covered over (rfj. The result of this multiplication and growth is that the vesicle