CHAPTER XLIX. THE MOUTH. Inflammatory affections: stomatitis. 433. The inflammations of the mucous membrane of the mouth resemble in some points the inflammations of the skin, and in other points those of mucous membranes in general. Various forms are distinguished according to their intensity. The slightest degree of inflammation is described as erythema. It is characterised by more or less intense redness of the surface, and either rapidly disappears or passes into the more severe form known as catarrhal stomatitis. In this form the surface is intensely red or livid, the secretion of the membrane is increased, and the epithelium desquamates. Over the surface of the lips, cheeks, and gums the redness and swelling are in general uniformly diffused, on the hard palate they may appear in streaks and patches. The papillae of the tongue are most affected; some of them usually become markedly prominent, and so give the surface a rough tuberculated look. When the inflammatory exudation is abundant, clear vesicles or blebs are sometimes formed on the tongue, lips, and cheeks, where the epithelial covering is thicker or tougher than elsewhere and prevents the free escape of the exuded liquid. But here, as in the external skin, the process of vesiculation is always accom- panied by a certain amount of liquefaction of the deeper epithelial cells. As the vesicles break small ulcers covered with a whitish film of detritus may be formed in their place. The mucous glands become swollen, giving rise to grejdsh or greyish-red elevations of the surface, surrounded by a reddened areola. When its excretory duct becomes obstructed with mucoid cells, the gland may be dilated into a tiny cyst by the retention of its secretion. In recent acute catarrh of the mouth the catarrhal secretion contains comparatively few cells; in the later stages the proportion becomes increased. The cells are in part extravasated leucocytes, in part desquamated epithelial cells. If the latter remain on the surface, they may accumulate so as to form a whitish or discoloured grey and bromi deposit or 'fur,' which in the case of the tongue