CH. III.] CHANGES IN TSE COMPOSITION OF THE BLOOD. l9 bingehalt d. Blutes Leipzig 1878 ; Hoppe-Seyler, Physiol. Cliemie Berlin 1877—81; Laache, Die Anamie Christiaiiia 1883). It is highest at birth; in the first year it falls to one-half; and rises again between the fifth year and the forty-fifth to about two-thirds of its original amount; thence it again declines. Men have a somewhat higher proportion of haemoglobin than women. The proportion diminishes dm-ing gestation. For methods of esti- mation see Gamgee {Fhysiol. Chem. i), Cornil and Ranvier {Man. Path. Hist, i), Hart (Quart. J. micro, sci. 1881), Lyon and Thoma (Virch. Arch. vols. 84, 87). RLvas has shown {Deutsch. Zeitschr. f. Chir. xvii) that in animals rapid withdrawal of water from the blood is followed by rapid diminution of blood-pressure and of temperature. He maintains that most cases of sun- stroke or heat-stroke must be reckoned as cases of anhydi-aemia. 259. The changes in the blood discussed in the foregoing paragraphs have been merely quantitative. But there are also numerous qualitative changes, depending on the presence in the blood of foreign substances in solution. The chemical pro- cesses normally taking place in the blood are few and simple; the abnormal substances are thus either derived from the exterior, or are products of tissue-change abnormal in themselves or abnor- mally taken up into the blood; it is rare for abnormal substances to be generated in the blood itself Most of these impurities of the blood are not traceable by means of the microscope; there are no histological tests for the presence in the blood of sugar, of urea, or of morphia. But few exceptions exist. Of the gases entering the blood by the lungs carbonic oxide produces the most striking change. It gives the blood a bright cherry-red colour, which can often be recognised in the bright tint of the post-mortem Uvores or stains. On section the blood which flows from the vessels, and that contained in the parenchyma of the organs, alike exhibit the characteristic colour. In cases of poisoning by carbonic acid the blood is dark, and the post-mortem stains violet or livid. The blood is likewise darkened, and may even be inky, after poisoning by sulphuretted hydrogen. Of products of metabolism abnormally taken up into the blood, the salts of the biliary acids and the bile-pigments are most readily recognised. The bile-pigments colour the plasma yellow. Probably the same effect may be produced by the biliary salts, for they bring about solution of the haemoglobin and its transforma- tion into bilirubin. The passage of bile into the blood is at once manifested by the yellow staining of the tissues, especially such as have no marked colour of their own. This condition is known as icterus, or jaundice. If the staining is recent, the tint is yellow; after a time it passes into brown or greyish-green. The urine is likewise discoloured, and the presence in it of the bile- pigments can readily be demonstrated by proper tests. The plasma of the blood may be discoloured by the presence of methaemoglobin, set free by the solution in it of the red cor- puscles ; the substance may be demonstrated in the blood, and also in the urine. If the quantity present is considerable the 2—2