23 CHAP. IV.] CHANGES IN THE BLOOD-CORPUSCLES. Wiss. 1879) dispute this, and think the nucleated corpuscles are derived from the spleen. It is impossible to assign definitely the parts taken by the different organs in the production of leukaemia. We do not even know for certain whether all the organs referred to are normally capable of contributing lymphoid elements to the blood. It still seems questionable whether the marrow takes the important share ascribed to it at all; it may well be that the accumulation of lymplioid elements observed in it is merely a secondary result of the general disease. The ultimate cause of leukaemia is still unluiown. It is not inconceivable that it may be due to a primary disorder of the substance of the blood itself (KoTTiiANN, Symptome cler Leukcimie Berne 1877). Leube, Penzoldt, and Fleischer have recently described cases (Virch. Arch. vol. 83, Arch. f. klin. Med. xxvi) in which neither spleen nor lymphatic glands nor bone-marrow were affected; from this it would seem that structural changes in these tissues are not absolutely essential to leukaemia. Possibly, as Klebs has suggested, it may in reality be an infective disorder. It is a noteworthy fact that hy|3erplastic changes may take place in the spleen and lymphatic glands without any accompanying leukaemia. Such an aflection is spoken of variously as malignant lymphoma, pseudoleukaemia, and lymphatic or splenic anaemia (Arts. 328,344). The latter description refers to the fact that the affected patients gradually sink and die in extreme anaemia. Occasionally the pseudoleulcaemia seems to pass into true leukaemia. Further details on the subject, together with full references to the literatm'e bearing on it, are given by Mosler in Ziemssen's Cyclopaedia, Art. Leukaemia, vol. VIII; also by Fleischer and Penzoldt in Arch. f. klin. Med. xxvi, and by Gowers, Reynolds^ Syst. of Med. v. A pecidiar feature of some cases of leukaemia is the presence in the blood of long needle-like octahedral crystals ('Charcot's crystals': Charcot and Robin, Soc. de hiol. 1853; Neumann, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. il; Zenker, Arch. f. klin. Med. xviil; according to Schreiner {Liebicfs Annul, d. Chem. 1878) they consist of an organic phosphate). Ehrlich has recently given much attention to the white blood-ceHs, and especially to their behaviour with various staining-reagents {Verh. d. physiol. Gesell. zto Berlin 20, 1878-9 and Zeitschr. f. klin. Med. i). He finds that a whole series of forms or stages can be distinguished. One form contains a single ovoid nucleus that stains feebly, another contains one or more rounded deeply-staining nuclei. Some cells show peculiar arrangements of their granules, whose power of taking up colom* varies in different cases. Others are notable for their power of absorbing eosin ('eosinopMlous cells'). Ehrlich further notes that in all acute cases of leucocytosis the uninuclear and multinuclear cells are increased in number, but the eosinophilous cells are not. On the other hand when the haematopoietic organs are chronically diseased, as in leukaemia, the eosinophilous cells are increased in number. Compare Spilling, Blutuntersuch. bei Leukcimie In. Diss. Berhn 1880. 261. In speaking of the cases in which the whole amount of blood in the body is reduced, in other words of oligaemia, we mentioned that the number of the red corpuscles is simultane- ously diminished. This condition, known as oligocythaemia, is recognised by the diminished proportion of haemoglobin in the blood, and by the actual diminution in the number of red corpuscles contained in a drop of it. In extreme anaemia the number may fall to one-eighth or one-tenth of the normal. The diminution in the number of the corpuscles is often associated with changes in their form. Some of them are unusually minute and darker or