297 TUMOUKS OF THE INTESTINE. CHAP. LIV.] floor of the ulcer become scarred over and shrunken, leading some- times to extreme constriction of the bowel: this is particularly apt to occur when the ulceration extends in an annular form round the intestine. Carcinomata of the intestine are of various histological types. One of the commonest is the so-called destructive adenoma or adenocarcinoma (Art. 169). It gives rise to fungous and papil- lary outgrowths from the mucous membrane, and speedily invades the submucous, muscular, and serous coats. The smaller tumoi;rs consist essentially of epithelial growths resembling tubular glands and clothed with cylindrical epithelium. At later stages the glandular type in part disappears, and large solid cell-nests are formed, with cylindrical epithelial cells at the periphery only. Colloid carcinoma is the next in order of frequency, especially in the rectum. It takes the form of large gelatinous growths, covering a great extent of surface and infiltrating the intestinal wall. Simple carcinoma and scirrhus are rarer than either of the two just mentioned. Melano-carcinoma occurs almost exclusively in the rectum. When a cancer of the intestine breaks down and ulcerates, at the same time invading the deeper layers of the wall, it generally induces inflammatory changes in the serous coat. These lead to the formation of new vascular fibrous tissue, by which the affected part of the bowel is bound down to the structures around it. Per- foration of the intestine occurs in some cases as a result of cancerous ulceration. Metastatic growths are usually met with, chiefly in the lymphatic glands, peritoneum, and liver. Connective-tissue growths are rare in the intestine, and have iTtiuch less significance than the carcinomata. Fibroma, lipoma, myoma, angioma, and sarcoma, have been observed. These are developed from the mucosa and subwiucosa, and in part from the muscular and serous coats. When they protrude as polypi from the inner surface of the bowel they may obstruct the passage, or by their weight drag down and invaginate a portion of the wall. Pedunculated growths may be dragged upon and actually torn off by the peristaltic action of the bowel, and so be ejected with the faeces. 479. Parasites and concretions. The vegetable and animal parasites which infest the intestine have been described in detail in the General Pathological Anatomy (Arts. 182—250). Among the vegetable parasites the Schizomycetes or Bacteria are undoubtedly the most important. The bowel perpetually har- bours a multitude of these fungi, of very various kinds. Hence it is difficult to say how far the various intestinal affections, and especially the inflammations, are due to the ordinary micro- parasites present in the faeces, and how far to distinct and specific forms. As we have indicated in the foregoing Articles,