[sect. VII. THE ALIMENTARY TRACT. 264 chronically dilated stomach we may often find specimens of almost every type of these organisms. Sometimes we may also meet with spores of filamentous fungi or moulds, such as Mucor. In consequence of the growth of these fungi fermentations of various kinds are set up. The chief of these are the lactic, butyric, acetic, alcoholic, and certain varieties of septic or putrefactive fermentations. These abnormal fermentations naturally react injuriously on the stomach and on its power of secretion. They keep up an abiding irritation of its mucous membrane, and often seriously hinder the repair of the original lesion, which may be in itself but slight and transient. In some cases the bacteria attack the mucous membrane directly. Thus according to voN Reckling- hausen (Virch. Arch. vol. 30) and VON Wahl {Virch. Arch. vol. 41) certain kinds may penetrate the glands and the under- lying tissue, and give rise to pustule-like nodules protruding above the surface. In the case of a man who died after two days' illness with choleraic symptoms, the author found the stomach beset with small whitish patches of necrosis and minute ulcers with whitish floors; and on examination these were seen to contain multitudes of bacilli. Mould-fungi and yeast-fungi are unable to penetrate the mucous membrane. When the contents of the stomach are highly acid while the circulation within its walls is somehow weakened, the walls may become softened or macerated, or in a certain sense digested. According to the amount of blood it contains the mucous membrane is transformed into a brown or black pulpy or jelly-like friable mass. This ' softening of the stomach' (gastromalacia) is generally met with in cases of brain-disease, especially in tuber- culous meningitis where it may set in during the last hours of life. Leube is of opinion that it may occur in persons previously in good health, but his instances are by no means conclusive. Gastromalacia is in the gi'eat majority of cases a post-mortem phenome- non. After death the mucous membrane of the stomach alters very quickly, especially when it contains an excess of gastric juice or of acid products of decomposition. The first alteration consists in solution of the blood-corpuscles and diffusion of their colouring-matter through the tissues. If sulphm-etted hydrogen is evolved from the contents of the stomach, the red colouring-matter is changed to greenish-black. Brown pigmentations, such as occur in cases of chronic gastritis, take on a grey or black tint. Self-digestion very frequently follows. The mucous membrane and then the muscular and serous coats are transformed into a soft friable mass, white or grey or black in colour. When the stomach is lifted out its contents sometimes break through the softened tissue and escape. Occasionally the walls are thus macerated over their entire extent; and when the fundus has been lying in contact with the diaphragm, the process may extend to the latter and so break it down that the contents of the stomach escape into the thorax. The most marked instances of self-digestion of the stomach occur in young children, whose stomachs contain a large quantity of undigested milk;