72 THE VASCULAR MECHANISM. [sect. II. mortem table very slight pressure on an atheromatous patch often suffices to break in the surface layer and convert the patch into a cavity. 299. As regards the genesis of sclerosis and atheroma we must remember (Arts. 292—293) that thickening of the intima may be the result of a process beginning with inflammatory infil- tration, and leading to the formation of new fibrous tissue. We may therefore say that sclerosis and atheroma of the arteries are in many cases the result of a chronic endarteritis, which began as an acute affection. But this is not always so ; or at least we have not always evidence enough to justify the hypothesis. Especially is this the case with the gradually developed forms found in advanced age. The affection is either limited to the aorta or to the arteries of one or other organ, or it is more or less diffused over the entire arterial system. This senile atheroma does not begin in inflammation, but either in degeneration or metaplasia. ViECHOW has shown that in many instances the first step is a kind of gelatinous degeneration of the intima, leading to swelling and loosening of its texture. Then ensues proliferation of the tissue-elements of the intima, which may produce new fibrous tissue and bring about a thickening of the inner coat. But in extreme old age it is commoner to find the intima undergoing a kind of homt)geneous or hyaline change, which is associated with a permanent thickening of its substance. Here and there the thickening may become considerable (Art. 288), and lead to the formation of raised plaques and patches. Retrogressive changes follow close on these metaplastic processes, and inflammation at length appears. The retrogressive changes are fatty degeneration, necrosis, and disintegration of the altered tissue. As we have already said, such retrogressive changes may themselves be the starting-point of the affection. When once the process of degenera- tion, proliferation, and inflammation is started, it generally spreads more and more widely. We are not as yet able to define more closely the precise limits of tlie processes leading to atheroma, namely primary inflammation, primary meta- plasia, and primary degeneration. In many cases we can only form hypotheses as to the mode in which atheroma has arisen. The process leading to sclerosis and atheroma in the aged is often alluded to as arteritis deformans, or malum senile arteriarum. It has been com- pared with the affections known as arthritis deformans and malum senile coxae (ViRCHOw, Virch. Arch. vol. 4, and Gcsamm. Ahhandl. (1856) p. 496); and the processes have indeed much that is apparently analogous. Langhans {Virch. Arch. vol. 36) and Koster {Virch. Jahresb. 1875) assert that a certain amount of thickening of the intima is so common in old age, that it may be regarded as physiological. Giovanni {Arch. ital. de hiol. i) maintains that disorders of the innervation of the vessels may lead to athe- roma ; compare Lewaschew (Virch. Arch. vol. 92). Israel (Virch. Arch. vol. 86) observed endarteritis in rabbits, in which he had experimentally caused one kidney to become contracted.