CHAP. LII.] 269 THE OESOPHAGUS. a foreign body. As food sometimes lodges in a diverticulum and remains there decomposing for a time, it may act as an irritant to the mucous membrane and give rise to inflammatory thickening of the wall, or occasionally to mucous papillary growths from its inner surface. Diverticula due to traction occur on the anterior aspect of the oesophagus, and most commonly at the level of the bifurcation of the trachea. They are usually narrow and funnel-shaped, varying in depth from 2 to 17 mm., the apex pointing directly forwards or a little to one side. Simple shallow bulgings are more rare. The funnel consists of mucosa and submucosa, which may be wholly or partially or not at all covered with a muscular layer. The apex almost invariably runs out into a band of dense fibrous tissue, generally containing a shrunken bronchial gland and connected with the trachea or one of the bronchi. The diverticulum thus appears to be ultimately due to an inflammatory process starting in some lymphatic gland and involving the wall of the oesophagus: the contraction of the inflammatory or cicatricial tissue gives rise to the traction upon the oesophagus-wall. The diverticulum has no tendency to enlarge, but it may be perforated by a foreign body which becomes wedged in it. Rupture of the healthy oesophagus is rare, if we leave out of account the cases in which it is directly wounded from without. There are however some instances on record in which strangulation or violent vomiting have led to longitudinal or transverse rents of the wall. It may be that in the latter cases the tissues were to some extent softened by the action of the regurgitated gastric juice. This digestive softening is not uncommon as a post-mortem phenomenon: the affected tissue appears grey or yellow and sodden, and is readily torn. According to Zenker it may occur in articulo mortis; but the instances must be very rare in which it occurs in a healthy patient. Perforation of the oeso23hagus is due to disease in the tube itself or in the adjoining parts. Cancerous ulceration and the lodgement of foreign bodies are the commonest causes of the former; corrosion by various liquids and simple ulceration come next in point of frequency. Perforation from without may be due to suppurating lymphatic glands, abscesses, gangrene of a goitrous tumour, or aneurysm of the transverse or descending aorta. Per- foration is always followed by more or less extensive inflammation. This is least marked when the tissue around the ruptured spot is already thickened by chronic inflammation. When there is no such thickening, wide-spread purulent or gangrenous inflammation may be set up in the neighbouring parts. Zenker and von Ziemssen (Ziemssen's Cyclopaedia viii) give a very minute and accurate account (with full references to the literature) of the morbid changes to which the oesophagus is liable. The above account is based upon theirs. 17—2