THE LIVER AND PANCREAS. [sect. VIII. 352 either to destruction of the gland-cells and induration of the connective tissue, or to suppuration and abscess. When the pancreatic duct is occluded by concretions or inflammatory change or by a tumour, it becomes dilated behind the obstruction into a cylindrical, sacculate, or moniliform cyst or series of cysts: these have been described as pancreatic ranulae, and sometimes reach a considerable size. The contents of the dilated duct are either pancreatic juice with mucus, or pus, or a bloody liquid. In small cysts they now and then become inspis- sated and calcified. When indurative inflammation is set up around the cyst, the gland-cells often perish. Cystic dilatation of limited portions of the minor ducts is much less common : but it sometimes occurs at a number of points scattered through the gland. Ou pancreatic coucretious see Virchow (Verk. d. phys.-med. Gesell. zu Wiirzburg n 1852), Fauconneau-Dufresne {Trait4 de Vaffection calculeuse du foie et du pancreas Paris 1851), Curnow {Trans. Path. Soc. 1873), Johnston {American Journ. of med. sciences 1883, an admirable summary with full references). On pancreatic cysts see Eokitansky {Lehrh. d. path. Anat. iii 1861), Virchow {loo. cit.), von Eecklinghausen {Virch. Arch. vol. 30), Wyss {ibid. vol. 36), Klebs {Handb. d. path. Anat. i). Pepper {Centralb. /. d. med. Wiss. 1871), Hjelt {Schmidt's Jahrb. 157, 1873). 515. Inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis) is on the whole a rare condition. Primary and secondary forms are distin- guished according to their mode of origin. The former are the rarer and the cause of them often remains undiscovered : the latter are due to the extension of an existing inflammation in contiguous parts, or to a so-called metastasis from some remoter organ. The slightest degree of inflammation is represented by the swelling of the pancreas occasionally met with in cases of infective disease, and notably in typhoid fever. It is due to an infiltration of the connective tissues with liquid and leucocytes, and in part to cloudy swelling of the gland-cells. When the affection is recent the gland is red and injected ; in cases of some standing it is pale or even white. In purulent or suppurative pancreatitis some portion, or the whole, of the interacinous (and often the peripancreatic) tissue is transformed into a dirty puriform mass. In later stages there are abscesses of various sizes. It is usually due to suppuration in some neighbouring part, as in the lesser omental sac or in the common bile-duct: it is very rarely a primary affection. Chronic indurative pancreatitis or cirrhosis is characterised by thickening and hardening of the connective tissue within the gland. The head of the pancreas is especially apt to be thus affected. When the gland-tissue is thereby destroyed and atrophied the organ as a whole becomes smaller. Indurative pancreatitis is most commonly secondary to inflammations of contiguous parts, such as the peritoneum, common bile-duct, or stomach (in gastric ulcer).