22 [sect. L BLOOD AND LYMPH. usual fibrinous deposits, or the ordinary post-mortem clots may be covered over with a white creamy pus-like film. The diagnosis of less-marked cases may require the aid of the microscope, by which even a slight relative increase of the white cells in the blood may be recognised. Post-mortem examination of cases of leukaemia shows that changes in certain of the organs are associated with the changes in the blood; these are no doubt partly cause and partly effect of the blood-changes. The hj^erplasia of the spleen (Art. 328), of the lymphatic glands (Art. 344), and of the marrow of the bones, is considered as an originating factor of the blood-changes. The greyish infiltration which appears diffused or in patches through various organs like the liver, lungs, and kidneys, can scarcely be other than an effect; the white cells circulating in the blood have lodged and accumulated in the parts affected. These infiltrated cells lie partly within the vessels, and partly around them. Occa- sionally the appearances are such that we can only explain them by assuming that a ' white haemorrhage' or haemorrhagic in- farction has occurred. Besides these patches of simple infiltration tumour-like formations of lymphadenoid tissue are at times found in certain parts, such as the liver and kidneys. Bennett was the fii'st to describe the affection, which he called leucocy- thaemia and regarded as a 'suppiiratiou of the blood' {Edin. med. and surg. Journ. Oct. 1845; Leii/iocythaemia Ediuburgh 1852; see also Brit. for. med. chir. Review 2, 1852). ViRCHOW recognised its true character and significance under the name of 'white blood' or leukaemia {Froriep's Notizen Nov. 1845; Oesavim. Abhand. p. 147). The white corpuscles found in leukaemic blood are not all alike. A larger and a smaller variety pan be distinguished, and in different cases one or other form may be the more abundant. Virchow holds that the larger cells are derived from the spleen, and their abundance in the blood is due to a splenic hyperplasia ; the smaller cells he traces to the lymphatic glands. From this j^oint of view leukaemia has been characterised as splenic (lienal), lymphatic, or lymphatico-splenic, the latter form being intermediate between the other two. The relation of the spleen or lymph- atic glands to the disease is thus assumed to be—that by the hyperplasia of these organs an increased supply of lymphoid elements is produced and conveyed into the blood. Attention has been called to the part played by the bone-marrow by the researches of Bizzozeko {Cent. f. d. med. Wiss. 1869), Neumann {Arch. d. Heilk. xi, and Berl. klin. Woch. 6, 1879, with full references to other papers), Ponpick {Virch. Arch. vol. 67), Wal- deyer (Virch. Arch. vol. 52), and others. In leukaemic patients the marrow often manifests very notable changes ; it becomes yellowish and pus-like, and contains an excessive proportion of lymphoid cells. Going upon the assiunp- tion that lymphoid elements pass into the blood from the bone-marrow as well as from the spleen and lymphatic glands, a fourth form of leukaemia has been described—the medullary or myelogenic form. This can seldom occm* uncombined with other forms. Nucleated red blood-cells have now and then been found in leukaemic blood (Erb, Virch. Arch. vol. 34; Boettcher, ih. vol. 36 ; Klebs, ih. vol. 38; Hayem, Arch, de physiol. 1883). Neumann {Berl. klin. Woch. 10, 1878) beheves that this fact is sufficient to establish the participation of the marrow in the genesis of the affection; but BizzozERO and Salvioli {Centralh. f. d. med.