[sect. VII. THE ALIMENTARY TRACT. pancreas or liver, usually exhibit fibrous thickening and hyperplasia at the surface of adhesion. Notwithstanding this the contents of the stoinach may break through into the substance of the organs, and give rise to abscesses in their parenchyma. Sometimes ad- hesions occur between the stomach and the duodenum or transverse colon. When perforation takes place in such a case a fistulous communication may be opened between the intestine and the stomach. In like manner rupture into the pleural or pericardial sac may occur, and in the latter case may lead to erosion and perfora- tion of the heart-wall itself (Brenner, Wien. med. Woch. 47, 1881). Eefereuces on simple gastric ulcer {ulcus rotundum) :—Virchow, Virch. Arch. vol. 5 ; Klebs, Handh. d. path. Anat. I; Budd, Organic diseases of the stomach London 1855 ; Brinton, Ulcer of the stomach London 1857, Diseases of the stomach London 1864; Fenwick, The stomach and duodenum London 1868; von Ziemssen, Sammlung Uin. Vortruge no. 15 ; Gerhardt, Wiener med. Presse 1868; Gunsburg, Arch. f. physiol. Heilk. xi; Key, Hygeia 1870 ; Wilson Fox, The diseases of the stomach London 1872, with references to English papers ; Panum, Virch. Arch. vol. 25 ; Cohnheim, AUg. Path. II Berlin 1882 ; Korte, Zur Lehre vom rund. Magengeschiire In. Diss. Strfi,sburg 1875 ; Leube, Beut. Arch. f. klin. Med. xviii, Ziemssen^s Cyclop, vii, with references; L. Mulleb, Das corrosive Geschwiir des Magens Erlangen 1880, with full references; Bottcher, Dorpat. med. Zeitschr. 1874; Hauseb, Das chronische Magengeschwure Leipzig 1883; Wiktorowsky, Virch. Arch. vol. 94. Quincke and Dattwtler {Mittheil. d. Vereins Schleswig-Holsteinscher Aerzte 1880, Deut. med. Woch. 6, 1882) have produced gastric ulcers in dogs by various methods, and find that in normal conditions repair is very rapid, whereas in anaemic or debilitated animals it is delayed. This observation entirely accords with clinical experience. Lesions of the gastric mucous membrane usually heal readily and rapidly; it is only when some local or constitutional condition impedes the process of repair that progressive digestion or solution of the injured tissue is set up, and the gastric ulcer assumes its typically chronic and intractable character. 461. Tumours of the stomach. Carcinoma is by far the commonest and most important of the new growths affecting the stomach. All cancers start in the mucosa, but very quickly extend to the subraucosa (Art. 431); in this way it is frequently found that the main mass of the growth lies beneath the mucosa in the submucous stratum. Thence the disease invades the muscular and serous coats (Art. 431, Fig. 174 A). In the latter it usually spreads in the form of discrete nodules and nodes, which are perceptible firom without, and folloAV the course of the lymphatic vessels. At a later stage it may invade the veins, giving rise to carcinomatous throm- boses, which take the form of long flat elevations of the serous surface, lying chiefly about the j^yloric end of the stomach. The lymphatic glands situated behind the lesser curvature soon become enlarged, and are often transformed into huge cancerous nodes. The disease may likewise extend to the omentum and give rise to a general thickening of its tissue or to in'egular