258 [sect. VII. THE ALIMENTARY TRACT. syphilitic iiiflamniation. Cancerous strictures are due to the infil- tration of the whole circumference of the oesophagus by the neoplasm, by which it is transformed into a kind of tough unyield- ing tube, the infiltrated tissue often at the same time undergoing contraction. These strictures are usually found in the lower or middle third of the oesophagus, rarely in the upper third: they extend over a length of 5 to 10 centimetres. The inner surface is in general ulcerated. Spasmodic or spastic stenosis is due to a painful contraction of the muscular coats. It is transient but apt to recur, especially in hysterical patients. As a rule no appreciable anatomical lesion of the oesophagus can be made out post mortem; though sometimes inflammation or ulceration of the mucous membrane exists and may induce abnormal irritability and spasm. The channel may on the other hand be abnormally wide, either from dilatation or from the presence of diverticula. Simple dilatation is generally the result of stenosis of the lower part of the tube or of the cardiac orifice of the stomach. In this case the muscular walls yield and become distended as the in- gested food gathers above the contracted portion. The dilatation is generally uniform, but occasionally it is unilateral and in this way diverticula are sometimes produced. The various coats are often thickened in the dilated portion. But dilatation may take place without stenosis; and in this case the oesophagus assumes the form of a fusiform sac, the walls of which (and especially the muscular and epithelial coats) are more or less thickened. The apparent cause of the dilatation is a diminution of the contractile power of the walls, due to injuries of various kinds or to inflammatory change. Localised dilatations above the diaphragm occur as congenital malformations (Zenker). Diverticula occur as localised sacculations at some part of the wall of the pharynx or oesophagus. They are due to pressure from within, or traction fr'om without. Diverticula of the former class are rare. They occur at the lower end of the pharynx, and appear either as small sacculations of the size of a hazel-nut or less and directed posteriorly, or as large globular, cylindrical, or pyriform sacs hanging down between the tube and the spine. The walls of such a sac are moderately thick and consist of the mucosa and submucosa with an external adven- titious layer of fibrous tissue; the muscular coat is absent or per- sists only around the neck of the sac. The diverticulum is in fact a hernia (pharyngocele) of the mucous membrane through the mus- cular bundles of the inferior constrictor of the pharjnix. Zenker accounts for its existence by supposing that some localised weaken- ing of the posterior wall of the pharynx takes place, and that then the inner layers are pushed through the outer by pressure from within exerted in the act of swallowing. The weakening may be due to mechanical injury, such as that caused by the lodgement of