CHAP. Lin.] INFLAMMATIONS OF THE STOMACH. 267 stomach appears dark-red and swollen, and beset with small haemorrhagic patches. The surface is covered with a film consisting of mucus, mucoid epithelium, and extravasated leucocytes. The cylindrical epithelial cells of the giand-ducts, which in normal conditions manufacture large quantities of mucus from their protoplasm, are seen to have passed into an extreme stage of mucoid change, and many are in process of desquamation. The epithelial cells of the peptic glands lie loosely in the lumen, and seem more granular than usual. The vessels of the interglandular connective tissue are distended, and their course is marked by cellular infiltration of the tissue, especially along the small veins. The subglandular tissue, and in some cases the submucosa, are here and there infiltrated; the endothelium of the lymphatics is swollen and desquamating, and some of the cells are multinuclear. These signs of inflammation may appear over the whole extent of the mucous, membrane, or may be confined to a few patches; very often the pyloric end alone is affected. Acute catarrhal gastritis is in most cases a transient affection, resulting in resolution and recovery: but it may pass into the chronic form and so lead to permanent changes. Thus the infiltration and the epithelial desquamation may become extreme ; part' of the epithelium is thus permanently lost, and as the desquamation extends the glandular structures gradually perish. In other words, atrophy of the mucous membrane takes place. In rare cases this is accompanied by disintegration of the fibrous sub-structures. Where the infiltration has been greatest, perhaps where haemorrhagic extravasation has occurred, both epithelium and fibrous tissue perish, and are cast off in larger or smaller fragments (see Art. 421). In this way more or less extensive ulceration is set up, and may spread over a large part of the mucous membrane. The individual ulcers are of various sizes. The floor is usually irregular and beset with low ridges or with small warty elevations ; they may be pale or red, and are sometimes indurated. The margins pass gradually into the thinned and atrophied membrane around, or are sharply defined and marked by the presence of excrescences in the form of small polypi or raised borders. Whenever the ulcer is large enough to be easily visible, the glandular structures of the mucosa are found to be almost wholly destroyed. The muscularis mucosae usually persists, but is thickly beset with infiltrated cells. The submucosa is thickened, indurated, and infiltrated, its fibrous elements being hyperplastic and abnormally coarse in texture. The glandular structures, where they remain, are infiltrated with leucocytes; the infiltration being most marked in the neighbour- hood of the thickenings and polypous excrescences. Some of the glands undergo cystic degeneration. The lymj)hadenoid follicles are fuller of lymphoid cells than in normal conditions, and are somewhat enlarged.