MACROGLOSSIA. 245 CHAP. XLIX.] proposes the name of leukoplakia for the non-syphilitic white patches which sometimes follow upon erythematous inflammation. Others speak of such patches, which are characterised by thicken- ing, cornification, and desquamation of the epithelium, as lingual psoriasis or ichthyosis. There seems some ground for believing that leukoplakia is in certain cases at least a precursor of epithelioma of the tongue (Hulke, Neligan, Barker). Dessoir describes a certain dark discoloration of the tongue due to accumulations of spores, dead epithelium, and accidental impurities, as langue noire or glossophytia. A hyperplastic condition of the epithelium, in which hair-like epithelial processes rise from the tips of the lingual papillae, has been described as ' hairy tongue.' Hyperplasia of the connective tissue of the oral mucous membrane and the adjoining structures is due either to some chronic inflammatory process, or to conditions that are congenital or developed in early infancy. Inflammatory hyperplasia is most commonly met with in connexion with the gums. It gives rise to circumscribed tumour- like thickenings, which usually retain for long the aspect and texture of granulation-tissue, and may therefore be described as granulomatous. Chronic inflammation of the tongue generally leads to fibrous induration and deformity, the muscular tissue becoming degenerate and atrophied. Congenital and infantile hyperplasia affects chiefly the lips (macrocheilia) and tongue (macroglossia). The lips may be so thickened as to look like great unwieldy tumours : the tongue may outgrow the capacity of the mouth to hold it, and it may thus press the teeth outwards and protrude from the mouth {prolapsus linguae, glossocele). The protruded part is usually dried up and fissured, and tdcers form at the points where it is in contact with the teeth. In the congenital form the enlargement is seldom very great at birth, but it rapidly increases in the first few months of life. The affection is frequently met with in cretins and idiots. The enlargement of the tongue and lips is due either to an overgrowth of all the constituent tissues or of the fibrous tissue only, or to the development of neoplastic tissue. The overgrowth may be local or general: in the former case isolated nodes and tuberosities are produced. In the fibrous form the muscular fibres are generally diminished in number; the fibrous tissue may be dense and firm or soft and cellular, and it is here and there infiltrated with leucocytes. The infiltration is most marked when the protruded portion of the tongue is fissured and ulcerated, and so subject to intercurrent inflammation. The lymphatics of the hyperplastic fibrous tissue are nearly always dilated (Art. 438). Of the atrophies and degenerations to which the tissues of the mouth are liable those that affect the tongue are the only ones of any great importance, and of these the most striking are those