[sect. IV. 138 THE SEROUS MEMBRANES. Secondary growths are much more frequent than primary ones. Cancers of the peritoneum follow from primary growths in the abdominal viscera; cancers of the pleura from gi'owths in the mamma or thyroid gland. Cancer of the oesophagus and stomach may affect the pericardium by direct extension, or by giving rise to metastatic nodules. Metastases generally take the form of definite nodes or nodules. In the pleura they lie chiefly along the course of the pleural and subpleural lymphatics. According to the texture of the parent growth, they are soft and white or medullary, hard and scirrhous, or occasionally brown or black, that is to say melanotic. The surrounding tissue may be but slightly affected, or it may be thickened, hyperplastic, indurated, and full of new vessels. When the nodes lie thick together the affected region (such as the omentum) may be changed into a thick dense tuberous mass. Less frequently the growth is indefinite or diffuse. This is the case however with colloid cancer of the intestine or ovary, which may attack the peritoneum by direct extension and fill the entire abdominal cavity with gelatinous masses. Dermoid and teratoid tumours (foetal inclusions) are com- paratively rare in the peritoneal region. The former are chiefly met with in women, and are seated in the ovary or its neighbour- hood. Foetal inclusions (Art. 13) may occur in various sites, and take the form of cysts adhering to the surrounding organs and containing foetal rudiments. Serous cysts are generally found in connexion with the female generative organs. Occasionally cysts of various sizes occur in other parts of the abdomen, but their mode of origin is not yet sufficiently known. They contain a highly albuminous liquid, which is sometimes viscid and mucous in consistence. Of the animal parasites the echinococcus is of some im- portance. It may form hydatid cysts of considerable size in the serous cavities, and the cysts are often adherent to the surrounding parts. Cysticerci are occasionally met with, but they seldom give rise to any notable disturbance. Sometimes intestinal parasites, such as round-worms, escape into the peritoneal cavity either through some pre-existing wound of the intestine or by direct penetration. The consequence is usually a puiTilent or putrid peritonitis. Embryos of Trichina pass from the intestine into the peritoneal cavity; they do not however remain there, but pass on into the muscles. Eeferences on cancer of the serous cavities:—Wagner, Arch. d. Heilk. xi; R. ScHULZ, ibid, xvii; Birch-Hirschfeld, Path. Anat.; Church, Trans. Path. Soc. 1870; Bostroem, Deutsch. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxix; Bohme, Virch. Arch. vol. 81; Neelsen, Deutsch. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxxi; G. DE Massy, Gaz. des Hopitaux 1867; Gross, Philad. Med. Times 1878; Hubl, ^Yien. med. Woch. 52, 1879; Thierfeldeb, Atlas d. path. Histologic Plate xxii.