175 CHAP. XXXVIII.] INFLAMMATIONS OF THE SKIN. c. Eruptions ending in necrosis, suppuration, ulceration, or granulation. 389. The affections of the skin which we have hitherto discussed have been inflammations either of a transient kind ending in complete recovery, or such as produce sensible changes of structure but not complete destruction of the skin. Only as a rare exception do they give rise to loss of substance calling for repair by granulations and cicatricial tissue. The processes now to be described are inflammations which issue in suppuration or necrosis of portions of the integument, and to which the development of granulations and cicatricial tissue is the ordinary and typical sequel. The injurious agencies which induce the skin-affections of this group are in part the same as those concerned in the less grave affections; but much more frequently they belong to a special and peculiar class, namely the class of specific contagia or infective poisons. The differences in the intensity of the inflammatory processes set up are in part due to differences of predisposition in the patient, and in part to differences in the intensity of the injury or the virulence of the poison. A typical examj)le of the first is afforded by small-pox, which in ' protected' patients, that is in patients with but slight predisposition to the disease, runs a mild course without any marked after-effects: in unpro- tected or predisposed patients the inflammation set up leads to extensive and permanent destruction of the skin. An obvious example of the increase of the effect with increase in the intensity of the injurious agency is afforded by burns of the third degree (Art, 381). In such burns the epidermis, the cutis, and perhaps the subcutaneous tissue, are destroyed or killed: intense inflammation then ensues, by which the dead tissue is gradually separated from the living. Granulations are developed in the form of fleshy upgrowths from the floor of the wound, and from them scar-tissue is elabo- rated, which may become more or less completely covered over with new epidermis growing from its margins. The scar is smooth and devoid of any regular papillae; and it soon becomes vascular and therefore red in tint. After a time however many of the vessels shrivel up, the tissue becomes pale, contracts, and forms a white tense puckered cicatrix. When the loss of substance caused by the original burn is extensive, the contraction of the scar may be so great that the function of the part (a limb, for example) may be seriously interfered with. The general effects of high temperatures are also produced by much lower temperatures, the difference being rather one of extent and degree than of kind. The inflammation induced may be slight and transient, and may lead to necrosis of small portions of