CHAP. XVI.] CHANGES IN THE CALIBRE OF THE VEINS. 79 are in contact, the vessel-walls may become adherent at the point, and the intervening tissue gradually disappearing by absorption, a new opening may be established between the two. Cavernous sinuses are thus formed, especially in the anal region: they form livid saccular tumours on the haemorrhoidal veins surrounding the anus, and are referred to as haemorrhoids or piles. Varices affecting the internal organs are most frequently met with in those of the pelvis. Varicocele is a dilated and tortuous condition of the veins of the spermatic cord, occurring more fre- quently on the left side than on the right. Varices are often not without danger to the patient, especially if they exist in regions exposed to mechanical injury. Haemorrhoids are often subject to rupture and haemorrhage, as well as to inflam- mation (periphlebitis). Such inflammation may lead to fibrous hyperplasia or to abscess; the latter when bacteria settle in the inflamed tissues. Varicose patches of skin are especially apt to become inflamed on slight occasion, and in this way troublesome and indolent ulcers are produced. These are known as varicose ulcers. Thrombi often form in dilated veins, and when they become calcified constitute the so-called vein-stones or phleboliths. In other cases the thrombi disintegrate and give rise to embolism. At times the thrombus becomes organised; the vein is filled up with fibrous tissue, and transformed into an impervious cord. 307. The processes by which arteries and veins may become narrowed or obliterated have already been more than once referred to under obliterating arteritis and the organisation of thrombi. These play the chief part in the occlusion of the larger vessels, by setting up thickening of their walls or development of new tissue in their interior; in the smaller vessels they may lead to the con- version of the patent channel into an impervious fibrous cord. Vessels are thus occluded by changes in their walls or in their contents; but they may likewise become narrowed or obliterated by compression from without, or by morbid processes affecting the tissues in which they lie. The veins are especially liable to such accidents: by the formation and contraction of cicatricial tissue around them large veins, even the vena cava, may be completely obliterated. See Eppinger (Die narbiqe Obliteration der Vena cava inferior, Praq. med. Woch.1816). ^ ^ y ;