THE DSE OF THE MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. xxix can aflFord, and the meal of the tradesman ought not to emulate the entertainments of the higher classes, but if two or three dishes are well served, with the usual sauces, the table-linen clean, the small side-board neatly laid, and all that is necessary be at hand, the ex- pectation of the husband and friend wiU be gratified, because no ir- regularity of domestic arrangement will disturb the social intercourse. 1 The same observation holds good on a larger scale. In all situa- tions of life, the entertainment should be no less suited to the station, than to the fortune of the entertainer, and to the number and rank of those invited. The manner of carving is not only a very necessary branch of in- formation, to enable a lady to do the honours of her table, but makes a considerable difference in the consumption of a family: and though in large parties she is so much assisted as to render this knowledge apparently of less consequence, yet she must at times feel the defi- I deucy; and should not fail to acquaint herself with an attainment, j the advantage of which is evident every day. Indeed, as fashions are so fleeting, it is more than probable, that before the end of this century, great attention to guests will be again the mode, as it was in the commencement of the last. Some people j haggle meat so much, as not to be able to help half a dozen persons ij decently from a large tongue, or a sirloin of beef; and the dish goes | away with the appearance of having been gnawed by dogs. If the ^ daughters of the family were to take the head of the table, under the direction of their mother, they would fulfil its duties with grace, in the same easy manner as an early practice in other domestic affairs gradually fits them for their own future houses. Habit alone can make good carvers; but some prindpal directions are hereafter given, ! v.ith a reference to the annexed plates. ; The mistress of a family should always remember that the welfare ' and good management of the house depends on the eye of the supe- i i