DOMEai'iC COOiCERT. 272 tion cnn prevent; and sixpence or eightpence a-score will be buying eggs cheap. To make Hens Lay. Dissolve an ounce of Grlau her’s salts in a qu art of water; mix the meal of potatoes with a little of the liquor, and feedthe hens two days, giving them plenty of clean water to drink. The above quantity is sufficient for six or eight hens. They should have plenty of clean water in reach. In a few days they will produce eggs. To fatten Foiols or Chickens in four or five days. ■ Set rice over the fire with skimmed milk, only as much as will serve one day. Let it boil till the rice is quite swelled out: you may add a tea-spoonful or two of sugar, but it will do w^ell wdthout. Feed them three times a-day, in common pans, giving them only as much as will quite fill them at once. When you put fresh, let the pans be set in water, that no sourness may be conveyed to the fowls, as that prevents them from fat- tening. G-ive them clean water, or the milk of the rice, to di’ink ; but the less wet the latter is when perfectly soaked, the better. By this method the flesh will have a clear whiteness which no other food gives; and when it is considered how far a pound of rice will go, and how much time is saved by this mode, it will be found to be as cheap as barley-meal, or more so. The pen should be daily cleaned, and no food given for sixteen hours before poultry be killed. To choose jEgys at market, and preserve them. Put the large end of the egg to your tongue; if it feels warm it is new. In new-laid eggs, there is a small divi- sion of the skin from the shell, which is filled with air, and is perceptible to the eye at the end. On looking through them against the sun or a candle, if fresh, eggs will be pretty clear. If they shake they are not fresh. Eggs may be bought cheapest when the hens first begin to lay in the spring, before they sit; in Lent and at Easter they become dear. They may be preserved fresh by dipping them in boiling water, and inst.antly taking them out, or by oiling the shells; either of which