DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. xlviii flartf.—The best way of cutting it up is, to put the point of the knife under the shoulder at a, (See Plate No. 4.) and so cut all the way down to the rump, on one side of the back-bone, in the line a 6. Do the same on the other side, so that the whole hare will be di vided into three parts. Cut the back into four, which, with the legs, is the part most esteemed. Theshoulder must be cut offin a circular line, as c, d, (Z; lay the pieces neatly on the dish as you cut them; and then help the company, giving some pudding and gravy to every person. Tliis way can only be practised when the hare is young; if old, do not divide it down, wliich will require a strong arm, but put the knife between the leg and back, and give it a little turn inwards at the joint, which you must endeavour to hit, and not to break by force. When both legs aro taken off, there is a fine collop on each side the ba^; then divide the back into as many pieces as you please, and take off theshoulders, which are by many preferred and are called the sportsman’s pieces. When every one is helped cut off the head, put your knife betw^eenthe upper and lower jaw, and divide them, which will enable you to lay the upper flat on your plate; then put the point of your knife into the centre, and cut the head into two. The ears and brains may be helped then to those who like them. Carve Rabbits as directed the latter way for hare; cutting the back into two pieces, which with the legs are the prime. A Pheasant,—The bird in the annexed engraving is as trussed for the spit, ndth its head under one of its wings. When the skewers are taken out, and the bird served, the foUomng is the way to carve it FL\ your fork in the centre of the breast; slice it doivn in the line a, b; take off the leg on one side, in the dotted line b, d; then cut off the wing on the same side, in the line c, d. Separate the log and wing on the other side, and then cut off the slices of breast you divided before. Be careful how you take off the wings, for if you should cut too near the neck, asat^i, you will hit on the neck-bone, from which tii9