HOME-BREWERY, &C. 219 Btand tlie remainder of the time. !Eun it on the hops previously infused in water; for strong beer three quarters of a pound to a bushel; if for ale, half a pound, lloil them with the wort two hours from the time it begins to boil. Cool apailfulto add three quarts of yeast to, which will prepare it for putting to the rest when ready next day ; but if possible put together the same night. Tun as usual. Cover the bung-hole with paper when the beer has done working ; and when it is to be stopped, have ready a pound and a half of hops dried before the fire, put them into the bung-hole, and fasten it up. Let it stand twelve months in casks, and twelve months in bottles before it be drank. It will keep fine eight or ten years. It should be brewed the be- ginning of March. Great care must be taken that the bottles are per- fectly prepared, and that the corks are of the best sort. The ale win be ready in three or fourmonths; andifthe vent-peg never be removed, it will have spirit and strength to the very last. Allow two gallons of water at first for waste. After the beer or ale has run from the grains, pour a hogshead and half for the twelve bushels, and a hogs- heacf of water, if eight were brewed; mash, and let it stand, and then boil, &c. Use some of the hops for tills table-beer that were boiled for the strong. When thunder or hot weather causes beer to turn sour, a tea-spoonful, or more, if required, of salt of wormwood put into the jug, will rectify it. Let it be drawn just before it is drunk, or it will taste flat. Excellent Table Beer. On three bushels of malt pour of hot water the third of the quantity you are to use, which is to be thirty- nine gallons. Cover it warm half an hour, then mash, and let it stand two hours and a half more, then set it to drain. When dry, add half the remaining water, mash, and let it stand half an hour, run that into another tub, and pour the rest of the water on the malt, stir it well, and clover it, letting it infuse a full hour. Uun that