93 SOUPS. white pepper; boil all in three quarts of water, till the meat falls quite to pieces. Next clay take olf the fat, clear tlie jelly from the sediment, and put it into a sauce- pan of the nicest tin. If macaroni is used, it sliouldbe added soon enough to get perfectly tender, after soaking in cold water. Vermicelli may be added after the thick- ening, as it requires less time to do. Have ready the thickening, which is to be made as follows:—Blanch a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, and beat them to a paste in a marble mortar, with a spoonful of water to prevent their oiling; mince a large slice of drest veal or chicken, and beat with it a piece of stale white bread; add all this to a pint of thick cream, a bit of fresh lemon-peel, and a blade of mace, in the finest powder. Boil it a few minutes ; add to it a pint of soup, and strain and pulp it through a coarse sieve: this thickening is then fit for putting to the rest, which shoidd boil for half an hour afterwards. A plainer white Soup. Two or three pints of soup may be made of a small knuckle of veal, with seasoning as directed in the last ar- ticle ; and both served together, with the addition of a quarter of a pint of good milk. Two spoonfuls of cream, and a little ground rice, will give it a proper thickness. Oihlet Soup. Scald and clean three or four sets of goose or duck gib- lets ; set them to stew, with a pound or two of gravy-beef, scrag of mutton, or the bone of a knuckle of veal; an ox- tail, or some shanksof mutton; with threeonions, a large buuch of sweet herbs, a tea-spoonful of whitepepper, .and a large spoonful of s.alt. Put five pints of water, .and sim- mer tiU the gizzards (which must be each in four pieces) are quite tender: skim nicely, .and add a quarter of a pint of cream, two tea-spoonsful of mushroom powder, and an oimce of butter mixed with a dessert-spoonful of flour. Let it boil a few minutes, and serve with the gib- lets. It m.ay be seasoned, instead of cream, with two glasses of sherry or Madeira, a Large spoonful of ketchup and some Cayenne. When in the tui’cen, add salt.