2G2 DOMESTIC COOKERY. and it is affirmed tliat the Cheshire, double Q-loucester, North Wilttiliire, Chcdder, and many other sorts, are BO excellent as not to discredit their names. As the cows are all on one estate, it should seem that the mode of making must be a principal cause of the difference in flavour ; besides, there is much in the size and man- ner of keeping. Clieese made on the same ground, of new, skimmed, or mixed milk, will differ greatly; not in richness only, but also in taste. Those who direct a dairy in a gen- tleman’s family should consider in which way it can be managed to the best advantage. Even with few cows, cheeses of value may be made from a tolerable pasture, by taking the whole of two meals of milk, and propor- tioning tlie thickness of the vat to the quantity, rather than having a wide and flat one, as the former will be most mellow. The addition of a pound of fresh made butter, of a good quality, will cause the cheese made on poor land to be of a very diflerent quality from that usually produced by it. A few cheeses thus made, when the weather is not extremely hot, and when the cows are in full feed, will be very advantageous for the use of the parlour. Cheese for common family-use vsdll be very well pro- duced by two meals of skim, and one of new-milk; or, in good land, by skim-milk only. Butter likewise should be made, and potted down for mnter-use, but ■ not to interfere with the cheese as above, which will not take much time. To prepare Rennet, to turn the Milk. Take out the stomach of a calf as soon as killed, and scour it inside and out with salt, after it is cleared of the curd always found in it. Let it drain a few hours; then sew it up with two good handfuls of salt in it, or stretch it on a stick well salted ; or keep it in the salt wet, and soak a bit, which will do over and over by fresh water. Another way.—Clean the maw as above; next day take two quarts of fresh spring-water, and put into it a handful of hawthorn-tops, a handful of sweet-briar, a