THE DSE OF THE MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. XXxlx best BQeans to preserve blankets from moths is to fold and lay them under the feather-beds that are in use; and they should be shaken occasionally; when soiled, they should be washed, not scoured. Soda, by softening the water, saves a great deal of soap. It should be melted in a large jug of water, some of which pour into the tubs and boiler; and, when the lather becomes weak, add more. The new improvement on soft soap is, if properly used, a saving of near half in quantity; and, though something dearer than the hard, re- duces the price of washing considerably. Many good laundresses advise soaping hnen in warm water the night previous to washing, as facihtating the operation with less friction. Soap should be cut with wire or twine, in pieces that will make a long square when first brought in, and kept out of the air two or three weeks ; for if it dry quick it will crack, and, when wet, break. Put it on a shelf, leav- ing a space between, and let it grow hard gradually. Thus it will save a full third in the consumption.—Some of the lemons and oranges used for juice should be pared first to preserve the peel dry ; some should be halved, and when squeezed the pulp cut out, and the outsides dried for grating. If for boiling in any liquid, the first way is best. When these fruits are cheap, a proper quantity should be bought and prepared as above directed, especially by those who live in the country, where they cannot always be had; and they are per- petually wanted in cookery. When whites of eggs are used for jelly, or other purposes, contrive to have pudding, custard, &c. to employ the yolks also. Should you not want them for several hours, boat them up with a little water, and put them in a cool place, or they will be hardened and useless. It was a mistake of old, to think tliat the whites made cakes and puddings heavy; on the contrary, if beat- en long and separately, they contribute greatly to give lightness, are an advantage to paste, and make a pretty dish beaten with fruit to set in cream. &c.