DATEY. 2C3 handful of rose-leaves, a stick of cinnamon, forty cloves, four blades of mace, a sprig of knotted marjoram, and two large spoonfuls of salt. Let them boil gently to three pints of water; strain it off; and when ouly milk- warm, pour it on the veil (that is, the maw). Slice a lemon into it; let it stand two days ; strain it again, and bottle it for use. It will keep good at least twelve months, and has a very fine fiavour. Tou may add any sweet aromatic herbs to the above. It must be pretty salt, but not brine. A little will do for turning. Salt the veil again for a week or two, and dry it stretched on sticks crossed, and it will be near as strong as ever. Don’t keep it in a hot place when dry. To make Cheese. Put the milk into a large tub, warming a part till it is of a degree of heat quite equal to new; if too hot the cheese wdlbe tough. Put in as much rennet as will turn it, and cover it over. Let it stand till completely turned; then strike the curd down several times with the skim- ming-dish, and let it separate, still covering it. There are two modes of breaking the curd; and there will be a difference in the taste of the cheese, according as either is observed; one is, to gather it with the bands very gently towards the sides of the tub, lettingthe wheypass through the fingers till it is cleared, and lading it oft’as it collects. The other is, to get the w'hey from it by early breaking the curd ; the last method deprives it of many of its oily particles, and is therefore less proper. Put the vat on a ladder over the tub, and fill it with curd by the skimmer : press the curd close with your hand, and add more as it sinks; audit must be finally left two inches above the edge. Before the vat is filled the cheese-cloth must be laid at the bottom; and when full, drawn smooth over on all sides. There are two modes of salting cheese; one by mix- ing it in the curd while in the tub after the whey is out; and the other by putting it into the vat and crumbling the curd all to pieces with it, after the first squeezing with the hands has dried it. The first method appears