slix DIRECTIONS FOR CARVINO. wing must oe separated. Cut ofTthe merrythought in the line./’, by passing the knife under it towards the neck. Cut the other parts as in a fowl. The breast, wings, and merrj thought, are the most esteemed, but the leg has a higher flavour. Goose.—Cut off the apron in the circular line a,b,c, {See Plate No. 8.) and pour into the body a glass of port wine; and a large tea-spoonful of mustard, first mixed at the sideboard. Turn the neck-end of the goose towards you, and cut the whole breast in long slices from one wing to ano- ther; but only remove them asyouhelp each person, unless the company isso largeas to requii-ethelegslikewise. This way gives more prime bits than by making wings. Take off theleg, by putting the fork into the small end of the bone, pressing it to the body, and having passed the knife at df turn the leg back, and, if a young bird, it will easily separate. To take off the wing, put your fork into the small end of the pinion, and press it dose to the body ; then put in the knife at d, and divide the joint, taking it down in the direction d, e. Nothing but practice will enable people to hit the joint exactly at the first trial. When the leg and wing of one side are done, go on to the other; but it is not often necessary to cut up the whole goose, unless the company be very large. There are two side-bones by the wing, which may be cut off, as likewise the back and lower side-bones ; but the best pieces are the breast, and the thighs after being divided from the drum-sticks. A Fowl.—A boiled fowl’s legs are bent inwards, and tucked into tlie belly; but before it is served the skewers are to bo removed. Lay the fowl on your plate, and place the joints, as cut off, on the dish. Take the wing off in the direction of a to 6, in the an- nexed engraving, only dividing the joint with your knife: and then with your fork lift up the pinion, and draw the wing towards the logs, and the muscles will separate in a more complete form than if cut. Slip the knife between the leg and body, and cut to the bone; then with the fork turn the leg back, and the joint will give way if