65 fOEE. to Boak one night; and soak the crumb of a quartern loaf in rather more than two quarts of new milk made hot. In the meantime prepare the guts by washing, tiirning and scraping with salt and water, and changing the water several times. Chop fine a little Tsanter savoury and thyme, a good quantity of penny-royal, pepper and salt, a few cloves, some allsjDice, ginger and nutmeg; mix these with three pounds ot beef-suet, and six eggs well beaten and strained; and then beat the bread, grits, &c. all up with the seasoning: when well mixed, have ready some hog’s fat cut into large bits; and as you fiU the skins, put it in at proper distances. Tie in links, only half filled: and boil in a large kettle, pricking them as they swell, or they wiU burst. When boiled, lay them between clean cloths tiU cold, and hang them up in the kitchen. When to be used, scald them a few minutes in water, wipe and put them into a Dutch-oven. If there are not skins enough, put the stufiing into basons, and boil it covered with floured cloths; and slice and dry it when used. Another way.—Soak all night a quart of bruised grits i in as much boding-hot milk as wiU sweU them and leave 1 half a pint of liquid. Chop a good quantity of penny- I royal, some savoury and thyme; salt, pepper, and all- ! spice, finely powdered. Mix the above with a quart of I the blood, prepared as before directed; then half fill tlio 1 skins, after they have been cleaned thoroughly, and put as much of the leaf (that is the inward fat) of the pig as will make it pretty rich. BoU, as before directed. I A small quantity of leeks finely shred and well mixed, is a great improvement. Another way.—Bod a quart of half-grits in as much : mdk as will sweU them to the utmost; then drain them I and add a quart of blood, a pint of rich cream, a pound ' of suet, some mace, nutmeg, aUspice, and four cloves, ' aU in fine powder; two pounds of the hog’s leaf cut into dice, two leeks, a handful of parsley, ten leaves of sage, a larse handful of penny-royal, and a sprig of thyme and knotted maijoram, aU minced fine: eight eggs well