WINES, &C. 2/)5 skim it; when cold put a little to a quarter of a pint of yeast, and so by degrees add a little more. In an hour pour the small quantity to the large, pour the liquor on clary-flowers, picked in the dry; the quan- tity for the above is twelve quarts. Those who gather from their own garden may not have sufRcient to put in at once, and may add as they can get them, keeping account of each quart. When it ceases to hiss, and the flowers are all in, stop it up for four months. Hack it off, empty the barrel of the dregs, and, adding a gallon of the best brandy, stop it up, and let it stand six or eight weeks; then bottle it. Excellerd Tfaisin TFine. To every gallon of spring-water put 8 pounds of fresh Smyrnas in a large tub ; stir it thoroughly every day for a month ; then press the raisins in a horse- hair bag as dry as possible ; put the liquor into a cask: and when it has done hissing, pour in a bottle of tho beat brandy; stop it close for twelve months; then rack it off, but without the dregs ; filter them through a bag of flannel of three or four folds; add the clear to the quantity, and pour one or two quarts of brandy according to the size of the vessel. Stop it up, and, at the end of three years, you may either bottle it, or or drink it from the cask. Eaisin wine would be ex- tremely good, if made rich of the fruit, and kept long, which improves the flavour greatly. Tfaisin Wine v-ifh Ot/der. Put tw'o lumdred w^eight of Malaga raisins into a cask, and pour upon them a hogshead of good sound X cyder that is not rough ; stir it well two or three daj'^s; sto]i it, and lot it stand six months; then rack into a caslc, that it will fill, and put in a gallon of the best brandy. If raisin wine be much used, it would answer well to keep a cask always for it, and bottle off one year’s wine just in time to make the next, which, al- lowing the six months of infusion, would make the wine to be eighteen months old. In cyder-counties this way is very economical; and even if not thought strong u