DOMESTIC COOKERY. 304 It will look like new if properly done. To ^ive a Oloss to fine Oah Wabiscot. If greasy, it must be washed with warm beer; then boil two quarts of strong beer, a bit of bees’ wax aa large as a walnut, and a large spoonful of sugar: wet it all over with a large brush, and when dry rub it tiU bright. To give a fine Colour to Mahogany. Let the tables be washedperfectly clear with vinegar, having first taken out any ink-stains there may be with spirits of salt; but it must be used with the greatest care, and only touch the part affected, and be instantly washed off. Use the following liquid:—into a pint of cold-drawn linseed-oU put four pennyworth of alkanet- root, and two pennyworth of rose-pink, in an earthen vessel; let it remain aU night; then stirring well, rub some of it all over the tables with a linen rag: when it has lain some time, rub it bright with linen cloths. Eating-tables should be covered with mat, oil-cloth, or baize, to prevent staining, and be instantly rubbed when the dishes are taken off, while still warm. To take Ink out of Mahogany. Dilute half a tea-spoonful of oil of vitriol with a large spoonful of water, and touch the part with a feather; watch it, for if it stays too long it wiU leave a white mark. It is therefore better to rub it quick, and repeat if not quite removed. Floor-cloths Should be chosen that are painted on a fine cloth, that is well covered with the colour, and the flowers on which do not rise much above the ground, as they wear out first. The durability of the cloth will depend much on these two particulars, but more especially on the time it has been painted, andthegoodness of thecolours. If they have not been allowed suflScient space for be- coming thoroughly hardened, a very little use will injure them ; and, as they are very expensive articles, care in preserving them is necessary. It answers to keep them some time before they are used, either hung up m adi'y barn where tliey will have air, or laid do\^u