xl vi DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. its back uppermost. When it is first cut, it should be in the hollow part of it, in the direction of a, b, and the knife should he passed deep to the bone. The prime part of the fat lies on the outer edge and it is to he cutoutinthinshces in the direction of «. If many are at table, and the hollow part cut in the line a, b, is eaten, some very good and delicate slices may he cut out on each side of the ridge of the blade-bone, in the direction c, d, The line between these two dotted lines, is that in the direction of which the edge or ridge of the blade-bone lies, and cannot be cut across. Leg of Mutton.—A leg of wether mutton (which is the best fla- voured) may be known by around lump of fat at the edge of the broad- est part, as at a. The best part is in the midway, at h, between the knuckle and fnrtlier end. Begin to help there, by cutting thin deep slices to c. If the outside is not fat enough, help some from the side of the broad end in slices from « to/. This part is most juicy; but many prefer the knuckle, w'hich in fine mutton will be very tender though dry. There are very fine slices on the back of the leg; turn it up and cut the broad end, not in the direction you did the other side, but longways. To cut out the cramp-bone, take hold of the shank with your left hand, and cut down to the tliigh-bone at d, then pass the knife under the cramp-bone in the direction d, g. Saddle of Mutton.—Cut long thin slices from the tail to the end beginning close to the backbone. If a large joint, the slice may be divided. Cut some fat from the sides. A Fore-quarter of Lamb.—Separate the shoulder from the sco- ven, (which is the breast and ribs,) by passing the knife under in the direction a, h, o, d, (See Plate No. 2) keeping it towards you hori- zontally, to prevent cutting the meat too much of the bones. If grass-lamb, the shoulder being large, put it into another dish. Squeeze the juice of half a Seville orange (or lemon) on the other part, and sprinkle a little salt and pepper. Then separate the gristly