THE USE OF THE MISTRESS OP A FAMILY. XXVil fashionable circles rather than to stoop (as she would conceive it) to undertake the arrangement of a family, though by that means sho might in various ways augment the satisfaction and comfort of her parents. On the other hand, persons of an inferior sphere, and es- peciaUy in the lower order of middling life, are almost always anxious to give their children such advantages of education as themselves did not possess. Whether their indulgence be productive of the happi- ness so kindly aimed at, must be judged by the effects, which are not very favourable, if what has been taught has not produced humility in herself, and increased gratitude and respect to the authors of her being. Were a young woman brought to relish home society, and the calm delights of agreeable occupation, before she entered into the delusive scenes of pleasure, presented by the theatre and other dissi- pations, it is probable she would soon make a comparison much in favour of the former especially if restraint did not give to the latter additional relish. If we carry on our observations to married life, we shall find a love of employment to be the source of unnumbered pleasures. To attend to the nursing, and at least early instructions of children, and rear a healthy progeny in the ways of piety and usefulness; to preside over the family and regulate the income allotted to its maintenance; to make home the sweet refuge of a husband fatigued with a jarring world ; to be his enlightened companion and the chosen friend of his heart: these, these, are woman’s duties! and delightful ones they are, if haply she be married to a man whose soul can duly estimate her worth, and who will bring his share to the common stock of feli- city. Of such a woman one may truly say, “ Happy the man who can call her his wife. Blessed are the children who ojill her mother.” When we thus observe her, exercising her activity and best abili- ties in appropriate cares and increasing excellence, are wo not ready to say, she is the agent for good of that benevolent Being who placed