231 PKESEEVES three of milk, and strain the whole through a cloth. Dissolve half a pound of fine sugar in a pint of water, boil and skim it well; mii it with tho other, as like- wise two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and a tea- cupful of the best brandj Lemonade, to he made the day before wanted. Pare two dozen of tolerably sized lemons as thin as possible, put eight of the rinds into three quarts of hot, not boiling water, and cover it over for three or four hours. Pub some fine sugar on the lemons to attract the essence, and put it into a china-bowl, into which squeeze the juice of the lemons. To it add one pound and a half of fine sugar, then put the water to the above, and three quarts of milk made boiling hot; mix, and pour through a jelly-bag till perfectly clear. Another way.—Pare a number of lemons according to the quantity you are likely to want; on the peels pour hot water, but more juice will be necessary than you need use the peels of. While infusing, boil sugar and water to a good syrup with the white of an egg whiptup; when it bods, pour a little cold water into it: set it on again, and when it bods up take the pan off, and put it to settle. If there is any scum, take it off, andpourit clear from the sediment to the water the peels were in- fused in, and the lemon juice stir and taste it, and add as much more water as shad be necessary to make a very rich lemonade. Wet a jeUy-bag, and squeeze it dry, then strain the liquor, which is uncommonly fine. Lemonade that has the flavour and appearance of Jelly. Pare 2 Sevdle oranges and 6 lemons as thin as pos- pible, and steep them 4 hours in a quart of hot water. Boil a pound and a quarter of loaf-sugar in 3 pints of water, and skim it. Add the two liquors to the juice of six china oranges, and twelve lemons; stir the whole well, and run it through a jedy-bag tdl clear. Then add a little orange-water, if you like the flavour, and, if wanted, more sugar. It wiU keep wed if corked. Baspherry Vinegar. Put a pound of fine fruit into a china-bowl, and pour