DOMESTIC COOKERY. (iG Nexh of Veaf a-la-lraise. Lard the best end with bacon rolled in parsley chop- ped fine, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; put it into a tosser, and cover it with w'ater. Put to it the scrag end, a little lean bacon or ham, an onion, tw'O carrots, two heads of celery, and about a glass of U adcira wine. 8tew it quick two hours, or till it is tender, but net too much. Strain off the liquor; mix a little flour and butter in a stew- pan tfll brown, and lay the veal in this, the upi)er side to the bottom of the pan. Let it be over the fire till it gets coloured: then lay it into the dish, stir some of the liquor in and boil it up, skim it nicely, and squeeze orange or lemon-juice iato it. 'Breast of Veal. Before roasted, if large, the two ends may be taken oft’ and fried to stew, or the w'hole may be roasted. Butter should bo poined over it. If any be left, cut the pieces into handsome sizes, put them into a stew-pan, and pour some broth over it; or if you have no broth, a little water wiU do; add a bunc-h of herbs, a blade or two of mace, some pepper, and an anchovy; stew tfll the meat is tender, thicken with butter and flour, and add a little ketchup; orthe wLole breast may be stewed, after cutting off the two ends. Serve the sw^eetbread whole upon it: which may either be stewed, or parboiled, and then covered with crumbs, herbs, pepper, and salt, and browned in a Dutch-oven. If you have a few mushrooms, truffles, and morels, stew them with it, and serve. Boiled breast of veal, smothered with onion-sauce, is an excellent dish, if not old nor too fat. To roll a Breast of Veal. Bone it, take off the thick skin and gristle, and beat the meat with a roUmg-pin. Season it with herbs chopped very fine, mixed witli salt, pepper and mace. Lay some thick slices of fine ham; or roll into it two or three calves’ tongues of a line red, boiled first an hour or two and skinned. Bind it iip tiglit in a cloth, and tape it. Set it over the fii’e to simmer in a small quantify