107 WATER to be recommended for small dwellings ; it produces great heat, and supplies many noxious substances to the air. The latter defect is reduced by the use of various forms of incandescent gas-light. Petroleum gives an excellent light, and, if of sufficiently high flash-point, its use in scrupulously made lamps is without danger. Petroleum in burning con- taminates the air less than gas ; and, next to electric light, contaminates the air least of all the artificial illuminants in common use. Candles give little light, and, though they also give little heat, yet they supply to the air seven times as great a quantity of noxious products of incompleted combustion as good petroleum-light. Finally, the supply of light should be taken into considera- tion in laying out streets and houses. The width of the Street should be at least equal to the height of the highest houses; the houses themselves should not be too high, and should, if possible, stand apart from one another. Streets should not run due E. and W., as the various rooms in them in that case do not get their due proportion of sunlight. As many open spaces as possible should be preserved as public parks within and near the town. {d) Water.—Water is almost as important a factor in our lives as air. About 70 per cent. of our bodies consists of water ; our most important foods contain it in quantities varying from o to 75 or more per cent. The body excretes dally about 2700 grams of water. This quantity is replaced by that contained in the food and drink. The former source provides, or should provide, by far the greater amount. Excessive drinking, even of drinks harmless in themselves, is a widespread and bad habit. The drinking-water which comes from natural springs is generally free from impurities, that from artificial wells is not infrequently contaminated, and may even contain germs of typhus, cholera, etc. : water from such sources must therefore be used with great caution. Water from rivers with populous towns on their banks, and also that stored in cisterns, demands still greater precautions before use.