77 NUTRITION part of the soft palate, the umla^ is a conically rounded fold of skin hanging vertically. From each of its lateral edges two folds of skin, the pillars of the fauces, descend on either side. The two front pillars adjoin the edges of the tongue ; the two hinder ones, the back of the pharynx. Between the two, embedded in the foundation of the posterior fauces, lie two glands of the size of hazel-nuts, the tonsils. In breathing through the nose the velum lays itself dose against the back of the tongue, so making a free passage between nasal cavities and pharynx. In breathing through the mouth and in swallowing, the lower edge of the velum is pressed tightly against the back of the pharynx, and so closes the entrance to the nasal cavity. The food in the mouth is crushed and torn by the teeth and moistened by the saliva. But beside being me- chanically changed, the soluble substances are dissolved and the starchy bodies chemically acted upon by the saliva. The saliva is manufactured by three pairs of glands, the salivary glands. One pair lying below the ears is termed the parotid; another, under the tongue, the sub-lingual; and a third, on the inner side of the lower jaw, the sub-maxillary. The salivary glands open into the mouth by ducts, and, when stimulated by the presence of food in the mouth or in other ways—as, for example, the thought of food, making ’ “ the mouth water ”— they discharge the watery, slightly alka- line saliva into the mouth. The saliva contains a substance, ptyalin, which is capable of Converting starch into sugar. The food, more or less finely divided and moistened, is irolled into balls by the sides of the mouth and tongue, and, poised on the tip of the latter, is carried backwards into the pharynx, the muscular-walled cavity behind the velum (Fig. 30). Thence it is passed on to the oesophagus vyhich opens from the pharynx behind, and in front of which lies the trachea. The oesophagus (Fig. 30, f) is a straight, extensible tube, passing somewhat obliquely to the left downwards, and per- torating the diaphragm not far from the vertebral column.