RESPIRATION 71 —build them up into living protoplasm, They also take up oxygen, and, as a consequence, decomposition-changes are set up in the cells, resulting in the release of energy and the formation of oxidized substances, carbon dioxide, water, etc. The absorption of oxygen by the cells, and the consequent decomposition of their substance, is termed respration. Breathing is but the tool of respiration, the raovements of the lungs and of the blood serving only to bring the oxygen of the air to the cells of the body. The air reaches the lungs after passing through the mouth or nose, the pharynx, and the trachea. The trachea^ or wind-pipe (Figs. 29 a, 30 f), is a stout open tube about 12 cms. in length and 20 mms. in width from right to left, 12-15 mms. from back to front. Its Walls contain much elastic tissue, strengthened by a series of 18-20 C-shaped loops of cartilage, of which the open parts are behind. Internally the trachea is lined by a mucous m.embrane. Small particles of dust, etc., entering the trachea tend to stick on the viscid mucus which its membrane secretes, and are swept upward by the unceasing movement of the minute protoplasmic processes, the cilia, which project from the epithelial cells lining the free surface of the mucous membrane. The walls of the trachea, though rigid enough to keep it open, are suiEciently elastic to allow of its dilatation on strong pressure being exerted from within, as in coughing ; and of its Stretching a little, as in speaking or during certain movements of the head. The lungs (Fig. 28, d) consistof two almost equal, bluntly conical halves, which enclose the heart between them, and together with it fill the whole cavity of the thorax. They are pale red in colour, very soft and light, and extremely elastic. Fach lung is enclosed in a tight-fitting mem- branous sac. At the root of each, that is, at the point of entry of the branch from the trachea into the lungs, this membrane passes over, as the pleura, to form the lining of the chest-wall. Within, the lungs show a spongy structure