79 NUTRITION It shows a further difference in that the ends of the branches are swollen not unlike the infundibuli of the lungs. The epithellum of the salivary alveoli, however, instead of be- coming thin and plate-like, consists of large more or less cylindrical cells ; that lining the conducting part consists of more cubical cells. It is by the activity of these larger, more or less cylindrical, cells that the saliva is produced. The mucous membrane of the empty stomach is thrown into folds, the rügte; when the stomach is distended the rugae disappear. The mucous membrane of the small intestine bears permanent folds, which are beset with finger- like processes. These finger-like folds, the villi^ are richly supplied with blood-vessels, and in them the lacteals, which communicate with the lymphatic vessels running to the receptaculum chyli, have their origin. The small intestine (Fig. 28, n) is about 34 cms. in diameter, and 4 to 5 metres in length. It is attached to the vertebral column by a strong fold of the peritoneura, the mesentery. In the depressions between the villi, tube- like infoldings [glands of Lieberkühn) of the mucous mem- brane occur. The small intestine opens into the ccecum (Fig. f) at right angles to the direction of the latter, making with it a sort of T-joint. One limb of the T is short and blind, and bears a tail-like process, the vermiform appendix (Fig. 28, q). The other, the coecum, forms the first part of the tube of the large intestine. At the junction of the small intestine with the coecum, the ileo-ccecal valve, a two-lipped fold of the mucous membrane of the large intestine, hinders the passage of substances back into the small intestine. Like the small intestine, the large bears tubulär glands which secrete mucus, but which have little or no importance in the process of digestion. The terminal portion of the large intestine is the rectum (Fig. 28, ;•), between it and the first part of the coecum are the ascending colon, the trans- verse and the descending colon. Besides the numerous glands situated in the walls of the