THE SKIN 8S enlargement, the glomerulus^ the cells of which are flat and plate-like. The glomerulus may be likened to a minute bladder, the bottom of which is punched In so that the cavity is almost obliterated, and a cup-like hollow space is formed surrounded by the two layers of the membrane. Into the cup-like space a tangle of blood-capillaries passes. Through the thin wall of the glomerulus water and salts pass from the blood to the tubules : though here, no more than in any other gland, the passage is no mere physical filtration or diffuslon, but an active secretory process, that is, one dependent on the vital activity of the living protoplasm contalned In the plate-like cells of the glomeruli. {b) TheSkin .—^The skin is primarily an organ of pro- tection and a means of regulating the relations between the body and the external world. In it, as we have learned, reside the organs of the sense of touch. In addition to these functions, the skin plays the part of an excretory organ, and in so doing asslsts in the control of the temperature of the body. The skin forms a connected envelope over the entire body : modified to form mucous membranes, it also lines the walls of the tubes, alimentary canal, trachea, etc., which open to the exterior. The skin lining the surface of the body consists of two intimately connected layers, of which the outer is called the epidermis^ or cuticle; the inner, the dermis^ or true skin. The outer layers of the epidermis consist of hard, flat, scale- like, dead cells. Its innermost layers, Malpighian layers, consist of living, actively dividing cells. The change ffom within outward is gradual, for the inner cells, pushed further outward by younger, later-formed cells, change almost im- perceptibly into the outer scale-like plates, which are being continually removed at the surface. The epidermis rests on a vascular layer of variable thick- ness, the dermis, which is thrown up into ridges or papillas, into some of which blood-vessels, and into others of which nerves with their nerve-endings project. The dermis consists of a loosc conncctive tissue, contalning