8o METABOLISM intestine, there are two large glands lying outside the intestine which open into it—the liver and the pancreas. The liver (Fig. 28, k') is a massive gland, of a brown colour and of considerable size, lying to the right of the stomach, immediately ander the diaphragm. It is held fast in its place by several folds of the peritoneum and by special ligaments. Its outer surface is convex and lies dose against the wall of the abdomen. Its inner surface is slightly concave and, with its anterior upper surface, fits round the intestinal end of the stomach. The greatest thickness, on the right side, is 10 cms. It tapers down in front and below to a sharp edge, which forms the boundary between its inner and outer surfaces. Its weight varies within wide limits on either side an average of i'5 kilog. The structure of the liver, though not at first sight evident, is, indeed, fundamentally that of a compound gland. Its duct, the bile-duct^ opening into the small intestine a short distance from its commencement, dis- charges during digestion a viscid green secretion, the bile. At other times the bile flows through a branch from the bile-duct into the gall-bladder. This is a pear-shaped mem- branous receptacle, about 8 to 10 cms. in length, situated dose to the inner surface of the liver. The quantity of bile secreted by the liver is very variable ; it may be as great as 2400 grs. in 24 hours, but averages 500 to 600 grs. The other large gland, the pancreas (Fig. 28, w), is a thin, flat, elongated body, 20 to 25 cms. in length, 4*5 cms. in height, resembling a salivary gland in structure. It lies dose to the small intestine, partly across the abdomen, below the stomach. Its secretion, the pancreatlcjuice, flows through the pancreatic duct, which opens into the small intestine near the entrance of the bile-duct. Digestion in the Stomach and Small Intestine. —During the short time the food remains in the mouth, the ptyalin of the saliva is able to exert but little action on its starchy constituents. On the arrival of the food in