i6 THE SKELETON outer edge has three processes, one of which bears the articular surface for the shoulder-joint. From the outer surface of the shoulder-blade sprlngs a ridge which rises above the rest of the bone, and serves for the attachment of muscles passing to the arm. In the same region, but arlsing on the inner surface, is the acromion process, serving as a point of attachment for the clavicle, which is the only bone of the thorax to which the scapula is attached. The clavicle is rod-shaped, curved into the shape of a very elongated S, and connected with the breast-bone by a stiff joint. It passes from the Sternum outwards, and partakes with the scapula in the formation of the shoulder-joint. The shoulder-blade and collar-bone together clasp between them the upper edge of the thorax as if in a pair of tongs. At their point of junction hangs the arm, which by this mode of attachment secures its peculiar mobility. The arm is not immediately attached to the skeleton of the trunk, but only indirectly connected with it through the breast- bone. The arm (Fig. lo) is divided into three sections : the upper arm ; the lower or forearm ; the hand, including wrist, hand proper, and fingers. The humerus (Fig. lo, a\ the bone of the upper arm, is tubulär, and thickened at both ends where the articula- tions occur. At the upper end, the articular surface is spherical ; at the lower, there are two articular surftces—a cylindrical inner surface for the ulna, and a spherical outer one for the radius. In the lower arm are two elongated bones, the radius and the ulna (Fig. lO, r, ^), which, in the middle, diverge some- what from one another. Both bones taper, the former being thicker at the wrist, the latter towards the elbow. At the elbow the lower side of the ulna is prolonged beyond its articular surface into a process which, fitting into a depression on the lower side of the humerus, pre- vents the forearm from bending back at the elbow ; this is also provided against by one of the llgaments of the joint.