59 TOUCH the tips of the fingers. These can feel difFerences of temperature as slight as 0‘z° C. The Sensation of heat is also caused, as in exercise, hy an increase of blood running in the blood-vessels of the skin, or of cold by the with- drawal of the blood from the skin to other parts of the body. These sensations do not indicate a change of temperature in the blood, but that the supply of heat by the blood to the skin is augmented or reduced. In the chills of fever the temperature is actually above normal. A temperature over 47° C. produces pain, as does one under — 10° C. if not too long continued. A longer duration of so low a temperature causes the loss of all Sensation. Touch.—The totality of sensations produced by contact and pressure is called touch, whether the will has any share in them or not. The tactile sense is most highly developed in the tip of the tongue, in the finger-tips, and in the lips ; least in the skin of the back. The points of a pair of compasses simultaneously placed on the skin can be feit as two distinct impressions—on the tongue-tip, at i*i mm. apart; on the middle hnger, at 2’2 mms. ; on the back, at 30 to 40 mms. When the points are placed closer together, the Impression of the two points is feit as a single Sensation. By feeling in the strict sense—that is, the passing of the tactile Organs over the body to be examined—we convince ourselves of the shape of an object, the character of its surface, and, in conjunction with muscular and temperature sense, of its size and temperature. The sense of touch is capable of high development, as in the blind. Certain forms of tactile Sensation have sometimes been designated as special senses. Thus the capability of the skin, not only of feeling heat and pressure in themselves, but of indicating the place where this happens, is called the local sense, or sense of space. By sense of pressure we understand the sensitiveness of the skin to the degree of weight resting on any given spot. This is not to be con- fjunded with the muscular sense, which is generally, however, called in as an aid to the judgment, the object being to this end lifted up and down.