THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 32 i). The exact sizes and positions of the convolutions differ in different brains, and even in the opposite hemispheres of the same brain. An incision into the mass of the brain shows it to consist of tvvo different substances : on the surface a reddish-grey layer, the matter^ ov cortex (Fig. \j, a) and within, the white matter (Fig. 17, /^), into which the former insensibly passes. The nervous part of the grey matter consists of cells, each of which bears a number of finely branching processes {denärites), as well as one unbranching process, the neunte or axis-cylinder process. The white matter consists of fibres—the axis-cylinder processes of cells in different parts of the nervous System—which termlnate either in the cells of the grey matter, or as fine, much-branching fibres near the cells. The fibres run in all directions—some through the brain down into the spinal cord ; others from the cells of one hemisphere to the other, where they end in fine branches around cells ; and others again connecting, in a similar way, cells of one lobe with those of another of the same hemisphere. Thus it is that the complex brain forms a dominating whole. Fibres and cells alike are, both in the brain and spinal cord, embedded in and nourished by a non-nervous ground substance, the neuroglia. The cerebellum (Fig. 16, h), like the cerebrum, is deeply cleft by a longitudinal fissure. The surface appears stri- ated, owing to fissures which run horizontally and nearly parallel with one another. In this part of the brain, as in the cerebrum, a number of lobes can be distinguished. The grey matter of the cerebellum penetrates more deeply than does that of the cerebrum, so that the tissue of the cerebellum presents, in a transverse section, the appearance of tree-like branching ; hence its old name, “the tree of life.” It is clear that the folding of the surface of cerebrum and cerebellum into convolutions and fissures greatly in- creases the superficial area of the cortex. The brain governs the whole body and its activities ; it is the Seat of all ideas of States and processes in and out of