THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS »35 Over-exertion sometimes causes a rush of blood to the lungs, which under some circumstances may be dangerous. (</) The Organs of Speech.—The larynx is often afFected by inflammation of the mucous membrane, which shows itselfin hoarseness. With people, in particular, who in thecourse of their profession are forced to exert their throats greatly (singers, teachers, preachers), the constant irritation of the mucous membrane and over-strain of the muscles often leads to chronic disease. To keep the larynx healthy, we should avoid over-strain, give it complete rest on the first appearance of hoarseness, protect it from cold, dust, or damp air, and, above all, accustom it gradually to its work, and harden the throat. {e) The Circulatory Organs.—Proper feeding and breathing, healthy organs to prepare the blood, metabolism rendered active by muscular exercise and healthy conditions of light and air, keep the blood and circulatory organs in health. Exercise in the open air and simple food are the best means to this end. Excessive bodily exertion increases the activity of the heart, and leads to hypertrophy of the cardiac muscle. Besides this, the extreme tension of the blood-vessels causes their chronic inflammation and subsequent weaken- ing, and so leads to diseases of the heart, kidney, or, in the case when the weakened blood-vessels are those of the brain, to apoplexy. Abuse of alcohol and over-eating are further sources of heart-disease. In this case deposits of fat are very apt to form between the fibres of the heart-muscle, and the unduly increased quantity of blood can only be removed by abnormal activity on the part of that muscle. If the kidneys are permanently forced, by too great a consumption of liquids, to do an excessive amount of work, or if they have to deal with too many irritant substances, kidney-disease arises, which might have been avoided by exercise and a little care. (/) The Digestive Organs. —Food should be taken at regulär times, in moderate quantities, and of a kind suited to the manner of life. Tainted or doubtful food should