88 THE TEMPERATURE OF THE BODY a loss of heat.- Vaso-motor nerves supply its blood-vessels, which therefore dilate or contract according to the impulses sent out from the central nervous System. Contraction of the blood-vessels of the skin entails diminished excretion of sweat, reduced evaporation, and consequently curtailed loss of heat. Of the amount of heat which at any given time is con- tained in the body, about one-third is used in raising the tem- perature of foods and drinks and of the air entering the lungs. We have now traced the processes of nutrition and of excretion, which represent, the one the receipts, the other the working expenses, of the body. When the quantities of food assimilated, and of waste excreted, each calculated in terms of weight of carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen,are equal, the equilibrium of the bodyis maintained ; it neither loses nor gains weight. When the constructive processes are in excess of the destructive, weight is gained. This weight results from an actual increase, a growth of living substance, or from a more or less temporary storage of the excess. The storage may take the form of fat, which can be laid down in almost any cell of the body, but especially in the connective-tissue cells ; or again, a form of starch, glycogen, may be deposited in the liver and elsewhere, and doled out subsequently to meet the general demand for carbo-hydrate material. Under what form, other than by being incorporated in the living tissue, the excess of proteid is stored, we do not know. It Ts note- worthy that an excess of proteid given in the food leads at once to a rapid increase in metabolism, and a rise of nitro- genous substances in the excreta. When the loss of sub- stance outweighs the gain, the body wastes. The temporarily stored substances are the first to disappear, later the tissues themselves become impoverished. In youth, the business of life is carried on at a profit ; in middle age, the body remains, generally speaking, in equilibrium, just making both ends meet ; in old age, life’s business is carried on at a continually increasing loss.