SENSE-ORGANS : SICHT 39 are the carriage of impulses regulating the contraction of the muscles of the intestine, and those (tonic im- pulses) vvhich normally maintain the small blood-vessels in a state of slight contraction, and those aifecting the move- ment of the iris. The sympathetic System receives its fibres from the central nervous System, of which its ganglia are but offshoots. Within its ganglia many of the nerve-fibres lose their medullary sheaths, and so leave as non-medullated fibres. {d) Sense-Organs.—Theconnection of the brain with the outer world is established by means of the sense-organs. The agents, such as light, heat, sound, pressure, or chemical substances, which excite the sense-organs to nervous activity, are termed Stimuli. The nerve connected with an organ of special sense can give rise in the brain to sensations of one kind only ; thus the optic nerve only gives rise to sensations of sight. Stimuli of kinds other than those to which the sense-organ is attuned may give rise to the Sensation peculiar to the organ in question. The recipient of a blow on the eye “ sees Stars the pressure stimulates the optic nerve, which transmits the Stimulus in the only way open to it, as a visual Impulse. The essential parts of every sense-organ are: first, the nerve with its endings ; and secondly, epithelium cells, which are often highly specialized in form and arrangement, and with which the nerve-endings are in intimate relation. The specialized epithelial cells, with the nerve-endings, receive the Stimulus, and, in consequence of it, transmit a nervous impulse to the central nervous System. The effects of Stimulation are often enhanced by contrast and by repetition ; thus water taken after acid foods tastes sweet, but bitter if it follows sweet things, A cellar of constant temperature seems cold in summer, warm in winter ; tepid water seems cold to the fingers after warm, and warm after cold water. The effects of repetition are well known in the case of smell : by sniffing, an odour before doubtful is readily recognized. I. Of Sight .—The eye lies in the (Fig- 20), a conical