THE SENSE-ORGANS AND THE BRAIN ij7 be properly utilized, the body becomes ill-nourished, and the stomach often diseased. It is advisable that the teeth should be examined at fixed periods by a dentist. The stomach is one of the most used and most abused Organs of the body, and therefore is very often diseased. Like every organ which works hard, it needs due intervals of rest. Many persons, however, think that they must be continually eating trifles. With such people the stomach is never empty before it is called upon to receive a fresh supply of food. Deprived of intervals of repose, it becomes diseased through over-work. Food that is too warm or too cold is hurtful, so is overloading of the stomach. Too copious drinking at or after meals, and excess in alcoholic drinks, are frequent causes of chronic stomach complaints. Slight derangements of the stomach are most speedily relieved by doing what should be done with any diseased organ—letting it rest, either by putting the sufferer on a strict diet or allowing him to fast for a while. Catarrh of the bowels arises, in children especially, from feeding with already partly decomposed milk; in adults, from tainted food, or drink in course of fermentation and also from insufficient mastication. Inflammation of the coecum is caused by solid bodies— apple-pips, cherry-stones, etc.—getting lodged in the vermi- form appendix. All seeds should therefore, as far as possible, be removed from fruits before they are eaten. (g) The Sense-Organs and the Brain.—The eyes. Cleanliness prevents various inflammatory affections of the lids, the conjunctiva, and of the cornea. The prevention of short-sightedness is a very important task. One of its most frequent causes is bad light, which forces the things looked at to be brought very near the eye. The right kind of light must be provided, both in the school and in the home. The places in which work is done should be sufliclently lighted, and the light should fall from the left side on to the object looked at. Care