63 THE HEART 2. The Heart.—The heart is a muscular pump, whose incessant strokes, called beats, keep the blood continually circulating. Its shape is roughly that of an inverted cone of about 15 cms. in height, 11 cms. in breadth, and 9 cms. in depth from front to back. It lies near the middle of the thorax, with the apex to the left and with its longitudinal axis inclined forward. A delicate membrane, the peri~ cardium, encloses the heart in a double layer—one closely investing it, the other loosely. Between the two is the pericardial fluid. The muscular tissue which forms the walls of the heart consists of prismatic striated cells, con- nected together by short arms and by a cementing sub- stance. A longitudinal septum, Stretching from front to back, divides the heart-cavity into two. Each of these halves is again divided by a transverse partition, and the four chambers thus formed are called the right and left ventrides (below) (Fig. 27, b)^ and the right and left auricles (above) (Fig. 27, r, d). A shallow groove on the outer surface denotes the position of the septum ; a deeper grove running round the heart transversely marks the limit between the auricles and the ventrides. The septum completely separates the right and left halves from one another ; but openings, one in each of the transverse partitions, put the right and left auricles in communication with the corresponding ventrides. Other openings, those leading into veins or arteries, occur in the Walls of all four chambers. The auricles, when empty, are somewhat smaller than the ventrides ; but being more extensible, have about the same capacity. The wall of the left ventricle is considerably thicker than that^ of the right, the work done by it being greater. Similarly and for the same reason, the wall of the right ventricle is thicker than that of either auricle. The muscle lining the chambers is not smooth, but forms projecting networks and columns of fibres. The openings between the upper and lower chambers of