SMELL 55 one, of the direction from which a sound comes. ßuite as uncertain, because dependent also on outside influences, especially on the loudness of the sound, is the deter- mination of the distance from which a sound comes. For both these reasons the hearing with both ears is important, while for the mere act of hearing the co-operation of both ears is not required. As the optic nerve can only call forth sensations of light, so the auditory fibres of the eighth nerve can only occasion those of sound. A blow on the ear produces sound-im- pressions by shock to the auditory nerve. In diseases of the different parts of the ear, all sorts of irregulär sound- sensations are produced, as buzzing, ringing in the ears, etc. As it does with visual images, so the brain refers sound- sensations to the spot outside the body where that which gives rise to the Stimulus is situated ; but this is only the case when the sound is conducted through the tympanic membrane. If it comes through the bones of the head, the sound seems to proceed from within the head itself. It remains to mention that the semicircular canals are connected with the preservation of the equilibrium of the body. 3. SmelL—As the ear is an organ accessory to the hearing apparatus, so is the nose to that of smell ; the true Organ of smell being an olfactory epithelium^ with its nervous Connections, within the nasal cavity. The root of the nose is formed by the two nasal bones, which reach halfway along the whole length of the nose. The rest of the outer wall is formed of several plates of cartilage, which give it the necessary solidity and elasticity. Within the nostrils are the nasal cavities (Fig. 20, e), large, irregulär, and bounded by all the bones of the face except the cheek-bone and lower jaw. The nasal cavities are sepa- rated by a median septum, which is formed behind by the vomer and the ethmoid bones, and in front by cartilage. Opening from the outer side of each nasal chamber is a lateral cavity enclosed by the upper jaw-bone. The roof