136 CARE OF THE BODY be avoided. Food should never be too hot nor too cold, and plenty of time should be allowed for meals, as good mastication is of the highest importance for digestion, especially for that of starchy foods, for which an intimate mixture with the saliva is indispensable, Other substances as well are thereby made more accessible to the influence of the gastric and intestinal Juices ; while defective mastica- tion may cause diseases of the stomach and intestine. Violent exercise soon after eating should be avoided, as it retards digestion. Not much drink should be taken with meals, or soon after them, as the digestive Juices are thus unnecessarily diluted. No drinks favour digestion, alcohol retards it ; some drinks, such as coffee, quickly remove the feeling of fatigue which affects many people after meals. Good teeth are of far greater moment than is commonly supposed to the health of the digestive organs, and there- fore of the whole body. The teeth may be preserved by keeping them clean. After every meal, or, if this is im- possible, at least morning and evening, the teeth should be cleaned with a soft brush and harmless tooth-powder, in Order to remove the remains of food as well as the bacteria lodged in the teeth. Particles of food wedged in between the teeth should be got rid of with a bit of wood or a quill, never with any metal instrument. One should avoid a rapid alternation between hot and cold food, as this is apt to crack the enamel of the teeth. If a tooth begins to decay, it should be stopped by the dentist, as a good stopping may preserve a tooth for years. In decaying teeth no projecting points should be allowed to remain ; they scratch the skin of the tongue or cheek, and may cause serious illness. If a tooth is decayed past remedy, it should be ex- tracted. If those remaining are not sufficient for chewing, artificial teeth should be adopted. Those who have no teeth left, and cannot wear artificial teeth, should only eat soft or very finely chopped food, as otherwise the food cannot