NECESSARIES OF LIFE 104 too-warm clothes and beds occasion diseases, mostly so-called colds. An especial error is that of making the clothes too tight. No article of clothing ought to impede the breathing or the circulation of the blood or constrict the stomach. Transient or permanent disturbances of health and even deformations are the results. Corns and other troubles on the feet are to be ascribed to badly fitting, and especially tight shoes. Clothes which have been worn, sheets which have been slept in by others, should never be used without being thoroughly washed or othervvise disinfected in order to destroy any disease-germs which may lurk in thera. 2. Dwelltngs: Artificial Heating.—The dwellings in which man passes a great part of his life exercise an essential and often undervalued influence on his health. Hygienic considerations ought to have the first place in de- termining the position, size, and structure of houses. A dwelling-house should be built on a healthy, that is to say, uncontaminated spot, and of materials permeable to air ; and, if possible, on a porous soil. No substances liable to decomposition should be used for filling up the space between the floors. Newly built houses should not be occupied before they have completely dried. Any one who has the choice should select a house in a sunny Situation. Most dwellings and rooms, even those of well-to-do people, are too small. The minimum space for a dwelling-house is IO cubic metres per head. The dwellings of the poor are often so overcrowded as to occasion serious danger to the health of their inmates. But even in the richer classes the use made of the rooms is not always guided by considerations of health. The largest and sunniest rooms should be used as living and sleeping rooms ; the smaller and worse situated rooms are well enough for less-used “drawing- rooms.” The furniture of rooms should be such as to facilitate the ready and frequent removal of dust. The universally used wall-papers are bad dust-traps. For sick-rooms, at all