»34 CARE OF THE BODY riding, swimming, rowing, mountain-climbing, skating, cycling, are therefore of the highest importance to health. They should be practised from youth up, and especially if a man’s profession forces him to lead a sedentary life, or if it does not exercise the body uniformly should bodily exercises be continued. In some trades, some groups of muscles are over-excited, while others remain almost unused. Gymnastics are the best remedy for defects so caused. By regulär exercise the whole body gains strength and confidence. Courage and self-reliance are increased. Exercise in the open air is to be preferred to that taken within doors. Excess of exercise, from which the professional athlete often suffers, ought to be avoided. By it some groups of muscles become developed at the expense of the rest of the body, and the body, as a whole, becomes less capable of Work or resistance. The straining of the heart may also lead to lasting injury. When muscles are left tense too long, as in continued Standing, they become tired, and strains on the bones and ligaments are caused. This, when the body is still growing, may entail evil consequences, such as the gradual lengthening of the ligaments, and the irregulär growth of the bones. Different kinds of curvatures often result from over-strain of the bones and ligaments. (r) The Respiratory Organs.—For the respiratory Organs to have the necessary capacity and mobility, the thorax and respiratory muscles must be well developed. Therefore tight clothes, which compress the thorax, should not be tolerated ; and no position which impedes breathing should be allowed to become natural. The development of the thorax and its muscles is effected by general exercise. It may also be pursued systematically by suitable exercises in breathing, singing, and speaking. In Order to protect the lungs from dust, from too-dry and from too-cold air, we should breathe through the nose, in whose passages the air is freed from dust, warmed and charged with aqueous vapour.