70 METABOLISM coraposition blood diluted and devoid of red corpuscles, take up from it the substances which they require for their growth and activity. These substances—oxygen, proteid substances, carbo-hydrates, etc.—pass to the lymph through the walls of the capillaries. The lymph-spaces surrounding the cells connect with one another, and with fine tubes not unlike capillaries, the lymphatic capillaries^ which, uniting with similar vessels, open into the lymphatic vessels. The lymphatic vessels often follow the same courses as the veins, which they resemble in the thinness of their walls and in the possession of valves pointing away from the capillaries. The lymphatics of the legs and of the abdomen open into a wider vessel, the receptaculum chyli^ which lies in front of the lumbar vertebrae, and which is continued upward through the thorax as the narrower thoracic duct. The thoracic duct, after receiving branches from the thorax, the left side of the head, and left arm, opens by an entrance guarded by a valve into the junction of the veins of the neck {jugular) and arm {subclavian), and so its contents pass into the superior vena cava. On the right side a similar smaller vessel discharges its lymph, received from the lymphatics of that side, into the right jugular vein. Into the receptaculum chyli there flows, during digestion, a fluid, chyle^ which contains especially the fatty products of i digestion. The movements of the lymph are attributable to the same causes as those of the veins. On their courses the lymphatic vessels often bear nodules of wide-meshed connective tissue, the lymphatic glands^ into which they send fine branches. In the meshes of the glands great numbers of young and actively dividing leucocytes occur. These affbrd fresh supplies of white blood-cells. The total quantity of lymph in the body is greater than that of the blood. Like the latter, it clots on removal from the body. (^) Respiration. —The living cells take up nutrient substances from the lymph, change and incorporate them.