41 SICHT settling on the eye. On the upper wall of the orbit are placed the lachrymal glands, several groups of thin lobed glands, the largest about 2*2 cms. long and 1-4 cm. broad. They secrete “tears,” which consist chiefly of water and a little salt. Their primary function is to continuously wash and keep warm the front of the eye, and so render it possible for the eyelids to keep the eye clean. The water which runs off, together with the dust, collects in the inner Corner of the eye, where it is conducted through a minute opening into a narrow channel, the lachrymal duct, and thence into the nose. Tears come into the eyes by any irritation of the eye, such as contact of foreign bodies with the cornea, very cold air, strong light, and sometimes over-fatigue. The eye is moved in its socket by six muscles, only two of which are shown in Fig. 20 {d). Four muscles of the eye pass in straight lines from the back of the orbit to the eye, to which they are attached—one above, one below, and one on either side. They are named respectively the Superior, inferior, exterior, and inferior rectus muscles. The remaining two, the superior and inferior oblique muscles, are attached to the eyeball laterally, from above and below. By the co-operation of these muscles, the eye is capable of movement in various directions. They do not admit of a rotation of the eye. Though the directions in which the eye can be moved are many, its mobility is limited, since every muscle acts as a check on its opposite antagonistic muscle. The movements of the two eyes are so co-ordinated that both always direct the sight to the same point. Disturbances and irregularities in this co-ordination are known as squinting. The movements of the muscles of the eye are directed by three pairs of cranial nerves, the third, fourth, and sixth. The mucous membrane of the eyelids passes as a transparent colourless layer, the conjunctiva (Fig. 21, a\ over the anterior surface of the eyeball. The central space of the eyeball is enclosed by two, and at the back by three coats. The outer layer, called the sclerötic (f'igs. 21 b, 23 b\ is