43 SICHT of the ciliary processes, so that at their bases a ring-shaped fold, conveniently called the aVw/y bod-^^ is formed. A delicate pinkish layer of nervous tissue, the reüna (Fig. 21, ^), lines the inner'surface of the choroid, Stretching almost as far forward as the ring of the ciliary processes. It is in direct connection behind with the optic nerve, of which its innermost layer is a cup-like expansion, On the retina two points are specially noteworthy—t\\e.yellow spot and the blind spot (Fig. 2 1, bs, ys'). The former is a slight depression round the point at which the visual axis, a line passing through the middle points of the cornea and the pupil, meets the retina. The blind spot is the point where the optic nerve enters the eyeball. Light falling on the blind spot gives rise to no visual sensations ; whereas when, as is the case in normal vision, the eye is so directed that the image of the object looked at falls on the yellow spot, vision is most distinct. The cavity of the eyeball is marked out by the iris into two unequal spaces : the one in front, the anterior chamber of the eye (Figs. 21, 23 h), lies between the. cornea and the iris, and is filled with a watery fluid, the aqueous humour. The large posterior chamber {Yigs. 21, 23 k) is occupied by the jelly-like transparent vitreous humour. Behind the iris and between the two chambers is the crystalline lens (Figs. 21, 23 /). The lens is an elastic body which, though com- posed of a number of concentric layers, possesses a high degree of transparency. Its form is that of a biconvex lens, the anterior surface of which is flatter than the posterior, and whose edge is circular. The lens is enclosed in a strong yet thin membrane which, projecting beyond its edge, forms the suspensory ligament. This ligament, in which the lens is slung, is fixed to the bases of the ciliary processes. In the quiescent state of the eye, the suspensory ligament, being tightly attached to the edge and to theanterior surface of the lens, maintains the curvature of that surface. Fach eye is connected with the brain by an optic nerve (Figs. 20 0, 21 /), the second of the cranial nerves.