8i DIGESTION IN THE STOMACH, ETC. the stomach this action is altogether checked, for ptyalin cannot efFect the conversion of starch to sugar in an acid medium, and the gastric juice contains 0*2 per cent. of hy- drochloric acid. In its course through stomach and small intestine the food is, however, subject to the action of other \enzymes or unorganized fermenis, the active principles of the various secretions. These ferments are all alike in existing in minute quantities, and in being able to do a large amount of work ; they differ, however, in the sub- stances which they attack. Env.ymes are widely distributed both among animals and among plants; especially common among the latter are diastatic ferments, which are in their effects quite similar to ptyalin, the enzyme of saliva. The enzyme of the gastric juice, pepsin, has the power to act on proteid substances, such as the white of egg (albumen), fibrin, etc. These it converts into soluble bodies called \peptones and albuminoses. The action of the gastric juice is .aided by the powerful movements of the muscular walls of the stomach. After a certain time, from two to four hours, the Contents of the stomach are discharged into the small iintestine, and there brought in contact with the bile and :pancreatic juice. The former has little digestive activity, but :by its alkalinity it assists the pancreatic juice in neutralizing ;the acid from the stomach, and so is of Service in enabling ;the proteid-changing,/»rö/<?ö^*V ferment, trypsin, of the latter, ••which can only act in an alkaline medium, to continue -the Work of proteid digestion. In addition to this ferment, the pancreatic juice also rontains a starch-changing, amylolytic, ferment, similar to that of saliva, which completes the work begun by ptyalin. iBoth bile and pancreatic juice act on fats, the former breaking them up, emulsifying them into fine particles; the ■latter to some extent decomposing them. The glands of the small intestine also produce ferment-containing secre- : tions, but they are of minor importance. Whilst these digestive changes have been going on, absorption of the products has already begun. The sugar G