34 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM of Sensation in the legs subvene ; the brain has lost all control over these parts, for the nervous road is broken up, and passage either way barred. Little is known of the processes going on in the brain during its various activities. Nor have we any complete knowledge of the way in which the cerebral activities are localized in the different parts of the brain, and how far the place of a diseased or destroyed part can be taken by another. We know, however, that certain areas of the cerebral hemispheres are closely associated with the move- ment of certain parts of the body, that certain regions of the brain are specially associated with the working up of special sensations, and that nervous Impulses, before giving rise to sensations, are worked up gradually in special regions ; but how the physical train of events conjures up the psychical, is still an enigma. The weight of the brain varies within wide limits on either side of an average of 1300 grams, about of the weight of the body. The smallest known brain, that of a German woman, weighed 820 grams. The largest, that of a French workman, 2222 grams. The size of the brain does not appear to have any ascertainable relation to race, occupation, or intellectual capacity. One of the largest brains on record was that of an idiot. The brains of great scholars and other famous men which have been examined show, on the whole, weights slightly above or below the average. The brain is never in a state of complete repose. Even in deep sleep it is busy, though consciousness is at rest. In the waking state it is continually occupied with the reception and working up of sensations and concepts, even if this activity does not always fully reach the consciousness. The activity of the brain during sleep takes place without the proper, or, at all events, the full, co-operation of the consciousness and the intellect : this is called dreaming. The want of supervision on the part of the arranging and sifting intellect explains the often irregulär and confused.