METABOLISM 72 and a great abundance of blood-vessels. In spite of their large size, the weight of the lungs is not over 1*25 kilog. The lungs follow the curvature of the chest-wall so closely that no space, and so no air, exists between the pleural membrane of the lung and that of the chest-wall. The lower surface of the lungs is concave and lies closely against the diaphragm ; the inner surface turned towards the heart is also concave. Each branch of the trachea divides, as it enters the lungs, into two or three tubes. These again divide and subdivide tili their finest ramifications have a diameter of about 0'2 or 0’3 mm. The larger branches are provided with cartilaginous loops. In the smaller, the loops are replaced by plates of cartilage, and in the still smaller they disappear altogether. Finally, the walls of the tubes consist of little more than a single layer of flat cells, and the tubes end each in a minute swelling, the infundibulum. Externally, an infundibulum resembles a minute bunch of grapes. Viewed on its inner side, it is seen that partitions of the wall project some distance into the cavity, which is thus subdivided into a number of chambers, the alveoli, all, however, opening into the common chamber. Over the walls of the alveoli dose networks of capillaries run. The whole lung consists of infundibuli, tubes leading therefrom, blood-vessels and nerves running to and from them, and connective tissue binding all together. It has been estimated that the number of the infundibuli is from 1600 to 1800 millions ; their walls, if opened out flat, would cover an area of from 120 to 140 square metres, or, to put it in another way, those of thirty-six lungs would cover about an acre. The interior of the lungs has thus a very big superficial area, over which the air is brought very dose to the blood, being only separated from it by the filmy walls of the infundibuli and of the capillaries across which gaseous exchange takes place with the utmost readiness. Breathing consists of the alternate and opposite processes pf insfiration and expration. In the former, air passes into