103 CLOTHING a greater or less quantity of air is entangled between the threads, and so the power of conducting heat is still further lessened. In a dry state, the various kinds of fabrics, if they enclose equal quantities of air, are nearly of equal value in this respect. It is otherwise when they are moistened by rain or perspiration, for wet considerably increases the heat-conductive power of a fabric ; and while all materials composed of vegetable fibres allow the fluid they have absorbed to evaporate quickly, causing a great loss of heat to the body, wool only gives off the moisture very slowly by evaporation. The clothes in contact with the body have the further task of taking up the various excretions of the skin, and so assist in keeping it clean. The present fashion of using vegetable fibres for under-clothing, but of making the upper clothing of woollen stuffs, is much to be recommended for healthy people. For those who perspire easily and have sensitive nerves, it is advisable to use for under-clothing hygienic materials (jaeger wool, Celluloid, etc.) ; and the same is true of less sensitive persons in making extraordinary exertions (long marches, military Service, etc.). Materials which allow no air to pass through, such as mackintoshes, are injurious if worn for a long time, as they check perspira- tion. The air contained within the clothes is, as a rule, remarkably dry. If, however, the person is perspiring copiously, this air soon attains a high degree of moisture. The clothing thereby becomes a better conductor of heat, and renders the evaporation from the skin more difficult. Besides loss of heat by conduction, the body parts with an appreciable quantity of heat by radiation. This, like the absorption of heat, has very little to do with the material of the clothes, but very much with their colour. Black stuffs absorb twice, blue almost twice, yellow and red one and a half times as much warmth as white ones. By night the bed undertakes the work of the clothing. Here, too, it is mainly the air enclosed within the bed- clothes which keeps the body warm. Both insufficient and