NECESSARIES OF LIFE 120 place of alcoholic beverages, there is something to be said for them ; but where, as among the poorer classes, they are gaining a footing as a convenient form of food, and begin to be taken to excess, they are to be condemned. Theexcessive use of strong coffee has even worse consequences than that of alcohol; though the far wider-spread ravages caused by excess of the latter make it one of the worst enemies to the health of mankind. Tobacco.—The leaves of the tobacco plant are very generally used for smoking, chewing, and snuffing. Their active principle, nicotin, is an acute poison, but the body, in many cases, soon accustoms itself to considerable quantities of it without appreciable injury ; though here also excess is frequently attended by harmful results. Alcoholic Stimulants.—The effect of alcoholic drinks de- pends primarily on the amount of alcohol contained in them. Taken in moderation, they produce agreeable sensations, in consequence of which they are often used immoderately. Excessive indulgence in alcoholic drinks leads to serious disease ; worse, the children of inebriates show many signs of degeneration, and of disease. Intemperance is one of the most fertile sources of nervous disease and of crime ; in view of this and of its increase, its effects cannot be insisted upon too strongly. Children ought on no account to touch alcoholic stimulants of any sort. Alcohol per- ceptibly retards the digestion, and though it has some nutritive value, its evil elFects, already insisted upon, deprive it of all Claim to be considered as a food. The various sorts of brandy contain 30 to 70 per cent. of alcohol, whilst bad brandy and whisky also contain the deleterious fusel oil. The abuse of brandy ruins the System in a terrible manner. Catarrh of the stomach, affec- tions of the liver and kidneys, degeneration of the brain and other nervous affections (delirium tremens), are frequent consequences of it. Absinth contains an ethereal oil, and thereby has a peculiarly deleterious influence on the nervous System.