NECESSARIES OF LIFE io6 Health. Even difFused daylight, and still more direct sunlight, destroys micro-organisms. Sunlight also has a direct influence on Health, and we cannot be mistaken in ascribing the fresher appearance and better Health of dwellers in the country to the efFect of sunlight as well as to their being constantly in the fresh air. This is conhrmed by the experience of travellers in the Arctic regions. While the extraordinary cold (as low as —63° C.) of some places in Siberia can be endured without injury, because the sun shines there every day in winter, if only for a short time, serious derangements of Health are apt to set in in the polar regions, with a less degree of cold, soon after the beginning of the winter’s continuous night. In particular, the skin becomes pale and greenish-yellow, as in advanced chlorosis or anaemia, and added to this are nervous disturbances, sleeplessness, irritability, and depression. It is in the highest degree probable also that the quality of light—colour, for instance—influences the mental as well as the bodily state. Defective conditions of light have an unfavourable efFect on the eyes, too much light being as injurious as too little. Thus, walking on snow on which the sun is shining is apt to cause so-called snow-blindness, whose Symptoms are temporary loss of sight, and a painful irritation of the eyes. Of more frequent occurrence are injuries to the eyes from straining them with insufficient light. This forces us to bring the objects looked at very near to the eyes, and therefore unduly strains the accommodation apparatus. A frequent repetition of this engenders short-sightedness. In the evening artificial light takes the place of sunlight. Good artificial lights conform to the following require- ments :— 1. Supply a sufficient and uniform brightness. 2. Produce little heat. 3. Give ofF as few noxious gases as possible. These three requirements are best fulfilled by the electric light, if properly shaded with ruby glass. The usual method of gas-lighting is convenient, but not