114 NECESSARIES OF LIFE mental, a diet richer in proteids and more easily digested is more necessary than when the work is rnainly physical. Also, in the Former case, a greater variety of Food is advisable, iF For no other reason, because monotony in diet is apt to cause repugnance towards the Frequently repeated dishes. Cooking renders Food more digestible, admits oF a greater variety oF dishes, and oFten destroys injurious substances or organisms associated with the raw Food-materials. To Further increase the variety and to stimulate the stomach—oFten, perhaps, unadvisably—condiments are added to Food. 2. Animal Food. — Meat consists chiefly oF flesh (muscular tissue) and oF Fat. Muscle contains about 73 per Cent. oF water, 20 per cent. proteids, and 8 per cent. oF Fats, salts, and organic substances termed extractives. Boiled meat has parted with most oF its salts and extractives to the brothy but still contains its proteids. It has sufFered no appreciable loss as a nutritive agent. Meat-broth, like meat-extract, is only a stimulant, with little nutritive value. Roast meat contains nearly all its nutritive ele- ments, as does meat prepared in other ways—pickled, smoked, or tinned. Somewhat less in value than the meat are the glandular parts oF animals (kidneys, liver, etc.). Fish is nearly equal in nutritive value to the flesh oF mammals and oF birds. Horseflesh is only inFerior when coming From old and over- driven animals. It must be remembered, with respect to these various meats, that, besides the nutritive value, another Factor, the digestibility, is oF equal iraportance, and that this varies very much with the nature oF the meat and with the mode oF preparation. The eating oF meat is not without danger to health. Thus pork sometimes contains small worms, trichitiie^ which, iF they get into the human body in large numbers, may occasion serious illness or even death. BeeF and pork also contain now and then the larvae oF tapeworms, which develop in the human intestine to the mature animal. In both cases thorough cooking kills the parasites. IF