THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 38 the legions of cells of which the body consists, in a state of unity. Tonic nerves are such as regulate the activity of the Organ to which they are supplied. Thus the heart is provided with two sets of nerve-fibres, augmentor and inhibitory; the former carry impulses which increase the rate of the heart’s beat, the latter carry impulses which slacken the rhythm. Many other organs of the body appear to be supplied with such antagonistic fibres, which may be likened to rein and spur, the one or other of which the brain, the rider, may apply according to need. Having regard to their origin, nerves may be classed as cerebral, spinal, and sympathetic. There are twelve pairs of cerebral nerves, all originating within the skull ; with the exception of two pairs (tenth and eleventh) their course is confined to the head. The cerebral nerves are mostly connected with the organs of special sense, and with the mechanism of speech. The spinal nerves, of which there are thirty-one pairs, are distributed to the trunk and extremities. They contain efferent and afferent fibres. The former leave the cord by the anterior root, and originate in the cells of the anterior horn of grey matter ; the latter leave by the posterior root, and many of them are processes, not of the cells of the posterior horn, but of the posterior root-ganglion. Entering the cord by the posterior root, they run up for some distance, and gradually pass into the grey matter. The principal part of the sympathetic nervous system is a double cord, the sympathetic chain, descending in front of the vertebral column, and bearing in its course a number of paired ganglia. In the dorsal and lumbar regions a pair of ganglia occurs opposite each vertebra, in the cervical region, only opposite some vertebras. Each ganglion receives a branch from a spinal nerve, and, from the chain, branches are given off to the various organs of the thorax and abdomen. Above, the sympathetic makes Connections with some of the cranial nerves. Among its functions