92 THE LARYNX of the vocal cords are brought together, and the glottis narrowed (cf. Fig. 31, I., II.); (2) by the inclination of the thyroid forward the cords are stretched from front to back ; (3) by decreased convexity of the thyroid, i.e. by the widening of the angle of the wedge made by its sides, the vocal cords are pulled right and left. At the same time as any of these movements are occurring, the air, through the increased activity of the respiratory muscles, is pressed with greater force through the wind-pipe, and sets the tense cords vibrating. These vibrations produce the sound. Its production can only take place when the cords have approached to within a distance of 2 mms. of one another. All movements of the cartilages of the larynx are carried out by means of special muscles ; but the peculiar elasticity of the cartilages brings them back to their original positions as soon as the muscles relax. The loudness of the human voice depends on the tension of the air in the lungs, i.e. on the power of the respiratory muscles. The pitch is affected by the length and by the tension of the vocal cords. Short vocal cords, as in women and children, produce notes of a higher, longer cords of a lower, pitch. The tension of the vocal cords is determined by the degree of movement—in this case rotations of the thyroid and arytenoid cartilages. In the timbre, lastly, the individual peculiarities in the construction of larynx, mouth, and pharynx find their expression. The superiority of the human voice over every other instrument consists in the fact that within its own limits it renders possible every conceivable gradation of loudness and pitch, and possesses a great power of expression by means of changes in the timbre. The compass of the human voice in general is not quite three octaves : it reaches from the D of the deep bass to the B flat of the upper soprano. An individual voice rarely has a compass, for singing, of two octaves, though in speech the compass is often as much as three octaves. A few notes, say from C flat to E, are