THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 6i the result of this action, certain of these substances are chemically changed and rendered soluble. The unchanged part of the food is voided, the dissolved parts absorbed. {a) The Circulation of the Blood. i. The Blood.— The blood is a deep-red fluid, slightly heavier than water (sp. gr. i*o6). It consists of a liquid, the plasma, in which are suspended a vast number of minute living particles, the blood-corpuscles. At death, or on removal frora the body, the blood coagulates, and then consists of a solid cake or clot, and of a pale straw-coloured fluid, the serum. In the process of coagulation a proteid (a nitrogen-containing substance), fibrinogen, dissolved in the plasma, becomes converted into a solid ßbrin. Fibrin consists of stringy threads, which, settling down, carry with them the blood-corpuscles. These, with the fibrin filaments, form the clot. The plasma con- sists of water holding a large number of substances, proteids, salts, etc., in solution. The serum is the plasma deprived of its fibrinogen. The minute particles suspended in the plasma of the blood are the red corpuscles and white blood-cells, or leucoc^tes. The red blood-corpuscles are biconcave discs of 0'Oo8 mm. diameter, and o'ooa mm. thickness. So numerous are the red corpuscles that a cubic millimetre of blood contains about five millions. They are soft and elastic, so that they can on occasion be drawn out, pass through passages narrower than themselves, and subsequently regain their shape. The red corpuscles act as intermediaries between the air and the cells of the body, or rather the lymph surrounding those cells. To the lymph they carry the oxygen which : they take up on their passage through the capillaries of the lungs. It is to a complex fluid substance, the htrmoglobin, held in its spongy matrix that the red corpuscle owes its power as an oxygen-carrier. The hasmoglobin holds the oxygen in loose Chemical combination, parting readily with it in the presence of bodies having a stronger affinity for oxygen.