SPECIAL HYGIENIC RULES 126 It is Corning to be generally recognized that such weak- lings must be subjected to special school discipline, and not to the ordinary regime, which, whilst excellent for the common run of healthy children, is little short of brutal to the fragile. {b) Trades,—Unfavourable circumstances under which men pursue their callings, as well as the callings themselves, may have a prejudicial influence on health. In large Workshops and factories the Legislature has begun to take measures for the health of the workers, by issuing regula- tions as to the size and nature of the work-rooms, and by attempting to neutralize, as far as possible, the dangers arising from the work. It is also attempted to protect women and children against unscrupulous exploitation ; continuous and manifest overwork is prohibited, proper intervals and rest on Sundays are enforced. The conditions of labour are especially bad in miitxy small trades and home Industries^ where necessity compels terribly long hours of work, and over which the State has less power of exercising vigilance. Apart from legislation, there are various other provisions for the well-being of the workers. “ People’s kitchens ” and eating-houses provide good and cheap food, and many things have been done by various associations in the way of providing healthy dwellings, baths, wash-houses, etc. ; but the greater part of the work necessary in this depart- ment is yet to do. This is not the place to discuss the question as to whether the care of the sick poor, and of those suffering from accidents, is best carried on in hospitals, which owe their existence to philanthropy, or whether it should be, as in Germany for instance, undertaken by the State. I. Poisoning in Dangerous Trades,—Chemical lead- poisoning occurs among the workers in lead, silver, and zinc mines, also among painters, glaziers, compositors, and gas-fitters. Scrupulous cleanliness and avoidance of eating in the workshops with unwashed hands, are some protection.