I2Z NECESSARIES OF LIFE The disposal of the solid and liquid waste is more difficult. In many villages all waste products are col- lected on the dunghill, carted into the fields, and there rendered innocuous by admixture with the soil. In towns this simple process is not practicable. Better ar- rangements for disposal of sewage immediately improve the general health. In most large towns there is a regulär System in use for carting away sweepings to places set apart for their reception. Yet the rubbish-heaps which in the neighbourhood of large towns are sometimes allowed to grow to a gigantic size are a source of serious difficulty. Attempts to dispose of the rubbish by burning have not hitherto produced very satisfactory results. Human excreta are best taken out of a town by a good sewage System which also carries off the rain-water. The Contents of the sewers may only be emptied unhesitatingly into a river when the amount of water in the river is many times greater than the amount of the sewage. In this case the river cleanses itself. The solid matters are deposited on its bed, and the bacteria destroyed by the agency of sunlight, so that the river water in a comparatively short time regains its formet purity. If, however, the contents of the sewers are not quickly diluted by the river water, a state of putridity sets in, which is highly injurious to the health of the dwellers on the river-banks. In this last case the contents of the sewers ought to be purified before being discharged into the river. This is best done by filtration through the soil (filter-beds). When these cannot be constructed, the sewage must be purified in large tanks by the addition of substances acting on it mechanically and chemically. When excreta cannot be removed by means of sewers, recourse must be had to the old System of cartage. This method is cheaper than sewers, but it is much less effi- cacious than a sewage System in keeping the houses free from bad smells. It is necessary that the walls of the cesspools required by this System should be as impervious