THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 30 remalnder of the fibres passing up from below terrninate in two oval masses, the optic thalami (Fig, 17, ^), situated in the inner sides of the crura and enclosing between them the deep slit-like third ventricle (Fig. 17, d). The cerebellum, which rests on the upper side of the front part of the medulla and of the pons, is connected with them by two pairs, and with the crura by one pair of stout Strands of nervous tissue. Of the Former, the pair running backward on either side passes into the medulla on its upper and outer surface. The second pair, wrapping round it transversely, meet on the ventral surface of the pons. The third pair of nervous ties connects, through the upper surfaces of the crura, the cerebellum with the cerebrum. In the region of the crura the uppe^ dorsal side of the brain consists of the corpora quadrigemina (Fig. 16, /), two pairs of lobed masses, which form the roof of this part of the brain. This roof is continued anteriorly by a thin layer of nervous tissue, which, Stretching forward as the fomix (Figs. 16 n, and 17 r), comes to be completely overlaid and enfolded by the cerebral hemispheres. Above the fornix a transverse mass of fibres, the coipus callosum (Fig. 16, w), connects the two cerebral hemispheres. The central nervous System is a tube, the walls of which are, in the region of the brain, thickened very irregularly : in some places enormously, in others hardly at all. In the spinal cord the thickening is less irregulär, but still con- siderable. In the latter the small central canal (Fig. 18,/'), circular in section, is the cavity of this tube. The central canal comes dose to the surface in the region of the medulla, where it forms a lozenge-shaped cavity, the fourth ventricle, covered above by a very thin layer of nervous tissue. The fourth ventricle is continued forward through the middle part of the brain by the iter a tertiam ad quartum ventriculum, which runs below the lobed corpora quadrigemini and passes anteriorly into the narrow, cleft-like space, the third ventricle (Fig. 17, d), lying between the optic thalami. The third ventricle gives off three clefts, lateral ventricles, on either