THE BRAIN 33 the body ; it also occasions all voluntary movements of the body and its parts. Those nerve-fibres whose function it is to transmit Impulses to the muscles of the body cross over in their passage from braln to spinal cord : thus disease or injury to the cerebral hemisphere of one side results in paralysis of the other side of the body. Similarly, the fibres which convey Impulses from the various parts of the body to the brain decussate, or cross over, in the spinal cord or medulla, to the opposite side of the cerebrum ; so that injury to one hemisphere also entails loss of Sensation on the opposite side of the body. The foundation of intellectual activity is formed by the reception and working up in the brain of the nervous Im- pulses transmitted by the nerves as the result of Stimulation of the sense-organs. The sensations which reach the con- ■ sciousness are called concepts. Concepts once acquired can be stored up by the brain. This faculty is called memofy. If such concepts are recalled by the memory, the act is termed recollection. The Stimulation of a part of the body is the first link in that nervous chain of events whose last is Sensation. Experience teaches us to refer back the Sensation arlsing in • the brain to the part of the body where the first link was ; forged. Thus, after the amputatlon of a limb, the subject ;thinks that he feels acute pain in the missing part. For jthe Connections of the severed nerves still exist with the brain, the Stimulation of the cut ends of the nerves still igives rise to afferent Impulses, which, arriving at the brain, .call forth the Sensation of pain ; and experience, localizing ^as heretofore, plays the sufferer false. Similarly, when the .elbow is Struck or dipped in very cold water, pain is feit in Jthe three outer fingers. Interruption of the nerve-tracks leads to loss of Sensation and power of movement. The severance of the optic nerve ■ produces blindness ; the brain recelves no Information of Ithe Images produced in the eye. If the spinal cord be ; severed below the thoracic region, paralysis and loss D