47 SICHT assume the requisite degree of convexity, makes the eye far- sighted ; while too great a diameter of the eyeball, or inability of the lens to hatten itself sufhciently, causes short- sightedness (Fig. 24), A short-sighted eye should be aided by concave glasses, a far-sighted one by convex glasses. The former throw the Images further back on the retina ; the latter bring the images forward to the retina. Fach of the two eyes furnishes a picture of the image looked at, but we actually see it single, the images of the two eyes giving rise to one fused, visual image, It is the images of the point directly looked at, falling on the yellow spots and on a small area of the retina surrounding them, which are United. If one retina could, without being in any way turned round, be laid on the other, any two points of contact might be called identicalpoints. Images falling on identical points of the eyes are seen singly, while images whose parts fall on points not identical, appear double. In any case, however, the experience that images of this sort are caused by one and the same object has some share in their Union. For squinting people, in whose eyes the images of things looked at cannot fall on identical points, see objects singly. The two images of an object supplied by the two eyes . are, however, not identical, the right eye seeing rather more of the right, the left eye of the left side. Their Union, therefore, shows more of an object than either eye could ; see singly, and this fuller view creates the Impression of ; solidity {stereoscopic sight), while in seeing with one eye all objects appear like flat surfaces in one plane. Therefore, ■ too, all judgments of distance are very uncertain when objects are seen with one eye only. If one eye be closed, it is very difficult to strike a match or to touch with the point of the finger a small object held anywhere within iarm’s length. The retinal images lying outside the small areas surround- ing and including the yellow spots are not united to form |a single, fused, visual image, and should therefore be seen as