58 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM often mistaken for one another. Besides this, all sorts of tactile sensations, produced by contact of the substance with the tongue, also play their part. In any case, taste is the most inaccurate of all our senses. Very strong taste- sensations remain active for some time after the removal of the substance which gave rise to them ; or, as it is com- monly said, certain substances “ leave a taste in the mouth.” The taste-organs are somewhat sluggish in responding to Stimuli, a substance put in the mouth takes at least two seconds before calling forth the Sensation of taste. 5. Touch,—Touch^ in the common sense of the word, is but one of a number of sensations, some definite, others obscure, which collectively make up the tactile sense. By “general feeling ” is understood an indefinite Sen- sation of the state of the body as a whole. Local dis- turbances of this feeling are called pain, discomfort, etc., which feelings may be called forth by the Stimulation of the ending of any sensory nerve of the body. Among these feelings may be classed hunger and thirst, which are asso- ciated with the stomach, mouth, and gullet. The muscles, as well as the skin, are well endowed with sensory nerves, and it is by their afferent Impulses that muscular sensations and those of muscular fatigue are evoked. Muscular sense is the name given to the judgments resulting from muscular sensations which enable us to estimate the weight of an object lifted, to gauge rapidly the amount of effort required for the performance of a certain act. Its development is of the highest importance alike to the athlete and the craftsman. Temperature - sensations. — Sensations of temperature are caused by the Stimulation of the skin covering the outside of the body only. A piece of hot food “ burns ” only on the tongue, not in the gullet or stomach ; in these organs it gives rise to the Sensation of pain. In the same way, heat in the interior of the body conveys no temperature- sensation. The different parts of the skin are not equally sensitive to heat ; the most sensitive parts are the face and