io8 NECESSARIES OF LIFE All natural water which passes any distance through the soll contains various earthy substances in a suspended and dissolved condition. Among its dissolved constituents are carbonates of lime and magnesia, salts of ammonia, and organic matter : of the suspended substances, the more im- portant, as bearing on health, are micro-organisms. Of the contained salts, some are insignificant so fir as health is con- cerned. Ammonia, compounds of nitric and of nitrous acids, never act as poisons in the quantities in which they occur ; they are, however, useful danger-signals, since they show that the water has passed spots where organic matters were in process of decomposition, and that they may therefore be associated with less innocuous substances. Salts of lime and magnesia in water are not injurious to health, but they impart to it a hardness which has many disadvantages. Apart from incrustations which it forms in pipes, boilers, and cooking-vessels, hard water is a poor cooking agent, failing to soften meat and vegetables cooked therein. It is also unsuitable for washing or bathing purposes, as the fatty acids of soap form with these salts of lime and magnesia insoluble compounds, and are thus prevented from exerting their cleansing action. The hardness due to carbonate of lime is readily removed by boiling ; but hard- ness due to sulphates of magnesia,' etc., only yields to Chemical treatment. The organic substances contained in water do not necessarily cause direct injury, but their presence is to be regarded with suspicion, inasmuch as they form a nidus for the growth of bacteria. Vast numbers of very different kinds of living organisms lind their way into water. Besides bacteria, harmless and disease-producing spores of other fungi, algae (lowly green plants), minute unicellular animals (infusoria), small crustacea and worms, as well as the eggs of these and other forms, may all occur. The greater number of these forms of life are quite harmless to man ; but of some of the bacteria, such as the typhus and the comma-shaped cholera bacilli, as well as the micro-organisms causing malaria.