78 METABOLISM Its sides, which in repose are folded, are lined with mucous membrane resting on layers of connective and muscular tissue. The muscle of the cesophagus is partly striated and partly unstriated, and is arranged in two layers, one disposed circularly, the other longitudinally. Where the cesophagus passes below into the stomach, the circular layer of muscle is more plentiful and forms a weak sphincter muscle^ which, whilst digestion is going on in the stomach, constricts the opening. All the abdominal viscera with their glands are enclosed in a membrane, the peritoneum, which, beside covering them, lines the whole cavity of the abdomen and pelvis, and fits itself in many folds between the separate parts. The stomach is a pear-shaped sac, about 35 cms. in length, lying across the left half of the body, immediately under the diaphragm ; the wider end to the left, the narrower to the right, but still somewhat to the left of the median line. The opening of the stomach into the intestine is called the pylorus. Here, as at the entrance from the cesophagus, the circular muscle is thickened to form a sphincter. The cubic capacity of the stomach varies within wide limits from 2’5 to 5*5 litres. The details of structure of the different parts of the alimentary canal vary, but, in all, its walls are vascular, and consist of a layer of connective tissue outside, intermediate layers of unstriped muscle, and an inner coat of mucous membrane, made up of a layer of epithelial cells lining the internal surface of the canal and resting on connective tissue. The glands with which the mucous membrane is gene- rally beset, and which in different parts receive different names, consist of epithelial cells lining tubulär depressions in the mucous coat. The glandular epithelium, though continuous with that lining the rest of that coat, differs from the latter in form and function. The various secretions poured into the alimentary canal by the glands in the walls are manufactured from the blood richly supplied to them. The salivary gland is of a similar nature to those simple glands, but is compound, that is to say, much-branched.