METABOLISM 62 The colour of the blood depends on the amount of oxygen held by the haemoglobin. When little or none is contalned in the red corpuscles, the blood is dark red, venous; when they are charged with haemoglobin, the blood becomes bright red, arterial. The white blood-cells are somewhat smaller and much less numerous than the red corpuscles. Their outline is irregulär and variable ; their consistency jelly-like, though denser in the central part (the nucleus). Like all other living cells, animal or vegetable, they consist of the complex substance protoplasm, which has been well called “ the physical basis of life.” The leucocyte moves by thrusting out arm-like processes, into which the semi-fluid remainder of its body flows. Hence the irregularity and variability of its shape. Such movements, which are also characteristic of certain single-celled animals, amceba^ are termed amoeboid movements. In a greater degree even than the red cor- puscles, the white cells can wriggle through very narrow passages ; for instance, they pass, upon occasion, between the cells of the capillary wall into the surrounding spaces, It is known that leucocytes are not all of the same pattem, and believed that those of different forms are associated with the performance of different functions. Leucocytes play a part in effecting the conversion of fibrinogen to* fibrin in the clotting of blood, though this is done at the expense of their lives. Other forms of leucocytes, i phagocytes^ play in all probability an important part in de- stroying bacteria which have gained access to the body, and thus in safeguarding the health. Both red and white corpuscles are continually wearing out, passing out of cir- culation, and being replaced by newly minted corpuscles. The red corpuscles are manufactured chiefly in the red marrow of the long bones ; the white cells, in the lymphatic glands. Both forms—like, indeed, all other cells—arise by the division of pre-existing cells. The later stages of the disintegration of the red corpuscles are cffected in the spieen and livcr.