26 THE MUSCLES and groups of muscles have a share in their execution. The proper co-ordination of the muscles necessary to the perform- ance of a movement has to be learned by practice. This may be observed in young children, who, in grasping anything with the hand, do not dose all the fingers at once, but one by one. Very frequently the separate parts of composite, frequently repeated movements acquire, through continued practice, the character of reflex movements, whose details are no longer watched over by our will and consciousness— as in writing, knitting, playing the piano, walking, etc. The impulse of the will, in these cases, has relation only to the whole act. The number of muscles is very large. They may be grouped, for convenience, into skeletal muscles ; muscles of the alimentary canal and other internal Organs ; and those of the sense-organs. The skeletal muscles are described according to the parts of the body in which they occur. The face-muscles spring from the bones of the face, and end on them, or sometimes in the skin of the face. They effect the play of the features, the movements of the eyelids, and participate in speech and mastication. They are, wdth the exception of the masticatory muscles, small and weak. They have, however, as in speaking, to execute with greatest accuracya number of movements following one anotherwith lightning rapidity. Since the centre of gravity of the head lies some distance in front of its point ofsupport on the vertebral column, muscular action is needed to maintain the head in its proper position. This action is carried out by the powerful muscles which, originating in the back, are inserted on the base of the skull. When the contraction of these muscles ceases, as in sleep, the head nods, or falls forward. The muscles of the neck support and turn the head. The muscles of the trunk are distinguished, according to their position, as dorsal, pectoral, or abdominal muscles. The first Stretch between the single vertebrae, and from