THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 54 fibres of the auditory nerve Impulses which give rise in the brain to the Sensation of sound. The bones of the head are capable of conducting sound without employing the conducting apparatus of the ear. Thus the ticking of a watch held between the teeth may be very distinctly heard, though inaudible when held near the ear. Sensations of sound are either musical notes or noises. Notes result from regulär, periodic vibrations of the sound- producing body ; noises from irregulär, non-periodic vibra- tions. In a note, the ear perceives the loudness, the pitch, and the timbre. The first depends on the amplitude of the vibrations of the sounding body ; the second, on the number of vibrations per unit of time ; the last, on the number and strength of the accompanying over-tones. Sensitiveness to the pitch of sound is limited in com- pass : the deepest tones which can be heard by the human car are of from sixteen to twenty vibrations per second ; the highest, those of about forty thousand vibrations per second ; so that the ear has a ränge of about eleven octaves. The upper limit varies in different individuals ; some, for instance, being unable to hear the cry of a bat. The highest notes used in music have about 4800 vibrations per second. The capacity for perceiving high notes can be greatly improved by practice, and also that for perceiving intervals or differences in the pitch of various sounds. When several notes strike the ear at the same time, their combined sounds are feit either as agreeable (consonance) or as disagreeable (dissonance). By timbre is understood the specific qualitiesof the notes produced by different bodies, and so the sensations by means of which we distinguish, for instance, the sounds of the violin, the flute, and the human voice from one another. The perception of timbre, too, requires practice. Under ordinary circumstances, the human ear is best practised in perceiving the timbre of the human voice. The ear gives us a notion, though often but an uncertain