SPECIAL HYGIENIC RULES 130 ing-cough, typhus, cholera, etc.), the following rules should be observed, in Order to prevent its spread ;— 1. The patient must be isolated, either in hospital or at home. 2. The rooms in which the patient lived before the disease declared itself must be thoroughly disinfected. 3. All excreta of the patient, which may contain the infectious matter, must be disinfected, as well as his linen ; the fouling of the room with such matters must be avoided. In this Connection it must be noted that, in diphtheria, the infectious substance is principally spread by means of the mucus from the pharynx ; in measles and whooping- cough, by the sputum ; also that the dissemination of these diseases is increased by the fact that the infectious matters are present in the sputum before these diseases have positively declared themselves. In typhus and cholera the bacilli make their appearance in discharges from the bowels and in the vomit ; in pulmonary tuberculosis, in the sputum. 4. After recovery, both patient and nurse must be thoroughly cleansed and disinfected. 5. When infectious diseases are prevalent, careful atten- tion must be paid even to slight indispositions not recog- nizable as diphtheria, etc., as the early stages are often especially dangerous in spreading the infection. As disinfection is such an important matter, the most general rules connected with it may be given. Its object is to destroy the infectious matter—generally bacteria. It I is best to burn valueless objects. Things not liable to be seriously injured by steam — blankets, feather-beds, mattresses—are heated for half an hour or an hour by means of a current of steam at 100° C. Superheated steam does not disinfect so well as a current of steam. Leathern articles are spoilt by steam. Most large towns possess the necessary apparatus for steam disinfection. Linen can be disinfected by boiling for half an hour. Objects of metal, glass, etc., are exposed to dry heat of 140° to 160® C. for a longer period.