THE LYMPH ^9 gravity in such veins as run downward ; by muscular move- ments in general, the valves preventing any reflux ; and by the movements connected with respiration. At each inspiration the cavity of the thorax is increased, and therefore the pressure in it is diminished. This decrease of pressure aifects the blood-vessels, but specially the veins, owing to their thinner walls. They dilate, the pressure within them is reduced, and blood, like all other fluids, flows to the region of lower pressure, that is, toward the thoracic region, and so back to the heart. Except for the hair, nails, outermost layer of the skin, etc., which are bloodless, all parts of the body are supplied with capillaries. Where greatest activity is habitually dis- played, for example, in muscle and in glands, the capillary network is richest. The velocity of the blood is highest where it leaves the heart. It falls olF in the small arteries, and becomes extremely slow—little more than i mm. per second—in the capillaries. In the veins the flow quickens again, and increases towards the heart ; and though it is never so great as that of the blood leaving the heart, the same quantity of blood enters the auricles as leaves the ventricles in a given time, for the rate of flow is determined by the sectional area of the channel :—if the orifice of a garden- hose be partly closed, the water squirts much further. I The United sectional area of the capillaries arising from a small artery is much greater than that of the artery or of the vein into which the capillaries are gathered up. Hence the flow is slowest in the capillaries. For the same reason, the sectional area of the venae cavas at the heart being greater than that of the aorta, the rate of flow is slower in the former. It has been estimated that a corpuscle takes about twenty-three seconds to pass over the whole course of circulation. 4. The Lytnph.—^The lymph is the intermediary between the blood of the capillaries and the cells of the body. The cells, bathed by this fluid, which resembles in