102 NECESSARIES OF LIFE The purity of the air can only be secured in large communities by insisting on spacious and cleanly streets, many open spaces, and also on the right kind of chimneys. The most important agents in the purification of the air are rain, wind, and snow. By these agents the micro- organisms are carried to the soil, sea, or to rivers. In these situations sunlight, the universal disinfectant, is a powerful agent for their destruction. {i>) Atmospheric Pressure and Heat.—^The pressure of the air and the variations thereof, so far as they can be observed by us, are without influence on our health. On the other hand, people who ascend quickly and with violent exertions to places of high altitude, where the atmosphere is rarefied, are attacked by so-called mountain- sickness (weakness, difficulty in breathing, vertigo, faintness, nausea). In a balloon, in w'hich those ascending rise without exertion, they may feel quite well so long as a height of 4500 metres is not exceeded. Temperature within the limits known in our climate has no appreciable effect on health. Its Variation, moreover, entails no inconvenience as long as the air does not contain too much moisture. In the latter case a rise in the temperature may easily become injurious, especially if the person is forced to exert himself violently, and may lead to heat-apoplexy, commonly called sunstroke. The sum - total of meteorological conditions, heat, moisture, etc., has, as mortality statistics only too clearly show, a great effect on the general health. Man is forced by the great daily variations of temperature all over the earth, to protect himself from their ill effects by artificial means. These are clothing and dwellings. With these aids man can live in all climates, and remain permanently even in the coldest regions of our earth. I. Clothing»—The materials of our clothing are in themselves bad conductors of heat (linen, cotton, wool, silk). By the manner in which they are woven into fabrics.