INFECTION 129 Works should be subjected to certain restrictions in the interests of the people living near. For example, it should be required that factories purify their waste water before discharging it into the public water-ways. {d) Infection.—Various measures have been taken by the State to prevent the spread of disease. Schools are closed on the outbreak of an epidemic, and fairs, festivals, and other occasions for the assembling of large numbers of people, prohibited. For travellers Corning from infected districts, quarantine has been resorted to. It has, however, proved useless, in the state of traffic at the present day, and has therefore recently been re- placed, in most countries, by a careful medical inspec- tion of those Corning from the infected region, and by isolation of such as are suspected of suffering from the disease. The spread of small-pox is combated by vaccination. It is certain that besides the cessation of the continuous wars of former ages, and the improvement in public cleanliness, nothing has so greatly contributed to the almost total disappearance of the small-pox as the practice of vacci- nation introduced at the beginning of this Century by Jenner. In the last Century, on an average, 10 per Cent, of all children died of small-pox. In countries such as France and Germany, where vacci- nation and revaccination are compulsory, small-pox is almost an unknown disease ; the few cases which do arise in these countries are usually imported from others, Between the years 1886 and 1892 there were, in the whole German empire, 891 cases of death from small-pox, of which 833 occurred in the frontier districts and in sea-ports. If, how- ever, vaccination is to have a lasting effect, it must be repeated at suitable intervals. It is to be deplored that in our country compulsion has been reduced by recent legisla- tion almost to a mere formula. For individual cases, on the outbreak of an infectious disease (diphtheria, scarlet fever, measles, small-pox, whoop- K