52 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM most part loosely, in a cavity of the temporal bone. This bony cavity, to the walls of which the membranous bag is here and there attached, contains a fluid, the perilymph, and is completely closed, except at two places, where openings in the bone would put it in free communication with the middle ear, were it not for the fact that over each a membrane Stretches : of these membrane-covered spaces, one, against which the stapes rests, is oval, the fenestra ovalis (Fig. 25,/), oih.tr, üitfenestra rotundaißig. 25, /tz), is round. The sac of the inner ear consists of the membranous labyrinth and the cochlea. The former is an irregulär compartment, the Vestibüle (Fig. 25, h), bearing the semicircular canals (Fig. 25, /), w'hich brauch from it laterally, and which are disposed in the three dimensions of space—two vertically, at right angles to one another, and one horizontally. The semicircular canals form three swellings, ampullce, at the points where they spring from the Vestibüle. The re- maining compartment of the membranous bag, the cochlea (Fig. 25, k), consists of a tapering tube coiled two and a half times on itself, so that it comes to have somewhat the shape of a snaiFs shell. It is about 3 mms. in diameter where it leaves the Vestibüle, but narrows down to a blind point. The cochlea is attached on its outer side to the bony wall of the cavity in which it lies, and is also attached on its inner side to a spiral ledge of bone, the lamina spiralis, jutting out into the cavity, which is thus divided throughout almost its whole length into an upper and lower chamber. The chambers are separated throughout their length by the cochlea, except at the apex of the spiral, to which the cochlea does not quite reach. The upper of these two chambers is continuous with that of the bony labyrinth, or cavity in which the membranous labyrinth lies. The lower is closed below by the fenestra rotunda (Fig. 25, m'), Both, in common wdth the bony labyrinth, contain peri- lymph. The ears are supplied by the auditory nerves, the eighth pair of cranial nerves. The auditory nerve of either side