SUTURES AND JOINTS 5 in the vveight of the body, more or less severe, and in many cases permanent, curvatures or distortions of the bones take place. If a bone receive a blow too violent to be counteracted by its elasticity, it breaks, but the surfaces will grow together again fairly readily, unless the bone be that of an aged person. (i) Sutures and Joints^^'fht strength of the Con- nections between bones varies very much. Two bones may be connected immovably with one another by means of a suture^ e.g. those of the skull (Fig. 6). These are dove- tailed into each other, without any cementing substance, by means of zigzags, or at least uneven edges and surfaces. The strength of such connections is shown by the fact that a violent blow on the head more readily breaks a bone than ruptures a suture. If the opposed surfaces of two bones are connected together by means of softer or harder cartilage, so that slight movements and displacements are possible, we speak of the junction as a synchondrosis. In this case a considerable degree of force is required to draw apart the bones, and as soon as the force is removed the bones spring back to their former position. By synchondroses the vertebras are held together, the ribs connected with the sternum, etc. Lastly, if the connected parts are easily movable one upon the other, we speak of the connection as a joint{Y\g. i). The parts of the bones which enter into the joint, the articular surfaces^ are covered with caps of smooth cartilage (Fig. I, d). The bones themselves are bound together by ligaments, one of which forms a bag or capsule which com- pletely encloses the joint. The capsule is lined by a deli- cate membrane, the synovial nietnbrane, which secretes the synovial fluid. This membrane is also reflected over the surfaces of the bones enclosed within the capsules. The smooth articular surfaces facilitate the cohesion of the bones and weaken the force of any impact on them. The synovial fluid keeps the surfaces moist, and so allows of the free action of the joint.