ii8 NECESSARIES OF LIFE or leaven, and the necessary salt. When sufficiently heated, the dough ferments—a process which gives rise to a great quantity of carbon dioxide, which makes the dough rise, and renders it porous. The fermented mass is then baked at a temperature of about 200° C., which kills all organisms which may happen to be in it. The more bran is mixed with the flour, the browner, the richer in proteids, and therefore the more nutritious it is. This gain, however, is counterbalanced by the fact that it is less assimilable than ordinary bread. Of bread of the finest flour, only about one-twenty-fifth remains undigested ; in coarse brown bread, the amount of undigested matter rises to one-fifth of the quantity of bread eaten. Brown bread, however, may profitably be used in cases of sluggish digestion, as it stimulates the alimentary canal to more rapid movement. Flour not carefully selected may contain a poison, er^t, as well as the poisonous seed of the corn-cockle. (2) Legumes.—Under this term are included the seeds of beans, peas, and lentils. They contain, on an average, 57 per Cent, of starch and cellulose, 23 per cent. proteids, 2 per Cent, fat, 2 per cent. salts, 2 per cent. woody fibres, and 14 per cent. water. They are therefore more nutri- tious than cereals; e.g. i kilog. of peas contains 230 grams, the same quantity of grain only 120 grams, of proteids. They, however, in order to form a completely nourishing food, need the addition of some fat. (3) Potatoes.—The importance of the potato as a food lies in the fact of its flourishing on almost every soil, and generally yielding good crops. Potatoes consist of more than 75 per cent. of water, i per cent. proteids, 21 per cent. starch, i to 4 per cent. woody fibres, and a variable quantity of salts. Potatoes are the cheapest form in which we can get the starch necessary for nutrition. They cannot alone sustain the body, but require the addition of fat and some food rieh in proteid, as milk, meat, butter, or cheese. (4) Vegetables and Fruit.—The “roots” in general use.