THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 56 of the mouth forms the floor of the nasal cavities, which open behind into the pharynx. The whole inner surface of each nasal cavity, to which the many folds and convolu- tions of the three turbinal bones (Fig. 20, /*) impart a considerable extent, is lined with a mucous membrane. In the lower part of each nasal cavity, extending as far as the first turbinal bone, the mucous membrane is lined by ciliated cells, and is not concerned with smell. In the upper part this layer is replaced by the olfactory epithelium, consisting of two kinds of cells—rod-cells and c^linder-cells. The olfactory nerves^ the first pair of cranial ner\^es, dividing into many branches, pass through the holes of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and distribute themselves to the rod-cells of the olfactory epithelium. None but gaseous bodies can be smelt ; solid or fluid bodies, filling the nostrils, produce no olfactory sensations. Gases, moreover, are only smelt when they pass through the nose. When we breathe through the mouth, the Sensation of smell immediately ceases, even though the nasal cavities be at the time filled with the odorous gas. Conversely,inhalations repeated in quick succession (sniffling) intensify the Sensation. Of course, with any obstruction of the nasal passages, such as occurs in a “cold,” the sensations of smell cease. Odorous substances take effect 1 even when diluted to an extraordinary degree. Thus the nose can detect the two-millionth of a milligram of musk. The strength of the Sensation depends partly on the quantity of the gas itself, partly on the size of the receptive surface. The extraordinarily acute sense of smell possessed by some animals is, at least in part, explained by the very large surface covered by their olfactory membranes. It is quite unknown on what property of the odorous j substances the Sensation of smell depends, and also what are the detailed processes in the act of smelling. The olfactory organ may be regarded as a sentinel placed at the entrance to the body, though the Information which it gives of the nature of the entering g;ases is very imperfect.