THE HEART 6s also provided, near their origin, with valveä, tKe semi-lunar valves. Each semi-lunar valve consists of three membranous folds. Each fold forms a pouch, which is open on the side away from the ventricle, and whose wall meets that of the other two folds. These valves offer no obstruction to the passage of blood from the ventricle ; but blood tending to pass back fills the pouches and drives their edges hard up against one another. Hence the valves automatically and effectually prevent the reflux of blood to the ventricle. Though the septum completely cuts off the right from the left side of the heart, yet in a roundabout way all its chambers are connected. Thus the aorta leads from the left ventricle to nearly all parts of thebody, and ultimately com- municates with great veins, the vence cava, which open into the right auricle. Again, from the right ventricle ih.&pulmonary artery runs to the lungs, there branches into small arteries and caplllary networks, ramifies and connects with veins which are gathered up into the four pulmonary veins opening into the left auricle. So, to arrive at its point of departure, ■ blood has to make two circular tours—one through the i body generally, the systemic circulation ; the other through the lungs, the pulmonary circulation. The complete beat of the heart consists of the followlng tphases. First the two auricles filled with blood, as well las the bases of the great vessels opening into them, contract, land so drive the blood into the empty and relaxed ventricles ; •and then the auricles themselves relax. Thus filled, the .ventricles contract, so that the blood is driven into the taorta and pulmonary arteries. Thereupon the ventricles Irelax, and the auricles, filled in the mean time with blood, once again contract and pass it on to the ventricles ; and so Ithe cardiac cycle continues unceasingly. The frequency of the beats of the heart varies. In the new-born child there are about 130 beats per minute : the ♦rate diminishes up to the thirtieth year to about 72, and rises again somewhat in old age. p