53 HEARING passcs through a canal in the temporal bone, and divides into branches, which pass to the membranous labyrinth and to the cochlea. In the Former, the nerve-fibres make Con- nections with patches of auditory epithelium, whose cells bear hair-like processes—auditory hairs. The auditory epi- thelium occurs in patches on the inner surface of the ampullas and of the Vestibüle. The rest of these surfaces is covered by a layer of cubical-celled epithelium. The cochlear brauch of the auditory nerve passes through the lamina spiralis to the lower wall of the cochlea, all along which, here also in connection with auditory epithelial cells, it is distributed. These auditory hair-bearing cells of the cochlea constitute the organ of Corti. They pass gradually into the cubical epithelium, with which the rest of the cochlea is lined. The nerve, with its ending in the auditory epithelium cells, is the only sensitive part ; all the other parts of the ear, in contact with one another and capable of Vibration, serve to conduct or strengthen the sound, producing vibrations. The sound-waves reaching the ear through the air are caught up by the concha and led into the external auditory canal. There they strike the elastic membrane of the tympanum, and produce in it regulär vibrations. The malleus, fixed to this membrane and therefore swinging with it, sets the incus and stapes in motion. The vibra- tions of the latter communicate therhselves to the tense membrane of the fenestra ovalis, which in turn sets up waves in the perilymph contained in the bony cavity of the internal ear. These, breaking on the various parts of the membranous bag, arrive ultimately at the fenestra rotunda, against whose yielding surface they spend them- selves. But on their way these vibrations have communi- cated themselves across the thin membranes of labyrinth and cochlea to the fluid, endolymph, which these cavities contain. The Vibration of this endolymph stimulates the auditory epithelium of the organ of Corti to set up in the