"3 FOOD continually broken down, and so contribute to the stock of available energy. No one of the food-stuffs can alone sustain the body. It is true that in our food the food-stuffs are usually found already mixed in the proportions required by the body. But if we tried to live on one kind of food only, we should have, in order to get a sufficient quantity of every food-stuff, to take a considerable surplus of all the others; the stomach would be seriously overloaded, and the cost of living needlessly increased. For example, we require about 540 grams of meat daily to supply the needful amount of proteids ; if we wished to supply also the neces- sary quantity of carbo-hydrate material from this source, we should have to eat 2600 grams daily—a quantity with which the digestive Organs of human beings are not capable of dealing. Dogs, on the other hand, can subsist on a purely proteid diet, i.e. on meat only. In the same way, if we wish to supply the necessary proteids by a vegetable diet, which is rieh in carbo-hydrates, we have to consume an excessive quantity of vegetable food. Milk alone contains the nutritive elements in proportions fitted to sustain the body and facilitate growth. Even in this case, an adult, to obtain a sufficiency of all the food-stuffs, would be obliged to take over 4 litres of milk daily. It is therefore advisable to have a mixed diet, using both animal and vegetable substances. Those who wish to avoid the use of meat (vegetarians), can find sufficient compensation in eggs, milk, and cheese. Strict vegetarianism, which rejects the use of all animal substances, or would even limit US to the fruits of trees, is scarcely possible in our climate ; but only for external reasons. In the tropics, where dates, bananas, bread-fruit, etc., flourish, these fruits are the only food of millions of hard-working people. In the choice of diet, the manner of life must be taken into consideration. In a sedentary life if the stomach is overloaded with a great quantity of vegetable food, digestion only takes place with difficulty. When work is principally