105 LIGHT events, painted walls which can easily be washed are to be recommended. The most scrupulous cleanliness in the dwelling is a requirement which, after what has already been said, hardly needs to be dwelt upon. Continued stay within doors weakens the body. Damp houses favour colds and diseases of the lungs ; bad drainage arrangeraents often give rise to typhus. The heating of rooms is effected in this country chiefly by open fire-places, abroad more often by stoves. Open hres, though cheerful enough, are extravagant. They ventilate well, but do comparatively llttle towards warming the house. Tiled stoves, which part slowly with their heat, are convenient and economical. The giving off by stoves of the deadly poisonous gas, carbon monoxide, should always be prevenced by choosing such as have their heat-regulating appliances connected with the stove-doors, and not as valves in the stove-pipe. Large buildings have of late years been provided with a central heating apparatus, in which the heating is effected by air, steam, or hot water ; but such arrangements, unless Provision is made at the same time for admission of dust- free and sufliciently moist air, are to be condemned. Of great importance to human well-being is the removal of air whose oxygen has been used in respiration or in the processes of burning (oxidation), and the supplying of fresh pure air. Ventilation is best carried out by making use of the difference of temperature produced by artificial heat— even an open window ventilates to a great degree ; but still better is the effect of a ventilation-shaft, such as the chimney of a fire-place, through which the heated air rises continually. The openings for Ventilation must be large enough, and should be two in number, one placed high for the summer, and a lower one for winter. If a special ventilation-shaft IS used, the current of the air is often quickened by a flame in the vicinity of the ventilation-opening. {c) Light.—Sunlight is necessary for the preservation of