68 METABOLISM the nerves which supply their muscular coats, and which keep the muscle-cells, and so the vessel, in a constant state of contraction—tonic contraction. This condition of tonic contraction, or tone, may be increased by an emphasis or cessation of the nervous im- pul ses—vaso-motor impulses. When the tonic impulses—constrlctor impulses—increase, the constriction of the blood-vessels also increases, and the resistance to the flow of blood through the region supplied by these vessels becomes greater. Less blood therefore flows in this region, and more in the other regions of the body. When the impulses to a certain set of small blood-vessels cease or fall off, or are replaced by dilator impulses, the vessels dilate, and, in consequence, more blood flows through them. The blood flows in jerks through the arteries ; in the veins its flow is steady. Three mechanical factors co- operate in causing this behaviour—the intermittency of the heart’s beat, the elasticity of the artery walls, and the great resistance to the flow offered by the small arteries. If the artery walls were rigid, at each heart-beat, a quantity of blood equal to that thrust into the vessels would pass into the capillaries from the minute arteries like the shot from a gun ; or, if the resistance proved too great, the gun—the heart—would burst. But being elastic, the artery walls 1 Stretch at each beat, and so accommodate the blood injected. Their elasticity has a limit ; stretched to their utmost, they i ’coil with suflicient force to overcome the peripheral resistance, and so they drive blood in a steady stream through the capillaries and on into the veins. At each heart-beat a fresh Stretching causes the limit of elasticity to be again reached, and so on ; thus bctween each beat is a wave of recoil along the length of the arterial System. This constitutes the pulse. The force of the heart-beat being spent in overcoming the peripheral resistance, it is no longer available for driving the blood through the veins. This is efiected by