THE SENSE-ORGANS AND THE BRAIN 139 the dusk or in artificial light. This alteration in the eye through age also necessitates the use of convex glasses for seeing near objects. Cleanliness assists the preservation of the hearing^ as very often the formation of plugs of dried wax in the external auditory canal is the cause of deafness. The wax is best removed by syringing with water, and not by means of rigid instruments, as these are apt to injure the tympanic membrane. Excessive strain on the hearing may also cause deafness. Musicians, smiths, and others who are constantly exposed to loud noises, very frequently suffer from this affliction. Even though the sense of smell fulfils its office of warning US against injurioussubstances but imperfectly, yet weshould let ourselves be restrained by its warning from the use of tainted food and drink, from remaining in vitiated air, and from similar dangers. The long-continued effect of strong odoursblunts the sense of smell, as do frequent inflammations of the mucous membrane of the nose, which, indeed, may in time quite destroy the sense. In very obstinate colds, medical aid should be sought. Generally “hardening” protects against too frequent catarrhs of the nose. Frequent repetition of the same taste, very hot food, but especially any strong Stimulus, as of pungent spices, so blunt the sense of taste that a constant heightening of the flavour is needed to produce the desired effect at all. Those who, for want of bodily exertion, have to eat without any great appetite, should see that they have easily digested food and a varied diet, but should not tempt their appetites with highly spiced dishes. The delicacy of the tactile sense and of those senses allied to it can, by practice, be developed to a high degree. Any one who needs a specially delicate touch should avoid every- thing likely to harden the skin and injure the sensitiveness of the nerves. Hard work, too great extremes of heat and cold, the effect of injurious Chemicals, all tend to reduce the delicacy of the tactile sense.