THE AIR lOI Waste products of factories. More important are solid bodies, floating in the air in extremely minute particles, and settling as dust. Of them common salt alone, which, as spray from the sea and from salt-pans, is found in the air in considerable quantities, has a salutary effect. All others are injurious; they produce a mechanical Irritation of the respi- ratory passages, or act as direct poisons. Dust is one of our worst enemies, and when accessible, as in our dwellings, cannot be combated too energetically. The dust-impurities in the air are partly lifeless bodies, partly living beings. These latter in themselves, but more especially on account of the disease-producing effect of some of them, are of the greatest interest to us. Of such micro-organisms, some affect our life very nearly, some only very remotely. Some, belonging to a lowly group of fungi, set up decompositions in various substances, and are responsible for much spoiling of food. Others, still more potent, belong to another fungoid group, the fission-fungi (bacteria). Many bacteria are harmless, and not a few beneficial, or even perhaps in an indirect way essential, to man ; but many, like those of the first-mentioned group, produce decomposition in meat, milk, etc.; many also are, by reason of their rapid growth within the body and the consequent harmful processes they set up therein, the causes of disease. Among the diseases due to the growth of, and decompositions set up by, bacteria in the body are tuberculosis, typhus, cholera, leprosy, influenza, pneumonia, diphtheria, anthrax, etc. The immediate causes of scarlet fever, measles, small-pox, and other infectious diseases are at present unknown. In the case of most of those diseases it must be assumed they are generally transmitted through the air. Germs exciting disease have not, up tili the present time, been obtained and cultivated from the open air ; but the bacteria of anthrax, pneumonia, and tuberculosis have been obtained from the air of rooms.