24 THE MUSCLES of heavy weights through a short distance : between these extremes various intermediate forms occur. The activity of a muscle consists in contracting, and there- fore shortening itself. As the muscle shortens, it thickens, its volume remaining practically unchanged. A muscle in extreme contraction may be about half its length when at rest. In the movement effected, the insertion and all fastened thereto approach the origin, which remains fixed. In muscular movements the bones on which the muscles are inserted play the part of levers, the joints of the bones are the fulcra, whilst the muscles themselves supply the power whereby the System is moved. Most bones represent one-armed, a few two-armed, levers. The twitching of a muscle is due to the influence of the nerve which is distributed to it. Without the influence of the nerve the muscle cannot contract. If the Impulse given by the nerve ceases, the contraction of the muscle also ceases, and it returns to a condition of rest. Most complete movements, that is, movements in a certain direction and return to the original position, require two muscles, which execute the same movements, but in opposite directions (Fig. 15, <7, b). Thus the forearm is bent up (flexed) by the biceps (Fig. i 5, a), and extended by the triceps (Fig. 15,/^); so too each finger is moved by its flexor and extensor muscles. The strength of a muscle depends directly on the number of its fibres, i.e. on the size of the transverse section, but varies greatly in the different muscles of the body, as does the strength of the same muscle in different individuals. Exact measurements have shown that an arm muscle can lift, for every square centimetre of its transverse section, a weight of 6 to 7 kilogs., while in the muscle of the calf the same amount of muscle-tissue has a working power of over 8 kilogs. Frequently repeated and uninterruptedly con- tinued movements of a muscle produce fatigue. This is removed by an increased flow of blood to the part when in a state of repose, more especially during sleep.