"5 ANIMAL FOOD only on account of this danger, the eating of raw meat is not advisable. Animais killed for the market are often tubercular, i.e. contain the bacteria which give rise to consumption and allied diseases. Only rigorous official in- spection, not only of meat, but of the animals to be slaughtered, can safeguard the community from the risks of contracting tuberculosis through the medium of the meat consumed. Public slaughter-houses, such as are in vogue on the Continent, facilitate the putting into practice of such preventive measures. Lastly, poisoning, properly so called, may arise from the consumption of tainted meat, badly sealed or improperly selected “ tinned meat,” sausages, fish, milk, or cheese. In these the effects of bacterial or other vital activity have begun, and have resulted in the production of poisonous alkaloids, termed ptomaines. Eggs.—By far the most important from our point of view, and the only ones here considered, are hen’s eggs. Of their contents, the “ white ” constitutes two-thirds; the yolk one-third. The white of a hen’s egg consists of 87 per Cent, of water, and 13 per cent. of albumen and of another proteid called globulin. The yolk contains 50 per cent. of water, 25 per cent. albumen, 25 per cent. fat. An egg contains on an average about 8 grams of albumen, and 4 grams of fat, and has the same nutritive value as 40 grams of fat meat, or 180 grams of milk. Soft-boiled eggs are digestible ; hard-boiled eggs are, on the contrary, very in- digestible. The indigestible nature of the hard-boiled egg is due to the fact that prolonged boiling has produced a lump of proteid which stubbornly resists the penetration of the gastric juice. Caviare, consisting of the salted eggs of the sturgeon and similar fishes, is very nutritious; but, on account of its high price, it can only be regarded as a luxury. Milk.—Besides cows’ milk, which is in such general use, that of goats and mares is occasionally employed as an article of diet. The milk of these animals has much