THE SKELETON 4 The increase of a long bone in length is due to the^ formation of new layers of cartilage near the ends. Its^ increase in thickness is effected by the deposition of new layers of bone by the activity of the vascular membrane, the periosteum^ surrounding the bone. In the interior the previously-formed bone-mass is again broken down, and a hollow space, the medullary cavity, running down the centre of the shaft, is formed. The medullary cavity is filled with marrow—a tissue containing fat and many. blood - vessels. Throughout the rest of the bone-mass which has replaced the cartilage, destruction, followed by fresh bone-formation, takes place repeatedly. In old age the bone-matrix wastes away, and is not replenished. So old bones, losing firmness and elasticity, become brittle. Difterent bones possess different degrees of solidity. Sometimes they consist of a loose nctwork of intercrossing bone fibrils or spicules. The heads of the long bones have such a spongy structure (Figs. 11 and 12), but the shafts are built up of a number of Systems of thin bony lamellae. The layers of each System are arranged concentrically about a central canal, running longitudinally and opening here and there into its fellows, or into the central medullary cavity. In spongy bone the medulla and its blood-vessels occur in the meshes between the spicules. In all cases the structure is such as to secure to the bones, with an economical use of material, a high degree of strength and durability. Thus the bone-spicules in the upper end of the thigh-bone are arranged in two Systems of lines Crossing one another. These pull against each other in such a manner that, on the one hand, the bone can resist the pressure of the weight of the trunk resting upon it, and on the other hand, can endure the strain put on it by the weight of the leg when unsupported by the ground. In this way also the pressure is evenly distributed over all parts of the surface of the joint. If, during the first years of life, the formation of mineral matter in the bones does not keep pace with the increase