138 CARE OF THE BODY must also be taken that children do not acquire a bad habit of bringing their eyes too near to the books they are reading, or on which they are writing—30 cms. is the right distance. Small print should be avoided ; small and dose writing should not be allowed. Exertion of the eyes should be interrupted by frequent intervals during which the eyes are allowed to rest. This is best done by a few minutes in the open air, as then the eyes look at distant objects, and thus rest the accommodation appa- ratus. The habit of regulär play in the open air is also good for the eyes. Any one inclined to short-sightedness should avoid everything likely to increase the pressure of blood towards the head, e.g. any articles of clothing, such as tight collars, which impede the circulation, excess in eating and drinking, and bending the head forward when working. In such cases it is well to read or write at a sloping desk. Short-sighted people need spectacles with concave glasses; as a rule they need only be used to see objects at a distance. The choice of the glasses must be left entirely to the medical adviser. If too weak, the glasses are useless ; if too strong, they increase short-sightedness. With the progress of short-sightedness, weakness of vision is commonly connected ; if the former can be pre- vented, the eye is protected against the weakness otherwise produced by it. This latter may also arise if the retina is often fatigued by too bright a light. Brilliant illumina- tion, and rapid alternations of light and darkness, should therefore be avoided ; it is not well to read in strong sun- light, nor, as is well known, to look at the sun itself. Far-sightedness also requires spectacles, in Order to enable objects near at hand to be seen ; for this purpose the glasses must be convex. With increasing age the crystalline lens loses more and more its power of curvature, so that, from a certain age—as a rule, from the forty-fifth year—the power of seeing near objects diminishes with the loss of the power of accommodation ; the eye comes to be soon fatigued in