THE DISPOSAL OF WASTE PRODUCTS 123 as possible, so that fouling of the sub-soil may be avoided. The cask System is also to be recommended if rightly carried out. The excreta are collected in movable casks, which can be hermetically sealed and carried ofF. The Contents of pits or casks can be quite deodorized by strewing in earth or peat-dust. Mistakes or carelessness in the treatment of waste products favour the rise and spread of infectious diseases, especially typhus and cholera. The burial of the dead requires especial care. The official inspection of the corpse has been introduced in Order to prevent the burial of those only apparently dead, to discover crimes, and to gain an insight into the causes of death. After this, the corpse is, as a rule, placed in the mortuary, or otherwise isolated, to avoid any possible danger of infection. It is afterwards buried in a wooden coffin in a cemetery, in a grave 2 metres deep. As a rule, everything but the bones disappears in the course of nine years. The soil in the vicinity of burying-grounds is not likely to be contaminated so far as to endanger health, as the earth is quite capable of destroying the organic matter of the corpses, the number of which is compara- tively small, the yearly death-rate being only about 25 per 1000. These give to the soll about 300 kilogs. of decomposable organic matter, while the same looo persons in any year supply, in their excreta, nearly 30,000 kilogs. of decomposable substances. Moreover, most disease- producing microbes are destroyed by the soil in a compara- tively short period—within the first year—and are, in all except a few doubtful cases, long extinct when the grave is opened again. They cannot get out of the soil, and do not pass into water. That cemeteries are not otherwise prejudicial to health is clear from the fact that grave- diggers are a long-lived race, despite the fact that they breathe the air of graveyards, drink water from their soil, and dig up the soil itself. In recent times a movement has been started in favour