THE SKELETON i8 it is capable of a rotatory movement about Its own axis, its concave extremity turning on the humerus, and its edge gliding on the side of the ulna. Thus the hand, vvhich articulates with the radius only, is turned so that its palmar surface, upwards at the commencement of the movement, is now downward. In this movement from Supination to pronation, the radius comes to lie across the ulna, which remains motionless (Fig. lo, I., II.). The joint at the wrist, formed by the radius and carpals, acts as a hinge, which allows of flexor and extensor, as well as of lateral, movements of the hand, but not of rotatory movements, in which the radius moves with the hand. The articulations between the joints of the fingers are all hinge-joints ; those between the fingers and the metacarpals are loose hinge-joints, allowing not only of the bending of the fingers, but also of their being spread apart. The articulations of the carpals with the meta- carpals are almost rigid, and admit only of slight displace- ments. The articulation between the thumb and its metacarpal is a ball-and-socket joint, giving great mobility to the thumb, allowing it, for example, to be opposed to the other fingers, and so permitting the hand to grasp. It is as much the great mobility of the arm as the variety of the joints of the hand which makes the latter the wonderful instrument which it is. The Pelvic Girdle.—The leg is attached to the pelvic girdle by the thigh-bone. The pelvis consists of the in- nominate or hip-bones, each of which has three parts—ilium, ischium, and pubis. It is a curved plate of bone of unusual size, not thick, but very strong. At the back the sacrum is wedged in between the ilia, the dorsal parts of the hip-bones, and in front the ring is completed by the symphysis pubis. Thus the shape of the pelvis may be likened to that of a dish without a bottom, and with irregulär sides. On the outer side of each hip- bone is a deep spherical depression, which, receiving the head of the thigh-bone, forms the hip-joint.