LUXURIES AND STIMULANTS 119 turnips, carrots, etc., are deficient in proteids, i per cent., and contain only small quantities of starch and sugar (2 to 6 per Cent.), though richer in salts, 4 to 7 per cent. They stand low in the list of foods arranged according to nutritive value, but are wholesome additions to the table. Green vegetables stand still lower, but are even more welcome, on account of their wholesomeness, and because they are the pleasantest and most convenient vehicles for the conveyance of salts, and especially of organic salts, and acids needed by the body. The want of them is the cause of scurvy, which formerly caused great ravages among sailors, in armies on campaign, and in times of scarcity among the peasantry. The nutritive value of fruit depends on the amount of sugar contained in it, which maybeas high as 10 per cent. Nuts, almonds, chestnuts, and other proteid- and fat-containing seeds, have a more considerable nutritive value. Mushrooms scarcely deserve their reputation, except as delicacies. They contain 90 per cent. of water, and only about 2 per cent. of proteids. (5) Vegetable Fats.—In the vegetable kingdom,fat is usually found in the form of oil, which is stored up as a reserve substance in many seeds—poppy-seed, rape-seed, olives, nuts, etc. Vegetable fats are quite equal to animal in nutritive value. 4. Luxuries and Stimulants.—Among these must be counted, in the first place, vinegar, and secondly, aromatic substances, such as are contained in pepper, cloves, nutmeg, mustard, onions, and hosts of other plants. The nutritive value of these substances is often nil, and generally little ; but, nevertheless, they are important accessories to the food. Not only do they give flavours to otherwise tasteless fpods, but also, by stimulating the mucous membrane of the in- testine, serve to increase the amount of its secretions. The much-used luxuries coffee, tea, and cocoa, by means of the alkaloids caffein, thein, and theobromin contained in them, act as stimulants ; coffee having a marked effe.ct on the heart’s action. So far as they are intended to take the