73 RESPIRATION the lungs; in the latter, it passes out. The air in the infundibuli is only indirectly afFected by these processes, which admit and expel air from the trachea and upper branches of the bronchi. It is by difFusion between this air and that of the infundibuli that fresh oxygen comes to the alveoli, and the carbon dioxide, which has passed from the blood into the alveoli, is got rid of. In inspiration, the depth and breadth of the thorax, and hence its capacity, are increased. Increase in depth is due to the muscular contraction and consequent flattening of the diaphragm. Increase in breadth from side to side and from back to front is efFected by muscles, the external intercostals^ Stretching from each rib downwards and forwards to the next below, and wKose contraction hauls up the ribs and attached Sternum, which is in consequence thrust forwards. Now, we have seen that the surface of the lungs is dose against that of the thorax, hence the elastic lung follows the movement of the chest-wall ; for to resist it would be to resist the pressure of the atmosphere acting on its walls from within. The cavity of the lungs increases then Step by Step with that of the thorax, and air rushes in. If the chest-wall be punctured, so that air enters between the layers of the pleura, the lung collapses and inspiration ceases. The movement of the inspiratory muscles has now for its only effect the drawing of air into the chest-cavity, and that of expiratlon its expulsion. Expiration is, in ordinary breathing, due to the relaxation of the muscles of inspiration. These relaxing, the chest- cavity returns to its former dimensions, constraining the lungs to do likewise, and air is expelled from them. In both inspiration and expiration the movements of the lungs themselves are passive. In laboured breathing many other muscles come into play, tili, indeed, if the difficulties of obtaining fresh air are much increased, as in poisoning by certain gases, every muscle of the body may take part convulsively.