117 VEGETABLE FOOD and scarlet fever are occasionally spread. More grave, because more frequent, is infantile diarrhoea, a disease which is, in most cases, avoidable by the exercise of a little care. All dangers arising from milk may be guarded against by cleanliness, by keeping it cool, and by only using it boiled. For feeding infants, sterilized milk, t.e. milk in which all bacteria germs have been destroyed by boiling for a sufficient time, is to be urgently recommended, The present police regulations concerning milk are directed towards preventing adulteration, i.e. preventing the public from pecuniary loss. The law prohibits the sale of milk from cows suffering from anthrax, rabies, or foot- and-mouth disease. Animal Fats.—Of these are used butter and clarified butter, suet, lard, goose grease, and, in special cases, cod- liver oil. They are about equal in nutritive value. The margarine of trade is somewhat less nutritious ; it consists mostly of animal fats, to which a butter taste has been imparted by impregnation with milk. It is cheap, and not to be condemned if its manufacture be carried on in a cleanly manner. Diseases, such as tuberculosis, have sometimes been transmitted through butter. The process of clarifying butter by boiling destroys all disease-germs. 3. Vegetable Food.—Vegetable foods also contain proteids, usually associated with large quantities of carbo- hydrates, such as starch, sugar, and cellulose, and with some fat ; in general, the same salts are present as are contained in animal food. (i) Cereals.—The seeds of a number of grasses, as wheat, barley, rye, maize, rice, all serve as human food. From these is prepared flour, which contains 67 per cent. of starch, 12 per cent. proteids, 2 per cent. fat, 2 per cent. salts, 3 per cent. vegetable fibres, and 14 per cent. water. The most important food made of flour is bread, for the preparation of which the flour is worked up into dough, with about three-quarters of its own quantity of water, some yeast