PASTRY. 87 turn it out thereon ; make a hollow in its centre and fill it with half an ounce of the salt, and a quarter of a pint of the cold water : mix the flour gradually with water, and, when the paste seems about half mixed, sprinkle over it another quarter of a pint of cold water, into which the lime has been squeezed. Stir the dough about briskly now until it ceases to adhere to the slab, and seems pliant and soft, pat it into a ball, and let it cool for ten minutes in the ice-box. While cooling, weigh a pound of the suet, cut it up and pound it in a mortar until pliant : take out the ball of dough and flatten it about two inches thick, spreading the suet evenly over its surface, but leaving a margin of an inch and a half of the dough in excess of the suet all round ; then fold the sides of the paste, in four, towards the centre, completely covering the suet, and forming a square. Roll this out on the slab, as evenly and as thin as possible, a yard long, then fold one-third of the length over towards the centre covering it with the other third. This folding . O in three is called by cooks “giving the paste one turn.” Be careful that none of the suet breaks through the edges of the rolled out paste. Having folded the paste as de- scribed, let it lie in the ice-box for ten minutes. Then take it out and give it a couple of turns more, rest it in the ice- box again, and again roll it and fold it twice—five rollings out, and five foldings in three altogether; lastly, gather the paste into a lump, and roll it out, cutting it according to your requirements. Observe that the suet is spread over the surface of the dough. This should be done as evenly as possible. The old- fashioned practice of laying butter or suet over the dough in little squares is no longer followed. When butter is used, it should be kneaded in a cloth until it is pliant, assuming, of course, that it is cold and firm to begin with. For very light puffs, vols-au-vent, &c., six turns are recom- mended by the best writers. Keep the dredger at your