74 SWEET DISHES. so he puts it into the oven at a venture in the hope that notiiing will happen to delay, or unduly hasten, the usual course of the meal. In nine cases out of ten his calcu- lations will be upset, and a dish will be ready too soon, or it will keep the table waiting. He cannot hurry matters : it is impossible to retard them. “ The moment a souffle is done, ’ says the G. C., “and has attained its bloom or fulness, it must be served; for when once it ceases to go up, it begins to go down, either in or out of the oven. Souffles, like time and tide, wait for no man.” For these reasons, then, abstain from ordering souffles for your large parties, unless you have a second sweet to fall back upon in case the souffle fail. At the little home dinner, with hut two or three things in the menu, the timing of the baking of the souffle may be bit off to a nicety, so you need have no misgivings concerning its success. To accomplish a souffle satisfactorily it is a sine qua non that you possess a snuffle dish ; that is, a proper vessel to cook it in. The simplest and least expensive are those made of block tin. One round in shape, live and a quarter inches in diameter, and four and a half inches deep will be found a good size for a six-egg souffle, while one an inch smaller in both measurements will suffice for one of three or four eggs. The former will be found quite large enough for a party of six. It is the custom to wrap a napkin round the tin before serving: this ought to be avoided, if possible, for the delay that takes place while the napkin is being arranged is nearly sure to spoil the souffle. The best method to adopt is this:—Either slip the tin into a larger dish of silver big enough to envelop it, or make a nice paper case ready beforehand, with a frilled edge, within which the vessel can be quickly buried. Souffle papers, very prettily contrived, are, of course, sold at all co-operate stores in London, and it is intended that the souffle itself should be baked in the paper case. I,