7<) SWkET blSHkS. is greater, and I believe it to be a very admirable souffle. Break six eggs ; separate the yolks from the whites, putting only three of the former into a basin with three ounces of sugar and the flavouring you like best: stir this mixture with a wooden spoon for five minutes. Next, put the six whites into a basin and whip them as stiffly as you can, then mix the froth with the yolks as lightly as possible. It will be a pretty stiff paste. Butter your souffle case, and drop into it the whole of the paste at once, smooth it over with a palette-knife, and pass the knife all round the edge of the tin, patting the paste towards the centre: put it into a quick oven, and in about ten minutes, it will he ready to serve. Observe in the souffles how necessary it is to time your operations properly : the eggs must not be broken too soon, for the mixture must not lie idle ; it must he passed without delay into the buttered tin, and be baked at once in a quick oven. Please mark the last point; for some souffles are cooked slowly. The omelette soufflee is a speciality, and, I think, less difficult than the other compositions, which I am about to give. As soon as your cook has mastered an omelette soufflee to your satisfaction, he may attempt the souffle proper. In the composition of this dish, flour is used. Connoisseurs declare that potato-flour is the proper ingredient, neverthe- less most excellent souffles are made with good ordinary flour, with cornflour (sold in tins;, arrowroot, and rice flour. Of these the last is, perhaps, quite as light as potato-flour. With some the frothy lightness of the gourmet's souffle is not regarded as by any means an attraction, and they prefer a stiffer composition approaching the consistency of a pud- ding. This effect is easily obtained by adding a little Hour and reducing the number of eggs, that may be mentioned in the recipe, that may be chosen. These stiffly formed souffles (called by some writers “ souff le-puddings ”) possess