SWEET DISHES, •202 with cold water up to their necks. Bring the water slowly to the boil, then draw the vessel hack and simmer for a quarter of an hour. Let the bottles and their contents then get cold, cork them again securely, waxing them over, and store them. A sherry-glass of maraschino or kirsch may be stirred into the syrup with advantage. Note.—In order to prevent the bottles from knocking against each other during the boiling, which they are apt to do, and may get cracked bv the concussion, it is a good plan to tie a small wisp of straw round each of them before immersion. Strawberry jam can, of course, be made of fruit that would be unfit for whole preserving, still the same rules hold good with reference to careful preparation of the berries. After having cleansed, picked, and dried them, cut out all bruised parts with a dessert-knife, and in cases where the berry has a hard knotty point, cut it (the hard part) off. To three pounds of picked fruit, give half the weight, i.r., one and a half pounds of sugar,—it cannot he too white for nice jam,—and keep it ready. First, boil the fruit briskly by itself for half an hour in a copper-pan, or a large enamelled one, over a good fire, stirring it constantly with a wooden spoon. Then remove the pan, and mix the sugar with the strawberries ; replace the pan, and encourage rapid boiling, stirring without ceasing for half an hour; remove the scum as it rises and when clear, pour the jam into an enamelled basin. If the fruit be not of a sweet kind, three-quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of berries will not be found excessive. Remarks regarding Potting:—It is a mistake to be in a hurry about potting jams and jellies. As a preliminary step it is advisable to empty the preserve into a clean and roomy enamelled basin, to draw a cloth over its surface to protect the jam from dust, and leave it for twenty-four hours for observation. If signs of effervescence show themselves the jam must be boiled again, i.e.—put into a