PANCAKES, SOUFFLES, AND OMELETTES. 77 this characteristic :—they do not fall as rapidly as their more volatile relatives : you may keep one of them a few minutes before serving, if obliged to do so, without risking its utter ruin. Still, when we speak of a souffle, it is our duty to confine our attention to the real thing. Let us then commence with :— / Vanilla souffle (Snuffled la vanille):—Select a clean ena- melled stewpan, put into it three ounces of flour (ordinary flour if you like) well dried and sifted, two ounces of sugar, and a pinch of salt; mix these well together with three- quarters of a pint of milk ; flavour the mixture with vanilla essence to taste, and set the pan on the fire. Let it come to the boil, adding an ounce of butter, and stirring well with a wooden spoon until the batter seems velvety and smooth ; then remove the pan. Let it get cool, but stir oc- casionally to prevent a scum settling on the surface. When it is cold, break four eggs; stir the yolks into the batter, working them well into it, and then whip the whites to a stiff froth, adding it to the batter just before the souffle, is poured into the buttered tin. Put the tin into the oven at once and bake at moderate heat for twenty minutes. Peep at it occasionally, after a quarter of an hour has elapsed, in case it may rise more quickly than you expect. The moment that it rises well, take it out, and serve as already described. Do not forget the dusting of finely powdered white sugar. Note.—If the oven be too hot, the souffle will rise too soon, looking nicely done outside, but the inside of it will be found in an uncooked custardy condition, while the bottom of it will probably be burnt. Some cooks put in a table-spoonful of cream. The souffle cannot possibly lose by such an addition, but a good result can be produced without it. The chief thing to watch narrowly is the oven ; it is by no means easy to hit off to a nicety the exact heat necessary to produce a souffle that shall be beautifully coloured on the top, yet not burnt at the