PANCAKES, SOUFFLES. AND OMELETTES. 81 the omelette may be rolled over into the hot dish at hand to receive it. No fixed forms necessary ; but a canopy of powdered loaf sugar is a sine qua non. Omelette au rhum.—For this an illustration may be given of the second method of work as follows :—Break four eggs carefully, separating the whites from the yolks, putting each into separate bowls. Sweeten and flavour the yolks, mixing them smoothly with a fork, but whip the whites to a stiff froth. Melt an ounce of butter in a clean omelette pan which should be hot, but not nearly as hot as in process number I. When this is ready, amalgamate the yolks and froth and turn the mixture into the pan, smooth its surface with the palette-knife and, keeping the fire at moderate heat beneath the pan, do not touch it, but let the omelette cook gently. Try, after two minutes, with the palette-knife to find whether the bottom of the omelette is done by passing it gently round the edge, and lifting the omelette a little. At the moment when the setting indicates that the omelette is all but ready to roll into the dish prepared for it, quickly spread over its surface a layer of apricot, raspberry, or strawberry jam. This, prepared as described for Pannequets d la Celestine, page 72, should be all ready at hand before the frying commences. As soon as the jam is spread, pass a slice under the omelette, double it across, and turn it quickly into the hot dish, which should have a dusting of finely-sifted loaf sugar shaken over its surface. Immediately dust a canopy of sifted sugar over the top of the omelette, glaze the surface with a red-hot iron, pour a couple of tablespoonfuls of rum round it, ignite a teaspoonful of the spirit, communicate this to that in the dish, and serve on fire like a Christmas plum-pudding. Jam is not necessary in an omelette am rhum, hut I think it improves it. If the addition of spirit and the setting alight be omitted, the omelette should be called au confiture. If jam be left out, flavour the egg mixture with essence of G