204 SWEET DISHES, only, weigh the puree and add half a pound of sugar for each pound of it. Dissolve the sugar and boil for twenty minutes. Skim and pour it into a basin. For a very solid cheese, you should return thepurie to the preserving pan and reduce it somewhat, stirring to prevent burning, and then pot it. For the jelly :—Simmer the fruit alone for a few minutes to extract the juice, pressing the berries lightly with a wooden spoon, then strain the juice and weigh it. After that, turn the juice into an enamelled pan and set it over a fast fire to boil for nearly twenty minutes ; next remove the pan and stir in sugar in the proportion of half a pound to a pound-weight of syrup : let it dissolve, and then return the pan to the fire for another quarter of an 'hour’s boil ; skim and stir continually, and when the surface is clear, pour the jelly into glass jars, or pots. Note.—Regarding strawberry and Bangalore raspberry jams, it must be noted that neither fruit possesses sub-acid to any appre- ciable extent. Tbe consequence is that jams made of them are apt to he somewhat insipid. In England this is overcome by introducing a small allowance of red or white currant juice which provides the qualifying acidity, and 1 think that lime-juice in India might be employed advantageously for a similar purpose—a wine-glass of lime- juice to a quart of jam stirred in during the final boiling. The Cape gooseberry, or Brazil cherry yields, as every- one knows, a most excellent preserve. The facility with which jam made of this fruit is sold on the Neilgherries is ample proof of its popularity. The supply is indeed never equal to the demand. Now, as I have before ob- served, nothing is easier than the cultivation of the little shrub that produces this fruit. It flourishes well at Bangalore, Secunderabad, and Kamptee, and would, no doubt, succeed anywhere in India, if planted after the heavv rains have passed oft. Thus it may be safely assert- ed that we possess, in the Cape, gooseberry, a fruit that