251 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 684.—Raspberry and Currant Sherbet. To two quarts of currant and raspberry-juice, when strained, add seven pomids of broken loaf sugar, and six quarts of cold water ; when the sugar is dissolved, cover, and let it remain till the following day; then clear it off into a large stone jar with quarter of an ounce of isinglass, dissolved in half a pint of water; close the jar, so as to exclude the air, and keep it in a cool place. In three weeks, clear it off into bottles, and it will then be ready for use. No. 685.—Raspberry Acid. Dissolve two ounces of tartaric acid in a quart of water ; pour it upon six pounds of raspberries in a broad jar ; cover, and let it remain twenty-four hours; then strain it through a sieve, taking care to bruise the fruit as little as possible ; to each pint of juice add one pound and a half of pounded sugar, stirring it frequently till the sugar is perfectly dissolved ; then bottle the acid in half-pint bottles ; cork well, and keep it in a cool place. No. 686.—Black-Currant Vinegar. Pick, and bruise well, eight pounds of ripe black currants; put to them two quarts of good gooseberry or sugar vinegar; let it remain in a cool place thirty-six hours, stirring it fre- quently with a wooden spoon; put eight pounds of sugar, broken, into a deep earthen vessel with a wide top ; tie over it a piece of clean flannel, wrung out of water as dry as possible, 'pressing down the flannel in the centre, so as to hold the fruit and vinegar ; let the juice drop upon the sugar till all is drained out, pressing the fruit gently ; occasionally stir the juice and sugar till the sugar is perfectly dissolved ; put it into a preserv- ing pan, and boil it a little till free from scum, on a moderate fire, and when cold, bottle it in pint bottles. A stone jar is the best to boil it in, or a pan lined with earthenware. Red-currant vinegar and elderberry vinegar are prepared in the same way, using rather less quantity of sugar for the latter.