85 INTRODUCTION. statistics wliicli have been brought to bear upon the relative sti'ength of the English, Irish, and Scotch, under a class of experiments instituted and conducted by Dr. Forbes, of Edin- burgh, mthin a few years, we find that numbers of students were submitted to experiments in relation to average height, weight, and strength, the latter test being that of lifting weights, which resulted in the following statistics ; the ages of the individuals compared being about twenty-five.* Height. Weight. Strength. English ... 68 inches ... 115 lb. ... 403 lb. Scotch ... 69 „ ... 152 ,, ... 423 „ Irish ... 70 „ ... 155 432 „ We thus see, that as far as these experiments are instructive, they present a reproof to the prevailing impression in our country, and show, that in the instances under comparison, at least, in which we have not the least reason to doubt the fair- ness of the conclusions arrived at, we have the more carnivorous Englishmen surpassed in height, weight, and strength, by the frugal and abstemious Scotchman ; he again being surpassed by the simply fed Irishman, whose frame has, most probably, been built up upon the simplest of all vegetable products. It might here be proper to inti'oduce statistics in relation to the practical evidence of the members composing the present Vegetarian organisation. Suffice it, however, to say, that these afibrd arguments for the adoption of the practice, notwithstand- ing the difficulties which have to be encountered in the transi- tion from artificial and erroneous habits of life to those even which are healthful and most in accordance with nature. The general experience is, that to the man in health the system is productive of more health and endurance ; whilst from the greater number of individuals who seek refuge in the Vegetarian practice from the various iUs of long continued dyspepsia, the evidence is, for the most part, at least, that health is improved, and ultimately completely regained in the carrying on of the system. The evidence which has been derived from the experience of the present limited number of the Society, is also of great value, in showing the comparative exemption from * “ Chambers’ Information for the People," pp. 68, 69, and 61.