37 INTEODtrCTIOIT. in favour of a diet altogether apart from the flesh and blood of the animal creation. Although it is admitted that man originally subsisted on fruits and other products of the earth, it is sometimes argued that he has since become reconstituted, and is now adapted to the consumption of flesh, as well as of vegetables. We have before called attention to the grave error of confounding the adaptability conferred upon man, with the principle of adapta- tion, which stamps upon man, as well as all other creations of the Deity, a precise relation to external circumstances. We at once acknowledge the force of habit as recognised in what is popularly designated “ second nature.” But this, as truly and graphically expressed, is “second natiu’e,”and presents nothing but the difiicidty of change of habit, to prove that the adapta- tion of man to certain circumstances in himself and the extenial world, remains ever the same ; and since any habit may be a “second nature,” a change of customs can again convert the system to that higher and natural state which ever secures the greatest happiness, because in accordance with the great princi- ples by which the world is governed, and which are as unchange- able as the Creator Himself. In searching out the instincts of man in relation to food and drink, we are beset mth many difficulties which are never found in relation to the inferior animal creation ; but here, even, not- withstanding many years’ departure from sound principles of moral and physiological training, nature, we contend, is ever peeping through the perverse practices of society in relation to diet, and if attended to, will convict custom of her folly and violation of natural laws. It is thus that the senses of sight, touch, and hearing, less subject to be depraved than the sense of taste, almost invariably speak out, where carefully observed, upon the subject of the consumption of flesh as food. There is nothing in the sight of the ox or sheep, which, apart from de- praved practices, could possibly suggest the idea to man that they contain within their external covering food in relation to his stomach, and destined for his consumption. But there is a striking relation between the fruits of the earth and the instincts of man’s nature. Tlie very sight of flesh, even when procured