223 VEOETARIAN COOKEUT. quarter of an ounce of powdered mace and cinnamon together, and half an ounce of German yeast. Kub the butter in the flour ; mix the yeast with a tea-spoon- ful of sugar, and a table-spoonful of cold water; put it to the milk, just warm, stirring it well ; take out the spoon, and leave it to settle two or three minutes ; strain it through a fine sieve, into the middle of the flour, stirring in a little of the flour till like batter; cover, and set it to rise ; when risen, mix with it the eggs, well beaten; the mace, cinnamon, and lemon-peel; the almonds, blanched and chopped very fine, the sugar, and the cream ; stir all well together ; then add the currants, the raisins stoned and shred small, and the candied fruit; let it remain half an horn- on a warm hearth, and then put it in an earthen baking-pan, warmed and well buttered, or in a baking- tin with several folds of paper on the bottom and sides, the inner fold well buttered. The oven should be of a good heat the first hour, and then moderate. It will require nearly two hours to bake it. No. 583.—Plum Cake. One pound of flour, quarter of a pound of Sultana raisins, quarter of a pound of currants, three ounces of sugar, three ounces of butter, one small tea-spoonful of bi-carbonate of soda, and half a pint of sour buttermilk. Mix the soda well -with the flour ; rub in the butter ; add the sugar, raisins, and currants, and the eggs, well beaten ; mix all well together with the buttennilk, and bake in a buttered tin mould, about an hour and a quarter. No. 584.—Pound Cake. One pound of flour, one pound of powdered sugar, one pound of butter, one small tea-spoonful of powdered mace, a few drops of almond flavour, and eight eggs. Beat the butter to cream, adding the sugar and mace ; when sufficiently beaten to form a smooth light cream, add, by degrees, the eggs and the flour; beat it a quai-ter of an hour, and put it in hoops to bake, or in two earthenware baking-pans, lined with buttered paper, and bake in a rather quick oven.