INTRODUCTION. 13 the body arriving sooner at maturity, and sooner at old age and decay, than would necessarily be the result in avoiding these sources of stimulation to which wo have called attention. We feel assured that our views upon this subject but require some opportunities of practical observation on the part of the medical profession, at once to bo established for their guidance. Another argument, though loss general and comprehensive in its character, seems naturally to belong to this portion of the treatment of our subject, arising as it does from the consump- tion of immense and increasing quantities of butcher’s meat procured from the bodies of animals in nearly all states of dis- ease, including measles, dropsy, liver complaint, and the more fatal kinds of contagious disorders, such as consumption, small- pox, and diarrhoea. The facts of the case were stated officially to the House of Commons on March 8th, 1864, by the then Under Secretary for the Home Department. Mr. Bruce, who, in rising to move the second reading of the “Cattle Diseases Prevention Bill,” and “Cattle Importation Bill,” said that the subject had been considered with that care and attention due to its importance. As far as could be ascer- tained, there were in the United Kingdom nearly 8,000,000 head of cattle thus distributed :—In England there was something over 3,500,000 ; in Ireland something over 3,250,000; and in Scotland about 1,000,000. The total number of sheep was about 40,000,000, and the total number of pigs 4,300,000. The aggre- gate value of that property, reckoning the cattle as worth £10 per head, the sheep at £1 each, and the pigs also at £1, was no less than £121,800,000. These dgures indicated the magnitude and importance of the interests involved in this question. Disease among cattle has broken out with peculiar virulence during the last twenty years. In 1844, the first insurance office for cattle was founded, when it was estimated that premiums of from 3 to 3^ per cent, would cover the risks of loss. Several insurance offices were started, but although the premiums were increased from three gradually up to seven per cent., and although after a time the insurance offices refused to admit Irish cattle, as being more afflicted with disease than other cattle, the largest offices came to a stand. In 1861, Mr. M'Minn (superintendent for Scotland