VEGETAKIAK COOKERY. 66 spoonful of flour, mixed with two ounces of butter; season with pepper and salt, add a piece of sugar the size of a walnut, and boil the soup twenty minutes. No. 19.—Green Peas Soup. Half a peck of peas, and the shells, two large onions, two lettuces, two sprigs of mint, one ounce of parsley, half a pound of broad, two ounces of butter, and a dessert-spoonful of flour. In shelling the peas, reserve half a pint of the best, to put in the soup when finished ; after cutting off the stalks, wash the shells, and put them into a j)an with sufficient boiling water to cover them, adding about half a salt-spoonful of carbonate of soda, which should be put in the water before the shells; let them boil about half an hour, and rub them through a fine colander ; put the remainder of the peas, with the other vege- tables and the bread, into another pan, with a quart of water, let them boil until soft, and rub them through the colander ; then put all together into the pan, stir in the butter and flour, previously mixed, and season with pepper and salt; boil the half pint of peas in very little water, adding a little carbonate of soda, put them into the tureen, and pour the soup over them. No. 20.—Green Peas Soup. Three pints of peas, four onions, three turnips, four ounces of cucumbers, one large lettuce, a small bunch of parsley, two sprigs of mint, and two quarts of pea-shells. Boil a quart of the largest peas in two quarts of water, with the mint, parsley, pea-shells, a large table-spoonful of salt, and a piece of soda the size of a small nut; when the peas are quite soft, rub through a fine colander, return the pulp into the pan with the other vegetables (sliced), and a quart of boiling water; season with pepper and salt, and when the vegetables are per- fectly soft, add the yoimg peas, previously boiled. No. 21.—Haricot Bean Soup. Half a pint of haricot beans, a table-spoonful of tapioca, half a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, and the same of thyme. Wash and pick the beans, put them in an earthenware dish