25 INTRODUCTION. roast beef” 1 Oh, indeed !—a world of dismal meaning is con- tained in that lyric interjection, for we are told that this same national comestible and “food of Heaven ” is slowly poisoning, along Avith measly pork and mangy mutton, the entire body politic. Yes, we must act the part of Sancho Panza’s physician at Barataria, and sternly order from the table the dishes that are so appetising to a hardset Briton. “ Beef-steak and oyster sauce ” 1 Don’t think of it, we say ! The beef may have been a bullock that died of pleuro-pneumonia after his arrival from Holland, and the lungs may have been full of fetid matter and poison by the pint measure. “ Loin of pork with apple sauce, does the hungi’y public hopefully suggest ? Let it alone, good public ! That pork, when a pig, may have died a dry death of hydatids in his liver, and aU his flesh, whether disguised irith culinary arts or bmied in the oblivion of a sausage-skin, may be full of Trichina spiralis, a little worm, which is doing the business of his relative the grave-worm on living thousands. “Haunch of mutton—Welsh mutton—then ?” we hear the pensive public suggesting. Abjm’e it like the pestilence, is our reply ; foiu per cent, of our sheep perish annually of disease, and eight out of ten of these “casualty muttons” come to market. Will oiu readera still ventm-e on a little bit with currant jelly ? We tell them solemnly that that very haunch was, perhaps, “ polished ”—that is to say, being lean and flabby with foot disease or scab, a healthy sheep may have been killed with this one, and its fat rubbed over and into the rotten carcass to cheat the eye of pm-chasers, and give it the gloss of health. Listen to Mr. Bruce. Four million and a half pounds sterling is the value of the cattle which die yearly mthout the butcher’s knife and poleaxe in England. Disease has spread so terribly among the flocks and herds, that the cattle insurance offices are at a standstill. In 1844, 3 per cent, premium covered their payments, now they have raised the rates to 7 per cent., and are in difficulties, though they refuse Irish cattle altogether. Fleuro-pneumouia is the malady that decimates our fields and stockyards most, and Professor Gamoee estimates that, with this and other ailments, a fifth of all the meat sold is tainted. Of 1,839 dairy cows in Edinburgh during 1862, 791 were sold to