219 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. quarters of an ounce of prepared ginger, and one tea-spoonful of baking powder. Put the baking powder, rubbed smooth, into the flour, adding the ginger and lemon-peel; beat the butter to cream; add the sugar, well rolled, and then the flour, with the ginger and powder; mix all together vdth the treacle, warmed, and the eggs, well beaten, adding the candied fruit, cut in thin slices ; spread the mixture about half an inch thick, in a warm tin, well buttered -with fresh butter, and bake in a moderately hot oven. When baked, let it stand a few minutes ; then cut it in square pieces ; lay it on a board till quite cold, and keep it in a tin box, with thin writing or tissue paper between each layer. No. 570.—Thick Gingerbread. One pound of either white or brown flour, three quarters of an ounce of prepared ginger, half a pound of brown sugar, three quarters of a pound of treacle, quarter of a pound of but- ter, one egg, quarter of an ounce of baking powder, and one ounce of candied lemon or orange. Mix the baking powder, ginger, and sugar, well with the flour; then add the treacle, warmed, a tea-cupful of water, the egg, well beaten, the candied fruit, and the butter, melted; mix the whole well together ; put it in a baking-tin, spreading it about an inch thick all over, and bake immediately. When taken out of the oven, let it remain a few minutes, and then cut it in squares. No. 571.—Transparent or Snap Gingerbread. Three quarters of a pound of flour, one pound of sugar, quarter of a pound of butter, half a pound of ti-eacle, a little grated lemon-peel, half a tea-spoonful of baking powder, half an ounce of prepared ginger, one egg, and a little mace. Warm the butter and treacle together till the butter is melted ; add the sugar, and stir it till dissolved in the butter and treacle ; rub the baking powder into the flour, adding the ^nger, lemon-peel, and the egg, well beaten ; mix all the ingredients together; set it in a eool place for several hours ; then drop it in small pieces on tins, warmed and well buttered,