39 INTUODUCTION. lence of man’s nature is shocked by an examination of the deformities of the system. A talented writer, in a beautiful article on Human Progress, in the Westminster Review,* forcibly remarks:—“ The practice of feeding upon the flesh of animals, entombing their bodies within our own, has something in it repugnant to refinement.” “To get rid of the distaste- ful operation of killing we employ butchers—helots of the modern world, whose very name wo employ as a term of vit- uperation. This is not Christian, to say the least of it. We have no right to degrade any human beings, or regard as inferior those who prepare the materials that enter into the most intimate combination with our own persons. There is some- thing humiliating in the sight of a delicate person who faints at the sight of blood or a butcher’s shop, and then sits doivn to eat of the carcasses that have there been cut up.” “All the animal food artificially bred by farmers or others, is with little exception, unwholesome. The poison we take in by the lungs in the gaseous form, is not the only poison we imbibe. We make an outcry about cleansing the sewers of our cities, and yet make sewers of our bodies. We cleanse our outer skin, and pollute our inner skin.” “But we believe that the still obtaining consumption of animal food is simply a remnant of savage life, a custom doomed to vanish under the light of human reason.” It is quite opposed to reason, as well as to the instincts and moral feelings of man, to contend, as some have done, that the tendency to destroy, in certain individuals,—leading them to rejoice in the pursuits of the sportsman, and in bloodshed in various forms,—is evidence of the natural character of man. These instances cannot properly be regarded as types of human- ity, but as abnormal cases of the degrading eSects of pernicious training; since all such can remember a time when they had painful and conpunctious feelings to contend with, ere they became hardened to the condition of ruthless destroyers of the animal creation. We are so deeply assured that the system for which wo would raise our voice, is identified with the instincts and moral nature • Ho. cii. p. 10.