VEGETARIAN PRACTICE. 46 tions, and who require a gi'eater variety of rich and savoury dishes will find remarks adapted to their requirements on page 52. IV. The working classes and others to whom economy is an important consideration, but who do not wish to adopt the simplest form of Vegetarian diet, we refer to page 57. In order to meet the wants of these various classes, it will be convenient to describe at least three styles of Cookery, and to make such remarks as to their modification as mil secure an easy adaptation of Vegetarian practice to those circumstances which these styles may not completely comprehend. The First Style is a system of diet composed entirely of fruits, farinacea, and vegetables, and will tend to illustrate the degree of simplicity and economy attainable in V egetarian habits, without sacrificing the proper enjoyment of food ; whilst it will show, to some extent, the resources which nature so abundantly provides for man in the direct productions of the soil. The Second Style is likewise a system of diet principally composed of fruits, farinacea, and vegetables, but with the addition of mUk and eggs. The Third Style includes a greater variety of preparations than the preceding ones. With an explanation of each of these different styles, and the modifications of which they ai'e susceptible, we hope to meet the varied tastes and circumstances of oui- readers, whilst this arrangement will prevent those imfavourable comparisons which are sometimes made as to cost and preparation, between the plaimst description of ordinary mixed diet, and Vegetarian Cookery. But if comparisons be made, we would suggest that the simplest form of Vegetarian diet be compared with the simplest form of mixed diet, and the corresponding styles of both systems being thus regarded, we doubt not that, in every instance. Vegetarian diet ^vill be found to be the most economi- cal as well as the most agreeable in preparation, and calculated to produce the most gratifying effect on all the senses concerned in the appreciation of food.