INTKODUCTION. 28 sufiicient, and the commercial demand for a more suitable instrument has resulted in the millions of metal pens. In reply to the agriculturist, as to whence the supply of manure for farming could be derived, were the number of cattle essentially reduced, we have simply to call attention to the fact, that the manure of the farm-yard has no magical properties in it which are not contained in the food upon which the cattle have fed, and is only best for the production of food for cattle ; and if it be desired to produce food for man, this can be abundantly secured by the ploughing in of green crops, and the abundant supplies of the richest of all manm-e, to be obtained in the waste and sewerage of our cities. It is one of the most interesting aspects of the improvement of agriculture, to con- sider that these sources of manure, now principally lost, will ultimately be brought into use ; and Liebig, in a recent work, points thus hopefully to the immense mass of fossil phosphates, which may be dug in various parts of our country, promising, when brought to bear, as certainly to realize the success of agriculture in the future, as the immense beds of coal in certain parts of England have long been, and udU continue to be, the source of the manufacturing wealth of such districts. Again, to the common inquiry, “ What are animals made for, if not to be eaten ? ” we quote a few remarks by tbe talented author of “ Fruits and Farinacea the Proper Food of Man,”* (a work most complete of its kind, and presenting abundance of argument and illustration upon nearly every feature of diet likely to engage the attention) meeting also the popular inquiry upon this subject in the words of one of our most distinguished poets. “ ‘ Why were sheep, oxen, &c., created, if not for the use of man ?’ I might briefly reply, that they were brought into existence by the same power and for a similar purpose, as all other animals, many of which man never knew, and probably never ^rill know; and many others of which are absolutely injurious and destruc- tive to him. At no time, perhaps, are the pride and imbecility of man more apparent, than when he imagines all things, animate and inanimate, to have been created solely for his pleasure. • Pago 96. Published by Pitman, 20, Paternoster Row.