22 INTRODUCTIOIT. purified, and what Mr. Simon called “the strong disinfectant chemistry of digestion” deprived it of much of its danger. Still, the positive existence of disease communicated by diseased meat was very strong. He would read one or two extracts bearing on this point:—“ Professor Maclagan, of the Univer- sity of Edinburgh, stated at a public meeting held in Edinburgh on the 29th of January, 1862, that in his practice, both as a physician and toxicologist, he had met with instances in which several persons had been attacked simultaneously with irritant symptoms after having in common partaken of meat which, on being examined, was found to contain no poison, nor to be in that state of putrescence which, as is well known, occasionally confers upon animal matters actively poisonous properties.” Dr. Alfred S. Taylor, E.R.S., in a lettor of the 12th of January, 1863, said, “As a general principle, I think diseased meat noxious and unfit for human food.” He moreover adds, ‘ ‘ In the course of my practice I have met with several cases of poisoning which appeared to be attributable to diseased or decomposed meat—more frequently the latter. I can at present recall to my recollection only two fatal cases—one from diseased mutton, the sheep having had the staggers, and one from German sausages. Animal food has been frequently sent to me with a view to the detection of poison, the persons sending it having the impression that, from the vomiting and purging produced, poison must have been mixed with it. No poison has, however, been found to justify this suspicion.” Dr. Letheby stated, “ My opinion of the injurious effects of diseased meat on the health of those who make use of it is very decided. I have seen so much mischief from it that I do not hesitate for one moment to sa}’’ that some legislative measure is most pressingly wanted to prevent, not only the traffic in diseased meat, but also to prevent the slaughtering of diseased animals. Such regulations are now in operation everywhere on the continent, and they are much needed here. In the city markets alone my officers seize from one to two tons of diseased meat every week. Last year we seized 110,046 lbs. of meat, of which 78,697 lbs. were diseased, and 13,944 lbs. from animals that had died. We often pursue the offenders into a court of justice, and have them fined or iiu-