125 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. rately in a cup, to prevent any being needlessly wasted, as one bad egg would render all the rest with which it was mixed useless. Batter puddings, when mixed, should be passed through a tin strainer or coarse sieve. Eggs, when used for other pud- dings, should be strained after they are beaten. The hasins or moulds in which puddings are to be boiled should be buttered ; the pudding then poured in, and after having a cloth tied tightly over it, be put into the pan imme- diately. When a cloth only is used, it should be dipped in hot water, and when squeezed dry, be spread over a basin, and dredged with flour ; the pudding should then be poured in, and if batter, be tied closely, but if bread, it is requisite to allow a little more room. The water should boil quickly, when the pudding is put in, and be kept constantly boiling the whole time. When the pudding is taken out of the pan, it should imme- diately be dipped in cold water; this will chill the outside, and allow the cloth to he removed without injuring the surface. The most convenient way to dish a pudding is to place it with the cloth in a basin ; then open the cloth, and lay the face of the dish upon the pudding ; turn the whole over, take ofi" the basin, and remove the cloth. All puddings should be boiled in plenty of water, so as to allow them suflScient room to move freely and prevent the ingredients separating. Wheh a pudding is boiled in a cloth, a plate should be placed at the bottom of the pan, but when a hasin or mould is used, this precaution is not requisite. The cloths used for puddings should be of tolerably fine linen, they should always be carefully washed after being used, and be perfectly dry when put away. No. 239.—Almond Pudding, Six ounces of sweet almonds, quarter of a poimd of butter, quarter of a pound of sugar, one pint of cream, quarter of a pound of Savoy biscuits, six yolks and four whites of eggs, the rind and juice of one lemon, and ten drops of almond flavour.