VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 69 pan, and let them simmer about an hour. When they begin to boil, add some salt and Cayenne pepper. Press them through a sieve, put them again into the pan, and set them over the fire, and when hot, stir in the milk or cream, previously mixed with a tea-spoonful of flour and boiled five minutes. If fresh tomatoes cannot be procured, those in tins answer equally well. No. 29.—Vegetable Soup. One pound of celery, one pound of turnips, one pound of carrots, half a pound of beets, half a pound of parsley, half a pound of onions, two ounces of pearl barley, half a pint of dried green peas, and quarter of a pound of butter. Steep the peas in soft water twelve hours ; put them with the other vegetables into a pan, with six quarts of water and a table-spoonful of salt, and let all boil together about three hours ; rub the soup through a sieve or fine colander, return it into the pan, and let it boil; and if not of a proper consistency, add a little peas or lentil flour rubbed till smooth, with a little cold water, and when it boils, stir in the butter and seasoning. The leaves of celery, dried and finely powdered, may be added after the soup has been strained. No. 30.—Vermicelli Soup. Six ounces of vermicelli, two quarts of new milk, the yolks of four eggs, one pint of cream, and one table-spoonful of mushroom catsup. Blanch the vermicelli by setting it on the fire in cold water ; when it boils, drain off the water, and put it into cold water ; let it remain a few minutes, and then drain the water entirely from it; put it into a pan with the milk, and boil it; beat up the yolks of the eggs, and after gradually adding a pint of boiled cream, strain through a sieve, and add the catsup. Take off the pan, add the eggs, a small lump of white sugar, and a tea-spoonful of salt, and stir the soup on the fire till near boiling. No. 31.—Barley Broth. Four ounces of Scotch barley, fom: ounces of onions, four ounces of oatmeal, or Indian meal, and two ounces of butter.