INTRODUCTION. 10 sufRcient at all for the maintenance of health and strength, were at least inferior, and of different composition to the nutritive particles of food derived from the flesh of animals. In our treat- ment of this question, wo have little more to do than to quote the undisputed conclusions of Baron Liebig upon this subject:— “ Grain and other nutritive vegetables yield us,” says Liebig, “not only in starch, sugar, and gum, the carbon which protects our organs from the action of oxygen, and produces in the organ- ism the heat which is essential to life, but also in the form of vegetable fibrine, albumen, and caseine, our blood, from which the other parts of our body are developed.”* “ These important products of vegetation are especially abun- dant in the seeds of the different kinds of ^ain, and of peas, beans, and lentils ; in the roots and juices of what are commonly called vegetables. They exist, however, in all plants without exception, and in every part of plants in larger or smaller quan- tity. ”t “The chemical analysis of these three substances has led to the very interesting result that they contain the same organic elements, united in the same proportion by weight; and what is still more remarkable, that they are identical in composition with the chief constituents of blood, animal fibrine, and albu- men. They all three dissolve in concentrated muriatic acid with the same deep purple colour, and even in their physical characters, animal fibrine and albumen are in no respect different from vegetable fibrine and albumen. “Vegetable fibrine and animal fibrine, vegetable albumen and animal albumen, hardly differ, even in form; if these principles be wanting in the food, the nutrition of the animal is arrested ; and when they are present, the graminivorous animal obtains in its food the very same principles on the presence of which the nutrition of the carnivora entirely depends.” Lastly, we quote :—“ Vegetables produce in their organism the blood of all animals, for the carnivora, in consuming the blood and flesh of the graminivora, consume, strictly speaking, only the vegetable principles which have served for the nutrition of the latter. ”j; * “ Animal Chemistry,” p. 77. t Ibid, p. 45. I Ibid, pp. 47, 48.