VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 132 No. 262.—Common Bread Pudding. One quart of milk, three eggs, and bread. Pour a quart of boiling milk on as much bread (with the crust), cut in small pieces, as will absorb it; cover with a plate, and let it remain tiU cool. Mash the bread, and add the eggs, well beaten ; when well mixed, put it in a wet cloth, floured; boil it an hour and a half, and serve with sweet sauce. No. 263.—Bread Pudding, without Milk or Eggs. One pound of stale bread, half a pound of currants, quarter of a pound of sugar, and one tea-spoonful of ginger. Pour boiling water on the bread, and when cool and properly soaked, press out the water, and mash the bread, adding the sugar, currants, ginger, a little salt and grated nutmeg; mix the whole well together; put it in a buttered dish, laying a few small pieces of butter on the top, and bake in a moderate oven; when baked, let it remain a few minutes ; then turn it out on a flat dish, and serve either hot or cold. No. 264.—Bread and Butter Pudding. Butter a dish, and put in a layer of bread and butter, cut in thin slices ; strew over it some currants, a little grated lemon- peel and nutmeg ; then a layer of bread and butter; then cur- rants, etc., alternately, till the dish is nearly full; beat three eggs or more, according to the size of the pudding; adding to them as much milk as the bread will absorb ; sweeten it, and pour it into the dish ; strew currants on the top ; lay a dish over it, or some thin crusts of bread, before it is put in the oven, to prevent the fruit on the top being scorched ; bake in a moderate oven, and when the pudding is a little more than half done, take off the crust or dish. Serve with butter sauce. No. 265.—Bread and Fruit Pudding. Line a basin ivith slices of bread (wthout crust) about an inch thick, and moisten it with milk. Stew the fruit with sugar, and when boiling, fill the basin with it; lay a large slice of bread on the top ; cover the basin with a plate ; put a weight upon it, and let it remain all night in a cold place; turn it out of the basin, and serve with cream or custard.