VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 153 No. 356.—French Turnover of Apples. Eight large apples, eight ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, and the rind of a lemon. Prepare the apples as for a pie ; put them into a saucepan with the sugar, butter, the rind of a lemon, rubbed on a piece of sugar, and two table-spoonfuls of water ; cover the pan, and set it over a slow fire, turning it occasionally till the apples are about half done, and pour them into a basin to cool. ^11 out a piece of paste (No. 366) in a circular form, the eighth of an inch thick, and about the size of a dinner plate ; wet it round, and fasten a rolled cord of paste ivithin an inch of the edge ; put in the prepared apples, raising them in the centre in the form of a dome ; spread some apricot or orange marmalade over the smface, and cover the whole mth another circular piece of paste, and press the edges together, or fold them over in the form of a cord. Spread some beaten white of egg all over the top with a soft paste brush ; then strew coai-sely pounded, or rough granite sugar over the entire surface, and bake lightly in a moderately hot oven. No. 357.—Paste for Pies and Puddings. One pound of flour or wheat meal, one ounce and a half of butter, one tea-spoonful of baking-powder, and one small tea- spoonful of salt. Mix the baking powder and salt well with the flour ; rub in the butter ; then add half a pint of water, taking-out about two table-spoonfuls ; mix it with a wooden spoon, but do not knead it; then take it out of the bowl and roll it; fold it in three and roll it again, and if not sufficiently smooth, roll it a third time. If requii'ed, add a little more butter in small bits, on the paste, when rolled out; dredge a little flour over, fold it, and roll it twice or three times. No. 358.—Plain Crust for Pies or Puddings. Put some light white bread into* a basin, adding a pint of boiling milk, and let it remain closely covered till quite cold ; then rub a little butter in as much flour as will make it of a