INTRODUCTION. 26 butchers, after their milk had been sapping the health of young and old ; in Dublin, out of 31.5 sickened cows, 161 went to the slaughter-house. In London, a far greater number are distri- buted over our households, although Dr. Letheby’s men seize on tons of putrid meat weekly. The graziers or salesmen can get £8 or £10 for a carcass, rotten but presentable, and they will not resist the temptation. It may, perhaps, here be well, briefly to notice a few popular objections, almost invariably presented on a first acquaintance with the Vegetarian system. It is supposed that a diet apart from the flesh and blood of animals is intended as an offensive interference with the prevailing customs of society, and by a few even that it is attempted to denounce the consumption of flesh as food as in some degree sinful. These objections are, however, altogether unfounded ; inasmuch as the advocates of the Vege- tarian system, though they base their arguments upon the principle that man’s natural and best food must be derived, in its leading characteristics at least, from the Vegetable kingdom, and be altogether apart from the flesh of animals, leave un- touched the freedom of individuals to accept or not the practice thus presented for the consideration of the reflective. The true spirit of Vegetarianism is benevolence, and has its mission in informing the understanding and appealing to the moral feelings of the world in relation to man’s external habits, but throws not one reproach at the conscientious followers of the mixed diet system, who see no force in its reasoning, or prefer to maintain their adherence to the more general practice of society. In regard to the apparent opposition of the system to all en- gaged in supplying the flesh of animals for the table, we take leave to say that there is nothing more in this than there ever must be in the opposition of error to the progress of truth ; and if there be truth in the Vegetarian system, it cannot be blamed for the temporary conflict between it and a few existing interests. The grazier and the butcher have their vocations called into exis- tence in obedience to the demand produced by the flesh-eating tastes of society, and our commiseration is especially evoked for