6 “ It will be strange i( this little book do not find favour even beyond the circle of those for N^om It Is specially intended ; for it gives a great deal of useful and interesting information, such as any reader would be glad to obtain. There has been lately much talk of shorthand, and the little book abounds with judicious advice upon that subject."—/Husfrotai London News. “ No better book on the subject h^ been published, and every shorthand writer should read and study it. —European Mail. Price Is. 6d. cloth. Seventh thousand, limp cloth, price Is. Systematic Memory ; or, How to make a Bad Memory Good, and a Better. By T. Maclaben. Enhxrged and improved edition. Ine great dexideralum which this volume purposes to supply, and which so many persons feel the need of, is sought to be furnished by some well-con- sidered ^es respecting the association of ideas, and its power to reproduce to the mind, words, things, and circumstances otherwise irrecoverably lost." Cloth, price Is. 6d. A Treatise on Punctuation, and on other matters relating to correct writing and printing. By an Old Printer. “ A capital little book, con- taining some excellent practical information not geiiemlly known, and. when known, certainly not always adojited. ‘ An Old Printer's' treatise will benefit all who read it with care.”—Puilic Opinion. “ The little annual cannot fail to be of great interest to a great number of people to whom at present the whole art of Punctuation is a profound mystery.”—The Standard. Third edition, cloth, price 2s. fid. A Handbook of Practical Gauging, for the use of beginners, tvith instructions in the mode of ascertaining the strength of Spirits by means rj Sike’s hydrometer ; to which is added a chapter on Distillation, describing the process in operation at the Custom HouSe for ascertaining the strength of Wines. Illustrated with Diagrams. By J. B. Keene, of H.M. Customs. Fcp. Svo, extra cloth, gilt edges, price 2s. Poems. By B. H. Faequhau, author of “The Pearl of Days,” &c., <tc. Fcp. Svo, cloth, price 2s. fid. Thoughts Past and Present on Life and Love. Chiefly selected from the best authors. Arranged in the manner of a conversation By D. R. McNab. Paper covers. Is. ; cloth. Is. fid. Musical Lectures and Sketches. By Joseph Peoudman. Con- tents :—Choir Training—Art of making a successful Programme—Home Slusic—Singing in Church—The Relation of the Soi-Fa System to Instru- meuts, &c. Suitable for Penny Readings ; 254 pages, boards, price 1^. 6d. Hits : a Collection of Tales contributed to Household IVords, Temple Bar, Once a Weet, die. By Loois Hough, M.A. '• The volume is sure to be- come popular."—Sunday Times. Vegetarian Cookery. By A Lady. With an intr >duction explana- tory of the principles of Vegeterianism, by the late Jas. Simpson, Esq. Price 2s., paper boards ; 3s. fid. cloth gilt. 280 pp. 240 pages, boards, price Is. fid. ; cloth, 2s. Vegetable Cookery ; including a complete set of Recipes for Pastry, Preserving, Pickling, the preparation of Sauces, Soups, Beverages, die. io