133 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 266.—Cabinet Podding. One pint of cream, three ounces of white sugar, five eggs, the grated rind of a lemon, raisins, macaroons, ratafias, or sponge biscuits, and candied orange or citron. Butter well a plain mould ; line it with raisins, stoned, and candied orange or citron, cut in thin slices, dried cherries. Sultana raisins, or any other dried fruit; put in a layer of macaroons, ratafias, or small sponge biscuits, or some of each soaked in half a pint of cream ; then a layer of fruit and cakes, alternately, till the mould is full. Beat the eggs, adding three ounces of white sugar, half a pint of cream, a little powdered mace, and the grated rind of a lemon; mix well together, and pour it into the mould over the cakes and fruit; put a piece of writing-paper, well buttered, on the top ; steam one hour ; or flour a cloth and tie it tightly over, and boil it gently one hour. When taken out of the pan, take off the cloth and paper, and let it remain five minutes ; then turn it out on the dish very carefully, and serve with sweet sauce. No. 267.—Canary Pudding. Four ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, six ounces of sugar, three eggg, and the grated rind of one lemon. Melt the butter to a liquid state, but do not allow it to oil; stir in the sugar and lemon rind, gradually dredge in the flour, stirring constantly, and when well mixed, add the eggs, well whisked; beat all the ingredients together until thoroughly blended, and boil two hours in a buttered basin. Serve with sweet sauce. No. 268.—Carrot Pudding. Half a pound of grated carrot, one pint of new milk, quarter of a pound of soda biscuits, three ounces of sugar, and half a small tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. Wash and scrape the carrots very clean ; grate them into half of the milk, cold; boil the other half pint of milk, and pour it upon the biscuits, broken in small pieces; cover it with a plate, and when cool, mix well ■with the carrot and milk, adding the sugar and cinnamon, and bake in a butterefl dish in a moderate oven.