INTRODUCTION. 12 We see from these statements, that 100 lb. of the flesh of the body can be derived from beans, for £1 2s. %d. ; 100 lb. from peas, for £1 2s. ll^rf. ; and 100 lb. from lentils, for £2 8s. 8rf. ; while the same amount of flesh-forming principle {identical, as we have shown it to be, in all these various kinds of food, and originating in vegetable food), if taken from beef, or the average of butcher’s meat, at Qd. per lb. will cost £11 12s. &^d. It is needless to carry our remarks upon this most available argument in support of the Vegetarian system much farther than the statistics already presented of themselves cany ic. We look, however, upon this feature, in its political and economic aspects, as one of the most important that can possibly engage the attention, from the moment that the question of the resour- ces of a country and the feeding of the masses of the people is taken into consideration. Sir Richard Phidlips, in his “Million of Facts,” shows that without the cultivation of the thirty millions of acres of waste land in Great Britain, and with the resources of agriculture as they then stood, that two hundred and fifty millions of inhabitants could be maintained on vege- table products, whilst eighty millions only could be fed on flesh and vegetables. Other calculations more favourable to our argu- ment could be introduced ; but all consideration of the subject leads to the conclusion, that abundance is ever produced on the one system, while the other as naturally tends to scarcity and want, and even to the depopulation of certain districts, as seen in the “sheep-walks” of Scotland, where, from the demand for mutton, the inhabitants have been driven away, and the land once used to raise food for man has been converted to grass lands for the feeding of sheep and cattle. It is obvious also, that if these facts were generally known in our country, much of the dissatisfaction of the less favoured and poorer classes of the com- munity (who look with murmuring, from their own means of subsistence to the resources of the higher classes, in their abun- dant provision of flesh as food) would at once be extinguished ; because it would be readily seen, that Providence has been much more benevolent in securing the true necessaries of life, than men, in their want of knowledge, have supposed. It is an in- teresting feature of the study of these facts, to observe, that as