202 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No, 616.—Westmoreland Oat-Cake. Mix fine oatmeal with milk-warm water into a stiff dough ; roll it to the thickness of a wafer ; bake it on a girdle, or iron plate, place over a slow fire, about three or four minutes, and then place it on edge before the fire to harden. It will keep, in a dry place, three or four months. No. 517.—Potato Cakes. Boil some good mealy potatoes, and when well dried, mash them wdth a little butter and salt, adding German yeast, milk, and as much flour as will make it the consistency of dough; roll it into cakes, and when sufiiciently risen, bake in a mode- rate oven. No. 618.—Crumpets. One pound and a half of flour, half an ounce of German yeast, one quart of new milk, and two eggs. Prepare the yeast by rubbing it quite smooth with a tea- spoonful of sugar and two tea-spoonfuls of cold wator; add a pint of the milk, lukewarm, leaving it a few minutes to settle ; clear it off through a flne strainer into the flour, stirring it till like batter; set it to rise, and when ready to mix, add the eggs, well beaten, a little salt, and the other pint of milk, or as much as will make the whole a thick batter, beating it as little as possible, just to beat out the lumps; cover it, and set it to rise. Prepare the girdle (an iron plate) by rubbing it well, when just warm, with a little butter in a cloth ; when the batter is suffi- ciently risen, place the girdle over a clear, moderate Are; nearly fill a common-sized tea-cup with the batter, taken from the top (for it must not be stirred up), and pour it on the plate, and as soon as it appears to set, turn it over immediately with a tin slice, the size of a large crumpet; and when lightly browned, turn it again on the coolest part of the baking-plate ; let it remain a short time; when turned the first time, pour another on, and continue till the batter is finished. As the crumpets are baked, lay them on a clean cloth, covering them lightly with another cloth, but do not lay one upon another till