VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 135 ounce of candied orange, or citron, two spoonfuls of rose-water, and a few drops of almond flavour. Boil the milk and cream, with the almonds, blanched and beaten fine, adding a spoonful of rose-water to prevent them being oiled ; beat well the yolks of the eggs, and two whites, adding the boiling milk, the sugar, and rose-water ; boil all to- gether on a slow fire, two minutes ; then put it in a cloth and tie it tightly ; hang it up, and let it drain an hour ; then turn it out and beat it in a bowl with a potato-masher; add the candied orange or citron, cut in thin slices ; return it into the cloth ; tie it tightly, and hang it up another honr ; then turn it out on a glass dish, cover with frothed cream, sift fine sugar on it,'and place small pink ratafias over the top. No. 274.—Cumberland Pudding. Two ounces of flour, two ounces of sugar, one ounce of butter, two eggs, the rind of a lemon, and one pint of new milk. Put the flour, sugar, butter, the lemon-peel grated, and a pinch of salt, into a basin before the fire, till the butter is nearly melted ; mix well with a wooden spoon ; pour in a little of the boiling milk; stir it well till quite smooth; then add gradually the remainder of the milk ; when nearly cold, add the eggs, well beaten, and bake it in a buttered dish, in a moderately hot oven. No. 275.—Curd Pudding. Three quarts of now milk, one quart of sour butter-milk, halt a pound of white sugar, one ounce of sweet almonds, two ounces of grated bread, quarter of a pound of butter, two lemons, the yolks of five and whites of three eggs, a tea-cupful of cream, and a wine glassful of rose-water. Put the milk, when just warm, to the butter-milk ; stir to- gether ; cover it; let it remain on the hearth, but not too near the fire, till the curd is formed ; then stir it a little vuth a wooden spoon, and when the curd will separate from the whey, put it in a hair sieve ; when perfectly well drained, mash the curd in a wooden bowl, adding a lemon, previously boiled till tender, and the pulp taken out; when beaten quite smooth,