13 INTRODUCTION. the great essentials of existence are placed within the reach of man—air, water, light—so also are all the primary and essential properties of food kept within the means of the dilferent classes of mankind. The higher classes may revel in luxury, as the result of factitious tastes and vicious customs ; but, after all, in reality they owe their existence to the simple proximate prin- ciples of vegetable food, alike within the reach of the honest labourer who “ earns his bread by the sweat of his brow.” We pass now to another important argument in connection with the system under notice, the truths of which have been opposed by a long line of practical teaching from the medical profession. It has been stated from time immemorial that the flesh of animals is more digestible than food derived from the vegetable kingdom. We are happy in bringing to bear indis- putable facts in our treatment of this question, and facts derived from the most emphatic source of truthful declaration upon the subject of the digestion of food hitherto known to have occurred in the world. We allude to the case of Alexis St. Martin, a healthful young man, who, about thirty years ago, received a gun-shot wound in his side, which perforated his stomach. Dr. Beaumont, of the United States, ministered carefully to the necessities of this case ; and, aided by the originally strong and healthful constitution of his patient, he was enabled to restore him to complete health and vigour, but with one singular circumstance in connection with the case, that the perforation in the stomach never entirely healed up, but was merely closed by an extension of the coats or inner lining. Here then was precisely the case so interesting to the practical physiologist in his research as to the digestibility of food ; and Dr. Beaumont submitted this young man to numerous experiments, during a series of years, in testing the different degrees of digestibility of the various foods in ordinary consumption ; the opening to the stomach being such as to enable him to inspect, at plcasvu-e, the actual process of digestion in each instance, by merely care- fully pushing aside the protrusion of the inner membrane above alluded to. Dr. Beaumont, in his work on digestion, has published the results of these researches in several very com- prehensive tables, in which are included all kinds of preparations