2 IKTRODUCTrON. are limited to the members who now constitute that organisation. This impression, however, is most en-oneous; since, as remarked by a w'riter in a lengthened notice on Vegetarianism in the Medico-Chirurgical Review, this fundamental question of diet “is not now raised for the first time, but has been brought again and again under consideration during every period of the world’s history,” though, “by the zeal and assiduity of its present advocates, it has been made to assume an importance, among certain sections of orm community, which it never before presented.”* We take the opportunity here to remark, that the practice of the system, as well, is not by any means limited to the membci’S of the present Vegetarian organisation, large num- bers of adherents having arisen within the last few years, who have no immediate connection with the Vegetarian Societj'; and we shall have occasion subsequently to call attention to the fact, that large masses of the inhabitants of the earth, amounting to from two-thirds to three-fourths of the people of the world, have, iu all periods of time, carried out this practice of diet. The principle of the system, indeed, has ever been identified with the primeval institutions of creation, and is viewed with surprise only in countries where the mixed diet practice is most prevalent; this being no donbt due to want of information, or to w'ant of recollection of what constituted the principal diet of man in the earliest history of the world, sacred and profane authority concurring in the testimony that man derived his food from the products of the vegetable kingdom, and that the con- sumption of the flesh of animals as food, only obtained after he had fallen from the purity of his early history, and become identified with the violence that subsequently “filled the earth.” In the Greek and Latin authoi-s, we have frequent allusions to the period of history to which we refer, when man lived in a state of innocence and happiness. Thus Ovid, after the cruelties inflicted upon animals, in order to appropriate their flesh as food, have been described, observes:— “ Not so the golden ago, who fed on fruit, Nor durst with bloody meals their mouths i>oUute.” t * No. xii. p. 400. t " Metamorphoses," book xv. 1,1ST. Dryden's Translatioa.