156 VEGETAniAN COOKEUT. Boil tlio macaroni in salt .and water till t(sndcr; drain the water from it, and put it in a saucepan with the butter ; when stewed a little, add the cream, sugar, and a little powdered cinnamon ; stow gently till moderately thick ; pour it into a bowl, .and when cool, cover the bottom of a tart-tin with puff paste; put in the macaroni avith custard over it; bake it a nice light brown, and slip it carefully on a dish. No. 350.—Mince Tarts. Six good-sized lemons, half a pound of apples, one pound of raisins, when picked and stoned, one pound of currants, one pound of sugar, half a pound of fresh butter, two ounces of candied citron, and two ounces of candied orange. Grate off the yellow rind, cut the lemons in two, and squeeze out the juice; boil the rinds in spring avater till tender, but not .soft, changing the aa'ater four or five times to take out the bitterness, and putting a large table-spoonful of salt in the water in which they are Jivst boiled ; avhen done, drain the aa'ater from them, and take out the seeds and skins ; then chop them, avith the raisins, in a wooden bowl; when finely chopped, add the currants, sugar, the apples (previously prepared as for apple sauce), the grated rind of the lemons, the juice, half a salt-spoonful of Cayenne pepper, a small tea-spoonful of mace, a small tea-spoonful of cinnamon, tavelve or fifteen drops of almond flavour, the candied orange and citron cut in thin slices, and lastly, the butter, melted, and stin-ed well in. Make the tarts in the usual way. The boiled rinds may be omitted. Put tho mince-meat in a jar ; tie a paper over, and keep it in a dry cool place. No. 351.—Orange Tartlet. One ounce of fresh butter, the yolk of one egg, boiled hard, and quarter of a pound of orange marmalade. Mash the yolk of egg with the butter, and mix with the mannalade. A small quantity of Savoy biscuit may also be added. Cover a plate or a large scolloped tartlet-tin with puff paste; pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderately hot oven.