INTKODUCTION. 23 prisoned ; but I feel that the mischief should be stoi)ped before it reaches the markets. Officers are wanted to examine the cattle before they are slaughtered. As to the effects of such meat on the human subject, I have seen many cases of illness from it. One of these is sufficiently important to bring under your notice. In the month of November, 1860, a part of a diseased cow was bought in Newgate market. It came from one of the cow- houses in London. It was bought by a sausage-maker of Kings- land, and, as is commonly the case with very bad meat, it was made up into sausages. Sixty-six persons partook of the sausages, and sixty-four of them were made very ill. They were purged, becaine sick, giddy, and the vital powers were seriously prostrated, and they lay, in many cases, for hours in a state of collapse, like people with cholera. One man died, and I was requested by the coroner to inquire into the matter. I obtained some of the sausages, thinking that a mineral poison might be present, but I could discover none ; and the whole history of the case showed that it was diseased meat which had done the work.” Again, Dr. Livingston tells us that when- ever the natives of Africa eat the flesh of an animal that has died from pleuro-pneumonia, no matter how the flesh is cooked, they suffer from carbuncle. Now, it is a very remarkable fact that boils and carbuncles have been most prevalent in this country for several years past. The Registrar-General for Scot- land has drawn attention to this fact. And Professor Gamgee said, “My own observations confirm the opinions of the eminent authorities just quoted. I have known in many instances where meat sujiplied to students in lodging-houses in this city has led to vomiting, purging, and severe colic. In the majority of instances such meat was cooked in the form of beefsteak. Three of my own students were affected simultaneously one day in December last. Within a couple of hours after dinner they experienced colick}' pains, purging, vomiting, and these symp- toms lasted several hours. Bread, potatoes, and water were the only other materials they had partaken of at dinner. On another occasion two were affected, but did not attribute the injury to the steak until the next day, when the servant ate what had been left of the meat, and suffered severely.” But