7 INTEODUCTION. TVe have next to address ourselves to an argument in connection with the Vegetarian system, in opposition to which much erro- neous impression exists. It is generally taken for granted, that all vegetable products, including both farinaceous food and the articles commonly designated vegetables, are insufficient to sup- ply the complete nutrition of the body. It is only within the last fifteen years that correct impres- sions as to what constitutes the true nutritive qualities of food have been arrived at. In organic chemistry, however, as origin- ating in the researches of Baron Lie bio, many practical conclu- sions are now ascertained, in relation not merely to the actual composition of food as determined by a series of analyses, but also as to the actual application of the principles of food to tho wants of the human body. It has been determined that every thought of the mind, as well as every act of tlio body, produces changes in the human system, progressively converting the living and healthful matter of which the body is composed, to dead and waste particles, which have to be reneived and restored to the living fiibric in tho elements of tho blood, the various parts of which must, in the first instance, be derived from the food con- sumed. It thus becomes of very great interest to be fully aware of the composition of the various articles of food, and their respective value for forming blood in the body. Besides this leading requirement in the composition of food however, another series of particles have to bo provided, which, in combination with the oxygen of the atmosphere, produce the animal heat of the body; and, lastly, certain mineral particles are required, which are said to produce most important results in the con- version of the elements of food into the living tissue of the body. The former of these principles of food may bo popularly desig- nated as the Jlesh^Jarming principle, whilst the latter is the heat-forming principle, the mineral elements being usually denominated the ashes of food. In the above conclusions, we have accepted the theory most generally acknowledged as correct, in relation to the formation of the blood and the animal heat of the body, preferring this, for the sake of our argument, as the least favourable of two theories presented on the subject.