32 IMTEODUCTION mony,—certainly not by the fullest proof of the unsuitableneai of a vegetable regimen to individtials." * In regard to the experience presented by history upon this subject, we have already alluded to the primseval condition of man, in the antediluvian period. We find, also, the history of the great nations of antiquity identified with the simple habits we seek to commend. The Greeks and the Romans in the time of their early and most successful career, as well as the Persians under Cyrus, owed much of their physical strength and endurance of purpose, as well as their comparative freedom from the temptations in the path of conquering armies, to their simple diet and abstemious habits. We find that the Spai-tans of Thermopylae and the athletae of ancient Greece were thus educated; and that the latter were never deteriorated till they commenced the practice of consuming flesh as food, when they became slothful and stupid, t We find various nations wholly, or in a great measure, carrying out the practice of diet apart from the flesh of animals from generation to generation ; as the higher castes of Hindoos, the Burmese, the Chinese, the Japanese, the inhabitants of the East Indian Archipelago, of the mountains of Himalaya, and of ancient and modern Egypt; in all of which the prevailing practice is Vegeta- rian in the great mass of the people, condiments of fish only being used in the last-named country, associated with the vegetable products which form the basis of their diet. In modern times, we have the experience of the Irish, the Scotch, and the French, as abstainers in the great majority of their numbers from flesh as food, M. Dupin informing us that two-thirds of the population in France live wdthout flesh-meal • whilst McCulloch, in his statistics, shows that even in the city of Glasgow, in 1763, with a population of more than thirty thousand, the slaughter of bullocks for the public markets was a thing wholly unknown. Indeed, the peasantry, and hard workers of all the countries of Europe,—not excepting our own,—are, in the main characteristics of their diet, abstained from the flesh of animals, as in Norway, Sweden, Russia • “ Modico-Chirurfrical Review," No. xi. p. 96. t Rollin’s “Ancient History,” Vol. 1.