65 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. Pare the artichokes, and hoil them in water till perfectly soft; rub them through a wire sieve ; put the pulp into a pan, with the milk and fresh butter ; season with white peppei and salt; stir it on the fire till it bods ; and then let it stew gently till of the consistency of common peas soup. Beat the yolks of the eggs, and, Avith the cream, put them into the tureen ; pour in the hot soup, and stir it till well mixed. Serve immediately. No. 17.—Dried Green Peas Soup. One pint of peas, half a pound of carrots, two pounds of turnips, one small onion, two ounces of parsley, two ounces of butter, and a table-spoonful of flour. Steep the peas about twenty-four hours in cold water, adding a piece of soda about the size of a nut; wash the peas very well in fresh water and put them into a pan with three quarts of water, adding salt and a little carbonate of soda, and let them boil until tender, then rub them through a fine colander. Boil the turnips and carrots together, pour the water from them and rub them through the colander ; put all together into the pan, and when boiling, add the flour, previously mixed with a little cold water, and stir in the butter. The parsley to be boiled, adding a very small piece of carbonate of soda, and when finely chopped, should be put in the soup at the last. No. 18.—Dried Green Peas Soup. One pint and a half of dried green peas, half a pint of boiled spinach, one lettuce, four oimces of butter, and one tea-spoonful of flour. After steeping the peas in soft water twelve hours, set them on the fire in a quart of boding soft water, with a tea-spoonful of salt, a piece of soda the size of a large pea, and two ounces of butter ; simmer gently till the peas are perfectly soft, and rub them through a fine colander or wire sieve ; add the lettuce and boiled spinach ; put all together into the pan, with two quarts of boiling water ; simmer till nearly ready ; take out the lettuce, and add some heads of asparagus, or a few leaves ant young stalks of spinach, cut in very small pieces ; stir in a tea- K