9 INTRODUCTION. tho flesh of animals, and the little waste consequent uj^on its use. Bread has ever been, and will ever continue to be, the “staff of life,” notwithstanding the popular estimation which would if possible, in times past at least, have adopted flesh as this standard, and on a comparison of the composition of various articles of vegetable food with beef, it cannot but excite surprise to see that whilst the solid matter of peas, beans, lentils, and oatmeal should range between 84 and 91 per cent, of solid mat- ter, and from 16 to 9 only of water, the lean and fat together of flesh contain 36 § lb. of solid matter, whilst all the rest, amount- ing to 63 *5 lb., is merely water. In relation to the leading principles, however, already enun- ciated as the flesh-forming and heat-forming principles of food, we see, on reference to the above table, that whilst 100 lb. of the flesh of animals can supply at most 21^ lb. of flesh principle, and 14^ lb. of heat principle to the body; peas, beans, and lentils, respectively, supply 29 lb., 31 lb., and 33 lb. of flesh principle, and 51^, 51^, and 48 lb., respectively, of the elements supplying animal heat. We would not advocate the general use of the most nutritive food as the best for the health of the system, knowing that the common error of diet with tho.se in easy circumstances, is to take food too nutritive for the wants of the system ; but we still regard the above chemical facts as highly important, in uproot- ing the popular impression hitherto maintained in favotir of the importance of “butcher’s meat”; and especially so, when we see that in the most nutritive articles of vegetable food an abundant supply of carbonaceous or heat-forming principle is combined with them, presenting an approximation in most cases to the composition of milk, which has generally been accepted by chemists as the fittest type for the composition of food. The next argument we beg to adduce in support of the Vegetarian system, is one of groat importance, and such as cannot fail to have its duo weight with the candid inquirer. We rejoice that here also we are enabled to remove a prejudice, which, perhaps more than any other, tends to maintain tho meat-eating practice. The common supposition has hitherto been, that the nutritive particles in the vegetable kingdom, if