241 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 649.—Orange Marmalade. To twelve oranges allow three lemons; boil them whole two hours in soft water with a large table-spoonful of salt in it; then boil them two hours in spring water, boiling quickly in each water half an hour, or more at the first, then moderately, to pre- vent the rinds from breaking; when sufficiently tender that the head of a pin will easily penetrate the rinds, drain, and let them remain till cold, reserving the water they were last boiled in for the syrup ; cut the fruit in two ; take out all the pulp and skins, and rub wth a wooden spoon through a hair sieve ; then weigh it, also the rinds, which must be pounded in a marble mortar or a wooden bowl. To each pound of fruit, allow two pounds of sugar, bruised, and a pint of the water in which the fruit was boiled, stirring it over the fire till the sugar is dissolved; cover the pan till the syrup is nearly boiling, watching it carefully ; draw it to the side of the fire to boil geutly till the scum can be cleared off; then stir in the fruit till well mixed, and boil it half an hour or till quite clear. No. 650.—Orange Marmalade. To each pound of oranges allow one lemon, two pounds of loaf sugar, and three pints of cold water. After ^viping the oranges, pare them in the usual way, not cutting off too much of the white part of the rind, and cut the peel into neat straws; tie them in a muslin bag, allowing sufficient room for them to expand ; put them into an earthen jar, with as much of the water as required, and let them simmer in the oven until tender, which may require fom’ or five hours ; then turn them out of the bag into a basin. Cut the oranges and lemons in quarters, taking out part of the seeds, to prevent the marmalade being too bitter; put the fruit into a pan, with the remaining portion of the water, and let it boil continuously for two hours ; then strain the liquid, and also the water in which the chips were boiled, through a jeUy-bag, pour it into a pan, adding the chips, and let it boil ten minutes ; then put in the sugar, and let it boil twenty or twenty-five niinutes. One dozen Seville and half a dozen sweet oranges will make about twenty-four jars of marmalade. r