VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 233 No. 616.—Siberian Crabs. When the crabs are quite ripe, take off the stalks; then prick, and put them into a jar; pour boiling water over them, and cover closely till the next day; pick out any that may be shrivelled, and to a pint of the water in which they were scalded, put half a pound of loaf sugar; boil and skim it; then pour it upon the crabs, and let them remain three days ; take them from the S3irup ; add more sugar ; boil it, and when cold, put in the crabs; set them on a moderate fire, and boil them two or three times till they look clear, and the syrup becomes thick. No. 617.—Strawberries. To each pound of fruit, allow an equal weight of loaf sugar; dissolve it in red-currant juice while cold; set it on the fire, and when it boils, put in the fruit; let it scald, but not boU, six or eight minutes; then take out the fruit carefully into a bowl with a slice or colander-spoon ; boil the syrup a few minutes ; skim, and pour it hot on the fruit; cover, and let it remain till quite cold ; boil the syrup several times ; allowing it to boil five or six minutes each time, skimming, and pouring it hot upon the fruit; when boiling the syrup the last time, just scald the fruit in it; then put the fruit carefully into jars, pouring the syrup upon it, and paper as before directed. It may easily be ascertained when the syrup is sufficiently boiled, by dropping a little on a plate, and when it becomes thick, like jelly, it wUl be ready. The small scarlet straw- berries are the best for preserving. No. 618.—Strawberries. Have nearly the same weight of pounded loaf sugar as fruit; put a layer of fruit and one of sugar alternately into a dish ; cover, and let it remain until the following day ; then boil the strawberries, with about half a pint of currant-juice, from twenty to thirty minutes, and pour them into small jars. No. 619.—Vegetable-Marrow. Boil the marrows about ten minutes, then peel, and cut them in pieces, removing the seeds and fibres. To each pound