VEGETAIUAN COOKERY. 123 Blanch, and beat the almonds in a marble mortar, \rith two table-spoonfuls of rose or orange-flower water ; add the sugar, the lemon-peel, grated, and the juice, stmined, the biscuits, softened with a little of the cream, and the butter, melted ; then add the remainder of the cream with the eggs, well beaten, and the almond flavour, and bake in puif paste in a shallow dish (not deeper than a common soup plate) or a scolloped tart tin. No. 240.—Apple Pudding. Pare and cut some good baking apples as for a pie, put them into a saucepan with very little water ; cover the pan and set it on a moderate lire, turning it occasionally that the apples may soften regularly; when about half done, drain the water from them, put them in a basin to cool, and stir in a little sugar ; line a quart basin with paste ; put in the apples ; cover with paste ; tie a cloth closely over, and let it boil an hour and a half. Any other fruit pudding may bo made in the same way. No. 241.—Baked Apple Pudding. One pound and a half of apples, when pared and cored, quarter of a pound of butter, five eggs, six ounces of sugar, one lemon, and two table-spoonfuls of grated bread or biscuit. Boil the apples, with two table-spoonfuls of water in the pan, on a slow fire, turning it occasionally till the apples are soft; stir in the butter, sugar, juice and grated rind of the lemon ; when nearly cold, add the bread or biscuit, and the eggs, well beaten; bake it in puff paste, and serve wth sifted sugar over it No. 242.—NorriNGHAM Apple Pudding. Pare six good baking apples ; take out the cores with a small knife or apple corer, so as to leave the fruit whole ; fiU the centre with sugar ; place the apples in a buttered pie-dish, and pour over them a nice light batter, prepared as for a pudding, and bake it in a moderate oven. No. 243.—Apple Dumplings. Pare some large good baking apples, enclose them in paste tie each dumpling in a cloth, and boil throe quarters of an hour They are equally good when baked.