VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 2-16 then strain through a coarse hair sieve ; to each pint of juice allow one pound of brown sugar, and to every two quarts, one ounce of the best ginger, bruised ; boil it lialf an hour ; strain through a fine sieve, and when cold, fill the bottles to the neck; cork closely, and keep them in a cool place. When required for use, boil a little grated nutmeg or lemon- peel in water a few minutes, and then add one third part of syrup to two of water; lemon-juice or vinegar syrup and a little prepared ginger may be added. No. 665.—Ginger Syrup. To four ounces of the best ginger, bruised, add three pints of boiling distilled water ; cover it, and let it remain four hours; then strain it through muslin or a lawn sieve; to one quart, add three pounds of loaf sugar, and let it boil till it becomes a clear, thick syrup. No. 666.—Grape Syrup. To twelve pounds of grapes, when picked, add three pints of water; set them on a moderately hot fire till the grapes are well boiled, keeping the pan covered; then strain through a hair sieve, gently pressing the grapes ; when cool, cover with a plate, and let the juice remain till the next day; then carefully clear it off, and to each pint allow a pound of loaf sugar, broken; put the sugar into a pan, adding a pint of water to each four pounds; stir it whilst cold, till the sugar is partly dis- solved ; then put it on a rather brisk fire with the pan covered, stirring occasionally till nearly boiling; then watch it carefully, and if it rise veiy much, draw the pan a little forward; let it boil up quickly several times, then moderately, till there is a thick scum formed at the side of the pan, take it off quite clean, then pour in the juice, and cover the pan till nearly boiling; remove the cover, and let the syrup boil quarter of an hour, carefully taking off any scum that may arise. Put half an ounce of cinnamon, broken in pieces, into a large stone jar; pour on the syrup ; let it remain till the follomng day ; then strain it into bottles ; cork, and set them in a cool place. A block-tin or brass pan should be used.