INTRODUCTION 24 wliether or no diseased meat was poisonous, ho thought tliero could hardly be a question that it must be of an innutritious character. On whom, then, did that evil chiefly fall ? Not on the rich, but on the poor, who had the greatest need of nutritious food. Mr. Henley hoped it would be understood that the com- mittee would be allowed to take evidence, and would not merely be limited to a consideration of these bills. (Mr. Bruce assented.) The statement of the Under Secretary was of so giave a nature, that, if it were well founded that so large a proportion of meat consumed in this country was diseased, very serious inquiry was needed. (Hear, hear.) He saw an enormous evil stated to exist, and he feai-ed there would be found great difficulty in deciding how to deal with it. If the disease was inqwrted from abroad, he was sorry that the evil had not been met by stopping the importation of foreign cattle. Inspection on arrival was not an easy task, for lung disease in an incipient state could only be detected by auscultation, and a nice treat it must be for an inspector to go about with a stethoscope among a herd of wild bullocks. (Laughter.) The bills were then respectively read a second time, and ordered to be referred to a select committee. KEMARKS OF THE PRESS. (From the Daily Telegraph.) Dinner is a very serious institution in England, and one upon which so much depends, that we are half afraid to disseminate the tmths revealed on Wednesday by Mr. Bruce, to a miserable House of Commons which had not dined. Shall we also utterly destroy the appetite of the British people, or shall we leave ignorance to be bliss 1 Shall we turn oiu- own stomachs, and those of the public by some plain facts about food, or shall wo shut our mental eyes and blindfold theirs while we mutually take “ another slice of the undercut ” ? It is one of the hard- est problems to solve which have ever presented themselves ; if we summon up courage to tell the truth, what will become of “Oh, the roast beef of Old England, and oh, the Old English