433 GAME. — DEER. with bacon, arrange them one beside the other in a small buttered baking-sheet, sprinkle over salt, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and bake them in a moderate oven, for half an hour. When done (without being dry), take them out, cut them in slices, a little slanting, dish up on a small oblong dish, and mask them with the following sauce : PortiKjuese-sauce. — Pour a glass of wine into a stewpan ; reduce it to half, add to it the same volume of good gravy, four tablespoonfuls of lemon-zest, and of seville- oranges, minced to ‘julienne’, and boiled in water; let the liquid boil, and thicken it slightly with diluted potato-flour; reduce the sauce for a few minutes, add to it a handful of currants, washed in tepid water, and two tablespoonfuls of almonds, previously shred in fillets, and dried in the oven ; add also a pinch of red Spanish pepper, and a little pomegranate-zest; take the sauce off the fire, and finish it with the juice of two seville-oi’anges. 972. ‘Fricandeau’ of deer. — Pare a ‘noix’ (cushion-piece) of a leg of deer; split it horizontally on the centre, without, however, dividing the two parts ; moisten the meat on the side cut up, and beat slightly with a cutlet-bat, thus making it thinner; lard the ‘fricandeau’ entirely with bacon, put it into a kitchen-basin, pour over about half a pint of cold cooked marinade (see No. 9G7) ; let it macerate for a few hours, then drain, and place it in a stewpan spread with trimmings of bacon, ham, minced vegetables, aromatics, cloves and peppercorns; moisten to height with broth and white wine ; let it boil for a few minutes, and remove the stewpan | on a moderate fire, with hot ashes on the lid, to finish cooking the meat gently; pouring at times a little more broth in, and basting frequently. When the ‘fricandeau’ is about done, add to it four cooked and divided sausages, then about fifteen chestnuts slightly broiled, and peeled ; cover the stewpan, continue cooking. Twenty minutes after, dish up the ‘fricandeau’ with two dozen carrots, and ias many small onions, glazed separately. Dilute the cooking-stock with a little gravy, and half a glass of madeira ; let it boil, pass it through a sieve, skim off the fat, reduce to half-glaze, and thicken it with a little brown-sauce ; the sauce must be flight. Reduce it, for a few minutes more, over,a brisk fire, and pour it over the gar- nishes and meat. 973. Saddle of deer, German fashion. — Trim square the saddle (cimier) of a young deer, shorten the rib-bones, remove the skin of the loins, sprinkle a little salt over the meat, and put it into a kitchen-basin ; pour over a quart of cooked marinade (see No. 9G7), half-cold; let it macerate for twenty-four hours, then drain it, and lard the two fillets all over xvith bacon. Spread a braising-pan with trimmings of fat and vegetables, set the saddle thereon, moisten with its marinade, and half a bottle of red wine, place the braising-pan on a brisk fire, starting the liquid quickly