HAKE, LEVERET, &c. 425 GAME. color, moisten it with the value of half a glass of good vinegar ; reduce the vinegar till the sugar is dissolved, and the liquid diminished one half; then mix with it double its volume of brown-sauce; make it boil for several minutes, then mix with it a handful of dried Smyrna raisins, or else currants, softened in warm water, as well as a small handful of ‘pignoli’ slightly roasted : these ‘pignoli’ may be replaced by chopped and dried almonds. 952. Fillets of hare, ‘sautés’, German fashion. Take out the two fillets of a hare; pare, season, and place them, one beside the other, in a flat stewpan with clarified butter. With the bones and trimmings of the hare, prepare a little gravy ; which, when passed, and freed of fat, pour into a stewpan, with four table- spoonfuls of vinegar, and a bunch of aromatics; reduce the liquid to half-glaze, thus obtaining a light sauce; add two tablespoonfuls of red-currant jelly, and apiece of lemon-zest ; five minutes after, add to it a handful of currants, soaked in warm water ; boil it a few minutes longer, and draw the pan oft’ the tire. When ready to serve, poach the fillets, by placing the Hat stewpan on a moderate oven for a few minutes ; drain, divide them slantwise in thick slices; which dish up in a circular order, and mask them with the sauce. 953. ‘Timbale’ Of leveret. — Cut up a young leveret (levraut) in mid- dling-sized pieces, which put into a stewpan with melted bacon, two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion, and eight ounces of streaky bacon, blanched and cut up in squares; fry the meats on a good fire, season with salt and spices ; when set, add to them about fifteen large fresh mushrooms, each of them divided into four parts; moisten with a glass of white wine; cover the stewpan, reduce the moisture quickly, and let the preparation cool. Meanwhile, butter a plain ‘timbale’-mould, sprinkle over the bottom, and all round, a handful of ‘nouilles’ freshly shred. Line then the mould with short-paste, which keep thin ; mask afterwards the inside all over with a thin layer of raw mince, prepared with an equal quantity of lean pork and fresh fat-bacon {see No. 686); fill the cavity with the leveret meats, which mask with a layer of raw mince, and cover it with a round of paste ; which solder to that of the sides. Set the ‘timbale’ on a small baking-sheet, and push it into a moderate oven, to bake for one hour. When done, turn it out on its dish, open it on the top, and pour in a little brown-sauce, reduced with the trimmings of mushrooms, and mixed-up with a few poached ‘quenelles’ of veal. 954. Polish ‘bigos’. — Cook two pounds of good sour-erout (see No. 686); drain, and dish it by layers in an earthen-stewpan, intermingling each layer with