BUTCHER’S MEAT. BEEF. 185 chopped fat-liver. Roll the fillets up, so as to form the ‘polpetti’ ; let them be rather thick, tie them together, wrap them up in strips of bacon, and range them, one beside the other, in a flat stew-pan ; beat them on a mild fire, with a little good stock, mixed with wine. Fig. 62. At serving-time, uncover the ‘polpetti’, pare, and carefully glaze them ; dish them, in an upright position, on a layer of force-meat poached on a dish, and forming a circle. Place in the middle a mince of truffles, Italian fashion: serve separately a boatful of good brown-sauce, reduced with the truffle-trimmings. 427. Ox-tongue ‘à l’écarlate’, raisin-sauce. — Get an ox-tongue, which has been soaked twelve or fourteen days in brine ; soak it in cold water for two or three hours; afterwards drain it, and place it in a stew pan ; pour over a sufficient quantity of water to cover it, start it to ebullition, and at the first bubbling, draw the pan on the side of the fire, keeping the water simmering for three hours. Then take the stewpan off the fire. Half an hour later, drain the tongue, remove the skin, pare, dish, and mask it with the following sauce: I Raisin-sauce. — Pour into a stewpan a glass of vinegar, add a bunch of parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, cloves, and peppercorns; reduce the liquid to half; mix with it a pint of gravy, let it boil, and thicken with a tablespoonful of potato-flour, diluted with cold water ; five minutes later, pass the sauce, through a sieve, into another stewpan; then add two tablespoonfuls of red-currant jelly, and two handfuls of currants and sultanas, picked out, and washed in warm water ; let it boil, for five or six minutes, on a moderate fire ; then pour it over the tongue. 428. Ox-tongue, with sour-crout. — Boil a pickled ox-tongue (sec No. 430). Pour into a small stewpan a pint of gravy, and a glass of madeira ; add to it a bunch of parsley and aromatics, a few peppercorns, and a handful of trimmings of mushrooms ; reduce the liquid to half, thicken with brown-sauce, and draw the stewpan on the side of the fire. When the tongue is done, drain it, and remove the skin; place it in a stewpan, and pour the sauce over; start it to ebullition, and put the stewpan over hot ashes, letting the tongue simmer in the sauce for half an hour.