GAME. — WOOD-, MOOR-, AND WATER-FOWL. 403 till boiling, remove it back, boil it for twelve minutes more, and skim the fat off; it should be of a nice taste, and slightly thickened ; pass it then through a sieve, and add it to the preparation in reserve ; pour the whole over the pieces of woodcock ; which warm without allowing to boil, and place them on a hot dish, masked with ‘croûtons’ of fried bread. Mask the woodcocks with the sauce. 904. Bécasseaux, in small croustades (D. 181). — ‘Bécasseaux’ are somewhat smaller than snipes (bécassines), but belonging to the same species, they may be prepared in the same way. Fig. 181.' Singe and bone ten ‘bécasseaux’, and season inwardly ; cut up the backs and the bones in pieces ; fry them quickly, moisten with a little wine and broth, to obtain a good gravy; which reduce afterwards to half-glaze, and thicken this with a little sauce. Put the trails of the ‘bécasseaux’ into a frying-pan, fry them quickly with a few chickens’ livers, and some rasped fat-bacon ; season, let them cool, and pound them, with half their volume of chopped fat-bacon, and the same of panada ; put this force- meat then into a kitchen-basin, and mix with it a third its volume of raw truffles in small dice. With this preparation stuff the birds to an oval shape (all but one, which should be round) ; securing them with stout thread ; place them after in a stewpan, the bottom of which is garnished with bacon and vegetables ; salt them, moisten to half height with wine and gravy, and braise. On the other hand, cut up ten small bread-‘croustades’, one round, the rest oval, only pointed like a heart ; make an incision on the upper surface with the point of the knife ; fry, and then empty them ; mask them inwardly, all over, with a thin layer of game ‘quenelle’ force-meat; keep them at the entrance of the oven, till the force- meat is poached; then insert into each of the ‘croustades’ a‘galantine’ of‘bécasseaux’; mask these with what remains of the sauce, mixed up with a little glaze ; and put them again at the entrance of the oven, for a few minutes ; after which dish up the ‘croustades’ on a folded napkin scroll-wise, placing one on the top of all the others. 905. Terrine of lapwings (vanneaux). — The common lapwing differs from the plover by having four claws to each foot ; the plover having but 2C*