595 ON ‘THE ARTISTIC COOKERY.’ hâtelet garnished with a fine truffle’, or some such bonne bouche. It is therefore necessary, that these things should not be frauds o( wood or pasteboard, since such an unpleasant surprise ‘may cause doubts to arise in the minds of the guests.’ Let us hope that henceforth we may never put our hosts to shame, by attempting to devour a dummy truffle, or a pear of wax. Such ‘surprises’ have not been uncommon. A large portion of the book is devoted to fish ; and we are rejoiced to observe, that the King of Prussia’s cook authoritatively puts forth a maxim, which gourmets have long approved, but which the ignorant contemn: viz. ‘the potato is the natural accompaniment of boiled fish’ (p. 11). It will be useful in many houses at this day to know, that fish which has been preserved in ice, as is the case with so much that now reaches our markets, requires a much longer time to boil, and more care in the cook- ing, than that which is fresh. A hint very much needed is given, on page 13, in reference to the treatment of cod. M. Dubois suggests, that the head of this fish should be kept in shape by band- ages during the time of boiling. Nothing certainly is less enticing, as a rule, than the appearance of a cod fish’s head when it comes to table. One learns bits of curious information, here and there, in M. Dubois’ pages. Professor Agassiz no doubt mentions the fact, but we are sure it is not gene- rally known, that Guiana boasts three sorts of salmon—‘one short, with humps or bosses on the back, another covered as with a snow-white robe, and the third with stripes like a zebra.’ But ‘Artistic Cookery’ is not, as we have said before, an elementary work. It supposes the reader already acquainted with the scientific terms and treatment of the art, and reserves itself for the highest flights. It is on the designs for dishes, and ornament of the table, that M. Dubois’ well-earned fame will rest. These are indeed astonishing; but we are led to believe, and in many of the most extraordinary cases are distinctly told, that these castles and trophies, and mythological subjects, have been actually executed by the author 1'or his royal patron. No reader, who moves in aught but tho very highest of societies, could credit, or appreciate from description, the amazing objects offered for our imitation. Well may M. Dubois hint that, had not fate made of him a cook, nature had equally quali- fied his mind for the profession of the sculptor. We can almost believe it, on merely glancing at the sumptuous engravings of his chefs d’oeuvre represented in this book. Let us take, for example, No. 182, of which the author speaks somewhat slightingly. This singularly elegant design shows two bulls fighting in a pasture. Behind them is a shattered oak-tree, whose branches are yet covered with leaves. Transversely across the middle distance runs a rustic fence. The grass is elegantly broken with broad-leaved plants, and under them runs a stream, which pours down in a cascade on the dish itself. The bulls, the tree, herbage, and water, are merely luxuries of tbe eye. They stand in the centre of a huge dish, which contains a mélange of galantine, smoked beef, jelly, &c. This work of art is to be executed in ‘white fat.’ The material is not appetising, but M. Dubois might have recalled to cur memory, that young Canova did not disdain to execute his first statue in Flo- rence-butter. That masterpiece was long since j melted down; but, if the beautiful engravings of this I book are to be considered as true to their models, | it may well be doubted whether the young sculptor could have surpassed tbe mature excellence of M. Dubois’ work, as displayed in the lion on plate 30. As an example of boldness in design, and consum- j mate grace in execution, we would call the reader’s notice to the hunting trophy on plate 163n, where every accoutrement of the continental sports- man, from his gun to his whistle, and almost every description of game that he can encounter, are accu- rately reproduced in that classic material—fat. ‘Nothing stops our artists, nothing diverts them from the purpose to be attained; they seek with perseverance to penetrate the mysteries of science.’ Animated with these sentiments, they naturally turn to pastry. Great subject. ‘Sculpture and archi- tecture are the sources, from which they draw their inspiration;’ and ‘he who is a stranger to the secret resources of the culinary art, has little con- ception of the wonderful results, that a skilful practi- tioner can produce from a sugarloaf.’ From what we have already said, the reader will have ceased to be in the position of the ignorant. He wTill not doubt that a sugar-loaf, in M. Dubois’s hands, is transformed into very strange shapes indeed—cas- tles and balloons, and military trophies, and Gothic monuments, and Chinese pagodas, and ships, and goddesses, and fountains; one turns with amazement from the elaborate engravings to the little bits of letter-press, which explain how the wonders repre- sented are produced. M. Dubois, however, aiming at a higher standard than his predecessors, does not only tell the ‘how’, he enters on the ‘why’, and the ‘when’, and the ‘where.’ A true French artist, he loves the unities, and this quality alone would give his work a special value. We rejoice to hear, that ‘Artistic Cookery’ is but ‘the first step towards a complete work’, which the author intends pub- lishing in England. In his own interest, it is to he hoped, that the forthcoming volumes will be of more convenient size, and of more general utility, than this we have under hand. Books, nowadays, must he addressed to a larger public, than the one M. Dubois has in view, if profit be sought in their publication; but there is a class, though a small one, to whom ‘Artistic Cookery’ will be a valuable help. The first essential for a scientific writer—thorough comprehension of his subject—M. Dubois possesses; the second—an entire devotion to it—is manifest in every page. The Daily News, Feb. 28, 1870. DUBOIS’S ARTISTIC COOKERY* Another‘Cook’s oracle’ ! ‘Scitatum oraculaventris (it might he ‘gulae’ hut for the false quantity) Mittimus’! And truly, if the responses are given, in any approximate proportion to the cost of * Artistic Coolcrry. With Eighty Engraved Plates. By Urban Dubois, Chef de Cuisine of their Majesties the King and Queen of Prussia. London: Longmans & Co. 18T0. 38*