COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 404 three. The lapwings eaten in Italy and in the south of France, are of a delicacy not to be found in those living in the north of Europe, or even in England. Take out the fillets of seven or eight lapwings, put them into a kitchen-basin : season with salt and spices, and baste with a few table-spoonfuls of madeira. Detach the flesh of the legs, cut it in pieces, and put them aside. Pick out the trails and livers of the birds, fry them with a few chickens’ livers, some fat-bacon and fine- herbs ; let them cool, then pound, and pass them through a sieve. Trim, and cut in pieces, the flesh of two legs of hare ; put the pieces into a stewpan, with the flesh of the legs of the lapwings, and some rasped fat-bacon ; fry the whole together over a brisk fire : season, let it cool, and then pound it with an equal quantity of fresh fat-bacon. Now add to the force-meat the preparation of trails and livers passed through a sieve. Mask the bottom and sides of the pie-dish (terrine) with thin slices of fat- bacon, fill the centre alternately, with the prepared force-meat, and the fillets of lapwings ; cover the preparation with bacon, set the lid on the ‘terrine’, which place on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour and a half; then take the ‘terrine’ out, and let the preparation cool completely, before serving. 906. ‘Gratin’ of plovers. — Bone four or five plovers, leaving the hone of the thighs; season inwardly, fill with a cooked force-meat (see No. 897), and truss them. Spread the bottom of a ‘gratin’- dish with a thick layer of ‘quenelle’ force-meat, mixed up with the remainder of the cooked force-meat, keeping it a little higher on the centre. On this range the plovers, in a close circle, half-sunk within the force- meat, with the legs towards the centre, and the breasts to the outside ; then surround them, as well as the force-meat, with a double strip of buttered paper, to support them ; stiffen this with yolks of eggs, and then secure with string. Mask the plovers with slices of fat-bacon, and with paper ; set the dish on a baking-sheet reversed, so as not to expose the bottom to too severe a heat, and push it into a moderate oven, in which leave it for one hour. When the plovers are done, take the dish out, remove the paper and the bacon, spunge the fat off, unfasten, and cut each plover in two ; put them hack into place; mask them with a brown-sauce, reduced with a good ‘fumet’ prepared with the plovers’ back-bones ; surround, and garnish above, with cooked mushrooms. 907. ‘Chaufroix’ Of plovers. — Roast on the spit, or in the oven, four plovers ; when done, let them cool, and divide each of them into four parts ; remove the skin, and the bones as much as possible ; pound their trails, and pass them through a sieve.