OPINIONS OF THE ENGLISH PRESS 598 and delicacy, from Russia, which. M. Dubois will answer for our getting fresh from S. Petersburg if we will pay for it. He lauds also the Yankee luxury of turtle forehns à l’Américaine, which he served at Konigsberg last autumn for a dinner of a hundred guests ; and suggests that European fish-markets might as easily avail themselves of the American novelties in the fish line (the Weak-fish, the Blue- fish, the Sheeps-head-fish, &c.) as the New-World marts supply themselves with our fish. He thinks, indeed, that we might take a hint from their won- derful pains and success in transporting all sorts of fish for market supply. It is unnecessary to say, that he prescribes for all these strange fish the most appropriate and appetising mode of cookery. But we are most taken with his views, as to the cooking of our old standard fish—cod, turbot, salmon; those time-honored dainties, which no new comers are likely to supplant, and which he seeks to render even more acceptable, by hints as to dressing. Thus, for instance, he strongly urges that ‘to eat a cod- fish with all its exquisite qualities, it must be cut into slices before it is cooked’ (p. 12) ; ‘ that salmon (whatever may be said to the contrary) is not always cooked to perfection when boiled whole’, and that it is an excellent plan to serve it cut into slices—an elegant sample for a ball-buifet will be found at p. ’J2. This plan of slicing is in high favor with those fish-epicures, the Dutch, who achieve the highest success in this way with their turbots. No doubt a fine turbot is a fine sight on table; ‘but real amateurs of fish sacrifice the form to the deli- cacy of the food, by having turbots boiled, crimped, or at least cutup.’ As this hint is for'work-a-day folks worth all the triumphs of paste and sugar in the later pages of the volume, we shall make no apology for transcribing it, by way of showing, that we have not come empty away from the oracle of Urbain Dubois. ‘Turbot cut in slices’, p. 21: — ‘ First the fish is divided lengthwise into two parts, which are again divided crosswise into slices of different lengths. To set the flesh of the turbot, it should be sprinkled with salt, and thus left for ten or twelve minutes, with the addition of a few pieces of ice. Twenty minutes previous to serving, it is steeped in cold water, then plunged into boil- ing salted water; having boiled for five minutes the pan is drawn to the side of the fire, covered with its lid, and the liquid kept simmering for 12 or 18 minutes, according to the thickness of the pieces. The turbot, when done, is piled up at the last mo- ment on a remove-dish, covered with a folded nap- kin and garnished round with sprigs of fresh parsley.’ The value of the book would be greatly enhan- ced by a good glossary. The Saturday Review, April 9, 1870. ARTISTIC COOKERY. A Practical System, suited for the Use of the Nobility and Gentry, and for Public Entertainments. With 80 engraved Plates. By Urbain Dubois, Chef de Cuisine of their Majesties the King and Queen of Prussia, &c. London : Longmans. 1870. This is an ambitious work, beautifully illustrated, and altogether got up in the most expensive way. It contains all the information that could be requi- red to make a feast worthy of princes and princesses, or to satisfy the tastes of the most fastidious. The science of good living and the research after delicate viands were the privileges of the few ; nowadays, as our author says, epicures may be counted by legions. They will, doubtless, hail this volume as the first instalment of an exhaustive system of cookery, at once practical, scientific, and artistic. The Lancet, April 9, 1870. ARTISTIC COOKERY: A Practical System suited for the Use of the Nobility and Gentry, and for Public Entertainments. With 80 engraved plates. By M. Urbain Dubois, Chef de Cuisine of their Majesties the King and Queen of Prussia, author of ‘Cuisine Classique’ and ‘Cuisine de Tous les Pays.’ London : Longmans. 1870. Such is the title of the superb volume in quarto, which lies before us. It is evidently the work of a man, who has passed his professional life in the kitchens of the most august and regal personages, and who condescends to enlighten the world. The curious thing is, that such a man should select English as the medium of communication with the outer world. The truth is, as he himself says in his pre- face , that England is now the land of cookery, par excellence ; a fact which was previously not unknown to some of us. Most people associate the perfection of cookery with Paris, and so it may be among a select few; but there is much more good cookery in England, than there is in France. In fact, ever since the time, when every Frenchman would insist on having patties, and on dining off numerous plate— all at a small cost too—French cookery has declined. And then we have the immense advantage of the best raw material going; our beef and mutton arc the best in the world, our game will compare with most, no part of the island is too remote for a sup- ply of fresh sea-fish daily. But to give a new tone to an old proverb; if we supply meat, we must go elsewhere for cooks ; our chefs are, almost to a man foreigners. So also are the authors of our mpst esteemed treatises—Francatelli, Gouffé, and now Dubois. The volume of the latter, which is now before us, is peculiar; it aims at the eye, as well as at the palate and stomach. It has been M. Dubois’ aim to describe; not only the most artistic modes of cooking fish, flesh, and we know not what all; but also to depict the most artistic way of placing it on the table. In fact, the plates of various dishes constitute the prime feature of his superb volume, the fault of which, if it has one, is, that it soars above the bulk of mankind. We cannot all be kings, princes, or millionaires; and one is too apt, on looking at the volume, to say within himself—this may be all very well, but it is not for the like of me. Such a con- clusion would be unjust, as it would be superficial. 'On no subject is the author more worthy of atten- tion, than on fish, whose natural history he would indeed seem to have studied with avidity, in order the better to cater to the palates of his royal mas- ters. Now, speaking of fish-removes generally, and the various ways of cooking them, he says:—‘Boiled