COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 336 Get two dozen fine white cooked cocks’-combs. Cut up a few dozen rounds of cooked truffles ; take up these rounds, one by one, with the point of a larding- needle; dip them in half-set jelly, and apply them against the interior sides of the mould, so as to form a circle all round. Take afterwards the cocks’-combs, always with the larding-needle, and apply them likewise against the sides, forming a second circle. Continue thus, alternating truffles and cocks’-combs; and fill the hollow of the mould gradually with cold, but liquid aspic-jelly. One hour after, dip the mould quickly into hot water, wipe, and turn it out on a dish, bearing on its centre a small column masked with paper or fat, on the top of which set a small subject in fat, representing a cock. Adorn the base with triangular 'croutons’ of aspic-jelly, set flat on the dish. 767. Rissoles of cocks’-combs, with ham.— Divide three dozen cooked and cold cocks’-combs into small dice, put them into a stewpan, and add to them a third their volume of cooked ham, also in dice. Pour into a flat stewpan a pint of 'béchamel’-sauce, tolerably thick; set the pan on the fire, reduce the sauce, and when of sufficient consistence, gradually introduce into it four or five table- spoonfuls of melted glaze; remove it back, and mix it with the prepared 'salpicon’; which should imbibe the sauce, yet remaining of a thickish consistence ; pour then the preparation into a small basin, and let it cool. Then, with this and some half puff-paste, prepare some 'rissoles’. Pry, and dish them up on a folded napkin. 768. Chickens (broiled), ‘à la crapaudine’. — Cut up the pinions, and leg-bones, of two young, drawn and singed, chickens; split them up the back, bone them, only leaving the stump-bone adhering to the wings. Take out the meat of the legs, without injuring the skin ; trim the sinew away, chop them, add half their volume of fresh bacon, and the same of raw ham, both chopped; season the mince with salt and spices ; add a pinch of bread-crumbs, as well as the half of an egg. Spread.the chickens open on the table; season, divide the mince in two, and apply it on the skin, in the place of the legs, thus equalising the whole surface. Dip the chickens in turn, into clarified butter, mixed up with four yolks of eggs ; lay them on fresh bread-crumbs, set them on a gridiron, and broil for twenty minutes, basting with butter. Dish them up afterwards with good reduced gravy, with taragon on the bottom of the dish. 769. Small chickens, broiled, with taragon. — Truss two small chickens with the legs in, plunge them into the stockpot to set their flesh ; five or six minutes will do. Drain them, let them cool, and divide each of them in two length- wise ; remove the backbone of each piece, season, roll them in clarified butter, bread-