246 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. squares of meat, turning them ; season with salt, and a pinch of sugar*, add thereto a few small raw onions, and when of a nice color, drain the fat off ; sprinkle over a handful of flour, and two minutes after, moisten with a sufficient quantity of broth, to cover them ; stir the sauce until boiling, and a few minutes after, draw the stewpan on the side of the fire : the sauce should then be plentiful, and not much thickened ; add then to the stew a bunch of parsley, with aromatics. One hour after, that is, when the mutton is about three-parts done, set a sieve on a stewpan, and pour the stew thereon ; take the pieces one by one with a fork, remove the surplus of bones, place them in the stewpan with the sauce, add also the small onions ; let the stew boil, and mix with a garnish of raw potatoes, either round or long ; baste them with the sauce, season, and draw the stewpan on a moderate tire, with warm ashes on the lid : potatoes and meat should be done at the same time. When time to serve, place the meat on the centre of a dish, and set the potatoes all round. 575. Mutton-stew, Turkish fashion. — Take three pounds of mutton- fillets, which cut in middling-sized squares ; put the meat into an earthen stewpan with a lid to it, and of the shape of a vegetable-pan ; add to the meat a little clarified butter, season it, fry it for ten or twelve minutes. Now take the meat out of the stewpan, into which throw a garnish of fresh and tender vegetables, such as new carrots, small onions, french-beans, kidney-beans, green-pease, a slice of good pumpkin cut in squares ; season these vegetables, and also fry them for ten minutes. Now take the stewpan off the fire, remove the vegetables from the centre, and put the meat into the cavity formed ; close the stewpan hermetically, and thus push it into a moderate oven, cooking the meat and vegetables for an hour and a half. The stewpan taken out of the oven, drain the fat of the stew, place the stewpan on' a dish, and serve. 57f>. Crusts with calf’s kidney (D. 87). — Cut ten or twelve ‘crou- tons’ of household bread-crumb, cut them to the shape of long squares, nearly half an inch thick ; cut them round, let them fry, open them, partly empty them, and thus keep them warm. On the other hand, take a fine good calf’s kidney, remove only part of the fat surrounding it, let it roast in a stewpan, salt it, let it cool ; take off all the fat, cut the meat in small dice, which mix with an equal volume of cooked mushrooms, cut of the same shape. Reduce a little good ‘béchamel’-sauce, introducing into it the mushrooms’ cook- ing-stock, a little raw ham, and a little melted meat-glaze. The sauce being suc- * The sugar serves to soften the meat, as well as to facilitate its taking color