280 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. Surround the leg of pork with a garnish of various vegetables ; such as young carrots, Brussels-sprouts, turnips boiled or glazed separately. Accompany the leg by a sauceboatful of good gravy, slightly thickened. 661. Cold ham-pie. — Take, from a ham freshly smoked, the cushion- piece or 'noix’, and the piece underneath it ; trim away the firm parts, and divide them in squares of not quite two inches each. If the ham he over-salted, it will he requisite to soak it for a few hours in milk and water, before cutting : stud after- wards each of the squares with a piece of raw truffle. Melt five ounces of lard in a stewpan ; when hot, add to it the squares of ham ; which fry but for a few minutes. Prepare a raw mince with lean pork and veal, half and half, and the same quantity of fresh fat-bacon. Chop the trimmings of the truffles, pound and mix them with the mince; to which then add a fifth its volume, of lean cooked ham chopped very fine, and the same of cooked fat-bacon in small dice. Season the preparation highly, but putting only a little salt. Line a cold pie-mould with short-paste (see No. 196), cover the bottom, and allround inside the paste, with a layer of the previously prepared mince, and fill the hollow in the centre with the squares of ham, alternated with force-meat ; dish the preparation in a dome-like fashion ; cover with layers of fat bacon, and then with paste, finishing the pie according to the directions given in No. 206. Egg, and bake it, then, for two hours, in a moderate oven, remembering to cover it with a piece of thick paper, as soon as it begins to take color. One hour after the pie is taken out of the oven, fill it (through the chimney at the top) with two glasses of tepid aspic-jelly ; and one hour later, remove it from the mould, and leave it thoroughly to cool. 662. Ham of Asturias, with spun-eggs. — The hams from the Asturias are the most renowned in Spain; and, served with spun eggs (œufs filés), they constitute one of the best dishes of the Spanish cookery. Get a ham from a young animal; scrape, soak, and boil it in the conditions prescribed in No. 654. Drain it, when done, remove the rind, pare the upper surface neatly, dry the fat with a cloth, and sprinkle over a layer of pounded sugar, glazing it a fine color with a salamander; then put a ruffle on the ham-bone, and set it on a dish. In the meanwhile, break fifteen fresh eggs, put the yolks into a kitchen-basin, bruise them slightly, and pass them through a sieve ; poach them afterwards in the form of vermicelli, dropping them into a light syrup, kept boiling in a sugar-pan. To succeed in this, a wide-mouthed colander must be had, but with a flat bottom, pierced by only five or six small tin-pipes (of the diameter of vermicelli) soldered