296 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. If the legs must also be carved, they should previously be slipped off, and divided into three parts ; then put back into form, and into place, supporting them with small silver-skewers. This method answers very well. 697. Pinions of turkey, turtle-sauce. — Take about twenty pinions of turkey, cut above the. second joint; singe, and bone to the second joint; press the flesh into the hollow left by the bones. Blanch the pinions until boiling ; steep them in cold water, wipe them on a cloth, and pluck them. Melt two tablespoonfuls of lard in a stewpan ; add to it the pinions, eight ounces of streaky bacon, blanched and cut up in squares, and two or three small onions; fry the meats and onions on a good fire ; season, and toss. When the pinions are of a nice color, drain, off the fat, sprinkle over a handful of flour, and moisten to height with white wine and gravy ; add a bunch of parsley with aromatics, and a handful of trimmings of fresh mushrooms; keep the stew boiling for a few minutes, and then draw it over a moderate fire. On the other hand, divide a cooked calf’s brain in two pieces, each of which divide into middling-sized squares; which put into a stewpan with two dozen cooked button-mushrooms, and the same of small poached ‘quenelles’ of fowl or veal. When the pinions are done, drain them with a fork, and add them to the garnish. Skim the fat off the sauce, strain it into a flat stewpan ; reduce it, stirring, and mixing in, by degrees, a quarter of a glass of madeira ; finish it with a pinch of cayenne, and pour it over the garnishes. Simmer the stew, without letting it boil ; dish it up, and sprinkle over cut-up gerkins. 698. Fillets of turkey, ‘à l’écarlate’ (D. 110). — Take out the fillets of a raw turkey, remove the skin away, pare them of the superficial epidermis, heat them slightly with the blade of a knife; salt, wrap them up in thin layers of bacon, and arrange them in a flat stewpan with lard, to fry them without moisture, keeping them underdone. Let them cool, then divide them into regular fillets, cut from their whole length; pare these fillets to an equal form; season, mask with a white ‘chaufroix’-sauce, and set them evenly on a baking-sheet, one beside the other, allowing the sauce to cool. On the other hand, off the length of a cooked ox-tongue, cut some fillets, of the same size as those of turkey ; make some flutings on the curved side, and place them, one beside the other, on a baking-sheet ; glaze them with a thin coating of aspic- jelly, slightly reddened with cochineal, and keep them on the ice. Meanwhile, fix a pain-vert* on a dish, mask its top with paper, fix on its centre a small support in wood or in fat, and surround it with salad of vegetables, thickened * A ‘paiu-vert’ is a foundation made of bread, rice, or wood ; and masked with green butter or fat.