ENTREMETS. — POTATOES, MUSHROOMS. 471 boil, and pour the mince into a gratin-dish; then spread over the top the stalks chop- ped, and fried in butter; sprinkle the surface with bread-crumbs, baste with butter, ! and push the ‘gratin’ into a moderate oven for twenty minutes. 1063. Fried potatoes (D. 208). — Get some good white potatoes, peel and cut them into thin slices, which divide in square fillets, as much as possible | of the same length ; wash, wipe them on a cloth, and place them in a frying-basket. Fig. 208. Warm some dripping fat* in a frying-pan; as soon as beginning to smoke, plunge it in the frying-basket with the potatoes; toss them from time to time, and | when dried, and of a nice color, drain, salt them slightly, and dish up on a folded i napkin. 1064. Mushroom-pie, Russ fashion. — The sort of mushrooms, called ‘cèpes’ in France, go in Russia by the. name of gribouis: they arc plentiful, and of an excellent quality; the Russians, and Poles, making great use of them: either fresh or dry, they arc eaten all the year round. Russia produces a great variety of i mushrooms ; in Autumn the markets abound with them, and I there saw species I commonly selling, the appearance of which was any thing but inviting ; yet the Rus- ; sians cat them without fear, and it must be inferred, without danger or injury. Get large and fleshy ‘cèpes’ ; trim their stalks away, as they are generally hard ; pare, and cut them in two ; put the pieces into a frying-pan, with butter or oil, 1 season with salt and pepper, fry them on a brisk fire for a few minutes only, diminishing their volume, and then take them off the fire. Spread the bottom of a pie-dish with a few slices of raw ham; whereon place the j ‘cèpes’, by layers, alternating with chopped onion, parsley, and a little fennel ; press them close together, mask also the top with slices of ham, and then baste with two * The fat for frying may indifferently be hog’s lard, oil, or clarified toppings of stock. But whatever its nature be, let it be fresh and clean. In a kitchen there should always be handy two frying-pans ; one for fish, the other for vegetables, and fried ‘entremets’.