117 FISH. 278. Trout with jelly (D. 33). — Choose a nice live trout, cut the tins, draw it by the gills, till the hollow of the belly with some common fish-force- meat, truss the head of the trout, and boil it in a ‘court-bouillon’, proceeding as for salmon. When cold, and well drained', wipe, and dish it on a ‘pain-vert’ of an oval Fig. 33. form ; masked on the top with white paper. Prop it up on both sides with butter, to keep it upright ; glaze it with half-set aspic-jelly, surround it with a thick string of chopped jelly, and edge the top of the ‘pain-vert’ with large ‘croûtons’ of jelly. Sur- round the base of the ‘pain’ with halves of hard-boiled eggs, alternated with half a heart of lettuce, and send up separately one or two boatfuls of mayonnaise-sauce. 279. Oysters, Tartar fashion. — Blanch live or six dozen oysters; drain, wash, and wipe them on a cloth; pare, and put them on a dish; season them with pepper, oil, and lemon-juice. Prepare some mayonnaise with eggs, in which mix a pinch of chopped shalot, and two tablespoonfuls of raw tine-herbs, composed of chives, taragon, chervil, marjoram ; add a few chopped capers and gei’kins ; finish the sauce with a spoonful of good mustard. When ready to serve, mix half of this sauce with the oysters. With this preparation garnish ten silver shells ; which mask with a thin layer of mayonnaise, and surround with a circle of chopped aspic-jelly. 280. Small trout ‘au court-bouillon’. — Select five or six small live trout ; kill, and draw them by their gills, without scaling them, but taking care to leave their ooze (or slime, limon) on the skin. Fry in a stewpan a large sliced onion, a carrot, some parsley and celery-root. When these vegetables are colored, moisten them with a bottle of red wine, and half a quart of fish-broth ; add some salt, a bunch of parsley garnished with aromatics ; a clove of garlic, some peppercorns and cloves ; boil the liquid for twelve or fifteen minutes, reducing it one third ; pass it, through a sieve, into another stewpan ; set it on the fire, and when boiling, plunge in the trout; let them boil, and remove the