COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 290 point of a knife, the parts which the brush has not reached, then peel them ; chop up the trimmings of the truffles, cut their substance into small dice. Prepare a raw mince, with half a pound of lean pork-meat, and the sqme quan- tity of fat bacon, add the raw truffle-trimmings, and chop the whole together a few minutes longer ; season highly, put them into a kitchen-basin, and mix them with the truffles in dice. Meanwhile, steep in tepid salted water, some fresh sheep’s guts ; wipe them on a cloth, fill them by the aid of a small funnel, with the mince of pork ; tie them at equal distances, with thread, thus marking the length of each sausage ; and hang them in an airy place, keeping them thus for twelve hours. Then cut the sausages, range them on a gridiron, and broil them for twelve or fourteen minutes, turning. The sausages must always be well done. 688. Sausages, smoked with cumin. — Chop fine ten pounds of beef, with a handful of salt, and a pinch of saltpetre. Chop also four pounds of pork-meat, and two pounds of fat bacon ; mix the two minced meats together ; season with four ounces of pepper, two ounces of pimento, and eight ounces of cumin : all these spices must be pulverised. Add to this a few cloves of garlic, peeled and chopped ; mince the preparation a few minutes longer, gradually introducing into it a quart of water; then fill the guts, as for the sausages to broil, smoke them a few hours gently, boil them in water for five minutes, and let them cool. 689. Maintz sausages, for broiling. — Cut up in small dice eight pounds of pork, mixed up with a handful of pepper, and a pinch of saltpetre; chop the meat, moistening by degrees, with three glasses of cold water. When the mince is firm, without being too fine, fill some small guts ; tie them up, so as to form short sausages ; which let dry in a chimney for twenty-four hours ; broil them afterwards foi; ten or twelve minutes, and send them up on a hot dish. 690. Saveloy of liver, with truffles. — Peel ten ounces of fresh truffles, cut them up in small dice, boil them for two minutes, with a quarter of a glass of madeira ; then put them into a basin with an equal quantity of fat-liver in dice, and season with salt and spices. Scrape two pounds of pig’s liver, chop, and pass it through a sieve. Cut up in dice two pounds of fresh fat-bacon, and mix it up with the liver. Cut up two pounds of pork, from the neck, in small pieces; put it into a stewpan with lard, and fry it on a moderate fire, until done ; let it cool ; chop, and pass it through a sieve; then add to the liver the bacon, fat-liver, and truffles. Season the preparation highly, add a pinch of saltpetre, and one of cayenne ; stuff the guts, and finish the operation, proceeding as prescribed in No. 691. 691. Saveloy of liver. — Scrape with a knife two pounds of pig’s liver, then chop it fine.