COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 122 on the scored side ; empty, and garnish them with the prepared ‘salpicon in a dome- like fashion. Smooth them with the blade of a knife, sprinkle over some bread- crumbs, or grated parmesan; baste them with butter, and salamander the top. Dish up the ‘croustades’ immediately on a folded napkin. 290. Ferra, with Geneva-sauce. — The ferra is a fish of the lake Leman; it is not large, but, on account of the delicacy of its flesh, is much appreciated by amateurs. Cleanse a few ferras, put them into a stewpan with white wine and vegetables, start the liquid to ebullition, and then remove the stewpan back, keeping it covered for seven or eight minutes. Dish the fish on a napkin, and serve separately the following sauce: Geneva-sauce. — The Geneva-sauce, prepared in Geneva, differs essentially from that made in England and in France ; but the one described here has the merit of being a national sauce, and as such I value it. Pass through a sieve about three gills of fish-stock with wine. Put five ounces of butter into a stewpan, introduce two small tablespoonfuls of flour, and work the paste until smooth. Add to it four yolks of eggs, and when well mixed up, dilute the whole with the fish-stock nearly cooled. Stir the sauce on a moderate fire, and at the first bubbling remove it back. Strain, and finish it with a piece of butter, and the juice of a lemon. 291. ‘Bouillabaisse’, Russ fashion. — Kill a small sterlet ; cleanse, and divide it in pieces. Mince two onions, put them into a stewpan, with good olive-oil, and a clove of garlic ; fry them to a light brown color, add to them the pieces of sterlet, a dozen of ‘iershis’, one small eel, and six large crayfish cut in two lengthwise. Add likewise a bunch of parsley, and two red pimentoes, a pinch of salt, the pulp of a lemon, cut in slices, freed of peel and pips, and lastly, three tablespoonfuls of tomata-purce. Moisten the fish, to its height, with two thirds of white wine and one third offish- broth ; set the stewpan on a brisk fire, boil the fish for twelve or fourteen minutes ; remove the pan back, and pass the stock through a sieve. Pour it into a deep dish, spread with thin slices of bread, dish the fish on another dish, which serve at the same time as the broth and bread. 292. Sterlet, with Chablis wine (D. 35). — The sterlet is the fish most appreciated in Russia, it is caught in the Volga, yet at St. Petersburg this fish is found alive, at all seasons of the year, even during the most rigorous cold. The sterlet is pre-eminently the most aristocratic of fish. A true epicure does not partake of it, unless quite sure of its being killed just previous to cooking. For this reason