495 SWEET ENTREMETS. — FRUITS, PUDDINGS. water, and let it boil continually for two hours, keeping the vessel covered. When about to serve, drain the pudding, cut the thread, remove the napkin, turn the pudding out on a dish, sprinkle over powder-sugar. Serve up separately a sauce- boatful of fruit-syrup. 1112. Cornucopia with fruits (D. 223, 224). — Prepare some ‘nougat’ with twelve ounces of almonds in fillets, and six ounces of sugar ; with this ‘nougat’, Fig. 223. * Fig. 224. line a previously oiled cornucopia-mould in two pieces. The ‘nougat’ having become firm, remove the mould, and fix the cornucopia on a dish, with its pointed end turned upwards, in the conditions represented by the drawing, but being careful to support it underneath by a stem in ‘nougat’. Spread then the aperture of the cornucopia with leaves in almond-paste or gum-paste (pastillage), then fill the hollow with preserved and fresh fruits glazed with ‘cassé’-sugar. These fruits may be composed of small pears, greengages, green and white almonds, pistachios, orange-quarters, and of fresh green or purple grapes. These fruits must first of all be glazed, then grouped on the dish, mingling them with leaves imitated in angelica; yet they must not be so fixed on, blit that the guests, to whom they are presented, can help themselves without inconvenience. 1113. Crayfish-pudding, with vanilla. — Soak, in warm milk, half a pound of household-bread-crumb ; five minutes after, press it out, and put into a stewpan ; warm it, working all the time with a spoon ; remove it back, add two tablespoonfuls of flour, a pinch of sugar, a whole egg. Let nearly melt a quarter of a pound of crayfish-butter, with half this quantity of fine butter; pour it into a kitchen-basin, and work with a spoon, till well thickened; add gradually six yolks of eggs, and four tablespoonfuls of vanilla- sugar ; the preparation being quite frothy, introduce into it the bread-crumb, as well as five whipped whites of eggs ; pour it immediately into a buttered and floured cylinder-mould, let poach at the ‘bain-marie’ for three quarters of an hour. When