325 POULTRY. — CHICKEN. round opening on the top, and through it, pour into the 'timbale’ a little good, thickened gravy, prepared with the backs of chicken, reduced with a little wine, and the trimmings of the truffles ; put back into place the round taken off, baste the bottom of the dish with a little sauce, and serve immèdiately. 745. French timbale of chickens. — Singe two middling-sized chickens, cut off the pinions and leg-bones; divide each into five parts, without the backs, and break up the bone of the thighs, which take out ; divide also the backs in two. Put all these pieces into a stewpan with the wings, three tablespoonfuls of melted fat-bacon, half a pound of soaked ham, cut into large dice, and a bunch of parsley and aromatics ; set the stewpan on a brisk fire, fry the chickens to a nice color, season, and take up, with a skimmer, ham and chicken; keep them hot in an other stewpan. Mix into the fat in the stewpan two tablespoonfuls of chopped shalôt and onion ; fry them, and add about fifteen mushrooms cut up in quartets. When these have reduced their moisture, add six scalded chickens’ livers cut in two, four tablespoonfuls of madeira, and the same of melted glaze ; put back the chickens into the stewpan, toss them in the sauce (off the fire), sprinkle over a pinch of chopped parsley, and put them by. Line a 'timbale’-mould with short-paste (No. 196); spread the sides and bottom of the paste with a layer of raw mince of veal or pork, finished with four tablespoonfuls I of fine-herbs ; arrange the pieces of chicken in the 'timbale’, intermingling them with I # the mushrooms, livers, and ham; cover also the top with the same mince, fold the ; paste over, and place on the top a flat of paste ; then set the 'timbale’ on a small baking-sheet, and push it into a moderate oven, to bake for one hour. When done, turn it out on its dish, make an opening on the top, and pour in half a pint of i good thickened gravy, reduced with a little wine ; cover the 'timbale’, and serve immediately. 746. Cocks’-combs, Bordeaux fashion. — Cut out the projecting points, and the base, of a few dozens of fine cocks’-combs; take them with a skimmer, in small quantities at a time, plunge them into warm water, and leave them | so, until the epidermis peels off, by pressing them between the fingers ; then take them out, rub them quickly with a cloth, and plunge them into cold water ; drain, and place them in a kitchen-basin, moisten with plenty of tepid water, and set the basin in a place warm enough to keep the liquid always at the same degree, until the j cocks-’-combs be very white. Then drain them, put them into a stewpan; moisten i with water, white wine, and the juice of two lemons ; add a little salt, cover with a j slice of bacon, and boil the cocks’-combs over a moderate fire, keeping them firm. With two ounces of butter and a tablespoonful of flour, prepare a white 'roux’ ; dilute it then with the stock of the cocks’-combs, and some white chicken-or veal-