43 SOUPS. hum (lut and lean), add two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion, with a sprig of parsley ; mix in this hash the same volume of crumb of bread softened, and pressed out; add two yolks of eggs, and season. With this preparation stuff the interior and the breast of the fowl, which truss. Two hours later, plunge the fowl into the broth, as well as a saveloy, two carrots, one turnip, and a bunch of leeks and chervil ; continue boiling gently, on a moderate fire, till the fowl and other meats be done. When about to serve, take the vegetables out of the stockpot ; put a small part of them into the soup-tureen, with some toasted crusts of bread ; and pour the broth over the vegetables, straining it through a sieve. Range on an oblong dish, the beef, the fowl, the sausage, and the vegetables. Serve at the same time the soup, the meats, and a boatful of tomata-sauce. 120. Pomeranian duck-soup. — Draw two ducks; blanch, place them in a stewpan, moisten with four or five quarts of broth ; add a garnished bunch, composed of parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, and marjoram ; as well as a minced piece of celery-root- Start the liquid to ebullition; remove it to the corner of the stove, letting them boil on a moderate fire; when the ducks are done, drain them; pass the liquid through a sieve, and skim off its fat. With the broth, and a little Toux’, prepare a thickened soup-stock (sec No. 90) ; at the first bubbling, remove it to the side of the fire, add to it a garnish of raw potatoes, cut, with the aid of a vegetable-spoon, to a round shape, and then blanched; let the potatoes boil quite gently, to prevent their getting watery. At the last moment, add to the soup a little extract prepared with celery-and parsley-roots, green parsley and marjoram, moistened half with white wine and half with broth. Pour the soup into the tureen, add the trimmed and scolloped ducks’ fillets. This soup may be finished with a liaison. 121. Polish duck-SOUp. — Prepare three or four quarts of stock for thick soup, in the same conditions described at No. 96 ; at the first bubbling, remove it to the corner of the stove, add to the soup two ducks, brought into form, and blanched in boiling water for a few minutes; add also a glass of white wine, and a bunch of parsley garnished with aromatieg. On the other hand, fry in butter some pieces of raw ham, two porrets, an onion, two carrots, two roots and one stick of celery minced ; as soon as all these vegetables are of a yellow color, pour them into the soup. The ducks being done, drain them, remove their fillets ; which scollop, put into the soup-tureen, and add a few spoonfuls of boiled rice. Drain the vegetables of the soup with the aid of a skimmer, pass them through a sieve ; dilute this ‘purée’ with the stock for soup, and strain it again-; stir the soup on the fire until boiling ; thicken it with a liaison of yolks of eggs, diluted with a little ‘consommé’.