212 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. of calves’ or lambs’ sweetbreads, fried with fine-herbs; mask the meats with another thin layer of raw force-meat, and cover the pie with a flat of paste. Pinch the crest round ; egg, land bake the pie in a moderate oven, for an hour and a quarter, Avith a sheet of paper on its top. On the other hand, mould with the spoon fifteen veal-‘quenelles’, and poach them in salted water. Lard a large lamb’s sweetbread; braise, and glaze it. Prepare a ‘ragout’ composed of pullets’ livers, cocks’-combs, button-mushrooms, and truffles. When ready to serve, take the hot-pie out of the oven, remove its cover, and the force-meat off the top, carefully wipe the fat away, and slip it on a dish. Pour over the meats a little good brown-sauce reduced with madeira, then dish the ‘quenelles’ in a circular order on the rim, range the Tagout’ on the centre, placing the sweet- bread on the top ; send up separately a boatful of madeira-sauce. 497. Calves’tongues, like turtle. — Boil for an hour, in salted water, four or five calves’ tongues; drain them, scrape their skin off, trim, and round them at their thick end ; place them flat in a stewpan, spread with sliced vegetables, and nice slices of blanched streaky bacon, half an inch thick ; salt slightly, moisten up to half their height, with broth and white wine; then add cloves, peppercorns, and a bunch of parsley, and aromatics. Cover the stewpan, set it on a brisk fire, in order to reduce the stock to about a glaze; moisten the tongues again, to their height, with good broth, and finish cooking them on a moderate fire. On the other hand, cut up, in middling-sized squares, a cooked calf’s brain; put these into a stewpan, with two dozen cooked mushrooms, the same of small ‘quenelles’, moulded with a spoon, and poached; and keep these garnishes in the ‘bain-marie’. The tongues being done, take them up, as well as the bacon; glaze with a paste-brush, and keep them hot. Dilute the cooking-stock with a little broth and madeira; let it boil, strain, skim off the fat, and add to it half its volume of thickened tomata-sauce ; keep this sauce boiling for a few minutes, reducing it to the required thickness ; then add to it a pinch of cayenne, and the tongues cut lengthwise in two ; let them simmer for a quarter of an hour, and dish them in a circular order ; fill the centre with the garnishes, and the bacon cut up in squares ; add a few sliced gerkins, and pour the sauce over. 498. Sweet-breads, Paris fashion (D. 76). — Choose four nice sweet- breads ; scald, drain, and refresh them in cold water ; then trim, and dry them on a cloth. Lard two of them with bacon, stud the other two writh fillets of raw truffles, pointed on one end, place them in a stewpan garnished with bacon and vegetable; salt slightly, and moisten to three-quarters their height with good broth ; then cover them with a buttered paper, reduce their stock one third, and finish cooking with