200 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. head; pare away the fat, only preserving the skinny parts, which cut with a plain round cutter. Pare the ears, hollow them with a cutter, score the auricle, then place them upright at each end of the dish, on a layer of poached force-meat. Drain the brains, dish them on each side of the ‘croustade’ occupying the centre of the dish; garnish the hollow, between the ears and brains, on one side with a group of small ‘quenelles’, moulded with the spoon, and on the other with a group of button-mushrooms. Fill the cavity of the ‘croustade’ with ‘quenelles’ and mushrooms ; range round the pieces of head in a close circle, and garnish the centre with truffles and cocks’- combs. Mask slightly the garnishes, and the bottom of the dish, with a little madeira-sauce ; the remainder of which pour into a sauceboat. Insert on the top of the ‘croustade’, on each side, a ‘hâtelet’-skewer, garnished with truffles of different sizes. 465. ‘Schnitzel’, Vienna fashion. — Take two good minion-fillets of veal ; trim away the sinewy skin, and cut them up slantwise, into slices the third of an inch thick ; which beat with the handle of the knife. Beat them afterwards slightly with the back of a knife ; round them, season with salt and pepper, flour, dip them into beaten eggs, and bread-crumbs; fry them in a frying-pan, with clarified butter, and dish them up in a circular order. Pour into the frying-pan a little good gravy, which reduce for a few minutes ; add to it, the juice of one lemon, and pour it over the ‘schnitzel’, passing the same through a sieve. 466. Steak (tranche) of veal, ‘à la Bourgeoise’. — Cut a good, thick slice off the thick end of a leg of veal, remove the centre-bone, season it on both sides, and truss it. Melt in a stewpan five ounces of lard or butter ; add to it a piece of streaky bacon in dice, and the veal ; fry these meats on a moderate fire, often turning them ; add three dozen raw chives, and half a pound of ham in oblong squares ; cover the stewpan, and remove it back. At the last moment, lay the slice of veal on a dish, surround it with the ham and onions ; pour a gill of broth into the stewpan, let it boil up, then pass it, through a sieve, over the slice of veal. 467. ‘Paupiettes’ of veal, glazed (D. 69). — Get six minion-fillets of veal, cut them of an equal length, trim away the sinewy skin ; divide each of the fillets lengthwise into two strips, half an inch thick ; which moisten slightly, beat them with a cutlet-bat, diminishing their thickness, and giving two inches width ; pare, square, and season them. Chop the trimmings, pound, and mix them up with a third of their volume of panada, a piece of butter, and a yolk of egg; season this preparation, and when smooth, pass it through a sieve; place it then in a kitchen-basin, and introduce into