FISH. 161 In the East, and even in the south of France, either pressed ‘caviar’, or ‘poutarg’ is generally eaten ; both are equally esteemed, but they cannot boast the same qualities, as the ‘caviar’ freshly salted. When the ‘caviar’ has.become very salt, it must, previous to serving, be washed in cold milk, and well drained on a sieve. 381. Caviar rolls (petits pains) with oysters. — Take twelve ounces of flour passed through a sieve ; with a third part of this flour, a gill of tepid milk, and half an ounce of german yeast, prepare a light dough. Put the remainder of the flour into a kitchen-basin ; form a cavity in its centre, add a little salt, three yolks of eggs, three ounces of melted butter, and a little tepid milk ; mix the flour with the liquid, so as to get a paste, rather stiff, than light ; work this paste vigorously with the hand, for seven or eight minutes. The dough having augmented to double its volume, add it to the paste, which work five minutes more ; cover, and let it rise for two hours, in a mild temperature. Put down the risen paste on the floured table; let it cool, then divide it into four parts ; roll these parts out to a long shape, cut them transversally, so as to get pieces of the size of a nut; roll these to a round shape, place at little distances on a baking-sheet. Half an hour afterwards, egg the rolls ; bake them in a moderate oven. When cold, open them on the top, slightly empty them, fill the hollow with ‘caviar’, and place a raw oyster on the centre of the caviar. These rolls are frequently served in Germany, and are also highly estimated. 382. Russian Zakouski. — What is in Russia called ‘zakouski’, is nothing but those cold ‘hors d’œuvre’, which the Russians are accustomed to take, be- fore sitting down to their dinner. These dishes are generally composed of sandwiches (canapés) prepared with herrings, smoked salmon, anchovies, ‘caviar’, eggs boiled- hard and chopped. But besides these ‘canapes’, commonly some soused or pickled fish is served, or crayfish-tails, little tartlets, pickles, ogursis, smoked breast of goose cut in thin slices. All these dainties are dished on a little table, where also several kinds of liqueurs and little glasses are kept ready ; the liqueurs generally being Danzig brandy, arrac, kiimmel, cognac. The ‘zakouskis’ are partaken of but a few minutes previous to taking dinner, but without sitting down. In the Petersburg hotels the ‘zakouski’-table is a fixture. li