COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 488 1097. Saxon-pudding. — This is indisputably one of the best of the puddings that are served in Germany. Boil a gill of milk, put into a stewpan half a pound of flour ; gradually dilute the flour with the milk, so as to get a fine smooth paste ; add to it four ounces ot butter, the same of sugar, and a little salt ; set the stewpan on a moderate fire, stir the preparation, till it begins to thicken ; then take it off the fire, but without ceasing to work it. The paste being smooth, put it back on the fire, work it still, gradually introducing into it ten yolks of eggs, four ounces of oranged sugar, the same of butter ; add a little salt. The preparation being frothy, introduce into it seven or eight whipped whites of eggs. Pour the preparation into a dome-mould, or a cylinder-mould, which is buttered, and glazed with sugar, and potato-flour; set the mould in a stewpan, with boiling water to half its height ; bake it in a slack oven for forty minutes. 1098. Alma-pudding. — Put into a kitchen-basin a quarter of a pound of picked and chopped beef-kidney suet, add the same quantity of bread-crumbs, about a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, three ounces of orange-peel, the same of lemon and candied cédrat, cut up in small dice; thicken this preparation with half a pound of apricot-marmalade, four yolks and one white of egg, add the grated zest of half a lemon, and a little salt. Butter a dome-shaped mould with melted butter, mask its interior with paper, which butter likewise ; fill the mould with the preparation, place it in a stewpan with water to half its height, but setting this on a small trevet, or if not handy, simply on a tin-cutter ; cover the stewpan, bake the pudding in a pastry - oven for five hours. In England they serve with this pudding a sauce composed of whipped whites ol eggs and madeira, or else with madeira simply thickened with apricot-marmalade : the last method being preferable. 1099. Peach-tartlets (D. 218). — 7 'artkt-padc. — Pass a pound of flour through a sieve on a table, form a hollow in its centre, and into this hollow' put three quarters of a pound of butter broken into small bits, three yolks of eggs, a little salt, two tablespoonfuls of powder-sugar, as well as a little cold water ; mix gradually into the flour the butter and liquid, thus forming a smooth paste, but without working too much. Spread a dozen tartlet-moulds with the prepared paste, mask the bottom with a thin layer of apple-marmalade, and fill to half their height with rice boiled in milk. Bake them, covered with paper, in a pastry-oven. Ten minutes after having been taken out of the oven, mask the bottom with another thin layer of marmalade, till