420 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. the hare, bringing the hind-legs on each side of the paunch, and securing them with string ; thrust the fore-legs into the breast of the hare, securing them likewise with a twist of string, supporting also the head between the shoulders. Singe the meat of the fillets, and that of the hind-legs, to lard them with bacon. Run the hare through lengthwise with a thin spit, roast it for three quarters of an hour, basting with lard or butter, placing underneath it, on the dripping-pan, a few large slices of bread. When done, salt, and take it off the fire, remove the string, and place it on the slices of bread, spread out on the centre of an oblong dish. Sur- round the hare with a dozen thrushes, covered with bacon, and roasted; send up separately some chopped-sauce (sauce-hâchéè), thickened with the blood of the hare. 943. Hare-pie, Saxon way. — With a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, salt, and water, prepare some short-paste, and let it rest for one hour. Skin a tender hare, draw it ; slip off the shoulders and legs from the body, and bone them. Pare the meat, and cut it up in squares, chop it with its weight of fat fresh bacon, and six ounces of raw ham ; when the whole is well chopped, pound, season, and add to it a few tablespoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs : mushrooms, parsley, and onion. Lard the loins, cut them up in pieces, put them into a stewpan with melted bacon, and half-cook them : remove the meat from the bones, and put them by. With all the bones, and the neck of the hare, a few trimmings of ham, vegetables, aromatics, and a little wine, prepare some good gravy ; when it is passed, and skim- ' med of fat, reduce it to half-glaze with a few tablespoonfuls of madeira, and thicken it with a little sauce ; then keep it in the ‘bain-marie’. Mask the bottom of a large pie-dish, with a layer of the prepared raw mince, whereon place a layer of good sour-crout, cooked with six ounces of streaky bacon, and cooled; cut up the bacon in squares, which mix with the pieces of hare, and a few raw black truffles, cut up in slices; place the meat in a dome-like shape on the sour-crout, mask them with the remainder of the mince ; now moisten the rim of the dish, lay on it a strip of paste, moisten the paste, and cover the pie with a large thin flat of short-paste, soldering it to the strip ; trim the paste neatly all round the dish, and flute it with a knife (.see No. 596) ; ornament the top with leaves imitated in paste, leave a hole on the centre, allowing the steam to escape ; egg the pie, and bake it for an hour and a quarter in a moderate oven ; covering it with paper, as soon as the paste is of a nice color. When the pie is taken out of the oven, pour in, through the hole left on the top, the prepared sauce, and dish up. This pie is excellent, if eaten quite hot. 944. Hare-cutlets with truffles (D. 190). — Prepare some ‘pain’ of hare as prescribed in No. 491, spread it on a baking-sheet, in a smooth layer half an