49f> COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. about to serve, turn the pudding out on a dish, and mask it with a vanilla English-cream. Singular though this dish may appear, it is nevertheless highly estimated in some parts of Germany. 1114. Malaga Pudding. — Pour into a kitchen-basin half a pound of butter half-melted ; work it with a wooden spoon till thickened; add to it gradually fifteen yolks of eggs, and half a pound of sugar. When the preparation is quite frothy, add to it four tablespoonfuls of apple-marmalade, previously diluted with the preparation, so as to be better apt to mix; add moreover eight whipped whites of eggs. Butter a large plain or cylinder-mould, till it, by layers, with the preparation, alternately with finger-biscuits, dipped into malaga-wine. Poach the pudding in the ‘bain-marie’ for forty minutes. When time to serve, turn the pudding out on a warm dish, mask it with a ‘sabayon’ prepared with malaga-wine (see No. 1107). 1115. Hanover Pudding. — Put into a kitchen-basin half a pound of butter half-melted ; work it with a spoon till well thickened ; then gradually mix with it a whole egg, and four of five yolks or eggs ; add to it four tablespoonfuls of orange powder-sugar, two spoonfuls of preserved peel cut, the same of dried raisins, two tablespoonfuls of flour, and half a pound of bread-crumb, moistened with milk, and then pressed out well. Pour the preparation into a buttered dome-mould, shut the mould, wrap it up in a napkin, which plunge into boiling water, and boil it for two hours. When ready to serve, turn the pudding out, mask it with an apricot-sauce, flavored with maraschino. lllti. Strawberry-flawn (flan) with cream. — Spreadaflawn-circle with tartlet-paste, which mask at the bottom, and all round, with buttered paper; and thus bake in a slack oven. The crust being taken out of the oven, remove the paper, and mask the paste with a thin layer of apricot-marmalade. The paste having cooled, fill the hollow of the crust with choice wood-strawberries, which range in' close layers ; pour over a little very thick syrup, mask them with well sugared and perfumed whipped-cream, kept very firm. Smooth the cream with the blade of a knife, raising it to a dome. Dish the flawn on a folded napkin. 1117. Large pear, farced (D. 224). — Get a large pear, duchesse, or beurré, not too ripe. Peel it, leaving a piece of the stalk adhering : cut the pear transversally about two thirds of its height (on the side of the stalk), empty the thickened part by aid of a vegetable-spoon. Boil the two parts of the pear in water, keep-