COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. XII Besides this, its necessity is obvious : the first thought of an amphitryon, intending to give an entertainment, always is, the composition or requesting of a bill of fare: as well as the first desire of a ‘gourmet’ sitting down to his dinner is, consulting his bill of fare. On the other hand, it is next to impossible for the practitioner to set to work, without having a bill of fare before him. Nothing more needs to be said, to justify its existence. But there is another occasion, when a bill of fare acquires the highest importance : I mean in the first relations between an amphitryon and his cook. The first bill of fare, in the eyes of an intelligent ‘gourmet’, is a very touch-stone, revealing to him the knowledge of his new steward of the kitchen ; and gives him ample opportunity of measuring the degree of con- fidence, safely to be placed in the success of his dinner. The first impression once being a satisfactory one, the amphitryon sets his mind at ease; were it not so, he will remain anxious': there being no denying the existence of a sort of solidarity, between him who orders a dinner, and him who is to execute it ; as the success, as well as the failure of the latter, in some mea- sure must be shared or borne by him presiding at the meal. Therefore, if a cook neglects composing his bills of fare in the best practical conditions, he in a certain degree risks his situation, even previous to having endeavoured or attempted to secure it. The bill of fare, consequently, is both the program of the house’s eti- quette, and the guide of the steward of the kitchen, previous to becoming that of the guests. Until the moment of the dinner’s appearance on the table, the bill of fare maintains the greatest interest, and in the eyes of the ‘gourmets’ pre- serves a high importance : if sagaciously composed, if its composition be faultless, it awakens dreams of exquisite enjoyments, and creates charming illusions. If, on the contrary, it were founded on false principles ; anxiety and doubt take possession of the guests. This is the very thing to be at any cost avoided; because it proves more than difficult, advantageously to struggle against prejudices, that may once have taken root. Hence it follows, that the matter of composing a bill of fare is a serious thing, never to be undertaken by a cook, but with great reserve, and after mature reflection.