COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 464 tablespoonful of flour, and moisten with good milk, thus obtaining a solid prepa- ration, which boil for a few minutes ; then remove back, and add to it a handful of grated parmesan, four ounces of butter, four or five yolks of eggs, and two whites whipped up. Pour some clarified blitter into a baking-sheet (plafond) with borders; take up the preparation with a tablespoon, and let drop into the hot butter ; when firm, stamp it with a round tin-cutter, turn the Rubrics’ out, let them take color on the other side ; drain, and dish them up. 1042. Ravioli (ravioles) with spinach. — Blanch and chop four hand- fuls of spinach, put it into a stewpan, with hot butter, and reduce its moisture, stir- ring ; season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; sprinkle over a handful of bread- crumbs, and baste with four tablespoonfuls of good gravy, or raw cream; boil for two or three minutes longer, stirring, and thickening (off the fire), with three yolks of eggs ; the preparation should be kept of a nice consistence. Let it cool, then divide it into bits the size of a nut, which place distantly on a flat of ‘ravioli’-paste (sec No. 983). Wet the intervals with a paste-brush, cover the flat with another of the same size, fasten the paste between the ‘ravioli’ with the back of a cutter; cut, and plunge them into salted boiling water, giving them two or three minutes of a gentle ebullition ; drain them afterwards, range them by layers on a dish, sprinkling over grated parmesan, and basting them with a little good tomata-sauce, mixed up with nut-brown clarified butter (beurre à la noisette). 1043. Dolmas of cabbage, Turkish fashion. — Remove the white leaves of a large cabbage, blanch them in boiling water for a few minutes only; refresh, and let them drain ; spread them on a cloth, remove all the tough parts. Take a pound of fillet of mutton, from which remove the sinews ; chop the meat very fine, put it into a kitchen-basin, add thereto two handfuls of rice very slightly blanched, a little onion, and a pinch of chopped parsley ; season the preparation with salt and pepper. Cut some pieces.of cabbage-leaves; on the centre of each, place a little bit ot the raw-mince, the size of a filbert, and wrap it up carefully. Place these ‘dolmas’, pressing them close, in a stewpan more high than broad ; range five or six rows, one over the other, seasoning each row ; now moisten the ‘dolmas’ nearly to height with broth, cover them with a plate, in order to press them still more; let the liquid be three-parts reduced, then remove the stewpan back on a moderate fire. Twenty minutes after, take the ‘dolmas’, one by one, and dish them, in a pyra- mid-shape, on a dish. Pass their cooking-stock through a sieve, let it boil up, thicken it with five or six yolks of eggs, diluted with the juice of a few lemons ; pour this sauce over the ‘dolmas’, which serve without delay.