45 SOUPS. quarts of the prepared broth, previously passed through a napkin; stir the liquid until boiling, removing it to the corner of the stove, skimming its fat, and cooking it for an hour. Meanwhile, blanch two crisped coleworts cut in quarters ; press out all the water, then put them into a stewpan spread with bacon ; add a few carrots, roots of parsley and celery, trimmed into small oval quarters (tjonssrs) • as well as a few porrets, cut in thick pieces; let these vegetables braise together. When done, drain them care- fully on a sieve, put them into the tureen, with scolloped fillets of duck, as well as a few squares of brisket of beef, and lean bacon, boiled in the stockpot ; skim the fat off’ the soup, which pass through a tammy ; pour over the garnishes, add a pinch of chopped leaves of green fennel. 125. ‘Kalbspolet’, Dutch fashion. — This soup is very popular in Hol- land ; it is simple, and good ; and must please all who are fond of soups with meat. Divide in middling-sized pieces a small breast (tendon) of veal ; steep them first for a few minutes in water; put them into a stockpot, moisten with four or five quarts of cold water; add a little salt, skim the liquid, boil it, and at the first, bubbling remove it back; thus letting the liquid simmer gently; add some large vegetables. When the meat is done, take it out; pass the broth through a napkin, into a stewpan, let the liquid boil, add a few tablespoonfuls of tender celery-root cut in dice; when the roots are done, add to the liquid about a pound of washed, picked rice; boil them very-gently. Fifteen minutes after, add four shred lettuces, and two handfuls of raw green-peas. The rice being done, add to the soup the pieces of breast of veal, cut in slices; two minutes later, thicken with five yolks of eggs, diluted with broth, add a pinch of chervil ; pour the soup into the tureen. 120. Galician ‘barsh’. — Put into an earthen stockpot a piece of rump of beef weighing about four pounds ; moisten this meat with four quarts of sour beet-root juice ;* add a little salt, set the stockpot on the fire, to boil the liquid; skim, and remove it back; add a salted pig’s ear, singed and blanched, and two leeks ; continue boiling until the meats be done. Meanwhile, shred in 'julienne’ a piece of celery-root, a piece of beet-root, one leek, a few fresh or dry mushrooms; fry these vegetables for a few minutes with butter, moisten with two or three quarts of the prepared broth, passing it through a sieve ; let the broth boil, and add to it four or five smoked sausages. Twenty minutes * In the North of Europe juice of beet-root may be bought ; but here is a method of preparing it without much time or trouble: scrape three or four beet-roots clean, lay them in an earthen-basin, moisten them under cover with warm water, add a drop of vinegar, 7 or 8 ounces of crumb of bread, and two gills of milk; set the basin in a warm place, cover it, and twenty-four hours after, pass the beet-root juice, through the sieve, to filter it.