COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 408 914. Quails in cases. — Draw seven or eight quails, and take out half of the back-bone. Put their livers into a frying-pan, with some rasped fat-bacon ; as well as seven or eight raw chickens’ livers; season, and fry them over a brisk tire; when done, let them cool, and pound them with an equal quantity of fresh fat-bacon, previously chopped ; add to this force-meat a chopped truffle, season it, and stuff the quails with half of it; sew the quails up, truss, and put them into a stewpan with a little butter, frying them till half-done. Add to the remainder of the force-meat two or three tablespoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs, spread a layer of it on the bottom of seven or eight oval paper-cases, previously oiled ; put a quail into each case, which set on a baking-sheet, lined with a double paper ; surround them also with a strip of paper, and keep them in a slack oven for eighteen or twenty minutes; when taken out, dish the cases up, mask them with a little good sauce, reduced with madeira; and serve. 915. Quails, Turkish fashion. — Take eight or ten trussed quails, place them in a stewpan with butter, fry till half-cooked, season them ; if there be too much fat, drain off part of it. Then add to the quails a pound of good rice, washed and dried, as well as a bunch of parsley garnished with aromatics. Let the rice fry for two minutes, moisten it then with broth, to double its height; add a few table- spoonfuls of clear tomata-purée. Boil the rice for fifteen or twenty minutes ; dish, placing the quails all round. 916. Quails with rice. -— Draw, and truss seven or eight quails, as for an entrée; put them into a stewpan Avith a piece of butter, let them take color on a moderate fire; add to them half a pound of lean bacon, blanched and cut in squares ; two minutes after, drain the quails and bacon Avith a skimmer ; add to the butter two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion, fry it to a nice color, and add ten ounces of rice,' picked, Avashed, and drained for one hour, on a sieve; heat it for a feAv seconds, stirring ; then moisten it three times its height Avith broth ; boil the liquid, and five minutes after, put in a bunch of parsley, the quails, and the bacon ; cover the stewpan, and keep it at the entrance of the oven, or on a moderate fire, with hot ashes on the lid. Twenty minutes after, the quails and rice ought to be done. Dish the rice, on which arrange the quails all round. 917. Quails in bladders. — Bone the breasts of a few quails, pre- viously plucked and singed ; draw them on this side, fill the hollow Avith a small raAv truffle, and a little butter. Remove the skin of the breast back underneath, sew it in order to close the aperture. Wrap each quail up in a double piece of pork-bladder, bind it carefully with thread ; plunge the quails into boiling water, let them boil for forty minutes. Unwrap, and dish them up with their gra\7y. Serve separately a little 'perigueux’-sauce.