COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 128 301. Christmas-carp, in Poland.— The Poles, like the ‘Provençale’ and Italians, celebrate Christmas-eve by a solemn supper, at which nothing "but lean dishes are served. The carp, prepared in the conditions here to be described, is the traditional dish of these feasts. Take a live carp, run the head through with a knife, letting it bleed, and preserv- ing the blood; scale, and cleanse it carefully, putting the soft-roe in water and vinegar to blanch. Divide the fish into proportionate pieces, and place them in a stewpan, the bottom of which is sprinkled over with sliced onions and parsley-roots. Salt the fish slightly, add a sprig of parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, peppercorns, and cloves; and moisten, about to its height, half with hydromel, and half with white wine. Set the stewpan on a brisk fire, boiling the liquid for ten minutes, then remove it on a moderate fire, or push it into the oven. When the carp is done, strain its stock into another stewpan, skim off its fat, let it boil, and thicken with a piece of kneaded-butter. Boil the sauce for a quarter of an hour, and pass it through a tammy ; add to it the pulp of two lemons, cut into thin slices; a handful of chopped sweet almonds, dried in the oven; the same quantity of currants, washed in tepid water, and boiled a minute in white wine. Give the sauce two bubblings, thicken it with the preserved blood, mixed with a little vinegar. Dish the carp, pour over the sauce, surround it with the soft-rocs, and serve. 302. Bouchées of carp soft-roes. — Prepare fifteen ‘bouchée’ (mouthful- cases of puff-paste with butter; bake, and empty them. Remove the gut of a dozen of the soft-roes of carp ; steep them, blanch, and divide them into middling- sized pieces. Pour, at the bottom of each ‘bouchée’-case, a little sauce finished with aqchovy-creain, or with crayfish-butter; place-a piece of soft-roe in each of them, mask them with sauce, cover, and send them up. 303. Carp, Narbonne fashion. — Cleanse a middling-sized carp, split it in two, cut each half in transversal pieces of an equal size, and remove the bones. Take a few dozen morils freshly gathered, pick them carefully, wash them several times, dry them on a cloth ; put them into a flat stewpan, with butter and the juice of two lemons. Boil them covered, on a moderate fire, until their moisture be evaporated, and add to them the pieces of carp, with the head cut in two. Season the fish with salt and pepper, add to it a bunch of parsley ; moisten the fish with white wine, and boil it over a brisk fire for eight or ten minutes, then draw the stewpan off the fire, to thicken the cooking-stock with a piece of kneaded-butter When the sauce is ready, introduce into it a small piece of anchovy-butter, and the juice of a lemon. Place the fish on a warm dish, masked with fried slices of bread.