34 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. vegetables fry in butter on a moderate fire. The cabbage may be blanched Lightly season the vegetables, which moisten with two quarts of broth out of the same stock-pot (passed through a sieve), let the liquid boil on a moderate tire ; last of all, add to it part of the meat and smoked bacon, cut into middling-sized squares. At the last moment, mix into the soup a little sour juice of beet-root, thicken it with sour cream, mixed with three tablespoonfuls of raw beet-root rasped. Finish the soup with a pinch of chopped fennel. 95. English giblet-soup. — Get the giblets of two geese, that is, the wings, neck, gizzard, liver, and the legs; all of which should be properly cleansed: the wings and legs are singed, the gizzards split and emptied, the livers freed of the gall ; but all must be scalded, refreshed, and drained. Slice two onions, two carrots, a piece of celery-root; fry these vegetables with butter in a stewpan; add the giblets (without the livers), to fry on a good fire for ten minutes ; sprinkle over two tablespoonfuls of arrowroot or flour ; a few moments after, moisten with three or four quarts of broth, and a little white wine. Let the liquid boil, then remove the stewpan back, adding a bunch of parsley and chervil, as well as some aromatics, such as thyme, bay-leaves, marjoram, basil ; continue boiling. When the wings and gizzards are done, skim the liquid of its fat, pass the broth through a sieve into another stewpan, mix in half a glassful of sherry, and boil for ten minutes; add to it the giblets, pared and divided, then the livers; finish the soup with a little pinch of cayenne, pour it into the tureen, immediately add to it about fifteen small blanched onions, glazed separately, and also a little garnish of carrots and celery. 9(5. Pomeranian giblet-soup. — This soup is simple, and very good; it may be recommended, as affording a very agreeable variety. Take the giblets of two turkeys ; cleanse, scald, and refresh, proceeding as in the foregoing article. Slice one onion, fry it with butter, add to it the giblets, fry them for a few minutes, sprinkle over a little flour, and moisten with broth. Stir the liquid on the fire until boiling, then remove it back ; add a piece of celery-root minced, a carrot, a bunch of parsley, mixed with aromatics, and with a pinch of marjoram. When the giblets are done, pass the broth into another stewpan, and boil it. Trim the giblets neatly, divide them in pieces ; which place in a stewpan, with the blanched livers, to keep hot. Meanwhile, peel six large raw potatoes, scoop them off into balls, the size of a pea, proceeding with the aid of a vegetable-spoon (cuiller à légumes) ; plunge these pieces into boiling water, blanch for three minutes, drain, and put them, as well as the giblets, into the soup. The potatoes being done, thicken the soup with a few yolks of eggs, without boiling, and send it up immediately.