282 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. Let the ham he partly boned, without going to the first joint of the thin end; saw the shank-bone, pare the surface of the meat, and soak the ham in cold water for several hours; tie it up afterwards, and boil it, proceeding as prescribed in No. 054; drain, and pare it ; remove the rind away, and place it in a narrow braising-pan ; moisten with a bottle of madcira ; cover, and let the wine boil until about reduced, being careful to baste the ham frequently ; then drain it, and dish up. Mix a little brown-sauce with the cooking-stock, reducing it ; finish the sauce, adding to it one or two spoonfuls of red-currant jelly, and strain it, through a sieve, over the ham; send up separately a dish of mixed vegetables, such as spinach, green-pease, french-beans. 065. Slices of Bayonne-ham, ‘à la Zingara’. — Cut some slices (not too thin) from the ‘noix’ of a raw ham, and as nearly as possible of the same thick- ness; soak them, in milk', for one hour ; then dry, and put them into a frying-pan with melted lard, frying them slightly on both sides. As soon as set, take them out with a fork, and dish up; add to the fat in the pan, two handfuls of rasped bread- crumb; which fry for a few seconds, stirring, moisten with a glass of vinegar, and a little gravy; let the sauce boil a few minutes, add to it a pinch of pepper and chopped parsley, and pour it over the slices of ham. 666. Roast loin of fresh pork, Bordeaux fashion. — Take the half of a saddle or chine (échine) of pork, trimmed of the most part of the fat; remove the spine-bone, score slightly the fat meat above the fillet ; prick it then with two cloves of garlic, one at each end; truss the loin securely, place it in a roasting- pan with about two glasses of water, seasoning the meat, and adding to it a few sprigs of sage ; cover it with greased paper, and roast it, in a moderate oven, for an hour and a half, basting often. When three-parts done, surround it with small, fresh ‘cepes’, which baste with fat ; when the loin is done, set it on an oval dish, and place the ‘cèpes’ all round. Take the fat out of the roasting-pan, into which pour a few spoonfuls of good gravy ; let it boil, strain, and send it up with the meat. 667. Roast loin of Tonkin-pork, English fashion. — Get a fine loin of Tonkin-pork, without removing the rind or swarth (couenne), slightly score this in strips, by incisions with the blade of a sharp knife ; disengage the minion- fillet of the loin, remove the skin, as well as the sinewy parts ; chop the meat and fat, add to them nearly the same quantity of bread-crumb ; add to the above a small onion chopped, a little parsley, and a little sage, both likewise chopped; add moreover salt and pepper, then two or three yolks of eggs. With this mince fill the hollow left by the minion-fillet, mask it with a piece of caul of pork, then fill the flap (bavette), and tie the loin with thread, roasting it