COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 410 920. Quails with truffles. — Singe seven or eight quails, and only half-remove their back-bone. Pick and peel live or six black truffles, cut them in small dice, and keep them covered in a small stewpan. Fry the livers of the quails with those of three or four chickens, and some rasped fat-bacon ; pound them with half the truffle-peelings, and add to it an equal quantity of chopped fat-bacon : season the preparation, pass it through a sieve, and stuff with it the quails, which sew up, truss, and place them in a ‘sauté’-pan, the bottom of which is spread with trimmings of bacon and of ham; add the remainder of the truffle-trimmings; moisten them to half with white wine, salt slightly, and cover them with a buttered paper, letting the liquid boil up, then removing the stewpan on a moderate fire, with hot ashes on the lid. As soon as the quails are done, remove the thread, and dish them up; pass their cooking-stock through a sieve, skim off the fat, add a little brown-sauce, and reduce it, stirring. Pour over the truffles, cut in dice, a quarter of a glass of madeira or sherry; boil them for two minutes, add them to the sauce, which pour over the quails. • 921. Quails, Bohemian fashion. — Singe seven or eight quails, bone their sides to half only. Pluck five or six black truffles, in order to peel them ; cut them in small dice, which keep covered in a little stewpan. Let the livers of the quails fry with three or four poultry-livers, and some bacon ; pound them with half the peel of the truffles, and add to them an equal quantity of chopped bacon ; season the preparation, pass it through a sieve, with it fill the quails ; sew them up, truss, and place them in a stewpan, spread with trim- mings of bacon and ham ; add to the above the remainder of the peel of the truffles ; moisten, to half their height, with white wine; very slightly salt them, and then cover with a buttered paper. Let the liquid boil, remove the stewpan back on to a moderate fire, with embers on the lid. As soon as the quails are done, untruss and dish them up ; pass the stock through a sieve, drain its fat, mix in a little brown-sauce, which let reduce, stirring it. Moisten the truffles with a quarter of a glassful of madeira, boil them for two minutes, add them to the saüce, and pour this on the quails. 922. Tourte of larks. — Pluck and draw two dozen larks ; cut away their legs and necks, put them into a stewpan, with a little lard, some chopped fat-bacon, and six ounces of streaky bacon cut in pieces ; fry them for a few minutes on a brisk fire, season with salt and nutmeg, add a bay-leaf, then draw them off the fire, and let them cool. Prepare about a pound of veal ‘quenelle’ force-meat, mixing it up with a little cooked game-flesh or chickens’ livers. When the force-meat is passed through a sieve, mix it with a few tablespoonfuls of chopped and cooked mush- rooms.