284 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. When ready to serve, drain it, wipe the pieces on a cloth, trim the outer sides of the tube (tuyau) of the ear, which place on the centime of the dish, with the other pieces round, and mask them with the following sauce : Poivrude-sauce. — Slice a large onion, and four shalots ; put them into a stewpan, with a few trimmings of raw ham, a little lard, a clove of garlic, not peeled, a few sprigs of parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, cloves, and peppercorns. Fry the ingredients for seven or eight minutes, moisten with a glass of good vinegar, which reduce to half, moisten again with two glasses of brown-sauce ; let the sauce boil, withdraw it, so as to continue the ebullition on one side only, and a quarter of an hour after, skim the fat off, finish it with a pinch of fine pepper, or a point of cayenne ; pass it through a sieve. 671. Hungarian Percoëll. — This dish, called ‘percoëir, is a national stew of Hungary. Its preparation is one of the simplest. Cut up in squares a pound of veal-meat taken from the side of the knuckle, and add to this meat an equal quantity of loin of pork. Cut an onion into dice, put it into a flat stewpan with lard, add half a bay-leaf; sprinkle over ‘paprica’, and fry it a little, then add the meats ; season, fry the meat for seven or eight minutes, cover the stewpan, draw it over a moderate lire, and stew the meats with warm ashes on the lid, stirring from time to time. When done, baste them simply with two table- spoonfuls of brown-sauce, or some glaze ; dish them up in a border of rice prepared the Italian way. 672. Sucking-pig, roasted. — England, Russia, Poland, arc the only countries, I know of, where this dish is esteemed, and frequently served. In Germany and Italy it is seldom served, in France still less. In countries, where this dish is common, sucking-pigs are generally bought ready prepared for cooking. Get a small, very white, sucking-pig; singe it all over, where any hair is left; cleanse it well, and stuff it with a raw mince of pork mixed with its liver, and a little panada, fine-herbs, and sage ; or else, with English stuffing, composed of bread-crumbs, beef-suet, whole eggs, onion, parsley, and sage, all of which chopped. When the pig is tilled, remove the thigh-bones, and truss the hind-quarters underneath the belly; stretching its fore-legs under the head, and supporting all its members with small skewers and twine. Then pierce the pig through lengthwise with the spit, and fasten it on its sides with iron-skewers ; baste it slightly with a paste-brush dipped in melted lard, and roast it for an hour and a half at a moderate fire, frequently basting. At last, when the skin is nicely colored, dried and crisp, salt the pig, take it off the fire, and dish it up. Send up separately a sauceboat of gravy with taragon, or a ‘piquant’-sauce highly seasoned.