COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 382 truffles. With a part of this force-meat, mask the bottom and sides of the mould with a layer, the third of an inch thick; then fill the pie with the fillets of partridge and the garnish, by layers alternated with force-meat ; set the preparation up, in a dome-like way, above the rim of the mould ; cover the dome with thin layers of bacon, and then with a round flat of paste, which solder to the paste of the rim, finishing the pie, as directed for that of pheasant ; egg, and bake it in a moderate oven, for two hours and a half; when taken out of the oven, fill it by the top with a little good gravy, reduced with the trimmings of truffles, a little madeira, and some aspic-jelly ; allow it to cool for twenty-four hours previous to serving, then set it on its dish. It may be surrounded also with croûtons of aspic-jelly. 858. ‘Crépinettes’ of partridge-fillets. — Take out the fillets of four young partridges, remove the bones and skin away, split them on their thick part, and stuff them with some raw mince (hachis), composed of fresh fat-bacon, raw ham, raw truffles, a little shalôt, salt, and pepper; season the fillets, and a,pply on each side of them two or three slices of raw truffles, then wrap each of them round with a square of pig’s caul, roll them in melted lard, bread-crumb, and broil them, on a moderate fire, for twelve or fom-teen minutes (when done on one side, turning them on the other) ; dish them up with a little half-glaze underneath. With the eight minion-fillets, two ‘crépinettes’ may be made. 859. Partridges, with Polish hunter’s sauce. — Choose the par tridges very young and fat, pluck, draw, singe, and cut them up in two, lengthwise; then season each half, moisten them with oil, bread-crumb, and broil them on a good clear fire, turning and basting them ; dish them up afterwards, and serve with them the following sauce : _Polish hunter's sauce. — Chop one shalot and one onion, put them into a stewpan, with a few tablespoonfuls of streaky bacon cut in dice, and a few sprigs of aromatics ; fry them for a few minutes, and add to them a few spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, the moisture of which reduce, moisten with two gills of gravy, add the livers of the partridges, previously chopped ; let the sauce boil for ten minutes; thicken it with two ounces of butter, kneaded with fresh rasped bread-crumb. When ready to serve, add to the sauce a little glaze, stirring the sauce until the butter be quite dissolved ; then take it oft' the fire ; add the juice of two lemons, and a pinch of chopped parsley. 860. ‘Cannelons’ with purée of partridges (D. 170). — Roll out thin about a pound of puff-paste (eight turns), and divide this flat in strips, halt an inch wide. Butter ten ‘cannelon’-sticks, fold the strips of paste over these in a spiral