FISH. 115 scoop round their surface, and fry them with butter, empty them on the scooped side, and keep warm. Take a few dozen large oysters ; blanch, trim, carefully spunge on a cloth ; which whereon divide the meat into small dice; put these into a little stewpan, season with a pinch of cayenne, thickening them with some ‘béchamel’-sauce, reduced at the same moment with a little good cream, and finished with a piece of fine butter. Take this preparation up with a spoon, and with it fill the warm crusts ; dish immediately on a folded napkin. 270. Angels on horseback. — Select a few dozen large oysters ; which open, removing their beards, as well as the callous parts ; put the flesh into a plate, and season it with salt and pepper. Blanch a piece of bacon ; when cold, cut it in thin strips, out of which again cut squares of the diameter of the oysters. Take the oysters one, by one ‘rile’ them on little silver-skewers, alternating each of the oysters, by a little square of bacon: give six oysters to each of the skewers. Sprinkle over the oysters a little bread-crumb, mixed with chopped parsley ; broil the oysters at a brisk fire, but, observe, for three minutes only ; dish the skewers, placing them on little ‘croûtons’ of bread, fried with butter, and kept very hot. 271. Oysters broiled, American fashion. — The American oysters ; or at least those eaten at New-York, and highly appreciated by ‘gourmets’ ; are very large, with very thick shells, and of an oblong shape. They weigh (in the shell) from a pound to pound and a quarter: the flesh inside is the size of a middling-sized muscle. I lately received some from New-York through the obliging kindness of a friend. I prepai’ed them, according to the receipt given by this friend himself; they were found to be very good, even after so long a voyage, which had naturally somewhat impaired their quality. Open the oysters, roll their flesh in bread-crumbs, and place them in a double iron-wire gridiron, in such a manner, that in closing it, the oysters are pressed close together. Baste slightly with clarified butter, broil them on both sides, and dish them on slices of toasted bread. Pour over them a hot melted ‘maitre-d’hôtel’ butter, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley. 272. Croquettes of American oysters. — Blanch slightly some large oysters, drain, pare, and season them with a little cayenne; wrap them up in a layer of lobster-‘croquette’ preparation, giving the ‘croquettes’ the shape of an egg. Bread-crumb the croquettes according the rule ; fry, and dish them on a folded napkin. 273. American oysters, with ‘béchameP-sauce. — Blanch slightly two dozen large oysters until they boil up ; drain and pare them. Clarify their liquor. 8*