415 GAME. — FIG-PECKERS, THRUSHES. time enough to set them ; then season, and take them out. Baste with a little good glaze, and range them in the hollow of the Timbale’, covering them at once with a layer of force-meat, then with a flat of paste ; and push the Timbale’ into a hot oven to bake for one hour, but watching not to let it take too much color. On the other hand, pour into a stewpan three parts of a glass of madeira, with a handful of trimmings of raw truffles, and a bunch of aromatics ; reduce the liquid to half, with the lid on the stewpan, pass it through a sieve, and add an equal quantity of melted glaze. When done, take the Timbale’ out of the oven, make a small opening on the top, and through this pour in the extract; close the opening, and turn the Timbale’ out on a hot dish. 9153. Fig-peckers (becfigues), Provence way. — Pluck twenty-four plump fig-peckers, ortolans, or red-breasts; take out the pouch, cut away the neck and legs, singe them slightly. Get two dozen good, fresh, round and firm roussillons or mushrooms; remove their tails, wipe them well, but avoid washing them if possible; range them on a gridiron, and dry them in a moderate oven ; season afterwards with salt and pepper. On the other hand, pick, wash, and chop the best of the mushroom-tails; chop likewise an onion, put this into a stewpan, fry it with oil, add the chopped tails, and a little point of bruised garlic : when the fine-herbs have evaporated their moisture, sprinkle over a handful of fresh bread-crumbs, take them off the fire, and introduce an equal quantity of raw ham cut in small dice, and a pinch of chopped parsley ; take the preparation up with a teaspoon, and fill the hollow side of each mushroom, on which place a small bird ; moisten these with a paste-brush dipped in oil, and sprinkle over chopped parsley. Place the mushrooms thus garnished on a baking- sheet, previously basted with oil and the juice of two lemons ; push the sheet then into a hot oven, in which leave it for twelve or fifteen minutes; when taken out, baste the fig-peckers and mushrooms with a paste-brush dipped in glaze ; dish them up, and serve. • 934. Thrushes, German fashion. — Pluck twelve thrushes, take out the pouch and gizzard, thrust the head into the body, and cross the legs. Put the thrushes into a stewpan, with butter and a few pieces of streaky bacon cut in small dice ; salt a little, and fry them on a brisk fire, occasionally turning them ; when they are about done, sprinkle over a good handful of bread-crumbs, mixed up with a few juniper-berries ; push the stewpan into the oven, and leave it there, until the thrushes be quite done ; dish them up with the bacon, fat, and bread, pour two tablespoonfuls of gravy into the stewpan, let the liquid bubble up, add to it a little glaze, and pour it on the bottom of the dish.