310 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. Meanwhile, boil in water two small ox-tongues, to be done at the same time with the pullets; when ready to serve, drain them and remove the skin. Drain also the poulards, to remove the strings and bacon. Fix on the centre of an oblong dish a square support of fried bread, but longer than wide ; mask each end of the dish next the support with a layer of raw force-meat, poach it at the mouth of the oven, then dish the poulards, turning their breast towards the force-meat, and resting their back against the support of bread. Dish the tongues upright on the sides, garnish the intervals, on the right with french- beans in lozenges, boiled in water; on the left, with small glazed carrots. Garnish each end with a ‘bouquet’ of cauliflowers in flowrets, boiled in salted water; and insert on the top of the support a ‘hâtelet’-skewer, simply garnished with a large but- ton mushroom. Glaze the tongues with a paste-brush, mask slightly the breast of the poulards with a little white-sauce, prepared with their stock, pouring the remainder into a sauceboat. This dish is arranged to figure on the table, the poulards should lie carved on the sideboard. 719. Poulard, with oysters. — Draw, and truss a poulard, as for boiling; rub the breast with lemon, cover it with thin slices of fat bacon, and put it into a stewpan, the bottom of which is masked with trimmings of bacon, and sliced vegetables; moisten to height with good broth and toppings, and a glass of light white wine ; add a few peppercorns, cover with a round of buttered paper, and boil on a moderate fire. On the other hand, put three dozen large oysters in a stewpan on the fire, and at the first bubbling take it off ; two minutes after, drain the oysters with a skimmer, pass their liquor through a sieve, and let it settle. When the poulard is done, pass the cooking-stock through a sieve, and skim off the fat. Melt five ounces of butter in a stewpan, introduce into it the same quantity of flour, thus forming a light paste»; when smooth, add to it three yolks of eggs, and dilute it gradually, with half a quart of the stock, and some of the oysters’ liquor: set the stewpan on a moderate tire, stirring carefully, to dilute the paste. When the sauce is well thickened, and near to ebullition ; take it off the tire, and pass it through a tine sieve, or a tammy, into another stewpan ; add to it the juice of one lemon, with a piece of butter in small parts, and at last the oysters, previously washed and bearded ; remove the string from the poulard, place it on a dish, mask it with a little sauce, and pour the garnish round. 720. ‘Pain’ of poulard, ‘à la Conti’ (D. 120). — Get a dozen mi- nion-fillets of poulard, pare them as usual, beat slightly, score the smooth side, trans- versally slipping into each incision a truffle cut to a crescent ; apply the fillets