sours. 9 sorrel, and a few tender green-peas. Cut separately, into thin slices, the carrots, turnips, and roots of celery, and carve the slices into small pieces (filets) of about an inch long, but very fine : of the carrots only the red parts are used. Slice and mince the leeks, and onions ; put them into a stewpan with butter, and fry them for a few minutes on a slow fire ; then add the fillets of carrot, turnip, and celery ; fry them all for a few minutes ; sprinkle over them a little salt, and a pinch of sugar ; moisten them with two gills of broth, free of fat ; cover the stewpan, and let it boil until the liquid gets somewhat of a glaze ; then moisten with two quarts of fresh boiling broth, and remove the stewpan back. Five and twenty minutes after, add to these the lettuces, the cabbage blanched and trimmed, and lastly the green-peas raw; which vegetables boil for three quarters of an hour: when about to serve, skim the fat off the soup, add to it the shred and blanched sorrel ; as well as the value of two gills of puree of peas, fresh or dried. Pour the soup into the tureen, and serve. 19. RUSS Julienne-SOUp. — Shred into ‘julienne’ one carrot, one mid- dling-sized turnip, a piece of celery-root, a radish cabbage (chon-rave), two onions, and one leek; shred also some yribouis, that is to say, some fresh ‘cèpes’, equal in quantity to the vegetables. Fry in butter the onions and the leek, without allowing them to take color; add to them the other minced roots, as well as the ‘cèpes’, reduce their moisture, then cover these vegetables with a little broth, which likewise reduce to a glaze; moisten a second time with three or four quarts of fresh boiling broth, and remove the stewpan to the side of the fire. One hour and a half later, skim the fat off the soup, mix with it a pinch of chopped fennel, thicken it with a few spoonfuls of sour cream (■smitane), strained through a sieve, and pour it into the soup-tureen. In Russia it is the custom to serve, with this soup, a plate of small patties, ‘croquettes’, or ‘rissoles’. 20. Polish Julienne-SOUp. — Put into a stewpan four handfuls of preser- ved peas, two handfuls of dry mushrooms, one carrot, and a piece of celery-root: moisten these vegetables with four or five quarts of cold water, let the liquid boil, remove the stewpan to the side, and finish cooking the vegetables gently. Meanwhile, cut in ‘julienne’ one leek, one onion, one root of celery, and one of parsley, and a piece of raw beet-root ; fry in butter the onion and the leek, add after- wards the other vegetables, and ten minutes later, moisten them with some of the prepared broth, strained through a fine sieve ; let the soup boil, then remove it back, and after three quarters of an hour, add to it half of a winter cabbage, blanched and shred in ‘julienne’, as well as a small part of the mushrooms boiled in the broth, and also shred.