23 SOUPS. small part of it in boiling water, to ascertain its consistency, and to rectify if required, adding flour in the case of its being too light, or butter if it should be too consistent. Take the preparation, to form small bloques’ (dumplings) with a small teaspoon, and let it drop (disengaging it with the finger), into boiling salted water, kept on the corner of the fire. Let the liquid boil up but once, and leave the bloques’ in it, until firm ; then drain, and put them into the soup-tureen, skim the fat off the soup, thicken it with a liaison of four yolks of eggs, diluted with a little cream ; pour it, through the fine colander, into the tureen. 60. Flour-SOUp, garnished. — Prepare a white broth with two knuckles of veal, the giblets of two fowls, some pot-herbs, a little salt and water. These meats being done, take them out, and strain the broth. Prepare a gold Toux’ [roux-blond), with four ounces of butter, and two table- spoonfuls of flour ; dilute with the broth, put the stewpan on the fire, stir the liquid till it boil up, then remove it back. Remove the fat carefully off the soup, which should not be too thick ; twenty-five minutes afterwards, pass it through a sieve, let it boil up, and thicken with three or four yolks of eggs, diluted with a little cream. Meanwhile, prepare a slight garnish of spring vegetables, such as heads of as- paragus, french-beans [haricots verts), and cucumbers cut in lozenges, cauliflowers in small flowerets, young carrots, and ‘chou-raves’, cut in dice, as well as a few handfuls of green-peas ; blanch and cook these vegetables, as required. When ready to serve, mix the vegetables in the soup, and pour it into the tureen, adding to it the meat of the knuckles of veal, cut in small dice, the giblets of chicken trimmed, two dozen ‘noques’ (dumplings) made of bread, and a pinch of chopped parsley. <>1. Tapioca-soup, with tomatas.— Set.to ebullition two quarts of clarified broth; mix therewith six ounces of tapioca, and draw the pan on the side of the fire. Remove meanwhile the seed of four or five tomatas, put them into a stewpan with a small onion, and a sprig of parsley with a bay-leaf; add a little salt and peppercorns ; set the stewpan on the fire, reducing quickly the moisture of the tomatas. Pass them through a sieve, mix the purée with the tapioca soup, and serve. 62. SagO-SOUp, with claret. — This soup is no longer used in dinners, but frequently served as a tonic. Wash, and boil in plenty of water, eight or ten ounces of good Indian sago, till the white spot of each grain has disappeared ; then drain it, put it into a sugar- pan, and mix with it a bottle of good claret, red or white, a little sugar, and a small piece of lemon-zest. Stir the soup on the fire, till the wine is well heated, but without letting it boil ; then pour the soup into the tureen.