462 COSMOPOLITAN COOK KEY 1036. Asparagus-salad, German fashion. — Take some small white or viulet asparagus ; scrape, and cut up the tender parts, to an equal length (about an inch), boil them in salted water, and let them cool. A few minutes previous to serving, put them into a kitchen-basin, with a third their volume of Cray fish-tails, and season with salt and pepper. Pass the yolk of six hard-boiled eggs, through a sieve, dilute with oil and vinegar ; pour this sauce over the asparagus and crayfish-tails, then dish them symmetrically on a salad-bowl, and pour the seasoning over. 1037. Asparagus, Geneva sauce. — Scrape and dish the asparagus in salted water, drain, dish them up, and send up separately the following sauce : Geneva-sauce. — Pass through a sieve four yolks of cooked eggs, put them into a basin, add three raw yolks of eggs, and a good tablespoonful of mustard. Work the preparation with a spoon, introducing into it gradually some oil, thus obtaining a kind of light ‘mayonnaise’ ; finish the sauce with a little vinegar; season, and serve it in a sauceboat. 1038. Parisian salad. - Cut up, in thin slices, a baked beet-root; cut likewise an equal quantity of celery-roots, boiled in water, and the same of potatoes, boiled with the peel on ; place these vegetables in a kitchen-basin, add a handful of rampion with their tufts ; season, and pour over oil and vinegar. Pass through a sieve five or six yolks of hard-boiled eggs, mix then, in a salad- bowl, with two tablespoonfuls of anchovy-purée or anchovy-extract ; work the pre- paration with a wooden spoon, and gradually introduce into it a gill of Provence or Lucca oil ; when the preparation is thickened, add to it a small tablespoonful of good mustard, a little good taragon-vinegar, four tablespoonfuls of pickled tunny, in dice; throw in a little cayenne, and a pinch of chopped taragon-leaves ; then add the minced vegetables, previously well drained, toss them up, to mix well with the preparation, then dish the salad up in a salad-bowl.- 1039. Salad of vegetables, with jelly (D. 206). Cut up the heads of some white sprue-asparagus, about two inches long ; scrape, and boil them in salted water. Boil also some green sprue-asparagus, a cauliflower in small flowrets, carrots in balls, french-beans, flageolet-beans, potatoes with the peel on, celery-roots, and beetroots. . With a part of the green asparagus form a small bundle, which secure in form with a ring of carrot; keep them aside, with a part of the white asparagus, and car- rots in balls. Mix the remainder of the vegetables in a kitchen-basin, add a few gerkins, stoned olives, and capers ; season, baste with oil and vinegar, in which leave them for ten minutes; drain afterwards, put back into the pan, and thicken with a few tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise with jelly. With this preparation, fill a pyramidal