BUTCHER’S MEAT. PORK. 285 673. Cold sucking-pig, Russ fashion. — Take half a sucking-pig, divide it in pieces, which boil in a ‘mirepoix’ with white wine ; let them cool, and bone. Add to the cooking-stock some calf’s-foot-jelly, and clarify it, proceeding as for aspic-jelly. Encrust in pounded ice a large oblong ‘timbale’-mould, adorn it, at the bottom, and all round, with poached white of eggs, gerkin, and beet-root; dipping each detail of the decoration in half-set jelly, previous to applying it. Pour a thick layer of jelly on the bottom of the dish ; let it set, and there arrange the pieces of meat in layers,' alternated with minced gerkins and whole capers, being careful to leave a hollow all round the mould ; fill this hollow with cold liquid jelly, and let it well set. When ready to serve, dip the mould in warm water, turn the ‘pain’ out on a dish, and send up at the same time a sauceboat with horce-radish-sauce. 674. Salted pig’s ears, with purée of lentils. — Singe carefully three or four salted pig’s ears; scald them, drain, and plunge them into a stewpan with water; add some vegetables, a few sprigs of aromatics, cloves, and peppercorns; boil the ears for three or four hours, then drain them, wipe them on a cloth, and dish them upright on a purée of lentils. Pour over a little gravy, reduced with four table- spoonfuls of good vinegar, slightly thickened. 675. Pork-cutlets, Catalan-sauce. — Cut up six pork-cutlets; pare, beat, season, and broil them, over a good fire, fourteen or fifteen minutes ; dish up, and mask them with the following sauce, thus prepared : Catalan-sauce. — Chop one onion, put it into a stewpan with a dozen blanched cloves of garlic, and some oil ; color them gently, and moisten with a little broth, which reduce to a glaze. The garlic should now be done ; moisten anew with a little thickened gravy ; let the sauce boil, add to it a pinch of chopped parsley, a little cayenne, a little shred mint, the pulp of a lemon and two bitter oranges, peeled, in quarters. When ready to serve the sauce, add a tablespoonful of good mustard diluted with madeira. 676. Carapulca, Spanish fashion. — Cut up two fillets of pork in mid- dling-sized squares ; put them into a stewpan with lard, some large dice of raw ham, and two dozen small onions; set the stewpan on the fire, fry the meats, season, and moisten to height with broth ; let the liquid boil for a few minutes, draw the pan on a moderate fire, to finish cooking the meat. Then pour the stew into an earthen-pan, standing the fire, spread on the top four or five sausages, fried and cut up in pieces, and four or five hard-boiled eggs in quarters. Season them with salt and pepper, sprinkle meats and eggs with shred almonds, fried in oil, and bruised with a rolling-