459 ENTREMETS. VEGETABLES. artichokes. Warm, in an omelet-pan, three ounces of butter; pour the eggs in, thicken the omelet, roll it into a form of porte-manteau, and turn it out on an oblong dish. 1020. Artichokes boiled (D. 204). Large artichokes are best for boiling, the smaller ones not suiting so well. Pull off’ the outer leaves of a few artichokes, cut the tip of the leaves square, pare neatly the bottoms; which rub with a lemon, and plunge them into salted, acidu- lous, boiling-water; boil, until the inside may be easily taken out; then drain them with a skimmer, pick out the fibrous parts of the centre, and put them back into the water, to finish cooking. Drain them afterwards, cut each of the artichokes in two, without separating the parts, and dish them up the bottom uppermost. These artichokes may be served with butter, or Dutch-sauce, or with a ‘vinaigrette’. 1027. Cauliflowers, with crayfish. — Cook twenty-five small cray- fish, and at the same time about ten of larger size. Pick the tails and claAvs of the small ones, and keep them covered. Pick also the tails and claws of the large ones, to be kept hot. On the other hand, boil a nice cauliflower in salted water; with a part of its own and the crayfish-liquor, prepare some butter-sauce ; thicken it Avith a few yolks of eggs, and add to it the tails and claws of the smaller crayfish. Drain the cauli floAver, dish it up, mask it with the previously prepared sauce, and place the larger crayfish-tails and claws all round. 1028. Farced cucumbers, Turkish fashion. — Cut the cucumbers in fieces (tronçons), blanch very slightly, empty them ; fill the hollow with a raAv mince of nmtton-fillets, mixed up with a little suet, a pinch of chopped onion, a little parsley, and at last some tablespoonfuls of blanched rice : the preparation must be seasoned well. Cook the cucumbers, short of moisture, with a little broth and tomata-liquor ; then dish the cucumbers ; mix a little gravy into their cooking-stock, let it once boil ip, and, passing, pour it over the cucumbers.