466 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. acid the ‘gumbos’, previously warmed-up in a frying-pan with oil ; whole, if small, or if large, cut in thick slices; two minutes after, dish the ‘calalou’. 1046. Gratified tomatas. — Get some quite ripe middling-sized tomatas; split them in the middle, press the seed out, season with salt and pepper, and mask the cut side with a small preparation, composed of rasped bread-crumbs, a little chopped union and parsley ; range them in a ‘gratin’-dish, one beside the other, baste with oil and butter, bake them in a moderate oven, and them send up in the ‘gratin dish, without any addition.. 1047. Omelet with tomatas, Provence fashion. — Peel three or four quite ripe tomatas of firm flesh; split them in two, extract carefully the seed, and divide them into small squares. Put into a thin stewpan two tablespoonfuls of fine chopped onion, which fry with oil or butter, and when of a nice color, add to it the tomatas ; which cook on a brisk fire, to reduce their moisture ; season, and at last add to it a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Break eight or ten eggs into an earthen pan, season, and beat them up. Warm some butter in an omelet-pan, pour in the beaten eggs, stir them with a spoon, gather them on one side of the pan, and spread, on the centre of the omelet, the cooked tomatas ; now fold the omelet to an oblong shape, and turn it out on a small dish. The cooked tomatas may be mixed up with the eggs; but as it happens often, that the acerbity of the tomatas lets the eggs curdle in cooking, it is preferable to add them later; particularly if tomatas of the North, which are always more acrid than those of the South. 1048. Carrots and green-pease, Alsace fashion. — Peel three dozen small young carrots, leaving them whole, blanch them for a few minutes in salted water; drain, put them into a stewpan with butter; toss them on a moderate tire, season, and moisten with a little broth, to half-cook. Add to them a pint and a half ot green-pease, a bunch of parsley, and a pinch of sugar. Cover the stewpan ; when the pease are done, thicken the vegetables with a piece of kneaded-butter, finish ; intro ducing, off the tire, two tablespoonfuls of good raw cream, and a piece of butter; then dish them up. 1049. Carrots and asparagus, German fashion. — Turn three or four dozen small young carrots of an equal size ; blanch, drain, and put them into a stewpan with butter, to fry on a moderate tire; season, when done, thicken with a little ‘velouté’ ; two minutes after, add the same volume of white or violet sprew-asparagus, cut up in pieces an inch long, blanched in salted water, and well drained. Season, and mix with the vegetables, a piece of butter, divided in little hits