COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 386 fire. When ready to serve, turn the ‘pain’ out on a dish, wipe the butter, and mask the entree with the truffles-sauce. 867. Partridge-cutlets, Russ fashion. — Pare one or two whole 'ga- lantines’ of partridges, giving them the shape of a cutlet ; divide these 'galantines’ transversally in thin slices ; mask them with a layer of fat-liver preparation (sec No. 854) ; let this layer be the fifth part of an inch thick. As soon as the preparation has cooled, mask the cutlets with brown-'chaufroix’-sauce ; place them one beside the other on a baking-sheet, and glaze them with jelly. As soon as this jelly has set, trim them of the superfluous sauce, put ruffles on, dish them in a circular order. Fill the centre with a garnish of small glazed truffles. Place round the cutlets a chain of small jelly-'croûtons’. 868. Grey partridges roasted, Polish fashion. — Singe, draw, and truss, two grey partridges, lard their breast and legs, salt them slightly, put them into a stewpan with butter, and let them take color, with live embers on the lid. When they are half-done, moisten with about a gill of sour-cream, and finish cook- ing them, basting often; drain them afterwards, remove the strings, and dish them up. Pour a little good gravy into the stewpan, thicken the stock with a little kneaded-butter, reduce for a few seconds, and pass the sauce, through a sieve, over the partridges. If no sour-cream be handy, good double-cream may be used ; and the sauce, after being reduced, should be finished with a little vinegar or lemon-juice. This way of cooking partridges is very good, and deserves to be adopted every where. 869. Rissoles of partridges, Russ fashion. — Take out the fillets of two raw partridges, pare, and chop them fine ; chop also five ounces of raw beef- marrow, and the same of blanched bacon ; mix all well together, season the mince with salt and nutmeg, add to it two raw chopped truffles, and thicken it with the yolk of one egg. With this mixture, prepare some 'rissoles’, fry, drain, and dish them up on a folded napkin. 870. Partridges, as in the Sierra Morena. — This dish is of Spanish origin, and bears the stamp of it. Truss two partridges with the legs inside, singe, and put them into a stewpan with oil, four onions, a carrot, a piece of celery, eight ounces of ham in large dice, a few cloves of garlic, thyme, bay-leaf, peppercorns, and cloves ; set the stewpan on a brisk fire, fry the ingredients for eight or ten minutes, moisten with two gills of broth, which reduce quickly to glaze ; then moisten the par- tridges, to three-parts their height, with a gill of vinegar and some broth ; cover the partridges with a round of oiled paper, and the stewpan with its lid ; set the pan on