594 OPINIONS OF THE ENGLISH TRESS of work more or less long. In England, on the contrary, the native bullocks are bred and fattened, to be slaughtered as soon as they have attained the qualities required. Even those imported from Hol- land, Belgium, or Holstein, are purchased to be fat- tened, and fed with the utmost care before being slaughtered.’ He confesses that ‘it has always been with the utmost apprehension and reluctance’ he has introduced a sirloin of roast beef into his bill of fare on the continent. No where but in Eng- land does this remove obtain, on the part of cooks, that ‘foresight and sacrifice necessary to ensure its perfection.’ This is gratifying to read, in an age when the cooks and cookery of France have invaded the kitchen of every land, from China to Peru ; when the Sultan of Turkey, as we see by this book, opens his banquet with potaçje a la Reine, and winds it up with fromage glacé. One portion of M. Dubois’ work contains a not uninteresting collection of the menus drawn up for various occasions of festivity in the several courts of Europe. From this list we learn certain details, which tend in a manner to explain the somewhat monotonous ‘variety’ of royal ban- quets. Since we are lingering, in an idle moment, over this curious book, it may be worth while to extract the names of the cooks to each palace. The chef of the French Emperor appears to be M. Be- noit; that of the Pruss monarch is, of course, our author; his predecessor seems to have been a M. Bernard. England appears to have two chefs, Messrs. Muret and Auberlin. Austria retains the services of M. Claudius Martin, whose nationality is not so clearly established. Spain is certainly feasted by a Frenchman, M. Blanchard. Turkey seems to be satisfied with a Greek, Demitry Mavromykalli. Den- mark has another doubtful name, M. Viale. Italy enjoys the skill of M. Hélouis. Kussia rejoices in Thion. Bavaria employs Aubrey. Holland is feasted by Zimmermann, and Saxe-Weimar by Nebel. It is thus seen, that if we exclude the uncertain names of Martin, Viale, and Nebel, the unmistakeably Ger- man patronymic, Zimmermann, and the Greek Ma- vromykalli, six of the European kingdoms, viz. France, Prussia, England, Italy, Russia, and Bavaria, are ruled in matters of the kitchen by a French chef. To these we might a few months since have added Spain. When this is the case, one cannot be sur- prised that the Palace-feasts should exhibit little of the national cuisine. England preserves her roast beef and roast mutton with a sturdy resolution, that after a while becomes monotonous. The Crown Princess of Prussia clings to the favorite dish of her mother’s Palace, and insists on a remove of ‘Roast-beef and Yorkshire-pudding.’ Turkey ven- tures sometimes to have her fish à la Turque, and also « l'Orientale; she likewise indulges in War Doniassy (whatever that may be), and also in Visnali ekrneq and Faoulcsu. Spain feebly interpolates a cocido. But with these exceptions, our Royal menus are hopelessly French from end to end. And there is something much more extroardinary than this. Italy, the home of the vine, is supposed to have no vintage fit for her monarch’s table, except the sweet little Tintilla di Rota. Madeira, Lafitte, Rudes- lieimer, and Ay Mousseux, are the foreign beverages, with which the foreign dinner is washed down. Spain is in almost as bad a case; Xeres sec and Prio- rata are all the wines that she can furnish in a list of nine. Then French cooks do not show themselves ingenious in utilising that variety of product Nature has given to each country. The menu that was served in Italy to-day by M. Hélouis, would apparently be just the sort of thing, M. Thion might serve up in St. Petersburg. Much as we all have heard of the ingenuity of a great cordon bleu, his liberality of soul, quickness of eye, and brilliancy of imagination; it is natural that one should look at the lists compiled by M. Dubois, with some expecta- tion of finding there a proof of these qualities. He who does so will, we think, be disappointed. To whatever land the fates auspicious lead him, the chef carries not his native sauces only, nor even his sauces and wines, but his native ideas of what should be the raw material, on which to employ his art. That his sauces, and wines, and ideas are, on the whole, the very best that human mind and skill have yet devised, is beyond question ; but we cannot help thinking, that a greater readiness to adopt in all countries, what each possesses worth adopting, would be a most valuable addition to the many good qua- lities of these kings of the kitchen. Before passing quite away from the subject of the royal menus, we should like to call the attention of such among our readers as occasionally give their little ones a ball, to the excellent bill of fare con- tained on p xxix. There is here a choice of two suppers, hot or cold; both are admirable. For the benefit of those who will not meet with M. Dubois’ book, we give the carte entire : BAL D’ENFANTS. Les mets chauds sont posés sur table. SERVICE CHAUD. Ris au lait d’amandes. Sagou au consommé. Rissoles de légumes. Bouchées à la Béchamel. Filets de volaille. Côtelettes d'agneau à la purée de marrons. SERVICE FROID. Petits canetons de volaille Galantines de mau- à la gelée. viettes. Sandwiches variés. Petits-pains a la Fran- Arbre en nougat, portant çaise. des fruits glacés. Croquembouchc orné de Poisson en gâteau-punch. sucre filé. Blanc-manger. Jambon imité à la gelée. Paniers d’orange à la Charlotte Russe. gelée. Pots de crème au chocolat. CORBEILLES DE FRUIT. Assiettes montées, garnies Tambours garnis de petits de bonbons. fours. This supper, as we understand, was designed for some ball of little princes; but there is nothing ex- travagant in the dishes, and we guarantee, that there shall not be an indigestion amongst the con- rives, if their nurses will not leave them more than half an hour in battle with the sweets. Passing from these examples, we approach that simplest effort of science, the hors d’oeuvre hot, and thence proceed to a very delicate subject indeed— the hatelct, or ornament to your entrees or removes. This matter is treated with a singular ability. ‘Being the diamonds of cookery’, we arc told, ‘hatelets ought to be shown only on solemn occa- sions, and applied to pieces worthy of such an honor.’ An admonition is offered to some cooks, which we trust all will attend to. ‘A guest’, says M. Dubois, ‘may sometimes be tempted to take a