COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 288 the bones of which after being broiled are so tender, that they may be crushed by mere pressure between the fingers. Some people say, they may be eaten ; but I rather doubt, that a bone of pig’s feet, never so well cooked, could ever be a delight for epicures. So far, however, is a matter of fact, verified by myself not long ago. But this is nothing very extraordinary: every one may henceforth operate this wonder, if like me, he be not afraid to brave the thunderbolt of Saint Menehould. To explain my meaning, I ought to say, that the pork-butchers of St. Menehould make a secret of their science. Procure five or six clean scalded pig’s feet; steep them, put them into a stewpan with water, and parboil them for three quarters of an hour; then drain, refresh, and singe them. Wrap them up separately in a small cloth, or tie them simply with broad tape {ruban dr fil') ; place them in a stockpot, garnished with vegetables ; cover with plenty of water, and half a bottle of white wine ; add salt and aromatics, and let the liquid boil up, skimming ; then remove the pan on a very slow fire, surround- ing with warm ashes; or place it in the oven,* thus to be kept simmering. Close the stockpot-lid with lutings, and boil the feet twenty-four hours ; let them cool in their stock, drain, unpack, and divide each of them in two; season highly, and bread-crumb with eggs ; broil them over a fire; when hot, dish them up, and serve immediately. This long cooking has the effect of softening the bones of the feet, but at the same time causes them to be highly over-done. m 083. Nancy chitterlings (andouilles). — Take three pounds of calf's pluck, and the same of pig’s paunch ; steep them in water, wash carefully, and cook them in water for two hours. Drain, refresh, wipe, and cut them up in pieces; which put into a kitchen-basin, season highly with salt and spices, baste with a little white wine, and sprinkle over some cooked fine-herbs. With this preparation proceed to fill some fat pig’s guts, previously soaked and washed, tie up the chitterlings (art- douilles), six or eight inches long, prick them with a trussing-needle, and plunge them into a stockpot of boiling water. As soon as the ebullition begins, draw the stockpot on the side of the fire, letting the liquid simmer gently; add to it salt, vege- tables, and aromatics, and give two hours of boiling. Take the stockpot then off the fire, and leave the chitterlings in their liquor, till about cold ; drain them afterwards, place between two dishes, or wrap them up in a cloth to cool. Broil them twenty-five * Tliis operation I have tried successfully on a small gas-fire: and this mode appears to me superior to all the rest, for slow, and lengthened cooking, in this sense, that it is easier to regulate the degree of heat. Gas is very little used, as yet, in French kitchens ; and it is a great mistake : in England its utility is better understood