SOUPS. hour after, skim the fat off (dégraisser) the broth, and pass it gently through a napkin, previously moistened and well wrung out. 3. Nutritive broth. — Take six pounds of lean meat, cut off a shoulder of beef, remove the bones, divide it into square pieces of about six ounces each ; lay them in a suitable stockpot, and moisten with eight or ten quarts of cold water ; set the stockpot on the fire, and attend to this broth as for the common ‘pot-au-feu', that is, salt, skim, garnish it with vegetables, and let the liquid boil gently on one side only. Two hours later, add to it a bone of roast-beef, or of a roasted leg of mutton; when the meat is done, pass the broth through a napkin, skim its fat. At this time the broth should be succulent, of a nice color, and of a clearness equal to that of a ‘consommé’. 4. Broth ‘à la minute’. — In a moment of urgency, good broth may be obtained by the following process: take four pounds of meat from a leg of beef; it should be lean ; and all fat, skin, and sinews, being carefully removed, next cut the meat into small dice, so as thoroughly to chop or pound it; put it into a stewpan, and dilute with cold water (nearly two quarts to a pound of meat); after which, add to it a few minced vegetables, such as, carrots, celery-roots, leeks, and onions; a pinch of chervil, a few peppercorns, cloves, and if handy a few backs or trimmings of fowl, cither raw or cooked. Set the stewpan on a moderate fire, stirring from time to time; and when it begins to boil, remove the stewpan back, so as only to simmer the liquid gently. Twenty minutes after, pass the broth through a moistened napkin, and clear it of its fat. 5. French‘pot-au-feu’soup.— If a good pot-au-feu soup is wanted, a few pounds of meat more or less must not matter; for the juiciness and perfection of the broth depend on the quantity of meat used : this is a matter of fact needing no further demonstration. If the soup is wanted for seven or eight persons, choose a rump of beef weighing about six pounds. Having washed it in cold water, bone, truss, and put it into an earthen stockpot, with giblets of poultry, and a little knuckle of veal, certainly not very expensive materials ; let these meats be steeped in six or eight quarts of cold water, observing that the stockpot should be about full : add a small handful of salt, and set the stockpot on a moderate fire, gradually bringing the liquid to ebullition. Skim the fat oft’ the liquid, as it rises to the surface ; and at the first bubbling, throw in a glassful of cold water ; then remove the pot back to the side of the stove-fire, so as to give it heat but on one side : this being the only means of getting a clear broth. Let the ebullition be very moderate, and steadily continued, for five hours at the least : the vessel must be only partially covered.