COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 216 ‘béchamel’-sauce, thus forming a firm preparation ; take it off the fire, and let it cool. Roll out about a pound of trimmings of puff-paste into a thin square flat; set on the paste, at a little distance from the edges, some walnut-sized parts of the sweet- bread-preparation, two inches distant one from the other; wet the paste, and fold its edges over, applying it with the thumb, and stamp afterwards the ‘rissoles’ with a plain cutter in a half-moon-shape. Place these ‘rissoles’ evenly on a baking-sheet, egg, and push them into the oven ; when baked, take them out, and dish them on a folded napkin, in pyramids. 506. ‘Tourte’ of sweetbreads. — First of all prepare a ‘quenelle’ force- meat of veal, in the same proportions, as for chickens ; when passed through a sieve, add to it a few spoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs. Cut up, in rather thick slices, three or four sweetbreads, blanched, and cooled under press ; place them in a sauté-pan with melted butter, season, and fry them on both sides ; the flesh having set, moisten with four tablespoonfuls of madeira ; and when reduced, add to it a few spoonfuls of fine-herbs. When well mixed up, remove the stewpan back. Spread over a round baking-sheet a flat of short paste, the centre of which cover with a layer of veal force-meat; range thereon the sweetbreads and fine-herbs in a dome-shape, alternated with a few pieces of raw ham. Mask this dome with a thin layer of force-meat, and finish the ‘tourte’, proceed- ing as in No. 336 : egg, and bake it in a moderate oven. When done, slip it on a dish, make a circular opening on its top, into which introduce a small garnish of mushrooms. Cover the ‘tourte’ again, and serve it. 507. Sweetbreads, with Perigueux-sauce. — Divide two blanched and cold sweetbreads in slices ; season, and fry them on both sides with clarified butter, in a flat stewpan; moisten with a little wine, and add half a pound of raw truffles in small dice. Cover the stewpan, reduce the moisture to a glaze. Baste the ‘ragout’ with a little brown-sauce, take it off the fire, and keep it in the ‘bain- marie’. On the other hand, prepare some veal ‘quenelle’ force-meat (see No. 527) ; fill with it a buttered border-mould, shaking the mould on to a cloth, and poach it in the ‘bain-marie’ ; when firm, turn it out on a hot dish, on the centre of which, serve up the ‘ragout’. 508. Sweetbreads, ‘à la Chartreuse’ (D. 78). — Lard three nice blan- ched sweetbreads with bacon, place them in a stewpan garnished with bacon and vegetables, moisten to their height with good broth, and braise them, proceeding as directed in No. 502. At the last moment glaze them to a nice color.