255 BUTCHER’S MEAT. — MUTTON. with a flat of the same paste; apply it without drawing, and cut out the surplus, holding the knife a little to the outside ; then channel it all round with the back of the knife, pressing the paste with the thumb : adorn the top with a scroll of imitated leaves in paste, make a hole on the centre of it; egg the pie, and bake it in a moderate oven for an hour and a quarter, being careful to cover the paste with Fig. 91. paper, as soon as it takes color. When done, place the pie on a dish covered with a napkin. 597. Sheep’s tails, with olives. — Pare away the thin part of eight or ten sheep’s tails, previously blanched; put them into a stewpan, with good butter or lard, two small onions, and a piece of carrot; set the pan on the fire, fry them, con- tinually tossing; season, and, when of a nice color, sprinkle over two spoonfuls of flour. Moisten to cover, with a little hot broth, gravy, and white wine ; start the liquid to ebullition ; and, two minutes after, remove the pan back. If the sauce appear too pale, color it with a few drops of ‘caramel’. When the tails are done, strain the sauce into another stewpan, skim off the fat, and add to it a quarter of a glass of white wine, working it until sufficiently thickened ; then pare the tails neatly, and add them to the sauce. Two minutes after, take the stewpan off the fire, throw into the ‘ragout’ a garnish of large olives, and serve up on a hot dish. 598. Sheep’s ears ‘au blanc’. — Boil fifteen sheep’s ears (see No. G'JO) ; drain them round the auricle, place them in a stewpan, and keep them covered. On the other hand, put into a stewpan, a piece of butter and two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion; which fry, without allowing to take color; add to it two table- spoonfuls of flour, fry it for two minutes, and moisten, by degrees, with a pint and a half of broth ; stir the liquid until boiling, add a bunch of parsley, and a handful of trimmings of mushrooms, draw the stewpan on one side, to boil the sauce for a quarter of an hour ; skim off the fat, and pass it through a sieve. Then mix it with two dozen mushrooms in quarters, and reduce it on a brisk fire. Eight or ten minutes