270 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. remove the pan immediately over a moderate fire, take the paper off, put live embers on its lid, and glaze the sweetbreads nicely, hasting frequently with their own stock; drain them afterwards, and arrange them round a green-pease-purée, kept a little firm, and placed on the centre of a dish. Pour over the sweetbreads’ stock, strained and skimmed of fat. 635. Stew of lamb, with green-pease. — Cut up two shoulders of lamb into middling-sized squares ; which put into a stewpan with butter, two or three small onions, one carrot, and a bunch of parsley ; set the stewpan on the fire, to fry and color the meat ; season, and let it half-cook ; add to it three parts of a quart of green-pease, and half a pound of bacon in squares; place some live embers on the lid of the stewpan, and finish cooking the stew gently: meat and pease should he done at the same time. When ready to serve, thicken the stew with a little piece of kneaded-butter, and dish it, after having removed the bunch. 636. Stew of Lamb, Spanish fashion. — Cut up a shoulder and a breast of lamb in square pieces ; which put into a shallow stewpan with lard, fry them quickly ; then, when of a nice color, add a few tender artichokes, pared and cut up in quarters, about fifteen small onions, and as many small carrots; fry them a few minutes, season with salt and pepper, moisten with a little broth, which reduce to a glaze ; then add two tomatas in pieces, free of seed, and a small sprig of mint; when the moisture of the tomatas is evaporated, the lamb should be done ; pour into the stew a few spoonfuls of brown-sauce, and two minutes after, dish it up. 637. Stew of Lamb, Valencia fashion. — Cut into middling-sized squares a shoulder and a breast of lamb, put them into a shallow stewpan with lard or butter, fry them on a brisk fire until of a nice color ; then add a small chopped onion, a few spoonfuls of raw ham in dice, a little salt, a teaspoonful of red pepper, and a clove of garlic ; fry the meat a few minutes longer, and moisten to height with broth, boil the liquid for three minutes, then remove the stewpan on a moderate fire. When the lamb is about done, add some rice (one glass of rice to two of liquid) cook the stew for a quarter of an hour longer, with the lid on ; then set the pan on hot ashes, or at the entrance of the oven, so as that the rice, when done, may preserve its grains whole, as in a ‘risot’; afterwards dish it up. 638. Hind-quarters of lamb, roasted. — Get a double quarter of lamb, that is, the two hind-quarters (or both legs with saddle) ; bend the legs to the joint, break the thigh-bone, saw the shank-bones, fold the skirts of the saddle