25 SOUPS. Slice three large onions, fry them to a nice color with butter, on a moderate fire; sprinkle over two small tablespoonfuls of flour, fry this paste a few seconds, and moisten it, by degrees, with two qiiarts of good broth; stir the liquid until boiling, then remove the stewpan back, adding a few sprigs of aromatics, and a j handful of trimmings of mushrooms. Twenty-five minutes after, skim the fat off the soup, strain it through a fine sieve, let it boil up, and thicken it with the purée of duck. 07. Purée of herbs, with potato quenelles. — Slice two leeks, and a savoy-cabbage ; put them into a stewpan with butter; fry gently these vegetables for one hour; then add to them four or five heads of cabbage-lettuce (also sliced), one handful of borage leaves, one of beet, one of sorrel, and a pinch of chervil. All these herbs being done, sprinkle over a tablespoonful of flour, moisten with two quarts of broth ; bring the liquid to ebullition, stirring all the while ; a few minutes after, pass through a sieve. Pour the purée into another stewpan, add the broth requisite, as well as a little sugar ; let it boil, thicken with a liaison of six yolks, diluted with a gill of cream, then finish by introducing into the soup four ounces of butter in small bits ; add to it a garnish of ‘quenelles’. Potato quenelles. — Take about a pound and a quarter of hot potato purée strained at the time, put it into a stewpan, add to it the yolk of five or six eggs, five ounces of butter, salt, nutmeg, and a pinch of sugar. Lay it on the floured table, work it with the hand, drying it off with flour, divide the preparation into three parts, which again cut transversally in pieces. Roll these pieces into a long shape, plunge them into boiling salted water, let the liquid bubble up, remove it back, and three minutes after, drain the ‘quenelles’ with a skimmer. 68. Purée of fowl, with rice. — Put into a stockpot a good fowl and a knuckle of veal ; moisten these meats with cold water, add salt, and set the vessel on the fire; skim the liquid carefully; at the first bubbling, remove it back. Add a piece of turnip, a piece of celery-root, one leek, one onion, two cloves: as soon as the fowl and veal are done, take them out; strain the broth into a stewpan; throw in it four or five handfuls of rice, being neither blanched nor washed ; and continue boiling gently, till the rice be done. Meanwhile, take the white meat of the fowl, cut up, and pound it in a mortar into paste. The rice being done, pour it with the broth over a common sieve, set on a kitchen-basin to receive the broth. With this broth, slightly thickened, dilute the pounded chicken, pass it through a fine sieve or a tammy, then pour the purée into a stewpan ; heat the soup without letting it boil, season and finish it, at the last moment, introducing into it a few spoonfuls of good double cream, as well as a piece of butter.