179 BUTCHER’S MEAT — BEEF. pips, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf. Twenty minutes after, skim off the fat, and strain it into another stewpan; then mix in two tablespoonfuls of red-currant jelly, and after boiling it for a few minutes, take it off the fire. Place the beef on a large dish and pour the sauce over, surround it with a few thin slices of lemon, and send up separately a small dish of salted cucumbers (ogursis), peeled, cut up in pieces, and put back again into shape. 410. Brisket of beef, with purée of peas. — Take a piece of brisket of beef, weighing about eight or ten pounds ; bone, and rub it with salt mixed up witli saltpetre ; place it in a fitting earthen or wooden vessel, sprinkling over salt and saltpetre, add to it peppercorns, aromatics (thyme, bay-leaf and coriander), a handful of brown sugar; put it under weight, and let it pickle thus in a cool place, for a fortnight, turning it several times. When the meat is wanted for use, soak it for a few hours, and boil it in water, proceeding the same as for hams. When ready to serve, drain it, pare it neatly, then dish it up, and pour over a little good gravy, sending up separately a purée of peas, made either with fresh or split peas. 411. Hamburg smoked-beef, with spinach. — The beef of Ham- burg is salted and smoked ; it boasts a great renown in Germany, and is indeed excellent, when recently smoked. The rump, the loin, the ribs, or the brisket, are j salted ; the first of these pieces being usually boned beforehand, then rolled up and trussed. On the contrary, the brisket is smoked with its bones. Take a piece of smoked beef, soak it in cold water for five or six hours, and boil it, proceeding as for hams. When ready to serve, dish it up, pour over a little 1 thickened gravy, and send up separately a garnish of spinach. 412. Entre-côtes (steaks), German fashion. — Cut up a piece of libs of beef, about four or five inches wide, take away the back-bone, shorten the rib-bones, and braise the meat on a moderate fire, with very little stock, ; hasting from time to time, and occasionally turning it; when done, the stock should be reduced to half-glaze ; then take the pan off the fire, and let the meat remain in its stock, until half cold. Drain it on a baking-sheet, let it cool under press. When the meat is cold, pare, and divide it transversally, forming two or three thin steaks; roll these in melted butter, bread-crumb, and broil them on a slow and clear fire, basting them often with butter; when well heated, dish them up. On the other hand, chop one onion, which fry without allowing it to take color, then add to it two tablespoonfuls of good vinegar, and the stock of the piece of beef, 12*