COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 236 pass it through a sieve; then put it into a kitchen-basin, add the fourth part of its volume of blanched fat-bacon cut in small squares, four tablespoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs, and the same of ham in small dice. Choose an earthen pan (terrine), that can stand the heat of the oven, and large enough to hold the quantity of preparation ; till it up, mask the top with thin layers of fat bacon, cover the ‘terrine’ with its lid, and set it in a sauté-pan with a little water, baking it in a moderate oven for two hours. A quarter of an hour after its being out of the oven, cover the preparation with a piece of wood of the interior diainetei* of the ‘terrine’, and set a weight upon it, thus allowing it to cool ; when completely cold, cut it up, then place the ‘terrine’ on its dish, and surround it with aspic-jelly. 556. ‘Pain’ of calf’s liver, French way. — Chop a small onion, fry it with five ounces of melted fat-bacon ; add a bay-leaf, a little thyme, five ounces of fresh bacon in small dice, and at last about a pound and a quarter of sliced calf’s liver. Season with salt, pepper, and spices ; and give the liver a jerk, while over the fire ; when about done, sprinkle over a handful of fresh chopped mushrooms, and ;i few trimmings of truffles, moisten with half a glass of madeira ; which reduce quickly, and take the preparation off the fire to cool. Put into the mortar a piece of panada, about a quarter of the volume of the liver-preparation ; pound it a few seconds, add gradually to the preparation, two whole, and four yolks of eggs; a few seconds after, pass the force-meat through :i sieve ; put it into a kitchen-basin, season, and work it for a few minutes with a spoon. Butter a plain cylindric mould, till it with the preparation, and poach in the ‘bain- marie’ for forty minutes. When ready to serve, turn the ‘pain’ out on a hot dish, and pour over some madeira-sauce. 557. ‘Pain’ of calf’s liver, glazed. — Melt in a frying-pan five ounces of rasped fat-bacon, mix with it a small chopped onion; fry this, without allowing it to take color ; then add a pound and a quarter of sliced calf’s liver, ten ounces of fresh fat-bacon in small dice, a bay-leaf and a little thyme; set the frying-pan on a brisk fire, season, and fry the liver until well done; moisten it afterwards with a quarter of a glass of madeira ; which reduce quickly, then take the preparation off the fire. When cold, pound it with a quarter of its volume of panada, finish it with three yolks of eggs, and pass it through a sieve ; put it then into a kitchen-basin, and add to it a ‘salpicon’ of truffles, tongue, and calf’s udder, boiled, or simply some cooked fat-bacon, the whole cut into middling-sized dice ; the ‘salpicon’ should be about a third the volume of the prepared force-meat. Mask inwardly (at the bottom and on the sides), a large ‘charlotte’-mould with