186 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. Afterwards dish it up on a layer of good sour-crout, pour over a little sauce, and send up the remainder in a sauceboat. 429. Ox-tongue ‘à l’écarlate’, chestnut-purée. — Soak and hoil in water a pickled ox-tongue, for two hours; drain it, in order to remove the skin; place it in a stewpan, garnished with sliced vegetables and aromatics; moisten, to half its height, with broth and white wine; and covering it with a round of paper, finish cooking it gently, occasionally turning it. When nicely glazed, dish it up on a purée of chestnuts, being a little thiekish ; pour a little broth into the cooking- stock, let it boil, skim off its fat, strain, and reduce it to a half-glaze; pour it over the tongue. 430. Ox-tongue, With sorrel. — Having first removed its root, wash a fresh ox-tongue, and put it into a stewpan of tepid water ; set the pan on the fire, and bring it to ebullition ; then drain, and boil it for two hours, simply in water, with vegetables and a bunch of aromatics. Take it out, remove the skin, and place it in a stewpan garnished with vegetables; moisten, to half its height, with gravy and white wine. Cover the stewpan, set it on the fire, reduce the liquid to half, and finish cooking the tongue gently, reducing the moisture to a glaze; being careful to turn it, thus glazing it on both sides. When ready to serve, pour over the dish a puree of sorrel, on which place the tongue, and baste it with the cooking-stock, diluted with gravy, freed of its fat, strained, and reduced into half-glaze. 431. Ox-tongue, Italian-sauce. —Boil ill salted water a fresh ox-tongue; after an hour and a half of ebullition, drain it, remove the skin, interlard it inwardly with fillets of bacon and raw ham. Spread the bottom of a stewpan with a layer of the trimmings of bacon and sliced vegetables, over which put a few trimmings of veal, and then the ox-tongue. Moisten with a little broth, cover the stewpan, place it on the fire, and reduce the moisture to a glaze; moisten the tongue once more, to half its height, with broth and white wine ; cover it with a buttered paper, and finish cooking it on a moderate fire, turning it. When done, drain it, glaze it in the oven, and dish it up with the following sauce : Italian Sauce. — Dilute the cooking-stock of the tongue with a little broth; let it boil, and then pass it through a sieve. Chop up one onion with a few shalôts, put it into a stewpan with a whole clove of garlic; fry it, without allowing it to take color, and add to it a few handfuls of fresh chopped mushrooms in small diep. The moisture of these being evaporated, moisten with the cooking-stock, and thicken with a little brown-sauce. Let the sauce boil on the side of the stove-fire, to clarify ; skim off’ its fat, and reduce it. Add to it five ounces of lean ham, cooked and cut into dice, a few raw truffles, peeled and also cut in dice ; then a quarter of an hour later, place the tongue on a dish, and mask it with the sauce.