COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 360 good apples, trimmed of the core, but not peeled; add also a small bunch of mug- wort (armoise, beifuss); sew up the openings, and truss it; place it in a roasting- pan, spread with the fat drawn out; add a glass of hot water, sprinkle over the goose a little salt, mask it with a buttered paper, and push it into the oven, to roast for three hours, not forgetting to baste it often; it should be well done. Then salt it, remove the string, and dish it up ; skim the fat from the stock in the roasting-pan, mix it with a little good gravy, let it boil, pass, and pour it into a sauceboat. 818. Wild-goose, with sour-crout. — Let a wild goose hang for several days, then pluck it, draw, wash it inwardly, put inside the body a bunch of aromatics; truss it, place it in a fitting braising-pan, previously spread with vege- tables, and trimmings of fat-bacon ; moisten, half its height, with broth and wine; salt slightly, add to it aromatics, cloves, and peppercorns ; cover the goose with a buttered paper ; start the stock to ebullition, draw the pan on a moderate tire ; place some hot ashes on its lid, and braise the goose gently for several hours, being careful to turn, and to probe it. When done, drain it ; divest it of the string, and dish it up on a garnish of sour-crout ; pass the cooking-stock through a sieve, skim the fat off reduce it to half-glaze, and pour it into a sauceboat. 819. Cercelles (or sarcelles), with cardoons. — Draw three cercelles (teal), singe, truss, and set them on the spit, wrap them up in oiled paper, and roast them quickly; two minutes previous to taking them off the lire, remove the paper; then put them into a stcwpan with four tablespoonfuls of white wine, and the same of melted glaze ; set the stewpan on the lire, and reduce the moisture to half ; remove the string from the birds, dish up, and surround them with a garnish of cooked cardoons (see Vegetables); baste with the reduced liquid, and send them up. 820. Rissoles of fat-liver (D. 152). — Prepare a ‘salpicon’ of cooked fat- liver (about ten ounces), and put it into a small covered stewpan. Cut up in small dice a third its volume of raw peeled truffles, and put them by also. Put into a flat stewpan six tablespoonfuls of ‘bechamel’- sauce, and the same of brown-sauce ; reduce them together ; when the sauce is of a good consistence, add to it four tablespoonfuls of madeira, and the ‘salpicon’ of raw truffles ; reduce it stirring, and gradually introducing into it a few tablespoonfuls of melted glaze ; when it is ready, take it off the fire, and mix it with the ‘salpicon’ of fat-liver : there should be sauce enough to thicken the ‘salpicon’ with; if it were too liquid, or too abundant, it would run out of the ‘rissoles’ while cooking. Let the preparation cool completely.