OPINIONS OF THE ENGLISH PRESS 596 seeking, which in this case means purchasing the volume, a visit to this shrine ought not to he fruit- less. But wherefore another Cook’s oracle, it may he asked ; when Ude, Francatelli, Soyer, Jules Gouffé, with a host of minor culinary stars, have done so much to satisfy the demands of artist and epicure alike? It would seem, that a point of honor is involved. Since the days of Vatel, that martyr to an exigeant sense of what was due to his art and to his master, the sensitiveness of artists of the cuisine has been proverbial ; and we can believe, that every pre-eminent officier de bouche regards it as a sacred debt to the employer whose palate he serves, that lie should allow no rival chef to outdo him either in conception or in execution, either in serving a dinner or ball-supper, or in setting out an account of them in print. If we admit this solution, it be- comes manifest why the chef de cuisine of their Truss Majesties, owes it to himself and his Royal patrons, to plunge into the pursuits of literature; and why, when making this plunge, and for a time for- saking the knife and the mould for the pen and the quarto page, etiquette constrains him to do so in a two-guinea volume, wherein the arts of cookery and pastry in general, and the perfection which they attain in the Prussian Court in particular, may he adequately and faithfully celebrated. It is expedient, however, for practical purposes, that we should examine, what this splendid-looking volume is to do for those who master its contents; and if avc may assume at once the standpoint of the many; who do not fare sumptuously every day, or command habitual access to those divitum mensae, at which the Paris Correspondent of a contemporary has always a knife and fork; hut who for the most part live plainly enough to keep the mental vision unenslaved to the tyrant stomach ; we should say that in these pages there is for plain folks, very much to amuse, very much to admire, rather than to envy, and some little to profit by, and to make a note of. To our thinking M. Urbain Dubois is not a tithe as entertaining, companionable, or practicable, as Jules Gouffé; of whom he falls very far short in simplicity, common sense, and engaging frankness. But the most epicurean of readers can hardly fail to he tick- led by the grandiloquence, mystery, and eternal flourish of trumpets, wherewith in this hook Urbain Dubois seeks to exalt his office—an office to which literature, sculpture, architecture, painting, and the fine arts generally are but so many handmaids ; and • every one must he struck with the marked contrast, in this respect, between him and his more practical compatriot. The style of each, in fact, appreciably affects their books. Whilst on closing that of Gouffé we feel, that he has condescended to our level, and put us in good conceit with our limited culinary possibilities, the distant visions of Prussian splen- dor, of which M. Dubois vouchsafes us a myste- rious glimpse, are rendered more remote and unapproachable, by his manifest dislike of descending to aught below regal magnificence, and of con- templating any dinners, which are not for the mo- narch or the millionaire. Even on the point of number of guests, he would be *he very antipodes of Mr. Walker, the editor of the Original, and would shrug his shoulders at the notion of a Christmas- dinner for three, of crimped cod, woodcocks, and plum-pudding; or of a party of six, which sat down, with the aforenamed ‘aristologist’, to spring soup, turbot, ribs of beef, a crab, and some jelly. ‘ The dègree of importance of a dinner’, according to M. Dubois, ‘is indicated by the number of the entrées, which regulates the number of removes, roasts, and entremets ; and if he is alive to the meaning of En- glish adjectives, such dinners of importance must be dull affairs, for he lays down, a propos of bills of fare, that ‘they should be simple, serious, and cor- rect, like the dinners they announce’ Now a really simple dinner may he delightful; a correct dinner, in the sense of a dinner comme il faut, is what most people would appreciate ; but if, from a glance at the carte which details the viands to be partaken of, a guest could get an inkling that the entertainment wras to he ‘serious’, it would he the part of poor generalship, if he did not invent an excuse, and beat a retreat in limine. We surmise, however, that the author is not so solicitous about the exact meaning of his epithets, as about their grandeur and sonorousness, and that the sentence we have quoted is really a hit at some unnamed entertainers, who ‘provide too long a bill of fare for too short a dinner;’ and that our surmise is not unfounded, may be gathered from one or two sam- ples of fine language which, if they do not add to the amount of information given in Artistic Cookery, at any rate contribute to the amusement derivable from it. Thus in p. 7 he tells us that ‘hâtelets’ (». c. the ornaments variously applicable to ‘cold pieces’, relevés, and entrees) are the ‘diamonds of cookery, only to be shown on solemn occasions, and applied to such pieces as are worthy of such an honor’; but although he suggests that hâtelets should not be counterfeit or inedible, for fear an epicure should take a fancy to a sham crayfish or eock’s-comb; it does not seem to have occurred to him, that the comparison to diamonds would be all the more forcible, if the inedible hâtelets were liken- ed to the paste jewellery which so frequently coun- terfeits the real article. Another rich sample of fine language is to be found in his directions for ‘carp à la Chambord.’ ‘ I may say,’ he writes, ‘that the carp is a fish of opportuneness, rather than of luxury’—a distinction, which reminds us of a story told of a country amphitryon in our younger days, who used to be seen, net in hand, running down to his fish-pond to catch a carp, just as the carriages were setting down the guests for his dinner-party. Indeed, so great is M. Dubois’s fondness for tall talk about the works of his calling, that we are led to think he has contracted it from the daily habit of constructing pyramids and light- houses and towers and rocks, of gum-paste and almond-paste, and icing-sugar, and what-not. Other- wise it would be hard to divine the meaning of such a sentence as the following, in reference to ‘removes of meat’ :— ‘Removes of meat, like those of fish, possess the privilege, over other dishes, of being served in voluminous forms, without overstepping the rules that are admitted and tolerated ; this prerogative is certainly consistent and logical; hold proportions are in unison with those pieces of meat, which represent in our eyes the strength and sturdiness of the robust animals, which man, who rules the earth, subjugates by his intelligence, and appoints to be his food.’