572 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. smooth, cover the ice-box ; ten minutes after, take the ice up with a large spoon, dish it, in a pyramid, on a folded napkin, and surround with little cakes. 1262. Red-currant-ice. — Pour into a kitchen-basin six gills of juice of red-currants ; add to it a pound of powder-sugar, a little orange-zest, and the juice of a few oranges and lemons, according to the acidity of the currants. The sugar being well dissolved, pass the preparation repeatedly, through a sieve : it should give 22° R. 81° F. of the syrup-scale ; then pour it into an ice-box, being previously embedded, and let it freeze, proceeding as already said. 1263. Nut-ice, with cream. — Cream-ices, generally, are composed with some cooked cream ; which has been denominated crème Anglaise. English-cream. — I will for the first, give the description of this cream. Put seven or eight yolks of eggs into a stewpan, add nearly three quarters of a pound of powder-sugar; work the preparation with a wooden-spoon, as for biscuit; when frothy, dilute it with four gills of boiling milk; add a stick of vanilla, cut up; stir the cream over the fire, till well thickened, but without allowing it to boil. Pour the cream into a kitchen-basin, add six tablespoonfuls of fresh nuts, pounded with a few sweet almonds ; let it cool, stir from time to time, pass through a sieve, let it freeze in the ice-box, proceeding as indicated (see No. 1258). 1264. Truffle-ice. — I had often heard the goodness and fine quality of truffle-ice contested. Therefore I had a mind to prepare some myself, being thus best enabled to judge the truth of that assertion ; and then I learnt that this pre- paration was well worth the attention of ‘gourmets’. Let me request all sceptics not to dispute this, without having tasted of such an ice. Peel four fresh black truffles, being very carefully cleansed, let their trimmings infuse in five gills of boiling milk ; ten minutes after, pass the infusion through a sieve, and with it, six yolks of eggs, and ten ounces of sugar, prepare an English- cream. When cooled, let it freeze in an ice-box, or an ice machine. Mince the truffles, and plunge them into a little boiling syrup; immediately take the stewpan off the fire, and let the truffles cool in the syrup ; then drain, pound, and pass them through a sieve; mix the syrup in this ‘purée’, which dilute with a little of the previously prepared ice, thus cooling it effectually ; pour it gra- dually into the ice-box, thus mixing it up with the ice, which must be got quite firm, by working it hard. When about to serve, dish it in a rock-shape on a folded napkin. 1265. Ginger-ice. — Prepare an English-cream (see No. 1263) with four gills of milk, eight yolks of eggs, twelve ounces of sugar, a little zest of orange or