FISH. 103 237. Pike, ‘soya’-sauce (D. 26). — Choose a gold-coated pike, weighing six or eight pounds; scale it, cleanse it, truss the head, and make small incisions on the back, the knife penetrating as deep as the spine-bone. Then place it, on its belly, on the drainer of a fish-kettle ; salt, and moisten till covered, with white wine and water, half and half. Add a few minced vegetables, a bunch of parsley, and some peppercorns. Set the tish-kettle on the fire, at the first bubbling remove it back, and Fig. 26. cook the fish, without ebullition, for one hour. Drain it, and slip it on to a dish covered with a napkin ; surround it with fresh parsley, and serve separately the following sauce : Soya-saucc. — With a pint of the fish-stock strained and cooled, prepare a butter- sauce (sec No. 2U1), keeping it a little thick; when of a little consistence, add two tablespoonfuls of good soya, and finish by introducing five ounces of good butter in small parts. 238. White-bait omelet, Neapolitan fashion. — Take two handfuls of white-bait (ianchetti) ; drain them on a cloth, and keep them on ice, until cooking- time. Break into a kitchen-basin seven or eight eggs ; which season with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley ; beat them with a whisk, and mix in the fish previously seasoned. Warm about a gill of oil or melted butter in a frying-pan ; pour in the beaten eggs with the fish, and thicken the omelet, stirring it slightly with a fork; turn them out with the aid of a plate, baste the bottom of the frying-pan with a little oil or butter, put the omelet again into it, to finish; and then without folding it, slip it on to a circular dish. 230. Pike, Polish fashion. — Select a fine river-pike, remove its skin, draw the fish, and divide it in thick pieces tronçons’). Mince a ‘julienne’ composed of carrot, celery, and parsley-roots ; slightly blanch these vegetables in salted water. Mince an onion, put it into a stewpan with butter, and fry till of a nice gold- color; add to the above the pieces of fish, season them, fry them for ten minutes, moisten to their height with white wine ; let the liquid boil, add to it the minced vegetables. Boil the fish, letting the liquid reduce to half; then thicken it with a