83 FISH. 193. Fried slices of salmon. — Cut three or four thin slices of salmon; when cleansed and dried, season, flour, dip them into beaten eggs and bread-crumbs, and plunge them into hot hog’s lard. Fry them for ten or twelve minutes; and when of a nice color, drain them, and sprinkle them with salt; dish them on a folded nap- kin, and surround them with halves of lemon. 194. Slices of salmon, ‘gourmets’-sauce. (D.17.)—Take four slices of salmon, one inch thick, from the centre of the fish ; wash, dry them on a cloth, and Fig. 17. plunge them into a boiling ‘court-bouillon’ with wine. At the first bubbling, remove the stewpan back; cover it, and keep the liquid at the same degree without boiling. Ten or twelve minutes after, drain the slices of salmon, dry them on a cloth, and i arrange them ‘à cheval’ on a folded napkin; surround them with green parsley, put on each side a group of potatoes, boiled in salted water, and send up separately the following: sauce : ‘Gourmets’-sauce. — Boil in a stewpan about three parts of a glass of meat- glaze, with four tablespoonfuls of purée of tomatas; remove the sauce back from the fire, and gradually introduce into it, working with a spoon, six ounces of crayfish- ! butter in small bits. The sauce having thickened, mix with it a tablespoonful of good vinegar, and finish with a pinch of chopped taragon, and the same of slialot, chopped fine, and blanched. 195. Mayonnaise of salmon, with jelly. — Cut up in slices about two pounds of raw salmon without bones; sprinkle these slices with a little salt, place them, one beside the other, on the drainer of a small fish-kettle, and plunge them into a boiling ‘court-bouillon.’ Give the liquid two bubblings, and remove the pan back. Ten minutes after, take out the fish, and let it cool. When ready to serve, turn out a border of jelly on a dish, mask the bottom of the cavity with a layer of mayon- naise, on which place alternately slices of salmon with mayonnaise. The top is like- wise covered with mayonnaise. u*