COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 40 first bubbling, remove it back. Add one carrot, one onion, one leek, two cabbage- lettuces, and a piece of celery-root. One hour after, throw two middling - sized common chickens into the broth ; take them out, as soon as done ; pass the liquid, through a napkin, into a stewpan ; bring it to ebullition, skim the fat, and add eight ounces of blanched rice ; continuing the ebullition, until the rice be quite done. Meanwhile, cut the chickens into joints, which pare neatly; place in the soup- tureen, and pour the soup over. 111. Thrush-purée soup, German fashion.— Pour into a stewpan four pints of game-stock for thickened soup (see No. 90); keep it in ebullition on the corner of the fire. Truss two dozen thrushes, have them roasted ; when cold, take half of them, take the fillets of the others, mince these fillets in julienne’, and shut them inside a little stewpan ; remove the livers, and intestines; have these pounded separately; pass them through a sieve. Pound the remaining half of the thrushes, as well as the bones of the others, and add fifteen boiled chestnuts ; dilute the preparation with the warm game - stock for soup. Put the soup back into the stewpan; let it boil, then remove it to the corner of the fire ; add a bunch of parsley garnished with aromatics ; let it clarify for twenty-five minutes, then skim its fat, pass it through a sieve, warm it, and add the purée of thrushes’ livers, mixed with a little soup, and a small part of the intestines, cooked and passed through a sieve ; but only a little of the intestines must be taken, as they would render the soup too bitter. When ready to serve, thicken the soup with six yolks of eggs, heat it sufficiently, pour it into the soup-tureen, passing it through a fine colander, add the minced fillets of the thrushes^ and serve. 112. English knuckle-of-veal-soup. — Choose two small fresh knuc- kles of veal ; wash, and put them into a small stockpot with a raw ham-bone ; moisten with four or five quarts of cold water ; skim the liquid carefully, and when it begins to boil, draw it on the'side of the stovê. Add to it two leeks, one celery-root, and half a pound of rice, picked and washed ; continue boiling, until the meat of the knuckles be done: they should remain rather firm. Meanwhile wash seven or eight lettuces, blanch and braise them. Peel a cu- cumber, divide it in pieces ; which pieces cut in quarters, trim, boil in salted water ; drain, fry them in butter, and remove them back. Boil in salted water two handfuls of asparagus-heads, and as much of green peas. A short while before serving, drain the lettuces, and press all the fat out ; cut each of them in three parts, place them in a soup-tureen with the asparagus-heads,