GAME. — HARE. 423 Fry the meat over a brisk tire; when its moisture is reduced, add to it about a pound of streaky bacon, previously blanched, and cut up in large squares; then, a few minutes after, moisten the whole with a bottle of red Avine ; cover the stewpan, and reduce the liquid to three fourths. Sprinkle over the meats three tablespoonfuls of flour, moisten to height with hot broth, add a handful of trimmings of fresh mush- rooms; and stir the sauce until boiling: the sauce should be then plentiful, and not very thick. Cover the stewpan, and live minutes after, draw it over a moderate tire, with hot ashes on the lid. Boil the stew thus for two or three hours, according to the degree of tenderness of the hare, being careful to probe the meat from time to time. When the hare is done, skim the fat away from the sauce, take up the pieces one by one with the aid of a fork, and arrange them evenly in another stewpan ; take up also the bacon with a skimmer, and place it with the pieces of meat. Add to the sauce a little white wine, or some gravy ; pass it through a sieve, and reduce it over a brisk tire, thus giving it proper consistence ; thicken it then with the blood, let it boil up, and pour it over the meats ; let the ‘civet’ simmer for a few minutes (without ebullition), dish it up, and garnish it Avith three or four dozen small glazed onions. 949. Hunters’ civet. -— Cut up in pieces the back, loins, and liind-legs, of a hare, proceeding as in the former article ; let it marinate for two or three hours. With six ounces of butter, and six of flour, prepare a light brown ‘roux’ ; then add to it the pieces of hare, previously drained and wiped ; fry them over a brisk lire, turning; when of a nice color, moisten to height Avith red and Avhite Avine, half of each ; add to it the liquid of the marinade, the aromatics and onion ; let the sauce boil for rive or six minutes, and draw the steAvpan over a very slow tire, Avith hot ashes on its lid. On the other hand, chop two large onions, put them into a frying-pan with rive ounces of lard, fry them on a moderate fire, allowing them to take a little color ; then add to it the liver, lungs, and heart, previously minced ; season with salt and a point of cayenne pepper ; toss them on the fire, until well done. Moisten with a few spoon- fuls of madeira, reduce the Avine on a slow tire, thus cooking the onions at the same time ; afterwards thicken the preparation with two tablespoonfuls of sauce, and pour it into a mortar to pound it, after which pass it through a sieve ; let it cool, and rill Avith it a dozen round bread-’croûtons’, fried and emptied. Glaze the preparation with a paste-brush, and keep the ‘croûtons’ hot. A quarter of an hour previous to serving, that is, the ‘civet’ nearly done ; skim off the fat, then take up each piece of hare with a fork, and arrange them evenly in a steAvpan ; slightly dilute the sauce, and pass it through a sieve, over the pieces of