GAME. — PHEASANT. 371 separately a sauceboat of good gravy, reduced together with the trimmings of the truffles. 838. Young pheasants, Piémont fashion. — Singe and cut up two small pheasants, each of them in five or six parts. With the necks, gizzards, leg-bones, and hacks, prepare a little extract; when ready, strain it, skim off the fat; 'reduce, and thicken it with a little sauce. Put the legs of the pheasants into a flat stewpan with butter to fry them ; when half-done, add to them the wings and breasts, two small sliced onions, six ounces of ham cut in dice, and a bunch of parsley with aromatics : finish cooking the pheasants gently, turning now and then, with fire on the lid of the pan, or at the entrance of the oven. When done, remove the pieces on to a plate, trim them, and remove the drum-stick from the legs ; then drain the butter off the stewpan, and pour into it the extract of pheasant ; a few minutes after, take out the onions and aromatics, remove the stewpan off the fire, and put the pieces of pheasant into the sauce, to heat them without ebullition. On the other hand, prepare a small ‘risot’ with ten ounces of rice (see No. 783); when finished with parmesan and butter, heap it up into a border-mould, keep it a few minutes in a warm-closet, and turn the border out of the mould on a dish ; fill the cavity with white ‘Piémont’ truffles, sliced raw, then dish over these the legs of pheasant, the wings and breasts, on the top ; pour a little sauce over the entrée, and send up the remainder in a sauceboat. 839. Pheasant, Silesia fashion. — The pheasants of Silesia are re- nowned all over Germany, though far from rivaling in excellence those of Bohemia. Here follows the receipt of a national dish of this rich province, very much relished and admired by epicures. Wash two pounds of good sour-crout, and place it in a stewpan with ten ounces of goose-fat, and twelve ounces of salt pork, previously washed and blanched in water; moisten the sour-crout with half a pint of broth, let the liquid boil, close the stewpan hermetically, and draw it on to a moderate fire, with live embers on the lid, ! or bake it in a slack oven. Get a good pheasant of the season, fat and kept-hung till tender, but without excess ; pluck, draw, truss, and put it into a stewpan with a little goose-fat, to fry it on a brisk fire, and color it. On the other hand, blanch six dozens of Ostend or Holstein oysters, with a glass of white wine ; at the first bubbling drain them, preserving their liquor, refresh them, beard, and keep them covered in a small stewpan. With the liquor of the oysters, and a little good broth, prepare some white-sauce, slightly thickened.