COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 44 122. Lamb-soup, Greek fashion. — Cut a shoulder of Iamb in mid- dling-sized pieces ; which put into a stewpan with one sliced onion, and some butter, fry on the lire till of a nice color, shake over one tablespoonful of flour, the same of curry-powder; two minutes after, moisten with three or four quarts of broth ; add a few trimmings of raw ham, and a few sprigs of parsley. As soon as the liquid has bubbled up, remove the stewpan back, and finish cooking the lamb. Now pass the stock, through a sieve, into another stewpan; add to it half a pound of rice, boiled in plenty of water, in order to keep the grains whole : continue boiling it gently for ten minutes. Meanwhile, bone the pieces of lamb, and place them in a soup-tureen. Thicken the soup with three yolks of eggs, diluted with cream; pass the soup through a tine colander into the tureen. 123. Hodge-podge; i. e. Scottish ‘hoche-pot’. — This soup is of Scottish origin and composition ; even if the name be French. It is but rarely served in England ; but with the Scots it bears the character of a national dish. This soup is only to be prepared in summer, that is, beginning from the month of June, this being the time, when fresh vegetables make their appearance in Scotland. Put into a stockpot two to three pounds of boned beef, and half a boned* shoulder of mutton. Moisten with live quarts of cold water, add a pinch of salt, set the stockpot on the Are, skim the liquid ; at the first bubbling, remove it back. After one hour and a half, take of all the fresh vegetables that the season offers; such as cabbage, lettuce, celery, onion, leek, carrot, turnip, and green - peas ; the last three being particularly requisite. In countries producing spruce-asparagus, these may be added ; but in Scotland there are none. Cut up in small dice, the cabbage, lettuce, leek, celery, onion, carrot, and turnip; which vegetables add to the broth, beginning by those taking more time, and adding last the most tender ones: the heads of asparagus, and peas, are put in last of all. When ready to serve, drain the meats of the stockpot, pour the soup into a tureen, without mixing with it, either the cooked meat, or the chopped parsley, or the barley. In Scotland the cooks sometimes thicken the broth with a pinch of arrowroot diluted, but this method is not generally adopted. 124. Fresh shtchi-soup, Russ fashion. — Prepare a stock-pot of broth with beef, bacon, and a good duck, proceeding as indicated in No. 3(3. Chop two onions, which fry with butter in a stewpan ; mix them with two tablespoonfuls of flour, which fry for a few moments, then dilute gradually with two * The method of boning meats is preferable, if vegetables are to be cooked with them ; the remaining of small bones in the soup is avoided, a thing very disagreeable for those who meet with it. .