BUTCHER'S MEAT. — PORK. 281 outside in relief. To poach the eggs, it suffices to pour them into such a colander, placed over the boiling syrup. As soon as firm, drain them with a skimmer, and spread them carefully over a sieve, moistening them with cold water, so as to hinder their adhering one to the other. Then dish them round the ham. 663. Cold-pie, to be carved (D. 102 and 103). — The mould, repre- sented by the drawing, is of tin ; it is about two feet long, and two inches and a half wide, at the mouth, or aperture; it rests on two straight supports, placed at its extremities. These pies are convenient for lunch, and supper. Fig. 102. Fig. 103. Butter the mould, line it then with short-paste, which keep thin. Prepare a fine raw mince, composed of lean veal, and fat bacon, in equal parts; take about a third part of the volume of this mince, of poultry-livers fried with bacon and aromatics, then cooled ; pound them in a mortar, gradually adding to them the raw mince. Season the preparation with salt, and good spices, put it into a kitchen-basin, add to it a few spoonfuls of blanched bacon cut in small dice, and the same of raw truffles, likewise cut in dice. With this preparation till the mould, cover the pie, carefully soldering the paste on to the sides. Contrive three holes in the top of the pie, one of which in the middle, the two others on the sides; egg the paste, push the pie into a moderate oven ; ten minutes after, cover with paper, and bake it for an hour. On taking the pie out of the oven, leave it still in the mould ; two hours after, filter into it, by means of the three apertures, some good tepid aspic-jelly. Keep the pie cool. , The second drawing of this article represents the pie, cut on one side. 664. American-ham. — Hams from America are now-a-days common on the continent, and in England sought by amateurs ; they arc generally very large, weighing sometimes as much as thirty pounds; still it is preferable to choose those of middling-size (eighteen or twenty pounds), as they are generally more tender. The people selling these hams pretend to receive them from certain regions of the United States, where the hogs roam pretty nearly wild over the vast forests; where to be caught, they must be shot. I have never been enabled to verify the truth of this assertion, but if the truth be so, it cannot but improve the qualities of the meat of those animals.