108 COSM( )POLITAN COOKERY. them un a cloth ; flour, and arrange them, one beside the other, in a stewpan, spread on the bottom with butter; moisten, to three-parts their height, with vinegar; add a bunch of parsley with aromatics, a pinch of pepper, two tablespoonfuls of red-cur- rant jelly, two handfuls of raisins, and a few peeled shred almonds. Let the prepa- ration boil, close the stewpan hermetically, and put it on a very slow tire, with hot ashes on the lid, stewing the tish thus for one hour. When ready to serve, color the sauce with a few drops of caramel, and dish it up ; at each end of the dish, place a group of horse-radish forming stripes. 252. Curried tench. — Choose two or three good tench, plunge them into hot water ; as soon as boiling, remove them to be scaled ; then drain them, remove the fins, and divide them into pieces ; which steep for one hour in plenty of fresh water; drain, and dry them on a cloth. !Slice an onion, fry it in a stewpan with butter, add the pieces of tench, toss them over the fire for a few minutes, in order to get the fish dry and firm ; season, and sprinkle over them two tablespoonfuls of curry-powder, mixed with a little flour. Tavo minutes after, moisten the fish (till covered) with a glass of Avhite wine, and hot water; add a bunch of parsley, a bay-leaf, a little salt, peppercorns and cloves; cover the stewpan, and boil the tench for ten minutes ; remove the stewpan back. Ten minutes after, take out the pieces of tench with a fork, and dish them. Reduce the sauce quickly, and thicken it with two or three yolks of eggs, diluted with a little raw cream; cook the ‘liaison’ without letting it boil, finish it with the juice of a lemon, passing it through a sieve o\Ter the tench. 253. Stewed tench. — Cleanse two or three tench, leave them to macerate for a quarter of an hour Avith a handful of salt, then spunge, or Avipe them dry. Chop up a large onion, a carrot, and a piece of celery ; which vegetables fry in an oblong stewpan with oil or butter; add a bunch of parsley Avitli aromatics, a clove of garlic not peeled, pepper, cloves, and trimmings of fresh mushrooms; put in the tench, Avhich moisten to three parts of its height with white Avine ; boil the liquid, and five minutes afterwards, remove the stewpan back, putting hot embers on its lid. Thus steAv the tench for tAventy-five minutes ; take them out Avith a skimmer, and range them on a dish. Thicken the stock with a piece of kneaded-butter, boil it a Avhile, and pass it through a sieve. Finish the sauce Avith a pinch of cayenne, a pinch of chopped parsley, and the juice of a lemon ; pour it over the tench. 254. Tench, Silesian fashion. — Cleanse two tench, cut them up in pieces ; which arrange in a fiat stewpan with a small ‘julienne’, composed of celery and par- sley roots, carrots and onions ; these vegetables should be previously blanched. Add