COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 340 larded parts of the fillets, and salamander them ; now immediately remove the layer of bacon, carefully wipe the fat off the cylinder, and slip the turban on to a round dish; which warm underneath, then adorn it (by the aid of ‘repère’), with a border of English-paste or ‘nouille’ paste ; and keep it in the warm-closet for a few minutes. Fill the cylinder of the turban with a garnish composed of cocks’-combs and truffles; which mask with a little brown-sauce, reduced with madeira, and send up separately the remainder of the sauce. This entrée is dished up, to go on the table. ,774. Chicken-fillets, Java fashion. — Let soften in cold water five or six swallows’ nests {salant)anas), which cleanse properly, and let them poach in poultry-broth. Take chicken-fillets, pare them according to the common rules, salt and sprinkle over both sides curry-powder; place them in a ‘sauté’-pan with clarified butter, and let them poach on a brisk fire, turning them; drain, and pare them again; put them back into the ‘sauté’-pan, roll them (off the fire) in a little succulent ‘veloute’- sauce, finished with a pinch of cayenne, and dish them in circular order on a bottom of force-meat poached on the dish. Drain the swallow-nests from out of the ^consommé’, season, place them in a ‘sauté’-pan, thicken them with a few tablespoon- fuls of sauce, and range them in the hollow of the entrée. Slightly mask the fillets with a little ‘velouté’, the remainder of which sauce send up separately. 775. Chickens sautés, Spanish fashion. — Take two chickens, cut in pieces, sprinkle over salt and Spanish red pepper. Melt four ounces of lard in a frying-pan, put in the legs of chicken, and half-fry them, while turning over; then add to it the wings and breasts, two chopped onions, a clove of garlic, and a hunch of parsley with aromatics ; seven or eight minutes after, add ten ounces of raw ham cut into thin squares. The chickens being done, take them out, and put into the frying-pan four nice tomatas, without seed, and cut in squares ; season them slightly, reduce their moisture over a brisk fire ; add the chickens, and baste them with a few tablespoonfuls of melted glaze ; warm them without ebullition, and dish them up with the tomatas all round. 776. Ragout of ‘sot-l’y-laisse’. — The ‘sot-l’y-laisse’ (there-fools- leave-it) is that tender part of the meat lying on either side of the backs of all sorts of poultry, directly under the flat bone binding the back to the breast. This piece of meat is very large in turkeys, poulards, and capons. It is a delicate and good dish, but of which the preparation is only possible on occasions, when numerous roasts of poultry are served. Slip off the ‘sot l’y laisse’ from the backs of seven or eight cooked pullets ; pare, place them in a small stewpan, and mix them with a few button-mushrooms split in