COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 240 hour, ns its weight is of pounds ; that is, a leg of six pounds must boil for an hour and a half, but the main point, not to be neglected, is, that the leg be quite done, just at the moment of serving. Drain the leg, as well as the turnips ; place them on a dish, and keep it warm ; mash the turnips, season them, mix in a little cream and butter; serve in a small deep dish. Put a ruffle to the knuckle of the leg, surround it with a garnish of various vegetables, boiled either in salted water or steam, mask the leg, very slightly, with a little butter-sauce ; send up in a sauceboat the remainder of the sauce, mixed with a pinch of small capers preserved in vinegar. 502. Leg of mutton, in ‘pot-pourri’. — Bone completely a leg of mut- ton, without opening it ; lard it inwardly with fillets of bacon, and of raw ham ; sew it to a round form, put it into a kitchen-basin, season, add to it some aromatics, cloves, and peppercorns ; pour over a bottle of good burgundy wine, cover the basin with a cloth, and keep it in a cool place for four hours. Six hours previous to serving, spread the bottom and sides of an earthen stock- pot with layers of bacon, put the leg of mutton thereon, and surround it with a few middling-sized onions, four large carrots in pieces, a pound of blanched pork- rinds divided into squares. Pour over the leg, the liquid and the ingredients of the marinade; cover the stockpot with a round of paper, and a deep plate, half full of water, set it on the fire, let the liquid boil ; then set the pan on hot ashes, sur- rounding half its height. The liquid should boil very gently, and be kept at the same degree during the whole time of cooking. This being completed, drain, and dish it up with the garnishes round,‘skim the fat off the cooking-stock, which strain over the leg. 5G3. Leg of Ardennes-mutton, Flemish fashion. — The genuine mutton of the Ardennes is small, its flesh being very black, delicate, and of an excellent aroma. Pare a leg of Ardennes-mutton, break up the sinew by folding it, and set it afterwards in a deep oval dish. Baste it with a pint of cooked marinade about cold, pour it over the leg, and let it macerate for six hours, turning from time to time ; drain it afterwards, wipe it on a cloth, put it into a roasting-pan with lard, which push into an oven, giving a nice color to all its surface ; then moisten with the marinade-stock, freed of fat, and strained ; cover it with paper, and finish cooking, basting frequently. When done, strain the cooking-stock into a stewpan, skim off the fat, reduce it to half-glaze, and thicken with a little brown-sauce ; a few minutes after, mix with the sauce a tablespoonful of red-currant jelly ; and, as soon as this is dissolved, take it off the fire. Drain the leg, put a ruffle on it, dish up, and pour the sauce over.