586 OPINIONS OF THE ENGLISH PRESS unregarding servants out of sight. That very much might he done to improve the aspect of a dinner- table is certain, but we doubt if it is in M. Dubois’ direction tbat improvement should be sought. In the first place, we have not yet by anv means hit on a perfect form of dinner-table. The old square or oval affair, demanded by M. Dubois’ theory, is abominable from every point of view. It requires decoration on the pyramidal system, to prevent it from looking ‘flat,’ in a wav suggestive of a restau- rant, wants in silversmiths’ language the ‘épergne’ in the centre, with which M. Dubois, in his very artistic plate, has very judiciously adorned it. Now an épergne, or a lamp, or a tall vase of flowers, or anything above a foot high, put on a dinner-table, may encrease the pictorial effect as one enters, but is a decided nuisance after one has sat down, per- petually crossing the line of sight, and turning con- versation at any distance into a series of grotesque contortions. It helps the broad table to limit one’s power of talk to the next sitter, who may perhaps be talking to some one still farther down, and thus to make silent loneliness in the midst of a dinner, a possibility. That is surely, even in the estimation of a chef, to turn Faradise into Purgatory. With a round table the effect of a raised centre-piece is even worse ; for there it is constantly quenching a hope, as constantly reviving. With a square table one knows one’s fate, and submits to be bored or amu- sed at the discretion of one’s partner; but with a round table there is always hope, if only the service docs not interrupt the view, and compel every guest to look as if he were peeping round a corner. A large round table, with nothing tall on it, a ‘sunlight’ flashing down, a good dinner in course of serving, and a pleasant group around it, presents, we admit, all the materials of pleasure ; but even this might, we conceive, be improved on by art. The guests are too far off from each other, to feel that each is the other’s neighbour in the social, if not the Scriptural sense; too apt to realise the truth, that the modern world, with all its attention to dinner, and all its marvelous mechanical skill, has not yet discovered the secret of a dining-table; that there is, in fact, no such thing, but only a table on which a dinner may be put. Gillow himself does not make tables for dining and nothing else. A series of little tables would be good ; but that arrangement leaves the groups too isolated, too dependent on the host’s skill in parceling his guests—a matter in which etiquette constantly inter- feres with judgment—and it absolutely precludes anything like broad pictorial effect. There is no opportunity, either for grouping, or for color; while it is difficult, if not impossible, to remove an im- pression of the restaurant. The true idea, we con- ceive, is one, which would be inconvenient in all but the very greatest English houses, a table of any length , but so narrow, tbat every guest would look into the eyes of his opposite neighbour, and be able to talk at ease to at least five persons, three opposite and one on each side. To give such a table, which is by nature ugly, a fine pictorial effect, it ought to present to the in-comer a sort of ribbon, a long strip of well-arranged and exceedingly bright co- lors ; but that effect is surely not beyond the reach of the human intellect. Range flowers—not flower- pots, but cut flowers embedded in moss—in open order, down the centre, as carefully as they would be arranged in a bed in a grandly designed garden ; and heap on each side glass, silver, and fine china; and there would be produced an effect, which no eye sensitive to color could behold, without that sense of content, which is the highest of the calmer gratifi- cations. There is no good reason , if expense is once forgotten, why the ground-color of the picture should be white, though white is very effective ; and still less, why the china should be of the subdued tint modern taste affects, why the glass should all be like water solidified into shapes, and why the napkins should be made of starched white linen. There is no earthly reason, except expense, why the carafes should not be of the proper substance lo hold water, porous clay susceptible of any color and any pattern ; the finger glasses, of red Bohemian glass, or far better, of that wonderful amber which glows so in false light; the wine-glasses, of three colors, so arranged as to form with the finger- glasses a bouquet; and the napkins, of the intense scarlet or purple, which best throws up all other shades ; or why half the silver should not be frosted. To a dinner-table so arranged, the only objection would be a certain absence of special purpose, of separateness from other tables ; and that could be obviated, if between every chair stretched out from the table a kind of arm intended to hold the condi- ments, which no one cares to do without, which no one wishes to wait for, and which no servant ever brings without a special order. The arm, too, be- sides breaking the hard lines of the table, would prevent crowdiug, and admit of an improvement at dinner, cruelly required, a really luxurious chair to sit in. We English have, we believe, invented a drawing-room and library chair, on which improve- ment is not possible, a chair for which Nero would have given a prize ; but our dining - room chair, though better than our fathers’, is still deficient, wearies the neck, obliges us to submit to the weari- ness of carrying our own arms. Seated in the chairs of our dream, with pleasant guests opposite, and therefore visible, and yet near enough to talk to, with brilliant color on every side, and with no scent save that of the flowers, dinner should arrive imperceptibly, each dish in the simplest form, in which it can be enjoyed, and most easily transferred to its proper place, the plates before the guests. Perish M. Dubois, his marvelous shapes, and in- comparable, but superfluous hâtelets ! They are but worries and distractions at the best, gross inter- ferences with the idea of a good dinner, worthy only of millionaires, who do not want to entertain you, but only to make you feel, how vast must be the fortune, to which waste like theirs is imper- ceptible. They haVe their function, as well as royal- ties; but neither of them, if guided by M. Dubois, will in any wise advance the true art of banqueting, that gratification of the feeding animal, which is so scientific, so connected with intellectual excitement, that wise men cease to reckon it among the truly sensual enjoyments. The Spectator, Feb. 5, 1870.