FISH. 101 South of France ; but Genoa and Naples also produce some very excellent ones. These shell-fish are only served alive ; as in losing their life, they also lose their quality. They are simply served on a deep dish with a little fresh water. 233. ‘Galantine’ of eel, with jelly (D. 25). — Prepare a ‘galantine’ of eel, proceeding as said in No. 288. When cold, cut it transversally in slices, not too thin ; which adorn with taragon or chervil-leaves, cover with a thin coating of aspic, pare, and keep them on ice. Fig. 25. Boil a few dozen small crayfish ; when cold remove their tails, which pick, pare, and keep them in a cool place. Let a plain border-mould be embedded in pounded ice ; adorn its sides with details of gerkins, cut in triangular forms, taking cai’e to dip them in half-set aspic; afterwards, fill the mould with jelly, and keep it on ice for one hour. When about to serve, dip the mould in hot water, in order to turn the border out on to a dish ; immediately fill the cavity of this border with a salad of vegetables, thickened with mayonnaise, dishing it up in pyramids, and placing the crayfish- tails all round, in circles, having dipped them in half-set jelly, to fix them. Place on the border a circle of slices of decorated ‘galantines’, glazed with aspic-jelly. Send up separately a sauceboatful of mayonnaise. 234. Hot eel-pie. — Kill a middling-sized river - eel ; skin it, cleanse it well, trim away its head, and divide the body into pieces, two inches long ; bone and season the flesh inwardly, and tie them up. Fry in butter three tablespoonfuls of chopped onion ; when of a nice color, add the pieces of eel, give them a jerk from time to time on the fire ; on which keep them for ten minutes, sprinkle over five or six spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, and moisten with the quarter of a glass of madeira. Add to the above a bunch of parsley, garnished with aromatics; boil the pieces till their moisture be reduced, then pour over four tablespoonfuls of good glaze ; let it cool in the stewpan, and skim off it the string.