SWEET ENTREMETS. — BAKED-ICES. 573 lemon; when cold, let it freeze in the ice-box, until well thickened. Pound half a pound of preserved ginger, pass it through a sieve, dilute first with a few table- spoonfuls of rum, then with a few tablespoonfuls of the previously prepared ice. Now pour it into the ice-box, work the ice for a few minutes more ; when quite firm, dish it in a rock-shape on a folded napkin, and serve immediately. 1266. Iced rice, with orange (D. 288 and 289). — Pour into a little ldtchen-basin three gills of cold syrup, perfumed with orange ; add to it live or six Fig. 288. Fig. 289. clarified leaves of ‘gélatine’, as well as the juice of two oranges ; stir the liquid on the ice, till it begins to thicken ; then introduce into it a pint of whipped cream ; the mixture operated, immediately pour the preparation into a dome-shaped mould, em- bedded with pounded and salted ice, in a basket. Close the mould with a piece of paper, then with its lid ; immediately lute its joints with butter or raw paste, cover it also with ice, and keep it thus for forty minutes. When ready for sei’ving, quickly wash the mould, then dip it into tepid water, and turn the rice out on a dish, covered with a folded napkin. The two drawings, added to this article, represent the mould (frappé) embedded with salted ice (D. 288). When the mould has been filled with the preparation, it must be covered also with a thick layer of pounded and salted ice. It is this second operation, which is represented by the drawing (D. 289). 1267. Baked-ice, (glaces au four). — This ‘entremets’ may be made use of, for the sake of variety, or as a surprise in a family-dinner. Prepare a composition of cream-ice, which may be quite firm (see No. 12G3). , On the other hand, prepare some Italian ‘meringue’ with four whites of eggs, and some syrup cooked at 34° R. 108" F. A few minutes previous to serving, dish the ice in a dome-shape on a very cold dish, which is solidly fixed on a fiat stewpan, being filled with pounded ice. Mask the cream-ice quickly with the