COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 104 piece of kneaded-butter, and add to it two handfuls of 'nouilles’, minced like the vegetables, but boiled in salted water. Five minutes after, take the pieces of fish out, with the aid of a skimmer; remove the head, and dish the remainder. Mix into the sauce a piece of butter, and a little chopped parsley, and pour it on the fish. # 240. Broiled sole, Colbert-sauce. — Remove the black skin from a large sole ; cut otf, in a slanting direction, the bony part of the head ; draw the sole, wash it, spunge well, split on both sides in the middle ; season, roll in melted butter, bread-crumb, let broil on a moderate fire, turning it. Colbert-sauce is served, either round the fish, or else in a sauceboat. 241. Pike-boudins. -—- Take one pound of 'quenelle’ force-meat of pike, add four spoonfuls of fine-herbs, divide the force-meat into small parts, and roll these, on a floured table, into pieces three times the thickness of macaroni ; twist both the ends of each of these strings in a spiral fashion, and in the opposite direction, in a manner imitating a Capital S ; thrust a little wooden-skewer through each S, and arrange them side by side in a buttered sauté-pan ; put them in boiling salted- water to poach, drain them on a cloth, let them cool ; dip them into beaten eggs, bread-crumb, and fry them to a light color ; drain, and dish on a folded napkin. 242. Pike-cutlets, tomata-sauce. — Take a pound of raw pike-flesh, freed of skin and bones ; chop, and pound it with eight ounces of butter, season the force-meat, mix with it three tablespoonfuls of thick 'béchamel’, and two raw yolks of eggs ; divide the preparation into small parts ; which drop on a floured table, and roll with the hand into the shape of cutlets. Dip them in beaten eggs, bread-crumb, and color them on both sides, in a flat stewpan with clarified butter. Place them on a dish, the bottom of which is masked with tomata-sauce. 243. Pike-CUtletS, ‘à la Soubise’. — Prepare a 'quenelle’ force-meat with pike-flesh (No. 244), but with only a quarter of a pound of butter to a pound of flesh. Mince two or three onions, fry them in a stewpan with butter, until of a nice color ; season them with salt, nutmeg, and a bit of sugar ; sprinkle them with a pinch of flour, and dilute them with a little milk, thus obtaining a thickish sauce. Cook this on a moderate fire, until the onions are done ; then set the stewpan on a good fire, continually reducing the sauce, until rich, and of a nice consistence. Pass it through a sieve, let it cool, and mix it with the force-meat. Take out this force-meat with a spoon, divide it into pieces the size of an egg, which place on a floured table, roll them with the hand into the shape of a pear ; flatten the force-meat with the