FISH. 123 its price rises to an exorbitant rate in winter-time. It is with sterlet, that the 'uka’ is prepared, that celebrated soup, so worthy of the preference given it by 'gourmets’. Procure a middling-sized sterlet, remove the sharp scales from the sides and back of the fish; then scrape, draw, and wash it; make a small incision under the belly, in order to get hold of the sinewy gut, which runs along the spine-bone, being the size of a macaroni ; when it is laid bare, take hold of it with a cloth, and puli it out quite whole, but slowly. Fig. 35. Divide the sterlet in seven or eight pieces, cut a little slantwise ; put them into a stewpan, the bottom of which is buttered, and garnished with a few sliced parsley- roots ; add to it a bay-leaf, and a clove of garlic (not peeled) ; salt the fish, and moisten, to three parts its height, with 'Chablis’ wine, and the juice of two or three lemons; cover the stewpan, boil the liquid on a sharp fire, so that, the sterlet being done, the stock may be reduced to half; skim off its fat, and mix it up with a few spoonfuls of melted glaze. Let it boil, then thicken with a few tablespoonfuls of brown-sauce; add the juice of a lemon, and range the pieces of sterlet on an oval dish, putting the fish back into its original shape. Surround the fish on both sides with groups of truffles, olives, 'quenelles’, and mushrooms. Mask it with a pait of the sauce, the remainder of which is sent up in a sauceboat. 203. Cold sterlet-pie. — If anybody, living in St. Petersburg, were to undertake the preparation of cold sterlet-pies in good conditions ; this dish no doubt would soon be appreciated and accepted by the epicures of all countries : I had several times occasion to prepare some, and found that the qualities of this fish are admirably suited to tins purpose. Cleanse a sterlet in the usual way, divide it into pieces ; which place in a stepwan with a little butter, a glass of white wine, two handfuls of trimmings of fresh truffles, and a bunch of parsley with aromatics ; boil it for seven or eight minutes ; cover the stewpan, and remove it back. Ten minutes after, pass the sterlet-stock into a kitchen-basin, lift out the pieces, and each of these cut in two lengthwise, so as carefully to remove all bones and hard parts. Place the fish in a deep dish, add to it about two pounds of raw peeled truffles,