51 SOUPS. A quarter of an hour before serving, wash the eel-pout pieces, wipe them dry in a cloth, plunge them into the soup ; let this boil, and then remove it back to simmer for ten or twelve minutes: drain the eel-pout livers, wipe them, cut them in thin slices, lay them in the tureen, and pour the soup over. Send up separately a plate of lemons cut in halves. 141. Dutch eel-SOUp. — Kill and skin three small eels, cleanse and cut them into pieces {tronçons), which plunge for one minute in boiling water, to set, and forthwith take them out. Fry slightly in butter one sliced onion, and two leeks; when of a nice color, add the eels with some fish jowls and bones, or if not handy, with some small bony ; fish, that will make good broth: moisten with three quarts of hot water, and half a hottle of white wine; add salt, peppercorns, cloves, and a bunch of parsley ; skim the liquid, and boil until the pieces of eel be -done. Afterwards pass the broth through a napkin, keeping it warm. Divide the pieces of eel lengthwise, removing the bones, and keeping them warm and covered. Cut a small “julienne’, very fine, composed of leeks, parsley- and celery-roots : put these vegetables into a small stewpan, with a little broth, and boil them gently, reducing their moisture to a glaze. As soon as done, put them, as well as the pieces of eel, into the soup-tureen. Thicken the broth with six yolks of eggs, diluted with some cold broth ; add a pinch of cayenne, four ounces of butter in little bits, and pour the soup into the tureen containing the vegetables, pieces of eel, and some thin slices of toasted bread. 142. ‘Vongoli’ soup. — This soup originates from Naples: “vongoli’ soup and “pizza’ being at Naples the dishes preferred for suppers taken at the sea-side. Put into a stewpan ftmr dozen “vongoli’, that is, small sea-“clovisses’, which bear a great resemblance to those eaten at Marseille; moisten with three quarters of a bottle of white wine, and toss them up on the fire until opened ; drain them in a colander, preserving their liquor ; and remove half the shells. Chop a small onion, and a piece of white of leek ; put them into a stewpan with a little good oil; fry them, moisten with the liquor of the ‘clovisses’, and a quart of fish-hroth ; add a tomata, peeled and chopped, a bunch of marjoram (cornabuse), and a few shred green celery-leaves ; boil the whole briskly for ten minutes ; then take out the aromatics, add the “clovisses’ to the soup ; which pour into the tureen. Send up separately some small “croûtons’ of crumb of bread, fried in oil or in butter. 143. Turbot-SOUp, with curry. — Choose a small and very fresh turbot; after having removed the head, cut the body in square pieces, putting by the finest. Place in a stewpan the head and inferior parts, with some small bony fish, or a piece of