469 ENTREMETS. — VEGETABLES. j over a little bread-crumb, and push it into a moderate oven, baking for one hour. When done, moisten with butter, and dish up. 1056. Cardoons, with marrow (D. 207). — Take the white stems from one or two heads of cardoons, divide them in pieces six inches long ; peel away the tibrous skin, and plunge them into cold acidulous water ; after which blanch them, for a quarter of an hour, in a covered stewpan ; then drain, and steep them in cold water ; drain again, to place them in a stewpan ; moisten to height with a glass Fig. 207. of white wine, fresh broth, and toppings ; add to the liquid the juice of two or three lemons, a bit of kneaded-butter (the size of a nut), peppercorns and cloves ; cover the cardoons with bacon and buttered paper; boil them over a moderate lire, with the stewpan covered. When ready to serve, drain the liquid off the stewpan, take up the pieces of car- doons, one by one, without breaking them, range them, in a pyramid-shape, on a stewpan cover, pare both ends square, and slip them on a dish ; then cut them in the centre, dividing the pyramid; porn’ over a little brown-sauce, reduced with wine, and surround them with small puff-paste patties, garnished with marrow. Send up separately a boatful of the same sauce. 1057. Brunswick salad< — Peel a fresh and tender celery-root, cut it in fine shreds, season, and let it macerate for a quarter of an hour. Peel four raw [ truffles, put them into a stewpan, with a quarter of a glass of madeira, boil them for three minutes ; let them cool, and cut them in shreds. Pass through a sieve the yolks of four or five hard-boiled eggs, put them into a kitchen-basin, the bottom of which has been rubbed with a clove of garlic ; mash them with a spoon, thus forming a smooth paste ; to which add a tablespoonhd of good mustard, and dilute it with half a glass of oil, and a little vinegar. Season, introduce into it the celery (having previously extracted their moisture), and the i truffles ; sprinkle over the salad a pinch of chopped taragon, and chives ; serve it in I a salad-bowl.