SOUPS. 37 of pepper, ;i pinch of chopped fennel; finish them, adding a gill of good sour cream, passed through a sieve. 103. Olla-pudrida, Spanish fashion. — Put into an earthen stockpot, half a quart of chickpeas ((jarbanços), previously softened in tepid water for twelve hours ; add six pounds of brisket of beef, the third of a leg of mutton, taken oft’ the knuckle-end ; half a pound of smoked streaky bacon, the same of raw ham, both of which blanched. Cover this meat abundantly with cold water, set the stockpot on a blazing lire, carefully skim the liquid ; at the first bubbling, remove the stockpot to the corner of the stove, letting the liquid only simmer gently, during all the time of its cooking. Two hours afterwards, plunge into the stockpot a fowl, a partridge, a slice of gourd, two large carrots, an onion, a bunch of parsley garnished with a bay-leaf. An hour later, add three smoked little sausages (chorisos). On the other hand, blanch and braise a dozen lettuces, as well as two little crisped ôoleworts. Continue boiling the broth for at least six hours, carefully taking the meats out, one by one, as soon as each is done. Half an hour previous to serving, pass the broth quite gently, through a napkin, into a stewpan ; skim its fat, start it to ebullition, add five ounces of blanched rice, finish cooking it on a moderate fire. At the last moment, drain the meat of the stockpot, pare the beef, which cut in slices, and place on a long dish, surrounding it with the fowl, partridge, bacon, ham; the ‘chorisos’ cut in pieces, and dished in groups, intermingled with the ‘garbanços’, the lettuces, and the braised colewort. Pour the soup into the tureen, and serve to accompany the meat. The meat is served as a remove, and accompanied with a sauceboatful of tomata-sauce. 104. Malmesbury-soup. — It is to Lord Malmesbury himself, we are indebted for the introduction, and propagation of this very excellent soup on the continent. In England it goes by the name of ‘deer’s head’ soup. Take a young deer’s head, very fresh ; scald, and cleanse it like a calf’s head, to remove its bristles ; bone, and put it into a stewpan with warm water, blanch it for a quarter of an hour, then drain, refresh, spunge, and singe it ; divide it into four parts, which place in a stewpan; add a raw ham-bone, a few trimmings of raw veal, and some large vegetables. Moisten the meats with four quarts of broth, and a bottle of white wine, skimming the liquid carefully, till it boils ; then removing it back, to boil gently until the head be thoroughly done ; now drain the other pieces, trim and divide them into small squares, and keep them hot with a little madeira. Pass the stock through, a sieve.