COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 512 butter; range them ‘cn rosace’ on the bottom of the mould, applying them ‘a cheval’ with their pointed end towards the centre of the mould. Cut some strips, the height of the mould, off some slices of household-bread ; give these pieces a breadth of about an inch, dip them in melted butter, and apply them ‘à cheval’ against the sides, making them rest on the bottom-layer of bread. Twenty-five minutes previous to serving, fill the hollow of the ‘charlotte’ with the pears, slightly warmed; cover them with broad slices of bread, which mask on the top with butter ; put the mould on a baking-sheet, and push it into a hot oven, to give the bread a fine color ; thirty-five minutes after, take the mould out of the oven, turn the ‘charlotte’ out on a dish, sprinkle over fine sugar, and serve immediately. 1149. Pear‘charlotte’, German fashion. —- Cut into quarters some good pears (poires de beurré); peel, mince, put them into a flat stewpan, with a few tablespoonfuls of water, a handful of powder-sugar, and a piece of lemon-zest ; cover the stewpan, boil the pears on a quick fire for a few minutes, without allowing them to dissolve, but reducing their moisture ; this done, take them off the fire, remove the zest, and thicken them with two tablespoonfuls of apricot-marmalade. With half a pound of‘brioche’-paste spread a buttered ‘charlotte’-mould ; fill the hollow of the mould with the cooled pears, which then cover with a round of the same paste, soldering them carefully to the sides. Bake the ‘charlotte’ in a.moderate oven for thirty-five or forty minutes ; now turn it out on a dish, and mask it with a little apricot-marmalade, diluted with light syrup and four tablespoonfuls of good rum. 1150. Buonbocconi, Genoa fashion (D. 240). — What the Genoese call ‘buonbocconi’, is for them a national dish. I give the ‘entremets’ here, as being excellent, and fit to serve in every country. Keep in cold water a pound of beef-marrow ; spunge it, pound, pass it through a sieve. Cut in small pieces live or six ounces of peel of lemon, orange, and cédrat, newly preserved; pound this peel, pass it likewise through a sieve, then pound together with the beef-marrow, and put this preparation into a kitchen-basin. Work well with a spoon, add two tablespoonfuls of orange-powdered-sugar, a pinch of orange-blossoms, chopped and crisped (pralinées), then one or two yolks of eggs : the preparation must be kept consistent. Take three quarters of a pound of trimmings of puff-paste, or else fine short- paste, and roll it out thin on the floured slab ; on half of this flat trace some rounds with the aid of a paste-cutter turned over, and of an inch and a half diameter ; moisten the rounds with the paste-brush, then put, on tin; centre of each, a little bit of marrow- preparation rolled up between the hands, moistened with orange-flower-water.