COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 28G pin ; let the sauce boil up, and push it into a moderately heated oven, to gratinate for half an hour: send it up in the same earthen-pan. 677. French black-pudding. — Black-puddings are prepared with pig’s blood ; the chief point is to preserve this blood liquid, until the time of using it. This aim is attained by mixing it with a little vinegar ; but care must be" taken to stir it until cold, so as to prevent it from coagulating. Remove the sinewy skin, or sward, of two pounds of pork-fat, which cut to dice of half an inch square. Chop very fine six ounces of the same fat, let it melt in a stewpan, removing the cracklings ; mix it with seven or eight blanched onions, drained well and chopped ; let it boil for a few minutes, then take it off the fire, and let it half-cool. Pass through a sieve two quarts of blood, mix them with this fat; add to this preparation, half a pint of raw double-cream, season it with salt, pepper, and spices; stir it with a spoon on a moderate fire, until beginning to thicken like a cream ; pour it im- mediately into a basin, and with it till, without cracking them, the pig’s bowels; being- well cleansed, dissalted, and tied fast at one end. A large tin-funnel, with a large aperture, is generally employed for this operation. When the bowels are full, fasten also the other end, and plunge them into a stewpan with warm water; keep at the same degree, until the black-puddings are poached; drain them on a cloth, rub the surfaces with a piece of sward, let them cool, kept covered. Black-puddings arc generally broiled ; they must be well done. 678. German black-pudding (boudins noirs). — Blanch a few hand- fuls of fresh rinds of pork, which scrape, wash, and boil in water; when drained, chop them fine, and mix them with a third of their volume of bacon in small dice: put the preparation into a kitchen-basin ; season with salt, pepper, pulverised mar- joram, and thyme ; introduce into it a third of its volume of liquid pig’s blood, and till with it some guts, tied-up at one end; then boil the pudding (boudin) in water, on a very slow fire, for half an hour. These puddings may be smoked. 679. White - pudding (boudins blancs), German fashion. — Chop and pound half a pound of lean pork, add to it half a pound of pig’s fat (suet), equally chopped ; pound again, and add half a pound of panada, prepared with bread-crumb and milk ; pound the force-meat again, add to it four tablespoonfuls of cooked minced onion, thickened with a little ‘béchamel’-sauce. Season the force- meat with salt, pepper, and mace ; pass it through a sieve, put it into a kitchen- basin, then work it. with a wooden-spoon, introducing into it, first two whites of eggs, then two gills of good raw cream ; last of all, add to the above three ounces of swelled pistachios cut in dice.