BUTCHER’S MEAT. — MUTTON. 249 When ready to serve, put the kidneys into a pan with butter, fry them on a brisk tire, season ; as soon as they are ready, drain them on a colander, dish them, mask with the sauce, on which spread the fried rings of onion. 581. Brochettes (skewers) of sheep’s kidneys. — Remove the skin, and sinewy fat, of a few sheep’s kidneys; split them in two, and divide each half in two pieces ; which place in a plate, season, and baste with a little oil. Cut up some thin layers of bacon, divide them into squares the size of the pieces of kidney, and run them through with small metal skewers, alternating each square with a piece of kidney; roll the skewers in some bread-crumbs, broil the ‘brochettes’ (skewers) over a brisk tire for ten minutes, turning over, and over ; send them up on a hot dish. 582. Sheep’s kidneys, Flemish way. — Put into a stewpan two table- spoonfuls of chopped onion, and shalôt, as well as a whole clove of garlic ; which fry without allowing it to take color, and add a dozen fresh middling-sized mushrooms, also chopped ; reduce their moisture quickly, season with salt, and cayenne pepper ; moisten with the third of a glass of madeira, and the same of melted glaze ; let the sauce boil, and thicken it with a small piece of kneaded-butter. On the other hand, remove the skin off eight sheep’s kidneys ; split them in two lengthwise, dividing them, and put them into a frying-pan with butter, tossing them on a brisk fire; season, and fry them until done, and free of moisture; then take them up with a skimmer, dish them, and mask them with the sauce finished at the moment. 583. Sheep’s kidneys, Colbert-sauce. — Remove the skin off eight or ten sheep’s kidneys, split them on the centre without separating the two parts, which run through, each with a small skewer, to keep them apart ; season on both sides with salt, and pepper, moisten with clarified butter by the aid of a paste-brush, and broil them on a good fire, turning. When done, remove the skewers, set them on a hot dish, mask them with ‘Colbert’-sauce, and surround with fried bread- ‘croûtons’. 584. Sheep’s kidneys, with mushrooms. — This is a household- dish, very simple, and easy to prepare ; it wants but a little care to be perfect. Get seven or eight fresh sheep’s kidneys; trim away the skin, and sinewy fat, slice them transversally. Melt five ounces of butter in a frying-pan, mix the kidneys with it ; salt, and fry them on a brisk fire, continually tossing them ; as soon as well set, gather them on one side of the pan ; which hold inclined, thus placing only the liquor of the kidneys over the fire, and allowing it to evaporate by the ebullition. When about reduced, pour it, as well as the kidneys, into a kitchen-basin: wipe the frying-