COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 228 take off the mould, and fill the centre with the stew, finished with the juice of two lemons. 53C). Calves’ feet, broiled. — Split four calves’ feet in two ; bone, singe them carefully, tie them up, two and two, and scald them for ten minutes ; drain, and put them into a stoekpot with salt, vegetables, and water. Boil them over a moderate fire, for an hour and a half only, then steep them in cold water. On the other hand, mask a stewpan with an onion and a piece of celery-root, both sliced, a few trim- mings of raw ham, a bunch of parsley with aromatics, peppercorns, cloves, and a little lard : fry all these ingredients, on a moderate fire, for seven or eight minutes ; then moisten with half a bottle of white wine, and broth ; add a little salt, and after- wards the calves’ feet ; let the stock boil up, cover the stewpan, and remove it on to a moderate fire. When the feet are quite done, drain them anew, remove all the bones, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; let them cool between two dishes, and pare them ; sprinkle over a pinch of parsley chopped with two shalots ; roll them in bread- crumbs, and place them on a gridiron, to broil on a moderate fire, for a quarter of an hour, basting from time to time : dish them up, and send in separately a boatful of hot or cold ‘ravigote’-sauce. 537. Calves’ feet, Geneva fashion. — Take a few boiled calves’ feet; bone, season, and let them cool under press; then shred, and put them into a kitchen- basin ; season with salt and pepper, pour over a little vinegar, and let them macerate for twenty minutes ; drain them on a sieve. Put into another basin four boiled yolks of eggs, passed through a sieve, three whole raw eggs, and a tablespoonful of good mustard ; dilute the preparation, like mayonnaise ; season, add a little vinegar, and at last, a pinch of chive, parsley, and taragon, all of which chopped ; then add the calves’ feet to the sauce, and dish. 538. ‘Croustade’ of minion-fillets of veal (D. 82). — Prepare a batter of ‘polenta’ (see Vegetables) ; when sufficiently consistent, pour it into a large buttered stewpan, and let it cool for several hours ; turn it afterwards out on a round of paper, set on an overturned baking-sheet. Then carve the ‘croustade’, in the style shown by the drawing ; immediately butter it with a paste-brush, and push it into a hot oven, simply to set: then glaze it all over, take it out, and slip it on a dish. Scoop slightly the upper surface, and keep it hot. Pare three minion-fillets of veal, wrap them up in thin layers of bacon, place them in a small ‘sauté’-pan ; baste with melted butter, and roast them in a moderate oven, keeping them underdone.