568 COSMOPOLITAN COOKEKY. embedded a quarter of an hour since, with salted ice ; if no cover be at disposal to close the mould, cover it with a round of paper, and then with a stewpan filled with salted ice. A quarter of an hour after, take the mould out of the ice, wash it, quickly dip it into tepid water, then wipe it well, and turn the ‘moscovite’ out on a very cold dish; pour over a ‘purée’ of fruit, or sweetened raspberries, cooled on the. ice; serve it immediately. 1255. Fruits, moscovite way. — Prepare about two glassfuls of fresh apricot-‘purée’, which dilute with syrup; add a pinch of zest, the juice of an orange, as well as four dissolved leaves of ‘gélatine’, thus getting a preparation of light con- sistence ; pour it into a plain border-mould, which place in a copper-basin, and sur- round with pounded and salted ice ; leave it to set for half an hour. On the other hand, prepare a ‘macédoine’ of fruits, fresh or preserved : if preserved, they ought previously to be softened in tepid water. Put this ‘macédoine’ into a dome-like mould, pour over a little perfumed syrup, and thus keep it on ice. At serving-time, dip the border-mould into warm water, wipe it, and turn the ‘pain’ of apricots out on a dish. Drain the fruit, and with it till the hollow of the border, then mask it with a ‘purée’ of fresh fruits : pine-apple, strawberries, or rasp- berries, sugared, and well cooled on ice. This ‘entremets’ is one of the most distin- guished. 1256. Cold ‘sabayon’, with kirsh. — Pour into a stewpan eight yolks of eggs and two whole eggs, which bray with a whip ; add half a pound of powder- sugar, as well as half a glass of kirsh; whip the preparation on a very moderate fire, or at the ‘bain-marie’, until quite frothy ; then set the stewpan over a more brisk fire, whip the preparation again for two minutes only, then remove it back ; continue whipping, off the fire, until its greatest heat be gone; then whip again on ice, until quite cold, and quite firm ; this done, pour it into glasses previously cooled, and serve these immediately. 1257. Rice, Malta fashion (D. 285). — Wash a poiind of good rice in several waters ; plunge it into boiling water, mixed up with the juice of a few lemons ; when cooked well, drain it on a sieve, and without refreshing, put it into a kitchen- basin, moisten with the juice of four oranges, a glassful of maraschino, a little kirsch- wasser, and a little orange-syrup ; leave it thus till the rice be nearly cold, stirring it from time to time. Drain the rice on a colander ; then fill with it a border-mould with concave bottom ; fill likewise a small dome - shaped mould. Set these moulds on the ice, and leave them for two hours.