ENTREMETS. - VEGETABLES. 401 up ; pour a little gravy into the stewpan, let the liquid boil, pass it, skim off the fat, and pour it over the vegetables. 1033. Celery, with half-glaze (D. 205). — rJ ['rim the green stalks off’ eight or ten heads of celery, cut them up in pieces four or five inches long, and point their heads; wash them in several waters, plunge them into boiling salted water, parboil them for ten or twelve minutes ; then drain, refresh, and put them into a flat Fig. 205. stewpan, spread with trimmings of bacon. Moisten to height with gravy, add to them cloves and peppercorns, cover with a buttered paper, and boil them gently. When ready to serve, drain, trim them regularly, and pile them up, in pyramids, on a dish. Strain and skim the fat off the gravy, reduce it to half-glaze, thicken it with a small piece of kneaded-butter, and pour it over the celery. 1034. ‘Cucuzzelle’ (coucoucelles, or petites courges) Roman fashion. — Get two dozen small round gourds (cucuzzelle) ; empty them with a vegetable-spoon, making a very small opening; slightly blanch, and wipe them well. Chop the flesh, taken out of the ‘cucuzzelle’; fry it in butter on a brisk fire, until its moisture be evaporated, then pass it through a sieve. Put the purée into a stew- pan, add to it its volume of biscuit-powder, a handful of bread-crumb, a little salt, and nutmeg; introduce into it five or six yolks of eggs. With this preparation, fill the ‘cucuzzelle’; set them one beside the other, in a buttered flat stewpan, baste • with a little butter, and push them into the oven, allowing them to take color. After- wards dish them up, basting with the butter in which they have been cooked. 1035. ‘Zucchette’ (courgerons) fried, Genoa fashion. — Get some long ‘zucchette’, not too large, trim both ends away, and divide them into long square fillets, the size of a large fillet of larding-bacon ; put them into a deep dish, sprinkle ! over salt, and let them macerate for ten minutes, frequently giving them a jerk. Afterwards drain them, wipe in a cloth, flour quickly, by small parts at a time, and plunge them into hot drippings; when dry, drain, salt, and dish them in a group on a napkin.