272 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. stirring it; then moisten with a little gravy and wine, in order to obtain a sauce, a little thickish ; which pour over the beefsteaks. Eight or ten minutes later, till with them the hollow of the lined bowl or mould, alternating with two or three dozen raw oysters well wiped, and masking each layer with a little sauce. The mould being full to its height, fold the paste over on the centre, and cover it, with a round flat of the same paste, thus enclosing the mould completely. Butter and flour the centre of a damp napkin, then put it over the pudding, and secure it slightly below the mould with string. Plunge the pudding into boiling water, and boil it for one hour and a half, minding to keep the pan covered. After- wards drain the mould, dip it into cold watér, remove the napkin, and turn the pudding out on a dish. 397. Beefsteaks, German way. — Take the head and thin end of a fillet of beef (about one pound) ; trim away the sinewy skin. Cut up the meat in pieces, in order to chop it very tine, and add to it a fourth part of its volume of beef-kidney-suet, cleansed and also chopped. Season with salt and pepper ; divide the whole into equal parts, the size of an egg, and form these into balls, which flatten to the thickness of a common beefsteak. A quarter of an hour previous to serving, melt in a frying-pan a piece of butter, put in the beefsteaks, fry them gently on both sides ; for they are soon done ; and dish them up. Sprinkle over each of them, a minced onion, fried in butter; pour over some melted glaze. 398. Beefsteaks, Nelson’s way. — This is a luncheon-dish; to prepare it, one should have at one’s disposal, a small copper -'timbale’- pan, of low form, tinned both inside and out, and provided with a lid closing hermetically. Take two beefsteaks, season them with salt and pepper. Sprinkle the bottom of the Timbale’ thickly with butter, put on it two sliced onions, and on these a layer of raw sliced potatoes ; season again with salt and pepper, then set the beefsteaks on the potatoes, placing them one beside the other’; cover the Timbale’, put it on a brisk tire ; five minutes later, remove it back on a moderate oven, cooking the beefsteaks for twenty minutes ; after which, send them up in the Timbale’ itself. 399. Rump of beef, au ‘gratin’. — Take a cold .piece of boiled or braised rump of beef, trim the meat square, cut it up in thin slices, which place in a narrow stewpan ; pour over a little good gravy and white wine ; warm them on a very slow tire. On the other hand, put into a stewpan live or six tablespoonfuls of chopped onion ; which fry in butter, without allowing them to take color ; mix into it twice its volume of fresh chopped mushrooms, of which reduce the moisture. Thicken the fine-herbs with three handfuls of grated bread-crumbs, baste with a little gravy,