257 BUTCHER’S MEAT. — MUTTON. At this point, sprinkle over the ‘cassolet’ a pinch of bread-crumbs and chopped parsley, keep the pan at the entrance of the oven, till the surface be nicely colored, and slightly gratinated: serve the ‘cassolet’ in the dish, wherein it has been cooked. C01. Sheep’s tongues, ‘à la macédoine’ (D. 92). — Get a dozen sheep’s tongues; scald, and trim their skin away, and place them regularly in a stewpan, spread with bacon and sliced vegetables; braise, short of moisture, and Fig. 92. when done, put them in press between two baking-sheets : afterwards trim them neatly, and heat them at the entrance of the oven, glazing with their own liquor. On the other hand, prepare some potato-purée, as for a ‘croustade’, arrange it on a dish in form of a border; let it dry in the oven, and dish the tongues all round, upright, the pointed end downwards ; glaze them with a paste-brush, and keep the dish at the entrance of the oven, allowing the potatoes to set. When ready to serve, garnish the centre with a ‘macédoine’ of vegetables thickened with ‘béchamel’-sauce, baste with melted glaze, and pour on the bottom of the dish a little brown-sauce, reduced with wine. G02. Small patties, Nîmes fashion. — Take the meat off a loin of mutton (a pound); pare, cut it in scollops, which fry on a brisk fire, with a few chickens’ livers : season the meats, let them cool, chop, and pound them in a mortar, with half their volume of fat bacon, likewise chopped; pass the prepai’ation, through a sieve, put it into a kitchen-basin, add to it two tablespoonfuls of cooked fine- herbs, and two tablespoonfuls of raw chopped truffles. Take a pound and a quarter of puff-paste of six turns (see No. 403) ; roll it out thin, and stamp out of it two dozen small round flats, two inches in diameter. Gather up the trimmings, roll them out in a flat a little thinner than the former one, and stamp two dozen rounds with the same cutter. Set these rounds on a moistened thin baking-sheet, place on the centre of each a small part of the preparation ; moisten the edges of the paste, and cover with the first rounds ; applying them with 17