592 OPINIONS OF THE ENGLISH PRESS past nine to eleven o’ clock in the forenoon, doubtless ate so much at his morning meal, that he had no longer time enough to digest it before retiring to rest in the evening. Those were days, when men ate like savages, and lived with almost as few comforts. Wordsworth has described our voracious ancestors, suffering for their sins of appetite in ‘another place’, as our legislators would say:— Cramming, as they on earth were cramm’d ; All sipping wine, all sipping tea ; But, as you by their faces see, All silent, and all d d. But nous avons changé tout cela. We have too many engagements, and our nerves are too highly wrought on by the exigencies of our daily life, to he able to enjoy a meal in the middle of the day. We dine, when the cares of the day are over, and we have time to appreciate the æsthetie objects of dinner—to please the palate, charm the eye, and add ‘the feast of reason and the flow of soul.’ He who knows how to dine, is the most civilised of human beings. Happy the man who, with a combination of ample income and enlightened taste, possesses also a good cook! It is impossible to rise from the persual of Mr. Urbain Dubois’ book, without feeling a profound respect for cookery, as an art. We are almost awed by the grandeur of it, and listen humbly to our author, when lie tells us, that ‘by its infinite ramifi- cations and accompaniments, the culinary art seems indispensable to the movement and life of nations.’ We are reminded, that ‘Her most Gracious Majesty’ of Prussia once stayed half-an-hour examining a trophy piscatorial, and that ‘hatelet skewers’ being the ‘diamonds of cookery, ought to be shown only on solemn occasions.’ But all this only proves the enthusiasm of Mr. Urbain Dubois, and prepares us for what is really a splendid introduction to the study of artistic cookery. As the French method of dining, or rather as the dinner à la française, is best adapted for display, most of tbe numerous plates, which embellish the volume, relate to dishes which appear on the table. For ourselves, we must profess our preference for dinner à la russe. We care little for seeing the joint or the entrée, if by its being carved in the kitchen, we get it hot, and simultaneously with our neighbours. The system, also, does not in any way interfere with conversation, and entremets and dessert can easily be made to ornament the centre of what -would otherwise be a blank table. And here we may express a hope, that our great cooks will not go much higher than a foot with table decorations. Nothing is more uncomfortable, than to be hidden from your opposite neighbour by some trophy or pièce montée. To enjoy a dinner, it is absolutely in- dispensable to be at ease. Nothing should interfere with conversation, with the noiseless supply of the various dishes, and with sitting at ease. What does Mr. Urbain Dubois think of the question of dining- room chairs ? It is a difficult thing to sit for two or three hours, without any rest for the arms; why not something in the shape of an arm-chair, not deep- seated, and suitable for the dingier table ? All the ‘removes’ and ‘entrées,’ and ‘pastry- pieces,’ illustrated by the author, arc meant to appear on the table, and therefore the decoration of the dishes is the chief feature of the descriptions in the book. It is artistic cookery from beginning to end ; except that in certain instances, we get a great deal of information about birds and fishes, that would be useful even to a naturalist. For instance, there are excellent engravings of the spigola, which is seen in the Neapolitan markets, the renke of Bavaria, the houc hen of the Danube, thesegui of Savoy, the sterlet.of the Volga; and we read:— ‘ The lakes and rivers of Austria are not only rich in fish, but they include several distinguished species; among which are to be found the ‘schill,’ the ‘fogosh,’ the ‘houchen,’ the ‘hasch,’ and the trout. Among the secondary species the carp, the perch, and the pike; those of the Danube are the finest and best. The ‘fogosh,’ the ‘houchen,’ the ‘hasch,’ the trout, and the ‘schill,’ occupy the first rank among the freshwater fish that may be served at dinner. On our continent I have been able to make the interest- ing observation , that in the countries which, on account of their distance from the sea, or of the unproductiveness of the latter, are thus deprived of its products, the abundance of the rivers, lakes, and ponds, supplies the absence of these resources. It would seem that Providence, in Its wise solicitude, had intended to distribute over every country an ample share of Its bounty and riches. The ‘fogosh’ often attains larger dimensions than the ‘schill’ and the ‘zander.’ They are commonly found to weigli from eight to twelve pounds. The form of the ‘fogosh’ is pretty, regular, and attractive. It somewhat ap- proaches that of the ‘schill,’ but its skin and flesh differ from it. The upper part of the back of the ‘fogosh’ is slightly tinged with grey, while the rest of the body is silvery. The smaller ‘fogosh,’ when very fresh, and just out of the water, is of an opaque white and mother-of-pearl color. The flesh of the ‘fogosh’ is white and firm.’ These are not the only instances of the great in- telligence, and varied knowledge, of Mr. Urbain Dubois. But it is as the artist-cook, that he stands unrivalled. Many of his designs for pièces montées would make the fortune of an architect. The song- writer, Dc Saugiers, must have had the great culinary artist in his mind, when he wrote 1 Un cuisinier, quand je dine, Me semble un être divin, Qui, du fond de sa cuisine Gouverne le genre humain ; Qu’ici bas on le contemple, Comme un ministre du ciel; Car la. cuisine est un temple, Dont les fourneaux sont l’autel.’ In the case of Our author, he sends temples of fat out of the kitchen, and altar-pieces of sugar out of the bake-oven. What a wonderful thing is ‘fat’ in the hands of an artist in cookery ! The fat of sheep’s kidneys, when properly mixed and prepared with lard, is a mine of wealth to the cook. ‘Mer- curies and Minervas in Fat’, ‘Flowers in Fat’, ‘A Horse in Fat’, ‘Obelisk in Fat’, and even ‘Child- ren in Fat’,—the latter is thus described. ‘The group is composed of five children, cast in fat, then touched up, and grouped in a pyramid. The same mould may serve for the five children, only they must be made to differ in a few details, by re-adjusting the arms, legs, and heads, to give them a different pose.’ The engraving of this group, actually made by the author, is an effective little statuary group, that would ornament a saloon. No cook with unartistic soul can attempt to imi- tate his illustrions confrère without failure. Mr.