ENTREMETS — PASTE. 447 pound of good butter, and four ounces of rasped parmesan ; moisten with a few tablespoonfuls of melted glaze, cover and keep it thus for five minutes. When time to serve, pour the ‘risot’ on a deep dish or a vegetable-pan, form a hollow in its centre, and dish into this hollow the previously prepared garnish. Sur- round the ‘risot’ with the sausages cut in pieces. 993. Risot, Naples fashion. — Chop one onion, fry it with oil in a ' stewpan ; as soon as it is slightly colored, add to it a pound of Piémont rice, not washed ; which fry for a few seconds, and moisten three times its height with fish- broth ; add to it a chopped tomata, freed of pips, boil it for twenty minutes, then take it off the fire ; introduce into it, by small quantities, four or five handfuls of grated parmesan, and a small ragout of crayfish-tails, oysters, and mushrooms ; all of which previously cooked and cut in dice. Cover the stewpan, and two minutes after, dish the ‘risot’. 994. ‘Fidelini’ with butter. — 111 Italy they have some very fine sorts | of Vermicelli’, but dried straight, and of the length of the ‘spaghetti’ : it is a very ! delicate sort of paste, highly estimated by amateurs. Plunge a pound of ‘fidelini’ into salted boiling water, cover the stewpan, and ! boil them quickly for three minutes ; then drain them on a sieve, put them back into the same stewpan, having been well wiped, add six ounces of grated parmesan, work the mixture well, with the aid of a fork; and when the preparation is well thickened, dish them. 995. ‘Spaghetti’, Naples fashion. — What in Naples is called spa- ghetti (threads) is nothing else but a variety of macaroni, the thickness of which is the medium between that of the ‘fidelini’ and the macaroni ; it is the paste commonly ! eaten in Naples, where however all sorts of paste are perfect. Portici, Salerne, ! Grignano, furnish products of an incomparable quality. The Neapolitans not only enjoy the advantage of having at their disposal superiorly prepared pastes, but they i realise the still greater one of partaking of them quite fresh, a matter certainly ! doubling their value. Macaroni is eaten in Naples in all its perfection ; and those who have not tasted it in the country, will never be able to form an adequate con- j ception of its good qualities. The Neapolitans commonly prepare the ‘spaghetti’, and the macaroni, in a very simple way. Boil it just to the point, that is, until it ceases to crackle between the : teeth ; drain it quickly, introduce into it, off the fire, a little butter and grated par- mesan (six ounces of butter, and four of cheese, will do for a pound of paste) ; baste it with a few tablespoonfuls of tomata-paste, diluted and boiled with about a pint of I good veal- or beef-gravy. Such is the usual preparation of the paste; but, to get