SOUPS. 19 When ready to serve, introduce this purée into the liquid, cook the liaison, without letting it boil ; and pour the soup into a tureen* 48. Grand-Duke soup. — Put into a stewpan four ounces of butter ; when melted, add two tablespoonfuls of flour ; which fry for a few minutes, without allowing it to take color ; then dilute it with three quarts of broth, add some trimmings of raw ham, and a bunch of parsley; stir the liquid until boiling, after which remove the stewpan back. Cut, of an equal length, the heads of a few handfuls of middling-sized white asparagus, and set them on one side; break off the tender parts of the stalks, cut them in small pieces, and plunge them into the boiling soup with two handfuls of washed rice; continue the ebullition. Three quarters of an hour later, pass the soup through a sieve into a stewpan, but without passing the rice, or the asparagus. Boil the soup, skim off its fat; thicken it with three yolks of eggs, mijced with a good handful of grated parmesan, and diluted with a little cream; pour it into the soup-tureen, and introduce into it the heads of asparagus boiled in salted water, and eight or ten eggs poached in broth. 49. Health soup. — Trim, wash, and shred, four lettuces, half that quantity of beet-leaves, two handfuls of sorrel leaves, one of chervil, and as much of tender leaves of celery. Slice two leeks, and one onion, put them into a stewpan, and fry with butter ; two minutes after, add the leaves of lettuce, beet, and celery ; which fry for ten minutes; and, at last, add the sorrel and chervil: moisten the whole with two quarts of broth, prepared in the conditions prescribed in No. 5. After ten minutes’ boiling, remove the stewpan off the fire, skim the fat, introduce into the soup thin slices of bread, and pour it into the soup-tureen. 50. Cheese-SOUp. — Chop a large white onion, put it into a stewpan with some butter, fry it quite gently, until of a nice color ; then moisten with two quarts of broth, add a bunch of parsley mixed with a little chervil, and a bay-leaf. Let the broth boil for ten minutes, mix in a few tablespoonfuls of good gravy, in order to give it a nice color, and remove it on to the side of the fire. Cut up some thin slices of white bread, which toast slightly, arrange in a soup- tureen, by layers, sprinkling with pepper, grated parmesan, and also with fresh gruvere cheese, cut up in thin squares or small dice; pour the soup into the tureen. 51. Mille-fanti soup. — This soup is highly esteemed and often served in all the states of Italy. Put into à kitchen-basin three handfuls of grated fresh bread-crumb, to which add three parts of its volume of parmesan, likewise fresh and grated ; dilute the preparation with four whole eggs, season with a little nutmeg, pour it into two 2*