COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 524 Infuse a stick of vanilla in a gill of milk, sweeten this, and keep it warm. When the ‘dampfnouilles’ have risen, moisten them just to cover, with warm milk; shut the stewpan quite close, push it into a hot oven, bake the ‘dampfnouilles’ for twelve minutes, that is, just the time requisite to let the liquid evaporate ; the stewpan must on no account be opened. The ‘dampfnouilles’ being dry, they ought to turn out yellow, delicate, and of a round shape ; detach them from the bottom of the stewpan, with the aid of a flat spoon (palette), or of the blade of a knife ; dish them in a group, slightly mask them with part of the English-cream, send the remainder up in a sauceboat. These ‘dampfnouilles’ constitute an ‘entremets’, plain indeed, but excellent; I should like very much to see them introduced in England, as they would certainly be highly appreciated there. In England, ‘German yeast’ is but rarely used in the kitchen ; this is wrong, and a great pity, as the cooks are thus deprived of a great number of good ‘entre- mêts’. Let us hope that for the future cooks will make it a point to study this question in its manifold details, and thereby appropriate its numerous advantages. 1171. Apple-flawn, German fashion. — Let me recommend this ‘entremets’, as a much appreciated variety, well worthy to be introduced into English pastry. Cut in quarters seven or eight good apples ; peel them, pare away the hard parts round the core; mince them transversally, put them into a kitchen-basin; sprinkle over a little powder-sugar ; let them macerate for half an hour, tossing them from time to time. Place a flawn-eircle on a baking-sheet, line it with tartlet-paste. Sprinkle over the apples two tablespoonfuls of orange-sugar, and two or three tablespoonfuls of currants ; then place the apples in the flawn-case, taking care to arrange them in a dome, rising above the level of the rim, as apples diminish their volume in cooking. Cover the apples with a flat of the same paste, which solder with that of the rim; pinch the upper part correctly, then push the cake into a moderate oven, and bake it for forty minutes ; take it out, remove the upper paste, and five minute after, mask it, by aid of the paste-brush, with a little icing-sugar. Remove the flawn-circle previous to sending up. 1172. Vienna-‘noques’. — Pour into a kitchen-basin half a pound of half- melted butter; work it with a spoon, adding, one by one, eight yolks of eggs ; the preparation being frothy, introduce into it six tablespoonfuls of flour, and six whipped whites of eggs.