16 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. six yolks of eggs ; cook the whole together, without allowing the soup to boil ; finish with a piece of butter in small bits, and pour it into the tureen, after having removed the aromatics. 38. Onion-soup, Paris fashion. — Mince four Portugal onions, being white and mild; fry them in a stewpan with butter, on a moderate fire, turning them; add a pinch of sugar, fry them, giving them a nice gold color; moisten with about two quarts of warm ‘consommé’ ; add to it a little bunch of parsley, garnished with a bay-leaf ; let the liquid boil for eight minutes. Cut some thin slices of white bread, broil them, put them into the soup- tureen, ranging them in layers, over each of which sprinkle a pinch of fine pepper; pour the soup on the bread, and serve it up. This soup gives an excellent result ; but the ‘consommé’ of course may be replaced by plain broth, or even by boiling water. If operating with water, it will be well to sprinkle over the fried onions a little pinch of salt ; this must be-donc previous to moistening them. If this be the case, the soup may be thickened, at the last moment, with yolks of egg, diluted with a little good raw cream. 39. Pumpion-soup ‘au gratin’. — Slice a dozen long pumpions (cour- gerons), put them into a flat stewpan with butter ; season, and fry until their moisture be reduced. Cover the bottom of a deep dish with a dozen slices of bread, which soak with toppings of broth ; sprinkle over some grated parmesan, and on the top range the pumpions in layers, alternately with grated parmesan; cover the top-layer with a row of slices of bread, which baste likewise with toppings, and cover with grated parmesan. Now keep the dish in the oven, for a quarter of an hour, to graduate the preparation, basting it at times with toppings. When ready to serve, pour into the soup-tureen a good ‘pot-au-feu broth, and send -up separately the graduated pumpions. 40. Rice-soup, with milk of almonds. — Scald, and blanch, two hand- fuls of almonds; pound them in a mortar: take them out, and plunge them into a quart of boiling milk; cover the stewpan, and put this infusion by. Cleanse and wash, in several waters, ten ounces of rice ; which put into a stewpan, with two quarts of cold water, and a little salt; set the stewpan on the fire, stirring the rice frequently, till boiling; then remove it back. When the rice is about done, dilute it with a quart of boiling milk ; continue boiling it for a quarter of an hour more ; season the soup well, and add to it the infusion of milk of almonds (pre- viously passed through a sieve) ; thicken with a liaison of four yolks of egg, diluted with a gill of cream ; finish the soup with four ounces of butter divided in small bits, and. a pinch of powder-sugar ; and pour it into the soup-tureen.