30 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. Marrow - quenelles. — Melt in the ‘bain-marie’, half a pound of beef-marrow, strain it through a cloth, into a kitchen-basin, and work it with a spoon till it begins to thicken; then gradually introduce into it two or three whole eggs, and four yolks, one by one. When the preparation has become frothy, season with salt and grated nutmeg, add to it two handfuls of fresh bread-crumb, thus obtaining a compact paste ; place this on a floured table, divide it into several parts ; which roll out in the shape of small ‘boudins’, to cut them across ; roll these halves into round or oval pieces, which plunge into boiling salted water; cover the stewpan, and at the first bubbling, remove it back, to get the ‘quenelles’ firm without boiling: drain them with a skimmer, lay them in the soup-tureen, and pour the soup over. 83. Purée of lentils. — Wash a pint of lentils, put them into a stockpot, with four or five quarts of warm water, a little salt, and a bunch of parsley, mixed with aromatics ; boil, and pass them through a sieve, as well as the stock ; pour the liquid into a stewpan, and having stirred till boiling, draw it on the side of the fire. Chop one small onion and one leek, fry them in butter in a small stewpan; as soon as they are of a gold color, add a good handful of lettuce and beet leaves, a few sorrel and white celery leaves, all well minced. Ten minutes afterwards, add them to the purée ; which boil, and finish, introducing three or four ounces of fresh butter. 84. Crecy with sago. — Put into a stewpan a sliced onion, and a piece of butter ; fry it for two minutes, and mix it with a quart and a half of the red part of carrots shred very fine ; season with salt, and a little sugar. When their moisture is reduced, add a little broth, cover the stewpan, and boil them on a moderate fire, but with little liquid. Pass the vegetables, first through a sieve, then through a tammy. Dilute this purée with two quarts and a half of hot broth, let it boil while stirring ; draw it on the side of the fire, skim off the fat, and season ; ten miuntes after, mix in it five ounces of washed sago : twenty minutes afterwards, send up the soup. 85. Beef-purée, Russ fashion. — Take a piece of braised rump (culotte) of beef, remove all the fat ; chop, and pound the meat with a piece of butter ; season, and add to it three or four yolks of eggs ; pass the preparation through a sieve. Chop one onion, fry it with butter, without allowing it to take color, sprinkle over a tablespoonful of flour, fry a few seconds, and dilute it with two quarts of broth ; stir the liquid till it boils ; remove it back, to clarify, and skim it of all fat. Twenty minutes after, strain the soup through a sieve into another stewpan, thicken it with the preparation ready, heat without boiling, and finish it with a pinch of chopped fennel, or of parsley.