COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 154 301. Red-mullets (rougets), Leghorn fashion. —Scale seven or eight fine red-mullets, range them in an oiled ‘gratin’-dish ; season, and pour over them a few spoonfuls of tomata-sauce. Sprinkle over a little bread-crumb, mixed with chopped parsley, and a pinch of pounded fennel-seeds ; baste them with oil, and push them into a moderate oven to finish cooking, basting with their own stock. When done, take them out, set the ‘gratin’-dish on another dish, and serve. 362. Genoese salad (D. 54). — This is a national dish of Genoa, where it is served at nearly all festive boards ; it is excellent indeed, for stomachs dreading neither oil nor garlic. Its composition is complicated, rather than difficult. Boil a small klentice’ or sea-swallow; the fish being cold, remove its fillets, divide them in little parts, put these into a kitchen-basin, together with a boiled sea-crayfish-tail divided in slices ; season, pour over oil and vinegar. Blanch or cook separately, according as required, the following vegetables, in proportional quantities : whole french-beans, heads of asparagus, artichoke-bottoms, beet-root, salsifies, green-peas, carrots, cauliflowers, and potatoes ; divide these vegetables, either with the knife, or with the tin-cutter, according to the species ; season them, each on a separate plate, with salt, oil, and vinegar. Cut in small dice some pickled mushrooms, and some gerkins; place them in a little basin with capers and stoned olives, anchovy-fillets, and ‘poutarg’ cut in thin slices. Cut two large slices of bread* an inch thick, let them dry in the hot-closet, having removed their crust; rub them on both sides with a clove of garlic; soak them in water mixed with vinegar, and place them on a round dish, in such a manner that all the bottom be masked. Drain, one by one, the vegetables, the gerkins, and the fish; taking them out of their marinade, which put by. Dish the vegetables symmetrically in layers on the bread, intermingling fresh and preserved ones with the fillets of fish, the slices of sea-crayfish, the anchovies and ‘poutarg’, so as to form, out of the whole, a dome of as varied shades, and as regular, as possible. In order to give this dish a still more regular physiognomy, it is convenient to raise the vegetables all round a dome-shaped mould, dipping them one by one into half-set jelly. The sides of the mould being garnished, fill the hollow with the remainder of the vegetables and fish, placing the bread on the top. When serving, dip the mould into warm water, turn the salad out on a cold dish, surround at its base with sea-crayfish-slices, or fish-scollops, and stick into the top three fliatelet’- skewers garnished with prawns. On the other hand, fry in oil a handful of ‘pignoli’, drain them as soon as of a nice color, put them into a mortar, and pound them together with a few swelled pistachios, Instead of bread, small sea-biscuts split in the middle arc sometimes used.