272 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. a good fire,’ Lasting with butter or lard. Three quarters of an hour later, remove the paper; sprinkle it with bread-crumbs, allow it to take color, salt, take it up on a dish, and put a ruffle on the bone. Send some good gravy separately. In England haunch of lamb is generally served with a sweet and sour sauce, composed of fresh mint, and sometimes with minced shalots (also to be diluted with a little cold water, and vinegar), seasoned with salt, and sugar. 041. Leg of lamb, roasted, Bordeaux fashion. — The lamb in Bordeaux is usually small, but of a superior quality; it is fat, and remarkably white. Set a leg of lamb on the spit, moisten with butter or lard, roast it on a brisk fire, basting frequently with drippings ; when done, salt, and sprinkle it with bread- crumb, mixed with chopped parsley ; roast it for four or five minutes longer ; then take it off the fire, and dish it up. Send up separately a sauceboat of gravy, into which throw a little shred fresh mint. G42. ‘Fraissure’ Of lamb. — Boil a lamb’s pluck, four feet and ears, pro- ceeding as prescribed in No. 409 ; whilst cooking, put into a stewpan two table- spoonfuls of chopped shalot, and a piece of butter or lard ; fry it, without allowing to take color ; sprinkle over two tablespoonfuls of flour ; which fry for two minutes, stirring; moisten by degrees, with some cooking-stock, and a little broth; stir the sauce over the fire till ebullition ; then draw it at once on the side of the fire, to A quarter of an hour after, skim off the fat, and pass it, through a sieve, into a stewpan ; add to it fifteen raw mushrooms, pared and cleansed ; reduce the sauce for ten minutes, and thicken with two yolks of eggs. When ready to serve, drain the pluck, feet, and ears, on a cloth ; wipe them, remove the bone off the feet ; place the pluck on the centre of a dish,'with feet and ears round ; mask the whole with the sauce, surrounding with the mushrooms. 643. ‘Tourte’ of lamb’s pluck (fraissure). — Parboil in water, for eight or ten minutes, a lamb’s lungs; drain, and cut them up in middling-sized squares; also cut up, in the same way, the liver, and heart. Melt in a stewpan a piece of chopped fat-bacon, add the meats to it, fry them for a few minutes on a brisk fire ; season, and sprinkle over a few spoonfuls of raw fine-herbs : onion, shalbt, mushrooms ; four or five minutes afterwards, draw the stewpan off the fire. Spread out, on a round baking-sheet, a flat of short-paste ; mask its surface, to an inch and a half of the edges, with a layer of ‘godiveau’ force-meat (see No. 541) ; arrange the meats thereon, in a dome-way; mask them with another layer of‘godi- veau’, and cover them with a flat of paste ; finish the ‘tourte’, proceeding according to the method prescribed in No. 333 ; egg, push it into the oven ; ten minutes after,