COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 304 When the turkey is about done, remove the paper to let the turkey take color ; then salt, and take it off the lire. Place the turkey on a dish, resting on thick slices of toasted bread ; surround it on the sides with a dozen ortolans roasted at the mo- ment, and group the truffles on both ends, seasoned and likewise cooked at the mo- ment with madeira wine. Send up separately a sauceboat of good gravy. 711. Galantine of turkey, with jelly. — Get a middling-sized turkey, not too fat, nor too fine ; that is, one of those, which cannot be served roasted. Singe it, cut off the tip of the legs and pinions, split the skin all along the neck, up to the head, cutting it underneath the head ; and bone the turkey entirely. Remove part of thé meat from the legs and fillets, cut this meat in large dice ; which place in a kitchen-basin, season, mix with them double their volume of blanched bacon, and a third of raw ham in dice ; baste the whole with half a glass of madeira. Cut up in pieces the back-bones of the turkey, put them into a large stewpan with all the bones, trimmings, and fragments of meat, (but in no case of mutton), two boned and scalded calf’s feet; add vegetables, aromatics, and spices; cover the whole with light broth, let it boil up, skim and remove it back. On the other hand, have prepared a raw mince of veal, composed of half lean meat and half fresh bacon ; add the meat of the turkey-legs, season with salt and spices ; when well chopped, pound it, put it into a kitchen-basin, and add to it the meat cut up in dice, and the bacon ; then fill with it the turkey, truss it to an oblong form, and wrap it up closely in a small napkin. Tie both ends firmly at the level of the ‘galantine’, and tie this also on the centre with two or three turns of string. One hour after the cooking-stock is in ebullition, plunge the ‘galantine’ into the liquid, to boil gently for two hours and a half; drain it afterwards on a dish, unpack it and pack it up again in tire same cloth, being refreshed in water; tie, and let it cool with a light weight over it. Take it out of the napkin, pare, glaze it with a paste-brush, and serve whole or cut up, surrounded with aspic-jelly, either chopped or in ‘croutons’. Poultry aspic-jelly. — As soon as the ‘galantine’ is taken out of its stock, strain this through a sieve, carefully skim off the fat, and try a small part of it on ice, to ascertain its consistency; if it seem too weak, mix with it a few leaves of isinglass dissolved in water. When the stock is about cold, drain it off into a stewpan. Chop a pound of lean beef (to four quarts of liquid), add to it two whole eggs, a glass of white wine, and half a glass of madeira ; mix this preparation with the cooking-stock of the ‘galantine’, adding also a handful of chervil, and some sprigs of aromatics. Whip the stock over the fire, until very hot ; then remove the stewpan on the side of the fire, and keep it covered until beginning to boil. Then take the stewpan back, letting the liquid only simmer gently. Twenty minutes after, strain it through a