456 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 1016. German omelet. — Put into a kitchen-basin four tablespoonfuls of flour, dilute it with three whole and three yolks of eggs, and with a glass of good milk or cream : add a little salt, a pinch of pepper, nutmeg, or cinnamon ; pass the preparation, through a sieve, then throw in a pinch of chopped chives. Put into an omelet-pan four ounces of butter, warm it, and add to it half the preparation, spreading it all over the pan, and keeping it thin ; prick the omelet with a fork, in order to dry it quickly ; turn it, as soon as possible, to disengage it from the pan, whether by tossing it over with a brisk jerk, or by turning it out on a dish, and again slipping it into the pan, after having poured into this two tablespoon- fuls of melted butter. When the omelet is done, and of a nice gold color; lay it on a sheet of white paper, and roll it round itself. ■ With the remainder of the prepara- tion make another omelet, proceeding in the same way ; then place the two omelets, side by side, on a small oblong dish. In Germany, these omelets are also often served as a garnish for vegetables ; in which case, they are divided transversally in small parts. 1017. French-beans, with fresh salted herrings, German fashion. — This simple dish, when prepared with early french-beans and fresh herrings (meaning freshly salted), is much esteemed, and much called for by the Germans : it is served on the most distinguished tables. Pick a few handfuls of tender french-beans, slice them lengthwise, put them into a stewpan, and moisten half-height with broth. Let the liquid boil, then remove the pan on to a moderate tire, cooking the beans gently ; when done, the liquid should be about reduced ; season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of savory, pounded if dry, chopped if fresh ; thicken them with a piece of kneaded-butter, and dish them up. On the other hand, wash two or three salted herrings, trim away the head and skin, cut them up in slices, a little slanting, place them on a small dish spread with vine- leaves, putting them back into form ; let them accompany the french-beans. 1018. Red haricot-beans, with wine. — Boil the beans in water, with a piece of smoked bacon, previously blanched. On the other hand, blanch two dozen small onions, fry them in butter, and moisten with broth, which reduce to a glaze. The beans being done, drain, put them into a stewpan, moisten with a bottle of white wine, reduced one third, simmer them for a quarter of an hour, then thicken with a piece of kneaded-butter. Cut the bacon in slices, dish the beans up, and surround them with the bacon and small glazed onions. 1019. French-beans, garnished with artichoke-bottoms (D. 203). — Artichokes, tit for the preparation of artichoke-bottoms, are not to be found every where ; but every where preserved artichoke-bottoms are to be purchased.