COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 9 nature of the soups, and of the place where they are served ; it is a rule, not to be infringed or overlooked, for it applies ecpially to all, to serve them hot. The soup and' the coffee, the one served at the beginning of the dinner, the other at the end, have this point however of similarity, in the opinion of true epicures, that they must be brought to table, so as to admit of being taken, as near as may be, in a boiling state. It is only in such a condition, that one is able to appreciate their beneficial and agreeable flavor. The varied and very extensive collection of soups, that I produce in this chapter, deserves to be studied with the most serious care ; these soups belonging to all countries, to all schools. For the most part they have each some special ground of preference; and, if wanting other merit, all boast that of novelty. 1. White broth. — White broth (bouillon blanc) is used for the preparation of light soups, which are to remain white; such as, creams of chicken, barley, rice, asparagus,, etc. Put into a stockpot two knuckles of veal, some bones or trimmings of veal, the giblets of one or two chickens ; and moisten, with four or five quarts of water: add a little salt, and set the stockpot on the tire, to start the liquid to ebullition, skimming carefully ; at the first bubbling remove it off again, three-parts cover it, and arrange the fire in such a manner, that the broth boil only on one side. Half an hour after, add to it a large carrot, a small piece of turnip, a little celery, a bunch composed of two leeks and a pinch of parsley. Continue boiling gently, until the meat of the knuckles of veal be done. Then pass the broth through a damp napkin, and let it settle previous to use. 2. Refreshing broth. — Singe and draw an old lien; divide it into four parts, which put into a small earthen stockpot with a small knuckle of veal cut in pieces; pour over the whole four quarts of cold water, add a little salt, and set the stockpot on a moderate fire, so as to boil the liquid, skimming carefully. At the first bubbling, remove it back, add to it a handful of pearl-barley, a caiTot, two leeks, and part of a large turnip. About one hour afterwards, add three cabbage- lettuces, fresh-gathered, well-washed, and whole; as well as two small onions colored in the oven : one hour later, a pinch of chervil should be added too, and half an