372 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. After the sour-crout lias been two hours and a half in the oven, mix with it a glass of champagne; and half an hour later, add the colored pheasant, being careful to surround it with the sour-crout; after one hour’s cooking, the pheasant and sour- crout must be quite done; then drain the pheasant, reduce on a good fire the moisture of the sour-crout, take it off the fire, and thicken it with the requisite quantity of the previously prepared sauce ; add the oysters, and range all on the centre of a dish, leaving a hollow in the middle, which fill with the salt pork, cut in slices, on which place the pheasant, previously cut into six or eight pieces ; glaze it with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze, and serve. 840. Russian tourte. — Prepare a little cooked mince (hachis), made with equal parts of veal, calf’s liver, and bacon. Boil ten ounces of rice in plenty of water, drain it, add a piece of butter, and leave it stewing for ten minutes. Spread on a round baking-sheet (tourtière) a flat of fine short-paste; cut it round, and mask it with a layer of the prepared mince ; there- on place a layer of rice, then on this spread a layer of fillets of pheasant, or of partridge, previously cooked and minced; mask this meat with another layer of mince, and cover the whole with a flat of puff-paste, adorned with imitated leaves. Cut the 'tourte’ all round, channeling its edges, as for a pie; egg its top, score it slightly with the point of a knife, and bake it in a hot oven for forty-five minutes. When done, slip it on a dish, and send up separately a boatful of brown-sauce, reduced with 'fumet’ of game. 841. Partridges, Italian fashion. — Truss three young partridges, fry them with lard, placed in the stewpan so as to form a triangle, that is, leaving a hollow in their centre ; which hollow fill with a few small onions, a few blanched carrots, eight ounces of raw ham in large dice, two cloves of garlic, and a bunch of aromatics ; moisten to height with a glass of dry marsala, and some broth ; set the stewpan over a brisk fire to boil the liquid, and five minutes after, remove it back with hot ashes on the lid, to finish braising the partridges. When ready to serve, drain the stock through a sieve, skim off the fat, thicken it with a little good tomata- sauce, let boil, and pour it again over the partridges; which let simmer for a few minutes ; then drain, and dish them up. 842. ‘Petits aspics’ of pheasant (D. 161). — Adorn the sides of four- teen large 'dariole’-moulds with small rounds of truffles, dipping them in half-set aspic-jelly; ornament the bottom with a round of red ox-tongue. Arrange the moulds in a flat stewpan with pounded ice, and coat (chemiser) them with a thin layer of jelly. Get ready a preparation of 'pain’ of pheasant, proceeding as prescribed in No. 854. When done, add to it a 'salpicon’ of cooked truffles, with which fill the cavity of the moulds.