SWEET ENTREMETS. — JELLIES. 563 brandy, being ‘paillette d’or’, and add the syrup requisite. Taste it, try its consistence; it' in the required conditions, let it half-set, stirring it on the ice, without thickening it. Now add to it two tablespoonfuls of slices of quite fresh pistachios, cut very thin ; pour it into a cylinder-mould embedded with ice. An hour after, dip the mould into warm water, and turn out the jelly on a cold dish. 1243. ‘Pain’ of strawberries (D. 282). — Pass half a pound of good tine strawberries, through a tine sieve. Dilute the "purée’ with the juice of two Fig. 282. oranges, and two glassfuls of clear sweetened jelly ; add a little orange-zest, pass the preparation once more through a sieve, pour it into a sugar-pan, and thicken, it, slightly stirring, on ice. Spread a jelly-mould with clear jelly, surround it with pounded ice, and now till with the strawberries-preparation. Three quarters of an hour later, dip the mould into warm water, wipe it, and turn the ‘pain’ out on a small stand in gum-paste, which surround with little ‘bouchées’ glazed, partly white, partly pink. 1244. Moscovite jelly. — Prepare some jelly with eight or ten leaves of ‘gélatine’, twelve ounces of sugar, a mould-ful of water, two whites of eggs, and the juice of two lemons ; pour the preparation iinto a copper-basin, let it cool, then mix with it a quarter of a glassful of kirschwasser ; stir it with a spoon on the ice, until beginning to thicken ; this done, take it off, without delay, take it up with a spoon, and pour a layer into a jelly-mould, embedded (frappé) with salted ice. Mask this layer of jelly with a layer of preserved fruits (stoned), softened in warm water, and divided in small pieces; mask these fruits with another layer of jelly, i continuing thus until the mould be full. If it has no lid, the mould must be covered with a round of paper, then with a middling-sized flat pan filled with salted ice. Thirty-five minutes after, take the mould off the ice, wash it, quickly dip it into warm ■water, and turn the jelly out on a very cold dish. 3G *