380 COSMOPOLITAN OOOKEKY. bits ; when the butter is all in, pcrar the preparation into a cylindric six-faced mould. Keep it on the ice for one hour, dip it afterwards in hot water, and turn the ‘pain’ out on a small stand, previously stuck on a dish, and having a column on its centre. Glaze the ‘pain’ with a paste-brush, ornament the faces with a scroll, formed with a round of white of egg, and lozenges of cooked truffles. Place on the top of the column a small cup cast in fat, garnished with truffles, glazed with aspic-jelly. Sur- round the base with a chain of truffles in small paper-cases, and the stand with nice ‘croutons’ of jelly. 855. ‘Epigrammes’ of partridge. — Take out the larger fillets of two raw partridges, leaving the minion-fillets adhering to the breast-bone ; pare them as usual, and place them in a flat stewpan with clarified butter. Slip off the minion- fillets, which beat slightly, fixing them together, two and two, with a little force- meat, shaping them as the larger fillets; season, and place them in the stewpan along with the others. With the flesh of a raw partridge, and a few trimmings of poultry or game, pre- pare a little ‘quenelle’ force-meat, break up the backs and other bones in pieces, fry them with a few vegetables, trimmings of ham, and a pinch of aromatics ; moisten with wine and gravy, and twenty-five minutes after, pass the stock through a napkin; skim off the fat, and prepare with it a little brown-sauce. Divide the force-meat into six parts, which place on a floured table, and roll them into a pear-shape; then flatten with the blade of a knife, thus giving them the shape and size of the fillets of partridges ; arrange them evenly in a buttered stewpan, and poach them in salted water; drain, and let them cool ; bread-crumb them afterwards with eggs, put them into a flat stewpan with clarified butter, and let them take color on both sides ; when done, drain them, and insert a small bone at their pointed end. At the same time, slightly salt the fillets ; fry them on a brisk fire, turning, and keeping them underdone ; drain the butter off the stewpan, pour over the fillets three tablespoonfuls of sauce, afterwards dish them up in a circular order, with one of the ‘boudins’ of the force-meat between each of them ; fill the centre with a garnish of minced mushrooms, or of ‘cèpes’, thickened with the remainder of the sauce. 856. ‘Petites timbales’ of ‘nouilles’, with purée of partridges (D. 168). — Prepare a ‘nouille’-paste, with about a pound of flour ; eggs, salt, and water. Let it rest, divide it into five or six parts ; which roll out very thin, and allow to dry for a few minutes; then cut them up in shreds, parboil them in salted water, drain them without refreshing, and put them back again into the stewpan, seasoning, and introducing five ounces of butter, and four of grated par- mesan ; then pour them into a buttered sauté-pan, in a regular layer two inches