503 Pig. 231. as hot, pour half the preparation on the eenttc of the pan ; three minutes after, push the pan into the oven; and take it out immediately the preparation is cooked, observing that it must be kept creamy. Now slip the omelet on a* large sheet of paper spread on the table, then place on its centre a mince (émincé) of rennet apples, slightly cooked, and thickened with a tablespoonful of apricot-marmalade ; roll the omelet up by the aid of the paper, in order to shut the apples in, then dish it. With the remainder of the preparation, make another omelet, proceeding ac- cording to the same method ; dish the omelets, one beside the other, sprinkle over a little powder-sugar, keep the dish in the oven for live minutes ; then serve. 1131. Omelet soufflé, with vanilla. -— Clarity four ounces of good butter. Put into a kitchen-basin seven yolks of eggs, add live ounces of tine sugar, a part of which flavored with vanilla; bruise the eggs with a wooden-spoon, work the preparation, proceeding as for a biscuit, that is, working till it become light and frothy ; add a little salt, four pulverised 'macaroons’, and at last seven whipped whites of eggs kept very firm. Pour the clarified butter into an omelet-pan being well cleansed, warm it, pour the preparation into the pan, let it slightly toss, thus warming and letting it ab- sorb the butter, giving it a round shape. Now pour it into a buttered deep dish, and push it immediately into a hand-oven (four de campagne), quickly warmed ; twelve or fifteen minutes will do to bake the omelet. When well set, and light, sprinkle over plenty of fine vanilla-sugar; a few minutes afterwards, take it out of the oven, and .send up without delay. 1132. Apple-fritters. — Peel five or six rennet-apples, cut transvcrsally into slices three or four lines thick. Empty the centre of each of these slices, by the aid of a tin-cutter, to remove the hard parts of the core. Cut each of the slices with a tin-cutter, thus equalising them, and getting all alike; then put them into a kitchen-basin, sprinkle over a few tablespoonfuls of fine sugar flavored with orange, pour over two tablespoonfuls of cognac, which let macerate for ten minutes. Drain, spunge them on a cloth, dip one by one into a frying-paste, wrapping them up entirely; plunge them gradually into hot fat, agitate the pan, while plunging in the fritters, thus letting them set at once all round, and preventing their sticking together. Take care to plunge in but a small quantity at a time.