349 POULTRY. — PIGEON. in it incompatible with our own taste, or with the principles of good cookery. It is no more extraordinary, to eat pigeons with cray-fish, than eating beefsteaks with oyster-sauce, or anchovy-butter. This line of argument is, to my thinking, strictly i logical. Take out the breast-bone of two or three young pigeons ; soak in broth, or milk, a large piece of bread-crumb (eight ounces) ; press it to extract its moisture, and bruise it, with a spoon, in a stewpan ; add to it a piece of butter, a few yolks of eggs, and the cooked livers of the pigeons, and cut up in small dice; season with salt, I pepper, and nutmeg. With this farce stuff the pigeons, sew, truss, and put them into a stewpan, with a piece of butter, a few trimmings of ham, their giblets, four small onions, and a garnished bunch. Set the stewpan on a good fire, fry the pigeons, tossing them ; and as soon of a light color, sprinkle over a pinch of flour, and moisten to height with broth and white wine, half of each ; let the stock boil, add to it a few trimmings of ham; five or six minutes after, cover the stewpan, draw it on a moderate fire, and thus finish cooking the pigeons. When ready to serve, drain them, remove the string, pass the sauce through a sieve into another stewpan, reduce it for two minutes, thicken with three yolks of eggs, then finish it with a piece of crayfish butter, and add four dozen cooked crayfish-tails, pickled and trimmed. Dish the pigeons up then on a hot dish, mask them with the sauce, and surround with the garnish. 794. Pigeons, with fresh green-pease — Singe three or four pigeons, draw them, truss them with the legs inside, and put them into a stewpan, with melted bacon, and two small onions ; salt slightly, and fry them ; when of a nice color, add to them half a pound of streaky bacon in large dice, moisten to half their height with good broth, and continue the ebullition over a moderate fire, until they be half-done. Then introduce into it half a quart of fresh pease, and a stet of parsley ; cover the stew-pan, and keep it on a moderate fire, with hot ashes on the lid, giving the stew from time to time a jerk. When the pigeons are done, drain, and remove the string ; take out the fagot and onions, thicken the green-pease with a piece of kneaded- butter, and dish the pigeons up on the pease. 795. Pigeons, Valencia fashion. — Soak for one hour, in water, a pound of raw ham ; wipe, and cut it up in small squares. Cut up three pigeons, each of them in four parts, put them into an earthen-pan, that can go on the fire ; season, and fry them on a moderate fire, with lard ; when of a nice color, add to them the squares of ham, and five minutes after, take them out with the ham, leaving the fat in the pan ; add to the fat a chopped onion, fry it to a light-brown color, add to it ten ounces of rice, previously washed and drained on a sieve for one hour, fry it for a