COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 500 into a frying-pan with clarified butter or oil. Two minutes after, drain the ‘bouchées’; when cold, plunge them again into hot fat; as soon as of a nice color, drain them, place them in a basin, largely moisten them with thick syrup, perfumed with orange or vanilla ; when soaked well, dish the ‘boiichées’, and pour over the same syrup. 1124. Vanilla soufflé. — Break six eggs, being very fresh ; put the yolks into a kitchen-basin, the whites into a large copper-basin. Mix into the yolks of eggs six tablespoonfuls of sugar flavored with vanilla, but not unglazed. Work the preparation with a wooden spoon, till quite frothy. On the other hand, mix a little salt in the whites of eggs, whip them hard, intro- duce them into the vanilla-preparation; then pour the whole into a buttered ‘soufflé’- pan, which push into a moderate oven (110° Falir.). Five or six minutes after (1 mean, as soon as the surface of the preparation turns to a crust), mark it crosswise with the blade of a knife : these incisions going to the very bottom of the pan. Pusli the ‘soufflé’ once more into the oven, to bake for twenty minutes longer, remem- bering twice to sift over fine sugar, which allow to glaze. If, the ‘soufflé’ being done, it should not be possible to send it up immediately, it can be kept in the warm-closet {étuve) ; previous to serving, push it back into the oven, whence it will come out in its primitive condition. I have often, in this manner, kept ‘soufflés’ for twenty minutes, and always succeeded in bringing them back to the same degree of elevation : this being an advantage well deserving the attention of cooks. 1125. Apple-soufflé, Russ fashion. — Take a pound and a quarter of but little sweetened apple-marmalade, well reduced and perfumed ; let it boil, stirring it, then take it off the fire ; introduce into it seven or eight whipped whites of eggs, kept very firm. Pour this preparation into a ‘soufflé’-pan, smooth its surface with the blade of a knife, giving it a dome-shape ; push the stewpan into a slack oven, bake the ‘soufflé’ for twenty minutes : this preparation does not rise, but remains light and frothy. 1126. Nougat-basket, garnished with cream (D.229,230). — Take a pound and a quarter of swelled almonds, mince them transversally, let dry on the warm-closet for five or six hours ; weigh, and warm them, without allowing to take color. Take half their weight of powder-sugar, put into a sugar-pan (potion (l'office); add the juice of two lemons, and stir over the fire until dissolved ; let it boil for a few minutes, without allowing it to take color; then immediately add the almonds, and remove the pan back. With this preparation quickly spread a basket-mould in three parts, previously oiled ; noticing to have the ‘nougat’ of equal thickness, but spreading it thin ; I'd il