342 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. Twenty minutes previous to serving, melt a piece of lard or butter in a frying- pan, add to it six ounces of ham in squares, and four or five good tomatas, freed of seed, and each of them divided in four pieces; which season with pepper, nutmeg, and a little salt ; add a bunch of parsley, with a clove of garlic; and toss them over the fire, until their moisture be evaporated. Now drain the fat off the frying-pan, and pour ham and tomatas into the stewpan, round the chicken ; seven or eight minutes after, drain the chicken, remove the string, and dish it up. Sprinkle over the tomatas a little chopped parsley, take out the aromatics, and place them round the chicken. 780. Chickens, Valencia fashion. — Truss two middling-sized chickens, as for boiling ; put them into a stewpan with lard, fry them for a few minutes ; season, and add two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion, four tablespoonfuls of raw ham in dice, and a clove of garlic ; fry the meats a few minutes longer ; add two small ‘chorisos’, a bay-leaf, a point of saffron, and a teaspoonful of mild red Spanish pepper; then moisten the chickens with a sufficient quantity of broth to cover, lay over a round of buttered paper, and boil them over a moderate fire, not to reduce the moisture too much ; when about done, plunge into the stewpan some rice (one glass of rice to two of stock) ; cover the stewpan, keep the stock boiling for a quarter of an hour, then place it at the entrance of the oven, or on warm ashes, and thus keep it for seven or eight minutes ; the rice should be then sufficiently cooked, dish it up ; place the chickens on the top, and the ‘chorisos’ all round. 781. Chicken-croquettes. — Cut some white breast-meat of cooked chickens in small dice, put it into a kitchen-basin with a few cooked chickens’ livers, a third of its volume of mushrooms, and the same of pickled tongue or ham ; the whole being cut in dice. Add to this ‘salpicon’ a quarter its volume of chicken or veal ‘quenelle’ force-meat, a few tablespoonfuls of good sauce, or incited glaze, cold, and also a little nutmeg. Divide the preparation with a spoon into equal parts, the size of a small egg, roll them on a table sprinkled with bread-crumb, thus shaping them in a cylindric form ; dip them into beaten eggs, and bread-crumb again; plunge them afterwards in hot hog’s-lard, to let them take color ; drain, and dish them up, in pyramids, on a folded napkin, with fried parsley on both sides. 782. Fillets of chickens, larded; with purée of mushrooms (D. 141). — Take out ten chicken-fillets, all from one side of the breast; pare them, leaving the stump-bone adhering; lard, and place them in a flat stewpan, masked with bacon and raw fat; salt slightly, moisten to height with good broth; which reduce quickly to half, and draw the stewpan on a moderate fire, with warm ashes on its lid ; or set it at the entrance of the oven, to cool the fillets, glazing them.