21 SOUPS. glaze, mixed with its volume of tomata-sauce. Accompany this dish by a tureen of good ‘consommé’. 54. Neapolitan Christmas-soup. — On Christmas-day it is the custom at Naples to eat a soup garnished with macaroni of great size, channeled outside, and pointed at both ends ; which macaroni are called canneloni. Boil the ‘canneloni’ in salt water, drain them on a colander, and put into the tureen ; into which pour some good ‘consommé’, mixed with a few spoonfuls of tomata-purée of a nice red color, but without being thickened. Serve separately a plate of grated parmesan. 55. Andalusia vermicelli-soup. — Get ready three quarts of fish-stock for thick soup, start it to ebullition, then remove it to the corner of the tire, and thus let it clarify for half an hour. This done, skim off its fat, mix in the liquid five or six gills of fresh tomata-purée, a bunch of parsley with aromatics. Twenty minutes afterwards, pass it through a tammy. Mix in the soup half a pound of vermicelli boiled in salt water, let the liquid boil, skim its fat, and pour it into the soup- tureen. 56. Macaroni, Calabrian fashion. — Remove the skin and seeds of eight fine tomatas from the South, cut them in pieces, and let them drain on a cloth. Chop up an onion ; which fry, to a nice gold color, in a stewpan ; add to it six ounces of lean raw ham, cut in dice; a bunch of parsley garnished with aromatics, and peppercorns ; two minutes afterwards, add the tomatas. As soon as these tomatas have reduced all their moisture, pour over a little good glaze, melted, and a little reduced good brown-sauce ; boil them for a few minutes, and pass them through a sieve. Boil eighteen or twenty ounces of Naples macaroni in salted water ; as soon as it is done, drain it, pour it into a sauté-pan, and mix it up with six ounces of butter, divided in small bits ; introduce the butter, rolling the stewpan over on itself, off the fire ; finish the macaroni with a pinch of pepper, dress it then in a large silver-stewpan or deep dish, by layers, sprinkling over each layer a handful of grated parmesan ; but take care to pour over each of the layers a little of the sauce previously prepared. Sprinkle over the top of the macaroni, some parmesan, and baste with brown clarified butter ; serve separately a tureen of consommé. 57. Cappelletti-soup, Bologna fashion.— Prepare a pot-au-feu broth with two pounds of beef, a pound of fresh pork, a bone of raw ham, a fowl, some pot-herbs, salt and water. In this broth boil a calf’s udder (tetine). Prepare a ‘nouille’-paste with twelve ounces of Hour, a pinch of salt, butter the size of a walnut, five or six whole eggs, a few tablespoonfuls of warm water, and a pinch of saffron. As soon as the paste is made, wrap it up in a cloth, and keep it from the air, under a basin turned over.