COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 8 Pour a quart of good ‘consommé’ into a stewpan, bring it to ebullition, add to it live or six tablespoonfuls of Madeira, and poach therein eight or ten very fresh eggs, keeping them quite round; at the first bubbling, remove the stewpan to the side of the fire, cover and keep it thus for five minutes; then lift the eggs out with a slice, and set one of them on each piece of toasted bread. Then pass the ‘consommé’ through a sieve into the tureen, and with it serve the eggs and toast separately. 1(>. Jacobins’ consommé. — Chop six ounces of lean cooked ham, pound it, mix therewith two tablespoonfuls of reduced ‘béchamelsauce, four tablespoonfuls of red tomata-purée, a pinch of cayenne, six yolks of egg, and two eggs whole ; pass the preparation through a tammy, put it into a kitchen-basin, add to it two tablespoonfuls of Madeira, and six spoonfuls of good ‘consommé’. Fill with this preparation some buttered ‘dariole’-moulds, and poach it in the ‘bain-marie’. Meanwhile, prepare two quarts of ‘consommé’, such as described in No. 8. When ready to serve, take the small custards off the moulds, divide each of them into four parts, place them in the soup-tureen with two gills of fresh green-peas, boiled at the time in salted water; pour the ‘consommé’ over. 17. Consommé with noques, Geneva fashion. — Have two quarts of good ‘consommé’ on the corner of the stove. Chop half a pound (250 gr.) of small slices of raw veal, pound them, add five ounces (150 gr.) of butter; pass them through a sieve; put this force-meat into the mortar, season with salt and spices, introduce into it three parts its volume of common ‘chou’-paste, finished Avith eggs, and a handful of grated parmesan. Pound the preparation well ; when the mixture is completed, take it, by small portions, with a teaspoon; and let the paste drop into hot broth. Let the liquid boil for a few seconds, cover the stewpan, and remove it back. Three minutes after, drain the ‘noques’, place them in a soup-tureen, and pour over them the ‘consommé’. 18. Julienne soup, ‘à la Faubonne’. — ‘Julienne’ is a national soup of France. The most favorable time for its preparation is spring and summer, for then the vegetables forming its foundation are fresh and tender. In winter, this soup loses its purpose, as well as its true qualities; as at that season vegetables are sour, hard, and dry, and have lost a great deal of their fragrant properties. A great variety of young roots and tender vegetables well befits this soup ; nevertheless one must be careful, not to take too great a quantity: as a ‘Julienne’ overloaded with vegetables becomes defective. Trim two good-sized carrots, one turnip, a small root of celery, two new onions, one leek, the half of a savoy cabbage, one fine head of lettuce, one handful of