4M ENTREMETS. — TASTE. 1005. Timbale of ‘gnocchi’, Paris fashion (D. 200). — Prepare a ‘choux’-paste, with three parts of a glass of milk, without sugar or zest; when sufficiently reduced, introduce into it a handful of grated parmesan, a point of nutmeg, and a pinch of sugar ; then pour it on a floured table, and work it with a handful of flour ; now divide it into several parts ; roll these into strips, twice the thickness of macaroni, which divide transversally into pieces half an inch long; put them into a sieve, with flour, in which roll them quickly to round them; plunge Fig. 200 them immediately into a stewpan of salted boiling water. Give a few babblings to the liquid, and when the paste is firm, drain the ‘gnocchi’ in a colander, and put them into a stewpan, adding to them some grated parmesan, and swiss cheese, mixed. Baste them with three or four tablespoonfuls of reduced ‘béchamel’-sauce, a little butter and glaze; pour them into a 'timbale’-mould, previously decorated with ‘office’-paste, and lined thinly with a flat of paste, soldering it quickly to that of the sides; and push the ‘timbale’ into a moderate oven, baking it for three quarters of an hour; then turn it out on a dish, and serve. 100G. Blinis, Russ fashion. — Dilute two ounces of German yeast with a large glassful of warm milk. Put a pound of flour into a kitchen-basin, form a hollow in the centre, into which hollow pour the diluted yeast. Now gradually intro- ; duce the flour, so as to get a light soft paste, like frying-paste, but without allowing , it to take much consistence; cover the basin with a cloth, let the paste rise in the I temperature of the kitchen for three hours. Beat four or five yolks of eggs in a basin, dilute with half a glassful of tepid milk ; then mix into the risen paste, half a pound of rice-flour ; dilute the paste with the eggs and milk. The paste being light and smooth, introduce into it four whipped whites of eggs, and a glassful of whipped cream. Let the paste rise for an hour and a half. Ten minutes previous to serving, warm a dozen small ‘blinis’-moulds ; * which * These moulds are of the shape of ‘tartlet’-moulds, but larger and higher; they are in flattened