526 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. yolks of eggs, a little salt; thicken the paste quickly, so as to get it stiff, without working much ; let it cool on ice for twenty minutes. Remove stones and stalks of about two gills of small sour cherries (saurc, hirschen), being quite ripe; mash a handful of the ripest ones, and press them in a cloth, to extract their juice. Pound half of the kernels in a mortar, then put them into a sugar-pan, with the juice of the cherries, and two tablespoonfuls of claret. Blitter a plain flawn-circle (cercle à flan), which place on a baking-sheet covered with paper ; spread the paste, without making use of a rolling-pin, into a round Hat, with which line the flawn-circle; trim the edges of the paste, pinch it on the top, then remove the circle, and pinch the paste all round, that is round the outer sides. Surround the flawn with a strip of paper, so .as to support the paste, till the hollow with the cherries, which press close together, and push the flawn into a mode- rate oven. Mix up in a stewpan a whole egg and a yolk of egg, a handful of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of double or sour cream ; work this preparation for two minutes, dilute with the infused juice of the cherries, stirring on the fire, only to warm it. The flawn being nearly done, take it out of the oven, and pour in at the top the juice of the cherries, then push it again into the oven. Ten minutes after, take it out for good, remove the paper, then place the flawn on a sheet of paper, blanch its sides with powder sugar. Sift over sugar also on the top, and dish up. 1175. Turkish-tawutâtalet. — Dilute half a pound of rice-flour with three glassfuls of cold cream ; pass the preparation through a sieve into a stewpan ; in which stir it well over the fire, thus getting a smooth pap (bouillie) ; at the first bubbling, add to it half a pound of powder-sugar, and let the pap reduce, for twenty minutes, on a very moderate fire. Meanwhile, take off the white breast-meat of two little chickens, remove the skin, pound them in a mortar, thus converting them to paste; add the grated zest of half a lemon, and lastly seven or eight yolks of eggs. Take the paste out, pass it through a sieve, and put this ‘purée’ into a stewpan. When the pap is quite smooth, pour it gradually over the poultry, working the prepara- tion hard ; let it boil up but once, then immediately pour it into a deep dish, or silver-pan. Adorn the surface with a few drops of caramel ; which let fall at inter- vals, and then stir to and fro, by aid of the point of a small knife, so as to imitate marbling-work. 117G. Swan’s nest (D. 251). — For six nests take four ounces of pow- dered sugar, six eggs, chopped lemon-zest. Beat eggs and sugar for a few minutes,