FISH. 97 222. Red-herrings (harengs-saurs), with fine-herbs (‘fines- herbes’). — Take away the heads of a dozen good red-herrings, open them up the back, separate the fillets, and remove the roes ; pick the bones from the meat ; which, as well as the roes, steep in milk for a couple of hours. Fry a few spoonfuls of fine-herbs with mushrooms ; their moisture having eva- porated, mix therewith a good handful of rasped bread-crumb, and a spoonful of chopped parsley. Drain the herrings fillets and roes, dry them well on a cloth, trim away the skin off the fillets ; range them on a gratin-dish, sprinkled previously with fine-herbs, intermingling them with the roes. Shake over the first layer some fine- herbs, and pour on them some melted butter : continue thus, alternating the fillets and fine-herbs, not neglecting to baste them with butter. Bread-crumb the top, and push the dish into a moderate oven ; in which keep it for ten or twelve minutes. It suffices to warm the fillets ; the dish being taken out of the oven, baste the herrings with the juice of two lemons ; and serve it. 223. Fillets of mackerel, ‘au gratin’. — Take out the fillets of three mackerel ; trim away the belly-parts, remove the skin, and salt them. Butter an oval gratin-dish, sprinkle it over with a pinch of chopped onion, a little parsley, and a few spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms. Pour over these fine- herbs four tablespoonfuls of brown-sauce, and as much of white wine. Then put on it the fillets of mackerel ; which sprinkle likewise with mingled fine-herbs and a little bread-crumb. Baste them with melted butter, and push the dish into a moderate oven. Bake the fish a quarter of an hour, basting it from time to time ; and serve it on the same dish. 224. Soft-roes of mackerel, in small cases. — Boil two quarts of water in a stewpan, with salt, a little vinegar, and a bunch of parsley ; plunge the soft-roes (about fifteen of which are required) into the liquid ; boil them, and remove the stewpan back ; two minutes after, drain the roes with a skimmer, and dry them on a cloth. Chop a small onion, fry it in butter, mix with it a handful of chopped mushrooms ; stir them on the fire, until their moisture has evaporated, and thicken them with four tablespoonfuls of ‘béchamel’-sauce, reduced with a little glaze. Boil the sauce for two minutes ; remove it back , and finish with a small piece of anchovy-butter. Oil two small square paper-cases, the bottom of which mask with a thin layer of fine-herbs, on which place two or three cut roes, seasoned, and sprinkled with a little chopped parsley ; mask them slightly with some fine-herbs ; then range the cases on a dish, warm them for two minutes in the oven, and serve them immediately. 7