GAME. — PARTRIDGE. 387 hot ashes, with fire on its lid, or place it at the entrance of the oven, till the com- plete cooking of the partridges. Meanwhile fry in oil three handfuls of rasped bread-crumbs ; as soon as of nice color, and dried, draw the pan off the lire, and drain the oil out ; when the partridges are done, pass their stock through a sieve, skim off the fat, and dilute, on the fire, and by degrees, the fried bread-crumb, thus obtaining a light sauce ; at the first bubbling, remove the pan on the side, and boil the sauce for twenty-five minutes: it should be then sufficiently thickened, and of a nice taste; pour it over the par- tridges, previously freed of string, and placed on a hot dish. 871. Partridges, Piémont way. — Truss two partridges as for entrée, singe them, cover the breast with slices of lemon, freed of peel, and support them with thin layers of fat bacon. Spread the bottom of a flat stewpan with trimmings of ham and bacon, sliced vegetables, and a bunch of aromatics ; place on this the partridges, moisten with a glass of white wine, let the liquid boil up, and braise the partridges at the entrance of the oven, occasionally turning them; when done, remove the strings, cut each of them in five parts, which place in a small stewpan, and keep in the ‘bain-marie’. Drain the fat of the stewpan, add the backs of the partridges to the cooking-stock, and pour in about a pint of good gravy, and half a glass of sherry ; let the liquid boil, pass it through a sieve, take away the fat, reduce -it to half, and thicken it slightly with a little tomata-sauce. Pour the sauce over the pieces of partridge, I keeping-them hot, without allowing them to boil. Meanwhile prepare a little ‘polenta’ (see Vegetables) ; finish it with butter and parmesan, then pour it into a border-mould, previously buttered; leave it to set for eight or ten minutes ; then turn the border out on a dish, place the pieces of par- tridge in its centre, the legs at the bottom, the fillets and breasts uppermost ; baste them with the sauce, and serve. 872. ‘Mancelle’ of partridge. — With the meat of two cooked par- tridges, prepare a purée, as described in No. 851. With the flesh of a raw par- tridge, half its volume of panada, the same of butter, and two yolks of eggs, prepare some ‘quenelle’ force-meat ; when finished, place it in a biscuit-bag (poche à douille), and with it squeeze symmetrically, round the bottom of a dish (la cuvette), some small round balls, in shape of half ‘meringue’ shells, on each of which put a round truffle, cooked for two minutes in wine and melted glaze ; cover the dish with buttered paper, push it into a hot oven, and poach the force-meat for ten minutes. When ready to serve, warm the purée, stirring, and without letting it boil ; take the dish out of the oven, and fill the hollow, formed by the ring (mancelle) of balls, with the purée; glaze the truffles, and baste the purée with a little melted glaze.