COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 80 Crayfisli-sauce. — Prepare a butter-sauce with four ounces of butter and four ounces of flour; moistening with water and a little liquor of the salmon, previously divested of its fat, and passed through the sieve. When the sauce is thickened, intro- duce into it three ounces of fresh butter, a piece of crayfish-butter, as well as four or five spoonfuls of crayfish tails and claws, either cut up into small dice or left whole. 185. Broiled bream, shalot sauce. — Get a live bream, scale, draw it; trim off the fins, and the tip of the tail ; wipe it well, score it slightly, season, and baste it with oil. Place the fish on a gridiron, to broil it on both sides, on a moderate fire, basting it with oil ; when done, dish it up, and pour over the folloAving sauce: Shalot-sauce. — Warm in a stewpan eight ounces of butter, take it off the fire, and add a little salt, chopped parsley, four chopped yolks of hard-boiled eggs, two spoonfuls of chopped cooked shalot, and the juice of a lemon. 186. Muscles ‘à la poulette’. — Wash, and make open, over the fire, five or six dozen fine fresh muscles (see No. 181). Pick off the shells, wipe the meat on a cloth, put it into a stewpan, and let the liquor settle, to clarify. Chop one onion, fry it with butter, without allowing it to take color, add two tablespoonfuls of flour ; which fry for a few seconds, stirring and moistening it by degrees with the muscles’ liquor, and a little white wine and broth. Stir the sauce, to thicken it ; cook it for a few minutes, and pass it through a sieve on to the muscles. Boil the sauce, add to it a pinch of cayenne, and thicken it with a liaison of two diluted yolks of eggs ; cook the preparation, without letting it boil ; add a pinch of chopped parsley, and the juice of a lemon. 187. ‘Buisson à la marinière’. — This piece is represented in a copper- plate engraving, out of text, which is found at the end of the chapter on Butcher’s meat. It is mounted on a large wooden flat, standing on four knobs, edged at the base, with leaves in white fat. The body of the piece is composed of two wooden drums forming steps ; these drums are hollow, and constructed of thin wood. On the centre of the second step, rises a pyramid, made of cardboard, and masked with a layer of fat. On the top of this pyramid, is fixed a subject in fat representing a sailor, leaning on an anchor, and holding a hat in his hand: this subject is modeled on a round wooden flat, adorned at its base with leaves in fat. The garnish of this piece is composed, first of small ‘aspics’ of lobster with mayonnaise, placed on the top of the first step, then of a circle of nice crayfish, and lastly, of three rows of garnished ‘hâtelet’-skewers. The crayfish are chosen of an equal size, and grouped in a circle at the base of the pyramid, fastened by their tails, and reclining on a bed of fresh parsley. Above the crayfish are inserted the