COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 364 madeira; set the stewpan on a brisk tire to reduce the liquid, then remove the pan off the tire, and let the meat cool. Prepare a mince, with eight ounces of raw chicken-meat, and the same of fresh fat-bacon ; add it to the raw trimmings of truffles, those of liver, and also a few good fat pullets’ livers. Pound, season highly, and pass them through a sieve. With a part of this force-meat, mask the bottom and the sides of the lined mould, with a layer, the fifth of an inch thick ; within the cavity place in layers the fat-liver and truffles, alternating them with force-meat. Cover also the top with force-meat, and then with a flat of paste. Leave a small hole on the centre of the flat, and set the ‘timbale’ on a baking-sheet, spread with ashes, so as to keep it upright; bake it in a moderate oven, for an hour and a half, covered with paper. A quarter of an hour after, being taken out of the oven, pour into the ‘timbale’ two gills of madeira-sauce, mixed up with aspic-jelly. Ten or twelve hours after, turn the ‘timbale’ out on a ‘pain-vert’ ; surround the base with a circle of chopped a spic, and the ‘pain-vert’ with ‘croutons’ of aspic-jelly. Insert in the top a ‘hâtelef-, skewer garnished with a truffle, and a nice white cock’s comb. 825. Canneloni Of Marseille. — This dish is a new creation of the southern school ; it is not without merit, and certainly will please all ‘gourmets’. Plunge into boiling salted water a dozen large ‘canneloni’*; let the water boil for five minutes, then draw the stewpan on the side of the fire, thus cooking the paste gently. Then drain the ‘canneloni’, split them in two lengthwise, and spread them on a cloth. On the other hand, pound the breast of a cooked chicken with a quarter its volume of pullets’ livers or of fat-liver, four tablespoonfuls of chopped cooked ham, and half a cooked calf’s brain ; add a piece of panada, the size of an egg, and three yolks of eggs; pass the preparation through a sieve, spread a small part of it on each of the ‘canneloni’, and roll them up like ‘paupiettes’, thus enclosing the preparation completely; arrange them in a buttered ‘gratin’-dish, baste them with a little rich gravy, mixed up with the same volume of thick tomata-sauce; sprinkle over grated parmesan, pour a little melted butter over, and keep them in a very slow oven for a quarter of an hour, without allowing them to gratinatc; and serve them as soon as taken out of the oven. 826. Ducklings with sour-crout (D. 156). — Braise three ducklings short of moisture, glaze them, cut each of them into five pieces, which then place in a stewpan, moisten with a little brown-sauce ; keep them warm. * The ‘canneloni’ are sold at Marseille, and in Paris. They are pipes of thin paste, about the third of an inch in diameter. They may be prepared with ‘nouille’-paste, rolled out and cut up in oblong squares, three inches by two ; but this paste is less delicate than the genuine ‘canneloni’.