432 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. When ready to serve, fry the cutlets. Meanwhile, color with claritied butter, in a flat stewpan, the six bread-crumbed ‘boudins’. When the cutlets are done, drain them. Put the peel of the truffles into the stewpan, with two gills of sauce and a little madeira ; let it boil up, and reduce the sauce till of pretty good substance; reduce quickly the moisture of the trulfles on a brisk fire; and pass the sauce, through a sieve, over them, allowing it to boil for a few seconds. Dish up the cutlets in a circular order, alternating with a ‘bondin’ of force-meat (the pointed end uppermost), put a ruffle on each bone of the cutlets, and one on the pointed end of each ‘boudin’; fill the centre with the garnish of the truffles. 969. Saddle (‘cimier’) of buck, with sour-cream. — Pare a saddle of buck, cut the rib-bones short, and if the loins are not covered with fat, remove the skin off; in the contrary case, put the saddle simply into a fitting vessel; salt, and pour over about three pints of cooked marinade (No. 968) ; cover it with a cloth, keep it in a cool place, and let it macerate for twenty-four hours, turning it. Four hours previously to serving, drain the saddle, wipe it on a cloth, place it in a roasting-pan with butter, salt slightly, cover it with buttered paper, and push it into a moderate oven, thus to roast for an hour and a half, basting often ; then pour into the roasting-pan two gills of marinade, and the same of sour-cream, baste the saddle often with this stock ; when it is done, dish it up ; pour a little gravy into the roasting-pan containing the cooking-stock, let it boil up, then pass, reduce it till of the consistency of a light sauce, and pour it over the saddle. 970. Haunch Of venison, English fashion.— Venison requires keep- ing longer than any other meat, before it is fit for cooking. Let it hang up in the air tp dry for several days, not neglecting to sprinkle a little pepper over the cut parts. At the time of cooking, let the haunch be slightly washed, wipe it on a cloth, salt, cover it entirely with buttered paper, and wrap it round with a large flat of water- paste, about half an inch thick; solder carefully the junctures, and support the paste, surrounding it also with buttered paper; which secure with string; place then the quarter in a cradle-spit, roast it for three hours ; if very large, it will take a quarter of an hour longer ; baste frequently. When done, take it off the fire, remove the paste and paper, salt, and set it on a hot-water dish. Prick the haunch towards the end with the point of the knife, thus letting the juice of the meat run out; let the venison be accompanied by a boatful of red-currant jelly, and a dish of white beans, drained at the moment, and mixed up with a little butter. 971. Minion-fillets of deer, Portuguese-sauce. — Pare two fresh minion-fillets of deer, remove the sinewy skin away, and let them macerate for five or six hours, in a little cooked marinade (see. No. 968). Drain them afterwards, lard