BUTCHER’S MEAT. — LAMB 2(1!) cooked mushrooms, and keep the ‘salpicon’ covered. Pour into a stewpan a few spoonfuls of good ‘béchamel’- sauce ; reduce it, introducing into it, by degrees, the stock of the sweetbreads, a little reduced, so obtaining a brown-sauce ; which, when of a nice thickness and succulent, add to the ‘salpicon’. Take now the preparation off the fire, and proceed, filling some large table-scollopshells ; smooth their top, sprinkle over bread-crumbs, pour over a little melted butter, and let them be grati- nated in a hot oven, or with the red-hot salamander. Dish, and send them up. 633. ‘Timbale’ of lamb-sweetbreads, in shells (D. 97). — Butter a ‘timbale’-mould ; line it, shell-fashion, that is, with rounds of short-paste set up ‘à cheval’ ; mask the bottom, and the sides, with a thin layer of veal ‘godiveau’ with chives (see No. 541) ; mix with some of the same force-meat a third of its volume of cooked fine-herbs, and a few spoonfuls of lean cooked ham in fine dice. Get twenty lamb-sweetbreads ; trim them, scald slightly, fry them quickly with melted fat-bacon, season, and two minutes after, take them off the fire to cool. Arrange them afterwards in the ‘timbale’, by layers ; which alternate with the pre- pared force-meat; cover the top, first with force-meat, and then with a round of paste, which solder to the side. Set the ‘timbale’ on a baking-sheet, push it into a moderate oven; one hour after, take it out, and turn it out on a hot dish; make a round opening on the top of the ‘timbale’, and range in the hollow, a small ‘ragout’ composed of cocks’- combs and truffles. Baste the ‘ragout’ with a little brown-sauce, reduced with a few spoonfuls of madeira ; serve immediately. 034. Lamb-sweetbreads, with green-pease-purée. — Get a dozen of nice lamb-sweetbreads, scald them, settling the flesh ; steep them in cold water, wipe, and put them in press between two dishes ; trim them, lard them closely with fine bacon on their smoothest side, then range them in a stewpan, spread with sliced vegetables ; moisten to height with good broth, salt slightly, cover them with buttered paper, and set the stewpan over a brisk fire, inducing the moisture to half-glaze;