C OSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 430 on the centre of both sides, an empty space, in which dish up a group of turned and blanched olives. Glaze the roebuck with a paste-brush, pour over the garnishes a little brown-sauce, reduced with the stock of the roebuck; send up separately a boatful of the same sauce. 9G4. Field-rabbit with curry. — Cut up in pieces the hind-legs, and the back and loins, of two or three rabbits ; put them into a stewpan, with butter and six ounces of streaky bacon in large dice ; fry them on a moderate fire, without allowing them to take much color; salt, sprinkle them over with flour, and as much of curry- powder ; fry them for a few seconds longer, moisten with broth (off the fire), put the stewpan back on the fire, and stir the liquid until boiling. Five minutes after, remove the stewpan on a moderate fire, to finish cooking the rabbits. Ten minutes before serving, place the pieces of rabbit in another stewpan, and pass the sauce over ; add then to the stew two large onions in dice, seasoned and colored with butter in a frying-pan. When ready to serve, thicken the sauce with two yolks of eggs diluted with cream ; cook the liaison without letting the sauce boil, then dish the meat up, and send up separately some rice, boiled Indian way. 965. Hunter’s ‘timbale’ of rabbit. — Cut up two rabbits in pieces, which place in a kitchen-basin, season well with salt, pepper, and pounded aromatics. Chop very fine ten ounces of fat-bacon. Chop two onions, fry them with lard, add a few handfuls of chopped mushrooms; when their moisture is reduced, add a pinch of chopped parsley, and five ounces of raw ham in small dice, now add the fine- herbs to the chopped bacon, and introduce into the preparation a few tablespoonfuls of cognac or madeira. Line a ‘timbale’-mould with short-paste, spread the bottom and sides with a coating of the preparation, and arrange the pieces of rabbit in the cavity, alternating with the raw mince, previously prepared. Close the ‘timbale’ with a round of paste, bake it in a moderate oven, for one hour and a quarter ; when taken out of the oven, make a small opening on the top, and pour into the ‘timbale’ a few tablespoonfuls of gravy, mixed up with a little glaze and madeira. Turn the ‘timbale’ out on a dish. 966. ‘Crépinettes’ Of roebuck. — Trim carefully five or six minion- fillets of roebuck (about a pound and a quarter) ; divide the meat into middling-sized squares , which put into a kitchen-basin, with half their volume of raw truffles in small dice ; season with salt and spices, baste them with a little madeira, and let them macerate for one hour. Prepare a raw mince of fresh pork, with half of lean and half of fat ; add to it a few cooked and pounded poultry-livers, and two chopped raw truffles; season highly, add to it the meat in the basin ; divide the preparation into equal parts, the size of an egg, shaping them in a flat oblong form ; wrap each of them up in a piece of