171 BUTCHER’S MEAT. — BEEF. remove ; but it may be asserted, that boiled beef makes a very good common dish, if the piece be well selected, if the meat be of a superior quality, and lastly, if pre- pared with taste. A rump of boiled beef, uniting these qualities, may, in spite of the simplicity of its nature, be of high value for all 'gourmets’. Take, off the rump of beef, a large square piece (weighing from six to ten pounds) beginning at the tail and going up to the loins ; this being the piece called pointe de calotte, and best adapted for boiling. Bone the meat, truss (see the Drawing), Fig. 58. wash, and put it into a stockpot ; moisten plentifully with cold water, put the vessel on the fire, add the salt requisite, skim the liquid carefully; at the first bubbling, remove the vessel back, thus simmering the liquid gently. Two hours afterwards, add two large carrots, two large turnips, and one large onion with cloves. Continue boiling it for six hours, keeping the vessel covered, and on a moderate fire ; then take the vessel off the fire. When about to serve, drain the meat, untruss it, trim on both ends, cut it straight underneath, then round its sides, and place it on a dish, either in one piece, or cut in slices and brought back into shape. Surround with a garnish of braised cabbages, and send up separately a boatful of gravy or brown-sauce. 396. Beefsteak-pudding, with oysters. — Pudding-paste. — Spread over the table, a pound of flour in a circle, in the centre of which put half a pound of chopped beef-suet, a little salt, and a gill of cold water ; mix the whole well together, gather up the paste without working it much, and allow it to rest for ten minutes. Roll it out afterwards in a round thin flat, and line with it a large bowl, or a dome-shaped mould wider than it is high. Cut up ten beefsteaks, half the usual size ; pare, and season them with salt and pepper. Chop one onion, fry it slightly with butter, in a flat stewpan ; add to it the beefsteaks; which warm quickly on both sides, thus to set the meat; and immediately place them on a dish. Sprinkle half a spoonful of flour into the stewpan, wherein the beefsteaks have been fried, fry this flour for a few seconds,