556 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. cucumbers, are previously colored green {reverdis). The fruits are likewise cut. either in balls, or in lozenges : the almonds, as well as the gooseberries, are also colored green. The fruits and vegetables are boiled in water, then half-preserved ; which means, that there is given to them three or four façons with sugar. To give such ‘façons’, having blanched the fruits and vegetables thoroughly, they must be separately placed in little kitchen-basins, and covered with tepid syrup at 15° (R. 66° F). Ten hours after, drain the syrup of each, one by one, mix in it separately a little sugar, and boil it giving it three degrees more heat. As soon as it has lost the greatest heat, pour it on the fruits or vegetables. Repeat the same operation ten or twelve hours after. The fruits and vegetables being well penetrated by the sugar, drain them, mix them up well in one large basin, moisten them just to height with vinegar-syrup at 30° (R. 100° F). This compote is very good, and may be served with roasts and game. 1229. Cremona compote. — The North-Italians are great admirers of this compote, which by them, as well as by the Germans, is eaten with roast-meat. Drain of their syrup four pounds of fruits nearly finished preserving, such as apricots, plums, small pears, green almonds, melons, greengages; put them all together in a kitchen-basin, rather higher than broad, or else in a jug. Boil a pint of syrup of 28° (R. 95° F), mix in this syrup half a gill of vinegar; let it boil, and half-cool. Put into a basin nearly two gills of powder-mustard diluted with water; gradually add to it the syrup, without ceasing to stir it with a spoon. Pour this preparation on the fruits, and thus let them macerate for twenty- four hours, previous to serving them. 1230. Russian-compotes. — Choose two good pears and two apples; divide them in quarters, peel them, remove all the hard parts; cut the pulp in thin slices. Divide also in little quarters two or three good oranges ; pare the pulp to the inner skin, removing the pips. Take the quarter of a pine-apple, peel it thoroughly (h vif), then cut its pulp into thin and straight slices. Dish these fruits in a compote-dish, arranging it in layers, intermingling the various sorts and shades, and sprinkling over each layer some pounded sugar flavored with vanilla; cover the compote-dish, and thus keep it on the ice lor an hour. When time to serve the compote, drain the syrup in a little kitchen-basin, and add to it two or three tablespoonfuls of fine Champagne, that is, of old and good cognac, or else kirshwasser. Pour this mixture on the compote.