157 FISH. with a thick oiled paper; heat them on both sides, over a very slow fire, and dish them up. 3G7. Anchovy-tourte (tart). — This 'tourte’ is a production of the Southern school, a very excellent dish for an amateur’s breakfast ; but it should be especially prepared with good Provence anchovies, and salad(oZvee)-oil of first-rate quality. Put into a mortar the fillets of about thirty good salted anchovies, cleansed and freed of bones; pound, and pass them through a sieve; place this 'purée’ in a kitchen-basin ; work it, introducing into it, by degrees, a gill of oil, thus obtaining a smooth and mellow paste, not too thin. Take a pound and a half of puff-paste of six turns, divide it in two halves ; one of which roll out in a thi^ round flat, ten inches in diameter; spread it on a round baking-sheet, pare it neatly, and mask its surface with the 'purée’ of anchovies, at a little distance from the edges. Moisten with a paste-brush the paste not masked. Roll out the second half of the paste, keeping the flat a little larger than the first one, pare it regularly, and with the aid of a plain-cutter remove off its centre a round three inches wide ; then cut the flat scrollwise, into eight equal parts, which take one by one and arrange on the first flat, covering at the same time the paste and the anchovy-preparation, and slightly overlapping each part of the paste, leaving a hollow on the centre of the 'tourte’. Fasten the paste to the sides, channel the 'tourte’ regu- larly all round, egg its top, and with the point of a small knife, sketch a small deco- ration on each part of the paste, forming the top of the 'tourte’ ; then push it into a hot oven, to bake for thirty-five minutes. When done, slip the 'tourte' on to a large dish, and pour in, by the central hollow, a few tablespoonfuls of good oil. 368. Anchovy-toast, hot. — Wash a dozen good salted anchovies; open them, to remove the bones ; chop or crush them with the blade of a knife, put this ‘purée’ into a small stewpan, dilute it with six tablespoonfuls of Provence oil, warm it slightly, and put it by. Cut up twelve slices of bread, half an inch thick, of an oblong square shape, place them on a gridiron, heat them on both sides, baste them with a paste-brush dipped in oil, mask (on one side) with a part of the anchovy-'purée’, sprinkle over this layer, a little chopped parsley, and push the gridiron into the oven, to heat the toasted slices (canapés), for four or five minutes ; then dish them up. 369. Anchovy-salad. — Wash ill cold water some salted anchovies, steep them in vinegar, drain them on a cloth, and take out their fillets; which shred lengthwise, place them symmetrically on a small plate or a 'hors-d’oeuvre’-dish,