BUTCHER’S MEAT. — LAMB. 273 cover it with paper, and bake it for one hour. When done, slip it on a dish, mark a round opening on the top, through which pour in a little reduced gravy, mixed up with a few cooked mushrooms, each of them split in two ; cover again, and serve the ‘tourte’. G44. Small chartreuses of lamb-sweetbreads (D. 99). — Butter twelve large ‘dariole’-moulds, and adorn them at the bottom with a round of Fig. 99. truffle. Peel three large white turnips, and scoop from them, with a small cutter, some small sticks half the height of the moulds. Peel three large carrots, and with the same cutter, scoop from the red part of them, some small sticks; scoop also a few small balls by the aid of a vegetable-spoon. Boil the vegetables separately in salted water, keeping them rather firm. When cold, pare the ends of the turnips slantwise, to set them up leaning against the sides of the moulds ; range then over these turnips a chain of small red balls ; and above these begin a second row of turnips, turning in the opposite direction. Eight of these little ‘chartreuses’ ought to be decorated in the same fashion ; the four others are decorated, at the bottom, and on the top, with a circle of rounds of truffle ; and on the centre, with a few alternated Sticks of carrot, and turnip. As soon as the sides of the mould are garnished, support the vegetables with a layer of veal ‘quenelle’ force-meat (raw), leaving a hole on the centre. Prepare a ‘salpicon’ of cooked lamb-sweetbreads, mix it with half its volume of cooked mushrooms, cut likewise ; thicken with a few spoonfuls of good ‘béchamel’- sauce, reduced with a little glaze ; let the preparation cool, and fill with it, the cavity of the small ‘chartreuses’; mask them on the top with a thin layer of force-meat, and cover it with a small round of buttered paper ; arrange the moulds in a flat stewpan, with hot water half their height, and poach the ‘chartreuses’ in the ‘bain-marie’ for twenty-five minutes. When ready to serve, take up the moulds, turn them over, to dry the moisture of the ‘chartreuses’ ; remove the moulds, and dish the ‘chartreuses" in a pyramid ; 18