SOUPS. 33 pounds of brisket or knuckle of veal, and two pounds of brisket of beef cut in large squares; moisten this meat with cold water, set the stockpot on a blazing fire, and carefully skim the liquid. At the first bubbling, remove the stockpot to the corner of the stove, letting the liquid boil almost imperceptibly ; very slightly salt it. An hour afterwards, add three carrots, three porrets, two roots of parsley, a stick of celery, and six cloves ; continue boiling, until all the meat be done ; take care to remove these, one by one, as soon as done ; then pass the broth through a napkin into a stewpan ; skim its fat, start it to ebullition, adding now twelve ounces of groats of buck-wheat, or simply some semolina, which let drop into the liquid, as a shower of rain. Half an hour after, skim the soup, add a pinch of chopped leaves of fennel, and parsley; then pour it into the tureen, and add the scolloped fillets of the chickens, boiled in the broth, as well as a part of the smoked lean bacon cut in large dice. 93. Polish barsch-soup. — Put into an earthen stockpot eighteen or twenty ounces of brisket of beef; cover this meat plentifully, half with light broth, half with sour juice of beet-root ; set the stockpot on the fire, skim the liquid, and at the first bubbling remove it to the corner of the stove. After the lapse of an hour and a half, add to this meat a knuckle of veal, a well cleansed duck, previously blanched in water, half a pound of lean bacon also blanched, two carrots, two porrets, parsley and celery roots, an onion, and some whole spice. Two hours afterwards, plunge into the broth four smoked sausages, continue a moderate ebullition ; take the meat out, as soon as done ; then pass the liquid through a sieve, skimming its fat ; clarify with wdiites of eggs, mixed with a little cold water, and slightly whipped ; the broth being clear, pass it through a napkin ; this done, it should be of a rose-color; keep1 it then warm on the corner of the stove. A quarter of an hour previous to serving, take up the fillets of the duck, pare them neatly, and scollop ; cut in a slanting direction the sausages, cut in long squares the lean bacon and brisket of beef; put all these garnishes into the tureen, with a few tablespoonfuls of cooked beet-roots, cut in ‘julienne’, as well as two dozen little ‘ra violes’ formed with a hash of beef and mushrooms. Pour the ‘consommé’ over these garnishes. If the soup should have lost its fine rose-color, it can be colored with a few spoonfuls of raw, but filtered beet-root juice. 94. Russian borsch. — Prepare a little pot-au-feu with a piece of brisket of beef, some vegetables, and a piece of smoked bacon, which has first been blanched. The meat being nearly done, mince a ‘julienne’ composed of raw beet-roots, onions, leeks, a quarter of a white cabbage-head, a piece of celery-root ; then let all these 3