188 COSMOPOLITAN cookery. place them in a stewpan, add to it a few sliced raw truffles, and keep the whole covered. Slice one onio , as well as three small tender artichokes ; cut each in four parts ; put them it into a frying-pan with oil, season with salt and pepper; fry them on a moderate fire, tossing them often. When done, add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley ; a few seconds after, add the slices of tongue, and the truffles ; toss them on the fire for three minutes, and remove the pan back ; adding then to the mince the juice of two lemons. Dish it up, surrounding it with fried bread-'eroûtons.’ 434. Ouson-Kebàb, Turkish roast. — Cut up a piece of fillet of beef into large square slices, season with salt and pepper, then run them through with a small skewer, alternating them, each slice with a slice of sheep’s tail fat,* and a few bay-leaves, squeezing all the pieces one against the other. Roast them afterwards at a roasting-fire ; and when the meat is done, salt it, take it off the fire, and dish it up. 435. Muzzle (mufle) of beef, with curry. — Take a boiled muzzle of beef, divide it into middling-sized squares. Chop one onion, fry it in a stewpan with butter, without allowing it to take color; add to it the pieces of meat ; fry them also, tossing them ; season, and sprinkle over two tablespoonfuls of Hour, and as much of curry-powder. Two minutes later, moisten (off the fire, and by degrees), with broth and a little white wine; add a bunch of parsley garnished with aromatics, stir the stock on the fire till ebullition, and then remove the stewpan back. Twenty- five minutes after, skim the f'at off the sauce, and thicken with two or three yolks of eggs, diluted with cream; finish with the juice of two lemons; dish up in a border of rice. 433. Ox-palates, gratinated. — Scald four or five palates, until the skin comes off by scraping them with a knife; when cleansed, refresh them, put them into a stewpan with a little white wine, salt, cloves, and peppercorns, one onion, one carrot, and a bunch of aromatics: cover them with water, and boil them, like a stock-pot, for four or five hours. On the other hand, slice four dozen fresh and clean mushrooms. Chop one onion, fry it in a stewpan with butter, stirring, and not allowing it to take color; add the mushrooms; when these have evaporated their moisture, add to the fine-herbs a bunch of parsley, garnished with a clove of garlic and aromatics; season with salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Thicken the mince with a few spoonfuls of ‘béchamel’-sauce let them boil, and remove the pan back. * The sheeps’ tail takes in Turkey the place of bacon, which is forbidden by the laws of the Prophet. I have seen in Constantinople, sheeps’ tails, which without any exaggeration, weighed twenty pounds: this being the reason, why the tails of the live sheep are supported by a sort of small cart, on which it rests The Turks are very fond of the fat of these sheeps’ tails.