20 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. quarts of good clarified broth, kept boiling ; whisk the broth for two minutes : at the first bubbling remove it back. A quarter of an hour after, stir the soup with the whisk, and pour it into the tureen. 52. Macaroni-soup, with cream. — Put into a small stockpot a hen and a knuckle of veal, a little salt, about four or five quarts of water ; set the stockpot on the fire, skim the liquid, and when beginning to boil, remove it back ; add to it one carrot, one onion, one leek, arid a root of celery; four hours after, pass the broth through a napkin, and skim its fat. Melt six ounces of butter into a stewpan, mix into it two tablespoonfuls of flour, to form a light 'roux’ ; fry it on the fire for a few minutes, then dilute with the broth; stir the liquid with a spoon till boiling, then remove it back ; twenty-five minutes later, pass the soup through a sieve. Boil in salted water half a pound of large macaroni ; when done, drain, and cut it into pieces one inch long, which plunge into the soup. Place five yolks of eggs in a kitchen-basin ;* add a good handful of grated parmesan, and dilute them with a gill of cream ; mix this preparation in the soup, with a piece of butter; cook the mixture, without letting the soup boil, and serve it up in the tureen. 53. Ravioles-soup, Genoa fashion. — With seven or eight eggs prepare a nouille-paste for Yavioles’, divide it into four equal parts; which roll out, one by one, in very thin square flats ; slightly moisten the surface of one of these flats ; then, with some Yaviole’ force-meat, put into a bag, squeeze it through, in form of little balls, in straight lines an inch distant from one another : as soon as this flat is thus masked, cover it, as well as the force-meat, with a flat of paste like the first one, then press it on, in the free space, first with the hand, then with the back of a little round paste-cutter, in this manner marking the 'ravioles’ ; which now cut with the paste-cutter, of about an inch and a half diameter ; immediately place them, one by one, on a floured cloth. This done, roll out the two remaining parts of the paste, and repeat the same operation. Cover the Yavioles’ with a cloth. Ten minutes previous to serving-time, plunge the 'ravioles’ into boiling salt- water ; let the liquid boil for three minutes ; take the stewpan off the fire, and keep it covered for three or four minutes. Drain the Yavioles’ on a sieve, pour them into a sauté-pan, pouring over ten ounces of brown clarified butter (à la noisette), and sprinkling over a few tablespoonfuls of grated parmesan. Roll the stewpan over (off the fire), then by the aid of a skimmer, take the ‘raviolcs’ out, dress them in layers in a silver-stewpan or deep dish, sprinkling over each layer a handful of fresh grated parmesan, as well as pouring over a few tablespoonfuls of melted The kitchen-basins are generally earthen, or porcelain ; in either case they must be varnished.