COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 320 and add to it a few spoonfuls of good brown-sauce, and two or three dozen fresh mushrooms. When the sauce is sufficiently reduced, put in the pickled pork cut in squares, the sausages, two dozen chestnuts, and the same of small glazed onions. When ready to serve, dish up the capon, and surround it with the garnishes. 730. Hunters’ pie. -— This is a very useful and very agreeable dish, when out hunting, or while travelling. Take a round houshold loaf, make a circular incision four inches in diameter on the top, and through this opening take the crumb out. On the other hand have prepared a ‘fricassée’ of chicken, thickened with yolks of eggs, according to the usual method ; let it cool, and place it in the loaf with its sauce, then close the opening with the round crust of bread, kept for this purpose. 737. Mince of chicken, with poached eggs. — Cut into small dice the meat of a cooked chicken, add to this ‘salpicon’ a third its volume of cooked ox- tongue, and the same of mushrooms, likewise in dice ; keep the ‘salpicon’ covered. Butter an open flawn-eircle about six inches in diameter ; set it on a baking- sheet spread with paper, line it with short-paste, cut up the paste on a level with the edges, and pinch it with the pastry-pincers. Mask the interior, bottom and sides, with a buttered paper, which apply on the paste, thus fixing it ; fill the hollow with common flour, and bake the paste in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Remove the circle, dish the crust up, and keep it hot. Pour into a flat stewpan a few spoonfuls of good‘béchamel’-sauce, reduce it on a brisk fire, stirring, and introducing into it a little good cream ; at last add four tablespoonfuls of melted glaze : when succulent, take it off the fire, and add to it the ‘salpicon’ ; season with a little of nutmeg, warm the mince without letting it boil, pour it into the crust, and set on the top of the ‘salpicon’, scrollwise, seven or eight poached eggs. 738. Chicken ‘chaufroix’ (D. 126). —Roast three middling-sized tender chickens, keeping them under-done ; when taken off the spit, let them cool, then divide each of them into five parts : two fillets, two legs, one breast-piece. Pare these pieces to a nice shape, removing all the skin, and as much as possible the bones. Pour into a stewpan three gills of warm good yellow-sauce, add to it half its volume of aspic-jelly, also warm. Set the stewpan on the ice, stir the liquid with a wooden spoon, in order to thicken it a little. This done, immediately remove the stewpan. Now take the pieces of poultry, one by one, dip them into the sauce, in such a manner as to mask them entirely with a light layer ; place them, one beside the other, on a baking-sheet. Set a plain border-mould into a basin, surround it with ice. Adorn the circuit of the mould, in the middle, with a circle of slices of truffle, previously dipped into