352 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. round (see No. 596). Ornament the top with a few leaves in paste, egg the pie, set the dish on a baking-sheet, and push the pie into a moderate oven, to bake for three quarters of an hour, being careful to cover the paste, when beginning to take color. When done, take the pie out, and place it on another dish, covered with a folded napkin. 801. Young pigeons in a case. — Singe four young pigeons, draw them, bone the breast, and till them with ‘quenelle’ force-meat, mixed up with a ‘salpicon’ of raw ham, and a few spoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs ; truss them neatly, with the legs inside, and cover them with thin layers of bacon. Spread the bottom of a stewpan with bacon in dice, a sliced onion, a few trim- mings of mushrooms, cloves, peppercorns, and a garnished fagot ; place the pigeons in the stewpan, moisten with three gills of white wine, let the liquid boil; five minutes after, cover the stewpan, and set it at the entrance of the oven, or on a very slow fire with warm ashes on the lid ; take out the pigeons, as soon as done. On the other hand, fry in butter five or six chickens’ livers ; season, pound, and pass them through a sieve ; mix with this force-meat the same volume of scraped fat- bacon, and as much of raw peeled and chopped truffles ; and season well. Oil an entree paper-case, spread the bottom with a layer of the prepared force- meat; divest the pigeons of the string, and place them thereon, glaze them with a paste-brush, set the case on a baking-sheet covered with thick paper, cover it also with paper, and place the baking-sheet on a trivet at the entrance of the oven, thus warming the pigeons gently for a quarter of an hour. Meanwhile, remove the fat from the pigeons’ stock, mix in a little brown- sauce, and a little madeira, as well as the trimmings of truffles ; reduce the sauce one third, pass it through a sieve, and add to it a small garnish of chickens’ livers. When ready to serve, take the case out of the oven, dish up, pour over a little sauce; the remainder of which send up separately in a sauceboat. 802. ‘Epigrammes’ of pigeons. — Take out the fillets of three pigeons, proceeding as for those of chickens. Remove away the sinewy skin, and the minion- fillets, pare, beat them lightly with the blade of a knife, and apply them on the larger fillets; which season, place one beside the other, in a flat stewpan, with clari- fied butter, and cover them with buttered paper. With the trimmings of the fillets, the meat of the legs, and an equal volume of poultry flesh', prepare some ‘quenelle’ force-meat (see No. 740) ; when ready, take up six tablespoonfuls of it, put them on a floured table, and roll each spoonful into the shape of a pear ; flatten them with the blade of a knife, to give them the form of a fillet of pigeon, place them evenly in a small buttered sauté-pan, and poach