COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 102 At the same time, prepare a 'quenelle’ force-meat with about a pound and a half of the flesh of pike. Line a hot pie-mould with short-paste. Cover the bottom and sides with a layer of force-meat ; place the pieces of eel in the cavity, alternated with the fine-herbs; cover them, on the top, with a flat of paste regularly in the form of a crest ; and pinch it with the pastry - pincers. Adorn the dome with leaves, imitated in paste; egg the pie, and put it into the oven, to bake for one hour and a half. When done, dish it up, and make a circular opening on the top. Pour into a stewpan two gills of brown-sauce, a dozen raw button-mushrooms, and a few spoonfuls of madeira ; reduce the sauce on a brisk fire for six or seven minutes. Pour sauce and mushrooms into the pie ; cover it, and send it up. 235. Russian dartois (sausselis). — Cut a 'salpicon’ composed of cooked tails and claws of crayfish, oysters, blanched eel-pout livers, and cooked mushrooms ; thicken this 'salpicon’ with raw pike force-meat. Divide in two parts a pound of puff-paste (made at eight turns), and flatten each part into a thin oblong square. Put one of them on a thin baking-sheet, spreading the preparation over its surface, in equal layers, not too thick, and distant about half an inch from the edges ; wet these with a paste-brush. Cover the preparation and paste completely with the second flat ; fasten the paste on the sides with the thumb, cut its four sides straight, and egg the top-surface ; stripe it, as well as the 'dartois’, with the point of a knife, and push the baking-sheet into a moderate oven. As soon as the top is colored, cover it with paper ; when the 'dartois’ are quite done, take them out of the oven, divide the flat into oblong squares, about two inches and a half by one ; and dish them on a folded napkin. 236. Fricassée of pike, German fashion. — Get two middling-sized pike ; cleanse them, trim away the fins, and divide them in pieces ; which wipe on a cloth. Mince one onion, put it into a stewpan with butter, fry it for two minutes, add the pieces of pike, toss them on a good fire, season them with salt and pepper- corns. When the flesh is firm, sprinkle over two tablespoonfuls of flour, moisten gradually, till they are covered, with white wine and water; add a bunch of parsley, garnished with aromatics, a few peppercorns and cloves, and a handful of fresh trimmings of mushrooms. Boil the pike quickly, reducing the sauce one third. Take out the pieces of pike with a fork, wipe them on a cloth, and dish them up. Pass the sauce through a sieve, mix in a few morils cooked at the time, as well as their liquor freed of its fat; boil the sauce, and thicken with two or three yolks of eggs; finish with a little chopped parsley, pour it over the fish; surround the fricassée with a few crayfish body-shells, farced, and with the morils; sprinkle it with a few capers ; and place all round some fillets of anchovies, rolled up in a circular shape.