BUTCHER’S MEAT. — VEAL. 235 iron-skewer; which fix on the spit, and roast the liver at a good fire, for three quarters of an hour, basting with the drippings, mixed up with a few* spoonfuls of vinegar. When the liver is done, take it off the spit, remove the string, and dish it up, without removing the pig’s caul. Then mix a little good gravy in the drippings, which let boil up, and then skim off its fat. Put into a small stewpan, two table- I spoonfuls of chopped shalôt, fry it with lard, then add two or three tablespoonfuls of J chopped ‘cèpes’, and three minutes after, moisten with about a half-pint of brown- sauce ; which boil for a few minutes : put in a pinch of pepper, a pinch of chopped | parsley, and the juice of one lemon : pour the sauce over the liver. 554. Calf’s liver, Paris fashion. — Choose- a very white calf’s liver, remove the upper skin, as well as the spleen, and the gall : interlard it inwardly with seasoned fillets of ham and fat bacon, but operating from underneath, so that the fillets do not cross the top-surface. When larded, place it in a kitchen-basin, season with salt and spices, add to it a few sprigs of parsley, bay-leaf, thyme, and a few trimmings of truffles ; then let it macerate for two hours ; wrap it up in a large piece of pig’s caul, surrounding it with the ingredients of the marinade, and fasten the pig’s caul with string. Chop eight ounces of lard, melt it in a stewpan, add to it the liver ; fry it for a quarter of an hour, and cover the stewpan; which remove back, with hot ashes on its lid, braising the liver for one hour, occasionally turning it ; then add two dozen small carrots, and the same of small onions, slightly blanched ; placing the onions on one side of the liver, and the carrots on the other ; slightly salt these vegetables, | cover the stewpan, and continue cooking on a slow fire. One hour afterwards, the liver and vegetables must be done. Then drain the liver, dish it, with the vegetables all round; skim the fat off the stock, add to it a glass 1 of white wine, and a little gravy, reduce the liquid to half, and thicken it with brown- sauce. A few minutes after, add to it a pinch of pepper, and strain the sauce over the liver. 555. ‘Terrine’ of calf’s liver, Provence fashion. — Get a good calf’s liver, cut it in slices, which put into a frying-pan with melted fat-bacon, a tew sprigs of aromatics, a little chopped onion, and a few trimmings of truffles and mushrooms ; fry the liver quickly, season with salt and spices ; when about done, moisten with four tablespoonfuls of madeira ; which reduce, remove the pan back, allowing the preparation to cool. On the other hand, chop the same quantity (as liver) of fresh fat-bacon ; pound, add by degrees the bacon, season the preparation, adding to it a point of garlic, and i