405 GAME. — BUSTARD, QUAILS. With the plovers’ bones and trimmings, prepare a little extract of game ; pass it, skim off the fat, reduce it to half-glaze ; thicken afterwards with about two gills of brown-sauce, reduce it for a few minutes, and take it off the fire. With this sauce, dilute, by degrees, the previously prepared purée, introduce into it a third its volume of very limed, but liquid aspic-jelly; let the sauce cool a little, then stir it on the ice to thicken it slightly; dip afterwards the pieces of plover in this sauce, masking them entirely with a smooth coating ; place them evenly on a baking-sheet, allowing the sauce to set. When ready to serve, pare the pieces of plover of the surplus of sauce, without handling them too much ; and dish them in pyramids in the centre of an aspic border, turning the legs to the bottom, and the wings to the top. 908. Quails, with purée of green-pease (D. 82). — Truss eight or ten quails with the legs bent back outwards ; cover them with fat-bacon, lay Fig. 182. them in a flat stewpan, the bottom of which is garnished with trimmings of bacon and vegetables ; and moisten, to three-parts their height, with gravy, or some broth with toppings ; reduce the liquid to half, and withdraw the stewpan on to a moderate fire, placing live embers on the lid, and cooking the birds gently.; drain them, and remove the string. When ready to serve, turn out on a dish a border of force-meat poached, fill the hollow in the centre of this border with a purée of green-pease, and dish the quails round the purée, one beside the other, the breast downwards, the legs uppermost. Reduce the stock to half-glaze, skim the fat away carefully, thicken it with a little white sauce, with which baste the quails. 909. Bustard stewed. — Let the bustard hang up in the air for several clays; pluck, and draw it; cut away the neck, and the tip of the wings; remove the thighs from the back, and the back from the breast, both breast and thighs being hu-ded with bacon ; season, and place the meats in an earthen pan, moisten with two glasses of vinegar, wherein let them macerate for twenty-four hours.