438 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 980. Wild-boar, with sour-sweet sauce, Roman fashion. — This is a dish partaken of all over Italy, but especially at Rome ; where it is prepared excellently by the cooks of that country. Choose a piece of young wild-boar, cut off from the saddle, or the haunch; remove from it the swartli, put the meat into a kitchen-basin, moisten it nearly to height with cooked marinade (see No. 9G7), highly spiced and seasoned; leave it thus to macerate for two days. Drain the meat, spunge it well, place it in a stewpan with hog’s lard, let it fry on a moderate lire, giving a nice color to all its surfaces ; then sprinkle over two table- spoonfuls of powder-sugar ; two minutes after, moisten the meat with the marinade kept by, and passed through a sieve; let the liquid boil on a moderate tire, till the meat is three-parts cooked; at this moment drain the piece of wild-boar, place it in another stewpan, and keep it warm. Immediately pass the cooking-stock through a sieve, in order to skim its fat carefully. Crumble one or two ‘mustaeciuoli’* (spice-cakes) of Naples, moisten them with a little tepid water; when softened, crush them with a spoon ; dilute this paste with a part of the wild-boar’s cooking-stock; pour all together into the stewpan, lot the liquid boil, stirring it till ebullition : it should then be thickened to the degree of a light sauce. Boil this sauce on the side of the tire for ten minutes, pour it into the stewpan containing the wild-boar, passing it through a sieve ; add to it a handful of roasted ‘pignoli’; finish cooking the boar in this sauce on a very moderate tire, repeatedly basting it with the sauce. Ten minutes previous to serving it, mix in the sauce a handful of currants, the same of Smyrna raisins, well plucked and washed in tepid water. Keep up a mode- rate ebullition till the moment of serving ; then dish the piece of wild-boar, surround- irig it with the sauce and garnishes. 981. Haunch of young wild-boar (marcassin), cherry-sauce. — Get a quarter of young wild-boar, fresh and without rind ; take out the thigh-bone, and saw off the thin end ; salt, put it into a kitchen-basin, pour over a quart of cold cooked ‘marinade’-stock, let it macerate for two or three days, drain, wipe it on a cloth, and put it into a deep roasting-pan with lard; cover it with greased paper, roast it in the oven for three quarters of an hour, basting often with the fat; then add a few spoonfuls of its marinade, and cook half an hour longer, basting with its own stock. When done, withdraw the roasting-pan from the oven, drain the * The ‘mustaceiol’’ is a sort of ginger-bread or spiee-cakes, slightly sugared, of a flat lozenge form, stuffed with a mince of fruit, and glazed with chocolate without sugar: ‘mustascioli’ not being at hand, some ordinary ginger-bread will do.