COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 322 its application. So I have thought it useful to bring it forward. A cook should know every thing connected with his profession. Truss two chickens, cover them (harder) with bacon,* set them on the spit, securing them, by the legs, with a string. Spread a few shovels of charcoal along the wall of the hearth or stove, and another row in front of this one, leaving a void space between the two rows; place some live embers on the charcoal, and let it be well kindled; prick then the pointed end of the spit against the wall, to the height required, resting it, at the opposite end, on a tire-dog with hooks. Butter the chickens with a paste-brush, fastened to the end of a rod ; let them roast gradually, turning the spit from time to time. When done, salt, take them off the tire, and dish them up with gravy under. 740. Quenelles of chicken, with mushrooms (D. 128). — Take the flesh from the breasts of two good fowls, or chickens ; pare it, cut it in pieces, and pound ; mix it with a third of its volume of panada, and the same of butter, the latter gradually. When the force-meat is smooth, and well mixed up, season it with salt and nutmeg, and introduce into it two or three yolks of eggs ; live minutes after, pass it through a sieve, put it into a kitchen-basin, and add to it two or three table- spoonfuls of double-cream. Take a spoonful of this force-meat, and poach it in boiling water, to try its consistency : it should be smooth. With this force-meat mould fifteen 'quenelles’, by the aid of two tablespoons; slip them on the buttered bottom of a 'saute’-pan, one beside the other. On the other hand, cut in pieces the back-bones of the chickens, steep them for a few minutes in tepid water, together with the legs, necks, and pinions ; then drain them on a cloth. Slice one onion, put it into a stewpan with butter, to fry it slightly ; add to it the pieces of chicken, toss them on a good fire, not allowing them to take color ; sprinkle over a little flour, and moisten with a quart of white broth, freed of fat, and strained. Add moreover a bunch of parsley, garnished with a bay-leaf, a few peppercorns, a handful of fresh mushrooms> and a glass of white wine ; let the sauce boil on the side of the fire for twenty-five minutes ; skim off the fat, pass it afterwards, through a tammy, into another stewpan, and reduce it on a brisk fire, until succulent, and ol sufficient consistence; introducing into it, by degrees, a few tablespoonfuls of mushrooms-liquor, strained. * The chickens may do quite well, even without being covered with bacon; by showing them thus, I wished to give a model of the application of layei-s of bacon, which is often spoken of in my descriptions.