COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 210 When ready to serve, glaze the ‘galantine’, dish it up, and surround it with the aspic-jelly, either cut in ‘croûtons’ or chopped. 493. Stewed shoulder of veal, with vegetables. — Cut up a shoulder of veal in middling-sized squares, removing the bones as much as possible. Put into a stewpan four tablespoonfuls of good clarified broth-toppings, or some lard ; warm it, add the meat, and try it on a good fire, until nicely colored ; then sprinkle over a handful of flour, and two minutes after, drain the fat off the stewpan. Moisten the meat, by degrees, with the hot broth, stir the ‘ragout’ on the fire until boiling, then remove the pan back, and put in a little salt, a pinch of pepper, and a bunch of parsley, and aromatics. If the sauce be too pale, color it with a few drops of ‘caramel’ ; it should be, however, of but little thickness : cover the stewpan. Three quarters of an hour after, add to the meat a garnish of small raw or blanched carrots, according to their tenderness, a few raw .mushrooms, and three dozen small onions, previously fried in some fat ; season the vegetables, cover the stewpan, and continue boiling, until the vegetables and meat be done ; then dish up the ‘ragout’, carefully removing the aromatics. 494. Coulibiac, Moldavian fashion. — Slice a veal-kidney, put it into a kitchen-basin ; season, and mix with it four tablespoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs. Boil two calves’ brains, divide them in two ; which pieces cut into slices, and season them with salt and pepper, sprinkling them likewise with fine-herbs. Roll out, on a floured napkin, a flat of‘coulibiac’-paste in an oblong shape; on its centre set a layer of rice, boiled in the conditions prescribed in No. 215: mask this rice with a layer of chopped hard-boiled eggs, mixed up with parsley ; cover the eggs with the brains and kidney, and these with rice; then fold the edges of the paste over the preparation, thus enclosing this entirely, and turn the pie out on a baking-sheet, by the aid of the napkin : keep it for twenty minutes at the tempera- ture of the kitchen ; moisten the paste with melted butter, sprinkle it with bread- crumbs, and bake the pie in a moderate oven for one hour. Dish it up afterwards, and send in separately some madeira-sauce. 495. Aspic, Normandy fashion (D. 73). — With half a white calf’s liver, get ready a preparation for ‘pain’ of poultry-liver; poach it in a‘charlotte’- mould, let it cool ; then trim, and cut it in slices; which stamp with a plain round cutter. Mask these rounds with a brown ‘chaufroix’-sauce, set them evenly on a baking-sheet, letting the sauce cool ; and cut an equal quantity (of the same form) of rounds of ox-tongue. Take two or three scalded and cooled sweetbreads, divide them in slices, which