215 BUTCHER’S MEAT. — VEAL. range them in a sauté-pan, spread with butter ; place the saute-pan on the tire, to set the sweetbreads on both sides; then moisten with a gill of good, clear broth, which reduce to a glaze. Turn the sweetbreads, moisten anew, and reduce the stock once more to a glaze. When the sweetbreads are done, and well glazed ; dish them, and surround them with the following garnish : Garnish ‘à la finançière’. — Pour a glass of white wine into the stewpan, wherein the sweetbreads have been prepared; let the stock boil up, pass it through a sieve, skim away the fat carefully, and reduce it to half; add to it an equal volume of brown-sauce and three or four raw truffles, peeled and cut in quarters. Five minutes after, add a few button-mushrooms, and season the Tagout’ with a little cayenne. At the first bubbling, add a score of small ‘quenelles’, moulded with a spoon, and poached. 503. Sweetbreads, in ‘papillotes’. — Cut up in slices two or three scalded sweetbreads, season with pepper and salt. Chop one onion with a few shalots, fry them with a little melted fat bacon, without allowing them to take color; add twice its volume of chopped, fresh mushrooms; let their moisture evaporate, season, and add to these fine-herbs, five ounces of raw ham cut in small dice ; which heat, then remove the stewpan back, and throw into the preparation a pinch of chop- ped parsley. Cut some squares of foolscap paper seven inches by four, fold them lengthwise, cut them with the scissors to a round shape, without separating their two parts ; oil, and mask the paper with a small layer of rasped bacon ; then apply on each side of the slices of sweetbreads a layer of fine-herbs, and put them into the paper, which fold all over. Place these ‘papillotes’ on a gridiron, warm them either in a slow oven, or on hot ashes, without blackening the paper ; dish them up. 504. Sweetbreads fried, Italian way. — Blanch three or four mid- dling-sized sweetbreads, refresh them, let them cool, and cut each of them broadwise ■into three slices; which season, and flour. Pour into a kitchen-basin three or four tablespoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs, add two raw eggs, beat the preparation well up with a fork, dip the slices of sweetbread therein; roll them in bread-crumbs, and plunge them into hot hog’s lard ; when of a nice color, drain, and dish them up on a napkin. 505. ‘Rissoles’ of sweetbreads. — Scald two sweetbreads, refresh them, let them cool ; cut them in slices', and afterwards in small dice. Chop one onion, fry it with butter in a stewpan, add to it five ounces of ham, and the same of raw mushrooms cut in dice : reduce the moisture of these, and add the sweetbreads. Season the preparation; a few seconds after, moisten with two spoonfuls of stiff