375 GAME. — PARTRIDGE. truffles, reduce it, stirring it ; when succulent, pass it through a sieve, and pour half of it over the previously prepared ‘montglas’. When the ‘pain’ is poached, turn it out on a dish, spunge the butter carefully, and pour the ‘montglas’ in the centre ; mask the ‘pain’ with the remainder of the sauce, and send it up. 845. Partridge-celestines (D. 164). — Cut in small dice the breasts of two cooked and cooled partridges ; put the meat into a kitchen-basin ; add to it the same volume of cooked truffles, cut like the meat. Fig. 164. With the meat of the legs of the partridges, and with a few cooked poultry- livers, prepare a little purée. Pour this purée into a small stewpan, dilute it with the same volume of tepid good game-‘ehaufroix’- sauce ; stir the preparation on the ! ice, so as to thicken ; add to it the ‘salpicon’, and remove it from the ice : this preparation needs but little sauce. Cut a dozen oval slices of cooked fat-livers to the shape of a large sandwich ; trim the slices neatly, and mask them with a thick layer of preparation, previously made ready ; let the preparation get quite firm again on the ice. Then dip the ‘celestines’ one by one, into the ‘ehaufroix’-sauce, in order to mask them entirely, with a layer not too thick, but quite smooth ; immediately set on the centre of each ‘celestines’, a slice of cooked black truffle cut of an oval shape. Coat the ‘celestines’ with jelly; dish them in a circular order on a layer of aspic-jelly set on a dish, j garnishing the middle with truffles, and the base with jelly-‘croûtons’. 846. ‘Terrine’ Of red partridges. — Bone two red partridges, divide them in two lengthwise ; season, and fry them a few minutes with melted rasped bacon; take them out, as soon as the surface of the flesh is set. Slice the half of a small calfs liver, fry it over a brisk fire with fat bacon, a pinch of chopped onion, aromatics, and a few trimmings of raw ham ; when the liver is done, let cool, pound, and pass it through a sieve. Take half its volume of lean fresh pork, and the same of raw bacon, pound them in the mortar, add to it the purée of liver, and season the force-meat highly with good spices.