COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 84 196. Hot salmon-pie (‘pâté chaud’). Short-paste. — Spread a pound of flour, in a circle, on a slab ; place in its centre ten ounces of butter, one yolk of egg, a pinch of salt, and half a glass of water. Dilute the butter with the liquid, introducing into it gradually the flour, in order to obtain a firm paste ; break (briser) it thrice with the palm of both hands, gather it up, and let it rest for half an hour. Butter a round pie-mould, and put it on a baking-sheet, covered with paper. With ten or twelve ounces of the flesh of pike, prepare a ‘quenelle’ force- meat. Procure a piece of fresh salmon, about a pound and a half, in weight ; remove the skin and bones ; divide the flesh in squares. Chop one onion, fry it in a stewpan with oil or butter, mix in a few spoonfuls of fresh chopped mushrooms, and as soon as their moisture is reduced, add two or three raw chopped truffles, and the squares of salmon; fry them a few minutes over a sharp fire ; season with salt and spices, and moisten with half a glass of madeira. Boil the whole for a few minutes, with the stewpan covered, and remove it back. Take two-thirds of the prepared paste, mould (mouler) it to a ball, and roll it in a thin round flat; raise the sides of this paste, pressing the paste between the fingers, thus forming a kind of bag. Then lift the paste carefully, to put it on the mould, covering it well at the bottom, and along its sides; cut the paste half an inch above the rim of the mould, mask it at the bottom, and on the sides, with a layer of force-meat. On this layer is placed, half of the slices of salmon, with a part of the fine-herbs (‘fincs-herbcs’) ; now mask again with force-meat, and pile up the remain- der of the fish in a dome-like fashion, rising above the rim of the mould. Cover the fish with another layer of force-meat, and this with the remainder of the paste, rolled very thin. Solder the two flats of paste on the edges, thus forming the pie-crust, pressing the paste in order to render it thinner ; cut it regularly, in order to he pinched all round with pastry-pincers. With the trimmings of the paste prepare a few imitation-leaves, which arrange as a ‘rosace’ on the dome, on the top of which form a little cavity ; cover it with three small rounds of paste of different sizes, placed one above another like a pyramid. Egg the pie, and push it into a moderate oven; seven or eight minutes later, cover it with paper, and bake it for one hour and a half. On taking it out, having put it on a dish; remove the mould, and cut the dome all round its centre; by which aperture, pour into the pie a little white-sauce, reduced with extract prepared with wine, and the trimmings and bones of the pike and salmon. Cover the pie, and serve.