COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 92 211. Perch, Silesian-sauce. —Draw two or tliree fine perch, without scaling, and wash them carefully. Pour some hot water into a stewpan ; add a bunch of parsley, a pinch of salt, a little vinegar, and boil it. Twelve minutes previous to serving, plunge the perch into the boiling liquid, boil it a while, cover the stewpan, remove it back, and keep it thus for a quarter of an hour. Then take out the perch (with the skimmer), carefully remove the scales, dip them one by one in their own liquor, wipe them on a cloth, and dish them up, % masking them with the following sauce: Silesian-sauce. — Pour into a stewpan the third of a glass of good vinegar ; add a few sprigs of parsley, a little taragon, two chopped shalots, a bay-leaf, and peppercorns ; reduce the liquid to half, pass, and let it cool ; mix with it four table- spoonfuls of melted glaze, six raw yolks of eggs, four ounces of butter, and a little salt ; stir the sauce on a very slow fire, to thicken it, without letting it boil. Place the sauce in the ‘bain-marie’, and whisk it, introducing a piece of butter, the size of an egg, in little bits. When frothy, mix four tablespoonfuls of brown-sauce, and two spoonfuls of grated and chopped horse-radish. Now remove the stewpan back, pass the sauce, and finish, by adding a few capers, and a little chopped parsley. 212. Perch, with wine. — Take and cleanse a few middling-sized perch, arrange them, one beside the other, in a flat stewpan thickly buttered ; season, and moisten, to their height, with white wine; sprinkle over them some chopped parsley; boil them, covered, on a brisk fire, so that, the perch being done, the liquid is reduced to half; then thicken with a piece of knead ed-b utter ; afterwards range the perch on a dish, and baste them with the sauce. 213. Boiled perch, Dutch fashion. — Boil some water with a little salt, vinegar, some sprigs of parsley, and two bay-leaves; add to the liquid two perch, cleansed but not scaled ; which boil, then cover the stewpan, and remove it back. Twelve or fifteen minutes later, drain the fish, removing the skin and the scales together; wash them in their own liquor, and dish them up, surrounded with parsley, and lemons cut in quarters. Serve separately a boatful of plain melted butter, mixed with a little salt, the juice of a lemon, and chopped parsley. 214. Dutch. Salted herrings. — The first salted herrings landed in Holland are often sold at a very high rate, for the Dutch make a point of eating the first arrivals ; their price then rises beyond all proportion to their scarcity. Some amateurs at the Hague have paid prices for herrings, which would appear fabulous to any one but a Dutchman. Salted herrings are in some countries much neglected, which is