455 ENTREMETS. — EGGS. 1014. Farced eggs (D. 202). — Boil hard eight or ten eggs ; when cold, remove their shell, cut them in two lengthwise, separate the glaires from the yolks, and put these latter into a mortar, pounding them with a piece of soaked bread- | crumb, well pressed, the fillets of ten anchovies, and a piece of butter. Thicken the preparation with three or four raw yolks of eggs ; season, take it off the mortar, and place it in a kitchen-basin. Fry in a stewpan two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion ; when of a nice color, ! add to them two or three handfuls of chopped mushrooms ; season, and quickly Fig. 202. ' | reduce the moisture of the tine-herbs. Take them off the tire, sprinkle over a pinch of bread-crumbs and parsley ; let them cool, and then add them to the preparation in the basin. With this preparation fill the half-eggs, shaping it in a dome-like fashion, and smoothing it on the top with the blade of a knife. Butter a ‘saute’-pan, at the bottom of which place the eggs, their garnished side uppermost ; sprinkle over some bread-crumbs, and baste with melted butter. Let the eggs gratinate, for twenty minutes, in a moderate oven ; then dish them up in pyramids. 1015. ‘Brouillés’ eggs, with crayfish-tails. — Take four tablespoon- fuls of picked crayfish-tails ; if they were very large, divide each of them in two, leaving whole the smaller ones. With the shells prepare a little red butter (beurre- d’écrevisses). Butter largely the bottom of a stewpan, more broad than high. Break eight fresh eggs into a kitchen-basin, beat them, season with salt and pepper; pour the eggs into the previously buttered stewpan, which set on a moderate fire, and stir with a wooden spoon, so as to get the preparation as smooth as possible. As soon as it begins to thicken, take it off the fire, without ceasing to stir. Add to it two tablespoonfuls of good raw-cream, and then the red butter divided in little pieces. Two minutes after, add the crayfish-tails, and dish the preparation, surround it with fried bread-‘croûtons’, glazed with the paste-brush.