COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 511> on the bottom of the mould a layer of the pieces of peaches, on which pour a few tablespoonfuls of jelly, whipped with maraschino: this jelly must be strong in the liqueur, not much whipped or set, thus being able to sink into the hollows, between the quarters: the jelly must just cover the peaches. Let this coating set. and as soon as firm, range on it another layer of peach-quarters, which again mask with jelly. Let the jelly set, and repeat the same proceeding, until the mould is full; then cover it, and keep it on ice for half an hour. When about to serve, turn the 'charlotte’ out on a dish, let the biscuit absorb a little maraschino (by aid of a paste-brush) ; cut the peaches previously kept by, also in quarters, and range them in a circle round the 'charlotte’ ; moisten them with marascliino-syrup. 1157. Sugared ‘gnocchi’, Italian fashion. — Put a glassful of flour into a stewpan, add three whole eggs, two yolks of eggs, a little salt, a tablespoonful of sugar ; dilute this preparation with a glass of milk, pass it through a sieve into a stewpan, add a little piece of butter. Stir the preparation on a moderate fire, thus to thicken it ; as soon as beginning to get knobby, remove it back, work vigorously to smooth it ; this done, put it again over the fire;, add a piece more butter, let it boil for five or six minutes, without ceasing to work ; pour it into a kitchen-basin, and introduce into it two raw yolks of eggs, as well as a pinch of grated orange- zest ; take it up in little bits, which let drop on a floured table ; roll them (by hand) into balls, then flatten with the handle of a knife. Ten minutes before serving, plunge these 'gnocchi’ into boiling water, let the liquid bubble for two minutes, then remove back ; five minutes after, drain them with a skimmer on a sieve; dish them in layers, sprinkle over sugar flavored with cinnamon, mask them with three tablespoonfuls of bread-crumb fried in butter, and moreover baste them with clarified butter 'a la noisette'’. 1158. Fruits with rice (D. 243). — Butter a mould with a flat border, fill it with rice, boiled with cream, finished with a few yolks of eggs, but leaving a hollow in the middle. Fill this hollow with rather firm apricot-marmalade, cover it with a layer of rice, and keep the mould at the 'bain-marie’ for twenty-five minutes. On the other hand, cut six or seven slices of raw pine-apple, divide these slices in two, place the pieces in a stewpan, cover with syrup (28 li. 05), and keep them in the 'bain-marie’. Cut likewise a few slices of pine-apple into small dice, which put into a stewpan, add the same quantity of preserved apricots, the same of green almonds, the same of preserved cherries, and at last a little bit of angelica; all of which cut up in small dice ; add moreover, to this 'salpicon’, two tablespoonfuls of well-washed Smyrna-raisins, the same amount of scalded pistachios. Moisten the