250 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. pan, put into it a piece of butter, and two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion ; which fry without allowing to take color ; add to it a few fresh mushrooms, cut up in quarters; fry them quickly for a few minutes, salt slightly, and pour over half a glass of white wine, and the same of gravy ; let the mushrooms cook quickly for live or six minutes, draw the frying-pan on the side of the fire, thicken the stock with a small piece of kneaded-butter, thus obtaining a little sauce not too thick ; when of a nice relish, add to it the drained kidneys, which warm without allowing to boil ; then remove the pan back, toss the stew, and finish it by adding a pinch of parsley, a little pepper, and the juice of one lemon. Dish the kidneys, surrounding with fried bread -‘croutons’ glazed with a paste-brush. 585. Brewers’ mutton-chops. — Cut up four or five rather thick slices off the end of a saddle of mutton, but the whole breadth of it ; beat them slightly with a cutlet-bat, season with salt, and cayenne pepper, rub them with a paste-brush, dipped in melted lard ; and broil them on a moderate fire, turning ; afterwards, dish them, and mask each with a piece of butter, seasoned and mixed up with chopped shalôt, parsley, and lemon-juice. 586. Mutton-cutlets, Breton fashion. Parc ten or twelve mutton- cutlets (see No. 589), season, dip them into beaten eggs, bread-crumb, and range them, one beside the other, in a ‘sauté-pan with clarified butter, frying them on both sides for twelve minutes. On the other hand, slice seven or eight large onions, blanch them for two minutes, and fry them in a stewpan with butter; season with salt, nutmeg, and a pinch of sugar; sprinkle over a little flour, and moisten with good gravy: finish cooking them slowly, and thicken with two yolks of eggs diluted with a little cream. When the cutlets are of a nice color, dish them in a circular, and pour on the centre the garnish of onions. 587. Mutton-cutlets, with taragon. — Cut, and pare seven or eight mutton-cutlets ; season, moisten with oil, and broil them nicely. On the other hand, pour into a small stewpan two gills of good clear gravy, add to it a small bunch of taragon ; cover the stewpan, set it on the fire, and reduce the gravy to half-glaze; take off the bunch, add to the gravy a pinch of chopped taragon-leaves, dish up the cutlets, and pour the gravy over. « 588. Sheep’s ears, in croustade (D. 89). — Scald a dozen sheep’s ears; singe, and boil them, proceeding as directed in No. 699; when drained, and cooled, fill them inwardly with a layer of raw force-meat, thus supporting them in an upright position ; dip them into beaten eggs, bread-crumb, and fry them.