305 POULTRY. — FOWLS. napkin again, skim the fat, and let it cool. Whisk three whites of eggs in a stewpan, until a little frothy ; dilute them with the jelly ; which pour in gently ; add to the liquid two tablespoonfuls of madeira, and a few cloves ; and whisk over the fire until boiling ; at the first bubbling draw the stewpan on warm ashes, cover it, put some live embers on the lid, and keep it thus for a quarter of an hour; the jelly should then be very clear. Strain it through a napkin, or a bag, until very limpid ; pour it into a well-tinned mould, and let it cool on ice, to be cut afterwards. 712. Montglas of poulard (pullet) with croustade (D. 115). Take the meat off the breast of a cooked pullet; pare, divide it into slices, an eighth Fig. 115. of an inch thick ; which slices trim into squares, giving them the length of an inch ; divide these squares again into fillets of equal length and thickness ; place them in a stewpan ; add a third their volume of pickled tonguq and mushrooms, all of which cooked and cut up. Pour into a flat stewpan three or four gills of ‘bechamel-sauce, add to it a few pieces of raw ham, let the sauce reduce, stirring, and introducing gradually half a glassful of good double cream; when it is succulent, and of nice consistence, take out the ham, and mix it (off the fire) with the previously prepared ‘montglas’. Warm the ‘ragout’ without allowing it to boil, season, and keep it in the ‘bain-marie’. On the drawing this ‘montglas’ is represented, dished in a ‘croustade’ of bread ; composed of three pieces : the cup, the foot, and the basis. These pieces are fried one by one to an equal color, then fastened together perpendicularly, and supported by small skewers applied from within. The cup of the ‘croustade’ can only be emptied, after having been fried. Then the hollow is masked with a raw ‘quenelle’-force- meat ; the ‘croustade’ is fixed to the dish with ‘repère’ ; which, as well as the force- meat, is allowed to dry at the mouth of a moderate oven ; then dish the ‘montglas’ in the hollow formed by the cup.