588 OPINIONS OF THE ENGLISH PRESS Whilst M. Dubois resembles all the other chefs of our acquaintance, in thinking somewhat too highly, and speaking somewhat too grandly, of the concerns of his art, he differs from them in modesty. ‘Though he has studied cookery with ardor and perseverance, and has spent years in searching into its minutest details, he is far from believing that he has penetrated into all its secrets.’ He apologises for what may be called his presumption, in ventu- ring to teach the culinary art to Englishmen. Far from thinking that culinary artists should tyrannise over their employers’ tastes, he is of opinion that a cook’s main object should be to please his master, however deficient the latter may he in gastronomic perception and knowledge. So great is his diffi- dence that he has never gathered courage to put before their Majesties of Prussia the realisation of a design for a ‘Trophy of War, in Fat’, which at times he is disposed to regal'd as his sublimest con- ception. Should this proposal for a thing of beauty ever result in adequate achievement, beholders will see in her native fat a decidedly warlike lady, wearing the dress of no period in particular, and standing astride over a confused mass of cannon, cart-wheels, and military ammunition ; whilst she holds in her left hand a banner, and with her right puts the trumpet of victory to her lips. The Athenaeum, Feb. 12, ’70. ARTISTIC COOKERY. By Urbain Dubois, Chef dc Cuisine of their Majesties the King and Queen of Prussia. Longmans. The Royal and learned chef has done good ser- vice to the public in general, and to the ladies in particular, by the publication of this book. No pains or expense appears to have been spared, to make it of the most appetising quality, and undoubtedly with signal success. Printed in the best style of the art, on paper worthy of the occasion, and illus- trated throughout with artistically and expensively got-up drawings, it is as well suited to the table of the drawing-room, as are its contents to the lower regions of the kit^sfn. A portion of the work is well devoted to the publication of a series of tooth- watering menus ; and as a pleasant consequence, we may naturally look forward to the early day ; when the interesting information, intended to be conveyed by those delicate specimens of current literature, may be couched in terms somewhat more in accor- dance with the rules of the French Lindley Murrays, than has hitherto been the rule. It is an undoubted, though perhaps a melancholy and humiliating fact, that, owing either to the carelessness of the hostess, the ignorance of the cook, or the irrepressible de- vilry of the printing-house, the menus generally exhibited at our social boards, do not indicate that familiar intimacy with Gallic gastronomic nomen- clature, so earnestly, though fruitlessly, sought by the British matron. We sincerely hope, that this volume may be extensively read, and carefully acted on; and in this aspiration we are not altogether unselfish. We hold that a wcll-cooked dinner forms a by no means inconsiderable item in the happiness of civilised man ; and if we can induce ladies to persuade their cooks to take a few leaves out of M. Dubois’ book, we maintain we have well earned the everlasting gratitude of every husband in the kingdom. The Examiner and London Review, Feb. 19, 1870 ARTISTIC COOKERY: a Practical System, suited for the use of the Nobility and Gentry and for Public Entertainments. With eighty engraved plates. By Urbain Dubois, Chef de Cuisine to their Majesties the King and Queen of Prussia London: Longman, Green, and Co. 1870. Some few months since, when we noticed in our columns C. Gouffé’s Livre de Cuisine in the English dress, in which it appeared as The Royal Cookery- Book ; we thought that the art of writing works on cookery had culminated, and that any further move- ment must be a decline. The appearance, however, of the Artistic Cookery of M. Dubois compels us to recant our error. We have here a massive quarto volume, devoted almost exclusively to the higher aesthetics of the culinary art. No labor appears to have been spared in its production, nor any expense in its illustration. Upwards of eighty large engrav- ings present us with designs for artistic dishes and pieces of all kinds, amounting to many hundreds in number. M. Dubois is not merely an exponent of high art in cookery, but a prophet of the very highest. Like all writers who are in earnest, he is an enthusiast. He does not approach his important subject lightly ; he maintains that his hook requires serious and profound study, for its object is to elevate the cha- racter of the art of which it treats. ‘Not only docs it aim at completing the theory of cookery, by calling the attention of practitioners to the artistic part of the profession, but it also endeavours to inspire those, who are in the habit of giving grand dinners, with a sense of the splendor belonging to the luxury of the table—that captivating luxury, which in every country so nobly expresses the magnificence of a great house.’ The designs so freely given ‘are not merely imaginary sketches evolved from the fertile imagination of an artist, but actual transcripts from pieces executed in the kitchens of the King and Queen of Prussia’. M. Dubois commences his wrork with a chapter on the service of the table, in which he describes and contrasts the relative advantages and disadvantages of the Services à la Russe and a la Française. After describing the care required to secure the hot entrées being served sufficiently hot to be enjoyed in a state of perfection, our author truly remarks : ‘But if cooks and butlers are bound to take so much care, hosts and guests, in their turn, must observe the strictest punctuality ; for the best of dinners, combined with the greatest science, and prepared with the utmost talent and most vigilant attention and care, will not answer expectations, if it is kept waiting. In some instances, the inconvenience here referred to may be removed, by placing on the table luxurious and coquettish pieces, intended only for show, and which, on their turn coming to be carved, may he replaced by others, dished up at the moment of being handed round, and preserving all their good qualities and enticing appearance. But this method, although excellent in principle, offers great complication, and would be far too expensive