COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 110 flour, to place them in a frying-grate, and thus to plunge them into hot hog’s lard, minding that none of the liquid escape from the pan : one minute will suffice to fry them. The fish being dry, and of a nice color, take them out with the grate; sprinkle them with salt, as well as with a pinch of cayenne ; dish them in a group on a folded napkin, and serve immediately. 258. Sturgeon, with piquant-sauce. — Cut a piece of sturgeon, off the side of the fish ; trim away the skin and bony parts ; interlard the flesh with fillets of bacon and anchovies, season it with salt, oil, and vinegar ; leave it to pickle for a few hours. Truss it neatly, and place it in a stewpan, garnished at the bottom, with trimmings of bacon and sliced vegetables ; moisten it (till covered) with half vinegar and half broth ; and set the stewpan on the fire, to boil the liquid ; skim it, cover the stewpan, and draw it over a moderate fire with live embers on the lid; then finish cooking the fish gently ; when done, pass the stock through a sieve, skim off its fat, let it boil, and thicken it with a little Toux’, in order to obtain a light sauce ; and keep it boiling on the side of the fire for a quarter of an hour. Skim its fat, and pass it through a tammy, adding to the above two tablespoonfuls of pickled gerkins cut into small dice ; take away the string from the sturgeon ; which put on a dish, and mask with the sauce. 259. Fricandeau of sturgeon, with olives. — Remove the skin of a fillet of sturgeon, beat the meat slightly with a cleaver, and lard it with bacon, like a 'fricandeau’ of veal ; blanch it, without boiling it ; drain, season, and put it into a flat stewpan, garnished with vegetables, and trimmings of ham ; moisten to its height with broth, and let the liquid boil until reduced to half; add a little white wine, cover the 'fricandeau’ with paper, and set the stewpan in a moderate oven, to bake the fish gently ; basting it often. When done, drain it on a dish, pour into the stock a little madeira ; boil, and pass it through a tammy ; carefully skim off its fat, and thicken with a piece of knfeaded-butter. Add five or six dozen Provence olives, freed of stones, and blanched.in water, without boiling. Then dish the 'fricandeau’ with the garnish. 260. Small Russ patties, with vesiga (D. 29, 30). — Divide six ounces of 'vesiga’ into small pieces; which put into a stewpan, with two quarts of water, and a little salt; boil it on a moderate fire, until it becomes tender, so that it may be easily bitten ; drain it on a sieve, chop it quickly, and keep it hot. Chop up an onion, fry it in butter, and mix with it two tablespoonfuls of celery and parsley roots, cut into small dice, blanched, and as much of raw 'gribouis’, like- wise cut in dice. Reduce the moisture of these vegetables ; season, sprinkle them with a pinch of flour, and moisten with a little broth, keeping the sauce very con-