566 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. the value of eighteen leaves of clarified ‘gelatine’, then with half a gill of ‘noyau’- liqueur, and the same of maraschino. Let it cool on the ice, stirring as for a ‘Bavarois’- cream ; as soon as done, gradually introduce into it double its volume of whipped cream. Pour it into a channeled cylinder-mould of low form embedded on ice ; keep it on ice for an hour. When about to serve, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the ‘blanc-manger’ out on a cold dish. 1251. Glazed sabayon, Piémont way. — Mix up well in a little pan three whole eggs, and ten yolks of eggs, with a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar; work the preparation for a few inimités with a wooden-spoon, then gradually dilute it with Lunel - wine (working to each yolk of egg half an eggshellful of wine) ; add half a stick of vanilla, the zest of half a lemon, a little bit of cinnamon. Whip the preparation on a moderate fire, until frothy and firm, then take it off the fire without leaving off whipping. When nearly cooled, add to it three or four ounces of clarified ‘gelatine’, as well as three or four tablespoonfuls of rum ; pour the preparation into a mould embedded with ice, and leave it for full an hour. Turn the ‘entremets’ out on a folded napkin. 1252. Glazed ‘soufflés’, with chocolate. — If such ‘soufflés’ are to be prepared, there must be at one’s disposal a round box in copper, tin, or zinc, the in- terior arranged, so as to receive one or two lattices in iron tin-wire, that is, very light: the box must be made to close hermetically. Previous to preparing the ‘souffles’, this box must be placed, on a thick layer of salted and salpetred ice, in a bucket; moreover it must be surrounded to height with salpetred ice. Get fifteen pretty little cases in plaited paper. Pour into a stewpan nearly a glassful of syrup, flavored with vanilla at 38° R. 118° F., which means, being not too thick ; add to it a half stick of vanilla. Put six or seven yolks of eggs into a sugar-pan, set the syrup on the fire, at the first bubbling remove-it back, pouring it on the yolks, which whip vigorously. Keep the skillet on the fire for two minutes, without ceasing to whip the preparation ; now take it off, and continue whipping, till it has cooled. This done, go on whipping on the ice for five or six minutes more, in order to introduce into it two gills of whipped cream, well drained, and mixed with two tablespoonfuls of sugar, flavored with vanilla ; the mixture completed, with the preparation fill the paper-cases ; let them be quite full, even rising above the rim of the paper. Range the ‘soufflés’ in the metal-box, which close, and cover with a thick layer of salted and salpetred ice. If the preparation goes on in summer, it will be convenient to change the ice half an hour after having drained the water off the bucket. Half an hour afterwards,