COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 428 Ten minutes afterwards, add two dozen small glazed onions, sprinkle over the vegetables a little pepper, and dish the ‘gibelotte’, after having removed the aromatics. 959. Young rabbits (lapereaux), fried. — Divide into middling-sized pieces the hind-legs, and the back, of two young rabbits; put them into a kitchen- basin, season with salt and a pinch of cayenne, add a minced onion, some parsley- leaves, and the juice of one lemon; let the meat macerate for two hours; drain them afterwards on a cloth, flour, dip them in beaten eggs and bread-crumbs. When about to serve, plunge them into hot hog’s lard, taking care to fry separately the pieces of the back, and those of the legs, as the latter require longer cooking ; drain them, as soon as done, dish them up on a folded napkin, and send at the same time a boatful of piquant-sauce. 960. Young rabbit (lapereaux) cutlets, bread-crumbed. — Bone eight hind-legs of young rabbits, without opening them, but preserving the thin end-bone; season inwardly, stuff them with a little raw mince, prepared with lean veal, bacon, ham, and tine-herbs ; sew them with stout thread to the shape of a small ham; season, and arrange them in a flat stewpan with butter, braising them gently on both sides ; let them cool under press, pare them after into the shapes of cutlets; dip them in beaten eggs, bread-crumb, and set them in a flat stewpan, allowing them to take color on both sides; dish them up afterwards in a circular order, put a ruffle on each cutlet, and mask them either with ‘Colbert’ or ‘piquant- sauce. 961. Young rabbits (lapereaux) ‘sautés’, with tomatas. — Skin and draw two young rabbits, and cut them up in pieces. Melt in a frving-pan six ounces of chopped bacon, add to it the pieces of rabbits, fry them over a brisk tire for a few minutes, season with salt and pepper, and mix with them six ounces of lean bacon in large dice, and à chopped onion; toss them on thé tire for ten minutes longer, and pour them into a flat stewpan ; add to them four or tive fleshy tomatas, freed of pips, and cut up in pieces; a bunch of parsley, and a clove of garlic; cover the stewpan, set it on a moderate tire, with hot ashes on the lid; and finish cooking the rabbits gently. At the last moment, baste them with a little melted meat-glaze, sprinkle over a pinch of chopped parsley, remove the aro- matics, and dish up. 962. ‘Boudins’ of rabbits, with green-pease (D. 192). — With a pound of fillets of rabbits, prepare some ‘quenelle’ force-meat, in the same proportions as that of pheasant, No. 831. When passed through a sieve, introduce into it tour