484 C( )SMOPOLITAN COOKERY. Get some stalks of rhubarb well cleansed and tender, cut them transversally into sticks one or two inches long, divide these again into several pieces, which then place in layers on a tart-dish, sprinkling over each layer with good raw-sugar (cassonnado). Raise the rhubarb in a dome-like fashion above the level of the dish, and sprinkle its top also with ‘cassonnade'. Moisten the rim of the dish, mask it with a strip of the tart-paste; then cover the dome, and the rim of the dish, with a thin round of paste. Press the paste against the base of the dome, then on the rim of the dish, thus soldering it to the first applied strip of paste. Trim the paste all round the dish, channel it with the aid of a knife, moisten it on the top with liquid whites of eggs, sprinkle over powder-sugar, and bake it in a portable pastry-oven* for forty-five minutes. This tart may be served indifferently cold or warm, accompanied bv a little Tassonnade’. 1090. Macaroni-timbale, Italian-fashion. — Butter and bread-crumb a Timbale’-mould, spread it with tartlet-paste {sec No. 1099), which of course must be sweetened. Boil half a pound of thick macaroni in salt water : they must be very tender drain, and divide them into pieces two inches long. Put into a flat stewpan a glassful of good ‘béchamel’-sauce, which let reduce on the fire, stirring it ; gradually introduce into it a few spoonfuls of good gravy ; when of a nice flavor, take it off the fire, add to it the macaroni, as well as five ounces of good butter; season the preparation with a pinch of good cinnamon-powder, pour it into the case of paste, cover the Timbale’ with a flat of paste, and bake it in a moderate oven for three quarters of an hour. On taking it out of the oven, turn it out on a dish, slightly sprinkle over sugar, flavored with cinnamon ; and serve. At Rome they mix into the macaroni some cooked poultry-livers. I notice this addition without recommending it. 1091. Apple-‘timbale’, Milan fashion (D. 214). — Take a few good rennet-apples, each of which divide in pieces, peel them, removing the pips, mince, and put them into a flat stewpan ; add to them half a stick of vanilla, a piece of butter, and two handfuls of sugar. Toss them on a brisk fire, cooking them slightly, without breaking them ; this done, take them off the fire, mix with them * The oven here referred to, is made great use of in Paris, in those kitchens, which have not large ovens; it combines several advantages, the importance of which must be acknowledged; in the first place, it is not very expensive; it is also moveable and easily transported, it requires but very little feeding; and lastly, it can be heated in a very short time. For one, who understands the management of these ovens, it is quite easy to cook any sort of pastry. This oven is composed of an iron-case, or frame, having three openings on one front, of which one is for the fire-place, and the other two arranged as ovens: these ovens are lined inside with brick-work, and traversed by the pipe or chimney from the fire-place. The drawing (p. 47G) represents the oven, placed on a support in masonry; but it is not made fast to this support.