180 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. freed of its fat, and diluted with a little gravy. Let it boil a while, thicken with brown-sauce, and throw in a pinch of pepper, a few capers, chopped gerkins, and chopped parsley. Pour the sauce on the bottom of the dish, but without masking the steaks. 413. ‘Entre-cotes’ (steaks) of the Gourmets. — Cut off four steaks from some ribs of beef, pare, and lightly beat them ; season, and roll them in melted butter; set them on a gridiron, one beside the other, and broil them on a clear tire ; five minutes after, turn them ; and put into the hollow, formed in the centre of the steak, a small tablespoonful of beef-marrow, pounded, and passed through a sieve. Meanwhile, place in a stewpan two tablespoonfuls of chopped shalots, fry them with butter, without allowing them to take color, moisten with a few spoonfuls of melted glaze; let it boil, and then remove the pan back, introducing into the sauce five ounces of fresh butter in small pieces, not ceasing to stir, until the butter he entirely melted. Then add to it a spoonful of good vinegar, a pinch of chopped parsley, a little cayenne, and a piece of beef-marrow, blanched whole, then wiped and cut into dice. As soon as the steaks are done, put them on a very hot dish, and pour the sauce on bottom of it. V 414. ‘Agnolotti’ of Turin. — Prepare a nouille-paste, with a pound of flour, the yolk of one egg, a small piece of butter, and the water required: trim a piece of cold braised beef, cut it up in small pieces, and chop it. Fry in a stewpan, with butter, two spoonfuls of chopped onions, without allowing them to take color; moisten with a few spoonfuls of broth, which reduce to a glaze ; then remove the pan back, and add the chopped meat to the onions ; intro- duce into it a handful of grated parmesan; season, and let the preparation cool. Divide the nouille-paste in two parts, which roll out very thin. Take the preparation up with a spoon, and set small balls of it at distances on the surface of a Hat. Moisten the paste, cover the first flat with the second, and press it down with the thumb between each of the small balls. Then cut the flats with a pastry ‘roulette’, in order to obtain some square ‘ravioles’ ; which place on a floured napkin, spread over a baking-sheet. A few minutes previous to serving, plunge the ‘agnolotti’ into boiling salted water, boil them a few seconds, draw the pan on the side of the fire, and seven or eight minutes later drain them. Clarify about ten or twelve ounces of butter (à la noisette), add to it half a pint of good braise gravy; at the first bubbling remove it to the side of the fire, and throw in the ‘agnolotti’: sprinkle them with a handful of grated parmesan; dish up, and sprinkle some parmesan also over them.