221 BUTCHER’S MEAT. — VEAL. is, for instance, the cover of a stewpan), keeping the point of the knife to the out side. When it is cut, turn it out on a baking-sheet with the aid of the paper ; slightly flute the sides, and make a circular incision on the top, half an inch from the sides. Score the paste (in scrolls) on its centre; egg it, and push the baking- sheet into a hot oven, baking the ‘vol-au-vent’ for thirty or thirty-five minutes. When of a nice color, take it out, open, and empty it; slip it on a hot dish, and fill it with a Tagout’ composed of lambs’ or calves’ sweetbreads cut up in slices; scollops Fig. 80. of fat liver, sliced truffles, mushrooms, cocks’-combs, and ‘quenelles’. Dish the ‘ragout’ by layers, basting with brown-sauce, reduced with the trimmings of truffles, and half a glass of madeira. Put by for the top, a nice larded lamb’s sweetbread, glazed separately, and a dozen chicken-‘quenelles', moulded with a tablespoon, and poached. Glaze the larded sweetbread, and send up separately some of the brown- sauce in a sauceboat. 519. ‘Bouchées* of sweetbreads. — Steep in water two sweetbreads, blanch them in hot water, simply to set their exterior surface; refresh, and let them cool. Cut them afterwards in slices ; which season, fry them with butter on both sides, and let cool, to be cut in small dice. Place this ‘salpicon’ in a small stewpan, mix in half its volume of cooked mushrooms, and a fourth part of ox-tongue. Thicken it with ‘ bechamel’-sauce, reduced with liquor of mushrooms, and finished with a little good gravy or melted glaze, then keep the stewpan in the ‘bain-marie’. Prepare a puff-paste with a pound of flour, and the same of butter ; give it five turns and half, proceeding as directed in No. 403 ; let it rest for a few minutes, and roll it out in a thin square flat ; two minutes after, cut from its surface thirty round flats, with a plain tin-cutter, two inches in diameter. Range half of these rounds on a moistened baking-sheet, placing them half an inch distant, and moisten their surface with a paste-brush; bring the other rounds, by cutting out the centre,