400 COSMOPOLITAN COOKEKY. Butter a hot-pie-mould of a shallow form, set it on a baking-sheet covered with paper, line it with short-paste ; mask the bottom and sides with a layer of 'godiveau', place in it the snipes with the bacon and mushrooms, alternating them with the force-meat; set up the preparation in the mould in a dome-like fashion, mask it with slices of fat bacon, and cover it with a flat of paste; finish the pie, proceeding as directed in No. 857 ; egg, and bake it in a moderate oven, for an hour and a quarter; when taken out, make a circular incision on the cover, lift it out, remove the bacon, and pour into the pie some good sauce, reduced with 'fumet’ of game, drawn from the back and bones of snipes ; cover the pie, dish it up, and serve. 899. ‘Soufflés’ of woodcock, in small cases. — Pound the cooked meat of two woodcocks with a piece of butter, their trails, and a third their volume of cold dry cooked rice ; season, and pass the preparation through a fine sieve. Twenty minutes previous to serving, warm the purée very slightly, «without allowing it to boil, take it off the fire, and introduce into it six yolks of eggs well beaten up, then four or five whipped whites of eggs ; with this preparation fill eight or ten plaited paper-cases of high form, previously buttered. Arrange these cases on a baking-sheet, slightly spread with butter, and bake the 'souffles’ in a slow oven for eighteen minutes. When taken out of the oven, dish up the cases on a folded napkin. 900. Woodcocks, stuffed (D. 179). — Bone three good woodcocks, cut off the greatest part of the breast-meat, and divide it in dice ; put it into a kitchen- basin, mix it up with an equal quantity of raw truffles, and the same of fat-liver; season, and pour on the whole two tablespoonfuls of madeira. Pound the meat of the legs, together with that of three raw pigeons, add to them a third their volume of panada, and four yolks of eggs ; season the force-meat, and pass it through a sieve. Melt four tablespoonfuls of rasped fat-bacon in a stewpan, fry with it the trails of woodcocks, and five or six good poulets’ livers, season the preparation highly, and allow it to cool ; pound it afterwards, pass it through a sieve, and mix with it the force-meat of the legs, adding the truffles and meat kept in the basin. With this preparation, stuff the woodcocks in a 'galantine’-shape ; surround them with bacon, tie them separately into small napkins, securing them in form with twine ; boil them in a good stock, on a moderate fire, for one hour; allow them to half-cool in the stock ; drain them, unpack, and pack them up again tighter, and let them cool under a light weight. Half an hour previous to serving, take the 'galantines’ out of the napkins, cut up the breast in the way shown by the drawing, place them in a proportionate stewpan, with some of their stock reduced to half-glaze, and heat them at the entrance of the oven, basting often. Dish them afterwards in a triangular form, and upright