COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 118 stewpan back, covering it; five minutes afterwards, drain the trout with a skim- mer, and dish them on a folded napkin ; surround them with parsley, and serve separately a sauceboatful of plain melted butter. 281. Broiled trout, Provence fashion. — Get two middling-sized trout; draw, scale, wipe, and score them on both sides ; place them on a dish, season, and baste them with oil. Twenty minutes previous to serving, set them on a gridiron, broil them on both sides on a moderate fire, turning, and basting them with oil ; place them on a hot dish. At the same time, pour into a small stewpan, half a glass of oil ; put the stewpan in the Tain-marie’, and whisk the oil, until frothy ; add salt, chopped parsley, tiic juice of two or three lemons ; pour it over the trout, and serve. 282. Trout, Geneva fashion. — It was at the hotel kies Bergues’ in Geneva, that I learned this preparation, worthy of the attention of epicures. Cleanse four middling-sized fresh trout ; butter well a flat stewpan, on the bottom of which place the trout one beside the other. Pour over them a glass of white wine, salt them slightly, and boil them briskly, with live embers on the lid. As soon as done, take off the trout, range them on a dish, glaze with a paste-brush, and keep them at the entrance of the oven. Put a little glaze into the stock of the trout; bring the liquid to ebullition, and remove it back, introducing a good piece of maître-d’hôtel’-butter in small bits; finish it with the juice of a lemon, and pour it beside the trout. Pile up, on each end of the dish, a group of small round potatoes, fried in butter ; garnish the sides with slices of lemon, and serve. 283. Salmon-trout, with truffles. — Choose a trout, of firm flesh, weighing about two pounds ; scale, and draw it by the gills ; wash, and wipe it inwardly. Chop four fresh peeled truffles, which pound in a mortar ; add to this the third of their volume of softened bread-crumbs, and the same of butter ; season the preparation with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and fill with it the inside of the trout ; which set on a buttered gratin-dish. Salt, baste it with butter, and push it into a moderate oven, to bake; basting often with butter. Twelve minutes after, pour into the dish a small glass of white wine, and a few spoonfuls of melted glaze ; boil the liquid, and push the dish again into the oven. A quarter of an hour later, the trout should be done ; place it on another dish ; dilute the fish-stock with a little white wine, let it boil and thicken with a piece of kneaded - butter ; add to it two chopped raw truffles, continue boiling it for two minutes longer; draw it back, and finish it with a piece of fresh butter, the juice of a lemon, and some chopped parsley : pour it over the trout, and serve.