COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 88 202. Salmon on the banks of the Rhine. — Cook three pounds of good sourcrout according to the usual rules. Take a good piece of a fresh Rhine-salmon, which cut into slices (about thirty of which will be required); beat them slightly, and pare them into scollops. Season, and place half of them on a plate. Put the other half into a buttered sauté-pan. Boil, in white wine, about forty middling-sized crayfish; put by six of the finest, removing the tails and shells of the smallest ones to prepare some crayfish-butter. At the same time, blanch five dozen oysters. Prepare half a pound of ‘quenelle’ force-meat of pike; which finish with a piece of crayfish-butter ; and scooping it off with the spoon, mould four dozen middling-sized ‘quenelles’. Prepare a little light brown ‘roux’; dilute it, by degrees, with the oyster and crayfish liquor, as well as with a little fish-broth, mixed with the trimmings and bones of the pike and salmon. Thicken the sauce, stirring it, until boiling; remove it back, and let it simmer for half an hour. Skim off its fat, pass it through a tammy, reduce it, thicken with a liaison of two yolks of eggs, and keep it in the ‘bain-marie.’ A quarter of an hour before serving, bread-crumb the pickled scollops, and color them on both sides with clarified butter. Fry the remainder on a sharp fire, drain them of the butter, add the ‘quenelles’ and poached oysters, as well as the crayfish- tails. Mask these garnishes with the prepared sauce, and keep the ‘ragout’ hot. When ready to serve, drain all the moisture off the sour-crout, thicken with two spoonfuls of sauce ; pile it up on a dish, leaving a hole in the centre ; which fill with the ‘ragout’ offish, on the top of which set the six crayfish put by, whole, but with their tails picked. Surround the sourcrout, at its base, with the fried scollops, and serve it immediately. 203. Broiled slices of salmon, with hot mayonnaise-sauce. — Cut three or four slices of salmon; season, and baste them with oil; place them side by side on a gridiron, previously wanned, and well rubbed with an oiled paper. Broil the slices on a moderate fire, baste with oil (by the aid of a paste-brush); after- wards turn them, and finish cooking them. Dish them up, pour over a little oil, and serve separately the following sauce : Hot mayonnaise - sauce. — Prepare a mayonnaise with three raw yolks of eggs, proceeding according to the usual method. When finished, pour it into a small stew- pan, to warm it on a slow fire, stirring it with a spoon. As soon as it begins to curdle, remove it back, work it quickly, adding by degrees a little cold water. Con- tinue working, till it becomes smooth again; then warm it anew, always stirring, but without letting it boil. Finish it, off the fire, by mixing into it a tablespoonful of mustard, a little vinegar, and a pinch of chopped parsley.