74 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. bone entirely, wipe it with a cloth, slip it on to a hot dish, and mask it with the following sauce: Prawn-sauce, with cream. — Put into a stewpan about a pint and a half of ‘béchamel’-sauce, just passed through a sieve; reduce it, introducing into it a few spoonfuls of raw cream, and a little mushroom - liquor ; when quite creamy, draw it off the fire, introduce into it four ounces of fresh butter, and at last two ounces of prawn-butter. Mask the turbot with a part of the sauce, mix into the remainder a few table- spoonfuls of picked prawns’ tails, and pour it into a sauce-boat. Garnish the fish with parsley. 171. Turbot with cream, ‘au gratin’. — Boil in salted water the half of a turbot (the belly-side) ; drain, remove the black skin, and all the bones ; divide the flesh into middling-sized pieces, and place them in layers, on a deep dish. Sprinkle each layer with a pinch of cooked and chopped mushrooms. Mask them with a few spoonfuls of good, reduced and well seasoned, ‘bechamel’-sauce. Dish the preparation in a dome-like fashion, and mask it likewise with the sauce. Sprinkle over some bread-crumb, baste it with a little melted butter, and set it to take color, in a hot oven, for ten or twelve minutes. On taking it out, the dish is placed on another dish, and sent up. 172. Turbot, Indian fashion. — Having cleansed a small turbot, or the half of a middling-sized one, cut it into square pieces, which steep for twenty minutes in a kitchen-basin, containing a little salt and water. With the head and bones of the turbot, prepare a broth in the manner pre- scribed in No. 164. Cut into dice two middling-sized onions, fry them in a stewpan with butter, till of a fine color ; then add the pieces of turbot, previously washed and drained. Fry them a few minutes, giving them a jerk from time to time; season, and sprinkle over them two tablespoonfuls of curry-powder, and the same of flour. Two minutes afterwards, moisten gradually with the prepared broth, until covered ; add a bunch of parsley, and let it boil for twenty minutes. Now remove the pieces of turbot, one by one, trim them neatly, and place them on a hot dish ; reduce the sauce quickly, and thicken it with three yolks of eggs, diluted with cream; pass it through a sieve, over the fish; and send up separately, a dish of rice cooked Indian way (.see Chicken, Indian fashion). 173. Crayfish, Bordeaux fashion. — Let a few dozen fine crayfish soak in water for two hours ; the water must be mixed with a little milk ; drain them afterwards on a sieve.