FISH. 137 326. Salad of fillets of sole (D. No. 42). — Tal tc four well cleansed, pared soles ; split them slightly on one side, and boil them with salted water and white wine. Let them cool in their liquor, drain them in order to remove the fillets ; which pare to an equal shape and length ; put them on a dish, season, and baste them with oil and lemon-juice. Meanwhile, prepare a salad of vegetables cut in small dice (see No. 230) ; season, and thicken it with ‘mayonnaise’ prepared with aspic, and pour it into a cornet of strong paper ; which set upright in the cylinder of a mould. Keep it on the ice, to get the salad firm ; then dip the cornet in hot water, and turn the salad out on a ‘pain-vert’ placed on a dish. Cut off the pointed end of the pyramid, mask the surface with a layer of mayonnaise, also prepared with aspic ; against which place the fillets of soles, slightly overlapped ; glaze them with half-set aspic, put on the top a small artichoke-bottom, filled with small round vegetables, seasoned and glazed with aspic ; surround the base of the ‘pain-vert’ with a circle of halves of eggs, likewise garnished with various vegetables, and glazed. Send up separately a boatful of ‘mayonnaise’- sauce. 327. Fillets of sole, with Villeroi-sauce. — Take out the fillets of two cleansed soles, freed of their black skin; cut them in two transversally, pare, and season them. Chop up an onion, fry it with butter in a flat stewpan ; add to it a handful of chopped fresh mushrooms. Boil the fine-herbs for two minutes, and range the fillets of soles in the stewpan (side by side), to boil them on both sides ; and then let them cool in their stock. Take them out afterwards, one by one, the fine-herbs adhering to them, and dip them into a ‘Villeroi’-sauce, finished at the time. Lay them flat on a baking-sheet, letting the sauce cool ; roll them in some bread- crumb, dip them into beaten eggs, and bread-crumb once more. When ready to serve, plunge the fillets into hot fat, and as soon as of a nice color, drain, and dish them in a circular order on a folded napkin, with a bunch of fried parsley in its centre.