COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 124 cut in quarters ; season with salt, spices, chopped parsley, and a few spoonfuls of sherry; cover the dish, and macerate the fish, with the truffles and wine, for one hour. Cut in pieces ten ounces of the flesh of eel, and the same of pike; mix and pound them together: pound likewise one pound of fresh fat bacon, and put it by: lastly pound two raw truffles with panada the size of an egg, and the fillets of six anchovies. This mixture prepared, add to it the bacon, and the fish previously pounded ; season it highly with salt and spices, pound it once more, and five minutes previous to taking it out of the mortar, introduce into the force-meat the cooking-stock of the sterlet. Line a pie-mould with short-paste, the bottom and sides of which mask with a layer of force-meat, and fill the hollow with the pieces of sterlet and truffles, with alternate layers of force-meat. Finish, and bake the pie, according to the usual way. Half an hour after its being taken out of the oven, pour into it at the top, a few spoonfuls of good aspic-jelly, with an infusion of aromatics, and half its quantity of sherry. Allow the pie to cool, before serving it. 294. Lamprey, Piémont fashion. — The lamprey is an excellent fish, with delicate and light flesh, if it be taken alive, and killed at the moment of cooking; this fish is really delicate, however, only previous to the period of spawning, after- wards its flesh becomes dry, and loses its qualities. When the lamprey is bled, cut off its head, and divide the body in pieces, which put into a stewpan, with cold water, and a little vinegar. Set the stewpan on the fire, stir the fish with a skimmer, and warm it until the skin can be taken off ; then drain the pieces, and put them on a cloth; sprinkle over some salt, and rub them with the cloth, removing the skin. Wash them afterwards, place them in a stewpan, and cover them with white wine. ■ Add a little salt, a piece of cinnamon, and a bunch of parsley with aromatics ; boil the liquid for ten minutes, and draw the stewpan off the fire. Pianontese-sance. — Melt six ounces of butter in a stewpan, mix it with the same quantity of flour, and fry this paste on a moderate fire, stirring till of a brown color ; moisten with the fish-stock and a little good gravy, in order to obtain a light sauce. Stir it until boiling, and remove it back, to let it simmer for twenty minutes. Then drain it of its fat ; pass it through a sieve, into another stewpan ; add a gill of Marsala or madeira wine, and boil it quickly, to reduce and render it succulent. Then add to it the pieces of lamprey, two tablespoonfuls of red currant-jelly, and a piece of lemon-peel. Put the stewpan on a moderate fire ; and, a quarter of an hour after- wards, thicken the sauce with the blood of the lamprey, mixed with a little vinegar; place the fish in a deep dish, the bottom of which is masked with ‘croûtons’ of toasted bread.