178 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. tics, and a clove of garlic ; start the stock to ebullition, and remove the pan on to a very slow fire, with live embers on its lid, occasionally turning the meat; when three-parts done, pass the stock through a sieve, put it again into the stewpan, add to this a garnish of carrots, turnips, and small onions, slightly blanched ; continue gently boiling. When ready to serve, drain the meat, dish it up, removing the strings, and surround it with the vegetables ; skim the fat off the cooking-stock (which then, should be half-glaze), pass it through a sieve, and pour it over the beef. 409. Piece of beef, Pruss fashion. — This dish is very popular in Prussia; it belongs to the old school, but when well prepared, is not without its merit ; I have seen amateurs of good cookery accept it favorably. H. M. the King of Prussia goes every year to hold a review at the New-Palace of ‘Sans-souci’; on this day, the court entertains the officers and soldiers of the garrison, and in return, the soldiers entertain the King with a dish of ‘sclunorbraten’, prepared in their military kitchens, which is added at the royal dinner. The King, the royal family, and the guests, always do honor to this entertainment. Take a piece of ‘noix’ of beef, about six pounds without bones, interlard it, in a line with the fibre of the meat, with fillets of bacon and raw ham; salt it, and put it into a kitchen-basin; add to it, parsley and celery-roots, carrot, onion; all of which sliced, then thyme, basil, bay-leaves, cloves and peppercorns; moisten with a sufficient quantity of white-beer (weiss-bier)* to cover it ; put a cloth over, and let the meat remain therein for three days (in winter) ; and keep it in a cool place, turning it several times. Garnish a stewpan with trimmings of bacon and the vege- tables of the marinade, set the meat thereon, moisten with its marinade, and add some beer to cover it ; add also a few rinds of pork, let the stock boil, and then skim it carefully. At the first bubbling, place a thick buttered paper over the meat, put the lid on the stewpan, and push it into a very slow oven, or on hot embers, placing some on the lid ; thus the liquid does not cease to simmer gently. Three hours later, turn the meat, and continue boiling it for three hours longer; it ought then to he sufficiently done. Take the stewpan off the fire, pass the stock through a sieve, skim the fat away carefully, and pour the toppings over the beef ; then cover the stewpan, and keep the meat hot. Let the cooking-stock settle for half an hour, decant it into another stewpan ; let it boil, and thicken it with five or six tablespoonfuls of ginger-bread (pain d’épices) soaked in water and pounded ; as soon as the sauce boils, place it on the side to clarify, add to it a piece of orange-zest, the pulp of a lemon without peel or * This beer is sparkling and rather acid, but light. It may be replaced by some oat-beer mixed with a little vinegar.