481 SWEET ENTREMETS. — TARTS. I whipped cream; being firm, well drained, sweetened, and perfumed. Adorn the surface with cream, squeezed through a cornet. 1083. Apple-tart, Westfalian fashion. —r Peel and mince about fifteen good apples, fry them quickly with butter, but so as to get them soft without breaking; thicken the apples with four tablespoonfuls of apricot-marmalade and put them into a tart-dish. On the other hand, work a quarter of a pound of butter with a spoon, and thicken it like cream ; then add to it, one by one, four or five yolks of eggs ; this preparation being frothy, introduce into it two whites of eggs, and a quarter of a pound of grated pumpernickel-bread-crumb, passed through a sieve, as well as six ounces of powder-sugar, flavored with vanilla ; with this preparation mask the apples, smooth them on the top with the blade of a knife, sift over a little sugar, keep the dish in a moderate oven for twenty-five minutes. 1084. Apple-tart, Flemish fashion. — Cut in quarters about fifteen good apples, peel them, remove the pips and core; mince, and put them into a flat stewpan with butter, toss them on a brisk fire ; add sugar, and reduce their moisture. As soon as sufficiently done, without breaking, put them into a tart-disli; smooth them with the blade of a knife, raising them in a dome-like shape, and thus let them cool. Now mask this dome with a layer of ‘frangipane’-cream with almonds, pre- pared after the receipt given No. 1080, but kept of a nice consistence; mask the I cream with a very thin layer of ‘meringue’ ; apply on the top a little decoration, by aid of a cornet ; sprinkle over a little tine sugar, keep the tart in a very moderate oven for twenty minutes. 1085. Black-plum-tart. — Peel (when raw) four or five dozen whole black plums, without removing the stones ; place them in layers on a tart-dish, sprinkling over powder-sugar ; mask the rim of the dish with a strip of fine short- paste, and cover it over with a round of the same paste. Channel its edges, moisten slightly the top of the tart, sprinkle over tine sugar, bake it in a moderate oven for forty-five minutes. 1086. Marrow-tart. — Break four whole eggs into a kitchen-basin, mix them up with a quarter of a pound of flour, a little salt ; dilute this with three gills of milk ; mix this preparation up with a whip, pass it through a sieve into a stewpan ; add a piece of butter, and thicken it, stirring over the fire, without allowing it to get lumpy. As soon as the cream is well thickened, add nearly half a pound of dissolved sugar, part of which is flavored with vanilla ; work for seven or eight minutes more over the fire, thus to reduce the preparation. Remove it back, and introduce two tablespoonfuls of milk of almonds, half a pound of chopped, melted beef-marrow, 31