100 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. for two or three hours. Afterwards, run an iron skewer (transversally) through them, alternating each piece with a slice of bacon and a bay-leaf ; fix the piece hy hotli ends to the spit, thus roasting the eel. Pour some oil into the dripping-pan, add two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, and the juice of two lemons. Baste the eel with this oil ; when three-parts done, bread-crumb it. Take it otf the spit, and dish it up, without separating the single pieces, but after having removed the skewer. Send up separately a boatful of hot tartar-sauce. 230. Smoked eels, Swedish fashon. — Get some middling-sized eels, skin them, let them lie to macerate in salt for some hours ; wipe, and hang them up on some hooks by their heads, placed at a distance from each other, at the bottom inside of an overturned tun, open on the one side. Put this tun on three bricks disposed round a half-dying fire, which keep up with small pieces of bark of resinous wood, thus concentrating in the tun a thick warm smoke. Five or six hours afterwards, the eels will be smoked and cooked at the same time. Divide them into pieces, which freed of the skin, place in a kitchen-basin; season, and baste them with oil and vinegar. Prepare a salad of mixed vegetables composed of ’boiled potatoes, beet-root, celery, boiled carrots, gerkins, salted cucumber (‘ogursis’), pickled ‘cèpes’, and capers: all these vegetables (except the capers), cut up in small pieces, seasoned, basted with oil and vinegar, and thus left for two hours. When ready to serve, put these vegetables into a border-mould, pressing them slightly. Turn the border out . on a dish, place the pieces of eel in its centre, and baste them with their seasoning. 231. Small eels of the Tiber, with green-peas. — Take five or six small eels of the thickness of a finger; kill them, remove their head and skin, dividing their body into pieces. Chop one onion, fry it with a little butter or oil ; add the pieces of eel ; season, and toss them over a brisk fire, reducing their moisture. Then mix therewith a pint of fresh green-peas, add a bunch of parsley, a little salt and pepper; cover the stewpan, and stew the whole removed back from the fire, covering the lid with embers. When the peas are done, thicken the stew with kneaded-butter ; remove the bunch, and dish the fish. This is a dish highly esteemed in Rome, where eels are very good ; it can be prepared, however, any where: only remember that the eels absolutely must he young, slender, and alive. 232. ‘Clovisses’ and ‘praires’ (shell-fish) for ‘hors-d’œuvre’. — The ‘clovisses’ of Marseille, and the ‘praires’ of Toulon, enjoy a great repute in the