486 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. Bake this preparation in round flats, about half the thickness of the thumb ; when taken out of the oven, let them cool ; then mask the upper surface of three or four of them, with a layer of apricot-marmalade, on which immediately place the flats, one over the other. Pare the tart all round, mask likewise with marmalade, then with a layer of icing-sugar, flavored with maraschino, or rum. The icing-sugar having dried, adorn the top of the tart with preserved fruits, and red and white jelly: the decoration is according to fancy. Set the tart on a large dish, the bottom of which is covered with a round of paper of open-work. These tarts may also be prepared Avith tine vanilla- or orange- biscuit. 1093. Spanish pudding. — Pour half a pound of clarified butter into a stewpan, and warm; add to it two large handfuls of white, fine bread-crumb, stirring it with a spoon, till getting of a nice yellow color. Now dilute it gradually with three gills of warm milk, stir the preparation on the fire, till beginning to take a little consistence ; this done, take it off the fire, thicken it, working vigorously; add to it nearly half a pound of sugar, part of which flavored Avith vanilla, cook it for a few minutes more, then pour into another stewpan, and introduce into it six yolks of eggs, and three Avhole eggs. When the preparation is cold, mix in it five Avhipped Avhites of eggs, kept very firm ; pour it into a buttered and floured plain cylinder- mould, set in a stewpan filled Avith warm water to half its height , let the pudding poach in a portable oven; an hour after, turn it out on a dish, and mask it with English-cream, flavored with vanilla. 1094. Dutch-pudding. — Soak half a pound of bread-crumb in some milk, press the moisture out, and place the bread-crumb in a stewpan, in order lo mash it ; then add a quarter of a pound of beef-marrow, and the same of chopped beef-suet ; add to the above six yolks of eggs, and three Avhole eggs, a little chopped lemon-peel, six ounces of sugar, the same of dry raisins stoned, four tablespoonfuls of preserved peel, cut in small dice. Pour the preparation into a buttered mould, set this in a flat stewpan, Avith boiling Avater to half the height of the mould ; cover the stewpan, set it on a mode- rate fire, and bake the pudding for an hour : the Avater must boil continually, and must be replaced in proportion as it evaporates. When ready for serving, turn the pudding out on a dish, mask it Avith apricot- marmalade, diluted with a little syrup and rum. 1095. English tipsy-pudding (D. 216). — Prepare a ‘gcnoisc’-pastc Avith half a pound of sugar, four Avhole eggs, two yolks of eggs, three whites of eggs