COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 564 1245. Peacll-‘pain’, with maraschino. — Peel a dozen middling-sized peaches quite ripe ; remove the stones, pass the pulp through a fine sieve; put the ‘purée’ into a little copper-basin, mix into it a glassful of syrup, slightly perfumed with vanilla, mixed with ten or twelve leaves of dissolved ‘gelatine’. Set the basin on the ice, and whip the preparation till beginning to thicken; this done, mix in a quarter of a glassful of ‘maraschino’ and a little good ‘kirschwasser’, then five or six tablespoonfuls of whipped and sweetened cream ; pour the preparation into a jelly-mould, embedded with pounded ice. Cover the mould, and keep it thus for full an hour. When about to serve, dip the mould into warm water in order to turn the ‘pain’ out. 1246. ‘Pain’ of red-currants. — Pick a few handfuls of red-currants; which mash with a wooden spoon, and pass, through a sieve, into a kitchen-basin : tinned metal ought never to come in contact with ‘purée’ or juice of red fruit. Give sugar to the ‘purée’, which dilute with the juice of two oranges, as well as with dissolved and clarified ‘gélatine’ about fifteen leaves. Ten minutes after, pass the preparation, through a sieve, into a sugar-pan; try a little part of it, and stir it on ice, to thicken it; then pour it into a mould embedded with pounded ice, and coated (chemisé) with jelly. An hour after, dip the mould in warm water, then turn the ‘pain’ out on a cold dish. 1247. Apricot-‘pain,’ Paris fashion. — Dissolve fifteen leaves of ‘gé- latine’ with a glassful and a half of water ; with this liquid, dilute an equal quantity of sweetened apricot-‘purée’ or marmalade ; mix into the preparation the juice of an orange, and a little zest, pass it through a fine sieve, stir it on the ice, and slightly thicken it. Embed with ice a dome-shaped mould, let the bottom of this mould take a layer of the preparation ; as soon as this layer is firm, set on the centre of the larger mould, another smaller mould of the same shape, full of pounded ice; pour the liquid preparation all round this second mould, so as to fill the space left lree between the two moulds ; as soon as this preparation too is firmly set, remove the ice from the little mould and replace it by water, so as to be able to remove the inner mould. On the other hand, pour into a copper-basin half a glassful of cold vanilla-syrup, mixed with four or five dissolved leaves of ‘gélatine’ ; stir the preparation on the ice, so as slightly to thicken it, introduce into it two gills of whipped cream, as well as a few very fresh strawberries cut in two ; immediately pour the preparation into the hollow left by the smaller mould ; let it set, and as soon as it has got firm, turn the ‘pain’ out on a cold dish.