COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 26 69. Pheasant-purée soup, Vienna fashion. — Boil six ounces of sago in four pints of pheasant-'‘consomme’. Keep the stewpan on the corner of the fire. Pound the meat of a cooked pheasant ; as soon as converted into paste, add four or five yolks of eggs ; with this preparation thicken the soup, which pass through a tammy. Put it back into the stewpan, and warm it, tossing it up without allowing it to boil ; pour it into the soup-tureen, and add a garnish of boiled macaroni, cut in strips half an inch long. 70. Carrot-purée soup, German fashion. — Mince the red part of a few carrots, let them fry with butter, finish cooking them short of moisture with broth ; as soon as done, reduce the liquid to glaze, mix them with six tablespoonfuls of ‘bechamel’- sauce, and pass them through a sieve, Dilute this 'purée’ with three pints of good white broth, pass it through a tammy, start the liquid to ebullition, stirring it; then remove to the corner of the stove, and let it clarify for an hour; skim its fat well, and thicken it with a liaison of four yolks of eggs, diluted with cream, and passed through a sieve. Add to the soup a piece of fine butter, as well as a few spoonfuls of blanched nouilles; warm the soup, stirring it; and then pour it into the soup-tureen. 71. Purée of sorrel, with tench. — Pick and wash a few' handfuls of sorrel, put into a stewpan with a little water, to melt; then drain, and pass it through a sieve. Mince one onion, one leek, two carrots, a piece of celery-root ; put them into a stewpan, and fry gently with butter : moisten with a quart and a half of hot boiling water: make it boil, add a little salt, cloves, a sprig of parsley, a handful of trim- mings of mushrooms, and lastly two middling-sized tench cut in pieces (tronçons)- boil the fish ; when done, drain it, and strain the broth. Now melt four ounces of butter in a stewpan, add to it a tablespoonful of flourj thus forming a light 'roux’ ; fry it for a few minutes, and add the purée of sorrel; after a while dilute gradually with the broth of the fish, stirring till it boils, then removing the stewpan back. Add the boned and skinned fillets of tench ; thicken the soup with a liaison of a few yolks of eggs, diluted with broth : cook this preparation without letting it boil up. 72. Belgian purée. — Pick half a quart of very fresh Brussels sprouts, blanch in salt water, drain them on a cloth ; put them into a stewpan with butter, in which fry them for a few minutes. Season, pound, and mix them with a piece of butter and a few yolks of eggs ; pass them through a sieve. Melt in a stewpan six ounces of butter, add to it two tablespoonfuls of flour, fry the paste a few minutes, without allowing it to take color, and dilute with broth; stir the soup until boiling, keep it on the side to clarify, and skim it carefully.