523 SWEET ENTREMETS. — FLAWNS. klampf-nudeln’ with melted butter, push them into a moderate oven, and bake; when done, sprinkle with tine sugar. A few moments after, take them out of the oven, to detach them one from the other, and dish them, in a group, on a folded napkin. 1169. Rice-flawn (flan), with fruits (D. 248, 249). — With some tartlet-paste spread a fiawn-circle of rather high shape; cut and pinch it on the top, till it with rice boiled with cream and with vanilla, finished with a piece of fine butter, and a few tablespoonfuls of whipped cream. Now take off the circle Fig. 248. Fig. 249. pinch the side-surface, and surround with a strip of paper, which fasten with thread ; cover also the top with paper; bake the Hawn, in a moderate oven,,for twenty-five or thirty minutes. When taken out, remove the upper crust of the rice, dish on the edges a cii’de of cooked half-peaches, the central hollow of which circle garnish with a heap of cherries in compote, or with preserved cherries ; mask the peaches with their own reduced syrup, then stick in, between peaches and cherries, a few leaves of angelica cut pointed. 1170. ‘Dampf-nouilles’ with cream. — Have warmed in a kitchen- basin three fourths of a quartern of flour, passed through a sieve. Dilute half an ounce of good German yeast with a glassful of warm milk ; pass the liquid, and with it dilute the Hour, so as to form a paste, to which give a high degree of stiffness. Cover the basin, let the paste rise in a mild temperature ; when risen to double its volume, work it with the hand, mix in it four ounces of melted butter, a little salt, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, then four or five yolks of eggs, one by one, working the paste continually. When the eggs are introduced, the paste must not be too light; if required, a handful of Hour must be added : again let the paste rise in the temperature of the kitchen, then turn it out on the floured table, and let cool; slightly flatten it, then divide it in strips, the thickness of a finger, which pieces cut transversally, so as to get balls the size of a filbert ; roll these pieces with the hand to a round shape, place them one by one on the bottom of a buttered flat stewpan : these balls must not touch one another, yet must be placed very near together. Let the paste rise once more, in the temperature of the kitchen, for an hour.