SOUPS. 11 in the oven, cloves and peppercorns; a small savoy-cabbage and four lettuces, blan- ched and tied up separately. One hour after, put into the broth a bone of roasted leg of mutton, or of roast- beef, or else two backs of roasted fowl; continue boiling for three hours. Take out the vegetables, divide them in pieces, and put them into the soup-tureen, with some crusts of bread of about an inch long, previously buttered and toasted. Pass the broth through a napkin, skim off half its fat, and pour the broth into the soup-tureen. 24. ‘Cuscus’ of the Arabs. — The ‘cuscus’ (or cooscoogoo) is a sort of semolina, or paste of wheat, prepared thus by the Arabs. Take some good wheat (grain) ; cleanse it well, and wash it in several waters, until the epidermis be somewhat tender; then gather it into a heap on a smooth table, cover it with a damp cloth, and expose it for several hours to a burning sun, that is, until the grain swells; then remove the cloth, spread the corn in a thin layer, so as to dry quickly, and shrivel in the heat of the sun. In such a state grind it between two millstones, according to the usual process ; but notice that the stones be distant enough to bruise the wheat, without pulverising. Winnow it afterwards, to extract the bran and flour which may remain. To prepare this soup, one should have at one’s disposal a colander without a handle, fitting closely to the mouth of an earthen stockpot, which is kept hanging by aid of three hooks, so as not, however, to prevent the stockpot from being closed hermetically. Cut the half of a leg of mutton, off the knuckle-end; put it into the stock- pot, with a good hen, a little salt, and four or five quarts of water ; observing, that the water only reach to three quarters of the height of the vessel ; place it on the fire, to bring the liquid to ebullition; skim it well, and at the first bubbling, remove It back. Three quarters of an hour later, add one onion, two leeks, a few carrots, and a pinch of pimento powder. One hour afterwards, wash a pound of ‘cuscus’, put it into the colander, and hang this over the stockpot, which must shut closely, thus cooking the ‘cuscus’ by the steam. For this purpose, the colander should stand a little above the liquid. Continue boiling, until the meat and hen are done ; then pass the broth, through the napkin, into the soup-tureen. Serve the ‘cuscus’ in a deep dish, and the meats at the same time on another dish, surrounding them with the vegetables. As a variety, the ‘cuscus’ may be seasoned to a ‘risoto’, with butter, gravy, and grated par- mesan. The ‘cuscus’ is eaten, partly with the soup, and partly with the meats. 25. Solferino soup. — Prepare four quarts of clear broth, such as described for a ‘croûte-au-pot’ ; and keep it in ebullition on the corner of the fixe ; ten mi-