COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 478 1077. ‘Crêpes’ of the Marchioness. — With ‘crêpes’ it is the same as with ‘blinis’ : they must be eaten immediately, when ready. The best means to get them hot is, preparing and sending them to table half at a time. Put into a kitchen-basin half a pound of flour, a little salt, and three or four whole eggs ; introduce the eggs into the flour, by aid of a spoon, but proceeding so as to get a smooth paste of rather high consistence ; so far dilute the paste gradually with half a glassful of milk; the milk being introduced, the paste should he very slightly thickened, and liquid. Melt half a pound of good butter, which pour into a small stewpan, decanting it; then let it cook till slightly brown (à la noisette). Warm a frying-pan for pancakes, moisten the bottom with a tablespoonful of clarified buttèr ; as soon as this is warm, pour some paste on the pan, in a sufficient quantity to mask the bottom with a thin layer ; as soon as the ‘crêpe’ begins cooking, thrust a fork into the bubbles, and turn the pan vigorously round on itself, to prevent its sticking to the pan ; a few seconds after, turn the ‘crêpe’ over, by giving it a jerk with a quick and combined motion of the hand, to get it to fall down quite unfolded. Moisten the pan also with a paste- brush dipped in butter, thus cooking the ‘crêpe’ on its other surface, without ceasing to move the pan. Slip the ‘crêpe’ on to a hot plate, sift over a little powdered sugar. 1078. Raspberry-tart. — Select fresh, well ripened raspberries, remove their stalks, place them in layers on a tart-dish, sprinkling over each of these layers with a handful of powder-sugar. Raise the fruit in a dome-like shape above the level of the dish, and sprinkle it over also with powder-sugar. Moisten the edges of the dish, and mask it all round with a strip of tart-paste, which moisten; mask the fruit with a large round of paste, which fix on to the base of the dome of fruit, with the tip of the finger, then fix it on to the rim of the dish, soldering it to the under- most strip of paste. Cut and channel it all round, moisten, sprinkle over sugar, bake the tart for forty-five minutes, then let it cool. 1079. Macédoine of peaches (D. 210). — Get eight or ten large peaches, being not over-ripe, divide each of them in two pieces, remove the stones. Pare the finest pieces round, plunge them into boiling water, wherein leave them until their skin is easily to be removed : a few moments will do. Drain them immediately, place them in a kitchen-basin, and cover with cold vanilla-syrup: wherein let them macerate for one hour. With the other pieces of peaches prepare a ‘purée’; which, when passed through a sieve, mix with a glassful of sweet jelly. Boil in plenty of water, a quarter of a pound of rice ; drain, put it into a basin, pour over syrup with vanilla. Take a vegetable-spoon, with it cut out little balls of