IX THE ART OF EATING AT TABLE. method an incontestable superiority. And yet, this method is equally simple botli in practice and in theory, as easy to be comprehended, as to lie demonstrated. This is so true, that if I did not fear to be misunderstood, I should say — that, what appears difficult, inconvenient, and impossible, is — not to eat according to the rules of this method. In order to eat at one’s ease, and without automatic stiffness, one must first be seated commodiously, and perpendicularly, neither too high, nor too low ; the chest upright, at an equal distance from the back of the chair and from the table. On the left of the plate there should be a solid fork, rather heavy than light; on the right the spoon and knife, the latter having a broad blade rounded at the extremity. When the hands are not occupied with carving or conveying the food to the mouth, they may be reposing on the edge of the table, but only as far as the wrist. When about to eat (with the exception of soup, which is always absorbed by holding the spoon with the right hand) or to cut the food that is on the plate, the fork ought to be used with the left hand, the points or prongs turned downwards, and pressed on with the extended fore-finger, to maintain it in an almost horizontal, and not a perpendicular position. The knife is then taken with the right hand, and with the aid of its rounded blade, the piece cut is covered, either with the sauce, or with the garnishes that are served with the meat, to raise it to the mouth, but solely with the help of the fork, and consequently with the left hand : the knife * ought never to be raised to the mouth. When one ceases to cut or eat, whether it be to join in the conver- sation , or while waiting for another dish ; the knife and fork ought to be laid 011 the plate, the handle of the one turned to the right, and the handle of the other turned to the left, in other words the two extremities pointing inwards, so as to be able to remove them at once, when required to be used again. * I cannot refrain from introducing at this place a remark of great interest and importance to delicate epicures, viz. that the English, when attable, never touch fish with a knife For this reason many persons hold the fork with the right hand when eating fish, as the knife has no office to fulfil, no • duty to discharge.