COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 86 Beam shalot-sauce. — Put into a small stewpan two tablespoonfuls of chopped shalots, and four of good vinegar; set it on the fire, and boil the shalots, until the vinegar be reduced to half; then remove the stewpan back; and when the prepara- tion is about cold, add four yolks of eggs, which beat with a spoon ; add four table- spoonfuls more of good oil. Set the stewpan again on a slow fire, and thicken the sauce, stirring it; remove it back, and introduce into it, by small quantities, half a glass of oil, alternated with the juice of half a lemon; finish with a little chopped taragon and parsley. 199. Yatel salmon. — This piece is represented in an engraving out of text. Cut two nice slices off the thickest part of a salmon; cleanse, and boil them in a ‘court-bouillon’ with white wine; in which let them cool, then drain, and wipe them on a cloth. Prepare a ‘pain-vert’ of an oval form, fix on its centre a bread-stem masked with fat, likewise of an oval form, and cut up slantwise at each extremity; set the two slices of salmon leaning against them ; glaze them with reddened aspic-jelly, support them on the top by inserting a ‘hâtelet’- skewer, garnished with a large crayfish. Surround with chopped jelly, squeezed through a cornet ; and garnish the intervals, on both sides, with green parsley-leaves, and a small group of crayfish. Set the ‘pain-vert’ on a stand in fat, constructed as shown in the engraving; surround the base of the ‘pain-vert’ with large ‘croûtons’ of jelly ; and fix on the cen- tre of the piece, above the stem, a subject, modelled in fat, representing the death of Vatel. This stand, of light shape, is mounted on an iron triangle. The stand is partly cast, and partly carved with the knife. The children, supporting the cup, may he cast in ‘gelatine’.* 200. Slice (darne) of salmon, tmtter-sauce. — Cut off a ‘dame’ of salmon of about three inches wide; scale, draw, and wipe it carefully; then salt along all its surface. Slice two large onions, fry them with oil, and when of a nice color, moisten them with two bottles of white wine. Add to the above a bunch of parsley, and a few cloves; let the liquid boil for ten or twelve minutes. Three quarters of an hour previous to serving, plunge the ‘darne’ of salmon into this stock ; boil, and remove the stewpan back, keeping the liquid at the same * The size of this book did not allow me to enter into minute descriptions referring to the construc- tion of stands: those who take an interest in informing themselves on this point, may consult the ‘Artistic Cookery’ ; where the ornamentation of cold dishes and pastry is extensively treated.