230 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. tartlet-moulds : range them on a baking-sheet, to bake them to a nice color. When tire small patties are done, take them out of the oven, and from the moulds ; scoop them on the centre, remove a part of the ‘godiveau’, and garnish them at once with a ‘salpicon’ of sweetbread, ox-palate, calf’s brain, ham, and mushrooms; the whole in large dice, and mixed up with some good thickened gravy. Then cover the patties with the round puff-paste flats, and dish them, in pyramids, on a folded napkin. 541. Hot pie (pâté-chaud) of godiveau, Metz fashion. — Weigh half a pound of minion-fillet of veal, with as much of chicken meat ; divide both in pieces, and chop them fine; pound, add a whole egg thereto ; pound two pounds of veal-kidney suet, previously picked and chopped ; five minutes afterwards, mix the meat and fat until converted to a pulp. Season the preparation, introduce into it two tablespoonfuls of ‘choux’-paste (without sugar), and later a whole egg; when smooth and compact, take it out of the mortar, and keep it on ice for one hour. With three parts of the force-meat mould some ‘quenelles’, on a flourcd-tahle ; poach them in salted boiling water, and drain them on a cloth. Line a ‘paté-chaud’-mould with short-paste, spread thinly the bottom, and the sides of the paste, with the force-meat, and keep; arrange the‘quenelles’in the hollow of the ‘pâté-chaud’ in two superposed garlands, alternating each of them with a slice of raw peeled truffle ; fill the hollow of the garlands with scollops of sweet- breads, slightly fried in butter, and intermingled with slices of truffles, mounting the garnish in a dome-like form ; mask it then with thin layers of bacon, and after- wards with a flat of short-paste ; which solder to the paste of the sides ; pinch it round, adorn the top with a few imitated leaves of paste; leave a hole in the top, thus facilitating the escape of the steam ; egg the dome, and push the hot pie into a slow oven, to bake for one hour. When done, take it out, slip it on a dish, remove the cover, pick out the bacon, and pour in a little thin madeira wine. Cover again, and then send it up. 542. ‘Croquettes’ of veal, Provence fashion. — Pare a piece of good, cooked, and cold veal, fa pound and a quarter) ; divide it in slices, and cut these into small dice ; place this ‘salpieon’ in a kitchen-basin, and add to it a third of its volume of cooked lean ham, also in dice. Slice four or five white onions, fry them over a slow fire, so as to cook and color them nicely ; season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a little sugar ; skim the fat off, and sprinkle over a handful of flour ; then gradually moisten the onions with milk, forming a rather thickisli sauce; which reduce on a brisk fire, stirring, and introducing into it a few tablespoonfuls of cream, and at last a little glaze; thus