534 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. two thirds of which place in a stewpan, and thicken them with four tablespoonfuls of apricot-marmalade, then keep the ‘salpicon’ in the ‘bain-marie’. On the other hand, boil half a pound of rice with cream and vanilla (see No. 1156); when done, finish it with a piece of fine butter, and then with a liaison of three yolks of eggs ; add a few tablespoonfuls of reserved pine-apple ‘salpicon’, then pour it into a well buttered border-mould (with a round bottom), adorned with angelica and preserved cherries ; keep the border in the warm-closet for ten minutes, then turn the rice out on a dish, on the centre of which fix a support of fried bread, nearly the height of the border; garnish the hollow, between rice and bread, with preserved cherries, previously washed with tepid water, and well drained. Drain the pine-apple, cut half of it into slices, put it back into shape, and place it on the support of fried bread ; now till it with the previously prepared ‘salpicon’; push through the crown of the pine-apple a little silver-spit, set the crown on the fruit, which glaze (with a paste-brush) with a little of the marmalade. Send up separately a boatful of this marmalade, diluted with a little syrup of pine-apple. 1188. Small ginger-biscuits. — Put into a small copper-basin, half a pound of sugar, and three eggs ; work the preparation with the spoon, till well thickened ; add to it three eggs more, one by one ; set the basin on a very moderate tire, without ceasing to work the preparation, for ten minutes longer. Then take it off the tire, gradually introduce into it a quarter of a pound of flour, mixed with two tablespoonfuls of ginger-powder ; add a Dit of lemon-zest. With this preparation till some tin-moulds, of the shape of an oblong square : these moulds must be buttered and glazed with potato-flour. Place the moulds on baking-sheets, bake the biscuits in a hot oven for twelve minutes. 1189. ‘Mille-feuilles’-cake, Bavarian fashion. — Take a pound, or a pound and a quarter, of trimmings of puff-paste ; divide the paste into twelve parts, the size of an egg ; roll these pieces out into thin round flats, which place on several baking-tins ; cut the rounds with a ‘charlotte -mould, and bake them in a moderate oven. When these flats are taken out of the oven, keep them under a very light weight, only to level them. As soon as cold, mask them, one by one, with a layer of Bavarian-cream with vanilla; cut each of them in four pieces, which place regularly one above the other. Mask the cake also with a layer of the Bavarian-cream, sprinkle over chopped pistachios, and keep it on ice for half an hour. 1190. Héloise-cake. — Prepare a biscuit-paste in the proportions of twenty- four eggs to one pound of sugar (see No. 1183). Bake this paste in a ‘timbale’-mould. Mix up in a stewpan ten yolks of eggs with three ounces of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, and two tablespoonfuls of orange-flower extract; set the stewpan