107 FISH. 248. Seibling, Bavarian-sauce (D. 28). — This fish is a variety of the trout, though its shape is more like that of the grayling. The belly-skin of the seibling is red, and its coat is spotted with red dots surrounded bv a white circle, it is the prettiest eatable fish, I know of. When boiled very fresh, the back turns to a delicate blue, the belly, and the spots of its coat, remaining of a beautiful red. Fig. 28. Draw the fish by the gills, without scaling it, or even shortening the fins; truss the head, and place it, resting on its belly, on the drainer of a fish-kettle. Moisten to its height with half water and half white wine; add salt and a bunch of parsley ; let the liquid boil, and remove it back. Thirty or thirty-five minutes later, drain the fish, remove the string, and place it on an oval dish, on the centre of which is a fish- drainer covered with a folded napkin. Surround the seibling with fresh parsley, and send up separately a boatful of Bavarian-sauce. 249. Pike, Gypsey-fashion. — Chop one onion, fry it in oil, moisten it with light tomata-sauce, add a bunch of mint, and boil the liquid. Cut up a pike into rounds, flour, and fry them in oil ; drain, and place them side by side, in the stewpan containing the sauce ; let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. Take the bunch out, when serving the fish. 250. Pike, Russ fashion. — Cleanse a pike, weighing from four to six pounds, divide it transversally in pieces, which place in a stewpan, one beside the other ; salt, and add a few peppercorns, a bunch of parsley garnished with aromatics, and a few small whole onions ; baste them with clarified butter, fry them for ten minutes ; turn them, and baste with a pint and a half of sour cream ; as soon as the liquid boils, remove the pan back, and put some hot embers on its lid. An hour afterwards, take out the pieces offish with a skimmer, and put them on a dish. Pass the sauce into a stewpan, let it boil, thicken it with a piece of knead- ed-hutter, mix in a handful of capers, and pour it over the fish. 251. Pike, with sour-sweet sauce. — Cut up in lengths a pike weighing from four to six pounds, place them in a basin with a good handful of salt, and a little water, keeping them thus for one hour. Wash the pieces of pike, wipe