COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 546 zest, two whole eggs, two yolks. First of all, mix butter, eggs, sugar, and almonds; then by degrees, the flour: the paste must be very smooth, and little worked ; keep it on the ice for an hour ; as soon as it is very stiff, place it on the floured table, divide it into twelve parts of the size of an egg. Roll the paste out with the rolling-pin into thin flats of round shape, being six inches wide ; take these flats up with a flat stewpan-lid, and place them on a baking - sheet ; cut them all round with the aid of a great ‘charlotte’-mould, of the diameter which is to be given to the Neapolitan-cake ; then empty the flats on the centre, with the aid of a large pastry-cutter, so as to form flat rings. Bake the flats in a moderate oven, but with the utmost care ; as all of them must be of the same color, that is yellow. On removing them out of the oven, take them up with a flat cover without breaking them, and range them one over the other, six and six. Place a ‘charlotte’-mould on these flats, so as to slightly press them, and let them cool straight. Then take the flats up, one by one, mask them on one side with apricot-marma- lade, raise them one above the other, so as to get a cake of nice shape, particularly quite straight. Slightly cut the cake all round, smooth its surfaces, then place it on a solid flat of ‘office’-paste, masked with marmalade still tepid : this marmalade must be transparent, so as to let the flats forming the cake be seen ; as soon as the marmalade has cooled, and dried, adorn the sides of the cake, with ornaments either of almond- paste, or of white puff-paste ( feuilletage à blanc), else with cut preserved or fruits, or lastly, with icing-sugar squeezed through the cornet : the decoration is entirely dependent on taste and fancy ; only it must be correct. This cake should not be served until the day following its preparation, being then more delicate. When serving, dish the cake, fill the hollow with whipped cream, sugared and perfumed ; cover it with a little ‘sultana’ in spun-sugar ; but let me ob- serve, that this last decoration is not indispensable. If the cake is to be presented to the guests, it must be cut from the top, yet without damaging its shape. 1210. Dauphin-cake (D. 266). — Mix up sixteen yolks of eggs with a pound of butter, in a basin, which set over the fire ; work the preparation, stirring, so as to thicken it, without allowing it to take color ; let it cool, add sixteen yolks of eggs more, as well as another pound of sugar ; work vigorously with a spoon, to get it light like a biscuit-preparation. Add a little salt, as well as the grated zest of one orange or lemon ; introduce into it sixteen whites of eggs, well whipped, as well as a tablespoonful of potato-flour. Pour this preparation on baking-sheets, covered with buttered paper, giving it an inch and a quarter thickness ; then bake it in a moderate oven, and let it cool.