COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 508 nice color, moisten them, to half their height, with warm syrup of the cooked cher- ries : let the liquid boil, until the bread have absorbed all the syrup. This done, range the cherries on the centre of a dish; take the bread-crusts out of the stewpan, with the aid of a flat spoon, and range them all round the cherries. 13 41. Crust with peaches. -— Get eight or ten good peaches, not over- ripe, divide each of them in two, remove the stones, plunge them into boiling water; a few moments after, drain them, remove the skin, and place them in a flat stewpan : moisten with a little syrup mixed with kirschwasser. Prepare half a glassful of‘purée’ with a few small peaches ; add to it the same volume of syrup, let it boil up, thicken it with a little diluted potato-flour, then again pass through a sieve; add a quarter of a glassful of ‘kirschwasser’, as well as a stick of vanilla, and thus keep it in the ‘bain-marie’. On the other hand, spread a Hawn-mould with some tartlet-paste mask the inside of this paste with buttered paper, and bake thus in a slack oven ; when taken out, remove the paper, mask the paste on the bottom, as well as all round, with a layer of apricot-marmalade ; then place this crust on a dish Warm the peaehes, without ebullition, drain them, dish them in a pyramid shape within the crust ; coat them with marmalade, with the aid of a paste-brush, adorn them within with some preserved fruit: sprinkle over them a little kirsch mixed with syrup. Serve thus, sending up the peach-‘purée’ in a sauceboat. 1142. Spanish crusts. — Cut, off a common ‘brioche’, a score of crusts, of oblong shape, six lines thick ; sprinkle over fine sugar, let them glaze in the oven, mask them with a layer of apricot-marmalade, and arrange them in a circular order on a dish. Now fill the hollow of this circle with a garnish of half-preserved chest- nuts, mixed up with a few tablespoonfuls of Smyrna - raisins ; mask them with curaeao-syrup, sprinkle over minced pistachios. Send up separately some punch sauce, likewise prepared with curaçao. 1143. Fruit-crusts (D. 236). — Cut seven or eight bread-crusts of oval shape, nearly half an inch thick. Cut some others of a round shape, on one side of which make a round incision, fry them in butter, open and empty them; mask them inside with a little marmalade, garnish them with a ‘salpicon’ of preserved fruit, mixed up with preserved cherries, thickened with a little apricot-marmalade, diluted with madeira. Range immediately the oval crusts on a dish, on the centre of which a support of fried bread is fixed, setting them almost upright, but resting them against some fruit. Place the round crusts on the top ; insert a ‘lmtelet’-skewer