127 FISH. cut bacon. Truss the head of the carp, place it on the drainer of a fish-kettle ; season it, and moisten to half its height with ‘court-bouillon’ with wine nearly cold. Set the fish-kettle on the fire, to let the liquid boil ; five minutes after, cover the carp with a thickly buttered paper, and push it into a moderate oven, to hake for an hour and a half, hasting it often. Then take it out of the oven ; drain it, to pass its stock through a sieve ; put it back into the fish-kettle, and keep it hot. With the cooking- stock prepare a little brown sauce ; when clarified and strained, pour it into a fiat Fig. 37. stewpan, add a handful of trimmings of mushrooms ; reduce it, introducing into it a glass of white wine, pass it through a sieve, and finish with four ounces of good butter. Dish up the carp; surround it, on both sides, with a hunch of mushrooms, one of‘quenelles’ of whitings, and one of blanched olives ; glaze the larding with a paste- brush, masks lightly the other parts of the fish, and the bottom of the dish, with a little sauce ; and send up separately the remainder of the sauce, after having added to it the soft-roes. • BOO. Lamprey, Burgundy fashion. — Kill a nice lamprey ; cleanse, and remove its skin, as for an eel ; divide it into pieces, which sprinkle with salt. Prepare a little ‘roux’, with four ounces of butter, and the same of flour ; when of a nice color, dilute it with white wine, stir the sauce, till it begins to boil ; it should then he smooth, and a little thiekish. Season, add the pieces offish, well wiped, and a hunch of parsley with aromatics. Then boil the fish till three-parts done; now add a dozen raw mushrooms: twenty minutes after, strain the sauce, skim off its fat, and reduce it on a brisk fire. Meanwhile, range the fish on slices of bread toasted, disposed at the bottom of a dish ; surround it with the mushrooms, and a garnish of small glazed onions. The sauce being ready, mix it up with a little pepper, a piece of butter, the juice of a lemon, and pour it over the fish.