392 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. Peel five or six good fresh truffles, cut them in small dice, and keep them bv. Put the trimmings into a stewpan, with about a gill of good ‘béchamel’-sauce ; which reduce gradually, introducing into it the stock of the bones, then strain the sauce through a tammy, and keep it hot. Fry the breasts and the fillets of the partridges over a good fire, turning them; when about done, add to them the truffles cut in dice, and four tablespoonfuls of madeira; finish cooking them gently, with the truffles, on a moderate fire, with ashes on the lid. When ready to serve, turn the border (previously poached) out on a dish, set the fillets, and the breasts of partridges in the centre; remove the onion, and aromatics, from the stewpan, drain off the fat, and pour the sauce in ; add to it a few tablespoonfuls of lean cooked ham in dice, let it boil, and pour it over the partridges. 881. Partridges, with purée of lentils. — Singe and draw two par- tridges, truss them with the legs in, cover with bacon, and place them in a narrow stewpan, the bottom of which is masked with sliced vegetables, trimmings of ham, a little fat, a bunch of aromatics, and peppercorns ; fry them' for half an hour over a moderate fire, occasionally turning them ; moisten half their height with wine and broth, let the liquid boil, then remove the stewpan to the entrance of the oven, or over a very slow fire, with hot ashes on the lid. When the partridges are done, pass the cooking-stock, skim off the fat, and thicken slightly with diluted potato-flour, or a piece of kneaded-butter. On the other hand, prepare a purée of lentils, keeping it a little firm. When ready to serve, heat it, introducing into it a few tablespoonfuls of saiice, pour it on a dish, remove the strings from the partridges, and dish them on the puree, one beside the other; pour over the remainder of the sauce. 882. Wild-ducks roasted, Polish way. — Singe two wild-ducks, wash them inwardly, truss, put them into a kitchen-basin, pour over a little cooked mari- nade, and let them macerate for five or six hours ; place them afterwards in a roasting-pan, with the marinade; cover them with buttered paper, and cook them, basting often ; when half-done, add to their cooking-stock two gills of good thick sour-cream, and finish cooking them gently, basting from time to time. When about to serve, drain, divest them of the string, and dish them up ; mix a little gravy with their cooking-stock ; reduce the liquid,’ stirring till thickened like a sauce ; then pass it over the ducks. 883. ‘Pain’ of wood-hen (gélinotte), with truffles (D. 175.) — Prepare some ‘quenelle’ force-meat with a pound and a quarter of the meat of wood- hen fillets, twelve ounces of rice-panada, twelve ounces of butter, and four yolks of