197 BUTCHER'S MEAT. — VEAL. which place in a sauté-pan , pour over a little good gravy, and warm them without ebullition. w Prepare a pint of ‘bechamel’-sauce, add to it a handful of trimmings of fresh mushrooms, and work it over the tire, for a quarter of an hour ; pass it then through a sieve; reduce it, stirring, and gradually introducing into it the gravy, in which the meat has been warmed ; when the sauce is of a nice consistence, take it off the fire. Mask the bottom of a gratin-dish with a layer of the prepared sauce, on which range symmetrically the slices of meat, one by one, alternating each of them with a little sauce, and masking their top likewise with the same sauce ; sprinkle over some bread-crumbs, and push the dish into a hot oven, thus giving a nice color to its surface. When the dish is taken out of the oven, drain the fat away, and pour on the bottom a little1 good gravy. 459. Saddle of veal, roasted, German fashion. — Procure a small saddle of veal, trim the skirts neatly, remove the kidneys and tin' skin off the loins, and lard them with bacon in the usual way. Spread a flat-pan with the fat from the kidneys, set the saddle on it, cover it with a buttered paper, pour a glass of water into the pan, which push into a moderate oven. Baste the saddle front time to time, let it roast for one hour, or an hour and a quarter, according to its size ; salt it. and allow its top to take color, then dish it up. the two kidneys (cooked separately) set on each end ; drain the fat off the flat-pan. mix a little broth and white wine into the cooking-stock, which let boil, then skim off the fat. and thicken it with a little diluted potato-flour. Two minutes after, pour the sauce into a tureen, and send up separately a garnish of cauliflowers, basted with a bread-crumb-sauce. 460. ‘Fricandeau’ of veal, with sorrel. — The ‘fricandeau' is one of the national dishes of France, prepared as well in the provinces, as in the capital: as well in private families , as at ‘restaurants'. If the meat is of good quality , and the ‘fricandeau’ is eaten as soon as done, it is a dish not without merit. Take a piece of false ‘noix' of veal ; pare away the sinewy skins surrounding it, wet it slightly, and beat it with a cutlet-bat, to flatten it, and bruise the fibres of the meat ; stud it then closely. Spread the bottom of a flat stewpan with sliced vege- tables, set the ‘fricandeau’ thereon, with the larded part uppermost; salt it slightly, moisten, up to the larding, with broth and a little wine; cover it with a buttered paper, and set the stewpan on the fire, starting the stock to ebullition, and reducing it to half. Then remove the pan on a moderate fire, put some hot ashes on its lid, and braise the ‘fricandeau’ for an hour and a half, basting frequently with its own stock. When done, glaze it nicely, and drain it ; dilute the cooking-stock with a little broth or gravy, let it boil, strain it, skim off its fat. and reduce it to half-glaze.