FISH. 131 gill of good oil. Heat it, add to the liquid two bay-leaves, and a little salt; take it off the fire, and mix with it four or five tablespoonfuls of good vinegar. Pour the liquid over the fish, and serve. 309. ‘Brandade’ of salted cod, Montpellier fashion (D. 39). — Take the half of a thick salted stock-fish (about one pound and a half) sufficiently soaked, divide it into squares ; boil, proceeding as told in No. 317. A quarter of an hour after, drain the fish on a sieve, remove immediately all its bones ; place the meat, and the skin, in a kitchen-basin. Fig. 39. Fry in oil two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion, and a little shalot. The onion being of a nice color, add the cod, which warm up, turn it into a mortar, and pound it; when converted into a paste, put it into the stewpan again, working it well with a spoon ; then gradually introduce into it half a bottle of good salad-oil ; and when absorbed, work the preparation a few minutes longer, squeezing into it the juice of two lemons, and adding about two gills of oil more, but by degrees. The preparation ought to be now quite thick and creamy ; should it be too light, two spoonfuls of stiff ‘béchamel’-sauce must be added ; if not, a few spoonfuls of good raw cream will do. Season it with a little pepper and nutmeg, salt if requisite, and a pinch of chopped parsley ; work the preparation two minutes more; after which, finish it with the juice of a lemon ; it should now be of a good consistence, but delicate, smooth, and relishing. Warm it slightly, without ceasing to work, and range it up in a dome-like fashion on the centre of a dish, between two bread ‘croustades’, cut to the three parts of a circle, stuck at both ends of the dish. Sprinkle over the ‘brandade’ a few slices of truffles, place on the top an whole truffle ; fill the ‘croustades’ with crayfish-tails, and surround them, at their base, with scollops of fish and truffles alternately. Garnish the hollow, between the two ‘croustades’, with a group of small oyster-patties ; and serve. 9*