COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 142 moisten it moderately with a part of the liquor of the muscles, let the liquid boil up, till it be entirely absorbed by the rice, which should be not much cooked, nay not even split. Take it now off the fire, add to it a handful of currants, another handful of chopped ‘pignoli’, a little pepper, and a pinch of fennel, also chopped. With this preparation till the double shells, and place them in a flat stewpan, pressing them close together ; moisten them, to half their height, with good fish- broth ; boil them for twenty-five minutes, on a moderate fire, keeping them covered. Range the muscles on a dish, pour over a little of their own liquor. 335. Perch, German fashion. — Select two middling-sized perch, still alive ; first kill, then draw, scale, and place them one beside the other in a stewpan. Mince into ‘julienne’, kept not too thin, the red part of a few carrots, some roots of parsley and celery : if the roots be tough, have them blanched*; then drain, and place them all round the fish; add a bunch of parsley, a little salt, and an onion. Moisten the perch, to cover, with white wine; let them boil, on a moderate fire, for twenty minutes ; drain, and range them on a dish. Remove the bunch of parsley, as well as the onions, out of the stewpan ; add to the vegetables some raw mushrooms, also minced into ‘julienne’, and let them boil for five minutes ; thicken the liquid with a small piece of kneaded-butter ; take the stewpan off' the fire, and again mix into the vegetables another piece of butter (not kneaded) divided in small bits : finish the ‘ragout’ with the juice of two lemons; then pour it over the fish, and serve. 336. Codfish (cabillaud) with cream. — Take the tail-end of a very fresh codfish, cleanse, score, and boil it simply, in salted water, with a sprig of parsley {see No. 338); when done, drain, and wipe it on a cloth; split it in two, remove the bones, break the meat in pieces; which range by layers on a ‘grathfi- dish, alternated with ‘béchamel’-sauce reduced with cream, but pretty thick, and finished at the time with a piece of fresh butter, and a little grated nutmeg ; sprinkle on the top a few bread-crumbs, or some grated parmesan ; and let it take color in a hot oven, or salamander it. 337. Broiled shad. — Select a good fine shad, scale, and cleanse it well, cut off the bony fins, wdpe it with a cloth ; score it on both sides, and put it on a dish to baste with oil. Sprinkle over salt, chopped shalôt, and parsley; set it on a gridiron, slightly warmed, and previously rubbed with oiled paper. Broil the fish on a moderate fire, turning and basting it. The time of cooking depends on its size: large shads will take three quarters of an hour. * By blanching (blanchir) vegetables is meant, letting them boil for a few minutes in the water, without fully cooking them