330 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. Place a pyramid mould in an earthen-basin ; surround it with pounded ice, and fill it, in layers, with the pieces of chicken ; alternating each layer with some of the mayonnaise, a pinch of capers or of gerkins, and a few pickled olives without kernels. One hour after, dip the mould quickly into warm water ; wipe it, and turn the preparation out on a cold dish ; mask it then with a coating of the same mayon- naise, smooth the surfaces with the blade of a knife > adorn them with fillets of an- chovies, chopped capers, and gerkins ; place on the top a heart of lettuce, and arrange all round a circle of olives without kernels. Surround the base of the pyramid with a circle of hard-boiled eggs in quarters, dipping them in half-set jelly, to fix them on. Between the eggs and the salad, range a circle of lettuce-hearts, divided into quarters. 753. Chieken-fricassée, German fashion. — In Germany chicken ‘fricassee’ is a genuine national dish, and generally very well prepared by the cooks. Singe, draw, and truss, two good fowls; which put into a stewpan, with some vegetables, large spices, and a garnished bunch of aromatics ; moisten largely with good broth, and let them boil on a moderate fire. When the fowls are done, pass this broth through a napkin, carve each of the fowls into eight parts, which then place in a stewpan; adding two handfuls of cooked morils, two cooked and sliced sweetbreads, four dozen plucked crayfish-tails, as well as the blanched and cooked livers and crops of the fowls ; place the stewpan in the ‘bain-marie’. With the fowl’s cooking-stock prepare a simple wliite-sauce (sec No. 159) ; stir it over the fire till boiling, withdraw it to the side of the fire, adding to it a bunch of parsley, and some mushroom-trimmings. Half an hour afterwards, skim the fat off the sauce, pass it through a sieve, let it reduce to the degree requisite, thicken with a liaison of two yolks of eggs, diluted with a little cream ; then pass the sauce, through a sieve, over the carved poultry ; warm it for a few minutes, without any ebullition ; sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, finish it with the juice of a lemon, and dish up ; garnish the centre with puff-paste ‘croûtons’, as well as with crayfish- shells (coffres), filleul with bread-farce*; baste the chickens with the aid of a paste- brush, dipped in a little melted crayfish-butter. 754. ‘Petites timbales’ with ‘montglas’ (D. 134). — Butter ten or twelve ‘dariole’-moulds, place on the bottom of each of them a round of cooked truffle ; fill the hollow of the moulds with some good poultry force-meat (sec No. 740) * Here is the process of preparing this farce. Put into a kitchen-basin two handfuls of white and fine bread-crumb ; into which introduce, with aid of the spoon, two ounces and a half of common butter, and a little crayfish-butter; then four or five yolks of eggs, a little chopped parsley, salt and pepper: the preparation must remain firm.