FISH. 87 degree without boiling. Half an hour after, drain the fish, dish it up, and mask with the following sauce: Butter-sauce. — Melt four ounces of butter in a stewpan, mix into it four oun- ces of flour, working it with a spoon to form a smooth paste. Dilute it with about a pint of the salmon-liquor, drained, and nearly cold; stir the sauce on the fire, and at its first bubbling take it off. Thicken with two diluted yolks of eggs, and gradually introducing into it five ounces of butter, continue stirring it; finish with the juice of a lemon, and a pinch of chopped parsley. 201. Cold salmon, ravigote-sauce. (D. 19.) — Choose a salmon weighing about eight or ten pounds; scale, and draw it by the gills; fill the hollow of the belly with a common force-meat of fish. Truss the head, place it on the drainer of a fitting i fish-kettle, laying it on its belly; moisten with a sufficient quantity of 'court-bouillon’ with wine, to cover it; let the liquid boil, then remove it back, keeping it simmering for an hour and a quarter. Then take the fish - kettle off the fire, to let the salmon cool in its liquor; lift it out, and let it drain for two hours. Spunge the salmon with a cloth, dish it on an oval decorated 'pain-vert’, placed on an oval dish; prop up the fish, and mask its central part with a layer of frothy butter, mixed up with crayfish- butter, but of a light hue. Smooth the butter nicely, adorn it with truffles, cray- fish-tails, fillets of anchovy, green taragon-leaves, whole capers, gerkins, and chop- ped aspic, squeezed through a cornet. Surround the salmon, at its base, with chopped aspic; garnish the top of the 'pain-vert’ with a circle of halves of hard-boiled eggs, the yolks of which are decorated with a round of truffle. Surround the base with large ‘croûtons’ of aspic, insert with a skewer on the top of the fish a 'hâtelet’, composed of three crayfish of graduated size and a small truffle. Send up separately two boatfuls of'ravigote’-sauce. This preparation is well fitted for salmon brought out of shape by cooking.