318 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. capons being cold, remove the string, and dish them up on the ‘pain-vert’, inclining them slightly, and resting them against the support. Arrange the truffles on both sides of the support, surrounded with the cocks’- eombs. Edge the centre of the dish with fancy-shaped ‘croûtons’ of aspic-jelly, and surround the breast of the capons with the button-mushrooms. Place, on the centre of the support, a subject representing the celebrated Lully, as a cook, playing the violin. The dish is placed on a stand ; the stand is in fat, of an oval form, and mounted on a wooden mandrel; the foot, cup, and friese, are carved with the knife ; the little children in caps, making music, may be partly cast and partly modelled with the hand. The ‘chimeras’, forming the handles, are modelled in fat, over an iron-wire, fixed to the frame of the stand. This piece is represented on the engraved plate, out of text. Page No. 292. 7 33. Capon ‘au gros sel’. — The capon ‘au gros sel’, which is a dish handed down to us from the old school, must be simply boiled in salted water; only by wrongly interpreting its denomination, the capon is sometimes served with a lump of rock-salt on its breast: indeed, when musing on this strange seasoning, it is easily suggested to be nothing but a misconception, out of all culinary and gastronomic rules; and that the ‘big salt’ is of no definite purpose what- ever, that could prove its usefulness. The salt figures here without any pretext, serving neither as an auxiliary, nor as a seasoning, and certainly not as a decoration of the capon. It is then good for nothing but to be a nuisance ; as neither butcher’s meat nor poultry are ever, to my knowledge, eaten with big-salt. Only imagine anybody chewing a grain of salt together with any piece of meat ; and the in- convenience will be immediately perceived of big salt figuring in any dish. Therefore it is time to renounce a preparation which seems founded on pre- judice, rather than on reason, and of which the efficacy must appear so questionable. Get a capon, fat and tender, not too large ; singe, draw, and truss it with a piece of butter inside ; then rub it all over with lemon. Boil in a stewpan a sufficient quantity of water, to completely cover the capon ; add to it a handful of big salt (gros sel) and a bunch of parsley; when the ebullition is well accomplished, plunge the capon into the water, cover the stewpan, place a weight on its lid, and draw it on the side of the fire, continuing to boil the capon vigorously for an hour and a quarter; dish it up afterwards, with halves of lemon, and a ‘bouquet’ of parsley- leaves ; serve separately a purée of celery-roots, or one of turnips ; and at the same time a sauceboat of good gravy. Carving of the capon. — As legs of boiled capon are so highly esteemed by ‘gourmets’, it is best to carve them first of all, to be divided in two ; then take off each side of the breast a minion-fillet, letting the pinion-bone adhere; now cut off