XL VI COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. eatables, this kind of safe, or ‘armoire’, is far superior also to the ‘timbres’; because these eatables are thus exposed to an equally intense coolness on all their surfaces, without however being in direct contact with the ice itself: this difference is the more appreciable, because, by resting in immediate contact on the ice, all kinds of food, whatever be their, nature, must contact a very prejudicial alteration. This ‘armoire’ is on the outer side constructed in wood; in the interior it is lined with zinc. The walls, or sides of the central part, where the iron-gratings are arranged, have a double bottom, that is to say, that an empty space or passage is contrived, all round and at the base of this compartment, so as to facilitate the circulation of the concentrated cold. The raw ice is placed in three cavities having a parallel arrangement on the upper surface piert position of the ‘armoire’; the two lateral cavities descend as far down as to the deq^tli of the lowermost grating {grille) of the central compartment ; the central cavity reaches however only to the depth of the first compartment of the closet; these cavities are first of all closed, each one separately, with a cover shutting in hermetically fast, and then with the top of the ‘armoire, forming a second cover; by these arrangements, the communication of the air with the ice will be found completely intercepted. Tlie central compartment is furnished with several open and movable gratings in zinc; of which the number therefore can be diminished or augmented as occasion requires. This compartment is closed effectively by means of double doors, of which the inner ones are hollow double case; the outer son simply lined with zinc. For very large closets, these doors are generally cut in two, so as to form four openings: this is in order to avoid, as entirely as possible, the indroduction of the warm air into the interior of the ‘armoire’. The third division of the ‘armoire’ is formed into a drawer; this drawer, like- wise lined with zinc, is the natural receptacle, into which descends the water trickling down from the melting of the ice; this water consequently retains a degree of coolness quite sufficient to keep cool any bottles of wine, or decanters (caraffes) of water. These closets, or cupboards, are utilised, not only for preserving the coolnes of comestibles ; their peculiarly convenient arrangement enables one to utilise them also in important culinary operations, more especially in summer, keeping on the gratings in the cool, iced entremets and other cold-pieces, previously dished; it is always a great advantage for cooks, not to feel or find themselves under the necessity of dishing entremets or cold-pieces, at the lass moment before serving them. It is by consideration of all these practical advantages that I have come to the decision of presenting a drawing of this ‘garde-manger’, in the hope of thus contri- buting to their more general use.