266 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. strain, skim off the fat, add to it the liquor of the mushrooms, and reduce to half; thicken it then with a little brown-sauce. With this sauce, mask the bottom of the dish, and send the surplus in a sauceboat. 624. Shoulders of lamb, Italian way. — Bone two nice shoulders of lamb, without removing the thin-end bone; which saw below the juncture of the leg; spread the shoulders on the table, and season inwardly. Chop ten ounces of streaky bacon, mix with it two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion, four tablespoonfuls of mushrooms, and a little parsley, likewise chopped ; then two handfuls of bread-crumb, soaked and well pressed; season the preparation highly, and when well mixed up, introduce into it two whole eggs; divide the raw mince into two parts, with which stuff the shoulders ; sew them up, place them in a ‘saute’-pan, spread with sliced vegetables ; moisten half their height with broth ; let the liquid boil, and push the ‘sauté’-pan to the entrance of the oven. Braise the shoulders, basting frequently. When done, their stock should be reduced to half- glaze. Remove the string, and dish them up ; pour on the bottom of the dish a little tomata-sauce, finished with the cooking-stock. 625. Lamb ‘sauté’, with tomatas. — Take a saddle of lamb, divide it into middling-sized squares, remove part of the bones, and put the meat into a flat stewpan, with butter, one onion, and a clove of garlic not peeled; season, and fry them, continuing to toss, until they are about done. On the other hand, cut four tomatas through the centre, prick the seed out, divide them into large pieces ; which fry over a brisk fire, in a frying-pan with oil ; season, and toss them, until they have reduced their moisture ; then add them to the lamb, and ten minutes after, dish up, after having removed the garlic and the onion. 626. ‘Croquettes’ of lamb, with artichokes. — Take a piece of cooked and cold leg of lamb, pare away the sinewy skin, and cut it up in small dice; to which add half their volume of cooked artichokes’ bottoms, also in dice. Pour a few spoonfuls of good ‘bechamel’-sauce into a stewpan ; reduce it on the fire, and introduce into it a few spoonfuls of good cream, and afterwards a few spoonfuls of melted glaze : when of a nice consistence, and succulent, take it off the fire, and mix it with the prepared ‘salpicon’. Season the preparation with a little salt and nutmeg; spread it on a baking-sheet in a layer half an inch thick, and let it thoroughly cool. Shape the ‘croquettes’ afterwards in a cork-like form, roll them in bread-crumb, which dip into beaten eggs, bread-crumb, and fry them to a nice color ; drain, and dish them on a folded napkin. 627. Pilau of iamb, Greek fashion. — Bone a leg of lamb, and cut up the meat into pieces of a square form. With the bones prepare a little broth.