328 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. or six tablespoonfuls of melted glaze, let the sauce boil ; and remove the pan back, keeping it covered. Fix solidly a support of fried bread on the centre of an entrée-dish ; mask it, as well as the bottom of the dish, with a layer of raw force-meat, and poach it at the entrance of the oven. When the dish is taken out of the oven, adorn it with a border of English-paste. When ready to serve, drain the chickens, place the legs upright on the bottom of the dish, applied against the support, supporting them at the base with a few small cooked truffles. Fill the hollow with a few mushrooms, then set the fillets and breast-pieces on the legs, likewise resting against the support. Fix on the top, by the aid of a small skewer, a large button-mushroom. Pour into a flat stewpan two gills of brown-sauce, and four tablespoonfuls of madeira ; let the sauce boil up, add to it two or tlu’ee sliced truffles, cook them in the sauce ; and, as soon as this is slightly thickened, baste the chickens with it ; and send up the remainder of the sauce in a sauceboat. This entrée is arranged to go on the table. 750. Chicken, ‘à la printanière’. — Truss a good chicken, for entrée; put it into a stewpan, with eight ounces of chopped bacon, and fry ; as soon as the meat is set, add to it a garnish composed of small carrots and new onions; salt slightly; add to it eight ounces of streaky bacon, previously scalded, and cut up in squares; then draw the stewpan on a moderate fire, place some warm ashes on the lid, and thus fry the chicken gently, adding a few tablespoonfuls of broth. Twenty minutes after, add to the vegetables two handfuls of fresh green-pease ; as soon as these are done, drain the chicken, divest it of the string, dish up, and surround it with the vegetables. Skim the fat off the cooking-stock, add to it-a little light sauce, let it boil a while, and pass -it, through a sieve, over the chicken. 571. Small chickens, ‘entrée de broche’ (D. 132). — Slice two onions, and a carrot ; put them into a stewpan with butter, and trimmings of bacon ; fry them on a moderate fire, giving them a nice color; add then a pinch of aromatics, a few sprigs of parsley, and a handful of truffles-peel ; moisten the whole with a quarter of a glass of madeira , reduce it on a brisk fire, and remove the pan back. Singe three nice chickens, draw, truss them as for boiling; cover the breast with the preparation above described, and lay over it some thin layers of bacon to support it. Secure the bacon with string, run the chickens through with a small iron- skewer, and set them on the spit. Three quarters of an hour previous to serving, roast the chickens at a good tire, basting them with butter, and the drippings. When done, take them off the fire, un-