COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 578 1277. Macaroons -‘mousse’. — Have a domed-moulcl embedded with pounded and salted ice. Take a pint of whipped cream, well drained, and sweetened properly, which range in layers in the domed-mould previously embedded, alter- nating each of the layers with ‘macaroons’ saturated with kirsh. Shut the mould, solder its joins with common paste, sprinkle over the lid of the mould a large handful of salt, then mask it with a thick layer of salted ice. An hour and a quarter after, dip the mould quickly into tepid water, and turn the ‘mousse’ out on a folded napkin. 1278. Chestnut-‘mousse’. — Take half a pound of chestnut-‘purée’, which mix up well with a few tablespoonfuls of sugar, flavored with vanilla ; work with a spoon, to get the preparation smooth ; introduce into it three glassfuls of whipped cream sweetened. Pour the preparation into a domed-mould, previously embedded {frappé) with salted ice; cover the mould, solder its joins, and keep it thus for an hour. At serving-time, dip the mould in water, wipe it, and turn the ‘mousse’ out, on a folded napkin. 1279. Cream-‘plombière’ of Cairo. — Peel twelve or fifteen ripe bananas, pass their pulp through a sieve, put this ‘purée’ into a kitchen-basin, dilute it with three glassfuls of vanilla English-cream. Pass the preparation through a sieve once more; when cold, leave it frozen, according to the common method, in the ice-box ; when thickened, add two glassfuls of whipped cream sweetened. Finish the ‘plombière’, introducing into it a quarter of a glass of good madeira- wine; then dish it, in a rock-shape, on a folded napkin. 1280. Spanish rum-cream. — Dilute in a basin six tablespoonfuls of apricot-marmalade with two gills of rum. Put into a kitchen-basin fifteen or eighteen yolks of egg, which bruise with a whip, mix up with it nearly half a pound of tine sugar, and a tablespoonful of potato- flour. Dilute the preparation gradually with three quarters of a pint of cold water; which pass through a sieve into a stewpan, and thicken it without allowing to boil, like an English-cream; pour it immediately into a kitchen-basin, agitate it until nearly cooled ; add to the preparation eighteen leaves of clarified ‘gélatine’, as well as the diluted marmalade ; pass it through a sieve once more, try its consistence on the ice, let it cool entirely, pour it into a coated mould embedded with ice. When about to serve, dip the mould in warm water, turn the cream out on a cold dish. 1281. Caramel-syrup. — Put two handfuls of powder-sugar into a sugar- pan, which set on a moderate fire, stir the sugar with a wooden spoon till dissolved, and of a light brown; then moisten it with two glassfuls of water, add