COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 398 thickened, add to it a little vinegar, a tablespoonful of soy, two spoonfuls of gerkins cut in small dice, and a pinch of tai’agon-leaves cut in lozenges. 896. Snipes, Rouen fashion. — Draw eight snipes, take out the back- bone. Prepare a little force-meat, with fresh pork mixed up with the same quantity of raw chopped mushrooms, a pinch of shalot, one of parsley and pepper; till them with it ; sew them up with thread, truss, and run them through with an iron-skewer, which fix on a spit ; set them to a brisk fire to roast, basting with butter, keeping seven or eight crusts of bread on the dripping-pan, underneath them. Meanwhile, slice two large onions, put them into a stewpan with butter, fry them to a nice color, season, sprinkle oyer a small pinch of flour, moisten with a little gravy, and finish cooking them slowly. Fry'the trails, together with two or three chickens’ livers; season, pound, and pass them through a sieve ; dilute the purée with a few tablespoonfuls of good wine; and when the onions are done, take them off the fire, and add them to the purée, without allowing this to boil ; when done, remove the snipes from the fire, glaze, and dish them up, placing each of them on one of the ‘croûtons’; baste them with the sauce, and serve. I 897. ‘Chaufroix’ of snipes (D. 178). — Bone ten or twelve snipes, season inwardly, and put them by, as well as the heads. Slice half a pound of calf’s liver, fry it with lard, add to it the trails of the snipes, a pinch of chopped onion, a few sprigs of aromatics, and some trimmings of truffles, seasoning the whole well ; the liver and trails being done, take them off the fire, allow them to cool, and pound with half their volume of chopped fresh bacon; then add two or three truffles in small dice ; with which stuff the snipes. Sew the snipes in an oval form, surround each of them with a strip of buttered paper, and place them in a stewpan, spread with trimmings of bacon ; this done, moisten to half with gravy (made with the back and bones), and white wine ; cover them with paper, braise for twenty minutes, on a slow fire, with hot ashes on the lid, and allow them to cool ; then removing the paper and strings, pare them neatly. Pass the cooking-stock through a sieve, skim off the fat, reduce to half-glaze, and mix with it half a pint of brown-sauce; set the stewpan again on the fire, to clarify the sauce, for a quarter of an hour, skimming it carefully ; strain, and reduce it again, stirring, and introducing into it half its volume of aspic-jelly. The sauce being suc- culent, and of smooth appearance, pass it into another stewpan, and allow it to halt- cool ; then set the stewpan on some pounded ice, and stir the sauce until slightly thickened ; then take it out, and dip therein the snipes, thus masking them with a smooth and glossy coating, placing them evenly on a baking-sheet, to allow the sauce to set.