BUTCHER’S MEAT. — BEEP. 181 415. Tripe (gras-double), Toulouse fashion. — Take a piece of raw beef-tripe (about six or eight pounds), put it into a stock-pot with water, and bring it to ebullition ; then drain, scrape, and wash it in several waters ; divide it into squares of two inches. Chop ten or twelve ounces of bacon, melt it in an earthen stockpot, stirring with a skimmer; and then add to it the tripe, a glass of white wine, a few spoonfuls of cognac, and a sufficient quantity of broth to cover the whole ; add also a piece of raw ham, a clove of garlic, one carrot, one onion, cloves, peppercorns, and a bunch of parsley with aromatics ; set the stockpot on the fire, to boil the liquid ; close it hermetically with a plate, on which put a weight; then remove it on to hot ashes, surrounding to half its height, and being careful to keep round the ashes a sufficient fire, thus letting the liquid boil gently for seven or eight hours without interruption. The tripe is generally set on the fire in the evening, in order to have it cooked in the morning. When the tripe is done, drain it with a skimmer into a colander, strain the cooking-stock, and carefully skim off the fat. Melt some lard in a stewpan, mix in a spoonful of flour, which fry on a moderate fire, without allowing it to take color; dilute it afterwards, by degrees, with the stock of the tripe, to obtain a light sauce. At the first bubbling draw the stewpan on to the side of the fire, and add to the sauce eight ounces of raw ham in dice. Ten minutes later, put into it the tripe, let it simmer in the sauce for half an hour, then skim the fat away from the sauce, and finish the tripe with a pinch of parsley, and two tablespoonfuls of chopped gerkins : dish them up. 416. Tripe, Bordeaux fashion. — Scrape a piece of boiled tripe (about a pound and a half), wash it carefully, and divide it into oblong squares, an inch and a half by one. Peel and blanch slightly three dozen small new onions, put them into a shal- low stewpan with lard ; fry them, season with a little salt and a pinch of sugar ; moisten so as to cover with gravy. A quarter of an hour afterwards, add three dozen small heads of ‘cepes’ previously fried in lard ; add then the squares of tripe, and a clove of garlic. Cover the stewpan, let the stock boil gently for half an hour, skim off its fat, and thicken with a small piece of kneaded-butter. Mix in the stew a pinch of chopped parsley, and dish it up. 417. Tripe, Dijon fashion. — Get a piece of boiled tripe, about ten inches square. Fry with lard, in a stewpan, four or five tablespoonfuls of chopped onion, mixed with a few shalôts; let it take color, then add a dozen fresh chopped mushrooms; which fry on a brisk fire until their moisture be extracted, season the fine-herbs with salt and pepper, add three tablespoonfuls of chopped capers ; allow