520 COSMOPOLITAN COOKEEY. more firm than usual, and of a rather dark shade: this jelly is only to be poured in, when cold, and a little consistent. As soon as the jelly is set, raise the preparation in a dome-shape ; cover with a paste-flat, which solder to the rim of the case ; cut straight, and pinch in the manner applied for common pies. Make an incision on the centre of the dome, and adorn it with imitation-leaves. Now remove the mould, and pinch the surfaces of the paste. The pie being pinched, a little color must be given to the paste, on the top and all round, with caramel, reduced to a solid syrup, thus giving the jutting parts, the dome, and pinched top of the pie, a light brown shade. When about to serve, cut off a piece of the pie thus showing the inside, garnish, then place it on a dish, to serve thus, or surrounded with soft jelly, either chopped or cut-up in ‘croûtons’. This ‘entremets’ is only fit to go for a dessert, the almond paste being ex- tremely sweet. If the pie be nicely imitated, it will seldom fail to give occasion for some amusing mistakes. 1163. Apples, Florentine way. — Peel seven or eight genuine rennet- apples; empty them with a column-tube, boil them in a light acidulated syrup, keeping them a little firm, and whole. Drain them, fill the cavity with boiled sweetened rice, which mask with apricot-marmalade. Spread on a dish a layer of chestnut-‘purée’, kept rather firm, sweetened with vanilla-sugar, finished with a few yolks of eggs. Place the apples on this layer, glaze them with a paste-brush with apricot-marmalade, and warm them in the oven for a few minutes ; when taken out, sprinkle over them chopped pistachios, and send up. 1164. Dates, Arab-fashion. — Peel a few dozen fresh dates, remove their stones, pound their pulp, and pass it through a sieve ; give sugar to this ‘purée’, add a few drops of extract of roses or lemons, spread it in a layer on a pie-dish, and mask the ‘purée’ immediately with a ‘bouillie’ of good arrow-root or rice-flour, pre- pared with milk, perfumed with orange or lemon. 1165. ‘Méringues perlées’, with cream (D. 246).— Pour five whites of eggs into a copper-basin, add a little salt, and whip gently with a kitchen-whip; when beginning to get frothy, whip more vigorously, thus to thicken, making them absorb the air as much as possible. When quite firm, mix into it with a wooden spoon, and by degress only, half a pound of powder-sugar. The preparation being quite smooth, and consistent, take it up in small parts with a tablespoon, and place these on strips of paper, giving these parts an oval and regular shape, forming half- shells for ‘méringues’ ; sprinkle over powder-sugar ; remove the superabundance of