470 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 1058. Croquettes of potatoes. — Boil some peeled potatoes, allow them to dry ; pass them through a sieve, put the ‘purée’ into a stewpan, with a piece of butter, and work it with a spoon, introducing into it six yolks of eggs, and four ounces of butter ; keep the preparation firm, season with salt and nutmeg, pour it on a floured table, and roll it to the shape of a sausage; divide this piece again into small pieces, with which form some ‘croquettes’, either of a round, or a cork-like shape; dip them into beaten eggs, bread-crumb, and fry them in plenty of dripping. 1059. ‘Timbale’ of potatoes. — Boil in salted water about a quart of peeled potatoes ; when done, drain off the water, and let them dry, for a few minutes, at the entrance of the oven ; then pass them through a sieve. Put this ‘purée’ into a stewpan, season with salt and nutmeg, add to it eight ounces of butter in little hits, two whole and four yolks of eggs, and at last a handful of grated parmesan, and the fillets of six anchovies cut up in pieces. Butter a ‘timbale’-mould, bread-crumb it, and pour the preparation into the mould, to bake for twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. The mould being taken out of the oven, slip the blade of a knife between the ‘timbale’, loosening it, and turn it out on a hot dish. 1060. Hanover-potatoes. — Cut round three dozen small potatoes, wash, put them into a stewpan, moisten to height with broth, and boil them, covered, on a good fire ; when done, the broth should be reduced. Season the potatoes, add to them four ounces of butter in little bits, as well as a pinch of chopped parsley. Serve immediately. 1061. Potato-salad, with herrings. — This salad is a popular dish of Germany : prepared with the required care, it is excellent. Boil about fifteen potatoes with the peel on ; when done, peel, and cut them up in dice; cut equally in dice two sour apples, a few gerkins, and the fillets of two or three pickled herrings, previously steeped and cleansed. Season first the potatoes, in a kitchen-basin, with salt and pepper, toss them up, pour over oil and vinegar; when well mixed up, add the sour apples, gerkins, herrings, and a tablcspoonful of onion, chopped very fine; at last, add a few tablespoonfuls of pickled beet- roots, also in dice; mix these ingredients well up, by tossing in a salad-bowl, and dish them up. 1062. ‘Cèpes au gratin’. — Pare and wash some ‘cèpes’, trim away their stalks, mince the beads, and put them into a frying-pan, with a few tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, and oil or butter, to fry them on a brisk fire; season with salt and pepper, when their moisture is reduced, thicken them with ‘béchamel-sauce, or simply with a piece of kneaded-butter; add a pinch of chopped parsley, let the sauce