POULTRY. — FOWLS. 319 nice slices from the whole length of the breast. Remove the breast from the back by aid of a pair of carving-scissors, and divide it, either transversally or lengthwise. Now nothing is left but the back, which, having been freed from all small bits of meat, may be cut transversally into three pieces. If it be true that the back is highly relished by all amateurs ; nevertheless do not present it to any one, unless particularly asked for. 734. Poultry cutlets, Polish fashion (D. 125). — Take the white meat of a boiled chicken cut this in dice, and put this ‘salpicon’ into a stewpan, Fig. 125. adding to it half its volume of raw truffles, the same of pickled tongue, and a few tablespoonfuls of mushrooms, also cut in dice. Thicken this preparation with four tablespoonfuls of raw ‘quenelle’-force-meat, as well as with two tablespoonfuls of reduced Velouté’; now divide it into sixteen or eighteen parts, which roll on the floured slab, giving each part the shape of a cutlet; dip them, one by one, into beaten eggs, roll them in white bread-crumb, equalise them with the blade of a knife. Ten minutes previous to serving, fry these cutlets in clarified butter, thus letting them take color; drain them on a cloth, stick a small ruffle on each of them, and dish them in a circular order. Fill the cavity with a purée. 735. Capon of Toulouse, ‘à la chipolata’. — Drain and singe a good capon, truss it as for boiling, cover it with a few slices of lemon without peel, which support with thin slices of fat bacon, tie them up, and place the capon in a stewpan spread with vegetables and trimmings of fat ; fry it a few minutes, then add to it ten ounces of pickled pork, moisten to half its height with broth and white wine ; let the liquid boil up, then draw the stewpan on a moderate fire, to boil the capon gently, turning several times ; one hour and a quarter will do. Twenty minutes before taking the capon out, put into the stewpan a score of small ‘chipolata’ sausages (that is, made with poultry-meat, bacon, and panada), or one large common sausage, only not too thick. When the capon is done, drain the cooking-stock, and pass it through a sieve; skim off the fat, reduce it to half-glaze,