COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 390 surrounding them with the bacon, pared and cut up ; glaze them with a paste-brush, and serve. 877. Partridges, with red cabbages. — For this purpose it is not requisite that the partridges be quite young. Shred two small red cabbages, put them into an earthen or an enamelled iron stewpan, with one onion and melted lard or bacon fat ; fry them on a moderate fire, until their moisture is reduced ; then add a piece of streaky bacon (about half a pound), and a glass of white wine; let the liquid boil up, and ten minutes after, remove the stewpan on the side of the fire, with hot ashes on the lid, cooking the cabbages slowly. Truss two partridges, fry them in a stewpan to let them take color, and add them to the cabbages, „whcn these are three-parts done, to finish cooking them together : the cabbages should be a little firm, and of a nice color. As soon as the partridges are done, drain them, take out the bacon, which trim, and cut in slices ; then thicken the cabbages with a piece of kneaded-butter, and finish them with a little vinegar. Place them afterwards on a dish with the partridges over, and the slices of bacon round them. In Germany, a pinch of caraway-seed is often added to the cabbages, when these arc half-done ; but this flavoring is not a relish to every body. 878. Partridges, with cabbage. — Truss two partridges, as for an entree, and cover with bacon. Cut up two middling-sized savoy-cabbages, each of them in four parts ; which plunge into boiling salted water, and after twenty minutes’ ebullition, drain them in a colander; divide them in small quarters, removing the hard stalks, and squeezing them between the hands, to press out all the moisture, and to round them. Spread a stewpan with trimmings of fat bacon and sliced vegetables, place the partridges on the centre, and range the quarters of cabbage all round ; add thereto a piece of blanched streaky bacon (ten or twelve ounces), a bunch of aromatics, cloves and peppercorns ; then moisten the cabbages and partridges to height with broth and toppings, cover with large pieces of pork-rind, previously blanched; let the liquid boil ; remove the stewpan on a very slow fire, with hot ashes on the lid. Braise the cabbages for three or four hours, but carefully taking out the partridges, as soon as done. When ready to serve, drain the cabbages in a colander, to drain the fat, and dish them ; cut up the bacon in squares, which put into the centre of the cabbages, on which range the partridges, each of them carved in five pieces ; mask them with a little, rather thickish sauce.