138 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. Lean ‘Villeroi’-sauce. — Take four gills offish-broth, pass it through a cloth, let it set ; then drain, and keep it warm. With a quarter of a pound of butter, and eight ounces of flour, prepare a yellow Toux’, which fry on a moderate fire ; remove it back, and dilute, by degrees, with the fish-broth. Put the liquid on a sharp fire, stirring, till it begins to boil; add a handful of trimmings of mushrooms, as well as a bunch of parsley. Should the sauce prove too stiff, lighten it with a few tablespoonfuls of broth ; remove it back, and boil it for twelve or fifteen minutes ; then pass it, through a tammy, into a flat stewpan. Reduce the sauce, till of a pretty good consistence ; season, add a ‘liaison’ of four yolks of eggs ; cook the liaison without ebullition, and remove the sauce off the fire for use. Proceed in the same manner for a ‘fat’ sauce, prepared with strong meat-broth. 328. Soles, Rochelle fashion. — Blanch two dozen oysters. Remove the black skin of two fresh and clean soles ; split them in the centre, range them in a buttered gratin-dish ; season, and moisten them with a glass of white wine, and two tablespoonfuls of the oyster-liquor ; cover, and bake them in the oven. As soon as done, drain their liquor into a stewpan ; add thereto a minced onion, and a bunch of aromatics ; cover the stewpan, reduce the liquid to half, and strain it into another flat stewpan; add to it an equal quantity of brown-sauce, and a dozen raw button-mushrooms, cut in two transversally. Continue the reduction of the sauce, till of requisite consistence ; take it off the fire, introduce into it four ounces of butter in small bits ; finish it with chopped parsley, and the juice of a lemon. Range the soles on a dish, surrounding them with the mushrooms and oysters; masking them with the sauce. ■ 329. Soles, Trouville fashion. — Remove the black skin of two fresh and clean thick soles ; divide each of them into two or three parts. Butter a gratin-dish, sprinkle over the bottom two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion, on which place the pieces of sole ; season, and moisten to their height with cider, and set the dish on a brisk fire, let it boil a few minutes, putting it afterwards into the oven. Ten inimités later remove the soles, range them on the dish. Reduce the fish- stock quickly, take it off the fire, and thicken with five ounces of good Isigny* butter, or if not handy, a little piece of kneaded-butter : sprinkle over a pinch of chopped parsley, and pour the sauce over the soles. * The butter of ‘IAgny’ possesses qualities of incalcudable value for the kitchen. A sauce finished at the moment, by adding a little bit of this butter, becomes creamy, and succulent. Those practitioners fire fortunate, who have it in their power to make use of so exquisite an auxiliary.