BUTCHER’S MEAT. VEAL 203 and garnish half of them with a small part of the preparation ; and with the remainder of the paste cover the garnished flats. Press the patties all round, and cut them anew with the same cutter, placing them even on a floured napkin, thus letting the paste rise by the temperature of the kitchen. A few minutes previous to serving them, plunge them into hot hog’s lard, to fry them to a nice color ; drain, and dish them up, on a folded napkin. 472. Paupiettes (brasciolé), Milan-fashion. — Chop six ounces of lean veal-meat, with a piece of beef-kidney-suet, and a piece of ham, or of streaky bacon : the whole being chopped fine, add to it a point of garlic, a few sprigs of aromatics; a sprig of mint or sage, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; the mixture made, thicken the preparation with a whole egg. Cut up a dozen scollops off a loin or white ‘noix’ of veal, pare away the sinew, beat them to the size of a half-crown-piece ; spread them on the table, season, and set on each, a small part of the preparation. Then immediately fold over the edges of the ‘brasciolé’; which roll around them, into a long shape, then run them through (broadwise) with a small skewer, alternated by a very thin slice of ham. Flour them slightly, and roast them in a flat stewpan with clarified butter ; when done, and of a nice gold color, dish them up with the butter, in which they have been roasted, surrounding them with lemons in quarters. 473. ‘Terrine’ of veal. — Choose a nice white‘noix’of veal; trim, lard it with fillets of ham and raw truffles ; season with salt and spices. Prepare a force-meat with trimmings of veal and lean fresh pork ; these meats being well mixed up, add an equal quantity of chopped fresh bacon and the trimmings of truffles; put this into the mortar, season, pound, pass it through a sieve, place the whole in a kitchen-basin, and introduce into it a few tablespoonfuls of madeira or cognac. Line a pie-‘terrine’ with thin layers of bacon, mask the bottom of it with a layer of the prepared force-meat, on which layer set the ‘noix’ ; also surround, and cover it with force-meat, which on the top, shape in a dome-like fashion. Place the ‘terrine’ in a flatpan (plafond), and push it into a moderate oven, basting often. One hour after, pour a little warm water in the flatpan, and bake the pie, an hour and a half longer; take it then out of the oven, and half an hour later, set a light weight on it, thus letting it cool under press. When the ‘terrine’ is to be sent up, remove the fat off the top, take the meat out, cut it in slices, and put it back into the ‘terrine’, which set on a dish : surround it with aspic-jelly. 474. Neck of veal, roasted on the spit. — Choose a good neck of veal, shorten the rib-bones, and pare them square; take away the skin of the meat,