COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 168 (or cayenne pepper), baste it with two tablespoonfuls of brown-sauce, and cook it for ten minutes longer. Then add to it a garnish of potatoes in small dice, blanched previously in water; roll them in the sauce, and five minutes later dish up. 389. Fillet of beef, Hussar fashion. — Braise a half ox-fillet, taken off the thicker side. Chop four or five large onions, which fry in a stewpan with butter ; as soon as of a nice color, moisten them with two gills of good broth, which let reduce to glace ; taking care to-do this on a moderate fire, so that the onions may cook during the reduction of the liquid. Moisten them with three gills of consistent brown-sauce, give the sauce a few boils up, and take the stewpan off the fire ; let the preparation lose its greatest heat, then mix it together with a dessertplateful of rasped and chopped horse-radish ; at last sprinkle over a few handfuls of bread-crumb. Twenty-five minutes before serving-time, drain the fillet, trim, and cut it in thin slices ; then bring it back into shape, on a (silver-)dish, alternating each of the slices with a small part of the horse-radish preparation ; then mask it on the top with a layer of this same preparation, over which sprinkle some bread-crumb. Moisten the bottom of the dish with a few spoonfuls of light brown-sauce, then push it into a moderate oven, from time to time basting the fillet with the sauce. The surface being slightly gratinated, take the dish out of the oven, surround the fillet with a garnish of ‘croquettes’, and serve separately a light ‘espagnole’- sauce. 390. Fillet of beef, purée of celery. — Get a good fillet of beef, pare it carefully, proceeding-as directed in No. 386. Interlard it with seasoned fillets of bacon and ham, twist it into a ring-like form, securing it on both ends with string ; salt it, sprinkle over it sliced onion, a bay-leaf, and a few aromatics; wrap it up into thin layers of bacon, which fasten with string. Mask the bottom of a stewpan as for a braise, place the fillet thereon; moisten, to half its height, with white wine and gravy, half and half ; let the stock boil for seven or eight minutes, and remove the pan on to a moderate fire, with hot ashes on its lid, thus cooking the fillet for an hour and a quarter, basting frequently ; when done, take it out, remove the string and bacon; strain the cooking-stock through a sieve; skim the fat, thicken with a little brown-sauce, and reduce one third. When ready to serve, pour a purée of celery on a dish ; dish the fillet thereon, baste it with some of the sauce, and pour the remainder into a sauce-boat. Purée of celery. — Slice a few tender celery-roots (about a pound), blanch them in salted water for a few minutes ; drain, and put them into a stewpan ; season, moisten with a little broth, boil them on a moderate fire with little liquid ; when done, pound them. Pour into a flat stewpan, four tablespoonfuls of‘béchamel’-sauce, which