146 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. Mask tlieir top with parsley, and on this, dish the finest of the claws, supported with chopped aspic and parsley. Run through the top of the column a small ‘hâtelet’-skewer, garnished with prawns ; surround the hase of the ‘pain-vert’ with ‘croutons’ of aspic ; and serve separately a boatful of mayonnaise-sauce. 344. Lobsters, Hamburg fashion. — Boil four small live lobsters, proceeding as prescribed in the foregoing (No. 340); as soon as done, remove the claws from the body, which split in two lengthwise; pick the tails, trim their meat quickly, and range them in a circular order on a hot dish, placing the claws in the centre. Meanwhile, mix in a small stewpan about a gill of melted meat-glaze, with half its quantity of madeira ; boil the liquid, and remove it back. Work up together, in a kitchen-basin, three tablespoonfuls of fine bread-crumb with six ounces of butter, a little cayenne, and a pinch of chopped parsley. Divide this'paste afterwards into small parts, thus adding it to the liquid without ceasing to stir, so as to obtain a good thick sauce, but without letting it boil ; finish the sauce by introducing into it the creamy substance of the body-shell, pounded and passed through a sieve, and also two tablespoonfuls of good vinegar. The sauce should be rather stiff, than loose ; pour it over the lobsters, which serve immediately. 345. Lobster ‘au gratin’. —— Boil a lobster in plain ‘court-bouillon’, and when drained, divide it lengthwise into two halves ; take the meat of the tail and claws, cut it into small dice; put it into a stewpan,* mixing an equal quantity of cooked mushrooms, also cut in dice. Pound the coral of the lobster with a little butter, and pass it through a sieve. Reduce a few spoonfuls of good ‘béchamel’-sauce, introducing into it a little cream and melted glaze ; when ready, add it to the ‘salpicon’ of lobster, keeping the preparation rather stiff, than loose ; season with a little cayenne, and add to it the pounded coral of the lobster. With this preparation fill the two half-shells of the lobster, previously cleansed ; smooth it on the top with the blade of a knife, bread-crumb it, baste with melted butter, and salamander it. When ready, dish the halves of lobster directly on a folded napkin. 34G. Lobster-salad, with jelly (D. 48). — Remove the tails of three middling-sized boiled and cooled lobsters, pick, and divide their meat in slices; which place in a kitchen-basin ; salt, and baste them with a little oil and vinegar. Pick also the claws, trim the meat without dividing, and put it likewise into the basin.