530 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. malaga-winé ; turn it out on a dish, and saturate its surfaces also with the wine. Now mask it entirely with a layer of spun-eggs (œuf* filés). Send up separately a tureenful of apricot-marmalade, diluted with sherry. 1181. ‘Sans-souci’pudding. — Get four or five true rennet apples; peel them, remove their tough parts, cut the pulp in dice, which put into a stewpan with melted butter, sprinkle over a handful of sugar, let them toss on a brisk fire, to warm them, and immediately take them off the fire. Dilute a quarter of ft pound of flour with a glassful of warm milk, infused with vanilla; add a little salt, a little bit of butter, about half a pound of sugar; boil this preparation, stirring continually on the fire; let it take the consistence of a rather firm Gouffié’-preparation. This done, take it off' the tire, and introduce into it nearly a quarter of a pound of butter, and six yolks of eggs; twelve minutes after, introduce six or seven whites of eggs well whipped, and then at last the apples; pour it into a buttered mould, and poach it at the ‘bain’-marie’ for three quarters of an hour. When about to serve, turn the pudding out on a dish, mask it with English- cream (see No. 1263). 1182. Vienna ‘smankerl’. — Dilute six ounces of flour, with a pint and a half of good milk; add two ounces of butter, and a little salt : pass this preparation, through a sieve, into a stewpan, stir it on a moderate fire, so as to get a smooth pap (bouillie); as soon as it is quite smooth, let it reduce for a few minutes, then take it off the tire. When cold, spread half of the preparation, in a thin layer, on a baking-sheet, greased with melted veal-suet, or else with clarified butter ; spread it with the aid of a knife, giving it the shape of an oblong square. Bake the preparation in a pastry- oven, till it be dry, and of a nice color ; now remove the baking-sheet to the entrance of the oven, and with the point of a knife, cut the preparation in squares about two inches long; slip the blade of the knife under the cut parts, in order to disengage them ; keep them in the hot-closet. Warm the remainder of the preparation, add to it three or four tablespoonfuls of sugar, flavored with vanilla ; let it boil, thicken it with three or four yolks of eggs, diluted with a little cream ; at the same time, add to it three ounces of butter, work it, off the fire, pour it on a deep dish, .and dish the Gm an kerf in a group, ou the centre. 1183. Savoy-biscuit with orange (D. 254). — Put into a basin half a pound of powder-sugar, two tablespoonfuls of orange-sugar grated on the zest, a