518 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. tin-cutter, and giving hot water to half its height; keep it thus, in the ‘bain-marie’, for twenty-live minutes. When about to serve, turn the rice over on a hot dish ; surround it with the pears, which mask with a paste-brush, with their own syrup, reduced with apple- jelly. Pour on the bottom of the dish a few tablespoonfuls of vanilla-syrup. 1100. Rosecolored ‘nougat’, Provence fashion. — In the south of France the‘nougat’ is highly estimated by all classes of society; there is no festival to be thought of, without this dainty. ‘Nougat’ is therefore very largely prepared in Provence, and generally prepared to perfection. There are two sorts of ‘nougats’: the white and the brown; the first being the most distinguished, the brown ‘nougat’ being more common. That which I am about to describe, is a recent novelty of highest merit, of simple preparation, and nevertheless giving the finest, best result. Let me hope that cooks and pastry-cooks will not fail to profit by it. Get four pounds of small sweet almonds, let them dry well, then keep them warm. Put into a copper-basin two pounds of pounded sugar ; add one pound of white honey, set the basin on the fire, and boil the sugar, skimming it carefully. At the first bubbling, add four tablespoonfuls of wheat-syrup, and a few drops of citric acid. The sugar being at the degree of ‘cassé’, remove it back, perfume it with extract of roses, or neroli, add a few drops of vegetable carmine, and pour it on an oiled marble slab ; now with the aid of a flat spoon (palette), bring it back to the centre, until forming a manageable paste. Take this paste (with the hands) and draw it out (tirer), as done for twisted sugar, either hooking it on, or else two persons working, but quickly, and without allowing it to get cold. Now mix in the warm almonds, and two handfuls of swelled pistachios ; place the preparation in a wooden case of low square shape, the inside of which case is spread with large strips of ‘hostie’-wafers. Equalise the ‘nougat’ on the top, giving the preparation a thickness of one or two inches, and mask like- wise with the same wafers; apply on the surface the lid of the case, which charge with a weight sufficient to press the ‘nougat’ close. Ten minutes after, empty the case, and divide the ‘nougat’ in longish squares, cutting it up with the aid of a crescent-shaped cleaving-knife. 1161. Rice-milk, Spanish fashion. — Wash a pound of rice, which put into a stewpan with cold water ; half-cook it, drain, and finish cooking in milk; keep it on the fire, until very tender, but not in a pulp : add sugar at the last moment. When done, range it on a deep dish, smooth the-surface of the rice, and place on the top a buttered paper, cut out à jour in any ornamental pattern; sprinkle over the