234 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 550. Soufflé of calf’s liver. — Slice the third of a calf’s liver, fry it quickly with melted fat-bacon ; season, then add a few trimmings of truffles, and sprinkle over a pinch of pounded aromatics ; when well set, take it off the tire, allow it to cool, pound, and then remove it. Pound also a little panada (the fifth of the calf’s liver in quantity), with the same of cooked calf’s udder (‘tétine’), or if not at hand, with a piece of butter; these two ingredients being well mixed, introduce into it the pounded liver. Season the force-meat, pass it through a sieve, put it into a kitchen-basin ; add to it four or five spoonfuls of madeira-sauce, reduced with a little meat-glaze, six yolks of eggs, one by one, and at last four whipped whites of eggs. Pour the preparation into a buttered ‘souffle’- pan, which set on a sheet, and bake the ‘soufflé’ in a moderate oven, for twenty-five or thirty minutes. Serve, as soon as done. 551. Calf’s liver, English way. — Cut seven or eight nice slices off a calf’s liver ; season, flour, and dip them into beaten eggs. Cut the same number of slices of streaky bacon, of the same size, put them into a frying-pan, with a little butter, to heat them on both sides ; then take them out of the pan, and replace them immediately by the slices of liver, which fry on both sides. Afterwards dish them up in a circular order, alternating each slice of liver with one of bacon ; fill the centre with mashed potatoes, and pour a little sauce over. A very excellent dish for lunch. 552. ‘Quenelles’ of calves’ liver, German fashion. — Put into a mortar ten ounces of calves’ liver, previously grated with a knife; pound it, pass it through a sieve, put it into a kitchen-basin, season, and add to it two tablespoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs. Work with a spoon, in a kitchen-basin, five ounces of softened butter, intro- duce into it, one by one, two whole eggs and one yolk ; when the preparation is frothy, add to it, two small handfuls of bread-crumbs, a tablespoonful of flour, and then the liver. Season the preparation, try a small part of it in boiling water, rectifying it if necessary; and then take it out with a tablespoon, in small parts, which drop into a stewpan of salted boiling water : at the first bubbling, remove the pan back. When the ‘quenelles’ are set, drain them, dish them up, and pour over some bread-crumbs, slightly fried in butter. 553. Calf’s liver, Bordeaux fashion. — Get a middling-sized very white calf’s liver, interlard it inwardly with fillets of fat bacon, and with a clove of garlic also in slices ; season with salt and pepper, sprinkle over a handful of chopped ‘cèpes’, wrap it up in some pig’s caul, and tie it last ; this done, run it through with an