5(52 COSMOPOLITAN C< )OKERY. Embed a cylinder-mould with pounded ice, garnish also the cylinder of the mould; on the bottom of which pour a layer of white jelly, the thickness of which ought to be equal to a fifth of the height of the mould. As soon as this layer has set, pour on another layer of the same thickness, but of red color. Finish thus filling the mould, alternating the shades, but not waiting till the layer of jelly, on which the next one is to be poured, be getting too firm; as then the two preparations would not fix together, and might perhaps fall asunder, when the jelly is turned out. Three quarters of an hour after, dip the mould quickly into warm water, wipe it, and turn the jelly out on a small gum-paste stand, decorated, and having a hollow on its centre; a support masked with gum-paste can be fixed on the stand. Set on the top of this support a little ‘égrette’ of spun-sugar. Surround the base of the decorated stand with meringued fruit-tartlets. The top of the stand may be orna- mented with a little border in gum-paste. 1241. Champagne-jelly in glasses. — Lay fifteen leaves of ‘gelatine’ in a kitchen-basin; moisten largely with cold water, let it soften for half an hour; drain, and put it into a stewpan with three glassfuls of warm water, thus diluting it, continually stirring ; then mix into it three quarters of a pound of sugar ; take it off the fire, and let it cool. Put a white of egg on a plate, beat it with a fork for a few moments, add to it the juice of three lemons and one orange, as well as a quarter of a glass of cold water ; pour the liquid into the stewpan containing the ‘gélatine’, whipping the preparation briskly with a kitchen-whip. Set it on the fire, without ceasing to whip, and let it froth until beginning to rise in bubbles; set it immediately on the side of the fire, so that the liquid preserve the same degree of heat, without allowing it to boil; cover the stewpan, put a few live embers on its lid. A quarter of an hour after, pour the jelly, either into a cotton-bag, or on a napkin, and filter it until flowing quite clear; let it cool, and mix with it half a bottle of good dry champagne; try the preparation, and ascertain its consistence; then pour it into champagne-glasses, but avoid letting the liquid rise up to the brim. Place these glasses in a bucket, surrounding them with pounded ice; cover the vase, and thus let the jelly set. On the other hand, let a little jelly dissolve, which pour into a round copper- basin, and whip, until white, and quite frothy ; thên take it up with a tablespoon, put a little of it into each of the glasses, as soon as the jelly is set. Let the froth cool, wipe the glasses, and dish them. 1242. Dantzig-jelly. — Clarify sixteen or eighteen leaves of good ‘géla- tine’. When the preparation is cold, mix it up with nearly two gills of Dantzig-