OPINIONS OF THE ENGLISH PRESS ON ‘THE ARTISTIC COOKERY.’ Before presenting to the notice of my Readers the various appreciative Criticisms published on my preceding Work, 1 hasten to address my thanks, and the expression of my deep gratitude, as well to the able writers who have penned these articles, as to the Jour- nals, which have given them publicity. In this favorable, yet disinterested Testimony, I recognise a proof of the warm sympathy afforded by the English Press to every honest effort any way contributive to modern progress. ARTISTIC DINNER-TABLES. Far be the audacity from us to review the mighty quarto,* big as a picture Bible, luxurious as a King’s edition of a classic, and illustrated like a Natural History, in which Messrs. Longmans have given the ideas of M. Dubois, Cook to their Majesties of Prussia, to an admiring and, we hope, a buying world. It is a book for German Princes, London Lord Mayors, and American millionaires; not for re- viewers , who, even if they understood cookery, which is very seldom the case, would certainly shrink from M. Dubois’ book as timidly, as they would from the kind of dinner, he urges our rich men to adopt. What could they venture to say to a man, who de- clares, that pain de gibier should be sent up in the form of a bastion modelled of fat and wood and glaze, and every other kind of uneatable abomina- tion; and thinks ‘a triton modelled in fat’ an ar- tistic improvement to a salmon, which human beings are presumably intended to eat? Mr. Hayward him- self, who has in print hinted defects in Brillât Sava- rin , would scarcely have the temerity to criticise M. Dubois and his designs for castellated cold grease, still less to say, what he might perhaps think, if we understand his essays aright, that the grand Prus- sian chefs ideas have something barbaric about them, something which recals the bad days ,when a Roman patrician thought it good taste, to send up fawns whole, or when naked dwarfs jumped out of Czar Peter’s pies, or when a French cook threatened to stew forty hams for a single dish. All we can venture to do is, to accept M. Dubois’ execution of his main idea, as absolutely perfect, which we may do with a safe conscience, having no standard of comparison; and to demur, and that we do timidly, overawed at once by his skill and his sententious- ness , to the main idea itself. M. Dubois’ postulate is, that the dinner-table offers a field for artistic effect independent of cookery, and that this effect should be secured, by throwing all dishes, (by aid of moulds, glazes, ‘flowers of fat,’ and other mechani- * Artistic Cookery. By Urbain Dubois, Chef (le Cuisine of their Majesties tile King and Queen of Prussia. London: Longmans. cal contrivances), into artistic forms, — that a ‘noix de veau,’ for example, should be sent up on a dish, selected to improve its pictorial effect, when prepa- red in this fashion : — ‘The meat is larded with ba- con, the piece secured in an oval shape, with a string, cooked with little liquid, and nicely glazed -r it is dished up on a foundation of cooked meat, cool- ed under press, and glazed at the entrance of the oven; this foundation is necessary, to heighten the form and aspect of the piece. It is surrounded with groups of vegetables, cooked in water, or gla- zed: cauliflowers, carrots, green pease, french-beans. Two hâtelet-skewers of vegetables are inserted in the meat on each side.’ We had rather eat veal in a ham-shop, or in a tenth-rate Florentine restaurant, where the cooking-stove is in the salon, and we are expected to gain an appetite from the hissing of the joints. With M. Dubois’ proposition, that an ar- tistic effect for a dinner-table is worth procuring, we heartily agree ; for, the righteousness jof luxury being granted, — quite a questionable point, — din- ner may as well be luxurious ; but to his mode of procuring it, we as heartily demur. It is, we con- tend, in the furniture of the table, not in the food to be eaten at it, that beauty of form should be sought; in the first place, because nothing hot can be put on table, without its yielding more or less of a steam disgusting to all who comprehend the true pleasure of dining; in the second, because every use- less touch given to food, encreases the effect, which in England is described by the word ‘mammocking’ ; and in the third, because a dinner made splendid by M. Dubois’ artistic shapes, must be a dinner served at a table inconveniently large. His idea of artistic arrangement is inconsistent with that happiest of discoveries, the Russian system of serving, which has relieved diners-out alike of carving, of steam, and of tepid dishes ; and with that highest art, which subordinates the gratification of the eye to the great- est of luxuries, good conversation, enjoyed while the palate is being pleased. M. Dubois admits the Russian dinner, but clearly gives the preference to the French one ; and we can scarcely imagine, that in practice he would bear to have his wonderful struc- tures of fat, and glaze, and willow-wood, cut up by