GAME. — WOOD-, MOOR-, AND WATER-FOWL. 397 892. Black-cock, German fashion. — Keep a black-cock, till quite tender, hanging in the air; pluck, draw, and truss it, remove the skin from the breast, to lard it, put it into a baking-sheet with butter; salt slightly, and roast it in the oven, basting ; when half-done, moisten it with half a pint of sour-cream, and finish cooking it. Dish it up afterwards, add a little gravy to the sauce ; which reduce, stirring, till well thickened ; and pass it, through a sieve, over the bird. 893. Grouse-pie. — Cut up a brace of grouse, each of them in five parts, which season with salt and pepper. Mask the bottom of a pie-dish with a layer of game force-meat, on which place the pieces of grouse, sprinkle over a little'cooked fine-herbs; fill the cavities, between the pieces, with a few yolks of hard-boiled eggs, and place on the top of the grouse, a few slices of raw ham ; moisten them half their height with good gravy; cover the pie with paste, proceeding as directed in No. 596 ; egg, and push it into a moderate oven, for one hour and a half : when done, set it on another dish. 894. Roast grouse, with bread-crumbs. — Pluck, draw, singe, and truss, a brace of grouse ; run them through on their length with an iron-skewer, which fix on the spit; set the birds to the fire, basting with butter, while cooking; when about done, sprinkle over a little flour, and put them to the fire again, to dry their surface ; take them off the fire, and dish them up with gravy under. Meanwhile toast in the oven a few crusts of white bread ; when slightly colored, pound, and pass them through a fine colander ; keep the crumb hot in a sauceboat, and send it up with the roast. This bread-crumb is also served with thrushes, wood- cocks, snipes, and plovers. 895. Grouse-cutlets. Victoria-sauce. — Get three or four young grouse; singe, draw, and cut them in two lengthwise. Split the drum-stick, and thrust it inside the tip of the leg ; beat each half slightly, pare, season with salt and pepper, l roll in clarified butter, bread-crumb, and fry them on a moderate oven for twelve minutes ; when done on one side, turning them over to the other ; dish them up, and serve with the following sauce : Victoria-sauce. — Put into a small stewpan a tablespoonful of chopped shalot, a small bunch of aromatics, and the juice of two lemons ; cover the stewpan, boil the liquid for two minutes, add to it three or four tablespoonfuls of raw mushrooms cut in large dice, which cook until their moisture be reduced; moisten them afterwards with a gill of melted meat-glaze, let the liquid boil, and remove the stewpan back, i introducing into the sauce five ounces of butter ; stir it on the corner of the stove, until the butter be melted, but without letting it boil ; when it is creamy, and well