sours. 39 107. Westmoreland-soup. — Buil ill a stewpan two quarts of good ‘consommé’; thicken it with two tablespoonfuls of arrowroot, diluted cold ; after a few minutes’ boiling, remove it back. Further, boil half a calf’s head in a ‘mirepoix’ ; divide it into small squares or rounds, which add to the ‘consommé’, as well as two gills of the calf’s head stock, half a glass of madeira, and a pinch of ‘paprika’, or cayenne pepper ; let the soup boil up, and pour it into a soup-tureen. Add to the soup a garnish, composed of small chicken-‘quenelles , moulded with the spoon and poached; four tablespoonfuls of cooked truffles, shred in ‘julienne’; and two spoonfuls of raw gerkins, cut, as well as the truffles. 108. Q,ueen-of-Holland soup. — Prepare a small stockpot of broth, with a fowl, a knuckle, and one pound of breast of veal ; a little salt, five quarts of water, some leeks and chervil, a piece of celery-root, one turnip, one carrot, and a few cloves. Proceed, as for the common ‘pot-au-feu’. The broth being well skimmed, add to it two or three handfuls of pearl-barley, and continue boiling gently. As soon as the meats are done, take them out, and pass the broth through a napkin ; skim off its fat, and keep it hot in a well tinned stewpan. Remove the fillets of the fowl; which cut in pieces, and pound, converting them into paste ; add one whole egg, and eight yolks ; dilute the preparation with a glass of good raw cream, season with salt, nutmeg, and a pinch of sugar ; pass it through a sieve, then through a tammy. Pour the preparation into a plain buttered ‘timbale’-mould, placed in a stewpan with warm water to half its height; poach the preparation in the ‘bain-marie’. When done, take the stewpan off the fire, and twenty minutes after, take the custard out. Divide it into middling-sized square pieces, place them in the soup-tureen, add a garnish of white spruce asparagus, boiled in water. Pour the broth over the garnishes. 109. Thrush (grives)-soup, Provence fashion. — Draw ten or twelve thrushes ; singe, and bake them in the oven with a piece of butter ; let them cool awhile ; putting by the intestines. Pound the birds’ legs in the mortar ; when con- verted into paste, mix in it an equal quantity of thin slices of bread, colored in the oven ; pound all these together ; dilute this preparation with a quart and a half of broth ; pour it into a stewpan, to boil ; immediately remove it back; add to the soup some sprigs of aromatics, boil it for a quarter of an hour, skim the fat, and pass the soup through a sieve. Now add to it eight ounces of rice, blanched and boiled in broth ; and introduce a tablcspoonful of the intestines passed through a sieve. 110. Chicken-soup, English fashion. — Put into a small stockpot a few trimmings and a knuckle of veal. Moisten these meats with three quarts of water, add salt; set the stockpot on the fire, boil the liquid, skimming, and at the