COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 214 aromatics, and set the stewpan on the fire, reducing the stock to half ; then cover the cutlets with buttered paper, draw them on the side of the fire, and finish cooking them short of moisture, adding from time to time a little broth. As soon as the cutlets are done, drain, and dish them on a ring of force-meat, poached on a dish ; on the centre of which fix a small bread-‘croustade’ nicely fried, and fill it with small truffles. Pour on the bottom of the dish, some of the cooking-stock of the cutlets, strained, freed of fat, reduced with the trimmings of truffles, and thickened with a little brown-sauce ; send up the remainder in a sauceboat. 50.0. Calves’ tongues, cold, ‘à la macédoine’. — Boil in water five or six small pickled calves’ tongues ; when taken out of their liquor, let them cool between two dishes, remove the skin, and round them on the thick end, cut them straight on each side, and split them in two lengthwise ; then glaze them completely with a paste-brush, and lay on a thin layer of half-set aspic-jelly, to give a relief. On the other hand, prepare a ‘macédoine’ of vegetables, composed of Brusscls- sprouts, cauliflowers in flowrets, carrots and potatoes in balls; french-beans in lozenges, spruce-asparagus, and green-pease; all these vegetables must be blanched separately, seasoned as a salad, and dished symmetrically in pyramids. Then set all round the halves of tongue upright, their pointed end uppermost; surround with aspic-jelly, and send up separately some cold ‘ravigote’ or tartar-sauce. 501. Knuckles (jarrets) of veal, in ‘hochepot’. — Saw two large knuckles of veal above the knuckle-joint, strew a stewpan with trimmings of fat and sliced onions, place the knuckles thereon, surround them with a pound of streaky bacon, cut in two, and blanched ; add two large carrots, cut in two transversally ; a large turnip, also in two, and a few sprigs of aromatics, cloves, peppercorns, and salt. Moisten the meats and the vegetables with a half-pint of broth, which reduce to a half-glaze ; moisten again to three parts their height, let the liquid boil for a few minutes, then remove the stewpan on to a moderate fire, so that, by the time when the meats and vegetables appear to be done, the moisture may be reduced to half-glaze. On the other hand, blanch and braise, as usual, and separately, a cabbage cut in quarters, a dozen lettuces ; blanch and glaze two or three dozen small onions. When the knuckles of veal are ready to be served, range them, one beside the other, on an oblong dish ; set on each side half the bacon, and surround it with the carrots, turnips, lettuces, cabbages, and onions ; dilute the cooking-stock with gravy, boil it, skim off the fat, and strain it on to the dish. 502. Sweetbreads, ‘à la financière’. — Steep and blanch four nice sweetbreads, refresh, and place them under press ; when cold, pare, season, and