504 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. The paste being dried, and of a nice color, take the fritters out with a skim- mer, drain them on a cloth, roll them in tine sugar, glaze them with the salamander, dish them in a group on a folded napkin. 1133. Eggs ‘a la neige’, with coffee. — Whip five whites of eggs ; as soon as very firm, mix in five tablespoonfuls of powder-sugar, then a tablespoonful of coffee extract or essence. Boil a quart of milk, slightly sweeten it with sugar; take up the preparation of whites of eggs with a ragout-spoon of long shape, plunge it into the milk in ebulli- tion, in order to poach it, that is, to get it firm : put in but little at a time. Remove the stewpan back to the side of the fire, cover it. Three minutes afterwards, with the aid of a skimmer, take out the poached parts of whites of eggs, drain them on a sieve, let them cool, and dish them in a circular order. Whip six yolks of eggs in a stewpan, dilute them with a gill of the sweetened milk, in which the whites have been poached : the milk first must be passed through a sieve. Stir the cream on the tire, in order to thicken it, proceeding as for English- cream ; pass it through a sieve, let it cool, mix in a tablespoonful of coffee-essence.* Pour this cream then on the poached whites of eggs, previously dished ; serve immediately. 1134. Marie-Louise fritters (D. 232). — Pass a pound of flour, through a sieve, into a kitchen-basin, make a hollow in its centre with the hand. Dilute about an ounce of German yeast with half a glassful of warm milk ; strain the liquid, and with it prepare in the basin a little dough ; which allow to rise to double its height, work it, and add to it a quarter of a pound of good melted butter. Work this pre- paration, gradually introducing into it the flour; add, at the same time, but by little and little, six whole eggs well beaten up ; work the paste hard by hand, to give it a nice consistence. Now mix in a pinch of salt, three tablespoonfuls of sugar pounded with two tablespoonfuls of almonds, and passed through a sieve ; cover the basin, let the paste rise in a mild temperature, and shut out from the contact of air; break, and let il again rise twice, breaking it each time. Then place the paste on a floured table, and let it cool ; roll it out thin with the hand or rolling-pin, then cut out of its surface thirty small rounds with the twelfth plain tin-cutter. On half of these rounds place a little ball of raspberry-marmalade, passed through a sieve, and reduced to firmness. Moisten slightly the remainder of the rounds, with which now cover the first ones; solder the paste well all round the marmalade, cut the rounds once more with the * Little bottles of this essence may bo purchased, at every eatable-dealer’s; it is generally used for the perfuming of icing-sugar.