COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 402 When done, salt them, take them off the fire, and remove the strings. Place the toasts on an oblong dish, put the woodcocks on them, the legs towards the centre, glaze them with a paste-brush, and surround them with the fried crust, garnishing the centre with water-cresses. Send up separately some good gravy, reduced to half-glaze. 902. ‘Terrine’ Of woodcocks. — Bone two woodcocks, divide each of them in two, which pieces put into a pie-dish {terrine), with five or six peeled truffles cut in quarters, the same volume of cooked ham-fat, or fat-bacon in large dice; season the meats and truffles highly, and baste with the third part of a glass of madeira. Take off the flesh from a leg of hare ; cut it in pieces, fry it in a stewpan, with double its volume of liver of poultry or game ; when well set, add the trails of the woodcocks, then let the whole cool, to be chopped afterwards, with a third its volume of lean pork. Season the force-meat, put it into a mortar, pound, and add to it the same quantity of fresh fat-bacon, previously chopped, and pounded with the trim- mings of truffles. Season the force-meat with a pinch of pounded aromatics ; five minutes after, remove it into a kitchen-basin, and mix with it the madeira the woodcocks have been soaking in. Mask the bottom and sides of a pie-dish (terrine à cuire) with some of the prepared force-meat ; arrange the pieces of woodcocks, the truffles, and the ham, in the centre, alternating with force-meat : the pie-dish must then be completely full ; smooth the top with the blade of a knife, and mask it with slices of bacon ; cover the preparation, and set the pie-dish in a ‘sauté’-pan with a glass of hot water, and push it into a moderate oven, to bake for an hour and a half; when done, take it out ; and when half-cold, put a light weight on the top of the preparation. When completely cold, take it off the pie, cut it in oblong squares ; which dish, in a circular order, into the ‘terrine’. * 903. Salmis of woodcocks. — Truss two woodcocks, without drawing them, cover with fat bacon, roast them on the spit ; and as soon as done, cut each ot them into five parts : which place in a flat stewpan with the heads, and baste with a few tablespoonfuls of melted glaze; put the lid on the stewpan, and keep it off the tire. Now put the trails into a mortar, with a few cooked chickens’ livers, the backs and trimmings of the woodcocks ; pound, to convert them into paste ; which dilute with a glass of good white wine, and pass the preparation through a sieve. Slice a small onion, fry it in a stewpan with a piece of butter, a few tablespoon- fuls of raw ham, and a sprig of parsley and aromatics ; a few minutes after, sprinkle over these ingredients a pinch of flour, moisten them with a little white wine, broth, or gravy, and the stock of the dripping-pan, skimmed from the fat; stir the sauce