COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 414 of white wine, stir the liquid until boiling, then remove the stewpan back. Twenty minutes after, take away the fat from the sauce, pass it, through a sieve, into a flat stewpan; add to it a dozen fresh and cut mushrooms, reduce this sauce, thicken it properly, and then pour it into the stewpan with the stew. Add to it two dozen small ‘quenelles’, rolled in flour and poached ; pour it into the ‘timbale’, close the opening with a round piece of‘polenta’, solder it with a little force-meat, cover the ‘timbale’ with paper, and bake it until the sides be nicely colored ; then turn it out on a dish, and serve. 930. Ortolans, Portugal fashion. — Draw two dozen ortolans, singe them, place them in a ‘sauté’-pan, with melted bacon and two bay-leaves. Season them, let them fry on a brisk fire, turning them; as soon as done, carefully drain all their fat, moisten them with a few tablespoonfuls of good vinegar, and a little melted glaze. Set the ‘sauté’-pan back now on the fire quickly, let the liquid reduce, remove the bay-leaves, and add to the ortolans a ‘salpicon’ of lean smoked ham, previously steeped in water. Pour over a little ‘espagnole’-sauce, reduced with madeira, but very little thickened. Heat the ham, but without allowing the sauce to boil ; dish the ortolans, in a group, and pour over them the sauce. Surround the ortolans with a circle of small ‘quenelles’ moulded with a spoon. 931. Ortolans, Toulouse fashion. — Ortolans abound in the south of France ; and at Toulouse especially, they have the repute of knowing how to fatten them. When wanted for cooking, they are killed by plunging the head into strong vinegar : this death by suffocation apparently improving their flesh. Pluck twelve ortolans ; draw them on the side, singe them a little, and rub them with lemon; run them through with a small iron-skewer, wrap them up with a coating, of kneaded-butter, mixed with lemon-juice ; sprinkle bread-crumb all over, and roast them at a good fire for seven or eight minutes, basting with the butter running in the dripping-pan. At the last moment, salt, take them off the fire, dish them up, basting simply with the drippings, and immediately send them up with lemons cut in halves. 932. ‘Timbale’ of ortolans, with truffles. — Remove the pouch from eighteen ortolans, cut off their wings, necks, and legs ; singe them, and pick out the gizzard, by widening slightly the lower aperture ; fill the hollow of the stomach with a little ‘salpicon’ of truffles, mixed up with fresh rasped fat-bacon, and a pinch of chopped parsley. Line a ‘timbale’-mould with fine-short paste (No. 463), which mask all over with a thick coating of raw pork-mince chopped previously very fine, and pounded with a quarter of its volume of raw truffles. This done, put the ortolans into a stewpan with a little melted fat-bacon, toss them over a brisk fire for two minutes only, just