243 BUTCHER’S MEAT. - MUTTON. sliced vegetables. Break up the bones, put them all round the shoulder, moisten the meat to its height with broth; add toit a hunch of aromatics, cloves, and peppercorns ; gently braise the shoulder, turning ; when about done, reduce the moisture to half-glaze, and glaze the shoulder nicely at the entrance of the oven. Now, take the string off the shoulder, put a ruffle on the bone, and dish up with a garnish of turnips round. The shoulder is carved in transversal slices. The mutton should be served on hot plates. 5G8. Ravioles, Greek fashion. — Take some meat off a braised loin of mutton (a pound); pare away the tough parts, chop, and pound it together with a cooked sheep’s brain ; season this mince, add to it three or four tablespoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs, and two or three yolks of eggs. Roll-out, on a floured table, a pound and a quarter of biouille’-paste in a thin square flat ; moisten the paste with a paste-brush, and set on half of its surface, the prepared mince, divided into small balls, these being placed in straight rows at half an inch distance. With the remainder of the paste, cover the other part, apply it in the intervals, and then stamp out the ‘ravioles’, of a round form, with a plain round cutter. Ten minutes before serving, plunge them into salted boiling water, boil them for tln'ee or four minutes, and drain them on a sieve ; place them afterwards on a dish, by layers, each sprinkled with grated parmesan ; pour over a few spoonfuls of good gravy , thickened with tomata-sauce. 5G9. Navarin stew. — This is a dish frequently served under different names at various restaurants ; in Paris and elsewhere. Bone entirely a small leg of good mutton, cut the meat in middling-sized squares, skim the fat away, and place it in a kitchen-basin ; season with salt and spices, add to it a bunch of aromatics, pour over half a glass of madeira, and let it macerate for seven or eight hours. Drain the meat afterwards, and wipe it on a cloth. Melt six ounces of fat bacon in a stewpan ; stir it, add to it the squares of meat, and half a pound of streaky bacon, blanched and cut up in squares ; fry them over a good fire, drain then the fat off, and pour into the stewpan the madeira, in which the meats are macerated. Two minutes after, moisten to height with light brown-sauce. Cover the stewpan, cooking the stew on a moderate fire, with hot ashes on the lid. The meats being about done, skim the fat off the sauce, dilute it with a glass of white wine, and mix with a garnish of good turnips, cut in balls with a vegetable-spoon, previously colored in a frying-pan, over a sharp fire, and seasoned. Continue boiling gently: meats and turnips must be done at the same time.