300 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. hour before taking it off the tire, remove the paper, in which it must be wrapped up, and allow it to take color; as soon as done, salt it ; take it off, and serve it on a large dish. The length of time for cooking a large turkey varies, from one hour and a quarter, to an hour and a half ; the main difficulty consists in getting all the parts of it equally colored, a result not the least desirable to succeed in ; as the nice appear- ance of a roast of poultry is a quality indispensable to it. The most delicate piece, if overdone, black or burned, even superficially, makes but a poor appearance on a table. With the roasted turkey, send up the drippings, strained, skimmed of the fat, mixed up with a little glaze, and reduced. In Provence a salad of fresh white tender celery is sent up with this roast. Carving of the turkey. — A roasted turkey, even when middling-sized, if to be carved on the table, must be sent with gravy on the dish. If the turkey is large, the legs of it should only be carved, when absolutely necessary; for it is better pre- viously to send round the best part of it, the breast. The two pinions are first slipped off to render the carving easier, then the breast is cut up in thin slices, which are placed evenly on a dish, and afterwards surrounded with the garnish, if there be any. If the legs are required, they should be previously slipped off the carcass, by passing the knife into the joint, then the thickest part of them is divided into three parts. 706. Turkey with ‘nouilles’. — Turkeys, only when too old to serve for roast, are boiled in broth or gravy. Draw a turkey, truss it with the legs turned in, cover the breast with a layer of fat bacon, and place it in a stewpan with melted bacon or lard ; set the stewpan on a moderate fire, fry the turkey, turning it all over ; when of a nice color, moisten to three-parts its height with broth ; add three onions, a piece of celery-root, a few sprigs of aromatics, cloves and peppercorns; let the liquid boil, and ten minutes after remove it back, placing warm ashes on its lid, so as to finish cooking the turkey gently. When done, the cooking-stock should be reduced to half-glaze; strain it into another stewpan, skim off part of the fat, and thicken with a few spoonfuls of good tomata-sauce ; which let simmer on the side of the fire. When ready to serve, remove the string, place the turkey on a garnish of ‘nouille’, finished with butter and parmesan ; baste it with a few spoonfuls of sauce, and send up the remainder in a sauce-boat. Carving. — If the turkey is to be carved at the dinner-table, it must be placed on a dish, without gravy or garnish; slip off then, first of all, the two legs, take away the drum-stick, and divide the thickest part of the legs, each into three parts; then bring the breast nearer, cut off the pinions at the joint, and carve the breast