COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 444 live embers on the lid of the mould, and all round. When ready to serve, slip in the blade of a knife, between the mould and the ‘surtout’, to disengage it, and turn it out on a dish. 985. ‘Gnocchi’, Florence fashion. — Boil three pints or a quart of milk, introduce into the liquid eight ounces of semolina, keeping the preparation light; add to it a grain of salt, and a pinch of sugar; work it on the tire till it be of a nice consistence, and the semolina cooked ; now add to it three or four whipped eggs, mixed with a gill of water, and without ceasing to stir the preparation. The eggs being introduced, pour the preparation on a damp baking-sheet, let it cool, and divide it in rounds, or lozenges ; which arrange in a circle on the bottom of a buttered dish; sprinkle over some grated parmesan-cheeso, baste with butter, and set them in the oven to gratinate. 986. Parisian gnocchi (gnoquis). — Mix in a kitchen-basin half a pound of chicken force-meat (see No. 740) with the same weight of ‘choux’-paste without sugar; work the preparation with a spoon, introduce into it a handful of grated par- mesan ; then take it up, by small quantities, with a tablespoon, and drop it on a floured table, rolling it in the form of‘quenelles’; which plunge in salted boiling water, drain as soon as poached, and arrange them, by layers, into a vegetable dish, sprinkling over some grated parmesan, and basting with melted butter and good gravy. Sprinkle over the top also, and set them to gratinate in an oven (at a moderate heat) for fifteen minutes. 987. Nouilles (nudeln), German fashion. — Boil in salted water about a pound of shred ‘nouilles’ (see No. 983); drain them, introduce live ounces of butter, and the same of grated parmesan, season with a little pepper and nutmeg, thicken with four tablcspoonfuls of‘béchamcl’-sauce, and pour them on a dish; smooth the surface, and mask it with the following sauce : Bread and butter sauce. — Warm five ounces of butter in a stewpan, add to it two handfuls of bread-crumbs, which fry for three or four minutes, stirring, and pour the sauce over the ‘nouilles’. 988. Macaroni, Leghorn fashion. — Boil a pound of good macaroni in salted Avater ; drain, as soon as sufficiently soft; which pour into a stewpan, and thicken them with a few tablespoonfuls of ‘bcchamel’-sauce ; season with a little white pepper, and a point of nutmeg, introduce into it (off the fire, and with the aid ot a fork) six ounces of good butter in little bits, and rive ounces of grated parmesan; when well thickened and creamy, arrange the macaroni, by layers, into a deep dish, basting each layer with a ‘purée’ of tomatas slightly thickened.