BUTCHER’S MEAT. BEEF. 177 and onion; place the beef thereon ; salt it slightly, moisten with a pint and a half of broth, and set the pan on the tire, reducing the broth to a glaze. Then moisten the meat again to its height with broth, start it to ebullition, and immediately remove the pan back on a moderate tire, continuing to braise gently for seven hours : towards the end of the cooking, when the stock begins to thicken, a little broth should be added from time to time. Fig. CO. When the meat is nearly done, drain it on a baking-sheet, mix into the cooking- stock about a glass of white wine ; boil, strain, and skim off the fat. Pare the meat, and put it again into the braising-pan, basting it with the strained stock, to finish cooking it, and glazing it all over. When ready to serve, pare the rump, and cut it transversally into slices. To dish up this piece advantageously, it must be placed on a basis of cooked meat, which may be prepared with trimmings of the piece. Surround it on both i sides with a garnish composed of 'croquettes’ of potatoes, either of an oblong or t round shape, artichokes’ bottoms, filled with small vegetables, and with small ! ‘timbales’ of cabbages. Insert in each end of the beef a garnished ‘hâtelet’-skewer. Glaze and send up separately the cooking-stock, freed of fat, then reduced to half- glaze, and thickened with a few spoonfuls of tomata-sauce. 408. Piece Of beef, Paris fashion. This dish is highly appreciated in Paris, as well in private families, as at restaurants. Take a piece of rump of beef, weighing five or six pounds ; bone, and interlard, | following the grain of the meat, with fillets of bacon and raw ham, previously ! seasoned. Place it then in a kitchen-basin, season, pour over half a bottle of white wine, and let it macerate for five or six hours ; after which, drain, roll, and truss it. Take a fitting stewpan, spread it with thin layers of bacon, set the meat thereon, add two blanched calf’s feet; baste the meat with its marinade, and finish moistening to its height with broth ; cover it with layers of bacon, add to it a bunch of aroma- 12