575 SWEET ENTREMETS. — ICED PUNCH. diately, lute its joints with common paste, sprinkle over salt, cover it with salted ice, leave it thus for fifty minutes. On the other hand, prepare a ‘salpicon’ of preserved fruits, being of various kinds, and cut-up in little dice ; let it macerate for an hour, with a few tablespoonfuls of kirsh, drain their liquid, and thicken them with a few tablespoonfuls of apricot- marmalade. Take the mould off the ice, which dip in cold water, and wipe ; then open, and hold it in a slanting manner, being enabled thus to remove the soft parts Fig. 290. ! of the preparation to be found in the middle. Then till the hollow with the previously prepared ‘salpicon’ of fruits, which mask with a layer of the preparation ; shut the mould again, as before ; leave it once more on salted ice for half an hour. At serving-time, dip the mould in hardly tepid water, and turn the ‘mousse’ out on a small biscuit-stand, glazed with pistachios, and fixed on the centre of a dish ; surround, at its base, with a circle of angelica, cut in leaves ; make a ‘rosace’ on the top of the mould ; place on the centre a ring of apple- or quince-paste, on the centre of which set a preserved greengage. Surround the base of the biscuit-stand with a garnish of flat cakes, glazed and decorated. 1272. Iced punch, Roman fashion, pine-apple, and cham- pagne. — Take a ripe large pine-apple, pare it, removing all the hard peel, but leaving a little of the pine-apple’s flesh adhering to it. Put the trimmings into a mortar, pound, and put them into a well cleaned kitchen-basin ; add to the above a little orange and lemon peel, pour over a gill of tepid syrup at (28° R. 95° F.) twenty-eight degrees. Half an hour after, pass the liquid, through a sieve, into another basin ; mix in the juice of two oranges and three lemons, then the water requisite, to bring the syrup down to twenty two (22° R. 81° F.) degrees, that is nearly two gills. Pour this preparation into an ice-box {sorbetière), embedded {sanglée) with salted ice ; stir it,