SWEET ENTREMETS. — CAKES. 539 at the last turn up, the paste must be an inch thick ; cut it, with the aid of a model in card-board, of round shape and of the size requisite, but cutting the paste with a small knife; it must be channeled. Turn this flat upside on a baking-sheet, egg its surface, on which slightly draw lines with the point of the small knife, then let it bake in a good oven for forty minutes. Sprinkle over the cake a little powder-sugar, Fig:. 2bO. previous to taking it out of the oven. On Epiphany-day it is the custom in France to hide a bean in the cake. 1199. ‘Échaudés’ cakes, Italian fashion.— With two gills of water, half a pound of flour, three ounces of butter, a little salt, a little lemon-zest, a pinch of sugar, four whole eggs, prepare some ‘choux’-paste, proceeding, as indicated in the article of St. Honoré-cake ; let the paste be ratlief consistent. With a spoon, take this paste up in small portions, which put on the floured table, and roll to a round shape: they must be of the size of a nut. Plunge these balls of paste into a large stewpan of boiling water, drain them the moment they come up to the surface, and plunge them immediately into cold water, leaving them in this water for two hours ; drain them, spunge them on a cloth, range them at little distances on baking-sheets, and bake them in a moderate oven, well closed. These cakes may be served with tea. 1200. Cherry-pie, with brown-bread. — With about a pound of tartlet-paste, mask a hot pie-mould of low shape; mask the paste at the bottom and sides, with buttered paper, fill the hollow with common flour, bake the pie in a moderate oven for half an hour. Meanwhile, prepare a biscuit-paste with brown-bread, adding a pinch of cin- namon-powder. The paste being nearly done, take the pie out of the oven, to remove the paper, and empty the mould of the flour; now fill the mould with the biscuit- paste, but in layers, and sprinkling over each of these layers with picked cherries, which have been well drained. Put by a little of the biscuit-paste for after-use, push the pie into the oven, and bake it for three quarters of an hour. Twelve or fifteen minutes previous to taking it out of the oven, mask its surface with the remainder of the biscuit-paste, smoothing it with the blade of a knife, and sprinkle over fine sugar.