134 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. the ‘aiguillettes’. Salt them, dip them in oil, flour, and plunge them in hot fat, to fry them. As soon as the flesh is firm, take them out with a skimmer, drain, and salt them ; dish them up with a little fried parsley. 310. Pickled tunny. — In all countries pickled tunny is to be purchased; but to appreciate the quality of this fish, it should be had freshly pickled and eaten fresh ; which, however, is rather a difficult thing, where it is not native. In this condition it is white, tender, and of exquisite taste. Drain the tunny, wipe it, cut it in slices, which range symmetrically on a dish; surround it with parsley, capers, gerkins, and chopped hard-boiled eggs ; baste it, as well as the garnishes, with good olive-oil ; and serve. 317. Salt-COd boiled, Dutch fashion. —Divide in large squares half of a salt-cod, soak it for two or three days in fresh water, taking care to change the water several times. When the fish is supple to the touch, scale, and put it into a stewpan ; moisten with plenty of cold water, cover the stewpan, and set it on a good fire. Let the liquid boil, and at the first bubbling draw the stewpan on the side, thus keeping the liquid simmering for twelve or fifteen minutes ; then lift out the pieces of salt-cod with a skimmer; drain them on a cloth, remove the large bones, and place them on a dish. Baste the fish with clarified butter, mixed up with the juice of a lemon, add a pinch of parsley and nutmeg ; surround them with boiled potatoes, and serve. 318. Salt-COd, Genoa fashion. — Put into a stewpan two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion, a clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, and some oil ; fry the onion to a nice color, take the garlic out, and moisten with two gills of thin tomata-sauce. Meanwhile, take half of a salt-cod well dried; divide it in middling-sized squares ; which flour, and fry in oil. Then drain, and put them with the sauce, into the stewpan, in which let them simmer for a quarter of an hour, and serve. 319. Salt-COd, with spinach. — Procure the half of a thick and white salt-cod, sufficiently soaked ; divide it in squares, which boil in water, proceeding, as told in No. 317 ; drain them, as soon as done, remove carefully all the bones and skin, and cut them into small pieces. Meanwhile pick, wash, and chop, four good handfuls of spinach; which put into a frying-pan with a little oil. Add to it a spoonful of parsley chopped. When it has reduced its moisture, mix into it a handful of bread-crumb ; moisten the pre- paration with some milk, keeping it of a pretty good consistence. Boil it for ten minutes, add the pieces of salt-cod, and set the whole on a gratin-dish in layers, alternated with oil. Smooth the top with the blade of a knife, sprinkle over some