81 FISH. transparent ‘hâtelets’, garnished inwardly with slices of lobster and truffle; they are supported, at their base, by a round peeled cooked truffle. The ‘hâtelets’ of the second row are also transparent, formed in oval moulds, with jelly and truffles; the body of the ‘hatelct’ is sustained, at its base, with a cooked peeled truffle. The ‘hâtelets’ of the third row are formed with prawns of graduated size, thus forming a pyramid. The four ‘hâtelet’-skewers inserted at the sides of the piece, at its base and top, are made with jelly. Those of the bottom are adorned with a crayfish and a truffle, those at the top with a truffle and prawns. All these ‘hâtelets’, being eatable, should be done in the best condition possible. The top of the lowest flat is garnished with fine ‘croûtons’ of aspic-jelly. This piece is intended to be ser- ved on a ball-'buffet’, or as a centre-piece at a dinner. 188. Venice whiting-quenelles. — Prepare a pound and a quarter of whiting force-meat ; when finished, try it ; then with the aid of a spoon, mould a dozen ‘quenelles’, which let slip on the bottom of a buttered ‘sauté’-pan. A few minutes previous to serving, poach the ‘quenelles’ in boiling salted water, drain them, and dish them in a circular order : fill the cavity with scollops of lobster- tail, masking the garnish with a little ‘velouté’-sauce. 189. Tail of whiting, Cherbourg fashion. — Take the tail-end of a large whiting, that is, half of the fish ; scale it, trim away the fins, wash, dry it on a cloth, and divide it in thick slices. Butter thickly the bottom of a flat stewpan, sprinkle it with two or three hand- fuls of trimming of mushrooms and little chopped onions, on which place the slices of whiting, side by side. Salt them slightly, add a bunch of parsley, garnished with a bay-leaf, and moisten them to their height with white wine, the juice of two lemons, and the liquor of three dozen large oysters : cover the stewpan, set it on a brisk fire, boil the fish for eight or ten minutes ; when done, the liquid should be reduced to half ; then dish up the slices of whiting, remove the parsley, reduce the liquid ; if too thin, thicken it with a piece of kneaded-butter ; boil the sauce, pass it through a tammy, and finish by introducing a quarter of a pound of fresh butter divided in little bits; add the oysters of the sauce, and with them mask the fish. 190. ‘Bouillabaisse’, Paris way. — To prepare a good ‘bouillabaisse’, one ought to have at one’s disposal very fresh live fish. It is only in such con- ditions that a satisfactory result may be obtained. Take a whiting of two pounds’ weight, a gurnet, and half of a small turbot ; when these fish are cleansed, divide them in pieces. With the heads, and some other small G