528 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. On the other hand, take the basin holding the flour, in which form a hollow ; in this hollow put a little salt, and a quarter of a glass of warm milk. Break and beat live eggs into a little stewpan, which place at the ‘bain-marie’ ; continue beating the eggs until getting tepid, then add a quarter*of a pound of melted clarified butter ; two minutes after, pour half of this preparation into the hollow centre of the flour, with which incorporate it gradually, so as to form a consistent paste ; work then for seven or eight minutes, to give it a little consistence, and gradually introduce the remainder of the flour. The paste being light and elastic, add the dough ; work again for five or six minutes, then add a quarter of a pound of pounded sweet and bitter almonds, nearly half a pound of currants and smyrna-raisins, a pinch of chopped orange-zest, and lastly, a pinch of mace. Cover the basin, let the paste rise to double its volume. Butter with melted, clarified butter, the inside of an earthen or copper cylinder- mould, sprinkle over chopped almonds. The paste having risen, break it (with the hand), and then, taking it up in small quantities at a time, three-parts till with it the mould. Let the paste rise again, till reaching to the height of the rim. Place the mould on a small baking-sheet, push it into a moderate oven, and bake the cake for three quarters of an hour. When taken out of the oven, turn it out, and let it cool. This quantity of flour is enough for two large cakes. 1178. Bavarian ‘strudel’. — Prepare a ‘nouille -paste, with a pound of flour, nearly half a pound of butter, four whole eggs, one white of egg, a little salt, half a glassful of water ; let the water be tepid, the butter dissolved in water, so as to get the paste very elastic. Let it rest, for ten minutes, under a warm mould. Place the paste on a floured cloth, and now spread it out as thin as possible, drawing it very slowly with the fingers, aiding with the cloth. The cooks of Bavaria bring a marvelous dexterity to this proceeding. Grive the flat the shape of an oblong square. On the other hand, peel fifteen good apples, divide them in quarters, remove their core; slice, and cut them into little dice; put these into a kitchen-basin, sprinkle over a handful of fine sugar, let them macerate for twenty minutes, tossing them up from time to time. Drain them on a dish, add a few handfuls of currants, a few tablespoonfuls of chopped almonds, at last a pinch of powder-cinnamon. Spread this mixture, in a thin layer, over two thirds only of the flat, sprinkle with a little sugar; fold the paste lengthwise like a sausage, being careful to moisten it from time to time with melted butter; then range this cake in a buttered baking-sheet {plafond), giving it the spiral shape of a snail-shell ; egg it with the paste-brush, push it into a mode- rate oven, and bake it for three quarters of an hour; when taken out of the oven, sprinkle with fine sugar, divide it into large pieces, which range on a dish.