SOUPS. 13 minutes with a spoon, to bruise it, then moisten with two quarts of good white broth; bring the soup to ebullition, and thicken it with a liaison of four yolks of egg, mixed with a little cream ; pour it into a soup-tureen, containing a small garnish of spruce asparagus, blanched cauliflowers, and the body-shell of some crayfish, stuffed with bread-crumb mixed with butter, eggs, and parsley. Pour the soup over the garnishes. 29. Cold plum-soup, German fashion. — Plunge a few dozen black plums (‘quetschen’) in boiling water, peel, and lay them successively in a stewpan; moisten with a little water, as well as with a little white wine ; add two table- spoonfuls of sugar, and a bit of lemon-zest; boil till they become a puree; pass them, as well as the liquid, through a sieve. Pour this preparation into the tureen ; when it is nearly cooled, keep it on the ice, add three or four dozen fine black plums cut in two, peeled, slightly boiled in a light syrup, and mixed with a little white wine. The soup having well cooled, serve it together with a plate of ‘zwieback’, or simply with a plate of slices of bread fried. 30. Cherry-soup, German fashion. — This soup, without being of great distinction, yet enjoys a great popularity in Germany. Pick and stone three quarters of a pound of acid, freshly gathered cherries ; put two thirds of them into an earthen pot, or else into an untinned stewpan, as tin would injure the color of the fruit; moisten with a quart of hot water, add a small stick of cinnamon, and a little lemon-zest; set the stewpan on a brisk fire, and let the cherries boil for ten minutes: then thicken the liquid with two tablespoonfuls of potato-flour, diluted with a little cold water; ten minutes after, pass the liquid, as well as the cherries, through a sieve; pour the soup back into the same stewpan; now mix in the cherries formerly put aside, as well as a little sugar ; let the soup boil up, then remove it back to the side of the fire. On the other hand, pound two handfuls of cherry-stones (noyaux)-, put them into a sugar-pan, together with two or three glasses of .claret; let the liquid boil up a while, then take it off the fire. A few minutes after, pass it through a napkin, and add it to the soup; which pour into the tureen. Serve separately a plate of finger-biscuits, cut in small dice. 31. Beer-soup, Berlin fashion. — Melt a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan; mix a quarter of a pound of flour, so as to form a light ‘roux’; fry this for a few minutes, stirring it, yet without allowing it to take color. This done, dilute with three quarts of light white or brown beer; stir the liquid on the fire, until boiling ; then remove it back to the side of the fire, and let it clarify for twenty-five minutes. Pour into a little stewpan, half a glassful of rum, with the same of white wine;