COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY . 502 into a buttered ‘soufflé’-pan, which place on a small baking-tin, with a few table- spoonfuls of boiling water in, and push it into a moderate oven (110° Falir). Bake the 'souffle’ for thirty or forty minutes ; if the oven be too hot, the 'souffle’ must be covered over with a round of paper ; glaze it twice with sugar, previous to taking it out of the oven. This ‘soufflé’ is unquestionably of highly delicate relish. It will keep up its per feetion of appearance for a quarter of an hour, either in a warm-closet or at the mouth of an oven (kept open). If the precaution be taken to transport it, on the baking- sheet, as far as the dining-room, it can be handed round to the guests, without having lost any of its beauty or good qualities. 1128. Chestnut-sou filés. — Roast three dozen fine chestnuts, without allowing them to take color ; peel them, pound, and pass them through a sieve ; put the ‘purée’ back into the mortar, with half its weight of sugar, a part of which is flavored with vanilla, as well as a white of egg. All being well mixed up, take the paste up in small parts, of which form little balls, the size of a nut. Now beat a few whites of eggs with the whip, dip the chestnut-balls in, thus moistening their surface with the liquid ; let them drain, for a few minutes, on a sieve; then roll them, one by one, in fine sugar {glace de sucré), until the balls be entirely wrapped up in a coating of sugar; place them, one after the other, and at little distances, on a baking-sheet, let them bake in a moderate oven for twenty-five j» minutes. Dish them in a group on a folded napkin. 1129. Apricot-soufflé, Vienna fashion. — Put into a tinned basin three gills of apricot-'purce’ without sugar, the ‘purée’ being indifferently either raw or cooked. Mix the ‘purée’ up with double its volume of sugar, a part of which flavored with orange; set the basin on the ice, work the preparation with a spoon till nicely thickened. Now add a white of egg, not whipped, continue working the preparation hard ; as soon as this white of egg is mixed in, add another, and continue thus until ten whites of eggs are introduced. To get the preparation light, it must be worked for three quarters of an hour at least. Pour it into a ‘soufflé’-pan, bake it in a mode- rate oven for twenty minutes. 1130. Omelet stuffed with apples, Berlin fashion (D. 231). — Mix in a kitchen-basin five yolks of eggs, and four tablespoonfuls of sugar grated on lemon. Work the preparation with a wooden spoon. As soon as it has turned creamy, pour in four whites of eggs, whipped firm ; and at the same time, gradually introduce into the preparation four ounces and a half of strained flour, as well as a large glassful of whipped-cream. Put into a large omelet-pan, two ounces of melted and clarified butter ; as soon