COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 48 on a dish, add two groups of grated horse-radish, and keep the dish on the ice till serving-time. Mix in the soup (kept on the ice in a silver-stewpan) a few pieces of raw ice, cut the size of a nut ; and serve it accompanied by the garnishes ranged on the dish. 133. Smelts-soup, Russian way. — With three or four quarts of clear fish-broth, prepare a stock for thick soup (see No. 9G), add to it a glassful of white wine, let it clarify (dépouiller) on the side of the fire, for half an hour, skim then its fat, pass it through a sieve, thicken it with a liaison of a few yolks of eggs, mix into it a few little lozenges of blanched 'ogursis’. Take the fillets of a few dozen smelts ; let them poach in salt-water ; drain them, pare and place them in the soup-tureen, with a few dozen small 'quenelles’ with cray- fish butter. At the moment of serving, pour the soup on to these garnishes. 134. Indian lobster-soup. —- Prepare three or four quarts of stock for thick white soup, No. 137 ; boil, and remove it to the side of the fire: thus let it clarify (dépouiller). On the other hand, boil in a ‘mirepoix’ two small live lobsters ; twelve minutes’ boiling will do ; let them cook in their own liquor; drain them, remove the claws and tails from the body ; pick them ; pound only the shells of the bodies, and add them to the soup in ebullution, as well as the liquor of the lobsters, passed through a sieve. Boil the soup for twenty minutes, carefully skimming it ; pass it through a tammy into another stewpan, thicken it with three tablespoonfuls of good curry- powder, diluted cold. Boil it for five or six minutes more, thicken it with a liaison of four eggs, diluted with a little good double cream; cook the liaison, without letting ■ the soup boil ; which pour into the soup-tureen ; add now the meat of the lobsters, cut either in dice or slices. Serve separately a dish of rice, prepared Indian fashion. 135. Prawn-soup, Nantes fashion. — Live prawns (which are always difficult to procure, since fishermen boil them as soon as caught;) not being handy; it is indispensable to have them, at least, as fresh as possible. Pick two pounds of prawns, place their flesh in a small stewpan ; pound all the shells in the mortar with a piece of butter. ►Slice one onion, the half of a leek, one carrot, and a piece of celery-root ; fry these vegetables with butter, moisten with half of white wine, and half offish-broth, a sprig of parsley, and a little salt ; boil the broth for a quarter of an hour, and pass it through a sieve. Prepare a light brown 'roux’, with a quarter of a pound of butter, and two tablespoonfuls of flour; dilute it with some ready broth, stirring the liquid on the fire until boiling; now remove it back, add the prawns’ shells, boil the soup for twenty-five minutes, skim off its fat, pass it through a fine sieve into another