32 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. Mince one onion, and one leek ; put them into a stewpan, with some butter, add the pieces of duck, and the giblets set the stewpan on a moderate fire, fry the meats, season, and sprinkle over them two tablespoonfuls of flour. Moisten it with two quarts of broth, as well as with a large glassful of juice of ‘ogursis’ ;* let the liquid boil, then remove the stewpan back, add some sprigs of parsley, fennel, thyme, and a bay-leaf» As soon as the meat is done, drain it ; skim the liquid of its fat, pass it through a sieve into another stewpan, and boil it. On the other side, cut up some roots of parsley, and some small young carrots, into the shape of little pointed columns, an inch long ; on the thick end of each of these columns score an incision forming a cross ; boil these roots, till three-parts done, in salted water; drain, and keep them in a small stewpan with a little broth. Cut two large ‘ogursis’ in strips about half an inch broad, and rather thick ; divide these strips into lozenges; which blanch, add to the roots, and pour with them into the soup, to boil for twenty minutes ; skim the fat off the soup, thicken it with the yolk of three eggs, diluted with juice of ‘ogursis’ ; finish with a pinch of fresh fennel, as well as the meat of the duck (boned) and its giblets. 91. Poultry roçolnic soup, Polish fashion.— Chop a small onion, fry with butter, and mix with it two tablespoonfuls of flour, which fry also for two minutes, gradually diluting it with two quarts of good broth, and half a quart of juice of ‘ogursis’. Stir the soup on the fire until boiling, then remove it to the corner of the stove, and thus let it clarify (dépouiller), adding to it two raw chickens. As soon as these chickens are ready, mind keeping them under-done (vcrts-cuits) ; take them out, skim the fat off the soup, pass it through a tammy, let it boil once more. On the other hand, prepare a garnish composed of carrots, parsley and celery roots, all of which vegetables cut, with the aid of a column tube, to sticks half an inch long; make on both the ends of each of them a little incision in the shape of a cross; let these vegetables blanch, drain them, place them in a stewpan with a little broth ; let the broth reduce to glaze. At the last moment, mix these vegetables in the soup ; add also a few spoonfuls of ‘ogursis’, cut in lozenges, and blanched in a sugar-pan. Now thicken the soup with sour-cream, mixed with three yolks of eggs, an'd passed through a sieve; then finish it with a spoonful of chopped green fennel. 92. Polish roçol-soup. — Put into a stockpot two chickens, as well as their scalded giblets, ten ounces of smoked lean bacon, a little piece of ham, six * Ogursis, or agurcis, (orypgH, ogurcsi) are a particular sort of small cucumbers, or geriins, preserved simply in salted water.