ENTREMETS. — PASTE 445 989. ‘Nouilles au gratin’ (D. 198). — Boil a pound, or a pound and a quarter, of shred ‘nouilles’ (see No. 983); put them into a stewpan, season ; introduce into them, off the tire, six ounces of good butter in little bits, four ounces of grated parmesan, and four tablespoonfuls of ‘bechamel’-sauce. Range the ‘nouilles’, in layers, on a ‘gratin’ dish, sprinkling them over with parmesan, and basting with melted butter ; then push the dish to the entrance of the oven ; ten minutes after, ti'laze the surface of the ‘nouilles’ with a salamander, to make them take a tine color. O 1 Fig. 198. The salamander is composed of a thick plate of iron, fixed to a handle likewise of iron. In order that the salamander may be able to color the surfaces of any food pre- paring for the table ; the iron-plate must first of all be made red-hot in the fire : in this condition is kept held within short distance of the surfaces, till these are, one by one, well glazed. Two Drawings are here given of this article of kitchen-furniture, so highly useful, where not well supplied with ovens. 990. Macaroni, Pruss fashion. — Take two blanched, cold sweet- breads, put them into a small stewpan, with butter, and five ounces of raw ham cut into large dice ; fry them for a few minutes, and moisten, to three-parts their height, with gravy and madeira ; add the trimmings of three fresh truffles, reduce the liquid to half. Finish cooking the sweetbreads in this stock, turning them; drain, cut them in slices, which mix with a few pieces of salted tongue. Add to the cooking-stock a few tablespoonfuls of brown-sauce ; let it boil up, pass it through a sieve ; then add to it three raw truffles cut in large dice ; boil it for five minutes, and pour it over the sweetbreads. Twenty-five minutes previous to serving, break about a pound of macaroni into pieces two inches long ; which plunge into salted boiling water ; boil them with the stewpan covered, until well done, drain them on a colander; then put them back into the stewpan, moisten with a few tablespoonfuls of melted glaze, and part ot the sauce