BUTCHER'S MEAT. — LAMB. 265 622. Breasts of lamb, broiled. — Get two good breasts of lamb, remove the skin and sinew ; boil them in the stockpot, or in some fat broth ; when done, drain them, take away the rib-bones, and let them cool under a light weight; pare them afterwards on both sides, season with salt and pepper, moisten with melted butter; bread-crumb, and broil them on both sides for fifteen minutes. Dish them up, and accompany by a boatful of hot ‘ravigote’- sauce (see No. 486). 623. Shoulders of lamb, in duck-like form (D. 96). — Get three Fig. 96. shoulders of lamb, leaving a part of the leg adhering ; bone them without removing the thin-end bone, and season inwardly. Prepare some ‘quenelle’ force-meat with some lamb or veal meat, in the same proportions as for veal ‘quenelle’; when passed through a sieve, add half its volume of ‘salpicon’ composed of cooked ham, lamb-sweetbreads, and mushrooms. With this preparation stuff the shoulders, sew them to an oblong form, truss with the thin-end bone upright, shaping them to the shape of a duck : the shoulder of lamb lending itself by nature to this imitation. Place them afterwards in a stewpan, in the same way they are to be served; moisten to cover with tepid water, warm until the skin be set; then drain the shoulders, steep them in cold water, wipe, and lard, on both sides, the part standing for the body of the duck. The meats being larded, surround the neck, or rather the thin-end bone of the shoulders, with layers of bacon, put them into the bottom of a stewpan, prepared as for braise, support them with large vegetables, and moisten to height with good broth. Let them boil quickly for ten minutes, then remove the pan back; cover them with buttered paper, and finish braising them with hot ashes on the lid, basting frequently. At last, glaze them to a nice color ; drain them, remove the string, and cut them slightly underneath, thus giving them the required ‘aplomb’. Pare the top of the bone, imitate the eyes with a round of tongue, or of ham ; dish up, and surround with a garnish of mushrooms and olive. Dilute their stock with a little wine ; let it boil,