119 FISH. 284. Slices (tronçons) of trout, with mayonnaise-sauce (D. 34).— Get six very fresh small trout; cut off their heads, and thin ends; wipe them inwardly with a cloth, but without removing the ooze off the skin ; plunge them into a boiling ‘court-bouillon’ with claret; draw the stewpan back, cover, and allow the trout to cool in their stock ; drain, wipe, and keep them on ice, for half an hour, and glaze them with half-set aspic-jelly. Meanwhile, prepare a border-mould with clear aspic-jelly. When ready to serve, turn this border out on a dish, mask the bottom of the cavity with a layer of Fig. 34. chopped jelly, on which dish the pieces of trout in a group. Send up separately the following sauce : Mayonnaise-sauce. — Put three yolks of eggs into a bowl ; add to it a pinch of salt, and a pinch of powdered mustard ; pound them with a wooden spoon, and while stirring, introduce, by degress, three gills of oil, to give consistence to the pre- paration, mixing in from time to time a little lemon-juice. The oil being absorbed, the sauce should be nicely thickened, smooth and compact ; season, finish it with a little vinegar, and pour it into a sauce-boat. 285. Trout ‘au gratin’. — Draw, scale, and wipe, three or four middling- sized trout; split them, on the belly-side, from head to tail ; cut off the spine-bone at each end, to remove it ; season inwardly, and till the fish with a little ‘quenelle’ force-meat, mixed with a few spoonfuls of fine-herbs. Bring the trout back into proper shape; salt, and place them one against another on a buttered gratin-dish, sprinkle them with a pinch of shalots, a few spoonfuls of raw chopped mushrooms, and a little parsley. Press them close together, salt, and sprinkle them likewise with fine-herbs, baste them with butter; then pour on to the bottom of the dish a few spoonfuls of brown-sauce, thinned with a little white wine. Set the dish in a hot oven, baking the trout for ten or twelve minutes ; on taking them out, place the dish on another, serving as a tray. 286. Matelote, Russ fashion. — Mince an onion, and a carrot; put them into a stewpan, with butter, some sprigs of parsley and aromatics, and a clove