298 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. and a plate of salted water-cresses, seasoned with salt and vinegar. A young turkey is carved as any other turkey. 700. Legs of turkey-hen, Italian fashion. -— Cut four large legs of turkey, keeping the skin as long as possible; bone them, letting adhere to each of them a little bit of bone, forming a sort of handle (manche) ; fill them with some firm poultry-force-meat, mixed with cooked truffles and ham, cut in dice ; sew them round in the shape of ‘ballotines’, wrap them up in bacon, and let them boil in white stock. When done, let them half-cool with a light weight on, then untruss them, and carve them ‘en entaille’; warm them quite gently, basting them with a part of the reduced cooking-stock; drain them on a baking-sheet, sprinkle over bread.crumb, baste with a little melted butter, let them glaze in a hot oven, and put a ruffle on the ends of bone ; dish these ‘ballotines’ on a garnish of ‘risot’, ranged in a pyramid on a dish ; serve separately a little brown-sauce, reduced, but thickened only a little. 701. Roasted turkey, with black olives. — This method of stuffing turkeys belongs to the south of France, and to Italy, where olives are plentiful and very good ; the black pickled olives are usually preferred to all others. A turkey thus stuffed is a roast little known in the north, yet it is well worthy to be offered to epicures. The process of stuffing turkeys with olives, consists in simply drawing these, and introducing them into the turkey without stoning. Sew the openings up, and roast the turkey on the spit, or in the oven, the breast covered with bacon, or merely wrapped up in paper. 702. Turkey skewers, Turkish fashion. — Take the raw flesh of the breast of a turkey; remove from it skin and sinews, divide the flesh in little squares, put them into a kitchen-basin ; season with salt and pepper, then moisten with butter or oil, and the juice of some lemons. An hour afterwards, file the squares on to little skewers, wrap the meat up with a lamb’s caul. Broil these skewers at a moderate fire, bringing the meat back into form, then serve them on a hot dish. / 703. Fillets of turkey, Milan fashion. — Take out the two breast- fillets of a small raw turkey ; trim the sinewy skin away, cut them up slanting lengthwise, thus obtaining some slices, as long as a fillet of chicken ; beat, pare, season them; dip them into beaten eggs, and roll them in fresh bread-crumbs. Pour six ounces of clarified butter into a flat pan, arrange the fillets on the bottom, set the pan over a brisk fire, and fry the fillets quickly on both sides ; dish them in a circle, baste with the butter wherein they have been cooked, and fill the centre with a garnish of rice ‘à la Milanaise’.