480 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. stewpan, spreading it all over the surface of the bottom ; let it cook on a very moderate fire, and as soon as the paste is dry, turn the pancakes over ; then slip it on a baking-sheet. When the preparation is all made use of, mask the pancakes, one by one, with a thin layer of the preparation, giving them the breadth of two inches, folding them once more lengthwise, thus forming a longish square ; arrange them in a close circle on a dish, adorn them with ‘meringue’, push the dish into a moderate oven ; then, ornament the ‘meringue’ with preserved fruits or confitures, surround the ‘entremet’, at its base, with a circle of greengages. 1081. Roman-cake. — This is an ‘entremet’ of Italy, very highly thought of in that country. The Italians prepare it with great care and attention. Frangipane. — Break four eggs into a kitchen-basin, add four ounces of Hour (half wheat, half rice) the same of sugar, vanillas or zest, a little salt; pass this preparation, through a sieve, into a kitchen-basin; add a quarter of a pound of good butter, thicken it over the fire, stirring continually. Prepare a biscuit-paste with a pound of sugar, twelve ounces of flour, and and fifteen eggs. Bake it in a ‘timbale’- mould ; when cold, divide it into four pieces, each of which cut up in slices. The ‘frangipane’ being cold, divide it in two parts, each of which put into a little basin, thus to perfume them, the one with vanilla, the other with almonds peeled and passed through a sieve. Mask the bottom of a dish with a layer of ‘frangipane’. Pour on three different plates, rum, ‘maraschino’, and ‘rosolio’. Take four slices of biscuit, let some soak in rum, the others in the liqueurs; then range them, one by one, on the layer of ‘frangipane’. Mask them immediately with a layer of currant-jelly, sprinkle over preserved fruits cut up in very little dice. On this layer place again four slices of biscuit soaked in liqueurs, mask them with a layer of ‘frangipane’, sprinkle over fruits ; and thus continne alternating ‘frangipane’, and jelly ; in this manner bringing the biscuit back to its original shape. Mask its surfaces either with jelly, or with ‘frangipane’, sprinkle over fruits, and at last, mask with a thick layer of Italian ‘meringue’; decorate, on the top and all around, with the cornet. Push the dish into a moderate oven, only for two minutes, this being the time requisite for setting the ‘meringue’, without allowing it to take color. The ‘meringue’ being well cooled, adorn it with preserved fruits and ‘confitures’. 1082. Russian wafers. — Bake some cream-wafers in a deep wafer-pan (see No. 1191), divide each of the wafers transversally in two, place them in layers on the bottom of a dish. Mask each of these layers with apricot-marmalade, thus filling the cavities of the wafers, which raise in a pyramid ; mask this pyramid with