COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 334 Get a dozen pinions of good fat pullets; singe them, half-bone them, and press the meat into the hollow ; put them after this into a stewpan, with a small chopped onion, and some butter ; fry them to a nice color ; sprinkle over a pinch of Hour, moisten with a little withe wine, and some gravy little colored, or some broth: boil them over a moderate tire. When about doue, add to them a dozen small scalded and trimmed lambs’ sweetbreads, a few ‘amourettes’ of veal, blanched and cut up in pieces, eighteen white cocks’-combs, cooked separately, and a few handfuls of green-pease : continue cooking gently. At the last moment, add to the ‘ragout’ about twenty blanched cocks’-kernels ; then dish it up, and surround with small ‘croûtons’ of puff-paste. 0 7G3. Chicken ‘capillotade’ (hash). — Take a cooked and cooled chicken, which divide in pieces, removing the skin and most part of the bones : place the pieces in a stewpan, moisten them with a little melted glaze, keep them warm without ebullition. Mince two or three white onions, put them into a thin stewpan with butter ; salt, let them take color on a very slow fire ; moisten with half a glassful of vinegar, let them reduce to glaze : the onions now should prove nearly done. Sprinkle over a pinch of Hour, and moisten them with gravy or broth ; add a pinch of pepper: seven or eight minutes after, pour the onions over the chickens; warm the hash well, without allowing it to boil ; sprinkle over four tablespoonfuls of chopped gerkins, and dish up. 764. ‘Bordure à la Toulouse’. — Pare three fillets of chickens, salt, and fry them with butter on both sides, keeping them under-done ; drain them, cut them up in scollops, and put them into a stewpan. With the legs of the chickens, and a few trimmings of poultry, prepare a ‘quenelle’ force-meat,' with which mould some ‘quenelles’ with a spoon ; poach, and mix them with the scollops, as well as a dozen cooked button-mushrooms, cut in two transversally ; two scolloped cooked truffles, a dozen cocks’-combs. Moisten these garnishes with ‘velouté’-sauce, reduced with a handful of trimmings of mushrooms, and keep the stewpan in the ‘bain-marie’. Prepare some force-meat with half a pound of raw fat-liver, and a few cooked chickens’ livers, five ounces of panada, a piece of butter, and six yolks of eggs ; when ready, put it into a buttered border-mould, and poach it in the ‘bain-marie’. When ready to serve, turn the border out on a dish ; fill the cavity with the garnish, mask with the sauce, and send up. 7G5. Chickens fried, Italian fashion (D. 136). — Cut up three small chickens, each of them in five parts ; which put into a kitchen-basin, season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of good spices ; pour over a little oil, and the juice