426 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. cooked meats in pieces ; such as, roebuck, mutton, chicken, duck, ham, sausages, and bacon ; baste the meats with a little good gravy, cover the stewpan, and keep it in the oven for half an hour. This is a favorite dish of the Poles and Russ, when going hunting, or travelling. 955. Russian rissoles. — Cut np in small dice a piece of roasted fillet of roebuck, and two truffles; put this 'salpicon into a stewpan, and thicken it slightly with thick reduced brown-sauce. Take up double the volume of the 'sal- picon’ of good cooked sour-crout well pressed; chop it, mix the 'salpicon’ with it, and let the preparation cool. Spread on a floured table a large flat of 'culibiac’ paste, a little firm; with which, and the preparation of sour-crout, prepare some rissoles (see No. 820), a little larger than usual ; place them evenly on a baking-sheet at little distances, and let the paste rise at the temperature of the kitchen. Egg the 'rissoles’, and bake them in a hot oven ; when done, dish them up on a napkin. 956. Rabbits broiled, English fashion. — Take the back and loins of three small field - rabbits ; season, put them into a flat stewpan with butter, and fry them simply to set the meat; then drain immediately, roll them in beaten eggs, bread-crumb, and dip them in clarified butter, to broil them on both sides; dish them up with good gravy on the bottom of the diish. 957. Timbale Milanese (D. 191). — This dish is now-a-days much in vogue in Paris ; and if well prepared, is both excellent and distinguished. Butter a 'timbale’-mould, adorn it at the bottom, and all round, with 'nouille- paste slightly sugared ; line it with short-paste, prepared in the proportions of half a pound of butter to a pound of flour. The decoration is optional, and depends on taste. Chop very fine eight ounces of raw and trimmed hare or partridge meat ; add half its volume of fat-liver or pullet’s livers, simply fried on a brisk fire; the same amount of raw truffles, and panada the size of a walnut; season the force-meat, thicken it with the yolk of an egg ; wrap it up in a piece of pig’s caul, or in buttered paper, giving it the thickness of a sausage ; place it in a small buttered 'sauté’- pan, thus cooking it in a moderate oven, turning; leave it till nearly cool, and cut it in slices not too thin. On the other hand, peel two or three large truffles, cut them up in thickish slices, baste them with a little madeira ; which let boil, merely to heat the truffles. With the bones and trimmings of game, prepare some good gravy ; when passed, thicken it slightly, and add to it a quarter its volume of tomata-sauce ; then add moreover the trimmings and stock of the truffles; aromatics, and a piece of