599 ON ‘THE ARTISTIC COOKERY.’ fish ought to have but one garnish—that is, peeled pottoes, steamed, and served very hot. The potato is the natural companion of the fish, and especially when the fish is boiled, and in this case should never be separated from it.’ This is surely within the attainment of all, yet how seldom—we might almost say never—are good, hot, smoking potatoes served with that portion of the feast which most lacks their presence! Again, he says:—‘A fish, which is not cooked long enough, is not eatable ; if it be too much done, it loses its most precious qua- lities.’ After which he observes, that ‘fish’ which have been in ice, always require much longer time, and are more difficult, to cook’—a remark which cooks in this country, where the use of ice is so extensive, will do well to bear in mind. ‘Large boiled fish, (says M. Dubois), require simple, light, delicate, and well-buttered sauces’ (as a writer M. Dubois is exceedingly fond of adjectives) ; which, as a rule, we never have in this country of melted butter, shrimp and” lobster-sauce. There is no better means of attaining a light and properly-flavored sauce, than by adding to the butter, which enters into its composition, a proportion of the stock in which the fish has been boiled. This fact M. Dubois repeatedly points out. Another matter of no little importance, is the mode of cooking large fish. As a rule, in England they arc cooked whole ; but among people who use fish as a principal article of diet, rather than as a kind of luxury, as we do; the plan is adopted of dividing the fish into slices, before placing it in the kettle. This mode receives M. Dubois’ warm com- mendation. We cannot say, if that be the sole reason ; but we can speak to the superiority of salmon freshly caught and so treated, over salmon as it makes its way to our tables in London. The fish-stock should invariably form part of the sauce, with wdiich salmon is served. All through the book M. Dubois strongly insists on the employment of edible substances for orna- menting hâtelets—that is, the skewers used to hold everything in place; for he points out, how awkward it is, for some gourmet to be attracted by what looks a fine imposing truffle, and to find it inedible. In certain of his more imposing cold-pieces, M. Dubois would seem, however, to use a good deal in the way of stands, supports, and what not, which would be liable to mislead the unwary and uninitiated. It would be out of our province to enter into all the details of this elaborate volume; we can only heartily commend it to the consideration of all. There is an Eastern form of felicitation which says, ‘ May you live a thousand years ! ’ we rather think we can cap that, by saying to our readers, may M. Urbain Dubois become your cook’s oracle! Medical Times and Gazette, April 16, 1870.