90 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. pour over half a glass of sherry, which must be reduced; remove the stewpan back, add to the fish a pound of peeled raw truffles, cut in quarters and seasoned; cover the stewpan, and let all the ingredients cool together. Chop very fine ten ounces of lean pork, or veal, with the same quantity of raw pike, or eel. Add to this mince a pound of fresh fat bacon, pound the whole together, and pass it through a sieve. Season well the force-meat with salt, and spices; and add to the above the trimmings of truffles, pounded with a little bacon, and passed through a sieve. Prepare a short-paste in the conditions prescribed in No. 196. Butter a cold- pie mould of either round or oval shape, which set on a baking-sheet covered with paper, line it with two thirds of the paste, and mask the bottom and sides with a thin layer of force-meat ; fill the hollow with the squares of fish, with the truffles and force-meat mixed, range the preparation in a dome-shape fashion, rising above the rim of the mould, mask it with little slices of bacon, then with a thin round flat, made with the remainder of the paste. Cover the pie, pinch, decorate, and give it a nice color; push it into a moderate oven. Seven or eight minutes afterwards, cover it entirely with paper: bake it for two hours; then remove it from the oven; and half an hour after having been taken out, pour into the hollow on the top, two glass- fuls of aspic-jelly, mixed with a little madeira. A quarter of an hour after, take out the mould; and let the pic cool for twenty- four hours, previous to being served. 207. Head (‘Imre’) of salmon, Dieppe fashion. — Get the head-piece of a very fresh salmon; cleanse it thoroughly, salt it slightly, and wrap it in thin layers of fat bacon; which fasten with string. Place the fish in an oval stewpan, moisten it with half a glass of sherry, to which add the peel of six fresh truffles, a bunch of aromatics, thyme, laurel, basil, and parsley. Cover the stewpan, fasten the lid with paste, then set it in a moderate oven, and stew the head for two or three hours, according to its size. When ready to serve, take the stewpan out, pass the liquid through a sieve, skim off' its fat ; reduce, and thicken it with a little sauce; add the six raw truffles cut in quarters. The truffles being cooked, finish the sauce with the juice of two lemons, and a little chopped parsley. 208. Gudgeons, ‘au gratin’. — Get some large gudgeons ; scale, and take the heads off ; wash, and wipe them on a cloth. Butter a ‘gratin’-dish, spread the bot- tom with a layer of cooked fine-herbs (onions and fresh mushrooms) ; on which range the gudgeons symmetrically in two rows, one beside the other, placing them on the belly, their tails turning to the centre. Salt and sprinkle them with cooked fine-herbs and chopped parsley. On the first layer of fish place a second one, sprinkle it with