515 SWEET ENTREMETS. — PEACHES. Mix eight dissolved leaves of ‘gelatine’ into one gill of pine-apple syrup, add to it a bit of lemon- or orange-zest, as well as the juice of an orange. Pass the liquid through a sieve into a sugar-pan (skillet), stir it on the ice, in order to thicken it to the degree of cream ; then take it off the fire, mix in two gills of whipped cream, and six or seven ounces of fresh or preserved pine-apple, cut in dice. With this pre- paration fill the hollow of the ‘charlotte’ ; one hour after, turn the ‘charlotte’ out on a folded napkin. 1155. Peaches with rice (D. 242). — Take eight or ten good peaches, divide each of them in two, remove their stones, and plunge the half-peaches into Fig. 242. boiling water ; drain them as soon as the skin falls off, put them into a kitchen-basin, and cover with syrup, at 30° Ré. = 100° Fa. Pick and wash half a pound of rice, let blanch for seven or eight minutes, drain, refresh, and put it into a stewpan ; moisten to cover with warm milk, let it boil on a moderate fire; as the liquid becomes absorbed, replacing it with more; at the last moment, add a stick of vanilla cut-up, and two handfuls of powder-sugar; take it off the fire, keep it covered. Ten minutes after, introduce into the pre- paration three ounces of fine butter. With this rice fill a buttered border-mould, pressing the rice, and keep it tin the warm-closet ; ten minutes after, turn it out on a dish. Fill the cavity of the border with the halves of peaches, raising them in a dome-like shape ; mask them with a part of the syrup, reduced with a little apple- juice : set half an almond on each of the peaches : send up separately the remainder of the syrup, mixed-up with a little maraschino. 115G. ‘Charlotte’ of peaches, Milan fashion. — Get seven or eight fine peaches, two of which put by ; cut the others in two, remove their stones, peel, and cut them in little pieces, which put into a kitchen-basin, sprinkle over a little powder-sugar flavored with vanilla, moisten with two tablespoonfuls of rum. Spread a ‘charlotte’-mould with cut-up finger-biscuit, set the mould in a kitchen-basin, and surround it with pounded ice. A quarter of an hour after, place 33* I