152 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. of flour, and moisten to height with red wine ; stir the liquid until ebullition, add to it a bunch of parsley, garnished with aromatics, and some mushroom-trimmings : cover the stewpan, remove it back on a very gentle lire. On the other hand, pluck two dozen small tender onions, put them into a flat stewpan with butter and a pinch of sugar ; let them fry on a moderate tire, stirring them until they be of a nice color $ season them, moisten with a little broth; the liquid reduced, add some other, in order to cook the onions, glazing them. The fish being done, skim the fat off the sauce, take the ‘tronçons’ out with a fork, dish them ; pass the sauce through a sieve over the fish, range the small onions all round. 357. Crayfish, as in Poland. — If crayfish are not sufficiently soaked, they are clipped by pulling off the soft scale adhering to the middle of the extremities of the tails ; yet it is advisable to avoid such an operation. Wash three dozen fine live crayfish, which then let drain on a sieve. Mince a large carrot, two onions, a parsley-and a celery-root ; let these vegetables fry in a stewpan with butter, moisten them with a bottle of white wine ; start the liquid to ebullition, and add to it the crayfish, as well as some peppercorns and cummin, a little salt, a bunch of fresh parsley and fennel in equal parts. Cover the stewpan, boil quickly six to eight minutes ; drain them on a sieve, remove their small claws without letting them cool. Warm half a pound of butter in a stewpan, till it be of a light brown (à la noisette); add to it two large handfuls of bread-crumb, now adding the crayfish; moisten them with half a quart of good sour-cream ; toss them a little, so as to mix them better with the sauce; sprinkle over a pinch of chopped fresh fennel, as well as a pinch of pepper ; add a large piece of butter, divided in little bits ; and range them on a dish, pouring over the sauce. 358. Sea-crayfish (‘langoustes’) Bordeaux fashion. — Chop one onion and a few shalôts ; fry them in oil, without allowing them to take color ; add the tails of two live crayfish, cut in pieces with their shells on ; toss them over a brisk fire, season slightly with salt, and cayenne ; add a bunch of parsley, garnished with thyme. Two or three minutes after, moisten with two or three glasses of white wine ; cover the stewpan, and boil them for a quarter of an hour. Drain the crayfish; wipe the shells clean, dish them up, and sprinkle over them chopped parsley. Thicken the liquor with a few tablespoonfuls of tomata-sauce, and a small piece of kneaded-butter; let the sauce boil a while, and pass it through a tammy over the crayfish.