176 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. it the thinner rounds, at a half-inch distance from each other, set on each round a small ball 'godiveau’ with chives, the size of a nut; moisten the surface of these flats (round the 'godiveau’), with a paste-brush, and then immediately place on them the rounds of paste cut first, pressing it with the thumb, and after- wards with the back of a cutter of a smaller size. Egg and push the patties into a hot oven, baking them for eighteen or twenty minutes. As soon as done, take them off the baking-sheet, dish them up in pyramids on a folded napkin, and send them up. 404. ‘Mironton’ of beef. — Cut up in thick slices a piece of boiled or braised rump of beef. Slice three or four onions and a few shalôts, put them into a flat stewpan ; fry them with butter to a nice color, add a bay-leaf, then sprinkle over a pinch of flour; a few seconds after, moisten gradually with gravy, and a little vinegar or white wine, thus getting the sauce a little thickish, coloring it with a few drops of caramel, if it appear too pale. Then add to it some chopped or sliced mush- rooms, and a pinch of pepper ; let the sauce boil for a while, and add to it the slices of beef; the sauce exactly covering the meat. Put the lid on the stewpan, and let the beef simmer for half an hour, on a very slow fire, with hot ashes on its lid; skim the fat away, sprinkle over a pinch of chopped parsley, then dish up the slices of beef in a circular order, take out the bay-leaf, and pour the sauce and onions over the meat. 405bis. Pilaw of beef, Barcelona fashion. — Take some meat off the head of a fillet of beef (about two pounds), cut it up into squares of one inch by half; which put into a stewpan, with half a pound of streaky bacon in large dice, one chopped onion, a bunch of parsley, garnished with aromatics, and a piece of butter, or lard. Set the stewpan on a good fire, to fry the meats ; salt slightly, and when their moisture is reduced, moisten with half a pint of broth ; cover the stewpan, and gently reduce the liquid to a glaze : by this time, the meats should be about done. Add to it a pound of rice, picked, washed, and dried on a sieve ; two seconds after, moisten rice and meats, to double their height, with light broth ; boil the whole for five or six minutes, and season with a little saffron, a pinch of Spanish pepper, a little of cayenne, and four tablespoonfuls of tomata-sauce. Cover the stewpan with its lid, on which place hot embers; remove it back. Twenty minutes later, dish up the pilaw. 407. Rump (culotte) braised, Paris fashion (D. 60). — Take a whole rump of beef, trim it on the broad side, thus giving it an oblong form ; truss it. Spread a braising-pan, or an oblong stewpan, with trimmings of fat, sliced carrot