531 SWEET ENTREMETS. — BISCUIT. pinch of salt; add seven or eight yolks of eggs, work the preparation vigorously with a spoon till frothy, then introduce into it three ounces of Hour, and two ounces of potato-flour, passed through a sieve, as well as eight whipped whites of eggs. This mixture must he executed, without breaking the whites, or getting the paste knobby. Take a very clean biscuit-mould, the inside of which is dry; warm it, and butter with melted calf-kidney fat, being very hot. Drain the mould, turning it over; Fig. 251. then glaze it with tine sugar (glace dc sucre), mixed up with an equal quantity of potato-flour. With this preparation till the mould, only to three quarters of its height, but nevertheless raising the paste up to the rim, on the sides of the mould, fixing the paste on to the sides by aid of a spoon. If this precaution be taken, the biscuit will take a nice equal color, on the bottom, as well as on the top. Set the mould on a baking-sheet, covered with a layer of live embers, push it into a moderate oven, and thus let it bake for an hour. When the biscuit is taken from the oven, turn it out on a sieve. When it has cooled, pare it straight, on the side, which in the oven was uppermost : if the cake is carefully baked, it ought to be of a nice golden color; as the Savoy-biscuit is served in its natural condition (cm naturel), without being glazed. On the other hand, bake in a flat stewpan a round of‘génoise’ cake, two inches thick ; it must be a little larger than the biscuit ; mask the surfaces of these rounds with some orange-icing; place it on a dish, and set it on its centre; surround it with some small baskets imitated with mandarines; surround the round of‘génoise’ cake at its base with quarters of oranges or mandarines, which are ‘rubanés’. For the preparation of these quarters of oranges, they must first be emptied with the aid of a vegetable-spoon or copper, by a little aperture contrived on that side, on which has been the stem, of the orange. When the oranges are well cleansed inside, stop all the chinks with butter, and then place the oranges on pounded ice. ► 34*