368 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. and legs with bacon. Set it on the spit, resting the legs on a layer of paper, to prevent their breaking off while cooking ; roast it at a good fire for forty or fifty minutes, with large slices of bread underneath on the dripping-pan, basting often with a paste-brush dipped in butter. In the meanwhile pierce the neck of the phea- sant with a strong iron-wire, which insert on a croûton of fried bread, fixed on the end of a dish, in such a manner as to keep the head upright. When the pheasant is done, salt it, take it off the fire, skim off the fat, and stand it on the slices of bread, taken out of the dripping-pan, and set on the centre of the dish ; surround with lemons in quarters, and a group of water-cresses on each side ; stick the feathers of the tail between the slices of bread and the dish ; send up separately7 some rich gravy in a sauceboat. 833. Pheasant sauté, with truffles. — Singe and draw a pheasant, cut off the legs and wings, and make two pieces of the breast. Lay the legs in a stewpan with butter, and half-fry them; add to them the wings and breast, a small onion, and a bunch of parsley with aromatics; season the pieces, fry them on both sides, and finish cooking them slowly, with hot ashes on the lid, or by keeping the stewpan at the entrance of the oven. Meanwhile, peel five or six raw truffles, cut them in slices, and keep them covered. Cut the back of the pheasant in pieces, put it into a stewpan with the neck, leg-bones, and pinions, as well as a small piece of raw ham, a few trimmings of chicken or veal, and a few sliced vegetables ; fry the meats on a good fire, sprinkle over a pinch of flour, and moisten with broth and a little wine. Stir the sauce until boiling, and remove it back, cooking it for three quarters of an hour; then skim the fat carefully, pass the sauce, through a sieve, into a flat stewpan ; add to it the peel of the truffles, and reduce it over a brisk fire ; gradually introducing into it a glass of’ sherry ; when the sauce is ready, strain, and keep it hot. When the pheasant is about done, remove the bunch and onion ; add to it the sliced truffles, and four table- spoonfuls of sherry ; finish cooking it covered. At serving time, cut each wing and leg in two, and dish them up ; drain the fat from the stewpan, and pour the sauce over the truffles; let it boil up, and then im- mediately pour it over the pheasant. 834. Soufflé of pheasant (D. 159). — Take the meat from off the breast of a cooked pheasant, cut it up in pieces, which pound ; add half their volume of rice boiled dry, and the liver of the pheasant tried ; pound anew the preparation ; when the mixture is done, introduce into it three tablespoonfuls of brown-sauce, well reduced with a little gravy, prepared with the pheasant-trimmings, and a lew trimmings of truffles. Season nicely, and pass the whole, through a fine sieve. Twenty-five minutes previous to serving, warm the preparation, introduce into it,