SOUPS. 5 peel or seed, one head of cabbage-lettuce, one large carrot, and the half of a blanched savoy-cabbage. One hour after, add to the above a ‘choriso’, and continue a moderate ebullition. When about to serve, take the stockpot off the lire, pour the soup gently, passing it through a sieve, into a stewpan, and then into the tureen itself; add to it the leeks and the lettuce cut-up, as well as some slices of fried toast. Place the beef on a dish, surrounded Avith the ham, the ‘choriso’, and the vegetables. The meats accompany the soup. 8. Consommé with quenelles. — Take the meat of a raAV chicken, \ trim it, and prepare with it some ‘quenelle’ force-meat. Chop line a quarter of a pound of lean beef meat, and the same of veal, put them all into a steAvpan, mix in tAvo whole eggs Avell beaten, dilute the hash Avith three quarts of good cold broth, free of its fat. Cut into small pieces the whole of a cooked foAvl : add them to the broth, as Avell as the wings, legs, giblets, and back, of the raw foAvl ; also one carrot, one leek, and a small piece of celery, all these vegetables Avell minced: set the stewpan on a moderate lire, to bring the liquid to gentle ebullition, and at the first bubbling remove the stewpan back, so as to let it boil on one side only. By the aid of tAvo teaspoons mould the force-meat into three dozen small ‘que- nelles’: poach these in the boiling water, drain them on a sieve, and put them into the soup-tureen, skim the ‘consommé’ carefully of its fat, and pour it over the ‘quenelles’, passing it through a wet cloth well Avrung-out. 9. Consommé, with pheasant-custard. — Take about a pound of cooked pheasant’s meat, remove the skin, cut the meat up, and keep it covered. Mince one onion, one leek, and half a root of celery ; fry them with butter, add the bones and backs of pheasant, broken in pieces, as well as the raw or cooked trimmings that may be at disposal: add to these a few trimmings of ham, a bunch of aromatics (aromates), moisten the whole Avith three or four quarts of broth ; set the steAvpan on the fire, skim the liquid carefully, and when it begins to boil, remove the stewpan back. One hour and a half after, strain the broth through a napkin, and skim off its fat. Meanwhile, pound the cooked pheasant-meat, add four tablespoonfuls of sauce, eight raw yolks of egg ; pass the preparation through a sieve, or a tammy (étamine), season Avith a little nutmeg, and pour it into a plain round buttered mould, the bottom of which is covered by a piece of paper. Set this mould in a steAvpan, to poach the preparation in the ‘bain-marie’ ; as soon as it is of a nice consistency,