COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 388 873. Quenelles of partridge, with ‘fumet’. — Take the fillets of two fresh partridges, trim, cut them up in pieces, and pound them; add a third their volume of good panada, and the same of butter ; when the mixture is operated, and the force-meat smooth ; introduce into it two or three yolks of eggs, season with salt and nutmeg, pass it through a sieve, and put it into a kitchen-basin, to work it a few minutes with a spoon, mixing therewith, by degrees, a few spoonfids of melted glaze. Poach then a small part of it, to try its consistency. With the force-meat, proceed to mould, according to the way described in No. 740, fifteen or eighteen‘quenelles’, with tablespoons of an ordinary size; immediately, when moulded, slip them on the buttered bottom of a flat stewpan, one beside the other. During these proceedings, put the legs and backs of partridge in a stewpan with trimmings of bacon and ham, minced vegetables, parsley-leaves, aromatics, and a few peppercorns ; let the whole take color on a good fire, moisten with white wine and broth, by halves ; skim' the stock well, and draw the stewpan on the side of the fire, keeping it with the lid on. Thirty-five minutes after, pass the cooking-stock, through a sieve, into a kitchen-basin, carefully skim off the fat; let it cool, and clarify it, with five ounces of lean veal, half a glass of madeira, and one egg, proceeding as prescribed for a ‘consommé’. When clear, put it into a small stewpan, let it boil, and thicken it very slightly with a little diluted arrow-root ; boil it for a few minutes longer, and keep it hot. When about to serve, plunge the quenelles into salted boiling water, drain them on a cloth, dish them up in a pyramid, and mask them with the ‘fumet’. 874. Young partridges (perdreaux), Lithuania way. — Put into a basin six ounces of good butter, with the aid of a wooden spoon, continually working it ; add to it grated fresh bread-crumb, in a sufficient quantity to get a stiff paste ; add salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. Roast on the spit, or in the stewpan, two good tender partridges, remove them while under-done (verts-cuits), that is, not having yet attained perfect cooking; untruss them, salt, and let them half-cool : divide them lengthwise, cutting each of them into three pieces. Divide the paste into four parts, give them a long shape, and place one of them on each side of the breast ; immediately bring the partridge back into form ; begin operating the same for the second partridge : put them both, placing one beside the other, into a narrow stewpan, in order to keep them well in shape. Cover the stewpan, keep it at the entrance of the oven for a quarter of an hour, basting the partridges from time to time ; then dish them ; add a little meat- glaze, and the juice of three lemons, to the butter in the stewpan, and pour this over the partridges.