53 SOUPS. the first bubbling take the stewpan off the fire, covering it. Five or six minutes after, drain the pieces of fish, split them in two, in order to remove the bone ; nicely pare the pieces, place them on a deep dish, cover them with part of the cooking-stock, well drained of fat, and passed through a sieve. Mix the root-'julienne’ up with the 'consommé’, add the little ‘quenelles’ poached at the same moment, pour it into the tureen. Serve separately the pieces of trout, which are only mixed into the soup on the plates themselves, when presented to the guests. 145. Uka soup, German fashion. — Cut in thick pieces two small tench, two perch, and two small eels ; with the heads and bones of these fish, water, wine, vegetables, and spice, prepare two quarts of good broth. Blanch, in white wine, three or four dozen oysters, drain and trim them, to be kept on one side, preserving their liquor. Mince, fry in butter a carrot, an onion, and a piece of celery-root ; moisten these vegetables with the previously prepared broth, and a little wine; season, add the pieces of fish, and let them boil on a moderate fire ; this done, pass the broth through a fine sieve, and skim its fat, preserving the pieces of fish. With three ounces of butter and two tablespoonfuls of flour, prepare a light ‘roux’ without allowing it to take color ; dilute it with the previously prepared fish- broth. Stir the liquid over the fire until boiling, then remove the stewpan to the side of the fire. Twenty-five minutes afterwards, carefully skim the fat off the soup, pass it through a sieve into another stewpan ; add to it a ‘julienne’ of raw mushrooms, as well as the oysters’ liquor; ten minutes afterwards, thicken the soup with four yolks of eggs, diluted with a little raw cream ; take it off the fire ; mix in the oysters, as well as the pieces of tench, perch, and eel, carefully pared, without skin and bone. Finish the soup with a pinch of cayenne, and another pinch of chopped parsley. . 146. White-bait-soup, Nizza fashion. — Shred in ‘julienne’ one onion, the white of a young leek, the red of two tender carrots, a piece of celery-root, and a few mushrooms. Fry in butter the onion and leek, but without allowing them to take color ; add the other vegetables, salt slightly, and keep on the fire until all their moisture be reduced ; then moisten with two or three quarts of good broth, let the liquid boil up, and remove it back. Twenty-five or thirty minutes later, skim the fat off the soup, and add a pound and a half of small white fish, known in Nizza (where they are very common) by the name of poutin, or ianclietti. The fish must be washed and drained, then plunged into the boiling soup ; cover the stewpan, and at once remove it back. Let the fish poach, for five or six minutes, and pour the soup into the tureen.