FISII. 93 quite wrong ; for they constitute a wholesome and aperitive food. Herrings moreover possess the advantage of needing but simple preparation, and withal are very cheap. Wash the herrings, wipe them; dry, and remove the skin ; then cut them in pieces, and put them back in form on a dish ; season them with oil and vinegar, and garnish them with new onions, gerkins, capers, sliced salted cucumbers, and pickles. The herrings, when old, should be steeped for a few hours in cold milk, before seasoning them. 215. Russian ‘coulibiac’ (D. 22). — Take out the fillets of seven or eight small trouts, and of two dozen small perch; season these fillets, mix with them a few dozen crayfisli-tails, and keep them on ice. Fig. 22. With a pound of‘soudac’, pike, or whiting flesh, prepare some ‘quenelle’ force- meat; when passed through a sieve, mix with it four tablespoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs. Boil, in plenty of water, ten ounces of rice, keeping the grains whole and firm; drain it on a sieve, put it into a stewpan, and add five ounces of butter ; season, and close the stewpan hermetically, keeping it at the entrance of the oven for ten minutes ; then remove the rice back, and let it cool. ‘Coulibiac’-paste. — Dilute about an ounce of good yeast with a glass of warm milk; pass the liquid, through a sieve, into a kitchen-basin; and prepare a leaven, introducing as much flour as it can absorb, keeping the paste soft. Cover, and put it into a warm place, to rise. When ready, introduce gradually twelve ounces of flour, eight ounces of butter scarcely melted, a little milk, and six whole eggs. Work the paste, to give it a little consistence, gather it up, cover it, and let it rise again previous to using it. Spread, on a floured napkin, a flat of‘coulibiac’-paste more long than wide; mask the centre of this flat with a layer of the prepared force-meat, on which place a layer of cold rice. On this rice put the fillets of fish in layers, intermixing each layer with fine-herbs, cooked, and thickened with a little cold sauce. Mask the fish with the remainder of the force-meat, then raise the paste over the preparation, solder it carefully, and turn the pie out on a baking-sheet. Let the paste rise in a warm temperature for twenty minutes. Moisten with a paste-brush dipped in butter,