COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 254 On the other hand, file the pieces of mutton on to little skewers, alternating every piece with a slice of bacon or ham ; this done, roll them in hot hog’s lard, and broil them on a brisk fire for eight minutes. Dish the pilaw, placing the skewers on the rice. 595. King’s Pilaw. — Take a loin of mutton, bone it, trim away the sinewy parts, and cut up the meat in middling-sized squares. Break up the bones, put them into a stockpot, with a knuckle of veal ; moisten with a sufficient quantity of broth to cover, and let the liquid boil, skimming it; draw it then on the side of the fire, add a few sliced vegetables, and a bunch of aromatics, let the meat boil gently for an hour, and strain the broth. Meanwhile, put the pieces of loin into a stewpan, with butter, five ounces of raw ham in middling-sized dice, and a bunch of aromatics ; fry the meats on a brisk fire, to give them a nice color; season, and moisten with half a pint of broth ; cover the pan, set it over a moderate fire, and reduce the moisture to a glaze ; moisten, and reduce once more ; continuing thus, until the mutton be quite done, and the stock succulent : season with a little cayenne. Twenty-five minutes previous to serving, chop a small onion, fry it in a stewpan with butter, allowing it to take color ; add then to it half a pound of rice, washed in several waters, and dried on a sieve in the air ; heat it a few minutes, stirring with a spoon ; and moisten, to three times its height, with the prepared mutton-broth. A few minutes after, cover the stewpan, which remove on to a moderate fire, to finish cooking the rice gently, without touching it. When dry, it should be tender, and the grains left whole. Take it off the fire, mix in a piece of butter in small bits; and, this being melted, add a handful of grated parmesan; turn out two thirds of the rice into a vegetable dish, make a hollow in the centre, wherein pour the stew; cover it with the remainder of the rice, smooth the top with the blade of a knife, sprinkle over a handful of grated parmesan, pour over a little melted butter, and baste it slightly with melted glaze. 590. English mutton-pie (D. 91). — Cut up in slices, not too thick, nor too large, the thickest fleshy part of a leg of mutton, or a loin (about a pound and half) ; trim away the bones, and sinewy skin, slightly beat the slices, and season with salt and pepper. Arrange, on the bottom of a pie-dish, a layer of these slices, and thereon put a layer of raw potatoes, cut and seasoned with salt and pepper; continue filling the dish, alternating the meat and the potatoes; pour over it a gill of good cold gravy, moisten the rim of the dish all round, and apply to it a thin strip of half puff- paste of the same size ; moisten this likewise, and cover meat and dish, to the rim,