ON ‘ THE ARTISTIC COOKERY.’ 587 ARTISTIC COOKERY : a Practical System suited for the Use of the Nobility and Gentry and for Public Entertainments. With Plates. Ry Urbain Dubois. (Longmans & Co.) In a grandly written and superabundantly illustrated quarto volume, the massiveness and weight of which contrast strongly with the light- ness of the author’s soufflés and pastry, the chef cle cuisine of the King and Queen of Prussia gives the results of his professional experiences to epicures and cooks, who value the pleasures of the j table at their proper worth. M. Dubois ministers to the critical palates of princes and nobles, provides dinners for fastidious millionaires, and suppers for five thousand guests, who have waltzed them- selves at court-balls into the disposition for eating, which does duty for hunger. That M. Dubois takes a high and flattering view of his art and its patrons, may be inferred from the sentiments which he pla- ces as a motto on his title-page : — ‘En ce siècle de vigueur et d’activité fécondes, il est évident que j le bien-être et le comfort entrent pour une grande part dans les aspirations de l’humanité ; car plus les peuples gagnent en intelligence , plus ils devien- nent gourmets.’ Cookery, according to our author, I is the finest of the Fine Arts, — akin to poetry, sculpture, painting, music, but superior to them all ; and to acquire its rudiments the aspirant must have nice insight and indomitable perseverance, while to achieve excellence in the practical illustration of its principles, the professor must have conscien- tiousness, imagination, and creative genius. lie must also be endowed with the soldier’s combativeness, and the fertility of resource, which distinguishes the great general from officers capable of nothing but drill. M. Dubois adds— ‘To be a good cook, to succeed when everything is at hand, and when provisions are plentiful and appropriate, is certainly much; for even with all these and the like appliances, the most strenuous endeavours are not always crowned with success. Rut to distinguish one’s self when resources are utterly inadequate to the requirements, when many essentials are wanting, when provisions are scanty or deficient in quality, and assistance unattainable; then, indeed, the task is a difficult one, but, if at last accomplished, it is the more meritorious, and will certainly gain the applause of such, as can ap- preciate the difficulties above enumerated. If we I only think of the trouble, the anxiety, which assail the practitioner on such occasions, it will be easy to understand, how useful and imperative it is, to prepare for every emergency by adaptation and perseverance, but especially by the constant and unremitting study of everything connected with the culinary art.’ Such enthusiasm must have animated the chef who, during the retreat from Moscow, provided the vanquished Emperor with entrées of exquisite deli- cacy and flavor, made out of drummers’ aprons and the leather straps of military accoutrements. It gratifies our national pride to learn that, besides being exceptionally rich in the materials for gastronomic pleasure, England ranks high amongst civilised nations for her devotion to and enligh- tened encouragement of the art of eating. In every quarter of the globe polite and critical feeders are becoming more numerous. ‘Formerly, the science of good living, the research after delicate viands, were the privileges of the few ; now-a-days epicures may be counted by legions.’ Rut ‘it is a fact wor- thy of notice, that in England, culinary art is more cultivated than in any other country.’ This state of things is chiefly attributable to the presence amongst us of an unusually large proportion of ‘the most enlightened minds,’ who arc always ‘the most fervent worshipers at the shrine of good taste’; but to a certain extent it is referable to our beef and mutton. Good veal may be found in Holstein and Hanover, Moscow and Milan; but ‘the nations most favored, as regards the qualities of veal, are England, France, and Holland ’ ‘Sheep are diffu- sed all over the world ;’ but there are sheep and sheep, and he who would ascertain all the possi- bilities of mutton, must pursue his investigations in England. As for the beef, M. Dubois observes,1 it must be acknowledged, that it is only in England it meets with the care and attention it requires, and where the foresight and sacrifices necessary to ensure its perfection are properly understood.’ The ex- cellence of her fish is also another reason , why England has given her mind to food with such brilliant results. No number of specimens, gathered from M. Dubois’ text, would do justice to the fervor and magnificence of the language, in which he enlarges on the trials and triumphs of his sublime vocation. Like the art, by which he rendered himself illus- trious , to be understood he must be studied pa- tiently, minutely, and sympathetically ; but the busy reader, who cannot spare days for the examination of the artist’s pages, and yet wishes to study the most characteristic chapters, is referred to the essays on ‘Cold Pieces’ and ‘Pastry.’ It is in the former treatise that the professor remarks—‘Ornamenta- tion is connected with cold pieces by the most intimate ties, imparting to them that coquettish elegance, which impresses with admiration even those minds, generally most indifferent to the beau- ties and merits of the profession.... Here the artist has full scope to show his talent, being neither bound nor constrained by the strictness of culinary rules; and it is obvious that, in this condition of entire freedom, his active and ingenious mind can freely produce the conceptions of his fancy. His elevated taste, his inspiration, his imagination, is at liberty to take wing.’ It is, however, in his introductory remarks on pastry and the allied products that M. Dubois exhi- bits most forcibly his admiration for artists who are content to further the great cause of gastronomy :— ‘He (says the teacher with impressive solem- nity) who is a stranger to the secret resources of this art, has little conception of the wonderful results, that a skilful practitioner can produce from a sugar- loaf ! . . .. The pastry-cook must possess an enligh- tened and infallible intelligence, an incessant atten- tion ; his taste must be refined and delicate, practice must be his instructor; for taste and practice are essentially indispensable qualities to the artist. Rut he must have that judicious taste, that intelligent practice, which enlightens and guides with safety, not merely that blind and mechanical knowledge, which consists in reproducing what one has already done, or in copying what one has seen done, without reflection and without genius.’