345 POULTRY. — CHICKEN. spoonfuls of olive-oil, all of which dilute with a gill and a half of tepid water and beer; cover the basin, keep it in the temperature of the kitchen for two hours, then pour the paste into a little stewpan. Have warmed in the fat an iron-mould for 4bntange beignets’, of the shape of little ‘timbales’, such as the drawing represents. As soon as warm, dip it into the paste nearly, but not quite, to the rim ; imme- diately take it out again, plunge it once more into the hot fat, and leave it therein, Fig. 143. Fig. 144. till the paste is done, and can be disengaged from the iron ; now remove the patty, and repeat the operation. When ready to serve, garnish the patties with a ‘salpicon’ composed of poultry - meat, brains, pickled tongue, and mushrooms, thickened with a little good sauce. 787. Chickens sautés, à la Cumberland. — Cut up two chickens, each in five parts. Butter thickly a flat stewpan, strew it with sliced onion, on which place the pieces of chicken with their backs and pinions; season them, add a bunch of parsley, and fry them on a slow fire, with warm ashes on the lid of the stewpan, but without allowing either chickens, or onions, to take color. As soon as the pieces are done, take them out, and pare them ; add then to the onions a few spoonfuls of good reduced ‘bechamel’-sauce, not too thick ; let it boil, remove the parsley, and thicken the sauce with a small pat of cayenne butter ; put the chickens back into the sauce, to warm them without ebullition ; dish them up, mask them with the sauce, and surround with fried and glazed bread-‘croûtons’. 788. Pigeon-‘tourte’.— With a pound of flour, and the same of butter, prepare some puff-paste (No. 403), observing to fold it simply on its length after the fifth turn given ; roll it out then half an inch thick, let it rest for ten minutes, then cut out from its flat a strip two feet long by one inch wide. Gather up the trimmings, divide them in two parts, roll them out round ; one in a flat, ten inches in diameter, to form the bottom of the ‘tourte’ ; and the other a little larger, to form its top ; spread the smaller one on a round baking-sheet. On the other hand, prepare a pound and a quarter of veal ‘quenelle’ force-meat (No. 527) ; with the third of it prepare some small round or oval ‘quenelles’, rolling