460 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 1029. Asparagus, Spanish fashion. — Scrape some white or green asparagus, cut them up of an equal length, tie them into bundles, and boil them in salted water ; when about done, remove the pan back. Pour a part of their cooking- stock into a small round copper-pan, or into a stewpan ; which set on the lire, add a few tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and when boiling, poach in it a dozen new-laid eggs; the eggs being drained, and trimmed, dish up the asparagus on a napkin, surround it with the poached eggs, and send up separately a sauceboat of Vinaigrette’, that is ; oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, mixed up together. 1030. Green-pease, with lettuces. First of all, blanch and braise a dozen lettuces. Chop one onion, put it into a stewpan with a piece of butter, and eight ounces of streaky bacon in dice ; which fry on a moderate lire, and add lo it a pint of fresh green-pease, four tablespoonfuls of broth, a bunch of parsley, and a little salt; cover the stewpan, and cook the pease. At the last moment, thicken with a piece of kneaded-butter ; then dish them up, surrounding them with the glazed lettuce, placing between each a fried bread-‘croûton’ shaped like a cock’s comb, and glazed with the paste-brush. 1031. Omelet, with sprue-asparagus. — Get some tender green spruce of asparagus, scrape them slightly, cut the tip of the head, break the stems at the part ceasing to be tender, cut them transversally in pieces half an inch long ; which put into a frying-pan, with butter or oil. Season them with salt and pepper, toss on a good tire till done, observing to keep them a little firm, and to avoid blackening or drying them ; then drain them on a sieve. Break ten eggs into a kitchen-basin, season with salt, pepper, and some chopped parsley ; beat the eggs up together; warm in an omelet-pan some good butter or oil, pour the eggs in, adding thereto the sprue-asparagus. Stir the omelet, thickening it, toss it gently on the tire, fold it in an oval form, and turn it out on a dish. 1032. Pumpion-flowers farced. - The flowers of pumpions (courges), farced, are the ‘dolmas’ of Provence. Get about fifteen well opened pumpion-flowers, whole, and of an equal size; wipe, and trim away the pistils. Prepare a very fine force-meat, with two thirds ot lean mutton, a third of beef-kidney-suet, and a few handfuls of parboiled rice ; season with salt, pepper, a little chopped parsley, and thicken with two or three whole eggs. With this force-meat fill the pumpion-flowers, close them carefully, and arrange them in a flat stewpan, spread with bacon, ham, and minced vegetables ; cover them also with thin layers of bacon, moisten with a little broth, and a few tablespoon- fuls of tomata-liquor (eau de tomates); let the liquid reduce to half, then draw the stewpan over a moderate fire, and finish cooking the vegetables gently. Dish