22 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. The fowl being done and cooled, take out the meat from the breast; pound it with half its volume of calf’s udder cold, a piece of beef-marrow, and the quarter of a boiled calf’s brain ; when the force-meat is of a due consistence, add to it a handful of scraped parmesan, and two yolks of eggs ; then remove it back, put it into a soup- tureen, and mix in it some chopped parsley, and a little nutmeg. Now divide the paste into two equal parts; and, with the aid of a rolling-pin, roll out the one half into a very thin flat ; which divide again into squares, two inches in diameter, of rather oblong form, that is, into lozenges ; one must have at hand a small paste-brush, dipped in a glass of water, and a cornet of strong paper tilled with a part of the force-meat. Put on the centre of each lozenge a small ball of force-meat, squeezed through the cornet ; moisten the paste slightly, on one side only, and turn it up, over the edges of its longer side, so as to form a sort of triangle. Press the paste with the hands, just sufficiently to solder it; and now let the two extremities of the triangle join, by bending them round with the fingers. Solder together these two tips of the triangle, and turn them over, so as to give the piece the shape of a Tittle hat’ (cappdletto). This is an operation, the success of which is certain after only one trial. Then do the same with the other half. Place the ‘cappelletti’ on a sheet of paper, cover them with a cloth. Twelve or fifteen minutes previous to serving, let the broth boil up, and plunge into it the ‘cappelletti’, which boil for live or six minutes ; remove the stewpan back, and keep it covered for a few moments, before pouring the soup into the tureen ; serve up separately a plate of grated parmesan. 58. Barley-soup, with young vegetables. — Put into a stewpan four quarts of good broth, strained, and free of fat; boil, and add to it half a pound of German pearl-barley, previously boiled in water for twenty-five minutes. After an hour of ebullition, introduce into the soup a small ‘macédoine’ of young vegetables, sucli as carrots, celery-roots, and turnips, cut into small dice. When ready to serve, place in the soup-tureen a few spoonfuls of green-peas, asparagus- heads, and of cauliflower, divided into small flowerets: finish the soup with a little chopped chervil, and pour it into the tureen. 59. ‘Noques’-soup, with flour. — Melt ill a stewpan a few ounces of butter, add the same weight of flour ; stir this together on a moderate fire, to prepare a gold ‘roux’; moisten with three quarts of good broth, stir the liquid until boiling, then place the stewpan on the side of the stove-fire. Meanwhile, work with a spoon, in a kitchen-basin, half a pound of butter, half melted; when smooth as cream, introduce into it, one by one, two whole eggs and three yolks. The preparation having become light and frothy, add to it six ounces of flour, and two whipped whites of eggs ; season with salt and nutmeg ; poach a