27 SOUPS. Twenty-five minutes afterwards, pass it through a sieve, let it boil up, and thicken it with the purée of sprouts; finishing the soup with a little sugar, and a piece of butter, pour it into the tureen. 73. Purée of Jerusalem-artichokes, with cream. — Peel a quart of Jerusalem-artichokes {topinambours), wash, slice, and drain them on a sieve. Mince one onion, color it slightly with butter in a stewpan, add to it the artichokes, and fry them gently till half-done ; season, sprinkle over a pinch of flour, moisten with a little broth, and remove the stewpan on to a moderate fire, to finish cooking ; pass them through a sieve ; dilute the purée with two or three quarts of broth ; add to it a little nutmeg, and thicken with a liaison of five or six yolks of eggs, diluted with half a pint of raw cream. Cook the liaison without boiling, and pass the soup through a fine colander into the tureen. 74. Purée of split-pease, German fashion.— Put into a stock-pot two quarts of dry yellow' split-pease, cover them with cold water, add a bunch of vege- tables, as well as a piece of smoked lean bacon previously blanched ; thus let the pease boil ; drain them, and pass them through a sieve. Dilute this purée with three quarts of stock for thickening soup, not too much thickened ; then start the soup to ebullition ; remove it to the corner of the fire, and there let it clarify. On the other hand, boil in a good ‘mirepoix’ four fresh pigs’-ears ; drain them, mince in large ‘julienne’ their gristly parts ; mix them in the soup, as well as a part of their cooking-stock, passed through a sieve. Half an hour after, skim the soup carefully, and pour it into the tureen. Serve separately some brcad-‘croûtons’ fried in butter. 75. Pease-SOlip, Lyon fashion. — Wash ill warm water about a pound of split-pease, boil them in salted water with one onion, one carrot, and a piece of celery. As soon as done, drain, and pass them through a sieve; dilute the purée with broth, and a little of the peas’ cooking-stock ; pour it into a stewpan ; stir it on the fire till boiling, then remove it back. Chop three or four handfuls of spinach previously well washed, press the water out, and mix it in the boiling soup. A quarter of an hour afterwards, thicken it with four yolks of eggs, diluted with half a glass of raw cream, finish it with three ounces of butter, serve with some bread-‘croutons’. 7Cl. Purée Of onions, with tench. — Cut in pieces two middling-sized tench, put them into a stewpan with a few sliced vegetables, a sprig of parsley, a little salt, halt a bottle ot white wine, and three quarts of water. Boil the fish for ten or twelve minutes ; drain it, and pass the broth through a sieve. Mince four or five large onions ; blanch, and put them into a stewpan, with four ounces ot butter, a little salt, and a pinch of sugar ; fry them of a light brown