,475 TRUFFLES, MUSHROOMS. ENTREMETS. i skin ; place them in a stewpan, with some melted butter, mixed up with lemon-juice; j add a little salt, and cook the mushrooms for live minutes, drain them, reduce their liquor to half, and thicken the liquid with a piece of kneaded-butter ; add a pinch of | chopped parsley, and pour the sauce over the mushrooms. The mushrooms may be also cooked with the peel on, but as the peel and stalks will always find their place, it is best to pare them. Mushrooms, thus cooked, simply | with butter, may serve also as a garnish. 1074. Hot-bed mushrooms, farced. — Get two dozen line large mushrooms, cut their stalks away ; wash, and empty them, on the stalk side, with a ! vegetable-spoon ; salt slightly, and throw them on a sieve. Put into a stewpan a few tablespoonfuls of chopped onion and shalot, fry them with butter or oil; add the stalks and the trimmings of mushrooms, moreover a few small mushrooms, kept whole for the purpose; all of which chopped. As soon as their moisture is evaporated, season with salt and pepper, add a pinch of chopped parsley; two minutes afterwards, add to the tine-herbs, the same volume of rasped bread-crumb, and two tablespoonfuls of brown or tomata-sauce ; then take the pan off the tire, thicken the preparation with a few yolks of eggs, fill the mushrooms, smoothing the preparation on the top, sprinkle over bread-crumbs, place them on a baking-sheet, baste with oil or melted butter, and bake them in a moderate oven for half an hour ; then dish them up- 1075. Purée Of mushrooms. — Take two or three handfuls of fresh, peeled, and well-washed mushroom-stalks ; chop them fine, put them into a stewpan, with a piece of butter, and a grain of salt ; cover, and reduce their moisture on a brisk fire; pour them into a mortar, add a piece of butter, and one of meat-glaze ; pound, and then mix them with a little ‘béchamel’-sauce (about two gills) ; when the preparation is well thickened, pass it through a sieve. 1076. Andalusian gaspachio. — Gaspachio is a salad of raw vege- tables, highly esteemed by the Andalusians ; who in summer partake of it daily, considering it very refreshing. Mince one of the large Spanish white onions, without smell, and so sweet to the I taste. Mince also a peeled fresh cucumber. Split in two, on the centre, three nice good tomatas, fleshy, and without acerbity, such as arc found in the southern provinces of Spain, from Sevilla to Valencia; remove their seed, peel, and cut them up in pieces. Place the vegetables in a bowl, by alternate layers, sprinkling over j first salt and pepper, and then crumbled bread-crumbs ; baste them with vinegar ; and oil. Place the bowl in a very cool place : one hour after, the vegetables will lie found softened. Serve the ‘gaspachio’ in the same bowl.