85 FISH. 197. Slice (‘darne’*) of salmon, with Montpellier-butter. (D. 18.) - MontpelUcr-butter. Put into a mortar the fillets of eight or ten salted anchovies; add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one of taragon-leaves, one of burnet, and four of capers, also chopped up; pound the whole; add to the above five ounces of fresh butter, and pass it through a sieve. Place eight ounces of fresh butter in a warm kitchen-basin, work it with the spoon to render it frothy ; then introduce into it the preparation, passed through a sieve ; add a little green spinach-extract. Season, and make use of it immediately. Fig. 18. Cut, off a large salmon, one slice three or four inches thick ; cleanse, and place it in a stewpan, cover it with ‘court-bouillon’ half-cooled. Set the stewpan on the fire, bring the liquid to ebullition; then remove it back, cover the pan, and let the fish cool in its liquor. Then drain it carefully, dry it on a cloth, skin it, set it on a ‘pain-vert’, and mask it entirely with the ‘Montpellier’-butter, finished at the same time. Smooth its surface, equalising the more angular parts, place a small cooked lobster in the hollow of the ‘darne’; decorate it by the aid of a cornet, filled with white butter, with cut-up gerkins, poached white of egg, fillets of anchovy, and whole capers : the decoration is according to fancy. Surround the ‘darne’ at its base with a string of chopped aspic-jelly, and the ‘pain-vert’ with fine ‘croûtons’ of the same. Send up separately a boatful of mayonnaise-sauce. 198. Salmon cutlets, shalôt-sauce of Béarn. — Remove the skin of a large fillet of salmon, divide it transversally and slantwise into slices; which beat slightly, and pare of an oval form. Salt, and dip them in oil; bread-crumb, and place them on a gridiron, previously warmed, and rubbed with oiled paper ; broil the cutlets on both sides, for twelve or fifteen minutes, basting them with oil. Dish them up afterwards, and pour over the following sauce : By ‘darne’ is understood, a very thick slice cut transversally off the body of the fish.