6 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. take it off the fire, let it cool, turn it out, and divide it in middle-sized squares ; which put into the soup-tureen ; then pour the game-‘consommé’ on the custard. 10. Olio consommé. — At the court of Vienna this ‘consommé’ is usually served for ball-suppers. Yet from the nature of its composition, as well as the name it bears, it seems of Spanish origin. Prepare some stock (fonds) with a piece of round of beef, two calves’ feet, and two knuckles of veal ; the last of which must be previously blanched. Add a few large vegetables, and a little salt ; moisten the meat with ten quarts of broth, and boil it as carefully as a ‘pot-au-feu’. As soon as the meat is done, drain it, pass the liquid through a sieve, skim its fat, and let it set. Mince, but not too small, some onions, leeks, carrots, celery-and parsley-roots; put the vegetables into a stewpan with butter, let them fry on a very gentle lire. When of a nice color, add to them a piece of pork, a shoulder of mutton, two partridges, two fowls, the two hindlegs of a hare, and a few bones of pheasant and poultry; all of which meat must be only half-roasted, and then divided in pieces. Add also a piece of raw ham, previously blanched, as well as some raw poultry-giblets, a bunch of aromatics, and whole spice. Let these meats fry for a few minutes, then moisten them plentifully with the previously prepared stock. Skim the liquid, remove it to the side of the lire. The meat being done, pass the ‘consommé’ into a stewpan, carefully skim it’s fat, dilute it with a bottle of Madeira or Malaga wine, let it clarify on the side of the lire for an hour, skimming it carefully. This ‘consommé’ is served, either plain, or mixed with rice; in any case it may be considered as restorative, tonic, and stomachic. 11. Consommé, with ravioles of game. — Prepare two or three quarts of ‘consommé’ of game, as in No. 9. Take out the two lillets of a raw partridge, remove the skin and sinews, cut the meat into pieces, which pound in a mortar, together with half their volume of cooked calves’ brains, the same of raw beef-marrow, and of parmesan. This force-meat being ready, add to it two yolks of egg, take it out of the mortar, prepare with it, five or six dozens of small ‘ravioles’ (see ‘Farinages’). Five minutes previous to serving, plunge the ‘ravioles’ into boiling salted water, let the liquid bubble several times, then remove the stewpan off the lire; and three minutes after, drain the ‘ravioles’ on a sieve; place them in the soup-tureen, and pour the ‘consommé’ over the garnishes. 12. Consommé, ‘à la bonne femme’. — Prepare a quart and a half of good ‘consommé’, proceeding as in No. 8 ; when strained, keep it hot on the side of the lire ; cut up some thin slices of brown bread, rather long, without removing the crust; range seven or eight of them, in circular order ‘« cheval’, in each of the