121 FISH. a few cloves, and half a bottle of vinegar. Let the liquid boil for five or six minutes, cover the stewpan, keeping it on the side of the fire. Cut off first the wings, or side-parts of the skate adjoining to the trunk or body ; which open to cleanse, and divide into two or three parts. The liver, generally much esteemed, must lie steeped, and blanched separately. Lay the wing-pieces and the large pieces in a kitchen-basin, sprinkle over them a handful of salt, moisten with a glass of vinegar, let them macerate for one hour ; wash them in cold water, place them in a stewpan, cover them with cold water, adding a handful of salt, and a little vinegar. Set the stewpan on a brisk fire, let the liquid boil; remove it back, lift out the pieces offish with a skimmer, and slip them on to a baking-sheet. Remove the skin adhering to the pieces, which place in a stewpan, kept on the side of the fire ; let the liquid boil, cover the stewpan, leaving it on the side of the fire for a quarter of an hour. Then drain the fish, dish it up, surround it with fried parsley, and send up separately the following sauce : Piquant sauce. — Chop an onion, fry it with butter in a stewpan without allow- ing it to take color, moisten with half a glass of vinegar, add to it a bunch of parsley garnished with two bay-leaves, a little thyme, cloves and peppercorns. Reduce the liquid to half, mix it up with two gills of broth or gravy, and as much of sauce. Boil the liquid, and remove the stewpan back. A quarter of an hour after, drain the fat from the sauce, which pass through a tammy, add to it two tablespoonfuls of whole capers, and the sauce of gerkins cut up in pieces. 289. Croustades of skate’s liver, Nantes fashion. — The liver of skate is very delicate ; and prepared in small bread-‘croustades’, it constitutes an excellent luncheon-dish. Steep two or three livers of skate for a couple of hours, put them into a stewpan with water and vinegar, a minced onion, a sprig of parsley, and salt. Bring the liquid to ebullition, draw the stewpan off the fire, and let the livers cool in their liquor. Drain, and wipe them on a cloth, and cut them in pieces. Put into a stewpan two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions and shalôts, fry them with butter, moisten with a little Velouté’-sauce, and a few spoonfuls of white wine; reduce the sauce, to give it a little consistence ; mix it up with two tablespoonfuls of capers, a little chopped parsley, and taragon ; finish with a small piece of anchovy- butter, and a pinch of cayenne ; add the pieces of liver, and keep the stewpan in the ‘bain-marie’. Meanwhile, cut from a kitchen-loaf some slices half an inch thick, divide them in oblong squares, two inches and half by two, pare them to an oval form, score them with the point of a knife (on one side) making an incision all round, at a little distance from their edges. Fry them nicely in butter or oil, drain, and open them