COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 294 proof, that poultry may become superior on the most opposite quarters of our continent. The art of fattening- poultry, and of improving its breeds, is a matter purely of science, and of care, well understood; not, as might be imagined, a question of climate. In cookery the use of poultry is of the highest importance (whether applied as material for a cooking-stock, or whether coming into the plan- ning of a dinner); by the same title, and in quite as high a rank, as fish, butcher’s meat, and game. Good poultry, under whatever conditions, will be always well received at every table; for its meat is at once nutritive, and easy of digestion. Game also is common to all countries of Europe; but its species are numerous, and varied ; each country producing its own with more or less perfection. Game is divided into two main categories ; bipeds, and quadrupeds; but the individual species, that compose them, are innumerable. Game is of great importance in cookery, as well for its real value, as for a variety in the work. 695. Paupiettes of turkey, Roman fashion (D. 108). — Take out the two fillets of a raw turkey ; cut off the skin, and the bone of the pinions ; divide the flesh into slices, taking five on each side; beat slightly, pare them square; season, and lard them with fine cut bacon, only on one side .and one end ; then mask the other side with a thin layer of raw force-meat with fine-herbs ; roll these strips into the shape of‘paupiettes’, leaving the larding outside; tie them with strong thread, and place them, one beside the other, in a stewpan spread with bacon. Add vegetables and aromatics; moisten to half their height with good clarified broth, cover them with bacon ; reduce the liquid to half, and draw the stewpan on a moderate fire, with warm ashes on the lid. A quarter of an hour after, remove the bacon, baste the ‘paupiettes’ with their own stock, and glaze them nicely, by encreasing the fire on the lid, or by pushing them into a hot oven; drain them afterwards, trim both ends, and place them in a stewpan. Dilute their stock with a little Avhite wine ; let it boil, strain, skim of! the fat, and introduce into it three gills of reduced ‘velouté’-sauce ; add a few trim- mings of truffles ; and when reduced sufficiently, pass it through a tammy.