558 COSM<)POLITAN COOKERY. a gum-paste stand, either green or red, adorned in white; surround this stand with slices of raw pine-apple, having macerated in syrup for full an hour, then immediately send up the ‘entremets’. 1233. Raspberry-jelly. — Put into a kitchen-basin, half a pound of fresh, quite ripe, and plucked raspberries ; add two tablespoonfuls of powder-sugar, crush the raspberries, pour them on a tine, clean sieve, placed over a china-basin, so as to gather their juice. Mix in this juice that of two oranges, and filter on a sieve, or through a glass-funnel, with a paper without glue, well softened with water, and torn up into little pieces : this method of filtering fruit being the best and most simple of all. Soften fifteen or sixteen leaves of ‘gelatine’, and then dissolve it with water enough to three-parts fill a jelly-mould ; add three quarters of a pound of powder- sugar, then clarify the preparation with two whites of eggs, and the juice of a few lemons (.see No. 1241). As soon as the preparation becomes limpid, let all its heat be cooled, before mixing in the juice of the raspberries ; then pour it immediately into a jelly-mould, embedded on pounded ice. Three quarters of an hour after, turn the jelly out on a dish, the mould having been dipped into warm water. Those jellies prepared with the juice of red fruit, must be kept in the mould as little time as possible, as the contact of tin injures their color. 1234. Barberry-jelly (d’épines vinettes). — Detach the fruit from the bunches, take three handfuls of the berries, which throw into two gills of boiling light syrup; then immediately take the syrup off the fire, and thus let the fruit infuse for half an hour; now filter the syrup, and mix it up with fifteen leaves of clarified ‘gélatine’, proceeding as prescribed No. 1241 ; pass it through a sieve. Try a little part of the preparation, to ascertain if it be of the requisite consistence; if so, pour it into a jelly-mould, to let it set on ice. Then turn it out on a dish, the mould having been dipped quickly into warm water. 1235. Jelly, Russ fashion. — Take a wrought jelly-mould, fill it three- parts full with soft jelly, limed to the degree requisite ; pour this jelly into a copper- basin, mix in a quarter of a glassful of rum, the same of cognac, and the same of filtered orange-juice ; add to the above a little zest of lemon and orange ; five minutes after, pass the preparation, through a sieve, into a copper-basin ; whip it slightly on the ice, until beginning to lose its clearness, and to thicken, but yet without turning it frothy. This done, add to it four or five tablespoonfuls of raw pine-apple, cut in dice. Pour the jelly into the mould, previously embedded in pounded ice. An hour after, dip the mould in water, and turn the jelly out on a very cold dish, serving it without delay.