522 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. Spread the paste on a floured table, to get it firm ; let cool, and roll it out, with the rolling-pin, into a thin flat; let it rest for two minutes, and divide in rounds, with a tin-cutter, of about an inch and a half diameter. Arrange these rounds, one by one, on a floured cloth, putting them at little distances one from the other ; cover them with paper; let the paste rise a little in the temperature of the kitchen ; then take these rounds, one by one, moisten them with the paste-brush, with crayfish-butter; range them in a circle in a plain cylinder-mould. Let these circles go up to three quarters of the height of the mould, let the paste rise again, till it reach to the rim; then wrap the mould up in strips of buttered paper, place it on a baking-sheet, which push into a moderate oven, and bake the cake for forty minutes. When taken out of the oven, turn the cake out on a disïi; send separately an English-cream with vanilla. 111)7. Quinces with ‘caimac’. -— Here is given the method of preparing that famous ‘caimac’, so much in use among the Turks, and applied by them to almost all their ‘entremets’. Pour into a large earthen-pan, flat in form, very clean, ten quarts of unskimmed milk (by the Turks buffalo-milk is preferred). Let it be warm, rather more than tepid, and remove it back, so as to keep it at the same degree of heat for two hours, without touching it. Then take it entirely off the fire, and keep it (on a trevet) in a cool place, for seven or eight hours. Now the surface of the liquid will be covered with a thick skin of solid cream : this being the ‘caimac’, which cut in squares, take it up with the skimmer, and spread it out on a dish for after-use. If this preparation is kept in a cool place, it may be easily preserved for two or three days. The ‘caimac’ is very often served alone, sprinkled over with perfumed sugar. Peel five or six ripe quinces, empty of their inner pulp with the aid of a vege- table-spoon ; boil them in a light syrup, taking care to keep them whole. When drained, and cooled, garnish them with the sweetened ‘caimac’, place them on a dish, mask with the reduced syrup of fruit, and adorn them with some green leaves. 1168. ‘Dampf-nudeln’, Polish fashion. — Take one pound and a half of dampfnudel-paste (see No. 1166) ; when risen, put it on a floured table, work for a few minutes, with the floured hand; let cool, then roll it out with the rolling-pin into a thin flat, which divide in rounds with the tenth tin-cutter ; place, on the centre of each round, a small ball of apple-marmalade, reduced, and quite firm, mixed up with a little rum. Bring back the edges of the flats over the marmalade, folding them together in a manner completely to enclose the marmalade ; place the ‘dampf- nudeln’, one by one, and turned up side down, in a deep buttered baking-sheet ; let the paste rise for three quarters of an hour ; then with the paste-brush moisten the