COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 126 the ‘noix’ of turtle, which leave to pickle for two days. Place it afterwards, in a flat stewpan, with the vegetables underneath ; cover it with buttered paper, baste with its ‘marinade’, and braise it on a moderate fire. Two hours afterwards, drain the meat, and dish it up. Mask with a ‘poivrade’- sauee, and sprinkle over a pinch of chopped gerkins. 297. Lamprey, Bordeaux fashion. — Choose a fine live lamprey; bleed it, by making an incision at the end of its tail, and put by the blood ; scald it, to remove the skin by scraping ; cut off the tip of the tail, make an incision all round underneath the gills, separate the cut parts in order to get hold of the nerve by the aid of a napkin, and to pull it out. This done, divide the fish into middling-sized pieces; which place in a stewpan with vegetables and aromatic herbs, cover them with good claret ; set the stewpan on a brisk fire, boil the fish for ten minutes ; then drain the stock into a kitchen-basin, passing it through a sieve. Melt two table- spoonfuls of lard in a stewpan, mix with it two tablespoonfuls of flour, in order to form a light paste; which fry, stirring it with a spoon, on a moderate fire, until of a light brown color; dilute it with the stock of the lamprey; start the liquid to ebullition, and remove the stewpan back, to boil the sauce for twenty minutes more. Then skim off its fat, and strain it. At the same time, color the white part of twelve to fifteen leeks, cut two inches long, in a flat stewpan ; when of a nice color, salt and mix with them a few spoonfuls of raw ham, cut in dice; and two minutes after, moisten with the sauce, in which cook them, till reduced to half. Then add to it the pieces of lamprey, and finish cooking them together on a moderate fire ; when the fish is done, take the pieces out carefully with a fork, and dish them, surrounding it with the leeks ; mix a little gravy in the sauce, skim off the fat, boil, thicken it with the blood of the lamprey, and pass it, through a sieve, over the fish. 298. Small fried lampreys, Piémont fashion. — Young lampreys, of the thickness of a pencil, abound in the TV ; they are very much cared for by the Piemontese ‘gourmets’ ; in Turin they are in great request. Choose some live lampreys, remove the heads, and thin ends of the tails ; sprinkle over them some salt, and a few minutes after, wash them quickly, wipe and Hour them; plunge them into hot fat, to fry on a good fire; drain, and dish them on a folded napkin, with fried parsley, and lemon cut in quarters, all round. 299. Carp ‘à la marinière’ (D. 37). — Draw a nice carp, weighing from six to eight pounds; scale it, shorten the fins, and fill the belly with force-meat. Remove a little of the skin at each end, thus laying bare the flesh, and lard it with