82 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. fish, with vegetables, wine, and water, prepare about two quarts of broth, without salt ; drain it, skim off its fat, and let it settle. Mince a leek, and a large white onion ; put them into a stewpan, with two gills of good oil, and a clove of garlic ; fry them to a light brown color, add the pieces of fish, which moisten to their height, with the prepared broth and a little white wine. Add to the above a small, raw, cut lobster ; a bunch of parsley, a bay-leaf, the pulp of a lemon without its peel and pips, a little salt, and a little saffron. Set the stewpan on a brisk fire, and keep it briskly boiling, until the fish be done. Now remove the stewpan back, take out the parsley, and pour the liquid over some broad slices of bread, the fifth of an inch thick. Place the slices of fish on a dish, and serve them at the same time with the broth and bread. 191. Slices of salmon, Frankfort fashion. — Cut three slices out of a very fresh salmon; cleanse, wipe, and salt them. Shred in ‘julienne’ two middling-sized onions, put them into a stewpan with four tablespoonfuls of parsley-root, and two spoonfuls of celery-root, also shred in ‘julienne’. If these vegetables be not quite young, they should be previously blanched in water. Fry the onion, and the roots, on a moderate fire; moisten them with two glassfuls of white wine, and the same of water; add a few peppercorns, and a bunch of parsley; boil the whole a few minutes, and plunge in the slices of salmon, which must be moistened to their height. Cover the stewpan; at the first, bubbling up, remove it back. Ten minutes afterwards, drain the salmon’s liquor, thicken it with a tablespoonful of potato Hour, let the sauce boil, and add to the above two or three spoonfuls of good vinegar, and a little aspic-jelly; five or six minutes after, take out the slices of salmon with a skimmer, remove their skin, and place them on a deep dish; reduce the sauce for a few minutes, remove the parsley, and pour it into a kitchen-basin; let it nearly cool, stirring it on the ice. When quite cold, pour it over the slices of salmon, glazing them with it. Keep this dish on the ice until serving-time. 192. Salted salmon, Norway fashion. — In the north of Europe, salmon is salted, like beef and pork. Previous to cooking the salted salmon, steep it in cold water for forty-eight hours, more or less according to the size of the piece ; place it in a stewpan, moisten with plenty of cold water, and bring it to ebullition. Remove it then back, keeping it covered; after ten minutes, drain the salmon, place it on some boiled, but not chopped spinach, pour over some melted butter, and serve it : the spinach and melted butter can be served separately.