COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 24 63. Avenas-Cream. — ‘Avénas’ is a sort of oat-meal ; the cream of ‘avenas’ is renowned for being very refreshing and stomachic. Put half a pound of ‘avenas’ into a stewpan with a quart of water, a little salt; boil the oat-meal on a very moderate fire for three hours; pass it through a sieve (tamis), and then through a tammy (étamine). Dilute this cream with a quart and a half of good white broth, let it boil ; then remove it back, and throw in a pinch of sugar. An hour afterwards, finish the soup, by introducing a little raw cream and a piece of butter. It is served with bread-‘croûtons’ fried in butter. 64. Rice-Cream, with pinions. — Pour into a stewpan about three quarts of white broth (No. 1), let it boil; add to it ten ounces of washed rice, remove the stewpan back, and thus boil the rice, until it be in a pulp ; then pass the soup through a sieve into another stewpan, without pressing it, and again set it on the fire. Meanwhile, singe about fifteen pinions of tender chickens, bone them to the last bend, press the flesh into the hollow left by the bone, turning them over in a manner, to form a sort of pear. Blanch the pinions, steep them in cold water, trim, and place them in a small stewpan ; moisten with a sufficient quantity of broth to cover; lay a buttered paper over, and boil them on a gentle fire. When they are about done, drain, trim, and add them to the soup, as well as their cooking-stock. Ten minutes after, skim the fat off the soup, to thicken with a liaison of three yolks of eggs ; introduce into it three ounces of fresh butter, and send it up. 65. Barley-Cream, Vienna fashion. — Put a pound of pearl-barley into a stewpan, with two quarts of boiling water, a little salt, and butter the size of an egg; cover the stewpan, bring the liquid to ebullition, and remove it back; stir- ring the barley from time to time. One hour after, work it quickly with a wooden spoon for five or six minutes, in order to bruise it ; moisten, by degrees, with three quarts of white broth. Let the liquid boil for one hour at the side of the fire ; pass it first through the sieve, and afterwards through the tammy. Pour the cream into a stewpan, let it boil up, add to it a little sugar, and half a pound of large macaroni, boiled in water, and cut in pieces. Break six yolks of eggs into a kitchen-basin, mix them up with a handful of grated parmesan, and a pinch of nutmeg ; dilute them with half a pint of raw cream, and with them thicken the soup, without letting it boil. 66. Duck-purée, Rouen fashion. — Take out the fillets of a. good roasted duck, remove the skin and bones ; pound them with a piece of butter, season Avith a little grated nutmeg ; dilute with two tablespoonfuls of brown sauce ; add three or four yolks of eggs, and pass all through a sieve. I