FISH. 109 a bay-leaf, cloves, peppercorns, ancl a bunch of parsley ; moisten the fish to its height with white wine, and boil it on a sharp fire for eight or ten minutes. Thicken the stock of the fish with a piece of kneaded-butter, keeping the stewpan on a moderate fire. When the fish is done, drain it with a skimmer, set it on a dish, re- move the hunch, and r.educe the sauce ; thicken it with a few yolks of eggs, finish it with the juice of a lemon, and a pinch of chopped parsley ; pour it over the tench. 255. Tench ‘au gratin’. — Sprinkle a gratin-dish with a pinch of chop- ped onions and shalots, a few spoonfuls of raw mushrooms, and a little parsley; all of them chopped up. Place on these fine-herbs two or three cleansed tench, side by side ; salt them, and sprinkle fine-herbs over them also ; haste them with oil or plain melted butter. Pour on the bottom of the dish half a glass of white wine, set it on the fire to boil the liquid, and push it into a moderate oven ; a quarter of an hour after, turn the tench out, mask them with the fine-herbs from the stewpan, and sprinkle over them a little bread-crumb. Pour on the bottom of the dish about a gill of brown-sauce, and ten minutes after, take it out of the oven ; set it on another dish, and send it up. 250. Quenelles of fogosh, Hungarian-sauce. — With about a pound of very fresh fogosh-flesh, divested of skin and bones, prepare a ‘quenelle’ force- meat, as said in No. 244: with this force-meat mould about fifteen ‘quenelles’ by the aid of two tablespoons, place them smoothly in a flat buttered stewpan, poach them in salted boiling water; drain them, as soon as firm, and range them in a circular order, on a foundation of foi’ce-meat, set on a dish. Pour over the following sauce: Hungarian-sauce. — Pour into a stewpan the third of a glass of plain cooked tomata-purée, well drained, and not thickened ; mix in the sauce, an equal quantity of good melted glaze, and a pinch of paprica. Boil the liquid, stirring it, and two minutes after, remove it back, gradually introducing into the sauce six ounces of butter divided in small pieces, but without ceasing to stir it. 257. White-bait (poisson blanc), English fashion. — White-bait' is that very nice white fish, called in Italy ‘ianchetti’, in Nice ‘poutin’, in Bor- deaux ‘blanchaille’. In order to get a treat of this fish, English epicures go to Green- wich. Even if it is not exactly to be called a popular dish ; it is undoubtedly in great request, and highly esteemed by ‘gourmets.’ The English fishmongers sell the white-bait in vessels containing some, of the same water, in which the fish were caught ; it will be sufficient, therefore, when the fish are to be fried, to drain them, a few at a time, in order to put them with some flour, into a colander ; then at once to roll them, in order to remove the superfluous