167 BUTCHER’S MEAT. — BEEF. of bacon. Set it into a roasting-pan, or a ‘plafond’ spread with trimmings of fat ; baste it with good toppings, and roast it in the oven for fifty or sixty minutes, basting only with the fat of the ‘plafond’. A quarter of an hour previous to serving, remove the layers of bacon, glaze the fillet with a paste-brush, and thus finish cooking. Drain it afterwards, pare, range it Fifr. 57. on a dish, surrounding on one side with farced tomatas, and a group of glazed lettuces; on the other, with six large mushrooms also farced, and a group of small braised cabbages. Send up separately some madeira-sauce. This fillet is to go on the table, and should be carved in the dining-room. 387. Fillet of beef, Polish fashion. — Pare a fillet of beef, which let soak in a cooked marinade for two days ; drain it, lard it with thin bacon, put it on the spit, let it roast at a good fire one hour only previous to serving ; pour then into the dripping-pan half a glassful of the marinade, and the same of sour cream. Baste the fillet with this mixture ; when it is done, take it off the spit, dish then, and surround it with a fine garnish of farced mushrooms ; pass the stock of the dripping-pan, through a sieve, into a ‘sauté’-pan ; skim its fat, and mix it together with a few spoonfuls of melted glaze. Reduce the liquid, until it be thickened to the degree of a sauce ; finish it with the juice of a lemon, pass it through a tammy, and serve it in a sauceboat, accompanying the fillet of beef. 388. Kulash, Hungarian fashion. — This national dish (kulash or gulash) is a stew frequently served, and very highly esteemed, in Germany. I myself ate of it, when in Vienna, prepared by a Hungarian cook, and found it excellent. Cut up into middling-sized squares, the head and the thin end of a fillet of beef, about two pounds. Chop up an onion, which fry in a stewpan with butter, without allowing it to take color, and add to it the meat in squares ; fry them for ten or twelve minutes; season with salt, and a pinch of ‘paprica’; then remove the stewpan back on a moderate fire, with hot ashes on its lid. Three quarters of an hour later, that is, when the meat has evaporated its moisture, pour over a little gravy, and continue cooking it for an hour and a half: sprinkle over the stew another pinch of ‘paprica’