COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 472 tablespoonfuls of light brown-sauce ; line the rim of the dish with short-paste, and cover the pic, proceeding as said in No. 596 ; set it on a baking-sheet, and push it into a moderate oven, to bake for one hour. 1065. White truffles. — It is Piémont, which produces these excellent truffles, of a particular species so highly esteemed by epicures. It is a peculiarity of these truffles, that they do not need cooking. Wash, and wipe the truffles, remove the black spots on their surface with a small knife, mince them as fine as possible, warm them simply, and at the moment, in the sauce, or with the garnish, with which they are to be served, but without letting them boil. White truffles are also served for a salad ; in this case, having minced them, warm a little oil with a few fillets of anchovies passed through a sieve ; and the oil being hot, add the truffles, season, and take them off the fire, giving them a few jerks. 1066. Black truffles, ‘au gratin’. — Get seven or eight nice round raw truffles, cut them in two, and scoop them with a vegetable-spoon ; cut up in dice the flesh of the truffles taken out, add to them the same volume of cooked fat-liver, season the preparation, thicken it with a little reduced brown-sauce, and fill with it the halves of truffles ; sprinkle over a little bread-crumb, baste with a little butter ; then range them, one beside the other, in a flat stewpan with a little wine; let the wine boil up, then push the stewpan into the oven ; [ten minutes after, dish the truffles up. 1067. Black-truffies-pudding. — Pound in the mortar eight ounces oi raw pork-mince (hachis), with four ounces of raw ham cut in small dice; add to the mince eight ounces of raw fat-liver, season highly, and pass it through a sieve. Brush, and peel, about a pound of good fresh truffles, cut them up in slices, not too thin; put them into a kitchen-basin, and season with salt and pepper. Pour into a stewpan three parts of a glass of madeira, add to it a handful of truffles’ trimmings, reduce to half, and pass it through a sieve ; then add to it a third its volume of meat- glaze. Let the liquid boil, and thicken it with a little bit of kneaded-butter: the sauce should be kept rather thick. Butter a tinned dome-shaped mould, thin, and rather wide; if not handy, take a roubd-bottomed bowl, which line inwardly with suet-paste, and spread with a thin layer of the prepared mince; then place in the cavity the truffles, in close layers, pouring over each a little of the cold sauce. Mask the top layer of truffles with the remainder of the mince, and this with a flat of paste, soldering it to that of the sides. Moisten the centre of a napkin, press it out, butter and flour it; applying it, on its