PORK. BUTCHER’S MEAT. 283 thus for nearly an hour. The meat done, salt it, set it on a dish, serve with a little good gravy, or else with some simple piquant-sauce. _ Serve at the same time some pickles. This dish is the more appreciable, being served no where but in England. 668. Omelet, with. ham. — "Fake half a pound of raw ham, soak it for two hours in water and milk, half and half; drain, wipe it on a cloth, pare away the surplus of fat, and sinewy parts; divide it into middling-sized dice; which put into a frying-pan, with four ounces of melted butter. Beat eight or ten fresh eggs in a kitchen-basin, season with a little salt, a pinch of pepper and chopped parsley : beat them well. Set the frying-pan over a brisk and clear tire, warm the ham, without frying; pour the eggs in, and stir them gently with a wooden spoon, bringing the edges to the centre, thus thickening the omelet, and keeping it as smooth as possible. As soon as it contains no more liquid preparation, take the spoon out, toss the pan slightly, so as to disengage the whole ; at this point, withdraw the frying-pan from the lire, to toss it more easily, and to bring the omelet on one side ; then fold it into an oblong shape with pointed ends; moisten the bottom of the pan with two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and turn out the omelet on a small oblong dish. A well made omelet, should be smooth on the surface, of a nice gold color, and soft and foamy (baveuse) inwardly ; it requires also to be neatly shaped. 6(19. Pig’s head stuffed, German fashion. — Let macerate, for live days, in a saltpetred brine, a pig’s ears, muzzle, tongue, and feet: the muzzle should be previously boned, and the skin of the feet pricked with a trussing-needle: boil the meats in water, with vegetables ; drain them, remove carefully all the bones, and cut them in fillets, about two inches long; mix them in a kitchen-basin, season, and till with them a large ox-gut-bladder, well cleansed, tying the ends, and taking- care not to let in any air. Boil this ‘galantine’, in a broth prepared with the bones of the head, until it rises to the surface of the stock ; then drain it, let it cool under weight, and serve it with aspic-jelly. 670. Head of fresh pork, with poivrade-sauce. — Bone the half of a fresh head of pork ; cover it with salt, place it in a kitchen-basin with aromatics, cloves, and peppercorns; pour over two or three glasses of vinegar, and let it mace- rate for twenty-four hours ; then drain it, wipe, singe, and divide it in pieces ; which put into a stewpan, moisten with the marinade, and a little water; add a few vege- tables, let the liquid boil up, and at the first bubbling, take the pan on the side of the tire, boiling the head thus for three or four hours.