POULTRY. - GOOSE. 359 some warm ashes on the lid. As soon as the goose is done, take it up ; when cold, divide it into pieces, which arrange in a kitchen-basin ; strain the cooking-stock, skim off the fat, and let it cool; then clarify with a little raw chopped meat, whole eggs, aromatics, taragon-ieaves, and a gill of vinegar. When the jelly is clarified and passed, pour it over the cut goose ; when set, dish up the pieces of goose in a pyra- midal form, and surround with the jelly and cut lemons. 815. Hot-pie (paté-chaud) of fat-liver. — Remove the gall of a good goose’s fat-liver, plunge it into boiling water to set, without allowing it to boil ; then drain, and let it cool. Fry with rasped bacon, but without allowing it to take color, two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion; add the liver, cut up in large squares, and half a pound of raw truffles, in middling-sized dice; season the preparation with salt and spices, warm it for seven or eight minutes, tossing ; then remove it off the fire, and let it cool. Meanwhile, prepare a pound or a pound and a quarter of mince, with an equal volume of lean veal as of fresh fat-bacon; add to it a good handful of soaked and pressed bread-crumb, chop it a little more, season highly, and put it into a kitchen- basin ; add then to it the trimmings of truffles, and those of liver (both chopped), and eight ounces of lean ham in dice. Butter a small hot pie-mould, set it on a baking-sheet spread with paper, and line it with short-paste (see No. 196) ; mask the bottom and sides with some of the mince, then with a round flat of paste ; ornament it, and leave a small hole on the centre ; egg the pie, push it into a moderate oven, and bake it for an hour and a half; but remember to cover it with paper, as soon as the paste begins to take color. When done, take the top off, wipe the fat away as well as possible, and dish up the pic; mask it with a little good brown-sauce, reduced with madeira and a few trim- mings of truffles ; put back the top into place, and serve immediately. 816. Roast goose, English fashion. — Pluck and chop half a pound of beef or veal suet, put it into a kitchen-basin, add to it three quarters of a pound of grated fresh bread-crumb, a little salt, a little pepper, a chopped onion, fried with butter or blanched, a few chopped mint-leaves, a little parsley, and two eggs. Draw and singe a good and fat young goose ; fill its breast with part of the force-meat, the remainder of which introduce into the body ; sew the skin of the breast up in such a manner, as to shut the force-meat up well ; truss the goose, wrap it up in a sheet of buttered paper, roast it at a moderate fire, basting it. 817. Goose, roasted, German fashion. — Singe and draw a goose, preserving the fat and the giblets ; wipe it inwardly, then fill it with small whole