4 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. Two hours after the liquid begins to boil, add to it the half of a blanched crisped colewort, a large onion colored in the oven, four new carrots, three leeks, a large turnip cut up, a celery-root, and a parsnip. The meat being nearly done, add to it a'bunch of chervil, a few cloves, half a bay-leaf : let it boil continually. Twenty minutes previous to serving, place some broiled slices of bread in the tureen, sprinkle over a pinch of fine pepper; skim the broth slightly of its fat; then pass it through a fine sieve, yet without troubling it; this done, pour it into the tureen, either all at once or in parts; add to it half of the cut vegetables, the remainder of which keep by, in order to surround the beef. G. ‘Cucido’, Portuguese fashion. — Put into an earthen stockpot two pounds of beef, a piece of raw ham, the knuckle-bone of a leg of mutton, a hen, and two or three handfuls of softened ‘garbanços’ ; pour over the whole five or six quarts of water, skim the liquid, and when beginning to boil, remove the stockpot back. Two hours after, add a small blanched and trussed savoy-cabbage, two leeks, a tomata cut in two, one carrot, and a few cloves. One hour after, plunge into the broth a ‘choriso’, or a smoked sausage; and when the meats are done, _pass the broth through a sieve into a stewpan, and keep it hot. Chop one onion, fry it of a nice color with a little lard, mix with it four or five handfuls of good rice ; moisten with the prepared broth (three times its height), cover it, and let it boil slowly; when dry, and well done, add a tablespoonful of sweet pimento, and a spoonful of tomata-sauce. With the remainder of the broth, free of its fat, prepare a tapioca soup; which, as soon as ready, pour into the tureen. Take the beef, the hen, the ham, and the ‘choriso’, out.of the stockpot, and set'all these meats on a large oval dish, surrounding them with the ‘garbanços’, and the cut up cabbages. Serve the rice on a separate dish. 7. ‘Puchero \ as in Spain. — Like the French ‘pot-au-feu’ in France, the ‘puchero’ is a dish daily served in Spanish families ; but it must be eaten in the country itself to be thoroughly appreciated. Put two pounds of brisket of beef into an earthen stockpot, with the giblets of a chicken, a pig’s ear, half a pound of salted pork or blanched ham, and three handfuls of softened ‘garbanços’. Moisten the meats with five or six quarts of water; set the stockpot on the fire, skim the liquid, and when it begins to boil, remove it back. Two hours after, add to it two leeks tied together, then a bunch of chervil, and a pinch of wild mint (‘hierba buena’), a slice of good pumpkin (courge), without