COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 148 With this preparation fill a dozen silver table-shells ; mask it with a layer oi' mayonnaise, and surround it with chopped jelly, squeezed through a cornet. Dish the shells on the stand. 348. Lobster-aspic. — Take the boiled meat of the claws, as well as that of the tails, of a lobster; cut the meat of the tails to scollops, which put into a kitchen-basin, together with the meat of the claws ; season them with salt, oil, and vinegar : a quarter of an hour afterwards drain them. A plain cylinder-mould being embedded in ice, decorate the bottom with details of gerkins and poached white of eggs ; coat {chemiser)* the mould ; on the bottom of which then pour a thick layer of jelly, which let set; on this jelly, range in a circle the finest slices of the lobster, again covering them with jelly. As soon as this jelly has set, pour into the mould a layer of limed mayonnaise, mixed up with whole capers, gerkins, and anchovies, cut in dice ; cover these garnishes with jelly, which let set; finish filling the mould, with jelly and the remainder of the lobster; keep it on ice for full an hour. When ready to serve, quickly dip the mould in warm water, turn the ‘aspic’ out on a cold dish ; arrange the elawrs of the lobster in the cylinder of the mould, surround the bottom of the dish with small halves of decorated eggs boiled hard. Serve separately a boatful of mayonnaise-sauce. 349. Lobster ‘à la Marinière’. — Chop up an onion, a carrot, and a piece of celery-root ; fry them with a little chopped bacon and ham, add thereto a dove of garlic, a bunch of parsley with aromatics, pepper, and cloves; then moisten with two glasses of white wine, boil the liquid for a few minutes, and add to it two middling-sized raw lobsters, cut in pieces transversally, and the large part of the claws; cover the stewpan, boil the lobsters for twelve minutes, then take them out, and range them on a dish. Strain the liquid into a small stewpan, thicken it with kneaded-butter, season the sauce with a little cayenne, and finish with a little meat- glaze, the juice of two lemons, chopped parsley, and lastly with a piece of lobster or crayfish-butter, which introduce into it off the fire. Pour the sauce over the lobsters, and serve. 350. Indian croquettes (D. 50). — Cut up in small dice, the meat of a boiled lobster ; put these into a kitchen-basin with a quarter their volume of cooked mushrooms, also in dice; mix with the ‘salpicon’ two tablespoonfuls of raw fish force-meat. * By ‘chemiser’ is meant, coating tlie inside of the mould with a thin layer of jelly, which ought to remain, of an equal thickness, adhering to the sides and bottom.