SWEET ENTREMETS. — FRUITS. . 519 paper powder-cinnamon mixed-up with a little sugar, so that, when removing the paper, the pattern cut out on this he traced with sugar on the surface of the rice. 1162. Fat-liver pie (imitation) for dessert (D. 245). — SavgII three quarters of a pound of almonds; drain, pound, and pass them through a sieve. Boil ‘au petit cassé’ one pound of sugar with a stick of vanilla ; when it is done, remove it back, mix up with the pounded almonds, thus getting a sort of paste; which pour into the mortar, and pound until quite smooth ; take it out, work it on a Fig. 245. table, sprinkled with tine sugar, and divide it; take a few pieces, and color them; some red, veined with white, in imitation of ham; some, yellow (café au lait), imitating fat-liver ; some black, with chocolate or caramel, in imitation of truffles; lastly one, the color of baked paste. With this last one, rolled out very thin, line ( foncer) a small plain mould, as for Strasburg-pie. Moisten the paste from within, mask it with another flat of white paste, in imitation of the underdone paste found inside these pies. Chop some pieces of the red paste, veined with white, as well as of the ‘café au lait’ and black, which then mix up well: this chopped paste is to stand for the force-meat; thicken with a little apple-jelly, and spread one layer on the bottom of the masked case. Cut the yellow paste into large squares, in imitation of fat-livers. Lard these squares with a few square fillets of black paste, standing for truffles. Cut square fillets off the white, and the marbled paste ; mix these different pastes together in a kitchen-basin, and add a few little preserved nuts (well drained and very dark of color), pears and apricots, likewise preserved and cut up, as well as a few small fillets of apple- or quince-paste. This is the garnish for the inside of the pie, and must be placed in the hollow of the case, ingeniously disposing of the different shades, but particularly noticing to leave a little space, between the imitated meat, and the crust of the pie. Into this free space pour some soft liqueur-jelly, a little