72 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. Chop separately two white onions, a good handful of parsley, and some fresh mushrooms. Fry the onions in a stewpan with butter, without giving them color; add the mushrooms, which fry likewise, reducing their moisture ; then sprinkle the fine-herbs with a tablespoonful of flour, and moisten with half a glass of white wine. Add to the above a bay-leaf ; keep stirring the sauce until boiling, and cook it for a few minutes ; then throw in the chopped parsley, and the fillets of turbot; cover the stewpan, boil the sauce a few minutes more, and remove the pan back ; keep it thus for five minutes, and allow the fish and the sauce to cool together. Prepare some puff-paste, with a pound of flour, and twelve ounces of butter; give it six turns, allow it to rest, then put a quarter of it by, and roll the remainder to an oblong-square flat, twelve inches wide and the double in length. Now roll it round the rolling-pin, to be rolled out on a slab ; wet the paste all round, and spread on its centre a layer of cooked and cooled semolina, giving it the same form as the paste-flat, but much narrower ; set on it the fillets of turbot, mixing with them the fine-herbs, the hard-boiled eggs, and two dozen raw oysters ; then cover the Avholc, on the sides, and on the top, with the remainder of the semolina, shaping the pie into a convex and regular form ; raise immediately the paste of the sides over the top, so as to cover it; raise likewise the paste of the ends, and fold them back over the pie, making them fast leaning against it. Gild over its surface with beaten eggs, make a hole or chimney (cheminée) over the centre, to give vent to the steam ; and witli the point of a small knife trace a little drawing, on the sur- face of the flat. The pie being ready, push it into a moderate oven, and a few minutes afterwards, cover it with paper, which secure on the sides of the pie with string, in order to sustain the paste ; bake it for one hour and a quarter. Meanwhile, blanch two dozen oysters with a glass of white wine. With the head and bones of the turbot, with wine and vegetables, prepare a quart of broth ; with the broth and the liquor of the oysters, prepare a small stewpan of white sauce, thicken with three yolks of eggs, finish with a piece of butter, chopped parsley, and lemon-juice; add the oysters, and serve separately in a sauce- boat with the hot pie. 169. Turbot salad (D. 11). — Take a piece of boiled and cooled turbot, remove its skin and bones, cut the flesh into small slices, which place in a kitchen-basin, moistening with oil and vinegar, and sprinkling over salt and chopped parsley. Put into another basin a plain border-mould, which surround, and fill its cylinder with pounded ice. The interior sides are decorated with a circle of fine fresh boiled prawns, fixing them to the sides by dipping them into half-set jelly ; fill the mould, and by degrees, with liquid jelly.