231 BUTCHER'S MEAT. — VEAL. giving the sauce some succulence ; when of a nice thickness, add the prepared ‘salpicon’. The ‘salpicon’ ought to be proportionate to the sauce, which if too plentiful, would render the preparation too soft. As soon as the ‘salpicon’ is mixed up with the onion, take the preparation off the fire, and pour it over a large dish, spread about the third of an inch thick ; cover it with buttered paper, and let it cool. Then take it with a spoon by equal portions (the size of a small egg), and let them drop on a table sprinkled with bread-crumbs; then roll them, in a cork-shape; dip them into beaten eggs; bread-crumb, fry them to a nice color, and dish them up, on a folded napkin, with fried parsley round. 543. ‘Timbale’ of veal, French fashion. — Prepare a pound and a half, or two pounds, of ‘quenelle’ force-meat in the conditions prescribed in No. 527 ; when passed through a sieve, place it in a kitchen-basin; work it with a spoon, to smooth it, and try a small part of it, rectifying if necessary. Butter a ‘timbale’- mould, and let the butter cool. Scald three sweetbreads, let them cool between two dishes, and then divide them into rather thick slices. Fry in a stewpan two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion with a little melted lard ; when of a light brown color, add to it half a pound of raw ham, cut in thin squares, and about fifteen button-mushrooms, split in two transversally ; a few minutes after, add the slices of sweetbread, season with good spices, and a little salt ; as soon as the moisture is reduced, moisten with a quarter of a glass of madeira ; cover the stewpan, and reduce the liquid to half; thicken then the stew with three table- spoonfuls of brown-sauce, reduced with a little good stock, but kept of a nice con- sistence ; and let the meat cool. On the other hand, line the sides of the buttered mould, with a layer of force- meat, the third of an inch thick, smooth it with the back of a tablespoon, dipped in tepid water; and fill the hollow of the ‘timbale’ with the prepared stew, cover the top with a layer of the force-meat, kept purposely; mask this force-meat with a buttered paper. Set the ‘timbale’ in a stewpan with boiling water to half its height, poach it on a very slow fire, with ashes on the lid, for three quarters of an hour at least. Ten minutes previous to serving, take out the mould, wipe it, turn it over on a dish, drain off the fat, remove the mould, and mask the ‘timbale’ with a little sauce reduced with madeira. 544. ‘Fricassée’ of veal, German fashion. — Take the half of a good breast of veal, divide it into regular pieces, not too large ; steep them in water, scald, dry, and put them into a stewpan with butter, two small onions, and one carrot; fry them a few minutes, sprinkle over a handful of flour, moisten with broth, stir the