COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 350 few seconds, and moisten with broth three times its height. Let the liquid boil, add to it the pigeons and ham, a garnished fagot, and a pinch of red Spanish pepper. After five minutes’ ebullition, cover the pan, and remove it on the side of the fire, placing some hot ashes on its lid. When the rice is done, serve the stew in the same pan it has been cooked in. 79G. Pigeon-pie, English fashion. — Take three or four small young pigeons, draw, and singe them ; cut off the claws, and the pinions ; divide each pigeon into two or four parts. Mask the bottom of a pie-dish with a few thin slices of beef-fillet, season the meat with salt and pepper, place the pigeons on the meat, add then six or eight cooked yolks of eggs ; season the pigeons also with salt and pepper, moisten them nearly to height with good gravy, cool. Moisten the rim of the dish Avitli water, mask it with a thin strip of puff-paste; then cover the pigeons, and dish, with a flat of the same paste; finish the pie, pro- ceeding as said in No. f)9G; egg it, place it on a baking-sheet, bake it for an hour and a quarter, in a moderate oven, taking care to co\Ter the paste with paper, as soon as it begins to take color. The pies can be served either hot or cold ; if they are intended to be eaten cold, it will be well to mix a little aspic-jelly with the gravy. 797. Pigeons, Périgueux fashion. — Draw and singe three good, young, and fat pigeons; break up the breast-bone, and stuff them with ‘quenelle’ force-meat, mixed up with a quarter its volume of raw ham in dice; truss the pi- geons, as for an entrée ; co\Ter them both over and underneath, with bacon ; set them on the spit, all round, wrapped up in buttered paper, and roast them at a good fire for twenty-five minutes ; take them off the fire, divest them of the bacon, and string; dish up, and mask them with ‘Pcrigueux’-sauce. 798. Pigeon-pie in ‘terrine’, Provence fashion. — Prepare a raw mince of pork in the conditions prescribed in No. 685 ; bone two or three young pigeons, season, and stuff them with a part of the prepared mince, previously mixed up with a ‘salpicon’ of raw ham, and a few spoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs. Sew the pigeons, and set them in melted fat-bacon. Line a pie-‘terrine’, Strasburg or Toulouse fashion, Avitli a layer of mince at the bottom, and all round ; divest the pigeons of the string, place them on the mince, surround them with a few raw mushrooms, cover them with a layer of mince, and then with thin layers of bacon ; set the terrine on a baking-sheet, push it into a moderate oven, and bake it for tAvo hours and a quarter, basting often with the fat running out. Ten minutes after removing the ‘terrine’ from the oven, set a light Aveight oA'er it, and thus let it cool. When ready to serve, cut it up in slices, and dish up.