COSMOPOLITAN CO( )KERY. 454 it in an earthen pan, and intoduce into it three or four yolks of eggs, working it with a spoon. Take a pound of 'culibiac’-paste, work it on a floured table for a few minutes, beating with the hand dipped in flour ; when firm and cold, roll it out in a thin flat, stamp out some rounds with a tin-cutter, wet the edges of the paste, and set on its centre a small part of the preparation; fold the flat in a crescent-shape, press its edges down with the thumb, trimming it regularly with the cutter. Range the 'vatrovskis’ on a baking-sheet, and at a distance one from the other. Keep them for twenty minutes at the temperature of the kitchen ; egg them afterwards, and bake them in a moderate oven ; when done, dish them on a folded napkin. 1012. Italian fritters, with cheese. — Prepare a ‘salpicon’, composed of six ounces of meat of cooked lean ham ; place it in a stewpan. Pound then three ounces of fresh parmesan-cheese, to which add the half of a cooked and cooled calfs brain; mix this preparation up with the 'salpicon’, and with this form little balls, of the size of a nut; slightly flour these balls, dip them into frying-paste, then plunge into a great pan of hot hog’s lard ; the paste being dry, and of a nice color, drain the fritters, and serve. 1013. Omelet Of the desert. Full and fresh ostrich-eggs arc nowa- days no scarcity in Europe; as the ostriches, in the gardens of acclimatisation, lay their eggs there, just as well as in the desert. I have recently bought some of these eggs in Florence, at the rate of eight or nine pence a piece ; which is relatively very cheap, considering that one ostrich-egg is equal to ten or twelve hen’s eggs. It pos- sesses the same qualities, as that of the duck. In Egypt I ate the omelet hereafter described, made by Arabs, who are very fond of it, and prepare it very well. Slice a new onion, put it into a frying-pan with oil ; fry it, without allowing to take color ; and add to it the flesh of two large mild 'poivrons’, after having broiled them for a few minutes, to remove the skin ; add also two good tomatas, peeled, freed of pips, and cut in small dice. Season the preparation with salt, and a little cayenne ; reduce the moisture of the tomatas. Then drawing the frying-pan oil' the fire, add to the vegetables the fillets of four anchovies cut in dice. On the other hand, rub the bottom of a kitchen-basin with a clove of garlic, pierce an ostrich-egg on both ends, in order to take out the yolk and white, which let fall into the kitchen-basin ; season, and beat well up together with a whisk. Pour a quarter of a glass of oil into an omelet-pan, when hot, pour the egg in; thicken the omelet slightly, and add to the preparation; when set, turn it in the pan, leaving it flat ; baste it again with a little oil, and a few seconds after, slip it on a round dish.