116 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. With this liquor and some milk, prepare a little 'béchamel’-sauce ; which reduce, introducing into it a good piece of butter, finishing with a few spoonfuls of cooked truffles ; add the oysters, and dish up. 274. Aspic of oysters. — Put four dozen oysters into a stewpan with a little white wine, let them poach ; drain, beard, and put them into a kitchen-basin, to be seasoned with salt and lemon-juice. Surround with pounded ice a plain or an ornamented, cylindric mould ; mask the bottom with a layer of aspic, which having set, place on it a part of the oysters, cover them, by degrees, with aspic, and finish filling the mould, alternately with oysters and aspic. An hour afterwards, dip the mould quickly into warm water, turn the 'aspic’ out on to a cold dish, surround it with chopped aspic-jelly, or some 'croûtons’. Serve separately a sauceboatful of mayonnaise. 275. Fried oysters, Provence fashion. — Blanch slightly four or five dozen oysters with a little white wine ; drain, wash, and wipe them on a cloth ; pare, and put them on a plate ; sprinkle them with pepper, and chopped parsley, and baste them with a little oil ; take them up two at a time, dip them in a light frying-paste, and plunge them into hot hog’s lard. When the paste is dried and colored, drain the oysters, salt, and dish them in a group on a folded napkin, surrounding them with fried parsley, and lemon cut in quarters. Frying-paste. — Put about two gills of flour into a kitchen-basin, add a little salt, and two tablespoonfuls of oil ; dilute it with beer, wine, or water, but by degrees, without letting the paste get thick or stringy ; it should be smooth and thin. If the paste is diluted with beer, keep it in a warm place for one hour. In any case, introduce into the paste two whipped whites of eggs, but only a little time previous to using it. 276. Hamburg fried oysters. — Get some large Holstein or Caneale oysters ; take them out of the shells ; beard, and roll them in some grated parmesan cheese; dip them into beaten eggs, roll them in pounded 'zwieback’*, or pounded biscottes (not sweetened), of the kind made at Brussels ; plunge them into hot hog’s lard ; and when done, drain, and dish them up with fried parsley round. 277. American fried oyesters. — Take the oysters, dip them into beaten eggs with a little of their liquor, roll them into pounded crackers, and arrange them in a frying-pan with butter, to fry on both sides, on a brisk fire. Dish them with fried parsley and lemons in quarters. * ‘Zwieback’ are rolls (prepared with milk) cut in two or more slices, dried in a very moderate oven, to give them a nice golden color. ‘Zwieback’ are to be purchased at any baker’s in Germany.