17 SOUPS. 41. Rice-and-cabbage soup, Milan fashion. — Slice the heart of a savoy-cabbage, put it into a stewpan, moisten with two quarts of broth, and place it on a sharp fire; ten minutes after, introduce into it ten ounces of Piémont-rice, continue boiling it for a quarter of an hour, then mix with the soup a handful of grated parmesan, as well as six ounces of fresh fat bacon, chopped with a little sage. Boil the soup for five or six minutes more ; pour it into the tureen. This soup, although so simple, is nevertheless good, and in great favor among the Italians. It should be of a nice consistence, and the rice not over-done. 42. Farmer’s soup. — Peel two onions, one leek, the half of a winter- cabbage, two carrots, a middling-sized turnip, a root of celery, two lettuces, one handful of french-beans, fresh haricots or ‘flageolets’-beans', and four potatoes. Mince the onion and leek, to be fried with chopped and melted bacon ; when of a light brown color, add the other vegetables (also minced) leaving only the potatoes ; boil them until their moisture be reduced ; add a pound of raw ham blanched, and moisten them with broth. After twenty-five minutes’ boiling, introduce the minced potatoes ; when these vegetables are nearly done, add to the soup a handful of shred sorrel, and two lettuces, also shred. At last, finish the soup with a pinch of chopped chervil ; take out the ham, and pour the soup into a tureen, containing some slices of toasted bread. 43. Gratinated cabbage-soup. — Prepare first a small ‘pot-au-feu’ broth, according to the usual method. When the meat is half-done, divide two small green cabbages, each of them into four parts, wash and plunge them into boiling salted water, to blanch foi‘ a quarter of an hour ; drain, refresh them in cold water, and then press all the water out. Mask the bottom of a flat stewpan with trimmings of fat bacon, a slice of raw ham, and some sliced carrot and onions ; range the quartered cabbages on those vegetables, salt them slightly, and moisten, so as just to cover them with fat broth, in order to braise. When done, drain them on a sieve to extract their fat, without pressing them ; carefully remove the stalks, cut each quarter in two or three pieces; which put gradually into a kitchen-basin, to be mixed gently with a spoon, and sprinkled with grated parmesan. Now spread a layer of slices of bread on the bottom of a deep dish, that will bear to be pushed into the oven ; and on this bread, place a layer of cabbage ; continue thus, with alternated layers of bread and cabbage, taking care to baste each layer with fat broth. Shake over the whole a handful of grated parmesan, and keep the dish, for twenty minutes, in a slow oven. Serve the broth separately in the soup-tureen, and the gratinated cabbages on the dish.