468 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. and thicken slightly with a little ‘béchamel-sauce; place them, by layers, in a ‘gratin’- dish, sprinkling over each layer a little grated parmesan, sprinkle also on the top, baste them with melted butter, and push the dish into a moderate oven, gratinating the egg-plants for a quarter of an hour. 1053. Egg-plants, Turkish fashion. — Egg-plants play a great part in Turkish cookery, and are prepared in a great number of ways. Get seven or eight small egg-plants, cut off both ends, scoop out the interior tlesli with a vegetable-spoon ; chop, and mix it with the same wolume of raw chopped mutton, and the same of raw rice ; season the farce, and till the egg-plants ; score the skin transversally, and thrust into these incisions a little minced onion. Plunge the egg-plants into hot dripping fat ; two minutes after, drain, and place them, one beside the other, in a stewpan ; moisten to height with thin tomata-sauce, cook them, over a very slow lire, with hot ashes on the lid ; then dish up, and baste them with their own stock. 1054. ‘Timbale’ Of sour-crout. — Cut up in slices about a pound and a half of loin of fresh pork, previously trimmed of the sinewy and hard parts ; season with salt and pepper. Cook two pounds of sour-crout (see No. 839) with ten ounces of streaky bacon, previously blanched ; when three-parts done, drain it on a colander, as well as the bacon, and let it cool. Line a ‘timbale’-mould with short-paste ; which mask at the bottom, and all round, with a layer of raw pork-mince (see No. 686) pounded with a raw truffle; thereon arrange in layers the sour-crout, the bacon, and the slices of fresh pork ; cover the top with a flat of paste, push the ‘timbale’ into a moderate oven, to bake for an hour and a half, taking care to cover it with paper, as soon as the paste begins to take color. When taken from the oven, turn the ‘timbale’ out on a dish, make a round opening on the top, thro’ which pour in a few table- spoonfuls of brown-sauce, reduced with wine, and mixed up with a few truffles in small dice. 1055. ‘Culibiac’ of cabbage, Russ fashion. — Take half a white cabbage, pare away the core, and chop it. Chop one onion, put it into a stewpan with butter, fry it without allowing to take color ; add to it the cabbage ; a few minutes after, season, and draw it over a moderate fire ; when its moisture is evaporated, thicken with a little sauce, and a small piece of kneaded-butter ; add to it five or six cold hard-boiled eggs, chopped with parsley. On the other hand, prepare a ‘culibiac’-paste (No. 215), roll it on an oblong square, set the cabbage on the centre of the paste, the edges of which wet, and form the pie ; keep it, for three quarters of an hour, at the temperature of the kitchen ; egg, sprinkle