175 BUTCHER’S MEAT. — BEEF. 1 am going to describe a receipt, which may be of good service, especially in warm climates. Puff-paste with suet. — Weigh twelve ounces of good flour*, sift it on the table, form a hollow in its centre; therein place a pinch of salt, and pour a pint of cold water, introducing into it by degrees the flour with the water, by the aid of one hand, thus forming quickly a smooth paste, rather soft, and not adhering to the table or the hand. Knead it, wrap it up in a floured cloth, and let it remain so for a Fig. 59. i quarter of an hour. Then weigh twelve ounces of fresh beef-kidney-suet, well cleansed ; chop, and pound it until very smooth ; take it then out of the mortar, and work it in a damp cloth, thus softening it. Set the prepared paste on a floured table, and spread it with the hand into a square shape. Work the suet in the cloth, to bring it to the same degree of softness as the paste, shaping it also into a square, smaller than that of the paste ; place the suet on the paste, and fold its edges over the suet, thus enclosing it completely. Then roll the paste out into an oblong strip, three times longer than its width, sprinkle it slightly with flour, and fold it three times on its length, thus forming a square. Then turn the paste, roll it again, the other way, to an oblong square, three times longer than the width, fold it in three, as before, and let it remain so for ten minutes. Begin the same operation again, giving two turns; let the paste rest for ten minutes more, and give two more turns ; the puff-paste having now six turns. Let it rest again for ten minutes, roll it afterwards to a large thin flat ; and two minutes later, stamp out of it, with a plain cutter, twenty-four round flats, destined to form the top of the patties : as soon as these rounds are cut, gather up the trimmings, roll the paste out thinner than before, and let it rest for live minutes; then stamp on its surface (always with the same cutter), twenty-four flats, which are to serve as bottoms for the patties. Moisten a baking-sheet, place on * The flour should be white, fine, and not too fresh. The oven should be well heated and dry. In default of an oven of the requisite conditions, the patties may be baked in a dutch-oven or in a baker’s oven.