465 ENTREMETS. — VEGETABLES. 1044. ‘Dolmas’, Greek fashion. — Slip off, one by one, the leaves of a white cabbage; wash, and boil them in salted water for twenty-five minutes; drain them afterwards, refresh them in cold water, and dry them on a cloth. Prepare a pound and a quarter of force-meat, composed of fat bacon, and the same volume of lean mutton, chopped together very fine ; adding to it a handful of bread-crumbs, two eggs, a pinch of onion, a tew tablespoonfuls of chopped mush- rooms, and a little parsley. With this preparation, and the cabbage-leaves, prepare about thirty ‘dolmas’ the size of a walnut; range them in a ‘sauté’-pan, one beside ; the other; salt, baste with butter, moisten to half with broth; cover, and boil them quickly, until their moisture be reduced to a glaze ; then remove the stewpan back. On the other hand, prepare a ‘risot’ with ten ounces of rice ; which finish with butter, and grated parmesan. Mask the bottom and sides of a ‘timbale’-mould with tender and large cabbage-leaves, pared of the hard ribs ; spread then the bottom- leaves with a layer of ‘risot’, about one inch thick ; baste with a little tomata-sauce, and on it place ten ‘dolmas’ slightly flattened ; sprinkle over a little grated parmesan, and cover them with ‘risot’; continue thus, alternating the ‘dolmas’ and rice, until the mould be filled up ; apply on the top a cabbage-leaf, and on it thin slices of fat bacon. Push the mould into a moderate oven, stewing the ‘dolmas’ for one hour; then drain the fat, remove the bacon, and turn the ‘timbale’ out on a dish. Glaze the leaves with a paste-brush. 1045. ‘Calalou à l’Orientale’. — It would be difficult to tell the origin of this dish, eaten all over the East, and even in India; I can only say, it was intro- duced into the epicurean city of Marseille, by the rich Greek families established there, who have also introduced to the south of France, one of the indispensable elements of its preparation : the ‘gombo’, that excellent vegetable, which has already found its way to Paris, where in a short time it will hold firm footing. Cut the two ends of two dozen gombos, let them macerate in salt for a quarter of an hour , wash them afterwards in warm water, and boil them quickly in salted water, keeping them green. Boil, likewise in salted water, a few handfuls offender french-beans. Cut in oblong squares a couple of egg-plants, or mad-apples, and macerate them, to extract the water. Split in the middle four or five good tomatas, freed of the pips, and cut them in bits. Remove the stem, and core, of a few green sweet ‘poivrons’, slice the fiesh lengthwise, and fry them for five minutes. Slice two onions, put them into a frying-pan with oil, fry them without allowing them to take color ; add to them the ‘poivrons’, half cooking them, and tossing fre- quently ; add the egg-plants, and a few minutes after, the tomatas ; fry the vegetables, until their moisture be evaporated ; introduce into them the beans, season with salt, a little cayenne, a little parsley, chopped, with a point of garlic ; at the last moment 30