COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 314 pie-dish with its lid ; set it on a small baking-sheet, push it into a moderate oven, baste the preparation with the fat running out, and bake it for two hours ; then take the Terrine’ out, and let it cool, the lid being removed, with a small weight over it. Cleanse carefully the ‘terrine’, and iix it on a dish ; after having cut up the prepa- ration, surround it with chopped aspic-jelly, or some aspic ‘croutons’. 726. Poulard Of gourmets. — Get a good small poulard, fat and tender; which draw, wipe inwardly with a cloth, and singe it. Pound a piece of meat-glaze, of the size of an egg, with double its volume of good butter ; add to the preparation a pinch of taragon-leaves, and now introduce it into the poulard ; which truss, as for boiling, carefully stopping all the openings. Take a fresh pig’s bladder ; wash, wipe it with a cloth, and introduce into it the pullet ; tie up the opening, wrap the bladder up in a napkin ; which secure with string, and plunge into boiling water. Boil the pullet for two hours without interruption, drain it afterwards, unpack it, and place it on a hot dish, with a little of its own stock. Send up separately a boatful of ‘velouté’-sauce, mixed with taragon-leaves. 727. Capon of Caux, roasted ‘à la casserole’.— When the capons are young and tender, they had much better certainly be roasted ; but if the least doubt be entertained as to their being otherwise, they should be braised or roasted in a stewpan. Capons, like turkeys, may be stuffed with truffles, chestnuts, sausages, olives, or with a stuffing ‘à l’Anglaise’. Draw and truss a capon, put it into a stewpan, masked with eight ounces of fat bacon, cut in small pieces, and with a tablcspoonful of butter ; cover the stewpan, and set it on a brisk fire, giving the capon a nice color all over its surface ; then remove it on a moderate fire, with live embers on the lid, roasting the capon for one hour; drain it afterwards, salt it, and dish it up. Drain off the fat from the stewpan, pour in a little good gravy, reduce it to half-glaze, and strain it over the capon. 728. Mazarine of poultry (D. 122). — With about two gills of good milk, dilute four tablcspoonfuls of flour ; add to this a little salt, a little nutmeg, and a small piece of butter ; stir the liquid on the fire, in order to thicken it, so as to get a smooth and consistent ‘bouillie’. Then add to it a few fresh mushrooms washed and chopped, work the ‘bouillie’ briskly on the fire, till it be of a nice consistence ; pass it through a sieve, and place it in a small kitchen-basin. Pare the raw fillets of three chickens, cut them in pieces ; pound, and pass them through a sieve. Put the meat then back into the mortar, pound it again; now add to it a little piece of butter, and the same volume of the previously prepared ‘bouillie’, which last is introduced by degrees. Season the force-meat thoroughly, poach a