COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 57G working it according to the same method as applied for ices. The composition being frozen, gradually introduce into it three whites of eggs of‘meringue’, Italian . fashion, that is prepared with sugar cooked au lissé. This done, introduce half a bottle of champagne into the punch, but by little and little, and without ceasing to work the preparation. L,ast of all, add to the above four tablespoonfuls of good kirschwasser. Serve this punch in rummers (verras à pied). Iced punch is commonly served to accompany the roasts. 1273. Chocolate-mousse. — Take three cakes of chocolate, and let add them soften at the mouth of the oven ; work the chocolate with a spoon till smooth a few tablespoonfuls of syrup flavored with vanilla; warm it well, introduce gradually a whipped and sugared white of egg, then pour it over three glassfuls of whipped cream, slightly flavored with sugar and vanilla. With this preparation fill a domed mould, previously set on pounded and salted ice, cover the mould also with ice, and thus keep it for an hour. When about to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, then dish the ‘mousse’ on a folded napkin. 1274. Strawberry-mousse. — Crush twenty jounces of good fresh straw- berries, not too small ; pass them through a fine sieve, or else through a tammy. Pour this ‘purée’ into a sugar-pan, and mix in a few spoonfuls of sugar flavored with vanilla; set the pan on pounded ice, in order to have the ‘purée’ cooled, stirring it continually. As soon as well set by the cold, introduce into it double its volume of sweetened and perfumed whipped-cream, kept very firm. Pour this preparation immediately into a dome-mould, placed in a little bucket (see D. 288) ; let the interior of this mould be garnished with paper ; cover the mould with a round of paper, close it with its lid, lute its joints with butter, it and then mask with a thick layer of salted ice. Three quarters of an hour after, drain the greater part of the water in the bucket, produced by the melting of the ice ; add some salted ice. Half an hour after, take the mould out, wash it in cold water, then turn the ‘mousse’ out on a dish, covered with a folded napkin. 1275. American sorbet (D. 291). — Let me recommend this ‘sorbet’ (or sherbet), as a variety well worthy of the attention of practitioners. In New-York it is prepared with ‘Catawba’-wine, coming from California; but it may also be prepared with Rhine-wine or Champagne. , Its most interesting peculiarity is, being served in glasses formed of raw ice. Of course, for the preparation of such ’glasses, tin-moulds must be handy, in imitation of (high - shaped) wine-glasses. These moulds are filled with pure water, white or colored ; then shut up quite close, and surrounded with saltpetred ice. Three quarters of an hour after, the water will be frozen up, and