COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 582 these are indispensable in every well organised kitchen, where the work is regular and continuous : in such case it is not only the variety of vessels that is needed : the number of such articles must also be in due proportion to the various require- ments of the work. In a kitchen ill, or insufficiently supplied with requisite utensils, the distressing hindrances resulting from such unwise stint will be continually felt : the working of a kitchen has occasions of imperious emergency, with which it will, at best, he difficult to struggle with success. Nos. 293, 294, 295, represent three ordinary saucepans, identical in form, but of different dimensions ; the variety of covers modifying in some sort the special character of each. The lid of the first saucepan, having a raised space within its outer edge, which fits on to the rim of the saucepan ; so that this lid, being reversed, may serve as a sauté-pan. The lid of the second saucepan, fitting likewise into the saucepan-rim, is hollow outside, so as to receive hot embers on its upper surface. The lid of the third saucepan is quite flat. No. 296 represents a saucepan broader than it is high, having a lid with handles, fitting on outside the saucepan-rim : this cover, if turned upside down, may serve the purpose of a baking-sheet, (plafond), or of a sauté-pan (sautoir). No. 297 is a ‘sautoir’ or flat saucepan, for glazing, having a hollow cover, on which may he placed hot embers. No. 298 is a sauté-pan with bottom slightly rounded, the shape being exceedingly convenient, highly practical. Nos. 299 and 300 represent two boilers of form identical, the handles only being different ; the former has two handles at the sides, the second has but one of semi- circular form : the cover of these boilers fits on the outside-rim. No. 301 represents a gravy-pan (caisse à jus) of broad and shallow form, of which the cover fits, on inside the rim. No. 302 represents a (poissonnière) fish-kettle of oblong form, rounded at the extremities, having a handle at each end. These vessels have a returning cover, and a grating or drainer (grille) in tinned copper, with upright handles. Nos. 303, 304, 305, represent skillets (poêlons) or saucepans for sugar, not tinned, either inside or out. These three specimens are of different form : the first has completely straight sides and a flat bottom, the second has the bottom rounded, the third has a hemispherical form, specially adapted for sugar. In vessels not lined, either with tin or enamel, no one should ever boil, or even put or keep any sauce, or broth, or milk. Nos. 306, 307, 308, represent three ‘braisicres’, or stew-pans, of different form and dimension ; the first is of an oval form, the cover of which fits on to the outside; this cover is hollow on the top, with raised rim all round, so as to retain on its centre either hot embers or burning charcoal.