COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 76 Remove it back, and introduce into it a piece of good butter, and a pinch of chopped parsley. Pour this sauce over the crayfish, previously freed of their small claws, and dish up. 176. Crayfish ‘à la marinière’. — Boil a few dozen ci’ayfish with white wine, forthwith drain the liquor, to let it set ; then clear it, by passing it through a linen cloth. The small claws of the crayfish must be omitted. Chop one onion, fry it in butter, avoiding its taking color ; moisten it with the crayfish liquor, add a little wine, boil the liquid a few minutes; then thicken it with a piece of butter, kneaded with bread-crumbs and chopped parsley, in order to obtain a thick sauce; finish it with a little cayenne, and the juice of a lemon. Dish up the crayfish, and pour the sauce over them. 177. ‘Cromeskis’ of crayfish, German fashion. — Cut into small dice a few dozen cooked crayfish-tails ; put them into.a stewpan with a third of their volume of cooked mushrooms, also cut into dice; thicken the ‘salpicon’ with reduced ‘bechamel-sauce, proceeding according to the direction given for the ‘cro- quettes’ preparation ; spread the preparation, in a thin layer, on a small baking-sheet to cool. Prepare about fifteen pancakes without sugar ; when cold, pare them into oblong squares; mask them each with a small part of the crayfish preparation, egg over their edges, which fold and solder ; afterwards dip the ‘cromeskis’ into beaten eggs, bread-crumb, fry, drain, and dish them on a folded napkin. 178. ‘Rissoles’ of crayfish, with mushrooms. — Boil a few dozen middling-sized crayfish, pick the claws and tails, cut their flesh into small dice, which put into a kitchen-basin, with the same volume of cooked fish force-meat, also cut into dice. Cut likewise into small dice the same volume of raw mushrooms, as of cray- fish tails ; put them into a stewpan with a few spoonfuls of ‘béchamel’-sauce, reduce the sauce over a sharp fire, stirring and gradually introducing into it the liquor of the crayfish. When the sauce is of a nice consistence, mix with it the ‘salpicon’ of crayfish and force-meat, give it a boiling, remove the stewpan back, and thicken the preparation with two yolks of eggs, and a piece of crayfish-butter. Season with a little nutmeg, and allow it to cool in a kitchen-basin. Take about a pound of puff-paste, divide it in two parts, which roll, one after the other, into square and thin flats ; now put on the first flat, at about one inch from the edge, and one inch and half distant one from the other, small balls of the pre- paration about the size of a small walnut. Moisten the paste, and fold it in a straight line, so as to cover them ; fasten the paste between each ball with the finger, in order to solder it all round ; then with a plain or fluted cutter^two inches in diameter)