SWEET ENTREMETS. — SOUFFLÉS. 499 1121. Cream-flawn, Russ fashion. — Line a Hawn-mould with the trimmings of puff-paste, mask the bottom, but only to half the height, with a thin layer of vanilla - cream -‘frangipane’ ; cover the cream with a round of paper, and push the Hawn into the oven. The paste being nearly done, take it out, and mask the surface of the cream with a layer of raspberry-marmalade, passed through a sieve ; mask this marmalade with a layer of ‘frangipane’, so that the crust may fie quite full; sprinkle then over the upper surface some crushed macaroons ; sprinkle over this layer a little sugar, push the Hawn once more into the oven, and ten minutes after take it out. 1122. Chocolate-soufflé (D. 228). — Grate three or four cakes of cho- colate, which put into a small stewpan ; moisten with two tablespoonfuls of warm water, place the stewpan at the mouth of the oven. As soon as the chocolate is dis- solved, remove it off the fire, and bruise with a wooden spoon. Add to it four table- spoonfuls of sugar, flavored with vanilla; when well thickened, introduce into it five yolks of eggs, half of the whip of five whites of eggs, kept firm and sugared. Pour this preparation on the remainder of the whites of eggs, then into a ‘soufflé’-case, and let it bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. This ‘soufflé’, of so very simple a preparation, gives excellent results, and pre- serves its perfection for a little while quite well. 1123. Sultan-‘bouchées’, Turkish fashion. — Pass through a sieve, into a basin, twelve ounces of flour ; mix a little salt, a little sugar, a few tablespoon- fuls of melted butter, and two or three yolks of eggs. Dilute it with tepid water, by the aid of a spoon, giving it the consistence of a frying-paste; at this degree, add to it four ounces of bread-yeast. Cover the basin, let the paste vise in a mild tempera- ture, until it has arrived at nearly double its volume; now break it, let it cool, and divide it into little bits, the size of a fine filbert; which roll to a round shape, and plunge 32*