193 BUTCHER'S MEAT. — VEAL. and fry, without allowing it to take color; then add to it the sliced ‘cèpes’, to be fried quickly, reducing their moisture; season with salt and pepper, sprinkle over a little flour, and moisten with a few spoonfuls of gravy ; boil the sauce for ten minutes, reducing it, in order to have it short and thickish : then finish the ‘ragout’ with a pinch of chopped parsley or fennel. Thirty-five minutes previous to serving, spread a layer of the ‘ragout’ on a dish, and thereon set the meat cut up, alternating each slice with a part of the ‘ragout’, and masking the top with the remainder of it ; sprinkle over some bread-crumbs, baste with clarified butter, and keep the dish in a liot oven for twenty minutes, basting the meat frequently with its own stock. When done, drain the fat off' the dish, wipe it, and pour on the bottom a little good gravy. 448. Noix of veal, Pontoise fashion. — Pare a nice ‘noix’ of veal, without removing the udder (tétine), stud it over and underneath, with square fillets of raw lean ham, and of bacon previously seasoned. Butter the bottom of a stewpan, mask it with squares of streaky bacon, set the “noix’ thereon, fry it on a moderate fire, on all its surfaces; season with salt and pepper, and moisten with a glass of white wine, gently braising it for one hour, with hot ashes on the lid. Add then to the meat, a garnish of tender vegetables, composed of raw carrots and chives, season the vegetables slightly, and continue gently cook- ing. When the vegetables and the meat are done, dish up the ‘noix’, surround it with the vegetables, pass the stock through a sieve, skim off its fat, and pour it on the bottom of the dish. 449. Noix of veal, roasted on the spit. — Pare a ‘noix’ of veal, removing the udder (‘tétine’) ; lard it inwardly with square fillets of raw ham, of bacon, and of truffles ; season with salt and spices, sprinkle over a few trimmings of truffles, a few sprigs of thyme and bay-leaves, and wrap it up completely in some pig’s caul (crépine), which fasten with string. Fix the ‘noix’ on the spit, by the aid of an iron-skewer, and roast it at a good fire, for one hour. Then unwrap it, roast it for ten or twelve minutes longer, basting ; take it off, dish, and pour over some good tomata-sauce. 450. ‘Noix’ of veal, Polish fashion. — Pare a ‘noix’ of veal, lard with bacon, let it braise, then half-cool in its own cooking-stock. Pare it again, cut it transversally into slices; bring it back into form on a dish, alternating each of the slices with a mince of ‘cèpes’, thickened with a little sauce. Mask it likewise with a layer of mince, over which layer sprinkle some bread-crumb ; baste with a little butter, push the ‘noix’ into a moderate oven, and thus let it ‘gratinate’, basting it repeatedly. Half an hour after, slip it on a dish, but without bringing it out of shape ; . 13