206 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. in order most clearly to show its utility and perfection: it is to be hoped, that this example may persuade, as well amphitryons, as practitioners. Choose a leg (quartier) of fine white veal ; pare it, saw off the bone below the joint of the leg, shorten the bone of the jump-loin (quasi), wrap the leg up in paper, place it in just balance on the lower supports of the spit, and draw on the screw on both sides, in order to keep it firm. Wrap it up in buttered paper, let it turn before a good fire ; an hour afterwards, unwrap it, finish roasting, basting it repeatedly with the drippings. When done, dish it, pare the bone, and put a ruffle to it. Serve separately a sauceboatful of good grayy, and a dish of fresh vegetables, boiled in salted water, or in steam. 480. Calves’ ears, ‘à la marinade’. — Boil three or four, calves’ ears (sec. No. 496); let them nearly cool in their liquor ; drain, and dry them on a cloth, divide each of them into four parts; which put into a kitchen-basin, season with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and moisten with the juice of one lemon. When cold, dip them, one by one, into a frying-paste; drain, and plunge them into plenty of hot hog’s lard, frying them gently; when of a fine color, drain, salt, dish them on a folded napkin, surrounding them with fried parsley. 481. Calves’ ears, Bordeaux fashion. —-Take four boiled calves''ears, (see No. 496) : let them cool in their liquor, drain, and wipe them on a cloth. Chop four or five firm ‘cèpes’, put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter or some oil ; fry them, tossing them a while over the fire; when their moisture is evapo- rated, season, and draw them off the fire : then add a handful of rasped bread-crumbs, a few tablespoonfuls of raw, chopped ham, two tablespoonfuls of chopped shalot, and a pinch of parsley. Season highly the fine-herbs, thicken them with an egg; and stuff with them the hollow of the ears, the rim of which score, and set them upright in a fiat stewpan, with two dozen small heads of‘cèpes’, previously fried. Moisten the ears, to half their height, with thickened gravy, mixed up with tomata-sauce, and finished with a little cayenne. Let the sauce boil up, keep the stewpan at the entrance of the oven for twenty minutes, basting the ears frequently, then dish them up, surround them with the ‘cèpes’, and pour the sauce over. 482. Calves’ ears, Villeroy-sauce. — Boil four calves’ ears, proceeding as directed for the calf’s head, see No. 496 ; let them nearly cool in their stock, drain them afterwards, wipe them, divide them in two lengthwise ; season, and add two or three spoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs. The pieces being cold, dip them, one by one, into some Villeroy-sauce, and set them evenly on a dish, at a little distance from one another; let the sauce cool, then detach them with the blade of a knife, roll them in bread-crumbs, dip them into beaten eggs, and bread-crumb them a second time.