COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 450 This ‘pumpernickel’-bread could easily be had in England and France, quite as well as many other products of foreign countries ; as it keeps fresh and good for a considerable time. 1002. Dijon-‘ramequins’. — Put into a stewpan half■ a glass of water, a little salt, a pinch of pepper, a teaspoonful of sugar, and six ounces of butter. Set the stewpan on the tire ; at the first bubbling take it off, and introduce into it eight ounces of flour ; stir with the spoon, thus obtaining a smooth and thick paste ; work it a few minutes on the fire, pour into another stewpan, add to it four or five whole eggs, and then five ounces of chopped Swiss cheese. Now take the paste up with a tablespoon, and let it drop on a baking-sheet, in the shape of round balls, the size of a small egg. Egg the ‘ramequins’, set on each of them a small slice of cheese, and bake them in a hot oven. 1003. Dumplings (kloesse), with flour. —'Place half a pound of flour in a kitchen-basin with a little salt, a piece of melted butter, and three or four whole eggs; dilute the preparation with milk, thus obtaining a smooth and firm paste ; then add to it two handfuls of bread-‘croûtons’, cut in dice, and fried in butter. Now the preparation should be of the consistence of a panada ; if it be too soft, a handful of rasped bread-crumb may be introduced into it. Take it then up, with a spoon, in parts the size of a walnut; which drop on a floured table, and roll to a round form; plunge them into salted boiling water, boil them for seven or eight minutes (with the stewpan covered), remove the pan back, and ten minutes after, drain the dumplings, with a skimmer, on a cloth. Dish them up, and pour over some nut-brown clarified butter. 1004. Dumplings, Vienna fashion. — Cut up, in small dice, about a pound of crumb from a loaf of kitchen-bread, and fry them to a nice color with blitter. Then moisten with two gills of boiling milk, cover the stewpan, and keep on the side. When the bread has absorbed all the moisture, add to it four or five table- spoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs, mixed up with half their volume of raw ham, in dice; sprinkle the preparation with a pinch of flour, pour over a few well whipped eggs, and season : it should be consistent enough to be moulded in small round pieces, which plunge into boiling salted water ; at the first bubbling, remove the pan off the fire, poaching the dumplings for ten minutes. On the other hand, pour into a stewpan six ounces of melted butter ; when hot, add to it two handfuls of bread-crumb, which fry for two minutes. The dumplings being done, put them into the stewpan.with the butter; keep thus for a few minutes, and dish them up.