COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 332 round the ‘pain’ with a string of chopped jelly, and the base of the support with jelly-‘croûtons’ alternated by chopped jelly. 756. Chicken pilaw. — Take the fillets of two chickens, cut them into middling-sized squares, put them into a stewpan with butter, let them slightly fry ; season, mix them with two pounds of good rice, washed and dried; moisten, to double its height, with chicken-broth. Boil the rice for fifteen minutes, moisten it with twelve ounces of clarified brown-butter (à la noisette), close the stewpan her- metically, remove it back on embers ; a quarter of an hour afterwards, dish up the pilaw. 757. ‘Fritot’ of chickens, Vienna fashion. — Twenty minutes pre- vious to serving, take and bleed five or six little young chickens, dip them quickly into nearly boiling water, in order to remove the feathers all at once. Wipe the chickens carefully, singe them, and cut each of them in two. Split the chickens’ legs transversally, in order to introduce the end of the pinion-bones beneath the skin. Salt them slightly, flour, dip them into beaten eggs ; bread-crumb, and plunge them into hot hog’s-lard, in order to give them a fine color; drain them on a napkin, salt, then dish them in a group on a napkin, and surround them with fried parsley. Serve separately a little tomata-sauce. 758. Chicken-salad, Bordeaux fashion. — Pare a dozen chicken- fillets, of equal shape, removing the pinion-bones ; beat, salt, and let them poach in butter ; proceeding according to the common method. Let them cool with a light weight on ; when cold, pare them, mask with ‘ravigote’-sauce with jelly, immediately ranging them one by one, but each in the same direction, on a baking-sheet. The sauce being cold, coat (napper) the fillets with jelly, dish them in a circular order on a layer of jelly, having set on the dish. Place, in the hollow of the circle, a salad composed of heads of green asparagus, and cooked truffles cut in big ‘julienne’. 759. Chicken, Taragon-sauce. — Get a good-sized chicken, singe, draw and stuff it with a piece of butter, mixed up with a small handful of taragon-leaves ; truss it with the legs in, cover it with bacon, and place it in a stewpan with the neck and gizzard, and a few trimmings of veal ; moisten to its height with half a glass of white wine, some broth from the stockpot, and toppings ; let the liquid boil up, then remove the stewpan on a moderate fire, thus cooking the chicken for forty or fifty minutes. When done, strain the stock, skim off the fat, which pour over the chicken, and keep hot. With four ounces of butter, and a tablespoonful of flour, prepare a little ‘roux’, without allowing it to take color, dilute it then with the stock of the chicken, stir the sauce until boiling, then remove it on the side of the fire; add to it a small bunch