36G COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. stewpan with chopped bacon, and two whole onions ; fry it on a moderate fire, until of a nice color ; then add to it the heads of ‘cepes’, cut each of them up in two ; sea- son with salt and pepper ; add also a bunch of parsley, containing a clove of garlic. Ten minutes after, moisten with a glass of white wine, let the liquid boil, then draw the stewpan on a moderate fire, with warm ashes on its lid. When the duck is done, drain it, remove the string, and dish it up ; skim the fat of the cooking-stock, thicken it with a little tomata-sauce, give it a few bubblings, pour the garnishes round the duck. 829. Duck’s liver, Toulouse fashion. — Get one or two fat-livers of duck very firm and white, above all, not having been put in water; cut them into slices down their length, and season these with salt and spices. Butter the bottom of a ‘gratin’-dish, or a silver dish ; sprinkle over a pinch of chopped shalot, a handful of fresh mushrooms also chopped, and place on these the slices of liver, intermingled with slices of lemon, freed of peel and pips ; sprinkle them with a little parsley, chopped with a point of garlic, and mixed up with a handful of bread-crumbs; baste them with a paste-brush dipped in clarified butter, and push the dish into a moderate oven. Bake the livers for twenty or twenty-five minutes, basting them with their own stock ; when done, take the dish out of the oven, drain the fat away, and pour over the livers a little melted glaze, mixed up with the juice of one lemon. Set the ‘gratin’-dish on another dish, and send it up. 830. Duck with green-pease. — After having singed and drawn a good fat duck, wash it in warm water, and place inside a piece of butter, or of lard, mixed up with a pinch of chopped parsley ; truss it with the legs inside, and put it into a stewpan with melted bacon. Let it take color on a moderate fire, turning ; season it, and when of a nice color and three-parts done, add to it a pint of fresh green-pease, one onion, a bunch of parsley, and eight ounces of streaky bacon in small squares ; put some hot ashes on the lid of the stewpan, and finish cooking the duck ; remove the string, and dish it up. Take out the onion and parsley from the pease, add to them a few tablespoonfuls of broth, and thicken it with a piece of kneaded-butter ; season with a little pepper, nutmeg, and a point of sugar ; dish the pease round the duck. 831. Quenelles of pheasant, with truffles (D. 157). — Trim a pound of pheasant-meat ; pound, and pass it through a sieve. Put into a mortar ten ounces of panada, prepared with broth and rice-flour, work it well ; when cold, add it to the pheasant-meat ; pound this force-meat for seven or eight minutes ; add