507 ON ‘THE ARTISTIC COOKERY.’ A tolerably large-proportioned mouthful, we think, for a reader to swallow, when he is required to learn that large joints, even such as the double- haunch of mutton figured in Plate 9, are admissible at a ‘classic’ dinner, whatever that may represent. At another place we are almost bidden to believe, that ‘the ornamentation of cold-pieces’ is ‘the study of the infinite’, and ‘that to look for luxury beyond the true principles of this science’, is ‘to lose oneself in the mazes of uncertainty’—a state- ment, which to an English cook would convey the meaning, that ‘hasty cookery’ was tantamount to ‘atheism’ ; and elsewhere, again, on the topic of green-pease, our author exhibits much orthodox gratitude in the remark, that ‘Nature in her bene- volent bounty and maternal providence scatters her treasures over the whole surface of the earth.’ But perhaps it is a little hard, to find fault with M. Dubois, for his efforts to bo eloquent and classical in diction; for has he not studied at Rome the science of modelling, with a view to culinary ornamentation, as well as of applying icing - sugar to pieces of pastry? And, to tell the truth, he does much to disarm our criticism, when, besides assigning to old England a special favor of Providence in the matter of green-pease, he states emphatically, that John Bull can boast the finest and best flavored venison, the richest and most juicy sirloins of beef, and the most delicious and distinguished turkeys, in the world. Mollified by this flattering unction, let us turn from the manner to the matter of this so-called ‘album of classic cookery.’ And we must begin with admitting that, though it is obvious that its author only contemplates the entertainments of the wealthy of the earth, there is a fair share of tolerably simple and achievable dishes, as to which directions are given in these pages. He is too fond ofmadeira- sauce for his ‘calves’ kidneys sautés’, and his thrushes à la Médicis, and ‘émincé of roebuck en bordure ;’ and sets at nought evidently the sound wisdom of Goutte, whose manual substitutes any sound white wine for so precious a draught; and when one reads of seven chickens being required to make an entrée—namely , ‘chicken-fillets with truffles’ (see p. 58)—it is a relief to find, that so many head of poultry are not actually slaughtered for the breasts only, as the chickens’ legs (fourteen there will be of them) are especially devoted to the preparation of a ‘supreme sauce.’ But in his ‘pi- geons stuffed with mushrooms’, ‘sweetbreads à la Colbert’, ‘epigrammes of lamb à la Jardinière', ‘lobster-cutlets à la Victoria’, and such like dishes, there is plenty of good taste, and little deviation from simplicity, barring in some instances the ma- deira. His ‘salmi of woodcocks’ (p. 68), and his ‘vol-au-vent à la marinière’ (p. 62), prepared by competent artists, would satisfy the daintiest palate, and yet not argue any grave extravagance. In truth it is more, when he enters the regions of ‘cold- pieccs’ and ‘pastry’, that M. Urbain Dubois soars far above the heads of common folk, and propounds subjects for ornament rather than use, which excite our marvel by their elaborate unreality. In Plate 20, No. 136, is engraved ‘A Bastion in ‘Pain’ of Game;’ and by help of the letterpress we find, that it con- sists of a fabric of wood, masked in fat, and exter- nally wrought in fat with an outside glaze. One of course infers, that the bastion must have something edible within it; but the wight who storms the citadel, will be puzzled, without directions, where to lay his hand on the hidden treasure. It seems, however, that beside cannon-balls of black truffles, peeled, which lie in heaps very convenient for the besieging party, the central and' surrounding towers contain ‘pain’ of pheasant, partridge, grouse, moun- tain-cock, &c. all no doubt very good, when one can get at it. Just such another device is the ‘lias- tion of Eels’ in p. 101, while ‘Neptune’s Chariot’, in the same page and engraving, seems to be all wire, wood, and fat; except the crayfish and lobsters which give reality to the fat waterfall, and the small trout, cooked au bleu, which crowd the space between the first and second gradin. The War, Fishing, and Hunting Trophies, which follow, may and must require skill for modelling; but since in these there is even less appeal to the gustative sense, than in the Bastions, one may be excused for appreciating more highly the Wild Boar’s Head in galantine (p. 126 —7) and the ‘Ham historié’ in p. 109, both pieces de résistance, and the latter a very fair surprise, it being a sham sucking-pig of modelled butter with a real ham back, cooked, carved, and ready for use. In the pastry-sections we have pavilions, lighthou- ses, spires, rocks, ruins, waterfalls, wherein gum- paste, almond-paste, icing-sugar, and spun-sugar, | play their appropriate parts ; but most of these chefs d’oeuvre have nothing eatable—e. g. the ‘grand pièce gothique’, p.205—6, has nothing edible, except the cakes which garnish the base of the rock, even the biscuit-work and the sugar which forms the rock, being only meant to be looked at. In Plato 60 there is a very pretty piece called ‘Hive meringué, or ‘Méringue en ruche’, and as one learns that cer- tain ‘méringues’ are the traditional entremets of the family dinners of the Truss Court, it might seem safe to conclude, that the first-named piece would be a very ‘pretty dish to set before the King’ by way of variety. But hear M. Dubois. ‘Such pieces are not generally made to be eaten, therefore are not to be filled inside, but may bo surrounded with small méringues garnished with cream.” The | King’s eye alone can feast on this ‘hive’ unrestrain- | edly ; and the disappointment must be akin to that of one who, seeing the ‘Ruin in Génoise cake’ I (p. 204), thinks to himself, that there can be no j harm in going on with the work of devastation im- plied in the name. Alas ! a study of M. Dubois’s I letterpress apprises us, that these ruins arc not meant to be eaten. For the importunate and rave- nous there is an apologetic garnish of cakes at the bottom. To do M. Dubois justice, there is more reality in his treatment of fish-cookery. It is true that in one of his cold-pieces—river-trout with jelly—lie recommends, that the lobsters at each end of the stand should be of cast-fat, and the same is the case i with the coral in like pieces ; but in fish-removes he is not only exceptionally practical and sensible, but also exhibits a curious knowledge of the collateral branch of natural history. His researches into the latter are of course ruled by his love of his own art, but this part of his book is all the more interesting j for its information about the Ilouchen of the South German rivers, the Fogosli of the Austrian lakes, the Pagcl of the Mediterranean, and, chief of all, the Segui, a whitish trout of great fragrance, lightness,