COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 248 different places, then roll the flap underneath ; bind the flesh in the manner represented by the drawing (No. 88) : see also No. 5b 1, p. 241, note. Mask the bottom of the braising-pan with minced trimmings of bacon, and vegetables ; set the saddle in the bottom, season it, moisten to nearly its height with broth ; boil the liquid on a good fire until three-parts done ; then add half a bottle of white wine, remove the braising-pan back on a moderate fire, or to the entrance of the oven, in order to braise the meat, basting it repeatedly, but adding the stock in proportion to its evaporating ; skim the fat from time to time. By this proceeding the stock will prove succulent, when the meat is done; three hours, and sometimes even more, arc required to braise a saddle of mutton ; this depends on its size, and the degree of its tenderness : the meat of braised mutton must be well done. A moment previous to serving, drain the saddle on a baking-sheet, untruss it, glaze with the paste-brush, keep it at the entrance of the oven; pass the stock through a sieve, add to it a few tablespoonfuls of madeira-wine, and a little brown- sauce, in order to thicken it; boil the sauce, skim its fat again. Remove the two fillets of the saddle, cut them transversally in slices not too thin, put the fillets back into place. Dish the saddle, garnish on both sides with good soubise-purde, glaze it, and serve the sauce up separately. 579. Sheep’s kidneys, ‘à la Vieville’. — This dish is little known, and yet is very good ; it bears the name of an emeritus epicure. Pare away the skin, and the sinewy parts, from seven or eight sheep’s kidneys, divide each of them in two, place these pieces in a frying-pan, with clarified butter, and a pinch of chopped shalôt ; and fry them quickly. When they set, season witli salt, and a little cayenne; as soon as they have reduced their moisture, drain them with a skimmer, and put them into a small kitchen-basin ; pour half a glass of ma’deira into the frying-pan, reduce the liquid to half, add an equal quantity of melted glaze, which let boil, and then thicken it with a small piece of kneaded-butter At the first bubbling, add the kidneys to the sauce, and at the same time two tahle- spoonfuls of cooked ham, cut up in small dice, and a pinch of chopped taragon; take the stew off the fire, pour it into a dish, and surround it with fried bread- ‘croûtons’, which glaze with a paste-brush. 580. Sheep’s kidneys, Oriental fashion. — Remove the skin of a dozen tine mutton-kidneys, which then mince. Let boil half a glassful of thickened gravy, or else of sauce brown or white ; thicken it with a piece of butter, kneaded with a little curry-powder ; the sauce now should be tolerably thick. Mince two or three onions in rings, fry them on a moderate fire in a pan, giving them a little color ; salt, and drain them.