COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 540 Push the pie once more into the oven; the sugar being glazed, take it out, and dish it. 1201. Mince-pies. — Chop tine two pounds of beef-kidney suet, free of sinew or skin ; lay it in a kitchen-basin ; mix with it one pound of cooked fillet of beef, trim- med and chopped; two pounds of sour apples, raw, peeled, and cut into small dice; two pounds of currants, well cleansed; one pound of Malaga raisins, stoned, and chopped; two pounds of candied peel of cédrat, lemon, and orange, in equal parts, also chopped, or cut into very small dice; add lastly one pound of sugar. Mix these materials well together ; moisten them with a half - bottle of cognac, and the juice of several lemons; cover, and keep them in a cool place; leave them to macerate for seven or eight days; but, as the preparation will keep quite well for a much longer time, it way be prepared in any quantity. To make mince-pies, choose some large tartlet-moulds, butter them, line them with tine short-paste; till them with the prepared mixture, moisten the edges of the paste, and cover the compound with a round tiat of short-paste, or else of puff-paste, fastening it round the edges, and making a small hole on the centre of the flat. Egg the mince-pies, bake them in a hot oven; on taking them out of the oven, filter into them a little hot cognac warmed with sugar. Serve the mince-pies on a folded napkin. \ 1202. Pitliiviers-cake, with almond-cream. — Pound four ounces of sweet and bitter almonds, with the same of sugar, and half a stick of vanilla ; add three yolks of eggs, three ounces of butter, a little chopped orange-zest, a little salt, a whole egg, and two yolks ; pass this preparation through a sieve, then put it into a basin, and stir it with a spoon for five minutes. Take a pound of puff-paste of eight turns, roll it out with a rolling-pin to the thickness of a quarter of an inch ; out of this flat cut a round of six inches diameter; this round must be cut on a model of cardboard, or with the lid of a stewpan, with the point of a small knife. Take the remainder of the paste, roll it out, and cut a round, of the same dia- meter as the first flat; place this flat on a baking-sheet, spread the almond-prepa- ration on the centre of this flat, in a smooth layer coming to within an inch of the edge; moisten with water (by aid of the paste-brush) those parts of the paste, on which the preparation does not come. Then place the first flat exactly over this, being on the baking-sheet, so as completely to mask it ; press the paste on, round the edges, so as to solder the two flats, and slightly to lessen the paste ; then cut the paste all round with the point of a small knife, channeling the paste. Egg the sur- face of the cake, draw lines over the top with the point of a knife, forming thus any fancy pattern.