394 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. their flesh, then divide each of them in two, lengthwise; beat slightly each of the pieces, season, and dip them in clarified butter, bread-crumb, and broil them on both sides orua moderate lire ; dish them up, and serve separately a cold tartar-sauce. 886. Wood-hen cutlets, à la Pojarski. — Pojarski is the name of a landlord {restaurateur), living between Saint Petersburg and Moscow, who acquired great renown by selling chopped cutlets, which at last took the landlord’s name. Take the breast-meat of three raw ‘gélinoties’, remove their skin and sinews, chop them, mix them with a quarter theîr volume of good butter, season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Divide this preparation in small parts, roll them on the floured table, giving them the shape of a small cutlet. Dip these cutlets into beaten eggs, so as to bread-crumb them ; stick to the most pointed end of each of them, a little cooked bpnc well cleansed. Fry these cutlets in a stewpan with butter, turning them ; dish them in a circular order, pour over the butter of their own cooking-stock. By the same method, cutlets of young partridges (perdreaux) may be prepared. 887. Wood-hens, Russ fashion. — Truss three or four wood-hens (gelinottes), put them into a stewpan with butter, season and fry them all over ; when about done, baste them with a few tablespoonfuls of sour-cream, and finish cooking them, basting frequently ; drain them afterwards, cut each of them into three parts, and dish them up. Mix a little ‘béchamel’ into the sauce, which reduce until of a good consistence, then pour it over the wood-hens; masking them with a thick coating; sprinkle over bread-crumbs, let them ‘gratinate’ in the oven, till the sauce is slightly colored. 888. Cold snipe-pie (D. 176). — Choose a channeled pie-mould of low shape ; butter its interior, set it on a round baking-sheet, covered with buttered paper. Prepare two pounds of common short-paste ; let it rest for two hours. Bone seven or eight wood-snipes, or three woodcocks, remove the skin from the meat, put them into a kitchen-basin, add to them a pound of raw truffles, cut in dice, moisten with four tablespoonfuls of madeira. Take the snipes’ livers and trails (intestins), add to them a few raw .poultry-livers; fry them together, with melted bacon, on a brisk fire; season highly, let them cool, pound, and pass them through a sieve. Take the meat of four hares’ legs, remove the tough parts, cut the meat in pieces, which immediately fry with bacon ; season them, pound, and pass them through a sieve ; which mix then into the previously strained purée. On the other hand, prepare some raw mince (hâchis), with lean veal or fresh pork (taking about two pounds) half and half, mixed with the same of fresh bacon. Season the mince, pound, pass it through a sieve ; put it into a basin, then add to it the purée of cooked meat.