262 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. with a little good ‘béchamel’-sauce, reduced with a little glaze. Serve separately a sauceboatful of half-glaze. 615. Carbonnades of mutton, with cream. — Procure three loins (carbonnades) of mutton, saw off the spine-bone, trim away the skin, and the fat lying on the minion-fillet ; fold the skirt under, secure them well in shape with wooden skewers, and place them on the bottom of a stewpan, spread with sliced vegetables, cloves, peppercorns, and aromatics; moisten with a sufficient quantity of broth to cover; let the stock boil quickly, for seven or eight minutes; then remove the stewpan on a moderate fire ; cover the meat with paper, and finish cooking it gently, with warm ashes on the lid, basting and turning from time to time. Drain them after- wards, take out the bone placed between the minion-fillet and the loin ; let the ‘car- bonnades’ cool, between two dishes, and divide each of them in two. Take them then one by one, trim them square, pare away all the fat adhering to the larger fillet ; then roll the ‘carbonnades’ in a good ‘béchamel’-sauce, reduced with the cook- ing of the meat, masking them all over. Range them flatly on a baking-sheet, allowing the sauce to cool. Half an hour after, dip the ‘carbonnades’ into a mixture of clarified butter and beaten eggs, roll them in fresh bread crumbs, set them in a buttered ‘sauté-pan, baste them with a paste-brush dipped in clarified butter, give them color in a moderate oven. When quite hot, dish them up, round a purée of turnips. 616. Sheep’s feet ‘à la vinaigrette’. — Though sheep’s feet, or trotters, as they are called, are eaten in France and in England, yet they are no where duly estimated, but in France ; this is a great mistake; for many products are eaten else- where, not possessing half their gastronomic value. This cheap and wholesome disli is indeed very good, Avhen prepared with care. In France sheep’s feet are generally sold quite ready for cooking ; but if one is obliged to cleanse them oneself, it will suffice to scald, and scrape them with a knife, removing the bristles. The sole of the hoof is removed, by knocking it with the back of a knife: the feet must be soaked for several hours, previous to cooking them. Get two dozen sheep’s feet, split their hoof in two, in order to remove a woolly tuft to be found there ; trim away the extremities. Tie the feet together four by four, scald them till ebullition, then drain, steep in cold water, and place them in a stewpan ; cover them with cold water, add salt, cloves, peppercorns, a bunch of parsley and aromatics, a few whole vegetables, and at last, a tablespoonful of flour, diluted with cold water. Let the liquid boil, covered, over a slow fire, for five hours at least. When ready to serve, drain the feet, remove the string, take away the shank- bone, without tearing the surrounding meat; trim, put them into a dish, and season