173 BUTCHER’S MEAT. — BEEF. bring the preparation to ebullition, and then remove it back ; season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and tliroAv in two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley. Twenty minutes previous to serving, drain the slices of beef, and range them on an oblong dish, bringing the piece of beef back to its original form, and alternating each slice with a little of the preparation of fine-herbs. The meat being in shape again, pour over the remainder of the fine-herbs, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, pour on the bottom of the dish, the stock in which the beef has been warmed, and push it into a slow oven. A quarter of an hour later, baste the beef with its stock. When ready to serve, drain the fat off the dish, and pour on the bottom a little good gravy, reduced with white wine. 400. Beef à la mode, Marseille fashion. — The beef ‘k la Mode’ here to be described is, without doubt, the most national dish of Provence. Served with a nice roasted turkey, it is quite indispensable for a Christmas dinner, the solemn banquet of the whole family, and which no member of it misses, unless kept elsewhere by matters of urgency. Even besides the place given to this dish by tradition, it is an excellent and profitable piece, being of great resource, for it keeps a long time in winter. It will do quite well to be warmed up, or eaten cold, and still then is "very good. Cut from a ‘noix’ of beef a piece weighing four or six pounds, divide it into square pieces of five or six ounces each, which interlard with fillets of bacon and ham ; season with a little salt, pepper, and a little oil. Chop up a pound of bacon, put it into an earthen stockpot with lard, melt it on a moderate fire, add to it the squares of meat, and fry them gently for ten or twelve minutes, then moisten with half a bottle of red-wine ; which let boil on a brisk fire until about reduced, giving the pieces of meat from time to time a jerk, thus keeping them from adhering to the bottom. The wine being reduced, draw the earthen stockpot on hot ashes, and surround it with such to half its height. Put into it a piece of dry orange-peel, a few whole cloves of garlic, a bunch of parsley tied up with two bay-leaves, and lastly a pig’s foot, boned, singed, and blanched ; or if this be not handy, a handful of blan- ched rinds of pork. Then cover the earthen stockpot, first with a round piece of paper, and then with a soup-plate half-filled with water. After which let the beef boil for eight hours, and mind to keep round the ashes a few live embers, in order to have them always hot ; thus the stock may boil without interruption, but always very gently. Turn the meat but twice ; when the beef is done, it should be highly flavored, and succulent. When ready to serve, place the meat in a deep dish, surround it with squares of tripe, boiled separately, skim the fat off the stock, remove all the ingredients, and pour it over the beef.