202 ce )SMOPO LIT AN COQ K E R Y. score them, and put into their hollow a large button-mushroom ; place them, one beside the other, on the stand of force-meat. Set the round pieces of the head, all round in a circle and ‘à cheval’ ; mask them with a Velouté’-sauce, reduced with liquor of mushrooms ; and surround them with a garnish, composed of cocks’-combs, mushrooms and truffles.. Send up separately a boatful of the same sauce. This dish may be served as a remove, and placed on the table. After having figured on the table, it is convenient to divide the pieces, lest they be too bulky. 469. Calf’s head, with vinaigrette. — Take half of a calf’s head, bone, scald, singe, and divide it in proportionate pieces, which put into a stewpan. Dilute a tablespoonful of flour with a sufficient quantity of water to cover the head with ; pour it on the head, add salt, cloves, peppercorns, aromatics, and the pulp of a lemon without peel or pips. Let the water boil up, then boil the meat gently on the side of the stove-fire. When ready to serve, drain the pieces, score the exterior of the ears, dish the pieces, surrounding them with parsley-leaves and hard-boiled eggs cut in halves. Send up separately a sauce-boat of Vinaigrette’, and some raw chopped fine-herbs, placed by groups on a small dish, or in scollop-shells; these fine-herbs being com- posed of chopped parsley, onion, gerkin, and whole capers. 470. Calf’s head, with mince-sauce. — Bone the half of a calf’s head ; scald, drain, refresh, and divide it in pieces, leaving the ears whole; then boil it as directed in No. 469. When ready to serve, drain the pieces with a skimmer, dry them on a cloth, score the auricle, dish and mask them with the following sauce : Mince-sauce. — Mince a large onion and a few shalbts, put them into a stewpan with butter; fry them slightly; add six ounces of raw ham, cut up in very small dice, and double that quantity of fresh mushrooms, also minced. When these have evaporated their moisture, moisten with half a gill of vinegar, which reduce to half ; moisten anew with a pint and a half of brown-sauce ; at the first bubbling, take it on the side of the fire. Ten minutes after, skim the fat off the sauce, add to it a little cayenne, two tablespoonfuls of chopped capers, and as much of chopped gerkins ; finish it with a pinch of chopped parsley. 471. RUSS Punshki. — Chop and fry one onion, add to it the meat of a sliced minion-fillet of veal, fry, season, take it off the fire to cool ; then chop it, and add two or three chopped hard-boiled eggs, and a pinch of parsley ; thicken the pre- paration with a little reduced sauce. Roll out thin a pound and a quarter of ‘coulibiac’-paste, cut out of the flat thirty- six rounds with a plain cutter (an inch and a half in diameter); moisten them slightly,