260 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. squares of mutton through with a skewer, alternating each with a square of fat, and fresh mint, basil, and bay-leaves. Roast the meats Naples-fashion. When done, take them out on a hot dish, and surround with slices of celery. 610. Roast mutton (shaslii-kebassi), Turkish fashion. — ‘Shashi- kebassi’ means, roast of the street. Cut up, in large squares, the meat of a leg or loin of mutton ; season with salt and pepper, baste with juice of onion, run the squares through, with long skewers, and broil them on a slow fire. Remove the skewers, place the meat on a dish, and pour over some yaour (sour cream). Gil. Minion-fillets of mutton, ‘au chasseur’. — In kitchens, where many saddles of mutton are used, the largest of the minion-fillets should be put by, as they will always prove useful. Pare twelve minion-fillets, trimming away the skin ; beat them with a cutlet-bat, as for cutlets ; cut them in a ‘demi-cœur’-shape, and let them steep for twenty-four hours in a cooked marinade ; drain and lard the fillets with rows of fine cut bacon ; range them one beside the other, in a flat stew- pan ; moisten to their height with broth, and a little marinade, and start the liquid quickly to ebullition, reducing it half ; draw the stewpan then on a moderate fire, and finish cooking the fillets, with hot ashes on the lid; when ready to serve, dish them up in a circle, dilute their stock with a little broth, reduce it one third, thicken with a little brown-sauce, and strain it over the fillets. 612. English mutton-pudding. — Divide in slices, of the thickness of a mutton-cutlet, three or four breasts of mutton ; take the bones away, separate the meat from the fat, and season writh salt and pepper. Put into a stewpan two or three tablespoonfuls of shalôt and onion (chopped), fry them slightly with butter, add the slices of mutton, which toss quickly during several minutes, then as quickly with- draw them with a fork, and place them in a dish, leaving the fat in the stewpan. Mix in this a small handful of flour, fry it a while, stirring; dilute with two gills of gravy, thus obtaining a light sauce; let it boil, and take it off the fire ; introduce into it a spoonful of ‘Harvey-sauce’, a little pepper, and pour it over the slices of mutton. Line a pudding-mould with suet-paste (see No. 396); arrange the meat in the hollow, basting with the sauce, cover the top with a round of paste, over which fold the paste of the rim to the height of the mould. Moisten the centre of a napkin, butter, and flour it ; cover the mould with it, applying the floured part on the paste, tie the napkin fast underneath the mould with string, and plunge the mould into boiling water, cooking the pudding for two hours. Unpack it afterwards, turn it out on a dish, and glaze it with a paste-brush.