COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 302 708. Turkey giblets, à la chipolata. — By giblets are understood the neck, pinions, legs, gizzard, and liver, of turkeys or other poultry. The pinions and legs are singed, the hard skin of the inside of the gizzards is taken out, after their being cleansed ; and the gall is removed from the liver. Take two or three turkey-giblets, (minus the livers) previously cleansed ; scald them in boiling water, drain, wipe, and put them into a stewpan, with butter, and eight ounces of streaky bacon in pieces ; set the stewpan on a brisk fire ; season the giblets, and fry them till of a nice color; then drain the fat off, shake over two tablespoonfuls of flour; and two minutes after moisten to height with broth, stirring until boiling ; and then draw the pan on a moderate tire. One hour after, add to the giblets two dozen small onions, the same of small carrots and turnips, blanched and cut up in balls or quarters, a bunch of parsley, and aromatics, cloves, pepper- corns, and lastly, three tablespoonfuls of cognac. Boil then meat and vegetables, on a moderate lire, with warm ashes on the lid. Ten or twelve minutes previous to taking the stew off the tire, add to it fifteen small ‘cipollata’ sausages, and the turkey- livers blanched, and cut up in pieces : continue boiling, and at the last moment send up the stew in a deep dish. 709. ‘Pain’ of poultry, with jelly (D. 113). — Take ten minion- fillets of chickens, pare, beat them slightly; ornament the half of them with slices of truffles, which insert in some incisions made transversally, at an equal distance, on the smoothest side of the fillets ; salt, arrange them in a flat stewpan, with clarified butter; and put in the fillets, which are to remain plain. Poach these fillets over a brisk fire, preserving them straight; drain immediately, and let them cool, applied against the interior sides of a dome-mould, thus giving them a curved shape. When the fillets are cold, pare them carefully, wipe the mould, and embed it in pounded ice. Ornament the six white fillets with a ‘Montpellier’-butter, squeezed through a cornet of paper; dip them evenly into half-set jelly, and apply them against the sides of the mould, alternating those decorated with butter, and those with truffles. Fill the intervals between the fillets likewise with half-set jelly, then fill the hollow of the mould with a preparation of ‘pain’ of poultry with taragon. Coat (chemiser) with jelly, ten or twelve small ‘dariole’- moulds, the bottom of which is decorated by a round of truffle ; fill the hollow with the same preparation of ‘pain’ of poultry, and keep them on ice for half an hour. When ready to serve, dip quickly the dome-mould in warm water, wipe, and turn it out on a ‘pain-vert’, proportionate to the size of the mould, not being too wide.