494 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 1109. Semolina-pudding, ‘à l’Impératrice’. — Pour two glassfuls of milk into a stewpan ; add one tablespoonful of vanilla-sugar, a little salt, a piece of butter; put the stewpan on the fire; at the first bubbling, introduce into the liquid half a pound of fine semolina, which let drop in like rain. The preparation being smooth, add the requisite sugar, and boil beside the fire for ten or twelve minutes; then pour it into a stewpan , work hard, adding to it a piece of butter divided in small bits, and at the same time five or six yolks of eggs. Half an hour previous to serving, mix into this preparation a ‘salpicon’ of pre- served fruits, such as, pine-apples, greengages, cédrats, and preserved cherries; introduce four whipped whites of eggs, half this quantity of whipped cream; pour this into a plain buttered cylinder-mould, which place in a stewpan, with boiling water coming to half its height; thus poach the pudding for forty-five minutes. When taken up, turn it out on a dish, and mask it with caramel-syrup flavored with vanilla. Send up separately a sauceboatful of this syrup. 1110. Bread-pudding, Baden fashion.— Put into a kitchen-basin half a pound of butter nearly melted, work it with a spoon, thicken it until like cream, gradually introducing into it four whole, and four yolks of eggs. Cut a pound of bread-crumb in dice, which moisten with cream; ten minutes after, press it out, to extract its moisture ; bray the bread-crumb with a spoon, add half a pound of powder-sugar and a pinch of flour, work it a few minutes longer; mix it in the preparation, as well as a pound of small dry mixed raisins, and a handful of cédrat cut up in small dice. Moisten the centre of a napkin, butter the wet spot, and flour it; spread this napkin over a basin, pour the preparation on the napkin, bring together the corners of the napkin at a level with the preparation, and tie it fast. Plunge the pudding into boiling water, and let the liquid bubble continually for one hour and a quarter; drain the mould, loosen the thread, unfold the napkin, and turn the pudding out on a dish. Mask it with a ‘sabayon, prepared with Rhine-wine. 1111. Fruit-pudding, English fashion. — Remove the peel, and core, from two apples ; which cut in little quarters. Cut in two six apricots, four peaches, three greengages, and thus remove their stones ; put these fruits into a kitchen-basin, and sprinkle over them two handfuls of powder-sugar. Prepare a pudding-paste (see No. 396) ; roll this paste with the rolling-pin into a flat round, a tenth of an inch thick ; spread this round on the centre of a buttered napkin, lay the napkin on a basin or a stewpan, place the fruits on the centre of the paste, gather the corners of the napkin so together, that it can be tied quite last, without leaving any vacant space. Plunge the pudding immediately into boiling