57 SOUPS. must be reduced to a third: if the herbs are fresh, pound them, when cooked, and mix them with the soup; if dry, simply pass the infusion through a cloth into the soup, but at the last moment. With this soup must he served milk-punch in glasses. 150. Tench-soup, Polish fashion. — Put about a pound of pearl-barley into a small stewpan, with a piece of butter, and a quart of water ; place the stewpan on a moderate fire, and let the liquid boil gently for one hour, adding from time to time a little boiling water. Mince one onion and one leek, fry them slightly in butter, add two or three middling-sized tench cut up ; fry them a few minutes, and moisten with three quarts of boiling water ; add a few sliced parsley-and celery-roots, and a bunch of parsley ; boil the fish for twenty-five minutes ; then strain the broth ; take out the pieces of tench, which divide in small fillets, having first boned them ; keep them warm and covered. When the barley is done, draw it off the fire, and work with a spoon until forming a very white and soft paste; dilute it, by degrees, with the fish - broth ; boil the soup, thicken it with yolks of eggs diluted with cream, and pour it into a tureen containing the fillets of tench. 151. Sturgeon roçolnic soup. — Cut a piece of fresh sturgeon; season, blanch, and put it into a basin, to macerate a few hours, with white wine and sliced vegetables; tie it up, afterwards truss; place it in a stewpan, masked with bacon, ham, and vegetables; braise it, and let it cool in its stock, which pass afterwards through a sieve, and skim off its fat. Now fry in butter one chopped onion; when nicely colored, add to it two tablespoonfuls of flour, which fry a few minutes, and dilute with three quarts of broth, and the stock of the fish ; stir the liquid on the fire until boiling, then remove it back. One hour later, skim the fat from the soup, which pass through a sieve into another stewpan. Meanwhile, cut some parsley-roots in small fillets about half an inch long, making at both ends a small incision crosswise, and boil them in salted water. Peel some salted cucumbers (ogursis), cut in two to remove the centre, pare them into lozenges, of the same length as the parsley-roots; blanch them in a sugar-pan with Mater, and mix them with the parsley-roots. When ready to serve, add to the soup the parsley-roots, ‘ogursis’, and a glass of ‘ogursi’-juice ; boil the liquid for five minutes, add the sturgeon, neatly cut in small scollops, and thicken the soup with a gill of sour-cream ; finish it with a pinch of chopped parsley, or green fennel, and serve.