COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 90 place on the centre of the fish a few crayfish-tails, alternated with button-mushrooms and truffles, disposing them in the order of the drawing. Set on each side of the brill a few Hat ‘quenelles’, alternated with slices of black truffle ; sauce the ‘quenelles’ slightly, put two crayfish on each side of the dish, between the ‘quenelles’ and groups ; pour the remainder of the sauce into a sauce-boat. A large sole, or even several together, may be dished in the same way. 219. Farced, herrings. — Select a dozen very fresh herrings; remove their heads, as well as the thin parts of the tails ; open the herrings all up the back, in order to remove the bone ; keep the soft-roes ; fill the hollow of the herrings with some fish ‘quenelle’ force-meat, mixed up with cooked fine-herbs, add the soft-roes; bring the fish back into form, wrap each of them in a strip of buttered paper, put them on a buttered baking-sheet, and let them bake in a moderate oven for twelve or fifteen minutes. As soon as done, unwrap them, dish, mask with some chopped sauce, or else some ‘maître-d’hôtel’-sauce. 220. Cnrry of fresh herrings. — Cleanse ten herrings, draw them, wash their soft-roes, and blanch them in acidulous water. Slice one onion, fry it with butter in a flat stewpan, sprinkle over two table- spoonfuls of curry-powder ; two minutes after, dilute this paste with two glasses of white wine, and a little fish-broth. Add a pinch of parsley-leaves, a bay-leaf, and a little salt; boil the sauce, and put the herrings, side by side, in the stewpan, the liquid exactly covering them. Boil it a few seconds, cover the stewpan, and remove it back. Ten minutes afterwards, take out the herrings with a skimmer, and dish them with the soft-roes. Thicken the sauce with a liaison of yolks of eggs, and pour it over the herrings, passing it through a fine colander. 221. Soft-roes (laitances) of herrings ‘au gratin’. — Get about fifteen fine soft-roes ; wash them in cold water ; plunge them into boiling water, to get firm ; drain, and dry them on a cloth. Chop one onion, fry it in butter without coloring it; add a few spoonfuls of fresh chopped mushrooms. Their moisture having evaporated, add the soft-roes, season them with salt, nutmeg, and a point of cayenne ; warm them until well set, and place them by layers on a gratin-dish, sprinkling over each layer a little chopped parsley and bread-crumb. Baste with a spoonful of melted glaze, mixed up with a little sherry. Remove the ‘ragout’ back, sprinkle the top also with bread- crumb and chopped parsley ; pour some butter over, and push the dish into a moderate oven, to gratinate the roes for twelve minutes. Serve them on the same dish.