COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 552 . halves of apples ‘en hérisson’, that is cooked in butter, tolerably firm, glazed with apricot-marmalade, then studded with dried fillets of almonds, sprinkled with sugar, and glazed in the oven, or with the salamander. Put on the top also one of these halves of apples, and with the cake serve some English-cream. 1221. Mokha-cake ‘à la moderne’. — Prepare a ‘madeleine’-pastc with eight ounces of sugar, seven ounces of flour, a tablespoonful of potato-flour, seven ounces of butter, six yolks of eggs, one whole egg, six whipped whites of eggs, two tablespoonfuls of cognac, and a little salt (see No. 1196). Bake this pre- paration in a buttered plain cylinder-mould ; when done, take from the oven, turn it out, and let it cool. Beat hard four or live whites of eggs ; when firm, introduce into them half a pound of powder-sugar ; whip this preparation over the fire, until well thickened ; let it nearly cool, without ceasing to work it ; then add to it a quarter of a glassful of exceedingly strong coffee-infusion, or extract of coffee ; thus giving the preparation a dark color. Soften half a pound of sugar by handling it in a cloth, put it into a kitchen- basin, and work it with a spoon ; as soon as turned creamy, gradually introduce into it the coffee-preparation. The biscuit being cold, cut it straight, divide it in thin transversal slices ; mask each of these slices with a layer of the preparation ; bring the cake back into form, and mask it, all round and on the top, with another layer of the preparation ; smooth its surfaces, adorn, and dish it on a folded napkin, garnish the hollow with the re- mainder of the preparation. 1222. Fortress of biscuit (D. 273). — Work well in a kitchen-basin a pound of powder-sugar, flavored with orange, with four whole eggs, and twelve yolks of eggs ; the preparation being frothy, gradually introduce into it a little more than three quarters of a pound of melted clarified butter ; continue working. A few minutes after, introduce into it four tablespoonfuls of rum, a little salt, then five or six whipped whites of eggs, as well as half a pound of flour, or potato-flour, passed through a sieve. Take a tin-case, the height and width intended for the fortress ; butter its inside with clarified butter, and glaze it with fine sugar ; set it on a round thick baking- sheet covered with buttered paper ; fill it, nearly to its height, with the previously prepared biscuit-paste; which now bake, in a moderate oven, for one hour and a quarter. Bake the remainder of the paste in a flat stewpan, being an inch and a quarter larger than the tin-case. The biscuit of the tin-case being turned out, and cooled, cut it straight; then diminish its thickness, from the bottom up to about three quarters of its height, so as