COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 268 630. Cold lamb-pie. — Prepare some short-paste (see No. 196), with a pound and a quarter of flour, half a pound of butter, a grain of salt, two yolks of eggs, and sufficient water ; and allow the paste to rest for one hour. Bone two necks of lamb, trim away the sinewy parts of the meat, and divide it into oblong squares, an inch thick ; which place in a kitchen-basin, add a quarter of their volume of blanched bacon in squares, and the same of cooked ham, cut like- wise ; season the meats with salt and good spices, baste with a few tablespoonfuls of madeira, let the meats macerate for one hour. Meanwhile, take the meat from two shoulders of lamb, pare and chop it. Chop an equal quantity of fresh bacon, add it to the shoulders’ meat, and chop all together, until very fine; season the force-meat with salt and good spices, pound it for five minutes, and put it into a kitchen-basin. Take three parts of the prepared paste, roll it out in an oblong-square flat, and set it on a baking-sheet ; mask the centre with a thick layer of force-meat, and thereon place lengthwise a layer of fillets of lamb, bacon, and ham, well mixed up ; cover the meats with another thin layer of force-meat, and continue thus garnishing the pie in a dome-like fashion. Cover with the remainder of the force-meat, fold over it the four edges of the flat ; moisten the paste, and put over it a flat of puff-paste; egg it, score it with the point of a small knife, and push the pie into the oven; ten minutes after, cover it with paper, and bake it for an hour and a half. A quarter of an hour after its being removed from the oven, introduce into the pie, through the opening left on the top, two glassfuls of cold, liquid aspic-jelly. 631. Lambs’ tongues, Breton fashion. — Steep, and scald, about fifteen lambs’ tongues; trim, refresh, and boil them with broth, or in the stock-pot, for half an hour; then drain them, remove the white skin surrounding them, place them, one beside the other, in a stewpan, spread with sliced vegetables; moisten, to three parts their height, with a little madeira and broth ; let the liquid boil up, and finish cooking, glazing them nicely. While cooking, mince seven or eight white onions, fry them with butter or lard, stirring often; when of a nice color, season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar; sprinkle over a tablespoonful of flour, and moisten with half a pint of hot milk; let them boil, stirring; add a bunch of parsley, and boil them till of a nice consistence. Then remove the bunch, season with a little nutmeg, and thicken tlie sauce with two yolks of eggs, diluted with cream. When ready to serve, dish up the tongues in a circular order, and pour the onions in the centre. 632. Lamb-sweetbreads, in scollop-shells. — Cut in dice fifteen lamb-sweetbreads, not over-done, but cold; mix with them a third their volume of