493 SWEET ENTREMETS. — PUDDINGS. Fig. 222. 1107. Cabinet-pudding, with sabayon (D. 222). — Break six eggs into a kitchen-basin, add to them four yolks ; beat well with a whip, add six ounces of powder-sugar, a little piece of lemon-zest; dilute the eggs and sugar with a gill of good milk, pass the liquid through a sieve. Butter a cylindrical mould ; adorn the bottom with preserved angelica cut round, and the sides with brown biscuit cut in long triangles ; mask the bottom ornament with a layer of cut biscuits ; sprinkle over this layer a pinch ot preserved orange and cédrat peel, add a pinch of dry raisins without the stones ; on this layer range another in the same conditions, and so go on till the mould is full; now gradually j pour into the mould the cream previously prepared, set the mould in a stewpan higher than the mould, pour warm water into the stewpan, going up to just half its height; let the water boil, and remove the stewpan back on a very slow fire; cover it, and keep the pudding in the water for full an hour; then take it out, and turn it over on a dish. On the other hand, whip four or five yolks of eggs, to which add five spoonfuls j of powder-sugar, two gills of white wine, and a piece of lemon-zest ; whip the pre- paration on a very slow fire, being careful not to let it boil ; ten minutes afterwards, it must be firm and frothy ; now pour it on the pudding, and serve. 1108. Pudding of apples and rice. — Pick about a pound of fine j rice; which wash, plunge into plenty of boiling water, and boil until it no longer ; crackles, when taken between the teeth ; drain, and put it into a stewpan ; add to it a piece of butter and grated zest, put sugar over, cover, and let it cool. Moisten a napkin with cold water, then press it out ; butter its centre, spread it ! over a basin, then place the rice in layers on the centre of the napkin, alternated with rennet-apples quartered, and slightly fried in butter with a little sugar. Tie the napkin, pressing the preparation well together; plunge the pudding into boiling i water, and let it boil continually for one hour and a half. Then drain the pudding, unwrap it, turn it out on a dish, and mask it with a syrup of apple-juice, flavored with orange. O