BUTCHER’S MEAT. — PORK. 291 ‘ On the other hand, have chopped two pounds of lean cooked pork, and two pounds of fresh fat-bacon; add liver and meat to the bacon; season with salt, a pinch of saltpetre, spices, and a little cayenne pepper, or some pounded pimento ; baste the mince with two or three tablespoonfuls of ‘kirsch’, and add six ounces of chopped onion, previously fried in lard. Chop the preparation for ten minutes more, and stuff with it some pig’s guts, soaked and well washed, tilling them as full as pos- sible ; tie them up, at four or five inches’ distance, and let the saveloys dry in the air ; then plunge them into boiling water, and boil them on a slow fire (the water should do nothing but simmer) for one hour ; take the pan then off the tire ; one hour later, drain the saveloys carefully, wrap them up in small cloths, tie them at both ends, and let them cool completely, before serving. 092. Saveloys, smoked, Swiss fashion. Take six pounds of pig’s ears, rinds, and meat from the leg, in equal portions ; soak them in cold water for half an hour ; drain, wipe, and put them into a wooden, or an earthen vessel ; sprinkle over salt, and saltpetre, and let them macerate for six days in the brine. Boil the meats, as well as the rinds and ears, in water; bone them, cut them up in long shreds, and deposit them in a kitchen-basin. . Chop separately four pounds of pig’s meat, and a pound and a half of fat bacon ; mix them together, season the mince with a handful of salt and a teaspoonful of saltpetre, a handful of pepper and half a handful of pulverised pimento, a table- spoonful of nutmeg, one of cinnamon, the same of pounded cloves, and at last, four ounces of chopped shalot. Chop the minced farce anew, mix it with the meats in the basin, and fill with it some very clean middling-sized guts; tie up the saveloys ; smoke them for two days, and boil them in water for ten minutes ; drain, wrap them up tight in a cloth, and thus let them cool. These saveloys are served cold, and cut up in thin slices. 093. Saveloy of liver, Frankfort fashion. — Chop very fine eight pounds of raw pig’s liver. Chop also four pounds of fat pork; when fine, add gradually the liver, without ceasing to chop. The mixture made, season the pre- paration with salt, pepper, and pounded cloves; then fill some middling-sized guts, tie them up, and boil the saveloys in water, for one hour, on a very slow fire. Drain, and let them cool, wrapped up in a cloth. 094. ‘Beni’ of the Russians. — The ‘beni’ is not a dish ; it is a repast, a sacramental feast with which the Russ, Poles, and Greeks, celebrate the Christian Pasc, or Easter-day. In this repast the dishes are all cold, and the guests dare not sit round the table, but like the Jewish paschal feast must partake of it standing. The table is not cleared all day long. The dishes are replaced, as soon as emptied. 19*