28 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. color; sprinkle over a small handful of flour, and moisten, by degrees, with the prepared fish-broth. Bring the liquid to ebullition, then remove the stewpan back, thus cooking the soup gently for half an hour. Pass the soup through a sieve, or a tammy ; let it boil up once more, thicken with three yolks of eggs, and add to it the fillets of tench, boned and skinned ; pour it into the soup-tureen. 77. Purée of endive, with liver-quenelles. — Pick and wash seven or eight heads of endive, cut them across transversally, plunge them into boiling salted water, and boil for ten minutes ; drain and refresh them ; press the water out, and chop them ; place the endive in a stewpan with a piece of butter, fry it till all its moisture be reduced; season, and shake over a pinch of flour. Moisten with hot broth, stirring the liquid till boiling; add to it a pinch of sugar, and remove the stewpan back, thus cooking it for twenty-five minutes; pass it through a sieve, thicken the soup with three or four yolks of eggs, finish with a piece of butter. Meanwhile, remove the gall of seven or eight good chicken-livers, chop them, mix with them half their volume of pure veal-kidney suet, chopped also separately ; and an equal quantity of white bread-crumbs, dipped in milk, and pressed. Continue chopping the preparation, till well mixed ; put it into a kitchen-basin, and add to it a pinch of chopped parsley, three whole eggs, a few yolks, and lastly, a pinch of flour; try its consistency, to rectify, if necessary ; divide it then into small parts, which roll over a floured table, into the shape of round or oval quenelles : poach these in salted water, drain, place them in the sonp-tureen, and pour the purée over. 78. Purée of roots, with, cream. — Slice two onions, two leeks, two carrots, a few roots of young cabbage-radish (chou-rave), one turnip, and a celery- root; put these vegetables into a stewpan with a piece of butter; salt, and fry, on a moderate fire, for a quarter of an hour. Moisten with three quarts of broth; add to the vegetables five or six peeled and sliced raw potatoes, and a sprig of chervil : continue boiling till the vegetables be done, pass them through a sieve ; bring the purée to ebullition, stirring with a spoon, and at the first bubbling, take it off the fire, and thicken with six yolks of eggs, diluted with half a glass of good cream, adding moreover a piece of fresh butter ; this being done, pour it into the soup- tureen. Serve separately some 'croutons’ of fried bread. 79. Purée of chestnuts, with sausages. — Roast slightly four or five dozen chestnuts, peel, both of shell and skin, put them into a stewpan, pour over some broth, to boil ; then pass them through a sieve. Put this purée into a stewpan, dilute it with hot broth, stirring it on the fire till boiling; remove it back, and add to it five or six small fresh or smoked sausages, continuing the