ON ‘ THE ARTISTIC COOKERY.’ 589 to allow of its general adoption. Nevertheless it is deserving the attention of‘gourmands.’ There is certainly a more practical, and perhaps less troublesome way, which seems to diminish the danger, at the same time that it keeps up appearances ; namely, to place the dishes on the table, carved accord- ing to the method of the service à la Russe, hut pla- cing them on hot-water dishes in the symmetrical order of the service à la Française. This method, which may be called mixed, would in some measure reconcile the exigencies of cookery with the symmetry and rigorous luxury of the table. The carving, care- fully done in the kitchen, would not materially in- jure thephysiognomy of the dishes, and much precious time would in this mannner be saved, for they would be handed round ‘as soon as taken off the table’. We are then presented with hills of fare for every possible occasion, from a bal d’en/ans to a dinner served at the coronation of a king. The menus of the dinners, actually served at the tables of the various reigning sovereigns of Europe, are interesting. The following is from Windsor: Famille Royale d’Angleterre. Potages. A la tortue—Consommé aux quenelles. Poissons. Turbot bouilli, éperlans frits. Soles à la matelote Normande. Relevés. Filet de boeuf aux nouilles. Poulardes à la Royale. Entrées. Rissoles de volaille à la d’Artois. Mauviettes farcies au gratin. Côtelettes de mouton à la Soubise. Fpigrammes de volaille aux haricots verts. Fricandeau à la chicorée. Boudins de brochet, sauce homard. Rôts. Faisans, ptarmigans, ortolans. Relevés. Beignets de griesz. pudding Nesselrode. Salsifis frits. Croquembouchc. Crème de riz au Entremets. Galantine de poulets. Petits babas chauds. Bavarois au chocolat. jus Side Table. Roast beef, roast mutton. {Diner servi au palais de Windsor par M. Auberlin, avec le concours de MM. Thion, Gouffê, &c. duc.) The engraved plates follow in order, giving designs for hot Hors d’Œuvre, Hâtelets, Fish Re- moves (12 plates), Removes of Meat, Removes of Poultry, Hot Entrées, Cold Pieces (30 plates), Entremets (hot and cold), Pastry pieces, Dessert, &e. Many of the pieces are of the most elaborate character, requiring the skill of the modeller, as well as the knowledge of the cook, for their construction ; and the entire work is calculated for the service of those, who are sufficiently affluent to command the highest and must luxurious style of artistic cookery ; and to such we may say the work is indispensable. M. Dubois promises two other treatises on differ- ent branches of his art —one of which, Cosmopolitan Cookery, may, we hope, come within the scope of those who are not millionaires ; for his directions are so practical and sensible, that we rather regret his services should he solely at the disposal of the upper ten thousand. The Queen, and Lady’s Newspaptr, Mar. 5, 1870. ‘THE PROGRESS OF GASTRONOMY. A country place for the unmolested pursuit of gastronomic science! The stew-pan singing under learned eyes : and March violets battling for the mastery with truffles ! A beginning is being made, at length, and at the right end. Not many months ago some horseflesh banquets were given, which did infinite harm to the cause of hippophagy in England, because they tried to prove too much. Horse beef is not better than ox- beef: nay, it is not nearly so good. The horse steak is lean ; horseflesh generally lacks fat, and therefore the rich juices of the ox. To ally truffles with the poorer and drier beef of the two : to fry with horse fat or marrow, that which should fall only into the sweetest oil, is to commit a gastronomic blunder, and to put horseflesh to a ridiculous test. If ‘with wine, not oil, we feed the lamp of life:’ it is with oil—and the finest and sweetest—we inspire the enthusiasm of the gourmet. That which the hippophagists had to prove was, that horse beef was very much better than no beef at all : not that it was the best beef. In hold- ing epicurean banquets, with a pony for the pièce de resistance, a kiud of criticism was challenged, which should have been shunned. Francatelli, busy over a pony, while there is fine ox-beef to he had, is in a false position ; and it is with sound reason, that a Gouffé and a Dubois would disdain to spend their science on the ‘noble animal,’ while the butcher was able to furnish them with prime cuts from the ox. But the value of gastronomy—the most elaborate and the daintiest—is beyond question, in a state of society, where the economy of food is of vital impor- tance, and where the habits of men have lessened the robustness of appetites. He who steadily pursues the lessons of the kitchen ; who invents new flavors ; who introduces, as a food, that which we had been accustomed to tread under foot as a weed ; is a good social servant. That such servants are cropping up in England is a fact of good augury ; and that such books as the handsome volume before me, by M. Dubois,* find a welcome in England, is evidence of a new gastronomic appreciation, which the thoughtful and cultivated should delight in noticing. The experi- mental spirit has been awakened, and gastronomic courage has been shown among the leaders of a better, more various, and a more economic kitchen, than the little, coarse, and dear one, to which Igno- rance has hitherto limited the majority of my coun- trymen. I have a letter under my eyes from one of the most enthusiastic and daring of our English gastro- nomic savants and reformers. ‘I have taken a country- place lately,’ he says, ‘very much with the view of being able to experiment in cooking comfortably.’ * Artistic Cookery. A Practical System, for the use of the nobility and gentry, and for public entertainments. By Urbain Dubois. Longmans.