COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 354 side of the fire, and cover. When the meats are half-done, add to them half a pound of streaky bacon in squares, and a garnish composed of small onions, carrots, and turnips, whole or divided, according to their size, and blanched : turnips and onions may besides be slightly colored in a frying-pan on a brisk fire. A quarter of an hour after, add to the stew two dozen small raw potatoes, turned to the same size ; season, and continue cooking. On the other hand, blanch half a cabbage, and divide it in small parts ; which braise. Ten minutes previous to serving the stew, mix in it the blanched livers, divided in pieces ; then dish the meats up on the centre of a dish, and surround with the vegetables and small groups of cabbage. 800. Shells of fat-liver, with mushrooms. — Cut up in dice half or three parts of a fat-liver ; put this ‘salpicon’ into a stewpan, with half its volume of cooked mushrooms, also in dice ; season, and keep it covered. Pour into a flat stewpan about three gills of ‘béchamel’-sauce {see No. 1G2), re- duce it on the fire, stirring with the spoon, and add to it, by degrees, a few table- spoonfuls of melted glaze ; when the sauce is succulent enough, without being too thick, mix with it the ‘salpicon’. Warm the preparation, without letting it boil, and fill with it ten table-shells ; smooth the top, sprinkle over bread-crumbs, and sala- mander. Then dish up the shells on a folded napkin. 807. Goose’s fat-liver, Périgueux-sauce. — Get a good fat-liver, not steeped in water, divide it into scollops, as regular as possible ; which season with salt and pepper; flour, dip into beaten eggs, and bread-crumb them. Pour half a pound of clarified butter into a thin flat stewpan, warm it, and place in it the scol- lops ; which fry, on a brisk fire, on both sides ; when of a nice color, take them off the fire, dish them in a circle, and pour in the centre some ‘Perigueux’-sauce, thus prepared : Perigueux-saiice. — Peel five or six raw truffles, previously brushed, and picked with care ; cut them up in small dice, and keep them covered. Pour into a flat stewpan three gills of brown-sauce, and a few tablespoonfuls of good veal-stock ; add to it a part of the truffle-trimmings, set the stewpan on a brisk fire, and boil the sauce, stirring; when reduced one third, introduce into it, by degrees, the third of a glass of good madeira ; strain the sauce over the truffles, then let it boil for two minutes, and remove it off the fire. 808. ‘Croquettes’ of rice, Italian fashion (D. 148). — Prepare a ‘salpicon’ with half of a cooked and cold fat-liver, put it into a kitchen-basin, and add a third its volume of truffles, cut like the liver.