BUTCHER’S MEAT. — VEAL. 207 When time to serve, plunge them into hot hog’s lard, by small quantities at a time, fry them nicely; then drain, and dish them on a folded napkin, with fried parsley round. 483. Fried calves’ ears, tomata-sauce. — Take four calves’ ears, half i cooled in their stock ; drain, wipe, and divide each of them in four parts ; which place in a kitchen-basin, season with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley ; Hour the pieces ! one by one, dip them into beaten eggs, and bread-crumb. Ten minutes previous to serving, plunge them into plenty of hot hog’s lard, in i small quantities at a time; when of a nice color, drain, and dish them in pyramids; pour on the bottom of the dish a little well-seasoned tomata-sauce. 484. Calves’ brains, With sorrel. — Get three calves’brains, very fresh; as nothing is more disagreeable and unwholesome, than a brain deficient in this respect. Trim away the outer skin, cover them, and steep them in water for two hours, changing the water several times. Boil two quarts of water with a handful of salt, a bunch of parsley garnished with thyme and bay-leaf, half a glass of white vinegar, a sliced onion, a piece of celery-root, peppercorns, and cloves Five minutes after, put the brains in, and boil them for twelve minutes. When ready to serve, drain them carefully with a skimmer, butter them slightly all over with a paste-brush, and dish them, in a triangular way, on a garnish of sorrel, taking care to place the roots towards the centre of the dish. 485. Calves’ brains, ‘à la matelote’. — Trim three very fresh calves’ brains, put them into boiling water, take them out two minutes after; wipe them on a cloth, and divide each into two parts. Mince one carrot and two onions, add ten ounces of blanched streaky bacon in small squares, a few sprigs of aromatics, two pimentoes, a few cloves, and a handful of trimmings of mushrooms; moisten the whole, with two glasses of red wine, cover the stewpan, and reduce the liquid one fourth ; then add thereto the brains ; boil them for seven or eight minutes ; pass the liquid, through a sieve, into another stewpan ; skim off the fat, reduce it to half-glaze, and thicken it with a little brown- sauce. Add to the sauce a dozen raw middling-sized mushrooms, boil it covered for a few minutes, mix with it the brains, the bacon, two dozen small glazed onions, and the same of blanched olives ; simmer the Tagout’ for a few minutes. Dish the brains on fried bread-Troûtons’, and surround with the garnishes. 486. Calves’ brains, with hot ravigote-sauce. — Boil three calves’ brains, proceeding, as in No. 484 ; drain them on a cloth, dish them, and mask them with the following sauce :