COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 514 and gooseberry-jelly, send up separately a boatful of English-cream, flavored with vanilla. 1152. Apple-‘charlotte’, German fashion. — Peel fifteen fresh ren- net-apples, mince them, put them into a stewpan with a few spoonfuls of water, cover them, let boil till the liquid be reduced ; sweeten them, add a piece of cinnamon, and a bit of lemon-zest, let them boil, stirring, till the preparation has reduced to marma- lade ; then take it off' the fire, remove the zest, as well as the cinnamon ; mix in a handful of currants, the same of preserved cédrat cut in small dice. An hour previous to serving, butter a ‘charlotte’-mould, to line it with bread- crumb, in the same condition as indicated at the No. 1148. The mould being garnished, fill its hollow with the warm apple-preparation ; cover the top with a round slice of bread, set the mould on a little baking-sheet, push it into the oven ; bake the ‘charlotte’ for thirty-five minutes ; as soon as the bread is of a nice color, turn the ‘charlotte’ out on a dish, and serve. 1153. WGStfalta— charlotte . Cut fitteen apples into quaiteis j peel, pare, and mince them ; put them into a stewpan with nearly half a pound of melted butter, toss them on a brisk fire, until their moisture be reduced; sprinkle over a few handfuls of powder-sugar, add a little lemon-zest, a piece of cinnamon ; cook them for a few minutes, then take them off the fire. Dry, then pass through a fine sieve, a pound or a pound and a quarter of grated bread-crumb of brown-bread (pumpernickel), place this bread-crumb in a flat stewpan with half a pound of hot butter, which fry for a few minutes, to get it dry ; then pour the preparation into a kitchen-basin, add a little chopped zest, two tablespoon fuis of cinnamon-sugar ; let it absorb half a glassful of malaga or madeira wine ; work it for a few minutes with a spoon, thus getting it consistent ; and with it mask a well- buttered ‘charlotte’-mould, all around and on the bottom, giving the preparation full half an inch thickness, but pressing the bread hard. Fill the hollow with the warm apples, cover it on the top with a round slice of buttered bread; place the mould on a baking-sheet, and push it into a moderate oven; bake the ‘charlotte’ for forty minutes; when taken out of the oven, introduce the blade of a knife between mould and ‘charlotte’, which turn out on a dish, and sprinkle over fine sugar. 1154. ‘Charlotte’, Russ fashion, with pine-apple. — Spread with paper a ‘charlotte’-mould. With finger-biscuits, pointed on one side, form a rosette at the bottom of the mould, laying the biscuits on with their glazed side. Cut straight, on ends and sides, some other biscuits : notice, they must be just as long, as the mould is high ; place these biscuits side by side, and in an upstanding direction, against the sides of the mould, laying them on likewise with their glazed side. Embed the mould on ice.