292 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY'. The meal is composed specially of cold meats: poultry, game, hams, sausages, veal, (no fish) ; with these meats are served some baba-cakes cooked in moulds, others in thin baking-sheets ; these last are of square form, and sprinkled with almonds. The number of dishes, and the species, vary according to the countries, and arc evidently optionally variable. But what is rigorously required, is: the cooked salt, the cheese decorated with currants, the colored hard-boiled eggs, a sucking-pig, stuffed and roasted, a lamb modeled in butter, placed on an imitated book, and holding between its fore-paws a Greek cross. The cheese, served at this repast, is simply some fresh white cheese ; pressed in a cloth, then pounded with a piece of butter, slightly sugared, and mixed up with a few spoonfuls of raw cream. It is afterwards passed through a sieve, and kept a few hours in a wooden mould, in the shape of a square pyramid ; this mould is without bottom, it is composed of four movable pieces, mounted by the aid of grooves, and bearing, on at least two faces, a cross encrusted. Before moulding the cheese, the interior surfaces of the mould are spread with a fine cloth. When the cheese is taken out of the mould, its angles are decorated with currants. For cooking the salt, it has to be first pounded, then diluted with a white of egg, thus forming a firm paste; then wrapt up in a cloth secured with string, and set in the fire (not too hot) to cook for three or four hours. When the cloth is consumed by the fire, the salt forms a white calcined lump. It is then pounded, and placed in the salt-cellars. Before cooking the eggs, have a Greek cross drawn on the shells, with the aid of a fat substance (soap), and then plunge them into water, colored with cochineal or saffron, to boil and color them red or yellow. The Russians eat the eggs with the purified salt. All the dishes, composing this solemn repast, ought to be blessed by the priest (called ‘pope’) before they can be offered to the family or the guests. This is on the whole what constitutes the ‘béni’. The Russians never omit or fail to celebrate it, not only at home, but wherever they are sojourning at Easter-tide : this is the reason, why I have thought it useful, to give a succinct, but sufficient description of it. SUMMAKY OF TIIE DOUBLE PLATE OUT OF TEXT 105 — Buisson à lu marinière. 106 — Capon of Lully 107. — Salmon of Vat el.