245 BUTCHER’S MEAT. — MUTTON. Two hours previous to dinner-time, roast the saddle, at a good tire, basting with the fat of the dripping-pan. Twenty minutes before taking it off the fire, remove the paper, and let it take a nice color; draw it off the spit, dish it up, surround it with a garnish of round potatocroquettes’, small glazed carrots, and french-beans in lozenges, each of which garnishes in small groups. Send up separately a sauce- boatful of good reduced gravy, and a dish of mashed potatoes. Fig. 86. Carving. — Contrary to the general rule, in England the slices off the saddle are cut lengthwise, as indicated by the black lines in the drawing ; not too thin, and served in very hot plates, with a little of the gravy flowing from the meat. 573. Mutton stew, Persian way. — Cut up the meat of a leg of mutton in squares of an equal size, season highly, sprinkle over a sliced onion, add the juice of a few lemons, and let all macerate for two hours. Drain, and put the meat into a stewpan with fat, which fry on a brisk fire, to set; moisten with broth to three-parts its height, and boil it on a slow fire, with live embers on the lid. When the meat is about done, skim the fat off the cooking-stock, add to the stew a handful of shred almonds, dried in the oven, and a few dozen dried prunes, pre- viously boiled, and well drained. The meat being done, dish it up, and surround with the prunes and almonds ; thicken the stock with a little syrup of raisins, finish with the juice of a few lemons, and pour it over the stew. This is a dish, which assuredly will not be appreciated by every body; but it may, to a certain point, give a notion of oriental cookery. 574. Stew (ragout) of mutton, with potatoes. — Mutton-stew is a popular dish of France, and in spite of its simpleness, is really good, when carefully prepared. For its preparation, the breast and shoulder-pieces only are used, some- times both pieces together. Choose the meat rather fresh, trim the skin away, and some of the fat, if there be too much ; divide it in middling-sized squares, without boning it ; put them into a stewpan with good toppings, and not bed.ter ; set the stewpan on a brisk fire, fry the