550 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 1216. Grenades with cherries. — Cut in two seven or eight little dinner-rolls, of well set firm crumb ; trim each of these halves, to give it the shape of an egg, by removing the crust ; let them soak in cream, with sugar and vanilla, mixed up with a few yolks of eggs ; drain them with the hand without injuring their shape, dip them in beaten eggs, bread-crumb them, and allow to take a nice color in the frying-pan with clarified butter. Drain them again, sprinkle over sugar flavored with vanilla ; dish them, pour over a cherry-sauce prepared thus : Cherry-sauce for ‘entremets’. — Put into a skillet two handfuls of sour cherries without stones or stalks : add four or five tablespoonfuls of powder-sugar, a glass- ful of red wine, a little stick of cinnamon, a half-zest of lemon ; let the liquid vigo rously bubble up a few times, then thicken it with a few tablespoonfuls of potato- flour diluted with cold water. 1217. Ramazan-cakes (malibe), Turkish fashion. — Dilute half a pound of rice-flour with two glasses of milk ; pass the preparation, through a sieve, into a stewpan ; let it boil on a moderate fire, stirring ; put enough sugar, let it reduce for seven or eight minutes, then add a few drops of extract of roses, or of jessamine; turn it out on a round baking-sheet, previously moistened with cold water, giving it nearly an inch thickness ; smooth its surfaces. The preparation being cold, sprinkle over fine sugar, and then divide it into small cakes, either round, oblong, or lozenge-shaped. 1218. Anise-cakes. — Beat five whole eggs with a pound of sugar; the preparation being frothy, introduce a pound of flour, and a pinch of anise ; take the preparation up with a spoon in small portions, which place at distances on a buttered baking-sheet ; keep the baking-sheet for twenty-five minutes in the warm-closet, bake the cakes in a moderate oven. 1219. Saint-Honoré-cake, with cream (D. 270). — ‘Choux’-paste: — Pour into a stewpan a glass of water, add a little salt, a pinch of sugar, a piece of lemon-zest, not quite a quarter of a pound of butter ; let the liquid boil, then take it off the fire. Remove the zest, and immediately introduce half a pound of flour, thus forming a smooth and consistent paste ; which dry on the fire for four or five minutes ; change the stewpan, and introduce one by one four whole eggs, as well as a quarter of a pound of butter. Spread over a tart-sheet (tourtière) a flat of short-paste of eight or ten inches, and cut it round. Introduce the ‘choux’-paste into a silk-bag, and push all round the flat a string the thickness of a common sausage: egg {dorer) the paste, prick the centre of the flat, push the tart-sheet into a moderate oven. With the remainder of the paste push on a baking-sheet, with the bag, some little ‘choux’, round in form, and bake them in the oven.