418 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 939. Hare with cream. — This preparation is common to Germany, Holland, Russia, Poland, and even to the north of France; but it is greatly to be regretted, it is not more generallyused. Get a good hare, skin and draw it ; slip off the shoulders, and cut off the fore-part of the hare to the beginning of the loins, trim the skin away from the fillets and thighs, to lard them with bacon; bone the thick part of the thighs, so as to bring them close together, securing with string, and running them through with a wooden skewer; place the hare in a roasting-pan, salt slightly, pour over five or six ounces of butter, push it into a hot oven, and roast it for twenty minutes, basting often with its fat; moisten then with a pint of good sour-cream, and finish cooking it, basting, always with its own liquid. When done, place the hare on a dish, pour into the roasting-pan a gill of gravy, let the stock boil, stirring with a spoon, until reduced enough to thicken, as a light sauce, but of a good taste ; pass it then over the hare. The sour-cream may be replaced by good double-cream ; if so, as soon as the hare is cooked, thicken the sauce with a little kneaded-butter, add a few tablespoon- fuls of meat-glaze, and reduce, introducing into the sauce a little good vinegar. In Germany, the hare thus prepared, is accompanied by a ‘compote’ of bilberries (preiselbeeren). 940. ‘Terrine’ of hare, with truffles. — Peel carefully seven or eight good raw truffles, cut them up in quarters, and keep them covered. Take out the meat from the shoulders and legs of a hare, trim away the sinewy parts, cut it up in pieces, which put in a frying-pan with melted rasped bacon, the liver and lungs of the hare, a pinch of chopped onion, and the peel of the truffles ; fry the meats on a brisk fire, to set them ; let them cool in the frying-pan, chop them afterwards, and put them into a mortar, with the same volume of fresh fat-bacon, and a quarter that of lean pork, both previously chopped ; pound the meats until converted into paste, season, and place them in a kitchen-basin. On the other hand, having taken out the fillets of hare, pare away the skin, cut them in middling-sized squares ; add the truffles, and season ; pour over four table- spoonfuls of cognac, and the same of madeira; let them macerate for two hours. Take a pie-dish (terrine) proportionate to the quantity of preparation, mix meats and force-meat well up, and with them fill the ‘terrine’; cover the top with bacon, then with a flat of common paste; set the ‘terrine’ on a baking-sheet, and push it into a moderate oven, to bake for an hour and a half; after which, take it out of the oven, and let it cool. When about to serve, remove the paste, wipe the ‘terrine’ well, remove the fat, covering the preparation, which cut in slices ; set the ‘terrine’ on a dish, and surround it with aspic-jelly.