COSMOPOLITAN COOPERY. 130 it with its stock; take it out with a skimmer, and place it on an oblong dish, which keep at the entrance of the oven ; now mix a little broth with the liquid, boil it a few minutes, pass it through a sieve, and skim off its fat. Add to it a gill of madeira, boil, and thicken it with cold diluted potato-flour. Add to it a tablespoonful of scraped horse-radish ; pass the sauce, through a sieve, over the fish, and garnish each side with well drained and cooked sour-crout. 306. Carp with beer. — This dish, of German origin, is very much esteemed on that side of the Rhine. Choose a middling-sized live carp ; scale it, split it in two, divide each half transversally, removing as much of the bones as possible. If the carp has a soft roe, this should be blanched separately. Butter the bottom of a flat stewpan, cover it with a layer of sliced onions, ou which place, side by side, the pieces of carp, having removed the gall-stone, and cut the head in two. Salt the fish, add to it a piece of chopped celery, a bunch of parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, peppercorns, cloves, and a piece of gingerbread the size of the hand, previously cut in small dice. This done, moisten the fish with beer*, set the stewpan on a sharp fire, boil the liquid for seven or eight minutes ; then draw the stewpan on a moderate fire, to finish cooking the fish. The sauce should be a little thiekish, of a nice color, and good relish. Range the pieces of carp on a hot dish, with the soft-roes blanched, skim the fat of the sauce, and pass it, through a sieve, over the fish. 307. Fisherman’s carp. — Cleanse two middling-sized carp, divide them transversally in pieces ; which place in a large bowl of greater width than height, add a sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, peppercorns, cloves, and a piece of dry bitter orange-peel. Moisten the fish, till covered, with red wine, and boil it on a brisk fire, in such a manner, that when done, the stock is reduced to half. Meanwhile, slice three or four large onions, fry them with oil in a frying-pan until of a nice color, sprinkle over them a pinch of flour ; moisten them, by degrees, with the stock of the carp ; boil it gently. When the onions are done, add the pieces of carp, neatly pared ; let them simmer for ten minutes, and finish the sauce with a little vinegar. 308. Slice of tunny fried, Provence fashion. — Cut a slice of tunny, not too thick, salt, and flour it slightly. Heat some oil in a frying-pan, in which put the slice, and fry it on a moderate fire, turning it; then drain it, remove the skin, and dish up; remove the oil from the pan, wipe it, and pour into it a * Any kind of beer being light, will do for this purpose : in Germany the (Weiss-bier) white beer is employed.