COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 120 of garlic ; fry these vegetables, moisten them with a bottle of white wine and a little broth ; add some salt, cloves, and peppercorns ; boil the liquid ; to which add a small clean ‘sterlet’ cut in pieces, as well as a few small trout of ‘gashina’, also cut in pieces; cover the stewpan, and boil the fish on a brisk fire, for twelve or fourteén minutes ; remove the stewpan off the fire, pour the stock into a flat stewpan, passing it through a tammy. Skim the fat off the liquid, mix it up with a dozen raw button- mushrooms, as well as a few spoonfuls of melted glaze, and reduce it one third ; thicken with kneaded-butter, to obtain a light sauce ; to which add the pieces of fish, and two dozen small blanched and well glazed onions; let it boil, then remove it on to a slow fire, and let the fish simmer for seven or eight minutes ; pile them up on a dish, surround them with fried bread ‘croutons’, and two dozen small ‘que- nelles’of fish poached at the moment, dished in groups, alternated with the onions and mushrooms. Finish the sauce by introducing a small piece of crayfish-butter, and five ounces of good butter in small bits ; baste the fish with this sauce, and send it up. 287. Trout ‘à l’épicurienne’. — Take a trout weighing about two pounds ; scale, draw, and wipe it well ; set it on a narrow and deep gratin-disb, buttered at the bottom. Salt the fish slightly, surround it with a few trimmings of truffles, and a bunch of parsley ; moisten with two glasses of madeira, and cover it with a buttered sheet of paper. Boil the liquid, cover the dish, and boil the fish, until its liquid be reduced to half; pour the stock of the trout into a small stewpan, add to it a few spoonfuls of meat-glaze, and thicken with a piece of kneaded-butter, in order to obtain a light sauce ; boil it then a while, and pass, it through a sieve, over the fish ; which surround with two or three raw chopped truffles. Ten minutes after, take the trout carefully out, and slip it on to a warm, oval dish, group the truffles round ; finish the sauce by introducing (off the fire) a little piece of anchovy-butter, some parsley, and the juice of a lemon ; pour it over the trout, and serve. 288. Skate, piquant sauce. — The skate is a fish, very popular in France; and though neither siicculent nor delicate, it may be owned, that many amateurs prefer it to some other kinds of higher renown. In England skate abounds likewise, and is sold by the fishmongers, cut up in stripes (crimped), and of extra- ordinary whiteness ; yet they are never served at an aristocratic table. Skate ‘bouclées’ are the most-esteemed sort, they are called‘bouclées’, on account of the kind of buckles with which their skin is covered. Skate should not be partaken of too fresh, that is, when just caught ; as it would prove rather tough. Therefore it is allowed to soak for a length of time, more or less, according to the season. Pour five or six quarts of water into a flat stewpan, add to the liquid two minced onions and a celery-root, a bunch of parsley, garnished with many aromatics,