422 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 946. Leveret ‘sauté’, Provence fashion. — Divide a leveret into pieces of an equal size ; which put into a flat stewpan with melted bacon, three small onions, a few sprigs of parsley, garnished with aromatics, and a clove of garlic. Set the pan on a brisk fire, fry the meat for seven or eight minutes, then remove the pan on to a moderate fire, placing hot ashes on the lid. When the pieces of meat arc nearly done, baste them with a gill of white wine, and a little glaze; let the liquid boil till about reduced, then take the pieces up with a fork. Put into the stewpan four peeled and chopped tomatas, freed of seed, and ten ounces of soaked raw ham in dice : when the tomatas have evaporated their moisture, baste them with a few tablespoonfuls of brown-sauce; take out the onions and aromatics, add a pinch of pounded pimento, and mask the pieces of hare with this sauce. 947. Hare, Bavarian fashion. — Skin a good hare, slip the fillets off the back, bone the hind-and fore-legs, cut up the meat in large squares, which lard with fillets of raw truffles, and season with salt and spices. Chop eight ounces of fresh fat-bacon, melt it in a stewpan, strain it into a small earthen-stockpot ; then arrange therein the squares of meat in layers, alternating them with a handful of streaky bacon in small dice. Sprinkle over each layer of hare and bacon a handful of rasped bread-crumb, and continue thus. Add some aroma- tics, moisten the whole to height with good Rhine-wine, close the stockpot, and solder its lid with paste ; set it on the fire ; as soon as boiling, remove the stock pot on to hot ashes, stewing the hare gently for four hours. Afterwards dish up the meats; carefully skim the fat away from the stock, and strain it over the meats. This simple preparation is not without its merit. 948. ‘Civet’ of hare. — The ‘civet’ (or stew) of hare is a national dish of France, it is generally well prepared all through the country ; but I must own having found it best in Provence ; perhaps because the hares, feeding on the aromatic plants of the mountains of this rich country, possess more flavor. This dish, in its homely simplicity, is nevertheless excellent, when prepared with care. For a ‘civet’ it is not quite necessary, that the hare be very young, it is sufficient, if it be in full flesh. Skin and draw a hare, putting carefully by the liver, lungs, and heart; gather the blood into a kitchen-basin, mix with it the juice of one lemon, or a little vinegar, thus keeping it liquid ; divide the hare in middling-sized pieces, which season with salt and pepper. Chop half a pound of fresh bacon, melt it in a stewpan ; when hot, add to it the pieces of hare, and a large onion studded with cloves, a few pepper- corns, and a few sprigs of aromatics composed of thyme, bay-leaf, and wild thyme.