COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 264 baste with two or three tablespoonfuls of melted glaze, reduce the moisture to glaze, and glaze the cutlets ; put a ruffle on each bone, and dish them up in a circle, on a border of potatoes, poached, and turned out on a dish. Fill the centre with a mushroom-purée, surround the base with a chain of little musrhooms. 619. Lamb-cutlets, ‘à la bouchère’. — Pare fifteen lamb-cutlets (see No. 418), season, roll them in clarified butter, and bread-crumb. Ten minutes previous to serving, set two cutlets on a gridiron, and broil them on both sides on a good fire. When done, glaze them with a paste-brush, and put a ruffle on each bone. On the other hand, cut four or five large gerkins in ‘montglas’, I mean as a large ‘julienne’; place them in a stewpan, add double their volume of cooked mushrooms, the same of ox-tongue, and lamb’s liver, all of which in ‘montglas’. Thicken these garnishes with four tablespoonfuls of brown-sauce, worked with a little glaze, and finished with a little cayenne. Warm the ‘montglas’ without allowing it to boil. When ready to serve, dish up the cutlets in a circular order, pour the ‘mont- glas’ in the centre. 620. Lamb-cutlets, with pease. — Pare twelve cutlets ; season, dip them into beaten eggs, to bread-crumb; place them in a stewpan with clarified butter, and fry them nicely on both sides ; then dish them up in a circle. Boil quickly half a quart of green-pease in salted water ; drain, put them into a stewpan with five ounces of good butter, season with a point of nutmeg, and a little sugar; toss them (off the fire) until the butter be quite melted, and fill with it the centre of the cutlets. 621. ‘Crepinettes’ of lamb-cutlets. — Pare a dozen lamb-cutlets, keeping the rib-bone short; beat, season, and range them in aflat stewpan with clarified butter, to fry over a brisk fire, turning. When three-parts done, add to them four tablespoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs, and the same of raw truffles in dice; then moisten with a few spoonfuls of madeira, which reduce to a glaze ; remove the stewpan back, take up the cutlets on a dish, and then add to the fine-herbs half their volume of cooked force-meat (see No. 521). On the other hand, steep a piece of pig’s caul {crépine), spread it on a cloth, and divide it into squares, in which wrap up the cutlets, masking them on both sides with a part of the fine-herbs preparation ; fold the pig’s caul over the cutlets, enclosing them entirely; this done, butter, bread-crumb, and broil them on both sides, on a moderate fire ; dish them up, and pour on the bottom of the dish a little ‘Perigueux’- sauce.