COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 70 diverse elements, prepare some very complete lean (maigres) dinners, distinguished as well as succulent. With fish are prepared soups, ‘hors-d’oeuvre’, removes, hot and cold entrees, and even roasts. A primary rule, to be applied to the majority of fish, is, to cook them very fresh. Some of them, even, only give satisfactory results, if killed a moment previous to cooking. The English, generally greatly esteeming fish, have adopted a par- ticular sauce to each of its species, with which they invariably serve it. I consider it of some interest to make them known to the European public. With turbot, lobster-sauce, or prawn or shrimp-sauce, is generally taken : with boiled salmon, parsley-sauce ; often accompanied by cucumber- salad: to cod, oyster - sauce : whiting with mackerel requires egg-sauce, cooked parsley-sauce, or some gooseberry-sauce. Fried fish ; as whiting, sole, trout, smelts ; must have anchovy-sauce, that is to say, a sauce finished with anchovy-butter, or essence of anchovies. 166. Kadgiori of turbot. — This dish is of Indian origin, but is likewise often served in England. Take out the fillets of a small raw turbot, cut them into large dice, and fry them with butter on a sharp fire for two minutes only ; season, and remove the stewpan back. Chop one onion, fry it with butter, without allowing it to take color, mix in a pound of rice, previously washed, and drained on a sieve for one hour ; a few seconds after' moisten it three times its height with fish-broth ; then boil it on a sharp fire for ten or twelve minutes, and keep the stewpan at the mouth of the oven, until the rice be about dry. Now add to the above the turbot, and a little cayenne pepper, a few tablespoonfuls of white-sauce, as well as three chopped hard-boiled eggs. Dish the whole, and baste it with a little brown clarified butter. 1(17. Turbot, English way (D. 10). — Select a very fresh and white turbot, draw it, trim away the fins all round, and score it, on the black side, along the back-bone ; then let it lie steeped in cold water for one hour; drain it, truss its head, and place the fish on the drainer of a turbot-kettle, with its black side downwards. Add thereto two handfuls of salt, cover it with cold water, and set it