COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 458 until tender, which will take three or four hours. When one meets with bad cooking pease, a bit of ammoniac (the size of a lentil) may be thrown into the water; this acid, no way injurious to the health, will help sensibly the softening of the pease; the question is, not to use it to excess. 1022. Endive (‘chicorée’). — Chicoi •y, or endive, is divided into several sorts: garden-endive, endive-proper, ‘escarole’, and wild-endive or succory : crisped endive being the best. Get twelve heads of white and fresh endive, remove the green leaves, keeping only the tenderest parts; which cut up, wash in several waters, and plunge into salted boiling water. The endive being done, drain it in a colander ; when cold, press it out between the hands to extract all its moisture, chop it, put into a stewpan with butter, and fry for a few minutes, stirring; then sprinkle over two tablespoon- fuls of flour, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; moisten, by degrees, with broth, gravy, or cream ; and cook for a quarter of an hour, stirring often, so that it may not stick to the bottom of the pan. The endive, thus cooked, may be served, either as garnish, or ‘entremet’; in the latter case, surround it with ‘croutons’ of fried bread, or of puff-paste, as well as with eggs boiled soft or poached. 1023. Cauliflower fried. — Divide a cauliflower in small flowrets, pare off their stalks, boil them in salted water, keeping them a little firm. Put them into a kitchen-basin; season with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, oil, and lemon-juice; half an hour after, drain, flour, dip them in beaten eggs, and plunge them into hot fat ; when of a nice color, drain, and serve them up on a dish. 1024. Fried artichokes, Italian fashion. — Get very tender arti- chokes, trim the bottom, leaving only the tender green leaves. Split each of the arti- chokes in two, lengthwise ; mince these parts, and put them into a kitchen-basin ; season with salt and pepper, and thus let macerate for three quarters of an hour; drain, flour, and dip them into beaten eggs ; plunge into plenty of hot fat, so as to give them a fine color ; dish them on a folded napkin. 1025. Omelet, with artichokes. — This dish is excellent, when pre- pared with fresh, tender artichokes, free of fibrous parts. Trim away the green leaves, cut off the others to half their height, and divide the artichokes, each in two parts ; cut each half into thin long slices, which put into a frying-pan with butter, season with salt and pepper, fry them on a moderate fire, turning them ; when done, take them off the fire, and drain the butter. Break up eight or ten fresh eggs into a basin, season with salt and pepper, beat them quickly for a few seconds ; add a pinch of chopped parsley, and the cooked