374 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. in dice, and a few raw peeled truffles in quarters ; season the preparation with salt and spices, baste it with a few tablespoonfuls of madeira, and let it macerate for two hours. With the aid of a small flannel-bag- containing some flour, sprinkle the sides of a Strasburg cold-pie mould, plain with hinges (see D. 162); set it on a baking- sheet covered with paper. Roll out the two-thirds of the paste into a round flat, one inch thick ; with this flat, form a round case by pressing the sides between the fingers, and raising them to three inches’ height ; put this case into the mould, close it, and make the paste rise against the sides, by pressing it with the hands, keeping its whole surface of equal thickness ; this being a main point. When the paste comes above the rim of the mould, or half an inch higher ; spread the sides, and the bottom of the case, with a layer of the prepared force-meat; then fill the cavity, alternating the pieces of pheasant and of force-meat, raise the preparation in a dome-like way; mask it first with a thin layer of force-meat, then with a flat of paste, which solder care- fully with that of the rim of the pie, equalise it, and pinch it all round the top. Orna- ment the dome with rounds of paste, leaving a hole on the centre ; then take the mould out, by opening the hinges, and pinch it regularly all round, in the way shown by the drawing ; egg the top of the pie, surround its sides with sheets of strong paper, (if not handy, of half paste-board) slightly buttered ; tie them tightly, to prevent the pie from coming out of shape while cooking; cover it now with common paper, and push it into a moderate oven, to bake for three hours. Half an hour after, being taken out of the oven, pour in at the top two gills of good aspic-jelly, mixed up with two tablcspoonfuls of glaze, and of madeira. Let the pie cool completely before serving. .844. ‘Pain’ of pheasant, ‘à la montglas’. — Prepare a ‘quenelle’ force-meat of pheasant in the conditions prescribed in No. 831 ; work it for a few minutes in a kitchen-basin with a spoon, introducing into it gradually a few table- spoonfuls of melted glaze ; with this force-meat fill a plain or fluted border-mould, previously well buttered; shake (tasser) the mould over a cloth, to equalise the force-meat, set it in a stewpan with hot water, reaching to half its height, to poach the force-meat at the ‘bain-marie’, allowing the water to boil : forty minutes will do. On the other hand, peel three or four black truffles, boil them with a little sherry or madeii’a. Cut them as for a‘montglas’ (see No. 712); and add the same volume of cooked mushrooms, and of pickled tongue, cut like the truffles. Place this ‘montglas’ in a stewpan, and keep it hot. With the back-bones of the pheasant, a little white wine and gravy, prepare a simple bi’own-sauce, not too thick ; skim- ming off the fat, pass it into a stewpan, add the trimmings, and the liquor of the