COSMOPOLITAN COOKERT. 52 conger-eel. Moisten with two quarts of water and a bottle of white wine ; add a few sprigs of parsley, and set the stewpan on a sharp tire, to boil the whole briskly for twenty-five minutes ; pass then the broth through a sieve. Further, slice a large onion and a leek, fry them in butter, add to them the square pieces of turhot well drained ; salt slightly and fry them for a few minutes, sprinkle them with two tablespoonfuls of flour, and the same of curry-powder, toss them up for a while, and moisten gradually with the prepared broth. Stir the liquid until boiling, then remove the stewpan back on a moderate fire ; fifteen minutes later, take the fish out with a skimmer, remove the bones and black skin, lessening the thickness of the pieces ; place them in the soup-tureen. Thicken the soup with four yolks of eggs, diluted with cream ; pass it through a sieve, finish with a piece of butter, and pour it into the soup-tureen. 144. Uka ( K)xa)-S0up. — The ‘uka’ (ioukha) is the national soup of the Russ ‘gourmets’ ; it is prepared with live little sterlets, killed and immediately cooked. This fish does not exist in England, nor in the other countries of western Europe ; therefore it is impossible to serve this soup in the same conditions as in Russia. But if no sterlet is to be had, the ‘uka’ may be prepared with good trout of a middling size, living in clear and abundant waters. An indispensable condition is, that the fish be killed at the moment when wanted. Prepare two quarts of good fish-broth, according to the method prescribed in the preceding article, with perch and tench. Cut in ‘julienne’ the roots of parsley and celery, let them blanch slightly, drain them well, let them fry with butter for ten minutes on a very mild fire ; drain the butter off them, and reduce to glaze with a little ‘consommé’. Prepare two dozen little whiting ‘quenelles’ with crayfish-butter. Take the fish-broth, drained of its fat, and passed through a sieve : it must be nearly cooled. Chop a pound of raw whiting or pike flesh, add to it a handful of whitebait, or any other very fresh little fish; moreover add a whole egg, a glassful of good white wine, and two tablespoonfuls of madeira. Mix this preparation up with the broth, in order to clarify it, proceeding just as for a ‘consommé’: this operation must be done, but a little while previous to serving-time. On the other hand, take two or three middling-sized trout alive, very fat, and of fine red flesh. Kill the fish, remove their heads, as well as the thin parts of the tails ; then divide the body in thick pieces ; carefully cleanse these pieces of fish, spunge them well on a cloth. The fish-‘consommé’ passed through a sieve, put part of it into a flat stewpan, add a gill of champagne, let it boil, then plunge the pieces of trout into the liquid. At