78 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. cayenne, and thicken it, off the fire, with six ounces of butter in small pieces. Dish up the crayfish, and send the sauce up separately in a sauce-boat. 181. Muscles à la marinière. — Take the muscles, one by one, to remove the stringy parts adhering thereto, taking care to throw away those which are broken, or already opened ; steep them in acidulated water, wash them several times, and drain them on a sieve, or in a colander. Put four or five dozen muscles into a stewpan with a glassful of white wine, a bunch of parsley, garnished with aromatics and a clove of garlic not peeled ; set the stewpan on the fire ; cover it, and give the muscles from time to time a jerk until they open ; then remove the pan back, drain the liquor into a kitchen-basin, and let it settle. Now chop a large onion, fry it in a stewpan with butter, without allowing it to take color ; moisten with the liquor of the muscles, previously decanted ; add a little wine or broth, a pinch of pepper, and a piece of kneaded-butter, so as to thicken the sauce slightly ; then pour the muscles in, after having removed the most part of the shell. Add to the above a piece of butter; jerk the whole, off the fire, until the butter be dissolved ; finish with a pinch of chopped parsley, and send up in a deep dish. 182. Muscles, Bordeaux fashion. — Wash several times a few dozen good muscles, trim away the stringy part corresponding to the inside; put them into a stewpan, and toss them on the fire a few minutes, to open them. Shred into julienne’ one carrot, one onion, and a piece of celery-root ; place these vegetables in a stewpan with a piece of butter, fry them gently, and moisten with a little broth, which reduce to a glaze. Then moisten with a glass of white wine, let the liquid boil a while, thicken it with a piece of kneaded-butter, add a point of cayenne, a little of the ‘muscles’ liquor, and the muscles, after having removed the half of the shells. Warm the sauce for two minutes, without letting it boil, and send up on a dish. 183. ‘Pain’ of whiting, Paris way (D. 15). — Cut up in pieces a pound of whiting’s flesh, without skin or bones; pound, and pass them through a sieve ; take three parts of its volume of panada, prepared with rice-flour, a little salt, and a piece of butter ; put it into a mortar, to pound it well ; add by degrees the whiting’s flesh, and at the same time ten ounces of good butter, and four raw yolks of eggs. Then season the force-meat, put it into a kitchen-basin, work it for a few minutes, and try a small part of it in boiling water, to rectify it, as required. With this force-meat fill a buttered border-mould, and poach it in the ‘bain-marie’. With the remainder of the force-meat mould some small ‘quenelles’, and poach them in salted water. With the bones and heads of the fish, two hand-