COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 474 minutes after, toss truffles and artichokes (in the salad-bowl), thus mixing the seasoning well up. This salad is indeed worthy of bearing a great name. 1070. Salad of black truffles, Russ fashion. — Peel a few raw truf- fles, put them into a stewpan, with a little madeira ; salt, and boil for four minutes ; then mince them, put them into a kitchen-basin, season, and pour over a little oil; cover them, and keep them thus for ten minutes. Sprinkle over a pinch of taragon, chives, and parsley chopped. Thicken the salad with a few tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise-sauce, then dish up in the salad-bowl, and mask it with a layer of mayonnaise-sauce, finished with a tablespoonful of mustard. 1071. Gratinated truffles, with cream. — Peel five or six ràw, well cleansed truffles ; with the trimmings, a little madeira, and a few aromatics, pre- pare a little extract. Pour into a flat stewpan half a pint of good ‘bechamel-sauce : which reduce, and introduce into it, by degrees, the extract of truffles. On the other hand, cut the truffles in small dice, which put into a stewpan with clarified butter; season, and warm quickly; then thicken with the reduced sauce, thus getting a solid preparation, with which fill five or six table-shells ; sprinkle over some bread-crumbs ; baste with butter, and give them a nice color, in a hot oven, or with a red-hot salamander. 1072. ‘Rissoles’, With truffles. — Peel a few middling-sized fresh truf- fles, cut them up in small dice ; which put into a stewpan, with a few tablespoonfuls of madeira ; season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; boil them for two minutes. On the other hand, put into a stewpan a few tablespoonfuls of brown-sauce, rather thick, with half its volume of meat-glaze ; reduce to half, introduce into it the liquor of the truffles ; a few minutes after, add the truffles, take the pan off the fire, and pour the preparation into a kitchen-basin, to cool ; the sauce should be short and thick, so as when cold, to form with the truffles a compact preparation, which divide in round bits the size of a nut ; place these pieces on the edge of a flat of trimmings of puff-paste, and prepare the ‘rissoles’, proceeding as said in No. 820 ; bread-crumb, fry, drain, and dish them up on a folded napkin. 1073. Hot-bed mushrooms, with butter. — The mushrooms (cham- pignons), cultivated in the quarries near Paris, are generally of a good quality, leaving nothing to desire, as to taste, aroma, and whiteness; when cooked in their state of primitive freshness. These mushrooms are a great resource for the Paris kitchens, as they are to be purchased fresh, all the year round. These mushrooms have also the advantage over other species, that they may be eaten fearlessly. Choose mushrooms with short stalks, firm, and of equal size. Cut up the stalks to the level of the heads ; which wash, and pare with a small knife, removing their