COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 4'JO ding, and turn it out on a dish. Warm half a glassful of half rum and half cognac, thicken the liquid with an equal quantity of apricot-marmalade, and pour it over tlic pudding. This pudding is very delicate and excellent eating. 1101. Cherry-pudding. — Work half a pound of butter for ten minutes in a kitchen-basin ; introduce into it, one by one, twelve yolks of eggs, then half a pound of tine sugar. The preparation getting frothy, add a quarter of a pound of brown-bread-crumb, as well as a pinch of cinnamon, and at last seven or eight whites of eggs, whipped very hard. Butter a large, and rather thick ‘timbale’-mould, which bread-crumb ; pour on the bottom a layer of the preparation, on which layer place a-small handful of pre- served cherries, well drained; thus till the mould with alternate layers of the pre- paration and cherries, but without letting the cherries touch the sides of the mould. Place the mould on a baking-sheet covered with live embers, and bake the pudding in a good oven for twenty-five minutes ; turn it out on a dish, the bottom of which mask with cherry-sauce. 1102. Albert-pudding. — Put half a pound of sugar into a kitchen- basin, add to it seven yolks of eggs ; work the preparation as a biscuit-paste. Add about a quarter of a pound of beef-marrow, melted with six ounces of butter ; when the liquid has lost its greatest heat, introduce it gradually into the preparation, and continue working. When frothy, add half a pound of Hour, passed through a sieve, as well as seven whites of eggs well whipped. At last add half a pound of cédrat and lemon, preserved, cut in small dice; as well as half a pound of black currants, previously mixed, and sprinkled over with a pinch of flour, to hinder their going to the bottom. Add a pinch of lemon- and orange-zest well chopped ; pour the pre- paration on a napkin, the centre of which is buttered and floured: tie the napkin together, plunge the pudding into boiling water, and let it continue boiling for full two hours. Then drain and unwrap it, turn it out on a dish, mask it with a chocolate- sauce, or simply with a ‘sabayon’. The quantities here given may suffice for two large puddings. 1103. Semolina - fritters, with gooseberry-jelly (D. 220). — Let boil three glassfuls of milk, add sugar; introduce into it a quarter of a pound of semolina, letting it drop in like a rain-shower; form a smooth, consistent prepa- ration; which boil for a few minutes, stirring; remove it back, introduce into it a piece of butter, one whole, and four yolks of eggs, a little rasped orange-zest. Now spread it all over a small moistened baking-sheet, in a layer, a third of an inch thick. When cold, divide it into rounds (with the twelfth tin-cutter) ; which rounds cut out