OPINIONS OF THE ENGLISH PRESS 590 Imagine an experimental cuisine, with the roses nod- ding in at the windows, and the clematis tickling the nose of the inspired chef! ‘ The last novelties,’ my friend pursues, ‘I have tried, are stewed hedgehogs, and arbutus-tarts. Fatted hedgehogs remind me a good deal of quail : arbutus tarts are capital, but 1 need scarcely say, that nobody lure will dine with me!’ The wonder is , my friend’s neighbours don’t denounce him in the county papers, for an ogre, a brute, and a base glutton. ‘Hedge- hogs,’ he says, — and at this let the reader prepare his prejudiced stomach for a trial— ‘hedgehogs fatten best, I hear, on adders and snakes (of which I have plenty). Themselves, everybody knows, are excellent.’ Baked in clay, the gipsy has long had a kindly tooth for Monsieur Hérisson. My friend appeals to me— ‘What do you think of my introducing Hérissons aux vipères, as a new dish for the 1870 season?’ My country gourmet, whose fat smoke rises amid noble timber, and in a rich valley, is not content with hedgehogs, snake or viper fed. T am fattening a four-year-old donkey for Easter, instead of a Paschal lamb. The last donkey was too young, and had suffered from the colic.’ Nay, but these details are a trifle trying to the most philosophic investigator with his teeth. Turn we to pleasanter prospecting:— ‘A subject that wants light is edible fungi. As far as I know, it is quite the exception, to find a poisonous fungus. I breakfasted on more than a dozen sorts last autumn, and I found them all more or less wholesome.’ The very latest thing from my friend’s experi- mental kitchen, is a pretty recommendation:— ‘You should also try guinea-pig with sunflower- purée.' I must;—and, I think, a few days at least before the Hérissons aux vipères, which I commend to M. Urbain Dubois. But let me turn, from gastronomic prospecting, to the contributions to the progress of scientific cookery which the King of Prussia’s renowned chef has offered to the culinary professors, and the gourmets of England. It is in every respect a masterly and a splendid performance—worthy to stand up on the shelf with Jules Gouffé’s Book of the Kitchen, and M. Dubois’ own Cuisine de Tous les Pays, and his Cuisine Classique. M. Dubois is an essentially liberal- minded chef. He is at home in all kitchens, and can pick something good out of each. In his cosmo- politan work he was bold enough to teach his conti- nental compeers, that England included many noble dishes, and fine table manners, with which they would be wise to make themselves acquainted. He proclaim- ed the delicacy, I remember, of the English rhubarb- tart:— he, who had written and executed the coro- nation menu of the King and Queen of Prussia at Konigsberg, in 1861 In his new volume (the splen- did series of menus of which are worth the price of the entire work, ranging as they do from royal feasts to children’s suppers, and dejeuners dinatoires), he pays a deserved tribute to the care, discretion, and success, with which gastronomy has been cultivated in England, among the wealthy. ‘As respects England,’ he observes, ‘those who have studied its developments, cannot fail to have observed, that the art of eating, in the highest sense of the word, has undergone notoriously progressive transformations. All classes of society furnish their contingents of expert and well-trained epicures; but it is in the higher circles more especially, that the taste for gastronomy is the most widely diffused, and the most highly cultivated.’ This is true of the most refined ; but not of the lower and less educated classes. The deplorable aspect of the English cuisine is in its middle-class and working-class sections. The middle-class kitchen, and the workman’s kitchen, are, throughout England, wasteful, bad, and ridicu- lously limited. There is not an English working- man’s wife who can make a vegetable soup : there is hardly a middle-class kitchen in the kingdom, that can turn out a passable omelet. But when M. Dubois touches on the culinary standard of the kitchens of the rich, he only does them justice. ‘ English cookery, considered in its practical re- sults, and in its rich splendor, stands much higher than its former reputation; and it has in every respect improved, and advanced towards perfection. The tables of the nobility and gentry are served with uncommon opulence, but above all with the nicest care and attention. The viands are varied, abundant, luxurious, and delicate. The kitchens are admirably organised, and richly stored : they are, in fact, per- manent and thriving schools, whence good traditions are continually spreading. If the tables of the middle- classes be still deficient as regards variety, yet it may be said, that the care bestowed on the details, and the manifest character of real comfort presiding at their repasts, make amends for this defect; and besides, here, as everywhere else, improvement becomes every day more visible.’ M. Dubois should make tables of the comparative cost of the kitchens of various nations, which he has examined, and in which he has practised. I am quite sure, that he would find, the limited range of foods in our humbler kitchens, made them the dearest in the world. And, a dear kitchen, I shall always maintain, is a bad kitchen. My friend in the country, who has experimented upon hedgehogs, donkeys, and guinea- pigs, and turned his sunflowers into purée, is, I con- tend, doing good service, even in his most extrava- gant mood; because he is helping to break through the prejudices of ignorance, which limits theEnglish- man’srangeof vegetables, and salads, toahoutadozen plants and roots; and confines his ideas of meat to half a dozen joints. I remember, that when, in con- junction with the late Lord Brougham and others, I was concerned in an attempt to provide the poorest classes with cheap and nutritious dinners, a whole- some , savory ragout of excellent meat was offered to them for a few halfpence—a goodly dish. They would none of it. It was a slop : a suspicious hodge- podge. They must have a slice of meat from a joint —these poor, ignorant starvelings—which could not possibly be ceded to them at less than double the price of the ragout—the nutritive value of the ragout being more than equivalent to that of the slice of mea^. M. Dubois’ remarks on gastronomy in the United States show the wide range of his observation. ‘For- merly,’ he says, ‘the science of good living, the search after delicate viands, were the privileges of the few; now-a-days epicures may be counted by legions. In all countries, among developed nations, and those that seek after the benefits of modern ci-