49 SOUPS. stewpan. Let it boil, add about half a pound of rice, boiled in the fish-broth, but its grain being whole. Ten minutes after, mix with it a pinch of cayenne, as well as the picked prawns’ tails, and pour it into the soup-tureen. 13G. Lean shtchi ( cabbage) - soup. — Put into a stewpan two handfuls of dry ‘cèpes’ (gribouis), previously softened in warm water, two hand- fuls of dry peas, one carrot, a piece of celery-root, and two parsley-roots. Moisten the vegetables with three quarts of fish-broth, let the liquid boil, and afterwards remove it back. One hour and a half later, pass the broth through a napkin. Further, chop one onion, put it into a stewpan with butter, to fry slightly ; add to it four handfuls of washed sour-crout, chopped and well pressed out ; fry it for a few moments, sprinkle over it a pinch of flour, and moisten with the prepared broth. Boil the soup, and remove the stewpan back, continuing to simmer gently for one hour. Then add to the above a quarter of the ‘cèpes’ boiled in the broth, but first cutting them into dice ; thicken the soup with two gills of sour cream passed through a sieve, finish with a pinch of chopped green fennel ; pour it into the soup-tureen. 137. Pilau of sea-crayfish, Marseille fashion. — Choose two or three I small live sea-crayfish (langoustes), wash and cut them up in pieces, after having J removed the small claws. Chop one onion and a piece of the white part of a leek, fry them with oil, without allowing them to take color, add the sea-crayfish ; fry them for a few ' minutes, moisten with two quarts offish-broth, let it boil for ten minutes, and throw in some rice (a gill of rice to a pint of broth). Add, moreover, a pinch of bay-saffron S and a point of cayenne; continue boiling until the rice be well done, though not too i compact. Afterwards, serve the rice and the sea-crayfish on the same dish. 138. Bisque of crayfish, Nauheim fashion. — Choose two dozen live crayfish, put them into a stewpan with a little salt, a bunch of parsley garnished with aromatics, and a few peppercorns ; moisten with a glass of good white wine, and a few spoonfuls of tomata-sauce, or a few fresh cut tomatas. Cover, and boil them for ten minutes ; then drain, take out a part of the tails, and pound the remainder of the ! crayfish with six ounces of rice boiled dry with broth. Dilute the preparation with the crayfish liquor, and a quart and a half of meat or fish-broth ; pass the soup twice, j season highly, warm it well without letting it boil, and add to it the crayfish-tails cut ' in pieces, and a pinch of cayenne. Pour the soup into the tureen; and send up separately some small ‘croutons’ of bread fried in butter. 139. Provence Bouillabaisse soup. — When a ‘bouillabaisse’ soup is | to be served for dinner, without being an obstacle to serving also a remove of fish; I this soup must be prepared thus. i