574 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. ‘meringue’, adorn it with the comet, and immediately push the stewpan into a brisk oven, only to set the ‘meringue’, and allow it to take a light gold color. Immediately take the dish out, wipe it well, and send it up without delay. 1268. Pumpernickel-ice. — Grate half a pound of brown-bread of Westfalia (pumpernickel), let it dry, pass it through a colander, thus to get it very tine, soak it with a little syrup. Prepare a vanilla ice-cream ; when perfectly set, introduce into it two tablespoonfuls of whipped sweetened cream ; dilute the pumper- nickel with a little of the frozen preparation, into which immediately introduce it (in the ice-box). Work the ice for a few moments more, let it get firm, and dish. 1269. Rice, Béarn fashion. — Blanch half a pound of rice for six or seven minutes, drain, and put it back into the stewpan ; moisten it with warm milk, let it cool on a moderate fire ; when very tender and dry, add the requisite sugar, stirring with a fork ; cover the rice, and keep it thus until nearly cold, then mix up with it half a glass of maraschino. On the other hand, set a dome-shaped mould on a layer of pounded and salted ice ; cover the mould, and also surround it with ice. When well cooled, put the rice into the hollow, doing so in layers, and sprinkling over each layer, preserved fruits cut in large dice, washed in tepid water, and having macerated in maraschino for one hour. The mould being rilled, cover it, first with a round of paper reaching beyond the rims, then with its own lid; solder the junctures with either butter or paste, leave the preparation on ice for an hour. When about to serve, wash the mould quickly in tepid water, wipe, and turn the rice'out on a cold dish. 1270. Iced rice-milk, Spanish fashion. — Pick about a pound of good rice ; wash it, plunge it into boiling water to half-cook ; drain, and put it into a> stewpan ; finish cooking it with milk, but keeping it a little more liquid, than is usually done ; let it nearly cool, then add to it a pint of syrup, orange-flavored, at 30° R. 98° F. and a glassful of good raw cream, in order to diminish its con- sistence ; pour it into an ice-box embedded with salt, but only very slightly ; stir the rice from time to time, without turning the ice-box. As soon as it is well cooled, that is, after the lapse of twenty-five or thirty minutes, dish the rice. Surround it with quarters of orange, pared ‘a vif’. 1271. Neapolitan ‘mousse’ (D. 290). — Boil half a pound of sugar ‘au lissé’ (28° R. 95° F.) pour over five whipped whites of eggs, thus preparing an Italian ‘méringue’-paste. Its greatest heat being gone, gradually introduce into it six tablespoonfuls of good kirsh, and two glassfuls of whipped cream ; pour it into a domed*mould, previously set on pounded and salted ice ; cover the mould imrae-