242 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. it slightly, season with salt and pepper, baste with oil, cover with parsley-leaves, and let it macerate for several hours, more or less, according to the season, so as to make the meat quite tender, which is indispensable ; set the meat after- wards on a gridiron, broil it on a moderate fire for twenty-five minutes, turn- ing and basting ; place it on a hot dish, on the bottom of which pour the follow- ing-sauce : Spanish tomata-sauce. — Cut up six tomatas, each in two parts, press out the seed, and divide them into large pieces. Put into a stewpan a sliced onion, one carrot, a clove of garlic, thyme, pepper- corns ; add two tablespoonfuls of lard, fry the ingredients, add to them the tomatas, and moisten with broth enough to cover, which reduce on a brisk fire, without touching with the spoon ; then pour the whole over a sieve, and pass the tomatas through. Put this purée into a stewpan, let it boil ; thicken with a little diluted flour, and remove it back. Cut five ounces of raw ham into small dice, heat them well with butter or lard, add four tablespoonfuls of good vinegar, and mix it up with the tomata-sauce. 566. Shoulder of mutton, stuffed. — Have a shoulder cut, as large as possible; bone it entirely, remove a part of the meat adhering to the skin, without however thinning it too much ; trim away the sinewy parts, off this meat taken out, chop it with half its weight of bacon, and half a pound of raw ham ; season the hash with salt and spices, add to it four tablespoonfuls of fine chopped onion, twice that quantity of mushrooms likewise chopped, two tablespoonfuls of parsley, and five ounces of bread-crumb, soaked in broth and well pressed ; the mince being fine, introduce into it two whole eggs, spread it on the boned shoulder; which roll into an oblong shape; sew, and place it in a stewpan, spread with sliced vegetables ; moisten to its height with wine and broth, start the liquid to ebullition, then remove the stewpan back, braising the shoulder gently for two hours and a half. When ready to serve, drain the stock of the meat, strain it into a stewpan, skim off the fat, reduce it quickly to half-glaze, and pour it over the cooked shoulder ; glaze this nicely at the entrance of the oven. Remove the string from the shoulder, which dish, and surround with a garnish of small glazed onions; add a little white wine and gravy to the cooking-stock; which reduce, and thicken with a few tablespoonfuls of tomata-sauce ; two minutes after, strain it over the shoulder. 5G7. Shoulder of mutton, with turnips. — Bone a shoulder of mutton, down to its thin end ; lard it inwardly with raw bacon, season with salt and pepper, sew the shoulder into an elongated form, and place it in a stewpan garnished with