413 GAME. — LARKS, ORTOLANS. Leipzig. They are the delight of epicures, being as fat and tender as ortolans. The shooting of these birds lasts only for a few weeks ; but then such a large quantity can be taken every day, that it is sufficient to purvey all the great cities of Ger- many. They are bought ready plucked, excepting the head and wings. Cut the wings and the legs at the first joint, pluck the head, pick out the giz- zard; singe them quickly, run them through with small wooden skewers, four to each ; put them into a flat stewpan with butter, salt, and fry them all over on a brisk fire. Two minutes after, sprinkle over bread-crumbs, and push them into the oven, or on a slow fire, with hot embers on the lid, to finish cooking them. Drain them afterwards, dish them up in two rows, removing the skewers, pour the bread-crumbs and butter over ; and serve. 928. ‘Gratin’ of larks. — Draw about fifteen good larks, cut the legs at the joint, split the flesh of the drum-stick, to put in the bone of the thigh, which must not be seen. Fry, over a brisk fire, a few chickens’ livers, with an equal quantity of lean veal ; allow them to cool, and pound them with a little piece of panada, and some chopped fat-bacon. Season the force-meat, pass it through a sieve, and add to it a few table- spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, and a little onion ; then put a part of it into each lark, and with the remainder mask the bottom of a ‘gratin’-dish, on which dish the larks in a conical form ; pour over a preparation, composed of chopped mushrooms, onion, parsley, and bread-crumbs ; baste the larks with a paste-brush dipped in clari- fied butter, and push them into a hot oven, to bake for a quarter of an hour. When done, take them out, baste them with a little good gravy', slightly thickened, and finished with the juice of a lemon. 929. ‘Timbale’ of larks (alouettes), Florence fashion. — With twelve ounces of‘polenta’ prepare a thick batter, proceeding according to the meth- od prescribed in the chapter on vegetables ; finish with butter and parmesan, pour it into a ‘timbale’-mould, and allow it to cool completely; then take it out, empty it, leaving it about half an inch thick at the bottom and sides; wipe the mould, butter it again, sprinkle over bread-crumbs, and put the prepared ‘timbale’-crust in. In the mean time, pluck and draw twenty-four larks, cut away the legs and neck, fill the body with a small portion of raw pork-mince, finished with a few tablespoonfuls of chopped truffles; fry the larks in a stewpan, with rasped bacon, and six ounces of ham cut in middling-sized squares, then moisten them with white wine, which reduce gently to a glaze. On the other hand, fry the backs and bones with lard and a few trimmings of ham ; sprinkle over a little flour, moisten with a pint and a half of broth, and a glass