190 COSMOPC)LITAN COOKERY. 440. Ox-tail broiled, Alsace fashion. — Divide an ox-tail, into pieces three inches long ; which scald, and boil in little liquid without glazing ; let them cool in their own stock, and drain them. When cold, roll them in melted butter, bread- crumb, and broil them on a slow fire for twenty-five minutes ; dish them up on a garnish of sour-crout. 441. Ox-tail, with chestnut-purée. — Get a fresh ox-tail, cut the thickest part into pieces three or four inches long ; which soak for two hours ; after- wards scald them. Garnish an oblong stewpan with trimmings of fat bacon and sliced vegetables, add a few sprigs of aromatics, on which place the pieces of ox-tail; salt slightly, moisten to their height with broth and white wine, covering them with pork-rinds. Start the stock to ebullition, then draw the pan back, put a few live embers on its lid, and braise the ox-tail for five or six hours, adding some more stock from time to time. When done, drain the pieces, range them on a dish, surround them with four groups of chestnut-purée, two of them at the ends, and two on the sides. Dilute the cooking-stock with a little gravy, let it boil, strain, and skim off its faj ; then reduce, and pour it on the bottom of the dish. 442. ‘Tourte’ of ox-palate. — This is a very old entrée, seldom served now-a-days in Paris ; still it is in country use, and may be given sometimes ; being- good, simple, and cheap. Take an ox’-palate, with the muzzle (mufle) adhering to it ; scald, scrape it with a knife to remove the white skin ; singe, and boil it, proceeding as for the calf’s head ; it requires at least five hours’ boiling; when done, drain, refresh, and wipe it well, then divide it into middling-sized squares. Melt in a stewpan, half a pound of chopped fat-bacon, add to it a small chopped onion, fry it without allowing it to take color, and add to it seven or eight mushrooms also chopped. When these have reduced their moisture, add the squares of meat, fry them, season highly, and a few minutes after, sprinkle over a pinch of chopped chives and parsley. Place the meats on a dish, and let them cool. Prepare two pounds of common ‘godiveau’ force-meat, finish it with a pinch of chives ; take half of it, and divide it, on a floured table, forming some small round ‘quenelles’; which poach in salted water, draining them immediately. Spread over a round baking-sheet, a flat of short-paste, moisten its edges, and put on its centre a layer of ‘godiveau’, forming a cavity, and reaching to one inch and a half within the edge. On this ‘godiveau’, place the prepared ‘ragout’ intermingled with the ‘quenelles’, giving it a dome-like shape ; mask the top of it with a thick layer ot bacon, and cover it with a flat, made with the trimmings of puff-paste. Finish the ‘tourte’ as directed in No. 333 ; egg, and push it into the oven. As soon as the paste is colored, cover it with paper. An hour after, slip the ‘tourte’ on to a dish, make