COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 276 over, and sprinkle with a pinch of parsley. Apply the slices, one by one, on some bread-crumbs, and broil them for seven or eight minutes over a brisk tire, basting and turning them over ; then dish up. 653. Lambs’ kidneys, glazed. — Take away the skin, and fat, from fifteen lambs’ kidneys, and divide each of them in two. Put into a frying-pan a piece of butter, and a tablespoonful of chopped shalot ; fry it -, as soon as of a light- brown color, add to it the kidneys, season with salt and pepper, and toss them over a brisk tire ; when set, pour over a few spoonfuls of melted glaze, roll them in it, (off the lire), sprinkle them with chopped parsley, add the juice of two lemons, and place the kidneys on a hot dish, surrounding with fried bread-'croûtons’, glazed with the paste-brush. 654. Smoked ham, Alsace way. — Salted and smoked hams are usually bought ready prepared ; their preparation being a thing more successfully to be executed, in large quantities ; the essential point is, to have them freshly smoked, and coming from a young animal of good breed. Almost all nations possess some districts renowned for their excellent hams, this preference is rather a matter of taste ; the hams of England, America, Hamburg, and Bayonne, seem to bear the palm over all the rest, as hams for boiling : those of Maintz and Westfalia are better, when eaten raw. Epicures, and cooks, have found out many ways of cooking hams; but in a family-kitchen, it is necessary to proceed in the shortest and simplest way. The method hereafter described, may be practised in all countries, without much expense or trouble. Cut out the thin end-bone of the ham, trim away the surface of the meat affected by the smoke, and soak it, for two or three hours, in cold water ; place it afterwards in a large stewpan, moisten with a sufficient quantity of water to cover, set it on the fire, and bring it gradually to ebullition ; then drain off the water, replacing it by tepid water ; add to the ham a few vegetables, cloves, peppercorns, and aromatics, but no bay-leaf ; set the stewpan again on the fire ; at the first bubbling, remove it back, letting the stock but gently simmer, for three hours and a half ; after which take the pan off the fire, and let the ham remain, for three quarters of an hour longer, in its liquor. When ready to serve, drain it, remove the thigh-bone and the rind, pare the meat at its thin end, smooth while paring the fat of the upper surface, and cut it with a knife so even underneath, as to secure it upright; glaze with a paste-brush, and dish up; surround it on both sides with good sour-crout, and on both ends with boiled potatoes. Send up separately a boatful of madeira-sauce.