FOWLS. POULTRY. 313 them with about a pint of good broth ; which reduce gently to half, cooking at the same time the garlic. Now thicken the liquid with a handful of dry, and pounded bread-crumb, add to it the pulp of two bitter or Seville oranges, cut in slices, but free | of peel or pips ; simmer the sauce for a few minutes, add a little gravy of the roast, skim off the fat, and pass it through a sieve ; then send up the sauce with the pullet. 724. Pullets’ livers in cases. — Get eight fat livers of pullet, remove the gall, plunge them into boiling water, to poach without ebullition ; drain them on i a cloth, pare them slightly, and divide each of them in two. Take a few chickens’ livers; fry them with lard, together with the trimmings of the pullets’ livers; let ; them cool, and pound them with an equal quantity of fat bacon chopped tine. Season the preparation, and pass it through a sieve; then add to it two tablespoonfuls of ‘quenelle’-force-meat, and four of cooked line-herbs, onions, mushrooms, and truffles; introduce into it a few spoonfuls of melted meat-glaze, and with half of the pre- paration mask the bottom and sides of eight small (either square or round) paper- cases, previously oiled. Twenty-five minutes previous to serving, fry quickly the pullet-livers in a frying-pan, with a little butter, and two tablespoonfuls of white wine ; the wine being reduced, remove the livers, set them on a plate, and baste them with a paste-brush dipped in glaze. Divide then each half-liver in two, and place two of these pieces in each of the cases, mask them at once with another layer of force-meat, and lay , the cases on a small baking-sheet ; cover them with a piece of oiled paper, and warm them at the entrance of a moderate oven, for eighteen or twenty minutes ; then take them out, pour over a little reduced brown-sauce, and dish them up. 725. Terrine of pullets’ livers. — Peel four or five raw truffles, cut them in large dice, and lay them in a kitchen-basin, with six ounces of cooked fat- bacon, likewise cut in squares ; add to it ten or twelve good fat pullets’ livers ; season the meats with salt, spices, and fine-herbs pulverised ; baste them with a tablespoonful of madeira. .Slice half a calf’s liver, put it into a frying-pan, with two or three table- spoonfuls of rasped and melted bacon, a tablespoonful of shalots, and the trimmings of truffles ; season with salt and pepper, and fry them on a brisk tire, till well set. Moisten it then with four tablespoonfuls of madeira ; and two minutes after wards, take it off the fire, letting it cool ; then pound, and put it in a basin. Take the same quantity of fat bacon ; chop, pound, and mix it with the pounded liver ; season the preparation highly, and pass it through a sieve. Mask with thin slices of bacon the bottom, and all round the sides, of an earthen pie-dish (terrine à pâté)] which spread with some of the liver force-meat, then fill with the pullets’ livers, the bacon and truffles, arranging them in layers alternated with force-meat ; mask similarly the top with bacon, lay on it a bay-leaf, and cover the