570 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. bring the liquid to ebullition, skimming carefully ; then immediately take it off the lire, and let it cool. Add a half-zest of orange, cut off the rind in very marrow strips, as well as the juice of four or live oranges, and two lemons. This done, if the pre- paration were tried by the syrup-scale (pèse-sirop), it would give 21° or 22° (70—81); this being the standard degree* for fruit-ice. Any one, who is not competent to judge the degree of the sugar by touch, must certainly recur to the surer indications of the syrup-scale. The preparation being of the degree desired, pour it into the ice-box or ice- machine previously embedded (sanglée) ; which close, and stir vigorously for live or six minutes ; then (with the aid of an ice-spattle) shave off the sides and bottom of the ice-box, thus detaching the frozen parts; continue turning the ice-box, detaching the preparation off the sides and bottom, until it has got the consistence of cream. Then work the ice only with the spatula, but so that the ice-box turns at the same time ; to bring this about, it suffices to introduce the spatula vigorously and by shocks, between the sides and the bottom of the ice-box. If one wish to understand well the working of ice, one must be ever mindful of the truth, that the more the ice is worked, the more it will become smooth, elastic, and creamy : an ice, full of knots, is a failure. The ice being ready, let it rest for a few minutes in the ice-box, then distribute it in glasses, or dish simply in a rock-shape on a folded napkin, surrounding it with small dry cakes. Should ice be wanted to be served moulded, then spread any mould with paper, put it into a bucket, surround with pounded and salted ice, let it be well frozen (frappée), and then till it with the ice, pressing it close, thus tilling all the space. Shut the mould with its lid, lute its joints, sprinkle over salt, and keep it thus for halt an ho.ur. At serving-time, dip the mould in cold water, wash it well, remove its lid, then turn the ice out on a folded napkin. 1259. Palermo-ice. — This ice, of which I have eaten recently at Palermo, is one of the best, and most distinguished ones, of all I know. Swell about a pound of pistachios, as fresh as possible to be got, quit them in a mortar, with a handful of sugar, and pound. Dilute with two pints of nearly cold English-cream ; let it infuse for half an hour ; pass the preparation through a sieve, and let it freeze, proceeding as said No. 1258. The salted ice must be applied by layers into the hollow between the bucket and the basin (cuvette) of the machine. Moreover each layer of ice must be sprinkled over with salt. Notice, that all the layers of ice must be pressed close, beating them with a piece of wood. * By dissolving a pound of sugar with two glasses of water, and letting the liquid boil up, may be obtained a syrup giving 30° to 31° (R. 100 —102° F).