COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 548 On the other hand, take fifteen ‘choux’-cakes of round shape, and middling size ; open them from below, and fill the hollow with a ‘bavaroise’-cream, prepared with strawberries, thickened on the ice. Close the cakes, and dip them one by one, into cooked vanilla icing-sugar ; let the icing drain a little, and immediately dish the cakes into the flawn-case, raising them in a pyramid ; as soon as the ici is cold, the cakes ought to be sticking fast together. This cake is original and excellent. 1212. Dutch-cakes. — Let me recommend this simple but good cake, to be served with ices, or with tea. Prepare a puff-paste, with a pound of flour, and three quarters of butter ; give it six turns ; when set, roll the paste out nearly half an inch thick, divide it into rounds, of two inches diameter, or rather more, with a tin-cutter channeled, as for large ‘bouchées’. Spread a layer of powder-sugar on a table ; take up the rounds of paste, one by one, dip one of their sides into the flour, the other into the sugar ; place them on the table with their sugared side up, and roll the rounds out again, giving them a length of four inches ; arrange them on a baking-sheet on their floured side, and at little distances, one from the other. Bake them in a moderate oven, giving them a nice gold color. 1213. Portuguese cakes. — Put into a kitchen-basin half a pound of flour, and six yolks of eggs ; work the preparation with the spoon, till frothy. Pound four ounces of almonds with one white of egg, pass them through a sieve into a kitchen-basin, add to them a pinch of orange-sugar, and dilute them with the juice of four oranges. As soon as the biscuit-preparation is frothy, carefully add to it four ounces of potato-flour. Now introduce into it the almonds and the orange-juice, as well as the six whipped whites of eggs. Pour the preparation on a baking-sheet with an up-standing border to it, which baking-sheet is buttered, and covered with paper ; spread the preparation in a layer an inch thick, and bake it in a moderate oven. The biscuit having cooled, pare it on the top, and mask on this side, first with a thin layer of apricot-marmalade, then with a layer of orange icing-sugar ; divide the cake immediately into long squares, let the glaze dry. Orange icing-sugar is prepared with sugar passed through a silk sieve, mixed with sugar rubbed against the peel of an orange, then grated ; this sugar is diluted, to the degree desired, with some orange-juice : this proceeding being of the utmost simplicity. 1214. Snowball-cakes (D. 268, 269). — For the preparation of these cakes, two or three moulds of round form, the size of an orange, must be at disposal.