277 BUTCHER’S MEAT. — PORK. Carving. — A ham served hot, gains much by being carved at table. For this purpose, it must be supported with the carving-fork in the left-hand, then the fine 'noix’, or piece of meat which is found beside the bend of the knuckle-bone, must be first carved in slices, cut across the grain or fibre of the 'noix’, that is, from the top right downwards; when this thicker part has all been served, cut from the top in slanting slices, thus obtaining them with fat adhering. Hams that are served cold, may be carved before-hand. In this case, if it is wanted to be kept in form, the upper part must be slipped off whole, at one stroke, to the depth of the bone, beginning at the joint, and going to the extreme end ; this is then divided into two pieces, which are sliced transversally. 655. Ham, English fashion (D. 100). — Choose a Yorkshire-ham of good quality, and freshly smoked; soak it for a few hours, scrape it, and boil in Fig. 100. water, proceeding as prescribed in No. 654. When ready to serve, drain it on a baking-sheet, trim away two thirds of the rind, forming some flutings with the point of the knife on the part left at the thin end ; smooth the upper surface of the fat, round it all nicely ; then remove a large piece of the centre of the ham, which cut up in slices, and put back into its place. Then set the ham on an oblong dish ; surround it on both sides with a garnish of 'rissoles’ with truffles ; arrange, at one end, a group of boiled french-beans, and on the other, one of glazed carrots. Put a ruffle on the end-bone, glaze it, and send up separately some madeira-sauce, reduced with trim- mings of truffles. 656. Epicures’ ham. — Get a fresh and small Tonkin-ham, coming from a young animal ; salt it for a fortnight, in sousing-brine, mixed up with a little salt- petre ; smoke it for two days, then wash it, trim away the rind, and so much of the surface of the meat, as had been discolored by the smoke ; bone it entirely ; place it in a kitchen-basin, add to it two sliced shalôts, and two onions also sliced, a pinch of thyme, a little basil, and marjoram ; pour over two bottles of red burgundy wine,