BILLS OF FARE. XIII In course of practice, a well composed and well understood bill of fare, must above all be clear, precise, and correct. It must be easy of com- prehension, but above all scrupulously accurate. Tlie materials, brought to the composition of the dinner, must lie various and distinct, but especially distributed skilfully, and in such a manner as to prevent their being- confounded. The series of dishes must be classed in order, and be con- formable to those corresponding with them ; every dish must be of a par- ticular character, distinguishing it clearly, both by shape and foundation, from the one preceding or following it. As to the sauces, they must be of various nature, flavor, and color, 'flic least error traced here, gives token of inexperience, and may endanger the ultimate success of the total. But it may happen, that the best composed bill of fare, and even a dinner artistically prepared, by some unforeseen emergency, are subjected to ulterior modifications; the want, or deficiency, of a material depended on ; a chance accident ; are obstacles, the cook often has to battle with ; but a bill of fare cannot be denounced as a falsehood, a dinner cannot be said to have failed, if one dish is replaced by another; the great point being, that it is replaced suitably, that is, that the nature of the newly introduced dish, ought not to clash with the rest of the dinner. Well, this does not give an insurmountable obstacle for an intelligent cook : the instinct of danger, the cool sense and that assurance inspired by the consciousness of an impor- tant task, will always triumph over such momentary embarrassments. From all that is here said, it must be gathered, that the studying of bills of fare may on no account be slightly regarded by cooks: on the con- trary they should bestow on them all the care and attention, of which they are capable. And they will learn best, how to compose them according to the rules of practice, by means of calm consideration, and by way of comparison. In order to popularise this branch of study, I have reproduced here a series of authenticated bills of fare, coming from the remotest countries, but composed by men, whose experience proves the best guarantee. These bills of fare are not all of them established according to the same principle; a matter easily to be explained by the different methods applied to the service of the