ON ‘THE ARTISTIC COOKERY.' 591 vilisation, the most enlightened minds are the most fervent worshipers at the shrine of good taste. In confirmation of this, the United States furnish the most striking examples that can be adduced; and if we consider the progress effected in so short a time in culinary and gastronomic art in that country, it may be predicted, that at no distant period, it will be numbered among the highest in repute.’ Take the American cuisine, as developed in Ame- rican hotels. Where the Englishman has one food, — one dish, his American cousin has a good dozen. And New York boasts, at least, one establishment, that does not fear, in its cuisine, competition with any chef or chefs in the world. The first merit of the scientific, artistic, and prac- tical work, which M. Urbain Dubois now offers to the epicurean public of England, is its thorough genuineness. It has been said, that a perfect cookery- book must have been compiled on the corner of a stove : M. Dubois appears to have been guided by this dictum. ‘In examining the ornamental subjects contained in this collection,’ he warns the reader, ‘ many per- sons may be inclined to suppose, that they are simply sketches proceeding from the pencil of an artist of a capricious imagination ; and it is to provide against this erroneous interpretation, that 1 think it neces- sary to inform my readers, that the greater number of these pieces wereexecutcd in the kitchens of Their Majesties the King and Queen ofPrussia. This being the case, the designs may be considered as actual documents, and not as problems yet waiting to be solved; since they have either been engraved from the subjects themselves, or have served as models for their execution.’ Timbales, croustades, côtelettes, paupiettes, grenadins, hâtelets in extraordinary variety, : are all engraved with exquisite delicacy. Oreilles de veau à la Périgord are a perfect picture ! The pre- liminary article on the service of the table—on the service à la Française, and the service à la Russe (the service à l’Anglaise, being merely a modification of the Française), is full, and draw n from the customs and rules of the greatest tables. The whole work, in short, consists of teachings from experiences accumulated patiently, intelligently, and with a high sense of the dignity of the culinary art, in the pa- laces of kings. I add M. Dubois’ explanation of his plan, of which this copious and brilliant volume is only the first part. ‘But in order to dispel all misapprehensions, as to the real scope of this collection, the style of which might appear too elevated, it is well to observe, that it is but the first step, towardsacomplete work, that 1 intend publishing in England. Culinary art, both in theory and application, is a vast field : its limits arc unbounded, its details infinite: to treat it thoroughly in a single work, it would be necessary to compare its various methods, which wc know are modified, in practice, according to the situation in which wc arc placed. It is to obviate this confusion, that I have divided my work into three principal parts, of which each is to form a particular study. This first essay will, therefore, be succeeded by two other publications, in which the various theories of the modern school will be found recapitulated : these books w'ill be complete in one another, caeh of them maintaining its distinctive character.’ I shall hope to see, before M. Urbain Dubois has put aside his pen, such a comparative view of the tables of the various civilised nations as I have in- dicated; together with a manual, bearing the autho- rity of his European name, for humble kitchens of taste. For taste in eating is profitable, both to the stomach and to the purse; and may be advantageously cultivated by the humblest citizen, as well as by princes, who can command the Dubois, and the Gouffés. Fin Bec. Gentleman’s Magazine, March, 1810. ARTISTIC COOKERY : a Practical System suited for the Use of the Nobility and Gentry and for Public Entertainments. By Urbain Dubois, Chef de Cuisine to their Majesties the King and Queen of Prussia, etc. Longmans, Green, and Co.— We have received the ‘Practical System of Artistic Cookery’, which in style and matter is worthy of its title. It is splendidly illustrated ; and the care and detail, into which every branch is carried, bear wit- ness to the writer’s conviction ; that cookery is both a science and an art, and that his book has within it ‘elements that necessitate serious and profound study.’ This large volume, with its eighty pages of elaborate illustrations, is but the first part of a com- plete work ; and if, in thus bringing good taste and refinement in cookery to perfection among the higher classes, the author succeeds in raising the standard of wholesome and inviting food among the English generally, his work will have a wider use- fulness than might at first seem likely. One of his axioms for all cooks is, that in some departments ‘weight, quantity, and number, are absolute laws.’ Yet he says also, ‘a man must possess an enlightened and infallible intelligence, an incessant attention, and his taste must be refined and delicate ; practice must be his instructor; he must know the reason of difficulties, as well as how to meet them ; and, in a word, he must possess the intelligence that creates unlimited resources.’ M. Dubois’s English is very good on the whole, though not lacking in the piquant mistakes which Frenchmen so often make. He informs us that ‘shad exists in the Atlantic*, in the Ocean, and in the Mediterranean.’ British Medical Journal, Mar. 12, 1870. ARTISTIC COOKERY. This book is an evidence of the encreasing taste of the age in which we live. The way in which people dine, is a sure index of the progress they have made in civilisation. Our ancestors, who had steaks and ale at six in themorning for breakfast, and made their principal meal at noon , simply devoured then- food. They never dined, or understood the art of dining. The poor French king, who died shortly after his marriage with a young wife, because he changed his dinner-hour in consequence from half- * The learned Journalist is quite correct as to the quo- tation criticised, but will be glad to learn his inference to be mistaken. Surely the book’s world-wide reach of geographical notices may well acquit its Author, and rebut a seeming charge of so crass ignorance : being, in truth, an error, purely typographical ; a simple case, (not quite un- known to far more learned, even sacred writings,) of intru- sion, in the course of copying or printing, of a marginal or double reading; a correction, by mistake, left battling with | a phrase corrected: thus, for 'Ocean', read 'Atlantic.'