164 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. above all must this rule be carefully regarded, respecting any butcher’s meat. A roast joint served on a cold plate or dish, loses considerably in its tine qualities. It is to avoid this danger, that intelligent ‘gourmets’ have set the warm entrees and removes on hot-water dishes. All butcher’s meat, served as a remove, and destined to be carved at the table, must be left ungarnislied; it being then preferable, to dish the garnish separately ; but if the removes are intended simply to figure on the table, and then to be carved on the side-board of the dining-room, no reason can oppose their being garnished abundantly, nay even coquettishly, but above all with good taste and intelligence. Ha vino- omitted to o-ive a separate article regarding the carving of C) D I O © o meat on the table, I have, with each one of the articles, given precise directions how to proceed. • 383. English sirloin of beef (D. 56). — Roast-beef is a dish top well known, too frequently prepared in the English kitchens, to require a minute description ; I will therefore content myself with some general remarks. If one wishes to eat good roast-beef, one must not only choose a loin {aloyau) coming from a young animal, but give this meat moreover time to improve, to ripen ; as the meat of beef, destined for roasts, never can be tender, if cooked too fresh. In the kitchen of an ordinary household a whole sirloin is not frequently pre- pared, as these luxurious abundant pieces are reserved for dinners, where there is a great number of guests. Moreover it is not every where possible to get a sirloin roasted to perfection. Let it be assumed, that the piece of roasting beef weighs twelve or fifteen pounds. This piece must be cut off from the centre of the sirloin ; but notice, that neither the smaller (mignon) fillet, nor the fat attaching to it, must be disengaged from the under side. The piece must be slightly trimmed, then bound with thread, and wrapped up in a piece of buttered paper: this being the means of having it roasted well, without giving the outside too high a color. The piece should be brought on the spit with as little piercing through as possible. The meat must be basted frequently, while cooking ; but notice, not with water, but only with good fat. The time requisite for the roasting of a sirloin of fifteen pounds, depends on the thickness of the meat, as well as on the degree of its tenderness ; generally about three hours may be fixed on ; the ‘more’ or ‘less’ is left to the appreciation of him