FISH. 125 295. ‘Tourte (tart) à la marinière’ (D. 36). — Spread on a round baking-sheet a flat of short-paste ; seven or eight inches in diameter; trim it neatly, and wet its edges with a paste-brush. Cut a stripe of puff-paste (made at six turns) of half an inch thick, an inch and a half wide, and long enough to stretch all round the flat; place this stripe, round the moistened part of the flat, on a level with its edges ; lap both ends over, after being- moistened ; then score the stripe on its outside with the hack of a knife, and egg the top surface. Mask the bottom-flat, inside the border, with a round of buttered paper, on which set a ‘eharlotte’-mould ; push the 'tourte’ into a hot oven (180 degrees), and bake it until nicely colored, and the paste dried: it will take twenty-five minutes. When taken out of the oven, remove mould and paper, slip the ‘tourte’ on to a dish, and keep it hot. With about a pound and a half of raw pike-flesh, prepare a ‘quenelle’ force-meat, proceeding as said in No. 244. With this force-meat, mould, on a buttered paper, four large ‘quenelles’ of an oval shape; adorn them with truffles, and poach them in salted water. With the remainder of the force-meat, prepare some small oblong ‘quenelles’, rolling them on a floured table ; poach them also in water, drain them when set, and put them into a flat stewpan, with three dozen crayfish-tails, two dozen blanched and pared oysters, and a few boiled button - mushrooms cut crosswise. Moisten these garnishes with a pint of fish ‘velouté’-sauce, worked with some mush- room and oyster liquor, and thickened afterwards with a few yolks of eggs. Warm the ‘ragout’ without letting it boil, and fill the ‘tourte’ with it, set the four large ‘quenelles’ on the top, scrollwise, alternated with a'nice crayfish, and place on the centre a whole truffle. 290. ‘Noix’ of turtle, English fashion. — Get one of the fleshy parts {noix) of the turtle ; pare it into a regular form, and lard it with fillets of anchovies ; season and put it into a kitchen-basin with sliced vegetables and aromatics. Pour into a small stewpan two gills of vinegar, add to it a few peppercorns and cloves, set the stewpan on the fire, and reduce the liquid one fourth ; let it cool, and pour it on