233 BUTCHER’S MEAT. — VEAL. strong, tepid aspic-jelly, and a few spoonfuls of melted glaze. Pour the preparation into a stewpan, stirring it on ice to thicken it ; as soon as it is ready, take it out, add to it four or live spoonfuls of cooked truffles, cut in dice, and the same volume of cooked pickled tongue, also in dice ; pour immediately the preparation into a plain cylindrical mould embedded in pounded ice. Fig. 83. One hour after, dip the mould quickly into hot water; wipe it, arid turn the 'pain’ out on a cold dish, the sides of which glaze with half-set aspic-jelly ; decorate with some rounds or crescents of truffles, and spread the bottom of the dish with aspic-jelly. « 548. ‘Pain’ of calf’s liver, German fashion. — Take a piece (about a pound and a quarter) of a good calf’s liver; scrape it with a knife, removing the sinewy parts; pass it through a sieve, season with salt and pepper; add a small pinch of very fine chopped onion, as well as a little parsley. Put ten ounces of butter into a warm kitchen-basin; work it with a spoon like cream, and add to it, one by one, seven or eight yolks of eggs. The preparation being light and frothy, add to it a pinch of flour, three handfuls of fresh rasped bread-crumbs, and at last the liver ; season, and try a small part of it in a tartlet-mould, which poach in the oven. Butter a large plain cylindric mould ; bread-crumb, and till it with the prepa- ration ; set the mould on a small battered sheet with a little water, cover its top with buttered paper, and push it into a moderate oven, baking it for three quarters of an hour. Take the mould out of the oven, drain the fat, turn the ‘pain’ out on a hot dish, and mask it with some piquant-sauce. 549. Calf’s liver, Milan fashion. — Cut up a good calf’s liver into a dozen thin slices, which beat slightly, trim, season with salt and spices; flour, and dip them into beaten eggs, drain, and then plunge them into hot hog’s lard. When done and nicely colored, drain them, salt slightly, and dish them up, with lemons in quarters.