198 COSMOPOLITAN COOKEKY. On the other hand, prepare a purée of sorrel, and finish it with a part of the reduced stock. Dish up the ‘fricandeau’, haste it with the remainder of the stock, and send up separately the sorrel on another dish, this method being preferable to serving it on one dish with the ‘fricandeau’. 461. Schwalbach ‘paupiettes’. — Put into a kitchen-basin six table- spoonfuls of flour, dilute with six whole eggs, and three gills of milk; add to it a little salt, a pinch of pounded mace; then pass the preparation through a sieve. With this preparation, and some clarified butter, prepare a few omelets in a large frying-pan, keeping them as thin and broad as possible; immediately when done, turn them out on a baking-sheet, cut them square, and allow them to cool. On the other hand, pound the meat of a cooked minion-fillet of veal, add to it half a pound of ham, and five or six chickens’ livers, fried in butter; season, then introduce into the preparation a -whole egg, and one yolk; pass it through a sieve, spread a layer of it on the omelets, which divide into strips, four inches by one, roll them up in the shape of ‘paupiettes’, which arrange in a buttered sauté-pan, one beside the other. Baste with butter, sprinkle over bread-crumb, and bake them in a moderate oven for a quarter of an hour. Afterwards take them out, and dish them up. 462. Veal scollops, Italian way. — Cut a piece of ‘noix’ of veal, into slices the third of an inch thick, pare them round to the size of a half-crown-piece, beat them with the handle of a knife, to enlarge them. Diminish their thickness; season with salt and pepper, flour slightly, range them in a flat stewpan with butter; set the stewpan on a brisk fire, and fry the scollops on both sides. When done, moisten with a few spoonfuls of madeira, which reduce ; take up the scollops with a fork, and dish them up in a border of rice. Pour into the stewpan a gill and a half of tomata-sauce, let it boil, stirring it with a spoon, and pour it over the scollops. 463. Small timbales (D. 67). — Fine short-paste. — Sift a pound of flour on the table, form a hollow in its centre, into which put a little salt and a yolk of egg; add three parts of a glass of cold water, and ten ounces of butter, previously pressed in a cloth, and in small bits; at the same time introduce into it the liquid, the butter and flour, thus making a smooth and firm paste; work it two or three times with the palm of the hands, to render it smooth ; form (mouler) it to a ball, and let it rest for ten minutes, before using it. Line a dozen ‘dariole’-moulds with the short-paste. Cut up into squares, a raw minion-fillet of veal, pound it, and add to it five or six good chickens’ livers, fried with four ounces of rasped fat-bacon ; season with good spices, add to the pre- paration three tablespoonfuls of reduced sauce, pass it through a sieve, and intro-