SOUPS. 47 after, moisten with the ready fish-broth, let the liquid boil, add a pound of vermicelli. As soon as they are done, pour the soup into the tureen. 130. Oyster-soup. — Prepare , two quarts of good fish-broth. Mince one leek and one onion, put them into a stewpan with butter, give them a nice color, shake over five or six tablespoonfuls of dry bread-crumbs, mixing it quickly ; dilute with the broth strained through a sieve, stir the liquid until boiling, and remove the stewpan back, to boil the soup gently for half an hour. Open three or four dozen oysters, take their flesh, put them into a stewpan, with their liquor, and half a bottle of white wine ; set the stewpan on a moderate fire ; at the first bubbling, throw the oysters on a sieve, preserving their liquor ; pare them, and place them in the soup-tureen. Gently decant the liquor of the oysters, so as to clear it, and pour it into the soup; which thicken with a liaison of four yolks of eggs, diluted with a little cold broth ; finish by introducing into it six ounces of butter in little bits, add a pinch of chopped parsley, and pour the soup into the tureen. 131. Oyster-soup, American fashion. This soup in New-York is commonly served at suppers. The Americans value it much ; hut it is prepared with large oysters, unknown to our continent. I have given a description of them in the chapter on fish. Open two dozen oysters, preserving their liquor. Put them into a stewpan, add their liquor, decanted and strained ; and a little wine, high enough to cover them. Set the stewpan on the fire, skim the liquid ; after a few seconds, remove it back, season with a pinch of pepper, mix in two tablespoonfuls of raw cream, thicken with a quarter of a pound of good butter in little bits, and add two tablespoonfuls of bruised 'crackers’*. Send up the soup at once. 132. Batvina cold-soup, Russ fashion. — Let blanch separately in a pan, four handfuls of spinach, and two handfuls of sorrel ; drain these vegetables, and pass them through a sieve. Mix up both the purées, then put them into a kitchen - hasin, and dilute with a quart of 'kislichi’;** add a pinch of sugar, then pour the I preparation into a silver-stewpan, which keep on the fire-side. Pare sixty cooked crayfish-tails. Mince in thin slices a piece of braised sturgeon, as well as another of cooked and cooled salmon. Pare two or three salted 'ogursis’, which cut in dice. Range all these vegetables, divided into small bunches, * ‘Crackers’ are little dry biscuits similar to English pic-nic biscuits, served at tea, only somewhat thicker, and of the diameter of a crown-piece. ** This ‘ Jcislichi' is a beverage commonly prepared and sold in Russia. It is a kind of beer, sourish like cider, and foaming like champagne