536 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. spoonfuls of raw cream ; cover the basin, let the paste rise, for an hour and a half, in the temperature of the kitchen; then take it up with the hand, and with this paste three-parts fill a buttered dome-shaped mould. Let the paste rise once more, till nearly reaching the height of the mould ; im- mediately surround the sides of the mould with a strip of buttered paper ; set the mould solidly on a baking-sheet, bake the cake in a moderate oven for twenty five minutes. Taking the cake out of the oven, turn it out, and let half-cool ; cut it straight on the top, and saturate it with warm syrup, mixed with a little cognac, and a little kirsch ; place it on a pastry-grille, resting on a basin ; let it drain well, then set it on a dish, and keep it warm. On the other hand, prepare a ‘salpicon of preserved fruits, washed in tepid water ; put these fruit into a stewpan, mix in the remainder of the syrup of infusion! as well as a handful of smyrna-raisins ; let the liquid boil, thicken it with two table- spoonfuls of apricot-marmalade. At the time of serving, pour the fruits and sauce on the cake. This quantity of paste yields four cakes. 1193. Orange croquembouclie. — Choose seven or eight good fine oranges exactly ripe; remove the peel, without damaging the pulp; divide the pulp into quarters, carefully disengage all the white parts; place the quarters on a sieve, arranging one beside the other, and thus let them dry for a few hours in the temperature of the kitchen. Cut in pieces a pound of sugar, sugar from beyond sea, if possible; place it in a sugar-pan, moisten it with two gills of cold water ; when nearly dissolved, place the pan on the fire, add to it a little pinch of tart-cream ; boil it till at the degree of casse, that is to the degree, that taking a small piece of it between the wet thumb and forefinger, then quickly dipping the lingers into cold water, the sugar breaks off sharp, when trying to bend it. Above all, avoid letting the sugar take too much color. When the pan is taken off the fire, dip the bottom at once into cold water, so as immediately to stop the boiling of the sugar. Take up the orange-quarters at one end, with the aid of two fingers ; dip them into the sugar, which let drain ; then arrange the quarters of orange, one by one, on a pastry-grille (see D. 258), placing them at little distance from each other. The sugar having cooled again, take the quarters of orange up with two fingers, dip them with the side kept intact , into the ‘casse’-sugar ; arrange them at once on the bottom, and against the sides, of a middling-sized oiled Aroquembouehe’-mould, that is, a plain mould without cylinder ; these quarters of oranges must be ranged in the mould in an upright position, and in rows, one above the other; they must be fixed one to another, by means of hot sugar, into which they are dipped last of all.