COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 482 passed through a sieve ; work this cream for a few minutes, and let it cool. Prepare a puff-paste with more than half a pound of Hour, the same of butter, and the water requisite (sec No. 404) ; give it six turns, at the last turn lengthen out the flat, from fourteen to sixteen inches ; let it rest for a few minutes, then cut two strips length- wise, each about an inch broad, and one third thick. Break the trimmings of the paste, working them with flour : let this paste rest for a few minutes, then roll it out flat into a round, twelve inches in diameter, and of the thickness of a half-crown- piece. Spread it on a tart-pan (tourtière), cut round, moisten its edges with a paste- brush, then pour the cream on the centre, spreading it in a layer a third of an inch thick, following the outlines of the paste, but at least an inch distant from the edges. Place one of the strips of paste on the moistened edges of the flat, in a manner strictly following its outlines ; fix on the two ends of this strip with moistened fingers, soldering the second strip to this, and at the two ends. This done, color the upper surface of the strip, push the tart into a hot oven. The strip of puff-paste having well risen, being dry and of nice color, glaze it with sugar, and in like manner the cream ; two minutes after, take the tart out, and serve immediately ; as it loses all its best qualities, if not eaten hot. 1087. Tartlets of green gooseberries. — Spread about fifteen tart- let-moulds with sweetened tartlet-paste (see No. 1099), let them bake in a moderato oven without filling them; the paste having cooled, mask it within with a thin layer of marmalade. Plunge a few handfuls of green gooseberries, not yet ripe, but of full-grown shape, into boiling water; after the first bubbling, place them in a kitchen-basin, sprinkle over powder-sugar, and let them cool. Then take them out with a skimmer, and arrange them in a dome-like shape in the tartlets; mix in the liquid a little syrup, and reduce it, until of good consistence. When cold, take it up with a spoon, and mask with it the gooseberries. 1088. Wafers in cornets, with cream (D. 212). — Work in a kitchen-basin a quarter of a pound of powdered vanilla-sugar, and three whites of eggs; when this preparation is frothy, add about half a pound of flour, passed through a sieve and quite dry, as well as a pound of peeled and strained almonds : add moreover a little salt, one or two whites of eggs, but all of which by degrees, thus getting a liquid paste. Bake a little bit of it in the oven, to ascertain its goodness. Wax and flour some small baking-sheets ; mask them with the preparation, which spread out thin; bake it in a hot oven. When the preparation is taken out. divide it into squares of about five inches by three; lift these squares immediately from the baking-sheet, and roll them up into cornets, while the paste is hot.