194 COSMOPOLITAN COOKEKL. puur into the bottom of the dish a little brown-sauce, reduced with the cooking- stock of the ‘noix’. 451. Noix of veal, béchamel-sauce. — When only calf’s meat of a secondary quality is at one’s disposal, this is a very good method of concealing its mediocrity. Pare a ‘noix’ of veal, without letting the udder adhere ; lard it inwardly, season, and place it in a stewpan, previously garnished with trimmings of ham, of bacon, and sliced vegetables ; braise it with little liquid, glazing it all over. Slice two dozen fresh mushrooms, fry them in a flat stewpan, with butter, until they have evaporated their moisture; season, add about a pint of good reduced ‘béchamel’-sauce ; let it boil a few minutes, and remove it back. When the ‘noix’ is done, drain, and cut it in thin slices. Spread the bottom of a dish with a layer of the preparation of mushrooms and ‘béchamel’; on this, dish the slices of meat, putting the‘noix’in shape, and being careful to alternate each slice with a small part of the preparation. Mask the top likewise with a layer of the preparation, and push the dish into a hot oven, to give the upper surface of the meat a nice color. When taken out of the oven, surround it with a garnish of ‘croquettes’ of potatoes, and send it up. 452. Noix of veal, ‘au gratin’. — Take a cooked and cold ‘noix’ of veal, pare it round, make a circular incision on the top, and empty it with the aid of a knife, only leaving a bottom to it ; set it then on a dish that can bear going into the oven. Cut the meat taken out, in small dice, put it into a stewpan, and mix with a third of its volume of truffles and mushrooms, both cooked and cut in dice. Thicken this ‘salpicon’, with a few spoonfuls of reduced and thickened brown-sauce, season with a pinch of pepper, and pour it into the cavity formed in the ‘noix’; mask the top with some thick sauce, sprinkle over this, as well as the meat, bread- crumbs, and baste it with hot butter. Pour a little gravy into the dish, push it into a slow oven, and warm the meat for three quarters of an hour, basting with its own stock. When ready to serve, surround the ‘noix’ with a garnish of potato-‘croquettes', and send up separately some half-glaze in a sauceboat. 453. Cromeskis of veal, ‘à la bouchère’ (D. 65). — Fry in melted fat bacon a few thick slices of minion-fillet of veal, keeping them underdone ; season with salt and pepper, let them cool ; and then cut them into small dice, put them into a kitchen-basin. Add a sweetbread, the half of a calf’s brain, and a piece of ox-tongue, all cooked and cut in dice. Prepare a mince, with four or five large white onions, proceeding as prescribed, for the kidneys ‘à la Bretonne’; when of a nice consistence, and succulent, add