141 fish. Cut off from this flat a stripe, an inch and a half wide, and long enough to surround the dome; else it would be necessary to cut two of them, and to solder them. When the stripe is cut, mould the remainder of the paste, flatten it to a round shape and very thin ; cover the dome with it, laying the paste on the first flat, so as to fasten them one to the other. Cut the paste neatly all round, with the point of a knife, leaving the space requisite, for placing the stripe, that is, about two inches ; moisten the space with a paste-brush, and fix the stripe, fastening the two ends one on to the other. Fig. 44. This done, gather together the remainder of the paste, flatten it, cut out of it seven or eight lozenges ; which carve in imitation of leaves, moisten, and place them, in scrolls, on the top of the dome ; on which make a small hole, placing over it a small round of paste. Egg the Tourte’ and stripe, push it into a slow oven, bake it for an hour and a half, covering it carefully with paper, as soon the paste has taken colop. Meanwhile, reduce the fish-stock to half-glaze, introducing into it about half a pint of reduced brown-sauce ; when this sauce is done, draw it off the fire, and mix with it a small garnish composed of some good soft-roes, blanched and divided into pieces, some small poached 'quenelles’, and some mushrooms cut in two transversally ; these mushrooms may be cooked in the sauce, while it is reducing. On taking the Tourte’ out of the oven, take off the covering, slip it on a dish ; cut the paste of the dome all round, then raising this lid, garnish the interior of the Tourte’, pour a little sauce in through the opening, cover the Tourte’ again, pour the remainder of the sauce into a sauce-boat, and serve. 334. Farced muscles, Turkish fashion. — Select three dozen large muscles, well cleansed ; put them into a stewpan, in order to make them open ; when done, drain them, but without separating the two shells; wash them, and drain again on a sieve. Wash half a pound of rice, and let it drain on a sieve for half an hour. Chop an onion, fry it with oil ; this done, add to it the rice, fry this for a few moments;