15 SOUPS. moisten with two or three quarts of white broth, or hot water; stir the soup until boiling, salt it sufficiently, boil it quite gently for two hours; then introduce into it seven or eight tablespoonfuls of celery-roots, cut into small dice, and blanched. Half an hour after, thicken the soup with the yolk of four eggs, diluted with half a glass of good raw cream; cook the preparation, without allowing it to boil ; in- troduce four ounces of butter in small bits ; and pour it at once into the soup-tureen. 35. Cockileeky, or Scottish leek-soup. — Wash a knuckle of veal, put it into an earthen stockpot, with a ham-bone in pieces, and a hen with its giblets well cleansed;*moisten these meats with four or five quarts of water, set the stockpot on the fire, skim the liquid, and at the first bubbling remove it back; add to it one onion, a piece of celery-root, one carrot, one turnip, and a few cloves. When the meats are done, pass the broth into a stewpan, skim off its fat, put the liquid once more on the fire, throw into it the white part of seven or eight leeks, split in two, and cut transversally in pieces half an inch long ; and boil them gently. If the leeks are not tender, they should be previously blanched for a few minutes. When about to serve, cut the breast of the hen in scollops, mix them with the soup, which pour into the tureen. Serve separately some thin slices of toasted bread. 36. Cabbage-SOup, Savoy fashion. — Prepare two quarts of potato- purée soup ; keep it boiling at the corner of the stove-fire. Mince one or two savoy cabbages, fry in butter a small chopped onion, to which add the minced cabbage ; fry them together on a moderate fire, until done ; season them, thicken with two tablespoonfuls of good ‘béchamel’-sauce ; the preparation having cooled, add two handfuls of grated parmesan. With some nouille-paste rolled out very thin, and with the savoy-preparation, now make some ‘ravioles’ of a round shape. A few minutes previous to serving, plunge these havioles’ in boiling salted water; three minutes after, drain them, and place them in the soup-tureen. Skim the fat off the soup, and then thicken with a liaison of four or five yolks of eggs, mixed with a little nutmeg, a handful of parmesan, and four ounces of fresh butter; pass the soup through a fine colander into the soup-tureen. 37. Onion-soup. — Slice five or six large white and mild onions, put them into a stewpan with butter, a little salt, and a pinch of sugar ; set the stewpan on a very gentle fire, and let them take while turning a nice color; shake over them a little flour, and moisten with a quart and a half of boiling water ; add to it a few sprigs of parsley, with a bay-leaf, and some salt ; boil the liquid quickly for ten minutes. Lay meanwhile in the soup-tureen some toasted slices of white bread, and dredge over a little fine pepper. When about to serve, thicken the soup with a liaison of