299 POULTRY. — TURKEY. 704. Turkey larded, with purée of chestnuts. — Singe and draw a nice small turkey; break up the breast-bone, cut up the legs to the junction with the thighs ; disengage the bone of these, to shorten it half an inch. Shorten the legs, after being singed, and introduce them into the thighs by the opening of the drum- sticks. Fill now the crop of the turkey with beef-suet chopped with bread-crumbs ; truss with strong string ; singe anew, to set the skin of the breast and legs ; and lard with bacon cut up in middling-sized fillets. Place the turkey in a braising-pan, spread with trimmings of bacon and vege- tables ; moisten to height with broth, and cover with a buttered paper. Two hours previous to serving, let the broth boil, and twenty minutes after, draw the braising- pan on a moderate fire, with warm ashes on the lid, and boil the turkey, basting often. At last, glaze the turkey on the breast by the aid of a paste-brush ; keep it at the entrance of the oven, letting it take a nice color; drain it, remove the string, dish it up, and surround it with a purée of chestnuts. Mix a little wine with the cooking-stock, skim off the fat, strain, work it to half-glaze, and pour it into a sauce-boat. If the turkey is to be carved on the dinner-table, dish the purée separately. 705. Christmas-turkey, Provence fashion. — In England, in the south of France, and in Italy, the turkey is the indispensable roast of a Christmas- dinner. In the North of Europe it is replaced by the goose. The preparation of this roast varies according to the local resources. It may indifferently be stuffed with truffles, bread-crumbs, rice, olives, chestnuts, sausages, and even ‘cepes’. The most distinguished of these garnishes is naturally that composed of fresh truffles ; but black olives and chestnuts, if more popular, are not less esteemed. Get a nice tender turkey, kept hanging, but not too long ; draw it care- fully, wipe it inwardly with a cloth, and stuff it with small fresh sausages, and some large chestnuts, roasted but not fully, and peeled so as to leave possible no hollow in the body. Fill also the crop with sausages, after having cut off the neck, leaving the skin as long as possible ; sew this on to the back ; sew up likewise the inferior aper- ture, and lastly truss the turkey; singe it on the breast, to set the skin and flesh; lard it with bacon, and roast it. If a roasting spit be handy, able to support its weight, and turn the turkey; it does not need telling, that this is the mode of cooking preferable to all others. If, on the contrary, there is none, the tui’key may be roasted in a large roasting-pan ; but in any case, it must be plentifully basted with good fat or butter.* A quarter of an * Whatever may he the roasts cooked on the spit, before an open tire, they must be basted, during the whole process of their cooking, with butter or clarified fat.