FISH. 159 nated with two spoonfuls of Orleans vinegar ; finish the sauce with a little salt, and a pinch of sugar. 375. Boiled smelts. — Boil, in a flat stewpan, a quart of water, mixed with two glasses of white wine ; add a handful of salt, the same of parsley-leaves, and a chopped onion. Cleanse two dozen large smelts, wash, and drain them on a sieve. Take a fish- drainer (grille) the size of the stewpan, on which arrange the smelts symmetrically in two rows, their heads turned to the outside, their bellies resting on the drainer; which, containing the smelts, is plunged into the ‘court-bouillon’. Cover the stewpan, and at the first bubbling remove it back. Seven or eight minutes after, take out the drainer with the fish ; drain them well, slip them on to a hot dish, and pour over some plain melted butter, slightly salted, mixed with the juice of a lemon, and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 370. Weaver (sea-dragon) ‘au gratin’.— First of all cut the sharp tins (the prick of which is dangerous) off the back and belly of a few very fresh ‘sea- dragon’ fish ; scale them, cleanse, and dry them. Butter a ‘gratin’- dish, sprinkle over the bottom a pinch of chopped onion, four spoonfuls of fresh muslirooms, and a little parsley also chopped; place the ‘weavers’ on the fine-herbs, side by side; salt, and sprinkle, over them also, some fine-herbs, and a pinch of bread-crumb ; baste them with butter, moisten the bottom of the dish with a few spoonfuls of white wine, and push them into a moderate oven, to bake for a quarter of an hour. Serve them in the dish, in which they have been cooked. 377. Roast scoter, with anchovy-stuffing, as in Provence. — The scoter (macreuse) is a species of water-fowl common to the south of France; its flesh is not very delicate, nevertheless, when duly seasoned, it is appreciated by amateurs. Pluck and singe two scoters, remove the crop without cutting the neck, and draw them on the side. Chop two large onions, fry them in oil, or butter of a light brown color, add two good handfuls of bread-crumb, previously dipped in water, and well strained; 1 add also the liver of the scoter, chopped, the fillets of seven or eight salted ancho- vies, a few chopped capers, and a pinch of parsley. Mix together all these ingre- dients, season with a little pepper, and thicken with a few yolks of eggs. With this preparation stuff the scoters, stop the opening with a thin slice of bread, and sew the skins together; truss the scoters, crossing the legs, as for thrushes, hooking the heads to the legs. Run them through with a skewer, which fix on a roasting-spit, and roast the scoters, basting them with oil mixed up (in the dripping-pan) with a few spoonfuls of ‘purée’ of anchovies.