253 BUTCHER’S MEAT. — MUTTON. 592. Braised mutton-cutlets, artichoke-purée. — Cut eight double mutton-cutlets, taken off on the centre of the necks (carrés), they must he all of equal length, and with the end-bone cut short. Transversally stud the meat, of the fiioix’ of each cutlet, with thin fillets of bacon and truffles, both of which are seasoned ; season likewise the cutlets, place them, side hy side, on the bottom of a flat stewpan, which is masked with trimming of bacon ; add to the above two small onions, and a bunch of parsley, garnished with aromatics. Mask the cutlets with bacon, moisten them to cover with plain broth, passed through a sieve, freed of its fat; let the liquid boil, cover the stewpan, remove it back on a moderate fire, cooking the cutlets carefully. Let the cutlets half cool in their own cooking-stock, take them out, range them flat on a baking-sheet, placing them side by side, and let them cool with a light weight on. Pare the cutlets to a nice shape, rounding the side of the fiioix’, place them in a little good gravy, cover them with buttered paper, and heat them at the entrance of the oven, basting them from time to time. At serving-time, dish the cutlets in a circular order, but notice with the bone underneath ; rill the hollow of the circle with artichoke-purée, pour over this purée a little glaze, serve separately a boatful of ‘espagnole’-sauce. 593. Persian Pilaw. — Cut in dice the meat of a mutton-fillet (one pound), the sinews of which have been removed. Chop an onion, put it into a stewpan, with either butter or fat, let it fry slightly; then add to it the mutton-meat, which season ; let it fry on a moderate fire, stirring it with a spoon ; season again. The meat having set well, add to it two pounds of good rice, washed and dried in the air ; moisten meat and rice, to double their height, with some good mutton-broth ; add a bunch of parsley garnished with aromatics, hoil the rice, kept covered, for twenty minutes ; then add to it a few tablespoonfuls of tomata-sauce ; keep the stewpan now on embers for ten minutes, then serve the pilaw’. (This dish is variously spelt in Europe, pilau, pilaf, pilav, and pilàff.) 594. Mutton pilaw, Tartar fashion. — Choose a square piece of mutton, with the end of the saddle adhering to it. Remove the fillet entirely off the bones, remove too its fat, as well as its sinewy parts; then cut it transversally in slices, which season with salt, pepper, spices, and a little chopped mint. Prepare a little broth with the bones and trimmings of the mutton. Wash a pound of good rice, which drain on a sieve ; then leave it to dry for full an hour. Chop an onion, fry it in butter, add to it the rice, and allow this to fry for a few moments; then moisten to three times its height with broth, the fat of which is not removed ; boil it, kept covered ; as soon as dry, remove it back on hot ashes.