COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 18 44. Menestrone, Milan fashion. — Chop six or eight ounces of bacon, put it into a stewpan with a piece of raw ham, a savoy-cabbage shred large, and two or three handfuls of fresh haricot-beans, either white or green ; moisten all these vegetables with three quarts of broth, and place the stewpan on a brisk fire. After ten minutes of ebullition, add to the liquid four tablespoonfuls of tender celery-roots, cut into small dice, the same of cltou-rave, and again the same of fresh haricot-beans cut in pieces (tronçons). Eight or ten minutes after, add two handfuls of fresh broad-beans, the same of green-peas and asparagus-heads, a chopped tomata, twelve or fourteen ounces of Piémont-rice (not washed), as well as two or three smoked Milan sausages. Continue boiling, until the rice be done. Twelve or fourteen minutes will do. At the last moment, add to the soup a handful of grated parmesan ; then take out the ham, and sausages ; pour the broth and vegetables into the soup-tureen ; cut the sausages, and put them into the soup ; which serve. 45. Young-carrot soup. — Choose three or four dozen small, young carrots of an equal size ; scrape them slightly, and blanch for five or six minutes ; after which drain, and place them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, a little salt, and a pinch of sugar ; moisten with a sufficient quantity of broth to cover, and set it to boil ; when the broth is reduced to a glaze, the carrots should be done; plunge them at once into three quarts of clear, good ‘pot-au-feu’ broth, introduce into the liquid a small leaf of chervil, and pour the soup into the tureen. 46. Lettuce-soup.— Prepare four quarts of broth, following the process prescribed for the ‘croûte-au-pot’ : when it is passed through a sieve, and its fat is skimmed, keep it warm in a stewpan. Blanch a dozen good cabbage-lettuces, refresh them in cold water ; press them between the hands (one by one) to extract all the water ; place them in a sauté-pan, garnished at the bottom, with thin slices of bacon and slices of ham ; moisten with a sufficient quantity of broth to cover them, and braise in the usual way. Drain them afterwards, cut them transversally, each into three parts, and place them in a soup-tureen with toasted slices of bread ; pour the broth over them. 47. Water-cress soup. — Prepare a light brown Toux’ with four ounces of butter and the same of flour ; dilute it with good broth, so as to obtain a stock not too thick ; stir it on the fire, until boiling ; then remove it back ; and allow for clarifying (dépouiller) twenty-five minutes, skimming carefully. Pick two handfuls of water-cress, from the spring, blanch them in salted water ; drain, and press out the moisture; put them into a mortar, with a piece of butter, and pound them ; add to this three yolks of eggs, and pass it through a sieve.