384 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. Arrange in an earthen pan three ‘galantine’-moulds, surround them with pounded ice, and pour at the bottom a layer of clear aspic-jelly. When it is firm, set on it a ‘galantine’, and finish filling the moulds also gradually with aspic-jelly, keeping the ‘galantines’, however, on the centre. One hour after, dip the moulds by turn into hot water ; wipe, and turn the ‘galantines’ out, round a small subject in fat, fix it on the centre of a ‘pain-vert’ ; which surround with small paper cases, each filled with a small cooked truffle, glazed with the paste-brush. This entrée of a pretty effect, is to go on the table. 862. Partridges, Catalan fashion. — Truss three partridges as for boiling, put them into a stewpan with chopped bacon and a hunch of aromatics, season, and fry them on a moderate fire, turning ; when of a nice color, moisten with a little wine, and braise gently, with hot ashes on the lid. As soon as they are about done, add to them eight ounces of raw ham cut in dice, and four or five dozen large cloves of garlic, previously boiled in plenty of water ; sprinkle over a pinch of red Spanish pepper, and continue boiling. A quarter of an hour after, drain the partridges, remove the strings, dish them up, and surround with the garnish; remove the aromatics, skim out the fat off the cooking-stock, which thicken with a little brown-sauce, and pour over the partridges. 863. Fillets of partridges, with purée. — Take out the larger and smaller fillets of two partridges, pare them as usual, and place at the bottom of a buttered‘sauté’-pan; fry the legs in another stewpan, season, let cool, and bone; trimming away the hard parts of the meat; which pound with three tablespoonfuls of well cooked and dry rice ; add to it a piece of butter, season, and pass the prepara- tion through a sieve ; then put the purée into a stewpan, reduce it on a moderate fire, introducing into it a little sauce or some melted glaze, but without letting it boil. When ready to serve, fry the fillets over a brisk fire ; as soon as set, drain the butter out carefully, pour over two or three tablespoonfuls of a brown-sauce, pre- pared with the hacks of partridges ; roll the fillets in it, and dish them up in a cir- cular order, with the purée in the centre ; haste purée and fillets with the remainder of the sauce. 864. Red partridges (perdreaux*) roasted with truffles. — Pluck two tender red partridges ; singe and draw them. Peel five or six fresh black truffles ; cut them in quarters, and season. Chop the peel, pound it with a little fresh * As long as the feather placed at the tip of the pinion (maître-penne) remains pointed, and adorned with a white spot, the partridge (perdreau) is young and tender ; as soon as it becomes round at the end, the partridge (perdrix) is old and tough.