365 POULTRY. — DUCK. Meanwhile, cook two pounds of good sour-crout together with two little meat- saveloys for cooking. Half an hour previous to serving, drain the sour-crout on a sieve, pressing them ; spread it in a thick layer on the bottom of a dish, having a sup- port of bread on its centre. Arrange the pieces of duckling on the sour-crout, placing the legs at the bottom, the fillets and breast-pieces above. Insert a ‘hâtelet’-skewer Fig. 156. into the fried bread, surround the sour-crout with the saveloys cut in slices. Serve separately a boatful of sauce. 827. Duck in haricot. — Draw and singe a good fat duck, carve it into six pieces ; cut up also the back, add the neck and pinions. Put the meat into a stewpan with butter, fry it at a moderate fire ; ten minutes afterwards, add a quarter of a pound of fat-bacon, blanched, and divided into squares ; season the meat, sprinkle over a spoonful of flour. Two minutes after, moisten it with a quart of hot broth, stir the stew till ebullition ; cover the stewpan, remove it back on a very gentle fire. Half an hour afterwards, add to the stew a garnish of vegetables, composed of carrots, turnips, celery-roots, cut in balls. If these vegetables were not tender, they i must be blanched. Half an hour afterwards, add to the above a few potatoes, also cut in balls; season the vegetables : they should be done at the same time with the duck. On the other hand, put a dozen raw small onions into a stewpan with a little butter, let them fry to a fine color, season them, moisten with a little broth, boil, and glaze them. Ten minutes previous to serving, add the onions to the stew, skim off the fat, and dish it up. 828. Duck, Bordeaux fashion. — Get a good duck, singe, draw, wash it inwardly, and wipe it with a cloth. Cleanse carefully two or three dozen ‘cèpes’, remove their tails, which pare and chop ; put them into an earthen pan, add a quarter their volume of chopped bacon and ham, the liver of the duck, six fillets of anchovies, a tablespoonful of shalot, and a pinch of parsley, all of which chopped ; season the preparation, and stuff the duck with it ; sew up the openings, truss, and put it into a