COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 378 floured table, roll them into a cork-shape, make a hollow in the centre, with a wooden spoon dipped in warm water ; then fill the cavity with chopped raw truffles ; stop the opening with some force-meat, dip the 'croquettes’ into some beaten eggs, and bread-crumb them. A lew minutes previous to serving, plunge them into hot hog’s lard, and when of a nice color, dish them in a pyramidal form on a folded napkin. 851. Purée of partridge, with croûtons. — Take the meat of two small cooked partridges, cut, and pound it with a piece of butter, and a few table- spoonfuls of a cold sauce, prepared with their back and other bones ; season the pre- paration with salt and nutmeg, pass it through a sieve, and put it into a basin. Pound the partridges’ livers with two or three chickens’ livers, pass them likewise through a sieve, add to the purée a few tablespoonfuls of melted glaze, and mask with it (on one side only) seven or eight bread 'croutons’, shaping the purée in a dome-like way ; range these 'croûtons’ on the lid of a stewpan, moisten them with a paste-brush, dipped in a little sauce, and keep them at the entrance of the oven to glaze. Heat the purée of partridges, at serving-time, without letting it boil, stirring it, and mixing two or three tablespoonfuls of sauce ; it should, nevertheless, remain of good consistence ; dish it in a dome-shape, baste it with a little sauce or glaze, and surround with the garnished 'croûtons’. 852. ‘Escabecia’ of partridges, Spanish fashion. — Those who have travelled in Spain are certainly aware, that the inns of that country do not enjoy a great culinary renown ; but at the least, the traveller is always sure to find there the popular 'escabecia’, and some of that excellent smoked ham, so well prepared in all provinces of Spain. With these two dishes, some requisite bread white as snow, and water, which nearly equals the wine; if one does not eat in a luxurious manner, one may at the least, appease one’s hunger agreeably. Singe, and cut up two or three partridges, each of them in five parts, which put into a sauté-pan with plenty of oil and aromatics, two cloves of garlic not peeled, peppercorns and cloves; fry them nicely, then moisten with broth and a little vin- egar, cooking them gently, long enough to have them very tender ; by this time, the moisture must be very short, add then a few tablespoonfuls of aspic-jellv, or simply some calf’s-feet stock ; let it boil for three minutes, and draw the stewpan off the fire, range the partridges in a kitchen-basin, baste them with the stock, passed through a sieve, allowing partridges and stock, to cool completely, previous to serving the 'escabecia’. 853. Croustades à la Reine (D 166). — These 'croustades’ are in bread, and cut with the knife. The bread employed for this end is that called pain anglais, and employed for kitchen-use ; it goes also by the name of pain de mie.