274 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. eight at the bottom, and four on the top; send up separately a boatful of good ‘bechamel’-sauce, reduced with liquor of mushrooms. 045. Lambs’feet, with curry. — Boil eighteen lambs’ feet(seeNo.469), keeping them of a nice white color; drain them, spunge them on a cloth, remove the leg-bone ; pare the feet, place them in a flat stewpan ; season them, sprinkle over a pinch of curry-powder, moisten with a little melted glaze, and keep them warm. On the other hand, prepare a Velouté’-sauce ; skim its fat, pass it through a sieve ; then let it reduce further on a brisk Are, without ceasing to stir it, and gradually introducing into it a few tablespoonfuls of raw cream ; when it is reduced to the degree requisite, thicken it with two yolks of eggs, mixed with a little curry- powder and cream ; pass the sauce through a sieve on the lambs’ feet, which warm without ebullition. 646. Lambs’ feet, tartar-sauce. — Let eighteen lambs’-feet boil, keep- ing them carefully whole; drain them, remove the leg-bone without bringing them out of shape ; put the feet on a dish, season them with salt, and a pinch of cayenne pepper ; let them cool. Beat three whole eggs, add to them a pinch of cooked tine-herbs, a little salt and chopped parsley. Dip the lambs’ feet into the eggs, and immediately bread- crumb them ; dip them into melted butter, and place them side by side on a gridiron : let them broil at a very gentle fire. Prepare a mayonnaise-sauce, finish it with a tablespoonful of good mustard, and raw fine-herbs; such as, taragon, chives, shalot, pimpernel, chervil, and parsley. Dish the lambs’ feet, serve the sauce separately. , 647. Lambs’ plucks (fraises) with curry. — Get two very white and clean lambs’ plucks (or ruffles). Spread an earthen-stockpot with thin layers of bacon, place the ruffles thereon, add a large onion studded with cloves, a bunch of parsley and aromatics, a little salt and pepper ; moisten the meat, to three parts of its height, with white wine, and cover with thin layers of bacon ; set the stockpot on the fire ; at the first bubbling, draw it off on warm ashes, cover it with a soup-plate, and stew the ruffles gently ; four hours after, drain them on a sieve, and dish them up ; skim the fat carefully away from their stock, mix therewith a little good gravy ; let it boil, and thicken with a piece of kneaded-butter, and curry-powder ; at the first bubbling, pour it over the ruffles. 648. Lambs’ pluck, with hot ravigote-sauce. — The plucks, or ruffles, of lamb are in Bordeaux remarkably fine, and when cooked with.care, constitute an excellent dish.