144 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. Select a large spawning (laite) lobster, heavy, and with large claws ; which tie up with string, and plunge the lobster into the boiling liquid. Boil it, if very large, for twenty-live minutes : a small one will take but fifteen. Let the lobster cool in the water ; then remove the string from the claws, and drain it on a sieve. Remove the spawn out of the shells, and the claws from the body ; split the lobster lengthwise, empty the two halves of the body-shell with a small spoon, putting their creamy substance by. Lift from the shell, the two halves of the tail, the insides of which garnish with parsley-leaves. Cut the tails of the lobster in slices, and put them back into the shell, but in reversed order, the red side of the meat being turned upwards ; open the shells of the claws, and range them on the sides at one end, resting on a bunch of parsley. Garnish also with parsley the hollow left between the two shells, and serve separately the following sauce : Red-sauce. — Put into a mortar four tablespoonfuls of lobster-spawn, with the creamy substance of the body-shell, and six raw yolks of eggs; pound the whole, reducing it into paste, then put it into a kitchen-basin, introduce into it a table- spoonful of mustard, dilute gradually with three gills of oil, and three or four table- spoonfuls of vinegar, in order to obtain a smooth and firm sauce. Season it with salt and cayenne, add to it a pinch of raw chopped shalot, and the same of parsley and taragon, also chopped. When the sauce is finished, pour it into a cold sauce- boat, and serve with the lobster. 341. Lobster-curry, Indian fashion. — Cut in pieces the tails of two middling-sized raw lobsters, and the thick part of the large claws. Shred into ‘julienne’ a Portugal onion, try it in a stewpan with butter, and when of a nice color, add the pieces and claws of lobster, which fry for a few minutes; season, and sprinkle over two tablespoonfuls of curry-powder; two seconds after, moisten, to half their height, with broth. Cover the stewpan, and reduce the liquid to half. Add a few tablespoonfuls of cocoa-nut, shred into ‘julienne’, and also some of the cocoa-nut juice. A few minutes after, thicken the sauce with a ‘liaison’ of three yolks of eggs, diluted with good double cream ; cook the ‘liaison’ without boiling, and add to it the juice of two or three lemons. Dish the lobster, and pour over the sauce. Serve separately a dish of rice, boiled the Indian way. 342. Shells of lobster, with cream. — Cut the flesh of a sea-crayfish into small dice, and put them into a kitclien-basin, with a third of their volume of cooked mushrooms, also cut in dice. Reduce in a stewpan a few spoonfuls of ‘béchamel’-sauce, gradually introducing a few tablespoonfuls of good extract of fish, and some oysters’ liquor ; the sauce being ready, remove it back, add to it the ‘salpicon’, and a little cayenne; fill the silver table-shells, sprinkle over them some bread-crumbs, baste them with hot