184 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. Pare a pound of meat of beef-fillet, taken from tlie side near the head. Chop this meat, season, divide it in two; then flatten the mince, with the blade of the knife, into a thin strip of three inches’ width. On this strip, now spread a layer of the previously prepared ‘kascha’, then transversally divide the strip in pieces two inches long ; roll these pieces up about themselves, in such a manner that the strip of meat enclose the ‘kascha’. Bind the ‘srazzi’ with thread, range them one beside the other into a flat stewpan, which is buttered, and sprinkled with a pinch of onion chopped fine. Set the stewpan on the fire, let the ‘srazzi’ fry slightly, then cover the stewpan, and finish cooking the ‘srazzi’ on a very mild fire, with hot embers on the lid of the stewpan. At serving-time, dish the ‘srazzi’, mix into their cooking-stock a little white wine and a little sauce ; let the sauce reduce, till it be succulent ; pass it through a sieve, finish with a little of chopped parsley, and pour it over the Srazzi’. 424. ‘Tournedos’, with madeira. - Take off the head of a pared fillet of beef, previously trimmed ; cut eight or ten slices, of the thickness of a half- crown-piece, and about the size of a fillet of chicken, but of an oblong shape; beat them slightly with the handle of a knife; pare, and season with salt and pepper. Warm some clarified butter in a sauté-pan, sprinkle over a pinch of chopped onion, and on that place the ‘tournedos’-slices one beside the other ; fry them on both sides, and when set, moisten with a gill of gravy, which reduce to glaze; turn them, and moisten anew, reducing the stock once more on a moderate fire, thus cooking the meat gently, and glazing it. When the ‘tournedos’ are done, dish them in a circular order, dilute the cooking-stock with a glass of madeira ; let it boil, and two minutes later, thicken with four tablespoonfuls of reduced brown-sauce ; then pour it immediately over the ‘tournedos’, alternating each of them with fried brcad-‘croûtons’, cut .the shape of a cock’s-comb, and glazed with a paste-brush. 425. ‘Paupiettes’ of ox-palates, Italian way. — Take five or six fillets of ox-palates, cooked ; trim them straight, divide them, each in two parts; mask them on one surface with a layer of cooked fine-herbs, finished with truffles, and thickened with a little force-meat. Roll then the ox-palates round themselves, so as to shape them into ‘polpetti’ ; keep them in shape, by means of two small wooden-skewers ; dip into beaten eggs, bread-crumb, and plunge them into plenty of hot fat. When the ‘paupiettes’ are drained, draw out the skewers, and range the ‘paupiettes’, pyramidwise, on a folded napkin. 426. Paupiettes (‘polpetti’) of ox-palates, with truffles (D.62).— Take ten cooked fillets of ox-palates, pare them, diminish their length a little; mask them on one side with a layer of raw force-meat, mixed with a quarter its volume of