196 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 455. Noix of veal, Geneva fashion. — Slice two onions, fry them in a stewpan with chopped hacon and five ounces of raw ham, add hereto a few trim- mings of mushrooms and truffles, a few sprigs of parsley, aromatics, and pepper- corns ; moisten with a little white wine, which reduce to a glaze. Pare a raw ‘noix' of veal, interlard it with fillets of bacon and ham; season, and mask it with the preparation, before described; wrap it up at the same time in pig's caul, place it in a stewpan, garnished on the bottom, with trimmings of bacon and vegetable ; moisten with a glass of white wine, and braise on a slow tire with hot ashes on the lid. Two hours after, surround the ‘noix’ of veal with a garnish of raw potatoes, cut round (with the aid of a vegetable-spoon), and blanched in salted water for a few minutes only; season, and continue braising gently ; the potatoes and meat should be done at the same time. When ready to serve, drain the ‘noix’, then unpack, and place it on a hot dish, to be surrounded with the potatoes. Pour a little broth into the stewpan, skim off its fat, and send it up in a sauceboat. 456. Noix of veal, Provence fashion. — Pare a raw ‘noix’ of veal, without removing the udder, interlard it with fillets of bacon and ham, place it in an earthen stewpan, with melted bacon ; fry it on a moderate fire, frequently turning; season, when of a nice color, add a garnish of small carrots and raw chives, slightly salt these vegetables ; add cloves, peppercorns, a bunch of parsley and aromatics, as well as a clove of garlic ; remove the stewpan on to a very slow fire, with hot ashes on the lid, and thus continue braising, occasionally turning the meat. One hour after, mix with the stew four or five* good tomatas, freed of seed, and cut up in large squares ; finish cooking the meat gently. When about to serve, take out the ‘noix’ with a fork, dish, surround it with the vegetables, and pour over, its, stock, freed of fat and passed through a sieve. 457. Loin of veal, roasted on the spit. — Get a loin of veal, remove some of the fat off the kidney, shorten the skirt, which roll underneath ; truss the loin, and wrap it up in white buttered paper ; then place it on the spit, and roast it for an hour and a half, frequently basting with the drippings. A quarter of an hour previous to taking it from the fire, remove the paper, allow the meat to take color, salt it afterwards ; take it off, and dish it up, sending separately a sauceboat of good gravy. When the loin is to be carved at table, one should not neglect, letting a slice of kidney accompany every slice of meat. 458. Loin of veal, with cream. — Take a braised loin of veal, remove the meat off the bone, keeping it as whole as possible, and cut it in thin slices: