156 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. root, disposing them in the way shown in the drawing, taking care to dip each detail neatly into half-set aspic. Then till the mould with the salad thickened on ice. One hour after, dip the mould in hot water, and turn out the salad on to a ‘pain-vert’ placed on a dish. Coat the slices of sea-craytish with aspic-jelly, dish them in a circular order on the top of the salad, garnish the hollow with chopped aspic, surround the base with nice ‘croûtons’ of jelly, and send up separately a boatful of mayonnaise-sauce with eggs. 364. Red-mullets, Bordeaux fashion. — Draw the gills of eight line red-mullets (rotnjcts dr roche), season, flour, and place them in a stewpan, thicklv spread with butter, or masked with oil, and sprinkled over with chopped shalot. Moisten with a little white wine, boil the liquid: then cover the stewpan, put live embers on the lid, and finish cooking the fish on a moderate fire; after which set them on a dish. Pour into the stewpan four tablespoonfuls of melted glaze ; let the liquid boil, and pass it through a sieve into another stewpan ; then add to it four or five table- spoonfuls of tomata-purée. Let the sauce boil, then remove it back, and introduce into it three ounces of butter in small bits; finish with the juice of a lemon, and a pinch of chopped parsley ; pour it over the mullets. 365. Red-mullets broiled, Nantes fashion. — Get a few nice and very fresh red-mullets ; scale, salt, and baste them with oil ; then broil them on both sides. Meanwhile, put two tablespoonfuls of chopped shalot into a small stewpan with butter; try them for a few minutes, and add half a gill of melted glaze. Boil, then remove the stewpan off the tire, and introduce into the sauce a piece of ‘maitrc- d’hôtel’-butter ; stir, until all the butter is melted, and finish with the juice of a lemon. Dish the mullets, and pour the sauce over. 366. Red-mullets, in cornet. — Fry in oil two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion and shalot ; urhen of a nice color, add to it four tablespoonfuls of chopped raw mushrooms ; reduce their moisture, mix with them a few spoonfuls of capers, a few anchovy-fillets, and a few sprigs of parsley, chopped up together ; then remove the fine-herbs back. Get five or six middling-sized red-mullets, cleanse, season, and baste them with oil. Cut seven or eight sheets of paper in a triangular form, oil them on one side, and shape them into cornets, proportionate to the size of the mullets. Mask both sides of the mullets with a small part of the fine-herbs; introduce them, one by one, into the cornets; which fold and smooth. Set them on a gridiron covered