473 ENTREMETS. — TRUFFLES. floured side, directly on the paste; securing it, underneath the mould, with string. Now plunge the mould into boiling water, cover the pan, and keep the liquid boiling for an hour and a half ; then drain the mould, take off the napkin, turn the pudding- out on a dish, glaze it with a paste-brush, and send up separately some thin ma- deira-sauce. 1068. ‘Timbale’ of truffles, à la Périgord. — Peel about fifteen nice Périgord truffles, previously brushed and washed; cut them in quarters, put them into a kitchen-basin, season with salt and pepper, baste with a few tablespoonfuls of cognac, and add to it a few sprigs of parsley and thyme; cover the basin, and keep it in a cool place. Take up only half of the truffle-trimmings, pound them, add a pound of fresh rasped bacon, season the preparation with salt and pepper; pass it through a sieve, without pressing too much : the truffles’ trimmings ought not to be pressed, as noth- ing of them is wanted, but their aroma. Butter a ‘timbale’-mould, bread-crumb, and line it with fine short-paste ; mask the bottom and sides of the paste, with three parts of the bacon passed through the sieve ; pour the truffles into the hollow, baste them with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze ; cover with the remainder of the bacon, and close the ‘timbale’ with a round of paste, which solder to that of the sides ; then push the mould into a hot oven, and bake the ‘timbale’ for fifty or sixty minutes, taking care not to let the paste take too much color. On the other hand, reduce, one third, two or three gills of brown-sauce ; adding, by degrees, half a glass of madeira, the cooking of the truffles, and a few table- spoonfuls of melted glaze. When the sauce is about reduced, add the remainder of the truffles’ trimmings, and two minutes after, pass it through a fine sieve. When the ‘timbale’ is taken out of the oven, make an opening on the top, pour the pre- pared sauce in, stop the opening, and turn the ‘timbale’ out on a hot dish. 1069. Truffle-salad, Toulouse fashion. — Get five or six fresh black truffles, of a good aroma, and three very tender artichokes. Brush the truffles care- fully, wash, peel, mince them very fine, and put them into a vase, which cover. Pare away the hard leaves from the artichokes, keeping only the very tender ones ; which divide down the middle, and cut into slices as thin as that of the truffles, let them macerate in salt for ten minutes ; wipe them on a cloth. Pass through a sieve three yolks of hard-boiled eggs, put them into a basin, add a little mustard, dilute with a gill of fine salad-oil, and a little taragon-vinegar. Arrange into a salad-bowl the truffles and artichokes, in alternate layers, seasoning each layer with salt and pepper, and with a part of the eggs diluted with oil. Ten