227 BUTCHER’S MEAT. — VEAL. On the other hand, pound the fillets of two or three salted anchovies, add a pinch of chopped parsley, the same of taragon, chervil, burnet, chive, shalot, capers, and gerkins, also chopped; pound the fine-herbs well, till the whole is converted into paste, add a piece of butter of the same volume; two minutes after, pass it through a sieve; divide it into small parts, which gradually introduce into the stew, tossing it off the fire ; finish it with a tablespoonful of good mustard, and serve. 533. ‘Crépinettes’ of calves’ feet. — Bone, and cut up in small dice, two cooked calves’ feet ; when about cold, place this ‘salpicon’ in a basin, season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and cayenne, then add a quarter its volume of raw truifles, also pa dice, baste with half a glass of madeira, and let it macerate for two hours. Take an equal volume of raw pork-mince, season well, and mix the ‘salpicon’ with it. Divide the preparation into equal parts, the size of an egg, flatten them into oblong squai’es, place them on a squai’e piece of pig’s caul, and wrap them up, leaving- no opening, and keeping them of an elongated form ; then moisten with melted butter; set them on a gridiron, and broil them for a quarter of an hour on a moderate fire. Then serve them on a vei’y hot dish. 534. Calves’feet, Antwerp fashion. — Blanch and boil four or five calves’ feet, proceeding as in No. 536; drain, and bone them carefully, cut them into fillets, or oblong squares ; put them into a kitchen-basin, season with salt, cayenne pepper, and nutmeg ; sprinkle over capers, gerkins, parsley, taragon, and mushrooms, all of which chopped up. Add also a little good mustard, then place them in a mould, or on a square baking-sheet, put over a piece of greased paper, and leave them under pi*ess. Twelve hours later, take the ‘pain’ out of the mould, cut it up in slices, half an inch thick; flour, dip them into beaten eggs, and plunge them into plenty of hot dripping, giving them a nice color ; then drain, salt, and dish them up, with fried parsley round. 535. Calves’ feet, American fashion. — Blanch and boil three or four calves’ feet (see No. 536); drain, bone, cut them round with a tin-cutter, and place them in a stewpan with two dozeia mushrooms, cooked at the moment. Moisten them (covered) with a little ‘velouté’-sauce, finished with two tablespoonfuls of eurry- powder ; let them simmer for a quarter of an lioui', and thicken the sauce with a ‘liaison’ of two yolks of eggs. On the other hand, blanch half a pound of rice, then boil it in broth, keeping it firm, and not over-done ; when dried, thicken it with a piece of butter, and a pinch of grated parmesan ; season, and pour it into a buttered border-mould, pi-essing it slightly; keep it thus for ten or twelve minutes, then turn the border out on a dish, 15*