252 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. to the rib-bones; disengage the top of the bones, cut them trim and neat, season, moisten with clarified butter, and broil them on a good fire, seven or eight minutes, turning them. Dish them in a circular order, fill the centre with mashed potatoes, and baste the cutlets with melted butter ‘a la maitre-d’hôtel’. These cutlets thus dished up, and garnished, may be seiwed as a remove. 590. Mutton-cutlets, with reform-sauce. — The preparation of these cutlets is, I believe, a creation of Alexis Soyer, artist, writer, and a distinguished practitioner ; whose memory will live for ever in England. Pare twelve mutton-cutlets, season, dip them into beaten eggs, and roll them into very fine chopped ox-tongue ; range them flatly in a ‘sauté’- pan with clarified butter ; fry them on both sides, dish them in a circular order, and garnish the centre with the following-sauce : Reform-sauce. — Prepare a ‘montglas’ composed in equal parts of truffles, mushrooms, lean parts of cooked ham, poached whites of eggs, and gerkins. Pour into a stewpan six tablespoonfuls of good vinegar, add a few sprigs of aro- matics, reduce the liquid one third; pour in a half-pint of brown-sauce, and five or six spoonfuls of melted glaze. Reduce the sauce a few minutes, and when sufficiently thickened, add to it two tablespoonfuls of red-currant jelly ; as soon as this is dissolved, take the sauce off the fire, introduce into it the ‘montglas’ ; which warm without allowing to boil. 591. Mutton-cutlets, Provence way. — Pare ten fine mutton-cutlets, keep the ‘noix’ rather thinner than usual ; season the cutlets, pour over them a little melted butter. Mince one or two Portugal onions, put them into a stewpan, with butter and a little salt; which let fry on a very mild fire, stirring them frequently; as soon as they are of a fine color, moisten them with a little broth, and let this broth reduce to glaze : at this time the onions ought to be done ; thicken them with four table- spoonfuls of ‘béchamel-sauce ; reduce the preparation, stirring it till it be of a good consistence ; add to it a pinch of pepper, take it off the fire, and let it cool. A quarter of an hour before serving, place the mutton-cutlets on a gridiron, let them broil, but not too much, on one side only ; turn them over, and place on the cooked surface of the ‘noix’ a small portion of the onion-preparation ; sprinkle over a little bread-crumb, moisten with a little melted butter, and place the cutlets again on the gridiron ; let them broil on the uncooked side. When they have set to the degree requisite, take them off the fire, and glaze their upper surface with the aid of a red- hot shovel or salamander. Dish the cutlets, with the bone underneath. Serve separately a boatful of good gi’avy, or else of sauce.