525 SWEET ENTREMETS. — FLAWNS. Boil in a large stewpan two glassfuls of milk with sugar, add a piece of vanilla. Take the preparation up with a warm tablespoon, and let it drop into the milk, in the shape of ‘quenelles’, which let poach. Then drain, and place them on a buttered dish, or vegetable-dish, sprinkle over powdered sugar, then let them glaze to a nice color in the oven ; when taken out, pour over a little vanilla English-cream, and serve immediately. % 1173. Flawn of fruits, Vienna fashion (D. 250). — Line a channeled dawn-circle, or a hot-pie-mould of shallow form, with tartlet-paste; adorn Fi!?. 250. the crest of the borders with leaves of paste; egg these with the paste-brush, then mask the sides and bottom of the case with buttered paper ; fill the hollow with dried kernels of cherries, or common flour: this being, what is called, cooking the crust à blanc. Push it into a moderate oven. Forty minutes after, take it out, empty, and let it cool ; then mask its inside with a layer of apricot-marmalade. A quarter of an hour before serving, place the crust on a dish, fill its hollow with a ‘bavarois’- preparation of rice and almond milk, thickened at the moment on ice, arranging it in layers, alternating with marmalade, and giving it a dome-like shape. Let the preparation get firm on ice for a few minutes, then surround it with a chain of greengages, and another of halves of peaches, prepared as for compote; garnish the hollow with a group of cooked cherries, or raw strawberries ; mask the fruits, with the paste-brush, in their own syrup, being cold, mixed up with juice of apples, and reduced to a nicety. This ‘entremets’ is not only one of the prettiest, but moreover is excellent, and luxurious. 1174. Cherry flawn (flan) German fashion. — This ‘entremets’ is one of the most valuable creations of the German school. Spread half a pound of flour, in a circle, on a table; put into the central hollow of the flour three quarters of a pound of quite cold butter, six ounces of sugar, four