31 SOUPS. 80. Buckwheat-soup, German fashion. — Boil two quarts of good broth, into which mix ten ounces of buckwheat-semolina, letting it drop into the liquid like rain ; remove the stewpan back to the side of the tire, let the liquid boil quite gently. Half an hour afterwards, pass the soup through a tine sieve, then put it back into the same stewpan, adding a little nutmeg, a pinch of sugar; stir until ebullition, then thicken the soup with a few yolks of eggs, diluted with a little cream; and pour it into the soup-tureen. 87. Lark-soup, à la Persane. — Wash ten ounces of rice; boil it with broth until reduced to purée, adding from time to time a little broth to keep it thin. Fry in a stewpan three dozen drawn larks (mauviettes) ; season, and let them cool, then remove their iillets; which trim neatly. With the residue of these larks prepare a little stock, which mix in the rice-purée, passing it through a sieve. When ready to serve, add the fillets to the soup, with the juice of two sour and two sweet pomegranates, and a pinch of chopped green mint. 88. Princes’ Soubise. — Slice thickly five or six white onions, plunge them into boiling salted water; when done, drain them well, put them into a stewpan with butter, and fry on a moderate fire, till their moisture be evaporated ; season with salt, and a grain of cayenne ; moisten with two gills of good ‘bechamel’- sauce. Work the preparation on a brisk fire, stirring it, for five minutes ; and then pass it through a sieve ; pour it into a kitchen-basin, introduce into it five or six table- spoonfuls of melted glaze, two whole eggs, and seven or eight yolks ; pour it into buttered ‘dariole’- moulds, to poach in the ‘bain-marie’. Prepare likewise two quarts of purée of fowl (No. 68). When ready to serve, draw the small custards out of the moulds ; divide, put them into a tureen, and pour the soup over. 89. Purée of lentils, Dutch fashion. — Singe two fresh pig’s ears; scrape, and wash them; put them into a small stockpot, with a piece of raw ham; and moisten with three or four quarts of water; set the stockpot on the fire, and at the first bubbling, remove it back. The ears being half-done, add to the liquid a pint of washed and picked lentils, also one onion, and a piece of celery. The ears and lentils should be done at the same time. Pass the lentils through a sieve, pour the purée into a stewpan, dilute with the broth, pass it again through a tammy, let it boil, stirring with a spoon ; then remove it back, add to it the ears cut in several pieces, boil it for a quarter of an hour, skim off its fat, and serve with ‘croutons’ of fried bread. 90. Roçolnic of duck. — Draw a good duck; singe, and put it into a stewpan with its giblets ; cover the meat with warm water, let this boil up ; at the first bubbling, drain the duck, plunge it in cold water, and divide it into four parts.