COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 338 Turn the border out on a dish, on the top set the fillets and slices of tongue, in a circular order, and alternated ; take up the truffles with a small skimmer, and place them in the centre of the border, which baste with a part of the sauce ; pour the remainder into a sauceboat, and glaze the slices of tongue with a paste-brush. This entrée is dished to go on the table ; it is placed on a hot-water dish. The entree of fillets of chicken is one of those, which cooks are most eager to insert into the plan of a luxurious dinner. Its rich simpleness constitutes it one of those dishes, possessing the particular privilege of pleasing every one ; nobody will question their importance, and distinction. But the result of this preference is, that these fillets of chicken must appear in all choice dinners; a fact, which gives to the bills of fare a sort of similarity, which at length becomes remarkable enough to strike every one ; this being however, I confess, the only inconvenience I found in their too often repeated exhibition ; as for their qualities, they are unquestionable, espe- cially, when the fillets are cooked with that care, which distinguishes the practical man, even in his simplest operations. 771. Chicken-fillets, Béarn fashion. — Trim fourteen fillets of chicken, split in two along the thick part, without separating the pieces. Fill the hollow with a small part of some cooked fine-herbs, close the aperture by luting it with a little raw force-meat. Season the fillets, dip them into whipped eggs, bread-crumb them, dip them into melted butter, and fry them on a very moderate fire, turning them. When done, dish them in a circular order ; fill the hollow of this circle with a garnish of small moulded ‘quenelles’; which mask, as well as the bottom of the dish, with brown ‘Béarn’-sauce, that is, finished with a piece of good glaze; send the remainder of this sauce up separately. 772. Galantine of chicken, with jelly (D. 139). — Bone a middling- sized tender chicken ; take the meat from the legs, take also the fillets ; which pare and divide, the latter in large dice ; put them into a kitchen-basin. Chop the meat from the legs ; add half a pound of minion-fillets of veal, and the same of fresh bacon, both chopped; pound them in the mortar, season with salt and spices, and pass them through a sieve. Add to the force-meat the fillets of chicken, three raw truffles, and five ounces of parboiled bacon, all of them cut up in large dice. Season the chicken, fill it with the prepared force-meat and roll the ‘galantines’; which keep rather long, but not too wide; wrap it up in a small cloth, tie it up, and boil it for one hour and a half, proceeding as in No. 714. When done, take it up, unpack it ; then pack it up again, and let it cool in a nice round shape. Pare it afterwards, divide it into slices of equal form and size; glaze the slices with the paste-brush, and ornament them with small squares ol