COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 38 Mince one onion, one carrot, a piece of celery-root; put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of raw ham, and a piece of butter ; fry, and shake over three tablespoonfuls of arrowroot, moisten gradually witli two quarts of the head’s stock; stir the liquid till it boil up, and remove it back; adding to it a bunch composed of marjoram, thyme, and bay-leaves. Twenty-five minutes after, skim the fat from the soup, pass it through a sieve, add the pieces of head, and the madcira, as well as five or six button-mushrooms minced into julienne’; boil it for twelve minutes more, skimming, and adding a pinch of cayenne, and three dozen small poultry ‘quenelles’ with cayenne. 105. English ox-cheek-soup. — Take half a skinned ox-head; remove its muzzle, and steep in water the remainder of the head, for one hour, without boning it; divide it then in two, put these parts into a stockpot with water, and let the liquid boil; then drain the meat, refresh it in cold water, put it back into the stockpot, and moisten with a sufficient quantity of light broth, or some water, to cover it. Let the liquid boil ; skim, and remove it back. An hour after, add to it two carrots, a large onion, and a few sprigs of aromatics, a handful of chervil, and a few pieces of green celery. Continue boiling, until the fleshy parts of the head be done; then drain the head, and let the meat cool under a light press. Strain the broth through a napkin, skim the fat off it, and let it settle, previous to decanting it. Pour two quarts of this broth into a stewpan, clarify with eight ounces of chopped lean beef, mixed up with a whole egg and two gills of madcira, proceeding as in No. 8 ; pass it through a sieve, keep it hot in a stewpan, plunge in the ox-cheek meat, divided into regularly cut pieces, and heat without boiling it. When ready to serve, add to the soup the white part of six or seven leeks, braised, and divided into small pieces, or a vegetable garnish cut in small dice. 100. German pig’s-ears-soup. — Steep in water«two salted pig’s ears, drain them on a cloth, singe, and boil them in water for one hour and half; afterwards drain, cut each in two, put them in a stockpot with half a quart of split peas, one carrot, one onion, a sprig of parsley, and two cloves ; moisten the meat and vegetables with four quarts of water, set the stockpot on the fire to boil the liquid ; remove it back, continuing to boil until the ears and peas be done. Then drain the ears, divest them of the fatty parts, and slice the membranous parts in fillets. Meanwhile pass the peas through a fine sieve, dilute this purée with their own stock kept for this purpose, and pass it a second time through a sieve. Put the soup on the fire, stir till boiling, add the sliced ears, and boil them for ten minutes on the side of the stove, to clarify. Skim, and pour it into the soup-tureen, adding small bread -‘croûtons’.