COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 506 1136. Omelet with strawberries.— Getlarge, very fresh, and perfumed, pine-strawberries (fraises-ananas); pluck them, select about a score of the finest ones; each of which cut into four parts, then put them into a bowl, with sugar, a little orange-zest, two tablespoonfuls of rum. Pass the remainder of the strawberries through a fine sieve, thus getting a ‘purée’ of the volume of a waterglass. Sweeten slightly the ‘purée’ adding also a little orange-sugar, and set it on ice. Break ten eggs into a kitchen-basin, mix in two tablespoonfuls of fine powder- sugar, two tablespoonfuls of good cream; which beat up for a few seconds with a whip. Melt into a frying-pan five ounces of good butter, when hot add the eggs, thicken the omelet by aid of a spoon, and bring it back to the front of the pan, place the cut- up strawberries on the centre of the omelet, which fold on both sides, giving it a pretty shape ; turn it out on its dish, sift over a little sugar with vanilla ; glaze, and pour all round the ‘purée’ of strawberries. 1137. Omelet with apples. — Let me recommend this omelet to all friends of simple ‘entremets’. Put into a kitchen-basin two tablespoonfuls of flour, add a little salt, a table- spoonful of sugar, two whole eggs, two yolks of eggs, three ounces of melted butter ; now dilute this preparation with three quarters of a glass of good warm milk, and pass it through a sieve. On the other .hand, peel and mince five or six rennet-apples, which put into a frying-pan with six ounces of butter, and let warm, giving them a jerk from time to time ; as soon as they are very hot, pour the preparation over, spreading it about all the surface of the bottom of the dish. When it begins to get a nice consistence, thrust the point of a knife through the thickest part of the omelet, thus enabling the liquid parts on the surface to sink to the bottom. When by shaking the pan vigo- rously, the omelet can be detached from it, pour a little butter on the bottom of the pan. Sift over the surface of the omelet a little good raw sugar (cassonnade), then turn it by aid of a dish of the same size as the pan. Place the pan again over the fire, heat the omelet over a brisk fire, thus glazing the sugar at the bottom of the pan ; this being a particular, not to be neglected. Turn the omelet over again, by aid of the dish; its upper surface now should be nicely glazed; if not so; I mean, if the proceeding should not have proved successful ; then glaze the surface of the omelet with a salamander, and slip the omelet on a dish, on the centre of which a plate has been placed turned : by which means the omelet is more visible. 1138. Sugar-omelet, with ‘kirsch-wasser’ (D. 234, 235). — Break ten eggs into a kitchen-basin, add a pinch of salt, three tablespoonfuls of powder- sugar, one tablespoonful of kirsch-wasser, beat up for a few seconds.