457 ENTREMETS. — VEGETABLES. Take ten or twelve blanched or preserved artichoke-bottoms half-done, and of an equal size; pare them, arrange them in a flat stewpan, moisten with a sufficient quantity of white broth very fat, the juice of a few lemons, or a little white wine, to cover; lay over a buttered paper, and finish cooking them gently. Take a pint of fresh french-beans; if fine, leave whole, otherwise mince; plunge them into boiling water, add a handful of salt, and boil them over a brisk fire. Drain them on a sieve, put into a stewpan with five ounces of butter; season, and Fig. 203. warm them on a brisk fire; keep tossing till the butter be melted, then add the juice of two lemons. Serve them up on a hot dish, in pyramids, and surround with the artichoke-bottoms, overlapping and almost upright. 1020. White haricot-beans, ‘à la Robert’. — In the chapter on Butcher’s meat (No. 600), 1 have described the method of cooking white haricot- beans: let me recommend it, as giving excellent results. Boil half a quart of white dry haricot-beans. Cut up two or three large onions in large dice, fry them in butter to a nice color, moisten with a few tablespoonfuls of broth, and reduce the liquid to glaze ; moisten with gravy, boil them for ten minutes ; thicken with a piece of kneaded-butter, season, and finish, introducing into it, off the fire, a tablespoonful of good mustard, and a piece of butter. 1021. ‘Garbanços’ boiled. The vegetable, called gctrbanços in Spain, ceci in Italy, pois chiches in Provence, is called ‘chick-peas’ in England. The best and most reputed ones are those of Castilla in Spain, where they are generally larger, and possess the double advantage of cooking well, and comparatively in a ; short time. Plunge the pease in tepid water with a handful of pounded salt, placing the basin ; in such a manner, that the water may remain at the same degree of warmth for ■ about fifteen hours, stirring the pease from time to time; when tender, drain, wash them in several waters, and plunge them into salted boiling water ; boil them gently.