MUTTON. 259 BUTCHER’S MEAT. and pounded ; season with a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Remove the sauce off’ the fire, as soon as hot, and add to it two tablespoonfuls of good mustard, previously diluted with a little sauce. GOG. Sheep’s tongues, with purée of lentils. — Get ten fresh sheep’s tongues, steep them in cold water, put them into a stewpan with cold water, and blanch until boiling; trim them, removing the root, place them one beside the other, in a flat stewpan, with sliced vegetables; salt slightly, and moisten to height with gravy. Let the liquid boil, and reduce it one fourth ; cover the stewpan, remove it hack, cooking the tongues for two hours, turning; drain them afterwards, remove the skin covering them, put them again into the stewpan, with their cooking-stock strained, and reduced to half-glaze ; glaze them nicely at the entrance of the oven ; dish them up, reclining against a purée of lentils, arranged in pyramids, on the centre of a hot dish. Add to the cooking-stock four tablespoonfuls of white wine, let it boil for two minutes, and pour it over the tongues. C07. Sheep’s ‘animelles’ fried. — The ‘animelles’ are only found in male sheep, that have not undergone castration, accordingly in rams; little known in France, and England, the ‘animelles’ are very plentiful on the markets of Italy, at Naples, and in Rome. Choose seven or eight fresh ‘animelles’, remove the skin that covers them; cut each of them in four parts lengthwise; put them into a kitchen-basin, sprinkle over salt, and let them macerate for ten minutes ; when they have delivered up their moisture, flour them, taking small quantities at one time, and plunge them into very hot drippings ; as soon as set inwardly, and hard to the touch, drain them on a cloth over some salt, and dish them up, on a folded napkin, with fried parsley. G08. Sausage ‘à la Persane’. — Pare the meat of a loin of mutton, chop it with an equal quantity of sheep’s-tail fat, or bacon ; when the farce is fine, season, and divide it into parts, the size of an egg ; roll them round a small iron-skewer, shaping the sausages in a round elongated form : the skewer should be exactly on the centre of each, these being run through one after the other. Roast these sausages Neapolitan fashion, that is, with coal on both sides ; turning the skewer with the > hand. When done, dish them up carefully, without breaking them, and surround with slices of celery. G09. Persian Kebâb. — Cut up, in squares, the meat of a loin of mutton ; place them in an earthen pan, mixing an equal number of thick slices of sheep’s-tail- [ fat; season with salt and pepper, sprinkle over some sliced onion, and add the juice of a few lemons ; after which allow them to macerate for a few hours. Then run the 17*