224 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. lozenges, beans and flageolets-beans ; all of these vegetables must be blanched, or cooked, separately, according to their qualities. At the last moment, put them together into a flat stewpan with butter, heat them quickly, tossing them ; season with salt, nutmeg, and a pinch of sugar, and thicken afterwards with a little good ‘béchamel’-sauce. 525. Veal-kidneys, Breton fashion.— Mince five or six onions; put them into a thin stewpan with butter and a bay-leaf, fry them on a moderate tire, stirring until they become a nice color; season with salt, pepper, and a point of sugar ; sprinkle over a tablespoonful of flour, and moisten with two gills of gravy, then finish cooking them gently ; by this time the sauce will be about reduced. On the other hand, slice a raw veal-kidney, put it into a frying-pan with butter; season, and fry it on a brisk fire ; as soon as well set, take it off the fire, baste with a few spoonfuls of glaze and a little lemon-juice, finish with a little chopped parsley, tossing it, until all the slices be well soaked with glaze. Place the Tagout’ of onions on a hot dish, leaving a hollow in the centre, into which pour the kidneys, and sur- round them with fried bread-'croûtons’, glazed with a paste-brush. 52G. Veal-kidney, with wine. — Divide a nice veal-kidney into several . parts ; remove the sinewy parts, and cut it in slices, not too thin. Melt four ounces of butter in a frying-pan ; when hot, add the slices of kidney ; season, toss them over a brisk fire to set; as soon as their moisture is evaporated, take them out with a skimmer into a basin. Put into a stewpan two tablespoonfuls of chopped shalôt and onion, fry them without allowing them to take color ; add about fifteen raw mushrooms in quarters, a clove of garlic, and a bunch of parsley; moisten with half a glass of white wine, and the liquor of the kidney passed through a sieve; reduce the liquid to half, thicken it with a little brown-sauce, and two tablespoonfuls of melted glaze ; three minutes after, throw into it the slices of kidney, heat them without boiling, take out the bunch and garlic, sprinkle over some chopped parsley, and add the juice of one lemon. Then dish the kidney up, and surround it with bread-Troûtons’, fried and glazed. 527. Quenelles of veal, Toulouse fashion (D. 81). — Cut up fourteen ounces of meat, or pared minion-fillet, of veal ; pound it, and add three quarters of its volume of panada, prepared with rice-flour ; five minutes later, add to the force-meat the same quantity of butter, as of panada ; when well mixed, add two or three yolks of eggs, salt, and nutmeg ; and pass the whole through a sieve ; put it then into a kitchen-basin, introduce into it two tablespoonfuls of raw cream, and try its consistence. Take then two tablespoons, — iron ones are best, — put one of them into hot water, and fill the other with force-meat, smooth it on the surface with a small