150 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. few tablespoonfuls of limed mayonnaise ; stir it then on the ice; until it be nicely thickened, then pour it into the mould. An hour afterwards, turn the salad out on a cold dish, surround it with little rolls of a round shape, scooped hollow, and tilled with caviar. 352. Lobsters, Paris fashion. — Chop up together a large onion, and a carrot ; fry them with butter in a stcwpan, moisten with a bottle of white wine, and a little broth ; add to it a bunch of parsley, garnished with aromatics, as well as cloves, and peppercorns ; let the liquid boil ; and, three minutes after, plunge into it two live lobsters. Boil them for twelve minutes ; let them cool in their liquor, drain them, pick the tails and claws, cut their flesh in slices ; which place, in a flat stew- pan, thickly buttered. With the liquor of the lobsters, prepare a good sauce ; reduce it, adding a few tablespoonfuls ofmadeira; finish with a pinch of cayenne, and two tablespoonfuls of tomata-sauce, butter, and the juice of a lemon : heat the slices and claws of lobster on a brisk fire, turning them ; range them on a dish, mask them with the sauce, and send them up. It must be remarked that the meat of boiled lobster is made tender by being warmed up in butter. 353. Lobster, Maryland fashion. — Boil two or three small lobsters in slightly acidulated salt water. Drain, and pick them ; divide the meat of the tails in two, while that of the claws must be kept whole. Place them in a small stew- pan, with a little of their liquor, in order to keep them warm. Pound the creamy parts of the bodies, mix them with six tablespoonfuls of brown-sauce, the same of tomata-sauce; season with salt and cayenne pepper; pass it through a sieve, and keep the sauce in the ‘bain-marie’. Infuse five or six pimentoes in a little ‘consommé’, which mix with the sauce, passing it through a sieve. Split .six or seven fine tomatas in the middle, remove their seeds, put the tomatas into a little pan with butter or oil ; season, fry them on both sides at a brisk fire ; range them in a circular ordeV on a dish, placing the lobsters’ tails and claws in the middle ; pour on the sauce. Accompany this dish by a plate of rice, boiled in fish-broth, seasoned with salt and nutmeg, finished, at the last moment, with a pinch of sugar, and a few drops of mint-extract. 354. Sea-crayfish, Norman sauce. — Boil four small sea-crayfish in ‘court-bouillon’, proceeding according to the method prescribed for lobsters ; drain them, then disengage the body-shells from the tails, the meat of which remove, keeping it whole, breaking only the inner side of the shell. Spunge the meat, as well as the shells ; spread the shells in all their length, dish them on a large group