139 FISH. 330. Fillets of sole, Rouen fashion (D. No. 43 ). — Take out the fillets of five or six small soles ; beat them slightly, season them, trim away the thin parts, and lay them in a large flat stewpan, with butter, and two gills of white wine. Boil them gently ; drain, and pare them square ; put them into a stewpan, and baste with their own stock, previously strained and freed of its fat. With the trimmings of soles, and the same quantity of raw whiting flesh, prepare a 'quenelle’ force-meat, with which mould some 'quenelles’ by aid of a small spoon ; Fig. 43. poach them, drain, and put them into a flat stewpan, with three or four dozen blanched oysters, a few button-mushrooms, whole truffles, and crayfish-tails. Drain the liquor of the oysters, mushrooms, and truffles ; mix it with the cooking of the soles, and reduce the liquid to half-glaze; add an equal quantity of brown- sauce, the peel of the truffles and mushrooms; reduce the sauce for a few minutes, and pass it, through a tammy, into another stewpan, to finish it with four ounces of good butter. When ready to serve, dish up the fillets in pyramids; mask them with half of the sauce, glazing them nicely; surround them, on each side, with a group of 'quenelles’, and oysters ; then place on one end the truffles, and on the other the mushrooms. Arrange the crayfish-tails on the top, and send up the remainder of the sauce in a sauce-boat. 331. Fillets of soles ‘au gratin’, Marseille fashion. — Take out the fillets of three fresh soles, cleansed, and freed of their black skin ; beat them slightly; cut them to an equal length, and season. Prepare a 'quenelle’ force-meat, with a pound and a quarter of raw whiting flesh, eight ounces of panada, the same of butter, and three yolks of eggs (see No. 244). Roll out, over a floured table, eight ounces of short-paste; cut this flat round, and a little wider than the bottom of an 'entrée’-dish ; spread it on a baking-sheet, and mask it with a layer of raw force-meat, half an inch thick. Take half of the remaining force-meat, mix it tip with three tablespoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs, onion, and chopped mushroom ; with this force-meat mask the fillets (on one side only), and fold them in two, bringing the two ends on to the centre ; range them in a circular