BUTCHER’S MEAT. — PORK. 289 | minutes, on a good fire, turning. They must he well done throughout, and sent up very hot on a hot dish. ■ 084. Pig’s feet, with truffles ; Nancy fashion. — Prepare a little fine raw mince with lean pork, and fresh bacon, half and half; add to it a few table- j spoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs, and some trimmings of raw truffles, pounded with I a little raw mince ; season with salt, spices, and a point of cayenne. Boil four pig’s feet, in salted water, with vegetables and aromatics ; drain them on a dish, unpack them, split them in two, bone completely, and trim away the ; sinewy parts, which add to the mince. The feet being quite cold, season with salt and spices, spread them on a table, and mask inwardly with the prepared mince ; which mask also with seasoned slices of raw truffles. Now wrap up each half-foot in a square of pig’s caul ; moisten the caul with melted lard, bread-crumb, and broil the feet over a moderate fire for twenty minutes, turning. Send them up with gravy under them. 685. Fresh pork-pie, English fashion. — Cut up some slices of fresh pork off the loin, or leg ; after paring away the hard parts, beat them slightly with the handle of the knife, and season with salt and pepper. Spread the bottom of a pie-dish with slices of raw ham ; season with a pinch of ! pepper, and sprinkle over two tablespoonfuls of chopped shalot and onion, where- on place a layer of raw potatoes in slices, place over it the slices of pork in layers, intermingled with a few sage-leaves. Pour into the dish half a pint of good cold gravy, line the border of the pie-dish with a strip of short-paste, or of trimmings of puff-paste, moisten the strip, cover the pie with a flat of the same paste, which solder to that of the borders; channel, and adorn the pie, proceeding as directed in No. 596 ; egg it, set it on a baking-tin, and push it into a moderate oven. A quarter of an hour after, cover it with paper, and bake it for another hour ; when done, set it on a dish. 686. Raw mince Of fresh pork. — The raw mince of fresh pork is the fundamental auxiliary of ‘galantines’, cold pies, ‘crépinettes’, sausages, etc. Take all the meat of a pig’s neck, or that of the shoulder ; separate the fat parts from the lean ones ; pare the latter clear of all sinewy skin, trim also the fat of the meat, and mix it with fresh fat-bacon, thus getting an equal quantity of fat and lean parts. Chop separately the meat and bacon ; both being fine, mix them together, chop a little more, and season with salt and spices. 687. Fresh boiled sausages, with truffle. — Take eight ounces of fresh truffles; having first removed the earth covering them, picking out with the 19