COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 312 Pullets of six to nine months are those to be preferred, when fat enough. The cooking of poultry at the roasting tire, is an operation not to be treated carelessly; as the roast is one of the most essential dishes in a dinner, one of which every body willingly partakes ; therefore the highest attention of the cook should be bestowed on this preparation, under penalty of compromising the dinner in the judgment of the guests, and giving them a poor opinion of his science. Unless covered with slices of fat bacon, a roast of poultry should always be wrapped up in buttered paper, aiding it to support the first action of the fire; while cooking, it must be frequently basted with butter or lard. Truss two pullets, and cover them with thin slices of bacon ; pierce them with the spit through their length ; and tic them up by the legs ; wrap them in buttered paper, and roast them for one hour, basting often ; when about done, take off the paper and bacon, allowing the meat of the breast to take color. Salt the pullets, take them off the spit, remove the string, and carve each of them in five parts : if more than usually large, the centre-piece of the breast should be cut in two. Pare the backs, divide, and range them on the centre of an oblong dish ; cut up the legs at the joint without separating the parts, and dish them round the backs, two on each side; on these lay the wings, and on the centre the breast-pieces. Surround the roast with water-cresses, and serve separately a sauceboat of good gravy, and another of bread-sauce. 722. Skewers of ‘poulards’ livers. — Remove the gall of a dozen good pullets’ livers; divide each of them into four parts, place them in a kitchen- basin, and season with salt and spices ; add to it an equal volume of squares of fat bacon, not too thick, and cut of the size of the livers ; sprinkle over these meats two tablespoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs, then run them through with small metal or wooden skewers, pointed on one end, alternating the liver with bacon. When the skewers are completely garnished, roll them in clarified butter, then in bread-crumb, and broil them for a quarter of an hour at a moderate fire, turning them on all sides ; then dish them up. 723. Poulard (pullet) roasted, Toulouse-sauce. — Draw and singe a fine fat pullet (poularde), truss, and roast it, basting frequently with lard; when done, salt, take it off the fire, dish up, and send up separately the following sauce : Toulousc-sauce. — This sauce is a genuine local speciality, very agreeable and appetising, for those who have no repugnance to garlic. Boil in salted water two dozen peeled cloves of garlic ; drain, put them into a stewpan, with tho fat of the roast pullet, to give them a nice color; then moisten