C0SM0P0L1TAN COOKERY. 442 On the other hand, cut in slices two blanched sweetbreads; season, place them in a flat stewpan, with melted butter, and fry them over a brisk fire ; the meat being well set, moisten it.with a gill of white wine ; add a dozen fresh mushrooms, cut into four pieces, and half a pound of lean bacon in squares. Cover the stewpan, quickly reducing the moisture to a glaze ; then thicken the stew with a little brown ‘espagnole’-sauce, mixed with a few tablespoonfuls of tomata-sauce, letting it boil, and adding two dozen small veal ‘quenelles’, rolled in flour and poached. Now pour the garnish into the cavity of the ‘polenta’, stop the opening with the cover kept for this purpose, soldering the junctures with liquid ‘polenta’, or force- meat ; butter the top, and push the mould into a moderate oven, Three quarters of an hour after, slip the blade of the knife in, between the mould and the preparation, disengaging this, and turn the ‘surtout’ out on a hot dish. 983. ‘Tagliarini’, Italian fashion. — Except in Naples, where macaroni is preferred to all other pastes, the ‘tagliarini’ are common to all states of Italy. Even in Rome there are special manufacturers, fabricating different products from the 'same paste; such as ‘lasagne, fctuccle, cappellctti’, etc. The paste itself is generally very well prepared. ‘Tagliarini’-paste. — Place on the table ten ounces of sifted flour, spread it with the hand, forming a hollow in its centre, in which put a little salt, a few tablespoon- fuls of tepid water, and break in five or six whole eggs ; bruise the eggs with the hand, and gradually mix them with the flour, thus obtaining a smooth and firm paste: the paste being well worked, no vestige of flour or paste should be left on the table. Cover the paste with a kitchen-basin, and let it rest for five or six minutes ; then divide it in two pieces, which roll out very thin on a floured table ; then set the flats on a cloth, and let them dry for a quarter of an hour. Afterwards divide them in strips about two inches wide, sift over a little flour; place the flats one over the other, and shred them transversally. As soon as the ‘tagliarini’ are cut, spread them out on several sheets of paper, thus letting them dry, but without letting them stick together. One hour after, plunge them into salted boiling water, boil them for two minutes, draw the stewpan off the fire; two minutes later, pour the ‘tagliarini’ on a sieve, and drain them ; put them back into the stewpan, with half a pound of butter in little bits ; which mix well, by the aid of a large fork, at the same time sprinkling over grated parmesan ; season with pepper and nutmeg, and place them in layers on a dish, baste with a few tablespoonfuls of tomata-sauce, reduced with a little good gravy, or melted meat-glaze. 984. ‘Surtout’ of rice, Italian fashion (D. 197). — Buttera timbale’-mould, sprinkle it inwardly with bread-crumb, and roll in two whole eggs,