538 COSMOPOLITAN COOK ELY. 1106. Glazed Gènoa-cakes (Génoise). — Weigh seven raw eggs; take the same weight of flour, the same of sugar, the same of butter, the same of al- monds. Pound the almonds ; break the eggs into a kichen-basin, add to them the sugar, work this preparation vigorously; as soon as it is light, add to it a little salt, a little chopped lemon-zest, then the flour and almonds; but taking care to do this by degrees only; last of all, add three ounces of potato-flour, then the melted butter, and four tablespoonfuls of cognac. Butter a thin baking-sheet, mask the bottom with paper, which also butter; pour the preparation on the baking-sheet, smooth it with the blade of a knife, giving it the thickness of half an inch. Bake the paste in a moderate oven for forty minutes. On taking the ‘génoise’ out of the oven, turn it out on a table covered with paper; let it cool, then divide it in strips four inches long. Now turn the strips over, in order to pare them slightly; mask them on this side with a thin layer of apricot-marmalade, mask the marmalade with a layer of icing-sugar, with rum or ‘kirschwasser’, prepared with some flue sugar (glace de sucre), (that is, some sugar passed through a silk sieve), a little water and rum; smooth tins icing-sugar with the blade of a knife, and divide the strips of ‘génoise’ transversally, in such a manner as to get cakes an inch and a half by three. Take these cakes up with the blade of a knife, as soon as cut, and place them at little distances; serve the cakes, as soon as the glaze is dry. 1197. Digestive cakes. — Weigh half a pound of flour, the same of sugar, the same of fresh eggs. Place the sugar and flour in a kitchen-basin, gradually add to them the eggs, working the preparation with a wooden spoon. After all the eggs are absorbed, still work the preparation briskly for ten minutes more; introduce it into a bag (see D. 228), and at little distances push the paste of round shape on buttered and floured baking-sheets; place on each of these parts a bit of anise, and thus bake them in a moderate oven. 1198. French-galette (D. 260). — Pass through a sieve, on the table, a pound and a half of tine flour; form a cavity in the centre, place in this a pinch of salt, a quarter of a pound of butter, and two gills of cold water. First knead the butter with the liquid, gradually introduce into it the flour, so as to get a smooth paste, such as for puff - paste ; let this paste rest for a quarter of an hour: it must not be too consistent. Knead, in a cloth, half a pound of good butter until firm; give it a flat square shape. Put on the floured table the paste previously prepared, flatten it with the hand, giving it a square shape ; on this pasie place the butter, which cover with the project- ing edges of the paste, turn (tourrcr) this paste, like puff-paste, giving it live turns;