136 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. Pass the stock through a sieve, put it hack into the stewpan, to reduce it one third ; thicken it with a piece of kneaded-butter, giving the sauce a little consistence. Set it again on the fire, and at the first bubbling, remove it back, thicken it with two yolks of eggs, and finish by adding eight ounces of butter in small bits, the juice of one lemon, and a pinch of chopped parsley. Mask the soles with this sauce, and serve. 323. Soles, Hamburg fashion. — Blanch two dozen large oysters, drain them, preserving their liquor ; trim, and put them by. Cut a ‘julienne’ composed of celery- and parsley- roots, tender carrots, and raw mushrooms ; blanch these vegetables (excepting the mushrooms) in salted water, and drain them on a sieve. Cut in pieces transversally, three micldling-sized soles, but clean, and very fresh. Butter a flat stewpan, sprinkle over the bottom the vegetables, on which place the fillets of soles. Salt them slightly, moisten with half a bottle of white wine and the oysters’-liquor ; then boil the soles on a sharp tire; drain, and place them on a dish, with the oysters; thicken their stock with a j^iece of kneaded-butter, and remove the stewpan off the fire. Finish the sauce with the juice of a lemon, with a piece of butter, and a little chopped parsley ; after which pour the sauce and the vegetables over the soles, and serve. 324. Soles ‘au gratin’. —- Chop first one onion and one shalôt; then seven or eight mushrooms, and a pinch of fresh parsley. Butter an oval gratin-dish, sprinkle over it a part of the fine-herbs ; baste them with cold brown-sauce, or some thickened gravy, and with a few spoonfuls of white wine. Place on this two nicely cleansed soles, freed of their black skin, sprinkle over the remainder of the fine-herbs, a little salt, and bread-crumb ; pour over them a little plain melted butter, and set the dish in a moderate oven, to bake the soles for eighteen or twenty minutes, basting them with their stock ; then remove them back, and serve them in the dish, in which they have been baked, placing it on another dish. 325. Fillets of soles, Flemish fashion. — Take out the fillets of two soles, beat them slightly; trim, season, and mask them with a layer of red-herring roes, thickened with a little raw force-meat. Roll the fillets out in the shape of‘pau- piettes’, truss, and braise them, short of moisture, with butter and white wine ; let them cool in their stock, and cut them transversally in slices, which season, and set round a salad of vegetables, previously placed on the centre of a cold dish.