COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 326 broth ; stir the sauce on the fire till ebullition, and then draw it on the side of the fire, letting it do nothing but simmer for twenty-five minutes ; carefully skim off the fat, and pass it, through a tammy, into a flat stewpan ; reduce it until succulent, and of a nice consistence. Then introduce into it a few tablespoonfuls of cream, strain it in a small stewpan, add to it the cocks’-combs, and keep the pan in the ‘bain-marie’. Meanwhile, cut up eight or ten bx-ead ‘croûtons’ of an oval form, rather thick; make a circular incision on one side with the point of a knife, fry them in butter, drain, and empty them. Get a few nice heads of ‘cèpes’, trim away their black skin, slice them, put them into a frying-pan with buttei’, and toss them over a brisk fire, to reduce their moisture; then thicken them with a few tablcspoonfuls of melted glaze, finish them with chopped parsley, and the juice of one lemon ; with the mince fill the bread-‘croutons’, place the cocks’-combs on the centre of a dish, and suiTound them with these ‘croûtons’. 747. Chickens with ‘paprica’, as in Hungary. — Singe two chickens, cut each of them iix five parts, divide the back-bones in two, and sprinkle over all the pieces ‘paprica’; then place them in a stewpan with the pinions, a minced white onion, and five ounces of raw ham in squares; season, and fry them on a moderate fire ; when their moisture is reduced, moisten with a few tablespoonfuls of gravy, put some warm ashes on the lid, and continue boiling gently, so as to braise the chickens short of moisture. When they are three-parts done, thicken the stock with half a pint of good sour-cream ; ten or twelve minutes after, dish up the chickens ; reduce the sauce quickly, stirring with a spoon ; when thickened like any common sauce, finish it with a pinch of ‘paprica’, the juice of one lemon, and a piece of butter ; then pass it, through a sieve, over the chickens. 748. Chicken-fricassée, with rice (D. 130). — Singe two middling sized chickens, divide them, each into five parts; which steep in cold water, for ten minutes, with the necks, pinions, and backs, trimmed and cut up, each in two parts; drain them afterwards, put them into a stewpan, moisten to cover with tepid water, and a glass of white wine ; add a little salt, and a few trimmings of fresh mushrooms; set the stewpan on the fire, to boil the liquid, x’emoving the scum rising to the surface. Take out the breasts and wings, as soon as set ; leave the legs and other pieces in the stock, until half-done ; drain them in a colandei1, pi’eserving the liquid ; refresh, and trim them neatly ; wipe, and put them into a stewpan (minus the wings and breasts) with a piece of butter, two small onions, and eight ounces of ham cut in large dice ; fry them for a few minutes, sprinkle over a handful of flour, and moisten with the preserved liquor; add a bunch of parsley and aromatics, peppei-corns,