COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 434 to ebullition ; ten minutes after, remove the pan back, place hot ashes on its lid, baste the saddle from time to time, and braise it for two hours. As soon as done, take it off the fire, and let it half-cool, then drain, in order to slip off the fillets ; which cut in slices, put them back into place, egg the top of them with a layer of crumbs of black-bread (pumpernickel') half an inch thick, or with plain brown bread-crumbs, seasoned with a little sugar and cinnamon, moistened with red wine. This layer should be kept firm : sprinkle over dry bread-crumbs, and baste with butter, lay the saddle on a baking-sheet with a little stock-remains ; push it into a moderate oven, to warm the meats for half an hour , basting the layer from time to time with butter ; then dish the saddle up, and send up separately some cherry-sauce (No. 9<31). 974. Head (hûre) of young wild-boar, Berlin-sauce (D. 195). — Young wild-boars may be considered as ‘grice’ (marcassins), till the age of eighteen months ; but it is at the age of from ten to fifteen months, that the flesh of this animal is best fitted for eating, being then fat and tender. Cut the head, leaving the neck rather long (to the height of the shoulders), the muscular parts of the neck being precisely those most esteemed by amateurs : besides these parts, there is little else but the cheeks, generally not large, yet •very delicate. When the head is cut, scald it as pigs are scalded, to remove the hairs; or else singe it on a coal-fire, having sprinkled it with pounded resin. In Germany the blacksmiths are generally charged with this operation. When the head is singed, soak it for one hour, then drain it, split the skin of the skull up to the top of the forehead as far as the eyes, and right in the centre, to prevent the cracking of the skin. Disengage the meat of the snout, saw part of the bone off it transversally to a length of two inches, then wrap the head in a cloth ; securing with string, but being careful to tie the ears in an upright position ; or else they may be cut off, and cooked separately. Spread the bottom of an oblong stew- pan with carrots, onion, and celery-root, chopped, but not too small ; set the head thereon, moisten to height with half water and half vinegar; add to it salt, cloves, peppercorns, thyme, bay-leaf, marjoram, coriander, and juniper ; let the liquid boil on a moderate fire for three hours, if the animal is quite young: in any case, ob- serve, the head must be well done, as in cooling the muscular meat has a tendency to harden. As soon as the head is sufficiently tender, let it cool, off the fire, in its stock; after that unpack it, pare the neck square, glaze the skin all over with lard, colored with very dark caramel ; cover the cut parts of the skin on the skull with a piece ot butter, which ornament with truffle, cooked white of egg, and jelly ; set in each side of the snout, a tusk made in butter. Place the head then on an oval ‘pain-vert’,