7 SOUPS. soup-plates. Butter slightly the centre of these plates left free, then break a very fresh egg in the cavity formed by the bread, season it with salt and pepper, pour on the bottom of the plates a little ‘consommé’, and push them into a moderate oven, so as gently to poach the egg. On taking the plate out of the oven, pour some ‘consommé’ over the slices of bread, and send up the plates, at the same time with a tureen of‘consommé’, mixed up at the time with a ‘pluche’ of chervil, or a garnish of small vegetables. 13. Consommé of fish with quenelles. — Mince a large onion, two leeks, and one carrot ; fry them in a stewpan with butter, add to them four pounds of common bony fish, such as gurnet, perch, and tench; add also a head of turbot, or a slice of conger ; moisten the fish to its height with white wine, and hot water, half and half; add a bunch of parsley and aromatics (aromates), salt, cloves and peppercorns ; cover the stewpan, and boil the fish over a brisk fire for twenty minutes; strain the broth through a sieve, skim off its fat, and let it settle. Chop a pound of flesh of whiting or of pike, mix in three whole eggs, dilute it with a glass of white wine, then with the fish-broth; add a few minced vegetables, such as, celery-roots, carrots, and leeks; set the stewpan on a moderate fire, stirring the liquid till it begins to boil, at which moment remove it to the side, and when clear, strain it through the napkin. Mould, in small teaspoons, two dozen ‘quenelles’ of whitings, which poach, drain, and range in the soup-tureen; skim the fat off the ‘consommé’, which pour over the ‘quenelles’. 14. Consommé with biscottes, Vienna fashion. — Nearly melt eight ounces of butter, pour this into a kitchen-basin, to be worked with a spoon. When of a pretty good consistence, add, one by one, three or four yolks of egg. As soon as the preparation becomes frothy, introduce into it eight ounces of flour with, at the same time, the four whites whipped, but without letting the preparation curve (corder); season it with a little salt and nutmeg, spread it over a buttered and floured baking-sheet, in a layer the third of an inch thick, and bake it in a slow oven. On taking it out, divide it into lozenges, which dish on a plate, and serve with a soup-tureen of good ‘consommé’ of game, poultry, or fish. 15. Epicures’ consommé. — Take three round dinner rolls : cut from the centre of each, three thin slices; which toast on one side only, on which mask them with a thick layer of good fresh grated parmesan; sprinkle a little pepper over the cheese, range the slices of bread on a gridiron, which put into the oven, and keep there till the cheese become dissolved, and slightly glazed ; when they are taken out, and ranged on a warm dish, so as to keep them hot.