244 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. When ready to serve, dish the stew, the meats taking the centre, and the turnips placed all round. 570. Saddle of Ardennes-mutton, chestnut-purée. — Trim and lard both the fillets of a saddle of Welsh or Ardennes mutton, put the saddle on the spit, and let it roast, at a moderate fire, for three quarters of an hour, basting it repeatedly ; when done, take it off the spit, salt it, remove both the fillets, carving them in slices, in rather a slanting direction, letting adhere to them a small part of the fat. Cut off the sides of the saddle (les bavettes), place them on a remove-dish, forming with them a kind of support, on which dish the two carved fillets of the saddle. Serve up separately a good chestnut-purée, as well as a sauceboatful of half-glaze. 571. Mutton stew, Egyptian way. — Bone a leg of mutton; cut up the meat in large squares, which put into a kitchen-basin, season with salt, pepper, and aromatics ; pour over a glass of vinegar, and let it macerate thus for a few hours. Five hours previous to serving, drain the meats. Chop ten ounces of fat bacon, melt it in an earthen-stoekpot, add to it the meat, fry it for twenty minutes, moisten with the marinade-stock, adding a few cloves of garlic, and two bay-leaves; five minutes after, draw the stockpot on to warm ashes ; cover it with a round of paper, and a close-fitting plate ; stew the mutton gently, like beef ‘k-la-mode’. When time to serve, take up the meat carefully, dish it up, skim the fat away from the cooking-stock, to which add a few tablespoonfuls of tomata-sauce ; let it boil, and strain it over the meat. Send up separately a dish of rice la Turque’. The Turks, faithful to the law of the Prophet, replace the bacon by some sheep’s-tail fat, which in the East is used instead of butter, or lard. 572. Saddle of mutton roasted, English way (D. 86). — The saddle of mutton, strictly speaking, is that portion of the animal between the legs and the cutlets; but, in order to make it larger and more attractive, they cut the legs so short, as to make the saddle reach down to the tail, and up to the breast. If the animal be only pretty fairly grown, it will be easy to give the saddle very consider- able proportions. The English set great store by this piece ; which, when possessing all the incontestable good qualities of English mutton, becomes one of the most distinguished of removes. Choose a nice saddle, let it remain hanging for a few days ; remove the kidney, and bone the end of the ribs, folding the skirts underneath, giving the whole a neat appearance: truss the saddle up into shape; fix it solidly on the spit, and mask it with greased paper.