COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 60 pounds of meat, and vegetables, moistened with plenty of water; for, in the course of the work, there will always be found something to add to it; trimmings of large removes, raw or cooked bones, giblets of poultry, and many other trimmings ; which by themselves are of no value, no substance; but when collected, give a certain produce. Cooks should pay the greatest attention to constituting this stockpot suitably ; not only because it is sufficient for necessary cooking - stocks ; but because, with intelligent care, it may be used for making glaze, the co-operation of which is so much needed in small kitchens: to this end, when the broth is strained, put trim- mings and bones back into the stockpot ; add thereto all the trimmings of the other stocks handy, as from braises, sauces, and gravies ; moisten with hot water, in proportion to their quantity; add an assortment of fresh vegetables, and trimmings of raw meat, handy ; let the liquid boil, skimming, and treating it as the broth. Five or six hours later, strain the liquid, skim off it the fat, and reduce it by quick ebullition. 154. Gravy. — Gravy is of indispensable utility in the work of the kitchen. The process here described is simple, and gives a good result. Cut up in pieces four pounds of a leg of beef, and four pounds of veal from the shoulder or scrag of the neck ; put them into a stewpan with good clarified toppings, fry them on a moderate fire, stirring often with a spoon. When the meats are set, moisten with two gills of white wine, and reduce the liquid to a glaze ; then moisten with seven or eight quarts of hot broth, and skim carefully ; at the first bubbling, draw the pan on the side of the slow fire ; add to the gravy a few bones of roast meat, some vegetables, and a bunch* of parsley garnished with chervil, and aromatics ; add also a few whole spice. ** As soon as the most tender meats are done, take them out with a skimmer, remove the fat from the gravy, which pass through a sieve. This gravy may be clarified as a 'consommé’. 155. Meat-glaze. — In large, as well as in small kitchens, meat-glaze plays a great part, as well in regard to any work of urgency, as to one not finished, when time is wanting, and one must go on straight to the end. Cooks, who will not be taken in, should secure against accidents, by having some good glaze in reserve, thus securing some resources for difficult moments. I have already said, that the second broth of the stockpot could produce common glaze : the following is the method for obtaining some, more succulent and oleaginous. * The bunches of parsley, garnished with aromatics, ought always to be prepared beforehand. ** Whole spice is composed of peppercorns, cloves, coriander, and cinnamon; the two last named are not generally used for kitchen-preparations.