BUTCHER’S MEAT. — BEEF. 187 432. Timbale of ‘amourettes’, Roman fashion (D. 63.) — Take two pounds of spinal marrow of beef, commonly called amourettes*; remove the sinewy skin wrapping it up, let soak for a few hours ; drain it, place it in a stewpan, cover with tepid water; add to the above a little salt, a drop of vinegar, a minced onion, a hunch of parsley. Let the liquid boil for three minutes, take the marrow off the fire, which let cool in their own liquor. Transvcrsally cut the marrow in pieces two inches long, place these pieces in a stewpan, season them, pour over a little good yellow sauce, sprinkle over half a pound of cooked lean ham, cut in small dice, the same of black truffles, cooked, cut like the ham. Take two pounds of veal or poultry force-meat, finished with a little sauce. Butter a dome-shaped mould, adorn the bottom, and round the sides, with truffles ; then mask the inside of the mould with a layer of the ready- made force-meat, applying it half an inch thick. T1 iree quarters of an hour previous to serving, place the cold ‘ragout’ in the hollow of the mould, mask it on the top with a layer of the same force-meat, and cover this with a round of buttered paper ; set the mould on a hollow support, placed on the bottom of a stewpan higher than the mould ; pour boiling water into the stewpan, up to half the height of the mould ; let the water boil, cover the stewpan, place it on a very moderate fire, so as to maintain the water simmering, without allowing it to boil. When time to serve, turn the mould over on a cloth, in order to spungc its interior moisture, then turn the ‘timbale’ out on a dish ; surround it with heads of mushrooms; mask the bottom of this dish with a little good ‘velouté’-sauce, and serve a boatful separately. 433. Ox-tongue-mince, Toulouse fashion. — Trim a piece of cold braised ox-tongue, divide it into oblong squares, which cut transversally into slices ; * In Italy and Germany, this marrow is always removed from oxen and. calves by the butchers, in order to be sold separately.