BUTCHER’S MEAT. — VEAL. 223 with spices, and very little salt ; chop it a little more, until the mixture be completely worked. Line a ‘timbale’-mould, or simply a stewpan, with short-paste (see No. 447). Spread the bottom and sides with a layer of the prepared force-meat, and fill the hollow with the ‘ragout’. Mask also the top with a layer of force-meat, fold over the edges of the paste, and cover the ‘timbale’ with a round of thin paste ; which solder to that of the sides, then set the ‘timbale’ on a small baking-sheet, and' push it into a moderate oven. A quarter of an hour after, cover the top with paper, and bake it thus, for one hour. When ready to serve, turn the ‘timbale’ out on a dish, make a round opening on the top, through which pour into the interior, half a pint of brown-sauce, reduced with a little madeira, and mixed with a few ‘quenelles’. Cover it again, and serve. 523. English ‘Rissoles’. — Cut up, in thin slices, half a pound of good calf’s liver ; fry them, with chopped bacon, on both sides ; when done, add six ounces of sliced cooked truffles; season, pour over four tablespoonfuls of madeira, which reduce quickly, and remove the stewpan back. Meat and truifles being cold, pound, and pass them through a sieve ; place then the preparation in a kitchen-basin, and introduce into it a few spoonfuls of melted glaze, or some reduced sauce. With this preparation, and some trimmings of puff-paste, proceed to make some ‘rissoles’ (see No. 505), cutting them with a fluted cutter (coupe-pâte) ; dip them into beaten eggs, bread-crumb, and fry them of a nice color; afterwards drain, and then dish them up, in two circles, over a folded napkin, placing on the top some fried parsley. 524. ‘Grenadins’of veal, ‘à la jardinière’. — Cut from a‘noix’or minion-fillet of veal, eight or ten scollops, the third of an inch thick ; wet, beat them ; slightly, and pare them to an oblong form, corresponding to the size of a mutton- cutlet. When pared, lard them (on their centre only) with bacon ; place them one beside the other, in a flat stewpan, spread with trimmings of lard and sliced onion ; i moisten with a sufficient quantity of broth, to cover them ; set the stewpan on a brisk fire, to reduce the moisture quickly one third. Then salt the ‘grenadins’, cover them with a buttered paper, draw the stewpan off to a slow fire, place the lid on, and put i some hot ashes on it ; or else set the stewpan in a slow oven, baking the ‘grenadins’ for three quarters of an hour, basting from time to time. When done, glaze them with their stock, reduced to half-glaze : dish them in a circular order, and fill the cavity with a garnish ‘à la jardinière’ : Jardiniere of vegetables. — Take a few tablespoonfuls of carrots, and the same of turnips in balls, some cucumbers scooped with a vegetable-spoon, french-beans in