COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 112 paration, add a little salt and nutmeg, stir it on a moderate fire, until thickish ; pass it, through a fine sieve, into another stewpan ; and add three ounces of good butter in little bits; set the stewpan over a slow fire; heat the preparation, in order to render it light and frothy, without allowing it to boil ; and finish with three ounces of crayfish-butter. 262. Sander, Dantzig fashion. — Blanch three dozen Holstein-oysters with a glass of white wine, pass the liquor through a sieve, let it settle to clarify. Wash the oysters, pare, and drain them on a cloth. Take two middling-sized live sanders ; kill them, scale, and cut off their fins ; draw them by the gills, and divide them into pieces ; which place, as well as the heads, in a flat stewpan ; add a hunch of parsley. Moisten the fish, about to its height, with white wine and the oysters’ liquor; add a handful of trimmings of raw mushrooms, and a piece of kneaded- butter in little bits. Close the stewpan hermetically, set it on a brisk fire, and boil the fish (without salt) for ten minutes, so that the stock may be reduced to half, about the time the fish is done. Take out the pieces of sander with a fork, and dish them ; reduce the sauce, and pass it, through a sieve, into another stewpan; boil, and thicken it with two diluted yolks of eggs ; cook the ‘liaison’, without boiling the sauce ; add the oysters, finish with a piece of butter, and the juice of a lemon ; pour it over the fish, and serve. 263. Soudac of the gourmets. — Get two middling-sized live ‘soudacs’, kill them, scale them, remove their gills, and cut them in pieces; draw, wash, and drain them on a cloth. Butter the bottom of a stewpan, which mask with thickly sliced fresh mushrooms ; salt them slightly, and place on them the pieces of fish ; which salt, moisten, to three parts of their height, with a glass of white wine, the juice of a lemon, and the liquor of two dozen blanched oysters. Add a bunch of parsley, a little piece of kneaded - butter (the size of a walnut), and a teaspoonful of curry-powder; cover the stewpan, set it on a brisk fire, and boil the fish for twelve minutes. Take out the pieces of soudac, without breaking them, one by one ; and place them on a hot dish. Remove the parsley, thicken the sauce with three yolks of eggs ; cook the liaison without boiling ; mix the oysters in the sauce, which pour over the pieces of fish. 264. Oyster-curry. — open five or six dozen large oysters, put them into a stewpan, with a glass of white wine; give them two boilings, and immediately throw them on to a sieve (preserving their liquor) ; wash, and dry them on a cloth; remove their beards, and tendons ; place them in a stewpan, and pour over them four tablespoonfuls of ‘veloute’-sauce with curry-powder ; bring the sauce to ebullition,