COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 448 ‘spaghetti’ of a more luxurious and succulent kind, the gi'avy may be replaced by some good melted meat glaze. Macaroni, as well as ‘risot’, requires to be eaten immediately when ready. After eating macaroni, the Neapolitans make it a rule to drink nothing hut a glass of pure water, in order to facilitate the digestion; this explains how, after emptying one or two plates of macaroni, they can do justice, without inconvenience, to the rest of their dinner. Any, who drink wine, after macaroni, will find it more difficult. 99G. ‘Strohl’-cheese, English fashion. —- Spread on a slab six ounces of flour, in the centre of which place six ounces of butter, six ounces of grated par mesan, three yolks of eggs, a little cayenne, and a tablespoonful of raw cream. Mix the butter with the cheese, then with the flour, so as to obtain a paste, not too firm ; roll it out thin, and divide it into thin strips, four or five inches long ; which set on a baking-sheet, and push into a hot oven. When done, take them off and dish them on a folded napkin. 997. ‘Crissins’ with cheese. Take half a pound of flour, with which prepare a water-paste, as for puff-paste ; let it rest for a quarter of an hour, then butter it with half a pound of butter, well dried off and firm ; give to it four turns, proceeding as for puff-paste, but sprinkling, over the paste, parmesan instead of flour. When the paste has four turns, divide it into fillets, five inches long, and of the thick- ness of a pen-holder; roll them on the table, then arrange them on a baking-sheet, at a little distance one from the other, egg them slightly, sprinkle over some parmesan, and bake them in a hot oven, dishing them up as soon as done. 998. Indian-corn-cakes, American fashion. — Mix in a kitchen- basin, a pound of Indian-corn flour with a handful of wheat flour. Form a hollow in its centre, into which break four whole eggs; add four ounces of melted butter, a pinch of soda, a pinch of cream of tartar, a pinch of salt, and four ounces of pounded sugar ; introduce into the liquid two gills of milk, as well as the flour, thus forming a smooth paste, with which fill some buttered tartlet-moulds, and bake the cakes for twenty minutes. These cakes are served for breakfast or luncheon, and should be eaten very hot. 999. Buckwheat - cakes. — Put into a kitchen-basin a pound of buck- wheat flour, and spread it with the back of the hand, forming a hollow in its centre. Dilute one ounce of German yeast with two gills of tepid water ; strain it, and with it dilute the flour, thus forming a paste, of the consistency of a frying-paste; add a little salt, cover the basin, and let it rise at a gentle temperature for seven or eight hours. The paste is usually made the evening before using it.