COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 396 In Russia ‘double snipes’ are often served ; but I do not think the species are known, either in England, or in France. 890. Cold-pie of wood-hen (gélinottes). — Take out the fillets of four wood-hens, remove their skin and bones, divide each of the fillets in two; which pieces put into a kitchen-basin ; season, add to them about a pound of raw ham (washed from its salt) cut in big dice ; and baste with a few tablespoonfuls of cognac. Cut off the meat from the thighs of the hens, pare, and chop it with the fillets of two fowls ; put these meats into the mortar, with an equal quantity of lean veal, and double of fresh bacon, both previously chopped; pound the force-meat, season, put it into another basin ; add to it a few tablespoonfuls of chopped mush- rooms, cooked with a pinch of chopped onion. Butter a cold-pie-mould, set it on a thick baking-sheet covered with paper, and line it (see No. 857) with short-paste, mask the bottom and sides with some of the force-meat, and fill the hollow with the ham and the fillets, alternating them by layers of force-meat, previously mixed up with the marinade of the fillets. Cover the pie, proceeding according to the usual method (see No. 857); adorn it; egg, and bake it in a moderate oven for two hours, taking care to put a piece of paper over it, as soon as it takes color. Half an hour after, the pie being taken out of the oven, fill it at the top with two gills of aspic-jelly, mixed up with a little wine, and a little good gravy or meat- glaze. The backs and other bones of water-hens should be used very sparingly, even for the flavoring of sauce, as they are of a decidedly bitter taste. 891. Purée of woodcocks, with plovers’ or lapwings’ eggs. — Take the meat of two cooked woodcocks, remove the skin, cut it in dice ; which put into a mortar. Break the back and bones up, put them into a stewpan with trimmings of ham, sliced vegetables, a few sprigs of aromatics, half a glass of white wine, and a little thickened gravy ; boil the liquid for a quarter of an hour on the side of the tire, strain it through a sieve, and reduce to half-glaze. Pound the meat, as well as the trails (or inwards) of the woodcocks with a piece of butter, and four tablespoonfuls of rice, boiled in broth, but well dried ; pass the preparation through a sieve, put the purée into a stewpan, season, heat it, without allowing it to boil, stirring it with a spoon, and gradually adding to it three parts of the extract of woodcocks, pre- viously reduced. Dish up the purée, surround it with lapwings’ or plovers’ eggs, boiled in water for eight minutes, then picked. Baste the purée with the remainder of the half-glaze.