COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 580 mould on the ice, in order to have the preparation cold and firm. This done, turn the preparation out on a cold dish, and serve, accompanied by whipped cream. 1285. Fruits-bowl. — Pare off all the pithy part of the quarter of a fresh pine-apple ; divide its pulp in slices, which cut again into small dice, and put into a kitchen-basin ; add to it four or five good ripe peaches, divided in two, and then sliced. Take the same of apricots, likewise peeled and sliced; as well as a handful of stoned cherries, two handfuls of fine raspberries, and last of all, two handfuls of red- currants. Moisten all the fruits with a glassful of vanilla-syrup, mix in two large glasses of claret ; then set the basin on the ice. Pound the pine-apple trimmings, pass them through a fine sieve, with a quart of fresh strawberries ; dilute this ‘purée’ with a glassful of syrup, and a bottle of cham- pagne ; put it into a thin china basin ; which surround with pounded ice. Now stir the preparation, with a spoon, for twenty minutes ; mix in the juice of two oranges, and then the fruits, and liquid, from the other basin. Serve the bowl immediately, and accompany by a plate of finger-biscuits, cut in dice. 128G. Mai-trank. — This is a beverage frequently taken in spring-time in Germany ; it is prepared, beginning from the month of May, as soon as fresh leaves of aspérule odorante * are to be got. It is highly esteemed by the Germans of the North. Put into a china-bowl a quarter of a pound of pounded sugar; which moisten with a few tablespoonfuls of cold water, thus to dissolve it ; then add to it a bottle of white Moselle-wine ; add now a pinch of washed leaves of ‘aspérule’, which let infuse for twenty-five minutes ; then pass the liquid, through a sieve, into a punch- bowl, and let it cool on ice. 1287. Marquise. — Put a pound of sugar into a china-bowl, moisten with a little water, thus dissolving it ; then dilute it with a bottle of Rhine-wine, and two bottles of seltzer-water ; add to the liquid two or three lemons cut in slices, removing the pips. Let it cool, previous to serving this beverage. 1288. Knickebein. — This is a restorative much in vogue at Berlin. Put, on the bottom of a champagne-glass (flûte), a yolk of egg, being very fresh and whole ; pour on this yolk, very gently, half a liqueur-glass of good cognac, and on this a glass of ‘alkermès’, or good curaçao, being careful to keep the latter swim- ming on the top, without mixing itself up with the liqueur of the bottom. This beverage is swallowed at one draught. * This plant is also variously named: wood-ruff, wald-mtister, sweet-blue-bottle, muguet des bois, lily of the valley, maibliimehen, etc.