COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 370 cresses, glaze the pieces with a paste-brush, and send up separately a sauceboat of good gravy. If the pheasant is served without water-cresses, the gravy may be poured on the bottom of the dish. This roast is dished to be handed round to the guests, but if every body is to find a piece to his taste and not too large, the fillets may, without inconvenience, be divided each in two, and put back into form; the same with the legs. As for the breast-piece, it may indifferently be divided transversally or lengthwise. 836. Sauté of pheasants, Hungary way. — Divide in pieces two young pheasants, place them in a buttered ‘sauté’-pan, add a bunch of parsley gar- nished with aromatics, season them, let them fry on a moderate fire, turning them. As soon as the breasts (hauts de poitrine) and the fillets are cooked, drain and pare them ; finish cooking the legs ; when done, drain the butter out of the ‘sauté’-pan, into which now put back the fillets and breasts. Then pour over a little melted glaze, in which roll them; dish them in a group, on a dish; mask them with good brown- sauce, reduced with pheasant-Yuinet’ ; send up separately a purée of sour apples, seasoned with a little salt, and a pinch of sugar. 837. Pheasant ‘à la diplomate’. — Get a good young pheasant, kept long enough ; pluck and singe it, split the skin of the neck all down its length, remove the haunch, slightly split the back-bone, so as to widen the opening of the stomach, and draw it through this, without making another opening. Bone a fine large, hung, quite tender, woodcock ; remove all its skin, cut the meat off the breast in squares, which put into a kitchen-basin with three or four raw truffles, cut up likewise; salt slightly, sprinkle over a pinch of good spices, then baste with two spoonfuls of madeira, and let them macerate for two hours. Put into a stewpan the trails (jintestins) of the woodcock, with its liver, and that of two fowls, a little shalot, half of the truffles’ trimmings, and lastly, a piece of butter; fry them, season, let them cool, pound, and pass them through a sieve; then add to this preparation two tablespoonfuls of melted glaze, and a point of cayenne ; mask with it six bread -‘croûtons’, cut in an oval form, and fried in butter. Chop five ounces of bacon, pound, and mix it with the squares of truffles, and of woodcock ; stuff with it the pheasant, the skin of which sew underneath, truss it, salt slightly, wrap it up in a square of pig s caul, which secure with string, and run it through with an iron skewer, to fix it on the spit. Fifty minutes before serving, start the pheasant to roast at a good fire ; spread, on the dripping-pan underneath the pheasant, the six ‘croûtons’ masked with the preparation of the inwards, and continue basting the bird with a paste-brush dipped in butter. As soon as done, take it up on a dish with the ‘croûtons’. Send up