192 COSM<)POLITAN COOKERY. Whdn tlie meat is done, the stock should be reduced to halt-glaze; drain the meat on a baking-sheet, and set it on a layer of ‘Soubise’-purée, placed on the centre of a dish; dilute the stock with a little broth, reduce it to half-glaze, skim off'its fat, and pass it through a sieve, on the bottom of the dish. 445. ‘Noix’ of veal, ‘à la cuiller’. — Get a good ‘noix’ of veal, lard it inwardly with fillets of bacon, place it in a kitchen-basin, baste with a glass of madeira, and add a few trimmings of mushrooms, a few sprigs of aromatics, cloves, and peppercorns ; cover it then with paper, and let it remain thus on a cool place for ten or twelve hours. Strew a fitting stewpan with trimmings of bacon, and thick slices of onion and carrot ; place the meat on it, baste it with its ‘marinade’, add a few fresh pork-rinds, and cover it with buttered paper ; set the stewpan on the fire ; after a few minutes of ebullition, draw it on hot ashes with fire on its lid, keeping the fire always at the same degree, thus braising the ‘noix’ for three or four hours. When ready to serve, take the ‘noix’ out of the stewpan, drain, and place it on a dish ; skim the fat from the stock, add a little gravy, boil, and pass it through a sieve over the meat, sending up separately a purée of chestnuts, or of celery. This ‘noix’ should be sufficiently done and tender, to be carved with a spoon. 44G. ‘Noix’ of veal, with green-pease. — Interlard a ‘noix’ of veal (not trimmed) with fillets of bacon and of raw ham. Chop eight ounces of bacon, melt it in a stewpan, fry the ‘noix’ therein on a moderate tire, frequently turning it; when of a nice color, moisten, to a quarter its height, with half a pint of broth, and add to it a sliced carrot, and one onion studded with cloves. Continue braising the meat for two hours, always on a moderate fire, with hot ashes on the lid. When the ‘noix’ is about three-parts done, remove the onion and the carrot, surround it with a pint and a half of tender green-pease, and eight ounces of streaky bacon in mid- dling-sized squares; add a bunch of parsley, garnished with aromatics; cover the stewpan, and finish cooking meat and pease on a slow fire; drain afterwards the noix’, remove the bunch, thicken the pease with a piece of kneaded-butter, season with a point of nutmeg, range them on a dish, and put on it the ‘noix’. 447. ‘Noix’ of veal, Bordeaux fashion. — In those countries, where the calf’s meat is lean and dry, cooks must apply themselves to supply its deficiencies by some ingenious preparations. In small kitchens, one should try to make the most of every thing, the essential point being to give to those preparations a good appearance. Take a cooked ‘noix’ of veal (braised is preferable); divide it in slices, not too thick, and keep them covered in a dish. Wash two dozen heads of Bordeaux- ‘eèpes’ ; drain, and slice them. Chop one onion, put it into a frying-pan with butter,