COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 406 Garnish an earthen stock-pot, on the bottom and sides, with thin layers of fat- bacon , spread over the bottom a few small onions, a bunch of aromatics, two calfs feet, boned and blanched, cloves and peppercorns; whereon place the back-hones and legs ; add the breast of the bustard, previously drained of the marinade ; moisten to half their height with white wine, cover the meat with bacon, and reduce the stock for a few minutes ; cover the stock-pot hermetically with paper, and a common dish, half-full of water ; surround it with hot ashes and tire, to half its height ; and thus stew the meat for six or seven hours, according to its tenderness. Afterwards take it carefully out, and dish it, with the calf’s feet and vegetables ; skim the fat from the cooking-stock, and pass it over the meat. 910. Quails with bay-leaves, Provence fashion. — Draw six fat quails ; chop their livers with a little fat-bacon, add to this force-meat a hunch of parsley, a little pepper, a table-spoonful of chopped shalôt, a handful of bread- crumbs, and the half of a beaten egg ; stuff the quails with this preparation, run them through with an iron-skewer, alternating each of them with a bay-leaf ; baste them with lard, and roast them at a brisk fire, for ten or twelve minutes. Meanwhile, melt in a stewpan some of the quails’ fat from the dripping-pan; mix it with a handful of fresh rasped bread-crumbs, and half a pound of steeped raw ham cut in dice ; fry them together for a few seconds, and moisten, by degrees, with a glass of white wine, and a little gravy, or some melted glaze ; give the sauce a few bubblings, take it off the fire, add to it the juice of two lemons, and pour it over the quails, dished up with the bay-leaves. 911. Quails with green-pease. — Draw six quails, singe and truss them, as for an entree ; put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter ; fry them, and when of a nice color, add them to half a pound of streaky bacon, blanched, cut in squares, and a pint and a half of green-pease; add a little broth, a bunch of parsley, one onion, and a little salt; cover the stewpan, and five minutes after, place it on a moderate fire, with live embers on the lid; a quarter of an hour later, the quails and pease should be done; then drain the quails, and remove the string; thicken the pease with a small piece of kneaded-butter, remove the parsley, and dish them, setting the quails round, on the pease, with the breasts towards the sides of the dish ; glaze, and serve. 912. Quails of the ‘Frères Provençaux’. — Bone six quails, season, and put them by. Prepare a little force-meat, with equal parts of raw chicken’s meat and cooked chickens’livers, mixed up with half their volume of fat-bacon ; when seasoned, and passed through a sieve, introduce into it a few tablespoonfuls of raw truffles in small dice, and stuff the quails therewith ; then fold the skin underneath,