( COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 182 them to cool, and introduce a handful of grated bread-crumbs, a little parsley, and at last a good piece of butter, thus forming a firm paste. Spread on a cloth the square of tripe, on the centre of which set the prepared paste, fold the tripe over the top, and then sew its edges together with thick thread ; season the exterior surface of the tripe with salt and pepper, dip it into beaten eggs and melted butter ; bread-crumb, and place it on a gridiron to warm gently for twenty-five minutes. Dish it up, remove the thread, and send it up with a little gravy round. 418. Broiled tripe, ‘tartare’-sauce. — Cut up in large squares, two pounds of boiled tripe, place them in a kitchen-basin; season with salt and a little cayenne, sprinkle over two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion, and a pinch of parsley, baste with oil, and let them pickle for one hour. Then take the squares, in turn, roll them in oil, and bread-crumb them ; set them on a gridiron, to broil on a moderate fire, for twenty minutes ; send then up on a hot dish, with tartare-sauce in a sauceboat. 419. Tripe (gras-double), Lyon fashion. — Take about a pound and a half of cooked tripe, cut this into fillets, rather thick, and an inch and a half long; season, flour these by small quantities, and plunge them into very hot hog’s lard ; five or six minutes later, drain them with a skimmer on a sieve. Meanwhile, slice two or three white onions; put them into a frying-pan, with oil, and butter, and a clove of garlic ; fry them on a moderate fire, until nicely colored ; then add the fried fillets of tripe ; season with a point of cayenne, and toss them over the fire until the onion is done ; then take out the clove of garlic, throw into the stew a little chopped parsley, and draw it off the fire ; add to it the juice of two lemons, and serve it on a very hot dish. 420. Toast, with beef-marrow. — Steep in water (for two hours)two or three whole pieces of marrow about two inches long ; drain them, put them into a small stewpan, cover them with a sufficient quantity of strained broth. Start the broth to ebullition, and draw the pan off the fire; a quarter of an hour after, drain the pieces of marrow on a cloth, cut them transversally in pieces, which season with a little salt and cayenne, then place them on some slices of toasted bread. Sprinkle over some chopped chives, dish them up on a napkin, and serve immediately. 421. Ox-tongues, à la Financière (D. 61). — Get two fine ox-tongues, either fresh or pickled : if fresh, blanch them, and then braise ; if the tongues are salted, they must be simply boiled, in plenty of water, on a mild fire.