SWEET ENTREMETS. - KISSEL. 579 a stick of vanilla, as well as a pound, or a pound and a quarter, of pounded sugar; let the liquid boil, till converted into concentrated syrup (30° R. 100° F); immediately take it off the fire, to make use of it, either being cold or warm. This syrup is excellent for any sauce of 'entremets’, as well as for a beverage, when diluted with water. Having had frequent occasion to mention the skillet or sugar-pan (poêlon), I have thought it desirable to give several specimens, which will be found further on ; this kind of sugar is the proper one to use in boiling sugar, and all kinds of syrups : 'nougat’ also is prepared in such a skillet. 1282. Flummery (flamri), German fashion. — Pour into a stewpan three glassfuls of white wine, and the same of water ; add a little salt. Let the liquid boil up, introduce into it five ounces of semolina, not too fine, which let drop in like a rain-shower, thus getting a light paste, which let boil for six or seven minutes ; add the zest of half a lemon, and half a pound of sugar. This paste being thickened, and consistent, take it off the fire, and immediately introduce into it seven or eight whipped whites of egg; when smooth, pour it into a large jelly-mould, the inside of which is previously moistened with cold water ; let the preparation cool on ice for two hours; then turn it out on a dish, mask it with a 'purée’ of sweet fruits: strawberries, or raspberries. 1283. Kissel, German fashion. — Dilute in a sugar-pan four table- spoonfuls of potato-flour with a glassful of fresh currant-juice, passed through a sieve; stir the preparation on the lire, as soon as beginning to thicken, remove it back, in order to get it smooth by working it vigorously. Mix in five or six table- spoonfuls of powder-sugar, and then dilute it with two more glassfuls of currant- juice. Set the pan on the fire, bring the preparation to ebullition ; at the first bub- bling remove it back, in order to pour it into a round bowl or mould, previously dipped into cold water. Let the preparation get firm on the ice, then turn it out on a dish, on the bottom of which pour half a glassful of sweetened good raw-cream. 1284. Kissel, Russ fashion. — Crush two pounds of red-bilberries (canneberge), which dilute with three glassfuls of water ; pass the liquid through a cloth, then pour it into a red sugar-pan (poêlon), and make it hot. Pour into a kitchen-basin four tablespoonfuls of potato-flour, which dilute with a glass of cold water ; then mix it together with the hot juice. Set the sugar-pan on a moderate fire, stir the liquid with a spoon till the moment when the first bubbling appears. Take the pan off the fire, sweeten the preparation with powder-sugar; a few minutes after, pour it into a mould, previously dipped in cold water; set the 37*