COSMOPOLITAN ( 'OOKERY. 44G of the stew; add a piece of butter. Set the stewpan on a moderate fire, simmer the macaroni for ten minutes, thus giving them a nice brown color ; then introduce into it three or four handfuls of grated parmesan, and pour it on a vegetable dish, leaving a hollow in the centre, which fill with the garnish. 991. ‘Pizza’, Naples fashion. — The ‘pizza’ is a favorite dish of the Nea- politans, who eat it especially for supper. To be well appreciated, it must be eaten immediately, when taken out of the oven; this being the reason why the real ama- teurs in order to go, eat them, to the fabricators (jrizza'ioli) themselves ; where they not only enjoy the pleasure of eating them warm, but also seeing them prepared, a process not without its interest. Take about a pound and a half of bread-paste, a little slighter than usual, hut well risen ; set it on a floured table, and flatten it round, beating it with the hands; slightly raise the edges of the paste, baste its surface with a little oil, and garnish it, whether with small fresh anchovies, half-tomatas, fillets of salted anchovies, or some ‘mozzarella’ (tender sheep’s cheese) : the Neapolitans often mix these different sub- stances. Sprinkle over the ‘pizza’ a little salt, pepper, and fine chopped garlic, mixed up with parsley and dry savory, basting with oil. Take the ‘pizza’ then with a shovel, and push it into the plain oven, heated as for bread, and kept very clean. ‘Pizzaïoli’ bake with the oven open, keeping at its entrance small lighted pieces of wood: a middling-sized ‘pizza’ will take twenty minutes. When coming out of the oven, slip it on a large dish. 992. ‘Risot’ of the epicure. — First of all, prepare a garnish composed of cocks’-combs and kidneys of poultry, lambs’-sweetbreads and kernels ; all of which must be blanched, or cooked, according to their tenderness ; then mix them well up, and put them into a stewpan. Peel three or four black raw truffles, put their trimmings into a stewpan, with half a glassful of‘espagnole’-sauce, with half this volume of madeira or Marsala wine; add a bunch of parsley and ‘aromates’, set the stewpan on the fire, reduce the sauce, while stirring it; when cooked, add to it two tablespoonfuls of tomata-sauce, the same of melted meat-glaze, a little cayenne ; let the sauce boil, and draw it off into another stewpan. Now add to it the truffles cut in quarters, which boil in the sauce on the side of the fire for four or five minutes. Pour the sauce and truffles over the previously prepared garnish, which keep in the ‘bain-marie’ until the rice be cooked. Twenty-five minutes previous to serving, put into a stewpan a tablespoonful of chopped onion, and a few tablespoonfuls of melted beef-marrow ; fry, which without allowing to take color; add now half a pound of Piémont rice, not washed ; warm it for a few moments, moisten to three-parts with broth, add three sausages, boil the rice on a good fire, until nearly dry. Now remove it back, introduce into it half a