COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 324 way shown by the drawing; slightly glaze the chickens, and surround the ‘pain- vert’ with big ‘croûtons’ of jelly, alternating a round with a square one. 742. Chicken-pie. — Cover the bottom of a pie-dish with slices of raw ham or veal ; season with salt and pepper ; over this place two young raw chickens, cut each into four parts ; season likewise with pepper and salt, add six yolks of eggs, boiled hard, and moisten with a gill of gravy; cover the pie with a Hat of puff-paste (see No. 596), adorn it with a few stamped leaves of the same paste ; egg, and bake the pie in a moderate oven for one hour and a half, being careful to cover it with a sheet of paper, as soon as it has taken color. If the pie should be eaten cold, one can mix in the gravy two leaves of dissolved ‘gélatine’. 743. Chickens sautés, farmhouse fashion. — Singe two middling- sized chickens ; draw them, cut off the legs and pinions, detaching the thighs of both, and make three pieces of the breast : two fillets, and the remaining breast-piece. Cut the backs transversally. Melt a piece of butter or some lard in a flat stewpan, in which place the legs, backs, and pinions; add to it ten ounces of pickled pork, a clove of garlic, a bunch of parsley, salt, and pepper ; set the stewpan on a brisk fire, to fry the pieces of chicken on both sides ; when the legs are half-done, add to them the wings and breasts, which fry also ; when the chickens are three-parts cooked, add two or three large white sliced onions, place live embers on the lid of the pan, and continue cooking gently : onions and chickens should be done at the same time ; then pom- over a few tablespoonfuls of tomata-sauce, let it boil for a few seconds, ■ and dish up the chickens in pyramidal form ; add a few cooked button-mushrooms tu the sauce, and pour it over the chickens. 744. Timbale of chickens, with truffles. — Cut up two middling- sized chickens, each in five parts, put them into a stewpan with chopped fat-bacon, fry them on a good tire, season with salt and pepper, and when of a nice color, add to them six ounces of ham, or of streaky bacon, cut in dice; a few minutes after, add five or six raw truffles, peeled and cut up in thick slices, and the scalded liver of the chickens, also the trimmings of the truffles. The chickens being half-done, moisten them with a glass of white wine, which reduce quickly to a glaze, and pour the stew into a kitchen-basin. On the other hand, butter a ‘timbale’-mould, or a stewpan, line it with short-paste (No. 196); cover the bottom and the sides with a layer of raw pork-mince, well chopped, pounded, and finished with a few tablespoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs ; place then the chickens and truffles in the ‘timbale’, leaving as little cavity as possible; cover it likewise with a thin layer of force-meat, and then with a flat of paste ; which solder to the rims of the ‘timbale’, push the mould into a moderate oven, for one hour ; after which take it out, and turn the ‘timbale’ out on a hot dish. Make a small '