COSMOPOLITAN COOKEKY. 226 of kneaded-butter, pour over a little melted glaze, and cover it up with a Hat of paste. Wrap the mould in a napkin, plunge it into boiling water, and boil the pudding for an hour and a quarter. Drain the mould, turn the pudding out on its dish, and glaze it with a paste-brush. 530. Hot pie (‘pâté-chaud’), with chives. — This is a good plain entrée, often served in Paris. With a pound of lean veal, trimmed and chopped, two pounds of veal-kidney- suet well cleaned, a whole egg, salt, and nutmeg, prepare a ‘godiveau’ force-meat, proceeding as in No. 541. With twelve ounces of butter, and two pounds of Hour, prepare some short- paste ; let it rest, and line with it a buttered ‘paté-chaud’ mould, set on a baking- sheet. Add to the force-meat two tablespoonfuls of chopped chives, and till with it the hollow of the mould, mounting it in a dome-fashion; cover it with a flat of paste, pinch the crest all round, egg the pie, and bake it in a moderate oven, for forty-five minutes ; when done, slip it on a dish, after having removed the mould. Make an opening on the top, and with the aid of a small knife, remove in one piece the two- thirds of the force-meat, leaving thus a hollow in the centre. Fill it with a ‘ragout’ of sliced lamb-sweetbreads, mixed up with a few sliced mushrooms, and a good brown-sauce, well reduced, but little thickened. Cover the pie, and serve. 531. Calves’ feet, farced. — Blanch and boil three or four calves’ feet, proceeding as directed in No. 536 ; drain them, bone each half carefully, and cut each transversally in two ; season, arid let them nearly cool. On the other hand, prepare a few spoonfuls of cooked tine-herbs with onion, shalbt, fresh mushroom, truffle, and parsley; when cold, add half their volume of cooked ham in small dice, and thicken the preparation with the quarter of its quantity of ‘quenelle’ force-meat ; spread it then with a spoon on the bands of calves’ feet on one side, and roll these in the form of ‘paupiettes’. Sprinkle over bread- crumb, dip them into beaten eggs, bread-crumb again, run them through with a small wooden skewer, and plunge them into hot dripping. When of a nice color, drain, and dish them, sending up separately a boatful of tomata-sauce. 532. Calves’ feet, Hungarian fashion. — Blanch and boil calves’ feet, three (see No. 536) keeping them a little firm ; drain, bone them carefully, and cut them up in oblong squares. Slice a large onion, fry it with butter or lard, without allowing it to take color, and add the calves’ feet ; which season with a little salt, and a pinch of ‘paprica’, moisten with a sufficient quantity of brown-sauce to cover them, and finish cooking them slowly.