50 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. Prepare about three quarts of fish-broth (see No. 143) with a few jowls and bones of fresh fish, a slice of conger, and some small fish. Pass the liquid through a napkin, and skim off its fat. Now take a middling-sized fresh whiting, two small gurnets, or the half of a small turbot, and a live lobster or sea-crayfish, not too large. These fish being cleansed, divide them in pieces, and wipe them well. Mince the white part of two leeks, which put into a stewpan, with a gill of ‘Provence’ oil, fry them nicely over a moderate fire, add two peelod tomatas, free of pips, and cut out; add then the pieces of fish; moisten the whole with hot fish-broth, and half a bottle of white wine. Add a bunch of parsley, tied up with a bay-leaf, a pinch of saffron, a sprig of fennel, a small pimento, and the pulp of two sliced lemons, freed of peel and pips. Let the broth boil quickly for twelve or fifteen minutes, but so that, the fish done, the liquid be reduced to a quarter of its previous volume; then pour it into the soup-tureen, take out the pieces of fish, and lobster, with a skimmer; choose the best of them, divide them, to remove their bones, and add them to the broth. Take out the sweet herbs, and slices of lemon ; add the leeks to the soup, and send up separately a plate of thin slices of bread toasted. 140. Eel-pout soup. — The eel-pouts are of a very good quality in Poland and Russia ; but what renders them still more estimable, is, their remarkably fine livers, unknown to our Western markets. Select two fine eel-pouts, the belly of which is swollen by the bigness of their liver; which take out, cleanse carefully, and steep in water, then blanch for five minutes in acidulated boiling water. Cut transversally the body of the eel-pouts, sprinkle the pieces with a handful of salt, and let them macerate in a kitchen-basin for one hour. Now mince onions, carrots, and celery-roots, fry them in butter ; add one perch and one tench divided in pieces, as well as the jowls and tails of the eel- pouts ; moisten with a bottle of white wine, and two quarts of water ; add salt and a few,cloves. Let the liquid boil up, and continue boiling until the fish be done. Now pass it, through a sieve, into another stewpan; skim off its fat, take it off the fire, let it get nearly cold, then clarify it with four tablespoonfuls of fresh ‘caviar’, or raw fish-meat, pounded with two whites of eggs, and diluted with a little wine and the juice of two lemons. Place the broth again on the fire, and whisk it until boiling; then remove it back ; two minutes after, pass it through a napkin, and keep it hot. Shred into ‘julienne’ a bit of celery-root, two parsley-roots, and one leek; put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter ; fry, without letting them take color ; when the vegetables have reduced their own humidity, moisten them with a little broth, and reduce this to glaze ; repeat the same operation, till the vegetables are done ; then mix them with the soup.