COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 114 267. Oysters, plain. — The Cancale and Ostend oysters are those generally consumed in Paris ; in London they eat oysters, which though called English or ‘native’ oysters, are of the same kind as those of Ostend. In the South of France, the cuiller or green oysters are famed; in Italy, those called ‘del fusaro’ have a great renown ; and in the North of Germany, the ‘Holstein’ oysters are generally preferred. All these species are good, nevertheless those of Ostend are generally most in request by ‘gourmets’. In order to serve oysters in the best condition, they should be opened, and immediately served, to be eaten alive ; therefore in opening oysters they are never removed from their shell, because an oyster may live on while opened, but not when entirely separated from its shell ; for it will die as soon as taken off. Not only are dead oysters a bad relish for ‘gourmets, but they may even prove injurious to health. Oysters are opened with a short-bladed knife, introducing it into the joint of the two shells taking care not to spill their liquid, and holding the oyster with a folded cloth for.more safety. When the two shells are separated, remove any fragments likely to stick to the oysters, and set them on a dish, covered with a folded napkin;* serve them with some ‘mignonette’, fresh butter, or buttered slices of bread, as well as with lemons cut in quarters. 268. Oyster ‘cromeskis.’ — Choose large oysters, open them, put their meat into a stewpan, add a little white wine, let them poach in this liquid: one minutes’ cooking will do. Drain them, let them cool ; beard them, remove the hard parts, cut them into middling-sized dice, put into a kitchen-basin. Reduce some large spoonfuls of good ‘béchamel-sauce’, stirring it, mix in to it gradually a part of the oysters’ liquor; when succulent, and well thickened, take it off the fire, and with it thicken the ‘salpicon’ of oysters ; leaving the preparation still thick ; finish it with a little nutmeg, let it cool, then divide it in pieces the size of an egg; flatten them, put each of them between two strips of pancake, prepared without sugar, or else between two strips of wafer-paste (hostie). Ten minutes previous to serving, dip the ‘cromeskis’ into some light frying paste (see No. 275), plunge them, one by one, into hot fat, giving them a fine color; drain them, dish them in a group on a folded napkin, and serve. 269. Crusts with oysters. — Cut some slices, off a loaf of household bread, nearly half an inch thick ; out of these slices, cut some crusts of an oval shape ; * In Germany oysters are sometimes served on a ‘faience’ revolving-stand. This method is not without its merits.