SOUPS. 35 97. Hunter’s soup, Italian fashion. — Blanch half a pound of bacon, and the same of smoked ham; drain, and put them into a stockpot; with two par- tridges, two legs of hare half-roasted, two smoked sausages, as well as a few backs of roasted poultry or pheasant. Add seven or eight handfuls of lentils, two handfuls ot dry Genoa mushrooms, previously soaked in water, a few roots of fresh vege- tables, as well as a bunch of parsley garnished with aromatics. Moisten the meat with broth to cover, start the liquid to ebullition ; skim carefully, removing it to the corner of the fire. Take the pieces of meat out of the stewpan, one by one, as soon as done ; then pour the soup on a sieve, by this means reserving only its liquid part, which pour into a stewpan; add to it a glassful of Marsala wine, let it boil on a moderate fire, so as to clarify it, for a quarter of an hour. Meanwhile, cut the lean bacon, the sausages, as well as the fillets of the par- tridges ; and put these pieces into the soup-tureen; skim the fat off the soup, which pour over these garnishes. Serve separately some ‘croutons’ of broiled bread. 98. Calf’s-pluck soup, German way. — Chop the half of a calf’s pluck, boiled in the broth-stockpot. Chop an onion, fry it with butter; as soon as of a fine color, mix in the hash; season, and stir on the fire, till all the moisture has evaporated ; then thicken it with three diluted yolks of eggs, remove it off the fire, finish with a pinch of chopped parsley; immediately spread it on a baking-sheet, and leave it so, to get thoroughly cool and firm. With this preparation form little ‘ravioles’, proceeding as indicated in No. 53, but keep them rather larger than usual. At serving-time, set the ‘ravioles’ to poach in salt water; drain, and put them into a stewpan, containing two quarts of ‘consommé’ ; pour the soup into the tureen. 99. Scotch-broth. — Cut a shoulder of mutton in two; wash it in warm water, and place it in a small stockpot, with a little salt, and four or five quarts of water. Set the stockpot on the fire, let the liquid boil, skimming it carefully ; remove it back, and add to it two large carrots, one turnip, a celery-root; all of them whole; add also a few sprigs of parsley and thyme, two cloves, and a handful of pearl- barley. Continue boiling gently for two hours and a half; then pass the broth through a napkin ; take out of the stockpot the mutton and vegetables, and let them cool. Meanwhile, cut in dice the white part of two tender leeks; fry them gently in butter, until they be about done; moisten with two quarts of the mutton-broth, let I his boil, and add to the liquid four or five tablespoonfuls of barley, boiled separately with salted water; add the red part of the carrots, the turnip and celery-root cut in small dice, ( hit, the boned meat of mutton in squares, and add it to the soup ; which, ten minutes after, pour into the tureen, adding a pinch of chopped fresh parsley. , 3*