GAME. — PARTRIDGE. 385 fat-bacon, adcl to it the livers of the partridges, cooked with two or three of chickens ; season the preparation, and pass it through a sieve. Melt six ounces of rasped fat-bacon, add to it the cut truffles, which heat for two minutes, tossing them ; mix them afterwards with the force-meat, and proceed to stuff with it the partridges ; truss them, sewing up all the openings, and set them on the spit, to roast at a moderate fire for fourteen or fifteen minutes, according to their I size; basting them with butter. When done, salt, take them off the fire, and dish them up, with cut lemons round. Mix a little gravy in the stock of the dripping-pan, let it boil up, skim off the fat, reduce it to half-glaze, pass through it a sieve, and ' serve it separately. Carving. — The partridge is, of all game, the easiest to carve. First of all slip off the legs, and divide the breast into three parts; two fillets and breast-piece. The breast is the most delicate part of the bird. When the partridges are quite young, they are simply cut up in two ; when of a middling-size, in three pieces ; that is, the fillet of each side is cut off with a leg and wing, and a part of the back adhering. 805. Partridges, ‘à la chasseur’. — Take three young partridges, draw, divide each of them in two, lengthwise, cut off the tip of the legs, split the skin of the drum-stick, so as to thrust the leg underneath, and slightly beat each half; | season, roll them in oil, bread-crumb, and broil them for fourteen or fifteen minutes, turning them; set them on a dish, on the bottom of which pour a little madeira-sauce. 80G. ‘Pain’ of partridge, ‘à la Perigueux’. — Peel four or five fresh truffles, and cut them up in small dice. Slip off the legs of two small partridges, which fry, at the same time with the liver of the partridges, in butter ; and let them cool. Slip off then the raw fillets from the breast ; trim, and pound them with the peel of the truffles, the cooked livers and legs, previously trimmed of the hard parts ; add to them panada, the size of a walnut, and eight ounces of butter ; when well mixed up, season the force-meat, and introduce into it four or five yolks of eggs, one by one ; pass it then through a sieve, put it into a kitchen-basin, work it with a spoon, and add four or five tablcspoonfuls of melted glaze, or of cold reduced ‘espagnole’-sauce ; try then a small part of it in boiling water, to ascertain its consistency. Butter a plain cylindric form, fill it with the force-meat, shaking it on a cloth ; I cover the top with a round of buttered paper, and set the mould in a stewpan, to : poach the preparation in the ‘bain-marie’ for half an hour. Pour half a glass of ma- deira on the truffles in dice, cover the stewpan, and reduce the moisture quickly to J half ; moisten then with two gills of brown-sauce, or some thickened gravy, prepared with the backs of partridges; let it boil for two seconds, and draw the pan off the 2b