COSMOPOLITAN COOKEKY. 170 indroducing into it three quarters of a glass of madeira; when of a tine taste, and sufficiently thickened, skim off carefully its fat; then strain, and keep it in the ‘bain-marie’. When ready to serve, dish up the fillet, glaze it with a paste-brush, surround it with a garnish of small ‘croquettes’, and send up a boatful of the sauce. 393. Beefsteaks, Naples fashion. — Cut off five or six steaks from a fillet of beef, previously trimmed ; which beat slightly, season, and'put into a kitchen- basin ; pour over a cooked marinade, let them remain therein for two hours ; drain them, then wipe, spungc, and place them in a sauté-pan with melted butter, and fry them on both sides. Un the other hand, put into a small stewpan a handful of dried currants, well cleansed and blanched, in boiling water, for one minute ; mix in it three tablespoonfuls of roasted ‘pignoli’, or the same quantity of dry almonds in shreds. The beefsteaks being done, take them out ; drain off the fat out of the sauté-pan ; pour in a part of the marinade-stock of the beefsteaks, let it boil, thicken it with a little brown-sauce, and a tablespoonful of red-currant jelly ; two minutes later, pour the sauce over the currants, passing it through the tammy, let it boil up, dish the beefsteaks, and pour the s<\uce over. 394. Beefsteaks, Chateaubriand’s way. — The method here de- scribed, is not exactly that, adopted by most people ; but, if not the best, it has the merit of being the one preferred by a great author, and named after him by his cook. Cut off a few beefsteaks from the centre of a good fillet of beef, giving them about one inch thickness; pare, beat slightly, split them in the middle horizontally in two, without separating the parts, thus forming a sort of pocket, a little opened, but going to the extreme limits of the sides. Meanwhile, steep and blanch eight ounces of beef-marrow in one piece ; when cold, wipe it on a cloth, cut it up in slices, which season with salt and cayenne, glaze with a paste-brush, and sprinkle over a little chopped shalot, slightly fried with butter. Introduce these slices into the opening of the beefsteaks, press the meat together, season on both sides, moisten with oil, and broil the beefsteaks on a brisk fire for twelve or fourteen minutes; observing, to slightly raise the gridiron on the side of the opening of the beefsteaks, thus avoiding the running out of the marrow. When done, dish them up, and baste them with four tablespoonfuls of melted glaze, mixed up with the juice of a lemon, a pinch of chopped taragon, and two tablespoonfuls of boiled marrow in dice. 395. Rump (culotte) of boiled beef, with cabbage (D. 58). — Boiled beef cannot appear on the table with the pretensions of being a luxurious