341 POULTRY. — CHICKEN. two. Ten minutes previous to serving, moisten the Tagout’ with a few spoonfuls of ‘velouté’-sauce, reduced with extract of mushrooms ; keep it for ten minutes in the ‘bain-marie’. When ready to serve, dish it up in a border of rice. ' 777. Chickens of the Sahara. — Singe two middling-sized chickens, pluck them carefully, chop their livers and gizzards with a pound of lean mutton; add a chopped onion, salt, pepper, pimento, pounded ginger, a handful of bread- crumbs, and a whole egg ; mix this (mince well together, divide it into small parts, the size of a walnut; which roll, on a floured table. Cut up the chickens in joints ; put them into a stewpan, with the backs divided in two; add three or four whole small onions, a hunch of parsley, and two table- I spoonfuls of lard; then fry the chickens, tossing them, till of a nice color. Season i them, sprinkle over two tablespoonfuls of flour, and moisten to height with broth ; add a point of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of red Spanish pepper ; let the sauce boil, stirring, and at the first bubbling remove it on a moderate tire, and put warm ashes on the lid. When the chickens are done, add to them the small balls of mince, cover the stewpan, continue boiling gently for a few minutes; then dish them with the balls, and strain the sauce over. 778. Chickens with fine-herbs. — Divide three small, young, and tender chickens, each of them in four parts. Butter thickly the bottom of a stewpan, place on it a layer of fine-herbs; onion, shalot, fresh mushrooms, all of which chopped, and a bunch of parsley. On the fine-herbs place the legs of the chickens, season, and sprinkle them over also with fine-herbs ; close the stewpan hermetically, set it on a good fire with warm ashes on its lid ; and cook the chickens for eighteen or twenty minutes ; dish them up, baste the fine-herbs with a little melted glaze, and pour them over the chickens. 779. Chickens, Nizza fashion. — Singe a good chicken, draw it, and break up its breast-bone with the point of a large knife. Fry in a stewpan two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion with melted bacon fat; add to it six ounces of good rice, well washed, and drained on a sieve; heat it stirring, moisten then to height with gravy, and boil it for ten or twelve minutes at the most; it should be barely caught. Then take it off the fire, add a pinch of pounded pimento, and a little ‘salpicon’ of raw ham. With this preparation stuff the chicken, truss it as for boiling, cover the breast with bacon, and place it in a stewpan, with three tablespoonfuls of lard. Set the stewpan on a moderate fire, place live embers on the lid, and let the chicken take color all over. Half an hour after, moisten with a glass of white wine, add a small piece of glaze, and finish cooking gently.