232 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. sauce until it boils, then remove it on to a moderate tire, adding a bunch of parsley, with aromatics. When the meat is done, strain the sauce, to thicken with a few diluted yolks of eg'gs, range the meats on a dish, garnishing with small groups of cauliflowers, heads of white asparagus, and with craytish-body-shells, stuffed with a force-meat, made of bread, butter, and chopped parsley. Mask the meats with the sauce, sprinkle over, with the aid of a paste-brush, a few drops of melted crayfish-butter, and some whole capers. 545. ‘Montglas’ of veal, Russ fashion. — Cut up apiece of roasted veal, about half a pound, into small fillets one inch long; which place in a kitchen- basin; add half their volume of calves’feet, previously boiled, cooled, and cut in fillets ; add also an equal quantity of pickled ox-tongue, the same quantity of cooked mushrooms, and of gerkins or ‘ogursis’ (salted cucumbers), the whole in fillets; season with salt, pepper, and oil, vinegar and mustard; mix the seasoning together, tossing them; let them macerate for half an hour, then drain the liquid, and thicken the preparation with a few spoonfuls of mayonnaise-sauce; sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and some chives; dish it, and surround it with ‘croûtons’ of aspic-jelly. 546. Roasted calf’s liver. — Interlard a calf’s liver with bacon and fillets of truffles, both seasoned ; lard also the upper surface with fine cut bacon, leaving both ends without larding. Then place it in a kitchen-basin, season, baste with oil, add a few sprigs of parsley, aromatics, and a handful of trimmings of raw truffles; let it macerate therein for two or three hours : then wrap it up in oiled paper, first placing round it the whole ingredients of the marinade-stock ; fasten the paper on with string, and run an iron-skewer through the liver: fix it on the spit, and roast the liver for an hour and a half, basting it often. Ten minutes previous to serving, remove the paper, and glaze the liver with a paste-brush. On the other hand, peel five or six raw black truffles; which cut up into small dice, and put into a stewpan. Place the trimmings in another stewpan, pour over a glass of madeira, then reduce the liquid one third, and strain it over the truffles in dice; thicken the stock with a little good sauce, boil the truffles for seven or eight minutes. Then take the liver off the fire, dish it up, and surround it with the garnish of truffles. 547. ‘Pain’ of calves’ liver, in jelly (D. 83). — Prepare some calves’ liver force-meat proceeding as in No. 548, but without panada; when passed through a sieve, put it into a kitchen-basin, dilute with about the same volume of good and