12 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. mîtes afterwards, add four or five dozen small balls of potato, cut with the aid of a round vegetable-spoon; then the same of carrots cut with a channeled vegetable- spoon of an oval shape. These vegetables must be previously blanched. Add as well two handfuls of 'flageolets haricots’ likewise blanched; two handfuls of frencli- beans cut in lozenges, and the same of fresh green-peas. As soon as these vegetables are done, mix into the soup a pinch of sugar, seven or eight tablespoonfuls of toinata-'purée’, of a nice red color, and slightly thickened. Skim the fat off the soup, pour it into the tureen, on the bottom of which are placed previously two dozen very small onions glazed with broth; add a 'pluche’ composed of leaves of parsley and chervil, and chiseled tender leaves of celery. Send up separately a plate of fried bread-'croûtons’. 26. Andalusian soup. — Keep in ebullition, on the corner of the fire, three or four quarts of stock for thick soup, prepared with clarified fish-broth. Put into a kitchen-basin four or five tablespoonfuls of Soubise-purée, which dilute with the yolk of four raw eggs. Put into another basin six ounces of whiting or pike ‘quenelle’ force-meat; which work with a spoon, introducing into it five or six tablespoonfuls of bright red tomata- purée, as well as a pinch of mild Spanish pepper. With this force-meat mould little 'quenelles’, let them poach, drain them, and put them into the soup-tureen; skim the fat off the soup, which then thicken with the 'Soubise’ preparation; pour it into the tureen, passing it through a sieve. Serve separately ten poached eggs. 27. Elder-berry soup. — Put into a stewpan about a quart of elder-berries, with two glasses of water, and two glasses of red wine ; boil it on a moderate fire, and pass it through a sieve. Melt, in a stewpan, six ounces of butter, mix with it two tablespoonfuls of flour, so as to form a light paste, which fry for a few minutes, without allowing to take color; then dilute it with the purée of elder-berry; stir the liquid till boiling, and then remove it back. Now add a glass of red wine, a little sugar, a little lemon-peel, and cinnamon. A quarter of an hour after, pass the soup through a tammy {étamine), and serve it with a plate of bread-'eroûtons’ fried in butter. 28. Holstein SOUp. — Melt five ounces of butter in a stewpan; when quite hot, mix in three handfuls of fine pearl-barley, and fry it a few minutes, stirring it; afterwards moisten it, by degrees, with a quart and a half of warm water; add salt, and stir the soup till boiling ; two seconds after, cover the stewpan, and remove it back, to let the soup simmer gently. Put in two handfuls of fresh morels, and keep it thus, for an hour, adding from time to time, a little light veal broth ; season with a little salt, and a piece of sugar. When the barley is done, work it for a few