GAME. — PARTRIDGE. 389 875. Partridge-‘pain’, with olives (D. 173).— Prepare a good ‘quenelle’ force-meat with the meat of two partridges ; when passed through a sieve, put it into a kitchen-basin, add to it a few spoonfuls of good brown-sauce, reduced with a little meat-glaze and wine. Butter a plain cylinder-mould, sprinkle the bottom, and sides, with a handful of hlack truffles, cut in small dice. Keep it on the ice for ten minutes, till the hollow with the force-meat ; set the mould then in a stewpan, which till with warm water, reaching Fig. 173. to half the height of the mould. Poach the ‘pain’ in the ‘bain-marie’. At serving- time, take the mould out, drain the fat well, turn the ‘pain’ out on a dish, garnish the hollow of the centre with a garnish of stoned and blanched olives. Pour on the ‘pain’ a little good brown-sauce, reduced with some partridge-‘fumet’, and a little madeira-wine. 876. Partridges, with sour-crout. — Wash two pounds of sour-crout, drain it well, put it into a stewpan, with good goose-fat, or the toppings of a braise- stock, a bunch of parsley and aromatics, one onion, one carrot, and half a pound of streaky bacon, previously steeped in tepid water; moisten it with about a pint of broth, place on the top a piece of bacon-rind, or that of ham ; let the liquid boil for ten minutes, then cover the stewpan hermetically, and draw it on a slow fire, with hot ashes on the lid, or set it at the entrance of the oven, cooking the sour-crout for four hours. Meanwhile, singe and truss two large partridges ; lard, fry them in a stewpan with butter, and when half-done, take them off the fire. When the sour-crout is about cooked, baste it with a glass of good dry white wine ; cover the stewpan again, and reduce the stock over a good fire; then take out the rind, the bacon, and the vegetables, thicken the sour-crout with a few tablespoonfuls of sauce, and add the partridges. Place the lid on the stewpan, set it on a very slow fire ; and a quarter of an hour after, dish up the sour-crout, putting the partridges on the top, and