356 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. Fry with melted bacon , a little ‘mirepoix’ of vegetables and aromatics ; let it cool, spread it on the liver, mask it with thin layers of bacon, and wrap up the liver with a flat of common paste ; place it on a baking-sheet, and bake it in the oven for one hour. On the other hand, get fifteen nice, black, raw truffles; pick them (without peeling) with the greatest care, and cook them with madeira for seven or eight minutes. Take their liquor, and gradually introduce it into three gills of boiling brown-sauce : when ready reduced, pass it through a tammy. * Ten minutes previous to serving, unpack the liver, place it directly on a dish, or on a bread-support, fried, and masked with force-meat ; dish the truffles round ; mask the liver and truffles with the sauce. This entrée, of a simple and easy execution, is a real amateur’s dish, and may be served in the choicest dinners. The truffles surrounding the liver may be peeled. 810. Goose, roasted, Mecklenburg fashion. — Draw a fat goose, wash it inwardly, and wipe it with a cloth. Cut up seven or eight good apples in quarters; peel them, remove the core, and put them into a kitchen-basin. Pick fourteen ounces of sultanas and currants, wash them in tepid water, wipe, and mix them with the apples ; season the preparation with a little pounded cinnamon ; add to it three handfuls of rasped bread-crumb, and two eggs. With this preparation stuff the goose; sew up the openings, truss, and place it in a roasting-dish with a glass of water ; spread it with butter, cover it with a strong paper, and bake it in a moderate oven for two hours, frequently basting with its own fat. Whilst the goose is roasting, chop up a large red cabbage, put it into an earthen stewpan, with salt and a little broth, cook it gently: it should be kept a little firm. When three-parts done, add to it six long sausages, slightly fried with some goose-fat. When the cab- bage is about done, pour in a few tablespoonfuls of vinegar. When the goose is quite done, unpack, and place it on an oblong dish, surround it with the red cabbage and sausages ; add a little broth to the cooking-stock, let it boil for two minutes ; pass it, skim off the fat, and pour it into a sauceboat. 811. Terrine of fat liver, Strasburg fashion (D. 150). — In all countries, ‘terrines’, ‘timbales’, pies, and even boxes, of Strasburg fat-livers, are sold; therefore, unless when living in places where fat-livers are plentiful and good, it will be better to buy the ‘terrines’ ready made, than to prepare them. The question is, to get them from a good house. A few hours before serving the ‘terrine’, have it embedded in ice, thus letting the inside get firm, take away the layer of fat covering the preparation ; then cut it by