160 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. When the birds are done, take them off the tire, remove the skewer, and dish them up, pouring over the gravy from the dripping-pan. Serve separately a chopped- sauce (sauce-hâchée). 378. Sea-hedgehog (oursins) for ‘hors d’oeuvre’. — This shell-fish (coquillage) is common on all coasts of the Mediterranean ; but the finest is caught at Marseille. They are also highly appreciated by ‘gourmets’. Summer is the season, in which they are of best relish. Open the hedgehog, by introducing the point of a large chisel into a small aperture found on the middle of their bristling shell ; which cut all round, so as to lift the half of it off ; drain the water , remove the dark parts between the rays of coral forming a star. This red and soft meat being the only part eaten. Dish the hedge-hogs in a group on a folded napkin. 379. Fricassée of terrapines, Maryland fashion. — ‘Terrapines’ are small amphibious turtle common to America; the same species is also found in Germany, and in Poland. The Americans value them much. Choose two or three live ‘terrapines’, of the kind called ‘diamant-bocks’; plunge them into boiling water, take them out immediately, to remove the horny substance covering them ; boil them in salted water for half an hour. Drain them, open them, and divide their meat in pieces, after having removed head and fins. Put them into a stewpan, with butter and a bunch of parsley, garnished with aromatics; fry them; season them highly, sprinkle over a tablespoonful of flour, and moisten gradually, about to their height , with cream. Let the preparation boil, stirring it : four minutes after- wards, pour in a glass of good sherry; after eight or ten minutes more, remove the stewpan off the fire, and thicken the sauce with a liaison of four diluted yolks of 'eggs. Then introduce into it five ounces of butter in small bits, remove the aromatics, then dish the ‘ragout’, and sprinkle over some chopped parsley. 380. Caviar. — ‘Caviar’ is a product of eastern Russia: that of Astrakan is the most renowned ; but it is from Russia, that it is exported into the different countries of Europe. ‘Caviar’ is an excellent luncheon-dish, as aperitive as wholesome. In Russia ‘caviar’ is eaten by the aid of wooden or mother-of-pearl forks; as it ought not to be touched with metal. ‘Caviar’ is served with toasted bread, seasoned generally with pepper, and lemon-juice ; but some robust epicures add to the ‘caviar’ some chopped chive or onions, which addition gives it a higher flavor. To preserve it in good condition, it should be kept in stone-ware, and left covered on ice. In a high temperature fresh ‘caviar’ loses its qualities.