275 BUTCHER S MEAT. - LAMB. (jet two iuifles ot lamb, which wash, scald and boil, as said 111 No. 4G9. Drain ! Giem on a s*eve? wipe them on a cloth, place them on a dish, and pour on the bottom the following-sauce : Bui irjofe-sauce. Put into a stewpan two or three tablespoonfuls of very tine | chopped shalbt, with six tablespoonfuls of vinegar ; set the stewpan on the fire, re- : duce the liquid to half, and add to it six tablespoonfuls of stiff 'velouté’-sauce ; let j the sauce boil, take it off the fire, and gradually introduce into it a quarter of a glass ! ot oil, stirring; as soon as of a nice consistence, mix it with a tablespoonful of good mustard, a pinch of chopped taragon, and burnet. 04 J. Lambs Gars, Villeroy-saiice. — Poil fifteen lambs’ears, proceeding | as directed for those of veal (sec No. 409) ; let them remain in their stock till nearly cold , drain them on a cloth, empty them with a tin-cutter, and fill the cavity with a little cooked fine-herbs, mixed up with a third of their volume of rasped bread- I crumbs, thickened with a few yolks of eggs. When the ears are stuffed, dip them into a hot 'Villcroy-sauce, to mask them j slightly ; set them in order on a dish, and let the sauce cool. Take up afterwards the ears, roll them in bread-crumbs, dip them into beaten eggs, and bread-crumb once more. When ready to serve, fry them in hot hog’s | lard ; drain them, when of a nice color, and dish them up on a folded napkin. 050. Lambs’ feet, farced. — Boil about fifteen lambs’ feet in a white- ! (fonds-blanc), without breaking them ; drain, and split them down their length, 1 without dividing ; bone entirely, season, and fill the hollow with a little veal 'quenelle' force-meat, finished with a few tablespoonfuls of fine-herbs ; put the two parts back together, flour, dip them into beaten eggs, and bread-crumb. When ready to serve, plunge the lamb’s feet into hot hog’s lard, which fry nicely ; drain, and dish them on a folded napkin. 651. Lamb ‘sauté’, with tomatas. - Take a saddle of lamb, divide it into middling-sized squares, remove part of the bones, and put the meat into a flat stewpan, with butter, one onion, and a clove of garlic not peeled ; season, and fry them, continuing to toss, until they are about done. On the other hand, cut four tomatas through the centre, pick the seed out, divide them in large pieces ; which fry, over a brisk fire, in a frying-pan with oil ; season and toss them, until they have reduced their moisture; then add them to the lamb, and ten minutes after, dish up, after having removed the garlic and the onion. 652. Lamb’s liver, broiled, Provence-way. — Slice two lambs’livers, put them into a kitchen-basin, season them with salt and pepper; pour some oil 18*