COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 132 In Provence tlie ‘brandade’ is usually completed by tlie introduction of a clove of garlic; crushed with the blade of a knife ; but this addition is manifestly optional. This dish may be served as a first remove at a dinner-table. 310. Codfish, à la Maitre d’Hôtel. — Take a piece of good codfish (about a pound) dissalted to the degree requisite, white and thick ; divide it in squares, place them in a stewpan with cold water ; set the stewpan on the fire, so as to bring the liquid to ebullition ; then immediately take it off the fire, cover, and keep it thus for ten minutes. Now drain the cod on a sieve, remove the bone, and divide the meat in pieces ; which place immediately in a flat stewpan ; add to it a hit of nutmeg, a quarter of a pound of good butter, divided in little pieces, and two tablespoonfuls of butter-sauce ; add then a pinch of chopped parsley, and the juice of two lemons. Dish the cod, surrounding it with ‘croutons’ of bread or puff-paste. 311. Broiled slice Of tunny. — Cut a slice of tunny, of about an inch thick ; salt, and baste it with oil ; set it on a clean gridiron, and broil it, on both sides, over a moderate fire, turning and basting it often with oil ; when done, remove the adhering skin, and place it on a hot dish. Pour over a little oil, and serve separately with it some hot ‘mayonnaise’ or some cold ‘rémoulade’-sauce. 312. Tunny with green peas. — Cut a slice of tunny rather thick ; inter- lard it the flesh with fillets of bacon, or fillets of anchovy ; put it into a stewpan with water, to blanch ; drain, and wipe it on a cloth ; then put it into a flat stewpan, garnished at the bottom, with trimmings of bacon and sliced vegetables. Salt the fish slightly, and moisten, to its height, Avith broth and white wine; set the stewpan on a sharp fire, in order to reduce the liquid to half, and remove it on to a moderate fire; with some hot embers on the lid, finish cooking the fish; when done, the stock should be reduced to a glaze; drain the fish, and remove the skin surrounding its thickness. Meanwhile, prepare a pint of green peas, French fashion, with little liquid; place them on a dish, and lay the fish on the top. Pour into the fish-stock a little broth, pass it through a sieve, skim off its fat, then boil it for a few minutes, and serve it separately. • 313. Poutarg with Oil. — The ‘poutarg’ is a sort of dry and pressed caviar, prepared with mullet or tunny roes : it is in great request in Italy and the east. Cut the poutarg in thin slices, which season with oil, pepper, and lemon-juice; serve it as a ‘hors d’oeuvre’.