ON ‘THE ARTISTIC COOKERY.’ 593 Dubois warns the unwary against commencing the work of ornamentation, without being sure of perse- verance, as well as good taste. Alluding to the ‘Grande pièce orientale’, an elaborate piece of culi- nary architecture, he says : ‘Previous to undertaking the execution of a subject so minute in itself, demand- ing so many different abilities, the practitioner must have a just estimate of what he is about to face. The cook must absolutely pass through serious studies, in order to enable him to avoid fall- ing into errors, which would soon lead him into utter confusion.’ On another page he tells us, that ‘a pastry-cook must possess an enlightened and infallible intelligence’, and that ‘his talent must be as varied as his productions.’ After this, it will not surprise any one, when we confess that it seems presumptuous, in a humble reviewer like ourselves, whose talent may be as varied as his poor productions, but who is so far from possessing ‘infallible intelligence’, to venture to criticise the work of a great artist-cook. But we have already committed ourselves, and we can only hope that, with the generosity characteristic of all great minds, Mr. Urbain Dubois will kindly forgive our temerity. ‘Artistic Cookery’ will be a very useful book in all large establishments. Gentlemen can see, what niay be done in the way of ornamental dishes ; and cooks will find a fund of valuable suggestion from their ‘chef’ in the art We hope the present volume will meet with such success, as to ensure the publication of two other works, which Mr. Dubois promises. Land and Water, Feb. 12, 1870. ARTISTIC COOKERY. A Practical System, suited for the Use of the Nobility and Gentry, and for Public Entertainments. By Urbain Dubois, Chef de Cuisine of their Majesties the King and Queen of Prussia. (Longmans.) We cannot here do justice to the contents of this magnificent volume ; but it would be very pleasant to do so by an experi- mental verification of them, if the discussion could be removed from the library-table to the dinner- table. M. Dubois is not only a great culinary artist, hut a profound student of the history and science of his agreeable art. He intends to publish two other books on the subject, but this one contains what' will be found in practice most useful for the gui- dance of those who have to prepare grand banquets for distinguished companies of guests. It consists principally of exact descriptions of three or four hundred choice and elaborate dishes, accompanying the pictorial representations of these dishes, which are finely engraved, with a brief essay on each class of dishes and each kind of viands, and with a collection of the most appropriate and successful bills of fare, specifying those actually served to Royal personages on particular state occasions. There is also an explanation of the different modes of arranging the table and serving the repast, which are illustrated by larger engravings. The decorative artificial forms of some of the dishes, are not less attractive to the eye, than their flavor must be to the palate. A two-fold medallion portrait of the King and Queen of Prussia, to whom M. Dubois has dedicated his book, adorns the handsome volume. The Illustrated London News, Mar. 26, 1870. ARTISTIC COOKERY; A Practical System, suited for the use of the Nobility and Gentry, and for Public Entertainments. With eighty engraved plates. By Urbain Dubois, chef de cuisine to his Majesty the King of Prussia.—(London : Long- mans, Green, and Co. 1870.) The mere size and appearance of this magnificent volume will satisfy the housewife of moderate means, that its contents are not addressed to her. M. Dubois has doubtless reflected, that the works of his prede- cessors, Ude, Soyer, Francatelli, and a hundred cooks of lesser fame, have sufficiently explained to the middle-class those processes, by which a good dinner is prepared and served. He addresses a smaller body, but one more appreciative of the higher flights of art—the mighty (/ourmets of the earth, the sovereigns, the princes, and those proud companions of his craft, whose pre-eminent skill has earned them a place in palace-kitchens. Quoting from a former work of his own, as has been the habit of writers almost greater even than the King of Prussia’s cook, the author declares, on his title- page, ‘plus les peuples gagnent en intelligence, plus ils deviennent gourmets’ ; but M. Dubois evidently uses the word ‘people’ in the sense of the Latin populus. He does not, probably, mean to hint, that the plehs will derive much novel information of utility to them from his book ; but the patricians should wel- come it with acclamation. To those happy ones, who can venture to appropriate the menu of a royal banquet, and, without a study of their banker’s book, dare to emulate the magnificent extravagance of a coronation-feast, ‘Artistic Cookery’ will be an invaluable aid. M. Dubois, however, follows the fashion of the day in posing his remarks on a base, as wide, as it is indefinite. He remarks, that cookery, ‘by its infinite ramifications and accom- paniments, seems indispensable to the movement and life of nations.’ No one is likely to dispute this proposition. Whilst individuals retain the common prejudice against eating their food raw, nations must either practise cookery, or die. But the chef s enthusiasm carries him further. His art, he says, ‘animates and strengthens all that flows from it, or that serves as an auxiliary to it; agri- culture, commerce, industry, and art, are connected with it by ties, of which there is no mistaking the influence.’ In terms far simpler, but to much the same purpose, did the fly attribute to itself the cre- dit of making the chariot-wheel revolve. It is gratifying to observe, that the unostenta- tious merits of our English cuisine are becoming better understood amongst the masters of the art. M. Dubois again and again compliments our modest housewives. He observes with accuracy, that if the tables of the middle class amongst us be still defi- cient in variety of dishes, ‘the care bestowed on details, and the real comfort presiding there, make amends for this defect; and besides, here as every where else, improvement becomes every day more visible.’ Most especially, of course, our beef and mutton receive encomium; and the author enters at some length on the reasons for our superiority in these respects. In France, we learn, ‘the slaugh- tered bullocks are usually full-grown, that is to say, stronglimbed, muscular, and have attained their complete development; and, moreover, are not slaughtered before they have gone through a period as