SWEET ENTREMETS. — CAKES. 549 These moulds are furnished with hinges, so as to open in two in the middle ; the two parts arc concave, and pierced close with little holes, like a fine sieve {see the drawing, D. 268). Pass half a pound of flour, through a sieve, on a table ; spread it out in a circle, into the centre of which pour half a glass of white wine, add three yolks of eggs, a tablespoonful of sugar, a little salt ; introduce the flour into the liquid, so as to get a smooth paste, the consistence of a ‘nouille’-pastc ; give it six turns, proceeding as for puff-paste; divide it into twelve pieces, which roll out, with a rolling-pin, into thin round flats. Fig. 208. Fig. 269. Cut the paste into strips, with the aid of a pastry-‘roulette’, but without cutting through the edges of the round, which now take up with the handle of a wooden- spoon, with which handle, introducing it between, gather up the strips of paste cut with the pastry-‘roulette’, let the paste drop off the spoon into the mould, which close with the hinge adhering to it ; plunge them in hot fat ; six minutes after, drain the balls on a sieve, and open them to take out the cakes; roll them in vanilla-sugar; keep them in the warm-closet, then dish them in a little basket of ‘office’-paste, or gum-paste. 1215. Milan-cake. — Work in a kitchen-basin half a pound of sugar, with two whole eggs, and two yolks of eggs, as for biscuit; as the preparation gets frothy, add two tablespoonfuls of chopped almonds, passed through a small sieve, then half a pound of melted butter ; work the preparation for three minutes more, introduce into it half a pound of flour, as well as four tablespoonfuls of preserved ‘cédrat’ : the paste must be kept stiff. Take it up, with a tablespoon, in pieces the size of a nut ; which place on a slightly floured table, roll them up, by hand, to get them round; arrange them, one by one, on a baking-sheet, but at a little distance one from the other. Bake the cakes in a moderate oven for fourteen or fifteen minutes. This quantity of paste gives twenty-four cakes.