COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 238 when weakened, or impaired ; that of the cook, to provide for, and secure its pre- servation. Get a nice plump and fat leg of mutton ; heat it with the flat of a cutlet-hat, in order to hruise the fibres of the meat; round the top part, break up the sinew of the the knuckle, by folding the leg ; cut off the thin-end bone. Place the leg in a roasting-pan, put over it some lard or butter; sprinkle with salt, cover with a thick greased paper, baste while cooking; and, if the fat seem becoming too hot, add to it a few spoonfuls of hot water : for a leg of mutton weighing four to six pounds, forty-five to sixty minutes are required. When the leg is done, the souris, that is, the meat adhering to the thin-end, should be soft, to the touch: the less tender the leg is, the more should it be kept underdone. When done, drain, dish it up; mix half a pint of gravy with its cooking- stock, boil, strain, and skim off the fat. On the other hand, boil in salted water, half a quart of white dry haricot-beans ; keep them in their stock to the last moment, and drain them on a sieve. Chop two onions, fry them to a light brown color, in a stewpan with butter ; moisten with the stock of the leg of mutton, add a bunch of parsley, round a bay-leaf, give two bubblings to the liquid, and thicken with a piece of kneaded-butter. Keep the sauce light; boil it a while, and add to it the haricot-beans; season with salt, and pepper. A few minutes after, introduce into it a piece of butter, and a pinch of chopped parsley; take out the aromatics, and pour the beans on a small round dish ; place the leg on a hot oblong dish, put a ruffle to the bone, and send up the two dishes. Carving. — To be eaten in good condition, a leg of mutton should be carved in the dining-room, and handed round on warm plates to the guests. To carve the leg, it should never be left on the dish, where the garnish and sauce are, but be placed on an empty dish ; taking care that small accidents, often very disagreeable ones, be avoided. The lines, marked on the Ytoix’ of the leg, shown in the drawing, indicate the way in which it should be carved. 559. Leg of Mutton, Polish way. — Choose a good leg, hung till tender; pare the thin-end bone, and lay it in an earthen pan, just deep and large enough to hold it. Mince two or three onions, the same of carrots and celery-roots ; fry with clarified fat, moisten with three glassfuls of vinegar and the same of water ; let the liquid boil, add to it some sprigs of aromatics, thyme, bay-leaf, basil, two cloves of garlic, parsley, cloves, and peppercorns; continue boiling for twenty minutes. Take then the stewpan off the fire, let the marinade-stock nearly cool, pour it over the leg of mutton; which macerate therein for twenty-four hours, turning several times.