376 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. With layers of fresh fat bacon, line a cold-pie-dish (terrine) of a sufficient size ; divide the halves of partridges, mix them with the force-meat, adding a few spoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs, and a little madeira or cognac ; with this preparation fill the ‘terrine’, cover its top with force-meat, then with a flat of paste, set it on a baking-sheet, and bake it for two hours in a moderate oven, basting from time to time. .When removed from the oven, take off the paste, and let the preparation cool, with a light weight over. When the ‘terrine’ is to be served, take the fat off, cut up the preparation, and fix the vessel on a dish, after having wiped it carefully. Sur- round it with aspic-jelly, and send it up. 847. Partridges ‘à la sybarite’. — Draw two partridges through the body, and bone two snipes. Peel two raw truffles; pound the peel with the livers of the snipes and partridges, previously fried, and with a piece of beef-marrow ; season the preparation, pass it through a sieve ; add to it the raw truffles, cut up in small dice. Season the snipes inwardly, place a little of the preparation on the centre of each of them, roll them up, and introduce one of them into each of the partridges, the crop of which fill with the remainder of the preparation. Truss as usual, salt, and wrap each of them up in a square of pig’s caul. Twenty-four hours after, run the partridges through with a thin iron-skewer, set them on the spit, wrap them up in buttered paper, and roast them at a good fire twenty minutes; take them out, remove flic string, and send them up with a little rich gravy reduced to half-glaze. 848. Timbale of partridges, Alsace fashion. — First of all prepare some raw mince (hachis), with eight ounces of fresh pork, the same of bacon and raw ham ; season highly, pound it in a mortar, add a few tablespoonfuls of fine-herbs, a little panada, and a whole egg ; after which pass it through a sieve. Meanwhile, boil a large cabbage for fifteen minutes; refresh it, .slip off the largest leaves, pare away the hard stalks, and spread them on a cloth. Singe and truss two or three partridges ; put them into a stewpan with a little butter, twelve ounces of raw ham and streaky bacon, cut up in oblong squares ; add a bunch of parsley garnished with aromatics, and fry them quickly ; when of a nice color, sprinkle over a pinch of flour, and moisten to height, with white wine and broth ; braise them on a moderate fire. Afterwards cut the partridges, each of them in five parts, as much as possible removing their bones ; place them in a stewpan, with the bacon and ham ; pass the sauce through a sieve, into a another stewpan ; add to it four or five peeled ti’uffles, in quarters, which cook for a few minutes on the side of the slow fire, and pour sauce and truffles over the partridges. Get a large ‘timbale’-mould, mask the bottom and sides with thin layers of bacon, on which apply some cabbage-leaves (two or three of them, one above the