510 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. The glaze being- dry, cut the flats of biscuit with sloping edges (en biais), so as to make them join together; and apply them against the ‘timbale’-case, fixing them on with icing-sugar ; adorn each face of the ‘timbale’ with an ornament of colored icing-sugar, squeezed through a cornet. Hide the lines of junction with a thread of glaze ; place the ‘timbale’ on a flat, bordered with gum-paste. When about to serve, fill the hollow of the ‘timbale’ with a ‘plombière’ of chest- nuts with vanilla, mixed with preserved fruits cut in dice ; cover the ‘timbale’ with its glazed lid, on the centre of which fix a little egret (aigrette) of spun-sugar. 1145. Crusts with fruit. — With the aid of a round paste-cutter, cut a dozen crusts of household bread, about half an inch thick; keep them covered until time for frying. Wash in warm water a handful of dried smyrna-raisins, or currants, which put into a stewpan, adding the same quantity of preserved whole cherries, then a few slices of pine-apple, some preserved green almonds, or greengages cut in dice, two tablespoonfuls of orange-peel, and four or five spoonfuls of preserved cédrat, likewise cut in dice. Moisten these fruits, to cover, with madeira-wine ; let the liquid boil, then take it off the fire, in order to thicken it with two or three tablespoonfuls of apricot-marmalade ; keep the stewpan in the ‘bain-marie’. A few minutes previous to serving, pour into a flat stewpan a quarter of a pound of melted and clarified butter, which warm, then place the crusts in the stew- pan, allowing them to take color on both sides. Now drain them, and range them in a circle on a round dish, mask them with a little sauce of the fruits kept in the ‘bain-marie’, placing the fruits in the centre ; alternate each crust of bread by a slice of pine-apple, and serve immediately. 1140. Neapolitan ‘charlotte’. — Butter a ‘charlotte’-mould, line it with tartlet-paste, and mask the inside with buttered paper. Fill the hollow of the mould with common flour or dried grains, thus baking the ‘charlotte’ à blanc. When taken out of the oven, empty it, let it cool, turn it out, wipe the mould well, then put back into k the ‘charlotte’, and embed on ice. Get ready a preparation of chestnut-‘pain’ limed with ‘gélatine’, thicken it on the ice, stirring; when done, add to it five ounces of smyrna-raisins, the same of preserved peel of cédrat, orange, and lemon, as well as a few tablespoonfuls of mara- schino. Pour it into the ‘charlotte’, let the preparation cool for an hour. Wheri about to serve, dip the mould into cold water, in order to be enabled to turn the ‘charlotte’ out,* the outside of which mask with a layer of apricot-marmalade, which smooth with the blade of a knife, and adorn on the top with a ‘rosace’ com- posed of preserved fruits.