362 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. Carving. — The lines running along the breasts of the ducklings, show the way they should be carved. Ducks and geese are cut up in ‘aiguillettes’. Both gain much by being carved in the dining-room. 822. Fillets of cercelles, orange-sauce. — Draw and truss four cer- celles, run them through with an iron skewer, and roast them at a good tire for twelve or fourteen minutes, basting with a paste-brush dipped in oil ; when done, salt, and take them off the tire ; slip the fillets out, and put them into a flat stewpan, with a little glaze at the bottom -, heat them for one minute over a brisk tire, to dry up the moisture of the fillets, then dish them up in a circle, and mask with the following sauce : Orange-sauce. — Cut the zest of a large, yet green orange, cut in tine shreds, which boil in water, and drain on a sieve ; then put them into a small stewpan, and add half a pint of reduced brown-sauce. When ready to serve, stir the sauce, intro- ducing into it, off the fire, the juice of the orange, and that of a lemon. 823. ‘Terrine’ of fat-liver of duck (D. 154). — Choose two good duck-livers, remove their gall, as well as the parts surrounding it, as they are gener- ally bitter. Divide each of the livers into three parts, pare them, keep the parings for after-use; season the livers with salt, and good spices, pour over half a glassful of madeira. Carefully pluck, and peel, a pound of fresh truffles; divide the small ones in two pieces, the larger ones in quarters ; season with salt and spices, mix them up with the livers. Pound the trimmings of the truffles and livers with half a pound of fresh bacon, previously chopped; pass it through a sieve. Chop fine half a pound of lean veal or pork, as well as five ounces of raw ham ; put this meat into a mortar, pound it; add to it the bacon, pounded with the truffles, and then two tablespoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs. Season the preparation with salt and good spices; the mixture effected, put it into a kitchen-basin, and add to it two chopped raw truffles, as well as the madeira in which the livers and truffles macerated. Choose a ‘terrine’ of yellow earth, Toulouse-shape ; mask the bottom, as well as sides, with a layer of raw mince previously prepared, kept a little thicker, on the bottom, than on the sides. Place the livers and truffles in the centre, arranging them by layers, and alternating each of these layers with a little mince; raise it in a dome, and cover with fresh bacon; set the ‘terrine’ in a deep baking- sheet, cover it with paper, push it into a moderate oven, frequently baste with the fat of the baking-sheet. Two hours after, cover the vessel with its lid, pour a glass of water into the baking-sheet ; an hour and a half later, take the ‘terrine’ out