61 COOKING-STOCK. Cut up in pieces six pounds of a leg of beef, put them into a large stockpot with six pounds of veal (the scrag of the neck), and a knuckle or two of veal ; also cut up in pieces, one or two hens (except the fillets), and the giblets (except the liver) of a few fowls ; cover the meats largely with second broth or water, set the stockpot on the fire, skim the liquid carefully, and at the first bubbling remove it back. One hour after, add to it a few good carrots, two or three leeks, a few sprigs of chervil, parsley and aromatics, cloves and peppercorns; continue a gentle ebullition. As soon as the meats are done, take them out. Afterwards, pass the broth through a sieve, skim off the fat, let it settle, decant it into two stewpans, reduce it on a brisk fire, until slightly thickened ; mix then together the two parts in a stewpan, high in form and narrow; let the glaze clarify on the side, skimming it until it be of the consistence of a light sauce, then pour it into one or several vessels, and keep it for use. 15G. Thickened gravy. — Thickened gravy (jus lié) is a diminutive of the classic 'Espagnole’-sauce ; the simplicity of its preparation will be found convenient in small kitchens, where abundance and time are often wanting. Cut up in squares a shoulder of veal (four or six pounds) ; put them into a stewpan with bacon, fry them moderately, stirring them frequently with a spoon ; a quarter of an hour after, add to the meat a large carrot, and two cut onions ; continue frying the meats for twelve or fifteen minutes ; moisten with half a quart of broth, cover the stewpan, and reduce the broth to a glaze, without burning; then moisten with six or eight quarts of hot broth, and half a bottle of white wine ; skim the stock, at the first bubbling, draw it on the side of the fire ; add a ham-bone, a fowl colored in the oven, and a few giblets of poultry ; such as necks, gizzards, and pinions ; cloves, peppercorns, and a bunch of parsley with aromatics. The pieces of meat being three-parts done, skim the fat from the stock, and thicken it with flour diluted cold (two tablespoonfuls to each quart of stock) ; continue boiling, skimming the sauce ; half an hour after, pass it through a sieve into a stewpan, let it boil up, then remove it back, and let it clarify for twenty-five minutes, adding from time to time a few spoonfuls of good broth ; skim it, pass it into a kitchen-basin, and let the sauce cool, stirring from time to time. 157. Brown meat-sauce.* — 111 great cookery this sauce also goes by the name of ‘Espagnole’ ; with it are prepared the greatest part of worked sauces. It is applied specially to the thickening of cooking-stock. ‘Roux’. — Melt six ounces of butter in a stewpan, add to it eight ounces of flour ; * lu a forthcoming work it is my intention to treat at length of the composition of sauces, rich and simple, in all their variety of development, according to the principles of the highest culinary art.