COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 542 bonate, the, sugar, the Hour, and the milk; all of which put in gradually, working the preparation with a spoon. The paste must be of consistency just enough to keep it together, so that it does not spread, when it is placed on the baking-lieet. Now take the paste up with a tablespoon, arrange it on a baking-sheet, in pieces of the size of a nut, being careful to place them at a little distance one from the other; set on each of these pieces a pinch of preserved cédrat, cut into small dice. Let them bake in a moderate oven, and serve cold. 1205. Apple-cakes, German fashion. — Cut six tine rennet-apples in quarters ; peel, pare, mince, and put them into a stewpan, with nearly half a pound of melted butter ; let them toss on a brisk fire, until very hot, then immediately take them off the fire. Put a quarter of a. pound of flour into a kitchen-basin, dilute it with a glassful of cold milk, and four or five whole eggs ; whip the preparation well, pass it through a sieve, add three tablespoonfuls of sugar, a little orange-zest, and a little salt. Butter largely a flat stewpan, mix the apples with the cream-preparation, which pour into the stewpan ; bake the cake, in a moderate oven, for forty minutes. As soon as the preparation is set, and a little dry, sprinkle over largely powder-sugar. Ten minutes after, take it off’ the fire, to divide it into long squares; take the cakes up by aid of a flat spoon, and dish them, one by one, on a folded napkin. 1206. Saint-Amand cake (D. 262). — W arm three quarters of a pound of flour in a kitchen-basin ; take a quarter of it, which put into a little stewpan. Prepare some dough, with three quarters of an ounce of German yeast, and half a glassful of tepid milk; cover the stewpan, and keep it in the warm-closet, until the paste be risen to double its volume. Form a cavity in the remainder of the flour with the hand; place in this cavity one whole egg, and three yolks of eggs, four tablespoonfuls of tepid milk, three ounces of butter, a pinch of salt, four or five tablespoonfuls of sugar flavored with vanilla. Mix up butter, cream, and eggs; then gradually introduce the flour, keeping the paste stiff ; work vigorously for ten or twelve minutes ; add two whole eggs, one by one ; the eggs being introduced, mix the dough into the paste, which work for a few minutes more. Introduce again three ounces of butter; cover the paste, let it rise, in a moderate temperature, for one hour and a half; then work it by hand, and introduce four tablespoonfuls of whipped cream. Butter a large border - mould with a concave bottom; three-parts fill this mould with the paste, but applying it in layers, and alternating each of these layers with preserved well drained chestnuts, divided in pieces ; set the mould on a baking-sheet, keep in a moderate temperature, let the paste rise for twenty minutes; when coming nearly to the rim of the mould, cover the upper sides of the mould