COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 348 Truss four good pigeons with the legs inside; braise them, divide them after- wards in four parts, trim away the skin and bones ; arrange them in a stewpan, and pour over a few spoonfuls of brown-sauce. When the cabbage is done, press it, to drain off the moisture and fat; remove the stalk, and bruise it. Cut up the bacon and sausage, one in squares, the other in slices; then place in the hollow of the Timbale', in alternate layers, the cabbage, bacon, sausage, and pigeons. Cover the top with a layer of force-meat, and poach the ‘chartreuse’ in the ‘bain-marie’ for three quarters of an hour. Whilst the ‘chartreuse’ is preparing, braise some cabbage-lettuces. Boil, in salted water, some green-pease, green asparagus, white asparagus, and cucumbers. A few minutes previous to serving, turn the ‘timbale’ out on a baking-sheet, without taking off the mould, in order to drain the moisture; slip it afterwards on an oval dish, and surround the base with small ‘bouquets’ or groups of asparagus alternated with the green-pease, asparagus-heads, and cucumbers, the last glazed. Leave the lettuces scrolhvise on the top, with a small heap of green-pease on the centre; send up separately in a sauceboat, the cooking-stock of the pigeons, thickened with a little sauce. 792. Pigeons stuffed, Italian fashion. — Singe three young pigeons, draw, and bone the breast. Chop ten ounces of fresh fat-bacon with six raw sheep’s kidneys, and a few blanched chickens’ livers, add to them the same volume of bread- crumb, soaked in broth and pressed, three yolks of eggs, salt, pepper, and a little chopped parsley. Stuff the pigeons with this farce, sew the breast-skin underneath, truss them with the legs inside, and place them in a narrow stewpan, previously spread with minced vegetables and a little ham ; moisten to half-height with broth, cover them with a round of buttered paper, and let the stock boil up ; seven or eight minutes after, draw the stewpan on a moderate fire, to finish cooking the pigeons, basting, and turning them frequently ; when done, drain them on a dish. Dilute the cooking-stock with a little gravy, and half a glass of white wine ; let it boil, pass it through a sieve, skim off the fat, reduce it to half-glaze, and thicken it with a few spoonfuls of brown-sauce; then add to it two handfuls of turned olives, slightly blanched, and keep the sauce in the ‘bain marie’. On the other hand, boil in salted water eight ounces of shred fresh-made ‘nouilles’; drain them, season, finish with butter, grated parmesan, and a little tomata-sauce ; dish them up ; divest the pigeons of the string, and place them on the ‘nouilles’. Pour the sauce with olives into a sauceboat, and send it up separately. 793. Pigeons with cray-fish, German fashion. — Odd as this dish may appear at first, we nevertheless arrive at the conclusion, that there is nothing