169 BCTCHEKS MEAT. — BEEF. reduce, stirring ; add to it four tablespoonfuls of melted glaze. After a few minutes, / add the cooked celery, and reduce the preparation till thickish ; pass it through a sieve, and warm it without allowing it to boil. 391. Fillet of beef, roasted, poor-man’s-sauce. — Take a good fillet of beef, cut away a part of its fat, remove the sinewy skin, and lard the upper surface ; place it in a kitchen-basin, long in form ; season with salt and pepper, baste with oil, and add the pulp of two lemons (freed of peel and pips) cut up in thin slices ; a large onion also sliced, a handful of parsley, thyme, and bay leaf ; allow it to macerate for twenty-four hours. Then take it out of the marinade, and put it on the spit, securing it with a small iron-skewer. Set the fillet on to a good fire, moisten it with a little oil, and pour the marinade into the dripping-pan; roast the fillet for thirty-five or forfy minutes, basting often. When about to serve, remove the fillet from the fire, dish it up, and pour over the following sauce: Poor-man’s-saucc for the fillet. — A few minutes previous to taking the fillet from the fire, pour into the dripping about half a pint of hot broth; let the liquid boil, strain it through a sieve into a stewpan, and skim the fat. Chop one onion, and one shalot ; fry them with a little oil or butter, without allowing them to take color, sprinkle over a tablespoonful of flour, which fry for a few seconds; dilute it with the strained gravy from the dripping-pan ; then mix the sauce with four tablespoonfuls of good vinegar, and keep it boiling, stirring it for five or six minutes; remove it back, introduce into it a small handful of chopped capers, with three fillets of anchovies ; finish it, with a pinch of pepper and chopped parsley. 392. Fillet of beef, madeira sauce. — Choose a fillet of beef suffi- ciently tender, the fresh fillets being always tough ; trim it, taking out the sinewy skin, and a part of the fat of its side ; and lard it with bacon. Cut up in small pieces the fat taken off, with which mask the bottom of the roasting-pan, or a ‘plafond’; place on it a feAV sliced carrots, onions, and celery, thereon set the fillet, which salt and cover with buttered paper. Pour on the bottom of the pan half a pint of warm water, push it into a moderately heated oven, to roast the fillet, basting often, and taking care not to let the cooking-stock burn. Three quarters of an hour after, the fillet should be done ; the precise point of the cooking of a fillet of beef may be known, when by pressing the meat with the finger, it is found to be elastic ; this is learnt by practice. When done, drain it on a baking-sheet, keeping it hot ; pour into the roasting-pan a pint of good gravy, prepared with the trimmings of the fillet ; let the liquid boil, and settle ; skim off its fat, work it to half-glaze, and thicken it with a few spoonfuls of brown-sauce. Start the sauce to ebullition, then remove it back, to clarify for a quarter of an hour, gradually