COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 452 butter, by aid of the paste-brush, with melted and clarified butter ; put into each of the moulds a tablespoonful of the previously prepared paste. Take the moulds up from underneath by aid of a flat spoon, push them into a hot oven; five minutes afterwards, turn the ‘blinis’, moisten them with the paste-brush dipped in a little butter ; three or five minutes afterwards, take the moulds out of the oven, remove the ‘Minis’, which dish immediately, and serve; accompanied by a sauceboatful of melted butter. 1007. ‘Quiche’, Lorraine fashion. — Prepare some short-paste with a pound of flour, eight ounces of butter, two yolks of eggs, a little salt, and the water required. When smooth, let it rest for half an hour, and roll it out thin and round. With this flat line a round baking-sheet {tourtière on tôle), with a border half an inch high ; pinch the paste on its edges, and scatter at intervals, over its surface, little bits of fresh butter (four ounces). Break up three whole eggs into a basin, beat and dilute them with two gills of good raw-cream ; season the preparation with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a point of sugar; pass, and pour it over the paste, spread on the baking-sheet; which push into a hot oven, and bake the ‘quiche’ fifteen to eighteen minutes. The ‘quiche’ is usually served in the baking-s’heet, after having been divided. It is an excellent luncheon-dish. 1008. Geneva-‘fondue’. —- Put seven or eight yolks of eggs into a stew- pan, whisk them for three minutes, add.to them eight ounces of butter in little bits, a pinch of pepper, and a little nutmeg ; set the stewpan on a very slow fire, stirring the preparation till beginning to thicken; then mix with it half a pound of grated swiss cheese ; stir anew, and warm, until the cheese be entirely dissolved. Place the stewpan in the ‘bain-marie’. On the other hand, blanch three or four handfuls of shred ‘nouilles’, drain them on a sieve, put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, sprinkle over two handfuls of grated parmesan, and set them in a circle round the bottom of a dish. Introduce into the ‘fondue’ two or three tablespoonfuls of good raw-cream, and pour it into the hollow of the ‘nouilles’. 1009. ‘Fondue’, with Piémont truffles. — This‘fondue’is a national dish of Piémont, prepared with a fat cheese, called fontina. This cheese can only be replaced, by some common ‘gruyères’ Swiss cheese, as fresh as possible, left to soften in milk for a few hours. Cut in dice half a pound of ‘fontina’, after having removed the thin skin off its surface; refresh it, drain, and put it into a middling-sized stewpan, with a few table- spoonfuls of milk. Bruise in a pan six yolks of eggs, add a teaspoonful ol flour, and dilute with five or six tablespoonfuls of cream, or good milk; pass the prepa-