189 BUTCHER'S MEAT. BEEF. Drain the ox-palates when done, wipe them on a cloth, pare them into small oblong squares; season, and mix them with the fine-herbs, adding also a little chopped parsley. Range the palates and fine-herbs into a deep dish ; sprinkle over some bread-crumbs, baste with melted butter, and allow them to gratinate for twenty minutes on a moderate oven. 437. ‘Bouchées’ Of ox-palates. — The method for making the‘bouchées’ is described No. 403. Cut up in small dice two or three boiled cold ox-palates, and place them in a stewpan with one-third their volume of cooked mushrooms, also cut in dice. Pour into a stewpan a few spoonfuls of ‘béchamel’-sauce, finished at the time and passed through a sieve ; reduce it, stirring, and gradually introducing into it about half a gill of melted glaze ; thicken the ‘salpicon’ with it, and keep the stewpan in the ‘bain-marie’. When ready to serve, heat the ‘bouchées’, garnish them with the preparation, cover, and dish them up on a napkin. 438. ‘Attereaux’ of ox-palates. — Cut up a few boiled ox-palates into squares of half an inch, place them in a kitchen-basin; season, and mix in three tablespoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs ; add half their volume of truffles and mushrooms, cut likewise. Run small skewers, through the squares of meat, truffles, and mushrooms, and dip them into some ‘villeroy’-sauce, prepared at the time, and warm; set them on a baking-sheet, at small distances, and let the sauce cool. After- wards, take the ‘attereaux’ off the baking-sheet, roll them in bread-crumbs, dip them into beaten eggs, and bread-crumb them once more. When ready to serve, plunge the ‘attereaux’ into hot hog’s lard ; as soon as of a nice color, drain, and dish them up on a folded napkin, with fried parsley round. 439. Croquettes of ox-palates. — Scald five or six ox-palates, scrape, refresh, and place them in a stewpan, strewn with chopped fat and vegetables; moisten with a sufficient quantity of broth and white wine to cover them ; add a bunch of aromatics, and boil them on a slow fire for three or four hours ; let them cool in their stock ; drain them, cut them into small dice, which put into a kitchen- basin, with half their volume of cooked mushrooms, and as much of ox-tongue, both in dice. Pour a few spoonfuls of‘béchamel -sauce into a stewpan, reduce it on the fire, stirring; and introduce into it a few spoonfuls of raw cream, and a little melted glaze. When the sauce is become succulent, and well thickened, add to it the ‘sal- picon’, and remove the pan back. Season with salt and nutmeg, pour the preparation on a dish to cool, and then proceed to make the ‘croquettes’ in the shape of stopples or pears; bread-crumb them, egg, fry, and dish them up, in pyramids, on a folded napkin, with parsley round.