278 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. and a glass of madeira ; let it macerate, covered, twenty-four hours ; drain it, till up the hollow, left by the bones, with a piece of set meat-glaze, and three or four raw truffles ; sew up the openings, and truss the ham into its natural form. Soften, in water, a fresh pork’s bladder, not inflated ; wipe it with a cloth, blow into and inflate it, so as to widen the opening sufficiently, by which to introduce the ham. Pass the marinade-stock through a sieve, and pour a tablespoonful of it into the bladder with the ham ; then close the opening of the bladder tightly, wrap it up in another bladder, tie this likewise, wrap the ham up in a cloth, tying this fast on the side of the bladder’s opening, and plunge the ham into hot water, to boil gently for four hours, without interruption. When the ham is done, take it off the tire ; one hour after, drain it, unpack it from both cloth and bladder; pour the liquid contained in the bladder into a stewpan, and thicken it with a piece of kneaded-butter. Remove the string from the ham, dish it up, and pour the sauce over. (157. Tonkin-ham, roasted, à la Vernon. — Get a good Tonkin-ham, from a young animal, and lately smoked; soak it for one hour, pare the surface, and put it into a stewpan with cold water ; bring the liquid to ebullition, boil the ham on the side of the tire for three quarters of an hour ; then drain it, remove the rind and the thigh-bone. Put it into a narrow earthen-pan, moisten to its height, with a cooked marinade-stock ; let it macerate for twenty-four hours, with the pan covered ; drain it, mask it with the vegetables ‘mirepoix’, resting on two or three buttered sheets of strong foolscap; place it in a cradle-spit, and roast it at a moderate tire, basting with fat; fifty minutes later, mix some of the marinade-stock in the drip pings, with which baste the ham. One hour after, remove the paper, and let the ham roast half an hour longer, or in all about two hours and a half. Then take it off the spit, dish it up, strain the stock from the dripping-pan, skim off its fat, reduce a part of it to half-glaze, add to it a few spoonfuls of brown-sauce, and five minutes after, pour it over the ham. Send up separately a dish of vegetable ‘croquettes’. 658. Boiled leg of salted pork. — Rub with salt a leg of young tender pork ; place it in a vessel with a weight over it ; repeat the operation for four or five days consecutively ; then let the meat macerate, in its own brine, for ten or twelve days more. Wash the leg, put it into a stewpan, large enough to cover it with cold water; boil and skim well ; at the first bubbling remove thy pan back. Add to the meat some sprigs of'parsley and aromatics, the half of a cabbage, cut in two, six large carrots in pieces, and two large turnips, likewise in pieces. Two hours after, the