274 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 401. Piece of beef, ‘â la cuiller’. — Take a small and cold braised rump (culotte) of beef, scoop it out above with a knife, forming a sort of case, which means, leaving a bottom-piece to it ; and set it on a ‘gratin’-dish. Trim away the fat of the meat, take out and cut this into thin and narrow slices of a square form. Slice about fifteen fresh mushrooms, put them into a shallow stewpan with butter, fry them on a brisk fire, and moisten with a little sauce, reduced with a few spoon- fuls of madeira, and mixed up with a little tomata-sauce. Boil the Tagout’ for a few minutes, and add to it the slices of beef, which warm on a slow fire ; pour them into the cavity made on the piece of beef; mask the top with a layer of sliced mush- rooms, and sprinkle over the whole some bread-crumbs, basting it with melted butter. Pour on the bottom of the dish a part of the gravy of the braised meat, mixed up with a little wine, and push it into the oven (at a slow heat), to warm, gently basting from time to time with its stock. An hour later, send it up on the same dish, with the remainder of the stock in a sauce-boat. 402. Piece of beef, German fashion. — Boil in a stockpot, a small boned rump of beef ; when three-parts done, drain, and trim it square, then place it in 'a stewpan, garnished with bacon and sliced vegetables; moisten, to half its height, with broth, gravy, and white wine ; let the stock boil, and then remove the pan back to the side of the stove-fire, putting hot embers on the lid; thus finish cooking the meat, and glazing it nicely. When ready to serve, drain the piece of beef, trim, dish, and surround it, on one side, with Brussels sprouts, and on the other with glazed chestnuts ; pour over the meat some of the cooking-stock, diluted with a little white wine, strained, and freed of fat; send up separately a dish of mashed potatoes, and some ‘velouté’-sauce, finished with extract of anchovies. 403. Small puff-paste patties, with beef-suet (D. 59). — The little patty described here is very popular in France, it is one of the oldest dishes, and no doubt one of those, to which fashion will remain faithful. In ‘Paris’ as in the provinces, wherever there lives a little ‘restaurateur’ or a pastry-cook, these patties are to be had ; where there are no pastry-cooks at all, they are to be had at the confectioner’s. But they are far better prepared at home, and then baked hut a few minutes before eating them. The puff-paste, as made in the large kitchens, even by those, who well understand how to work it, is not always an easy task ; because above all, one must possess the raw materials of a good quality. But good butter, the most active element of puff-paste, is often wanting in small towns, in the country, or in foreign lands; it is to avoid this inconvenience, that