316 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. these truffles with a piece of panada; add to this the half of a raw fat-liver, a few tablespoonfuls of scraped fat-bacon, and two whites of eggs ; season, and rub the preparation through a sieve. Stuff with it the capon, in a convex form, truss it with the legs stuck under the skin ; rub it with lemon, and cover with bacon. Place it in a stewpan, spread with trimmings of bacon and vegetables ; moisten to cover with white broth, place over it a buttered paper, and boil it gently. When ready to serve, drain the capon, remove the string; set it on a layer of poached force-meat on an oblong dish, and surround on both sides with a garnish of nice, white, cooked cocks’-combs. Pile the truffles up on each end of the dish, and send up separately a boatful of Velouté’- sauce prepared with the stock of the capon. This dish is to be placed on the dinner-table, and may be ornamented with garnished ‘hâtelet’- skewers. 730. Capon with rice, Provence fashion. — Truss a capon, as for boiling ; cover it with thin layers of fat bacon ; place it in a stewpan with broth and toppings from the ‘pot-au-feu’, hot, passed through a sieve, and of sufficient quantity to cover ; add a few peppercorns and cloves, put the lid on the stewpan, and boil the capon for an hour and a quarter on a moderate fire. Twenty minutes previous to serving, fry in a stewpan two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions ; peel a large tomata, take away the seed, chop, and mix it with the onion; then moisten it, three times its height, with the stock and toppings of the capon, passed through a sieve ; add a point of saffron, and a bunch of parsley ; cover the stewpan, and boil the rice for forty minutes ; it must be well cooked, but remain firm ; then season it with a little nutmeg, and dish it up. Drain the capon, place it on the rice, and serve. 731. Minion-fillets of poulard, Paris fashion (D. 124). — This entrée is easy, and less expensive, if, when one of fillets of pullet or chickens has been served the day before, the minion-fillets have been kept for use. Pick out the inner sinew of the minion-fillets, and remove the superficial epi- dermis ; beat them slightly with the handle of a knife dipped in water ; make in them small transversal incisions, into which insert some crescent-shaped truffles, sliced slantwise. The fillets being thus decorated, arrange them in a circle, in a buttered sauté-pan ; salt slightly, moisten with a paste-brush dipped in melted butter, and put them by. Prepare a little ‘quenelle’ force-meat, with poultry-meat, and the trimmings of the fillets (see No. 715). Butter the interior of a pyramid-mould, mask the bottom and sides with a layer of the previously prepared force-meat, about a third of an inch thick ; fill the hollow of the mould with a ‘ragout’ of poultry-livers, mixed with a few sliced truffles, and thickened with a few spoonfuls of brown-sauce, reduced with ma-