431 GAME. — BUCK, VENISON. fresh pig’s caul, flatten it slightly. Butter the ‘crépinettes’ with a paste-brush, bread- crumb, and broil them on a moderate fire for a quarter of an hour, turning them: then dish up, and pour on the bottom of the dish a little good reduced gravy. 9G7. Saddle (‘cimier’) of buck, Polish fashion (D. 194). — Pare the saddle, or haunch, of a buck not fattened, put it into fitting vessel, and pour over one or two quarts of cooked marinade - stock. * Leave it therein for four hours, turning from time to time; drain it, lard the fillets with bacon, lay it in an oblong Fig. 194. stewpan spread for braise, moisten half its height with broth, and a part of its mari- nade. Braise it on a moderate fire, with hot ashes on the lid, frequently basting. When ready to serve, dish up the saddle; surround it on both sides, with a group of round truffles, and two groups of stuffed mushrooms ; place at each end a garnish of sour-crout. Glaze the saddle with a paste-brush dipped in a little brown-sauce, prepared with the stock, and send up the remander in a sauceboat. 9G8. ‘Epigramme’ of roebuck, with truffles. — Pare six roebuck- cutlets,, put them into a raw marinade, then place them in a stewpan with oil, and keep one side covered. With their trimmings, and a few pieces of lean veal, prepare some ‘quenelle’ force-meat ; add to it two or three tablespoonfuls of raw trulfles in small dice: take up of the same six tablespoonfuls, and put them on a floured table; roll then with the hand, forming six ‘boudins’, of the same shape and size as the cutlets; poach them in boiling water ; as soon as set, drain, let them cool, dip them in beaten eggs, and bread-crumb them. Peel five or six middling-sized truffles, cut them up in slices, and put them into a stewpan, with a little madeira-wine. With the bones and trimmings of game, a little wine, broth, aromatics, cloves and peppercorns, prepare a little extract (fumet) of game, and make a little sauce with it. . * To prepare a cooked marinade, first of all, some chopped roots and vegetables must be fried with butter : these are moistened with common vinegar, in quantity sufficient nearly to cover the meats intended to be marinated. When the vegetables are well saturated, mix with the liquid a little salt, cloves, peppercorns, and other spices. The marinade should continue cooking at least twenty-five minutes. Some- times a little water is mixed with the vinegar, in order to mitigate its pungency I