544 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. stewpan, the bottom of which is moistened with two tablespoonfuls of tepid water; cover it, and keep it in the warm-closet (étuve), until risen to double its volume. Meanwhile, spread in a circle the remainder of the flour; in the centre of which place a teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of powder-sugar, then five whole eggs, half a pound of line butter, divided in little bits. Mix together first the butter and eggs, then gradually introduce the flour into the liquid, thus getting a smooth solid paste ; work it with both hands, so as to give it yet more consistence ; five minutes after, introduce a quarter of a pound of fine butter divided into little hits, alternating them with two whole eggs. The paste being very smooth, elastic to the touch, support- ing itself, when gathered up, without sinking down ; flatten it out (with the hands), and spread the dough over its surface; cut the paste with both hands, gathering up the pieces cut off. Work the paste for three minutes more, put it then into a kitchen- basin ; cover, and let it rise. If there be time enough, let the paste rise for six hours in a cool place. ‘Brioche’-paste improves considerably, if allowed to ferment without violence; but if time presses, let it rise in the temperature of the kitchen. As soon as the paste is risen to about double its volume ; break (rompre), that is work it (with the hand), until brought to its former condition. Then place it in the temperature of the kitchen ; as soon as visibly enlarged in volume, take it out of the basin, and lay it on a floured table; beat it with (floured) hands, to flatten it, and fold the edges over the centre ; place it now on a baking-sheet ; which keep on ice, for twenty-five or thirty minutes. Butter the inside of a ‘brioche’-mould ; take two thirds of the paste, which put on the table, and mould to a ball by working it with the hands; place it in the mould, pressing the paste into the folds of the mould, thus to gain all its form ; mould the remainder of the paste into a longish shape. With three wet fingers form a cavity in the centre of the paste, which is in the mould; and into this cavity, insert the pointed side of the smaller portion of paste, which is to stand for the head of the ‘brioche’; fix it on by hand, and egg it (dorer). Set the mould on a baking-sheet, push it into a moderate oven, bake the ‘brioche’ for one hour and a quarter ; minding to cover it with paper, as soon as beginning to take color. Five minutes after, being taken from the oven, turn it out, let it cool, and then dish it on a folded napkin. Such ‘brioche’-cakes are served at breakfast or with tea. Small ‘brioches’ may be prepared in the same manner. 1208. Ricasoli-cake (D. 264). — With a pound of sugar, three quarters of a pound of flour and potato-flour, in equal parts, five ounces of melted butter, six yolks of eggs, a little salt, and a stick of vanilla ; prepare a biscuit-paste, proceeding as commonly, but notice introducing the butter after the whipped whites of eggs