COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 498 to keep the pieces whole. When done, moisten them with four tablespoonfuls of apricot-marmalade, take them off the fire, and let them cool in the stewpan. Three quarters of an hour previous to serving, fix a few fried bread-‘croûtons’ on the bottom of the dish, forming a circle; mask the interior of this circle with a layer of apple-marmalade, on which arrange in a pyramid the cooked apples in quarters ; then mask the pyramid with longish beads of ‘meringue', squeezed through a silk-bag (poche) : the decoration is in imitation of a pine-apple. Begin by squeezing small beads all round the top, enlarging their size, as the circle spreads larger and larger. Stick fillets of almonds into these beads, sprinkle the ‘meringue’ over with powder-sugar, and allow it to take a little color in a moderate oven. When the dish is taken out of the oven, stick on its top some leaves of angelica, and surround the pyramid with the whole apples. 1119. Rice-pudding, with apples. — Blanch ten ounces of rice, drain, refresh, then p it it back into the stewpan, moisten to twice its height with boiled milk, let the liquid boil ; at the first bubbling remove it back on a very mild fire, keeping it consistent; sweeten only when nearly done; a quarter of an hour after, take it off the fire, add to it a little chopped lemon-zest, a handful of dried raisins, then five whole eggs, one by one, stirring the preparation well.. Butter a ‘charlotte’-mould, bread-crumb it, fill it with the cooled rice preparation, then set it on a baking-sheet, and bake it in a moderate oven for forty minutes; when taken out of the oven, scoop it round on the top with the point of a little knife, so as to take out a round ; now slightly empty the pudding, without thinning the sides too much; rill the hollow with a mince of rennet-apples, cooked, sweetened, and thickened with a few spoonfuls of apricot-marmalade. But the round back on the top, disengage the pudding from the mould, turn it out on a dish, sprinkle over powder-sugar ; mask the bottom of the dish with a little apricot-marmalade, and serve without delay. 1120. Rice-pudding, ‘à la Marquise’. — Set on salted ice, a ‘bombe’- mould. Pour into a kitchen-basin, a glassful of rice ‘purée’ prepared with milk; dilute this ‘purée’ with half a glassful of English-cream with vanilla ; pass the preparation through a tammy, and pour it into the ice-box (sorbetière), to be congealed by the same procedure as for ices. When frozen, take it up with a spoon, and with it mask the bottom and sides of the mould set on ice, so as to leave a hollow in the centre; which hollow then fill with a little pine-apple-ice slightly set, and mixed-up with a ‘salpicon’ of preserved fruits. Shut the mould, solder its join well, sprinkle oveV salt, mask entirely with salted ice, and leave it thus for three quarters of an hour. At serving-time, dip the mould quickly into warm water, then turn the pudding out on a cold dish, covered with a folded napkin..