75 FISH. Prepare a good ‘mirepoix’ of vegetable, with white Bordeaux-wine ; add to it some spoonfuls of madeira, a small glass of cognac, a little salt, a bunch ot parsley, and a slice of raw ham; cover the stewpan, give the liquid five or six minutes’ ebullition, and add to it the crayfish. Ten minutes afterwards, drain the liquor, passing it through a sieve ; reduce it to half, introducing gradually four gills of‘velouté’-sauce : the sauce being reduced to the degree requisite, pass it through a tammy into another stewpan ; finish it by introducing into it four ounces of fresh butter, a little piece of crayfish-butter, and a spoonful of chopped parsley. Bemove the small claws of the crayfish, and dish in a group on a napkin, surrounding them with green leaves of parsley ; serve the sauce separately. 174. ‘Petits-pains’ (rolls) of crayfish, with jelly (D. 13). — Cut up into small dice the tails and large claws, of three dozen boiled crayfish ; add thereto Fig. 13. the fillets of four anchovies, also cut in dice, two tablespoonfuls of whole capers, and thicken the ‘salpicon’ with some ‘mayonnaise’-sauce with eggs, finished with a little aspic-jelly. Set on a baking-sheet ten or twelve ‘dariole’-moulds, surround them with pounded ice, decorate the bottom with a round of gerkin, dipping them into half- set aspic ; coat (chemiser) the interior surfaces of the moulds with a layer of mayonnaise with aspic, fill them afterwards with the prepared ‘salpicon’, which mask on the top with a layer of mayonnaise, and let it cool for an hour. When ready to serve, turn out the ‘petits-pains’, dish them up on a little stand, masked with paper. The stand may be omitted. 175. Crayfish, Lorraine fashion. — Cleanse two dozen large crayfish, boil them in white wine, drain them on a sieve, preserving their liquor. Cut into small dice a pound of raw ham, warm it in a stewpan with a little butter, mix therewith two tablespoonfuls of flour ; which fry a few minutes, stirring with a spoon, and diluting with a little good boiled milk, and the liquor of the crayfish. Work the s^uce until boiling, and reduce it till frothy and succulent,