344 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. height with broth, and cook it, until all the moisture is absorbed; then strain its stock from the chicken, which must now be done ; skim off the fat, and add it to the rice; cover the stewpan ; when the rice is done, gradually introduce into it four ounces of grated parmesan, two tablespoonfuls of tomata-sauce, and live ounces of butter; then dish it up, and place the chicken on it, being freed from the string, and glazed. 784. Croquettes of chicken, à la Soubise. — Prepare a ‘salpicon’ of chicken, add to it some pickled ox-tongue and mushrooms, and keep it covered in a small stewpan. Cut up four large onions in quarters, plunge them into boiling water, and boil them for a quarter of an hour ; drain them, put them into a smaller stewpan w#ith a piece of butter, season with salt and pepper, and stew them on a moderate fire, covered, until their moisture be evaporated. Bruise them with a spoon, sprinkle over two tablespoonfuls of flour ; and moisten, by degrees, with a little good milk, in order to obtain a sauce of the consistency of a firm ‘bechamel’-sauce; reduce it on the fire, stirring, until the onion be quite done. Then add to it a few tablespoonfuls of melted glaze; two seconds after, pass it through a sieve; and gradually mix with it the ‘salpicon’, so as to keep its consistency ; spread it on a baking-sheet, to cool; then shape it into ‘croquettes’, bread-crumb, fry, drain, and dish them up on a folded napkin. 785. Small chickens, with cream. — Singe three small young chickens; draw, and truss them as for boiling ; cover them with bacon, and place in a pro- portionate stewpan, spread with sliced vegetables, a few trimmings of raw ham, and trimmings of fresh mushrooms ; add a bunch of parsley, moisten the chickens to height with good broth, start the liquid to ebullition, and draw the stewpan over a moderate fire, with warm ashes on the lid ; boil the chickens for thirty-five or forty minutes, strain their stock, and skim off the fat. While the chickens are doing, boil with butter and lemon-juice two dozen fresh button-mushrooms. Pour into a stewpan the third of a quart of good ‘béchamel -sauce, a little consistent ; reduce it, stirring ; add to it, by degrees, the liquor of the chickens, which should be reduced to half-glaze, and a few tablespoonfuls of mushroom- liquor, freed of fat ; when the sauce is ready, draw it off the fire, and introduce into it a piece of good butter ; take the string off the chickens, which place in a triangular form on a dish, with the legs to the centre; arrange on each of them eight button- mushrooms, and mask chickens and garnish with the cream-sauce passed through a tammy. 786. Fontange patties (D. 143 and 144). — Place in a kitchen-basin four ounces of flour, add to it two or three yolks of eggs, a little salt, four table-