258 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. the fingers, then with the back of a cutter of smaller size. Egg the top, and hake them in a hot oven, for a quarter of an hour ; when done, dish them up on a folded napkin, and serve quite hot immediately. 603. Sheep’s tongues, Breton fashion. — Boil in salted water, or in broth, four or five fresh sheep’s tongues ; let them cool under press ; remove the skin, and cut them into middling-sized dice; mix these in a stewpan, with two cooked sheep’s brains, in dice, and keep the pan covered. Slice two dozen large fresh mushrooms, put them into a stewpan with butter, which salt, and fry; when they have evaporated their moisture, sprinkle a little flour over, and moisten with gravy, keeping the sauce a little consistent, season with salt and pepper; add a pinch of chopped parsley. When the mushrooms are done, add the tongues and brains, pour the stew on a dish, smoothing its surface with the blade of a knife, sprinkle over bread-crumbs, and let it be nicely colored in the oven, or with a red hot salamander. 604. Sheep’s tongues, with oranges. — Boil in water ten small pickled sheep’s tongues ; trim the skin away, and glaze them with a little gravy ; dilute the cooking-stock with a little broth ; let it boil, and pass it through a sieve. Pour a gill of vinegar into a stewpan, reduce it to half, and mix it with the cooking-stock of the tongues, start it to ebullition, and thicken with potato-flour; a few minutes after, add to it two tablespoonfuls of red-currant jelly ; remove the sauce back, to clarify. Meanwhile, peel thoroughly four sour oranges, which cut into small quarters, carefully removing peel and pips. When the sauce is freed of fat, take it off the fire, and throw in the oranges ; then dish the tongues, with the oranges round, pour the sauce over. 605. Sheep’s brains, with hot ‘rémoulade’. — Put four or five sheep’s brains into a basin of cold water ; remove the skin covering them, and steep them in cold water, for one hour, changing the water. Boil some water in a stewpan, with salt, sliced vegetables, a bunch of parsley, and a quarter of a glass of vinegar, or white wine; a few minutes after add the brains, which boil for ten minutes, drain, dish them up, and mask them with the following sauce : Hot ‘rémoulade’- sauce. — Put into a stewpan two or three tablespoonfuls of chopped shalôt, a clove of garlic, and a quarter of a glass of vinegar ; reduce the liquid to half. Put into a mortar six boiled yolks of eggs, and the fillets of four or five ancho- vies, well cleansed ; pound them together, dilute the preparation with a gill of stiff and hot ‘velouté’-sauce, then with a gill of oil, stirring ; add to it a tablespoonful of taragon-leaves, the same of chive, burnet, parsley, and chervil, all of which chopped