416 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 935. ‘Gratin’ of thrushes. — Bone and farce seven or eight fine thrushes (see No. 928); give them an elongated shape, wrapping the force-meat up with the skin ; surround them separately with a strip of buttered paper, place them, one by one, and side by side, in a fiat stewpan ; moisten them with a little gravy, not freed of its fat ; then cover them with paper, braise them on a moderate fire for ten or twelve minutes. Let them cool in their cooking-stock, cut them in two lengthwise, and dish each half, in a circular order, on a thick layer of cooked force-meat (see No. 764), spread thereon a flat of paste, cut to the diameter of the dish; support the circle interiorly with some force-meat, and set into the hollow a frame of bread, masked with strips of bacon ; support the circle of the thrushes exteriorly with a strip of paper, bind this paper on with thread, cover the thrushes with bacon, push the ‘gratin’ into the oven, and bake it for twenty-five minutes. When taken out of the oven, unwrap it, remove the frame, spunge the fat, and slip the ‘gratin’ on a dish; fill the hollow with a garnish of mushrooms, mask the thrushes with a little brown-sauce. 93C. ‘Crépinettes’ of thrushes (grives). — Take out the fillets of eight or ten thrushes, remove the skin, divide each fillet in two, put these pieces into a kitchen-basin, adding an equal quantity of blanched fat-bacon, cut in small fillets, and the same of raw truffles, cut likewise; season the meats highly, and baste them with a few tablespoonfuls of madeira or cognac. Put the trails of the thrushes, their livers, and a few chickens’ livers, into a frying-pan, with rasped bacon, a pinch of chopped onion, and the trimmings of truffles; boil the whole quickly, and when the livers are thoroughly done, draw the frying-pan off the fire; let the preparation cool, and pound it; put into the mortar about a pound of minced fresh pork, pound it fine, add to it the livei’s, remove it into a basin, and introduce into it the madeii-a of the marinade. Cut some squares of fresh pig’s caul, previously beaten with the handle of a knife on the thickest parts ; place a layer of foi'ce-meat on each of the squai’es, and on this distribute the fillets of thrushes, the bacon and truffles ; cover them with another layer of force-meat, shaping the ‘crépinettes’ in a flat oblong square ; sur- round the pi'epai-ation with the pig’s caul, leaving no opening ; b*oil the ‘ci-epinettes’ over a slow fire for fifteen or eighteen zninutes, dish theizi up aftei’wai'ds, pouring round theizz at the base some good gi’avy, pi’epai’ed with the bones of thrushes, and reduced to half-glaze with a paid of the trimmings of truffles. 937. Macaroni-timbale, with thrushes (grives) (D. 187). — Boil five ounces of lai’ge macaroni in salted water, keeping them whole ; drain them immediately on a cloth, keeping the cookizig-water for aftei’-use ; cut them trans-