COSMOPOLITAN OOOKEKY. 42 pigeons take color; sprinkle over them three tablespoonfuls of curry-powder, mixed up with a little Hour; a few moments after, moisten with three or four quarts of broth: stir the liquid until boiling, and immediately remove it back. As soon as the pigeons are done, drain them on a dish, cut them in pieces, and place them in the soup-tureen; pass the soup through a fine sieve, let it boil, skim off its fat, thicken it with three yolks oi eggs, and pour it into the tureen. 117. Soup Of the victorious soldier. — Put into an earthen stockpot a piece of rump of beef weighing about six pounds, three pounds of loin of fresh pork, a piece of raw ham, and a pound of streaky bacon blanched; cover these meats with eight or ten quarts of water, skim the liquid, and at the first bubbling, remove it back. Two hours after, add to these meats, one fowl (poule), one tame duck (previously blanched in boiling water), a slice taken from a leg of mutton, two small savoy- cabbages, blanched and trussed, three carrots, one large turnip, two leeks, and a celery-head ; boil the liquid, on a moderate fire, for four hours. Meanwhile, boil separately half a quart of green haricot-beans (flageolets), or it not handy, some white haricot beans. Blanch and braise ten or twelve cabbage-lettuces. A quarter of an hour previous to serving, prepare some slices of bread, place them in the soup-tureen. Take the vegetables out of the stockpot, take the half ot every kind, and cut in pieces, which place over the toast with a third of the ‘flageolets'. Pass the broth through a sieve, skim off its fat, and pour it, in parts, or all at a time, into the tureen. Drain the meats of the stockpot: beef, mutton, pork, fowl, duck, bacon, and ham; range them on to an oblong dish, surround them with the vegetables kept by, as well as with the beans, and lettuces. Serve separately- some tomata- sauee. Off such a soup, and so plenteous a remove, twenty persons may make a very good dinner. It may be prepared in smaller proportions. 118. Thickened ox-tail soup. — Divide an ox-tail, at the joints, into short pieces (tronçons)- blanch them, drain them thoroughly, and place them in a stewpan with butter, some chopped vegetables, and a bunch of aromatics. Let the meat fry, till of a fine color ; then sprinkle over it a pincli of flour, and moisten with two quarts of broth, adding a glassful of white wine. Let the soup boil meanwhile on the side of the fire ; when the meat is quite done, drain it dry ; strain the soup, skim off the fat, mix in a pinch of cayenne, and a slight garnish of mixed vegetables, cooked separately : add the meat, trimmed of the surplus fat and bones. 119. ‘Poule-au-pot’, Béarn fashion. — Bone, and truss, a piece of rump of beef, weighing about three pounds ; place the meat in an earthen stockpot, moisten with four quarts of cold water, skim the liquid, and at the first bubbling, remove it back. Draw and singe a good fat fowl (poule). Chop very fine half a pound ot raw