COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 10G two tablespoonfuls of whole capers, the same of gerkins and ‘ogursis’ cut in dice, a pinch of grated horse-radish, a pinch of chopped parsley, and the inside of two peeled lemons, cut up in slices. Finish the sauce, introducing a piece of butter, mixed with two tablespoonfuls of anchovy-extract. 246. Quenelles of pike, with mushrooms. — Cleanse a very fresh middling-sized pike, slip off the two fillets from the back-bone, trim away the skin, and cut the fish in pieces. To a pound of pike, take ten ounces of white bread- crumb, put it into a kitchen-basin, soak it in tepid water, and press it well out with the hands ; put it into a small stewpan with a few spoonfuls of milk ; let it boil, work- ing it with the spoon, till forming a compact paste ; then pound it, until cold and smooth. Take it out, to pound the pike-flesh ; which being made into a paste, add the panada, and a few minutes after , half a pound of fresh butter. Pound again the force-meat for five or six minutes longer, season it, and two minutes after, add three yolks of eggs, one after the other, without ceasing to pound. Then pass it through a sieve, put it into a kitchen-basin; smooth it, by working it with a spoon, and try a small part of it in boiling water. Then mould the ‘quenelles’ by aid of two table- spoons, proceeding as indicated for the ‘quenelles’ of chicken, placing them side by side in a flat stewpan, or on a bordered baking-sheet, previously buttered, and poach them in boiling salted water. Meanwhile, turn about fifteen fine button-mushrooms, and boil them with lemon- juice and butter. With the bones and head of the pike, with vegetables, trimmings of mushrooms, and wine; prepare a good fish-extract ; drain it, skim off its fat, and introduce it, by degrees, into three gills of reduced white-sauce ; add likewise the liquor of the mushrooms ; thicken the sauce with two or three yolks of eggs, and pass it through a tammy. At the last moment, finish it by introducing four ounces of good butter. Dish the ‘quenelles’ in a circular order, on a thin foundation of force-meat, poached on a dish ; fill the centre with the mushrooms ; which, as well as the ‘quenelles’, mask with the sauce. 247. ‘Pain’ Of pike, with crayfish. — Take out the fillets of a middling- sized pike, trim away the skin and the bones, pound the flesh (a pound) with half its volume of butter, a part of which is reddened with crayfish-butter ; season the force- meat; when smooth, pass it through a sieve, lay it in a kitchen-basin, to be worked for a few minutes ; introduce carefully one white of egg whipped, and double this quan- tity of whipped cream. Pour the force-meat into a mould, and poach it, in the ‘bain-marie.’ Afterwards turn the ‘pain’ out on a dish, mask it, with some reduced ‘bechamel-sauce, finished with crayfish-butter, and mixed with a few cut cray- fish-tails.