COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 412 924. Larks with rice. — Pluck, draw, and singe, fifteen larks; cut away their legs, put them into a stewpan with half a pound of raw ham, previously steeped in water, and cut in dice ; and fry them with butter. As soon as set, take them out, as well as the ham, with a skimmer, and place them on a dish ; add then to the butter in the stewpan two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion, which fry without allowing to take color, and add twelve ounces of rice, previously picked, washed, and drained on a sieve for an hour ; fry it a few seconds, stirring ; then moisten it three times its height with broth, add a bunch of parsley and a little cayenne pepper, cover the stewpan, and boil the rice for ten minutes ; put back into it the larks, and draw the stewpan on a moderate tire, with hot ashes on the lid : when the rice is done, it should be dry. Now remove the aromatics, add a little tomata-sauce ; turn out the rice into a deep dish, arrange the larks on the top, in a circular order ; glaze them with a paste-brush, and serve. 925. Larks, in shape Of pears. — Singe and bone about fifteen larks, leaving only one leg whole, of which the tip is to be run underneath the skin ; season the larks inwardly, fill them with a little force-meat (No. 897) : sew them up lengthwise into the shape of a pear, the leg standing for the stem ; wrap each of them in a thin slice of bacon, and secure them in shape with thread; braise them, short of moisture, with good stock, and a little white wine ; allow them to cool in their own stock; then unpack them, to trim; dip them in a frying-paste (No. 275), and plunge them into hot hog’s lard ; fry them to a nice color, drain, and dish them up, in a conical form, on a napkin. 926. Larks in cases. — Bone completely a dozen fresh larks ; put the trails into the frying-pan with rasped fat-bacon, a few chickens’ livers, and trim- mings of fat-liver; toss them on a brisk fire, season, add to them a few trimmings of mushrooms, and let the preparation cool ; then pound it, and add half its volume of fresh fat-bacon, previously chopped and pounded. Put then a part of this force-meat into each of the larks, fold them into the shape of a ball, arrange them on the bottom of a stewpan, baste with a paste-brush dipped in glaze, and a little madeira ; boil them quickly for a few minutes, to set them, after which take them off the fire. Oil some small plaited paper-cases, mask the bottom with some of the force- meat kept by, lay a lark in each of the cases, which place on a small baking-sheet, and push them into a slow oven. Ten minutes after, baste the larks with a little melted glaze, and five minutes later dish them up, glazing them with a paste-brush dipped in a good reduced sauce. 927. Larks of Leipzig. — It is in the month of October, when the misty mornings fall in, that these fine larks appear all of a sudden, in the vast plains ol