COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 532 Fill then the hollow of the oranges with alternate layers of ‘blanc-manger’, and of slightly reddened orange-jelly. The preparation having got firm, divide the oranges in quarters from top to bottom ; cut straight each of the quarters on one side, and place them in an upright position, all round the bottom-flat in ‘génoise’-cake. Take care that the jelly be not kept long in the peel of the oranges, as then it would soon turn bitter. 1184. Tailli-kataïf, Turkish fashion. — At Constantinople ‘katai'f may be purchased ready made : here I give the method of preparing it one’s-self. Prepare a very smooth frying-paste, with a pound of flour, a little salt, a pinch of sugar, a quarter of a pound of melted butter, or oil, and a little water. Introduce this paste into little cornets of strong paper, which cut in such a manner, as to get strips of paste, the thickness of Vermicelli’ : which squeeze through, on the surface of a large and buttered flat stewpan, placed on a trevet over a moderate tire. Take care not to allow the strips of paste to touch one another. When set, take them off, to repeat the operation with others; when cold, place the strips in a biscuit-mould, flat in form, and buttered; pour over clarified butter, and immediately push the mould into a very slack oven. Twenty minutes after, take it out, turn the ‘entremets’ out on a dish, pour over it a syrup flavored with orange, or with essence of roses. 1185. Blitter biscuit. — Put into a kitchen-basin half a pound of sugar, seven yolks of eggs, one whole egg, a little salt, and a pinch of chopped lemon-zest ; work this preparation till light and frothy ; then introduce into it eight whites of eggs, well whipped up, as well as half a pound of flour, passed through a sieve, very dry, but taking it only in small quantities, and alternating with half a pound of melted butter, clarified and cooled. With this preparation fill a floured and buttered biscuit-mould, bake the biscuit in a moderate oven, turn it out, let cool, and dish it on a folded napkin. 1186. Chocolate ‘éclairs’ (D. 255 ). — Take twelve ounces of ‘clioux’- paste (see No. 1219), which introduce into a bag with an iron ‘douille’ (sec D. 226), and immediately push it on a baking-sheet, at any distance wished, giving it the shape of a small round rod (baguette), being half an inch thick, and three inches long : the sticks of paste, should be, as straight as possible, and equal. Egg the surface of the cakes, bake them in a slack oven for twenty or twenty-five minutes : they must be dry; let them cool, slightly split them underneath, and fill their interior with a small portion of light ‘frangipane’-cream, flavored with vanilla (without any al- monds in). With the aid of a little paste-brush, slightly coat the upper surface of the cakes with a little apricot-marmalade.