COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 14 add to it a piece of ginger sliced, a small stick of cinnamon, three ounces of sugar, and the zest of a lemon ; cover up, and keep the stewpan in the ‘bain-marie’. The soup being well skimmed from its fat, thicken with a liaison of fifteen yolks of eggs, diluted; stir it over the fire, without allowing it to boil up, or even get too hot ; pass it through a sieve into another stewpan, mix in a quarter of a pound of butter divided in little bits, add then the infusion of rum, pass it through a sieve, and pour it into the soup-tureen. Serve separately some slices of bread fried. 32. Pacha Soup. —- Prepare a small ‘pot-au-feu’, with half a leg of mutton, a knuckle of veal, and a hen (without its fillets); when these meats are done, strain the broth, skim off its fat, and pour two quarts of it into a stewpan; let it boil, and thicken it with four or five tablespoonfuls of diluted rice-flour. At the first bubbling, draw the stewpan on the side of the fire. Meanwhile, chop the same quantity of lean mutton meat; add thereto the same volume of chopped bacon, and raw ham, half of each; season the hash, and mix in a pinch of parsley, and five ounces of blanched rice; divide the preparation into small parts, each of which is wrapped up in a small tender, blanched cabbage-leaf, thus forming small dolmas. Truss, and range them in a flat stewpan, moisten to height with fat broth, and braise them on a moderate fire, with hot ashes on the lid. When ready to serve, skim the soup, finish with a piece of butter, kneaded with curry-powder; pour it into the soup-tureen, and plunge in the ‘dolmas’, well drained, and untied. 33. Brunoise soup, with quenelles. — This soup, like the ‘julienne’, is a spring or early summer soup, and should be served only when the vegetables are tender and savory. Cut into small dice the red part of a few tender carrots, a middling-sized turnip, a piece of celery, two or three new onions, and a leek. Put the onions and leek into a stewpan with butter, to fry without coloring them; add the other vegetables, a little salt, and a pinch of sugar; after a few minutes, moisten with a little broth, cover the stewpan, and reduce the moisture to a glaze; then pour over the vegetables two or three quarts of good broth, free of fat, and strained through a napkin. After twenty minutes of ebullition, the vegetables must be done; then add two handfuls of green-peas, boiled in water. Two minutes afterwards, pour the soup into a tureen, introduce into it two dozen small ‘quenelles’ of fowl, moulded with a spoon, and poached at the time in salted water. 34. Barley-soup, with celery. — Melt six ounces of butter ill a stew- pan, and mix with it half a pound of German* pearl-barley; fry it a few minutes, and '* The German barley is unquestionably the best that can be found; its seeds are small, white, and without the least flavor of dust.