158 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. garnished with groups of hard-boiled eggs, chopped parsley, and onion, separately also with whole small capers. Pour a little oil over the whole, and serve. 370. Anchovy-fritters. — Cleanse two dozen good salted anchovies, steep them in vinegar, wipe them afterwards with a cloth ; take out their fillets, which put on a plate, baste them with good oil, and sprinkle over some chopped parsley. Five minutes previous to serving, roll the anchovy-fillets over themselves, dip them in a frying-paste, and plunge them into hot hog’s lard. When the paste is dry, and of a nice color ; drain the fritters ; and range them on a napkin with fried parsley round. 371. Broiled royans, Bordeaux fashion. — Royans are fish of the family of the sardines ; their form is about the same, but they are smaller, and their flesh is more delicate, and less oily ; they ought to be very fresh. Wipe the royans with a cloth, squeeze firmly the tip of the tail ; salt, and place them on a gridiron, to broil on a brisk fire. As soon as the side next the fire begins to whiten, turn them, and two minutes after, dish them up. Serve separately some fresh butter. 372. Mullet, with caper-sauce.— Get two very fresh middling-sized mullets ; scale and cleanse them, trim off the fins, wash them inwardly, dry them well, score them slightly, and place them in a stewpan ; moisten with a ‘court-bouillon', with white wine, nearly cold ; set the stewpan on the fire, boil the liquid, and then remove it back. Ten minutes afterwards, drain the mullets, and dish them up ; mask them with a caper-sauce, prepared with a part of their own liquor. ■ 373. Mullet, ‘à la matelote’. — Cleanse the fish, divide it in pieces; which put into a stewpan, with a bunch of parsley garnished with aromatics ; add salt, and peppercorns ; moisten it with a sufficient quantity of red wine, to cover it ; add a few small pieces of kneaded-butter, and boil the liquid quickly for five or six minutes. Then add to it about fifteen small onions, glazed separately ; finish cooking the fisli gently. Then pile up the ‘matelote’ on a hot dish, the bottom of which is covered with ‘croûtons’ of fried bread. 374. Smoked ségui, Russian-sauce. — Procure a large smoked ‘ségui’, take out the fillets, removing their skin: cut them into slices, and dish them up, putting them into their former shape. Mask the bottom of the dish with a sauce thus prepared : Piussian-sauce. — Put two tablespoonfuls of good mustard into a kitchen-basin; work it with a wooden spoon, and gradually introduce into it a gill of olive-oil, alter-