POULTRY. — GOOSE. 353 them in boiling water; drain, and let them cool ; dip them into beaten eggs, mixed up with cooked fine-herbs; then roll them in bread-crumbs, and smooth them with the blade of a knife. When ready to serve, put the fillets of force-meat into a flat stewpan with clarified butter, and color them on both sides. Fry at the same time the fillets of pigeons on both sides ; as soon as set, drain the butter off, pour over them three tablespoon- fuls of glaze, mixed up with a little madeira ; let it boil, and draw the stewpan off the fire ; then dish the fillets up, in a circular order, alternated with the fillets of force-meat ; fill the centre with a purée of chestnuts, and pour on the bottom of the dish, and over the purée, a little good reduced gravy, prepared with the bones i of the pigeons. 803. Scollops of fat-liver, Alsace fashion. — Cut up a small fat- liver in transversal slices ; which season, flour, and arrange in a flat stewpan with clarified blitter ; fry them on both sides; as soon as done, take them out on a dish by the aid of a fork. Put into a stewpan, wherein the scollops have been fried, two table- spoonfuls of chopped onion and shalbt, fry them, and add to them five or six mush- rooms, also chopped; when their moisture is reduced, season, and moisten with a quarter of a wineglassful of madeira, and double this volume of brown-sauce; let it boil for a few minutes, put the scollops back into the stewpan, warm them without ebullition, dish them up in a circle, and mask them with the sauce. 804. ‘Attereaux’ of fat-liver. — Take the half of a cold cooked fat- liver; divide it into squares, half an inch by the fifth of an inch; put them into a kitchen-basin, add the same volume of squares of cooked pickled ox-tongue, of the same size ; season, sprinkle over a handful of chopped truffles, and pour over a few spoonfuls of ‘Villeroi’-sauce, finished at the moment ; roll them in this sauce, masking them with a coating, and let them cool. Then run the squares of liver and of tongue through with small wooden or metal skewers, roll them in bread-crumb, dip them into beaten eggs, and bread-crumb again ; plunge them into plenty of hot hog’s lard, fry them to a nice color, drain, and dish them up on a folded napkin, with lemons in quarters all round. 805. Giblets in ‘hochepot’. — Get the giblets of two geese, proceeding as for those of turkey ; scald them till boiling, and steep them in cold water; keep the liver aside, pluck the necks and the other parts, put them into a stewpan with lard, fry them, tossing them often ; season, and when the meats are of a nice color, sprinkle over a small handful of flour : two minutes after, moisten with plenty of broth, add a garnished bunch of parsley, and let the stock boil ; then draw the stewpan on the 23