SWEET ENTREMETS. — CAKES. 541 Bake the cake in a moderate oven for forty-five minutes ; when done, sprinkle over fine sugar, and thus glaze. Serve this cake cold, dished on a folded napkin. ; 1203. Genoa-cake (D. 261). — Work in a kitchen - basin ; and with the aid of a spoon, one pound of powder-sugar, a pound of eggs (yolks and whites) ; add a little salt, and the grated zest of half an orange. The preparation being frothy, in- troduce into it a pound of flour, passed through a sieve, then a pound of melted butter, which is clarified and nearly cold. Spread this preparation on two buttered Fig. 201. and floured baking-sheets, giving it a thickness of a fifth of an inch. Bake it in a moderate oven. Make a model, of hexagon shape, of cardboard ; when the cake is taken out of the oven, cut oft' its surface (with the aid of the model) a dozen hexagon - shaped fiats, then immediately hollow their centre with the largest plain tin-cutter handy; place the flats one above the other, taking three and three, then let them cool under a light weight. Place the flats one by one on a ‘charlotte’-mould turned over, mask them with a layer of apricot-marmalade, on which place another fiat, joining the angles well; mask again with marmalade, and thus continue raising the cake to convenient height; pare it regularly all round, and mask it, as well on the top as all round, with tepid well reduced marmalade, which in drying may take consistence and bril- liancy. Adorn the six faces with a decoration of icing-sugar, or fruits, and slip the cake on a dish. When about to serve, fill the hollow of the cake with orange-ice or ‘plombière’-cream. 1204. Bath-cakes. — T ake a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, three quarters of a pound of Hour, two eggs, a gill and a half of milk, two ounces of carbonate, a pinch of flowers of nutmeg, preserved cédrat. Have the butter tepid, put it into a basin, and work it, in order to thicken it into cream; then introduce into it the eggs, taking them one by one; add the ear-