COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 94 then sprinkle over a handful of bread-crumbs, and bake the pie in a moderate oven for one hour ; send up separately a boatful of brown-sauce, reduced with white wine. 1 am firmly persuaded that this kind of paste would be well received in Eng- land ; and I earnestly recommend my 'confreres’ to make trial of it. These pasties may be prepared with salmon, perch, or turbot. 21G. Cold pie Of eel-pout livers. — Livers of eel-pouts are fat, and white, like those of the Strasburg geese or the Toulouse ducks ; but in these conditions they are unknown in England, or in France. It is in Poland, and Russia, that they most abound : they are neither so fine, nor so numerous, in Germany. Blanch four or five livers, in acidulated water, without boiling them; let them cool in the water, then cut them in squares, which put into a kitchen-basin ; add ten or twelve ounces of raw truffles, cut in quarters; season with salt, and spices, and baste them with a few spoonfuls of sherry. Pound the trimmings of the livers, with two or three truifles, and a few anchovy-fillets. Chop a pound of bacon, and as much of the flesh of pike ; which mix into the trimmings of liver, pound them together; season the force-meat, and pass it through a sieve. Butter a cold pie-mould, which set on a baking-sheet, covered with thick paper, and line it with short-paste. Spread, on the bottom, and sides of the mould, a layer of force-meat, fill the hollow with the eel-pout livers, intermixed with truffles alternated with force-meat ; mount the pie in a dome-like shape ; cover, and finish it according to the usual way, baking it for two hours. Half an hour after being taken out of the oven, pour in at the top, all round the pie, about two gills of aspic-jelly mixed up with a little sherry. Serve the pie only when completely cold. 217. Herring-salad, German fashion. — Take out the fillets of four or five salted herrings, remove the bones carefully, and cut them in dice ; do the same with a few boiled, cooled, and peeled potatoes, a raw apple, a piece of cold roasted veal, a piece of pickled beet-root, a few gerkins and salted cucumbers. Previously put into a deep dish the boiled potatoes, raw apples, and meat; season with salt, oil, vinegar, mustard, and a pinch of chopped chives. Mix well all these ingredients, by tossing them together in the dish. Add to the above the flesh of the herrings, with the gerkins, cucumber, beet-root, and a handful of capers. This done, thicken the salad with a few spoonfuls of mayonnaise-sauce with eggs, dish it in a dome-shape, smooth the surface with a knife, and mask it with a layer of mayonnaise. Adorn with anchovy-fillets, gerkins, capers, maise, and cherries in vinegar ; as well as with a few hearts of lettuce placed on the centre. Surround the salad with 'croûtons’ of aspic-jelly.