208 COSM<H'OLITAN CC)( )KER Y. Hot ravigote-sauce. — Pour into a stewpan a gill of white vinegar, add toit a sprig of taragon, a few shalôts, cloves, and peppercorns; reduce the liquid to half, then add a few spoonfuls of ‘velouté’-sauce, rather thick; boil it for a few minutes ; strain, and keep it hot. Chop tine a pinch of parsley-leaves, one of taragon, one of burnet (pimprendle), and one of chervil ; tie them up in tire corner of a cloth, and dip them in boiling water; then press the moisture out of the fine-herbs, mix them in the sauce, and add (off the fire) three or four tablespoonfuls of good Provence oil. 487. Calves’brains, in shells. — Put into a kitchen-basin two boiled calves’ brains, cut in dice, and season them well. Pour into a stewpan a few spoon- fuls of ‘béchamel’- sauce, which reduce gradually, introducing into it a few spoonfuls of melted glaze ; when succulent and creamy , add to it four tablespoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs. Two minutes after, add the ‘salpieon’ of brains, and remove the stewpan from the fire. With this preparation fill seven or eight scollop-shells, sprinkle over them grated parmesan, glaze with a red-hot salamander, and serve them. 488. Cromeskis of calves’ brains. — Pour into a stewpan about half a pint of strained brown-sauce, reduce it for a few minutes, gradually introducing into it four tablespoonfuls of melted glaze and a little madeira ; when reduced and rather thick, remove it back, to be mixed with two cooked calves’ brains, cut in small dice ; add half their volume of cooked mushrooms, and the same of red tongue, like- wise in dice ; season the preparation with a little nutmeg, and pour it into a kitchen- basin. When cold, divide it into equal parts, which roll into a corlc-shape; flatten them a little, and wrap one after another into a strip of wafer, softened between two damp cloths. Then take the cromeskis one by one, to dip them into a frying- paste ; put them into hot hog’s lard, taking buta small quantity at a time; when the paste is dried, and nicely colored ; drain, and dish them, on a folded napkin, with fried parsley on the top. 489. Calves’ brains, with nut-brown butter. — Boil three brains, proceeding as in No. 484 ; drain them, spunge them on a cloth, and dish them up in a triangular form ; baste with the following butter : Broivn butter (beurre-noir). — Melt half a pound of butter in a stewpan, decant it into a frying-pan, add to it a bay-leaf, and boil it, until it begins to blacken ; then take it off the fire, and mix with it a few spoonfuls of good vinegar ; set it on the fire again, season with salt and pepper, let it boil for two or three minutes, remove it back ; throw in a pinch of chopped parsley, and a handful of whole capers; pour the sauce over the brains.