54 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. This soup has become a favorite among the foreigners visiting Nizza. Particu- larly the Russian ‘gourmets’ make much of it; as it bears some analogy to a dish, so capitally served in their native country, to the ‘icrshis’. 147. Hamburg eel-soup. — It is particularly ill summer time, that this soup is appreciated by the people of Hamburg: the excellent small eels caught at that season at the mouth of the Elbe, also the new vegetables and fruits, evidently con- tribute mainly to its great perfection. . This soup may really be called the national soup of Hamburg. Remove the skin and jowls of a few small live eels ; divide them in slices ; which place in a stewpan with a few heads and bones offish, a bunch of parsley and aro- matics, salt, cloves, and peppercorns ; moisten plentifully with wine and water. The fish being done, pass the broth through a sieve into another stewpan ; let it boil, and introduce into it a garnish of new vegetables, of as varied a composition as pos- sible ; taking care to put them into the broth by turns, those taking longest cooking, first, and then successively the more tender ones. These vegetables are partly cut in dice ; the green peas, broad or white beans, remaining whole. These vegetables being about done, thicken the liquid slightly with a little ‘roux’, or merely with kneaded-butter ; then add to the soup a few dozen small whole pears, previously peeled and blanched, and a few small new apples cut in halves or quarters, also peeled and blanched. The vegetables and fruits being done, add to the soup the slices of eel, a pinch of sugar, a little vinegar, and a small handful of fine-herbs freshly chopped : such as parsley, taragon, burnet, chives, chervil, and marjoram. Put into the soup a garnish of small dumplings (Idocssen), made with flour or bread, and pour it into the tureen. If the pears and apples are large, cut them into little balls. ? 148. German tench-SOUp. — Mince one onion, one leek, one carrot, and a parsley-root ; fry them gently, in a stewpan, with butter ; moisten with a bottle of white wine, and three quarts of water ; add to it a few sprigs of parsley and savory, a few peppercorns and cloves ; let the liquid boil, and put in two well cleansed tench cut in pieces (tronçons). When the fish is done, drain it, and pass the broth through a sieve. Melt eight ounces of butter in a stewpan, add three tablespoonfuls of flour; fry this preparation a few minutes, without allowing it to take color, and dilute it gra- dually with the tench-broth ; stir the soup until boiling, then remove the stewpan back. Cut some raw potatoes, with a vegetable-spoon, into the shape of balls the size of a large green pea ; throw them into boiling water, giving two minutes for ebul- lition, drain them afterwards on a sieve, then add them to the soup, and finish cooking, gently.