POULTRY. — PIGEON. 351 799. Timbale of pigeons with olives (D. 147). — Turn (and stone) six dozen fine salted olives, plunge them into cold water, drain, and stuff them, by the aid of a cornet, with raw ‘quenelle’ force-meat ; put them carefully back into shape, then plunge them into hot water, to blanch, until the force-meat be firm set; then drain them, wipe them on a cloth, and set them up, in rows, on the bottom and against the sides (spread with buttered paper) of a ‘timbale’-mould, carefully support- ing them straight with a layer of force-meat ; keep the mould on ice. Fig. 147. On the other hand, take three nice pigeons, cut up each of them in four parts, put them into a stewpan with butter ; fry, season, and add to them eight ounces of streaky bacon in squares. When of a nice color, moisten with a gill of white wine ; which reduce, then moisten with a few spoonfuls of brown-sauce ; finish braising them on a very slow fire, and add a few blanched chickens’ livers, cut up in quarters ; remove the whole off the fire, and let them cool. Three quarters of an hour previous to serving, fill the cavity of the ‘timbale’ with the prepared stew of pigeons, mask i the top with a layer of force-meat, on which lay a round of buttered paper ; poach the ‘timbale’ in the ‘bain-marie’, turn it out upside down on its dish, on the bottom of which pour a little brown-sauce. 800. French pigeon-pie. — Truss three pigeons with the legs inside, put them into a stewpan, with four small onions and some butter; season, fry them to a nice color on a moderate fire, then add ten ounces of streaky bacon, sprinkle over a tablespoonful of flour ; two minutes after, moisten about to height with broth and white wine. Boil the stew for a quarter of an hour, add to it a few boiled salsifies in pieces, a few raw mushrooms, and a little cayenne ; when the pigeons are half-done, take the stew off the fire. Spread the bottom and sides of a pie-dish, with short-paste, or trimmings of puff- paste; arrange the stew in the dish, and mask it with a flat of t’*3 same paste, which apply to the sides, cut it level with the edges of the dish, and channel all