SOUPS. 29 ebullition for twenty minutes ; skim the soup, and pour it into the tureen. Cut the sausages in slices, before mixing them with the soup. 80. Purée of potatoes, Geneva fashion. — Peel about fifteen good potatoes, shred, and place them in a stewpan ; pour over some fresh ‘pot-au-feid broth, of sufficient quantity to cover them ; boil the liquid gently, till the potatoes begin to be done ; pass them through a sieve, and pour the purée into a stewpan to boil. Remove it back, and add to it three cabbage-lettuces, shred and blanched ; continue boiling, till the lettuces be done. Meanwhile, boil in salted water a handful of Brussels sprouts, the same of green-peas, the same of white heads of asparagus, white haricot beans, and a small cauliflower cut up into flowerets. Prepare a liaison with four yolks of eggs, a hand- ful of grated parmesan, a little cream, and nutmeg. Five minutes previous to serving, plunge the different vegetables into the soup; which thicken, without boiling, and pour into the soup-tureen. 81. Purée of potatoes, Dutch fashion. — Put into a stockpot a bone, and a knuckle of veal ; add a fowl. Moisten these meats with four or five quarts of cold water, add some salt, and set the stockpot on the fire ; skim the liquid ; and, when beginning to boil, remove it back ; add two leeks, one lettuce, and a little chervil, the whole tied up together ; also a whole middling-sized turnip, and a carrot. One hour after, plunge into the broth eight or ten raw peeled potatoes ; continue boiling, till they be quite soft ; then take out the aromatics, the turnip, and the carrot, from the stockpot; skim the fat, and pass the liquid, and the potatoes, through a sieve. Now pour the soup once more into a stewTpan, stirring on the fire till boiling ; then thicken it with five yolks of eggs, diluted with a gill of good cream. Take out the fillets of the fowl ; skin, bone, and cut them into dice, which add to the purée, as well as a little grated nutmeg, and a pinch of chopped chervil. 82. Purée of cardoons, with marrow-quenelles. — Blanch a few tender stalks of cardoons ; slice them , put them into a stewpan with butter, and fry till their moisture is reduced ; season, and moisten with a little broth ; which reduce on a moderate fire, the stewpan being covered ; repeat this operation, till the cardoons be about done. Now sprinkle over a small handful of flour, and gradually pour on some broth ; stirring the soup till boiling, then removing it back, and thus cooking it for twenty-five minutes. At the last moment, skim the fat off the soup, pass it through a fine sieve ; put it again into the stewpan, let it boil, and thicken with three yolks of eggs, diluted with a little raw cream. Add to this the ‘quenelles’.