COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 436 Spread a stewpan with trimmings of bacon and ham, and sliced vegetables ; place the paws thereon, moisten (covered) with (half and half) their marinade and broth ; cover them with thin layers of bacon, and boil them for seven or eight hours on a slow tire, adding more broth, as the stock reduces. The paws being tender, leave them in their stock till nearly cold; drain, wipe, and divide each of them in four pieces lengthwise; sprinkle over cayenne-pepper, roll them in melted lard, bread-crumb, and broil them for half an hour on a very slow fire; then dish up. Pour on the bottom of the dish, some ‘piquant’-sauce finished with two tablespoonfuls of red-currant jelly. \ 977. Boar ‘galantine’, bigarrade-sauce. — Take a little head (hurt) of boar, singe, and bone it; put the meat into a stewpan, moisten it to height with vinegar and water; add a little salt, some aromatics, peppercorns, and coriander. Let the liquid boil, then remove it on to the side of the fire, so as to continue a moderate ebullition. The head done, drain it, divide it into parts, spread these parts on a baking- sheet, and season them with salt and spices. Cut the tongue and ears into fillets, spread them on both halves of the head, and then wrap these halves up separately in two cloths, like poultry ‘galantines’; bind the cloths with thread; let the half-heads cool with a light weight on. The ‘galantines’ having well cooled, unwrap them, remove from them the swarths ; divide them in slices, not too thick ; dish them in a circular order, surround with jelly. Serve separately the following sauce : Cold higarrade - sauct. — Put into a kitchen-basin six tablespoonfuls of currant- jelly, dilute with two tablespoonfuls of red wine, add to it the juice of two ‘bigar- rades’ (bitter oranges), as well as part of their zest, previously minced, and boiled in water. 978. Wild-boar’s head, Russ fashion. — Get a head of wild-boar cut with the neck as long as possible; when cleansed, bone it, splitting it underneath; leave it in salt for four days, together with a piece of breast, and a piece of shoulder of wild-boar; after which drain the meats, steep them in cold water; put them into a marinade, with vegetables, aromatics, and red wine, to soak for three days. * Drain the head, and the other pieces, which bone, and cut up in fillets, as .well as the interior meat of the head ; add half their volume of fresh bacon, also in fillets; season, with pounded aromatics and cooked fine-herbs, and stuff the head with it; sew it up, close the opening of the neck with a large piece of fresh pork-rind, apply against it a round of wood of the same size, thus keeping the meat within the head from falling out ; then tie the head with string, to give it the right form, and wrap it up tightly with a cloth, keeping the ears upright; surround it with three thin boards,