GARNISHED ‘HATELET’-SKEWERS. ‘Hatelet’-Skewers are made use of, either as an ornament, or as a garnish. They are applied alike to removes and entrees, if they be cold or warm, meat or fish. Yet it will not prove useless to observe, that ‘hatelet’- skewers, as a garnish, ought only to be applied in eases of great solemnity ; by making too frequent use of them, their value is considerably diminished. Besides, garnished ‘hatelet’-skewers are only then of relief, if playing a part agreeing to their natural luxury ; from the moment they cease to be surrounded by the brilliant cortège, which constitutes the sumptuous part of a well served dinner, they produce no effect. The six ‘hâtelets’-skewers, represented in the drawing, are all of a different character. No. 4. simply consists of a fine truffle, crowned by a double cocks-comb. This cocks-comb must be boiled very white, and kept rather firm. The truffle is cooked with its peel on. This ‘hatelet’ is destined to go on a remove, but may also be applied indifferently to cold or warm entrees : if a warm one, the truffle is left ‘au naturel’; if a cold one, it is either glazed with a paste-brush, or masked with aspic- jelly ; even so the cocks-comb. No. 5. shows a ‘hatelet’ with vegetables. It is composed of a crescent piece j crowned by an oval one ; its basis is formed by a bobèche (socket) of carrot channeled and turned up ; it is supported underneath by a small mushroom. The crescent and the oval piece are both of turnip ; being hollowed out on both sides, and then masked, I the crescent with a layer of spinach, passed through a sieve, and mixed up with a little of aspic-jelly, thus giving the purée a nice consistence : the oval piece is masked with a slice of very red carrot, cut out in the dimensions of the hollow. The i ‘hatelet’ is crowned by a small white or red emblem. No. 6. represents a ‘hatelet’ to be applied to the fish removes, and may be 1 indifferently cold or warm. It is composed of a cooked truffle, forming the support of a crayfish and two channeled button-mushrooms. 5