4G COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. after, add to the soup, a few tablespoonfuls of raw beet-root juice, previously filtered and quite red, so as to give it a nice color ; now add the pig’s ear shred in fillets, and a part of the beef cut in middling-sized squares. Cut the sausages in thick slices , place them in the tureen, into which pour the soup, add a pinch of chopped parsley ; serve separately, on a plate, some small ‘croûtons’ of bread, fried in butter, hollowed out, and filled with cooked marrow. 127. Calia cold-soup, Russ fashion. — Prepare a fine garnish of carrots, and roots of celery and parsley, cut in sticks an inch long. At the extremities of these sticks make an incision in the shape of a cross ; let the sticks blanch, then finish cooking them in good broth. Put three middling-sized chickens into a stewpan, with a bunch composed of parsley and fennel, a few vegetables, a glassful of juice of ‘ogursis’, and four or five quarts of broth ; start the liquid to ebullition, skim it, remove it to the corner of the stove. As soon as the chickens are done, drain them, pass the broth through a napkin, skim its fat, let it nearly cool, then clarify it with meat (sec No. 8). At the moment of serving, pour the ‘consommé’ into the soup-tureen, add the scolloped breasts of the chickens, as well as a garnish of vegetables, and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and green fennel. 128. Rice-soup, ‘à la marinière’. —Wash carefully four or five dozen middling-sized muscles; put them into a stewpan to open, tossing them up for a lew minutes over the fire; when opened, drain them, throwing them on a sieve, but preserving their liquor. When cold, remove their shells, and place the flesh in :i small stewpan. Mince one onion, and the white part of two leeks ; which put into a stewpan, with oil or butter, fry them to a nice color, add two tomatas free of pips, and cut in pieces. A few minutes after, moisten the vegetables with four quarts of hot water. Add to the above a few sprigs of parsley tied up with a bay-leaf, and four cloves ; at the first bubbling, add a pound of unwashed rice ; stir the liquid, until boiling ; then remove the stewpan back on a moderate fire ; add a pinch of saffron, a little fine pepper, but no salt. The rice being about done, add the flesh of the muscles, and their liquor ; two minutes after, take out the bunch of parsley, and pour the soup into the tureen. 129. Vermicelli-soup, Provence fashion. — Prepare three quarts of broth with some jowls and bones of fish, vegetables, and a little white wine; pass it through a napkin. Mince one onion and the white part of two leeks, fry them nicely with good olive-oil, add three tomatas free of pips, peeled, and cut in small squares, a sprig of parsley, tied up with a bay-leaf, and four cloves; a few minutes