36 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 100. Sweet-bread soup, German fashion. — Prepare two or three quarts of good yellow stock for thickened soup (s. No. 59); let it boil, add to it a slice of fine raw ham, one porret, a stick of celery, a root of parsley, and a bunch of parsley ; remove the vessel to the corner of the fire, and thus let it clarify for twenty-five minutes. Skim then its fat, pass it through a sieve into another stewpan, and keep it warm. Blanch four sweet-breads, trim them, cut them in two, let them set a little in hot butter; this done, cut the sweet-breads in large dice, which then plunge into the soup. A quarter of an hour after, add to the soup four tablespoonfuls of blanched and minced ‘nouilles’ (nudeln); thicken it with five or six yolks of eggs, diluted with a little cream ; finish it with a piece of fine butter, and pour it into the soup-tureen. 101. Russ green shtehi-soup. — Put into a stewpan two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion, fry with butter, without allowing it to take color; mix in it two tablespoonfuls of flour ; fry it for a few minutes, and dilute it, off the fire, with two quarts of broth. Boil the liquid stirring, and draw it on the side of the fire’ : it should be pretty thick. Add to the liquid, two tender trussed chickens; and continue boiling gently, for three quarters of an hour. The chickens being done, drain them ; skim the tat off the soup, pass it through a sieve, into another stewpan. Add a few tablespoonfuls of cooked sour-crout. A quarter of an hour after, throw in the chickens, skinned, boned, and cut in pieces. Ten minutes after, introduce into the soup a few tablespoonfuls of purée of nettle* or of sorrel. 102. Vilna-slltchi. — Cut up in three or four pieces two pounds of brisket of beef, put the meat into a stockpot, add four or five quarts of water and a little salt, boil the liquid, skimming, and then remove it back. One hour after, add to it one large carrot, a piece of celery-root, half a blanched cabbage, and lastly eight ounces of streaky bacon. Continue boiling gently, until all the meats be about done. Put into a stewpan a tablespoonful of chopped onion, try with butter, sprinkle over two dessertspoonfuls of flour; fry them for two minutes, stirring, gradually diluting with the broth of the stockpot; pass through a sieve, stir until boding, anil immediately remove it back. Drain the brisket of beef, and the bacon ; take the best parts of the brisket; pare them, and cut into good-sized dice. Remove the rind (couenne) from the bacon, and cut it in slices. Drain the cabbage, shred it, not too small, and add it to the soup, as well as the beef and bacon ; half an hour after, mix with the soup a pinch In Russia the tender new leaves of nettle are often made use of.