560 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. each of them is garnished inside with a eylindric tube, serving for the escape of the air. For the preparation of this tine 'entremets’, a mould must tirst of all be embedded on pounded ice; this done, the double-bottom put into the interior, adjusting it on the top of the mould. Meanwhile, have ready a very white jelly-preparation, that is, of as little color as possible; then prepare a ‘blanc-manger’ or 'bavaroise’-cream, which may be colored according to taste, either pink with vegetable carmin, or else green with pistachios : this preparation may likewise be left entirely white. The double-bottom once introduced into the mould, the latter must be tilled with jelly, and left to set completely : the tubes must then be removed, one by one, tilling them with hot water, and turning them in the direction of their screwing. Only now should the white or colored preparation be introduced into the hollow left by the tubes : this operation being of the utmost simplicity. The preparation in the tubes having become firm, the mould is dipped into warm water, and the jelly is turned out on a cold dish. The shades of the prepa- ration, looking out from between the light tint of the jelly, are of a fine effect. But an equally beautiful variation is to be effected by operating with rose-colored jelly, and a preparation of 'blanc-manger’ left in its natural condition. The mould, as well as its double-bottom, arc both to be had in London. 1238. Jelly with cresses. — Clarify sixteen or eighteen leaves of ‘géla- tine’ with twelve ounces of sugar, the water requisite, two whites of eggs, and the juice of two lemons (sec No. 1241); pass it through a filtering-bag. Pound, in a well cleansed mortar, two or three handfuls of fresh well-washed water-cresses, add half a glassful of cold water ; press it well in a cloth, in order to extract the liquid ; filter this on a little sieve, the bottom of which is masked with a layer of torn, softened, and chopped paper. The juice once passed, mix it with the cold jelly, embedded on the pounded ice. An hour after, the jelly should have set; turn it out on a dish. ' 1239. Mandarine-jelly (D. 280). — Get some good* large ‘mandarines’, very firm; cut them down from the top on both sides, leaving a little strip in the middle, and form a kind of little basket (panier) with a rounded handle, in the manner represented by the drawing ; remove the pulp, preserving the form oi little baskets ; carve (ciseler) the peel all round, removing the white skin adhering to tb« inside; plunge them into boiling water, and immediately drain them, in order to plunge them into cold water. Press the juice out of the pulp of the 'mandarines’, and filter it ; take half a pint of jelly, clarified in the conditions prescribed in No. 1241 ; let it infuse some parts of mandarine-zest, add to it the filtered juice ; ten minutes after, pass it through a sieve.