56 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. afterwards cut off the tins, both the fore-tins or wings (ailerons), and the hind, or swimming-tins (nageoires) ; and at the same time the flesh and bones adhering to it. These pieces of flesh bear the name of ‘noix’, because they have some analogy with the ‘noix’ of veal : separate them from the bones, whether to serve them afterwards, as a remove, or an entree ; or to add them to the bones, and let them co-operate in the preparation of the turtle-soup. Then divide the upper and under shells in squares, scald them, to remove the horny substance which covers them; steep and boil them in plenty of water, but only for a few seconds. Scald also the four fins and the neck, in order to scrape them, and steep in water for one hour. When the fleshy parts on the shells are tender to the touch (which takes several hours), and when the flesh falls off easily from the bone ; drain them, to remove the bony parts ; put the whole into a kitchen-basin, and cover it with some of its broth passed through a sieve. Put into a stockpot the bones from the basin ; without cutting them, add the fleshy parts and the fins of the turtle, and a knuckle of beef; moisten largely with the broth in which the shells have been cooked, some common broth, and a few bottles of white wine; let the liquid boil, skim, and then remove the stockpot back to be garnished. Proceed exactly, as for a ‘pot-au-feu’. When all the fins are done, drain, bone, place them in a kitchen-basin, and cover with broth, skim the fat from the turtle stockpot ; which pass through a sieve, and allow to settle. To prepare the turtle-soup, one should proceed as follows: for eight or ten persons, set to ebullition two or three quarts of turtle-broth, which keep hot. Cut up into joints two middling-sized chickens; put them into a stewpan with their backs, pinions, leg-bones, and gizzards ; and with ten or twelve ounces of raw ham in large dice ; fry these meats with butter, on a good fire, until highly colored, then sprinkle over two tablespoonfuls of arrowroot. Two minutes after, moisten with the turtle- broth, and a glass of white wine; stir the liquid until boiling, then remove it back, and add to it a few sprigs of sweet herbs (aromates), and two onions. When the chickens are done, skim the fat from the cooking-stock, pass it into another stewpan, add to it a few pieces of the glutinous meat of the shells, and as much of the fins, both alike previously cut up in small squares. Let the soup boil, and pour in a glass of sherry ; if it be too thick, dilute it with some turtle - broth. It should be of a slight consistence. Twenty-five minutes after, skim off its fat again, throw in a little pinch of cayenne, and add to it some pieces of the green fat, blanched, and cut up in small pieces. When about to serve, add to the soup an infusion prepared with two gills of sherry, a pinch of marjoram, one of basil, one of savory, one of thyme, a sprig of sage, and a sprig of chives ; not one of these flavors should predominate, and the wine