COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 554 Take four whipped whites of eggs, firm, which introduce into the fruit-prepara- tion, so as to get a sort of Italian-‘méringue’, into which now mix the juice of a lemon, and introduce it into a silk-bag. Empty part of the biscuit from the top, place it on a pastry-grille, moisten it with a few tablespoonfuls of curaçao; fill the hollow with the preparation of whipped eggs, raising it in a pyramid ; which adorn in the shape of a pine-apple. Prepare a light icing-sugar with two tablespoonfuls of ‘purée’ of strawberries and raspberries, powder-sugar, a few drops of water. Mask the preparation, as well as the cake, with this glaze ; which let dry for half an hour. When about to serve, dish the ‘entremets’ on a folded napkin. This cake, although so very simple, is a very estimable innovation. 1224. ‘Nouille’-cake with sabayon. — With five yolks of eggs, and the requisite flour, prepare a ‘nouille’-paste; divide this paste, roll it out, then cut it into very thin fillets. Plunge the brouilles’ into a pint of milk in ebullition ; add a handful of sugar, and four ounces of butter; three minutes afterwards, remove the liquid back to the side of the fire, in order to let them simmer gently, adding four ounces of lemon or orange sugar. The preparation being of a nice consistence, take it off the fire, introduce into it seven or eight yolks of*eggs. Now pour the preparation on a buttered baking-sheet, giving it about half an inch thickness, and smoothing it with the blade of a knife. Push the baking-sheet into a moderate oven ; the preparation having taken a nice consistence, turn it out on another baking-sheet, and thus let it bake for ten minutes more; after which take it out, and sprinkle over powder-sugar. The preparation having half-cooled, divide it in rounds with the aid of a paste- cutter, or else in long squares with a knife. Dish these cakes in a circular, order, and keep them warm. With good white wine prepare some ‘sabayon’ (see No. 1114); a part of which pour into the centre of the circle, sending up the remainder. These cakes may be glazed or masked with ‘meringue’. 1225. Condé-cakes. — Roll out half a pound of puff-paste at eight turns, or simply some trimmings of puff-paste, two lines thick. Divide the paste in strips four inches wide, mix four ounces of chopped almond with four ounces of powder- sugar, add two whites of eggs ; mask the paste with the almond-preparation, which smooth with the blade of a knife. Then divide these strips transversally into long squares an inch and a half wide. As soon as all the strips are cut, sprinkle over a little sugar perfumed with vanilla, take them up with the blade of a knife, and range them, a little distant one from the other, on baking-sheets ; bake the cakes in a slack oven, and as soon as taken out, slightly trim them straight.