308 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. pass it through a sieve, and add to it two or three small raw truffles, peeled and cut in quarters. With this preparation stuff two fat pullets, and truss with the legs in, as for an entree; cover with bacon, and put into a stewpan, garnished with trim- mings of bacon, vegetables, and aromatics ; moisten, to three parts their height, with clarified broth; set the stewpan on a brisk fire, boiling the broth for five minutes; and then remove it on a moderate fire. When the pullets are about done, drain them, and remove the bacon. Pass the cooking-stock through a sieve, skim off the fat, reduce it to half-glaze, and pour it again into a stewpan with the pullets ; which finish cooking, basting often, to give them a nice light-brown color. On the other hand, boil the truffles on a brisk fire, for seven or eight minutes, with two glasses of madeira, and a bunch of parsley with aromatics. As soon as done, drain the stock, mix it with double its volume of the pullet-stock ; add to it a few trimmings of truffles, reduce to half-glaze, and thicken it with a little brown- sauce; strain it into a stewpan, keeping it hot. When the pullets are done, drain them, remove the strings, and set them on an oblong dish, edged with ‘nouille’-paste or English-paste ; applying them almost upright, against a ‘support’ of fried bread, fixed on the centre, and masked with poached force-meat; resting the upper part of the breast on a layer of force-meat, poached on the dish, the back against the support. Between the pullets set a large ‘quenelle’ studded with truffles, place on each side of it three lai’ge truffles ; garnish the hollow between the pullets with a few cocks’-combs and button-mushrooms. Insert two garnished ‘hfitelet’-skewers on each side of the ‘croustade’, exactly above the large ‘quenelle’ ; insert two more on the top, slanting opposite ways ; and adorn the top of the support with a large mushroom. Mask lightly the breast of the pullets with a little sauce, the remainder of which send up in a sauceboat. • This dish is arranged, so as to go on the table. The pullets should be carved on the side-board, to be handed round to the guests. Dish-borders are only adapted for dishes not intended to be handed to the guests. 717. ‘Croquettes, à la Gastronome’ (D. 118). — Peel four fresh truffles, cut them up in small dice, which put into a small stewpan, and keep covered ; keep also the trimmings by. Pare the cooked meat of a pullet, trimming away the skin and hard parts ; cut it up in small dice, like the truffles ; the quantity of meat shoidd be double that of the truffles. Put the bones and trimmings of the pullet into a small stewpan, with the trim- mings of truffles , and three gills of gravy ; add aromatics, cover the stewpan, set it on a brisk tire, and reduce the liquid to half; after which pass it through a sieve. Pour into a flat stewpan three gills of good ‘béchamel’-sauce, add to the sauce a few pieces of raw ham, set the pan on the tire, and reduce the sauce with a spoon ; a few