GAME. — LARKS. 407 giving a round form to the 'galantines’; butter them very slightly with a paste-brush, set each of them, on the breast-side, on a small square flat of short-paste, fold the edges of the paste over the 'galantines’, carefully soldering them above ; then place the quails on a baking-sheet, resting them on the soldering; surround the paste with a small strip of buttered paper, butter slightly the top of the paste, and push the baking-sheet into a moderate oven. Ten minutes afterwards, cover the paste with paper ; and three quarters of an hour later, take the baking-sheet out of the oven, remove the strips of paper, and serve up the quails. This dish was for some time much called for at the great 'restaurants’ of Paris. 913. Larks (mauviettes) for epicures (D. 183). — Get twelve large black truffles, as round as possible; brush them, pick out, with the point of a small Fig. 183. knife, all the adhering particles of earth ; then put them into a stewpan ; pour over a glass of madeira, salt slightly, and boil them covered, for six or seven minutes; drain them immediately, set them upright on their smoothest surface, make on the top a circular incision, and empty, by scooping out the interior. Glaze the interior with a paste-brush, and keep them covered. Take the interior of the truffles ; chop and pound them, with an equal volume of cooked fat-liver. Season the preparation with a pinch of spices, add to it two tablespoonfuls of brown-sauce, reduced with the stock of the truffles ; pass it through a sieve, and garnish with it the interior of the truffles. On the other hand, remove the pouch and gizzards from twelve fat white field- larks (mauviettes), cut off their leg-bones, and stuff them with the rest of the pre- paration of fat-liver; place them in a flat stewpan, baste with plenty of clarified butter; salt, and fry them for six or seven minutes on a brisk fire, with hot ashes on the lid ; as soon as done:, drain the fat off, pom- over the birds a little melted glaze ; drain, and place one of them in each of the truffles. Dip the bottom of each truffle into melted glaze, and set seven (fixing them solidly) on the bottom on the dish, four over them, and one on the top of all. Send up separately the remainder of the brown-sauce in a sauceboat.