ENTREMETS. EGGS. 453 ration, through a sieve, into an earthen pan. Set the stewpan of Tontina’ on a very slow fire, and stir with a spoon till quite dissolved, and no longer fibrous; then mix with it the diluted yolks of eggs, and stir the preparation, till thick as cream, | without allowing it to boil ; add thereto a pinch of pepper, draw it off the fire, and introduce into it, stirring, a piece of good butter. Three minutes after, it will get a little consistence ; and now throw in a small handful of sliced white truffles. Pour I the Tondue’ into a deep dish, placing in its centre another handful of sliced truffles. If no truffles be handy, surround the Tondue’ with fried bread -‘croutons’. 1010. Plovers’ eggs, in a nest of butter (D. 201). — To ascertain Fig. 201. the freshness of plovers’ and lapwings’ eggs, plunge them, one by one, info a vessel of cold water. Those which rise to the surface of the liquid, are no longer good, or at least, have lost that freshness, which is their best quality. Place gently, on the bottom of a stewpan, eighteen raw plovers’ eggs ; cover them, by degrees, with cold water, start the liquid to ebullition, then draw the pan back. Seven or eight minutes after, take up the eggs with a skimmer, and plunge them into cold water. These eggs are often, however, served hot. On the other hand, with fresh butter, prepare a small border on the bottom of a dish. Take eight ounces of the butter, handling it in a cloth, thus softening it; and introduce it into a bag (poche à douille), garnished at its thin end; then press it together irregularly on the border, in imitation of a bird’s nest : the butter may be simply squeezed through a colander or cornet. Mask the bottom of the dish with a layer of cress, and on this, dish eggs in pyramids, after having slightly broken the shell at one end. 1011. Russ Vatrovskis. — Press closely in a cloth fourteen ounces of white cheese, thus extracting its moisture ; put it into a mortar, with a piece of hutter, and pound it; when the paste is smooth, season with salt and nutmeg, place