BUTCHER’S MEAT. - VEAL. 209 490. ‘Brochettes’ of calves’ brains. — Boil two or three calves’ brains ; when cold, cut them in two, divide each of these pieces in flat squares, the third of an inch thick ; which place evenly in a kitchen-basin ; season with salt and spices. Sprinkle over a pinch of cooked fine-herbs and chopped parsley, roll them in this seasoning. This done, run the squares through with small metal skewers (brochettes), alternating each piece with ja thin square of boiled udder, or fat-bacon of, the same size ; dip the skewers into melted butter, sprinkle over some rasped bread-crumbs, and broil them on both sides on a moderate fire, for about twelve minutes ; dish them up afterwards in pyramids. 491. Subric, Italian fashion. — Take the loose skin off two calves’brains, and steep them in water for half an hour ; dry them well, and afterwards cut them in small dice; season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; sprinkle over a little grated parmesan, and add a beaten egg; the preparation ought to be but little thickened. Pour some clarified butter into a flat stewpan : when hot, take the preparation up with a tablespoon in small portions, which drop into the butter from time to time. 1 Fry the ‘subrics’, turning them with a fork; afterwards dish them up, and surround i with cut lemons. 492. Shoulder of veal, in galantine. — Bone a shoulder of veal, cleaving it from the blade {palette) to the knuckle {manche) ; cut off the inside meat, diminishing the flesh on all the inner surface, and leaving it thin on the skin ; season the meat with salt and spices. Break up the bones, put them into a stock-pot with two calves’ feet, partly boned, and previously blanched ; moisten with water, and boil the stock on a moderate fire; as soon as the feet are done, drain them, finish carefully, boning them completely ; chop, and put them into a kitchen-basin, season them with salt and spices. Remove the sinews off the shoulder-meat, chop it fine, add to it the chopped calves’ feet, and a few minutes after, add to the mince, the same quantity of fresh fat- bacon, previously chopped, chopping the whole together, until the mixture be entirely done. Season the force-meat highly with salt and spices, then add to it a third its volume of cooked ham and bacon, cut in large dice. Stuff the shoulder with this, truss it to an oblong form, wrap up the ‘galantine’ in a napkin ; which fasten with string, and place it in a braising-pan ; moisten to its height, with the broth from the calves’ feet, and toppings of broth; set the braising-pan on the fire, and at the first bubbling, remove it back, boiling the ‘galantine’ for two hours and a half. When taken out of the stock, unpack it once more, to pack it still tighter up into the same napkin ; secure it as before with string, and place it under press. Then clarify the stock, proceeding as for aspic-jelly. it