COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 30(3 713. Poulard (pullet) in galantine. — Take a middling-sized pullet ; singe it; cut off the leg-bones and the pinions at the joint ; split the skin up the back, from one end to the other ; remove the pouch, and cut the skin of the crop under the head, to get it as long as possible ; slip off the legs and wings from the body, disen- gage the flesh of the breast, detaching it completely from the back-bones ; then bone the legs ; cut the thickest of the flesh off, as well as that of the breast ; divide it in middling-sized squares, which put into a kitchen-basin, with an equal quantity of tongue and fat bacon; both being cooked and cut up as the pullet’s flesh. Add thereto five or six raw truffles, peeled, and cut in square fillets ; and at last a hand- ful of peeled pistachios ; season the whole with salt and good spices, and baste with a little sherry. Chop fine the meat of the legs, with some lean meat of veal ; add to it an equal quantity of fat bacon, likewise chopped fine ; season the force-meat with salt and good spices, put it into a mortar to pound it, and pass it through a sieve ; then place this force-meat in the basin with the squares of pullet, truffles, and tongue ; with the preparation fill the boned pullet, sewing it up completely to an elongated form. Wrap it in a small napkin, tie it up, and boil, for an hour and a half, in a stock pre- pared with the back, proceeding as directed for a‘galantine’of turkey. When the ‘galantine’ is done, take it out of the stock ; unpack it, and pack it up again slightly in the same napkin, previously refreshed; then let it cool under a slight weight ; remove the napkin afterwards, glaze, and dish the ‘galantine’ up, either whole or in slices ; surround with ‘croûtons’ of aspic, or simply with aspic-jelly, being prepared with the ‘galantine’-stock (see No. 711). If the ‘galantine is cut in slices, it should be glazed, after being put back into form, so that the glaze may support it. 714. Stewed turkey, Nancy fashion. — Get the giblets of two tur- keys; cleanse, and scald them until boiling; then drain them, and keep their livers aside. Place the remainder of the giblets ; necks, pinions, and gizzards ; in a stewpau with chopped bacon, and a sliced onion ; season, and fry them on a moderate fire; when they set, moisten to height with broth, and a glass of white wine; add to it a few sprigs of aromatics, and cook them on a moderate fire, till three-parts done; then drain them, pare, put them back into a stewpan, and moisten with their own liquor, strained ; add to the stew half a pound of washed rice, well-drained on a sieve, eight ounces of raw ham in small dice, and five or six spoonfuls of tomata- sauce ; set the stewpan on the fire, cover it, let the liquid boil, and draw the pan on the side of the fire, with warm ashes on its lid : twenty-five minutes after, dish up. 715. ‘Pain’ of poultry, ‘à la Duchesse’ (D. 116). — Let me recom- mend to all cooks this simple preparation, giving so excellent results.