358 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. broth, salt very slightly, and reduce the liquid on a brisk fire; again moisten the goose to height with half a bottle of wine, and some broth; add to it a bunch of aromatics, cloves, and peppercorns; let the stock boil, and remove the stewpan on a moderate fire ; cover the goose with buttered paper, braise it gently for three hours, with hot ashes on the lid, basting frequently. A quarter of an hour previous to serving, pass the cooking-stock, skim off the fat, which put back to the goose, keeping it hot ; reduce the stock to half-glaze, thicken with a little brown-sauce; reduce the sauce, stirring, and introducing into it a gill of white wine : when ready, keep it in the ‘bain-marie’. At the last moment, remove the string from the goose, and dish it up ; surround it with groups of small cooked sausages, and groups of chestnuts, braised short of moisture with broth, and glazed. Pour a little of the prepared sauce over the goose, sending the remainder in a sauceboat, and put a ruffle on each leg. Of the goose the breast is cut up, according to the method applied to ducks. It is only in quite a family-dinner, that the legs can be handed round. 813. Goose’s fat-liver, Strasburg fashion. — Get a good large fat- liver, not kept in water; remove the gall, and its surrounding parts, if they were green; lard it inwardly, and underneath, with fillets of fresh truffles, season with salt and spices, put it into a kitchen-basin, and baste it with two tablespoonfuls of madeira-wine. Fry, with rasped bacon, four tablespoonfuls of chopped onion, add to it ttfo handfuls of fresh chopped mushrooms; when their moisture is reduced, add to the preparation two or three chopped truffles ; season, and take it off the fire, let it cool, add half its volume of raw ham in dice, then an equal quantity of chopped fresh bacon ; add a little nutmeg, and a pinch of chopped parsley ; spread the preparation on the bottom of a ‘gratin’-dish, or on a silver dish ; lay the fat-liver thereon, cover it with thin layers of bacon, then with a buttered paper, and bake it in a moderate oven for three quarters of an hour, basting with its own fat. When done, drain the fat off the dish, take the bacon away, and pour over the liver a thick madeira-sauce, thus glazing it. « 814. Goose pickled, German fashion (Weiss-Sauer). — Spread the bottom of a stewpan with minced vegetables, whereon place a good trussed and drawn goose ; surround it with a piece of leg of beef, a boned calf’s foot, and a few blanched pork-rinds ; add a bunch of parsley garnished with aromatics, a little salt, a few peppercorns and cloves ; moisten the meats then to height with broth and a glass of white wine, set the stewpan on the fire, skim the stock ; at the first bubbling close the stewpan hermetically, and draw it on a moderate fire, putting