COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 220 moisten the cutlets, up to halt' their height, with broth ; start it to ebullition, draw the stewpan on a moderate tire ; cover it, keep it thus, until the cutlets be done, and the stock reduced to half-glaze. Then, mix in the onions, add a point of cayenne, and a little chopped parsley. Two minutes after, dish up the cutlets in a circular order, and pour the ‘mince’ into its centre. 516. Sweetbreads, Piémont fashion. — Scald (blanchir) two or three sweetbreads5 when cold, cut them up in slices, broadwise; season, and arrange these in a sauté-pan, with clarified butter, to fry both sides ; drain off the butter, moisten the sweetbread with a little wine; which reduce, and thicken the ‘ragout’ with a little light sauce. A few minutes after, add to it twelve ounces of raw white truffles, sliced very thin ; remove the pan back, and keep it covered. On the other hand, boil twelve ounces of rice ‘à la Piémontaise’ (seeRisot); when ready, pour it into a buttered border-mould, keep it in a hot-closet for seven or eight minutes, to let it set; then turn the border out on a hot dish, and place the ‘ragout’ on its centre. 417. Roasted sweetbreads. — Blanch four sweetbreads, refresh, trim, and lard them with bacon, on their smoothest surface. Place them in a kitchen-basin, salt, and baste them with a little oil; add a sliced onion, a few sprigs of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; cover, and let them macerate for one hour in this seasoning. Afterwards run them through with an iron-skewer, which fix on the spit. Surround them with buttered paper, roast them on a good fire for half an hour, then uncover them, baste with the drippings, and let them take a nice color, glazing frequently with a paste-brush. On the other hand, plunge into salted boiling water, a pint and a half of very fresh and tender green-pease ; as soon as done, drain them in a colander, pour them into a stewpan, season with a point of nutmeg, and a pinch of sugar; mix with a large piece of butter ; which melt, tossing the pease off the fire, and pouring over them two tablespoonfuls of ‘béchamel-sauce, dish them, with the sweetbreads laid on the top of them. '* 518. ‘Vol-au-vent’, Paris fashion (D. 80). — The ‘vol-au-vent’, is a piece of pastry, the execution of which offers difficulties, if no very good oven is at disposal. Here is the proper way to make the crust of the ‘vol-au-vent’ ; prepare some puff- paste with a pound of flour, and the same of butter (see No. 4( 3) ; give it five turns and a half, moisten slightly the surface of the paste ; fold it in two, and let it rest for five or six minutes ; then place it on a floured sheet of paper, and cut it to the size required (five or six inches in diameter). The paste should be cut on a model, (that