GAME. — PARTRIDGE. 391 879. Salmis of partridges, with truffles (D. 174). — Truss two or three partridges, put them into a stewpan with butter, and a few trimmings of fat bacon; add the necks and gizzards, and fry them on a brisk fire for five or six minutes; withdraw them on a moderate fire, cooking them with live embers on the lid ; let them half-cool, and cut each of them up in five pieces ; trim the skin away, and place them in a stewpan. Fry in butter the livers of the partridges with two chickens’ livers, pound, and pass them through a sieve. With the backs and trimmings of the Fig. 174. partridges, prepare a little gravy, skim off the fat, reduce it to half-glaze, and add to it three gills of brown-sauce ; let the sauce boil up, and remove it back to clarify; skim again, and pass it through a fine sieve. With this sauce dilute gradually the purée of liver, pour it over the pieces of partridge; which warm, without allowing to boil, and dish up. On the other hand, cut some bread-‘croûtons’ of round shape and half-an-inch thick, make a circular incision on one side, fry them in butter, empty them of the crumb, and fill the void with the ‘salpicon’ of truffles, cooked, with a little madeira and a little melted glaze. Mask the partridges with the sauce, and dish the ‘croûtons’ all round. 880. Partridges ‘sautés’, à la diplomate. — Detach the legs of two partridges, take off the meat, pare, and mix it with an equal quantity of chicken, game, or veal meat ; pound the whole in a mortar, preparing with it a ‘quenelle’ force- meat (see No. 740); then fill with it a border-mould. Cut up the breasts of the partridges, each of them in three or four parts, which put into a flat stewpan with butter, a small onion, aromatics, and pepper. Break in pieces the back and other bones of the partridges, place them in a stewpan with sliced bacon, trimmings of ham, a bunch of aromatics, and a few peppercorns ; color them at a good fire, moisten them with white wine and gravy, boil them for twenty minutes, and then pass the stock through a sieve.