98 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 225. Boiled mackerel, parsley-sauce. — Open, up the back, two fresh and cleansed mackerel ; put them into a stewpan, cover them with cold water ; add salt, a little vinegar, a bay-leaf, and a sprig of parsley ; set the stewpan on the fire, to bring the liquid to ebullition, giving it two babblings ; cover the stewpan, keeping it for twelve minutes removed back. Drain the fish, dish it up, and pour oven the following sauce : Parsley-sauce. — Put into a stewpan four ounces of butter, with the same of flour ; work them together to form a paste ; which moisten with some fish-broth, or with water simply boiled with a bunch of fresh parsley, then cooled. Add to the above a few peppercorns, some grated nutmeg, and the juice of a lemon; stir the sauce on a moderate fire, keeping it a little consistent. At the first bubbling, remove it back, and introduce into it, by degrees, four ounces of butter; work, until all the butter be absorbed ; then strain it, mix therewith a pinch of chopped parsley, and serve. 22G. Fillets of mackerel, with anchovy-cream. — Trim the fillets of three mackerel, without removing their skin ; season them. Melt a quarter of a pound of butter, which pour into a sauté-pan (sautoir)] heat it to a high degree. Then arrange the fillets of mackerel, side by side, on the bottom of the stewpan ; fry them on both sides, turning them, without breaking them. Arrange them on a dish, surround with two dozen blanched and trimmed oysters, then mask with the following sauce : Anchovy - cream - sauce. — Pour into a flat stewpan about a glass and a half of ‘béchamel’- sauce, reduced on the fire, stirring, and gradually introducing the oyster-liquor. When the sauce is quite frothy, remove it back, and finish with a tablespoonful of anchovy-extract, mixed with a piece of butter. 227. Eel broiled. — Previous to cooking, eels should be skinned : for which operation, first hang them up by the head, make a slight incision all round the neck, thus loosening the skin, then with the aid of a dry cloth, draw it; cut off the head and fins, remove the gut; wash, wipe, and roll it up in a spiral way, sup- porting it thus with two iron skewers placed crosswise. Put it on a gridiron, and singe it on both sides for a few seconds, thus setting the flesh. Mince two onions, put them into a flat stewpan with oil, fry them to a nice color ; moisten them with half a bottle of vinegar, and the same of water ; add some salt, peppercorns, cloves, a handful of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf ; boil the liquid for seven or eight minutes, and plunge in the eel ; the liquid should cover it. At the first bubbling remove the stewpan on to a moderate fire, cover it. Boil the fish gently for forty or fifty minutes ; remove the stewpan back. One hour after, carefully take out the eel without breaking it. Drain it on a sieve', and leave it to