POULTRY. — CHICKEN. 333 of taragon, and boil it for fifteen or eighteen minutes ; skim afterwards the fat away, strain it through a sieve into a flat stewpan ; then reduce, and thicken it with two diluted yolks of eggs. Cook the ‘liaison’ without allowing to boil ; finish the sauce with a small piece of butter, and a tablespoonful of blanched green taragon-leaves. Remove the string from the chicken, dish it up, and mask with the sauce. 7C0. Chickens, Hamburg fashion. — Take out the breast of three small chickens, trim the pinions away ; season, dip them in beaten eggs and butter ; bread-crumb, and place them in a buttered sauté-pan. Rone six legs, stuff them with raw ‘quenelle’ force-meat, and braise them with little liquid. Twenty minutes previous to serving, baste the breasts with a little clarified butter, and bake them in the oven. When done, dish them up, glaze the legs, place them between the breasts, and mask the bottom of the dish with a little good tomata-sauce. 701. Chicken curry, Indian fashion.— The method here to be de- scribed, is that practiced in India ; it differs in many points from the one adopted on the continent, this being a reason the more, for producing it here. Cut up a large fowl in eight parts, divide the back in two, season all the pieces, and sprinkle over a tablespoonful of curry-powder. Shred a large Portugal onion, put it into a stewpan with clarified butter, and fry it, until of a nice color ; add to it the pieces of chicken, also the back and pinions; fry them nicely, and moisten, to half height, with broth ; cover the stewpan, reduce the liquid on a moderate fire, and moisten the meat with broth, which reduce to a glaze, continuing to moisten and reduce the liquid, until the chicken is about done ; then add a few spoonfuls of chopped cocoa-nut in ‘julienne’, and a few spoonfuls of cocoa-nut liquor. From this moment keep the curry gently simmering. When the chicken is done, thicken the sauce with a little double-cream, and finish it by the addition of the juice of two or three lemons ; then dish the chicken, pour the sauce over, and serve separately a dish of rice, cooked thus : It ice, India fashion. — Plunge ten ounces of rice into boiling water ; at the first bubbling pour into the stewpan a glass of cold water, to stop the ebullition ; as soon as the rice begins boiling again, close the stewpan hermetically, and draw it on the side of the fire : the liquid should only simmer. Twenty minutes after, pour the rice out on a large sieve, spread it, and stir it with a spoon, in order to drain more quickly, then put it immediately in a vegetable-dish, cover, and serve. 702. Fine-ragout, Milan fashion. — This dish is very much in request by the Italian ‘gourmets’; it is very much in use, and almost indispensable, in choice lunches.