346 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. them on a floured table ; mix with the remainder a few spoonfuls of fine-herbs, and put them by. Cut up three pigeons, each of them in four parts; put them into a stewpan, with five ounces of chopped bacon-fat, and half a pound of streaky bacon in pieces; set the stewpan on the fire, fry the pigeons until half-done, season, moisten with a gill of white wine ; which reduce, and add to the pigeons a few spoonfuls of cooked fine- herbs , and the pigeon-livers; after two minutes, take the whole off the fire, and let them cool. Spread the flat on the baking-sheet, with half of the remaining force-meat, in a layer coming within an inch and a half of the edges ; thereon set the pigeons in a dome-like way, stop the interstices with the bacon and fine-herbs, cover the dome with the remainder of the force-meat ; which again cover with thin layers of bacon, then apply the second flat of paste, finish and bake the ‘tourte’, proceeding as directed in No. 333, and leave it in the oven for an hour and a quarter. When done, slip it on a dish, make a round incision on the dome, opening it, and through this opening remove the bacon, and fill the hollow with the poached ‘quenelles’ ; over which pour a little good thickened gravy, wherein a few little fresh mushrooms have been cooked ; cover the ‘tourte’, and send up separately the remainder of the sauce, mixed up with mushrooms and ‘quenelles’. 789. Pigeons roasted, German fashion. — Draw three pigeons, break up the breast-bone, and take it out. Soak half a pound of white bread-crumb, press it to extract its moisture, put it into a stewpan, bruise it with a spoon, and add a piece of butter, salt and pepper, three raw yolks of eggs, and a handful of small currants, well cleansed. With this preparation stuff the pigeons, thus giving them a plump appearance; truss them, place them in a roasting-pan, pour over some butter, season, and roast them in a moderate oven, turning. When ready to serve, remove the string, dish up, and pour over their cooking-stock. 790. Fillets of pigeons, ‘a la Chartreuse’ (D. 145). — Take out the fillets of seven pigeons, trim away the sinewy skin, beat slightly, season, and arrange them on the bottom of a flat stewpan, with clarified butter. Scoop with a vegetable-spoon some small balls of carrots and turnips ; boil them in salted water, keeping them a little firm, wipe them on a cloth, and when cold, apply them all round the sides of a plain buttered border-mould in circles, alternating them. Fill the hollow of the border with force-meat, or witli a pre- paration of potatoes, as for ‘croquettes’; and keep the border in the ‘bain-marie for one hour.