COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 140 order on the edges of the spread with force-meat ; surround this circle with a stripe of thickly buttered paper, which fasten with string; place in the hollow a bread-support, covered with bacon or buttered paper, thus filling it completely. Cover also the fillets with layers of bacon, and push the baking-sheet into the oven. Bake the gratin for twenty-live to thirty minutes. When done, remove the paper and bread-support, dry off the fat, and slip the fish on to a dish. Fill the cavity with a garnish of small ‘quenelles’, prepared with the remainder of the force-meat, poached; mask slightly the fillets, and the bottom of the dish, with some muscle- sauce ; the remainder of which is sent up in a sauce-boat. 332. Fillets of sole, Provence-sauce. — Take out the fillets of two soles, cut them in two parts ; season, flour, and plunge them into very hot oil. When done, drain, and dish them up with fried parsley all round. Serve separately the following sauce: Provence-sauce. — With the fish-bones, some vegetables, aromatics, and white wine, prepare a little extract of fish, skim off its fat, and pass it through a sieve into a stewpan, to reduce it to half-glaze. Then pour into the liquid a tablespoonful of tomata-purce, and a spoonful of brown-sauce :*reduce the whole a few minutes, take it oft’ the fire, and introduce into it eight ounces of butter, divided in small bits. All must be introduced gradually, without ceasing to stir the sauce. When of a suitable consistence, finish it with the juice of a lemon, a little cayenne, and serve. This is a most excellent sauce. 333. ‘Tourte’ of fillets of sole (D. No. 44). — Take out the fillets of three good soles, and cut them transversally in two or three pieces. Chop one small onion, put it into a flat stewpan with butter, to fry; add two handfuls of chopped mushrooms, which boil until their moisture be reduced, stirring with a spoon. Then add the fillets of soles to the fine-herbs, season with salt and nutmeg, cook them for two minutes, and sprinkle over them chopped parsley; remove them back, allowing them to cool in the stewpan. Meanwhile, prepare a quenelle force-meat with a pound of pike-flesh. With the fish heads and bones, a little wine and vegeables, prepare a fish-broth, which is to serve as a foundation for the sauce. Spread half a pound of short-paste (see No. 197) in a round flat, a little larger than a plate ; set it on a baking-sheet, wet the edges of the paste, and spread over its centre a layer of force-meat, extending to within two inches of the sides. On this place the fillets of sole in a dome-like fashion, alternated Avith force-meat, and masking the top with the remainder of it. Spread another flat of puff-paste (five turns and half) of about half an inch thick.