COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. 10 Half an hour later, thicken the soup with four or live tablespoonfuls of sour cream, add thereto a pinch of chopped green fennel, and pour it into the soup- tureen. Serve separately a plate of small fried ‘rissoles’, garnished with a ‘sal- picon’ of mushrooms. 21. Calves’-tail soup, India fashion. — Cut six calves’ tails, each of them in two, blanch and refresh them in water, drain them well, and sponge them on a cloth. Mince one onion and one leek, fry them in butter with nearly half a pound of raw ham cut in dice; add to this the calves’ tails, leave them on the tire for a while, sprinkle over them two tablespoonfuls of flour, the same of curry-powder; fry them a few seconds more, and moisten, by degrees, with two or three quarts of broth ; add to the above one carrot, a piece of celery, and a bunch of parsley and aromatics. Bring the liquid to boil, stirring with a spoon ; then remove the stewpan back, to let the soup simmer gently until the tails be done. Now drain, trim, and range them in the soup-tui’een ; then pour the liquid in, after passing it through a tine colander. 22. Hoche-pot soup. — Cut an ox-tail in pieces, which steep for a few hours in cold water. Blanch, drain, refresh, and put them back into the same stewpan; add a minced onion, a little dripping, a raw ham-bone, a knuckle of veal, a few giblets of fowl, and a few sprigs of aromatics (aromates). Set the stewpan on a moderate fire, fry these meats gently to a nice color; moisten with four quarts of light broth, let the liquid boil, skimming well; remove it back, introduce into it a piece of blanched streaky bacon (petit-lard), two large carrots, one good-sized turnip, a root of celery, and two leeks. An hour and a half afterwards, add to the broth three or four blanched and trussed lettuces, as well as the heart of a small cabbage, also blanched and trussed; so as to remove them easily, as soon as done. Continue boiling gently, until the meats be completely done; then take them out carefully, and place them on a dish, Avith the bacon, and the vegetables, cut in dice; then pass the broth through a napkin, skim it of its fat, and pour it into a soup-tureen, containing the lettuces cut in pieces, and some slices of bread toasted. Let the soup accompany the meats dressed on a dish. 23. ‘Croûte-au-pot’ soup, Paris fashion. — Bone a piece of leg of beef, weighing about four pounds; truss it, and put it into an earthen stockpot, Avith six quarts of water, a little salt, and a feAV slices of blanched streaky bacon; set the stockpot on the fire, skim the liquid carefully ; and remove it back, to simmer gently. An hour and a half later, add a knuckle of veal, and a hen ; tAVO leeks, tied up Avith a pinch of chervil, tAvo carrots, one turnip, a head of celery, one onion colored