507 Fig. 234. Fig. 235. Heat four ounces of butter in a stewpan ; when it is melted, pour the eggs into the frying-pan, and thicken, stirring hard ; as soon as the omelet has set, so that it can be taken up from the frying-pan, roll it into aporte-manteau shape, and turn it out on its dish. Sprinkle over a little powder-sugar, glaze the omelet, applying to its surface a skewer made red-hot in the oven ; and by aid of this skewer, sketch a little decoration. Heat a quarter of a glass of kirsch-wasser, thicken it with three tablespoonfuls of apricot-marmalade, and pour on the bottom of the dish. This sweetened omelet is excellent indeed. 1130. Cherry-crusts of the Grand-Duke. — Cut eight or ten slices of household bread, half an inch thick ; cut them to an oval shape and equal size, make an incision all round, on one side, with the point of a knife; let them fry to a nice color, on both sides, in butter ; then drain and empty them ; now till the hollow with a tablespoonful of almonds ‘frangipane’, smooth the surface, sprinkle over tine sugar, frost with a red-hot shovel. On the other hand pick and stone three quarters of a pound of cherries, place them in a sugar-pan with a little sugar, and a glass of wine ; let the liquid bubble for a few minutes, then drain the cherries with the skimmer, to place them in a basin ; take a little of the liquid out, and add to it two handfuls of powder-sugar, and the zest of one lemon. Reduce this syrup quickly till of a nice consistence ; then add to it the cherries, which allow but one bubbling, then pour them into a deep dish. Dish the crusts up on the cherries. 1140. Crusts with cherries, Turkish fashion. — Put into a sugar- pan two pounds of tine stoned raw-cherries, add a pound and a half of powder- sugar ; toss the cherries and sugar; the sugar melted, set the pan on the tire, in order to boil the cherries for two minutes ; pour the fruit immediately into a basin. Two hours afterwards, pour the syrup into the pan, and let it reduce one third ; at this moment it should prove rather consistent ; pour it .now over the cherries. Cut off some slices of household-bread, being half an inch thick, with the aid of a paste-cutter, some ‘croûtons’ of a round shape; place one beside the other, and let them fry in a ‘sauté’- pan with clarified butter, turning them ; as soon as of a