424 COSMOPOI AT AN C OOKERY. hare; to which add two dozen fresh and clean mushrooms; cover the stewpan, set it on a moderate tire, and finish cooking the stew, till time to serve. Then dish it up: the sauce should not be too thin, or plentiful. Arrange the farced ‘croutons’ round the stew, over which pour a few tablespoonfuls of good rum, warmed in a sugar-pan, and set on fire. This operation should be done in the dining-room, so that the dish may come to table in a flame. 950. ‘Pain’ of hare, poivrade-sauce. — Take out the meat from the shoulder and legs of a hare, trim away the sinew and the hard parts, cut the meat into small squares, and mix them with half their volume of fat-bacon, also in squares. Chop an onion, put it into a frying-pan with a little rasped fat-bacon, a bay- leaf, a few sprigs of aromatics, and at last, the meats in squares; season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, toss the whole on a brisk fire, until the meats be well set ; add to it half a hare’s liver in slices, which fry a few .minutes, and pour into the frying-pan a quarter of a glass of white wine ; reduce the liquid quickly to glaze, and draw the pan off the fire ; remove the bay-leaf and aromatics, let the preparation cool, then pound it ; when it is converted into paste, take it out, put it into a kitchen- basin ; pound a third its volume of panada, and add it gradually to the pounded meats. When well mixed up, add to the preparation four or five yolks of eggs, one after the other; pass it through a sieve, put it into a basin, and work it for two minutes with a spoon, to smooth it ; then try a small part of it in a mould in the oven, to rectify, if necessary. Butter a plain cylindric mould, fill it with the preparation, mask the top with bacon, and set the mould in a stewpan, with boiling water to half its height ; poach the force-meat in the ‘bain-marie’ for three quarters of an hour. Then take the mould out, wipe it, turn the ‘pain’ out on its dish, and mask it with good ‘poivrade’- sauce, prepared with the bones and trimmings of the hare. 951. Sicilian hare-fillets. — Pare a dozen hare-fillets of the shape of a large chicken-fillet; season them, let them marinate in a kitchen-basin, witli a little vinegar, for several hours. A few minutes previous to serving, drain the fillets on a cloth, place them in a ‘sauté’-pan with clarified butter, and thus let them fry on a brisk fire, being careful not to let them dry. Drain the butter, then pour over the fillets a little dissolved meat-glaze ; dish them in a circular order, alternating each of the fillets with a ‘croûton’ of bread, fried in butter ; mask them with the following-sauce : Sicilian-sauce. — Put into a small saucepan two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar ; melt this sugar, stirring it with a wooden spoon ; when it is of a light-brown