BUTCHER’S MEAT. — LAMB. 267 Meanwhile put into a stewpan two tablospoonfuls of chopped onion, and half a pound of streaky bacon in squares ; fry them for a few minutes, and add the pieces of lamb ; salt them slightly, fry them over a brisk tire for eight or ten minutes, moisten a little above their height, with the previously prepared lamb-broth, passed through a sieve; add to it two pimentoes, and two thoroughly ripe tomatas (these without skin or seed, and chopped), a bunch of parsley with aromatics, and a point of saffron ; let the liquid boil quickly for three or four minutes, and throw in a pound of good rice (to four pounds of meat) washed and well drained ; then cover the stewpan, and live minutes after, draw it on warm ashes, with live embers on its lid ; or else set it at the entrance of the oven. Eighteen or twenty minutes later, the rice should be quite done, and its grains left whole ; then dish up the pilau. 628. ‘Blanquette’ (white fricassée) of lamb. — Cut up two shoul- ders of lamb in middling-sized squares ; let them soak in water for one hour, place them in a stewpan, and moisten to height with water, or broth, and half a glass of white wine ; let the liquid boil ; two minutes after, drain the squares of meat in a colander, preserving their broth; refresh them, pare the bones away, as much as possible, and dry them on a cloth ; let the broth settle. Fry with butter, in a stewpan, two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion ; when of a light brown color, mix the meat with it, and fry them together, for a few minutes; season slightly, sprinkle over a handful of flour, and moisten (to height, and by degrees), with the broth kept; add a bunch of parsley, a bay-leaf, a handful of trim- mings of mushrooms, cloves and peppercorns. Let the ‘blanquette’ boil quickly for ten minutes, thus reducing the sauce one fourth ; remove the stewpan on a moderate fire, to finish cooking the meat ; skim the fat off the sauce, thicken with three diluted yolks of eggs, and cook the liaison without ebullition ; add a point of nutmeg, take up the meat with a fork on a dish, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and strain the sauce over the meats. 629. English hot lamb-pie. —- Take both sides of the loin of lamb, and bone them entirely ; cut up the meat in slices, which pare and season. Mask the bottom of a pie-dish with slices of raw ham, or of streaky bacon ; sprinkle over a pinch of cayenne, and place thereon the slices of lamb ; arrange on the top of these, some halves of hard-boiled eggs, and moisten the meat, half its height, with good cold gravy ; finish the pie, by covering meat and dish to the rim, with short-paste or trimmings of puff-paste, proceeding as said in No. 596 ; set the dish on a small baking-sheet, and push it into the oven ; ten minutes after, cover the pie with paper, and one hour later, take it out of the oven, and sei’vc on a dish.