25Ü COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. after, put the ears in, place the stewpan on a moderate fire ; let the stew boil for a few minutes, thicken with three diluted yolks of eggs, cook the liaison without letting it boil ; and finish the sauce with a little chopped parsley, and the juice of one lemon. (199. Sheep’s ears, ‘à la bouchère’. — Soak fifteen sheep’s ears; scald them until boiling; drain, run them through, with a skewer to singe them ; refresh, and wipe them on a cloth, being particularly careful to remove the hairs inside; place the ears in a stewpan with one onion, one carrot, a few sprigs of aromatics, salt, cloves, and peppercorns ; sprinkle over a pinch of flour, moisten with a suffi- cient quantity of water to cover, let the liquid boil, and finish cooking the ears on the side of the fire; let them cool in their own stock, drain, wipe, and pick out the inner membranes by the aid of a tin-cutter. Prepare a ‘salpicon’ composed of sheep’s brains, mushrooms, and pickled ox- tongue; thicken it with two tablespoonfuls of raw force-meat, and a small quantity of reduced white- or brown-sauce ; with this preparation, stuff the ears; flour, dip them into beaten eggs, and bread-crumb. When ready to serve, plunge them into hot dripping-fat, to fry to a nice color; drain, and dish them up on a napkin. COO. Cassolet of Castelnaudary. — The ‘cassolet’ is a popular dish of Languedoc in France ; the tower of Castelnaudary, the name of which it bears, is cer- tainly not now the place, where it is best appreciated ; but in general it is well pre- pared in all parts of the country. Steep for a few hours, a pound of good dry haricot-beans; put them into a stewpan with water, set the pan on the fire ; at the first bubbling, remove it entirely off the fire ; cover, and keep the beans thus for one hour. Change the water, put the stewpan back over the fire, salt the beans, let the water boil again gently, boiling the beans until three-parts done; then drain them on a sieve : let me recommend this method of boiling the beans, as the most practical one, and as giving the best result. Put into an iron or enameled stewpan, of a wide and low form, a preserved (confite) leg and wing of goose; add six ounces of its fat; fry them on a moderate fire, turning ; when well done, add the beans, and a small saveloy. On the other hand, slice one or two large onions, put them into a stewpan with two cloves of garlic, and some chopped bacon, to fry ; sprinkle over a pinch of flour, and dilute with a quart of hot broth ; stir the sauce till boiling, add two sprigs of aromatics, and a few spoonfuls of tomata-sauce, or simply a chopped tomata : reduce the sauce quickly for a few minutes, and pour it over the beans ; then push them into a slow oven, simmering the stew until meats and beans be about done.