FISH. 113 and thicken it with a few yolks of eggs, diluted with a little cream: cook the liaison without boiling, and turn out the oysters into the centre of a border of rice, previously arranged on a dish. 2G5. Oyster-patties (D. 32.) — Bake fifteen small puff-paste patties (bouchées)’ which empty on coming out of the oven, and set on a baking-sheet: they should be served as soon as possible, after being baked. Meanwhile, blanch two or three dozen oysters ; wash, pare, and divide each of them in two or three pieces. Pour about half a pint of good ‘bechamel-sauce’ into a stewpan ; add four tablespoonfuls of trimmings of fresh mushrooms, and a bunch of parsley ; reduce the sauce, stirring it, and gradually introducing the oyster-liquor, as well as a few spoonfuls of good raw cream ; when the sauce is become consistent and creamy, pass it, through a tammy, over the cut oysters. With this preparation fill the patties previously made hot ; dish them, in a group, on a folded napkin. 2GG. Soudac, Moscow fashion. — Scale the tail-end of a large ‘soudac’, and cut it in slices one inch thick; which place on the drainer of a fish-kettle, and plunge them into boiling salted water. Add a bunch of parsley, start the liquid to ebullition ; remove the kettle back, cover it, and keep it thus for ten minutes. Meanwhile, chop an onion, fry it in a Hat stewpan with butter, and when nicely colored, add two red pimentoes, and about a pound of picked and washed rice; fry this for two minutes only, and moisten it, three times its height, with fish-broth. Cover the stewpan, boil the liquid for ten minutes on a sharp fire ; remove it back, boiling the rice gently. A quarter of an hoiir after, the rice should be done, with its grains left whole, without being quite dry. Pour into it five or six spoonfuls of tomata-sauce, and keep it off the fire for five minutes ; finish if with a piece of butter, three dozen crayfish tails, and as many olives, stuffed with anchovies and pickled in oil. Pile them up on a hot dish. Carefully drain the pieces of soudac, dish them on the rice, bringing the tail back into shape ; moisten the fish with melted butter. s