492 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. Split in two lengthwise fifteen finger-biscuits, cut them again transversally, thus forming little squares ; which keep on a plate. Surround a large cylindric dome-shaped mould with pounded ice, adorn its base, and the upper part of its interior sides, with rounds of angelica, dipped one by one in half-set jelly ; adorn its centre with a circle, composed of small raisins and preserved fruits; then spread the hollow of the mould with a small part of the pre- viously prepared cream ; thicken the remainder on the ice ; when well set, add to it the fruits, and take it off. Now take it up with a spoon, fill the hollow of the mould, alternating each layer of the preparation with one of the biscuit cut in dice, and soaked with kirsli. One hour after, dip the mould in hot water, wipe it well, and turn the pudding- out on a dish, having fixed to its centre, a small support (tampon) of fried bread, masked with marmalade. Into this bread insert six ‘hâtelet’-skewers, garnished with fruits, the largest of which is put in the centre. Send up separately a sauceboatful of English-cream, flavored with coffee, and cooled on the ice. 1105. Chestnut-pudding. — Put a pound or a pound and a quarter of chestnut-‘purée’ into a stewpan ; add sugar, and three or four whole eggs, a little salt, half a pound of currants and smyrna-raisins, as well as a quarter of a glassful of rum. Spread a dome-shaped mould with pudding-paste (see No. 396), pour the pre- paration into the hollow of the mould, cover it with paste ; wrap the mould up in a napkin, which tie on the side opposite the aperture of the mould. Plunge the pud- ding into boiling water, and let the liquid continue boiling for an hour and a quarter. When about to serve, drain the pudding, unwrap it, and turn it out on a dish ; then mask it largely with an apricot-sauce flavored with rum. 1106. Francfurt-pudding. — Pour into a kitchen-basin half a pound of butter, half-melted; work it well with a spoon, so as to thicken it, mixing in six or seven yolks of eggs; when frothy, add to it five ounces of dried almonds, pounded with five ounces of sugar, perfumed with vanilla, and passed through a sieve. A few minutes after, add four ounces of brown-bread, dry, pulverised, and passed through a sieve. Add moreover four tablespoonfuls of preserved peel, a pinch of powdered cinnamon, and a little salt. Introduce into the preparation six whipped whites of eggs ; immediately pour it into a buttered dome-mould, glazed with sugar. Set the mould in a flat stewpan «1 boiling water, hake the pudding in the ‘bain-marie’ in a slack oven, for twenty-five or thirty minutes; turn it out, serve it with cherry-sauce all round, yet without masking it. The preparation of this pudding requires much care.