417 GAME — THRUSHES. versally into pieces, a quarter of an inch long ; then fill the hollow of the macaroni with a fillet of truffle, cut to the diameter of the hollow. With these cut pieces mask the bottom and sides of a buttered dome-mould,, placing them flat; then mask the macaroni interiorly with a layer of ‘quenelle’ force-meat. Take up the fillets of twelve thrushes ; pare them, slightly beat, let them fry with butter on a brisk fire, turning them ; add to them half a pound of raw truffles ; season them with salt and spices, toss all together for a few seconds; take the Fig. 187. stewpan off the fire ; moisten the thrushes with a few tablespoonfuls of brown-sauce, reduced with the trimmings of the truffles, and a little wine. The stew having cooled, pour it into the hollow of the ‘timbale’, the aperture of which close with raw force- meat, and let it poach in the ‘bain-marie’ for three quarters of an hour. When time to serve, wipe the mould, turn the ‘timbale’ out on a warm dish, surround it with a circle of mushroom-heads, stick on the top a ‘hatelet’-skewer, garnished with a large truffle ; serve separately a boatful of the reduced sauce. 938. Salmis of thrushes, Provence fashion. — Roast eight or ten thrushes ((/rives) without drawing them, but putting crusts of bread under them; when they are done, take them off the fire, cut away the heads and legs, divide each ' of them in two lengthwise, pare each of the pieces, which arrange in a stewpan, and keep this on the ‘bain-marie’. Pound the trimmings of the thrushes with a few of the crusts dried up in the dripping-pan, so as to convert them into paste ; which i dilute with a little thickened gravy, and some good red wine ; heat it without allow- ing it to boil, stirring ; then pass it through a sieve, and pour it over the thrushes. Pound the trails and livers of the thrushes; add a little sauce, and pass them through a sieve. When ready to serve, dish the halves of thrushes in a conical form on the remaining crusts of bread, previously pared, and set on a dish; introduce into the sauce the purée, prepared with the trails; heat it without allowing to boil, and j pour it over the thrushes. 27