BUTCHER’S MEAT. — MUTTON. 239 Drain the leg, wipe it on a cloth, put into a roasting-pan with a good piece of butter, and push it into an oven not too hot ; half an hour after, baste with two gills of the marinade-stock, and a pint of sour cream (smitane) ; finish cooking the leg, basting frequently; then place it on a dish; strain the cooking-stock, reduce it on the fire, until nicely thickened ; then pour it over the leg, and put a ruffle to the bone. 560. Leg of mutton, Milan fashion. — The Italians eat but little mutton, especially in Rome, and in Naples, where this meat has always a woolly taste ; but the Milanese, who possess some very good breeds, naturally set a far higher value on this meat. Cut off the knuckle-end of a leg of mutton ; bone it, on the opposite side, up to the inner joint; fill the hollow with raw mince (hâchis) composed of bacon, ham, mushrooms, a clove of garlic, a little piece of bread-crumb, soaked in broth and pressed, a whole egg, and a little pepper ; sew them together, put the leg into an earthen stewpan, with fat bacon, chopped and melted : let it fry till it take color, over a moderate fire, turning it over; season, add a few sliced vegetables, moisten with a glass of white wine, and as much of broth ; cover it with a round of paper, braise it gently four or five hours with fire on the lid, being careful to add a little broth at times. When the leg is done, drain, and set it on a hot dish ; mix a little broth or gravy in the cooking-stock; make it boil, strain, skim off the fat, reduce it to half- i glaze, and thicken with a few spoonfuls of tomato-sauce, so as that the sauce remain light ; surround the leg with a good ‘risot’ finished at the time ; baste it with a little sauce, and send the remainder in a sauceboat. 561. Boiled leg of mutton, English fashion. — Although a boiled | leg of mutton is but a very simple dish, yet it is not the less excellent, and appreciated by many a ‘gourmet’. This dish is of English origin, but is served | now a-days in nearly all parts of Europe; particularly in France, Germany, and Russia. In order to boil a leg of mutton, the meat must be of good quality, but not be too long kept, or too much settled (rassis). Cut the knuckle-end of the leg, round neatly the parts of the opposite end ; i weigh it, plunge into a braising-pan, three-parts filled with water in ebullition; as soon as the liquid again begins boiling, add to it a handful of salt, and some large turnips well cleansed. Shut the braising-pan, remove it back to the side of the fire, but in such a manner as to keep up a regular ebullition. Boil the leg, for as many quarters of an