218 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. Colbert-sauce. — In the simplicity of its preparation, and the delicacy of its taste, this sauce is one of the finest productions of the modern school; indeed it is to be regretted, that this invention does not bear the name of the practitioner, who conceived it. It is a happy inspiration, which once propagated, will become popular. The nature of this sauce is such, that one can employ it for meats, as well as for fish, and even with several sorts of vegetables : it may be served with roasted, broiled, and fried dishes; no sauce, either ancient or modern, can be compared with it in this respect; and we must remark by-thc-bye, that its preparation docs not require much knowledge, nor give much trouble. Let me recommend it, as a very useful study. Work six ounces of good butter with a tablespoonful of chopped parsley ; add a - point of nutmeg. Pour into a small stewpan a gill and a half of melted meat-glaze; let it boil up, then remove it immediately back, and introduce into it by degrees, stirring quickly with a spoon, the prepared butter, in small bits, alternating with the juice of three or four lemons, and avoiding ebullition. When the sauce is of a nice consistence, add a tablespoonful of cold water, and take it off the fire. 510. ‘Croquettes’ of sweetbreads. — Cut up in dice three or four cooked sweetbreads, put them in a kitchen-basin, with half their quantity of lean ham, and the same of mushrooms, likewise in dice. Pour into a flat stewpan about three gills of strained ‘béchamel’-saucc; reduce it over a sharp tire, stirring, and introducing into it, by degrees, a few spoonfuls of good raw cream ; at last add to it a little melted glaze, and work it, until succulent and well thickened. Now add the previously prepared ‘salpicon’, mix it up with the sauce, and remove the stewpan back ; season the preparation with a little nutmeg; pour it on a dish, cover it with paper, and let it cool. A few hours after, take the preparation with a spoon, in equal portions ; which drop on a table sprinkled with bread-crumbs, and roll them into a cork-shape, three inches long ; dip these pieces into beaten eggs, drain, and bread-crumb them ; arrange them, taking six or eight together, on several stewpan-lids, thus being enabled to plunge them all at once into hot dripping. Allow them to take color, then drain them, dish up on a napkin, and surround them with fried parsley. 511. Sweetbreads, in shells. — Cut up in dice, three cooked sweetbreads; put them into a stewpan, and mix them with a third of their volume of cooked ox-tongue in dice. Pour into a stewpan half a pint of good white-sauce, reduce it on the fire, intro- ducing into it a few spoonfuls of good gravy, or some melted glaze : when of a nice thickness, introduce again a few spoonfuls of cooked fine-herbs. After two seconds, add to it the previously prepared ‘salpicon’, and immediately remove flic