BUTCHER’S MEAT. VEAL. 219 pan back ; season with a little nutmeg, and fill with the preparation seven or eight either natural or silver shells; sprinkle them with bread-crumbs, haste with a little melted butter; heat the shells, for two minutes, at the entrance of the oven, and then salamander them. 512. Veal-cutlets, ‘à la bouchère’. — Choose a good neck of veal, pare the rib-hones square, so as to cut therefrom six or seven cutlets, each with a bone to it. Cut the meat from the hones, only to the third of an inch off the hones-end, in order to disengage only a small part of this. Slightly heat the cutlets with the handle of a knife, and without paring them any more, season with salt and pepper, moisten slightly with melted butter or oil, and broil them on both sides, on a good fire; when done, dish them in a circular order, glaze them with a paste-brush, setting between each cutlet a small piece of hnaitre-d’hôtel’- butter ; surround the cutlets with lemons in quarters. 513. Veal-CUtletS, Lyon fashion. — Pare seven or eight good veal- cutlets ; season with suit and pepper, range them one beside the other, in a stewpan, with melted lard ; frying them on a brisk fire on both sides ; when done, drain the fat off, and pour into the stewpan a few spoonfuls of good broth; let it reduce to a glaze, turn the cutlets, moisten again with the same quantity of broth ; and when this is again reduced, dish up the cutlets. Pour into the stewpan about two gills of brown-sauce, and four tablespoonfuls of madeira; let it boil, and finish it with a piece of butter, chopped parsley, and four or five tablespoonfuls of gerkins in dice. Pour the sauce over the cutlets. 514. Veal-cutlets, Berlin fashion. — Trim seven or eight veal cutlets, chop the meat slightly oil both sides, with the back of the knife; season with salt and pepper, round them, dip them into beaten eggs, and bread-crumb them. Melt six ounces of butter in a flat stewpan ; when it is hot, range the cutlets on the bottom of the pan, fry them on both sides ; drain them, and dish them; garnish on both sides with white asparagus, boiled in salted water, and dried on a cloth. Melt six ounces of butter in a stewpan, warm it, mix it with four or five tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs; as soon as these are slightly fried, pour the sauce over the asparagus. 515. Veal-cutlets, Provence fashion. — Slice five or six large white onions, fry them in a stewpan with butter, on a moderate fire, until of a nice color; j season with salt and pepper, sprinkle over a little flour, and moisten with wine and [ gravy ; boil the mince on a very slow fire, for ten or twelve minutes. On the other hand, fry in butter on both sides, in a 'sauté’-pan, seven or eight veal-cutlets, seasoned, and floured ; as soon as set, drain the fat off the stewpan, and