62 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. stir the preparation, to thicken it ; draw it on a very slow fire, to fry, until of a light brown color ; then dilute it with four or five quarts of clear gravy, free of the fat ; stir the sauce until boiling, then place it on the corner of the stove-fire, so as to boil only on one side of the pan. Three quarters of an hour after, carefully skim off the fat, and pass it into a kitchen-basin. If this sauce is not to be used as soon as finished, let it cool in the kitchen- basin, stirring from time to time, lest a skin should form itself on its surface. 158. Brown fish-sauce. — Cut up in pieces a tench, a perch, a pike, and one gurnet. Mince two leeks, two onions, two carrots, and a piece of celery-root ; fry the vegetables on a moderate fire with butter. When of a fine color, add to it the fish ; three minutes after, moisten the whole with a sufficient quantity, of water and white wine, to cover; add the necessary salt, a few small fish, a bunch of parsley with aromatics, and two handfuls of trimmings of fresh mushrooms ;*skim the liquid, let it boil quickly for two minutes, and place it on the side of the stove-fire. As soon as the fish is done, pass the broth through a sieve, let it cool and settle. Skim from it carefully the fat, decant it into a stewpan, then clarify with ten ounces of pike’s flesh, two or three whole eggs, and a glass of white wine, proceeding as for fish 'consommé’. With six ounces of butter, and eight ounces of flour, prepare a brown 'roux’ ; moisten, by degrees, with four or five quarts offish-broth, stir the sauce on the fire until boiling, then remove it back, and let it boil gently, for three quarters of an hour ; skim off the fat, pass it through a tammy into a kitchen-basin, and stir it from time to time until cold. 159. White meat-sauce (velouté). — This sauce, in great cookery, goes'by the name of 'velouté' ; if thickened with eggs, it is called 'Allemande’. For kitchens where great sauces are not prepared, I give here a method to obtain some, requiring no great expense. Cut up in squares a shoulder or simply a breast of veal, put the squares into a stewpan with good clarified fat ; fry this over a brisk fire for a few minutes, allowing it to take a little color ; season, and sprinkle over a handful of flour, which fry for a few seconds, stirring the meat; then moisten with broth, thus obtaining a sauce not thick, but abundant ; stir the liquid until boiling, remove the sauce back, add to it a few vegetables, a bunch of parsley garnished with cloves and pepper- corns : add also a few trimmings of mushrooms. The pieces of meat being done, skim the fat from the sauce, which pass through a sieve into a kitchen-basin, and stir it from time to time.