565 SWEET ENTREMETS. — BLANC-MANGER. 1248. Strawberry-Bavarois, English fashion (D. 283). — Pluck a plate of line fresh strawberries, which mash, mixing in a handful of powder-sugar, and pass through a sieve ; keep this ‘purée’ in a china-vase, as it ought not to come in contact with tinned copper. Pour eight dissolved leaves of ‘gélatine’ into a pan, add half a pound of pounded sugar ; as soon as the latter is dissolved, remove this preparation back ; add to it the Fig. 283. juice of an orange, as well as a little zest ; then pass it through a sieve into another stewpan ; stir it, off the lire, until cold; gradually introduce into it the strawberry - ‘purée’. Set the pan on the ice, stir the preparation, till well thickened ; this done, add four tablespoonfuls of whipped cream. Two minutes after, pour this preparation into a china dome-shaped mould, previously oiled and embedded in ice. When the preparation is set, turn the ‘bavarois’ out on a small stand of ‘génoise’- cake, cut the size of the plate, and glaze’it with vanilla. On the border of this stand dish a chain of small emptied ‘savarins’, tilled likewise with the strawberry - prepara- tion, slightly glazed with orange. Set on the top a line large strawberry. 1249. ‘Blanc-manger’, Russ fashion. — Take half a gill of sweet- ened almond - milk, perfumed with orange - zest ; add six leaves of dissolved ‘gélatine’, pour it into a sugar-pan, thicken it on ice, continually stirring; introduce into it two glassfuls of whipped cream. Pour this preparation into a dome-shaped mould, previously embedded with pounded and salted ice ; shut the mould, solder its junctures with paste, cover it with salted ice. One hour after, dip the mould in tepid water, and turn the ‘blanc-manger’ out on a folded napkin. 1250. Parisian ‘blanc-manger’.— Pick about half a pound of fresh filberts, which have pounded together with a few tablespoonfuls of water, moisten with five gills of vanilla-syrup, pass it through a tammy. Mix the preparation up with