204 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. which lard with bacon lengthwise. Afterwards put it on the spit, by the aid of two iron-skewers ; baste with clarified butter, and roast it at a good lire, for three quarters of an hour; salt it. take it out on a dish, pouring under it the stock in the dripping-pan, strained, skimmed of fat, and mixed up with a little gravy. 475. Leg of veal, German fashion. — Pare a leg of veal, put it into a roasting-pan, pour over some clarified butter; salt, cover it with paper, and let it roast in a moderate oven for an hour and a half, turning it ; when three-parts done, baste it with two or three gills of good sour-cream, and continue roasting, basting often. Dish it afterwards, add a little good gravy to the cooking-stock, which let boil, and pass, through a sieve, over the leg of veal. 476. Leg of veal, roasted in the oven. — Spread the bottom of a roasting-pan with trimmings of bacon and lard, or merely with butter ; place there- on a trimmed leg of veal ; grease, and cover it with paper ; pour about a half-pint of warm water into the pan, which push into a moderate oven, and roast the leg for two hours, frequently basting and turning; salt it towards the end of its cooking, and when of a nice color, dish it, pouring over it. its stock, freed of fat. 477. Veal, dressed like thunny. — This dish is derived from the old school, and once enjoyed great favor, now-a-days however. it seems neglected; hut yet it is sometimes served in Italy. It was at Venice, that I ate of it for the first time. Pare a piece of veal, ‘noix’ or under ‘noix’, interlard it throughout with fillets of anchovies, and steep it for two hours in plenty of water; change the water, set the stewpan on the fire, to bring the liquid to ebullition; drain the meat, wipe it on a cloth, and place it in a kitchen-basin ; season with salt and pepper, baste with oil and lemon-juice, add a bay-leaf and a few sprigs of rosemary, and let it remain thus, for two or three days in winter, but in summer only for twenty-four hours. Broil it afterwards, basting and turning it; when done, put it back into the earthen-pan, baste with a little oil and lemon-juice, and twelve hours later, cut up the meat in thick slices; dish, surround it with hard-boiled eggs, gerkins, capers, chopped parsley and onion, then pour its marinade over, and serve. 478. Timbale, snail-like-fashion (D. 71). — Butter the inside of a dome- mould. Take a pound and a quarter of fine short paste, divide it into several parts, which roll into strings, the size of a macaroni ; place them against the sides of the mould, beginning at the centre, then spread over the paste a thin layer of fresh pork mince, mixed up with a chopped truffle. Cut into scollops, two or three scalded sweet- breads, cooled under weight. Fry, in melted fat-bacon, a few spoonfuls of fine- herbs ; onions, shalot, mushrooms; when their moisture is evaporated, add six ounces