222 COSMOPOLITAN COOKERY. into the form of rings; take them one by one, and set them up on those first placed on the baking-sheet, covering them exactly ; egg the top of the paste, prick slightly the bottom-flats, and bake these ‘bouchées’ in a hot oven for eighteen minutes. When of a nice gold color, and the paste is done, take them off the oven, immediately detaching them from the baking-sheet, and tilling them with the prepared ‘salpicon’. Dish them on a folded napkin, and send them up immediately. 520. Mince (hâchis) of raw veal and bacon. — Remove carefully the sinews of about a pound of raw veal, minion-fillets, or meat from the ‘noix’ ; cut it up in pieces, add to it.the same quantity of fresh bacon, also cut up ; season highly with salt and spices, and put the whole into a chopping-machine, to convert it into paste. Take it out afterwards into a kitchen-basin, and keep it for use in a cool place. 521. Cooked veal-force-meat. — Pare a pound of minion-fillet of veal, cut it up in small dice, mix the meat with half a pound of fresh bacon, also in small dice. Fry, in a stewpan, two or three spoonfuls of chopped onion; when of a nice color, mix in it the meat, season with salt and good spices*, and fry it until about done ; then add five or six chopped mushrooms,' which cook until their moisture be extracted. Take the stewpan off the fire, let the meat cool, and pound it with a quarter of its volume of panada ; then add three or four yolks of eggs ; pass them through a sieve, place the force-meat in a kitchen-basin, work it with a spoon, and add to it a pinch of chopped parsley. 522. Timbale of minion-fillets of veal. — Pare two minion-fillets of veal ; trim away the skin and the sinew, cut them transversally into slices, the third of an inch thick, and season with salt and spices. Fry in butter two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion ; add to it the minion-fillets, which fry until set; add half a pound of raw ham, cut up in thin squares, and four or five raw truffles, peeled and cut in slices ; fry all together for a few minutes, and moisten the ‘ragout’ with the quarter of a glass of madeira ; reduce it to a glaze, and remove the stewpan back. Chop the trimmings of the raw truffles with half a pound of lean veal, the same quantity of fresh fat-bacon, and five ounces of raw ham ; season the preparation * Good spices, prepared with suitable care and skill, add greatly to the pleasant odor of the dishes, and at the same time do not irritate, but invigorate the stomach. Spices, however, with such conditions of excellence, are very rarely to be purchased. But there is in Paris, and no doubt also to be had in London, a new article of commerce, duly put together by a man of business ; the spices in which include, in my opinion, all the qualities to be desired : they are known by the name of‘cooking-spices’ (épices des cuisiniers) ; and are the only ones in use now, in well-provided kitchens.