467 ENTREMETS. — VEGETABLES. 1050. Spanish ‘menestra’. — Get some various vegetables ; such as tender artichokes, lettuces, green-pease, broacl beans, asparagus, french-beans, red sweet ‘poivrons’, and specially some Spanish truffles (mcmcqirillos). Pick, and pare these vegetables, as they variously require; blanch them (except the truffles) separately, and keep them on a sieve. Chop one onion, put it into a stewpan with lard, which fry without allowing to take color ; add to it half a pound of raw ham cut in squares, sprinkle over a pinch of flour, and moisten with gravy or broth, stirring the sauce, until boiling; it should be thin ; at the first bubbling, remove the pan on a moderate fire, and add, by turns, the vegetables, beginning by those taking more time ; add a bunch of parsley, gar- nished with a bay-leaf, and continue cooking the vegetables, without touching them with a spoon. Season them, when done ; drain them gently on a sieve, placed over a flat stewpan, thus preserving the sauce; which reduce, until well thickened, and succulent; then add to it the minced truffles, boiling them for two seconds, pour the vegetables into the sauce, and warm them. Now dish them up, and surround with bread-‘croutons’. 1051. Mussaca, Moldavian fashion. — Procure five or six egg-plants (aubergines), cut each of them in two, diminish a little their thickness lengthwise: salt them, extract the water, wipe, and fry them on both sides, draining them after- wards on a sieve. Peel five or six egg-plants more, cut them in slices rather thick, let them macerate with salt for a few minutes ; wash, dry them on a cloth ; flour, and fry them on both sides, until about done, and drain on them a sieve. On the other hand, pare and bone half a loin of mutton ; cut the flesh transver- sally into scollops, which fry quickly, with a little lard, and a few trimmings of ham ^ and bacon : season, and let cool. Chop two onions, fry them in a stewpan, without allowing to take color ; add to them a few handfuls of chopped mushrooms, reduce their moisture, and remove the stewpan back, adding the vegetables and chopped mutton. Sprinkle over the preparation a handful of bread-crumbs, and a little parsley, and thicken it with an egg. Mask the bottom and sides of a ‘charlotte’-mould rubbed with lard, with the l half egg-plants, pressing them close one against the other, leaving no opening ; and till the cavity, by layers, with the sliced egg-plants, alternating them with the force- I meat. The mould being full, cover it on the top with a round piece of buttered paper, keep it in the Oven (at a moderate heat), for three quarters of an hour ; when done, turn the ‘entremets’ out on a dish. 1052. Egg-plants (aubergines), with parmesan. — Peel half a dozen tender egg-plants ; cut up the flesh in slices, sprinkle them over with salt, thus to extract the water; drain, and fry them, over a brisk fire, until about done ; season, 30*