BUTCHER'S MEAT. — BEEF. 183 At serving-time, drain both the tongues, round them neatly on their thickest part, and from this part cut off one piece, which then carve into regular slices. Dish the two tongues, in the order represented hy the drawing, but applying them against a support of fried bread fixed on the dish, then masked with some raw force-meat, which is poached in the oven. Bring back into its place the piece cut off, entirely glaze the tongues, surround them on their basis with a Tagout’ h la financière’ Fig. (Jl. surround the Tagout’ with a garnish of 'quenelles’ formed with the spoon, and other 'quenelles’ studded with truffles; send up separately a boatful of good brown-sauce, reduced with a little madeira-wine. , 422. Galizian-srazzi. — Choose a pound of beef-fillet from off the side next the head, trim the meat, chop fine, then mix with about a quarter of a pound of beef-suet, also chopped ; now season this preparation with a little salt and pepper, then divide in two parts, in order to get two thin strips of seven or eight centimeters (about three inches) of width. On these strips spread a layer of cooked fine-herbs, composed of chopped onions and mushrooms, thickened with a handful of grated r bread-crumb, and finished with chopped parsley. This done, cut the strips transversally of equal length and width, then roll them on themselves in the shape of 'paupiettes’, shutting the preparation in between the folds of the meat. Solder the line of juncture, and range these 'srazzi’ one by one into a buttered flat stewpan. Set the stewpan over the fire, fry the 'srazzi’, turning them carefully. As soon as the meat has set, pour on a little good gravy, cover the stewpan ; finish cooking the 'srazzi’ on a moderate fire. At serving-time, drain the 'srazzi’, pare their ends, range them on a dish ; slightly thicken the cooking-stock with a little sauce, then let it boil up, and pour it over the 'srazzi’. 423. Srazzi, Polish fashion. — Boil three ounces of buckwheat-groats ([kascha), with broth, salt, and butter ; but short of moisture, so as to get it consistent . As soon as it is ready, take it off the fire, season it, and finish with a few tablespoon- fuls of cooked fine-herbs.