166 COSMOPOLITAN COOKELY. Yorkshir e-pudding — is prepared with half a pound of flour, four whole eggs, half a pint of milk, a little salt, and a few tablespoonfuls of melted fat. Yorkshire- pudding is cooked, either in the drippings of the roast-beef, or in the oven, on a baking-sheet with upturned rim, the bottom of which is covered with a thin layer of good pure fat. 384. Fillet of beef, à la Vernon. — For the creation of this dish, nowa- days so well known, we are indebted to Lord Vernon. His Lordship had resided a long time in Italy, and was, no doubt, a critical amateur of the cookery of that country. Pare a fillet of beef, lard, season, and place it in a kitchen-basin, long in form ; moisten to half its height, with a cooked and tepid 'marinade’, let it macerate therein for six or eight hours ; place it afterwards in a stewpan garnished with vegetables, bacon, and ham ; moisten the fillet to half its height, partly with the marinade, and partly with some gravy prepared with its trimmings. Let the liquid boil quickly for ten minutes, and withdraw the stewpan on to a moderate tire, with hot ashes on the lid, basting the fillet often ; when done, strain the stock, skim off its fat, pour in a little broth and madeira, reduce it to half-glaze; thicken the stock with a little brown- sauce, and three tablespoonfuls of cocoa (chocolate without sugar) dissolved, and diluted with a little broth. Add to the sauce two or three tablespoonfuls of red- currant jelly, two handfuls of dried currants softened in water, and a handful of roasted (torréfiés) 'pignoli’ (kernels of pine-apple). When ready to serve, dish the fillet, glaze it, pour the sauce on the dish, and send up separately some 'croquettes’ of macaroni. 385. Fillet of beef, with truffles. — Trim a fillet of beef, interlard it with raw truffles, season, lay it in a kitchen-basin long in form; pour over a 'mirepoix’ of vegetables, cooked with a glass of madeira, adding to it the trimmings of raw truffles ; and let it macerate for twelve hours ; drain it afterwards, mask it with the vegetables and the trimmings, of truffles, wrap it up in thin layers of fat bacon, and place it in a roasting-pan spread with chopped fat and vegetables, basting it with the 'marinade’. Then push it into the oven, and bake it short of moisture ; when three-parts done, remove the bacon and vegetables, finish cooking it, basting often ; then drain, and keep it hot. Dilute the cooking-stock with a little broth ; let it boil, strain it, then skim off its fat, and reduce it to half-glaze. Add then to it a little sauce, and four raw truffles, cut into dice; reduce it again, till succulent. When ready to serve, dish up the fillet, and pour the sauce over it. 386. Fillet of beef, ‘à la Richelieu’ (D. 57). — Pare a good fillet of beef, lard its centre with bacon, and mask the fillet on both its ends with thin layers