287 BUTCHER’S MEAT. — PORK. Introduce the force-meat into salted sheep’s gut, soaked in water, and carefully cleansed. Tie these bowels up at distances of four or tive inches, thus marking the length of the puddings ; which place in a large stewpan ; cover with water and milk, half and half. Warm the liquid, without allowing it to boil ; let the puddings half-cool in the liquid, then drain, and hang them up in the air. Twelve hours afterwards, prick the surface of the puddings with a needle, broil them on a moderate fire, turning them. 680. Zampino, with french-beans (D. 104). — In Italy and Vienna they think a great deal of a ‘zampino’ (‘hand’, 7. (’. foot and leg, of young pork,) from Modena, and they are quite right. For my own part, I do not know any product of this nature, more cleverly contrived, or more successfully achieved, than this ‘zampino’. The only thing to regret, is, that the ‘zampino’ is not sufficiently and better known to epicures. Choose a ‘zampino’ freshly salted, having soaked it for two hours, drain, and wrap it up in a fine cloth ; tie, and place it in an oval stewpan, moistening plentifully with cold water; make the liquid boil, draw the pan on the side of the tire, keeping the stock simmering for two hours, after which, take the pan quite off the fire, leaving the ‘zampino’ in, and twenty minutes after, unpack, and dish it on a garnish of french-beans or sour-crout. 681. Cervelas of Strasburg. — Trim away the fat and sinew of twelve pounds of beef; chop it fine with a handful of salt, and half a spoonful of salt- petre. Chop six pounds of pork, and two pounds of fresh bacon; add them to the beef, season the mince with four tablespoonfuls of pepper, two of pimento, and two of coriander ; (all of which pulverised ;) chop it a little longer, moistening with a glass of cold water. When the mixture is complete, fill some middling-sized guts, tie them up, so as to mark the length of the ‘cervelas’; smoke them for two days, and boil carefully; take them out of their stock, as soon as ever the water is to be seen, between the guts and the farce ; wrap them in a cloth, and leave them to cool. 682. Pig’s feet, as at St. Menehould. — The pork-butchers of St. Menehould, in Lorraine, have very long enjoyed the renown of preparing pig’s feet,