COMPARISON OF THE EYE 28G Reverting to the sensible spot in the retina, it does not appear that we are authorised in terming it a spot. The same law governs vision when we look to a fine point of a needle, or to an object in an extensive landscape. We look to the point of a pen, and we can rest the attention on the point upon the one side of the slit, to the exclusion of the other, just as we can select and intently survey a house or a tree. If the sensible spot were regularly *' efficacy, it is necessary that the almost infinitely minute impulse " of the adjacent ethereal molecules should be often and regularly " repeated, so as to multiply and concentrate their effect. Thus, as " a great pendulum may be set in swing by a very minute force, " often applied at intervals exactly equal to its time of oscillation, " or as one elastic body can be set in vibration, by the vibration of *' another at a distance propagated through the air, if in exact " unison, even so we may conceive the gross fibres of the nerves of " the retina to be thrown into motion by the continual repetition of " the ethereal pulses: and such only will be thus agitated, as from "their size, shape, or elasticity, are susceptible of vibrating in " times exactly equal to those at which the impulses are repeated. " Thus it is easy to conceive how the limits of visible colour may " be established : for if there be no nervous fibres in unison with " vibrations more or less frequent than certain limits, such vibra- " tions, though they reach the retina, will produce no sensation. " Thus, too, a single impulse, or an irregularly repeated one, pro- " duces no light. And thus also may the vibrations excited in the " retina continue a sensible time after the exciting cause has " ceased, prolonging the sensation of light (especially if a vivid " one) for an instant in the eye in the manner described.''—Sir ,J. F. W. Herschel, Art. Light. Enc. Met. Now it does appear to me that this reasoning is inconsistent with the phenomena above noticed.