OF THE MUSCULAR SENSE. The Abbe Nollet, after extolling the sense of touch as superior to all the other senses, and as deserving to be considered the genus under which the others should be included as subordinate species, makes this remark—" Besides, it has " this advantage over them, to be at the same " time both active and passive: for it not only " puts it in our power to judge of what makes to show that the muscles had two classes of nerves—that on exciting one of these, the muscle contracted : that on exciting the other, no action took place. The nerve which had no power to make the muscle contract was found to be a nerve of sensa- tion. Thus, it was proved that there is a nervous circle con- necting the inuscles with the brain : that one nerve is not capable of transmitting what is called the nervous spirits, in two different directions at one instant of time; but that for the regulation of muscular action, there is a nerve of sensibility to convey a sensation of the condition of the muscles to the sensorium, as well as a nerve of motion for conveying the mandate of the will to the muscles. In their distribution through the body, the nerves which possess these two distinct powers of conveying sensation and of exciting the muscles to contraction are wrapped up, or, as it were, woven together in the same sheath ; and they present to the eye the appearance of one nerve. It was only by exa- mining the nerves at their roots, that is, where they arise from different tracts of the brain and spinal marrow, and before they have coalesced, that I succeeded in demonstrating their distinct functions. In the face, the nerve of motion passes by a cir- cuitous course, apart from the nerve of sensation, to be dis- tributed to the muscles; and therefore the distinct characters of these two nerves were more easily proved by experiment than in any other part of the body. See the Philosophical Trans- actions on the " Nervous Circle which connects the Voluntary Muscles with the Brain," and the " Nervous System." 4to. Longman.