. C.r' .THE COMPLETE CONFECTIONER &c, ' [Price ios. 6d.]THE COMPLETE CONFECTIONER; O R, The Whole ART of CONFECTIONARY: FORMING A Ready Affiftant to all Genteel Families ; GIVING THEM A PERFECT KNOWLEDGE of CONFECTIONARY ; WITH INSTRUCTIONS, NEATLY ENGRAVED ON TEN COPPER - PLATES, How to decorate a Table with Taste and Elegance, Without the Expence or AfTiftance o£a Confectioner. By a person, Late an Apprentice to the well-known MelTrs. Negri and Witten, of Berkley-Square. LONDON: PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR ; AND SOLD BY J. MATHEWS, NO. l8, STRAND, M DCC LXXXIX. £ Price loj. 6d, neatly bound. ] Entered at Stationers Hall,Since the firft Proporals were printed, the Author has feen a Book entitled The Confectioner’s and Houfe- kceper’s Affiftant, written by a Mrs. Glafs, which has obliged him to change the Title of his Book, left the , Public Ibould confider it the fame, or fome fuch fpurious ProduClioot* - I PREFACE. ■8 ’STg-"-' ■■■ ' 3- Wh IL E the paths of litera- ture, under the foftering guidance of affiduity and emulation, daily ac- quire new ornament and additional improvement, it is rather with fur-^ prife we perceive thofe occupations undifplayed that conduce to our immediate intereft, Whilft we con- fider the manifefl: advantage that wouldVI P.R E F A C E; would undoubted! V accrue to num- bers by unfolding a knowledge of ConfedUonary, it appears rather ex- traordinary that the contra6ted ideas of felf-intereft have as yet fo uni- formly taken place as to prohibit a publication on the fubje(9:: the vaft expence attending the inftruc- tions given by thofe even poorly (qualified, has in a great meafure kept it concealed from the obfer- vation of many, whofe profpedls in life might turn upon a fituation where it would infinitely ferve : thofe unprovided females in particular, who wifh to improve, and perhaps to excel, however narrow their abi- litiesT7I1 P R E F A C E. litles, will find in the following fheets wherewith to fatisfy their defires with regard to every infor- mation in the bufinefs.- The opportunities the author has * had, however extendve, would not have enabled him to complete his proje(St, did he not make ufe of a long feries of obfervation, connedled with the cleared: care and attention ; the fuccefs of his hopes and expect- ations, muff naturally depend upon the judgment and candour of his reader. Could his wifh'to be of fer- vice be pofilbly diftinguifhed in a feleCted point of view from the work •vlli PREFACE. work itfelf, it would fcreen from cenfure any miftake he might have unwarily fallen into; the latter however (as he has endeavoured) he hopes he has completely avoided ; for, on the mofi: fteady reviewal, nothing appears either deficient or re- dundant. But as he has furrendered his exertions to a voluntary trial, he is happy in the confideration that he is to appear before a tribunal, where, if the effects of his labours prove fatisfa£lory, he cannot poffibly fail of a reward in commendation; and, if in any manner deficient, of being treated with favourable lenity.’ CON-b No. S. I ( ) CONTENTS. e . —Xff 1" ' . ’"» BISCUITS, &c. *No. I. N E Savoy Bifcuits* ■ 2. Fine Spunge Bifcuits, 3. Orange Heart Bifcuits, 4. Naples Bifcuits, 5. Syringe Bifcuits, ' 6. Robe de Chambre Bifcuits, 7. Common Savoy Bifcuits, tX CONTENTS^ No. 29. No. 8. Sweetmeat Bifcuits, , 9. Monkey- Bifciiits. ,10. Spiee Bifcults* 11. ’Toad in a Hole Bifcuits*- 12, Millefruit Bifcuits. 13. Mafapan Bifcuits*. 14, Judges Bifcuits. 13. §lueen's Cakes. 16. Tar mouth Bifcuits.. 17. Kings Bifcuits*r 18. Chocolate Bifcuits. 19. Italian Water Bifcuits. 2 0. IVater Cakes with Carr away Seeds, 21. French Rujks. 22. Fine Sweetmeat Gingerbread Nuts* 23. Turtulongs, fine, for Breakfaji, 24. Fine Shrezvfbury Cakes. 25. Lemon Bifcuits. 26. The W(^ to Blanch Almonds. 27. French Maccaroons. 2 8. EngliJhMaccaroons,commonly called Common.CONTENTS. xi No. 29. Ratifie Bifcuits^ ‘ 30. Orange BifcuitS', 31. Filbert Bifcuits. 32. Pijlachio Nut Bifcuits* 33. Orange Flower Bifcutis* 34. Fine Almond Fagots, 35. Fine Ginger Cakes, 36. Frejb Apricot Bifcuits, 37. Frejh Barberry Bifcuits, 3'8. Frejh Damfon Bifcuits^ or Refined Cheeje. 39. A Small Fine Almond Cake, 40. A Large Rich Two Guinea Cake, 41. A Small Rich Seed Cake, 42. A Small Rich Plumb Cake, WAFERS. \ 43• L E MO N Wafers, 44. Barberry Wafers, 45. Orange Wafers, b 2 No, 46.XII CONTENTS. • * No. 46, Bergamot Wafers, 47. Violet Wafers, 48. Peppermint Wafers, • DROPS. « 49. E, R G ji 0 Drops,- 30. Currant Drops, 31'. Chocolate Drops, 32. Danifon Drops, 33. Seville Orange Drops, 34. Lemon Drops, 55, Orange Drops, 36. Peppermint Drops, 37. 'Drops, 38. Barley Sugar Drops. P R A W L O N G S, Sc. - 59. Lemon Trazvhngs- 60. Prawlongs. No. 6i,Xlll- CONTENTS. No. 61. Fijlachio Frawhngs, Red, 62. Burnt Filbert Prazvlongs, Red, 63. Orange Flower Prawlongs, 64. Seville Orange Jumbles, 65. Burnt Almonds, Red, 66. Burnt Almonds, White, 67. Pijlachio Prawlongs, White, 68. Burnt Filberts, White, 69. Merings in the Form of-Eggs, , 70. Almond Pajie, 71. Orgeat Pajle, 72. Orgeat Syrup, / 73. Lemon Syrup, 74. Orange Syrup, 75. Seville Orange Syrup,. 76. Pine Apple Syrup, ' 77. Capillaire Syrup, \ JELLIES,3UV, CONTENTS. . J E L L I E S, ©c. No. 78. CuRRANf Jellj, Red and WhHe. 79. Rqfberry Jelly, for Ices. 80. Apple Jelly', to put over your Fruit, - or what you like. 81. Hartjkorn Jelly. 82. Calvesfooi Jelly. 83. Black Currant Jelly. 84. To make Blomonge. 83. Goojberry Jelly. JAMS, ^c. / 86. RaSBERRY Jam. 87. Apricot Jam. 88. Strawberry Jam, 89. Barberry Jam. .90, Peach Jam. No 91,t CONTENTS. is:y No. 91. Black Plumb Jam, ^2. RaJherrj Cakes, 93. Seville Orange Pajle Cakes, 94. Millefruit Rock Candy, 95. Rock Sugar of dll Colours, -96. Barley Sugar, 97. Phe Way to make all Sorts cf Car- raw ay Comfits. -98. Cardamom Comfits, 99. Carimel Crocont, 100. Whip, for a Prfle, 101. Everlafiing Whipfyllabub to put into Glajfes, 102. Floating IJland. 103. Iceing for a Rich Cake, 104. Fo Clarify Sugar for Sweet- meats, r ' b4 ESSENCEScvi CONTENTS. No. ii7v ESSENCE for ICES. No. 105. CeDRATT EJfence, 106. Lemon EJfence, 107. Orange EJence, WATERS, for ROUTS. 108. Lemonade. 109. Orangeade, no. Currant IVater made of Jelly, 111. Frejh Currant fVaier, 112. Cedraty IVater, , • 113. Rajberry Watery of Rajherry Jam, 114. Frejh Rajherry Water, 115. Bergamot Water, 116. Apricot Water,CONTENTS. xvii No. 133. \ 117. Strawberry Water, of Straws berry Jam, 118. FreJJo Strawberry Water, 119. Barberry Water, 120. Beach Water, 121. Pear Water, 122. Cherry Water, ,123. Orgeat, : * ‘ ; ICE CREAMS. 124. B ARB ERRT Ice Cream% 125. Rajherry Ice Cream, 126. Strawberry Ice Cream, 127. Apricot Ice Cream, 128. Bine Apple Ice Cream, 129. Currant Ice Cream, 130. Biftachio Ice Cream, 131. Bifcuit Ice Cream, 132. Plain Ice Cream,^xviri CONTENTS, No, 134. No. 133. Brown Bread Ice Cream, 134. Royal Ice Cream. 135. Ginger Ice Cream. 136. Frejh Strawberry Ice Cream, 137. FreJJo Rajberry Ice Cream. 138. Frejh Apricot Ice Cream. 139. Coffee Ice Cream. 140. Chocolate Ice Cream, 141. Seville Orange Ice Cream, 142. Lemon Ice Cream. 143. Ghina Orange Ice CirecKn. 144. Burnt Filbert Ice Cream. 145. Burnt Ice Cream, 146. Millefruit Ice Cream. 147. FreJJo Currant Ice Cream. 148. Cedraty Ice Cream, 149. Burnt Almond Ice Cream, 130. Parmafan Cheefe Ice Cream, 151. Damfon Ice Cream, 132. Prunello Ice Cream, 133. Peach Ice Cream.No. 170. I CONTENTS. xix No. 154. Black Currant Ice Cream* 155. Cherry Ice Creanu WATER ICES, Of all Sorts, 156. B ARBEURT Walc-r Ice: 157.. Rajherry Water Ice, 158. Strawberry Water Ice, 159. Apricot Water Ice. *j6o. Bme .Apple Water Ice, 161. Chocolate Water Ice, 162. Seville Orange Water Ice, 163. China Orange Water Ice, 164. Lemon PFater Ice, 163. Bunch Water Ice, • 166. Beach Water Ice, 167. Currant Water Ice, 168. Frejh Currant Water he, 169. Frejh Rajberry Water Ice,XX' CONTENTS. No. 184. No. ryo. Damfon Water Ice. 171. Frunello Water Ice. 1"]^.'Black Currant Water Ice. 173. Grape Water Ice. 174. Cherry Water Ice, 175. Bear Water Ice. 176. Millefruit Water Ice. 177. Bergamot Water Ice, 178. Cedraty Water Ice, 179. FreJJo Strawberry Water Ice. FRUITS PRESERVED IN " BRANDY. 180. Ap RI COTS, in Brandy, 181'. Beaches, in Brandy, 182. Morelia Cherries, in Brandy, 183. Mogul Blumbs, in Brandy,CONTENTS. XXI No. 195. 184. Green Gages, in Brandy, 185. Green Orange Plumbs, in Brandy. 186. Grapes in Brandy, PRESERVED SWEETMEATS, WET. . . . ' 187. Gr REN Apricots, PVet. 188. Apricots Ripe, IVet, 189. Preferved Pine Apple Chips, mt, 190. Angelica, IVet, 191. Barberries in Sprigs, Wet, 192. Rajberries Whole, IVet, ■ 10 2. Currants in Bunches, Whole, Wet. 194. Cedraties Whole, Wet,xxil CONTENTS. No. Cherries Sweety in Syrup, 19.6. Cherries not Sweet, IVet, or Dry,- 197. Cucumbers or Gerkins, Wet, 198. Comport Golden Pippins,, Wet, 199. Comport French Pears, White,- Wet, , 200; Comport French Pears, Red, Wet, 201. Damfons Whole, Wet. 202. Grapes in Bunches, Wet, 203. Goojberries in the Form of Hops, Wet, 204. Green Goojberries, Wet, 205. Lemons, Whole, Wet, 206. Seville Oranges'Whole, Wet,- 207. Orange Peels, Wet. 208. Orange Chips, Wet, 209. Lemon Chips, Wet, 210. Lemon Peels, Wet, 211. Pears, Wet, 212. Green Orange Plumbs, Wet, ' 213. Mogul Plumbs, Wei, No, 214.C O N T E N T xxiii No. 214. Tine Applei Whole^ Wet. 215. A Small Tellom Plumb^ PFet^ 216. Strawberries Whole^ Wet^ 217. Apricot Chips, PP'et, 218. Green Gages, PVet,. \ ' DRIED FRUITS. 219. Damsons, Dried. 220. Mogul Plumbs, Dried, 221. Green Orange Plumbs, Dried.. 222. Green Gages, Dried. 223. Pears Candied, or Dried. 224. Cherries, Sweet, Dried. 225. Cherries, not Sweet, Dried. 2z6. Apricot Chips, Dried, 227. Orange or Lemon Chips, Candied or Dried. 228. Angelica Knots, Dried. 229. Barberries in Bunches, Dried. 230. Lemon Peels, Candied or Dried. No. 231.xxiv CONTENTS. No. 231. Cucumbersf Dried, 232. Green Apricots^ ‘Dried, 233. Apricots full Grown, Dried, 234. Grapes in Bunches, Dried, 235. Pine Apple Chips, Dried, 236. Cedraties, Whole or in garters. Dried, 237. Pafle Knots, Red, or While, THEHate 12 i.Oh’. &1.4*■ i* "Ylo/» »late 8ate 3Complete Confe6tioner. No. I. Fh!e Savoy Bifcuits, « Break twelve eggs and put the yolks .in a bafon, then put in twelve ounces of powdered fugar with the yolks, then ralp the rind of four lemons, and mix and ftir the rind up with the yolks and fugar, and beat them with a wooden fpoon ten minutes, then whilkthe whites in a copper pan, but do not leave whillc-* ing them till they are almoft ftrong enough to bear an egg, or they will go to water and be fpoiled, and when you A thinkTHE COMPLETE think you • have whifked them enough, then mix.the yolks with them, with a wooden fpoon as light as poffible, when it is mixed well, take ten ounces of fine flour as dry as poflible, and ftir it up with the eggs and fugar, but not too much, only till it mixes with the egg-s ; then take a fmall tea-fpoon and take out a fpoonful of the batter and pull it along the paper, and as you pull the fpoon along the paper pufli the batter down with your finger, fo as to make the bif- cuit about three inches long, and about half an inch wide ; then fift fome fugar over them'before you put them in the oven, which mufi; be very hot, but be careful that they are not burnt, for they foon fcorch if you do not watch them ; and when they are done, cut them off ' the paper whilfl: they are hot.3 CONFECTIONER. ’ No. 2. Fine Spunge Bifcuits* ITa iC E three quarters of a pound of (Dwdered fugar, and put It in a bafon, ;ud take twelve eggs and break the Ihites into a copper pan, and put the nlks in with fugar, and beat the fugar d yolks together with a wooden- coon, till you fee the fugar and yolks row up in bladders of wind; then' uifk the whites well till they are almoft to bear an egg on them ; ‘then mix yolks and the fugar with the whites, tth a large fpoon very lightly, and ftir as little as poffible, only till' you ;the whites and yolks are juft mixed ; take ten ounces of fine flour and J>x well with the eggs; then butter ; tin moulds well, before you put the tter in them, otherwife you will not ; them out when they are baked, and. •:en you have filled the tins, lift a lit- A 2 tie'4- THE COMPLETE tie powdered fugar on the top of them, before you put them in the oven ; it makes them a very fine ice : let your oven be moderate, and when baked take them out of the tins while they are hot, for they will come out the better when hot. No. 3, Orange Heart Bifcults, Take three quarters of a pound of powdered fugar, and put in a pewter ba- fon, and put in thirty yolks of eggs with the fugar, and take feven preferved orange peels and pound them in a mor- tar very fine, quite to a -pafte, then take a handful of fweet and half a handful of bitter almonds, and pound them very fine, and mix them with a little orange flower water ; then put four eggs, yolks and whites together, and put them in the bafon with the fugar, eggs, and peel, and mix them all well together withCONFECTIONER. Wth a wooden fpoon in each hand, and beat them till you fee the batter rife very much, though you can hardly beat them too light, beat them till it turns quite white, and puffs up in blad- ders ; then put in half a pound of lifted flour, and mix it with the batter very lightly ; then butter the hearts, fill them, and fife a little powdered fugar over the top of them, before you put them in the oven, which mufl: be rather quick, but‘ not too hot, otherwife they will not be light, and take them out of the tins while they are hot. No. 4. Naple Btfeuits, Take one pound and a half of Lifbon fugar, put it into a little copper faucepan, and three quarters of a pint, of wine meafure, of water, in with the fugar, and one fmall cup full of orange A Q flower6 THE COMPLETE ^ilower water, and boil the fngar with the water till it is all melted ; then break twelve eggs, whites and yolks together, whifk thern well, then pour the Lilbon fyrup boiling hot in with the eggs, and whifk them as fall you can, at the time of pouring in the fyrup, or the eggs will fpoil, and when you have poured it all in, keep whifldng it till it is quite cold and fet, and when it is cold, take one pound and a half of flour, and mix it as light as poflible ; then put two fheets •of paper on the copper plate you bake on, then take one flieet of paper, and make the edges of it fland up about an inch and a half high, and pour your bat- ter in it, lift fome powdered lugar over it, and put it in the oven, and attend it carefully, to prevent its burning, on the top; do not leave the oven one minute ; .when you think it is near baked enough; and when baked, take it out in the pa- per,CONFEC T I ONER. *] 'per, and let it (land till cold, then turn 'it over, and wet the bottom of the paper, till the paper comes off with eafe, then cut it to what fize you like : you may bake it in fmall tins if you pleafe. No. 5. Syringe Bifcuits* Take one pound of fweet almonds, and pound them im a marble mortar very fine with whites of eggs, but be careful not to make them too wet with the eggs, only juft wet enough to pre- vent the almonds from getting oily, and when you find they get rather dry, then put another white of an egg in them, and pound them fo fine, till you can fcarce feel the leaft lump of an almond in it; then rafp the rind of fix lemons very fine, and put in two pounds and a half of powdered fugar, and mix the fu- gar, almonds, and the peel altogether as a A 4 pafte;'THE COMPLETE 8 % '* # pafte; then take a fyringe mould made of copper, about twelve inches long, and about two inches wide, made round, and to fcrew off at the bottom, with a little round copper plate, the fizc of the infide of the fyringe with a little hole cut in the middle of it, in the lliape of a fiar, and the mould muft have two handles about the middle of it; * then roll yoiir pafte to half fill your mould; then take a rammer of wood the thicknefs of the mould, put it over the pafte and fqueeze it out againfl: your breaft upon the drel- fer, which muft be floured a little, fo as not to ftick, and it will come out at the bottom of the mould, then cut it in pieces about three inches long, and join them in rings, and put three Iheets of paper under-them, before you put them into the oven, otherwife they will burn, for your oven muft be very brifk. See plate X, » . - No. 6,jPlatelOI - . i V •C O N F E C T I O Iff E KV / p No. 6. Robe de Chambre Bifcuits* Ta KE fyrup of fugar, and boll it over a brifk charcoal fire, till k comes to carimile, then have fome Jordan al- monds read)'', and put them into the carimile fugar, kir them up with a large wooden fpoon over and over, till you fee they are covered with fugar and dry, then throw them into a wooden fieve, and pick them that flick together and break them off, then make fome iceing with whites of eggs and powdered fugar, and a little orange flower water, and put the almonds into the iceing, and fee them well covered with it, then put two fheets of paper on the plate, and put your bifeuits at a convenient diflance from each other, fo as not to touch ; let the oven be moderate to colour finely ’the iceing, and when they come out, let themno THE COMPLETE them ftand till they are cold, before you take them off’the papers. No. 7. Common Savoy Btfcuhs, Break fix eggs in a little copper fauce'pan, with half a pound of powdered fugar, vvhifk the eggs and fugar very light, keep whilking them half an hour; then mix half a pound of lifted flour with the eggs and fugar with a wooden fpoon ; then take a tea-fpoon, and one fpoonful of batter and pull it along the paper, and as you pull the fpoon along the paper, pufli the batter down with your finger, fo as to make the bifcuit about three inches long, and about half an inch wide ; then lift fome fugar over them, before you put them in the oven, which muff be very hot, but be careful that they are not burnt, for they foon fcorch if you do not watch them, «• and'confectioner. :it and when they are done, cut them off the paper whilft they are-hot, &c. No. 8. Sweetmeat Bifcuits, Take fome Naples blfcuits that have been baked, and cut them in fmall pieces, about an inch and a half fquare, and about one inch thick, and lay them on your wire, and ' put them in the oven juft to crifp them, then make Tome iceing with whites of eggs, and fugar and orange flower water, and dip one fide of the bifcuit in it; then cut fome fwcetmeats in fmall pieces, fuch as le- mon and orange {leel, and angelico, and juft throw over the top of them, put them on your wire : you need no paper under them, then put them in the oven to harden the iceing, and they are done. No. 9.IS THE COMPLETE No. 9. Monkey Bifcuits, nr i AKE fix eggs and break the whites and yolks feparate, and mix the weight of fix eggs of powdered fugar with the yolks, and beat them well together, then put the whites in a copper pan, and whifk them well, and put a little cina- mon pounded in with the yolks and fugar, then mix the yolks and fugar with the whites; then take four eggs and the weight of them of fifted flour, then mix and flir them altogether; then lay three or four fheets of paper on your plate you bake on ; and take a tea fpoonful of batter, and put it on the upper Iheet of paper, then make them round and about the fize of a half crown piece, and join two of them together with the fpoon ; and lift a little powder- ed fugar over them, and put them in the oven, watch them for they are not long • ‘ a bakingCONFECT I O N E R;; a- baking, and * when they come out, cut them off the paper while they are hot, and put the two under fides of them together. No. 10. Spice Bifcuits, Take three pounds of flour; and three pounds of fweet almonds cut in. half, and put them with the flour and three ounces of fpice, fuch as cinnamon and mace pounded, and one pound of, powdered fugar, and mix them altogether on your dreffer, then .take three pounds of Tifbon fugar, and put it in a faucepan with fome water and juft boil it, and then mix it w'lth the reft of the ingre- dients on the dreffer, and when it is all mixed to a pafte, heat your oven very hot, and put three papers next your plate, then roll your pafte to the fize of a-large rolling pin ; then put it on your paper.X4' THE COMPLETE paper, and flat it down with your hand* about three inches wide, but higher in* the middle than at the ends, then put them in the oven, and when they are baked take them out while hot, cut them with a fharp knife, about the eighth part of an inch thick:, in the form of a ruflc, and you will fee the almonds look very well cut in them. No. II. Toad in a Hole B if cults* Take one pound of fweet, and one ounce and a half of bitter almonds, and pound them in a mortar very fine with water, then one pound and a quarter of Lifbon fugar, and mix it very well with the almonds : do not make it too thin, and remember there are no eggs in this, then put one fheet of paper on your wire, and fome wafer paper on that, then take a fpoon and make )mur bif- cuitsCO N F E C T I O N ERo I5 .cults round on the wafer paper, about-, the fize of a half crown piece ; then put one or two dried cherries in the middle of them ; and fift fome powdered fugar over them, and j)ut them in the oven,, which muft have a moderate heat, and- when they come out, cut the wafer paper round them, but leave the paper at the bottom of them. No. 12. Mdlefruit Bifcuiis. ferved orange peel and cut it in pieces about half an inch long, and not quite a quarter wide; then take fix ounces of angelico, cut it the fame way, and a quarter of a pound of preferved lemon ' peel, and fix ounces of fweet, and one;, ounce of bitter almonds, and let all thefe- be cut the fame way as the orange peel, and put fome whites of eggs, fugar, and ^ a quarter of a pound of pre- orangel6 T H E ■ C O M P L E T E ‘ orange flower water in a bafon, and make an iceing ; then put all thefe into it, and paper your plate with three papers, and make them what fize you chufe, then take a little brufh and touch them here and there with a little cochineal colour, it will make them look well: let your oven not be too hot, only juft to dry the iceing, as it will ftick to- gether well, let them be cold before you take them off, and they will be like a piece of a rock, See. 'No. 13. Mafapan Btilfcuits, Take one pound of fweet almonds an'd pound them very fine, fo fine, that you can fcarce feel the leaft lump, you may ufe water to them; then take one pound of powdered fugar, and put the almonds and fugar in a clean faucepan, and have a clear charcoal fire, but not fierce ;confectioner;' ^7 f.erce; ftir them together over the fire with a wooden fpoon, till the pafte leaves the pan and keeps itfelf together, but keep fiirring it all the time, and be careful that it does not burn to the pan; put it on a drefler with a little flour under it, and work it^up well with your hands till it hangs well together ; then roll, fmall pieces of it about three inches long and about half the thicknefs of your little finger, join the. ends of them, and make them in round rings ; put them on the back of a wooden fieve, and put them in a flove or any dry place where there is fome warmth to come to them, let them flay two pr three days till they are quite hard, and when you want to bake them, take about eight whites of eggs, and put in a bafon, mix fome powdered fugar with .them, and with a wooden fpoon in each hand beat it well ; put a cup full of B orangel8 THE COMPLETE- orange flower water in it beat well; add more powdered fugar to it if there is occafion, to make it a proper thick- nefs, and beat it about a quarter of an hour till you fee it puff up and rife ; take a wire and put your bifcuits in this iceing in the bafon, and take them out and turn them infide down with your finger on this wire, and let the iceing run through this wire into an- other bafon until you fee your rings quite through, then lay three flieets of paper on the plate, let the oven be very flow, and put them in, only until the iceing is fet and they begin to change colour, then take them out and let them fland till they are cold before you take them off. ¥ No. 14. Judges Bifcuits^ TTaKE fix eggs and break them into a copper pan, yolks and whites toge- ther.CONFECTIONER*- I ^ ther, whifk them well for about five mi nutes, mix half a pound of powdered fugar with the eggs, and whifk them for ten minutes, put as many carraway feeds as you think proper, and half a pound of fifted flour, mix it well with a wooden fpoon, and put three papers on your plates; then take a fpoon and drop them on papers about the fize of a crown pie^e, lift fome powdered fugar over them, let them be rather thick in the middle, and the oven rather fharp, and when they come out, cut them off the paper while hot. No. 15. ^em Cakei. ^F^AKE one pound of the belt butter, and rub it well with your hand in the preferving pan until it is as fine as cream, then take twelve eggs, yolks and whites together and whifk them well in B 2 another^0 THE COMPLETE another pan over a gentle fire, mind they' do not burn, for they will without great care; take twelve ounces of powdered fugar, and put with the eggs, keep 'W'hifking them for three minutes, put the eggs and the fugar over the fire 'again and whilk them, and be careful it does not burn at bottom, when it is pretty w-arm take it off and whifk it till it is cold, then mix it well wdth your hand ; take one pound of lifted tflour, and twelve ounces of currants well picked and walked, mix them well with the reft, butter your tin hearts^ and put them on your plate, with three or four papers under them, your oven muff be quick, but if you find it too hot vfor the top put a llieet of paper over them to keep them from burning. No. i6«No. i6. Tar mouth Blfcuits, Tak E fix ounces of currants, wafli i and pick them very clean, dry them well, rub a little flour among them to make them white, and put half a pound of powdered fugar with the currants up- on a clean drelTer; add twelve ounces of flour lifted, and half a pound of the bell frefli butter you can get ; break three eggs, and mix all the ingredients to- gether to become a pafte, that you can roll it on the drefler, the thicknefs of an eighth part of an inch, and then 'Cut them out either round or what « * fhape you fancy. Ak B, Your oven mufl be rather hot, and put two or three flieets of paper under them, do not bake them too much, only juft make them brown.22 THE COMPLETE No. 17. Kings Bifcuiis* Take half a pound of batter and work it about in a bafon with a wooden Ipoon, then ^ take fix eggs and whilk them well; put half a pound of pow- dered fugar in them and whillc them about ten minutes; mix the eggs and fugar with the butter, then take fix ounces of currants well walked, and put them with the eggs, and fix ounces of flour and mix it well altogether, put three flieets of paper on the plate, take a tea-fpoon and drop the pafte on the paper about the fize of a fiiilling, put them in a fiiarp oven, and cut them off while they are hot. No. 18. Chocolate Bifcuits* AKE a quarter of a pound of cho- colate, and put it on a tin, over a fiove toCONFECTIONER. 23 fo make it warm, then put a pound of powdered fugar in a bafon, and when the chocolate is quite warm and foft, put it in with the fugar, and mix it well with about eight whites of eggs, if you find it too thin, mix more powdered fugar with it juft to bring it to a pafte, fo that you can roll it in lumps as big as walnuts : let your oven be moderate, put three papers under them, let the oven juft raife them and make them crifp and firm, and let them be quite cold before you take them off the pa- per. No. 19. Italian Water Bifcuits, TPAKE fix eggs and break them, put the yolks and whites in a copper pan with the weight of the fix eggs of powdered fugar, w’hifk them well for half an hour : take fix more eggs and B 4 ' the24 ,T H -E C a M P L E T S the weight of them of fifted flou?| mix it with them, cut a piece of wood about the fize of the top of a large breakfaft cup, but uot thicker than the eighth of an inch, in the form of a round ring, with a piece project- ing from it to hold by as a handle; take- a table fpoonful of the batter, and with' a large knife fpread it to the ihicknefs of the wood until the rino- is O filled up; lay your knife on the paper clofe to the wood, and lift the wood up, and you will fee your cake on the pa? per : put as many of them on the paper as you can without touching each other; let your oven be very hot^ and they will be baked in five minutes, but take care they- do not burn at bottom; when they .are done let them ftand until they are quite cold, then wet the other fide of the paper and they will come off eafily, put r • jconfectioner: 25 |)Ut them into the oven afterwards, to dry crifp. No. 20. Water Cahs with Carr away Seeds* Ta KE three pounds of powdered fu> gar and four pounds of lifted flour, mix the flour and fugar together on a clean drelTer with' half water and half whites pf eggs, and as many carraway feeds as you think proper, mix all together fa as to make it a very fine pafte, that you can roll it on the dreffer and the thinner the better, cut out the lhape you like with a tin cutter ; round and fcolloped is the general fafhion, but vary the fhape to your own fancy, roil them very thin and they will be the crifper, for if they are npt crifp they arc not worth eating ; put them on a fheet of paper and rather a flow oven, and if you think it too hot, put as many - flieetsI i6 THE C OMPL E TE Iheets of paper as you think fit to prc-* vent them-from being burnt, bake them very little foas jufi: to change the colour of them, and butter that (heet of paper you put them on that they may come off eafily. No. 21 i French Rujks* rpi X AKE a clean copper pan and break into it as many eggs as the yolks will make the weight of a pound, ufe no white in this ingredient, take one pound and a half of powdered fugar and put in with the yolks of eggs, with a large wooden fpoon ftir them up w-elE to- gether about ten minutes, put in three handfuls of carraway feeds, and two pounds of flour and mix all together, roll your pafte on a clean drefler in a roll about fourteen inches long and the thicknefs of a large rolling pin, paperC ON F E C T I O N E<R. 27 paper your plate - witli three fheets of paper befides the Iheets your pafte is on, lay the pafte in a long roll on the paper, and flat it down with your hand, let it be about one inch high in the middle of the pafte, and flat it down toward the edges, rather to a point, and after they are baked, wet the pa- per that they may come off whilfl they are warm, and be careful not to bake them too much, or they will not cut without breaking, then with a lharp knife, cut them about a quarter of an inch thick, in the form of a rufk, and lay them flat on the wire, and put them . into the oven fo as to make them crifp and dry, and they are done. No. 22. Fine Sweetmeat Gingerbread Nuts, Take two pounds of the befl: trea- cle and put it in a large bafon; then take28 T.H E COMFLETB take half a pound of the bed: frefh butter, and carefully melt it, not to oil, pour the butter to the treacle, and ftir it well as you pour it in ; add three quarters of an ounce of the beft pounded ginger, and put in with it, ,two ounces of preferved lemon and orange peel cut very fmall; and two ounces of preferved angelica, likewife ■cut very fmall; and one ounce of corri- ,ander feed pounded, and one ounce and •a half of carraway feeds whole, mix them well together; then break tw^o eggs, , yolks and whites together, and mix as much flour as ^will bring it to a fine pafte; make them the fize you choofe, put them on the bare tin plate, and let your oven be rather brilk. No. 25,C' O N F E C T 11) K'E H / Cf No. 23. Turtulongs, fine, for Brealifaft. Take a cjuarter of a pound of but- ter, three ounces of powdered fugar, one pound and a half of flour, fix eggs, yolks and whites together, and a very lit- tle fait, and mix them altogether on vour drefifer, and have a preferving pari' on the fire, with clean boiling water in it, roll your batter but* about four iitches long, and almoft as thick as your little finger, join it in two round rings the two ends of them, and put them in this boiling water, not too many at a time, then on the other fide, have a bafon with cold water, and as the bif- cuits fwim on the top of the boiling , water, take them out, put them in the ' cold v/ater, and let them lie all night; *take them out next morning and put them into a fieve, and drain all the waterJO' THE COMPLETE water from them ; put them on your plate, without any paper under them, let your oven be very hot, and watch them, and you will fee them rife very much, the more they rife the better, fee they are not burnt, but let them be of a fine brown, and then take them ©ut, 'No. 24. Fm Shrewfbury Cakes, Ta K E a pound of butter, and put it in a little flat pan, rub it till it is as fine as cream; then take one pound of powdered fugar, a little cinnamon and mace pounded, and four eggs, yolks and whites together; beat them with your hand till it is very light; then take one pound and a half of lifted flour, work it together, and roll it on your’ dreflTer, to what fize you like, only very flat, let your oVen be rather flow, and letCONFECTIONER, 0 let them change their colour, then take ^them out* No. 25.- Lemon Bifcuiisl Take one pound of fweet almonds, and pound them very fine dn a mortar, and whites of eggs with them, be care- ful to temper them properly, to pre- vent the almonds from turning to oil, and pound them to a very fine pafie.; put in^three pounds of powdered fugar;‘ and mix it well; take ten lemons^ rafp the rinds of them very fine, and mix it with the almonds and fugar.; •when they are all well mixed, take a knife, and a fmall piece of board in your hand, and try to drop oif the pafte on a Iheet of paper, about half the fize of a nutmeg, and round, put them at a convenient diftance from each other, and put them in the oven, whichJS T H'E c O M P L E T E which if you find too hot, put three or four fheets of paper, or more at bottom; as occafion fhall require under your bifcui'ts, to prevent their fcorching, when they come out of the oven, let them (land till they are quite cold, and they will ..come off the paper very eafily. No. 26. Way to Blanch Almonds, OR all bifcuits that are made with almonds, the almonds mnft always be h>lanched, and for every thing elfe, except it is particularly mentioned to the con- trary, and the quickeft way of blanching them, is this; viz, put a pan of water on the fire and let it boil, then put the almonds in for about ten minutes, drain the water from them, put them on a dreffer and rub them as hard as ■you can with both your hands, and when you think they are almofl blanch- edconfectioner. ^ J <?cl, take a butcher’s tray and put them in, and holding each end of the tray fan them up and down till you fee al- moft all the Hiins are gone over, therr fay them on the dreffer again, and thofe that are not blanched do them -with your fingers, and fan them again; and when they are done keep them very dry or elfe they will get four. No. 27. French Mac car 00ns, Tak E one pound of fweet almonds and pound them very fine in a mortar, with whites of eggs, and be careful they donot oil; then take three pounds of pow- dered fugar and mix with the almonds and whites of eggs to a fine thick- nefs, fo as to come off the fpoon well ; then put three fheets of paper on your plate, and with a table fpoon drop them ctlf at a littjc difiance from each other C fo34- THE COMPLETE £b as not to touch, put them in rather s brifk oven, but mind they do not burn, bake them of a very fine brown colour and crifp; then let them (land till they are cold, before you take them off, but if they are burnt at bottom, they will not come off at all, fo that you mull be very careful of them. No. 28 Engltfb Maccaroons commonly called' . , Common, Take one pound of fweet almonds, and pound them in a mortar with a gill of water, and the reft whites of eggs according to the pounding of them., not too wet nor too dry,'but you need not pound thefe almonds quite fo fine as for the French maccaroons ; then add one pound of the beft Lifbon fugar, and mix it well with your almonds; then take a wire, and lay one Iheet of paper on35 CONFECTlO]^ER> on ,the wire, take fome Iheets of wafer paper, join them, and lay them on the paper that i» on the wire, put your pafte in a bafon, take a table fpoonful of the pafte, and drop it off the fpoon; fife fome powdered fugar, over them; let your oven be pretty quick, but do not bake them much, only till the tops are of a fine brown, for thefe bifeuits mufl: be rather moift when eaten ; when they are done, take them out, and cut the wafer paper off round them, but mind and leave the wafer paper at bottom of them, and round the fides of them. No. 29. Ratifie Bifeuits^ TTaKE half a pound of fwcet al- monds, and half a pound of bitter al- monds, and pound them in a mortar very fine, with whites of eggs; put three pounds of powdered fugar, mix it well C 2 with {THE COMPLETE ■^ith the whites of eggs, to the proper thicknefs intoa bafon ; put two or three fiieets of paper, on the plate you bake on ; take your knife, and the fpaddle made of wood, and drop them on the paper, let them be round, and about the lize of a large nutmeg ; put them in the Oven, which mull be quick, let them have a fine brown, and all a like, but be careful they are not burnt at bottom, dfe they will not come off the paper when baked : let them be cold before }k)u 'take them off. No. 30. Orange Bifeuits, T*' AKE one pound of fweet almonds^ pound them in a mortar very fine with whites of eggs; take ten china oranges, fafp the rind off them very fine, and put it with the almonds; add three pounds of powdered fugar, and mix it well.CONFECTIONER. 37 V^ell, if you find it too thick, put more whites of eggs to it and mix it well; then put two or three Iheets of paper under, befide that you have put them on : let your oven have a moderate heat; ^ drop little round pieces of pafie on your paper, about half as big as a nuti- meg,* and put them in the oven ; let them’ have a fine brown, and take them off when colcT, No. 31. Filbert Blfcuits, Take fome Barcelona filbert nnts> and out them in a mortar to break the A fliells, pick all the Ihells from them clean, pound them in a mortar very fine, and mix whites of eggs with them ; take care they do not oil ; mix three pounds of powdered fugar, with the nuts and whites of eggs to a proper thick- nefs, let your oven have a moderate C 3 hear,38 THE COMPLETE heat, then with the fpaddle and knife', drop fmall pieces, the fame fize as the ©range and lemon bifcuits ; and put two ©r three fheets of paper under them, let theni be a fine brown, and all alike, and let them be cold before you take them off the paper. No. 32. JPiJlachio Nut Bifcuits* Take halfa pound of piftachio nuts and blanch them, pound them in a mor- tar very fine ; mix whites of eggs, and one pound of powdered fugar in a ba- fon, break fixteen eggs, and put the W'hites of them in a copper pan, whilk them very ftrong, fit to bear an egg on them, put the yolks with the fugar and piftachio nuts, beat them well with a fpoon in each hand, mix the fugar, yolks and piftachio nuts, with the whites very lightly, then put one pound and a quarterCONFECTIONER^ 39 quarter of flour, as lightly as poflible ; butter your fpunge tins, and put the pafte in : lift fome powdered fugar over them; before you put them in the oven, let the heat be moderate, and put three papers under the tins : do not let your bifcuits be burnt, but of a fine colour, and take them out of the tins while they are hot. $ No. 33* Orange Flower Bifcuits* Take powdered fugar, what quan* tity you choofe, and put as much white of eggs, as will make the fugar of a thick pafle ; pick fome orange flowers, and mix as many as you like, in pro- portion to your quantity of fugar, and whites of eggs, in a bafon, fo as to be thick enough to roll in little lumps, about the fize of a walnut; let your oven be rather flack or moderate; put three papers between them and the tin C 4 plate.40 THE COMPLETE No. 35 plate, put them in the oven, let thciQ rife to a very light brown, and take them off when cold. r S No. 34. Fine Almond Fag^ois, Cut fome fweet almonds in halves, put them and fome whites of eggs in a bafon together; put a little powdered fugar, -to make the almonds flick to- gether, mix them well together in a bafon; put fome wafer papers on your wire, make the almonds up in little heaps with your fingers, as big as you pleafe ; lift a little pow^dered fugar over them, before you put them in the oven, let them be a little brown, and then take , them out, and cut the wafer paper off round them, that is ragged, and leave the wafer paper at the bottom of them.€0N FEC'T lON'ERi 4I. No. 35. une Ginger Cakes, Take our pounds of flour, and put on your drefler ;■ then take a coppef faucepan, and break fix eggs, and mix them well with a fpoon; put one pint of cream in them, and beat them well, piTt the faucepan over the fire, and flir it tHl it is juft warm ; put two pounds of bur^ ter into the cream and eggs; and one pound of powdered' fugar, and ftir it over a very flovv fire, juft to melt all the butter; put in four ounces of pounded ginger, and when all the butter is melted, pour it all into the middle of the flour, mix it as well as you can, and when you have made it a fine pafte, roll it out with flour under it, on your drefifer, cut them to the fize of the top of a breakfaft cup, and a quarter of an inch thick; put three papers under them, before you put4^ THB COMPI.ET® put them in the oven, which mud be very hot. N. B, Thefe are very good for the domach in cold weather. I No. 36. Frejh Apricot Bifctihs* TpAKEfome of the ripeft apricots, and put them in an earthen jar, in a copper pot; fill the pot up with water round the jar, cover the jar over very clofe, put it over the fire, and let it fim- mer for four or five hours, and then take the apricots, cut and put them in a fieve till next morning, pafs them through the fieve with your hand; to every two pounds of jam, put five pounds of powdered fugar, and beat it well to- ^ gether with two fpoons; then break •into it eight whites of eggs, whifk them very flrong, and mix them with the jam ; gll your paper moulds, and put them in43 C O J^FEC T oner. iri tlie hot ftove, and do the fame as you will fee in the receipt of the barberry bifcuits, and put them in a dry box. No. 37. Frejh Barberry Bifcuits, TT A KE your barberries, and put them in the oven ; pafs them through a fieve^ and allow to every two pounds of bar- berries, five pounds of powdered fugafj fifted through a lawn fieve; mix the fugar with the barberries; break four eggs, put the whites in a copper pan, and whifk them very flrong, mixing them with the jam ; glaze fome thick white paper, cut it in fmall pieces, and make them in fmall fquare boxes, commonly called coffins ; put the jam in as fmooth as poffible, and put them in a fieve i then put them in your fiovc, and let them be in fix or eight days; when they are dry, tear the paper off them, put them44 the complete No. 39. them dry,^ \ No. 38. Frejh Damfon Bifcuits, or R^ned them in a brown earthen pan ; put them in the oven, and let them be, till you find that all the Ikins will come off, and that the damfons are quite baked through; then take them out, Ikin and ilone them, pafs them through a fieve with a fpoon ; put five pounds of pow- dered fugar to every two pounds of jam,- add five w'hites* of eggs whilked very ftrong, mix them well with the jam and fugar; put them in paper moulds, as you do the barberry bifcuits; let them be in the fiove five or fix days, when dry, take the paper off, and put them in your dry box. them in your papered box, and keep • . Cheefe,- fome fine damfons, and putCONFECTIONER. 45. No. 39. Small Fine Almond Cake^ A KE lix ounces of powdered fugan, and put it into a bafon,; then take five -eggs, and put the yolks with the fug&r; add fix ounces of almonds, half bitter, and half fvveet, pound the almonds very fine in a mortar with the white of an e^g or two, put them in with the yolks and fugar, beat them well with a wooden fpoon, whilk the. whites very ftrong in the copper pan, mix the yolks and the reft with the vyhites, as light as poflible, and take two ounces of flour, lifted very fine, and mix it with the.reft: paper the heap that you mean to bake it in, with three papers double on the infide of the heap, and four at bottom; let yoqr.oven be very brilk, and before you put it in, lift a little'powdered fugar .over the top -of it, if you find after it has been in the oven46 THE COMPLETE • oven a little time, that it is too hot for it on the top^ put one or two fheets of paper on the top of the cake, to pre- vent its fcorching. ' They will not take above half an hour baking, if your oven is proper for them. No. 40. ^ Large Rich Two Guinea Cahe* Take a large flat copper perferving pan ; then take four pounds of the beft frefh butter and rub the butter very fine ; take another large copper pan and break fifty four eggs, whifking them ten minutes; put four pounds of pow- dered fugar, and whifk the eggs and - fugar together over the fire., till you find it pretty warm, take it off, and whilk it till cold, mix it well with the butter, with your hand, and put in an ounce of mace and cinnamon pounded, and two glafTes of brandy ; cut two pounds of lemon and orangeCONFECTIONER. 47 orange peel, and citron, and one pound of fweet almonds; take five pounds and three quarters of flour, and lift it, put in half of it, then take four pounds of clean currants and put in. . N, B, When you have put half your flour in, then add a quarter of a pound of bitter almonds, pounded with a little powdered fugar, juft to keep them from oiling, put the reft of the flour in, and paper your large heap, putting four flieets withinfide, and at bottom, and let your oven be very brilk. No. 41. A Small Rich Seed Cake* Break fourteen eggs into a copper pan, whilk them ten minutes;- then take one pound of butter, and rub it well with your hand to a cream; put one pound of powdered fugar to the eggs, ^nd whilk them over the fire three mi- nutes, fnutes, then vvhifk them till they are cold, afterwards mix them with the butter, with' your hand as light as you can ; put two or three handfuls of carraway feeds in, and fome fweet almonds cut; and a lit- fle cinnamon and mace; mix one pound and a quarter of "flour, as light as you can with your hand-: put three papers with inflde your heap, and four or five at bottom, and let your oven be rather brilk; when you find your cake has fifen, and the oven too 'hot at the top, cover it with a Iheet of paper, and it will be done in about an hour and a half, jor two hours at farthefl. "No. 42. ^ Small Rich Rlumh Cake, Take one pound and fix ounces of currants, wafli and pick them very clean, then dry them, and rub a 'little flour with them, to make them all white; ♦ takeCONFECTIONER# take one pound of butter, and put it Ih- ' to a copper perferving pan, rub it with your hand quite to a cream ; take ano- ther pan, and break fixteen eggs, yolks and whites together, whiik them about ten minutes; take one pound of pow- dered fugar, put it in with the eggs, whifk them well over the fire, and be careful it does not burn at bottom ; make the whilk go to the bottom, and when you feel they are warm, take it off; whifk them till they are quite cold ; be- fore you put them to the butter, mix them well with the butter with your hand, put the pound and fix ounces of currants in with it f put in one pound and a quarter of flour, and mix it with the reft; add half a pound of citronr and lemon and orange peel cut in it; and a handful of fweet almonds cut; and a handful of bitter almonds pound- ed with a little powdered fugar; half D an50 T*H'E COMPLETE an ounce of cinnamon and mace pounds ed and a glafs of brandy ; then paper your hoop, put your cake in the oven, and ,let it be of a regular heat. ■ . "No. 43. 'Lemon Wafers* Take fix lemons, and fquecze into an earthen pan; pound and lift fome double refined fugar and mix it with the lemon juice; put one white of an egg in with it, ■ and mix it up well to- gether with your wooden fpoon, to make it of a fine thicknefs; take fome Iheets of wafer paper, and put one fheet of it on a pewter flieet, or tin plate, put a fpoonful on, and cover the Iheet of wafer paper all over with your knife; cut it in twelve pieces, and put them acrofs a flick in your hot flove, with that fide the pafle is on uppermofl, and you will find they will curl; when .they are half« O N F E C T 10 N'E R. half curled, take them off very carefully* and put ‘them up endways in a lieve, that they may ftand up ; let them be iii' the hot ftove one day, and you will find they will be all curled, and then they are done, f No. 44. Barberry Wafers Barberry wafers are made the fame way as your lemon wafers, only when you have made as many lemon wafers as you want, mix a little cochi- neal with the reft of the pafle, to make it of a fine pink colour, atid if it fhould too thin, put a little powdered fugar with it, and dry them the fame way as the lemons. T) 1 No. 45.5:Z THK COMPLETE, No. 45. Orange Wafers. TPaKE fix china oranges, and rafp the rind of them very fine, cut them in halves, and fqueeze them into a little pan; take three lemons, and fqueeze them in with the orange juice and the rind; add fome powdered fugar lifted through a lawnfieve, and make it of the fame thicknefs as you do for your lemon wafers, and dry them the fame way with wafer paper. No. 46. Bergamot Wafers, Squeeze fix lemons into a little pan; mix with them fome double re- fined powdered fugar lifted through a lawn fieve, fo as to make it of the fame thicknefs as your lemon wafers; add fome effence of bergamot, and mix it wellCONFECTIONER. 53 1 well with one white of an egg; beat it till you fee it is very white j if you find it grow too thick, fqneeze one more le- mon in, and mind you do not make it too flrong of the eflence of bergamot, for if you do, it wdll become bitter, and not pleafant to tafle; then do them the fame way as your lemon wafers. No. 47. Kwlet Wafers, Take fix lemons, and fqueeze them into a little pan ; add fome fine powdered fugar fifted through a lawn fieve, and mix it with the juice, till it is as thick as your lemon wafers; put fome elTence of violets, and mind you get your eflence very flrong ; put a little blue colour, fo as to make it a very fine colour; if you find it too thin, put a little more fugar into it, then fpread it on the wafer paper, as your lemon wafers. D 3 No. 48.54 THE COMPLETE No. 48. Teppermint Prefers, TTaKE fix lemons, and fqueeze them into a little pan ; add fome very fine fugar and one white of an egg, and beat it very well, fo as to make it very white; put fome of the ftrongeft oil of peper- mint into it, fo as to make it ftrong enough to your palate, then do them the fame as your lemon wafers. r No.'49. Bergamot Drops» Pound and lift fome fugar very fine; fqueeze four or five lemons, and mix the juice and the fugar together ' with a wooden fpoon ; drop about twen- ty drops of elTence of bergamot into if, and mix it well with your fpoon ; ftir it over the fire three or four minutes, drop .them off your knife about the fize of the orangeeONFEGTI-ONElt. 55 ©range and lemon drops, and make them as round as you can, let them ftand till cold, and they will come off well; they mud be dropt on writing paper, \ No. 50. Black Currant Drops^ Get half a lieve of black currants, and put them in a pan ; malh them with your fpaddle, and put them over the fire ; bring them juft to a boil and pafs them through a fieve over an earthen pan, put what jelly comes from them in an ear- then pipkin, and put it over the fire and let it boil for two hours, ftir it all the time at bottom- with your fpaddle, or clfe it will burn ; put in two pounds and a half of powdered fugar, mix it with the jam and ftir it over the fire half an hour, drop it on pewter fheets or plates, in little drops' from your knife, and put them in your hot ftove, let them . D 4 be§6 THE COMPLETE then be there till you find that they are quite dry, and then take them off with your knife. No. 51. Chocolate Drops» TTaKE one pound and a half of cho- colate, put it on your pewter fheet or plate, and put it in the oven juft to warm the chocolate; theaput it into a copper ftewpan, with three quarters of a pound of powdered fugar, mix it well over the fire, take it off, and roll it in fize of fmall marbles, put them on white paper, and when they are all on, take the flieet of paper by each corner, and lift it up and down, fo that the paper may touch the table each time, and by that means you will fee the drops come quire flat, about the fize of a fixpence 5 put fome fugar_ nonpareils over them, and cover all that is on the paper, andCONFECTIONER. 57 No. 53i then fhake them off, and you will fee all the chocolate drops are covered with the fugar nonpareils; let them fland till cold, and they will come off well, and then put them in your box papered,* I No. 52. Damfon Drops. Put fome damfons in the oven to bake but not fo much as to break, then ikin and (tone them, and pafs thern through a fieve ; lift fome common loaf fugar through a lawn fieve, and mix . with them, make it very thick, drop them off your knife on paper, put them in your Hove to dry : when they are quite dry, turn them on a fieve, and wet the outfide oflthe paper, and they will come off eafily ; put them into the ftove again till they are quite dry and hard, and then put them by in your papered box.58 THE COMPLETE then No. '53^. Seville Orange Drops, TTH I S is the fame fort of pafte aS your Seville orange pafte cakes are made of, only drop them off your knife on your plate, then put them in your hot ftove, and when they are fit, take them olf with a knife, turn them upfide down on a fieve, and put them in the ftove again for a day; then paper your box and put them in. No. 54. Lemon Drops, Squee ZE the juice of fix lemons into a brown pan or bafon, take fome double refined fugar, pound and lift it through a very fine lawn fieve ; mix it with the lemon juice and make it fo thick that you can hardly ftir it; put it into a copper ftew pan, with a wooden fpoon ftir it over the fire five minutes;. C O N F E C T I O N E R. 59 them then take it off and drop them off the point of a knife, of the fame fize with the orange drops, and let them Hand till cold, and they will come off the paper. N» B, If you wait for their cooling, put them out in fome cold' place : they muft be dropt on writing paper*. • No^ 55. Orange Drops^ Rasp fix china oranges very fine, fqueeze them in a fmall pan or bafon with the rind; fqueeze two lemons with them, without rafping the rind, fift fome powdered fugar and mix with the juice, make it of a fine thicknefs, put it over the fire in a fmall flew pan, and with a wooden fpoon turn it for five minutes, then take it off the fire, and drop them off the point of a knife, as round as you can upon white paper, about the fize of a filver two pence; let6o ‘THE COMPLETE No. 57. them ftand till they are cold, and they will come off; then put them in your box. ■ No. 56. ^Peppermint Drops. Squeeze three or four kmons Into a bafon, and mix fome powdered fugar with the juice, the fugar muft be fifted through a lawn lieve; make it of a proper thicknefs, and put fome oil of peppermint in with it, as much as you think proper to your palate; make it of a proper thicknefs with fugar, put it in a fauce pan and dry it over the fire, ftirring it with a wooden fpoon for five minutes, then drop them off a knife on your writing paper, the fame fize as the laft receipt mentions, and let them ftand till they are cold, and they will come off eafily, then put them in your papered box.CONFECTIONER.' 6l No. 57. Violet Drops» t Squ E E Z E fix lemons,. mix with them fome powdered fugar lifted very fine; put into it two largo fpoonfuls of efifence of violets and fome blue colour, juft enough to make it of a fine blue, viz, a little Prufiian blue, pounded and mixed with a little gum water; mix all well together, and dry it over the fire, the fame as the others, and drop them off st knife on paper the fize of the others; let them Hand till cold, do not make it too thin, before you put it over the fire to dry; when they are cold, put them in your papered box. No. 5S. Barky Sugar Drops» *r H E S E are made the fame way as we make the barley fugar, only when boiled62 TH'E COM'PLETE them boiled put the rind of one or two lemons in rafped, and drop the fyrup on the marble in little round drops as big as a Ihilling; let them ftand till cold, then put them up in papers, and as you take them off the marble have fome powered fugar^ at the fide of youj to p,ut them in. No. 59. Lemon Vrawhngs, TT A K E fome lemons, and peel the rind off in four quarters ; take all the white off from the infide of the rind ^ cut the yellow rind in pieces, about one inch long and about the tenth part of an inch wide; have a pan of boiling fyrup on the fire, and let it boil till it comes almoft to carimel, then put the praw- longs in, and flir them very much with a large wooden fpoon till they are cold ; put them in a large "fieve, and ftakeNo. 6i. I C O N F E C T I O N:E R* them juft to let the fugar that does not ftick to them go through the lieve; laftly put them in your box, and keep them in a dry place* No. 6o. Orange Frawlongs* Ta K E china oranges, and peel the rind off in four quarters; take all the white off from the infide of the rind ; cut the yellow rind in pieces about one inch long, and about the tenth part of an inch wide; have a pan of boiling fyrup on the fire, and let it boil till it comes almoft to carimel; put the praw- longs in, and ftir them very much with a large wooden fpoon till they are cold ; then put them in a large fieve, and ftiake them, juft to let the fugar that does not ftick to them go through the lieve; put them in your box, and keep them in a dry place.64 THE COMPLETE No. 61. Ttflachio Trawlongs, Red, TTA K E Ibme piftachio kernels, and have a preferving pan on the fire with fyriip; boil it till it comes almofl to carimel, put fome cochineal in and the nuts ; and flir them; when they come .off the fire break them apart, let them have two coats of fugar, and fee that they are of a fine colour, and do every thing according to the receipt of the burnt almonds. ' ' ^ No. 62. Burnt Filbert Prawlongs, Red. A K E fome barcelona nuts and xirack them, put the kernels into a cop- per pan or Iheet, and put them in the oven to roaft; have a pan with fy- rup boiling, and let it boil till it comes almoft to carimel; put a little cochineal in a cup, when the fugar is boiled, add " itC O N F E C T I O N E R, 65 It to it and the filberts, and flir them very much with a large wooden fpoon, till you find the fugar is got hard round them; put them in a fieve, and feparate them which flick together ; have another pan, with fyrup in and boil it as before, and as high; put the fame quantity of cochineal in, and mix them as before, becaufe the fecond time you do them, the finer the colour will be, then put them in your box* No. 63. Orangt Flower Frawlongs* TTA K E orange flowers, pick the leaves afunder from each other, and fee that they are quite dry ; have a prefervin^ pan with fyrup on the fire and let it boil till it comes almofl to carimel, then put your orange flowers in; flir them well with a large fpoon, continue the ftiring I till they are cold, then put them in a E fieve,66 THE COMPLETE No. 65. :iieve, and fift them, till you fee the powder of the fugar all gone, then put them in-your box, but do not put them in a damp place. No. 64. Seville Orange Jumbles. T7aK:E fome Seville oranges, and cut the rind off them as- thin as poffible, and the breadth of a filver three pence, and as round as you can ; put them on a fieve into your flove j let them Hand four or five hours; put fome fyrup over the fire, and let it boil a quarter of an hour; put your jumbles in the fyrup, and give them three or four boils; drain your fyrup from them, put them on a fieve in a hot fiove, let them he there two or three days, till they are quite dry, then put them.in your box and keep them dry.CONFECTIONER. 67 No» 66. E 2 / No. 65. Burnt Almondsy'Red,' TTa'K E fome, of the finefl Jordan al- monds you can get, lift all the dull from them, have fome fyrup bailing in a pan, and let it boil till it comes almoft to ca- rimel, put half a cup full of cochineal in; put the almonds in as fail as you can, and flir them till they are cold ; then put them in your fieve and break them, that are ftuck together, from each other; then have another pan of fyrup boiling, the fame as before, and when they are cold, pick them from each other for they muft always have the coats of fugar on them; fee that your cochineal is properly mixed, to make them of a fine colour, as you mufi: put more cochineal in the lafl: coat than you did in the firft.^8 THE -COMPLETE No. 66. Burnt Almonds, Whiter ^JL'a K E fome^f the fineft Jordan al- monds you can get, and fift all the duft from them ; then .havefome fyrup boil- ing in a pan, and let 4t boil till it comes almofl to carimel; put your almonds in and ftir them till they are -coldpick them in your fieve, break them that are fluck together from each other, and then have another pan of fyrup boiling, the fame as before, and give them two coats of fugar; when done pick them from each other. No. 67. Tifl^ichio Brawhngs., White* TP A K E fome piftachio kernels, and have a preferving pan on the fire with fyrup, and boil it till it comes almoft to carimel; put in the nuts, Air them till theyCON FECT lOKER, 6^ they are all covered with lugar, and give them two' coats, the fame as burnt al- monds, white. No. 68. Burni Gilberts, lIHoitev A K E fome Barcelona nuts and crack them; put the kernels’ in a copper pan, or Iheet, and put them in the oven to roaft; then Have a pan with fyrup boiling and let it boil till it comes al- moft to carimel; put your filberts in, ftir them till they are all covered with fugar, and give them two coats as the burnt almonds, white* t No. 69. Merings in the Form of Eggs* TT A K E a half pint bafon full of fy- rup, put it in a fmall flew pan, and boil it to what they call blow; then take the E 3 whitesyo THE COMPLETE with whites of three eggs, put them in ano- ther copper pan, and whifk them very ftrong ; when your fugar is boiled, rub it againft the lides of the flew pan with a table fpoon ; when you fee the fu- gar change, and all white, quickly mix the whites of eggs with it, for if you are not quick your fugair will turn all to powder ; when you have mixed it as light as poflible, put in the rind of one lemon, but do not ftir it but as little as poflible; take a board about one foot wide, and eighteen inches long, and put one flteet of paper on it ; with your table fpoob drop your batter in the fhape of half an egg, lift a little powdered fugar over them before you put them in the oven : let your oven be of a moderate heat, watch them very "clofe, let them rife, and juft let the out- flde be a little hard but not brown, the infide muft be moift; take them offCONFECTIONER. 7I xivith a knife, and put about half a tea fpoonful of rafberry or ftrawberry jam in the middle of them ; then put two of them together and they will be in the fhape of an egg, but you muft handle them very gently.- No. 70. Almond Pajle, TTA K E half a pound of fweet and one dozen of bitter almonds, and pound them fo very fine that you can hardly perceive the leafi: piece of almond in it; ufe water to pound them with, but do not make them too wet, for if you do, it will be a long time before you can get them dry again only juft to keep them from oiling,, take a fmall faucepan and a wooden fpoon and put the pafte in the faucepan, and half a pound of powdered ' fugar with it, mix it well together, be- fore you put it on a flow fire, keep rub- E 4 ’ bing72 THE COMPLETE No. 72. bing it about with your wooden fpoon in the pan, and be careful it does not burn, which it will if your fpoon does not touch the bottom of the pan; when you find the pafte does not flick to the pan, and comes altogether, then it is done. — JV. B, Put a little flour on your drefler, that it may not flick ; when, cold do as you pleafe with it. No. 71. Orgeat Pajle. 'TTA K E two pounds of fweet and one ounce of / bitter almonds, pound them very fine with water; have two quarts of fyrup boiling, and let it boil till it is come to blow; mix the almonds with it, and flir it over the fire till it becomes very fliff, flir it all the time with a fpad'- dle or elfe it will burn at bottom; when cold put it in your pots, and tie a blad- der over the paper.CONFECTIONED. 73 No. 72. Orgeat Syrup. Take eight ounces of fweet and one ounce of bitter aluiondsy pound fhetn very fine,, that you cannot feel one piece of almond in it y naiXf one wine quart of water with it very well; ftrain it through a fine cloth ; put in one gill of orange flower water, have two quarts of boiling fyrup> and let it boil till it is almoft carimel; mix what drains from the almonds with the fyrup on the fire, and let it boil till it becomes a fine fy- rup; put it into your bottles whilft it is warm ; the next day cork them, and put bladders over the corks. No. 73. Lemon Syrup* Ta K E fix lemons and rafp them very fine into a bafon; fqueeze the juice of74 THE COMPLETE of one dozen of lemons to the rind, and mix it well together with a fpoon ; take one quart of fine fyrup, put it in a fauce- pan and let it boil till it is almoft cari- mel ,* while your fyrup is boiling, drain your lemon juice and rind through a fine fieve; take care that you put the juice to the fyrup before it is earimel, or you will have your fyrup too high then let it boil three or four minutes, and obferve that it is a fine fyrup; when done take it off; let it ftand a little time, and put it in your bottles while warm ; the next day'cork them,iand tie bladders over the corks. No. 74. Orange Syrup, TTA K E eight china oranges, rafp them very fine into a bafon ; fqueeze one dozen of china oranges and two lemons to the rind : mix it all together withCONFECTIONER,. 75 No. 76, with a fpoon in the bafon ; drain all the juice through a fine lawn fieve; take one quart of fine fyrup, and boil it till it is almofi: carimel ; put the juice to the fyrup, but mind you make it a fine fy- jup ; put it into your bottles, cork and- bladder them the next day. No, Orange Syrup.-^ Take one Seville orange, and rafp it very fine; fi^ueeze eight Seville orangey and one lemon with the rind; mix k all well with the fpoon ; take one quart of fine fyrup, and boil it till it is almoft carimel; ftrain your juice through a fine fieve, and mix it well with your fyrup, mind you make it a fine fyrup; put it in your bottles while a little warm; cork and bladder them the next day.THE C O M* P L E’ T E 76 No. jS, Noi 76. Pine Apple Syrup, Drain the fyrup from your pine apple chips, when you are going to dry them that are preferved, as you will fee in your receipt of pine apple chips; boil the fyrup three or four times, and’put it into your bottles while warm; cork and bladder them-the next day. No. 77. Capillahe Syrup, Take two quarts of fine fyrup, and boil it to blow ; boil twice or thrice two gills and a half of orange flower water, ikimming it all the time; put it in your bottles, and cork it up the next day; put pieces of bladder over the corks, but mind that it is a fine fyrup, before you take it oflT.e G N F E C T IO N E E.f 77 j 1^0. 78. Currant Jetty, Red and Whttei t Pu T your currants into a preferving pan, mafti them and put them over the -fire; when they are all broke and juft upon the boil, take your fpaddle and put them on a hair fieve,; let all the juice drain through a "flannel bag till it is quite fine, if it is not fine enough the firft and fecond time, put it through again ; take as much fugar as you have got jelly, and let it boil almoft to cari- mel then put your jelly in, and let it boil ten minutes, fkim it all the time 5 ^ then take it off*, mind it Is a fine jelly^ and put it in your glafles. No. 79. Rajberry Jelly^for Ices* Put your rafberries in the preferving pan j wafli them well with your fpad- dle.7^ THE complete die, put them over the fire, flirring them ^11 the time they are on ; when they are ready to boil take them off, and pafs theni • through a.hair fieve into a pan, letting »no feeds go through ; put your jelly ‘into another pan, fet it on the ^fire, and ^let it boil twenty minutes before you put ^ the fugar in, Hiring it all the time, dr elfe -it will burn at bottom; put fourteen ■ ounces of fugar to every pound-of jelly, .-let it boil twenty minutes. Hiring it all ^ the time, when cold put it in a brown ,..pan and pots.; *fift a little powdered fugar over it; let it Hand one day and then cover it up : this jelly4s good to make ice cream with. It No. So. Apple _Jelly, to put over your Fruity or what you like, TTa K E one dozen and a half of ruf- 'fetings, pare and cut them in pieces intoc O N P'S C T I O N'E 7^ into a preferving pan, and take the cores from them ; cover'them with water, and let them boil quite to a marmalade; put them in a hair fieve, let them drain,; have as much fyrup in another pan, as there comes jelly through the fieve, and . let the fyrup boil till it almofl: comes to carimel, put the jelly to the fyrup, and let it boil ten minutes; then put it over your fruits, let it be hot No. 8,1. Hartjhorn Jelly* BOIL half a pound of hartlhorn ftiav- ings in a gallon of water> till one third of the water is boiled away, then ftrain it off and let it ftand till it is cold, melt it again, put in a little bit of orange and lemon peel juft to colour it, Ikim it well, and add half a pint of rhenilh or white mountain wine, the juice of one lemon and a half, with half a pound of fineSo T<HE COMPLETE fine fugar; tafte it, and if it is not fweet enough to your palate, add more; take the whites of fix eggs, whilk them well and put them in,; flir thefe together, let it bail a little, take it off, and add as much more lemon juice as will fliarpen it to your mind; pour this into your jelly bag, firil putting in the whites of e^ggs, and .it will run the clearer, if it does not come clear the firft time, pour ^it into the bag again, and it will come *«learer into your glaffes ; let your bag hang near a fire to keep the jelly warm, till it is all run off; you may know when the liquor will jelly, if when it is on the fire, you take out a little in a fpoon and let it cool. 'No. 82. Calves Foot Jelly, Boil two calves feet in a gallon of water^ till it comes to two quarts, firain itCo NFECTIONER. 8i It off, and let it (land till cold, Ikiaiming •off all the fat clean ; take the jelly up ^jear from the fediment; put the jelly into a faucepan with a pint of mountain wine, half a pound of powdered fngar^ and the juice of four large lemons whifk fix or eight whites of eggs; put them in a faucepan, and fiir them well with the jelly till it boils; let it boil a few minutes; pour it into a large flan- nel bag, and it will run through pretty quick, pour it again till it runs clear ; get a large china bowl ready with two lemon peels rafped as thin as poflible ; let the jelly run into that bowl, and the peels give it both a fine amber colour, and alfo a fine flavour; laftly put it into your glafles* ■ No. 83. F8z THE COMPLETE No. 83. Black Currant Jelly. Put your black currants into a pre- ferving pan over the fire ; mafli them with your fpaddle and juft let them boil; take them off and drain them through a very fine fieve ; boil them a quarter of an hour; to every pound of currant jelly put fourteen ounces of ' powdered fugar ; boil them ten mi- nutes ; put it in your pots ; let it ftand two days before you cover it up, and put brandy papers over the jelly ber fore you tie the papers over. No. 84. To make Blomonge, Ta k e one pint of milk and half a handful of picked ifinglafs ; put the ifinglafs into the milk and boil it, till all the ifinglafs is melted ; flrain it through a fieve ;CONFECTIONER. 8J F 2 No. 86. s fieve ; pound four ounces of fweet, and fix or feven bitter almonds very fine; put a little fpice in your milk; when you boil it, mix your almonds with the milk to make it palatable ; pafs it through a fieve again, put it in your moulds, and let it fland till it is cold. No. Sj. Goojberry Jelly* Ta K E two quarts of green goofber- ries; and put to them two quarts of water ; boil and mafli them as they boil,' until they are all to a mummy; drain all ti^ juice from them through a flannel bag; when it is all drained, take as much more fyrup, as there is jelly from the goofberries; boil the fyrup to blow; put the goolberry jelly into it and boil it about a quarter of an hour, and mind you make it a fine jelly.84 THE COMPLETE No. 86. Rajberry ‘Jam* Pu T the ralberries into a large cop- per pan, flir them well at the bottom of the pan with a large fpaddle about three feet long; malh the ralberries as much , as you can ; put them over the fire and keep llirring them all the time; when you find they are almofl: ready to boib take them off; have a large hair fieve over another pan and pafs the ralberries through the fieve ; the hair of the fieve muft be large enough to let all the feeds of the rafberries through ; mind there is no pieces of ralberries left; put them over the fire and flir them with your . fpaddle; let the rafberries boil half an hour, llirring them well from the bot- tom as they boil, to prevent them from burning; put in fourteen ounces of powdered fugar to every pound of raf- berries ;CONFECTIONER. 85 berries; take them off the fire ; mix them well together and boil the fugar and rafberries together half an hour; fift fome powdered fugar over the tops of the pans before they are covered. $ No. 87. Apricot Janu G E T the ripeft apricots you can, cut them to pieces and take the ftones from them; put them into a large copper prefcrving pan, and mafli them as much as you can; put them over the fire To warm, mafhing them all the time ; pafs them through a cullender and keep forcing them with a fmall peflle; when they are all broke put them over the fire and juft let them boil for ten minutes, flirring them all the time ; then put fifteen ounces of powdered fugar to every pound of apricots; let them boil together half an hour, flirring them all F 3 the86 THE COMPLETE .the time with your fpaddle that it may not burn at bottom f when it is boil- ed enough put it into brown pans ; when cold put ’fome apple jelly over the.top of them, and brandy papers over the jelly before you cover them, and let them ftand two days before you put them by. No. 88. Strawberry Jam, Pi C K the jftalks from'the flrawberries-, and put them into a large copper pre- ferving pan; mafli them with your fpaddle to break them as much as you can ; put them over the fire, make them quite hot almofi: to boil ; pafs them through a very fine cullender; boil the flrawberries you have pail twenty mi- nutes, fiirring them all the time with your fpaddle ; weigh your flrawberries; and allow fifteen ounces of powdered fugar'confectioner* 87 fugar to every pound-of ftrawberries; put in the fugar and boil them together, Iiirringthem from the bottom, (elfe they will burn) for half an hour over the fire ; fill your pans and lift fome powdered fugar on the tops of them before you put them by, and the next day put pa- pers over them. No. 89. Barberry Jam. Pick your barberries from the flalks, and put them into an earthen pan, then into the oven to bake ; when baked pafs them through a fieve with a large wooden fpoon, taking care there are not any fkins of the barberries in it \ weigh the barberries, and to every two pounds of barberries allow two pounds and a half of powdered fugar ; mix the fugar and the barberries together, and put it in your pans, covering it up ; fet F 4 it88 THE COMPLETE it in a dry. place, but when you have filled your pans with it; fift a little powdered fugar over the tops of them. No. ()o. Peach Jam, G E T the ripefl peaches, flone and bruife them ; put them into a preferving ■ pan and let them boil; mafli them very much, flirring them with your fpaddle ; when they are foft pafs them' through a large fieve; pound fome bitter almonds with powdered fugar to keep them from oiling; put half an ounce of them to a pound of jam ; put the jam and almonds over the fire and boil them a quarter of an hour; add ten ounces of powdered fugar to every pound of jam ; mix the fugar and the jam together, boil it half an hour, ftirring it all the time from the bottom, elfe it will burn ; when it is boiled enough, put it into your pot or pans,confectioner. 89 pans, and when cold put fome apple jelly over it, and brandy paper over that. No. 91. Black Blumh Jam» G E T the ripell black mufcle plumbs- you can, cut them to pieces, fVone them and put them into a large copper pan bruife them as much as you can with your fpaddle; warm them over the lire till they are foft; pafs them through a cullender with a peftle and get as much through as you can ; boil it one hour^ flirring it from the bottom all the time, or elfe it will burn ; put fix ounces of powdered fugar to every pound of jam ; take it off the fire and mix it well, put it over the fire ten minutes, then take it , off and put it in brown pans lifting fome powdered fugar over it. No. 92.9^. THE COMPLETE No. 93. " ' . No. 9'2. Rajherry Cakes, Take one pound of rafberry jam, one pound of powdered fugar, and mix thenn well together with your fpoon ; have fome fmall pieces of tin made in roun’d rings about the fize of half a crown piece, and-about a quarter of an inch deep, and have a piece of wire fixed, to the ring to lay hold by; then have a pew'ter fheet or plate, put your ring on it and fill it with your jam, ilroke it over the top of it w'ith your knife, have a pin and pull it along all the infide of the ring and lift the ring up and the cakes- will flick to the plate ; put them into your flove, and let them be there until the next day ; then take them off wdth your knife and turn them'; put them on a fieve and let them be until the next day and when you find they are well dried, put them into your box.CONFECTIONER. 9^ No. 93. Seville Orange Tafte Cakes^ C U T one dozen of Seville oranges into halves, and fqueeze them into a brown pan ; put the peels into a pan of water and let them boll until they are quite foft; take them out and fcoop all the infide out of them ; pound the peels in a mortar, then take one dozen and a half of large apples, pare and cut them into pieces into a preferving pan ; add to them the juice of the oranges and water enough to cover the apples, and let them boil till they come to marmalade ; pals it through a lieve wdth a fpoon, likewife pafs the orange peels that are pounded through a fieve ; mix the apples and oranges together; have as much fyrup in another preferving pan as you have got jam ; boil the fugar until it is nearly carimel; mix it with your jam, ftirring them well together ; put it over the fire ten^2 THE CO M'P LETS ten minutes ftirring it all the time with' your fpoon ; put your heart tin moulds, or any fhape you like, and place them on your pewter Iheets or plates; fill them- with your pafle,-put them into a hot ftove, ^ and let them (land till you find the mould will come off eafily, and without the jam’s running ; take them off and place them in a fieve and put them into your • ffove until they are quite dry, then let them lay in your ffove one day. . No. 94. Millefniii Rock Candy* First get a tin box one foot long and a about eight or nine inches wide, and fix wires made to go into this tin ; the tin box muff be made rather fmaller at bottom than at top, let there be a hole at the bottom about the fize of a common quart bottle cork, and when you put any thing in put a cork into this hole; put a layer of paffe knots at bottomconfectioner. ‘bottom and a layer of angelica knots,; put a wire between every layer to keep them hollow, go on with layers of any- thing you have got that is well dried and hard, have a pan of fyrup and let it boil till it comes to blow, then pour k .over them in the tin box and let it ftand three hours in a very hot ftove ; then pull out the cork at bottom and put the box on one fide for all -the fyrup, ■ to run out ; let it ftand half an hour in the ftove, then,, take them out and you will find it will be candied all round them, then put them into your papered box. No. 95. Rock Sugar of all Colours* A K E a pint of fyrup, put it into'a pan and boil it almoft to carimel; have a white of an egg in a little pot and mix a little powdered fugar with it, make it " . ■very94 THE COMPLETE- No. 97. very thick with a tea fpoon ; take your fyrup off the fire, put the egg and fugar into the boiling fyrup; fiir it round very much in the pan with a large fpoon; have a fieve papered, you mufl; be very quick about it or it will come over the pan ; pour it into your fieve, when cold it will be hard like a rock and when you want , to vary the colour mix what colour you fancy with your eggs, and fugar. No. 96. Barley Sugar^ Ta K E a fmall flewpan, put fome fyrup into it and boil it till it comes to carimel; rub a little butter on a marble ffone juft to greafe it that it may not ftick ; the;^n take your faucepan by the handle and let the fyrup run out of the fpout along the ftone in long flicks; twift it (while it is hot) at each end and let it ftand till cold.C'ONT E C T I O N E R. 9S ’No. 97. I’he way to make all forts of Carr away Comfits. Ta K E fom€ fine carraway feeds, fife all the dufi; from them and have a large copper preferving pan about two feet wide and with two handles, and- two pieces of iron made as a ring oa each fide, then you mufi: have a pulley fixt to the beam and a cord with a hook to each end fo as to fix it at each fide of ' the pan to let the pan fling ; then have fome fine flarch as white as you can get and juft foften it, boil fome fyrup a quarter of an hour and mix it with the ftarch I take fome gum arabick, put it into fome water, then put that into ano- ther pan and make it juft warm ; have an iron pot with charcoal fire under the large pan, but not too hot, only juft to keep the pan warm ; have a large tub to put your pot of fire at bottom and yourp6 THE C O M P L *E T E’ your large pan mull be on the top ; put the carr^way feeds into your pan; add a large ladleful of gum arabick, rub them with your hands until you find they are all dry ; then put the ladleful of ftarch and fyrup and do the fame ..over your pan of fire until you find they are all dry put the gum only three or four^imes to them at firfi, then :the fiarch and fugar, but boil your fyrup more as you find they come to coat with at and not fo much fi:arch ; when you have dried them feven or eight times put them into your fieve; put them into the ftove, do them the next day and fo for fix or feven days fucceflively* No. 98. Cardamom Comfits, G E T your cardamoms at the chy- mifts and they will be in a fliell; put them into your oven juft to dry the Ikins,CONFECTIONER, (s No, 100. fklns, and they will break'; pick all the feeds from them, put the feeds into your large comfit pan and have a fire under the fame as for others; mix your gum, fiarch, and fyrup, and do them the fame about the pan with your hands. No, 99. Carmel Crocont, Ta K E your copper crocont top and butter it all over, then have fome fy- rup boiling in a ftew pan ; let it boil un- til it comes to carimel, take the pan off, dip a three pronged fork into the fyrup or from the fpout of the pan ; and you will fee firings hang to the fork ; move the fork to and fro over the crocont un- til you quite cover it thick, have your little difii of fweetmeats under, take this crocont off the mould and when cold put it over the fweetmeats and handle it very lightly.9 8 .THE COMPLETE No. 100. Whip, for a ’Trifle. Take one pint of cream, put it in a freezing pot, put the pot into a little ice in an ice-pail, and whip your cream with a whiik ; rriix your wine and rind of an orange in another bafon, and the juice of an orange and fugar according- to your palate ; put your cream in and mix it, then pour all the liquor into a difh that your trifle is to ‘be in and put the froth of the cream over it, and put what your fancy likes to garnifli it with ; add different coloured fugar nonpareils and fome fmall 'bifcuits of different forts. No. 101. Everlafting Whipfylahub to put into Glajfes, TTa K E five half pints of thick cream, half a pint of Rhenifli wine, half .a pintCONFECTIONER, s. pint of fack, and the juice of two large Seville oranges; rafp in the yellow rinc^, of three lemons, and a pound of double refined fugar well pounded and lifted ; mix altogether with a fpoonful of orange flower water, beat it well together with a whilk half afi hour, then with a fpoon fill your glalTes. This will keep above a week, it is much the 'better for being made the-day before it is ufed. No. 102. Floating IJlandi a pretty Dl/h for the middle of a table, at a fecond courfe, or for a Supper* fize and quantity you would wifli to make, but a deep glafs difh is the beft,' put it on a china difh ; firft take a quart of the thickefl cream you can get, make it pretty fweet with fine powdered fugar; pour in a gill of fine mountain and rafp according to the G 2 theIQO THE COMPLETE the yellow rind of a lemon in ; vvhlik j(Our cream very ftrong as carefully as you can; pour the thin from the froth into a di^h ; take fome Naples bif^ euits and cut them as thin as poffible; lay a layer of them as light as poffible on the cream, then a layer of currant jelly, again, a layer of Naples bifcuits, over that put your cream that you. faved; put as much as you can make the diffi hold, without running over ; garniffi the outfide with fweetmeats and what elfe you like. No. 103. for a Rich Cake, TP A K E fix whites of eggs and whiik them very flrong; then have a pint of fyrup in a fmall fiewpan, and let the fy«* rup boil until it comes to blow through your Ikiramer; work it about the pan with a fpQpn, when it is all white and is a greatCON^ECTIO NERi lOJ a great deal thicker, mix the whites of €ggs together, make it very thick, put it over your cakes and put them into yout ftove; let them dry, then put another coat over them ; make it as fmooth as poffible you can and let it dry in your ftove. \ No. 104. Clarify Sugar fot Szveet- medts, Ta K E a large deep copper pan and break two eggs into it, then whifk it as you pour the pan half full of clear water, fo as to make it like foap fuds 5 put two large loaves of fugar into it, and put it over the fire ; take a large fkim* mer, fiir till it is all melted, if you ftir it longer your fyrnp will not be clear; be careful it does not boil over into the fire, for it is dangerous, as it may fet the houfe on fire; when you find k begins G 3 toX02 THE COMPEETE to boil and the fcum rifes, take it off the fire, but do not flir it till it has flood half an hour: then vou will find that \ * all the fcum will come tO'the top ; take a large fkimmer and take it off clean put it on the fire, let it boil twenty mi- nutes, fkimming it all the time ; flrain it through a flannel bag very clean ; put it into a pan or a large flone jar, and ufe' it as you want it to your fruits. No. 105. Cedraty EJfence.* G E T the cedraties at the Italian warehoufes, rafp the rind of them all round very fine ; put it in a large mar- ble mortar, and allow for every quarter of a pound, two pounds of powdered fugar; mix it well with a large fpaddlc till you'find it is all of a colour alike, and that the rind is well mixed ; put it into a flone jar and fqueeze it down as hardCONFECTIONER. I63 ^ard as you can ; put a bladder over the paper you cover it with, and tie it over quite tight; put it by, and in one month it will be fit to ufe^ No. 106. Lemon EJfence, R ASP your lemons all round very thin, and allow for every quarter of a pound of rind one pound of fugar ; mix it the very fame way you do^the effence of cedraties, put it into a ftone jar, and bladder it up the fame. * No.. 107. Orange EJfence* JL A K E one dozen and a half of china oranges, rafp them all round and fqueeze fix of them in with the'rind; mix it well in a bafon, let three pints of fyrup boil about twenty minutes; mix the orange rind and juice and juft give G 4 it104 THE COMPLETE it a boil or two and when cold put it in bottles and cork it up. t No. io8.' Lemonade* R ASP two lemons and fqueeze fiXy put to them three gills of fyrup and the reft water; tafte it, and if it is not to your palate, alter and mend it till it is ' right ; then ftrain it through a lawn fieve and put it in your glaffes for ufe. No. 109. 0 rangeade* TT A K E Eight china oranges and rafp four of them ; fqueeze the eight and three lemons to the rind ; put about two gilk of fyrup to it and the reft water ; tafte it, and if you find it not rich enough put fome fyrup to it, and fqueeze more oranges in according to your palate; and if not four enough fqueezeCONFECTIONER. I05 fqueeze in one more lemon ; ftrain it through a lawn fieve and it is fit for ufe. No. no. Currant Water made of "Jelly4 Xake two large fpoonfuls of cur- •rant jelly, and mix it with a little warm water, then put one gill of fyrup,. fqueeze two or three lemons in and let the reft be water ; tafie and make it to your palate putting a little cochineal in to make it of a fine colour ; drain it through a fieve and it is fit for ufe, « ✓ No. Currant Water, A K E a quart of frefh currants and fqueeze them through a fieve with your hand; put two large wooden fpoonfuls of powdered fugar and one lemon in, and the reft water; make it to your palate;to6 the complete palate; ftrain it through a fieve,-^and it is- fit for- ufe-. No. 112 Cedraty Water. Ta KEa large wooden fpoonful of the efifence of cedraty, put it in a bafon, fqueeze three lemons; add three gills cf fyrup and all the red: water ; make it to your palate, mind that all the eflence is melted ; and if it is not rich enough put more fyrup in ; pafs it through your lawn fieve,.and it is fit for ufe. No. 113. Rajherry Water^ of Rajberry Jam. Ta K E two large fpoonfuls of jam ; put it into a bafon ; fqueeze fix lemons in and let the reft be water; put a little cochineal to colour it, put in a little fy- rup to make it palatable ; pafs it through yourC 0 K F E C T I’O N ER. I07 ^ / ^onr iieve, and be careful all the feed^ are clean out, it is then fit for ufe,- No. vi^» 'FreJh Rajberry Water, T‘ A K E one pint of frefti ralberries'';' and pafs them through a fieve with a ' wooden fpoon ; put two large fpoonfuls of powdered fugar in, fqueeze one lemon in and’’ let the reft be water; makeMt palatable and put a little cochineal in it to colour it; pafs it through-a fieve and it is fit for ufe.. No. 115. Bergamot Water, Squeeze fix lemons and to that add three gills of fyrup, and let the reft be water; mind you make it rich before you put the eftence in ; when it is to your tafte, put a tea-fpoonful of eftence ofI08 THE COMPLETE- of bergamot in ; pafs it through a fievct and it is fit for ufe. No. 116. Apricot Water, TTa K E two large fpoonfuls of apri^ eot jam, and one gill of fyrup ; fqueeze four lemons, put a handful of bitter al- monds pounded and a little powdered fugar in the jam, fo as to make it have ihc fame bitter tafte as the kernels of the apricots; let the reft be water and make it palatable, pafs it through a very fine lawn fieve, and it is fit for ufe, I No. 117. Strawberry Water^ of Straw-> berry Jam* TP A K E two large fpoonfuls of ftraw- berry jam, fqueeze three lemons, and add one gill of fyrup and the reft water to Iconfectioner. 109 to make it palatable; pafs it through a iawn lieve and it is fit for ufe. * No. 118. Frejh Strawberry Water* Tak E one pottle of ftrawberries and pick the flalks from them; pafs them through a heve with your wooden fpoon ; and put in two large fpoo'nfuls of pow- dered fugar; fqueeze one lemon, and let the reft be water; make it palatable, pafs it through a fieve and it is fit for ufe^ No. 119. Barberry Water* T' A K E two large fpoonfuls of bar- berry jam and put them in a bafon ; fqueeze two lemons, put in one gill of fyriip and the reft water; put a little cochineal in, and if you find it not rich enough put a little more fyrup, make it1^0 T H E -CO'M P L E T E it palatable, pafs it through a fieve, and it is fit for ufe. No. 120. Peach PVater, Tak E two large fpoonfuls of peach jam in a bafon ; put one handful of bit- ter almonds with a little pow'dered fugar; fqueeze. five lemons, put in two gills of f3'rup,.and let the reft be water; make it palatable, pafs Jt through a .fieve with' a fpoon and it is fit for ufe. No. 121. Pear PVater, E T fome large pears, rafp them into a bafon ; if your pears are large four will be fuilicient, if fmall, fix or eight; fqueeze fix lemons, put in four gills of fyrup and let the reft be water; make it rich and palatable, pafs it throughC 0 N F E C T I'O N'E R. IM tiirough a,lawn fieve and it is fit for ufe. .No. 122. Cherry Water, Ta K E one pound of Kentifh cher- ‘ries, pound them in a mortar fo as to break the kernelsiof them; take the -cherries and kernels, put them into a bafon and add four gills of fyrqp; fqueeze four lemons in, and let the reft be water; make-it palatable, pafs.it through a lieve and it is fit for ufe. No. 123. Orgeat, Ta K E fix ounces of fweet and one dozen bitter almonds; pound them very fine fo that you cannot feel one piece of almond ; mix one quart of water with them, ftrain it through a lawn lieve and/ put one gill of orange flower water to it, and it is fit for ufe. ICE/ A 112 T HE COMPLETE ICE CREAMS o F ALL.SORTS. "iff - ■ ■■■ «£l. No.. 124. Barberry Ice Cream, Ta K E a large wooden fpoonful of barberry jam and put into a bafon with one pint of cream; fqueeze one lemon in, mix it well; add a little cochineal to colour it; put it into your freezing pot and cover it over ; put the freezing pot into a pail and fome ice all round the pot; throw a good deal of fait on the ice in the pail, turning the pot round for ten minutes; then open your pot andCONFECTIONER.' II3 No, 126. H snd fcrape it from the lides; cover it up again and keep turning it for feme time, till your cream is like butter, and as thick; put it in your moulds, put them into a pail and cover it with ice and fait for three quarters of an hour, till you find the water is come to the top of the pail; do not be fparing of fait, for if you do not ufe enough it wdll not freeze; dip your mould into water, and turn it out on your plate to fend to table. No. 125. Rajherry Ice Cream, TT A K E a large fpoonful of rafberry jam; put it into a bafon and fqueeze one lemon in ; add a pint of cream and a little cochineal to colour it; pafs it through a fievc into a bafon ; put it into your freezing pot, and do as above directed in your barberry ice cream.114 THE COMPLETE No. 128. , No. 126. Strawberry Ice Cream, Ta K E a large fpoonful of ftrawberry jam ; add a pint of cream and a little cochineal ; put it into your freezing pot, and follow the firft directions of your rafberry cream. No. I-2 7. Apricot Ice Cream, TP A K E one fpoonful of apricot jam ; put it into a bafon and fqueeze one lemon in; take a handful of bitter almonds pounded with a little powdered fugar, put them all to a pint of cream and put it into your freezing pot.confectioner. I 15 No. 128. Pine Apple Ice Cream* ' X A K E one gill and a half of pine apple fyrup, put it into a bafon and fqueeze in one lemon and a half; add one pint of cream, make it palatable, then put it in your freezing pot and freeze it till it is as thick as butter; if you would have it in the lha'pe of a' pine, take the fhape and fill it; then lap half a Iheet of brown paper over the mould before you put it into the ice ; and let it remain fome time, and b^ careful no water gets into the lhape. No. 129. Currant Ice Cream, HP A K E one large fpoonful and a half of currant jelly, put it into a bafon with half a gill of fyrup; fqueeze in one le- mon and a half; add a pint of cream El 2 andri6 t*he' complete and a little cochineal, then pafs It through a fieve - and freeze it .as tho pther§« ■^No. 1:^0. PiJIachlo Ice Cream, S R E A K fix eggs into a pan and beat them well with a wooden fpoonj put In a pint of cream, beat that well with the eggs a;id put in the rind of a lemon, one gill and a half of f}'rup, and a little cinnamon and mace, boil it and ftir it all the time, elfe it will burn, let it boil till you find it grows thick and .comes to a curd; then-takeit off; mix four ounces of piftachio nuts blanched and pounded very fine in a mortar with the cuftard ; pafs it through a fieve and put it into your freezing pot. 4 ‘No. 131#C? 0 N F E C T I O N E R4 II7 No, 131. Blfcuit Ice Or earn* B R E A K fix eggs into^' a fiewpan’ and beat them well with a wooden fpoon ; > . add one pint of cream, the rind of one' lemon, two'gills of fyrup and a little fpice; boil it till you find it juft‘thick-- ens, ftirring it all the time; crumble fome Naples bifcuit and ratifia bifcuits’;" pafs them through a fieve with the other ingredient and put it in your freezing pot,- No. 132, Blaln Ice Cream,^ But one pint of cream into a free2-- ing pot in a little ite, whilk it about rill it hangs about the whilk then take the whilk out and put as much pow-- dered fugar as will lay on half a crown ; ftir it and fcrape it about with your ice fcraper till you find' it all fro- H 3. zen 'y,Il8 THE COMPLETE zen ; put it into your moulds and. put them info your ice to tako the fhape. No. 133. Brown.Bread Ice Cream, .D O the fame with a pint of cream as in the plain ice cream, only when you have frozen it, rafp two handfuls of brown bread and put it in before you .put it into your moulds. No. 134. Royal Ice Cream, Ta K E the yolks of ten eggs and two whole eggs ; beat them up well with your fpoon ; then take the rind of one lemon, two gills of fyrup, one pint of cream, a little fpice, and a little orange flower water; mix them all well and put them over the fire, fiirring them all the time with your fpoon ; when you find it grows thick take it off, and pafs it throughCONFECTIONER. II9 through aiieve; put it into a freezing pot, freeze it, and take a. little citron, and lemon and orange peel with a few piftachio nuts blanched ; cut them all and mix them with your ice before you put them in your moulds. No. 135. Ginger Ice Cream,- TTA K E four ounces of ginger pre- ferved, pound it and put it into a ba- fon, with two gills of fyrup, a lemon fqueezed, and one pint of cream; then freeze it. * No, 136. FreJJo Strawberry Ice Cream, Take one pint of frefli ftrawber- ries, pick the ftalks from them and pafs them through a (ieve with your wooden fpoon ; add four ounces of powdered H 4 fugarI 120 THE COMPLETE fugar to them, and one pint of cream, freeze it, &c. No. 13.7. FreJJj RaJBerry Ice Cream, Take one pint of rafberries pafs them through a fieve ; put five ounces, of powdered fugar and a pint of cream, then freeze it. No. 138. FreJIo Apricot Ice Cream, Ta K E four ounces of the ripeft apri» cots you can get, pafs them through a fieve with your, wooden fpoon with four ounces of powdered fugar and one pint of cream, and freeze it. No. 139. Coffee Ice Cream, TP A K E one ounce of coffee whole, and put it in a flew pan with one pint of'CONFECT I’O N E R; 12-1 of cream; put it over the fire and let it fimmer and boil ten minutes ora quarter of an hour ; drain all the coffee from it, break four eggs into a pan and add one gill and a half of fyrup beat them 'w^ell up together, put the cream that comes from the coffee into it; give it a boil, flirting it all the time, pafs it tbrougK’a' fieve and freeze it.. % No. 140.. Chocolate Ice Crtanu^ *r A K E one ounce and a half of cho- colate and warm it over the fire; take fix eggs, one gill of fyrup,. and one pint of cream ; put it over the fire till it be- gins to thicken ; mix the chocolate in^ pafs it through a fieve and freeze it* No. 141,X22 THE COMPLETE No. 141. Seville Orange Ice Cream,- R ASP the rind of one Seville orange' into a bafon, and fqueeze three, and two lemons; add two gills of f\Tup and one pint of cream ; mix it well, pafs it 'through a fieve, and freeze it. No. 142. Lemon Ice Cream. R. ASP one lemon, and fqueeze three or four; add two gills of fyrup and one pint of cream ; mix it all to- gether pafs it through a lieve, and freeze it. / No. 143. China Orange Ice Cream. R. ASP one china orange ; fqueeze four, and one lemon and a half, put in two gills of fyrup and one pint of cream;t: O F E C T I O N E s; 12 q cream ; pafs it through a lieve and- freeze it. r No. 144. Burnt Filbert Ice Or earn R OAST fome Barcelona nuts well' in the oven, and pound them a little with fome cream ; put four eggs into a' ilewpan, with -one pint of cream and two gills of fyrup ; boil it till it grows "thick, pafs it through a lieve and freeze it; then mix your filberts with it before .you put it in your moulds. No. 145. Burnt Ice Cream, Ta K E fix eggs, one gill of fyrup and one pint of creani; boil it over the \ fire until it becomes thick; then have » • two ounces of powdered fugar in.another fiewpan, and put it over the fire ; let it b^irn till all melts, ftirring it all the time andV T-HE COMPLETE' ,and when you fee it is all burnt of a fine brown, pour the other in, ^mix jt quick- ly, pafs'it through a fieve, and freeze it,' No. 146. Mlllefruit Ice Cream. ITT*n JL A'K E two gills of' fyrup,' fqueeze three lemons, put in a pint of cream, and freeze it; • cut fome lemon peel, -a- little ■orange peel, and a-little angelica into fmall pieces ; when it is frozen ready to put into the moulds, put in yonr fweetmeats with a little cochineal; mix your ingredients w^ell but not the cochi- neal as it muft appear only here and there a tittle red, then put it into the mould. No. 147. FreJJo Cwrant Ice Cream.- Ta K E one pint of currants, pafs them through a fieve with five ounces of•CONFECTIONER. of powdered fugar and a pint of .creani, then freeze it. ‘ No, Cedraty-'Ice Cream* TT A K E two large fpoonfulls of elTence of cedraty, put it into a bafon, fqueeze in three lemons and add one pint of cream j obferve that all-the eflence is melted, then pafs it through a-fieve and freeze it. No. 149. Burnt Almonds Ice Cream* Th I S ice is done in the fame man^ ■net as thcburnt filbert ice cream. ‘No. ijo. Parmafan Cheefe Ice Cream* TTA K E fix eggs, half a pint of fyrup .and a pint of cream ; put them into a llewpan and boil them until it begins to thicken:I2'6 the complete No. 153, thicken.; then rafp three ounces of par- ‘mafan cheefe, mix and pafs them through ..a fieve, and freeze it. _ No. 151. Damfon Ice Cream, i A K E three ounces of preferved >dandbns, pound them and break the .fiones of them, put them into a bafon, fqueeze in 'two lemons, -and a pint of ^cream ; prefs them through a fieve and' freeze it. / _ i u.- * No. 152, Frunello Ice Cream, Pu X five eggs into a pan with two gills of fyrup and one pint of cream; boil it over the fire till it comes thick, then put as much prunello fpice as will make it palatable ; then pafs it through a fieve, and freeze it.CON F E C T I O N E R* No. 153. Teach Ice Cream, Ta k e one large fpoonful of peack jam’> add one handful of bitter almonds pounded with fugar, fqueeze one or two lemons, and put in a pint of cream ^ then pafs it through a fieve, and freeze it» N-O. 154. Black Currant Ice Cream, J. A K E one large fpoonful of black currant jelly, fqueeze one lemon in and add a pint of cream; pafs it and freeze it. No. 155, Cherry Ice Cream, 1 A K E half a pound of preferved cherries, pound them ftones and all; put them into a bafon with one gill of fyrup, fqueeze in one lemon and add a pint of cream, pafs it through a fieve, and freeze it. WATER,128 THE C 0 M P L E T E No. 157. \W A T E R ICES \ •OF l:l sorts. No.. 156.. Biirberry' Water Ice» TT A K E a large Tpoonfulx)f barberry "jam, put it into a bafon, fqueeze in one lemon.,- add a pint of' water and a little cochineal to colour itpafs it through a'fieve and freeze it; be very mindful that it freezes thick and fmooth like but- ter before you.put it in your'moulds.CONFECTIONER. I29 ■ I No. 159. No. 157. Rafberry Water Ice. Ta K E a large fpoonful of rafberry jelly or jam ; put it into a bafon, fqueeze in one lemon, add a pint of water and a little cochineal, and pafs it through a lieve; if you make it roith jam be careful not to let any of the, feeds get into your ice, let it freeze rich like but- ter, which if it does not, you muft add a little more fyrup, and then freeze it. No. 158. Strawberry Water Ice. Ta K E a large fpoonful of flraw- berry jam, put it into your bafon ; fqueeze in one lemon, add a pint of water and a little cochineal, and if it do not freeze rich enough, add a little more fyrup and freeze it.I JO THE COMPLETE No. 161* No. 159. Apricot PFater Ice, TTA K Ealargefpoonfulof apricot jam, put it into a bafon, fqueeze one lemon in, add a pint of water, and put to them one handful of bitter almonds pounded fine, with a little fugar; pafs them through a fieve, and freeze it rich and thick. No. 160. Fine Apple Water Ice, Tak E two gills of pine apple fyrup, fqueeze two lemons in, and add a pint of water; it mufi; be rich and freeze thick ; if you want to have it to the ftiape of a pine, clofe it well and cover your lhape with a fheet of paper before you put it in the ice; let it lie for one hour co- vered with the ice and fait before you turn it out.confectioner.* M • gills of fyrup and half a pint of water No. i6i. Chocolate JVaier Ice. * A K E three ounces of chocolate^ warm it and’ mix half a gill of fyrup- With a pint of water ; mix it well and freeze it thick. No- 162. Seville Orann IVater Ice* o TT A K E the rind of two Seville oranges off very fine and thin ; fqueeze them into a bafon with one lemon; add two gills of fyrup and half a pint of water;, pafs them through a fieve and freeze them rich. No* 163', China Orange PTai'er Ice I Ra S P one china orange, fqueeze in three and oile lemon, put in two pafs it and freeze it rich and thick. I 2 No. 164.'No. 166, 1^2, THE CO.M.PLETE, No. 164. Lemon JVater Ice.. !Ra S P one lemon, fqueeze three, and put in two gills of fyrup and half a pint of water; pafs it and freeze it rich^ No. 165. Lunch Water Ice. Pa R'E the rind very thin off one Se- ville orange, you are not to rafp it; put your parings into a bafon, fqueeze in two oranges and one lemon, put in two gills of fyrup and half a pint of water, mix it and pafs it; freeze it rich, when frozen and mixed well with your fpoon, put as much rum in as you think will make it agreeable to the palate, but when you put the rum in, take the freez- ing pot out of the ice while you mix it, which muft be well done before you put it into the moulds.CONFECTIONER. 13 No. 169. No. 166. Feac^ Water Ice, \ TTA K E a large fpoonful of peach jam, put it into a bafon with a large handful of bitter almonds pounded fine, one gill of fyrup, and one pint of wa*- ter; pafs it and freeze it rich. No. 167-i Currant- Water Ice, /Ta K E a large fpoonful.and a half of currant jelly,- put it into a bafoo, fqueeze in two lemons and half a gill of fyrup and a pint of water; then freeze it rich.- I No. 168. Frejh Currant Water Ice, Ta K E a pint of currants, pafs them through a fieve, put in four ounces of powdered fugar and one pint of water ; pafs it and freeze it rich.No, i6,p. Frejh Rajberry Water Ice^ T'A K E half a pottle of rafberries, ,pafs them through a fieve, then put in' five ounces of powdered fugar and a pint of water; pafs it and freeze it rich, ^ No. 170. Damfon Water lce» -TP A K E a quarter of a pound of pre- fcrved damfons and break the ftones, put them into a bafon, fqueeze in one Jemon, add almoft a pint of water and half a giill of fyrup ; pafs it through a fieve and freeze it rich. / No. 171. Prunello Water Ice, Put two gills of fyrup into a bafon ; t * fqueeze in three lemons, half a pint ofCONFECTIONER, I35 tvater, and as much prunello fpice as will make it palatable; prefs it and freeze it rich.' t % ^ No. 172. Black Currant Water Ice* TT A K E one large fpoonful of black currant jelly, put it into abafon ; fqueeze in two lemons, and add a gill of fyrup and half a pint of water; pafs- it and freeze it rich. No. 173.- Grape Water Ice* T?A K E two handfuls of elder flow- ers, put them into a pot, boll a pint of water and pour it over them, cover them clofe; then take two gills of fyrup and the juice of three lemons; drain all the water from the flowers, add it to the reft, making it palatable, pafs it and freeze it; when it is frozen, put it inTHE COMPLETE the lhape of a bunch of grapes, clofe it well and cover the mould with half a fheet of paper ; then put it into the ice and fait for one hour before you turn it out. No, 174. Cherry Water Ice. A >A K E a quarter of a pound of pre- ferv^d cherries fweet; pound them in a mortar juft to break the ftones ,* then put them into your bafon, fqueeze in two lemons, add one gill of fyrup, a pint of water, and a little cochineal ; mix them well together; pafs them, and freeze it rich. No. 175. Pear Water Ice, S QJJ E E Z E three lemons into a bafon, add two gills of fyrup, and half a pint of water; rafp four large French pearsCONFECTIONER. I57 No. 177* pears into it; mix them well and make it palatable, pafs it through a lawn fieve and freeze it rich ; put it into the lhape of the pear, cover the moulds with paper before you put them in the ice» No. 176. Millefruit JVater Ice, Squ E E Z E three lemons into a ba- fon, add two gills of fyrup, and half a pint of water ; freeze it rich, then cut .fome preferved orange and lemon peel with a little angelica in fmall pieces; put them with the ice which muft be like butter before they are put in ; pafs it through a (ieve before you freeze it, or put your fweetmeats in, then put a little cochineal in, but you are not to mix that much, only to be a little red here and there, as if to run in veins in the ice, but obferve you do this before you put it in the moulds.138 THE COMPLETE No. 179, No. 177. Bergamot'Water Ice. S Q_U E E Z E three lemons into a’ bafon, add two gills of fyrup, half a pint of water and half a tea fpoonful of effence of bergamot, pafs it and freeze it rich before you put it into your moulds. t- t No. 178. Cedraty Water Ice. TTA K E four ounces of elTence of cedraty, put it into a bafon, fqueeze in three lemons, and add two gills of fy- rup, and half a pint of water; then pafs it through a fieve, freeze it rich, and if you would have it in the lhape of the cedraty, after you have filled your mould, clofe it well and cover it with half a fheet of brown paper before you put it in the ice.^ON FEG TJ 0;N E 3R. I No. 179. Frejh Strawberry Water Ice» TTA K E half a pottle of ftrawberries, pick the ftalks from them, pafs them through a fieve, put in five ounces of powdered fugar and one pint of water pafe it and freeze it rich, if it do not freeze rich pyt fome fyrup in,' FRUITS V •140 THE COMPLETE- FRUITS PRESERVED I N BRANDY. .g==========^ I No. i8o. Apricots, in Brandy, G E T the beft apricots you can of the paleft colour and clear from fpots, but not too ripe ; put them in a pan of water, cover them over with paper and put them over a very flow fire; let them iimmer till you find they grow foft ; then take out thofe that grow foft; put them in a large tablecloth four or five double, and cover them up clofe ; then haveCONFECTIONER. I4I have fome of the beft French brandy, it imift not be coloured but clear like wa- ter, and put ten ounces of powdered fu- gar to every quart of brandy ; let the fugar melt, then put your apricots into a glafs jar, fill it up with your brandy and cover it up very clofe with .leather and bladder, now and then keep .filling up your jar with brandy, for the apricots fuck up a good deal, if you do not cover them clofe the apricots will lofe their colour. No. 181. "Pcachesy in Brandy, CxE T fome of the fineft peaches, free from all fpot colour, what is called the white heart peach ; they come in the laft in feafon; fcald them in a ftew-pan of \yater, take them out when foft and put them in a large tablecloth four or five double; put ten ounces of powdered fugar142^ THE * G 0 M‘p L E T E’ fugar to every quart of French brandy, white, let your fugar melt and ftir it well; put your peaches into a glafs jarj and pour your brandy over them; cover them very clofe' with leather and blad- der,-and obferve to‘keep your jar filled with brandy. N. B. Mix your brandy and fugar before you fcald your peaches. No. 182; lidorella Cherriesy in Brandy, Ge T fome of the fineft morella cher- ries you can; cut the ftalks and leaves from them about half an inch long and % put' them into* your glafs jar ;• put ten ounces of powdered fugar to every quart of brandy; when the fugar is'diffolved pour it over your cherries, cover it clofe with the leather and bladder, and keep filling it up. No. 1S3.CONFECTIONER. No. 186. N0..183.PJumhs, in Brandy, *TaK E fome prefcrved, mogul plumbs and drain all the fyrup from themy put them into your jar, put five ounces of fugar to every quart of brandy; when the fugar is melted pour it over your plumbs, and cover it clofe as be- fore directed. No. 184. Green Gages, in Brandy, Ta K E fome preferved, green gages and ufe the fame method as your laft receipt direils.: No. 185. Green Orange JPlumhs, it% Brandy, A K E fome peferved green orange plumbs and ufe the fame method as be- fore directed.-f 144 T H j: complete No. i'86. Grapes, in Brandy, TTA K E fome preferved grapes and life the fame method as before direded.C«0 N F E C T I-O N£ R. 145 .!^CT==» t. PRESERVED SWEETMEATS, WET. —-r J.I.--- :y 4 No. 187, Green Apricots, Wet^ Ta K E green apricots when they are the fize of a fmall walnut, put them in a bag with a great deal of fait, and fhake them in it juft for the fait to take off the filkinefs of the fkin ; then take them out, put them into a large pan with water, place them over a flow fire juft to fcald them, and when you find they grow foft, then have a flat preferving '• K pan146 THE COMPLETE* pan with a very thin fyrup boiling in it, but before, you put them in, drain the apricots well from the water through a lieve; when the fyr,up boils put them in, but do not put too many in the pan at a time, only let the fyrup cover the .v • _ • ^ apricots ; but obferve you do not crowd them in the pan ; boil your fyrup about a quarter of an hour, then take them out, put them in a flat earthen pan and cover them with a fheet of paper, that no dufl: can get in ; the next day boil them half an hour, and if you find they look well, drain the fyrup from them through a fieve; boil the fyrup twenty minutes, then put the apricots in again and juft give them .two or three boils; then put them in the flat pan and cover them clofe with paper, minding to keep them covered with fyrup as it boils ; when your fyrup is of a fine thicknefs and the apricots look well, put them intoCONFECTIONER. I47 into your pots and when cold put a little apple jelly- over them to cover the tops# No. 188. Jpricots Ripey Wet* First take a large knife, fplit the the apricots in half and with a fmall knife peel them fine, have a preferving pan on the fire with water boiling, put fome of the apricots in; when you find they grow foft have two bafons of cold water on each hand and put the fofteft by themfelves, as thofe that are broken will fpoil the reft ; have a preferving pan on the fire with thin fyrup boiling, drain all the water from them, and put the hardeft ones in and let them boil ten minutes, then put them in a flat earthen pan, and cover them with paper ; then have another preferving pan on the fire with fyrup boiling; put the foft ones in and juft give them a boil or two, then K 2 put^I 4S THE COMP L E T E put them in the fame pan as the others and cover them the next day ; boil the hard ones five minutes, and put them in the fame pan again, but drain the fyrup from the foft ones; boil it and pour it on them when hot; do the fame four or , five days fucceffively, and keep them co- vered with the fyrup, then put them in pots, and pour a little apple jelly over the top, and be careful the pots are not in the leaft damp, for that will make them work and grow four. No. 189. Treferved Pine Apple Chips, Ta K E the top and flalk of the ])ine apple, chip off the ends of the out- fides and the bottoms of them ; cut the pine apples in flices about the thicknefs of the fifth part of an inch; take an earthen deep pan, and one pound of fu- ■ ;CoJTfECTroKER. I49 gar ,* lay fome fugar at the bottom of the pan, then a layer of the pieces of pine, but not one over the other ; then put another layer of fugfir pretty deep, then another of pine, then another of fugar pretty deep, and fo on till your pan is almoft full at the top put a good deal of fugar pretty deep ; cover them up with paper and let them ftand till you fee the fugar is almoft melted; let them and the fyrup boil half an hour, then put them in the fame pan again, the next day give them another boil, and fo continue eight days, then drain all the fyrup from them entirely; if the fyrup is too clodden, juft dip the chips in a little water; then wipe them and lay them on your fieve to dry; mind the lieve is quite dry; as you p,ut them into the ftove, duft a little very fine powdered fugar through a cloth bag over them, put them in the ftove and let them remain K 3 there(150 THE COMPLETE there till you think they will not give nor be ftickey; then put them in your drawers or box with clean white paper about them. . No. 190, Angelica, Wet, C U T the flalks of the angelica about a foot long, put them in a parr of water and boil them till they are quite foft; then firing the outfides of them, and put them into a tub of cold water, till they are all done ; drain all the water off, lay them in a long earthen pan till it is three ' parts full, pour fome boiling fyrup over 'them and fill the pan with it, always keeping the angelica covered with fy- rup, and let it fiand till next day ; there muft be a hole in the fide of the pan towards the bottom that you may always drain the fyrup from the angelica with- out difturbing it; boil the fyrup, put it to the angelica for eight or nine days fuc-No. 192. CONFECT 10 N E R> J 5I fucceflively, and let it remain in the fame pan for ufe. / No. 191. Barheryies in Sprigs, Wet'^' Cut the fides of the barberries open, take the {tones out of them, tie iix bunches to a piece of wood about an inch long and about the lixth part of an inch wide, wind them on with red thread; put your barberries in bunches on a lieve, and have a preferving pan with fugar, and boil the fyrup half an hour; put the barberries in the fyrup, boil them and {kirn them with paper, give fix or feven boils, always get the feum clean off; put them in a flat earthen pan and cover them with paper; thofe tied on a flick are called bunches, but what you would wifli in fprigs muft not be tied to a flick, you may put them in pots as other fvveetmeats.l$2 THE COMPLETE No. ’ 193. No. 192. Rajberrks Whole^ Wet,- rpt I J. A K E fome of the fineft rafberries 1 you can get, then with a large pin pick the largefl: and dryeft; juft cover the bottom of a fieve with them ; put a pre- ferving pan on the fire with fyrup in it, i boil the fyrup ten minutes, then put the i rafberries in, let them boil, and fkim ; 3' them as they boil with whitifli brown ; paper; ten or twelve boils are fufficient, and of aU things obferve that the pots | are quite dry before you put your rafber- ries in, for if they are the lead; damp it will fpoil your fruit; the next day cover them with apple jelly and let them ftand in the pots two days before you tic them up.C O'N F £ C T I O KE R. 153 No. 19^. Currants in 'Bunches mole, .mt, T A K Efome of the beft currants yoit can get; (tone them with a pio and cut them as little as you poffibly can ; take a fmall piece of ftick, tie about fix bunches to this ftick with thread, and lay them on a fieve; have your prefer- ving pan on the fire with your fyrup in it, boil the fyrup about twenty mi- nutes on a brifk fire ; put your cur- rants in bunches into the fyrup ; only cover the bottom of the pan with them, nor put too many in ; let them have five or fix boils, and take the fcum off, with paper ; put them in your pots ; when cold put fome apple jelly over the top of them and mind your pots are very dry as before diredted. No. 194*154 the complete No. 194. Cedraties Whole, Wei» G E T the cedraties at the Italian warehoufe; make a hole through the middle of them at the thick end ; put them in a large preferving pan with' water and boil them one hour and a half^^ then drain all the water from them^ fet them up end ways to drain the water out of the ends; boil fome fyrup in a large preferving pan twenty minutes, then put the cedraties into a large earth- en deep pan, pour the fyrup over them and let them Hand two days before you meddle with 'them, then boil them with fyrup half an hour ; (do not let them be too foft) put them into the pan and cover them with paper; the next day drain the fyrup from them, boil and pour it on them again and repeat it fo for ten days, always keeping them covered with fyrup; thofe done in quarters are done ■ theconfectioner; 1^55- the fame way only cut long ways before you firft boil then'i ; when done put them into your pots, and when cold’ cover them with apple jelly j take care your pots are dry. No. 195. Cherries Sweety in Syrup ' L E T your cherries be the beft Ken-- tilb you can get, done them, put them into a tub with boiling hot fyrup over them, and cover them till the next day; then boil and put them in the tub again^ the next day boil them foftly twenty mi- , nutes and put them into the tub again, continue this for eight days; then make a thick fyrup for them, put them into it, then in an earthen pan or pot; put fome apple jelly over the tops and brandy papers over them ; if you want to dry fweet cherries, put them into your . preferving pan, warm them and drain them156 the complete them well from the fyrup through n fieve; put them into the hot flove and fhift the fieve every day till they are , dry; then p'ut them into your boxes. Whole cherries are preferved the fame way as thofe, only you leave the fiones in and the ftalks on them. No. 196. Cherries not Sweet, IVet, or Dry, L E T your cherries be the beft Ken- tifii you can get, and ftone them in this manner ; cut a quill as if you were go- ing to make a tooth pick, only make the end of it round, take hold of the cherry, thruft the quill down clofe to the top of the cherry, holding the ftalk at the. fame time that you pull, then the ftone will come out without tearing the cherry to pieces, which otherwife it would do; when you have done fo to all theCONFECTIONER. I57 the cherries, put them into a tub, and put a large quantity of powdered fugar over them, fo as to put layers of fugar, and layers of cherries till the tub is full; let them ftand two or three days till you find all the fugar is melted, amongft the juice of the cherries ; then let them' have one or two boils, pour them into the tub again, and let them ftand till the next day; repeat the fame four or five days fuccefiively ; the lafi;' time pour what you want to dry on a fieve, and when they are all well drained, have fieves enough to put them on, then put them on the bottom of a fieve only juft to cover the bottom ; let your ftove be very hot; put them in, changing them every day, and turn the cherries, they ‘ will dry the better, then paper your box, and put them in ; thofe you would wifh wet, put them in pots as before directed. No. T07*158 THE COMPLETE f • No. 197. Cucumbers in Girkins, Wet* Let your cucumbers be clear, and Tree from all fpots, put them in fait and water, let them ftand two or three days, then take them out and drain them well; put them in another pan of water, fcald them, put them in a tub, and let them ftand all night; then drain the water from them, put them into a pan of water, and to every two quarts of water put half a pint of fyrup; put them in, and let them boil over a flow fire five minutes; put them in the tub again, and let them Hand till the next day ; then boil them again, drain that fyrup from them, and have a clean pan with the fyrup of a proper thicknefs ; let it boil, put the cucumbers into it, and let them boil gently for a quarter of an hour ; then put them into a flat brown pan, and cover them; let them fland twoCONFECTIONER* 15^ two days, then drain the fyrup from them ; boil the fyrup one minute, arrd pour it over them ; the next day boil them and the fyrup together three or four minutes and repeat the fame for five days ; then put them in the pots or in a cream pan, and cover them up. ' N, B. Always obferve to let your preferved fruits (land two or three days before you put them up. No. 198. Comport Golden Pippins, PVet* largeft and foundeft you can get; pare them very fine and clean, bore a hole through them large enough to put your little finger through ; put fome very fine fyrup rather thin in a preferving pan, peel fome lemons very fine, and put the peel in the fyrup, which rnufi; be thinner than any thin fyrup in any for- pippins be the merTHE COMPLETE « mer ingredients.; put your apples in and let them fimmer over the fire very gently three quarters of an hour; then take t-hem off and when cold they are done, tiien put them in your cofitter for table. N* B* This is a quick way when you want a comport in a hurry.. No. 199. Comport French Tears, White, Wet, L E T your pears be large and found ; cut them into quarters long ways; put them in a pan of water, and over the fire which muff be flow; let them fimmer three quarters of an hour very flowly ; then put fome lemon peel in a pan of thin fyrup ; drain all the water from them ; when your fyrup boils, put them in and give them five or fix boils; then put them in an earthen flat pan, and the next day boil them again., till you think theCONFECT I ONEff, l6l the fyrup is got well into them, then keep them in the brown pan for life. , i No. 200r Comport French Fearsf- Red, fVet. L E T your pears be large and found pare and. cut them in quarters; prepare them as in the former receipt, only put fome cochineal in to colour them,, while' they are fimmering over the fire; put it in by degrees, till you fee it becomes fine red. No. 2or. Damfons WJodU, Wet'm- G E T fome of the largcR and bed: damfons, and prick them with a pin at each end, boiling fome fyrup on a brifkv firCy in your preferving pan for a quarter of an hour; then piit your damfons in^ and boil them twenty minutes ; put I. them1&2 THE COMPLETE ,them in an earthen pan, cover them up with paper, and ikim them as they boil quite clean ; put them into your pan ; the next day ftrain the fyrup from them, and let it have a good boil; then put the damfons into the pots, and when cold put fome apple jelly over them-. No. 202, Grapes in Bunches, Wet*- Stone your grapes with a large pin, have a large preferving. pan with water in it, put half an ounce 'of fait in with the water when cold, and put a Iheet of paper over them in the water; let them limmer over a flow fire about half an hour ; let them ftand till cold, put them into a brown pan or a little tub wdth fome water till the next day, then draw all the water from them ; have fome thin fyrup boiling on the fire, put the grapes into it, and when they are in, let■ C O N F E C T'l O N E It, 165 let them boil five minutes; then take them off, put them into an earthen pan^ and cover them with paper ; the next day drain the fyrup from them, and boil the fyrup a quarter of an hour; then put the grapes in five minutes'; repeat the fame next day, till the fyrup comes to a proper thicknefs, and the grapes look well, but be careful to have fyruP enough to cover them; No. 203. Goofebernes in the Form of Hops, fVet, G E T the fineft green goofeberries you can, cut them into quarters, and take the feeds' out of them ; take a needle and white thread, make a knot at the end, take hold of one of thefe goofeber- ries that you have cut, and pufli the nee- dle through the end of the goofeberry that is fplit, take another and do' the L 2 fame.i54 THE COMPLETE No. 204. famcj^and make it go part of it into the other goofeberry, and do fo till you have ? got eight on ; then you will find they : will be in the form of a green hopi when you have finiflied your hop, fallen ! the ends of the thread ; put them into a . i pan of water, fcald them, and put them j into a tub with their own liquor, that | you have fcalded them in ; let them lie | in the tub, three or four days, till they ^ begin to grow four and ferment; then j put them into fome frefh water over i the fire tiibthey become hot, but not to i boil, obferve to put a little fugar into the water, and they will green; drain all that away from the hops and lay the i hops regularly in an earthen pan; boil fome thin fyrup and put over them ; give them a boil once a day, till you think they are done, and keep them in an earthen pan, till you want to dry them.L 3 No. 205. CON FECT IOKSr; No. 204. Green Goofeberrhs, Wet, L E T your goofeberries be the larged and fined: you can get, put them over the fire to fcald, but do not let them boil, put them into a tub and let them Hand three days; then drain all the li- quor from them, put them into another pan with water, and a little fyrup with ‘the water.; let them be over the fire till they are warm, but not to boil only juft to come green ; the next day drain all the liquor from them, put the goofeber- ries, into an earthen pan, and pour fome thin fyrup over them boiling hot; re- peat it once a day for fix days; make the' fyrup come thicker by degrees, and' then .put them into the pots.1^6 C-O-M P L E'T E •No. 205. Lemons Whole, Wet. ’ G E T fome large clear lemons that have no fpots, carve the outfide of them with a knife as you like,; fcoop a hole at the ftalk of them, that you may put your little finger in, that the fyrup may ' penetrate the infide,; have a large pre- ferving pan with water, put the lemons into the water, cover them with paper, aud let them boil gently, till you find them grow tender ; then have fome thin fyrup, boiling on the fire, drain all the water from the lemons quite dry ; put the lemons into a fmall tub, pour the fyrup over them, and cover them with paper ; let them ftand till the next day, then drain the fyrup from the lemons, and boil it a quarter of an hour; then put the lemons into the tub again, pour the fyrup over them, and let them ftand till the next day ; then boil the lemons andNo. 2c6. J, 4 t O N F EC T TON ER-. 167 and fyrup together for twenty minutes; put them into* the tub again, keep the lemons covered with fyru.p, and -if you find it Ihrink, put more fyrup to it the next day ; repeat the fame boiling, and when you find the fyrup has penetrated the lemons, and they are clear, take a clean large preferving pan wdth more fyrup, and boil it till it is pretty thicks drain the old fyrup from the lemons, put them .into the tub, pour the other fyrup that is boiling over them, and let them {land three or four days before^you look at them, then if you find they have not fucked in the fyrup enough, you may drain the fyrup from them, and give them another boil for a quarter of an hour; pour it boiling over them, and always keep them in a flat-earthen pan.:l68 THE COMPLETE No. 206. Seville Oranges W^hole, WeU *Ta K E fome of the largeft Seville oranges you can get, and very clear ■from all fpots; carve the outfides of them in flowers or according to your own fancy; bore a hole at the flalk end of them, about the fize of half your little finger; put them into cold water., for where you have carved them the rind will turn black ; let them be in cold water about four or five hours; then put them on the fire in a large cop- per pan, and boil them flowly about four hours.; :then take them out of the water and turn them with the .end that has the hole undermoft upon a ficve, that all the water may drain out of them ; let fome thin fyrup' boil a quarter of an hour in another pan, put the oranges in and boil them ten minutes; then put them in a fmall tub, pour the fyrup over themI CON'FEC TIONER, 16^ ^them and cover them with paper; the next day boil the oranges and fyrup together a quarter of an hour on a brilk ‘fire ; put them into the tub agaia, and det them ftand till next day ; then drain the fyrup from them and boil it twenty minutes, obferving to keep them well covered in the fyrup.; continually boiling your fyrup, and puting it over the oranges for fix or eight days till you find they are tender, and have taken the ■fyrup ; let them fland five or fix days in the fyrup, give the fyrup five or fix 'boils again, and pour it over the oranges into a large flat earthen pan, in which keep them for ufe. No. 207. Orange Teels, Weu Ge T fome of the finefl: Seville orange peels clean from fpots; put them into a copper pan, if you have a great num- berI^o T'H'E COMPLETE No. 208. ber to do, and boil them two hours ^ fcrape the infide of them clean, that none of the pith remains; place the peels one in another round a fmall tub, till the tub is almofl full; pour a great deal of fyrup over them till they are covered; let them fland two or three days before you touch them.; make a hole, at the bottom,of the tub, drain the fyrup from the peels, boil and pour it over them ; let them Hand for two days, then.boil your fyrup again, and let them Hand for four or five days running ; then drain all the fyrup from them, and pour it when boiling on them again; let them remain in the tub till you are going to candy them, then take them out, and wafh them when you want them. N, 5. Obferve to keep them welh covered with the fyrup.C o N P EC T I ONE R.' 17^ No. 20S. Orange Chips^ Wet.* TTA K E fome Seville orange peek, cut a bang or piece of cork round, fo that it will go into the orange; with a fharp pen-knife pare them round, which we call turning, and cut your chips about the third part of an inch long,; and partly the fame thicknefs; put them into a pan of water, and boil them gen- tly over the fire one hour and a half; have another pan with fyrup boiling,; drain all the water from the chips, put them into the fyrup and boil them for a quarter of an hour; then put them into a large earthen pan, or a fmall tub, cover them, and let them fland till next day; then boil them again with the fyrup a quarter of an hour; put them into the tub again, repeat this for four or five times; then put them into a large pan, not into pots, cover them'>1-72 "T H E C O M ^ L E T E them well with a fyrup, and keep them for ufe. ‘ No. 209. Lemon Chips, PLet, • rT-^ JL A K E fome fine lemon peels, pare - off ail the rind with a knife, cut it all • into pieces if )mu can about a quarter ' of an inch wide ; put them into a cab- “bage net, and into a preferving pan with water; boil them quite tender, then 'have another pan with fyrup boiling, ,and when the chips are boiled enough ■in the water, take them out of the net .and put thena into the boiling fyrup. N. B, Let them be well drained be- fore you put them into the fyrup, and let them boil a quarter of an hour; then put them into a large earthen pan and Let them fland till next day; then drain the fyrup from them and boil it ten. minutes, and pour it over them ; coverCONFECT 10 N E Ri 1 73, then # them till the next day, then boil the- chips and fyrup together twenty minutes,. and put them into the tub again; keep them covered with the fyrup, and when • you think it is well foaked in-them, boil them all together; put them into your tub, cover them well with fyrup and keep them in the tub till you wani’ to candy.. • ' No. 210. Lemon Veels, TT A K E the largefl and cleareft lemon peels you can get; and throw into a large preferving pan with water; let them boil till you find them quite foft and tender, then take them one at a time ' out of the W'ater, and with a table fpoon take all the pith out of the kfide clean from them; throw them into a tub of cold water as you do them; let them fland in the water four or five days:I 'l'74 -tHE ' complete then put your lemon peels one withiil the other, and place them round a largd deep tub have a large preferving pan of fyrup boiling over the fire, pour fome of the fyrup over them, and cover the tub ; let them ftand two days and bore a hole at the bottom of the tub to let the fyrup out; boil the fyrup three or four minutes, pour it over the peels again and keep them always well co- vered with fyrup : repeat boiling the fyrup in this manner for eight or tea days; then keep them in the fyrup in the tub till you want to candy them. No. 211, Pearsj Wet, G E T fome baking pears that are of a very hard nature, put the pears in a large preferving pan with water; let them fimmer over the fire till you find them rather foft; take them out of the boilingC O N F E C T r O N E I?. boiling water with a fkimmer, and pur flieminto a bafon with cold water; pare them in this manner, firft cut off the end of the pear, then hold the ftalk end' in your hand, and bring your knife down the Ikin ilraight, fo as to make the fkin come off in five pieces all round the pear ; throw them into another ba- fonwith cold water; have the preferving pan with the fyrup in it,,, let the fyrnp boil ten minutes; then put the pears in ; but firft drain the water well from them,, let them boil in the fyrup again about ten minutes, fkim it with paper, boil them in the fame manner fix days, draining the fyrup off the paper every time till the fyrup is of a fine thicknefs; let them remain in this fyrup till you want to candy them. No. 212 i«y6 THE C O M P.L E T E No, 212, Green Orange Plumbs, WeU- L E T your plumbs be the foundeft and belt you can get, prick them with a fork and put them into cold water ; have a very thin fyrup, fo thin as to be hardly fweet; feald them in it and let- them have but one gentle boil ; put them in an earthen pan, let them ftand till the next day, then drain all the fy- rup from them, boil and pour it over them ; repeat the fame eight or nine days fucceffively, then let them have a gentle boil and put them into your pots, obferve that your pots are not the leaft-, damp; put fome apple jelly over them when cold; let it be three days before jmu tie them-up, and keep them and all other fweetmeats in a dry place. No. 213,CONFECTIONER. 177 No. 213. Mogul Flumhs, Wet, T A K E the largeft mogul plumbs you can get with clear Ikins, prick them with a fork about ten or a dozen times, moftly about the ftalk ; throw them into cold water, otherwife they will turn black where you have pricked them, put them over the fire juft tofcald them, have a pan half full of boiling’ fyrup, drain all the plumbs from the water through a lieve and put them into the fy- rup, do not put too many in, only juft to cover the bottom of the pan ; boil the plumbs and the fyrup ten minutes, then put them into a flat earthen pan and cover them with paper; the next day drain the fyrup from them through a fieve, let the fyrup boil, put the plumbs in it and let them boil together; put them into the fame pan and repeat the fame five or fix days; it is belt to M keep'178 THE COMPLETE keep thefe plumbs in a flat earthen pan till you want to dry any of them. 'No. 214. Tine Apples, Whole, Wet, TTA K E the pine apple, chip off all the fmall pieces of leaves from the bot- tom of every pine, take the top and ftalk, and have a preferving pan on the fire with water, and to every two quarts of water put half a pint of fyrup to it, fo as to make it very fine thin fyrup, and only jufl: fweet ; be fure .that it boils before you put the pines in and let them fimmer an hour over the fire ; the next day let them boil gently another hour; take them off and cover them carefully, the next day let them boil gently about half an hour; put more fyrup as thick as you ufe to other fruits, the next day drain this fyrup off and boil it, repeating the fame ieven or eight days; then put themG O F E C T 1 O N E R. 17^ them into an earthen pan, and cove^ them up vety carefully frotil any dull and be very careful that your pahs are very dry. No. 215. A Small Tellozv Plumb, Wet* T1 E T your plumbs be clear frotn fpots, run a fork In once at each end and no more, you muft not have the plumbs too ripe, put them in water as you prick them; boil a pan of fyrup ten minutes ; drain all the water frorii the plumbs and put them in the fyrup ; boil and fkim them, repeat the fame four or five days ; then put them carefully into pots, mind you do not break them for they are very tender, and take care your pots are very dry ; let them ft and two days before you put them by; cut fmall pieces of writing paper, dip them in brandy and put it over your fruit in M 2 every/ l8o THE COMPLETE every pot, this fhould be done to all | ! fruits, it muft be put clofe that no air i can get in, then another paper over , that; tie them up. i / : I No. 216. Strawberries, PVhole, Wet- Obs E R V E to get the ftrawber- j| lies for this purpofe in very fine dry weather, viz» that if it has not rained for three or four days, pick the largefi: and finefi: you can get ; put fome fyrup into a preferving pan, boil it over a brifk fire for half an hour and put your ftraw- berries in while it boils, do not put many ; into the pan, only one ftrawberry deep ; j let them boil twenty minutes and take " . off all the fcum with paper very careful- ly ; if you find they are like to break take them off immediately and put them | into your pots, when cold put apple jellyC O F C T I O NE R. l8l jelly over, and be very careful that your pots are not the lead: damp. ^ ^ \ No. 217. Apricot Chips, IVet* Ta K E the chips that you cut off the apricots, and fome powdered fugar ; take a brown pan, lay a layer of chips and then a layer of fugar over them, and fo on till your pan is full \ let themi Hand till the fugar is all melted, boil them and put them into the pan again ; boil them the next day, and fo repeat the boiling them ten or eleven days fuc- ceffively ; then have a proper fyrup and put them in a brown pan till you want to dry them. No. 218. Green Gages, PFeU found, prick them with a fork fix or your green gages be very* feven •182 THE COMPLETE feyen times or more about the 0alks; put them into cold water, or elTe they will turn black; fcald them, and have another preferving pan with boiling fy- rup ; drain the water from the gages and put them into a deep earthen pan ; place them regularly and pour your boiling fyrup over them ; let them ftand till next day, then drain all the fyrup from them; boil it again, and put it over them ; repeat fo for feven or eight days, then take another flat earthen pan, drain the fyrup from them, place your gages in. this pan ; boil fome frefli fyrup for half an hour and pour it over them, co- ver them up till you want them ; you may put fome into pots if you like. I DRIEDconfectioner. 183 •s=:^:;fc=D. » DRIED FRUITS. ■e 1 T!— ■ ■ .a- No. 21^, Damfons, Dried. TTA K E damfons that you have pre- ferved, drain all the fyrup from them, cover the bottoms of the fieves and put them in your ftoves which muft be hot, change the lieves every day till they are dry, and as you change the lieves turn your damfons, and when they are not fticky nor likely to give, take them out and paper a box and put them in, and lay a paper between every layer of damfons. M 4 No. 220,184' THE COMPLETE No. 220, Mogul Plumbs, Dried, Ta K E mogul plunibs that you have preferved, drain all the fyrup from them, wafli them in a bafon of water and lay them on a lieve*; put them into the ffov^ which muft be pretty hot, turn them next day on another fieve, and let them Hand in the flove two or three days; then put them in your box pa- pered, and lay a fheet of paper between every layer of plumbs. No. 221. Gree^ Orange Plumbs, Dried, J. A K E green orange plumbs that you have preferved, drain all the fyrup from them, walh them in a bafon of water, put them on fieves and into the ftove ; change the fieves and turn them every day on clean fieves; put them in yourG O N F E C T I O N> E R. fS J your box, and ufe the fame care and method as before di^e(^ted.. % No. 222. Green Gages, Dried Ta K E preferved green gagesj put- them over the fire to warm, drain all the fyrup from them, put them on the fieves and into the fiove; change them every day and turn them, elfe they will fiick ; let them be in three days, and then put them in the boxes as before dire<^ed. No. 223. Fears Candied, or Dried, TA K E the pears out of the fyrup, and put them on wires or a large fieve, drain all the fyrup from them, walh them in warm water to get the fyrup olF them, drain them quite dry; then have a pan of fyrup on the fire a boiling, and let186 THE COMPLETE let it boii till it comes'to blow, take the pan off the fire, and take a fpoon and rub it on the fides of the pan till you fee it turn white; then put your pears in and take them out, put them on a wire, and let them ftand till cold, then put them in your box. No. 224. Cherries, Sweet, Dried. Ta K E your cherries and fyrup, warm them over the fire, drain all the fyrup from them, put them on the back of the fieves juft to cover the bottoms; put them into the ftove the next day, change the fieve, put them in the ftove again and let them ftand three or four days in the ftove; let them be well dried before you put them in your boxes, for if they are not they will grow four and be full of maggots ; paper them as before directed. . No. 225.CONFECTIONER# 187 A No. 225. CherrkSy not' Sweety Dried, Ta K E the eherrks that you prefer- ved not fweet, warm them, put them on your fieves and let all the juice run from them ; then while hot put them on the ,fieves, change them every day and let them .be in the ftove four or five days> afterwards move them about in the fieves till they are .thoroughly dry, then paper your boxes as before diredled. No. 226. Apricot Chip's, Dried, Take your apricot chips, put them over the fire to be warm and drain all the fyrup from them ; then make the chips the fize you pleafe, put them on the fieve as you make them, dufl; fome fugar over them through a bag, and put them in the ftove; let them be there two days, changing the fieves once or they /l88 THE COMPLETE they will flick ; when dry, paper and- put them into your boxes. No. 227. Orange or Lemon Chips^ Candied or Dried, -1 .A K E your preferved orange or le- mon chips,. W'afh them from the fyrup with warm water, and the fyrup you drain from them boil till it comes to blow put the chips in and rub the fugar at the fides with the fpoon all round till you fee the fyrup all candy ; then take the chips out with two forks, and’ put them on a wire for the fugar to drakr ^ofF; let them fland till cold, and thea put them in your boxes as before. No. 228. Angelica Knots, Dried, TTA K E flalks of preferved angelica^ take them out of your pan, wafh all the fyrupCONT'E C T I O NE R. I 8^ fyrup from them with warm water, cut them in flips about a quarter of an inch long, and the length of the angelica when firft preferved ; double them into whatever form you like, and if you can, tie them up in the form .of a true lover’s knot; put them on fieves and into the ilove, let them fland till they are quite dry and ready to be candied. No. 229. Barberries in Bunches^ DriecL Ta K E fome preferved barberry bunches, put them over the fire to warm, then on a fieve, let all the fyrup drain well from them, then have your fieves ready and put them on ; dufl: fome powdered fugar over them through a bag ; put them in the flove and let them remain, there till they are quite dry, changing your fieves and turning the bunches ,; they mufl: fland in the flove four190 THE COMPLETE No. 231. four days ; paper your box and puC them in as before directed. N* Bo The above method, does for •currants. No. 230. Lemon Peels, Candied or Dried. Ta K E fome preferved lemon peels, 'Wafli them in warm water and put them >on a fieve to drain ; boil fome fyrup on 'the fire till it comes to blow, and put your peels in ; as foon as they are covered with fugar take them out again, put them on wires for all the fugar to drop through ; then let them ftand till cold and put them in your boxes. N. B, Do orange peel in the fame manner.CONFECTIONER. 1^1 No. 233. No. 231. CuctmherSi Dried, TA K E fome preferved cucumbers, waih all the fyrup from them, put them on your fieves to drain, then into your ftove to dry, one day is enough for them to dry ; afterwards put them in your boxes as before diredted. I No. 232. Green Apricots, Dried. T' A K E fome preferved green apri- cots, wafh them in a little warm water, put them on your fieves into a hot dove, changing your fieves every day ; led them remain two or three days in- the dove until they are well dried, then put them into your boxes papered, and cover them as before diredted. ■I9'2 T h e com P L E T E No. 235. No. 233. Apricots full Grown, Dried, T'ake yoor apricots full grown that you have preferved whole, or thofe in halves ; walk them in warm water, put them on lieves regularly, not to let them touch one another ; put them into a hot {love for two or three days, chang- ing the lieves every day ; when dry put them'into your boxes. No. 234. Grapes in Bunches, Dried, TT A K E fome preferved grapes, walh them with warm water, put them on your lieves, and into a hot ftove, keep turning of them every day, changing your lieves; when well dried put them ^ into your boxes.-CONFECTIONER* 193 Noi 235. Pine Apple Chips, Dried, TTA K E your llices of pine apples that you have in fyrup, and wafli them in warm water, then put them on your fieves in fuch a manner that they do not touch each other, then take. fome fine powdered fugar, put it into a fine linen ^ bag and juft fiiake it over theni; ke^p/ turning of them every day for tkree or four days in a hot ftove ; when dry put them into your papered box with writing paper between every layer. t, No. 236. Cedraties, PPhole, or in garters, Dried, Ta K E your preferved cedraties ei- ther whole or in quarters, wafti them in a little warm water ; boil £bme fyrup in another pan till it comes to a blow ; take N a large104 THE COMPLETE i a large fpoon and rub it well to the fides of the pan till it comes white ; dip your cedratics in, take them out and put j them on your wires over another p^an; ! | let them drain well, then put them into j ' a hot ftove on the wires for one day, till i the candy dries all round them ; when well dried put them into your boxes as before directed. - • No. 237. Tajle Knots, Red or White, Pare fome large apples, and cut them into a preferving pan, with juft water enough to come up to the top of the apples; let them boil till they come | to marmalade, then pafs it through a ■fteve into a flat brown pan; take fome cochineal and mix it with the apples to make them a fine colour; have another I preferving pan with as much fyrup in it asCONFECTIONER. I95 as you have got apples, and boil the iyrup until^ It comes to blow; take the lyrup off the fire and mix the apples with it in the pan ; have fheets or plates made of pewter, about a foot and a half long and about ten inches wide, with edges turned about the eighth part of an inch to prevent the pafte from falling or running off; cover your plates with your pafte and put it into your ftove, which muft be hot; let them remain till next day, then take another pewter fheet and with a knife cut the pafte round the edges, and acrofs the plates fcores about a quarter of an inch wide ; then pull it off, and if it comes off eafy it is dried enough ; when you have got it off in long firings, try to make them into knots according to your fancy; piit them on the other plate, then into the ftove, and let them ftand in the ftove two days ; N 2 then196 l^HE COMELETE then take them out j when they are cold put them into papered boxes, and let them remain there until you want to candy them. INDEX.< *97 ) INDEX A L M O N D S, the way to blanch - Page 32 —I— burnt, red 67 -— Taurnt, white Almond pafte - ■ fagots —.cake, a fmall fine 68 71 40 45 B jSiSCUITS, fine Savoy ---■ fine fpunge — orange heart 4 N 3 Bifcnits,198 INDEX. Naples Page 5 fyringe 7 robe de cbambre - - 9 common Savoy - 10 fweatmeat II monkey v 12 fpice toad in a hole 14 millefruit 15 mafapan - , 16 judges 18 Yarmouth 21 king’s 22 chocolate 22 Italian water 23 lemon 3^- ratafie 35 orange . - 36 filbert 37 piftachio nuts 38 orange flower 39 frefli apricot 42 Bilcuits,index. 199 Bifcuks, ftelh barberry ^^3 _____ frefh damfon, or refined cbeefe - _ ‘ Blomonge Cakes, Queen Water, with carraway feeds fine Shrewibury fine ginger - ralberry - Seville orange paftc .. a fmall fine almond 19 25 30 90 9^ 45 a large,rich two guinea 4^ . .. - 1 A1 — a firrall rich feed a fmall rich plumb Comfits, carraway of all forts cardamom Crocont, carimel 47 48 95 96 97AOO INDEX, D P R O P S, bergamot —— blackcurrant —^ chocolate damfon • Seville orange • lemon *—— ~ orange ■ — peppermint —: violet —■ barley fugar DRIED FRUITS. RIE D damfons - • 183 Dried, mogul plumbs 184 green orange plumbs 184 green gages 185 pears, or candied 185 cherries, fvveet 1S6 Dried, Page 54 55 56 57 ■ 58 58 59 - 60 61 61INDEX. 201 Dried, cherries, not fweet Page CO ' apricot chips - 1S7 orange or lemon chip: 188 angelica knots 188 barberries in bunches 189 —^ 'lemon peels, or candied 190 cucumbers - I9I green apricots 191 apricots full grown 192 :—!— grapes in bunches - 192 pine apple chips - 193 cedraties, whole, or in quar- ters - 193 pafle knots, red or white 194 E E( S S E N C E, cedraty m 102 ■ lemon - 105 orange 103 FAGOTS,-INDEX, aot F Fa G O T S, fine almond Page 40 Floating illand - - 99 Filberts, burnt, white - 69 J Jumbles, Seville orange , 66 Jelly, currant, red and white 77 rafberry, for i-ces - 77 apple - - - 7^ hartftiorn - " 79 calves foot - ~ black currant - - ^2, goofberry - - ~ ^3 Jam, rafberry - - " apricot - - ^ " ^3 ftrawberry - “ barberry - " ' ^7 Telly,203 I N D E X. Jam, peach ‘ black plumb Page Ic EIN G, for a rich cake Ice cream, barberry :— rafberry ftrawberry apricot pine apple currant piftachio — bifcuit plain brown bread royal ginger freth flrawberry frefh rafberry frefh apricot — coffee 88 112 113 114 114 116 117 117 ii8‘ 118 119 119 120 120 120 Ice204 INDEX Ice cream, chocolate Page 121 Seville orange 122 lemon - 122 china orange - 122 ■ — burnt filbert - 123 burnt a* 123 millefruit < 124 frefh currant - 124 — cedraty 125 burnt almonds - Parmafan cheefe 125 — darafon 1 - 126 prunello - 126 peach •- 127 — blackcurrant - 127 — cherry - 127 L Lemonade 104 Orangeade . - - 104 M A C-» IN D E X. 2C5 M M ACCAROONS, French Page 35 & ^9 - 92 Merings, in the form of eggs Milleiruir, rock’candy - EnsHfh -34 N N UTS, fine fweatmeat gmgerr bread 27 Orgeat, 0 - - » Ill fyrup - 73 pafte - 71 PRAW-2o6 INDEX. P pRAWLON GS, lemon Page 62 ■ orange 63 plftachio,red 64 — piflachio, \ white - - - 68 . ■ — burnt fil- bert, ted - - 64 — orange flower - - - 65 Pafte, almond - - r 71 — orgeat - - - 7^ I To PRESERVE FRUITS IN brandy: Preserved apricots in brandy - ' 14° Preferved peaches ditto - 14^ morella cherries ditto 142- PrefervedINDEX. 207 Prcferved mogul plumbs ,in brandy* Page 143 . — green gages ditto 143 green orange plumbs do. 143 grapes ditto - 144 To PRESERVE SWEET-' MEATS, WET. i. O preferve green apricots, wet 143 To preferve apricots ripe, ditto 147 pine apple chips, ditto 148 angelica, ditto 150 barberries in fprigs, do. 151 • rafberries whole, ditto 152 currants in bunches, whole, ditto - - 153 — cedraties, whole, ditto 154 —— cherries, fvveet, in fyrup 155 cherries, not fweet, vyet or dry - - 156 ToTo ♦ 2o8 index. To preferve cucumbers and girkins^ wet Page 158 comport golden pip- pins, ditto - " ^59 comport French pears, white, ditto - - ^^3 „ comport French pears, red, ditto - - - damfons whole, ditto 161 grapes in bunches, do. 162 , • ' goolberries in the form of hops, ditto - 163 . ■ - green goofberries, do. 165 lemons whole, wet 166 • — Seville orange, ditto 168 ‘ - orange peels, ditto 169 orange chips, ditto 17^ lemon chips, ditto 17^ - : lemon peels, ditto i73 pears, ditto - ^74 176 dittoI N D E. X. 209 Toprefcrve mogul plumbs,wet Page 177 pine apples whole, do. 178 a fmall yellow plumb, do, 179 (Irawberries whole, do. 180 — apricot chips, ditto 181 - green gages, ditto 181 R Rusks, French r 2(6 s ■II^ SY R U P, orgeat ■■ — lemon 73 , orange ' n Seville orange - 75 - pine apple 76 — capillaire - 7^ Sugar, rock, of all colours ■' 93 — barley - - - 94 to clarify for fweetmeats lOl 0 TUR.I- N P E X. ?i.p ^TuRTU longs, fine, for break- fafl: . - Page 29 Trifle, a whip for - - 98 W "WA F E R S, lemon barberry - orange — bergamot -— violet peppermint Water, currant, made of jelly Water, frefh currant cedraty rafberry, of jam frefli rafberry —- bergamot 50 51 5^ 52 53 54 105 105 106 106 107 107 Water,I N P B, X. ^1% Water ^Vater, apricot Page io8 _ fl'r'nx/Tiprrv. nf i?im loS » J J ■ frelh ftrawberry 109 1; ■ barberry " 99 peach . no pear . o no ■ cherry ?. m n I Water ice, barberry 128 — rafberry « m 129 ——— ftrawberry md 129 ■ apricot » in 130 — pine apple * m 130 chocolate «* Seville orange m 131 china orange m 131 -■ lemon m 132 • punch m 132 • peach - 133 — currant m 133 ; frefh currant m 133 frefh rafberry m 134 damfon 1 134INDEX. in Water ice, prunello Page 134 — black currant - — —• grape m 135 —■ cherry - 136 • pear - 136 ;—« millefruit m 137 ■ bergamot \ 138 ~ cedraty - M 00 —^ frefli flrawberry - 139 Whip fyllabub, everlafting, to put in-glafTes - 98 i ' 5 T H E E N D. '*v * - A ^**s*A^' /