Sole of Foot three pieces, of which the median is the strongest, and divides into five shps which join the sheath of the flexor tendons of each toe. These slips are strengthened by transverse fibres, under cover of which pass the digital vessels and nerves. The lateral pieces of the fascia blend with the middle piece, and with the deep fascia on the dorsum of the foot. The outer piece covers the abductor minimi digiti and extends to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. The inner piece covers the abductor hallucis. Uses of tlie plantar fascia.—It strengthens the transverse as well as the antero-posterior arches of the foot. It gives origin to the three muscles in the superficial layer, the middle one being the flexor brevis digitorum. It protects these muscles and the plantar vessels and nerves, as when the bather treads on a broken bottle or a jagged flint. (In company with other plantar structures, the fascia yields in the case of flat-foot.) The three muscles m the superficial layer of the sole are the abduc- tors hallucis and minimi digiti, with the flexor brevis digitorum be- tween them. They all arise from the deep fascia, os calcis, and inter-muscular septa. The abductors are inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the great and little toes, and the flexor brevis digitorum is inserted, like the flexor sublimis in the hand (p. 272), into the sides of the penultimate phalanges of the four lesser toes, its tendons being pierced by those of the long flexor. Tarsal ligraments.—The long plantar ligament passes from the under surface of the os calcis to the ridge on the under surface of the cuboid, converting the groove for the tendon of the peroneus longus into a tunnel. It then spreads into the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. The short plantar runs from the under and anterior part of the os calcis to the cuboid behind the groove. The internal calcaneo-cuboid is a short, strong band between the inner and dorsal aspects of the bones. It forms the outer limb of the V-shaped union between the first and second rows of the tarsus, the inner limb being the superior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, which passes on to the dorsal surface of the scaphoid. The ijifeiHor calcaneo-scaphoid ligament is a broad, stjong band between the sustentaculum tali and the tuberosity of the scaphoid. The tendon of the tibialis posticus passes like a strap beneath it. Its upper surface is lined by the synovial membrane from between the astragalus and os calcis, and supports the head of the astragalus. The front of the deltoid ligament blends with and supports it. It is sometimes called the ' spring ligament,' and it is one of the first structures to give way in flat-foot. All these ligaments are necessarily divided in Chopart's amputa- tion, which passes through the transverse tarsal joint. The bony arches of the foot.—If the foot Avere a sofid piece of bone it would be very liable to fracture ; it would, moreover, possess