388 TJic Rect71111 sacral nerves. Then there may be great pain in the back and along the peripheral branches of the sacral plexus. In most cases there is a sense of fulness of the lower bowel, on account of pressure upon its sensory nerves, and, therefore, a frequent desire for evacuation. The motions are often small and liquid, the solid part remaining behind as a harden- ing mass. The sphincter is usually dilated. If the disease is too far advanced for excision to be undertaken, comfort may be obtained and life prolonged by di\'erting the f£eces through an artificial anus in the groin or loin. Arteries.—The inferior mesenteric of the abdominal aorta lies behind the upper part of the rectum {^superior hcemorrhoidal), and then divides into a trunk for either side of the bowel. Branches are thence given off which pierce the muscular coat and run in the sub- mucous layer almost to the anus, anastomosing with those next de- scribed. The middle hcEmorrhoidals are derived from the internal iliacs ; branches also come from the lower vesical and sacral, and from the internal pudics within the pelvis ; they communicate with each other and with the superior and inferior haemorrhoidals. The inferior or external hcEinorrJioidal arteries come from the internal pudics in the ischio-rectal fossa (p. 442). They anastomose with each other and with the higher hasmorrhoidal arteries. Their branches are divided in lateral lithotomy, and also in the operation for anal fistula. Veins.—The hemorrhoidal plexus is found in the lower part of the rectum, in the mucous and submucous coats. It communicates with the veins of the neck of the bladder and prostate. The branches are destitute of valves, and the chief of them enter into the inferior mesen- teric vein which ends in the splenic, itself an important tributary of the vena portas (p. 338) ; others flow into the internal iliac and internal pudic veins. Thus a noticeable communication is effected between the portal and systemic circulation. Piles are varicose hasmorrhoidal veins ; when prolapsed from the interior of the bowel they are covered with mucous membrane and are apt to bleed ; external piles are tumours of the inferior haemorrhoidal veins, and, possessing a thick (dermal) coating, they do not bleed. A branch of a hasmorrhoidal artery descends into the base of the internal pile ; the pendulous tumour must therefore not be cut off unless this vessel is first secured, either by a clamp or ligature. In freeing the base of the pile for ligation the blades of the scissors must be passed up parallel to the wall of the rectum, and between it and the pile. Any condition which obstructs the return of the venous blood predisposes to dilatation of these veins. Piles may, therefore, be symptomatic of disease of the heart, lungs, or liver ; of stricture of the rectum ; of habitual constipation, pregnancy, ovarian disease or abdominal tumour ; of prostatic enlargement, or of vesical calculus. The nerves of the rectum are derived chiefly from the inferior mesenteric derivatives of the aortic plexus, and from the hypogastric