BroncJiocele 135 Relations.—The gland is covered by the deep fascia, the sterno- hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid, and laterally by the sterno- mastoid. Beneath it is the sheath of the common carotid, and on the inner aspect are the trachea and larynx, the oesophagus (on the left side), and the pharynx. The firm connection of the gland with the upper part of the wind- pipe is a fact of great clinical importance ; when there is dilatation of the vessels of one lobe a rounded tumour occurs in the groove between the larynx and sterno-mastoid, which, pulsating with thrill and expansion, strongly suggests aneurysm of the upper part of the common carotid. On making the patient swallow, however, the tumour glides up and down with the larynx : a carotid aneurysm is not influenced by the movements of deglutition. An accessory thyroid gland is not unknown. Supply.—Arteries come from the superior, the inferior, and, some- times, from the lowest thyroid branches. Of the veins., the superior and middle enter the internal jugular, whilst the inferior descend in front of the trachea as important tributaries of the innominates (p. 132). The lymphatics enter the deep cervical glands. Nerves.—Sympathetic filaments come from the cervical ganglia along with the arteries, and other branches are derived from the external and the recurrent laryngeals. Structure.—There is a fibrous coat which sends in processes dividing the gland into irregular lobules ; these consist of a gluey material containing seed-like vesicles. The vesicles contain corpus- cular elements and more of the glue, and, when greatly distended, they cause cystic enlargement of the gland. Sometimes the cysts contain serum, sometimes blood. The probable function of the gland is ' the control of the muci- noid substances in the tissues of the body, and the manufacture of blood-corpuscles.' (Horsley.) When the gland is atrophied, also when its bulk is increased at the expense of its proper elements, mucin is deposited in the connective tissues, as of the eye-lids, lips, and hands, so that they become puffy and permanently swollen. This disease is called niyxcedenia^ and it is associated with the presence of an excess of colourless, and a diminution in the number of red, corpuscles of the blood. Horsley has produced the same association of symptoms in monkeys by removing the thyroid body. And in children who are born without a thyroid body the symptoms occur, begetting the disease known as sporadic cretinism., in which the subject is idiotic. Enlargement of the thyroid gland, or bronchocele (/3poy;YOf, wind- pipe ; K?7X77, ttmiotir), is called g^oitre in Switzerland, and, in England, Derbyshire neck. The enlargement may be solid or cystic, lateral or symmetrical. When the enlargement is due to dilatation of the blood-vessels of the gland it is often associated with prominence of the eye-balls and palpitation of the heart—Graves'' disease—the pro-