Sterno-inastoid ; Wry-neck 3 Acting with its fellow, it draws back and fixes the head and neck, and raises, or depresses, and fixes the shoulders. Its nerve-supply is from the spinal accessory, and also from the anterior divisions of the third and fourth cervical nerves. Either with or without the sterno- mastoid, the trapezius is apt to cause spasmodic wry-neck. The ligaineiitum niichcB ascends from the seventh cervical spine to the external occipital protuberance, and gives attachment to fasciae and muscles. The sterno-cleido-mastoid is attached, as its name suggests, to the sternum, clavicle (k\€is, /cXeiSo?, clavis)^ and mastoid process. The sternal origin is by a tendon from the front of the manubnum ; and the clavicular origin is by a wide mass of muscle and tendon from the upper border of the inner end of that bone. The two heads are separated by a narrow triangular interval, which corresponds with the common carotid artery, the vagus, and the last part of the internal jugular. The muscle is enclosed in a definite sheath of the deep cervical fascia. The two heads of origin slope upwards and backwards, and, having blended a little below the middle of the neck, are inserted into the mastoid process and into the superior curved line of the occiput. The nerve sitpply is from the spinal accessory and the anterior divisions of the second and third cervical nerves. The arterial supply is from the occipital, the superior thyroid, through the descending branch (p. 28), and the supra-scapular. The anterior border of the muscle is the surgeon's guide in ligation of the common, external, or internal carotid artery, and in oesophago- tomy ; and the posterior border of its clavicular origin is the guide to the subclavian artery. The chief action of the muscle is to draw the head down to the shoulder, and to turn the face to the opposite side. And this is neces- sarily the attitude of the head and face in fhat form of wry-neck which is secondary to contraction of the muscle. The common cause of congenital wry-neck is rupture of one or both heads of the sterno- mastoid during parturition, when the escaping head receives a vigo- rous and natural twist; the fibrous tissue by which the tear of the muscular fibres is mended undergoes subsequent contraction. The permanent drag upon that side of the face and head not only draws down the corner of the mouth, the outer commissure of the eyelidSj and the side of the lower jaw, but also prevents the proper develop- ment of the bones of that side of the face. In due course other muscles and bands are shortened on the concave side of the neck, and the cer- vical vertebrae become deformed. Relations.—The sterno-mastoid is covered by the platysma ; the external jugular vein ; lesser occipital, great auricular, and transverse cervical nerves, and the deep fascia. Beneath it are another layer of the deep fascia, the sterno-hyoid, B 2