26o TJie Hmiienis The Humerus .r Ossification of humerus. The humerus has seven centres of ossification, that for the shaft appearing very early in foetal life ; the head begins to ossify in the second year, and the tuberosities in the third. The — \ lower end has four centres : for the radial head in the iCiiiii^'i^ second year, the internal condyle in the fifth year, the It*^"^If trochlear surface in the twelfth, and the external con- yl jf dyle in the fourteenth year. \ I, i The nutrient artery, from the brachial, running towards the elbow, shows that the lower epiphysis joins the shaft (at puberty) before the upper (at manhood). But the prominent internal condyle, which begins to ossify early, does not become united until the eighteenth year. Fractures.—The upper epiphysis may become ' unglued' at any time up to manhood, and that from comparatively slight violence at times. There is usually not much displacement, and if a small pad be placed in the axilla, to prevent the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, and teres major drawing the shaft inwards, and the arm be fixed to the side, union quickly occurs. The disturbance of the junction-cartilage, however, may interfere with subsequent growth of the bone. The surg-ical neck is slender and is often the seat of fracture ; then if the supra-spinatus be everting the upper fragment, and the muscles of the axil- lary fold be drawing the shaft inwards, and, with the help of the deltoid, biceps, coraco-brachialis, and triceps, upwards as well, there maybe considerable over- lapping of the fragments. This is the classic form of the dis- placement, though I venture to doubt if, as is usually described, it is owing to the action of the supra-spinatus that the upper fragment is tilted outwards. Indeed, unless the subscapularis, infra- spinatus, and teres minor were in a conspiracy of silence, how could the supra-spinatus abduct the fragment ? The displacement, if any there be after the fracture, is as follows : the shaft of the bone is drawn upwards and inwards, as already explained, and its upper end thus lies to the Fracture of surgical neck. (Gray.)