Trifacial Nerve 6i The ophthalmic division passes with the third and fourth nerves along the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, and breaks up into frontal, nasal, and lachrymal branches which enter the orbit through the sphe- noidal fissure. The frontal nerve lies under the middle of the roof of the orbit, and divides into supra-orbital and supra-trochlear branches. The former emerges by the supra-orbital notch, and, ascending beneath the orbicu- laris palpebrarum in two divisions, passes through the occipito-frontalis to supply the scalp, the outer set of filaments reaching back almost to the lambdoid suture. In the case of an injury to the trunk of the supra-orbital nerve, I have seen a crop of vesicles on one side of the forehead and even amongst the roots of the hair, just as vesicles occur, after intercostal neuralgia, in the area of distribution of the affected nerve. The sitpra-trochlear 7ierve escapes, as its name suggests, above the pulley of the superior oblique, and supplies the skin and mucous membrane of the inner end of the upper eye-lid, and the neighbouring part of the forehead. The nasal nerve reaches the inner wall of the orbit by passing across the optic nerve, and enters the cranial cavity through the anterior ethmoidal foramen, leaving it again by the slit at the side of the crista galli. Descending in the nose, it gives branches to the front of the septum, to the roof, and to the upper spongy bones ; it finally escapes between the bone and the cartilage to supply the skin near the nostril. In the orbit it gives off the sensory root to the lenticular ganglion, two long ciliary to the ciliary muscle and iris, and the infra-trochlear branch which supplies the skin and mucous membrane near the lachrymal sac. The lachrymal nerve runs along the upper border of the external rectus and ends in the lachrymal gland and the upper eyelid. The lenticular ganglio7i lies at the apex of the orbit on the outer side of the optic nerve. Its sensory root comes from the nasal, and its motor from the third nerve ; its sympathetic twigs are from the cavernous plexus. It gives off eight or ten short ciliary nerves which pierce the back of the sclerotic to reach the ciliary muscle and iris. Each division of the fifth nerve contains trophic filaments under whose influence the nutrition of the integuments to which the trunk is ultimately distributed is controlled. When the nerve is paralysed, not only is there insensibility in the forehead, eyelids, and in the conjunctiva and nose, in part, but these areas are apt to be the seat of ulcerations ; conjunctivitis and corneitis may also occur, with escape of the aqueous humour and lens, total destruction of the eyeball resulting. In cases of intractable neuralgia it may be deemed advisable to try the effect of stretching or of excising a portion of a nerve, but the treat- ment is somewhat speculative ; if each division of the fifth nerve upon the face were affected the operation could hardly succeed, for the cause would then for certain be of central origin.