148 PART II THE THORAX The thorax {dcofja^, breast-plate) is enclosed by the dorsal vertebrae, the ribs, costal cartilages, and sternum ; its apex is bifid and extends an inch and a-half above the first rib. The floor, formed by the dia- phragm, is convex, and is higher on the right side than on the left by the depth of a rib, being pushed up by the liver ; the centre is the lowest part, being on the level of l)ase of the xiphoid. On the right side, after an ordinary expiration, the floor reaches the level of the fifth rib in front, and, after a forced expiration, to the level of the fourth. The lowest part of the floor extends from the base of the xiphoid to the eleventh or twelfth rib (p. 196). The sternum consists of the manubrium, gladiolus, and xiphoid ; to the last piece the linea alba is attached. At the top of the manubrium is a notch between the clavicles which receives the trachea in flexion of the neck. Below and to the outside of this notch the cartilages of the first ribs blend with the manubrium. The downward slope of the first ribs brings the top of the manubrium opposite the second dorsal vertebra, from which it is separated by the space of two inches. Down each lateral half of the sternum the pectoralis major arises, and from the upper part of the front of the manubrium arises the pointed tendinous head of the sterno-mastoid. At the back of the manu- brium arise the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid, and from the lower end of the gladiolus the triangularis sterni. The diaphragm is attached to the back of the xiphoid cartilage, and the linea alba to the tip. The sternum is developed in lateral halves, together with the ribs, in the mesoblastic layer, in curved plates extending from the vertebral column. When these plates fail to meet along the middle line the thorax is open in front, the condition being called c/e/^ sternum. For an extreme case of this defect, with ectopia cordis, see p. 318. Ectopia differs from c]eft sternum in that not only is the sternum cleft, but the want of fusion in the middle line implicates the soft tissues as well as the bene, the heart being out of place.