Rectum and Anus 387 In making a digital ex.cwii7iation of the rectum the firm os uteri (felt through the anterior waH) must not be mistaken for ' tumour.' If there be any doubt as to the nature of the mass one finger should be passed into the vagina whilst the other remains in the bowel. Nor must the sacro-vertebral angle be taken for a cartilaginous or malig- nant tumour, or for some kind of rectal obstruction. A malignant mass in the rectum, which is just beyond the reach of the finger as the patient hes in bed, may sometimes be detected when the patient is examined in the erect position and ' bears down.' The dilatability of the anus, and the capacity of the rectum, have occasionally tempted the surgeon to introduce his whole hand into the lower bowel for exploration. The practice is dangerous, even when the hand is small, as the bowel or its peritoneal covering may be torn, whilst the practical result obtained is extremely problematical. More- over, permanent paralysis may follow such rough dilatation of the sphincter. By the introduction of the hand after death—when permission cannot be obtained for ^sectio cadaveris—abdominal and even thoracic viscera may be extracted for inspection. When hcemorrhage takes place into the rectum no blood may escape by the anus until the pressure within becomes so urgent that evacua- tion can no longer be prevented by the external sphincter. Then an enormous quantity of fluid and clot may come away. Faintness, with a feeling of heat and fulness in the lower bowel after operation, suggest haemorrhage, and demand the introduction of the finger. The mitcoics membrane is but loosely attached by the sub-mucous coat. It is thick and vascular, and when the bowel is empty is thrown into folds. On account of the looseness of its connections it is apt to prolapse, especially in the child who strains at stool on account of vesical calculus, chronic constipation, or diarrhoea. Permanent trans- verse folds have been described as existing where the bowel changes its directions. They might possibly obstruct the introduction of a tube ; their office is to allow free distension. The mucous membrane of the large intestine is liable to dysenteric inflammation and ulceration, and cicatrisation of these ulcers produces stricture. The nearer the anus, the greater the liability to ulceration. The disease probably begins in the solitary glands. The epithelium is simple columnar ; a rectal epithelioma is, there- fore, of the nature of columnar epithelioma ; sometimes the disease appears as a cord-like constriction. The epithelium at the anus being stratified, the malignant development from it is the squamous epithe- lioma. In an epithelioma occupying both the rectal and anal mucous membrane the elements might be of both varieties. There is not always pain with cancer of the rectum, especially when the disease is high up ; but even in this case distress comes on later when the primary disease, or the lymphatic invasion, has involved the c c 2