466 The Hip'Joint The capsule is attached beyond the border of the acetabukim. In front it is extremely thick and descends to the intertrochanteric hne, but behind, where it is thin and membranous, it does not reach to within a finger's breadth of the line. The anterior part is strengthened by the ilio-femoral, or Bigrelow's' lig-ament, which descends like an inverted Y from the anterior inferior iliac spine to the upper and lower ends of the anterior intertrochanteric line. Fibres are reflected from the lower end of the capsule up around the neck, these fibres strengthen the periosteum ; thus, sometimes it happens that the neck is cracked across without displacement occurring, the fragments being closely held together by the thick periosteal covering. There is often a perforation in the front of the capsule, between the branches of the Y ligament, by which the synovial membrane of the joint communicates with the bursa beneath the psoas. Around the border of the acetabulum, just inside the capsule, is the fibro- cartilaginous cotyloid ligament, which acts as a 'sucker' around the head of the femur which it tightly embraces, securing its position by atmospheric pressure. It stretches across the cotyloid notch at the lower part of the acetabulum under the name of the transverse ligament, vessels and nerves entering the joint beneath it. A syjtovial membrane lines the capsule and covers the neck of the femur, but its continuity cannot be traced over the opposed articular surfaces except in early foetal life, as, under the influence of pressure, it becomes absorbed. The ligamentum teres is a hollow fibrous pyramid, which passes between the margin of a depression at the bottom of the acetabulum and the pit below and behind the centre of the head of the femur. It is surrounded by synovial membrane. It is not an important struc- ture ; sometimes it is represented by a mere shred. It is, of course, ruptured in dislocation. Possibly its chief function is to act as a cushion. Relations of the hip-joint.—In front are the iliacus and psoas, the pectineus, the straight head of the rectus femoris and some of the gluteus minimus. Behind are the pyriformis, gemelli and obturator internus, obturator externus, and quadratus femoris. Above are the reflected head of the rectus and the gluteus minimus, and below are the obturator externus and the outer border of the pectineus. The anterior crural nerve and the common femoral vessels are separated from the front of the capsule by the iliacus, psoas, and pectineus ; and the sciatic vessels and nerves are separated from the posterior aspect by the pyriformis, the gemelli and the obturator in- ternus, and the quadratus femoris. Supplies.—Arteries come from the gluteal (above), the sciatic (behind), the obturator and internal circumflex (below). Nerves enter from the sacral plexus {n. to quadratus), the great sciatic, obturator, accessory obturator and anterior crural {n. to rectus).