spinal Reflexes 219 (Tpocjyos, a nurse ; rpecjico, nourish) filaments from these cells run with the motor nerves. Inflammation of these cornua is called anteriorpoHo- inyelitis {noXios, grey; /xveXos, marrow); it sometimes follows in the wake of diphtheria, or, suddenly and obscurely occurring in a healthy child, causes infantile paralysis. This condition may also occur in the adult, however, as well as in the infant. When the cells are destroyed, not only are the muscles flabby and useless, but, together with the bones, their nutrition is affected and their development ceases, and they no longer respond to Faradism. The excito-motory circuit being- broken, reflexes are lost, but, the posterior track of the cord being uninterfered with, sensation is not impaired. It does not follow that the paralysis after polio-myelitis will be permanent. The cells which are placed in the centre of the storm- region are often completely wrecked, while many of the outlying cells receive only a passing shock. Sometimes after such a storm, in the cervical enlargement, for instance, all the muscles of an upper extremity are paralysed; but the power of movement may return again in all, with the exception, perhaps, of one small group of muscles. Some- times only a single muscle is left permanently paralysed—the deltoid, for instance. In the early days of infantile paralysis there is often a tenderness or a hyperaesthesia of the skin of the affected limb. The explanation of this is that the storm-wave happened also to disturb the posterior cornu, with which the posterior roots of the nerves are associated. Progressive muscular atropby differs from the paralysis just considered in that it is the result of a slow degenerative change—not a rapid inflammatory one—in the ganglionic cells. But, the motor and trophic cells only being diseased, there is no loss of sensation in the affected parts, though the muscles affected grow steadily smaller and weaker, Reflex action in cord.—The sensory impulse conveyed through a spinal nerve passes by the posterior root into the grey crescent, and then, traversing the large bi-polar cells of the anterior cornu, is con- verted into a motor one, which is ' reflected' by the anterior root of the spinal nerve and causes certain muscles to ' act.' Thus, if the sole of the foot be tickled during sleep—when the brain has handed over general control to the reflex centres—the impulse is transmitted through the crescent in the lumbar enlargement to the motor filaments, certain muscles contract, and the foot is drawn away. But if the man be awake the sensory impulse passes at once across the grey commissure and up the opposite half of the cord to the brain, where it is duly appreciated, and whence it is reflected as a motor im- pulse by the pyramidal tracts, and then out by the anterior root to the muscles. Or ' we can, if we wish, execute voluntarily a movement of the leg quite the same as the reflex act. Moreover, we can exercise some voluntary control over the reflex action and prevent the start of