Internal Pndic Artery 441 dorsal vein. Beneath these muscles the triangular hgament stretches across the sub-pubic arch. In lateral lithotomy, the surgeon, being- right-handed, plunges his knife through the muscular triangle on the left side of the patient. The superficial perineal vessels and nerves (from the internal pudics) pass forwards over the triangle, getting beneath the deep layer of the superficial fascia just where it is turning down to the base of the triangular ligament. To expose the triangular ligrament in the dissection of the peri- neum, the erector penis and the crus must be detached from the pubic arch, and the transverse muscle removed ; and not only must the accelerator urinse be dissected off, but the hinder end of the corpus spongiosum should be also cut away, and with it, of course, the bulbous part of the urethra. The chief use of the ligament is to steady and support the urethra as it curves below the pubic symphysis. The better to do this, it is composed of two aponeurotic sheets, which, separated from each other by an interval of about one-third of an inch, descend to blend with each other, and with the deep layer of the superficial fascia, at the base of the triangle. The deeper layer of the triangular ligament is joined also by the recto-vesical fascia. The urethra pierces the two layers of the ligament about one inch below the symphysis ; when running between them it is surrounded by a striated sphincter, the compressor urethrse. The beak of a catheter is apt to catch against the ligament unless the handle be well depressed. Closer beneath the symphysis the dorsal vein of the penis runs through the layers to join the prostatic plexus. The endings of the internal pudic artery and nerve ascend between the two layers of the ligament towards the dorsum of the penis ; they have entered the ligament near its base, and close against the ischial ramus. The short piece of the urethra enclosed in the triangular ligament is the membranous part, and close below it are Cowper's glands {v. p. 413). The triangular ligament is very strong, and pre- vents extravasated urine, and the contents of a perineal abscess, pass- ing backwards to enter the pelvis. In addition to the parts already enumerated between its two layers are the sub-pubic ligament ; a short branch of the internal pudic artery to the bulb of the urethra, and sometimes another transverse (deep) perineal muscle. Cowper's glands are about the size of a pea ; they are lobulated, and their ducts pass through the anterior layer of the triangular liga- ment to open on to the floor of the bulbous part of the urethra, as already noted, on p. 417. The internal pudic artery is one of the terminal trunks of the anterior divisions of the internal iliac ; leaving the pelvis below the pyriformis, it winds round the ischial spine into the ischio-rectal fossa, passing through the small sacro-sciatic foramen. In the fossa it lies in a tube of the obturator fascia, an inch or more above the tuber