402 Female Genito-Urinary Apparatus The Genito-urinary Apparatus of the Female (An outline of the development of the parts is given on pp. 329 and 420.) The labia majora are two large muco-cutaneous folds containing fat, connected above the pubes in the mons Ven . ris, and tapering inferiorly towards the posterior commissure of the vulva, about an inch in front of the anus. They represent the lateral halves of the scrotum, and occasionally the ovaries, after the manner of the testes, pass into them from the inguinal canal. Inguinal hernia also may descend into the labium, but ordinarily nothing enters the labial mass but the round lig:ament of the uterus, the end of which then spreads out into its fibrous tissue. Abscess frequently occurs in the labium, and, on account of the looseness of the tissue of that part, oedema extends rapidly and widely. If the pus be in the superficial layer of the fascia (the fatty layer) it may be diffused towards the anus, thigh, or abdomen; but if it be beneath the deeper, or membranous layer, it can pass only towards the abdomen. The blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves of the labia correspond to those of the scrotum (p. 426). The labia minora, or nymptaae, are mucous folds which join above around the clitoris, and blend below with the inner surface of the labia majora ; they contain much vascular tissue. They are apt to be redundant, and to project outside the vulva, especially in children. In certain adults, as among the Hottentots, they are often enormously hypertrophied. At the junction of the nymphas, and firmly attached to the pubic and ischial rami by two crura, is the clitoris. It corresponds to the corpus cavernosum of the penis, and is composed of erectile tissue. Amputation of the clitoris may be required for malignant disease. In some hysterical women this organ is in a state of chronic erection; micturition is then difficult, and there may be complete (hysterical) retention of urine. {See also p. 406.) The urethra has no connection with the clitoris, but opens into the vestibule about an inch lower down ; its aperture, the meatus urmarhcs^ IS somewhat raised, and, to the finger, feels as a depression in the centre of a flat, round papilla. The urethra can be felt like a round cord between the anterior wall of the vagina and the pubes {v. p. 389.) Further down is the opening of the vagina, which, in the virgin state, is partially occluded by the hymen. When the hymen has been ruptured its situation is marked by papillary elevations, earun- culse myrtiformes. The hymen may form a complete diaphragm to the vagina, and cause retention of menstrual discharge. The presence of a hymen is not proof of the virginity of the subject, nor, on the other hand, can