93 Blind Spot ; YcUozv Spot attempts at ophthalmoscopic examination. With a httle practice, however, the optic disc, the entrance of the optic nerve, is discovered, whitish in appearance, on account of the absence of the choroid at the point of its perforation, there being nothing behind that part of the retina but the lamina cribrosa (p. 83). The ascending and descend- ing divisions of the central artery and vein are then made out. As the fibres cf the nerve radiate on to the front of the choroid they leave a central depression in the disc, called the cup, and the margin of the lamina cribrosa—the sclerotic ring—may often be seen around the cup. The optic disc is the ' bli7id spot' of the retina ; and, for that reason, it is placed out of the way of the visual axis. The exact centre is the most delicate and useful part of the field, and is known as the yellow spot. The nervous part of the retina extends to the ciliary processes, where it ends as the ora serrata (ora, margin), but the retina is con- tinued a little farther forwards by delicate fibrous tissue, even to the capsule of the lens. The retina depends entirely on the central artery for its blood- supply, and on a few twigs from the choroid which enter at the optic disc. If in disease of the aortic valve a small vegetation be detached, and carried into (embolus) and plug the arteria centralis, the eye, or part of it, becomes suddenly blind, for the retina is completely deprived of its nutrition. Examination then shows the arteries and veins of the fundus shrunken, whilst broken thrombi may be seen in the artery. In Bright's disease haemorrhages are very apt to occur in the inflamed and swollen retina (albuminuric retinitis). The delicacy of the connections of the retina renders it liable to detachment by injury and disease. THE EAR The external ear consists of the expanded pinna, composed of yellow fibro-cartilage, and the auditoiy meatus. The deepest part of the pinna is the coitcha (cockle-shell), at the front of which is a cartilaginous plate which acts as a shield to the meatus, on which grows a tuft of hair like the beard of a goat {tragus). Behind this shield is another plate, the anti-tragus, below which is the fibrous lobule. (A keloid tumour sometimes springs from the scar which necessarily results from piercing the lobule for an ear-ring.) The tragus and anti-tragus are separated by a deep incisura. The margin of the pinna is the helix (eXt^, a spiral), and the groove be- neath its incurved border is the fossa of the helix. Rather nearer to the meatus is a thicker ridge, the anti-helix, which bifurcates above to inclose the fossa of the anti-helix.