Outline of Lung 191 Pneumothorax.—When the pleura is full of air (p. 187) the percus- sion note is tympanitic, but as more air is pumped in at each expira- tory movement the tension becomes so great that the air can no longer vibrate and the sound becomes metallic. These sounds may be imitated by slightly blowing out the cheeks and sharply striking one of them with the finger-nail, and then again striking when they are dis- tended to the utmost; in the latter case the note is more metallic. The most likely cause of pneumothorax is the opening up of a vomica, but this is often provided against by the concomitant pleurisy having glued together the visceral and parietal layers. Malignant ulceration of the oesophagus sometimes lets air into the pleura, and the same condition has followed a mediastinal emphysema which was secondary to tracheotomy. (Fagge.) In pneumothorax there is, as a rule, a certain amount of fluid in the cavity as well as air {hydro-pnetnnothorax), and in either of these conditions, the pleura being distended, the apex-beatmay be displaced right or left, as described in hydrothorax (p. 189). THE LUNGS In infancy the colour of the lungs is pinkish ; in adult life grey, from the presence of particles of carbon ; and in those who have worked in coal-mines it may be quite black ianthracosis). The lung-tissue of the foetus, and of the newly-born child, unless breathing has been instituted, is solid and sinks in water, but after respiration it has become buoyant ; in this way it is determined whether an infant found dead was still-born or not. Pieces of the lung from which air has been dispelled by pneumonic exudation also sink in water. The apex of the lung mounts in the robust an inch and a-half above the first rib, or an inch above the clavicle, into the region cor- responding to the triangular interval between the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid and the anterior border of the trapezius. The sub- clavian artery grooves the front about ^ in. below the very apex, being separated from the lung by the parietal pleura. {See fig. on p. 164 ) The bases of the limgs reach much lower behind than in front, for in front the diaphragm is level with the sterno-xiphoid joint. They are concave, corresponding with the surface of diaphragm, and are de- limited by an oblique line passing over the chest from the sterno- xiphoid joint over the costal cartilages and above the last rib, and to the spine. The base of the right lung is immediately above the liver, the limit of its resonance and of hepatic dulness being clear and definite. The base of the left is above the stomach, and it is generally easy to define the area of the pulmonary resonance from the metallic note of the stomach. Still, the student must guard against mis-