TJkc TJiorax stellate and i?iterarticitlar Ugmnents^ and l^y a capsule with two synovial membranes. The neck of the rib is connected with the front of the transverse process by a strong iiiterosseoiis ligame7it^ and also with the trans- verse process next above it by the anterior costo-t7'a7isverse band, which is continuous externally with the intercostal aponeurosis. The tubercle is connected with the tip of the process by a capsule and synovial membrane, and by Xhe postej'ior costo-transverse ligament. Pig-eon-breast is produced in rickety, soft-boned children when inspiration is obstructed, as by enlarged tonsils—the contraction of the diaphragm causes a partial vacuum in the chest which the pressure of the external air helps to efface by thrusting inwards the weak costal ends of the ribs, with the effect of making the sternum project. Strengthening the child, removing the obstruction, and instituting respiratory gymnastics, gradually diminish the defect ; no compression of the prominent sternum should be used. The Prussian army surgeons have been ordered to measure narrow-chested recruits every four weeks. All are to be regarded as narrow-chested the circumference of whose chest is less than half the length of their bodies. Narrow-chested men whose chests are not widened by drill are regarded as predisposed to tuberculosis. The dorsal nerves, twelve on each side (the twelfth emerging below the last dorsal vertebra), divide into an anterior and a posterior trunk ; the former becomes the intercostal 7ierve^ with the exception of the first, the chief part of which passes up for the brachial plexus, only a small intercostal branch being sent forward from it. As the anterior divisio7is of the upper dorsal 7ierves run between the intercostal muscles, and are half-way in their course, they give off late7^al cuta7ieoiis branches which pierce the outer intercostals and the serratus magnus in the axillary line, and then divide ; the posterior division supplies the skin over the region of the latissimus dorsi and the scapula, and the anterior winds round the pectoralis major for the mamma and the neighbouring integument, or, in the case of the lower nerves, for the skin over the front of the abdomen. The continuation of the intercostal nerve runs on and leaves the space by the side of the sternum, piercing the origin of the pectoralis major, and ending in the a7iterior ciita7ieous twigs. The small, first intercostal nerve gives no lateral cutaneous branch, but from the second a large undivided offshoot runs across the arm-pit to end in the skin of the inner and back part of the arm. This is the intercosto-humeral nerve, and it is often joined by the lesser internal cutaneous. When the intercosto-humeral nerve is stretched by sup- puration in the arm-pit, or is caught in the enlargement of axillary glands which follows mammary scirrhus, neuralgia occurs in the area of its distribution, down to the internal condyle. In their course the intercostal nerves supply the parietal pleura ;