Circle of Willis 43 the right side. This statement, however, is not apparently borne out by statistics ; probably more ' left' cases are reported, because of the interesting clinical feature^—aphasia—being present. Acute rheuma- tism, gout, atheroma, morbus cordis, granular disease of the kidney, syphilis, and injury are the chief causes of disturbance of arterial cir- culation in the motor area. And he who knows himself to be the subject of one or more of these conditions should try to avoid everything likely to put a strain upon his arterial system, such as running to catch a train, straining at stool, and so on. The common seat of cerebral haemorrhage is in the neighbourhood of the corpus striatum, and occurs from the good-sized branches which run straight up from the beginning of the middle cerebral artery into the lenticular and caudate nuclei ; probably it is the directness of the course of these branches from the main trunk which causes them to burst under the shock of the ventricular contraction. The posterior communicating artery passes from the back of the internal carotid to join the posterior cerebral. Just there, also, the carotid gives off the anterior choroid twigs, which, entering the de- scending cornu of the lateral ventricle, supply the hippocampus and the choroid plexus. The posterior cerebrals come off at the bifurcation of the basilar, and wind round the crura to supply the occipital lobes, anastomosing there with the middle and anterior cerebrals. The posterior cerebral is joined by the posterior communicating from the internal carotid ; it gives offsets to the optic thalamus, which enter by the posterior per- forated space, and 'C^eposterior cJwroid twigs, which pass beneath the corpus callosum to the velum interpositum. The circle of Willis is an arrangement for equalising the flow of blood between the internal carotid and the basilar, and between these trunks on the two sides of the middle line. Except for this arrange- ment, ligature of the common carotid would probably be followed by rapid degeneration of the brain. The vessels forming the circle are the anterior communicating, anterior cerebral, internal carotid, posterior communicating, posterior cerebral, and basilar. The circular arrange- ment does not always suffice for carrying on the supply across the middle line, for sometimes, as a direct result of ligation of the common carotid, apoplexy or softening occurs. The walls of the cerebral arteries are so thin that these vessels look like veins ; they inosculate very freely in the pia mater, but their terminal branches do not ana- stomose. This last fact accounts for the complete loss of function of a part when its artery becomes plugged. Within the circle are the lamina cinerea, optic commissure, in- fundibulum and tuber cinereum, corpora albicantia, and posterior perforated space. The cerebellum derives its supply from the posterior iitferior cere- bellar of the vertebral, and from the anterior inferior and the superior