Gidcinn of Glottis i2g epithelium below the false vocal cords ; above that it is squamous, except in the lower half of the laryngeal aspect of the epiglottis, where it is columnar cihated. It contains many mucous glands, in some of which the secretion may collect to form cystzc ttnnotirs. About the upper aperture the mucous membrane contains much loose connective tissue, which becomes extensively infiltrated in oedema of the glottis. Olclema of the glottis may be caused by boiling water having been swallowed, or by laryngitis ; the serous infiltration of the sub- mucous tissue resembles that of oedema of the prepuce or eyelid. The onset is marked by cough, hoarseness, and dyspnoea. Scarification of the swollen tissue may give relief, or a soft catheter may be passed along the floor of the nose, and through the glottis, by which respira- tion may be carried on ; but the surgeon must always be in readiness to open the windpipe below the obstruction. In acute laryng-itis the vocal cords swell, and, vibrating amiss, the voice becomes hoarse and the respirations noisy and difificult ; and there is a ' brassy' cough. On account of the close proximity of the pharynx, there is pain with deglutition. Unless relief be afforded, the patient may die of suffocation ; indeed, laryngotomy or tracheotomy may be early needed. Supply.—The arteries are the superior and external laryngeal branches of the superior thyroid, and branches of the inferior thyroid, the blood being returned by the superior, middle, and inferior thyroid veins. The lymphatics pass to the deep cervical glands. The nerves are the superior, and the recurrent laryngeal branches of the vagi, and filaments from the sympathetic. The superior laryngeals supply the mucous membrane, and give off the external laryngeal branches for the crico-thyroidei, and twigs to the arytcC- noideus. The recurrent laryngeal supplies all the other muscles, and gives additional filaments to the arytsenoideus. In making a laryngroscopic examination the observer should be seated at a rather lower level than the patient; the mirror should be passed under the base of the uvula without having touched the tongue or the pillars of the fauces, but even then its gentle application may set up reflex vomiting (p. 70). The mirror being tilted, the epiglottis is seen in its upper part, and the arytaenoid cartilages are seen in the lower part ; but the vocal cord which is seen on the patient's right side is actually the right cord. The cords appear white, and above them are seen the false cords and the opening of the ventricle. The arytaeno-epiglottidean folds are conspicuous objects ; the front of the trachea is also seen, and possibly its division into the bronchi. Some- times the wall of a thoracic aneurysm may be seen bulging into the trachea. An openingr in the windpipe is needed when the laryngeal air-way is seriously blocked. Among the chief signs of urgency are a sinking-in of the supra-clavicular, supra-sternal, and epigastric