The Pelvis 362 The sacrum is wedged between the haunch bones from above downwards and before backwards, the better to break shock and escape dislocation. Its lower end forms a slightly movable joint with the base of the coccyx, a fibro-cartilage being interposed ; sometimes these bones are welded together ; as the result of a fall on to the but- tocks, or during parturition, fracture may occur and union fail to take place. Subsequently, during defascation, and in every other movement of the coccyx, the last sacral nerve is subjected to painful contusions, and removal of the coccyx may be demanded. This distressing disease is called coccydyiiia. A subcutaneous section of the nerves irritated or of the muscles moving the coccyx is far less likely to afford relief than removal of the bone itself, which in these cases may be found necrosed. That the bone is loose or dislocated may be readily made out by taking the coccyx between the finger and thumb, the finger being in the rectum. In women who have spent much time on horse- back the coccyx is especially incurved and likely to be broken in labour. Fracture of the pelvis is often associated with injury to the pelvic viscera ; information can often be obtained as to the nature of the fracture by digital examiiiation through the rectum or vagina. The treatment consists of rest in bed, the thighs being flexed, so as to slacken the rectus femoris and the muscles of Scarpa's triangle, and a band being fixed around the pelvis, if expedient. Fracture often traverses the slender pubic and ischial rami, in which case laceration of the urethra may occur. Blood in the urine is a grave symptom in fracture of the pelvis ; a metal catheter should be carefully introduced, but if that cannot be done the perineal urethra, or the bladder itself, must be opened, lest extravasation of urine take place. The patient must not attempt to micturate. From great violence the head of the femur may be driven through the acetabulum, or the pelvis crushed out of shape. The foetal pelvis is small, so as not to interfere with parturition, and even after birth its development proceeds slowly up to puberty. During infancy there is not room in it for the bladder, which, together with the coils of small intestine and much of the rectum, are lodged in the abdomen. Thus it is that the young child's abdomen bulges so greatly ; and that in perineal lithotomy difficulty may be experienced in introducing the finger into his bladder. Beformities of the pelvis may be due to rickets or moUities ossium. In each case the bones are soft, and, in rickets, as the grow- ing child walks, sits, and stands, the weight of the body thrusts the pro- montory of the sacrum towards the pubes at the expense of the conjugate diameter of the brim. If such a child have her weak and bending spine caged in an iron ' support,' the weight transmitted through the soft pelvis is much increased and the pelvis rendered all the narrower. In mollities ossium, which comes on after puberty, the haunch- bones yield from the superimposed weight at their weakest part, that is