464 The Femur violence which causes it may be trifling, for the bone is weak and the shock of an unexpected step, or of a jarring, comes vertically across it. The limb is at once everted, shortened, and useless, and swelling and pain are at the hip. With such signs it is superfluous and unkind to try to elicit crepitus. The fracture may be within or outside of the capsule. In the former case the shaft-fragment is tethered by the ligament, and the shortening may not amount to more than half an inch or so, but when the break is outside the capsule there is, practically, no limit to the amount of shortening, which may then amount to several inches. Union after intra-capsular fracture very rarely occurs by bone, probably because, the fracture being in the joint, the surfaces are constantly bathed in sero- synovial fluid, instead of being wrapped in blood-clot, ^'^fracture?'^'^ as happens in fracture in any other part of the body, with the exception of the patella, the olecranon, and the coronoid, which are all, be it noticed, instances of fracture into a synovial membrane. To explain the failure of bony union by reference to the age of the patient (upwards of fifty years) is incorrect, for if a man of one hundred years break the shaft of his femur firm union would be expected. To say, also, that the cause of non-union may be want of apposition of the surfaces is wrong ; for months or years after the injury we may find the surfaces closely applied, polished by friction against each other, or closely connected by fibrous tissue. Neither is the theory of imperfect blood-supply to the parts valid. Fracture below lesser trochanter; upper fragment tilted forwards by psoas and iliacus. (After Hind.) Xn fracture below the lesser trochanter the lower fragment— the chief part of the bone—drops by its own weight, and is pulled upwards, as explained above, and rolled outwards ; the upper fragment is tilted forwards by the psoas, iliacus, pectineus, adductor brevis, and gluteus minimus ; thus there is often considerable overlapping, defor- mity, and shortening. The injury cannot then be satisfactorily treated