Inguinal Fossettes 311 Hesselbacli's triangle through which it has escaped. If it have escaped close on the inner side of the artery, that is, between the artery and the outer border of the conjoined tendon, the coverings are just those of oblique hernia, only the fascia transversalis taken in front of it will not be the ' infundibuliform process,' as that is the piece of the fascia which specially surrounds the cord. A direct hernia emerges on the inner side of the cord, and its neck is close over the pubes, whilst the oblique runs as a pyriform mass from above the middle of Poupart's ligament. On reducing a direct hernia the external border of the rectus can be made out close on the inner side of the short straight passage by which the protrusion emerged. If the direct hernia pass out nearer to the border of the rectus, it bursts through the conjoined tendon, or carries it in front; the cover- ings are then peritoneum (the sac), subperitoneal fat, transversalis fascia, conjoined tendon (unless it have passed through it), intercolumnar fascia, superficial fasciae, and skin. This hernia pushes straight through the abdominal wall, and occupies but the lowest and inner- most part of the inguinal canal. It cannot take a twofold investment from the internal oblique—it takes the internal oblique in the form of conjoined tendon, instead of the cremaster. The ing^uinal fossettes are three depressions in the inguinal piece of the parietal peritoneum, caused by the ridge-like elevations over the obliterated hypogastric and the deep epigastric (p. 306) arteries. The innermost fossette is between the outer border of the rectus and the ridge of the hypogastric artery; the middle one is between that ridge and the elevation caused by the epigastric artery, and the outermost is external to the epigastric ridge—behind the in- ternal abdominal ring. The external direct hernia passes through the middle fossette, and the interjial direct through the innermost. The seat of stricture in an oblique inguinal hernia may be at the external or internal abdominal ring, in which case the protrusion may be returnable after division of the external oblique aponeurosis, or the transversalis fascia, and without opening the peritoneal sac. But the strangulation is almost invariably in the narrow neck of the peritoneal sac itself, so that the operator generally has to open the sac ; in doing this, discoloured serum escapes ; he then sees the bowel, congested or plum-coloured, or black and gangrenous. Introducing a strong, narrow, probe-pointed knife, on the flat, and turning its edge against the constricting band, he makes a small incision directly upwards. Thus he is sure of avoiding the epigastric artery, which would be wounded if, in operating on a direct hernia, he were to cut outwards, or, in an oblique hernia, inwards. As he does not always know on which side of the artery the hernia has emerged, the rule to cut upwards is invariable. Generally he can recognise a direct hernia by its forming a rounded protrusion over the pubes. But an oblique