Filtration Angle ; Glaucoma 91 lattice-work, ligamejituin pectinatum {pecttnati7n, adv., like the teeth of a cojub), which occupies the narrow peripheral part of the anterior chamber, between the cornea and the root of the iris. This important crevice is, therefore, called the filtration angle. It becomes blocked when, as the result of an excessive secretion of the vitreous, the ciliary processes are thrust against the iris, and the iris is thrust against the cornea. And its connection with the posterior chamber is, of course, completely shut out when, as the result of iritis, the pupillary border of the iris is glued to the front of the capsule of the lens or to the posterior surface of the cornea. Whenever the tideway from the vitreous and the posterior chamber into the anterior chamber is blocked, the fluids collect behind the iris and push it towards the cornea, increase of the ocular tension promptly taking place. Thus, the tension may be in- creased in the case of excessive secretion from the ciliary pro- cesses into the vitreous, and also in that of a blockade of the filtra- tion-angle. It is this increased tension of theeye-ball which is the essential feature of g-lau- coma {yXavKos, bluish-green). Sytnptoms of glaucoma, in addition to that of hardness of the eye-ball:—Pain, on account of the compression of the ciliary nerves within the rigid sclerotic ; advancement of the iris, as already explained, and errors of refraction, on account of the grave interference with accom- modation. Then, if the media are clear enough for the ophthalmoscope, the veins at the fundus are seen to be full and pulsating, because the tension of the sclerotic prevents their emptying themselves ; and the arteria centralis is found throbbing in its endeavour to force its con- tents through the engorged capillaries. And the backward pressure of the vitreous causes a manifest depression or even a cupping of the optic disc, but in an acute case the general destruction of the tissues may render this invisible. Atropine must not be used, as this causes the ris still farther to encroach on the filtration-angle. Iriti: posterior synectiia, aqueous locked in behind iris, which, thus pushed forwards, blocks filtration-angle and deter- mines glaucoma. (Priestley Smith.)