356 The Vena Cava Inferior in the vena cava ; the corresponding vessels of the left side pass into the left renal vein. The ovarian veins communicate freely with the uterine veins in the broad ligament; they end like the spermatic veins. The renal veins begin at the hilum of the kidney and pass inwards in front of the renal artery. The left vein is the longer ; it crosses in front of the aorta, and receives the inferior phrenic, supra-renal, and the spermatic or ovarian of the left side. The hepatic veins return to the vena cava, by three or four large trunks, the blood which was brought to the liver by the portal vein and the hepatic artery. They enter the vena cava where it lies in the notch at the back of the liver, between the layers of the coronary ligament, and close below the diaphragm. The descent of the diaphragm in inspiration, and especially so during active exercise, compresses the liver and gently squeezes the blood from its sluggish veins. (For portal system see p. 337.) The Lumbar Nerves The lumbar nerves break, like the other spinal nerves, into an anterior and a posterior division; the posterior passes between the transverse processes and gives off an internal and an external branch. The internal branch is small, and ends in the erector spinse ; the external branch also supplies the erector, but the three upper branches give, in addition, cutaneous twigs for the loin and buttock. The lumbar plexus is formed by a descending {dorsi-lumbar) branch from the twelfth dorsal nerve, and by the anterior divisions of the first, second, and third lumbar nerves, and by most of that of the fourth. It is lodged in the hinder part of the psoas, and is thus anterior to the quadratus lumborum. The root-fibres for its nerve s emerge from the lumbar enlargement of the cord. In addition to a communicating twig to the second, the anterior division of the first lumbar nerve gives off the ilio-hypog-astric and ilio-ing-uinal branches, both of which pass outwards below the anterior division of the last dorsal nerve, in front of the quadratus lumborum, and then through the transversalis and into the interval between that muscle and the internal oblique. The ilio-hypogastric gives a branch through the oblique muscles which passes over the iliac crest, to the skin of the buttock, and another through the oblique muscles to the skin in the hypogastric region. The ilio-inguinal escapes through the external abdominal ring and splits into a branch for scrotum or labium, and one for the skin over the upper and inner part of Scarpa's triangle. In their course the divisions of the first lumbar nerves supply the oblique muscles. The first lumbar nerve lies below the first lumbar vertebra, and in