245 Axillary Artery latissimus dorsi; and on the inner side by the six upper ribs, the intercostal muscles, and the serratus magnus. The base is covered in by the deep fascia, which extends from over the pectoralis major to the latissimus dorsi, and on to the chest-wall. The space contains the axillary vessels and their branches; the brachial plexus and most of its branches ; theintercosto-humeral nerve ; fat, and many lymphatic glands. The anterior and posterior folds meet at the bicipital groove, the coraco-brachialis and biceps filling this crevice. The most important of the contents lie along the outer side of the space ; against the inner wall there are merely the thoracic branches of the artery and vein, the intercosto-humeral nerve, the nerve of Bell, and lymphatics. Thus the surgeon may proceed with comparative freedom in the removal of malignant glands or other tumours from the thoracic side of the space, but along the humeral region he must act with much deliberation. To open an axillary abscess, a small incision should be made with a scalpel through the deep fascia of the floor of the space, the opening being subsequently enlarged by the director and dressing- forceps, after the manner of Hilton. I have seen a paralysed serratus magnus in a man whose axillary abscess had been opened by a bold plunge of a surgeon's knife, the nerve of Bell having been severed. If the ' plunge' had been made into the outer part of the space instead of into the inner, the vessels would probably have been wounded. The axillary artery continues the subclavian from the outer border of the first rib, through the apex and the outer part of the space, and down to the lower border of the tendon of the teres major, where the name changes to brachial. It lies to the inner side of the shoulder-joint and the humerus, being separated from the former by the insertion of the subscapularis. The narrow part of the pectoralis minor crosses it in the neighbourhood of the coracoid process, and divides it into three paiis. The first part of the artery extends from the first rib to the lesser pectoral—a very short distance. The second part is shorter still, being the mere width of the pectoralis minor just before its insertion. The third part is much longer, reaching from the lower border of the lesser pectoral to the lower border of the tendon of the teres major. To mark the course of the axillary artery, the arm should be abducted and slightly rolled outwards, and a line drawn from the middle of the clavicle to the groove on the inner side of the biceps. Relations.—The surgeon takes a more liberal view of the relations of an artery than is allowed to the student. The division of the artery into three parts concerns him only to this extent : that the second part, being under cover of both pectoral muscles, is inaccessible for a ligature; that the first part may be reached in the infra-clavicular