56 The Encephalon sneezing, and hiccough,' The efferent impulse leaves by the phrenic, intercostals, spinal accessory, certain cervical nerves, and facial. Vaso- motor centre^ controlling the muscular coat of the large arteries of the thorax, abdomen, and pelvis, through efferent impulses carried down by the spinal cord, the dorsal nerves, and the splanchnics. Dilatation of these vessels follows section of the cord below the medulla. Cardio- zjthibitory, through which the heart is held under control by afferent influences passing to the medulla, acceleration of the heart's action following section of the vagus. The medulla contains also a centre for deglutition, and one which, being stimulated, produces glycosuria —the diabetic centre—and a salivary centre. Sugar and albumen may be found in the urine in the case of lesion of the medulla. Bulbar paralysis is the result of progressive degenerative changes in the nuclei of origin of the hypoglossal, spinal accessory, vagus, facial, and glosso-pharyngeal, which are near neighbours in the floor of the fourth ventricle. The co-ordination of muscles of articulate speech become gradually implicated, and the tongue and the muscles of the pharynx lose their power. The disease used to be called labio- glosso-pharyngealparalysis ; the term bulbar paralysis is shorter, and moreover indicates the seat of the primary lesion, in the ' bulbar' end of the spinal cord {see p. 71). The aqueduct of Sylvius leads beneath the corpora quadrigemina and posterior commissure from the top of the fourth ventricle into the third. It is lined by a prolongation of the grey matter from the fourth ventricle, in which are the nuclei of origin of the motor oculi and patheticus. When the basal ganglia are in physiological activity the vessels, which enter them in great abundance, are filled full, and the ganglia are increased in size. The corpora striata in their turgescence bulge into the lateral ventricles, displacing some of the intra-ventricular fluid which is secreted by the choroid plexuses, through the foramina of Monro, into the third ventricle ; and the thalami, growing large, squeeze fluid out of that ventricle through the aqueduct and into the fourth ventricle, and so into the subarachnoid space. As an infant with spina bifida excites himself, and cries, the brain evidently in- creases in bulk, for the lumbar tumour becomes tense and swells up. And as the brain quiets down again the cerebro-spinal fluid re-enters the cranium, some of it, no doubt, passing into the third and lateral ventricles by the apertures of Sylvius and Monro. In cases of dilatation of the third lateral ventricles {internal hydrocephalus) Hilton^ found that the communication between the ventricles and the subarachnoid space was permanently blocked, so that the intra-cerebral fluid could not escape. Sometimes the brain-tissue is represented by but a thin, smooth film enclosing the ' water,' which has sometimes measured,/^•i'/ mortem, twelve or twenty pints. In such cases the head may appear ' Rest and Pain, 2nd edit. p. 28.