Arteries of Head and Neck 28 begin his incision in front of the tragus, and keep away from the parotid gland, and avoid the branches of the facial nerve. Collateral circulation is established by the empty branches bring- ing in arterial blood as follows : the superior thyroid, lingual, facial, superficial temporal, and occipital from their fellows of the opposite side ; the superior thyroid from the inferior thyroid of its own side ; the facial by its anastomosis with the ophthalmic at the inner corner of the orbit; the superficial temporal by its anastomosis with the supra-orbital of the ophthalmic ; and the occipital with the profunda cervicis of the superior intercostal, and also with the vertebral. Branches.—The superior thyroid is given off in the superior carotid triangle (p. lo), being covered by skin, superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia. It runs upwards for a little, and then downwards and forwards, under the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid, to enter the thyroid body, where it anastomoses with its fellow and with the inferior thyroid. It sends a twig across the middle line below the hyoid bone, which anastomoses with its fellow, and a branch, which descends obliquely over the sheath of the com- mon carotid, to supply the sterno-mastoid, which is probably severed in ligation of that artery. The superior laryngeal branch runs with the nerve of that name, through the thyro-hyoid membrane, for the interior of the larynx. The crico-thyroid branch runs across the crico-thyroid membrane to join its fellow. It is wounded in laryngo- tomy. The ling-ual artery is given off opposite the great cornu of the hyoid bone, sometimes coming off in a common branch with the facial; it reaches the tip of the tongue as the ranine. In its course it not only ascends, but passes deeply, running out of the superior carotid triangle beneath the stylo-hyoid and digastric, and then under cover of the hyo-glossus, where it rests on the middle constrictor of the pharynx. It soon rests upon the genio-hyo-glossus, and ultimately upon the lingualis, being then beneath the mucous membrane of the tongue, by the side of the frsenum. Its position there must be re- membered in dividing the fr^num, for if the scissors be clumsily directed upwards it may very easily be cut. The ranine vein may be seen through the mucous membrane on raising the tongue, but the artery, which is more deeply placed, cannot be made out. The lingual sends inwards a hyoid twig which anastomoses with its fellow above the hyoid bone, and then a larger branch—the dorsalis li7tgucB—which ascends under the hinder part of the hyo- glossus to the tongue, soft palate, and tonsil. It anastomoses with its fellow in front of the epiglottis. The siibli7tgual branch comes oft just after the lingual has passed beyond the hyo-glossus. It suppfies the sublingual gland and the floor of the mouth. Iiig-ation of the ling-ual artery may be performed in the superior