5 Relations of Onio-hyoid The Depressors of the Hyoid Bone The sterno'hyoid arises from the back of the manubrium and the adjacent part of the clavicle, and, sloping towards the middle line, is inserted into the lower part of the body of the hyoid bone. The sterno-thyroid arises from the manubrium, just below the sterno-hyoid, and, ascending under cover of that muscle, slopes slightly backwards to its insertion in the oblique line on the thyroid cartilage. This and the preceding muscle are often marked a little below their insertion by a tendinous intersection. The neive supply of these two muscles is from the loop of the descendens and communicantes noni. Relations.—These muscles ascend from the anterior mediastinum, and are under cover of the sterno-mastoid, the deep fascia, platysma, and the anterior jugular vein. The omo-hyoid joins company with them above on their outer side. They rest upon the trachea and the lower part of the larynx ; the thyroid gland and its vessels ; the innomi- nate, subclavian, and common carotid arteries, and the internal jugular, subclavian, and innominate veins. The thyro-hyoid continues the sterno-thyroid up to the body and great cornu of the hyoid bone. It hides the passage of the superior laryngeal vessels and nerve through the thyro-hyoid membrane, and is itself covered by the sterno-hyoid and omo-hyoid. Its motor nerve is a special branch of the hypoglossal. The omo-hyoid ascends from the upper border of the shoulder- blade (cojMo?) to the body of the hyoid bone, just external to the inser- tion of the sterno-hyoid. It is a double-bellied muscle, the median tendinous part being bound by a process of the deep cervical fascia, beneath the sterno-mastoid, to the first rib. As the posterior belly passes upwards and forwards to dip beneath the sterno-mastoid, it forms the base of the' occipital and the upper border of the subclavian triangle ; in a thin person this belly may be seen at work in its oblique position above the clavicle, especially v»'hen a deep inspiration is taken. And as the anterior belly emerges from beneath the sterno- mastoid and mounts to the hyoid bone it forms the upper boundary of the inferior and the base of the superior carotid triangle. The nerve-sipply is from the loop of the descendens and com- municantes noni. Relatiojis.—Coming up from the shoulder-blade, the omo-hyoid is covered by the trapezius, clavicle and subclavius, the deep fascia, platysma, and integument, and it lies above the subclavian vessels, the lower cervical nerves, and the posterior and middle scalenes. It then passes beneath the sterno-mastoid and over the scalenus anticus and the phrenic nerve, and over the sheath of the common carotid with the internal jugular vein and the vagus. It subsequently rests