9 Side of Neck The Triangles of the Neck GLAV/CLE , submaxillary triangle ; 2, superior carotid ; 3, inferior carotid ; 4, occipital; 5, sub- clavian. The side of the neck may be represented as an oblong divided by the sterno-mastoid into a superior and inferior triangle. (The student will find it useful to practise drawing these tri- angles and their subdivisions in outline, and roughly filling in their chief contents.) The posterior triangle has as its base that part of the clavicle which is between the pos- terior border of the sterno-mastoid and the anterior border of the trapezius—the muscles which form its sides—its apex being between the occipital attachments of those muscles. This triangle is divided by the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid into an occipital and a sub- clavian triangle. The sides of the occipital triangrle are formed by the borders of the trapezius and the sterno-mastoid, the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid being its base. In its floor, from above downwards, are the splenius capitis, levator anguli scapulas, and the scalenus medius and posticus. It is covered by skin and fascise, and by the platysma inferiorly. Superficial branches of the cervical plexus appear m the space, namely, the lesser occipital, great auricular, and the superficial or trans- verse cervical nerve (all of which wind round the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid) and the supra-clavicular branches, which leave the lower part of the triangle {v. p. 145). The spinal accessory nerve traverses the middle of the triangle in its course from the sterno- mastoid to the trapezius (p. 70), and the transverse cervical branch of the thyroid axis (p. 233) crosses its lower part. The glandulse con- catenatas extend, deeply, along the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid. The subclavian triangle is bounded below by the clavicle, in front by the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and above by the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid. It derives its name and its import- ance from the fact that the subclavian artery is usually tied in its depths. The more muscular the subject, the smaller is the triangle. It is covered by the skin, fasciae, and platysma, and is crossed by the supra- clavicular nerves. The external jugular vein (p. 35) pierces the deep fascia just behind the origin of the sterno-mastoid, to end in the sub- clavian vein, and it receives the suprascapular and transverse cervical veins as it passes through the triangle. The suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries also cross the space from beneath the sterno-mastoid. The third part of the subclavian artery and the subclavian vein