283 Cones's Fracture shock is received by the scaphoid and the rest of the first row of the carpus, and by the front edge of the lower end of the radius. The result is that the carpal surface of the bone is cracked off, not straight, as happens when the carpal epiphysis is detached^ but obliquely, the line of fracture being very near to the wrist-joint in front, but reaching fin., or more, above it posteriorly. The continuance of the shock which cracked off the end of the bone thrusts it, and the carpus with it, upwards on to the back of the radius. As the inner part of the carpus, and the ulna (which does not actually enter into the formation of the joint), receive little shock, there is, as a rule, no fracture or displacement on the ulnar side, further than that the head of the ulna may be left prominent and conspicuous when the outer part of the carpus is thrust upwards. Thus, the hand is found abducted after the fracture and there is a considerable dorsal projection on the lower end of the radius, and its styloid process is raised. (The figure is after Erichsen.) There is another explanation of the way in which the fracture occurs, that is by the sudden and powerful dragging upon the front of the the lower end of radius by the over-stretched anterior ligament of the joint and the flexor tendons when, in the fall, the hand is thrown back. The displacement of the carpal fragment is probably not in the least influenced by muscular action, but is all mechanical. As regards treatnieiit of Colles's fracture, the hand must be dragged forcibly downwards and adducted so as to replace the carpal fragment, a pistol-shaped splint being then appHed to keep it in the adducted posi- tion, or some other form of splint which will keep the fragment in place. Fracture of the radius between the insertions of the biceps and pronator teres is a rare injury. The fact of the bone bemg broken is detected by pressing with the thumb or the tip of the index-finger just below the external condyle, and finding that the head of the bone does not move in pronation and supination. If the muscles exercised that important influence over the position of fractured bones which is so often ascribed to them (but which I am not prepared to admit), it is evident that the upper piece of the bone would be flexed by the biceps and supinated by that muscle and the supinator brevis, whilst the shaft of the bone would be rolled round by the pronators teres and quadratus, and at the same time drawn towards the ulna ; but this arrangement does not necessarily obtain.