32 Arteries of Head and Neck The internal maxillary, the larger terminal division of the ex- ternal carotid, hurries inwards and forwards from the parotid gland, passing between the ramus of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament, beneath the insertion of the external pterygoid. This constitutes the first part of its course^ and from it are given off the tympanic, middle and small meningeal, and the inferior dental branches. The tympanic branch mounts behind the condyle of the jaw to the middle ear, which it enters by the Glaserian fissure. It forms an ana- stomotic circle upon the membrane with the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular. The middle mening-eal enters the skull through the foramen spinosum, passing between the heads of the auriculo-temporal nerve (p. 63). It then divides. Its anterior trunk runs in a tunnel or groove in the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and spreads in widely-reaching branches upon the convex surface of the dura mater, and in grooves upon the frontal and parietal bones. The posterior division winds backwards on the squamous and parietal bones, to end, like the other, in the supply of the dura mater and the cranium, and in anastomosis with its fellow of the opposite side and other meningeal arteries. The middle meningeal also gives a petrosal branch through the hiatus Fallopii, which anastomoses in the aqueduct with the stylo-mastoid artery, and sends branches through the great wing of the sphenoid into the orbit and the temporal fossa. The S77tall meningeal passes into the skull through the foramen ovale. The inferior dental enters the dental canal, and divides opposite the first bicuspid into a mental and an incisive branch. The former emerges by the mental foramen, and anastomoses with the inferior labial and submental branches of the facial, whilst the other continues in the lower jaw, supplying the canine and incisor teeth, and meeting its fellow across the middle line. Before entering the maxilla the inferior dental gives off the inylo-hyoid branch, which ramifies on the cutaneous surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle. The second part of the artery lies in the triangle formed by the two pterygoids and the ramus of the jaw ; it gives off deep temporal, pterygoid, masseteric, and buccal branches. The anterior and pos- terior deep tempoi^als ascend beneath the temporal muscle, and ana- stomose with the superficial and middle temporal arteries, and with branches which enter the fossa from the middle meningeal and ophthalmic arteries. As the masseteric twig runs outwards through the sigmoid notch it supplies the maxillary joint. It anastomoses with the facial and the transverse facial arteries. The buccal branch ana- stomoses upon the cheek with the facial. The third part of the artery enters the spheno-maxillary fossa. But just before doing so it gives off a trunk from which the alveolar and infra-orbital arteries arise. alveolar^ ox posterior de7ital^ dis- tributes branches upon the tuberosity of the maxilla for the gums,