Parotid Gland wj membrane passing to the jaw, the floor of the mouth, the soft palate, and the epiglottis ; the genio-hyo-glossus, hyo-glossus, stylo-glossus, palato-glossus, and hngualis ; the lingual artery and vein ; the gusta- tory, hypoglossal, and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. Ranula (? dimin. of rana^frog) is a collection of fluid in a mucous gland in the floor of the mouth, or in the duct of one of the salivary glands. The fluid, however, is not saliva ; it is thick and glairy, and may be secreted again and again after incision and scraping of the cyst, and after swabbing out the interior with glacial carbolic acid. Simply to snip a piece out of the wall of the cyst rarely suffices for obliteration, for on the collapse of the cyst the edges of the wound fall together and unite, and the fluid begins again to collect. The Parotid Gland The parotid gland {-rrapa, 7iear; ouy, coro?, ea7-) is a compound racemose gland, enclosed in a tough capsule which is obtained from the deep fascia. It lies in the hollow which is bounded behind by the sterno-mastoid, the mastoid process, and the external meatus ; in front by the ramus of the jaw ; deeply, by the stylo-maxillary ligament, and above by the zygoma. This limited space, however, is not sufficient ; and some of the gland passes deeply behind the condyle into the glenoid fossa, and beneath the sterno-mastoid, against the digastric ; a little of it extends over the sterno-mastoid, and a good deal of it spreads over the masseter. A portion of the gland also is tucked beneath the ramus of the jaw, and even between the pterygoid muscles. From this (anterior) part the duct emerges, and connected with it is an acces- sory piece of the gland, the socia parotidis. The gland is covered in by a process of the deep cervical fascia (p. 2), the lower part being also beneath the platysma. Additional connections of the gland are as follows:—The external carotid artery, having entered it, sends off the superficial temporal and internal maxillary branches from its substance ; the posterior auricular winds up between the gland and the mastoid process, and the transverse facial emerges from its anterior border. The external jugular begins in the gland by the confluence of the superficial temporal and internal maxillary veins, and sends a branch through the deep part of the gland to join with the internal jugular. The primary branches of the facial nerve come through the front of the gland, and the auriculo-temporal ascends beneath its upper end. Close beneath the gland are the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, and the vagus. Supply.—Branches for the gland come off from the various arteries in its substance, the blood being returned to the external jugular vein. The lymphatics pass to superficial glands near the parotid, and into