Subclavian A rtery 229 Behi7id are the recurrent laryngeal nerve, the sympathetic cord, the longus colli, and a little of the pleura. Below are the pleura and the recurrent laryngeal; above, the verte- bral branch is given off, and, below, the internal mammary. The fact of the lung and pleura being somewhat behind the first part of the right subclavian, but in front of the left, is explained by the left artery not arising until the second part of the aortic arch had passed well back. ]tig-ation of the first part of the right subclavian is performed by raising a triangular flap, as in tying the innominate artery (p. 182). When the sterno-mastoid and sterno-hyoid and thyroid are divided and raised, the common carotid is to be followed down to the innominate, and the first part of the subclavian is then to be denuded. The aneurysm-needle is passed from before backwards. The operation is difficult and dangerous, not only on account of the depth at which the vessel is placed, but also on account of the important structures which risk bemg wounded, namely, the internal jugular and vertebral veins, the pleura and the apex of the lung, and the pneumogastric, recurrent laryngeal, and phrenic nerves. If the procedure be resorted to, the common carotid should also be tied, so as to cut off most of the collateral supply and to diminish the risk of recurrent haemorrhage. Ligation of the first part of the left artery is well-nigh impracticable ; the vessel is closely surrounded by important veins and nerves, whilst the thoracic duct and the pleura are in the immediate neighbourhood. The second part of the subclavian artery lies behind the sca- lenus anticus, additional anterior relations being the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, the subclavian vein, and the phrenic nerve. Behind are the apex of the pleura, and the scalenus medius. Above are the cords of the brachial plexus, emerging between the origins of the anterior and middle scalenus, and belo-iv is the pleura. The second pai't may bs tied by cutting through the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, turning inwards the phrenic nerve, and dividing the origin of the anterior scalene. There is, however, so great a risk of damaging the phrenic nerve, the internal jugular vein, and the pleura that the operation is very rarely resorted to. The third part of the subclavian artery is comparatively superficial in the posterior inferior triangle (p. 9). It rests iipojt the first rib. Above it are the omo-hyoid, and the cords of the brachial plexus. In front are the platysma and the cervical fascia; the external jugular, supra-scapular, and transverse cervical veins; the subclavian vein, though on a lower plane ; the clavicle and subclavius, and the supra-scapular artery. Behind are the scalenus medius and the lowest nerves of the brachial plexus. ILig^ation of the third part of the subclavian.—The patient lies