Umbilical Hernia 299 scar—for that tissue is strong and resisting— but through the Hnea alba either above or below the navel—most likely above it, but possibly to one side of it. When a hernia takes place exactly at the navel itself, it is generally through the upper part—that is, above the level of the urachus and the obliterated hypogastric arteries—for this is the weakest part of the scar. The coverings of an iimbilical hernia are peritoneum, sub-peritoneal fat, transversahs fascia, and integuments ; but these tissues in time become fused together into a single, thin layer. Umbilical hernia occurs more frequently in women, and especially in those in whom the umbilical region has been stretched and weakened by pregnancy, and in those whose viscera are encumbered by the deposit of a large amount of fat. The abdomen may be mapped out into 7tine regions^ as follows :— A line is drawn around the body at the level of the two anterior superior iliac spines, and a second, parallel to it, over the ninth costal cartilages. These three zones are subdivided by two lines, parallel to the linea alba, from the middle of Poupart's ligament to one of the costal cartilages—probably the eighth. These nine areas are, from above downwards, in the middle line, epigastric (eTri, over ; yaarrjp, stomach), umbilical, and hypogastric (uTTo, below) ; at the sides, hypochondriac (wo, xovdpoi, cartilages), lumbar {ln?nbi, loins), and inguinal {ingiien^ groin) or iliac {ilia^ flanks). The viscera contained in each region are liable to variation ; for instance, when the stomach is distended the colon is pushed far down, and when that piece of intestine is distended it may ascend high behind the ribs ; but, for the most part, the contents of each region are as follows :— Highest Zone. Right hypochondriac.—Liver and gall-bladder ; pyloric end of stomach (?) and duodenum. Hepatic flexure of colon and upper part of right kidney, supra-renal capsule, and, probably, pancreas. (The fundus of gall-bladder hes behind the ninth costal cartilage.) Epigastric.—Part of liver and stomach ; transverse colon and great omentum. Pancreas ; the large abdominal vessels and some of their branches ; solar plexus. Left hypochondriac.—Cardiac end of stomach, tail of pancreas, spleen ; splenic flexure of colon ; upper end of kidney, supra-renal capsule, and perhaps some of left lobe of liver. MediaJt Zone. Right linnbar.—Ascending colon, descending duodenum, kidney ; coils of small intestine, ureter. Umbilical.—Transverse colon and duodenum, great omentum ;