Potfs Fracture 498 It is not always easy to recognise fracture in the upper two-thirds of the fibula, for the bone is deeply shrouded by muscular attachments : the soleus and flexor longus pollicus behind, the peroneus longus and brevis on the outer side, and the extensors longus digitorum and proprius hallucis in front. The unbroken tibia steadies the fragments Df the fibula, and prevents the surgeon obtaining crepitus. The lower third of the fibula is subcutaneous in the interval betw^een the peroneus longuc and brevis, behind, and the tertius and extensor longus digitorum in front ; a break in this part of the bone is, as a rule, easily detected. The Ankle-Joint The ankle-joint is formed by the lower end of the tibia, the two malleoli, and the astragalus. The fibular malleolus descends to a lower level than the tibial, therefore the outer articular surface of the astragalus is larger than the inner. The anterior and posterior ligaine?its are unimportant; they descend from the front and back of the lower end of the tibia to the adjacent parts of the astragalus. The internal lateral lig-ament is deltoid, spreading from the end of the malleolus to the scaphoid, the sustentaculum tali, and, behind^ to the astragalus {see operation for club-foot, p. 503). There is a deep part of this ligament between the tip of the malleolus and the adjacent part of the astragalus. This deltoid ligament is crossed by the tendons of the tibialis posticus and the flexor longus digitorum. The external lateral lig-ament sends an anterior and a posterior band to the astragalus, and a vertical one to the os calcis; this last is crossed by the tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis. The synovial membrane of the ankle-joint lines the anterior, posterior, and the lateral ligaments, and often sends up a slip into the lower tibio-fibular joint. Supply.—The vessels come from the anterior and posterior tibials, the malleolar and the peroneals. The nerves are branches of the internal saphenous and of the anterior and posterior tibials. Structures around ankle.—Beginning in front and passing from within outwards : the tibialis anticus, extensor prpprius hallucis, the anterior tibial artery between its companion veins ; the anterior tibial nerve ; the extensor longus digitorum and the peroneus tertius. The peroneus brevis and longus ; the flexor longus hallucis, the pos- terior tibial nerve, and the artery with its companion veins ; the flexor longus digitorum and the tibiahs posticus. Behind all is the tendo Achillis. When articular effusion occurs, the capsule bulges under the ten- dons at the front of the ankle, obscuring their outline and obhterating the furrows between them. There is also a fulness around the malleoli,