Parttirition 367 diameter taking advantage of the wide sweep between the sub-pubic arch and the movable coccyx. The head, as it were, screws itself through the pelvis. The soft parts are dilated by the descent of the amniotic bag, which, under the contractions of the uterine and abdominal walls, plays an important preparatory part. Hasty rupture of the membranes may render the labour dry and tedious. When the os, the vagina, and vulva are fully dilated, the membranes burst, the ' waters' escape, and the uterine walls contract with renewed vigour. The muscular tissue of a feeble uterus may be stimulated by the administration of ergot ; but this drug must not be used until the os is wide open, or, in a vain attempt to drive the foetus through the unyielding os, the uterus may rupture itself To aid the expulsion of the foetus, the nurse may advise the woman to blow hard into a bottle ; in this way the lungs are filled, the diaphragm is depressed and fixed, the abdominal cavity is dimin- ished, and its muscles are set to work. By 'holding her breath,' or by hauling on a jack-towel fastened to the foot of the bed, the patient fixes the diaphragm and ribs, and thus gives the oblique, transverse, and straight muscles the greatest advantage. But the presence of the head in the vagina excites strong reflex contractions which fatigue the woman much less than voluntary acts would do. During the final ex- pulsive act the escape of the contents of the rectum is almost inevitable. When labour is threatening, the bladder and rectum should be thoroughly evacuated to clear the way for the foetus, and to diminish the risk of the occurrence of a rent or gangrenous perforation. During the detachment of the placenta the large veins which run obliquely into it through the muscular wall of the uterus are torn across, but the immediate and energetic contraction of the muscle closes their open mouths and prevents flooding. To check post-partum haemor- rhage the inert uterus must be stimulated to contract by cold, by bi- manual pressure, by ergot, or by electricity. The lingering attachment of a piece of placenta checks contraction and is an incentive to bleed- ing ; the uterus must at once be cleared. Pelvic abscess, which may occur from cellulitis after parturition, and from other causes, is associated with deep-seated tenderness and fulness, and often with a bulging which may be made out through the rectum or vagina. The abscess may break through into either of these passages, or into the bladder or peritoneal cavity—or on to the surface of the abdomen or pubes. It may be dealt with after the manner of iliac abscess from spinal disease. In the case of the male the contents of a pelvic abscess may follow the spermatic cord towards the scrotum. Pelvic haematocele (at/za, blood; kt^X?;, tumour) is a collection of blood in the retro-uterine pouch, or in the sub-peritoneal tissue around the uterus. The bleeding, which generally occurs at the time of menstruation, is from some congested vessels of the generative organs.