External Abdominal Ring 303 ing of the spermatic cord, and of an oblique inguinal hernia. The external abdominal ring, being the lower end of the inguinal canal, transmits the spermatic cord or the round ligament. And, as the spermatic cord is the more bulky of these two structures, the canal and the ring are more capacious in the male than in the female, and inguinal hernia, therefore, is more common among men than women. Femoral hernia—a protrusion beneath Poupart's ligament—is more common in women, the great breadth of the pelvis necessitating a wide space below the ligament, which the iliacus and psoas, and the femoral vessels, but indifferently block up. In the case of a tumour in the upper part of the scrotum, if the external ring contain nothing but the normal cord the swelling below it can have no association with the abdominal cavity—it is not a hernia. The tip of the finger need not be made actually to enter the ring by invaginating the scrotum and thrusting it up ; but in every case of scrotal tumour the cord should be examined just below the ring. On account of the fascia lata being closely attached to Poupart's ligament, tension of the fascia drags down the hgament and tightens the aponeurosis of the external oblique. Therefore, before attempting the reduction of an inguinal hernia, the thigh should be slightly flexed and inverted. The hernia is rarely strangulated at the external ring, because of the comparative slackness of its inner boundary; the con- striction is almost invariably in the neck of the peritoneal sac. The internal oblique has its fibres running upwards and mwards, almost at right angles to those of the external oblique, for the greater strength of the abdominal wall; the directions of the fibres in the two muscles are like those of the bars of a lattice-work. The internal oblique takes a fleshy origin from the outer half of Poupart's ligament, the anterior two-thirds of the iliac crest, and the fascia lumborum, and slopes upwards and forwards to be inserted into the four lower costal cartilages. As it approaches the outer border of the rectus it becomes aponeurotic, and then sphts to en- close the rectus. The anterior sheet joins over the front of the rectus with the lamella of the external oblique, to reach the linea alba, while the deeper layer passes to the linea alba, along with the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle