149 Intercostal A rtcries Where the manubrium joins the gladiolus there is a transverse ridge which is easily felt on running the finger down the middle line. The cartilages at the ends of the ridge are those of the second ribs. In counting the ribs in a fat subject it is convenient to remember this. The ridge corresponds also with the lower border of the second part of the aortic arch. Fracture of the sternum generally results from the chin being forcibly doubled into the chest, as in a fall on the head, the springi- ness of the ribs saving it from fracture from direct violence. Occa- sionally the manubrium is dislocated forwards over the gladiolus. Of the ritos, seven articulate with sternum, but the lower five do not ; the eleventh and twelfth, being free anteriorly, are rarely broken. The first rib is rarely broken, unless the clavicle, which protects it, have first yielded. The ribs most often broken are the middle ones^ and the seat of fracture is generally in front of their angle, A rib may be broken by direct violence, as by a blow with the fist, in which case the salient angle is more apt to damage the pleura and lung, than when the fracture is from indirect violence, as when a man is crushed against a wall, in which case damage to the pleura and lung occurs only when several ribs have been broken. When a man with fractured ribs spits bright and frothy, bloody sputa, there is evidently a wound of the lung ; possibly also pneumothorax exists. The groove along the lower part of the inner surface of the rib con- tains the intercostal artery, with the vein above it and the nerve below, passing between the inner and outer intercostal muscles ; to avoid these, in puncturing the chest, the trocar should neither be introduced through the upper part of the intercostal space nor through the lower, where the collateral branch is coursing. /;/ medio tutissimus ibis. The iiitercostal arteries come from the superior mtercostal of the subclavian, from the aorta, and from the internal mammary; they anastomose freely with branches of the axillary and send emissaries through the spaces to supply the mamma ; a wounded intercostal artery may bleed into the pleural cavity {hcEinothorax). If the skin be also wounded the artery may be compressed by the finger passed in under the rib. The costal cartilage fits in a depression at the end of the rib ; the other end articulates with the sternum, and, with the exception of the first cartilage, which fuses with the manubrium, each chondro-sternal joint has a synovial membrane. Indeed, the joints of the second and third cartilages usually have each two membranes. As the result of injury either end of a costal cartilage may be detached. Comparative anatomy shows that the cartilages are anterior epiphyses. The cartilages from the sixth to the ninth are connected with each other by capsular ligaments lined by synovial membranes. Most of the ribs articulate by their head with the bodies of two vertebra? and with the intervertebral disc, being connected by the