176 Disease of the Heart culty in pumping blood through the lungs, as when the capillary area is diminished by dilatation of the air-cells, as in emphysema and in chronic phthisis, or by the compression of a pleuritic effusion. Ob- struction at the pulmonary valve causes dilatation and hypertrophy of the right ventricle, and so especially does incompetence of the mitral valve, for the left ventricle then pumps blood back into the left auricle, and the pulmonary veins cannot empty themselves ; the pulmonary capillaries being overloaded, the right ventricle struggles in vain to pass its blood onwards. In these circumstances, the right ventricle may grow so large as entirely to cover the left ventricle and to hide the apex-beat. The impulse is felt over a large area, even up to the third left cartilage, and down in the epigastrium. But when the heart is working with a tremendous bustle, and the radial pulse is, nevertheless, poor, it is evident that the right ventricle, not the left, is hypertrophied. The left ventricle is dilated and hypertropbied when. Sisyphus- like, it is struggling to force upwards its contents which are ever rolling backw^ards though an incompetent aortic valve ; but these conditions sometimes occur independently of valvular disease, as in the case of athletes and others who are suddenly called upon for violent exertion. In the case of severe aortic disease the left auricle remains over- full, the pulmonary circulation is delayed, and the right ventricle be- comes hypertrophied as well as the left. The grave lung-complication does not occur so long as the left ventricle remains strong enough for its extra work, but it comes on as soon as the walls begin to yield. Delayed pulmonary circulation eventually causes hypertrophy of the left ventricle as well as the right, as in emphysema ; the lungs being full, the right heart is full, as are also the venous capillaries throughout the body, and thus the left ventricle is obstructed in its work. Hypertrophy of the left ventricle without dilatatioii occurs in the case of simple narrowness of the aortic opening, and also in Bright's disease, when there is an increasing difficulty in forcing blood through the narrowed and rigid capillaries. In such circumstances hyper- trophy must not be regarded as disease. It is, rather. Nature's remedy for disease. It is ' compensatory,' and of excellent omen. How peri- lous, on the other hand, is the state of the feeble individual who, with aortic obstruction, has a dilating ventricle with walls so thin as scarce to supply a perceptible apex-beat! So long as the ventricle is equal to its extra work all goes well ; but when it begins to fail the left auricle becomes distended and the case becomes as serious as one of mitral re- gurgitation, venous congestion occurring, as already described. With aortic regurgitation (p. 173), dilatation precedes hypertrophy and is inevitable ; in aortic narrowness there need be no dilatation of the slowly thickening ventricle. When the left ventricle alone is hypertrophied the impulse may be found in the sixth, seventh, or eighth space, and outwards towards the