Muscles of Orbit 79 Similarly, the inferior oblique, passing outwards and backwards, also turns the pupil outwards. If this imaginary pin be then thrust through the transverse axis of the globe, the superior oblique, which is inserted behind the pin, coming from above, turns the pupil downwards, whilst the other, coming from below, turns it upwards. Thus the oblique muscles work in harmony in turning the cornea outwards, but in antagonism in the upward and downward movements. To turn the cornea downwards it would not do for the inferior rectus to act alone, or internal strabismus would result ; so the superior oblique is called on to help the inferior rectus, abducting the eye-ball at the same time, so as to neutralise the adduction of the inferior rectus. Thus, the two muscles, acting together, merely turn the globe downwards. Conversely, the inferior obhque acts with the superior rectus, the two muscles merely moving the eye to look upwards. Thus even a simple movement of the front of the globe is not left under the control of a single muscle. Inversion is effected by the in- ternal rectus, with the superior and inferior recti ; eversio7i by the external rectus and the two obliques ; elevation by the superior rectus and the inferior oblique ; and depression by the inferior rectus, with the help of the superior obHque. When the externat rectus is paralysed^ abduction of the eye-ball is limited. If the external rectus, say of the right eye, be paralysed, there may be no double vision as the man looks towards the left, but when he tries to look to the right, that is, to use his right external rectus, the right eye-ball remains almost stationary, though the left internal rectus directs the left eye-ball upon the object ; the result is double vision. To save himself from this annoyance, the patient keeps his head constantly in such a position that the useless muscle may have no demand made upon it; that is, he keeps his head con- stantly turned towards the right, making, as it were, the left sterno- mastoid do the work of the right external rectus. When the paralysis of the external rectus is only partial, the man expends an unusual amount of energy in inducing it to act; but a certain amount of this energy necessarily passes into the associate muscle, the opposite internal rectus, which then overacts its part and produces ' secondary deviation ' of that eye inwards. V\f\\Q:\\ Xht. right ijtternal rectus is paralysed tYvQ isice is apologeti- cally turned to the left, so that the visual defect may not occur. So also, due allowances being made, does it happen when a superior or inferior rectus fails to act. When the inferior oblique is paralysed the cornea cannot readily be turned upwards and outwards ; indeed, it falls somewhat downwards and inwards, and thus there is double vision. To correct the double vision, the subject makes up for the defect of the oblique muscle by