328 TJie Large Intestine The ileo-ccecal valve is the chink by which the small intestine opens into the large. Its lips are so joined that, the fuller the blind end of the colon becomes, the tighter they are approximated and the less the chance of fluid passing back between them into the small intestine. In fascal vomiting the contents of the large intestine do not regurgitate through the valve, and in the treatment of intestinal obstruction by in- flation of the bowel the air does not pass through the valve. Serous coat of larg-e intestine.—The caecum is entirely sur- rounded by peritoneum ; ^ it is not, as it was formerly thought to be, attached to the iliac fossa by a meso-csecum. The ascending and the descending colon are completely invested , except on that aspect which lies against the quadratus lumborum, whilst the transverse colon is covered on all aspects except where the arteries enter. The sigmoid flexure, like the transverse colon itself, is surrounded by a mesentery, and by this it hangs into the true pelvis. The peritoneum entirely covers the first part of the rectum except a strip on the sacral aspect; the beginning of the second part is covered only on the anterior and antero-lateral aspects, whilst the rest of the second part and the whole of the third part is destitute of serous covering. The fuller the colon becomes, the wider is the surface devoid of peritoneum, and, conversely, the more empty it is, the more complete is its mesentery. I have operated in a case of strangulated csecal hernia in which, though the bowel had a complete sac, I was unable to pass the finger round it, as one could have done, had an ordinary piece of bowel been down. The caecum was attached to the back of the sac. It is said that the Ccecum can descend along the inguinal canal behind the peritoneum, taking no peritoneum with it for its sac—such a hernia must, indeed, be rare. The appendices epiploicae are small tassels of peritoneum and fat which are attached to the large intestine ; being only upon the intra-peritoneal surface of the bowel, they can give no help to the surgeon who is seeking for the colon through the loin, unless he be there performing a transperitoneal operation. The longitudinal muscular fibres are chiefly collected in three con- spicuous bands, commencing at the vermiform appendix, and ceasing at the end of the sigmoid flexure. When the large bowel is much dis- tended the bands are less noticeable, but ordinarily they serve, as do the appendices epiploicae, to distinguish the large from the small intestine when the peritoneum is opened. The sacculation of the colon is due to the comparative shortness of these bands. On account of the difference in size and shape the percussion-note of the trans- verse colon is of a higher pitch than that of the stomach. The longitudinal bands are conspicuous only where the colon is covered by peritoneum ; it is useless, therefore, to look for them as a ' See Treves, Htmterian Lectures, 1885.