Stone in tJie Kidney 349 the pelvis. Ovarian disease begins below, and hydro-nephrosis works downwards. A large sarcomatous, cystic, or suppurating kidney may extend across the middle line as well as fill the flank. (For renal artery^ v. p. 354 ; for renal vein., v. p. 349.) The nerves of the kidney come from the sympathetic system of the thorax (sphanchnic) and of the abdomen (solar plexus). Filaments are also derived from the upper lumbar ganglia, and so the plexus becomes associated with the upper lumbar nerves. Offshoots from this network pass to the spermatic plexus. The lymphatics enter the lumbar glands. In renal calculus pains radiate widely on account of the extensi\^e communications of the nerves of the kidney. Thus, they strike along the ureter to the bladder, causing frequent micturition ; and, descending in the spermatic oftshoot of the renal plexus to the testis, they may so disturb its vaso-motor nerves as to set up orchitis. And, on account of the association between the renal plexus and the upper lumbar nerves through the higher lumbar ganglia, pains dart along the ilio- hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves (of the first lumbar nerve), and along the genito-crural (of the second) to the cremaster, so that retraction of the testis is to be looked for in renal calculus. Neuralgia may also extend along other branches of the lumbar nerves into the thigh ; and irritation through the neighbouring solar plexus may cause nausea and vomiting. The renal capillaries are bruised by the stone, and the urine becomes bloody. At the end of the ureter the stone may be for a while impacted, and by its presence it may cause obstruction of the ureter and disorganisation of the kidney. It may sometimes be felt fixed there, close to the bladder, by digital examination through the rectum. The pains which have been caused by the stone scraping along the ureter suddenly cease on its escape into the bladder. In the case of disease of the second and third lumbar vertebrae, with inflammatory pressure upon the posterior root of the second lumbar nerve of one side, there would be dull pain in the back, which would be increased by exercise, and possibly some tenderness in the renal region, especially if abscess were forming. There would be pain referred to the testis, and, on account of the irritation of the genito-crural nerve, retraction of the testis. There might, moreover, be increased frequency of micturition. Thus it is quite possible that lumbar caries may be mistakeii for renal calculus. Ureter.—From the hilum the ureter emerges, sloping downwards and inwards ; it is behind the renal artery, the vein being in front of both. Though the anterior surface of the kidney is the more convex, and the upper end the larger, still the best way of telling the right kid?tey from the left is by the position of the ureter, which is posterior to the vessels and slopes downwards and inwards. It is about fifteen inches long, and, descending gently inwards, it rests upon the psoas and