To Mark out Heart 163 and e\'en the basic impulse, are drowned in the case of abundant peri- cardial effusion. When, as the result of old adhesions, the apex clings to the hinder part of the pericardium, there may be no upheaval of the fifth space during systole, but, with each contraction of the heart, the space may actually recede, to thrill again or throb with ventricular relaxation. Thus the apex-beat is synchronous with diastole— a some- what rare phenomenon. Bisplacement of apex-beat.—The apex-beat is raised when the diaphragm is thrust up, as in ascites, tympanites, or abdominal tumour ; it is depressed when the diaphragm is thrust down by emphysema, or by fluid in the left pleura : in these circumstances also it is displaced to the right, but the heart becomes more vertical as it sinks from the left side. When the right pleura is full the displacement is to the left. When the left lung is contracted the diaphragm is raised, and with it of course, the apex-beat, which is manifested more to the left. Even in the healthy subject there is a considerable amount of fat about the grooves between the auricles and ventricles. When its deposit is greatly increased it is spoken of as a fatty encroachment^ a much less serious condition than that in which muscular elements have passed into fatty degeiieratioji. To mark out the heart upon the chest, first make a dot corre- sponding with the apex, two inches below the left nipple and one inch to the sternal side ; it is over the fifth space. Then draw a line to it from the right side of the xipho-sternal joint ; this defines the flat side of the right ventricle, which rests on the diaphragm ; it should be slightly convex downwards, as the margin of the heart bulges a Httle, as shown on p. 166. From the right end of this draw another line, bowing outwards half an inch from the right side of the gladiolus, to the top of the third chondro-sternal joint. This shows the bulge of the right auricle. From the top of the last line draw another horizontally across the sternum and extending an inch to the left of the sternum ; this marks the top of the auricles and the beginning of the great vessels. It now remains to make a fourth mark from the left end of the superior horizontal line to the dot which is over the apex; this mark must be bowed so as to indicate the left convex border of the heart. The left and the flat borders must not meet at a point, but should be well rounded off, like the apex itself, which their junction represents. The situation of the heart varies only slightly with change of position of the subject, but when the diaphragm descends with in- spiration the heart must, of course, descend also, though, resting on the central tendon of the diaphragm—which moves less than do the muscular domes—the change of position is not very great. The elevation with inspiration is not so extensive as it seems to be, be- cause in that act the thoracic cage is raised in front of the heart. M 2