TJie Kidneys 344 found in young children, and occasionally in adults ; they indicate the development of the gland in lobules, which remain through life dis- tinct from each other, separated by fibrous tissue. Sometimes the kidneys are united by their lower ends across the aorta and vena cava, forming a horse-shoe kidney. The relative position of some of the chief abdominal viscera may be remembered by such a system as this :—The stomach hes across the middle line and is prolonged into the right hypochondriac region, being continued on by the horse-shoe curve of the duodenum ; the head of the pancreas fills in this duodenal curve, its body extending to the left, be- hind the stomach; its tail lies on the front of the upper part of the left kidney, and touches the concave surface of the spleen, into which the convex end of the stomach is fitting. As the tail of the pancreas passes in front of the top of the kidney to reach the spleen, the kidney must lie to the inner side of the spleen, and behind the stomach. The peritoneum touches the front of the kidney, but does not give it an investment. A movable kidney is one which, on account of the looseness of its connection, can shift its position behind the peritoneum. A floating kidney has a complete serous investment, and swings about in the general peritoneal cavity at the end of a meso-nephron, tethered only by its blood-vessels. Its movements vary with the position of the subject, and also with respiration, and are often accompanied with un- pleasant sensations and even pain. Tight-lacing, and the disturbance of the abdominal walls and viscera associated with pregnancy, render floating kidneys more common in women than men. The removal of the kidney without wounding the peritoneum is, as far as concerns the anatomy of the parts, so like Amussat's operation (p. 331) that it is unnecessary here to describe it. The incision is made nearer to the last rib than in colotomy, but, as the pleura sometimes descends below the level of the twelfth rib, the knife must be used very carefully. When the kidney is loosened from its bed the vessels and ureter are ligated and divided, and the gland is taken out. If the diseased kidney seemed to be too large to come readily through the space between the last rib and the iliac crest, it would be better to remove it through the corresponding linea semilunaris. In that case the peritoneal cavity would be opened and the intestines drawn aside, the peritoneum being traversed posteriorly on the outer side of the colon, so as not to risk interference with the vessels passing to and from the colon. The fibrous capsule is a tough, thin la) er which sends numberless filamentous processes throughout the interior of the gland; their peri- pheral attachment is noticed when the capsule is being stripped off. The hihim leads into a cavity called the sinus of the kidney, into which the dilated end—pelvis—of the ureter opens. The pelvis of the ureter gives off three short primary divisionsand these