The Popliteal Space 482 the vein gradually mounts on to the artery ; and so, behind the plane of the joint, the nerve is nearest the skin, the artery is upon the pos- terior ligament, and the vein is between the two. Having emerged from the intercondylar pass, the three structures spread out again, so that, as they rest upon the popliteus, the vein has dismounted from the artery on to its inner side, whilst the nerve is still more internal. At the lower border of the popliteus the artery divides into the anterior and posterior tibials, and the nerve changes its name to posterior tibial. Xaig-ation of the popliteal artery is rarely performed, first be- cause of the extreme depth of the vessel in the space, and secondly because of an intimate fibrous adhesion which connects it with the vein. It is, therefore, resorted to only in the case of a wound of the artery, in every other case ligation of the superficial femoral being the preferable operation. The popliteal artery can, however, be reached without much diffi- culty from the inner side, by a three-inch incision along the gap which can be made out by the fingers just in front of the semi-membranosus and gracilis, and behind the vastus internus and the tendon of the adductor magnus. The internal saphenous vein must be avoided, and, the fascia lata having been divided on a director, and the sartorius having been recognised and drawn backwards with the tendon of the gracilis, the rigid tendon of the adductor magnus with the fleshy fibres of the vastus internus are seen. The long saphenous nerve may also be seen sloping backwards under the sartorius. The artery is looked for by working towards the back of the femur with the forceps and director. (The sartorius being to the inner side of the artery, the vein is, of course, to the outer side.) Bra?iches of the popliteal artery.—Superior mitsctdar, to the hamstrings and the adductor magnus, which anastomose with the ending of the deep femoral, with other perforating branches, and Avith the comes nervi ischiatici. Inferior muscular (sural) to the muscles of the calf. Five articular branches, each of which runs under or through some important fibrous structure. The superior internal articular winds under the tendon of the adductor magnus, to join the anastomotica magna, the superior external, and also the i?tferior i7iternal articular. The last-named branch passes under the internal lateral hgament, in the groove below the head of the tibia, and anasto- moses with the superior external articular, which passes under the tendon of the biceps, and joins the descending branches of the ex- ternal circumflex, the anastomotica magna, and the superior internal articular. The inferior external articular passes above the head of the fibula, under the tendon of the biceps and the external lateral ligament. It anastomoses with the inferior internal, and the superior external