436 TJie Testis aorta ; the artery to the vas deferens, from one of the vesica arteries ; and the spermatic veins, which communicate abo\'e with the inferior vena cava, or (on the left side) with the renal vein. If the ligature be tightly tied in a business-like way, with a clove-hitch and a half-hitch over it, there will be no fear of the occurrence of bleeding within the abdomen when the cord is retracted. The vesiculse seminales are convoluted and sacculated tubes, about 2 in. long, placed, like the arms of the letter V, beneath the tri- gone of the bladder. They lie to the outer side of the vasa deferentia, and in front of the second piece of the rectum {v. p. 413), through which they may be made out by digital examination ; they can best be examined when the bladder is full and is pressing them towards the bowel. They are enclosed in an offshoot of the recto-vesical fascia (p. 363), and their base is in contact with the recto-vesical pouch of peritoneum. During the passage of a bulky motion the pressure against the vesiculse may cause the escape of some of their con- tents per urethram^ and, the occurrence being noticed by a nervous man, he at once fancies that he is the subject of ' spermatorrhoea.' The anterior extremity of the vesicula seminalis joins the vas deferens to form the common ejaculatory duct, which tunnels through the back of the prostate to open in, or upon the margin of, the sinus pocularis. Placed between the bladder and rectum, the vesiculae depend upon the inferior vesical and the middle haemorrhoidal vessels for their supply ; a twig is also derived from the artery of the vas deferens. Their Jierves, which come from the hypogastric plexus, are in intimate association with those of the adjoining viscera. The lymphatics com- municate with the pelvic glands. The Ischio-rectal Fossa The ischio-rectal fossa is the pyramidal space between the ischium and the rectum. Its base corresponds to the soft depression at the side of the anus, whilst its apex reaches upwards to the splitting of the pelvic fascia. It contains a considerable amount of fat, which is much drawn upon in wasting diseases, so that a deep hollow is then found on the surface. Its boundaries are internally the rectum, the sphincter, and the levator ani, covered by the anal fascia, as shown in the figure on p. 363, and, further back, a small piece of the coccygeus ; externally are the ischial tuberosity, and the obturator internus, covered by the obturator fascia, and the body of the ischium. Behind are the tip of the coccyx and the great sacro- sciatic ligament, over which lies the lower border of the gluteus maximus. In front is the base of the triangular ligament {v. p. 440). Even when the fat which occupies the fossa has been dissected out, the finger cannot be passed through he apex of the space into