41 Emissary Veins All these veins have irregular communications with those of the pericranium and dura mater, and, being by their nature incapable of contraction, they are very prone to carry septic matter into the blood, in the case, for instance, of compound fracture of the skull. By means of the supra-orbital and neighbouring branches, the facial vein is in direct communication with the ophthalmic vein, and so with the caver- nous sinus. Thus may be explained the thrombosis of the sinuses which sometimes follows facial erysipelas. Emissary veins are the short, open vessels which establish a de- finite communication between the pericranial veins and the cerebral sinuses. The mastoid emissary is a large link between the posterior auricular or occipital vein and the lateral sinus, through the mastoid foramen. The application of leeches behind the ear, as already remarked, thus distinctly influences the intracranial circulation. The parietal emissary passes through the parietal foramen, between a pericranial vein and the superior longitudinal sinus. A small condylar emissary runs from an occipital vein through the posterior condylar foramen into the lateral sinus, and a short vessel ascends from the pterygoid plexus to the cavernous sinus. These emissary veins play an important part in septic wounds of the scalp, rapidly carrying septic material into the intracranial sinuses, and determining the onset of pyaemia. The cerebral veins, which lie in the sulci, are thin-walled and valveless, and are in communication with each other across the middle hne through the medium of the sinuses. The superior set of them open from behind forwards into the superior longitudinal sinus, the lower ones end in the cavernous, petrosal, and lateral sinuses. The veins of the corpus striatwn and of the choroid plexus emerge from the velum interpositum, and, under the name of Galejis veins^ enter the straight sinus. The cerebellar veins open into the straight, the lateral, and the petrosal sinuses. The pressure of venous blood within the skull is equalised by the communication between the two cavernous sinuses by means of the small circular sintts around the pituitary body ; by the transverse sinus which runs across the basilar process ; by the communication between the lateral sinuses at the torcular, and by the thin-walled veins upon the surface of the brain which, destitute of valves, lie in the sulci and communicate freely in all directions. The arteries of the dura are anterior meningeal from the ethmoidal of the ophthalmic, and others from the internal carotid ; middle meningeal from the internal maxillary, entering by the foramen spinosum, the small 7ne?iingeal entering by the foramen ovale; and a twig or two from the ascending pharyngeal, through the middle lacerated foramen. Posterior meningeal come from the vertebral and from the occipital through the posterior lacerated foramen, and perhaps