235 PART III THE UPPER EXTREMITY Surface markingrs.—The clavicle (p. 225) is convex forwards in its inner two-thirds and concave forwards in the outer third. Just where it articulates with the acromion process it has a considerable upward projection. The acromion process and the spine of the scapula are easily traced towards the vertebral column, the base of the spine corresponding to the third rib. The meeting of clavicle and acromion constitute the shoulder. The roundness of the shoulder is due to the presence of the large head of the humerus and its tuberosities ; over this the deltoid is thinly spread. After amputation at, or excision of, the shoulder-joint, the prominent shoulder' remains, but the ' roundness of the shoulder' has vanished. The lesser tuberosity is the inner ; between it and the outer, the bicipital groove may be felt : it is exactly at the front of the head of the bone when the arm is by the side and slightly rotated outwards. The coracoid process is found on thrusting the fingers into the space between the pectoralis major and deltoid, at about an inch below the junction of the cylindrical and flattened parts of the clavicle. To make sure that the fingers have not gone too far outwards and are pressing against the lesser tuberosity of the humerus, the arm should be rotated. The course of the axillary artery may be indicated by a line from the middle of the clavicle to the groove along the inner side of the coraco-brachialis and biceps, the arm being abducted and rotated outwards. The prominent mass of the biceps in front of the arm suddenly tapers into the strong tendon, from the inner side of which the bicipital fascia may perhaps be made out as it expands over the muscles which are arising from the inner condyle of the humerus. Along the inner side of the biceps is the groove which is continued down from between the axillary folds ; in it runs the brachial artery. The inner border of this muscle is the guide in tying that vessel. The muscle overhangs the artery.