505 Supply of Toes upon by the upper leather of the boot or shoe. Careful padding and strapping of the toe, or, in more extreme cases, division of the tendons, sometimes cures this deformity, but when the lateral ligaments have slipped behind the head of the metatarsal bone, nothing short of excision of the head of that bone, or amputation of the toe, will effect a cure. The deformity is often hereditary ; it is doubtful if wearing tight boots is often accountable for it. The inter-phalangeal articulations of the foot are like those of the hand (p. 289). The great mobility which naturally exists between the astragalus and the scaphoid, and between the astragalus and os calcis, is necessarily at the expense of the strength of the union between the astragalus and those bones. So, as the result of great violence, the interosseous (astragalo-calcanean) ligament may be ruptured, and the os calcis, scaphoid, and the other bones of the foot shifted inwards, outwards, or even in the antero-posterior plane. The dislocation of the foot is called subastragraloid. A modification of Syme's amputation is performed on this prin- ciple : the heel-flap being made as usual, but the ankle-joint not being opened. A short dorsal flap is made, the os calcis is removed with the rest of the foot, and the heel-flap is brought round the astragalus. The Cutaneous Vessels and Nerves of the Foot The venous arch on the dorsum receives tributaries from the backs of the toes, and empties itself by the internal and external saphenous veins. The direct communication between the saphenous veins enables one of them to do the work of both when inflammation and plugging have rendered its fellow impervious. The arteries on the dorsum of the toes are smaller than the plantar digital branches. The three outer clefts, and the outside of the little toe are supplied by the dorsal interosseous branches of the metatarsal of the dorsalis pedis. The innermost cleft, and the inner side of the great toe, are supplied by the dorsalis hallucis (p. 494). On the under aspect the three outer clefts and the outer side of the little toe are supplied by the digital branches of the external plantar artery ; the innermost cleft and the inner side of the great toe get branches from the communicating branch of the dorsalis pedis. Nerves.—The dorsum is chiefly supplied by branches of the musculo-cutaneous, but the cleft between the great and second toes receives the ending of the anterior tibial nerve, the inner side of the great toe getting its branch from the musculo-cutaneous. Along the outer side of the foot and little toe twigs are derived from the external saphenous.