i6 TJie Bones of the Head pneumogastric, and spinal accessory nerves. The under surface of the basilar process is in the roof of the pharynx, and may be explored by the finger in the case of suspected fracture of the base of the skull. The bone is developed by seven centres : four for the vertical part, which blend at the occipital-protuberance, one for each condylar part, and one for the basilar process. The vertical part of the bone, as with those parts of the other bones which form the wall and roof of the skull, is developed from membrane, whilst the horizontal part, as is the case with those other pieces which form the base of the skull, is ossified from cartilage. This arrangement is to render the skull strong enough to protect the basal ganglia during its passage through the pelvis. Cranium bifidum occurs when osseous union in the occipital region passes into the longitudinal smus, accompanied sometimes by a twig of the occipital artery. The internal surface is marked by cerebral convolutions, especially those of the motor area, and is deeply grooved by branches of the middle meningeal artery, which lead upwards from the anterior inferior angle. The posterior inferior angle is grooved for the lateral sinus, and along the superior border runs the shallow groove for the longi- tudinal sinus and the falx cerebri. Near this groove are depressions for the Pacchionian glands—villous processes of the arachnoid ; an uninformed man might take these irregular nodules for tubercular deposits. Some of them are deeply imbedded in the bone. The posterior border articulates with the occipital in the lambdoid suture. In weakly infants who lie much in the supine position, the occipital bone may sink in between the parietals to such an extent as, according to some observers, to cause cerebral irritation. The articu- lation of the posterior inferior angle with the mastoid bone is often thinned (cranio-tabes) m syphilitic and rickety children, imparting is incomplete, the membranes, and perhaps some of the en- cephalon, bulging backwards through the median cleft. {See Spina Bifida, p. 204.) Occipital Meningocele. The parietal (paries, wall).—The convex surface is marked by the curved tem- poral ridge, above which plays the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis, the tem- poral muscle arising below the ridge. Near the hinder part of the superior border is the parietal foramen^ by which a vein for the scalp