The Nose 122 gorged capillaries, in which case it comes as a relief, but it is apt to be due to ulceration into an artery, in which case it is likely to occur from the cartilage of the septum ; if so, prolonged pressure between the finger and thumb may stop it at once. Pulmonary or cardiac disease, by delaying the venous return, may be the cause of the haemorrhage. The subject should keep erect, so as to help the venous return, and he evidently should not blow his nose. Nor should he be allowed to hang his head over a basin, as this attitude compresses the jugular veins, and increases the venous engorgement (p. 36). The vaso-motor centre may be stimulated by cold applied to the back of the neck. Plug-g-ing- the nares may have to be resorted to if the bleeding become very serious. If no better apparatus be at hand, a piece of wire from a soda-water bottle may be bent into a suitable loop, and, having been armed with a doubled string, may be passed along the floor of the nose and down against the posterior wall of the pharynx. As soon as the string appears below the level of the palate the loop should be caught and brought out between the teeth, the wire being withdrawn from the nose. Another piece of string should be fixed in the loop for the subsequent drawing out of the plug, which should consist of a small roll of lint, a little larger than the last joint of the patient's thumb. This, having been secured in the loop, and having been helped round to the back of the soft palate by the finger in the mouth, should be drawn firmly into its place by pulling on the ends of the string which hang from the nostril. Then a plug is thrust into the nostril and tied in position by the two strings, the single string which hangs out of the mouth being also fixed to the anterior plug. The posterior plug, being firmly jammed in the oblong, bony frame of the horizontal process of the palate bone, the internal pterygoid plate, the vomer, and the body of the sphenoid, may set up necrosis if it be too long retained. Development.—The external nose is formed from a broad median lappet which comes down from the cranium. Its central part forms the tip of the nose, and, descending below the level of the nares, con- stitutes the septum between them (the coliiinelld) and, lower down, the lunula, or central part of the upper lip. The side of the nose is de- veloped from the nasal process which comes down between the orbit and the maxillary process. The depression for the eye is continuous with the mouth through an oblique cleft between the fronto-nasal and external nasal processes, internally and above, and the maxillary plate externally and below ; rarely does the entire fissure leading into the orbit remain uneffaced. As remarked on p. 76, the nasal duct is the unobliterated part of this cleft. {See also pp. 105 and 123.) 1