123 Branchial Clefts A Note upon Development generally From the external layer of the blastoderm {jSXao-To?, germ ; depfxa, skill)—the epiblast—the entire nervous system, central and peripheral, is developed, as are, also, the organs of sense, the cuticular covering of the body and the lining of the mouth, together with its accessory glands. From the hypoblast are developed the epithelium of the alimentary canal and air-passages. From the inesoblast come the bones, muscles, and vessels ; the A, Embryo at three weeks; i and 2, cerebrum; 3, fronto-nasal process; 4, superior maxillary plate ; 5, eye ; 6, inferior maxillary, or mandibular plate ; 7, 8, and 9, second, third, and fourth plates, or branchial arches, and below each plate the corresponding pharyngeal clelt. aa, i, 2, 3, and 5, same as in a ; 4, lateral frontal or ex- ternal nasal plate ; 6, sup. max. plate ; 7, mandibular; 8, first pharyngeal cleft, which becomes auditory passage ; above and below 6 are seen the orbital and mandibular fissures respectively. B. I, Lower jaw; i', first post-oral cleft widening out to form ext auditory meatus ; the second cleft is still visible, but the third and fourth clefts have become effaced. C, foetus at nine weeks ; first pharyngeal cleft is now obliterated, and the pinna, i', is beginning to grow up around the unclosed dorsal end. skin (not the epidermis) ; the alimentary canal (not the epithelium), and the genito-urinary apparatus. The facial part of the head is developed from bar-like growths from the cranial base, some in front of, and some behind, the buccal cavity ; the mouth, which is at first closed in, being a cleft between the facial plates. The pre-oral plates are the median fronto-nasal (p. 105) and the pairs of the lateral nasal and maxillary plates. The plates behind the mouth {post-oral) are in five lateral pairs : the mandibular, for the lower jaw ; the hyoid, for the upper part of thehyoid bone ; and three pairs down the neck. The post-oral plates are sometimes called branchial {d>payxi-a, gills) from their corresponding to the gill- plates of aquatic vertebrates. The branchial clefts are the slits below the branchial plates, or the