TJie Uterus 394 branches coming with the ovarian and uterine arteries (aortic and iliac plexuses) ; important twigs also come from the third and fourth sacral nerves. When an examination is made^^r vaginaiii but a few days after conception the uterus is found hot and turgid as if formed of erectile tissue. The finger may also feel the enlarged body of the uterus through the front of the vagina, and the os is ' soft and cushiony.' The surface of the abdomen becomes flatter and the navel is deepened ; hence the proverb, ' Eii ventre plat^ e7ifant il-y-a^ In the third month the abdomen shows enlargement ; in the fifth month the uterus can be felt above the pubes, perhaps halfway to the navel. There is no confirmation of the supposition that ' quickening ' is the result of a sudden ascent of the uterus. With advancing preg- nancy souffles and pulsations are heard, and the movements of the foetus may be felt and seen through the abdominal wall. A few days before parturition the foetus sinks towards the pelvis, preparatory to delivery. The pregnant uterus may press against the renal veins, or may in- directly irritate the kidneys, so that albuminuria occurs ; the legs, vulva, hands, and face become oedematous, and uraemic poisoning may be obviated only by producing miscarriage. By pressure on the iliac veins the hccmorrhoidal plexus becomes congested and piles appear, and the saphenous veins become varicose. On account of irritation of the lumbar and sacral nerves, neuralgias and cramps occur. These con- ditions may be relieved by recumbency. The bladder is apt to be irritated and the rectum obstructed. Development.—Early in foetal life an efferent duct descends from the ovary (which is then near the kidney) ; the outer part of the duct becomes the Fallopian tube, whilst the part nearer the middle line fuses with its fellow of the opposite to become the uterus. In some of the lower animals the fusion of the tubes is less perfect than in the human subject, so that the uterus remains bifurcated at the fundus— uterics bicornis. The cavity of the normal human uterus (p. 390) shows Os and cervix at third month of pregnancy. Os and cervix at eighth month.