Hard and Soft Palate 107 band becomes ; it is the pter^^go-maxillary ligament. If traced up- wards it is felt to be attached to a somewhat springy piece of bone, the hamular process of the internal pter>^goid plate ; and traced down- wards it is evidently connected with the inner and back part of the lower jaw. From the front of this ligament the buccinator arises, and from the back the superior constrictor. If the student will be good enough to continue the examination by bringing his finger upwards and forwards from the middle of the ligament, keeping his nail upon the outer surface of the last molar, he will feel the coronoid process of the jaw, separated from his finger, however, by the buccinator, the insertion of the temporal muscle, and the mucous membrane of the mouth. Then, lastly, if he will press firmly below the lower end of the ligament he will make out the gus- tatory^ nerve lying between the mucous membrane and the inner side of the jaw ; firm pressure upon it causes pain (p. 63). The Palate The hard palate consists of the horizontal plates of the two superior maxillae and of the palate bones ; posteriorly it is continued into the soft palate by the palatine aponeurosis {v.i.). This surface of bone is roughened for the more firm attachment of the muco- periosteum. The muco-periosteum, which contains many glands, is covered wdth squamous epithelium. A median raphe {pa(hr], seam) in the mucous membrane of the hard and soft palate indicates their development in lateral halves. On the under surface of the palate bone is a ridge for the insertion of part of the tensor palati, and at the outer end of the ridge is the canal for the posterior palatine artery—that is, to the inner side of the last molar tooth. Bleeding from this artery may be arrested by finding the foramen with a sharp probe and then sticking a pointed spigot of wood into the canal. The arteries of the hard palate are derived from the internal maxillar}'. The nerves come from the superior maxillary—Meckel's ganglion. The soft palate is firmly attached in front to the posterior border of the hard palate, and from its sides pass off two folds of mucous membrane, the anterior of which descends to the tongue and the pos- terior to the phar)'nx, under the name of the anterior and posterior pillars of the fauces. Between the anterior and posterior pillars the tonsil is placed. The narrow passage between the two anterior folds is the isthmus of the fauces. The mucous membrane covering the pharyngeal aspect of the soft palate is thin, and, being continuous with that of the nares, is covered with columnar ciliated epithelium ; that upon the buccal surface is thick, and contains many mucous glands. Its epithehal covering is squamous. Forming a foundation