The Penis 422 In anasarca the prepuce is specially enlarged, so that to find the en- trance to the urethra it may be necessary to slit up the swollen fore- skin along the dorsal aspect. Qidema may be due to the root of the penis having been constricted by an elastic band or a string. The prepuce of the new-born child is usually extremely long, but in the course of subsequent development a proper proportion between the parts is generally established. Phimosis ((^ijuoco, to close with a muzzle) implies that the prepuce is so tight, or redundant, as to be incapable of easy retraction. When the glans becomes inflamed (balanitis, (Bd'kavos, acor/i), or a sore occurs beneath the tight prepuce, circumcision is indispensable. Hardened crusts of smegma and calculi, which have escaped from the bladder, may be lodged beneath a tight fore- skin. Phimosis is very apt to cause inconti- nence of urine (p, 379), especially in childhood. I have seen the glans penis of an adult small and wrinkled from com- pression of a foreskin which had been tight from birth. In later life the effects of a chronic irritation of the glans from phimosis, and want of cleanliness, are likely to be hypertrophy of the papilla; in the form of large and branching warts, which are not necessarily of venereal origin, and a long continuance of the irritation may cause intractable eczema and eventually epithelioma. I have recently cured a young athlete of intractable and depressing seminal incontinence by removing his long prepuce. Phimosis may so obstruct the outflow of urine as to cause the disease known as wSurgical Kidney (p. 410). For slight phimosis dilatation of the preputial orifice by a pair of dressing forceps may suffice, but, if the measure prove inefficient, cir- cumcision should be performed forthwith. At the time of operation the furrow behind the corona should be completely exposed by break- ing down adhesions, and all smegma should be cleared away. When a prepuce with a small orifice has been retracted behind the glans, it may remain caught in the corona, the condition being called para-phimosis (TTapd, beyond). The glans becomes greatly swollen from the constriction, as does also the lining of the prepuce, which has been thus everted. The constricting band, which is the preputial margin, is on the hindermost depression. By gently but firmly compress- ing the swollen tissues with the finger and thumb of the left hand, they may be emptied of blood, so that with the finger and thumb of the other hand the glans may be pushed back again through the constriction. At some