TJioracic Anenrysin l82 upon the recurrent laryngeal nerve, altering the voice and paralysing the muscles of the left cord (p. 70) ; upon the oesophagus, causing dysphagia and suggesting stricture of the gullet (p. 139); upon the thoracic duct, causing inanition ; upon the left innominate vein, pro- ducing duskiness, venous congestion, and oedema of the left side of the head and neck and of the left arm, and possibly causing at last absorption of the manubrium. When the sac bulges into the episternal region the case may be taken for one of aneurysm of one of the aortic trunks; and the tumour may cause compression and even obliteration of the left carotid or subclavian artery, thereby increasing the risk of error in diagnosis. Should it bulge into the neck the resemblance to an aneurysm of the innominate or common carotid may lead to error of diagnosis. More than once it has happened, unfortunately, that tracheotomy has been resorted to for the relief of dyspnoea which happened to be caused by pressure of an aortic aneurysm upon the trachea. When, however, it can be made out that the dyspnoea is due to pressure upon the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, the windpipe may be opened with ad- vantage. A7teitrysin of tJie third part of the arch pulsates against, and may bulge through, the vertebral ends of the middle ribs of the left side, causing at first intercostal neuralgia and obscure dorsal pains sugges- tive of caries ; then, reaching the spinal canal, it may determine para- plegia ; and by pressing on the left pulmonary plexus, which is just in front of it, may cause spasmodic attacks like those of asthma, so that eventually air may entirely fail to enter the lung. It may press against, and eventually burst into, the oesophagus, trachea, left bronchus, peri- cardium, or pleura. The innominate artery, in., arises at the beginning of the trans- verse aorta, behind the middle of the manubrium ; passing upwards and to the right, it divides at the upper border of the right sterno-clavi- cular joint, between the heads of the sterno-mastoid muscle. j^^/^Z/fp^^i-.—Separating it from the manubrium are the origins of the sterno-hyoid and thyroid and the remains of the thymus gland ; it is crossed by the left innominate vein and the right inferior thyroid veins. Behind is the trachea. To the left are the trachea and the left carotid ; and to the right are the pleura and lung, with the right innominate vein and pneumogastric nerve. Varieties.—The innominate artery may bifurcate in the thorax, or it may pass into the root of the neck before dividing. Sometimes it gives off the thyroidea ijna, an irregular branch, to the lower part of the thyroid body, which, however, is occasionally derived from the left carotid, or from the transverse aorta itself. This little artery ascends to the thyroid body on the front of the trachea, and may be wounded in tracheotomy below the isthmus. ILigation of the innominate artery is a desperate operation, as