Occipito-fron talis 1 gland. It is supplied by the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental nerve. The g-enio-liyoid lies upon the deep side of the mylo-hyoid, pass- ing from the symphysis to the front of the body of the hyoid bone. Along its posterior border is the genio-hyo-glossus, in whose action and nerve supply (hypoglossal) it participates. The occipito-frontalis may be taken as arising from the outer part of the superior curved lines and from the neighbouring part of the mastoid processes, and as inserted into the skin of the frontal region— not into frontal bone itself, or it could have no action. The two fleshy parts of the muscle are separated by a very thin intervening aponeurosis, which covers the vertex, and gives origin at the side of the head to the attollens and attrahens aurem. The tendon spreads out into loose connective tissue upon the temporal fascia (p. 8). The median fibres of the anterior part of the muscle blend with the pyrami- dalis nasi, and the others with the corrugator and with the orbicularis. The aponeurosis is very intimately blended with the skin—the student may remember that in his first dissection he could not avoid removing some of the aponeurosis with the skin, though he had no difficulty whatever in separating the aponeurosis from the skull. When pus or blood is efTused upon the top of the head its situa- tion is certainly beneath the aponeurosis—not between it and the skin. A layer of loose connective tissue, the pericranium, intervenes between the aponeurosis and the skull-vault, and it is over this that the muscle and the scalp work. The scalp is readily torn down by accident, or as one sees effected in the mortuary ; but when, during life, the calvaria is thus laid bare the occurrence of necrosis is by no means necessitated, as the nutrition of the outer table can be freely carried on by the vessels of the diploe. When cleaned and readjusted, the scalp promptly resumes its attachments and its office. The action of the muscle is to raise the skin of the forehead in horizontal wrinkles, as in expressing surprise ; the posterior fleshy part may be able to draw back the scalp, and so help the anterior part. Being a muscle of expression, it is supplied by the facial nerve, through its posterior auricular and temporal branches. When one facial nerve is paralysed the skin on that side of the forehead is destitute of wrinkles, and remains strangely expressionless when compared with the other half (p. 67). The masseter arises from the zygomatic arch and is inserted into the angle and ramus of the jaw. It is supplied by the third division of the fifth nerve ; its action is to raise the lower jaw. Relations.—Between it and the integument are peripheral fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum, the zygomatici, risorius, and pla- tysma; the transverse facial artery ; Stenson's duct, and an offshoot of the parotid gland (socia) ; and branches of both the divisions of the facial nerve, and the facial artery and vein. On its deep surface