Cataract 89 no part of the iris in contact with the capsule. The posterior surface of the lens is more convex than the anterior. Structure.—The lens is composed of transparent fibres which are connected by a clear cement. Diminution of the transparency con- stitutes cataract (the etymology of the word is uncertain). If the opacity be central, the eye is almost blind in a strong hght, as the contracted pupil admits light only over the opacity. Thus the subject sees best when the pupil is dilated, as towards evening, or in a fog or shade. In such circumstances the surgeon may content himself with making an artificial pupil. The old operation for senile cataract was to dislocate the lens into the vitreous, where, however, it was apt to set up inflammatory disease. In young people an opaque lens is soft, and the surgeon treats it by passing a needle through the cornea, tearing the capsule, and breaking the front of the lens, so that the aqueous humour may further soften it, and promote its complete absorption. In the adult, however, the hard and opaque lens (which has a strong resemblance to an ' acid drop') must be removed by extraction. In the operatio7i of extractioii a preliminary iridectomy is sometimes done in order that the risk of iritis may be diminished, and also that there may be a more ready escape for the lens. The anterior part of the capsule is then lacerated with a ' cystitome,' and the lens is very gently squeezed out of the sclero-corneal wound by pressure delicately applied on the sclerotic, below the cornea. If the cystitome be used with too much force, the lens is apt to be dislocated into the vitreous ; and if, after the use of the instrument, too much pressure be made upon the eye-ball the vitreous may be extruded. The lens being removed, the rays of light meet at a focus very far behind the retina, so that strong convex glasses are needed (p. 86). The shape of the lens is regulated by the extremely elastic capsule which contains it. This elasticity is shown by the way in which, when it is scratched in the operation of extraction, the scratch becomes a tear, and the tear a rent, so that the cataractous lens is set free. But to ensure the ready escape of the lens the cataract should be fully ' ripe' before its extraction is attempted, otherwise its escape may be associated with that disagreeable phenomenon, the escape of the vitreous. Moreover, if some of the ' unripe ' cortical part of the lens be left adhering to the capsule, it may in time become opaque, and entail further operation for its removal. The vitreous body forms a transparent mould for the eye-ball, the retina being spread over the greater part of its circumference, and the lens being supported by it in front. Probably there is running throughout it a delicate reticular structure ; it also contains corpus- cular elements which usually float unobserved, but which, under certain conditions, can throw shadows upon the retina like gnats—