2 Muscles of Head and Neck then passes over the two posterior triangles, being attached to the occiput and the mastoid process, and, having reached the hinder border of the sterno-mastoid, sphts to enclose it. At the front of that muscle the two layers again join, and, covering in the anterior triangle, the sheet blends in the middle line with that of the opposite side. Over the posterior triangle the fascia is attached to the clavicle, being there perforated by the external jugular vein, which had hitherto lain between the deep fascia and the platysma. In the anterior triangle it is attached to the lower jaw, and sends an offshoot to the zygoma to cover the masseter. Another sheet passes over the parotid gland, and an important slip from the angle of the jaw to the styloid process—the stylo-maxillary ligajne?tt— separates the parotid from the submaxillary gland. In the front of the neck, where the deep fascia is attached to the hyoid bone, it is thin, but as it descends it becomes thicker, and splits into two layers, the more superficial of which is attached to the front of the manubrium, whilst the deeper incloses the sterno-hyoid and thyroid, and is connected with the back of the sternum. It also straps the tendon of the omo-hyoid to the first rib. One offset from the fascia beneath the sterno-mastoid joins with and strengthens the carotid sheath, another intervenes between the sterno-thyroid and the trachea {see 'Tracheotomy/ p. 131), which, descending in front of the trachea and of the carotid vessels, unites with the pericardium. Deeper than all these, a layer, the prcevertebral fascia^ passes behind the pharynx and oesophagus, which, binding down the rectus anticus major, the longus colli, and the scaleni, descends with the brachial plexus and the subclavian vessels to blend with the sheath of the axillary vessels. Suppuration beneath the deep fascia demands prompt drainage or it may become diffuse, causing great damage to such tissues as temporarily impede its course. At the front of the neck the pus may in time find its way to the surface, but it may be guided by the deep fascia into the anterior mediastinum, and then possibly set up an empyema. I once dissected a specimen in which the pus had found its way into the subclavian vein, causing fatal pyemia. When beneath the deep fascia of the posterior triangle it may find its way into the oesophagus or chest, or may wander in the track of the subclavian vessels and set up an axillary abscess. The subject of post- pharyngeal abscess is alluded to on page 210. The trapezius arises from the inner third of the superior curved line of the occiput, the ligamentum nuchse, and all the dorsal spines and their supraspinous ligaments. The highest fibres descend, the median pass horizontally, and the lowest ascend to their insertion into the angle between the clavicle and the spine of the scapula. Thus the muscle is attached to the back of the flattened part of the clavicle and to the upper part of the spine of the scapula.