411 Stone 171 Bladder ureters to the pelvis of the kidney, where suppuration also takes place and where more of the decomposing urine is pent up. Inflammation extends thence through the gland, the tissue of which becomes riddled with foul and scattered abscesses. Sometimes one of these abscesses bursts through the capsule and sets up perinephritic suppuration. The decomposing urine is taken up by the blood, and the patient's breath has a strong ammoniacal odour. On tearing off the capsule at the post-mortem examination close adhesions are found in many places and small cortical abscesses are opened up. Vesical calculus.—The pressure of the stone against the nervous filaments on the floor of the bladder gives rise to the sensation of the bladder containing an uncomfortable amount of urine, and thus fre- quency of micturition is an early sign. By night the boy wets the bed, and even during the day he may be unable to hold his water. The sacral plexus supplies the sensory filaments, and by the internal pudic nerve it also gives twigs to the end of the penis, to which spot pain is often referred. (Similarly pain is referred to the knee in dis- ease of the hip, the obturator nerve supplying each articulation, p. 358.) During micturition the stone is driven against the sensitive trigone, and the effort at once becomes urgent and distressing ; so violent is it that the boy runs to the closet lest in voiding the urine he also evacuate the rectum. Prolapse of the lining of the rectum occurs ; and blood, and, later on, pus, may be mixed with the urine. Should the stone be driven against the urethral opening of the bladder, and so suddenly check the outflow of urine, the boy may scream with agony, but in time he finds that this distress does not occur when he micturates in the kneeling or horizontal posture, as the stone then falls away from the neck of the bladder. The vesical sound should be formed of one piece of metal and must possess a short and almost rectangular beak, so that the base of the bladder, which may lie below the level of the prostate, may, with every other mucous area, be thoroughly explored. (For lithotomy^ see p. 443.) The floor of the bladder may be rendered more accessible to the sound by raising it by the finger in the rectum, or by turning the patient on to his side. Probably there is a centre for inicturiiio7t and defcecation in the lumbar enlargement :— From the bladder and rectum sensory filaments carry upwards the messages of unrest, but the reflex circle is not necessarily at once put in motion, for education and habit have placed the centre under the con- trol of the will. But when the brain has lost the control, as in fracture of the dorsal spine, and in cerebral or medullary disease, the patient un- consciously ' passes everything under him.' The afferent impulse from the mucous membrane is converted into a motor impulse, which passes to the muscular coat, urging its contraction, the sphincters being at the same time relaxed. When the nerve-lesion is so great that the