TJie Elbozv Joint 266 Neither is the external lateral ligament nor any other part of the capsule of the joint, nor of the deep fascia, connected with the upper end of the radius, for there must be no check to its rotation. The capsule of the elbow-joint consists of the anterior, posterior, and lateral ligaments in conjunction with all those intermediate fibres which connect them with each other. The synovial membrane lines the capsule and is reflected over the articular surfaces of humerus, ulna, and radius ; it also lines the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and the orbicular ligament, and is wrapped around the neck of radius. Relations of the elbow-joint.—I?i front is the brachialis anticus, and more anteriorly are the tendon of the biceps, the brachial artery, and the median nerve. Behind are the triceps and anconeus. In- ternally are the origin of the pronators and flexors, the ulnar nerve, and the inferior profunda artery. Externatly are the supinator brevis and the origin of the extensors, and towards the front are the superior profunda artery and the musculo-spiral nerve dividing into the radial and posterior interosseous. The superior radio-iilnar joint is formed by the head of the radius and the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, the only movements allowed at that joint being pronation and supination. The orbicular binds the head and neck of the radius close against the ulna, and, forming the medium of attachment for the anterior and the external lateral liga- ments of the elbow-joint, allows free pronation and supination. The synovial membrane is a prolongation from that of the elbow-joint. Supply.—Branches of artery come from the superior and in- ferior profunda ; the anastomotica magna ; the anterior and posterior ulnar recurrents ; and from the radial and the interosseous recurrents. Nerve-twigs come from the ulnar and the musculo-cutaneous. Dislocations at tbe elbow-joint.— In dislocation of both bones backwards the olecranon process stands out like a heel behind the albow, and the button-head of the radius can be made out through the skin behind the external condyle. The coronoid process, if not broken off, sinks into the olecranon fossa ; the brachialis anticus and biceps are stretched round the lower end of the humerus, and the front of the fore-arm is strangely short. The bones of the fore-arm being so firmly fixed in their new position, flexion, extension, and rotation are impos- sible, and on attempting to flex the joint the appearance becomes still more characteristic. To reduce this dislocatio7t, the surgeon thrusts his knee into the front of the elbow, steadies the humerus with one hand, and pulls on the radius and ulna by grasping them above the wrist, and as he pulls he flexes the fore-arm round his knee, so as to unhitch the coronoid process. Thus the bones slip again into their position ; and there they securely remain unless the coronoid process happen to be broken off, in which case the luxation may recur. This recurrence suggests