476 The Knee-joint equator ; C, the ligament firmly holding it below, and A, the quadriceps acting on it from above. The quadriceps, continuing its action, then draws the upper fragment of the bone from the lower ; the lower does not move, being firmly fixed by the ligament. The front of the capsule of the joint is often much torn, and then, of course, the separation of the fragments is wide. But sometimes the force is only just sufficient to break the bone, not to tear through the an- terior expansion from the quadriceps, and then it is very easy to overlook the lesion and to diagnose merely a ' sprain.' In every case "r^>v^v of obscure injury to the knee, the surgeon C\^^4 should catch hold of the upper and lower \} 1 halves of the patella with his two hands, and \ try if he can move one inwards and the other outwards at the same time. When the separation of the fragments is wide, the skin may be pushed in between them till the fingers make out clearly the articular part of the condyles of the femur. As the synovial membrane, the bone, and the periosteum are all torn, blood, serum, and synovia are quickly effused, and the knee is greatly swollen. This fluid has to be aspirated before the fragments can be brought into apposition. The knee is to be kept straight on a splint, so as to relax the quadriceps, and the limb is raised to remove all possible strain from the rectus femoris, which, coming from the pelvis, may possibly be dragging on the upper fragment. The upper fragment is then to be coaxed down towards the lower, and there steadied. Probably the fracture will be repaired by ligament only, not by bone, for the reasons given on page 464. Suturing the approxhnated fragments with wire is a method of treatment introduced by Sir Joseph Lister, as suitable for old-standing and recent cases of transverse fracture. But though that eminent surgeon showed several patients who had been thus successfully treated, the operation, with its attendant risks, has not been generally adopted in the case of recent fracture. In old cases, however, with widely separated fragments, and a comparatively useless limb, the joint may be opened and the edges of the bone freshened and approxi- mated with a good chance of obtaining bony union, and, due care being taken, the risks of the operation may well be run. Even when the joint is opened, it may be necessary to divide the tendon of the rectus femoris before the upper fragment can be brought to the level of the lower fragment, which is immovably fixed by the ligamentum patellae. Dislocation of the patella is generally outwards, and the accident