159 Pericarditis ducing a friction-sound. This sound may in time disappear from one of three causes : from the deposit clearing up and leaving the surfaces once more smooth and moist; from adhesion occurring between heart and pericardium ; or from effusion of serum collecting between and separating them. In the last case the normal heart-sounds are, of course, masked. A pericardial friction-sound does not cease, as does a pleural rub, when the patient holds his breath, but in either case the sound may be exaggerated by pressure made by the end of the stethoscope ; against such a fallacy the listener must be on his guard. On account of the pain associated with pericarditis, the diaphragm and the lower intercostals keep quiet in respiration, the work being done in the upper thoracic region. When the visceral and parietal layers of the pericardium are in- flamed and sticky with lymph they may closely adhere. But often the movements of the heart prevent such adherence ; and the con- stant unglueing of the opposed surfaces renders each of them rough or even shaggy. In pericardial effusion the area of absolute dulness is pear- shaped, with the small end up- wards ; whereas in hypertrophy and dilatation of the heart (p. 175) the shape of the dull area and the direction of its greater diameter are transverse. In pericardial effusion, also, the left end of the dulness reaches beyond the apex-beat—a most important diagnostic sign—but when the distending fluid is abundant the heart is insulated within it, and the apex can no longer beat against the chest- wall ; the cardiac sounds are then practically drowned in the fluid, and the apex-beat may be altogether indistinguishable. When the distension of the sac is only partial, the area of dulness may be made to shift its site with the altered position of the patient (much as de- scribed in abdominal ascites, p. Effusion into pericardium, a ; lungs, b, c, pushed aside, and liver, c, depressed. (Sibson.) 316). The lungs being thrust from the