25 Common Carotid Artery To the right is the innominate artery, and, slightly, the trachea; and to the left is the left subclavian artery and the vagus, which in the neck descended along the outer side of the carotid. Aneurysm of the common carotid is likely to occur just below its bifurcation. The pulsating tumour might be close by the side of, and be mistaken for, an enlarged lobe of the thyroid ; but there is this manifest distinction between the two: a thyroid tumour moves with the larynx during deglutition, whereas the aneurysmal tumour does not. The pressure effects of the aneurysm may be: upon the internal jugular vein, causing headache, duskiness of the face, and oedema ; upon the superior laryngeal nerve, causing cough; upon the recurrent laryngeal giving rise to hoarseness, laryngeal spasm, or to paralysis of a vocal cord ; upon the sympathetic cord, with the production of dilatation, and, afterwards, of contraction of the pupil. Iiig-ation of the common carotid.—The subject lies supine, with a block beneath the shoulders, so that as the head is thrown back, and the face is turned to the opposite side, there may be more room, and also that the sterno-mastoid and the other tissues at the front of the neck may be made tense. The surgeon then feels for the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid and for the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. With his finger on the cri- coid he knows where the omo-hyoid crosses the sheath. To tie the artery above the omo-hyoid^ a 3-in., or in a fat subject a 4-in., incision is made along the front of the sterno-mastoid, from the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, or even from just below the angle of the jaw, dividing skin, superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia. The head is then raised, so that the cord-like edge of the sterno-mastoid may be slackened and drawn outwards. In ap- proaching the sheath a branch to the sterno-mastoid from ihe superior thyroid will be divided. The descendens noni may be seen and turned aside, and the omo-hyoid maybe pulled downwards. The veins cross- ing the sheath are drawn upwards or downwards, and the sheath is opened on the inner side. The aneurysm-needle is passed close to the artery, from without inwards, extreme care being taken not to wound the internal jugular vein, or to include the vagus in the ligature. If ligation be required for aneurysm of the upper part of the common carotid, the surgeon must seek the vessel below the omo-hyoid^ where, unfortunately, it is much more deeply placed. He makes an incision along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid from the cricoid cartilage to the sterno-clavicular joint. The head having been brought forwards, the sterno-mastoid is drawn outwards and the omo- hyoid upwards, the sterno-hyoid and thyroid being drawn inwards. The anterior jugular vein may need attention. If the operation be performed upon the left side, and low down, the internal jugular vein may be found bulging over, or even lying upon the artery. If