Diseases of Prostate 415 times he finds that he can more completely empty it by getting on to his hands and knees. The pressure of the tumour against the lower bowel gives rise to the sensation that defaecation is not complete, and may cause the patient to go to the closet to void the urine. On account of the straining at micturition and at stool, the enlargement is apt to cause piles. Pressure against the rectum may even obstruct defeca- tion, and render the sphincter flaccid and the anus patulous. The subject of enlarged prostate usually avoids a soft-seated chair, because the yielding cushion, forced up against the perineum, presses on the hypertrophied masses. Pieces of enlarged prostate have often been removed through a median perineal incision, and McGill has suc- cessfully excised with scissors and forceps, by a suprapubic opera- tion, portions of enlarged prostates which prevented micturition. Probably in most cases in which a vesical calculus is associated with enlarged prostate, suprapubic lithotomy should be resorted to in order that, at the same time, the projecting middle lobe may be nipped off, as advised by McGill. .A.cute prostatitis is caused by extension of gonorrhoeal inflam- mation. The gland rapidly enlarges, and, blocking up the urethra, causes retention. The patient is in dire distress, and neither hot bath nor opium may afford relief Examination by the rectum proves the gland to be swollen and tender. With the utmost gentleness a soft catheter should be passed and the water drawn off. Leeches may be applied in front of the anus. Should suppuration follow, the prostatic abscess will be likely to find its discharge into the urethra, bladder, or rectum, or even through the perineum. The strong fascial covering of the upper aspect of the prostate usually prevents the matter escap- ing into the pelvis. Should the abscess break into the urethra, reco- very is apt to be tedious, pus escaping during micturition, especially towards the end of the act, when the gland is brought under the in- fluence of the levatores ani. At other times by firm pressure in the perineum and by appropriate manipulation, pus may be made to escape from the meatus urinarius. In chro7iic prostatitis enlargement may be detected per rectum; there may be irritability of the bladder, and a feeling of weight in the perineum. From the follicular glands of the prostate filamentous casts are shed, which float in the urine like vermicelli. The Male Urethra From the neck of the adult male bladder to the meatus urinarius is about nine inches. The prostate contains the first inch and a-half; the next half-inch is between the two layers of the triangular ligament (membranous portion, p. 413), and the remainder is surrounded by the erectile tissue of the corpus spongiosum (p. 385). That piece of the urethra which is inclosed in the enlarged portion of the corpus