i8o Arcli of Aorta Irregrularities of the aortic arch.—Sometimes the heart and aorta, and the arterial and venous trunks associated with them, are transposed, so that the apex beats on the right of the sternum, the superior cava being on the left of the middle line, and the aorta arching to the right. But the aorta may, by the development of the right fourth branchial arch instead of the left, bend over to the right side, without there being any other transposition of thoracic viscera. The right subclavian artery may come from the back of the left end of the arch, and reach the left scaleni by passing behind the trachea and oesophagus. There may be two innominate arteries ; the left carotid may come from the (right side) innominate ; the two carotids may come off to- gether, the subclavians arising on either side of the common trunk; the left vertebral may come off as a fourth trunk between the left carotid and subclavian ; both vertebrals may thus arise, making five trunks. All four large trunks may arise separately, there being no innominate artery. Further, the vertebrals may arise separately, whilst the innomi- nate may be divided, making six. The left carotid coming from the innominate may cross the windpipe dangerously near the knife of the tracheotomist (p. 133). On account of the enormous strain which is thrown on the beginning of the aorta its wall is apt to yield, especially when weakened by disease —arteritis. Aneurysm is thus produced. The very root of the aorta being dilated, the valves fail to prevent regurgitation, and a diastolic murmur occurs. The first part of the arch is more likely to yield than the second, for the former is enclosed within the pericardium, whilst the latter has its walls strengthened by the fibrous part of the pericar- dium being blended with it. A fatal leakage of an aneurysm of the first part may take place into or through the pericardium, but before this happens certain pressure effects maybe noticed ; these,however, are not so varied and suggestive as they are in aneurysm of the transverse arch, for the tumour bulges forwards and usually bursts before it gets large. When it reaches the chest-wall a pulsating swelling occurs near the second or third right cartilage. Tight-lacing, or tight clothing, especially about the neck and upper part of chest, is apt to check the emptying of the large vessels and to produce thoracic aneurysm. The greneral effects of thoracic aneurysm are disturbance of the action of the heart by the pressure upon cardiac and pneumogas- tric filaments. Through the pneumogastric interference ' indigestion' may be complained of. The growth of the tumour displaces the lung and makes percussion dull. Later, there may be pain in the chest and back, especially when the swelling impinges against the spine. Pres- sure upon the root of the lung may cause dyspnoea, with strange breath sounds and cough. The patient may be unable to lie down in comfort, as the tumour then weighs the more heavily against the trachea. The