403 Vagina its absence be regarded as evidence of intercourse having occurred ; sometimes, indeed, the hymen has to be incised in the parturient woman. A vidvo-vaginal gland is placed on each side of the entrance to the vagina ; it corresponds to Cowper's gland, and discharges its secretion by a small duct opening in front of the hymen. The duct is liable to inflammation and suppuration, often the result of sexual or gonorrhceal irritation. The resulting abscess is hard, round, and painful, and the muco-cutaneous covering is bright-red. Masses of erectile tissue, bulbi vestibiili^ are placed beneath the mucous lining of the entrance of the vagina. They correspond to the lateral halves of the bulb of the male urethra. From injury or other cause, rupture of this tissue may occur, with the formation of a large, dusky, blood-tumour—a pudendal h(Xinatocele—which is more often met with in pregnant women. The external abdominal ring being clear shows that the pudendal swelling is not a hernia. The blood-vessels and lymphatics of the labia correspond with those of the scrotum and penis ; separate description of them is not needed. The vein from the dorsum of the clitoris, however, joins in a plexus around the urethra, which communicates with the vaginal, vesical, and hasmorrhoidal branches of the anterior division of the internal iliac vein. The nerves are derived from the lumbar plexus, the internal pudic, and the lesser sciatic, as in the male. The urethra is about 11 in. long. It runs downwards and forwards, parallel with, and imbedded in, the anterior wall of the vagina. The narrowest part is the meatus urinarius. In the child the meatus is, on account of the slight development of the pelvis and its viscera, far within the opening of the vulva. The urethra is lined with mucous membrane arranged in longitudinal folds and covered with scaly epithelium. Next comes a submucous layer of white and elastic fibres, and then a layer of erectile tissue and pale muscular fibres continuous with those of the bladder. Around all, as the urethra passes through the rudimentary triangular ligament, is the striated compressor urethr£e. Small vascular tumours grow from the mucous membrane of the meatus urinarius ; their effect upon the patient is like that which follows preputial irritation in the male ; they must be carefully searched for and cut off. The female urethra is extremely dilatable, and after the introduc- tion of the finger in exploration of the bladder the paralysis quickly passes away. Even in the child the little finger of the surgeon may be gradually introduced, or a large lithotrite used, and fragments of calculus ex- tracted, with merely a temporary incontinence of urine. The vag:ina is the musculo-membranous passage which leads from the vulva to the uterus. It follows the axis of the pelvic outlet, lying close behind the bladder and the urethra, in front of the rectum, and D D 2