324 The Intestine column in coils contained within the mesentery, though the duodenum, which lies at the root of the transverse meso-colon, has no mesentery. The ileum is recognised by the comparative thinness of its wall, for it does not contain valvulae conniventes, which abound in the jejunum to thicken its mucous coat and increase its physiological activity. There is no definite limit between jejunum and ileum, but, for convenience, the jejunum is considered as making about two-fifths of the entire length of small bowel {jejimwn^ empty ; iletun, eikeiu, twisted). The duodemim is lo in. long, and takes a horse-shoe bend around the head of pancreas. The first pari ascends from the pylorus to the neck of gall-bladder, and is 2 in. long ; like the pyloric end of stomach, it is covered front and back by peritoneum, and is comparatively movable. In front of it are the liver and neck of gall-bladder ; behind it are the vena portas, and the hepatic artery and duct. Below it is the head of the pancreas. The second part is 3 in. long, and descends on the anterior surface of the right kidney. In front of it is the ascending colon. To the left is the head of the pancreas, the pancreatico-duodenal artery lying in the crevice between them in front, and the common bile-duct behind. This part is firmly fixed. The third part measures 5 in., and passes transversely across the spine at the level of the second lumbar vertebra to end in the jejunum. Behind it are the aorta, vena cava, thoracic duct, and crura of dia- phragm. In front the superior mesenteric vessels descend to enter the mesentery ; they come out from below the pancreas, which viscus lies along the upper border of the third part of the duodenum. On account of the nearness of the gall-bladder, the duodenum is usually stained by bile, and by this, when the 20 ft. of small in- testines are removed at a post-mortem examination, the upper end can be recognised at a glance. Like the rectum, the first part of the duodenum is entirely sur- rounded by peritoneum, the second piece being covered only in front, and the third part being destitute of a serous coat. ThQ jejuninn has a thick mucous coat, owing to the presence of the valvulae conniventes. The ileum is thin-walled (on account of the comparative absence of the valvute), and is coiled chiefly in the right iliac fossa, where it is about to end in the Ccecum. Peyer's patches are oval collections of solitary glands in the ileum, arranged along the aspect which is opposite to the attachment of the mesentery. On account of the presence of the ileum in the right iliac fossa, the physician gently presses his hand over that region to detect tender- ness, and the gurgling of fluid, in enteric fever. When inflammation extends to ulceration, fatal collapse and bloody stools may follow the implication of a branch of artery, or perforation of the bowel may