Surface Markings 449 sertion of the gluteus maximus, and may be traced upwards to the front of the ihac crest. Below the spine of the pubes is the cord-Hke tendon ot the adductor longus (p. 453) ; it is often extremely prominent in hip-joint disease, but it very rarely needs division. Sometimes this tendon is par- tially ossified {rider's boite). Along the inner side of the thigh is the rounded mass of the adductors longus, brevis, and magnus, covered on their inner surface by the broad, ribbon-like gracilis. This group of muscles is supplied by the obturator nerve. In a thin subject the rigid and slender tendon of the adductor magnus may be detected running to its insertion in the adductor tubercle on the upper part of the inner condyle. Sometimes in men who spend much time on horseback the insertion of this tendon is ossified into a rider''s bone. The tendon of the gracilis, which lies near that of the adductor magnus is distinguished from it by the fact that it passes beyond the femur and on to the tibia. The spur-like projection of bone which gives attachment to the tendon of the adductor magnus marks the level of the top of the epiphysis, and also that of the highest part of the trochlear surface. (Holden.) Above the patella is a depression in which is the fiat tendon of the rectus femoris, and, deeper still, much of the quadriceps extensor. Towards the outer side is the prominent ridge on the front of the external condyle, bounding the trochlear surface. This ridge, which should be carefully examined, is apparently quite subcutaneous, but, in addition to the skin, it is covered by fascia lata, and by the expansion from the vastus externus to the patella. An incision on to it opens the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. The outline of the articular margin of the external condyle may easily be made out below and behind the outer border of the patella. This definite ridge is irregu- larly covered by osteophytes in chronic osteo-arthritis, and in suspected cases of that disease is always to be inspected. On the inner side is the inner condyle of the femur ; it is larger than the outer, but it does not project so markedly beneath the skin, being covered by the fleshy mass of the vastus internus. The tuberosities of the femur are the rounded projections upon the sides of the condyles. They are behind the vertical axis of the joint; the lateral ligaments are attached to them, so that in their descent they may be kept clear of the femur. Being behind the vertical axis, the lateral ligaments check over-extension of the joint. Below the joint are the tuberosities of the tibia. The level of the articulation may be recognised by keeping the finger firmly pressed below the tuberosity of the femur, and slightly bending or straighten- ing the knee. In the crevice is the semilunar fibro-cartilage. On either side of the patella is a depression which is quickly effaced when effusion occurs in the synovial membrane of the knee ; G G