74 Eyelids and Conpmctiva enlarged, constituting the disease known as '■ granular lidsJ So loosely is the conjunctiva attached over the sclerotic, however, that large extravasations of blood may occur beneath it. When this is observed after a fall upon the head the question arises as to the existence of a fracture extending across the anterior fossa of the base of the skull, with laceration of the ethmoidal arteries. At the inner commissure the conjunctiva forms a mucous fold, the plica se?mhmaris, the homologue of the horizontal eye-lid of birds, the membrana nictitans. On the inner side of this is the caruncula lachrymalis—a collection of sebaceous glands beneath the conjunctiva. Chro7iic C07ijimctivitis is sometimes spoken of as ' weakness of the eyes' ; certainly it is often found when vision is imperfect, as the con- stant effort at accommodation is associated with increased flow of blood to the orbit, and with lachrymation. In the case of unhealthy children, the chronic condition may some- times be successfully dealt with by counter-irritation at the temple or behind the ear. Such beneficial effect has sometimes been inadver- tently produced by piercing the lobe of the ear and inserting a ring, with the inartistic idea of personal adornment, and thus it has come about that ' ear-rings are good for weak eyes.' The late Mr. Critchett told the writer that some of his first success in practice was due to his having treated chronic conjunctivitis by a slender seton behind the ear,' so that,' said he, ' friends remarked that my reputation hung on a thread !' Sometimes a thick triangular growth of the conjunctiva extends from near one of the commissures towards the pupils ; it is called a pterygium {irTepvyiov, a little wing), and, passing over the pupil, it ulti- mately obscures the vision. It may have to be removed by the opera- tion of transplantation. The Meibomian glands are arranged in pearly rows beneath the con- junctiva, imbedded in the tarsal cartilages ; they can be seen on everting the lids, and their minute orifices detected near the eye-lashes. Their sebaceous secretion oozes upon the edges of the lids to lubricate the cornea and to render it waterproof Should secretion be retained in one of the Meibomian follicles, a small hard tumour is felt in the substance of the lid. It is called a chalazion (xaXa^a, hail) or tarsal tumour. It is treated by everting the lid and scooping out the contents of the cyst. Supplementary sebaceous glands also open at the roots of the eye- lashes, and, should one of them become inflamed, the condition is known as hordeolum {hordeum, a barley-corn) or stye. Supply.—The conjunctival arteries are derived from the palpebral, lachrymal, and other branches of the ophthalmic ; the nerves come from the ophthalmic and infra-orbital parts of the fifth. Haemorrhages beneath the conjunctiva which occur in an oldish sub- ject after an attack of coughing or vomiting are suggestive of atheroma, and sometimes come as warnings of an apoplectic storm.