Fissure of Rolando 45 frontal and parietal above. Within the beginning of the fissure is the island of ReiL The posterior border of the lesser wing of the sphenoid is lodged in the fissure. The fissure of Rolando {central fissure) begins above near the middle of the longi- tudinal fissure, and runs downwards and forwards, almost to the spot where the Sylvian fissure bifur- cates. It separates the frontal from the parietal lobe. The situation of the fissure of Ro- lando on the vertex of the skull is \ in. behind the middle of a line passing from the root of the nose to the occipital protu- berance, from which it slopes downwards and a little forwards. trephine-crowns over fissure of Rolando, R Region.—After Erichsen. F3, Broca's A simpler way of marking it on the shaven scalp is to draw a line with an aniline pencil, from that part of the vertex which is directly above the external auditory meatus, to the depression just in front of the piece of cartilage (tragus) anterior to the meatus ; the fissure de- scends along this line almost to the level of the Sylvjan fissure {vd.). The line thus drawn runs almost parallel with the coronal suture, being about if in. behind it above, and 1:^^ in. behind it below. But the knowledge of the relative position of suture and fissure is of no practical use to the surgeon, for the suture does not afford him a land- mark when about to remove a tumour from the motor area ; the ani- line mark upon the scalp is, however, of the greatest service. Though, let it be remembered, the fissure of Rolando corresponds only to the upper part of that mark. The ascending frontal convolution runs for the width of the finger in front of this line, and the ascending parietal mounts behind it. From the front of the former convolution it is easy to map out the three horizontal frontal convolutions. The temporo-sphe?ioidal lobe is often the seat of abscess secondary to suppurative otitis. It may be reached by the trephine applied two inches above and behind the external auditory meatus. There are more complicated ways of indicating the situation of this spot, but I venture to say that they are not more precise.