TJie Heart i68 intercostal spaces, being behind, and a little to the left of the tricuspid valve. The two flaps of the mitral valve are unequal, the larger and stronger being placed to the right and in front, between the auriculo- ventricular and the aortic openings. The segments are connected with musculi papillares as in the right ventricle. The aortic orifice is to the front of the ventricle and to the right of the opening into the auricle. It is behind the sternal end of the third left space, and is guarded by semilunar valves, like those at the root of the pulmonary artery, than which, however, they are larger and stronger. It is behind, and a little to the left of, the pulmonary orifice. The se?mlunar valves are folds of the lining membrane of the heart over a foundation of fibrous tissue ; at the middle of the free border of each is a fibrous nodule, the corpus Arantii. These nodules block the centre of the aperture during diastole, when the valves fall to- gether. The closed valve does not form a horizontal plane across the root of the artery; the convex surfaces of its segments bulge against each other, and, the greater the strain, the greater the surfaces of con- tact and the less the chance of regurgitation. The sinus of Valsalva is the dilated part of the artery behind the segments of the valve. When the ventricle ceases contracting, the elasticity of the artery drives the blood into the three sinuses and forces the valves togethei". The coronary arteries are given off from the sinuses of Valsalva. The right comes forward on the right side of the pulmonary artery, and winds round the right auriculo-ventricular sulcus, sending one branch down the posterior inter-ventricular groove to the apex, and another between the back of the left auricle and ventricle. The left coronary artery passes on the other side of the pulmonary artery, down the anterior of left auricles. 5, Tricuspid valve. 6, Mitral valve. 7, Pulmonary artery. 8, Aorta. 9, Coronary artery. 1, Right ventricle. 2, Left ventricle. 3 and 4, Parts of right and