200 Examination of Chest cussing the back, the patient should, if possible, sit up in bed, fold his arms across the thighs, and bend forwards. A strange, chinking, crack-pot sound may sometimes be heard on percussing over a pulmonary cavity ; it is due to some of the air being driven with each stroke into the opening of a bronchial tube. This may be imitated by keeping the palms of the hands loosely closed across each other, and then striking the back of one hand on the knee. If the hollow between the hands be made air-tight, the crack-pot sound is lost ; similarly the pulmonary cavity must have a clear bronchial tube opening out of it, or it becomes an air-tight chamber and the sound is lost. Vocal fremitus is the thrill of the vibrating vocal cords which is conveyed by the air in trachea, bronchi, and vesicles to the hands placed upon the chest. The nearer to the larynx, the larger the bronchus and the louder the fremitus. It is ' damped' by a thick layer of fat or muscle upon the chest, and by air in the pleura; whilst it is completely drowned by pleuritic effusion (p. 189). Its absence from the back of the lung, therefore, is a diagnostic sign between pleurisy with slight effusion and pneumonia ; in the latter the vibrations are absolutely increased, for the solid lung is a good conductor of sound. Returning fremitus denotes absorption of fluid. On listening at one end of a wooden beam whilst someone scratches the other end with a pin, the scratches are heard with extraordinary distinctness, for the solid material not only conveys the vibrations, but magnifies them. Similarly in exudation into the lung the vocal fremi- tus is exaggerated, provided always that the bronchial tubes are free to convey the vibrations from the trachea to the lung-tissue. A pulmonary cavity may act as a reservoir, or a sounding-board for vocal vibrations (provided that it is not full of fluid), and thus vocal fremitus may be increased, especially if the surrounding lung-tissue be solid. The healthy respiratory sounds vary with the site in which auscul- tation is made. Thus, if the stethoscope be placed over the episternal region, or over the spines of the lower cervical or upper dorsal verte- brjc, and the patient draw a deep breath, the air is heard rushing through the trachea—this is ti'acheal i^espiration. It is a good deal like the blow of air through a keyhole. If the stethoscope be placed between the scapulae, or over the sternum, the tidal blow is heard in a less degree, termed bro7tchial^ or tubular. In other parts of the chest than over the trachea or bronchi the respiratory, or vesicular mur- mur, or breath-soimd is heard as a soft blow, which has been poetically likened by Hughes to ' the song of a gentle gale in the thick summer foliage, or to the whisper of the retiring wave upon a sandy coast.' When the pleura is full of air or liquid, and the lung lies collapsed against the spine, air still enters and leaves the larger bronchi, and so bronchial respiration is present in pneumothorax and empyema as