119 Nasal Fossa The lymphatics end in the glands beneath the jaw. The nerves come from the chorda tympani (p. 66) and from the branches of the sub- maxillary ganglion. The sublingual g-land lies in a slight depression behind the jaw, near the symphysis, and along the anterior border of the genio-hyo- glossLis. It is at the side of the frsenum, and, resting upon the mylo-hyoid, is covered only by mucous membrane. The hinder part is in relation with that piece of the submaxillary gland which is tucked beneath the mylo-hyoid. The ditcts {Rivinian), a dozen or more, open separately by the side of the fr^num, but some join Wharton's duct as it runs between the sublingual gland and the genio-hyo-glossus. Supply.—Its arteries come from the sublingual and submental ; the lymphatics pass to the submaxillary glands ; the nerves come from the gustatory. THE NOSE The foundalion of the nose is made of the nasal processes of the superior maxillae, the nasal bones, the nasal spine of frontal, and the vertical part of the ethmoid. But, with the view of obviating fracture, the rest of the organ is composed of small cartilaginous plates which are connected with each other, with the adjacent bones, and with the cartilage of the septum by fibrous tissue, as well as by skin and mucous membrane. These small cartilages can be acted on by muscles which raise, depress, dilate, or compress the nares under the guidance of the facial nerve. Supply.—The arteries come from the lateral nasal of the facial, and from the superior coronary—the artery of the septum. The root of the nose also obtains blood from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic and from the infra-orbital of the superior maxillary. The veins enter the facial and the ophthalmic. The lymphatics pass to glands behind the ramus of the jaw. The 7ierves are branches of the facial (for the muscles), of the infra-orbital, of the nasal, and the infra-trochlear. The nasal fossa opens in front by the nostrils, and into the pharynx by the posterior nares. The floor is formed by the superior maxilla and palate bones, and the roof by the nasal and frontal bones, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and the body of the sphenoid. Syphihtic inflammation of the muco-periosteum of the nose in childhood is apt to cause necrosis of the nasal bones, involving a permanently sunken bridge. As a result of imperfect ossification in the region of the anterior and median part of the frontal bone, the membranes of the brain may bulge forward and produce a meningrocele. This defect is most often found at the root of the nose, but on rare occasions the protrusion has escaped by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and, having been