spinal Abscesses 211 to form a dorsal abscess. If it point forwards it may perchance open into the oesophagus, trachea or bronchus, pleura or pericardium. Or the pus may track forwards between the intercostal muscles, or between the inner intercostal muscle and the pleura, to point at the side of the sternum or of the rectus abdominis, or in some chosen part of the inter- costal space. But more often it descends in the posterior mediastinum till it reaches the diaphragm, which it traverses under the inner or outer arcuate ligament : if under the former, to descend as a psoas abscess ; if under the latter, to bulge as a hnnbar abscess. When the psoas abscess has passed beneath Poupart's ligament it usually bulges on the outer side of the femoral vessels, and it not infrequently works thence, inwards and backwards, following the internal circumflex, to form a gluteal abscess. In lumbar caries the pus generally collects beneath the iliac fascia to form an iliac or psoas abscess. In the former case the tumour bulges in the iliac fossa, probably to point above Poupart's ligament ; in the latter case it finds its way beneath the ligament, and points in Scarpa's triangle. In these cases, by pressing with one hand in the iliac fossa and the other in the triangle, one can get a ' see-saw' with the fluid under Poupart's ligament, especially when the thigh is slightly flexed. But an iliac or a psoas abscess may push forwards and open into the peritoneal cavity, the alimentary canal, or ureter, or may descend into the bladder or ischio-rectal fossa, or, following the lumbo-sacral cord and the great sciatic, through the great sacro-sciatic notch, to form a gluteal abscess. It frequently happens that pus which has descended beneath the outer arcuate ligament, or which, in lumbar caries, has been collecting anterior to or in the substance of the quadratus lumborum, escapes backwards in the gap between the twelfth rib and the iliac crest to form a lumbar abscess. In this course it passes through that weak part of the abdominal wall which is bounded in front by the posterior border of the external oblique, behind by the latissimus dorsi, and below by the iliac crest—the triangle of Petit (p. 305). I have operated for the cure of a reducible lumbar hernia in the case of a piece of bowel escaping by the track of an old lumbar abscess. Fractures and dislocations are fairly common in the cervical region, where the vertebrse are small and the range of movement is free. Unless the lesion be associated with displacement of a vertebra, it may pass unrecognised ; the most serious condition is that in which displace- ment causes pressure upon the cord. When the displacement is con- siderable the cord is torn across, or firmly compressed, and the symptoms are immediate. If the displacement be but slight, there maybe no symp- toms at first, but, as the local disturbance of the cord is followed by inflam- mation, its functions become impaired and the symptoms manifested. Thus, the patient is paraplegic (770^077X7?^, struck badly), that is to say, p 2