The Rectum 384 the bowel—the first part ends at the middle of the third vertebra of the sacrum.) The middle piece lies in the lower part of the sacro-coccygeal hollow, with some of the pyriformis and sacral plexus behind it. In its anterior bend rest the base of the bladder, the vesiculae seminales and vasa deferentia, and the prostate gland, or the vagina and the cervix uteri. This part of the bowel is securely fixed, and is very capacious. It ends at the tip of the coccyx. The third part, about in., turns back from the prostate or the vagina to the anus. It is surrounded by the (striated) external sphincter ani, and has supporting and fixing it on either side the levator ani with its two layers of pelvic fascia (p. 363). The urethra is separated from it by the perineum or by the vagina. This is by far the narrowest piece of the large intestine, but it is very dilatable, nevertheless. On introducing the finger about i \ in. into the rectum the apex of the prostate gland can be felt, and just in front of and below this one can detect the beak of the catheter in the membranous urethra ; and should the instrument wander thence into a false passage its beak can be felt just in front of the thin rectal wall. The finger can also ex- plore the lobes of the prostate, detecting chronic hypertrophy, acute inflammation, or the bogginess of a prostatic abscess. The vesiculse seminales and the vasa deferentia can also be searched for tubercular or simple inflammatory enlargement; and even a small stone may be occasionally made out in the bladder or impacted at the orifice of the ureter. Also the degree of distension of the full bladder may thus be estimated Information can also be obtained regarding fracture of the coccyx, and of the connections of a sacral or pelvic tumour. In the case of a tumour in the anterior wall of the rectum information must be sought by thorough digital examination when a sound is in the bladder, and the index-finger is in the vagina. In supra-pubic operations upon the bladder that viscus is rendered much more accessible by gradually distending an india-rubber bag pre- viously inserted in the rectum. Thus the anterior wall of the bowel and the base of the bladder are lifted up. As remarked elsewhere (p. 386), a patulous condition of the anus is a strong suggestion of the existence of stricture, and Mr. Bryant has recently shown that a cavernous condition of the rectum—ballooning he calls it—is of like clinical import. Having no work to do, the muscular coat below the level of the stricture (which is then found high in the rectum, or which exists in the sigmoid flexure) becomes relaxed, and the wall widely yields all around the bowel. Serous coat.—The arrangement of peritoneum is like that obtaining in the duodenum—the first piece being almost completely invested, the second part being covered in front, whilst the third piece has no serous coat. In the rectum, however, it is only the