46o TJie Thigh line with its convexity towards the great trochanter, which marks the great sacro-sciatic notch, and ends on the ischial spine. From the ischial tuberosity arise the hamstring muscles, biceps, and semi- tendinosus and semi-membranosus. The sciatic nerves (p. 379) leave the pelvis below the pyriformis; the greater then descends between the trochanter and the tuberosity, emerging in the mid-space from beneath the border of the gluteus maximus. It lies in this hollow so that it may be out of the way of pressure in the usual sitting posture. If, however, one sits sideways or on the edge of the chair, the nerve is compressed and numbness and discomfort result. For iierve-stretcJiing^ see p. 380 ; for the course of the gluteal artery, see p. 374. The grluteus maximus arises from the back of the ilium, sacrum, coccyx, and sacro-sciatic ligament, and passes downwards and out- wards ; its thick and free lower border passes over the ischial tuberosity, and is inserted below the great trochanter. The upper two-thirds of the muscle glide as a strong, thin tendon over the trochanter, and are inserted with the tensor fasciae femoris into the ilio-tibial band. The muscle is separated from the tuberosity and the trochanter by two bursae, and in men who sit a great deal, such as coachmen, tailors, and weavers, the ischial bursa is apt to be greatly irritated, and even to suppurate. The inflamed bursa has a very unpoetic name. When the trochanteric bursa is inflamed the signs may at first suggest hip-joint disease; but there is no swelling of the joint itself, and the femur may be rotated in the acetabulum without causing distress. The fold of the nates runs obliquely downwards and outwards in the direction of the lower border of the gluteus maximus, with which, however, it has no anatomical association. It is the result of the creasing of the skin when the thigh is extended. When it is flexed the crease and the fold disappear, which they would not do if their presence had depended upon the existence of the border of the muscle. The pyriformis may be depicted as passing downwards and out- wards from the notch already marked out, to the top of the great trochanter. It forms an elongated, triangular figure. Through the notch, above the muscle, emerge the gluteal artery and the superior gluteal nerve. As has already been shown (p. 374), the point of emergence of the artery is at the junction of the upper and middle thirds of a line running from the posterior superior spine to the top of the great trochanter. The Femur The femur generally chang^es its form with age; in childhood the neck is short and in an almost vertical line with the shaft. In adult life it stands off at an obtuse angle, and often in old age, but by no