Left Ventricle from the inferior cava passed into the left auricle; the ridge around the fossa is the annulus ovalis. The coronary sijiiis collects the blood from the two coronary veins, and returns it into the back of the right auricle; its orifice, which is guarded by an imperfect valve (Thebesian), is between the inferior caval and the ventricular orifices. Some small cardiac veins open independently by foramina TJiebesii into the right auricle. The auricular appendix has its wall strengthened by muscular bands which are arrayed like the teeth of a comb— the musculi pec- tinati. The rigrht ventricle has its flat side resting upon the diaphragm ; its convex surface forms the chief part of the front of the heart, but it does not quite reach to the apex. The auriculo-ventricular opening is to the right side of its base, and is guarded by the tricuspid valve, which lies behind the sternum between the third intercostal spaces. The most important flap of the tricuspid valve is, of course, towards the left, so that as blood is being driven into the pulmonary artery there may be no risk of it flowing back into the auricle. Of the other seg- ments one is anterior, the other posterior. The bases of the flaps are attached to a fibrous ring around the orifice, and blend with each other laterally. To the free borders of the valve segments, and also to their ventricular surfaces, cliordce tendinece are attached, so that they may not be swept up into the auricle with the stream of blood when the ventricle contracts. If the tendinous cords were connected by their other end with the ventricular wall they would become slack during systole—as the walls closed in upon their contents—and the tension of the valves would cease. They, therefore, lose themselves below on fleshy columns (musculi papillares), which contract simultaneously with the ventricular wall, and thus they hold the valves taut. pulmonary crr/£';j leads up from the conus arteriosus, and is near to the interventricular septum—that is, on the left side of the roof of the ventricle. Its mouth is guarded by semilunar valves, which are placed behind the third left chondro-sternal joint. The left auricle has an appendix like that of the right; and it overlaps the root of the pulmonary artery on the left side. In front of the auricle are the aorta and the pulmonary artery. The four pul- monary veins enter the back of the smus, two to the right and two to the left ; they have no valve. Behind the auricle passes the left bronchus. On the inner wall is a depression marking the situation of the foetal foramen ovale. The left ventricle makes the chief part of the back of the heart, only a small part of it being seen near to the apex on the anterior view, but it reaches beyond the right ventricle and forms the apex. Its opening into the left auricle is guarded by a valve of two flaps—like a bishop's mitre—which is behind the sternum at the level of the third