424 ^-^^^ Penis may be guided to the pubes and there point ; the abscess should not be opened by incision along the median line, as the dorsal vessels might so be wounded. The corpus cavernosum acts as a support for the corpus spongiosum, which lies in a shallow groove on its under surface. It divides behind into two strong masses, the crura, which are firmly attached to the inner surface of the pubic and ischial rami. The anterior extremity of the crus is capped by the glans penis, which is the enlarged end of the corpus spongiosum. The other end of the corpus spongiosum forms an enlargement in the perineum, the bulb ; it rests upon the front of the triangular ligament, where it encloses the first part of the spongy urethra and is invested by the accelerator urince. [See fig. on p. 440.) The corpus cavernosum is bounded by strong fibro-elastic tissue which contracts as the mass empties itself of blood, and which prevents distension beyond a definite limit. The interior is partitioned off into numberless small spaces by trabeculas, which interlace between the filDrous coat and the pectiniform septum. Pale, muscular tissue also exists in the framework. The spaces freely communicate with one another, and are occupied with venous dilatations, which are supplied by n, urethra; dorsal vein branches of the dorsal artery and of the (single); a, n, dorsal artery . , „, , , , and nerve. artery of the corpora cavernosa. 1 he blood is returned chiefly by veins, which emerge near the corpus spongiosum and turn round the side of the penis to end in the dorsal vein. The other veins leave the root of the penis as tributaries of the internal pudic vein. Bisecting the interior of the corpus cavernosum longitudinally is a vertical fibrous partition, which is connected with the fibrous coat near the dorsal and urethral grooves. The partition, which, viewed in pro- file, looks like a comb, is called the pectiniform septum {pecte?t, a comb). This septum is incomplete towards the fore-end, in order that the erectile tissue of one-half of the corpus cavernosum may be in free communication with that of the other, so that, if by chance one iliac or pudic artery be obstructed, distressing unilateral erection of the penis may not occur. The corpus cavernosum, in rare instances, yields to the blood-pressure within, and undergoes a kind of aneurismal dilata- tion. The urethra tunnels through the corpus spongiosum. Coming through the triangular ligament, it enters the bulb, where it is some- what dilated, and it ends in a vertical slit in the glans, the meatus urinarius {v. p. 385.) The structure of the corpus spongiosum resembles that of the corpus