Ligaments of Clavicle 225 THE CLAVICLE AND SCAPULA The clavicle articulates with the first costal cartilage, and, through the medium of a fibro-cartilaginous disc, with the sternum. Its inner two-thirds are almost cylindrical, and are concave on the posterior aspect, so that when the shoulder is lowered the subclavian vessels and the brachial plexus may not be pressed against the first rib. The articulation between the clavicle and acromion forms the shoulder ; the shoiilder-joint is the articulation between the glenoid cavity and humerus. The rounded end of the clavicle is so firmly held down to the first costal cartilage by the rhomboid ligament that dislocation of the sternal end is extremely rare. It may occur, however, on to the front of the manubrium, upwards, or backwards. In the last case the end of the bone might so press upon the trachea as to demand a partial excision of the bone. It might also press upon the end of the internal jugular or the beginning of the innomimate vein, which are close behind it. The sterno-clavlcular joint belongs to the class Arthrodia, and its gliding movements are much increased by the presence of the inter-articnlar fibro-cartilage which intervenes between the sternal facet and the end of the clavicle. This disc effects, as part of its office, the breaking of shocks transmitted by a fall upon the hand. Each surface is covered by a synovial membrane, and these membranes may join by a hole in the disc. The larger membrane is that between the end of the clavicle and the disc, as it also lines the articulating surfaces of the clavicle and the first costal cartilage. The joint is enclosed by an anterior and a posterior ligament, and by superior fibres (the inter-clavictdar ligament) which run from clavicle to clavicle with an intermediate connection with the supra-sternal notch. In front of the joint is the sternal origm of the sterno-mastoid, and behind are the sterno-hyoid and thyroid. The rhomboid ligame7tt is a strong band connecting the inner end of the clavicle with the cartilage of the first rib; it prevents extreme elevation of the clavicle without a simultaneous effort at inspiration. In front of it is the origin of the subclavius, and close behind it runs the subclavian vein. The outer third is flat, and articulates with the acromion by an oblique facet. Dislocation of this joint rarely occurs, because strong ligaments ascending from the coracoid to the clavicle (conoid and trapezoid) are a firm bond of union ; the slope of the facets renders upward luxation of the clavicle the only one possible. As the bones are subcutaneous, the diagnosis is easily made out, but, though it may be Q