The Spinal Cord the ganglion impar. From these knots, or ganglia, offshoots join the spinal ner\"es, and branches pass ott. frequently in intricate plexuses along the neighbouring vessels. The chief office of the system is the control of the non-striated muscular tissue of the blood-vessels, lym- phatics, and hollow viscera, and it is through them that the calibre of these vessels and viscera is regulated asthma, p. 197 . In the .V'':/.".?." r:^::-: the knots are represented by three ganglia which lie behind the carotid sheath. superior ga/r^r^:r. being a long fusiform mass opposite the second and third vertebr.-e. The middle ganglion is at the level of the inferior thyroid aner)-, and the lowest ganglion is near the neck of the lirst rib, whence it sends lilaments up with the \-ertebral artery. From the superior cervical ganglion hlaments ascend into the skull with the internal carotid artery, to form the cavernous and carotid plexuses, from which branches pass along the ophthalmic and the cerebral divisions of the artery. Other offshoots of the cervical ganglia accompany the branches of the external carotid, certain twigs join the pharyngeal plexus p. 13S . and some descend to the cardiac plexuses. Communications also pass to the spinal nerves. The cardiac plexuses,—The superhcial plexus is below the arch of the aorta, and receives branches from the cervical part of the left vagus and sympathetic, and from the deep plexus. The deep plexus receives a large number of branches from the gangliated cords, and also from the vagi in the neck. From these plexuses networks extend along the coronar}- arteries and into the pulmonaiy plexuses, /// flic thorax the S)Tnpathetic ganglia, lying near the heads of the ribs, close behind the pleura, send branches to the dorsal nerves. The upper six ganglia also give filaments to the thoracic aorta and to the pulmonary plexus, and the lower six send down the splanchnic ^a-TiXdyxyo.. viscera) nen-es to the \iscera of the abdomen. The great splanchnic is fomied of offsets from the sixth to the tenth, and, descending through the eras of the diaphragm, ends in the semilunar ganglion and in the renal and supra-renal plexus. The sp^. j.nchmc. from the tenth and eleventh, passes down to the cceliac piexus. and the least splanchnic to the renal plexus. /// the abdojnen the four or five pairs of ganglia send branches on to the front of the aorta, and others over the common iliac aiteries to form the hypogastric plexus. The solar plexus^ part of the aortic network, is betsveen the crura and behind the stomach, and sends filaments along the chief visceral branches of the abdominal aorta, under the names of supra-renal, renal, spennatic. cceliac, and superior mesenteric plexuses. The solar plexus contains several ganglia, of which the semilunar receive the ending of the great splanchnic ner\-es. The aortic plexus is that part of the network which sends ott the inferior mesenteric plexus; it ends in the hypogastric plexus.