48o The Knee-joint from the inner and back part. In this operation there is risk of wounding the anastomotica magna, the superior or internal articular, or even the popliteal artery itself The articular artery, however, ought to be well below the track of the osteotome, and the anastomo- tica, running down close in front of tendon of the adductor magnus, should be behind it. The popliteus arises inside the capsule of the joint by a round tendon from the front of a groove on the outer condyle of the femur. The tendon passes between the external semilunar cartilage, which it grooves, and the external lateral ligament. As it escapes beneath the outer part of the posterior ligament it is enclosed in a prolongation from the synovial membrane of the joint. It then spreads into a tri- angular fleshy layer, which is inserted above the oblique line of the tibia. The insertion is covered by an expansion from the attachment of the semi-membranosus, and has resting on it the popliteal vessels, the internal popliteal nerve, and the heads of the gastrocnemius. Its nerve (from the internal popliteal) turns round its lower border to supply it on the anterior surface. Excision of the knee-joint is performed by making a deep, cres- centic cut—convex downwards—from one tuberosity of the femur, through the ligamentum patellae to the other tuberosity, and turning up the flap of the quadriceps with the sesamoid bone in it; for, unless this bone is extensively diseased, it had better be left. The lateral and crucial ligaments being divided, and the end of the femur cleared, the knee is well bent, and the condyles are sawn off by directing the saw vertically to the head of tibia ; thus the risk of wounding the popliteal artery is inconsiderable. As little as possible should be removed, so that the line of the junction-cartilage may not be approached, or at least implicated. The head of the tibia is then thrust out of the wound and sliced off, and the sawn surface adjusted and fixed ; but its sharp edge must not be allowed to fall back on to the popliteal artery, or secondary haemorrhage may occur, amputation being then needed. Provision may be made for the free escape of discharges through the cornua of the incision, or by bringing a tube through the posterior ligament of the joint and out through the skin, passing it between the popliteal vessels and the external popliteal nerve. The Popliteal Space The popliteal space is bounded above by the diverging ham- strings and below by the converging heads of the gastrocnemius. It is covered in by skin and superficial fascia, and by the fascia lata. The floor is formed by the lower fourth of the femur, the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and the upper sixth of the tibia, with the popliteus.