Stomach; Small Intestine 323 the treatment should consist in careful dieting, and in the frequent washing of the dilated viscus by means of a soft rubber-tube, a funnel, and hot water. Gastrostomy is, literally, cutting a mouth ((rrca/xo) in the stomach, and is resorted to in impassable stricture of the oesophagus, that the patient may be permanently fed thereby. Cutting into the stomach, as in the removal of a foreign body, is gastrotouiy. Gastrostomy may be done through the left linea semilunaris. The incision is begun close below the ribs and is continued downwards for 4 in. The peritoneum being opened, the left lobe of the liver is seen ; behind it is the front of the stomach, which is then drawn up and secured to the margin of the wound, where it soon becomes fixed by adhesion of the opposed surfaces of peritoneum. (The sacculated and movable transverse colon could best temporarily be mistaken for the smooth and fixed stomach.) In performing gastro- stomy the viscus need not be opened straightway, but may be fixed to the abdominal wound for a few days by harelip pins to diminish the risk of fluid entering the peritoneal cavity. Another method of operating, and one which gives more room, is by a three-inch incision which, beginning at about in. to the left of the linea alba, runs parallel to and about an inch below the cartilages of the left ribs. The outer part of the rectus and its sheath, and, of course, the oblique and the transverse muscle, are divided, the transversalis fascia and the peritoneum are opened, and the lower border of the stomach is brought to the wound and secured. The stomach in all these operations is generally very small, and is hidden beneath the left lobe of the liver, or high in the phrenic dome, and the surgeon, seeing the transverse colon along his incision, is apt to take it at first sight for the stomach. The appendices epiploic^ and the longitudinal bands, however, soon show that he must look higher for the stomach, which he finds by passing his fingers round the liver, up to the transverse fissure, and down the lesser omentum. The great omentum descends from the lower border of the stomach. 3>igital dilatation of the pylorus (Loreta) has been successfully employed in cases of fibrous contraction, which is usually diagnosed from the cancerous form by the lengthy and quiet course which the disease has run, and by the absence of a definite tumour in the right hypogastric or epigastric region. The stomach having been found through the obfique incision just given, and the pylorus having been drawn out of the wound, an opening is made on the anterior surface of the lesser end, away from all large vessels, and, the pylorus being steadied by the left hand, the right index and then the index and middle fingers are gradually worked through the orifice. The w^ound is then closed with Lembert's sutures and the stomach is dropped back. The small intestine is about 20 feet long, hung from the spinal Y 2