Vessels of Pern's cavernosum, but the fibrous trabeculae are connected with the urethral wall instead of with a median septum. The special arteries of the spongy body—the arteries of the bulb—are derived from the internal pudic trunk, and some branches of the dorsalis penis. The dorsal vein begins in small branches, which emerge from the prepuce and glans ; the trunk thus formed lies between the two arteries in the shallow dorsal groove. It receives in its course tributaries from the cavernous and spongy bodies, and, passing beneath the suspensory ligament and through both layers of the triangular ligament, ends in the prostatic plexus. Let this fact be well noted {v. p. 413.) Most of the lymphatics end in efferent vessels, which course along the dorsum to end in the inguinal glands ; a deeper set, however, pass beneath the pubic arch to the pelvic glands. A lymphatic gland is occasionally found near the suspensory ligament, where bubo and abscess may occur as a result of a preputial or urethral irritation. The nerves are derived from the superficial perineal and the dorsales penis of the internal pudics ; the erectile tissue receiving additional branches from the hypogastric plexus of the sympathetic. Priapism.—Under the influence of nervous impressions descend- ing from the brain jor spinal cord, or arising in the nerves of the penis itself, or in some offshoot of the recto-vesical network of nerve-tissue, much more blood is brought into the venous sinuses of the trabecular tissue than is able to escape from them ; thus erection of the penis is produced. The efflux is hindered by the expansion from the accelerator urinos extending over the dorsal vein, and by the erectors of the penis, which compress the crura penis against the side of the pubic arch. Erection may be caused by any local irritation, or by mental stimu- lation acting through the erection centre in the grey matter of the lumbar enlargement of the cord. This, as part of our moral training, should be under cerebral control. When this control is cut off, as in lesions above the lumbar enlargement, from fracture or disease, chronic priapism is apt to occur. When suppuration occurs in the body of the penis, the erectile tissue is disorganised and the fibrous cavity distended with pus, which readily makes its way across the pectiniform septum. Similarly, per- sistent priapism may be due to extravasation of blood taking place during coitus. When suppuration is the cause of priapism, the power of erection may subsequently be lost on account of the destruction of the erectile tissue. Forcible flexion of the erect organ may give rise to a species of frac- ture, effusion of blood stiffening the penis and rendering it deformed. When the urethra is inflamed, and serous effusion has taken place into the tissue of the corpus spongiosum, a diminution of its elasticity occurs, so that when the penis becomes erect the corpus cavernosum is bent downwards by the sodden and rigid spongy body. The painful condition thus produced is termed chordee {^op^r], bow-strln g).