TJie Urethra The association between gleet and stricture is briefly this : chronic urethritis determines the deposit of plastic material in the submucous coat ; this new tissue undergoes atrophy, the result being a con- striction around the tube—a stricture. The stricture keeps up the irritation and discharge, so that the only way of curing a gleet may be by the gradual dilatation of the canal to its proper size. It may be necessary to increase the size of the bougie up to No. 13 or 14 of the English scale. The remarkable capacity of the normal urethra is shown by the ease and safety with which Bigelow's enormous litho- trites may be passed. The follicular glands of Littre are more freely scattered along the floor of the spongy urethra ; but the largest of them, the lacima magjia^ is yawning upon the roof of the fossa navicularis. In an attack of urethritis, abscess may form in one of these follicles and cause troublesome gleet. Sometimes the abscess breaks on the under surface of the penis. When the urethra is at rest its mucous membrane lies in longitudinal rugae. It consists of a basement membrane covered by columnar epithelium ; in the prostatic portion, and in the fossa navicularis, the epithelium is laminated. A calculus escaping from the bladder may be impacted in the urethra, plugging the canal, it prevents micturition ; calculus in the urethra is the most common cause of retention of urine in children. But if the stone be too small to completely block the canal, it will probably give rise to irritation and to incontinence of urine. In passing- a catheter the handle must not be depressed before the beak has entered the depths of the perineum ; but if the handle be not depressed soon enough, the beak will catch against the front of the triangular ligament. The rule is to keep the beak of the catheter along the roof of the urethra, thus the hitch may be avoided. On partially withdrawing the catheter, and then depressing the handle, the end glides over the obstructing ridge. But in the operation no force should be used, lest the end of the instrument pass out of the urethra and enter a false passage :—The instrument having been passed to the very hilt, no water flows, only blood escaping ; moreover, the instru- ment cannot be made to roll on its long axis, the point being still tightly held, and, further, perhaps, the handle has swerved from the middle line. The error may be detected by introducing the finger into the rectum, when the catheter will be found alarmingly near the bowel, and it may be corrected by withdrawing the instrument—the finger being still within the bowel—and re-introducing it at a higher level. The accident may be followed by escape of urine on to the front of the triangular ligament, and by perineal abscess. If the handle of the instrument be too suddenly and too forcibly depressed, a false passage is sometimes, though rarely, made through