442 TJie Pcrificiini ischii. Then, passing along the ischial ramus, it enters between the two las ers at the base of the triangular ligament, and, ascending almost to the symphysis, runs through the anterior layer of the liga- ment, much diminished in size, as the dorsal artery of the penis. BraucJics.—Inferior hacmorrhoidal, which are given off as the vessel lies under the obturator fascia: they pass inwards across the ischio-rectal fossa to supply the tissues about the anus, and to ana- stomose with their fellows of the opposite side and with the midd-e haemorrhoidals ^p. 3S8). They are wounded in lateral lithotomy and also in the division of an anal fistula. The superficial perineal runs in the muscular triangle, and under the deep layer of the superficial fascia, to supply the various tissues of the perineum and scrotum; it may anastomose with a pudic branch of the common femoral. The transverse perineal passes inwards upon the muscle of the same name, and anastomoses with its fellow ; it is apt to be wounded in lateral lithotomy. The artery of the bulb is gix en oft' from the main trunk as it ascends between the layers of the triangular ligament; it is a short thick vessel, and passes inwards to supply the erectile tissue of the bulb and of the corpus spongiosum, giving, in its course, a branch to Cow per's gland^ and twigs to the membranous urethra. The artery to the bulb should be well in front of the knife in lateral lithotomy, but if, as sometimes happens, it be gi\en off earlier in the course of the internal pudic it would most likely be severed. Should this accident occur, the bleeding might be controlled by the self-holding forceps, by enlarging the wound and tying, by the petticoated tube, or by compressing the pudic with the finger through the wound against the ischial ramus. The artery to the corpus cavernosum comes oft", as one of the terminals of the internal pudic, between the layers of the triangular ligament. It is for the crus penis just what the artery to the bulb is for the corpus spongiosum, namely, for the supply of its erectile tissue. It courses in the cavernous body along the side of the pectiniform septum. The dorsal artery of the penis is the other terminal branch, and, passing through the anterior layer of the triangular ligament, and through the suspensory ligament of the penis, it courses by the side of the vein, giving oft" branches to the corpus cavernosum, and ending in the glans, where it anastomoses with its fellow. It supplies the skin of the penis, even to the prepuce. Though there are two dorsal arteries of the penis, there is but one dorsal vein. Sometimes the pudic is not large enough to give off all these branches ; ending as the artery to the bulb, its terminal branches are then derived from an accessory internal pudic, which is either given off from the internal pudic itself, before it passes out of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, or else from the anterior division of the internal iliac. This irregular vessel hurries along the floor of the pelvis