252 TJie BracJiial Plexus outer side of this vessel it lies in the middle third of the fore-arm only, for it then turns backwards beneath the tendon of the supinator longus to become cutaneous a little above the wrist. It supplies the skin of the thumb, the index and middle fingers, and the inner side of the ring- finger as far as the first inter-phalangeal joint, the skin over the backs of the second and third phalanges being supplied by the digital branches of the median—except in the case of the back of the thumb, which the radial supplies entirely. The posterior interosseous nerve, the other division of the mus- culo-spiral, gives a branch to the extensor carpi radialis brevior, and then winds round the radius in the substance of the supinator brevis, which it supplies ; it then descends between the superficial and deep muscles at the back of the fore-arm, and ends in a gangliform enlarge- ment on the back of the carpus. In its course it supplies also the extensors communis digitorum, minimi digiti, and carpi ulnaris in the superficial layer, and the extensors ossis metacarpi, primi et secundi internodii pollicis, and indicis in the deep layer. l^useulo-spiral paralysis may be caused by laceration of, or injury to, the trunk as it winds round the humerus ; or by severe pressure, as by a chair- back, by sleeping with the head pressing the arm against a hard pillow, or by a badly padded crutch {crutch-para- lysis) ; often it is a symptom of lead-poisoning, when it is pro- bably due to interference with the anterior cornu of the grey crescent of the spinal cord. There may be complete loss of ability to extend the fore-arm, or, except for the action of the biceps, to supinate it; the ex- tensors of the hand {drop-wrist) and fingers are also powerless, and the hand usually remains prone, with fingers fiexed. Indeed, it is only by the lumbricals and interossei acting on the second and third phalanges that extension of the fingers can be in any way obtained, and even then the first phalanx must be held and fixed, or else those little muscles flex it to the palm. When the arm is raised above the head the triceps has no power to extend the fore-arm. There is loss of sensation in the region supplied by the radial nerve {vide supra). An interesting feature in the paralysis is that the grasp of the fingers is enfeebled ; this is because the hand has fallen into the posi- tion of flexion, and there is too much 'slack' in the flexor tendons. (The best way to force a person to loose anything from the firmly Paralysis of musculo-spiral nerve after fracture of humerus ; ' drop-wrist.' (Erichsen.) But when fingers have been flexed into palm, a, they can be extended at first inter-phalangeal joints by lumbricals and interossei, b, which are supplied by ulnar and median nerves.