The Nose 120 taken for and treated as a polypus, the base of the skull has been lacerated and fatal meningitis has supervened. Building up the outer wall of the fossa are the nasal process and the body of the superior maxilla, the lachrymal, inferior turbinated, the vertical plate of the palate, and the internal pterygoid process. And entering into the formation of the septum, or inner wall, are the triangular cartilage, the vertical plate of the ethmoid, and the vomer. The septum often deviates so much to one side that that passage is useless for respiration. The bulging may be taken for a tumour or an abscess, but on introducing a probe or a finger into the free nostril the condition is at once recognised. The septum may sometimes be adjusted by force, but some cutting and trimming may be needed in addition. The mucous membrane, which closely adheres to the periosteum, is continuous with that lining the pharynx, and, through the anterior nares, with the skin. In the last-named region its epithelium is squamous ; in the middle—the respiratory part of the fossa—it is columnar ciliated, and in the region of distribution of the olfactory nerve it is columnar, but not ciliated. The membrane is thick, and is freely studded with mucous glands. Sometimes it is a good deal hypertrophied over the lowest spongy bone, where it may possibly be mistaken for a polypus. The mucous membrane is easily stripped up from the septum, and, as it is strong, an abscess beneath it may raise it to a considerable extent before finding its discharge. When, as the result of injury, the front cartilage is detached from the bone, great pain may ensue from bruising of the nasal nerve, which is escaping at the line of fracture {v. p. 62). The nose has often a slight lateral inclination, and this may be noticed for the first time after the receipt of a blow. The person may then protest that it was previously quite straight. One of the greatest living sculptors affirms, indeed, that the two sides of the head and face are never symmetrical—unless in the case of professional beauties and of others of a like intellectual capacity. The inferior meatus runs along the entire length of the floor of the nose, beneath the inferior turbinated bone. It receives towards the front the nasal duct. It is along this meatus that the Eustachian and the oesophageal catheters are passed. The 7Juddle meatus occupies the posterior two-thirds of the fossa, being above the inferior and below the middle turbinated bone. It receives the opening of the antrum, and, through the infundibulum, the openings of the anterior ethmoidal and frontal sinuses. The superior jneatus occupies the posterior third of the cavity; it is above the middle spongy bone. Into it open the posterior ethmoidal, and, perhaps, the sphenoidal sinus. Supply.—Arteries for the cavity come from the anterior and