288 TJie Wrist Joint Excision of the wrist-joint is very rarely needed ; it may be per- formed by straight lateral incisions, care being taken not towomid the radial artery. In ILister's method the incision on the inner side of the joint is made in the ordinary way, from two inches above the ulnar styloid process down to the middle of the fifth metacarpal bone ; but the outer incision is made in the line of the second metacarpal bone, and then along the ulnar side of extensor secundi—the oblique tendon of thumb (p. 287). This tendon and the radial artery are carefully raised from the wrist, and the tendons of the carpi radialis longior and brevior are severed, as is also that of the carpi ulnaris. The flexor and extensor tendons of the fingers are raised, the pisiform and the hook of unci- form being detached ; the trapezium requires a snip from the cutting pliers. The carpal bones, being cleared and separated, are taken out; the carpal ends of the radius and ulna, and of the metacarpal bones, are laid bare and sawn off. It is evident that this latter part of the programme cannot be carried out unless the tendons of the special wrist-extensors had been previously divided, as they are inserted at the base of the metacarpus ; but, when extracting the trapezium, the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis is raised and saved. Personally, I should not attempt the complicated operation, which I have thus briefly sketched out, without carefully reading it up just before, and I deem it unfortunate that the same indulgence cannot always be extended to the student. Much of the movement which apparently takes place at the radio- carpal joint actually occurs in the mid-carpal articulation, the flexor and extensors carpi radialis and extensor carpi ulnaris being inserted into the metacarpal bones so that they may influence the wrist and the transverse carpal joints at once. The transverse carpal joint and the synovial membranes of the carpus.—The lower surfaces of the scaphoid and semi-lunar bones form a socket for the head of the os magnum, which articulates on the outer side of the magnum with the trapezium and trapezoid, and on the inner side with the cuneiform and unciform, as shown in the fig. on p. 286. The two rows of carpal bones are connected by anterior, posterior, and lateral ligaments. The transverse carpal joint is lubricated by a synovial membrane which is distinct from that of the radio-carpal articulation ; it sends processes between the bones of the second row which extend also into the articulations of the trapezoid and magnum with the middle metacarpal bones. A special synovial membrane is often found for the joint between the unciform and the fourth and fifth metacarpals. There are also separate membranes for the joints between the cunei- form and pisiform, and the trapezium and the first metacarpal bone. (The description here given differs somewhat from that figured on p. 286.)