TJlc Heart l62 The heart is lowered in the cases of pulmonary emphysema, left hydrothorax, large mediastinal tmnours, and aneurysm of the aortic arch ; also when the stomach and intestines are collapsed, as in oesophageal stricture. It is raised in ascites, tympanites, and in the case of ovarian, hydatid, or of other large abdominal tumours. It is pushed to the left in the case of effusion into the right pleura, and when the left pleura is water-logged the apex-beat may be found even to the right of the sternum (p. 189). It may be dragged to either side by a contracting lung or by pleural adhesions. The anterior part of the heart is chiefly the right ventricle, the left ventricle being posterior. The left ventricle has much more work to do than the right; indeed, its wall is of treble thick- ness, and bulges into the right ventricle ; thus, when the heart is re- moved from the body the ventricles may be distin- guished by gently pinch- ing each between the finger and thumb. Hav- ing comparatively little to do, the free border of the right ventricle is thin and sharp {margo acutus), whilst that of the left ventricle is thick and rounded {margo obtusus). The left ventricle extends beyond the right and forms the apex of the heart. The apex-beat appears, ' two inches below the left nipple and one inch to the sternal side,' as a gentle upheaval of the tissues of the fifth space. In children the impulse is sometimes in the fourth space ; and in the aged, on account of the stiffness of the large arteries, it may be found in the sixth space. The distinctness of the manifestation of the heart's impulse is due to the great strength of the left ventricle (which forms the apex), to the tilting of the heart forwards during systole, to the lengthening of the aorta as the blood is impelled into it (causing the heart to descend somewhat), and to the fact that there is no lung between the apex and the chest-wall. The impulse of the apex-beat is felt as the ventricle discharges its contents into the large vessel, and resembles the ' kick' of the rifle. The impulse which is felt over the base is due to the energetic con- traction of the thick ventricular mass. When the apex is covered with lung, as in emphysema, the apex cannot reach the chest-wall, and the cardiac impulse which is felt by the hand is then due to the contrac- tion of the right ventricle. And, as remarked abave, the apex-beat; I, Wall of right vent., and 2, 3, wall of left.