376 The Internal Iliac Artery would receive blood from the inferior mesenteric; the uterine, from the ovarian branch of the aorta ; the obturator, from the deep epigastric and the internal circumflex ; the gluteal and the ilio-lumbar, from the lumbar of the aorta, the circumflexa ilii, and the external circumflex ; and the lateral sacral, from the sacra media. The empty sciatic artery would probably bring blood from the cruciform anasto- mosis, and the artery of the vas deferens (of the inferior vesical) might possibly help by its anastomosis with the spermatic. Sympathetic nerves of the pelvis.—The two knotted cords of the sympathetic system are continued from the front of the last lumbar vertebra upon the sacrum, internal to the foramina, till they meet at last in front of the coccyx, in the ganglion impar. Each cord has four or five ganglia which communicate with the sacral nerves ; several branches pass on to the middle sacral artery, and others to the hypo- gastric plexus—a network placed between the two common iliac arteries in front of the sacral promontory. From this plexus numberless branches descend on each side to form the pelvic plexus^ where com- munications take place with the third and fourth sacral (spinal) nerves. Filaments also pass with every branch of the internal iliac artery ; thus, the pelvic viscera and the penis (but not the testes, p. 432) are supplied. The sacra media comes off from the bifurcation of the aorta, and descends between the two common iliac arteries over the last lumbar vertebra, and down the sacrum; it anastomoses with the lateral sacrals of either side, and it ends in Luschka's gland. In its course it gives twigs to the back of the rectum, which anastomose with other haemorrhoidal branches. The Lymphatic Glands of the Abdomen and Pelvis are chiefly arranged along the abdominal aorta {lumbarglands) and the trunks of the iliac arteries {^pelvic glands)^ those along the external iliac being in association with the inguinal glands ; there are sacral gla7tds also, which quickly enlarge in cancer of the rectum. The pelvic viscera are specially associated with the lymphatics which are grouped along the internal iliac artery. The lumbar and pelvic lymphatic vessels gradually reach the thoracic duct. With malignant disease of the testicle, the lumbar lymphatic glands may be so much enlarged as to form a palpable abdominal tumour, which may, by compressing the vena cava, cause oedema in the lower extremities. The Iliac Veins The external iliac vein is the continuation of the common femoral. The name changes at Poupart's ligament, where the vein, occupying the middle compartment of the crural sheath, lies to the inner side