497 Potfs Fracture There may be no displacement with this fracture, but generally the foot is everted, the astragalus being rolled outwards on its antero-posterior axis, or even dislocated. Often the foot is rigidly fixed in this everted position. Before trying to ' reduce' it the knee should be bent, so as to take all strain from the gastrocnemius. If it still prove immovable, an anjesthetic may be required before the soleus and the tibial muscles permit of its replacement. If, after this, the parts cannot be satisfactorily ad- justed, it is advisable to divide the tendo Achillis, so as to in- sure absolute quiet of the calf-muscles. If this be not done, the leg should not be fixed on a back splint, as this keeps the knee straight and the gas- trocnemius in a state of tension. Gypsum or wooden side- splints afford most convenient support, as then the knee can be kept flexed and the limb laid on the outer side. In putting up the fracture it is very necessary to keep the foot flexed at a right angle, or else, when the man begins to get about again, the toes will be stiffly pointing downwards, and he will not be able to get his heel to the ground. He fancies that the leg is shortened by an inch or two, but with frictions and manipulations the ankle soon becomes flexed again. Sometimes, however, the surgeon is compelled to divide the tendo Achillis before the elevated heel can be brought down. Not infrequently his neglect to fix the foot, at the outset of treatment, with the toes pointing to the ceiling, is the cause of his lame patient ultimately resorting to a ' bone-setter/ who by rough and sudden flexion of the foot breaks down adhesions, and snatches a triumph from orthodox surgery. It is quite possible to arrange the leg and foot in too straight a line in adjusting a fracture near the ankle. It must be rem.embered that the tibia is considerably bowed, and that the sole of the foot naturally inclines a little inwards. K K Pott's fracture, showing rupture of internal lateral ligament