126 TJic Larynx th>Toid are hinged at the lower part of the side by capsular ligaments and s\Tio\"ial membranes. ^^^len more room is needed in tracheotomy it may be expedient to di\"ide the cricoid 'vid. inf. . The arytaenoid cartilag-es are tv.-o small pyramids which articu- late by their base Aisith the upper and back part of the cricoid. Of their three surfaces, the inner looks towards its fellow, and is covered by mucous mem.brane ; the posterior is connected with its fellow by the ar}"taenoideus, and the anterior receives the insertion of the thjTO- arN-taenoid muscle. To the anterior angle is attached the true vocal cord ; the external angle receives the insertion of muscidar sUps which arise on the cricoid, and the apex is connected with the comiculimi lar\-ngi5, which is hidden in the ar^tseno-epiglottidean folds. The epig-lottis. shaped like an obovate leaf, is attached by its stalk to the back of the th^Toid, just above the vocal cords ; its anterior surface is connected with the back of the hyoid bone by the hyo-epi- glottic hgament. and 'with the base of the tongue by three bands of mucous membrane—the glosso-epiglottidean folds. The posterior surface looks towards the back of the phary nx during respiration ; but when the lar)Tix is hidden beneath the base of the tongue during de- glutition, and the glosso-epiglottidean folds are relaxed, the epiglottis falls over the laryngeal aperture, and its posterior surface is turned dovsTiwards. Structure.—The epiglottis is composed of yellow nbro-cartilage, which does not o5sif)^ but the th\Toid, cricoid, and ar}i:aenoid cartilages are apt, like the costal cartilages, to ossify as age advances. The thyro-liyoid membrane is attached to the upper border of the th>To:d car.ilage. and. ascending behind the hyoid bone, is con- nected with its upper border, a bursa intervening between the mem- brane and the back of the bone. On rare occasions this bursa be- comes inflamed, or, being distended \\-ith fluid, forms a cyst The bursa is placed there in order that the thyroid cartilage may ascend freely behind the hyoid bone during deglutition. Through each side of the membrane run the superior lar}-ngeal vessels and nenx. The crico-thyroid membrane fills the inten al between the cricoid and th}Toid cartilages, and is firmly connected with them in front; laterally, however, it ascends free on the inner side of the thyroid, and becomes continuous above with the lower border of the true vocal cord. The anterior part of the membrane is subcutaneous, but its sides are covered by the crico-th)Toid muscles. Upon it rests the anastomotic loop between the two crico-th}Toid or external lar>-ngeal arteries. The membrane is traversed in the operation of lar^-ngotomy, and sometimes the insertion of the tube fails to arrest bleeding from the divided arter)-.