Development of Femur 461 means always, it passes inwards at a right angle from the shaft, the head of the bone sinking even below the level of the top of the great trochanter. At this time the compact wall becomes thinned, and much of the cancellated tissue which it encases undergoes fatty degeneration and absorption. Fracture of the femoral neck is, in such circumstances, very apt to occur. The femur has five centres of ossification ; the centre for the diaphysis, or shaft, extends also into the neck. This is an important exception to the rule that only the epiphysis of a long bone enters into the formation of a joint ; in the case of the hip some of the dia- physis is enclosed within the capsule. The kjiee-epiphysis begins to ossify in the ninth month of foetal life: a fact of importance in medical jurisprudence. The head begins to ossify in the first year, the great trochanter in the fifth, and the lesser in the thirteenth year. The epiphyses join the shaft, in the inverse order of their development, at the seventeenth, eighteenth, nineteenth, and twentieth years. Increase in the girth of a bone depends upon deposit in the periosteum ; increase in length by growth in the junction-cartilages. As the lower epiphysis of the femur is the last to join (twentieth year), its integrity is very essential to the growth of Ossification of femur the limb ; similarly, the scapular epiphysis of the humerus (p. 260) is the important one in the growth of the arm. In ex- cision of the knee-joint, the surgeon guards the lower junction-cartilage, so as to diminish to the utmost the amount of the subsequent and inevitable shortening of the limb. Fracture of the femur may occur in any part of the bone; reference will be made here to certain special varieties of fracture only. Before manhood the lower epiphysis may be ' unglued' from violence, and the bellies of the gastrocnemius, which arise from the condyles, may tilt the upper border of the epiphysis back into the popliteal space and against the artery. If there be difficulty in keeping the surfaces in apposition, as I have known to happen, the knee must be kept slightly bent, and, if necessary, the tendon of Achilles divided, so as to relax all muscular traction. Complete dis- placement of these wide surfaces rarely occurs. Fracttcre through the epiphysis is apt to be followed by arrest of growth of the bone, and by stiffness of the knee. In fracture above the condyles of the fully ossified bone there is often no displacement whatever, especially if the plane be trans- verse ; but if it be oblique, the lower fragment is most likely thrust backwards, the plane of fracture passing from behind, downwards and