Choparfs A iiiputation 5o8 astragalus and os calcis. A short dorsal flap is then made, the skin and subjacent tissues being reflected up to the line of the trans- verse tarsal joint. It is almost impossible to get the sole-flap too large. The land-marks.—The tuberosity of the scaphoid on the inner side ; behind which the knife is introduced. On the outer side there is no prominence showing the line of the calcaneo-cuboid joint, but that articulation is surely opened by introducing the knife exactly midway between the tip of the external malleolus and the tuberosity on the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. The tendon of Achilles had better be divided, so that the heel may be brought well down ready for sup- porting the weight of the body. Fallacies.—The mid-tarsal joint is not always easily found, the surgeon opening the joint between the scaphoid and cuneiforms ; or, on the outer side of the foot, plunging his knife into the hollow be- tween the astragalus and os calcis, instead of into the calcaneo-cuboid joint. The flap is apt to be cut too short, so that it does not cover the articular surfaces ; this is especially apt to occur on the inner side, where the head of the astragalus stands forth so boldly. The dorsal artery and the two plantars and their branches will require ligation. The OS calcis has an epiphysis into which the tendo Achillis is in- serted ; this epiphysis is often detached in Syme's operation. The os calcis articulates in front with the cuboid ; this joint possesses a distinct synovial membrane, as shown in the illustration. ^ ^ . ^ The cuboid is on the outer border of foot, between ^ epiphysL ' ^ the OS calcis and the fourth and fifth metatarsals. Its joint with the metatarsals has a separate membrane. The scaphoid articulates with the rounded head of the astragalus, and in front with the three cuneiform bones. Its tuberosity bulges into the sole on the inner side, and is the landmark behind which the knife is kept in Chopart's, and also in the sub-astragaloid amputa- tion. The cuneiform bones.—The innermost has a large tuberosity dipping into the sole, corresponding with that of the scaphoid. The inner cuneiform articulates by a reniform facet with the base of the first metatarsal, and has there a special synovial membrane. A strong ligament holds the base of the second metatarsal bone against the internal cuneiform. The middle and external cuneiforms articulate with the second and third metatarsals ; the synovial membrane which lines those joints passing back between the cuneiforms to Inbricate the joints between them and the scaphoid. It also sends a prolongation between the external cuneiform and the cuboid, and perhaps one be- tween the scaphoid and cuboid. This arrangement is not shown in the wood-cut.