146 The Cervical Nerves level than the lesser occipital behind the sterno-mastoid, and, winding up over that muscle, reaches the parotid gland, giving branches to the skin of the masseteric and the mastoid regions, to the back of the pinna, and to the lobule. The superficial cervical winds across the middle of the sterno- mastoid, under the external jugular vein and the deep fascia, and, piercing the fascia at the front of the neck, divides beneath the pla- tysma into an ascending branch, which supplies the skin over the sub- maxillary region, joining there with the infra-maxillary branch of the facial, and a descejiding bt'anch^ which supplies the skin along the front and lower part of the neck. The sitpra-clavicular are the lowest and last of the superficial branches; they come from the third and fourth trunks, and emerge from behind the sterno-mastoid. They descend in sternal, median, and acromial branches to supply the skin of the pectoral and deltoid regions. Sometimes one of the median set courses through the sub- stance of the clavicle. In the case of fracture of the collar-bone branches of these nerves may be bruised between the fragments, great pain resulting. The supra-clavicular nerves take the place of lateral cutaneous branches of the first and second dorsal nerves. When, as the result of caries, for instance, there is pressure upon the posterior roots of the third and fourth nerves, peripheral pain usually occurs in the area of distribution of these nerves : symmetrical pains about the shoulders of a child should always direct attention to the neck. Peripheral neuralgias of the scalp, neck, pectoral I'egion, or shoulder, are often caused by inflammatory pressure upon the sensory roots of the nerve-trunks, and are often met with in disease of the occipito-atloid joint, and in caries of the upper cervical verte- brae. These pains are generally, but not always, in symmetrical areas, whilst neuralgia which is due to pressure of a tumour outside the spinal canal would be confined to one side, unless, indeed, it reached across the middle line. A little girl who was brought to me with mid-cervical caries suffered from darting pains across the front of the neck, which she quaintly called ' belly-ache in the neck.' When there is pressure upon the second nerve the pains in the area of the lesser and greater occipitals are often called ' head-ache,' and when those filaments of the second and third nerves which belong to the great auricular are in distress the neuralgia may be called ' ear-ache,' or ' face-ache.' It is, then, of the greatest importance to know the exact distribution of these nerves {see PiNNA, p. 94). Of the deep branches^ some communicate with the sympathetic, vagus, and hypoglossal; the second and third send down also cojn- municantes hypoglossi (or noni) over the internal jugular vein to join the descendens noni. Other branches pass to neighbouring muscles.