The Penis 426 In amputation of the penis the skin should not be drawn too far forward lest the stump of the organ be left raw. The corpus spongiosum should be cut longer than the corpus cavernosum. The arteries di- vided are the two upon the dorsum and the two of the crura ; they may require ligatures. When the penis is extensively implicated in epithelioma, and the condition of the inguinal glands shows that the disease is at present locahsed, removal of the entire organ is advisable. A sound having been passed, the scrotum is split into lateral halves, the crura of the corpus cavernosum are dissected from the pubic arch ; and the posterior inch of the corpus spongiosum having been detached, the penis is removed bodily, and the truncated urethra is diverted through the posterior part of the scrotal wound. The Scrotum The scrotum {sco7^ttnn^ skin) consists of the skin and the two layers of the superficial fascia. Above, the scrotum is- continuous with the integuments of the abdomen and penis, and behind with those of the perineum, the two layers of the superficial fascia being blended into a single layer, which is destitute of fat. This fascia is thin, and contains amongst its loose meshes bundles of unstriped muscular fibre, which constitute the dartos {depco, daprns, flayed^ from the skin-like ap- pearance of the muscular fascia). The skin and dartos are closely connected. Each testicle has its own fascial investment, but the two pouches are connected along the middle line to form the septum scroti. In the operation of castration, therefore, the opposite testis is not seen. {See fig. on p. 385.) Along the under part of the scrotum is a dark cutaneous seam or ridge—the raphe which shows the line of fusion of the lateral halves of the scrotum. The root of the scrotum covers the perineal part of the urethra. The superficial fascia of the scrotum, like that of the penis and eyelid, is devoid of fat, and is readily infiltrated with serous effusion. In this water-logged condition the scrotum may increase to an enormous size ; in cellulitis, also, the parts rapidly swell, and gangrene of the scrotum from erysipelas, or from extravasation of urine, is not uncom- mon. The precise connections of the deep layer of the superficial fascia, and the importance of that fascia in urinary extravasation, are set forth on p. 439. The arteries of the scrotum are derived from the superficial pudic branches of the common femoral and from the superficial perineal of the internal pudic. The veins are large, superficial, and tortuous, and empty into the termination of the long saphenous and into the internal pudic. They should be avoided in tapping a hydrocele. The scrotal veins communicate with the spermatic veins.