TJie Spleen 342 ribs, and making the patient take a deep breath, it may be often felt in the child, especially if he be thin ; in the adult the healthy spleen does not descend below the ribs, even on the deepest inspiration. The spleen is temporarily enlarged during digestion, and permanently so in cirrhosis of the liver (p. 337), in intermittent fevers, and in albu- minoid disease ; in ague it may form an enormous mass, ' ague-cake,' which may weigh as much as 20 lbs. The enlargement may be dia- gnosed from an ovarian tumour by its shape, and by the presence of the notch, which may generally be made out. Beneath the peritoneum is the fibrous coat, which sends trabeculae into the interior to support the spleen-pulp. The splenic artery is a large and tortuous trunk which reaches the hilum by passing along the upper border of the pancreas, giving branches to the pancreas and stomach in its course. The vein runs close behind the pancreas to enter the vena portae, receiving in its course gastric and pancreatic branches, and the in- ferior mesenteric vein. The lymphatics pass to glands in the hilum, and eventually to the thoracic duct. The nerves are derived from the solar plexus, and from the right pneumogastric. The spleen is rich as regards its blood-vessels, but poor as regards nerves. Occasionally the spleen breaks from its moorings, and, dragging its vessels and nerves, drifts towards the pelvis, causing so much dis- comfort as to demand extirpation. This may be effected through the left semilunar line. From buffer-accidents, and other injuries to the abdomen, the spleen may be ruptured and fatal haemorrhage or peri- tonitis supervene, with, perhaps, no bruising of the surface of the body. When the lower ribs of the left side are heavily struck their broken ends may be driven through the diaphragm and into the spleen. The Pancreas The pancreas (3 or 4 oz.) {jrav Kpeas, all JlesJi) extends from the epigastric into the left hypochondriac region, crossing the aorta and the crura of the diaphragm at the level of the first and second lumbar vertebra. The superior mesenteric vessels, splenic vein, and the be- ginning of the vena portas are also posterior to it. Lying behind the peritoneum, the pancreas may be reached by raising the great omentum and transverse colon and tearing through the lower layer of the transverse meso-colon, which descends to form the mesentery. Its head fits into the horse-shoe curve of the duo- denum, the pancreatico-duodenal artery intervening between them in front, and the common bile-duct behind. The body of the pancreas lies behind the stomach ; its tail reaches the hilum of the spleen, and lies in front of the left kidney and capsule. Above are the coeliac axis and the splenic artery.