TJie Spinal Cord 214 space between the arachnoid and pia mater—siib-arachnoidean; in the cranium the fluid is partly in the sub-arachnoid space and partly in the cavity of the brain itself, the communication being through the Sylvian aqueduct. When the fluid escapes from a spina bifida the brain as well as the cord is drained, and, its support being lost, fatal convulsions usually occur. The track of the fluid is first through the foramen of Majendie and then through the aqueduct of Sylvius. Inflammation of the membranes {\i^viy^) of the cord renders them more thick (Tragus-), the disease being called pachy-vieiimgitis. The thickening causes pressure on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves and gives rise to peripheral pains (p. 209). This is common in caries and in fracture of the spine. On account of the cord ending at the first lumbar vertebra, the lumbar and sacral nerves obviously cannot be given off at the level of their exit from the inter-vertebral foramina. The high cervical nerves have but slight obliquity, but from the dorsal enlargement the direction of the nerves is almost vertical, the sacral nerves descending through the entire length of the lumbar region. The situation of tlie nerves in the canal.—The spine of the vertebra prominens corresponds to the origin of the first dorsal nerve from the spinal cord, the spine of the first dorsal to the origin of the third nerve, and the fifth spine to that of the seventh pair. In fact, all through the dorsal region the nerve emerges from the cord at the level of the spine of the vertebra two above. The nerves of the lumbar and sacral plexus arise in the interval between the eleventh dorsal and the first lumbar spines—that is from the lumbar enlargement {v. p. 216), In the cervical region the nerves take the number of the vertebra above which they pass out, but in the other regions they pass out below the vertebra whose number they bear, the reason being that there are eight cervical nerves, but only seven cervical vertebrse, the first nerve emerging above the first vertebra. In the brain the grey matter is for the most part on the exterior ; in the cord it occupies a central position, and in transverse section it is seen somewhat in the form of the letter H- A slender cejitral caiial runs in it, opening above in the floor of the fourth ventricle. It is the ^ per- manent remains of the ectodermal canal from which the spinal cord is developed.' Sometimes at birth it is enormously distended with fluid, causing that variety of spina bifida known as syringo-myelocele {avpLy^, pipe ; ixveXos, marrow ; Kr]\rj, tumour). The arteries of the cord, which first break up in a delicate network in the pia mater, are derived from the vertebral (anterior and posterior spinal), ascending cervical, intercostal, and lumbar. Of the vei?ts, two are found in the grey commissure, one on either side of the central canal, and others in the anterior and posterior median fissures. They are tributaries of the spinal veins. Every spinal nerve arises by two roots, an anterior and posterior,