CEsopJiagits 139 the thyroid cartilage. It is suppHed by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. With its fellow it raises and widens the pharynx in deglutition. The oesophag-us (otro, 01V&), carry; (payeiv, eat), beginning at the fifth cervical vertebra, runs almost straight through the lower cervical region and the posterior mediastinum, and, passing through the muscular opening in the diaphragm, ends at the level of the tenth dorsal vertebra in the cardiac end of the stomach. It is ten inches long. Both in the neck and in the chest it lies a little to the left of the median line. Its narrowest part is at the cricoid cartilage, and in that region, therefore, a plate of artificial teeth or a mass of food is most likely to be impacted; the plate may generally be felt on grasping the gullet between the finger and thumb. Relatio7is.—bi the neck it has in front the flattened, membranous wall of the trachea ; and, deviating somewhat to the left side, it has also in front the left lobe of the thyroid body. In front also are the left recurrent laryngeal nerve and the inferior thyroid artery, and the sterno-mastoid. Sometimes the recurrent laryngeal nerve becomes imphcated in cancer of the oesophagus, the result being cough and aphonia. Behind are the lowest cervical vertebrae, the longus colli and the prasvertebral fascia (p. 2); and at each side are the thyroid lobe, the common carotid sheath and its contents, and the recurrent laryngeal nerves. In the thorax it has in front the trachea and the left bronchus ; the left common carotid and subclavian arteries, the transverse aorta, and the heart and pericardium. Indeed, the transverse part of the aorta pushes the oesophagus a little towards the right, and, like the left bronchus, may slightly indent it. The relationship of the heart and pericardium is important, for when the heart is greatly enlarged, or the pericardium dropsical, the patient may not be able to swallow with comfort as he lies on his back. The crossing of the left bronchus is a favourite seat of epithelioma ; should the malignant ulceration open into the bronchus, the contents of the gullet would enter the air-way and cause septic pneumonia. Posteriorly are the dorsal vertebrae and the longus colli, the right intercostal arteries, the vena azygos, and the thoracic duct. And, just before traversing the diaphragm, the thoracic aorta is also behind. Laterally, on the left, are the aorta and the pleura; and on the right are the pleura, the vena azygos, and, close by the diaphragm, the aorta. The vagi form the. plexus gulce upon the oesophagus, and from its lower part the fibres of the left vagus descend chiefly in front, and those of the right vagus behind to their distribution on to the stomach. Thus the oesophagus, running almost straight through the thorax, has the aorta winding round it : for the second part of the arch is in