70 TJie Cranial Nerves leave by the superior laryng-eal nerve. This important branch runs downwards and forwards beneath the internal carotid, and then divides into an external and an internal laryngeal branch ; the former supplies the crico-thyroid and the inferior constrictor, whilst the internal branch passes though the thyro-hyoid membrane to supply the arytenoideus and the mucous membrane of the larynx. Irritation of the superior laryngeal nerve in weakly children sets up reflex spasm of the muscles of the glottis, and is thus concerned in lary7igeal asthjna or lary?tgismus stridulus. The recurrent laryng-eal nerve winds round the first part of the subclavian artery on the right side, and the transverse aorta on the left, and, ascending behind the common carotid and into the groove between the trachea and oesophagus, enters the lower and back part of the larynx. It gives off cardiac, oesophageal, and tracheal branches, and supplies all the muscles of the larynx except the crico-thyroid. Pressure upon this nerve by an aortic, innominate, subclavian, or carotid aneurysm causes spasmodic contraction of the laryngeal muscles, and sets up a dry and suggestive cough. Sometimes the nerve is ' caught' in epithelioma of the oesophagus. When one recurrent laryngeal nerve is paralysed the vocal cord of that side does not move ; the voice is ' uncertain,' or it may be entirely lost, but the tidal air flows as usual. The abductor of the vocal cord is especially affected, and in due course ' contracture' occurs in the unopposed adductor, the cord being held in a useful position for phonation. Even when both nerves are paralysed there is no shortness of breath, but the voice is then completely lost. In their course through the neck and through the thorax the vagi give off cardiac branches^ which join with twigs of the left recurrent laryngeal to end in the aortic and cardiac plexuses. No. II.—The spinal accessory consists of an 'accessory'part (which arises like the vagus and eventually blends with that nerve) and of a ' spinal' part. The latter arises from the anterior grey cornu of the cord by several filaments, and, emerging from the lateral tract, ascends between the ligamentum denticulatum and the posterior roots of the five upper cervical nerves. It enters the skull by the foramen magnum, and leaves again with the vagus. It then passes downwards and backwards through the sterno-mastoid, which, with the help of the second and third cervical nerves, it suppHes, and it ends in the trapezius. These two muscles derive a considerable supply from the cervical nerves. But probably their chief motor influence comes from the spinal part of the spinal accessory nerve, in order that there may be harmonious working between two important muscles of elevation and fixation of the sternum, clavicle, and scapula, and those of vocalisa- tion. That part of the nerve which is ' accessory' to the vagus conveys to it the motor filaments for the muscles of vocafisation : so actually