TJie Larynx I30 regions.; a noisy passage of the air through the glottis ; and the dis- tress which is associated \\\\\\ laboured and ineffectual attempts at respiration. The simplest operation is that of passing a tube through the crico- thyroid space, but in the child this interval is far too narrow to serve, so that the trachea has to be opened instead—tracheotomy always in the child. Tracheotomy, moreover, is to be preferred in the adult when the tube has to be left in permanently, as it is further away from the vocal cords, and therefore less likely to set up inflammatory thickening in that important region. Tracheotomy is also resorted to in the adult when there is a foreign body below the cords. In laryng-otomy the shoulders are raised, and the head is thrown back and held perfectly square to the middle line. The surgeon feels for. the thyroid cartilage, and, a little below its prominent inferior border, the arch of the cricoid. He then makes an inch incision down the middle line, beginning it \ in. above the bottom of the thyroid, and traversing skin, superficial, and deep fasciae. Thus the crico-thyroid membrane is readily exposed ; on it is the small arterial communication between the two superior thyroids, which is generally cut, but it rarely gives any troublesome bleeding. The membrane is incised across the middle line, so as to secure a more easy introduc- tion for the tube. . Thyrotomy.^—For the removal of a foreign body from the larynx, or for the clearing away of a crop of warty growths which impede respiration, or for the more efficient dealing with intra-laryngeal epi- thelioma, the thyroid cartilage may have to be split up the middle and the halves turned asunder. Tracheotomy having been first performed, the skin and fasciae are divided down the middle line of the pomum Adami, the wound being continued into that which is already made for the tracheotomy. The incision through the thyroid cartilage must be kept exactly in the middle line, as it has to hit the narrow interval between the anterior ends of the vocal cords. To make more room, the thyro-hyoid and crico-thyroid membranes should also be cut. Removal of the entire larynx, a dangerous and unsatisfactory operation, may be undertaken after a preliminary tracheotomy, due provision having been made against the entrance of blood into the trachea. A median incision through skin and fascias is made from the hyoid bone to the top of the trachea, and, at the top of this, a transverse one. Then, with the blunt end of a pair of scissors, the sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid and other soft tissues are torn through, raised from the larynx, and turned back with the skin, fascise, and the sterno-hyoid and omo-h^^oid. The trachea is cut across just above the wound made for the silver tube, and the cricoid end of the larynx is drawn forward, and cleared by division of the recurrent laryngeal nerve and branches