i8i TJioracic Aneujysni arch is lengthened and the heart lowered, and the struggling left ventricle is considerably enlarged. Circulation is delayed, and, an imperfect supply of blood passing to the lungs, shortness of breath is usually a prominent sign. If the tumour happen to press upon and irritate a sympathetic chain there may be dilatation of the pupil of that side (p. 88) ; contrac- tion of the pupil suggests that the pressure is severe enough to paralyse the sympathetic. In any case, the aneurysm is apt to cause inequality of the pupils. In aneurysm of the aortic arch the pulsation is exactly synchronous with ventricular contraction ; and there may be a quiet space between the region of the cardiac impulse and the abnormal pulsation. In examining the tumour one hand should be placed flat over the pulsa- ting area in front, whilst the other is laid between the shoulders during expiration ; in this way the characteristic expansion may be best de- tected. The sac may burst externally, or into the pericardium, pleura, lung, trachea, oesophagus, mediastinum, spinal canal, or even into the pulmonary artery itself. Sometimes the chief and most characteristic symptom of the disease is pain down the left arm, or at the left shoulder—an important clinical fact which anatomy fails at present efficiently to explain. Aneurysm of the first part is of the most frequent occurrence— perhaps, as already remarked, because the second and third portions are strengthened by the fibrous element of the pericardium. Another ex- planation is that the blood from the left ventricle is, on account of the obliquity of the heart, pumped forcibly against the outer side of the first part, which it gradually stretches and weakens. The aneurysm begins as a pulsating tumour in the seco7id right space^ close to the sternum ; the apex-beat being displaced towards the left side. The dilatation is apt to start in a sinus of Valsalva, the right for choice, and it is, therefore, usually sacculated. Aneurysm of the first part of the arch may press upon the superior vena cava, and cause venous congestion of both sides of the head and neck, and of both upper extremities ; indeed, a case is recorded by Watson in which almost the whole of the blood coming from the head and arms was returned by dilated epigastric veins into the external iliacs, to reach the heart by the inferior cava. The obstructed return of blood from the brain causes dizziness and headache. Bulging backwards against the root of the right lung, the tumour may obstruct the bronchus; and, pressing against the pulmonary artery, it may cause a systolic bruit. Sometimes it produces absorption of the ribs and sternum, and bursts at last into the pericardium, pulmonary artery, or pleura, or through the thinning integument. Aneurysm of the transverse aorta forms a pulsating tumour behind the manubrium which may even extend to the left of that bone. It may press upon the trachea and cause dyspnoea, cough, and harsh breathing;