TJie Upper Ann 244 nerve, and the brachial artery. Externally are the deltoid and supinator longus. Dislocation of the tendo?i of the long head of the biceps from the groove occurs in chronic osteo-arthritis, when osteophytes grow about the head of the humerus. When the articular disease is further advanced the tendon may be frayed out or thinned and ruptured, and adhering to one of the tuberosities. (' Med. Chirurg. Trans.,' vol. Iviii.) The bracliialis anticus arises from the front of the humerus and the intermuscular septa, and is inserted into the coronoid process of the ulna ; its action is, therefore, solely to bend the elbow. Its nerve- supply comes from the musculo-cutaneous and sometimes also from the musculo-spiral. Contracting with great energy, it may detach the coronoid process, and if that process be broken off, as in dislocation of the ulna backwards, some of the fibres of insertion may drag it upwards. Relatio7is.—It is covered by the biceps, the brachial artery, and the median nerve. The musculo-cutaneous nerve lies between it and the biceps, and supplies them both. Its tendon lies close over the anterior ligament of the elbow. The triceps.—The long or middle head descends from below the glenoid cavity ; the inner head arises from the back of the humerus up to the level of the insertion of the teres major, and the outer head up to the level of the teres minor. The three heads leave a passage for the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery, and are in- serted by a strong tendon into the top of the olecranon process, an important slip running on to join the deep fascia at the back of the forearm. The scapular head of the muscle, descending between the teres minor and major, divides the area which is bounded above by the teres minor, below by the teres major, and externally by the humerus into a quadrilateral space through which wind the circumflex nerve and the posterior circumflex vessels, and a triangular one through which the dorsalis scapulse artery passes. A piece of the triceps is continued from the back of the external condyle to the outer aspect of the olecranon under the name of anconeus (p. 281). Both muscles are supplied by the musculo-spiral nerve and are simple extensors of the elbow. The Axilla The axilla is the pyramidal space between the chest and the arm; its apex reaches beneath the clavicle and into the neck. There is no barrier between the root of the neck and the axilla, and pus readily passes from one into the other unless escape be provided. Boundaries.—The axilla is bounded in front by the pectoralis major and minor; behind by the subscapularis, teres major, and