Brandies of Ulnar Artery 28o Branches i7t the ]iaiid.—The profunda ulnaris dips between the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti to complete the deep pahiiar arch (p. 277) by joining with the radial. Four dig-ital branches come from the convexity of the superficial arch. The innermost runs along the ulnar border of the little finger, whilst the three others pass down to the clefts, where they divide to supply the adjacent sides of the four inner fingers. The outermost branch joins the radialis indicis in the pulp of the index-finger, and so completes the superficial arch. These digital arteries descend straight to the clefts, and thus lie in the lines of the interosseous spaces ; the flexor tendons run in the lines of the fingers. In making exploratory incisions the lines of the clefts must be avoided. In the palm the arteries are superficial to the nerves, but along the fingers the nerves are anterior. At the clefts the digital arteries are joined by the palmar inter- osseous branches of the radial, and by the dorsal interosseous twigs of the posterior carpal arch. Zrregrularities.—In the case of a high division of the brachial the ulnar artery may reach the inner border of the fore-arm by passing superficial to the group of muscles arising from the internal condyle, lying sometimes superficial even to the deep fascia. The comes 7iervi mediani is occasionally almost as large as the radial or ulnar, and, accompanying the median nerve into the hand, may enter into the formation of one of the palmar arches. Sometimes it leaves its nerve and descends in front of the annular ligament. As in the case of recurrent or obstinate hcemorrhage from a wound of the palm^ it is quite possible that an irregular comes nervi may be involved, and, as in every case collateral circulation between the radial and ulnar arteries is extremely free, it is proper to tie the brachial at once, rather than the radial and ulnar arteries, or one of them singly. The Back of the Fore-arm The extensor carpi radialis long-ior arises from the lower third of the external condylar ridge ; it has a long tendon which is inserted mto the base of the second metacarpal bone. Nerve^ the musculo- spiral. The extensor carpi radialis brevior arises from the external condyle by the common tendon, and is inserted into the base of the middle metacarpal bone. Nerve^ the posterior interosseous. These two muscles lie beneath the supinator longus, and their fleshy bellies project behind that muscle over the upper third of the radius. Their tendons run together under the annular ligament in the wide groove behind the radial styloid process, and are crossed by the tendons of the thumb-extensors.