354 The Abdominal Aorta of the mesentery, it reaches the right ihac fossa, where it gives a branch to the end of ileum and the beginning of colon, the ileo-colic. The superior mesenteric has a slight convexity to the left, and from this side are given off twelve or fifteen vasa intestini tenuis, which, by dividing and anastomosing, form a series of arches, three or four deep, from which twigs enter the wall of the jejunum and ileum. The highest of the vasa anastomoses with the pancreatico-duodenal loop, the lowest with the ileo-colic. The upper branch of the ileo-colic anastomoses with colica dextra, which comes from the right side of the superior mesenteric to supply the ascending colon. Higher up comes off the colica media, for the transverse colon ; it anastomoses with the colica dextra, and with the colica sinistra on the descending colon. The colica dextra lies behind the peritoneum ; the colica media runs between the two layers of the transverse meso-colon. The supra-renals anastomose in the supra-renal capsule with branches of the phrenic and renal arteries. The rentals arise just below the superior mesenteric, the right being rather longer and higher than the left. Before entering the hilum they give off twigs to the supra-renal capsule and ureter, and to the bed of the kidney. The renal artery lies behind the vein, and in front of the ureter, the right renal passing behind the vena cava. The artery may be given off in several branches, and supplemental renals are sometimes derived from a mesenteric or iliac trunk. As the testis or ovary was developed just below the kidney, so the spermatic or ovariait artery arises close below the renal. It is a slender vessel which descends behind the peritoneum obliquely over the psoas and ureter, the right lying also over the vena cava. In the female the artery passes inwards between the layers of the broad ligament to supply the ovary, and it gives off branches to the uterus, Fallopian tube, and round ligament. By the last-named structure some twigs of the ovarian artery may eventually reach the labium. In the male the artery emerges with the other constituents of the sper- matic cord, and may anastomose with the artery of the vas and with the cremasteric branch of the deep epigastric. The ijiferior mesenteric is given off within a couple of inches of the bifurcation of the aorta, that is, rather more than an inch above the umbilicus ; it passes over the left common iliac vessels to the upper part of the rectum, down either side of which it sends a large branch, the superior hcsinorrhoidal. Branches from these hsemorrhoidals pierce themuscular coat, and anastomose with the rectal twigs of the internal iliac and internal pudic arteries. The inferior mesenteric gives off the colica sinistra, which anastomoses on the descending colon with the colica media above, and with the arteria sigmoidea below. The colica sinistra lies behind the peritoneum, and in re- moving the kidney through the peritoneum the gland should be reached from the outer side of the descending colon, so that the colica sinistra