Venous Sinuses of Head 38 neighbourhood of the superior longitudinal sinus the dura is studded with granular elevations, Pacchionian glands^ which are villous pro- cesses of the arachnoid. They have been mistaken for tubercular deposits. The dura is continuous with the periosteum of the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure and the optic foramen, and with the pericranium through the sutures and foramina generally. And thus it happens in the case of inflammation in the orbit, or of erysipelas of the scalp, that secondary meningitis occasionally supervenes. If the meningitis im- plicate the venous sinuses, coagulation of their contents results, and pyaemia ensues. The dura lines also the internal auditory meatus, and in the case of fracture of the base of the skull extending across the petrous bone, and rupturing the membrana tympani, subarachnoid fluid may escape from the external ear in such quantities as to saturate the pillow ; the lesion is not necessarily fatal, however, for the fluid is very rapidly secreted. The arachnoid forms a loose and delicate investment for the brain and is continued down over the cord. The interval between it and the pia mater constitutes the subarachnoid space, which is very roomy over the base of the brain between the optic nerves and the pons, and again between the cerebellum and the back of the medulla. By a small opening in the pia mater in the latter situation the subarachnoid space communicates with the interior of the fourth ventricle. This opening is the forameii of Majendie, and by it the serous fluid of the subarachnoid space maintains its tidal communication with that of the fourth, third, and of the lateral ventricles, constituting the so- called cerebro-spinal circulation. Tubercular inflammation at the base of the brain is apt to cause obstruction of this passage, and, as a result, dropsy of the ventricles. A small quantity of fluid exists between the dura and arachnoid—in the subdural space—but the chief amount of the cerebro-spinal fluid is in the subarachnoid interval. This fluid differs from ordinary serum in that it contains no albumen ; it sometimes flows in very large quantities from the ear or from the nose after fracture of the base of the skull. A doubled cuff of arachnoid accompanies the facial nerve into the auditory meatus, but, when after fracture of the petrous bone the cerebro-spinal fluid escapes, this sheath need not be lacerated, for the escape is not from the cavity of the arachnoid, but from the sub- arachnoid space. The sheath around the optic nerve becomes distended when a tubercular deposit or a tumour is exerting pressure at the base of the brain, and in such cases congestion occurs in the veins of the optic disc —an evident and important sign. The pia mater is a delicate fibrous network in which the vessels break up before entering the brain-substance. It dips into the sulci.