312 Inguinal Hernia hernia of old standing may so drag down the epigastric artery as to He close to the pubes ; he may then mistake it for a direct hernia. In every inguinal hernia, then, whether diagnosed as oblique or direct, the strangulation is to be eased by an upward incision in the neck of the sac. A strangulated inguinal hernia does not necessarily require a cutting operation ; the surgeon may be able to return it by taxis {ra^is, an arrangement): he lays the patient supine, with the pelvis raised, and he flexes the thigh and inverts it, to relax Poupart's ligament and the abdominal wall ; then, taking the neck of the sac between the fingers and thumb of his left hand—making them into a sort of funnel— he endeavours to squeeze back the contents of the tumour. Years ago, the patient was prepared for taxis by emetics, hot baths, tobacco clysters, and even vensesection, with the view of diminishing general and local resistance ; ether has happily rendered this treatment obsolete. Before using taxis the patient should be kept on his back, with pelvis raised, in hopes that, the vessels of the bowel being emptied to the utmost, the mesentery may draw back the protruding knuckle. Raduction en masse is the thrusting of the peritoneal sac and its contents bodily within the abdomen,the strangulation not being relieved. So symptoms persist; and perhaps a tumour may be felt deep in the iliac fossa. Moreover, the scrotum is found empty of sac. In such a case the inguinal canal has to be opened up, the peritoneal cavity explored, the mass brought down, the strangulation relieved, and the bowel returned. Sometimes the sac and its contents get pushed up between the peritoneum and the abdominal wall If the constant wearing of a truss fail to prevent the descent of a hernia, the radical treatment may be contemplated. The old methods of performing the so-called radical' cure ' were as complicated in description as they were ingenious in execution ; they have now given place to straightforward and simple operations on the principle of occluding the neck of the peritoneal sac and partly closing the external abdominal ring : an incision is made down the axis of the tumour from the external ring, through skin and superficial fasciae, intercolumnar, cremasteric, and infundibuliform fasciae, till the sac is reached ; its contents are then returned, its neck, isolated from the elements of the subjacent cord, is tied as high up as possible, and the sac is cut away below the ligature. The wide mouth of the canal is then partially occluded by lace sutures securely passed through the pillars of the external ring. The radical treatment is also usually performed after operating for the relief of a strangulated hernia. Femoral Hernia The external iliac vessels are continued into Scarpa's triangle, beneath Poupart's ligament, between a prolongation of the transversalis