370 The External Iliac Artery The External Iliac Artery The external iliac artery continues the direction of the common trunk, and extends from opposite the ala of the sacrum to the middle of Poupart's ligament, where the name changes to common femoral; it is about 3| in. long. (For surface-marking see p. 164.) Relations.—Its most important relation is its vein, which lies to its inner side, but which in the upper part of the artery is a good deal posterior. The vas deferens, descending from the internal abdominal ring towards the base of the bladder, is also an internal relation near the pubes, and when the bladder is empty the pouch of peritoneum and possibly some small intestine sink to the inner side. The beginning of the rectum overlaps the artery of the left side {v. p. 353). Externally is the psoas in its sheath ; but, as the artery descends, the psoas gets beneath it, and at the pubes the tendon is directly posterior. The anterior crural nerve is a good way on the outer side of the artery, being separated from it by the iliac fascia and the mass of the psoas. Anteriorly are the bag of peritoneum with the intestines, and the spermatic vessels sloping to the internal abdominal ring. The deep circumflex vein coming from the iliac crest reaches the external iliac vein by running over the front of the trunk near the pubes, and the ureter may lie over the beginning of the artery ; so also does a branch of the genito-crural nerve. Above, the artery rests upon the vein, and, lower dov^^n, upon the psoas. The iliac fascia separates the artery from the psoas, and, de- scending behind it, forms the posterior layer of the crural sheath, the transversalis fascia descending on the front of the vessels. BrajicJies.—The deep epig-astric is given off close above Poupart's ligament, and, running upwards and inwards to enter the sheath of the rectus, passes behind the inguinal canal. The internal abdominal ring is to its outer side, and the external ring is, ot course, well to its inner aspect, and much nearer to the skin. {See fig. on p. 306.) The course of the deep epigastric may be marked on the surface by a line from the middle of Poupart's ligament, that is, from the end of the external iliac artery, to the outer border of the rectus, about an inch below the umbilicus ; and then straight up towards the ending of the internal mammary {v. p. 156). At first the epigastric artery lies on the peritoneal side of the transversalis fascia where it is going to form the crural sheath, there being nothing behind it but the peritoneum. Then, piercing the transversalis fascia, it lies upon the back of the rectus, which there has no sheath ; and a little higher it enters and ascends within the sub- stance of the rectus. Above the level of the umbilicus it anastomoses with the ending of the internal mammary ; earlier in its course it