The Upper Extremity 238 intervenes between these vessels, the artery is well protected from injury by the lancet. Branches of the internal cutaneous nerve cross in front of the vein. Before using the lancet the surgeon should make out the exact situation of the brachial artery, and should satisfy himself that that irregularity does not exist in which the ulnar artery descends into the forearm superficial to the group of muscles arising from the internal condyle. For the operation of venesection a tape should be tied round the arm above the elbow, just tight enough to prevent the venous return, but not to compress the artery, as I have known to happen. The patient should hold something in his hand on which he can keep exercising the flexors of his fingers, so as to hurry on the venous return. The staff which was formerly used for this purpose has been left in the keeping of the surgeon's old associate, the barber, who, having now no other use for it, has decorated it in spirals of clean and blood-stained tapes, and has fixed it over his shop-door as the sign of his present craft. If during phlebotomy the lancet traverse the vein and wound the subjacent artery, and the lips of the adjacent wounds become glued together, blood is pumped with each ventricular contraction into the vein. Thus, not only the median basilic and the neighbouring veins become distended and varicose, but they pulsate after the manner of an aneurysm. The condition is called aneiirysDial varix—it is a varix with an aneurysmal pulsation. But when the edges of the wound in the vein do not become glued to those in the artery, and the blood collects in the intervening con- nective tissue before entering the vein, a pulsating tumour (aneurysm) exists in addition to the aneurysmal varix, the condition being called varicose a7teurysm. Both these lesions may be treated by forcible flexion of the limb, or, if that fail, by ligature of the artery above and below the wound. The basilic vein is formed by the confluence of the median-basilic and common ulnar, and, lying along the inner side of the biceps, super- ficial to, but in a line with, the brachial artery, it pierces the deep fascia below the middle of the arm. It then lies alongside of the brachial artery, and joins its venae comites at the lower border of the tendon of the teres major to form the axillary vein. The median-cephalic vein ascends obfiquely over the hollow between the biceps and supinator longus, the musculo-cutaneous nerve lying beneath it, but over the deep fascia. This vein when opened in 'bleeding' is said to be less easily compressed than the median-basilic because of its lying over the intermuscular hollow. The cephalic vein ascends superficially on the outer side of the biceps, lying afterwards in the groove between the pectoralis major and deltoid. It pierces the deep fascia just below the clavicle, and then.