352 TJie Abdominal Aorta forward the liver and suggest hepatic enlargement; should it impinge against the vena cava, cedema of the legs may occur ; compression of a renal vein may be followed by albuminuria. Briefly, it may be said that if the tumour grow from the back of the aorta the pains are chiefly lumbar; if from the front the disturbance is chiefly visceral, and the pains are abdominal and epigastric. The aneurysm may leak into the peritoneal cavity, or behind it, forming an enormous, but pulseless, blood-tumour ; or it may burst into the stomach, small intestine, or transverse colon, or, causing absorption of the diaphragm, may enter the chest. Xiig-ation of the abdominal aorta may be effected through the linea alba and. the peritoneum, by separating the coils of intestine and then gently tearing through the root of the mesentery. Or the vessel may be reached without opening the peritoneum, as for ligation of the common iliac, the pouch being dragged rather further upwards. Should the patient survive, the collateral circulation would be freely established, as described on p. 369, with the additional help of the anastomosis of the lumbar arteries given off below the ligature with those above, and of the inferior mesenteric (should the ligature be placed above that vessel) with the superior mesenteric. Branches.—The phreiiics ascend obliquely over the front of the crura to the vault of the diaphragm, where they anastomose with the internal mammary and intercostal branches. The right phrenic also gives twigs to the liver. The cceliac axis arises opposite the top of the first lumbar vertebra, which would place it about four inches above the umbilicus, and just above the pancreas ; it has a semilunar ganglion on either side. It divides into gastric, hepatic, and splenic trunks, of which, in the child, the hepatic is the largest, but, as the proportionate size of the liver decreases, the splenic becomes the largest. The gastric (coronary) runs to the left end of the stomach, where it gives branches to the oesophagus, and then doubles on itself to descend in the lesser omentum to the pylorus, where it anastomoses with the hepatic ; at the great end of the stomach it anastomoses with the splenic. The hepatic hooks forwards and upwards to reach the portal fissure ; in its ascent in the lesser omentum it has the bile-duct to the right and the vena portas behind. It divides into a right and left trunk, the branches of which enter the lobes together with invest- ments of Glisson's capsule. The right branch gives a twig to the gall-bladder. The branches of the hepatic are the pyloric to the lesser curvature of the stomach, to anastomose with the gastric ; and the gas- tro-duodenal, which, descending behind the first part of the duodenum, divides into right gastro-epiploic (which joins on the great curvature with the branch from the splenic), and the superior pancreatico-duo- denal, which winds round the head of the pancreas. This last-named