142 TJie PrcFvcrtchral Muscles artery, and between its insertion and the origin of the rectus anticiis major is the ascending cervical artery. The scalenus medius, the largest of the scaleni, arises from the upper surface of the first rib behind the groove for the subclavian artery, and at once begins to be inserted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes, beginning at the seventh and mounting to the axis. Relations.—It lies behind the scalenus anticus, from which it is separated below by the subclavian artery and the dome of the pleura, and above by the cervical nerves. Behind it are the scalenus posticus and the levator anguli scapulae. The nerve of Bell (p. 251), which is formed in the muscle, emerges from its outer surface. Tht scalenus posticus 2inses from the outer surface of the second rib, and, ascending a little way behind the last muscle, is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the two lowest cervical transverse pro- cesses. The scalene muscles incline the head and neck downwards and to the side, or, acting from above, help in inspiration. They are supplied by the anterior divisions of the lower cervical nerves. The rectus capitis a7iticus major arises from the same points of bone as those into which the scalenus anticus is inserted ; it is attached above to the basilar process of the occiput. It is supplied by the upper cervical nerves. In front of it are the pharynx, the sheath of the internal carotid with its contents, and the sympathetic cord. Appreciation,—The upper surface of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae are grooved for the comfortable transmission of the cervical nerves ; the borders of the grooves end externally in the anterior and posterior tubercles. The scalenus anticus is attached to the anterior tubercles, and the middle and posterior scaleni are attached to the posterior tubercles : therefore the cervical nerves emerge behind the anterior scalenus, and in front of the other scaleni. The origin of the anterior scalene is between two grooves upon the first rib, and, as, according to the rule, the veins above the dia- phragm lie in a plane anterior to the arteries, the subclavian vein is in front of, and the artery behind, the origin of the muscle. The phrenic nerve arises from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves, that is, upon the outer side of the scalenus anticus, and it must pass inwards to enter the thorax, and this it does in front of the muscle ; and, as the second part of the subclavian artery is behind the scalenus anticus, and the nerve descends upon the inner border of the muscle, it passes in front of the first part of the artery, but, to make its course as short as possible, behind the vein. The thyroid axis is given off in the first part of the subclavian artery, and its supra- and posterior scapular branches must needs pass outwards to their destination —they run in front of the anterior scalene and the phrenic nerve.