232 BrancJies of Subclavian Artery the skull through the foramen magnum, joining with its fellow to form the basilar. Relations of the root of the vertebral artery.—As the vessel comes off at the very beginning of the subclavian, it can be but a little distance upon the outer side of the common carotid : as the internal jugular vein descends upon the outer side of the carotid, and in front of the subclavian artery, it lies just in front of the vertebral artery. The scalenus anticus slopes upwards and inwards from the front of the second part of the subclavian to the anterior tubercle of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and the longus colli is resting upon the front of the vertebrae : therefore the vertebral artery ascends in the interval between those muscles. The thoracic duct, turning downwards and forwards to the con- fluence of the left internal jugular and subclavian veins, passes in front of the root of the vertebral, and the inferior thyroid also winds to the front. The vertebral vein, descending behind the end of the internal jugular, to open into the beginning of the innominate vein, is also to the front of the root of the vertebral artery. As the artery courses with the vertelDral vein through the trans- verse processes it passes across the emerging cervical nerves, the re- lative position of the structures being similar to the arrangement upon the first rib, that is, the vein is anterior and the nerves are posterior to the artery. Iiig-ation of the vertebral artery.—As the artery is ascending on the inner border of the narrow scalenus anticus, and as the outer border of that muscle corresponds to the outer border of the sterno- mastoid, a vertical incision of 2^ or 3 in. down that border of the sterno-mastoid must be only a little to the outer side of the vertebral artery. From the lower end of this incision a second is to be made inwards for about \ in. through the clavicular origin of the muscle. Then, after the dexterous use of the end of the director, the artery is exposed. The structures in danger are the phrenic and pneumogastric nerves, the internal jugular vein, and the pleura and lung. Bra7iches of the vertebral artery {spinal) enter with the roots of the spinal nerves to the cord and its membranes ; others pass out to the muscles and anastomose with the occipital, and with the deep and the ascending cervical arteries. Posterior me7iiiigeal branches ramify in the cerebellar dura mater, and posterior and anterior spinal descend along the medulla. The inferior (posterior) cerebellar is a good-sized artery. (The branches of the basilar are referred to on p. 43.) The vertebral vein begins outside the back of the skull and passes down through the cervical transverse processes, in front of the vertebral artery. Having traversed the sixth process, it descends on a plane anterior to the first part of the subclavian artery, to end in the back of the innominate vein. It may receive a tributary through the posterior