TJie Spinal Coin nut 206 the neck ; it may be dimly felt below, and just in front of the tip of the mastoid process. The transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra is easily made out at the root of the neck—the carotid tubercle (p. 23). lig-aments.—The bodies of the vertebrae are connected by the strong anterior and posterior common ligamc7its^ the posterior being- lodged within the spinal canal and separated from the central part of the body of each vertebra by the vena basis vertebrse. Between the bodies are discs offibro-cartilage^ the peripheral parts of which are fibrous, whilst the central parts are pulpy and elastic. The discs form about a fourth of the flexible part of the spine ; they are flattened by prolonged standing. Thus, when a man rises from the bed of sickness he is actually taller, perhaps by a third of an inch, than he was when he took to it. The height is also increased by the night's rest. The articular processes are connected by capsular ligaments and synovial 7nembranes, the laminae by the elastic ligame7ita subfiava^ the spinous processes by irtter- and supraspinous liga?ne?its, and the transverse processes by less important fibres. The atlas is cofinected with the axis by two capsular ligarnents and synovial membraries. The transverse ligament stretches behind the odontoid process from one lateral mass to the other, sending a slip up to the basilar process of the occiput, and one down to the back of the body of the axis ; thus its shape is cruciform. There is a synovial membrane between the odontoid process and the anterior arch of the atlas, and another between the process and the transverse part of the cruciform ligament. The transverse ligament is less likely to give way from violence than are the adjacent bones, but when it is softened by disease it may sud- denly yield; the head then falling forwards, the medulla is compressed against the back of the odontoid process, and sudden death results. In caries of the high cervical vertebrae absolute rest in bed is the only safe treatment. The two anterior atlo-axoid ligaments are really part of the anterior common ligament, and the posterior atlo-axoid is the repre- sentative of the ligamentum subflavum. Rotation is the only movement allowed between the atlas and axis ; their joints are supplied by the vertebral arteries and the second cervical nerves. The condyles of the occiput articulate with the atlas by capsular ligaments and synovial membranes, and in such a way as to permit of nodding movements only. (Thus, a dumb person expresses ' yes' at the occipito-atloid joint, and 'no'at the atlo-axoid.) The occipito- atloid joints are supplied by the suboccipital nerves (p. 143) and the vertebral arteries. The two anterior occipito-atloid ligaments represent the anterior