59 Motor Oculi same (the third) nerve. Also, when a near object is viewed, the rays faUing upon the eye are extremely divergent, and it is necessary that the lens be rendered more convex to focus them ; this is accomplished l3y the ciliary muscle, through the influence of the third nerve. Thus the third nerve has entire charge of the accommodation for near vision ; it converges the visual axes, contracts the pupil, and renders the front of the lens more convex, Dilatation of the pupil is affected by radiating muscular fibres in the iris under the control of the sympathetic. The influence of the sympathetic upon the pupil, it may be remembered, is exactly the reverse of that upon a blood-vessel—when it is stimulated the pupil is dilated, whereas a blood-vessel would be contracted. The 'Arg-yll Robertson pupil,' as a symptom of posterior spinal sclerosis, is thus explained : when the eye of a healthy man is directed upon a distant object the pupil is dilated, and when he looks at a finger, in front of his nose, for instance, the pupil is contracted ; also when the eye is in shadow the pupil is dilated, but under the influence of a bright light it contracts. In the case of the light, contraction of the pupil is reflex ; but in the former case it is effected in accommoda- tion {vide supra). Now, in sclerosis pupillary 7'eflex—the contrac- tion under the stimulus of light—is abolished, whilst the accommoda- tion-contraction remains. Many other reflexes in addition to those of the pupil are lost in locomotor ataxy as the result of degenerative changes in afferent fibres. When the third nerve is paralysed the upper eye-lid drops, the levator palpebrae being unable to hold it up. The condition is called ptosis (TTTcoais, a falling ; nLTTTO)), and, the internal rectus being thrown out of work, the external rectus holds the eye-ball in permanent abduction {divergent squint). The pupil is dilated and does not contract to light, and accommodation for near vision is impossible. Most of the muscles having relaxed their hold, the eyeball protrudes between the Xx^s—proptosis {npo, forwards, tttcogis, falling). It cannot be tilted upwards, inwards, nor downwards. Likely causes of the paralysis are syphilitic inflammation or deposit at the base of the brain, haemorrhage, tumour, and diphtheria. When it is due to a lesion near the Sylvian aqueduct the paralysis may be bilateral, and the fourth and the sixth nerves may be impli- cated in due course. The roots of origin of the third nerve may also be caught in a widely-spreading degeneration which causes labio-glosso- pharyngeal paralysis (p, 56). Bouble vision occurs when the recti act out of harmony, because the associated areas of the retinae cannot be simultaneously directed upon the object. No. 4.—The patheticus, a thread-like nerve, comes round the crus from its origin at the valve of Vieussens, and, passing along in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, and through the sphenoidal fissure.