134 TJie BroncJii in which the tube had been dashed right through the trachea and into the oesophagus!' The rig-ht bronchus {see also p. 194), about an inch long, slopes downwards and outwards in the root of the lung, to enter opposite the fifth dorsal vertebra. As the right lung is larger than the left (which has to make room for the heart), the right bronchus is the larger, and, having a greater intake of air, is the more apt to receive a foreign body. Because the right bronchus is larger than the left, the tracheal septum must of necessity be rather to the left of the median line. The vena azygos major arches over the right bronchus in its course to the superior cava. The left bronchus has to run across the front of the third part of the arch of the aorta before it can divide in the root of its lung. It is two inches long; its diameter is less than that of the right. It enters the lung opposite the sixth dorsal vertebra, about an inch lower than the right. It passes in the root of the lung beneath the aortic arch, and in front of the oesophagus (p. 139), the third part of the arch, and the left auricle. This last relationship is of considerable clinical interest, for when, under the influence of mitral regurgitation, that auricle is greatly dilated, it may obstruct the flow of air along the left bronchus. (For the structure of the bronchi see p. 195.) A foreig-n body in the bronchus may be extracted by appropriate forceps through a free opening made low in the trachea. For this purpose it will be well to stitch the edges of the tracheal wound to the skin as soon as bleeding has been arrested, so that the way into the bronchus may be made more direct and easy. If the foreign body were taken down at the end of an inspiration, the area of lung to which the bronchus led would be tideless but resonant, but after a while oedema and, perchance, suppuration would render it solid. If attempts at extraction failed, the body might escape through the tracheal wound, which should be stitched wide open ; or it might escape through a localised thoracic abscess ; the pulmonary and costal pleura: having become adherent, pneumothorax might not ensue. The Thyroid Gland The thyroid gland consists of lateral lobes connected across the second and third rings of the trachea by the isthmus. The outer sur- face of the lateral lobes is convex ; their inner aspect is fitted on to the side of the upper four or five rings of the trachea, the cricoid cartilage, and the lower part of the thyroid cartilage. Often the isthmus extends up to the level of the cricoid cartilage. A slender pyramidal lobe sometimes mounts from the isthmus to the hyoid bone. Sometimes the isthmus is very wide and descends almost to the sternum—the tracheotomist should always endeavour to operate above the isthmus.