CEsopJiagus 140 front of the oesophagus, and the thoracic aorta is to its left, but as the large artery passes through the back of the diaphragm it is behind the gullet, and slightly to its right side. In the abdonieji the oesophagus runs a short and unimportant course, being covered in front and behind by peritoneum ; in front also is the left lobe of the liver. Structure.—The muscular coat consists of external longitudinal and internal circular fibres, which, being continuous with the fibres of the inferior constrictor above, are striated. Lower down, the muscle is a mixture of striated and pale fibres, and in the lower half of the oesophagus the fibres are entirely non-striated. From the lower end of the oesophagus the longitudinal fibres pass on as the longitudinal fibres of the stomach, the circular fibres of the oesophagus becoming the oblique upon the cardiac end of the stomach. The mucous inembrajie is extremely movable over the submucous coat, and it is usually thrown into temporary longitudinal folds or ruga;. The epithelium is thick and stratified. Supply.—(Esophageal arteries come from the mferior thyroid, the thoracic aorta, the intercostals, and, possibly, from the internal mam- mary, also from the phrenic and gastric arteries. The veins take a somewhat similar course. The lymphatics enter the cervical and posterior mediastinal glands. When cancer of the oesophagus, or even of the stomach, is suspected, the glands at the root of the neck should be examined. The ner'i)cs come from the two vagi and from the sympathetic ganglia in the thorax. Stricture of the oesophagus may be caused by the contraction ot a scar left after swallowing corrosive liquids, and by malignant disease. In either case the probang must be used with the greatest care, for the walls of the dilatation which always exists upon the buccal side of the obstruction are necessarily thin, and, being easily traversed, the instrument may then wander into the posterior mediastinum, the pericardium, or the pleura, and so determine a fatal inflammation. Malignant ulceration of the gullet may open into the pleura and determine the occurrence of pneumothorax and empyema. Sometimes oesophageal obstruction is due to the pressure of an aortic aneurysm, in which case rough instrumentation might cause an immediate and fatal haemorrhage. In malignant stricture gastrostomy (p. 223) has not proved a highly satisfactory procedure. Probably it will eventually be considered better surgery to pass a tube through the contraction before closure is complete, and to allow it to remain there, so that the patient may be fed with fluid nutriment, as recommended by Symonds. CEsophagrotomy may be needed for the extraction of a foreign body. The patient's shoulders are raised, his head is thrown back, and his face is turned to the right side. A three- or four-inch incision