320 The Stomach the hard masses fall against the lesser curvature and the cardiac end, and, irritating the pneumogastric, cause irregularity of the heart's action, palpitation, and faintness, or, perhaps, asthma. After an attack of vomiting the symptoms promptly subside. Structure.—The stomach and intestine consist for the most part of serous, muscular, submucous, and mucous coats. The muscular coats consist of pale fibres arranged longitudinally, and, more deeply, in a circular manner, the circular fibres being aggregated to form the pyloric sphincter above and the internal sphincter ani below. On the stomach the longitudinal fibres (continuous above and below with those of the oesophagus and duodenum) are chiefly along the two curvatures. The oblique fibres are deeply placed at the cardiac end and are continuous with the circular fibres of the oesophagus. The stomach is invested front and back by peritoneum, which comes down in the gastro-hepatic omentum and is continued from the lower curvature as great omentum. The mucous membrane from the cardiac orifice of the stomach to the anal part of the rectum is lined with columnar epithelium ; columnar epithelioma is, therefore, the variety of malignant disease generally associated with the alimentary canal. When a piece of intestine is wounded, as in a stab in the abdomen, the mucous membrane bulges through the wound in the serous and muscular coats and so plugs the opening. The arteries of the stomach come from the gastric, splenic (vasa brevia and left epiploic), and hepatic (pyloric and right epiploic). The veins are tributaries of the portal vein and run chiefly along the greater curvature. They are often found much congested after death ; such venous fulness is very different from the widely-spread congestion of the capillaries found after irritant poisoning, and may be recog- nised on opening the stomach and holding it up to the light. The nerves are the pneumogastrics, and branches of the solar plexus ; the left pneumogastric passing chiefly to the anterior surface. The lym- phatics end in glands along the curvatures, and are associated with the mediastinal glands, and indirectly also with those of the root of the neck (p. 140). Gastric catarrh interferes with digestion and causes a feeling of fulness in the region of the stomach. The food undergoes decom- position in the stomach, gas being evolved, and the patient is worried with eructations, oppressed breathing, and cardiac disturbance, the diaphragm being raised by the distended stomach. The inflammation is chiefly along the greater curvature, so that discomfort occurs im- mediately food is taken into the stomach ; whereas, in the case of gastric ulcer, the lesion is probably near the lesser curvature, so that pain does not come on so quickly after the meal. Though it is often difficult to differentiate between catarrh and ulcer, an important sign is that pain occurs only when food is in contact with the ulcer, so that