i8 The Bones of the Head fossa and drilling upwards and inwards ; but if the first or second molar be decayed it may be extracted, and the cavity opened by passing a gimlet up the emptied socket. Maligttant disease often attacks the superior maxilla, and, entering the antrum, grows at a great pace : advancmg upwards, it raises, pushes forward, and disorganises the eyeball; downwards, and it implicates the palate and loosens the teeth ; inwards, and it blocks the nostril, and, backwards, the pharynx. The only treatment likely to avail is exci- sion of the superior maxilla. This operation is performed by making an incision from the inner corner of the orbit down the side of the nose, round the ala, traversing its cartilage, and through the middle of the upper lip, the coronary artery being promptly secured. From the top of the incision another is made horizontally outwards along the lower margin of the orbit, and through the periosteum, which is then easily raised from the floor of the orbit. The thick, irregular flap of the cheek is turned outwards. The malar bone is then sawn across, and the nasal process of the superior maxilla divided with bone nippers. The central incisor having been previously extracted, the palate pro- cesses of the palate and superior maxilla are nipped through, the soft palate having been detached, and the loosened bone is then caught with lion forceps and twisted out, the second division of the fifth nerve and branches of the internal maxillary artery being torn across during that procedure. The soft palate remains behind. So also may the periosteum of the orbit, the latter structure playing a useful part in the subsequent sup- port of the eyeball. Indeed, after some weeks, if all go well, the chasm is so filled up by contractions that there is little to indicate that so serious an operation has been performed, the eye-ball keeping its place. During the operation the following structures are divided: the orbicularis oris, coronary artery, and labial mucous membrane ; lateral nasal branches of the facial artery and vein, and branches of the infra- orbital nerve passing to the nose ; the muscles which depress and dilate the nostril. In raising the upper part of the flap the orbicularis palpe- brarum, levator labii superioris, and levator anguli oris would be cut, together with the infra-orbital nerve and artery, the angular branches of the facial vessels, and branches of the facial nerve supplying the muscles. The periosteum of the floor of the orbit and the origin of the inferior oblique would be detached and raised. The more distant structures detached are the buccinator; the soft palate with the expansion from the tensor palati ; the superior maxillary nerve in front of the fora- men rotundum, and posterior palatine and dental branches of the nternal maxillary artery. The muco-periosteum of the hard palate is, of course, taken away with the bone. When the maxillae are narrow, ' V-shaped,' the palatine arch is contracted and the teeth appear in great disorder. Not seldom, moreover, the deformity is associated with mental deficiency.