276 The Arteries of the Fore-arm on the insertion of the pronator radii teres. The radial nerve will probably not yet have joined company with the artery, or it may be approaching it from the outer side, deeply hidden beneath the supi- nator. The needle should be passed from the outer side, so as to make sure of not taking up the nerve. I7i the middle third of the fore-arm an incision made in the course of the artery falls to the inner side of the supinator, and exposes the vessel in the interval between that muscle and the flexor carpi radialis. The artery is still between its venae comites, with the nerve close on the outer side. From that side, therefore, the needle should be passed. Near the wrist the artery is quite superficial, lying along the middle of the hollow between the tendons of the flexor carpi radialis and supinator longus ; the latter, however, can hardly be made out as it is approaching its insertion into the styloid process. A two-inch in- cision being made through the thin skin and superficial fascia, the deep fascia is divided on a director, and the artery is at once exposed, together with its venae comites. The nerve has long since left the artery to pass beneath the supinator longus towards the back of the hand and fingers. At tbe outer side of the wrist, the radial artery winds beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, over the external lateral ligament, and over the scaphoid and trapezium. It lies beneath the integument and fascii«, and beneath branches of the radial vein and of the radial and musculo-cutaneous nerves in the hollow (often called the a7iato- inisfs smiff-box)^ which is bounded above by the styloid process, below by the root of the first metacarpal bone, externally by the prominent tendons of the extensors ossis and primi, and internally by the oblique tendon of the secundi. The course of the artery is shown by a line from the tip of the radial styloid process to the inner side of the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. The vessel is rather deeply placed. The branches given off here are posterior carpal, the first dorsal interosseous, or metacarpal, the dorsales pollicis, and the dorsalis indicis. They are all small branches, and their courses are suffi- ciently indicated by their names. The first dorsal interosseous artery, like the others, is joined at the root of the space by a perforating branch of the deep palmar arch, and at the cleft it turns forward to communicate with the digital branch of the superficial arch. Ligation may be performed by a i| in. incision downwards from the styloid process ; branches of the radial vein and nerve are divided with the superficial fascia. The artery is found between its com- panion veins. The vessel is somewhat deep and inaccessible in this hollow, and the operation for its ligation there is not so desirable as at the front of the wrist. In the palm, the radial artery crosses the roots of the meta- carpal bones ; it has entered between the heads of the first dorsal