334 TJie Abdominal Viscera intestines, the liver is pushed up into and hidden in the dome of the diaphragm. Ordinarily the liver-dulness extends to the eighth rib at the side of the chest, and, on account of the slope of the ribs, to the sixth rib near the sternum; near the spine, where the base of the lung comes well down, the tenth rib marks the upper border of liver-dulness. At the side of the chest the lower limit of dulness is the tenth or eleventh rib. In emphysema the dull area is much diminished because of the liver being shrouded by lung. In the case of enlargement of liver, with ascites, Sibson used to teach us to find the liver through the fluid by what he called 'dipping,' that is, suddenly thrusting the tips of the fingers into the depths of the right infra-costal region—splashing the fingers through the fluid. A liver, uniformly enlarged, grows downwards, dropping by its own weight, as it were ; but when its upper surface is the seat of hydatid or malignant tumour, or abscess, it raises the diaphragm and the thoracic viscera, and pushes the heart towards the left. Relations.—The upper surface, smooth and convex, is directed a good deal forwards, so as to lie against the six or seven lower ribs and the abdominal wall; its chief extent, however, occupies the phrenic vault. And thus it happens that hydatid cyst or abscess is apt to burst into pleura and lung. To the upper surface the base of the falciform ligament is attached ; through the free border and the depths of that ligament the umbilical vein, or round ligament, reaches the transverse fissure. Probably the liver is placed between the diaphragm and the ab- dominal walls so that the movements of respiration may stimulate its circulation. Certainly it often happens that when a free-living man is suddenly laid on his back—say on account of a broken thigh-bone — the portal circulation becomes congested, ' biliousness' resulting. Though usually hidden behind the ribs, the lower border of the liver may descend within touch of the fingers on a deep inspiration being taken, and in the epigastric region, even after expiration, its border, overlapping the stomach and colon, may give a dull percus- sion-note. It is also thrust down in the case of emphysema, hydro- thorax, and other conditions involving distension of the right side of the thorax ; and from tight-lacing it may descend even to the iliac fossa. In hydatid or other tumour of the fiver a more or less rounded mass descends with inspiration ; the very weight of the liver, more- over, keeps the area of dulness depressed. But when the right lobe is implicated in abscess or hydatids the dull area ascends, the right lung is encroached upon, and the heart is pushed upwards and to the left. On the other hand, in phthisis and in collapse of lung the liver ascends, so that even the right hypochondriac region is resonant on account of the encroachment of inflated bowel. When the peritoneal covering of the liver is roughened by inflam-