504 Deformities of Foot Talipes valgus is not the same as flat-foot; it is that condition in which the outer border of the foot is drawn up by contracted peroneal tendons. The condition is rare ; and rarer still is that in which the peroneal tendons need division. Obviously it is wrong to divide the tendon of the peroneus longus in mere flat-foot, for, as remarked above, that tendon does much in supporting the arches of the foot. Students often experience a difficulty in remembering which is talipes varus and which is valgus. They should think of the well- known condition of knock-knee, or genu valgum, for genu valgum is constantly associated with the flat-foot, the inner arch of the instep having sunk ; flat-foot is also called spurious talipes valgus. Talipes vtwus is the opposite condition^ in %vhich the inner border of the foot is drawn up a7id the patiejtt walks on its outer side. Often in talipes varus corns form over the external malleolus, the cuboid, and the base of the fifth metatarsal bone ; in those places also bursse may be developed and become inflamed. Every new-born child has a little ' varus,' for this was the position of the foot in iitero. Talipes calcaneus is the reverse of talipes equinus. In the former condition the tibialis anticus and its associates may require division; in simple equinus Achilles-tenotomy may suffice. The latter operation is common enough, the former is rarely needed. In paralysis of the calf-muscles the heel may drop from stretching of the tendon of Achilles, the patient becoming the subject of/<rzr<2/y/zV calcaneus. In this condition an oblique segment may be removed from the tendon, the cut surfaces being then spliced. In equinus the first phalanx of the great toe, and the first phalanges of the other toes, to a certain extent, are drawn up towards the dorsum of the foot and even partially dislocated backwards. The reason of this is that when the heel is elevated the toes are pointed down, and, the distance between the origin and insertion of the long extensors of the toes being increased, whilst the muscles themselves are not lengthened, the toes are drawn into the position of extreme extension. The long flexor still holds down the ungual phalanx. If the foot be forcibly flexed the position of the toes is at once improved, if not corrected. Pes cavus is a rare congenital deformity, in which the heel is drawn up by a contracted tendo Achillis, whilst the plantar fascia shortens the foot and exaggerates the arch of the instep. In pes cavus the tendon of Achilles and the plantar fascia may require division. Hammer-toe is a congenital deformity in which the first phalanx of (generally) the second toe is drawn back, whilst the middle and ungual phalanges are flexed. Thus the angle of the first inter- phalangeal joint forms a prominent' knee' which is constantly pressed