' L7ixation of Scapula ' -241 The subclavian fossa corresponds to the interval between the borders of the pectoralis major and deltoid at their clavicular origin ; the greater the muscular development, the narrower this crevice. In its depths may be felt the apex of the coracoid process, to the thoracic aspect of which the narrowest part of the pectoralis minor is passing. The second part of the axillary artery is beneath the lesser pectoral, the first part being between its upper border and the outer edge of the first rib. To the inner side of the artery is the vein, and to the outer are the two cords of brachial plexus. The serratus mag-nus arises by nine digitations from the eight upper ribs, and, hugging the chest-wall, is inserted into the thoracic aspect of the vertebral border of the scapula. The muscles bounding the axilla anteriorly and posteriorly enclose it in front and behind, and the axillary vessels and the cords of the plexus, in their passage from the root of the neck, cross over the highest part of the muscle. Its ne7'-ve-supply is from the 77erve of Bell (p. 251), which descends upon its axillary surface. The action of the muscle is to steady the shoulder-blade, to draw it forwards, and to keep its vertebral border and inferior angle close against the chest. In paralysis of the muscle the angle of the scapula projects like a rudimentary wing, and the fingers can be thrust up between it and the chest-wall almost to the glenoid cavity. This condition was formerly called ' luxation of the scapula.^ Over-action of the muscle is the usual cause of the paralysis—I have met with it in a nurse who spent most of her time in rubbing an old lady with chronic pleurisy, and in a girl who was skipping all day long. When the patient is told to raise the arm over the head the scapula is drawn upwards and inwards by the elevator and by the rhomboids, for there is nothing to keep it down to the side ; and, as the shoulder-blade cannot be rotated, the superior angle fails to be tilted upwards and the attempt at raising the arm fails. The deltoid arises from the front of the clavicle, the acromion process, and the lower border of the spine of the scapula, and is in- serted halfway down the outer surface of the humerus. It is supplied by the circumflex nerve and is sometimes paralysed after dislocation of the humerus ; the power of abduction being then lost. Relations.—It is covered by the skin and fasciae. Its inner border rests against the outer edge of the pectoralis major, and in the groove between these muscles lie the cephalic vein and the descending branch of the acromial thoracic artery. Beneath it is a large bursa which separates it from the shoulder-joint. The deltoid covers also the coracoid process and its muscles, namely the pectoralis minor, coraco-brachialis, and short head of biceps ; the coraco-acromial ligament ; the upper end of the humerus with the subscapularis inserted into the inner (lesser) tuberosity, and the supra- and infra- spinatus and the teres minor into the greater ; the bicipital groove, R