L ateral L itJwtoviy 444 makes a little stab—in the middle line of the perineum, just behind the base of the scrotum and the bulb, and three-quarters of an inch, more or less, according to the size of the patient, in front of the anus. He cuts freely backwards and outwards, through the left ischio-rectal fossa, to halfway between anus and tuberosity. Thus far he has wounded skin, superficial layer of superficial fascia, and deep layer, a few branches of the superficial perineal vessels and nerves, and many twigs of the inferior haemorrhoidals, and also the transverse vessels and nerve. After this he cuts towards the groove of the staff through the anterior part of the wound, dividing a few of the posterior fibres of the accelerator urinse, the base of the triangular ligament, and within it the compressor urethras and the urethra itself. The point of the knife being lodged in the groove, he slides the blade into the bladder, slicing part of the left lobe of the prostate and its investment of recto-vesical fascia, and dividing some of the prostatic fibres of the levator ani, some of the prostatic plexus of veins, and the neck of the bladder. Sometimes the common ejaculatory duct is also wounded. The neck of the bladder being opened, urine escapes from the wound; so the surgeon lays down the knife, puts the index-finger on the naked staff in the membranous urethra, and artfully works it into the bladder, dilating the wound in the process. He touches the stone. Then he has the staff withdrawn, and, taking out the finger, he intro- duces the lithotomy forceps, and catches and withdraws the stone through the axis of outlet of the pelvis. He then re-introduces his finger to see that there is not a second stone, and, bleeding having well-nigh ceased, the patient's legs are brought down and he is taken back to bed. Cautions.—First, the surgeon must not stab the perineum too far forwards or he will wound the vascular erectile tissue of the bulb; in tailing off the first incision he must not cut against the wall of the ischio-rectal fossa or he will wound the internal pudic vessels and nerve; and he must not bring the incision too far inwards or he will cut a hole in the wall of the rectum, which here is bulging over the fossa. His deep incision must not be too limited or the staff will not be sufficiently laid bare, and, in trying to introduce his finger into the bladder (itself unopened), he may tear the urethra across, and push the prostate and bladder bodily up into the pelvis. This is a frightful calamity, and a not infrequent cause of ' blank lithotomy.' On the other hand, he must not use the knife too freely, lest he cut through the whole length of the prostatic lobe, and, widely wounding its fascial investment, lay the ischio-rectal fossa, the neck of the bladder, and the interior of the pelvis into one large space. Thus urinary infiltra- tion and a fatal celluHtis and peritonitis would probably be set up. On account of the high pelvic position of the bladder in boyhood, lateral lithotomy is not an easy operation. To obtain confidence and