The Testis 430 process up to the external ring; the swelling being conical or hour- glass-shaped. It will differ from the variety just described, in that the fluid cannot be squeezed up into the peritoneal c£ivity. This is the infantile hydrocele. If the funicular process be obliterated both at its abdominal and testicular end, but, remaining pervious between these spots, become filled with accumulating serum, a firm oval or round swelling appears in the course of the cord. This is encysted hydrocele of the cord. Sometimes the swelling is, from extreme distension, as hard as is the testicle which hangs below it; and it is often just about the size of that gland. It is then apt to be mistaken for a third testicle ; a puncture by a grooved needle at once explodes the fallacy and removes the swelling. The cyst does not contain spermatozoa, for it has no association with the testis, being a derivative from the peritoneum. If the cyst be as large as a pigeon's egg, diagnostic aid may be obtained by the light-test. As the funicular process descends in front of the cord, a congenital hydrocele or hernia has the cord behind it. The finger shows the external abdominal ring to be clear, and thus distinguishes the encysted hydrocele of the cord from a hernia; but if the cyst be situated within the inguinal canal, the diagnosis may be difficult. The history of the case shows that the swelling is not a strangulated hernia; and, as in the other case, puncture with a fine grooved needle solves the question. Encysted hydrocele in the ca7ial of Nuck (p. 391) is met with every now and then. The commonest variety of hydrocele is that in which fluid collects in, and distends, the isolated tunica vaginalis. The swelling is pear- shaped, the stalk growing towards the external abdominal ring. The testicle is, of course, towards the back of the cyst; but, in tapping, it is more important to know where it is not, than where it is. Ksematocele.—Sometimes in tapping a hydrocele a branch of vein (spermatic?) is wounded, and blood oozes into the serous cavity and quickly refills the sac ; but this time the cyst is opaque. Structure.—The testis is composed of tubular gland tissue packed in a tough, fibrous envelope, the tunica albicginea. Outside this is the visceral layer of the tunica vaginalis, whilst upon its inner side, and also supported upon the trabeculge which pass from its interior to the fibrous septum at the back of the gland, is a close interlacement of blood-vessels, which constitute the tunica vascidosa. A fibrous partition—the corpus Highmorianum^—separates a small piece at the back from the rest of the gland. The somewhat conical spaces are occupied by masses of coiled tubes, the lobuli testis, from which straight vessels (vasa recta) convey the secretion to the network of tubes behind the partition, the rete testis. From the rete the vasa efferentia convey the semen through the upper part of the gland- capsule into conical masses of tubes, the coni vasculosi, which make