TJic Thorax 152 not oblique, and that the zone of anaesthesia in fracture of the spine is horizontal. The diaphragrm, an important muscle of inspiration, arises from the back of the xiphoid, the inner surfaces of the lower six ribs (where it interdigitates with the transversalis), and, posteriorly, from the arcuate ligaments. It also arises by two pointed crura, of which the right descends rather lower than the left, namely, to the fourth lumbar vertebra. Roughly, the attachment of the phrenic plane may be marked by a line extending obliciuely round the trunk from base of the xiphoid cartilage to the last rib. According to Sibson, the central tendon descends about an inch during inspiration, and with it descend the superjacent, and attached, pericardium, the heart, and the base of the lungs. Sometimes, in an anaemic subject, with the descent of the heart and the ascent of the chest-wall during inspiration, the subclavian artery becomes so stretched over the edge of the first rib that a bruit is heard there, the radial pulse being lost at the very end of inspiration. That the b7^iiit is not the result of subclavian aneurysm is proved by causing the patient to cease breathing after expiration, when the murmur disap- pears and the radial pulse returns. The openijigs in the diaphragm are the osseo-aponeurotic notch in front of the twelfth dorsal vertebra for the aorta, vena azygos major, thoracic duct, and left sympathetic ; a tendinous one between the right and central leaflets for the vena cava ; and a third, an oval one, for the oesophagus and the vagi : this is muscular, being formed by the decussation of the inner fibres of the crura. Just on the outer side of the xiphoid there is an irregular gap in the diaphragmatic fibres through which the superior epigastric artery descends and some hepatic lymphatics mount to the mediastinal glands. By this space also a diaphragmatic hernia may escape, and through it the subperitoneal connective tissue joins that of the anterior mediastinum. Along this loose tissue an anterior mediastinal abscess may find its way into the epigastric region. Because of the upward extension of the abdominal cavity within the circle of the ribs, the liver, stomach, spleen, and kidneys might almost be counted as thoracic viscera. In fracture of the lower ribs the pleura and lung, as well as the peritoneum, liver, spleen, and kidney, may be lacerated by broken bone. Paralysis of the diaphragrm embarrasses all the expulsive efforts, and leaves respiration and vocalisation to be carried on almost entirely by the intercostals. In healthy inspiration the ribs ascend and the diaphragm is de- pressed, the abdominal viscera being pushed downwards and forwards ; but, the diaphragm being paralysed, when the patient takes a breath the ribs ascend as usual, but the abdominal muscles, taking advantage