TJie Uterus 396 The spinal column bent this way or that does not necessarily want a support, nor does the womb. In anteversion the finger in the vagina fails to find the cervix at first, but eventually makes it out high up, and directed so much backwards that the os lies against the posterior vaginal wall. Through the anterior wall the finger detects the body of the uterus running- forwards as a firm ridge towards the pubes, the fundus pressing against and irritating the bladder. The patient lying on her back, the uterus may be pushed up by the finger through the front of the vagina, and by the other hand working over the pubes. To keep it then in position, the patient must lie constantly supine ; the bladder may be kept full and a binder applied. If necessary, a uterine support (a pessary) may be worn. It should not be left too long in position, or it may cause ulceration. A pessary has been known quietly to work its passage into the rectum, bladder, or uterus. In anteflexion the fundus is bent forwards, with the result, if the flexion be extreme, of irritating the bladder; otherwise the symptoms may be only those due to the impeded escape of the uterine fluids— dysmenorrhoea. The displacement is apt to follow extensive rupture of the perineum, for the bladder, having thus lost much of its support, sinks, dragging with it the roof of the vagina and the uterus. It is said that the displacement sometimes occurs when a woman jumps from a height, carries too heavy a weight, or in some other way overtaxes the attachments of the womb. In retroversion the fundus impinges against the rectum, imped- In retroflexion the body is bent towards the sacrum, the fundus falling into Douglas' pouch, where it may be felt by the finger in the rectum or vagina ; the introduction of the sound shows that the mass is not a uterine tumour or a htematocele. Retroversion. (Farre.) ing defascation and causing tenesmus. Retroversion is apt to be found in women who have borne children, and especially so if, after labour, they have been too highly and persistently bandaged and kept too long lying supine. The con- dition is detected both by vaginal and rectal exami- nation. In one case the pressure against the rectum was diagnosed as a 'malig- nant obstruction,' for the relief of which colotomy was most unfortunately performed.