265 Ligaments of Elbow the artery is found between its venfe comites, on the inner side of the biceps tendon and close to the outer side of the median nerve. The needle is passed from the inner, the nerve-side. Far to the inner side is the pronator radii teres. Collateral circulation.— If the artery be tied above the origin of the superior profunda—that is, close below the ending of the axillary artery—the superior profunda brings in blood from the well-filled branches of the posterior circumflex, and thirsty muscular branches help by their anastomoses with unnamed muscular branches which are then given off in abundance directly or indirectly from the axillary. If the ligature be applied below the origin of the superior profunda and above that of the inferior, the latter vessel will bring blood into the empty trunk by its anastomosis with the former in the neighbour- hood of the internal condyle. Empty muscular branches will bring blood from unnamed and countless full ones ; and the anastomotica magna, the posterior ulnar recurrent, and the radial and the inter- osseous recurrents will also return blood from the superior profunda. If the ligature be below both profundje, the collateral circulation will be maintained by muscular branches, as before, and by the empty anastomotica magna, the anterior and posterior ulnar recurrents, and the radial and interosseous recurrent returning blood from the well- filled branches of the profundae near the elbow-joint. The Elbow Joint The elbow-joint is formed by the humerus, ulna, and radius, and the only movements there permitted are flexion and extension. It is a pure hinge-joint. The movements of pronation and supination take place at the superior radio-ulnar joint, and, though the head of the radius may then be touching the capitellum of the humerus, still these movements must not be considered as movements of the elbow-joint. As over-flexion is checked by the soft part of the fore-arm and arm coming into mutual contact, and as over-extension is stojDped by the olecranon process impinging" against its fossa in the humerus, the anterior and tJie posterior ligaments are thin and mechanically un- important. The former is attached to the humerus above the level of the coronoid fossa, and below to the coronoid process and the orbicular ligament. The posterior descends from above the olecranon fossa to the border of the olecranon process. The internal lateral ligament is a strong triangular bundle, the apex of which is attached to the internal condyle of the humerus, whilst the base spreads into the borders of the coronoid and olecranon processes. external late7'alliga?nent s]y\-\ngs from just beneath the external condyle, and is blended below with the orbicular ligament.