Lachrymal Apparatus 76 have a characteristic, hour-glass shape, on account of its bulging above and below the tendo oculi, while its middle is constricted by the un- yielding tendon. A lachrymal fistula may follow its evacuation ; st?'icture of the nasal duct, the result of chronic inflammator)' thickening, is generally associated with the fistula. The treatment of the stricture consists in slitting up the inferior lachrymal canal, and thus finding an entrance for a special probe into the sac. Before slitting up the canal, the lower lid should be drawn firmly outwards so that the canal may be made straight and direct. False passages may be made by the unscien- tific use of the probe, through the lachrymal bone and into the ethmoid, or between the cheek and the maxilla. The nasal duet, ^ in. long, descends in the groove in the maxillary and the lachrymal bones, and against the inferior turbinated, to open into the inferior meatus. Its direction is downwards, with a slight in- clination outwards and backwards ; it is the unobliterated part of the orbital fissure {v. p. 123) which ran from the side of the fronto-nasal process through the mouth and into the orbit. The sac and the duct are composed of fibrous tissue, and have a mucous lining which is carpeted with columnar ciliated epithelium, like that of the nose. THE ORBIT The long axes of the orbits diverge considerably, so that the field of vision may be extended laterally. The inner wall is straight from before backwards, but the outer wall runs outwards as well as forwards ; this slope is taken advantage of in enucleation of the eye-ball, the curved scissors being passed along the outer wall so as more easily to divide the optic nerve. Bou7tdaries.—The floor is formed of the superior maxilla and the malar and palate iDones ; the roof by the frontal and the lesser wing of the sphenoid. The i7iner wall is composed of the nasal process of the maxilla, the internal angular process of the frontal, lachrymal, os planum of ethmoid, and body of sphenoid ; and the outer wall of the malar, the external angular process of the frontal, and the great wing of the sphenoid. The roof is extremely thin, and if a child fall with a pencil upright in his hand the point may be driven through into the anterior lobe of the brain. In chronic hydrocephalus (p. 56) the fluid within the lateral ventricles pushes down the frontal lobes and the roofs of the orbits until they bulge into the orbits and thrust forwards the eye-balls. The inner wall is also thin, and in roughly attempting to introduce a style into the nasal duct a clumsy manipulator may thrust it into the ethmoid