208 TJie Spinal Column towards the right. The chest on that side, therefore, is 'full,' but on the left the ribs are crowded together and the lung space is diminished ; such a diminution may happen after em- pyema, when the lung is permanently collapsed. But, as a rule, the curvature is caused by an uneven transmission of weight down the spine, especially in girls who are outgrowing their strength, and who sit or stand long at lessons or work. The muscles growing tired, the girl arranges her pos- ture so that the ligaments, fascice, and articular processes, which are incapable of feeling fatigue, may bear the strain. Often the curvature is caused by a difference in the length of the legs causing the pelvis to be tilted. In addition to this lateral bending there is a strange rotation of the affected vertebrae, the spinous processes being tilted sideways into the concavity of the lateral curve. The proper way of dealing with the ordinary case of lateral curvature is to keep the girl as much as possible in the fresh air, and to make her strengthen her flabby muscles by exercises such as her brothers delight in ; by not allowing her to resume the vicious lolHng attitudes, and by employing massage and special gymnastics. The worst 'treatment' is to lock her up in a ' spinal support.' When the lateral curvature is severe—that is when the bones have become misshapen and the girl's growth has ceased—the condition is past help. Spinal caries ; aug^ular curvature.—When the bodies of the ver- tebrae, destroyed by caries (ulceration), begin to fall together, the spinous processes are necessarily thrown backwards ; and if the disease be in the dorsal segment the processes, which in that region are already very prominent, stand out in a very conspicuous manner. But if the caries be in the cervical or lumbar region the falling together of the bodies is not at first accompanied by a corresponding projection of the spinous processes, because the neck-region and the loin-region of the spine are concave backwards. But instead of this the concavity is effaced. Thus, in the cervical and lumbar regions a straightness of the spine is as pathognomonic of vertebral caries as is the angular projection in the case of dorsal caries. In every case the disease is accompanied Lateral curvature; spinous processes rotated into concavities of curves, as at c and D. (Shaw.)