The IscJiio-Rectal Fossa 438 As tlie pus drains away the cavity contracts, until ii is represented only by a narrow, thick-walled passage—a fistula—which, if'complete,' opens both into the bowel and on to the buttock. Such a fistula has small chance of healing without operation, as at and after defaecation its walls are constantly being dragged asunder towards the anus by the sphincter, and from the anus by the levator. Gas may be driven from the rectum into an internal or a complete fistula, rendering the tissues of that neighbourhood emphysematous. The structures divided in the operation for fistula are the integument, the external sphincter ani, and the insertion of the levator ani (both muscles are striated); the longitudinal and circular fibres (internal sphincter) of the rectum (non-striated) ; the submucous and mucous coats, and branches of the inferior haemorrhoidal vessels and nerves. {See illustration on p. 440.) (Fistula near the anus may be due to caries of the spine, p. 211.) The internal pudic vessels and nerve run in a tubular sheath of the obturator fascia at a little more than an inch above the ischial tuberosity, giving off the inferior hasmorrhoidal branches which cross the base of the fossa to reach the neighbourhood of the anus. The artery is accompanied by the dorsal nerve of the penis and the super- ficial perineal branches. The levator ani arises from the back of the body of the pubes and from the inner surface of the ischial spine (below the origin of the coccygeus) ; and between these points it arises from the pelvic fascia where the oblique sheets are reflected downwards and inwards to the rectum and bladder, and to the anus {v. p. 363). Between the two levatores the rectum is suspended ; the muscles helping to form the inner wall of the ischio-rectal fossae and to close in the pelvic outlet. The muscle is inserted into the tip of the coccyx, and into the fibrous line leading from it to the anus ; into the side of the third piece of the rectum, between the pale fibres of its longitudinal coat and the striated fibres of the external sphincter; into the central tendon, and still more anteriorly into the side of the prostate. The most anterior part of the muscle is the levator prostata-. In the female the vagina passes between the levatores ani. Relatio7is,—The pelvic surface of the muscle is covered by the recto-vesical fascia, and lies against the rectum and prostate. Be- neath it are the anal fascia, the external sphincter, and the fat of the fossa. Its posterior border lies along the lower edge of the coccygeus. Supply.—Its vessels are derived from the inferior hcemorrhoidal; its nerves come from the internal pudic and the fourth sacral. The Perineum The outlet of the pelvis is diamond-shaped, the long axis extending from the pubic symphysis to the tip of the coccyx. Its antero-posterior