Axillary Fascia 239 having traversed the costo-coracoid membrane (p. 240), runs over the first part of the axillary artery to end in the highest part of the axillary vein. The cutaneous nerves,—In the pectoral region are supra-clavi- cular branches of the third and fourth cervical nerves, the endings of the intercostal nerves, and of their lateral branches. In the scapular region of the chest the cutaneous nerves come from the posterior divisions of the dorsal nerves, and from the lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostals. In the deltoid region are the acromial twigs of the supra-clavicular nerves, as shown on p. 145, and branches of the circumflex. Down the arm the superficial nerves come (on the inner side) from the intercosto-humeral, the internal and the lesser internal cutaneous, and the musculo-spiral; and, on the outer aspect, from the circumflex and musculo-spiral. {See Brachial Plexus, p. 249.) The intercosto-humeral nerve, the lateral cutaneous branch of the second intercostal, runs across the axilla to join the lesser internal cutaneous in the supply of the skin as far as the inner condyle. Im- plication of this nerve in cancerous invasion and in abscess of the axilla causes neuralgic pain along the inner side of the arm. The nerve is generally seen when the axilla is opened for the removal of cancerous lymphatics in scirrhus mammae. The axillary fascia is the deep and important layer which is continued from the front of the pectoralis major, across the floor of the space, and backwards over the latissimus dorsi. . It is attached above to the clavicle, and in front to the sternum and chest. At the lower border of the pectoralis major it becomes continuous with the fascial investment of the pectoraHs minor, and so, indirectly, with the costo- coracoid membrane and also with the sheath of the axillary vessels. Below the armpit it is continuous with the fascia around the arm. It is strong and well able to shut in an axillary abscess. The deep fascia of the arm surrounds the limb, and is continuous above with that covering the deltoid and pectoralis major. It is strengthened by slips from the insertions of the deltoid, pectoralis major, and latissimus dorsi, and gives off strong intermuscular septa to the condylar ridges and condyles. The inner of these septa is pierced by the inferior profunda and the anastomotica magna, the former vessel being accompanied by the ulnar nerve. The musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery pass through the outer septum. Below, the deep fascia of the arm is continuous with that of the forearm, and is attached to the olecranon process, but it is not attached to the head of the radius, or it would check its rotatory move- ments. The pectoralis major arises from the inner half of the clavicle, the front of the sternum and the adjacent costal cartilages, and from the aponeurosis of the external oblique. It is inserted into the outer