The Brachial Plexus 254 the ball of the little finger and of the muscular web between the meta- carpal bones of the thumb and index-finger (abductor indicis, adductor pollicis, and deep part of flexor brevis pollicis). All the metacarpal bones become extremely prominent on the back of the hand, on account of atrophy of the interosseous muscles. The patient is unable to wrinkle the skin on the inner side of the palm (palmaris brevis) to form the 'cup of Diogenes'; he cannot span (abductor minimi digiti); and he is able to bring the thumb towards the middle Hne of the hand only by the action of the flexor longus pollicis, the muscles of the first interosseous space being useless. The two inner fingers are ' clawed,^ or, as it is also called, en griffe —the two inner lumbricals and the interossei cannot flex the first pha- langes nor extend the second and third (273) ; so the common extensor keeps the first phalanges extended whilst the second phalanges are kept slightly bent by the flexor sublimis. When this deformity is extreme the metacarpo-phalangeal knuckles become hollowed, for the extensor tendon is drawing back the first phalanx, and the interossei and lumbricals are powerless to hinder it. The median is formed by two trunks, one from the inner, the other from the outer cord—fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and first—the two trunks join over the front of the third part of the axillary artery. The nerve then lies to the outer side of the axillary and the beginning of the brachial artery, and, crossing the latter in the middle of its course, is found, near the elbow, on its inner side, resting upon the brachialis anticus. It enters the fore-arm between the two heads of the pronator radii teres, and, crossing the ulnar artery, descends between the superficial and deep flexors of the fingers. Above the wrist, where the muscles are ending in tendons, the nerve is exactly in the middle line—between the flexor carpi radialis and the outermost tendon of the flexor sub- limis, under cover, but slightly to the inner side of the palmaris longus. It then passes beneath the annular ligament, and widens out prepara- tory to dividing into digital branches. In its course it supplies the pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor sublimis digitorum. It gives off the an- terior interosseous branch, which courses deeply, upon the membrane supplying the flexor longus pollicis, the outer part of the flexor profun- of the superficial flexor, under the protection of the palmar fascia, and gives branches for the three and a-half outer digits, which, with the exception of those for the thumb. dus, and the pronator quadratus. A palmar cutaneous branch also comes from the median ; it pierces the deep fascia, and descends over the annular ligament. I, Palmar branch; p, its filaments to_ pulp ; 3, its ungual twigs ; 4 and 5, distribution In the palm the median nerve is flattened ; it rests on the tendons on dorsal aspect.