The Mouth borders are fused with the ingrowmg maxillar)' parts, the fissure is exactly med'an. This condition, however, is extremely rare.^ The :: ^ , n for hare-Hp consists in freshing the sides of the cleft, freei .y -'e ...axiilary^ attachments of the lip, and adjusting the cleft by st:r .v; ^ r. I strapping, arrangements being made that the muscles do no-. :he ecees asunder. 1 he cheeks, like the lips, with which they are continuous, consist of skin and mucous membrane, with intervening muscular tissue, namely, buccinator, zygomatici, platysma, and masseter. They con- tain, also, a good deal of fat; and beneath the mucous membrane are minute salivarj'^ glands resembling those of the lips. On the mucous Uning of the cheek, opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw, is a flat papilla upon which is the opening of the parotid duct, which has just traversed the buccinator. To save himself the annoyance caused by the flow of saliva during certain dental operations, the dentist sometimes stufls a piece of cotton-wool between the upper jaw and the cheek so as to block the orifice of the duct. The buccinator arises from the alveolar process above the molar teeth of the upper, and belovr those of the lower jaw; and, posteriorly, in the -pace her-een the jaws, from a fibrous seam connecting the muse^e . hhe h .erhor.: of the superior constrictor—the pter^^go-maxillary ligament. Thu^: the roeuth is directly continuous with the phar)Tix. Action.—The hu:::r.ator helps the man to ' blow his own trumpet'; it is thus a muscle of expression, and is, therefore, under the control of the facial nerve. Its chief office is to gather up the half-chewed food which falls outwards from-bet^veen the molar teeth, and to push it again into the milL ^^^len the facial nen^e is paralysed the food persistently collects in the cheek, whence the patient has to dislodge it wnth his finger. So useless is the muscle in facial paralysis that there can be no manner of doubt that the branches which the muscle gets from the infer ' • r. u'llar)- nerve fp. 63) are but sensor}^ Relatic/::.—The e is covered by skin, superficial fascia, and the must e: h h :raw the angle of the mouth downwards, back- wards, : - : it is crossed b}^ the facial arter)^ and vein, and by h ; he- of the facial and buccal nen'es. Stenson's duct passes thiou-h it opposite the second upper molar. A good deal of fat is packed in between it and the anterior border of the masseter; in phthisis this is gradually consumed and the cheeks sink in. Behind the muscle is the phar^-nx ; in front is the orbicularis, and lining it is the mucous mer:-ht)rane of the mouth. Pteryg-o-maxillary lig-ament.—The Student is advised to pass the tip of his index-nnger behind, and a little to the inner side of, the last molar tooth, v%-here he will find a band beneath the mucous membrane. The more widely the mouth is opened, the tighter the • .See case rep orted by Bernard Pitts, Lancet, 1889.