The Upper Extremity 236 For compressing: the brachial artery the assistant should stand upon the outer side of the Hmb, and, passing the fingers round the biceps and just beyond the surface-groove, should drag and hook the artery with the tips of his fingers, and gently fix it against the bone. Very little force is needed, only it must be properly directed—outwards. At the back of the arm the triceps may be seen narro^ving into its insertion into the olecranon process. The course of the musculo-spiral nerve may be shown by drawing the chalk from below the posterior fold of the axilla downwards, backwards, outwards, and then forwards to the front of the external condyle. The condylar ridg-es descend from the middle of the shaft to the internal and external condyles ; the ulnar nerve may be felt as it passes along the back of the inner ridge to the space between the condyle and the olecranon. The inner ridge separates the biceps and brachialis at the front from the triceps behind. The outer ridge extends between the supinator longus and the long radial extensor, in front, and the triceps posteriorly. In a thin subject the internal intermuscular septum may be clearly made out. The external condyle is best examined on the forearm being fully extended, when it is found in a depression which is bounded on the inner side by the olecranon and the insertions of the triceps and anconeus, and on the outer side by the mass of the supinator longus and the extensors. In this depression, just below the condyle, is the prominent margin of the head of the radius, between which and the condyle is a transverse groove corresponding to the elbow-joint. In suspected fracture of the radius^ if there be no impaction of the fragments, the head of the bone does not rotate when the wrist is being pronated and supinated. The student should practise this method of examining the radius, the thumb or index-finger being pressed firmly against the radial head. A little above the internal condyle a small spur of bone is occasion- ally met with ; it projects downwards, and beneath it the brachial artery and median nerve may take an irregular course—as in the car- nivora. It may be felt beneath the skin, and should not be taken for an exostosis or any other morbid growth. To measure the lengrth of the arm, dot with ink the tip of each acromion process, and each external condyle of humerus, and then compare the two sides. To compare the forearms, dot the external condyles as before, and the tip of each radial styloid process, and then measure. Between the chest and the arm is the depression corresponding to the floor of the armpit; when the arm is raised the axillary fascia is tightened and the borders of the pectoralis major in front and the teres major and latissimus dorsi behind become prominent. When the arm is raised to the utmost, and the fingers are forcibly thrust towards