Biceps 243 simus dorsi and the dorsal surface of the inferior angle of the scapula. Like other bursas, it is liable to attacks of chronic inflammation, and to distension by accumulation of its fluid contents. The coraco-brachialis arises from the tip of the coracoid process and is inserted halfway down the inner surface of the humerus, opposite to the deltoid. It is supplied by the musculo-cutaneous nerve, which runs through it. Relatio7is.—It lies along the inner side of the biceps and the outer side of the axillary and brachial artery. It is covered by the deltoid and pectoralis major, and rests upon the muscles at the back of the axilla. The biceps arises by its short head with the coraco-brachialis, and by its long head from the top of the glenoid cavity, the tendon spread- ing out into the glenoid ligament. This tendon then winds over the upper end of the humerus, strapping it in its place, and, passing between the tuberosities, escapes beneath the capsule It carries with it a prolongation of the synovial membrane into the bicipital groove, along which an abscess in the joint may find its escape. The two heads of the muscle join below the middle of the arm. The insertion is into the back of the tuberosity of the radius, and a bursa, which is sometimes inflamed and filled with fluid, intervenes between the front of the tuberosity and the tendon. By this back- ward insertion the biceps becomes a powerful supi- nator. Its nerve-supply is from the musculo-cuta- neous. From the inner side of the tendon of the biceps a strong slip, the bicipital fascia, is given to join the deep fascia over the muscles arising from the inner con- dyle. This fascia lies be- neath the branches of the internal cutaneous nerve, and the median-basilic vein, and separates them from the subjacent brachial artery, as shown on p. 237. Relations. — Its upper end is covered by the del- toid and pectOraUs major. Osteo-arthritis ; biceps adhering to head of humerus. It rests on the muscles which form the floor of the axilla, and on the brachialis anticus and musculo-cutaneous nerve. Internally are the coraco-brachialis, median R 2