The Pleura descends, and, with it, the apex of the heart. At the same time the pericardium and heart are displaced towards the right, so that the apex-beat is felt in the epigastrium. If the heart be pushed still further to the right it has to glide up over the liver, and thus the apex-beat may be found in the fifth space, or even higher. When the effusion is into the right pleura the apex-beat is neces- sarily displaced towards the left. Pressure upon the vense cavse keeps them constantly full, but as soon as some of the fluid is withdrawn from the chest by paracentesis the superficial veins empty themselves, the aspect of the patient im- proves, and respiration is eased. Sometimes the chest is found full of fluid without there having been a pleurisy or any other disease to account for it; it is then probably caused by the pressure of a malignant tumour upon the veins and lymphatics. When the fluid is purulent the disease is called empyema (er, within ; -nvov^ pus), and the pleural abscess, for such it is, may discharge itself by a bronchus, into the peritoneum, or through the chest-wall about the fourth or fifth space, outside the nipple-line and below the border of the pectoralis major—a situation in which the chest-wall is apparently weak ; or it may work its way to the sternum between the planes of the intercostal muscles. Tappingr the chest is best done just in front of the angle of the scapula when the arm is by the side—through the middle of the fifth space. If the contents be purulent, and the space narrow, it may sooner or later be necessary to excise a piece of a rib, so as to ensure more room for drainage, the periosteum being raised by a raspatory, and the intercostal vessels being also turned out of the groove before the rib is cut with the nippers. If the opening were made through a low space —and especially if on the right side—there would be a risk of the diaphragm rising so high as to block the tube. Indeed, it has even happened that when an empyema has been incised too low down the diaphragm has also been traversed, and that omentum has escaped through the wound. When the pleura has been evacuated, the lung, if not permanently crippled, and bound down by adhesions, expands again. If it fail to recover, and a pleural fistula persist, the ribs may have to be divided in front of their angle, so that the side of the chest may collapse and the suppurating pleura may be obliterated. But if this be not done the obliteration may ultimately be effected by the rising of the diaphragm, by displacement of the heart and sound lung, by a falling in of the chest, and by lateral curvature of the spine ; the ribs become crowded together on that side, whilst they are expanded like a fan upon the sound side, the shoulder on the crippled side being depressed. The effacement of the former pleural space is effected by the formation of new fibrous tissue which has been developed out of the granulations sealing the space.