297 Superficial Fascia the spermatic cord the right and left sheets of the fascia are attached to the pubic crest nearer to the symphysis, blending with each other ; this layer also forms an investment for the penis ; on the scrotum and penis it joins with the more superficial layer of fascia, which there loses its fat and assumes non-striated muscular fibre instead. Some of its fibres pass into the suspensory ligament of the penis. When air is pumped, by the movements of expiration, beneath the deep layer of the superficial fascia upon the chest, as after the fracture of a rib, emphysema cannot descend beyond Poupart's ligament ; but if the air pass superficial to this layer the emphysema might extend down the thighs. When pus descends beneath this fascia it is guided to the penis and scrotum, and not to Scarpa's triangle. It is this deep layer of the superficial fascia which confines urine which is extravasated after the urethra has been ruptured in front of the triangular ligament. The urine cannot pass backwards into the ischio-rectal fossa, or on to the thighs, because of the attachment of the fascia to the base of the triangular ligament and the rami of the ischium and pubes. It passes, therefore, around the scrotum and penis, along the front of the spermatic cord, and up into the inguinal region. The firm connection of the fascia to Poupart's ligament and to the iliac crest prevents the fluid wandering down the front of the thigh or on to the buttock. (In making free incisions for the escape of the extrava- sating fluid, the surgeon must remember that a swelling along the cord may possibly be due to the presence of an inguinal hernia.) The anterior wall of the abdomen is freely movable over the viscera, and offers so little resistance that, in a l3uffer-accident, liver, stomach, intestine, or arterial trunk may be ruptured without the surface of the body showing any bruise or discoloration. Moreover, a blow in the epigastric region may be followed by immediate death without the supervention of either external or internal ecchymosis ; this result is probably due to concussion of the subjacent solar plexus. It is asserted that hospital nurses used occasionally to adopt a rough and ready method of abdominal compression in dealing with their hysterical patients, by sitting upon them. In the female this is supposed to affect the ovaries alone, but it is evident that the large abdominal plexuses are all more or less influenced by it. A house-surgeon should never refuse admission to the wards, at any rate for a time, to a person who has received injury to the abdomen ; it is impossible to say by outward inspection how serious it may be. After the integument of the abdomen has been over-stretched, as by an ovarian tumour, or pregnancy, it does not return to its original smooth condition, but remains permanently flecked by whitish scars called Itnecs albicantes. These marks are, therefore, evidence merely of antecedent distension of the abdomen, not necessarily of pregnancy. The umbilicus (diminutive of tunbo, boss of shield) is a fibrous cicatrix in the linea alba, opposite the third lumbar vertebra ; it is the