Lumbar Hernia 305 terior surface resting on the transversalis fascia. (For lme<z trans- verscB^ see p. 296.) When suppuration occurs in the substance of the rectus, the pus may be confined between two of the transverse intersections ; but if the abscess be below the level of the inferior segment the pus finds its way dovv^n towards the pubes. Pus between the planes of the ab- dominal muscles is directed towards the linea semilunaris and may there reach the surface, but it may work its way down to the iliac crest, or along the inguinal canal, and into the scrotum. The starting point of such abscesses is, usually, caries of the spine. The quadratus lumborum is placed between the anterior and middle layers of the lumbar aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle. Three of its sides are attached, namely, to the iliac crest, the lumbar transverse processes, and the last rib ; its outer border is entirely free, and is a landmark in colotomy and in certain operations on the kidney. In front of it are the diaphragm arising from the external arcuate ligament, the psoas, kidney, the ascending or descending colon (according to the side), the anterior trunk of the last dorsal nerve, the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves. The anterior divisions of the lumbar arteries, and the erector spinae, are behind it. Iiumbar hernia escapes on the outer side of the quadratus lum- borum, taking, in addition to the covering from the peritoneum and sub-peritoneal fat, the transversalis fascia ; it then causes a bulging of the transversalis and internal oblique muscles, or passes through their fibres, and escapes through the triangle oj Petif^ bounded below by the iliac crest, behind by the latissimus dorsi, and in front by the posterior border of the external oblique. I have just recently had under treatment a case of this sort, in which the hernia had emerged by the track of a lumbar (spinal) abscess. The tumour was resonant on per- cussion and reducible. Having returned it into the abdomen, I cut down to the aperture, approximating its edges by deep sutures, having thrust the sac within the abdomen. (' Brit. Med. Journal,' vol. i. i888.) The supply of the muscles of the abdominal wall is from the anterior divisions of the lower intercostal and of the lumbar nerves, notably by ilio-hypogastric, ilio-inguinal, and genito-crural. These nerves run between the inner oblique and the transverse muscles to the outer border of the rectus. The blood-vessels are branches of the intercostals and lumbar ; of the epigastric and circumflex iliac branches of the external iliac, and of the internal mammary. The lymphatics are tributaries of lumbar, pelvic, and mediastinal glands. The transversalis fascia covers the peritoneal surface of the ab- dominal wall ; it is distinct from the transversalis aponeuroses (p. 304). Lining the transversalis muscle, it is attached along the X