247 Axillary Artery mamma. The alar thoracic suppHes lymphatic glands as well as the chest-wall, and its branches are useful in the collateral circulation. The subscapular is a very large branch. It descends along the axillary border of the muscle which gives it its name, and at last reaches the chest-wall. It gives off a dorsal branch which passes on to the scapula under cover of the teres minor and the infra-spinatus to anastomose with the supra- and posterior scapular arteries of the thyroid axis. The circumflex arteries are named from their being ' bent around ' the surgical neck of the humerus. The anterior^ the smaller, passes outwards beneath the coraco-brachialis and biceps, and as it runs across the bicipital groove it sends a branch up to the shoulder-joint. It ends by anastomosing with xho, posterior circumflex, which emerges from the axilla through the quadrilateral space bounded by the humerus and the long head of the triceps at the sides, and the teres minor and major above and below. It supplies the shoulder-joint and the deltoid, and anastomoses with the preceding vessel, and, on the acromion process, with the acromial-thoracic and the supra- scapular. Collateral circulation after ligation of the first part of the axillary would be carried on as after ligation of the third part of the subcla- vian (p. 231) ; and after ligation of the lowest part of the axillary as after ligation of the brachial above the point of origin of the superior profunda (p. 265). The third part of tJie axillary artery may be reached and tied by abducting the arm and rotating it outwards. The vessel lies in the upward continuation of the brachial groove, nearer to the anterior axillary fold than the posterior, and along the inner side of the coraco- brachialis. A three-inch incision is made through the skin and superficial fascia from well up beneath the insertion of the pectoralis major down into the brachial groove. The deep fascia is divided on a direc- tor, the coraco-brachialis, which is the guide to the artery, being then looked for and followed down. Some more fibrous tissue is traversed by the director and forceps, and the median nerve is then turned out- wards, and the axillary vein is gently separated from the inner side. The internal cutaneous nerve may, perhaps, have to be drawn inwards ; the ulnar nerve will be hidden by the vein as it lies between the vein and artery, and it must be carefully excluded from the ligature, which is passed from the inner side. Sometimes a fleshy bundle passes from the latissimus dorsi over the artery, to be inserted with the pectoralis major ; this might possibly be mistaken for the coraco-brachialis, especially if the incision-wound were small. Varieties.—Occasionally the axillary gives off the radial or ulnar artery, or a slender vas aberraiis^ to join the radial or ulnar below the elbow. Sometimes a large branch runs by the side of the long