483 Popliteal Anciirysin articular branches, and with the anterior tibial recurrent. Each inferior articular artery lies beneath a head of the gastrocnemius. The ce7ttral articular, or asygos, pierces the iigamentum posticum. As their names imply, all these five arteries are for the nutrition of the articulation. The popliteal vein begins at the lower border of the popliteus, by the confluence of the venae comites of the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, and possibly also of those of the peroneal artery. At its commencement it is to the inner side of the artery, but as it as- cends between the heads of the gastrocnemius, and between the con- dyles of the femur, it lies superficial to, that is behind, the artery, and in the upper part of the space it is to its outer side. Its tributaries are the five articular, the external saphenous vein, and muscular branches —sural and crural. The popliteal lympliatic glands, four or five in number, are lodged in the loose connective tissue in the depths of the space, one of them being generally placed upon the artery, which thus, when in- flamed and enlarged, constitutes a pulsating tumour in the ham and may be mistaken for an aneurysm. The popliteal glands receive their lymph from the back of the leg, the outer side of the foot, and from the lower part of the back of the thigh. (Superficial lymphatic vessels usually run with the neighbouring superficial veins.) For the course and branches of the internal and external popli- teal nerves see pp. 380 and 381, and for the obturator nerve in the space see p. 359. Aneurysm of the popliteal artery is of common occurrence, for, as the artery is just behind the joint, it is constantly being bent and straightened ; and, with arterial disease, a sudden and violent move- ment of the knee is apt to crack the inner coats. The outer coat is then dilated, and a pulsating tumour occurs in the ham ; this is best examined when the patient is prone and the knee flexed, as the fascia lata is then slackened and the depths of the space are rendered acces- sible to the fingers. An enlarged lymphatic gland over the artery would also give rise to a pulsating tumour, which, like aneurysm, would be less prominent and would cease to pulsate, when the common femoral was compressed, but it would not give that lateral impulse which characterises aneurysm. The aneurysm may compress the vein, and so cause congestion, varix, and oedema of foot and leg, or even gangrene. Pressing upon the internal popliteal nerve, it may set up peripheral pams and numb- ness, and local insensibility. Causing stiffness of the knee, it is apt to be taken at first for ' rheumatism.' Finally it may burst into the joint, distending it with blood ; or its contents may be extravasated from the popliteal space into the back of the thigh and leg. When the artery bursts, pulsation ceases at the knee and in the posterior 11 2