10 Muscles of Head and Neck cross the floor of the triangle upon the first rib, and above the artery the trunks of the cervical nerves slant down for the brachial plexus. In front of the artery is the scalenus anticus, and behind the nerves is the scalenus medius. Some lymphatic glands lie in the space ; they are apt to be enlarged in malignant disease of the mamma, oesophagus, and also of thestomach. The anterior triang-le is crossed obliquely by the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid and by the posterior belly of the digastric, and is thus divided into three triangles, which are named, from above downwards, the submaxillary, and the superior and the inferior carotid triangles. The submaxillary triang-le is bounded above by the lower border * of the jaw, and by a line drawn from its angle to the mastoid process ; below by the posterior belly of the digastric and the stylo-hyoid ; and in front by the median line of the neck. It is covered by a skin, superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia, together with branches of the infra-maxillary (p. 67) and superficial cervical nerves. Its floor is formed by the hyo-glossus, mylo-hyoid, and anterior belly of digastric. The space contains the submaxillary gland, with the facial artery and vein (p. 29) ; the mylo-hyoid nerve and artery, and the submental branch of the facial artery. Behind the submaxillary gland is the stylo-maxillary ligament, immediately behind which is the parotid gland. (For the anatomy of the parotid region see page 117.) The superior carotid triang-le is bounded behind by the sterno- mastoid, above by the posterior belly of the digastric, and below by the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid. It is covered by skin, superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia, and is crossed by branches of the superficial cervical and infra-maxillary nerves. Its floor is formed by the thyro-hyoid and hyo-glossus, by the lower constrictors of the pharynx, and by the upper part of the thyroid cartilage. It takes its name from the fact that it contains the upper part of the common carotid and the beginning of the external and internal carotids. In the triangle the external carotid gives off the superior thyroid, lingual, facial, ascending pharyngeal, and occipital branches. Corresponding venous tributaries join the internal jugular, which, together with the vagus, is in the carotid sheath. Additional contents of the space are the hypo-glossal, descendens and communicantes noni, and the superior laryngeal nerve ; and a small piece of the spinal accessory nerve may be seen in the highest angle, and of the recurrent laryngeal in the lowest angle, of the space. The sympathetic cord is behind the carotid sheath. The inferior carotid triangle contains the lower cervical part of the common carotid. Its boundaries are the sterno-mastoid, the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid, and the median line of the neck. It is covered by skin, platysma, and fasciee, together with branches of the superficial cervical nerve. As a matter of fact, the carotid artery is shut out of this triangle by