49 Aphasia suture, and which comprises the chief (anterior) part of the superior, middle, and inferior frontal convolutions, constitutes the prce-frontal region. It may be stimulated in experimental research, or destroyed by injury or disease, without the occurrence of motor or sensory dis- turbance. Stimulation of various parts of the motor area causes definite movements, on the opposite side of the body, of leg, arm, hand, or face, whilst their complete destruction leaves the muscles paralysed. As already remarked, this area is supplied by the middle cerebral artery. This vessel, at its entrance to the Sylvian fissure, gives off branches through the anterior perforated space to the corpus striatum, so that this important ganglion may escape softening, when, on account of a plugging of the more distant part of the artery, the cortical area is degenerating. The island of Reil, or the central lobe, lies deeply in the beginning of the Sylvian fissure, and is seen on gently raising the apex of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. It is wedge-shaped, its apex corresponding to the anterior perforated space, and its base being hidden by the operculum. Its upper surface lies beneath the lenticular nucleus of the corpus striatum ; its under surface is marked by some straight radiating grooves into the gyri operti (or hidden convolutions). Broca showed that the motor centres for speech are in the region of the left island of Reil. The anterior perforated space is a grey depression near the beginning of the Sylvian fissure, through which twigs of the middle cerebral artery enter the corpus striatum. Aphasia (a, privative, (fyda-is, speech) means that a person has lost the faculty of speech—it may be because he has lost the memory for words, but then the disease is more properly called amnesia ( a, priv., fivr]cris, remembrance); aphasia implies that he has the memory of words, but that he has lost the power of co-ordinating the muscles for articulating them. He knows the words, for he may be able to write them, provided that he has not right hemiplegia also; but he cannot say them as he would like to, though he may be able to pronounce certain words perfectly. This last fact proves that the dumbness is very different from that of bulbar paralysis (p. 71). Broca showed that in aphasia there is some serious disturbance with the third left frontal convolution, near the island of Reil. This is therefore, called Broca's reg-ion. The defect may be due to a plugging of the middle cerebral artery, to cerebral softening, haemorrhage, or to the pressure of some tumour or effusion. The speech-centre is not always on the left side, it has been shown clinically to be in the right third frontal convolution in the case of a left-handed subject, but we are, generally, left-brained just as we are right-handed. As regards the extremities, hemiplegia will be upon the right side because of the crossing of the motor filaments in the medulla.