Arteries of Head and Neck 24 descending in front of that branch, distinguishes the spot with its middle cervical or thyroid ganglion. The carotid sheath contains, in addition to the common and the internal and carotid artery, the internal jugular vein and the pneumo- gastric nerve, the vein being to the outer side of the artery, and the nerve between and behind them. These three structures are separated from each other by delicate fibrous partitions. The sheath receives a considerable accession from the deep cervical fascia. The surgeon in seeking the artery should open the sheath upon the inner, the arterial side, so as that the vein may not be in the way of his needle. Irreg-ularities.—The right common carotid artery may come from a high or low division of the innominate, or as a separate iDranch from the aortic arch. The two carotids may spring by a common trunk ; or the left may come from the innominate, or from a left innominate artery. The common carotid may divide as low as the cricoid carti- lage, or may be continued as far as the hyoid bone. Sometimes the common carotid gives off the superior thyroid branch. Relations of the common carotid in the neck.—hi front are the skin, platysma, and fascise ; the sterno-mastoid, and the beginning of the sterno-hyoid and thyroid ; the omo-hyoid, which crosses at the level of the fifth cervical vertebra ; the sterno-mastoid branch of the superior thyroid artery, and the descendens noni lying upon the sheath, as shown on page 27 ; the anterior jugular vein, and the superior and middle thyroid veins running into the internal jugular. Behind are the lower cervical vertebree, covered by the longus colli and the rectus capitis anticus major. Additional posterior relations are the inferior thyroid artery, winding upwards and inwards (p. 233) from the subclavian; the sympathetic cord, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Internally are the trachea and larynx, with a lobe of the thyroid body and the inferior thyroid artery passing to it ; the oesophagus and pharynx, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve ascending between the trachea and oesophagus. Externally are the vagus and the internal jugular vein. In the thorax.—As the second part of the arch passes more from before backwards than from right to left, and as the left carotid is given off after the innominate and before the left subclavian, it neces- sarily has the innominate a good deal in front of it and the subclavian behind. Additional a7tterior relations are the origins of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles ; the left innominate vein, running obliquely across to join in the formation of the superior cava ; and the remains of the thymus gland, which, in the child, is a very important relation so far as regards bulk {v. p. 155). Posteriorly are the trachea, oesophagus, and thoracic duct.