TJie Cranial Nerves 58 ' When, therefore, the optic tract of either side is pressed upon, so as to affect the entire thickness of the nerve, and thus to interfere with the action of all the fibres, the temporal side of the retina of that eye and the nasal side of the retina of the opposite eye will be rendered blind.'^ {Hemianopsia.) When ihe optic nerve is pressed upon, in front of the commissure, as by sarcoma in the orbit, there is blindness of the one eye only, and it will probably be associated with paralysis of the third, fourth, or sixth nerves also, as they lie close together at the apex of the orbit. If the decussating fibres alone be implicated in the commissure, internal or nasal hemianopsia is found in each eye. ' Double temporal hemianopsia indicates disease of each internal carotid artery, with symmetrical lateral pressure upon the commissure.' Severe pressure upon the commissure might cause blindness in both eyes. Optic neuritis, as determined by ophthalmoscopic examination, is usually followed by atrophy. No. 3.—The motor oculi arises from the grey matter surrounding the Sylvian aqueduct (where the nerves of the two sides decussate), and emerges from the inner side of the crus ; it then passes through the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, and divides into two branches which enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and between the two heads of the external rectus. Coming away from the crus, the third nerve traverses the narrow interval between the posterior cere- bral and superior cerebellar arteries, so that if either of these arteries become dilated at that spot ptosis occurs. The upper divisio7i supplies the levator palpebr^ and the superior rectus ; the lower supplies the internal and inferior recti, the inferior oblique, and, by the motor root to the lenticular ganglion, the ciliary muscle and the sphincter fibres of the iris. (The superior oblique is supplied by the fourth nerve, and the external rectus by the sixth.) Contraction of the pupil is effected through the third nerve : when a strong light falls upon the retina a sensation is transmitted by the optic nerve to the corpora quadrigemina, close to which, in the Sylvian aqueduct, the third nerve arises. By this nerve a motor impulse is carried to the lenticular ganglion, and so to the ciliary muscle and iris. In viewing- near objects both eye-balls are directed inwards, the right and left internal recti acting in unison ; thus it becomes necessary that the third nerves be associated at their origin, which occurs, as already noted, in the grey matter around the Sylvian aqueduct. As the axes converge upon the near object the pupil must contract so as to cut off peripheral rays ; it is expedient, therefore, that the internal recti and the sphincter of the pupil be under the control of the ^ Applied Anatomy of the Nervotis System, Ambrose L. Ranney.