492 Anterior Tibial Artery The tibialis anticus arises from the outer aspect of the tibia, the deep fascia, and the interosseous membrane. It is inserted into the internal cuneiform and the scaphoid bones. Its tendon has a syno- vial sheath as it descends beneath the two bands of the annular liga- ment. Its action is to flex and invert the foot; its tendon often has to be divided in talipes varus. The tenotomy is best performed just below the front of the inner malleolus. The extensor long-us dig-itorum arises from the outer tuberosity of the tibia, the anterior surface of the fibula, and the deep fascia. Its tendons are inserted into the second and third phalanges of the four outer toes. The anterior tibial nerve comes through the upper end of its origin. The peroneus tertius is continued from the lowest part of this muscle, and is inserted into the dorsal surface of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. The extensor proprius hallucis {pollicis) arises from the middle two-fifths of the front of the fibula, and from the interosseous mem- brane ; it is inserted into the ungual phalanx of the great toe. Course.—At first it lies on the outer side of the anterior tibial artery, and to the inner side of the extensor longus digitorum between that muscle and the tibialis anticus, and overlapped by them. It then slowly crosses over the artery, and at the ankle its tendon lies to the inner side of the artery. The foregoing muscles are flexors of the foot ; they are supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. The peroneus longus and brevis arise down the outer side of the fibula, the brevis being to the front of the longus and overlapped by it. They lie between the extensor longus digitorum and the peroneus tertius, to the front, and the soleus and flexor longus hallucis behind. Their tendons groove the back of the external malleolus and the outer side of the os calcis, the shorter tendon being above the peroneal tubercle, and the longer below it. The shorter tendon is then inserted into the outer side of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, whilst the longer runs forwards and inwards in the tunnel under the cuboid bone, to be inserted into the tuberosity of the internal cuneiform and the outer side of the base of the first metatarsal bone. These two muscles, which are supplied by the musculo-cutaneous nerve, extend and evert the foot, and in the case of extreme talipes valgus their tendons require division behind the malleolus. The external popliteal nerve divides in the substance of the longer muscle just below the head of the fibula. The tendons have a common synovial investment as they groove the malleolus. The anterior tibial artery is one of the divisions of the popliteal. It comes through the top of the interosseous membrane, and runs down thereon until it rests upon the front of the expanded, lower end of the tibia. It afterwards lies upon the anterior ligament of the ankle-joint, where it changes its name to dorsalis pedis.