192 The Lungs taking the metallic note of the distended and elevated stomach for that of a pulmonary cavity or of a pneumo- thorax. The lower border of the lung descends about an inch during inspiration, but in emphysema, when the air-vesicles are per- manently dilated and inelastic, there is no movement in the costo-phrenic crevice. The thick, posterior border lies in the costo-vertebral groove ; the sharp, anterior border overlaps the pericardium. The inner surface of the lung is concave, the root enter- ing it nearer to the back than the front. The thickness of the posterior border is well shown on p. 186. The left lung (20 oz.) has two lobes ; it is narrower than the right, so as to leave a hollow for the heart. The fissure between the lobes extends from the spine of the sca- pula (that is from the third rib behind) to the loase of the lung in front. The upper is the anterior lobe. The right lung (22 oz.) is the larger, because it does not have to make room for the heart ; but it is shorter on account of the presence of the liver beneath it ; it has three lobes, the third being sliced off the bottom of the upper lobe by a fissure running upwards and forwards. The middle lobe lies under cover of the fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs, at the side of the chest, and in front it reaches to the diaphragm. It is important to remember that the fissure between the upper and lower lobes extends from the third rib behind (spine of scapula) to the base of the lung in front. Thus, in pneumonia of the lower lobe the dulness is found ending abruptly at that oblique line, together with the bronchial breathing and increased vocal vibration ; above that line all is healthy. And conversely, in phthisis, which has a prefer- ence for the upper lobe, the dull percussion sound posteriorly is above the spine of the scapula only, whilst in front it extends down to the diaphragm. The lower lobe is almost alto- gether behind the upper lobe. The lower dorsal vertebrae advance into the interior of the chest, the ribs all the while receding, so that if a line be drawn across the Right costo-phrenic crevice seen from behind. A stab of the liver through the 9th space would traverse four layers of pleura and two of peritoneum ; if through the nth space the lung would escape injury. Pneumonia of lower lobe (2) of right lung; dulness below spine of scapula, front resonant.