258 TJie SJwulder Joint may easily slip from the axilla, and be dragged and thrust beneath the origin of the infra-spinatus, to form a sub-spinous dislocation. But, as in the other instances, the capsule is rent in the lowest part. As the roundness of the shoulder is due to the presence of the head of the humerus, of the shoidder is one of the characteristic sig7is of dislocation; the end of the acromion stands out conspicuously, and the fingers may be thrust in beneath it towards the empty socket. The humerus is hung, as it were, by the insertion of the over- stretched deltoid, and when its head is carried inwards, as in the sub- coracoid dislocation, the lower end is necessarily thrust outwards. So the man usually has his elbow abducted, and, the arm being thus fixed, the hand cannot lie laid upon the opposite shoulder whilst the elbow is touching the chest. Lastly, the head of the bone may be detected in the infra-clavicular hollow, in the axilla, or bulging in the infra-spinous fossa. Reduction of the dislocation is effected by first bending the elbow, to take tension off the longhead of the biceps ; the arm is then drawn from the side to relax the supra-spinatus, which is tightly stretched, and to ' unhitch' the margin of the humeral head from the border of the glenoid cavity. The arm is then forcibly adducted over a firm pad in the axilla, and thus, when the lower end of the humerus is forcibly brought forwards and inwards, the upper end is tilted back- wards and outwards against and into the socket. This can also be effected by putting the shoeless heel or the knee into the axilla, the patient in the latter case being in the sitting posture, and by then using the lower end of the humerus as a lever— the elbow being kept bent. Sir Astley Cooper showed that the chief impediment to the reduction is the supra-spinatus locking the head beneath the glenoid cavity—hence the need of abduction in replacing the bone. As the axillary vessels and the brachial plexus lie close on the inner side of the head of the humerus, they are apt to be pressed upon in subcoracoid or subglenoid dislocation ; thus the limb becomes oedema- tous (from obstruction of the vein) and pulseless, or painful and numb (from pressure against the artery or nerves). In the case of an old-standing dislocation violent attempts to re- duce the luxation by the heel in the axilla are apt to rupture the artery, which by that time may have become adherent in its new bed, and indirectly affixed to the head of humerus. It has happened also that in such efforts to replace the bone fracture has occurred at the surgical neck, or even that the heel has been thrust through the skin and fasciae into the space. In the case of an old dislocation, therefore, it is better to excise the head of the bone than subject the patient to such serious risks.