30 Arteries of Head and Neck a tonsillar branch, which, mounting by the internal pterygoid muscle, send twigs through the superior constrictor to the tonsil. The sub- maxillary branches of the facial supply the salivary gland, and the siibme?ital runs forward on the mylo-hyoid and supplies the chin and the lip, anastomosing with its fellow. Above the jaw the branches are : inferior labial and inferior coronary^ the latter lying between the mucous membrane and the orbicularis, as does also the superior coronary. These three branches anastomose with their fellows across the middle line, and the superior coronary gives a branch to the septum of the nose. The lateral Jtasal branches also anastomose with their fellows of the opposite side over the ridge of the nose, and the angular^ as already mentioned, joins the nasal of the ophthalmic. The angular arteiy is upon the nasal side of the lachrymal sac. The facial may be readily compressed or tied as it passes over the lower jaw. The occipital artery is a posterior branch of the external carotid in the superior carotid triangle, out of which it passes under the guidance of the digastric and stylo-hyoid to the interval between the transverse process of the atlas and the mastoid process. As the ex- ternal carotid is anterior to the internal carotid, the occipital branch has to cross the internal carotid and jugular vein. The hypoglossal nerve hooks round the occipital artery. Arrived at the bony inter- space just alluded to, the occipital artery necessarily lies under cover of the sterno-mastoid, splenius capitis, and trachelo-mastoid, in addi- tion to the origin of the digastric. It grooves the temporal bone, and then lies on the superior oblique and complexus, and ultimately pierces the cranial origin of the trapezius. It ramifies in the scalp as high as the vertex, anastomosing with its fellow and with the posterior auricular and the superficial temporal arteries. At the back of the head it is accompanied by the great occipital nerve. As it mounts towards the vertex it crosses the middle of a line between the occipital protuberance and the external auditory meatus, at which spot it can readily be compressed. Branches.—The occipital artery gives off muscular twigs ; an auricidar\)X2.XiQ}s\ to the concha ; meningeal twigs through the posterior lacerated foramen ; and princeps cervicis, which descends between the complexus and semi-spinalis colli to anastomose with the vertebral and with the profunda cervicis of the superior intercostal artery. A more superficial branch of the princeps runs beneath the border of the trapezius, to communicate with the superficial branch of the transverse cervical. The posterior auricular springs from the carotid above the crossing of the digastric, and, therefore, is not in the superior carotid triangle. It is crossed by the portio dura, and mounts under cover of the parotid gland to the crevice between the mastoid process and the concha, giving twigs to the scalp and to the pinna, which anasto-