6s Facial Nerve panying artery, free hccmorrhage may occur if resection is being re- sorted to. The mental nerve, emerging through the foramen in the body of the jaw in a Hne with the root of the second bicuspid, may be found by an incision through the integument (the exact position of the fora- men having been first determined by means of a sharp probe) and through fibres of the depressor anguH oris and labii inferioris. Another way of reaching the nerve is by freely incising the mucous membrane as it is reflected from the lower jaw to the back of the lip, and working carefully down with a director in the region below the second bicuspid. When the fifth nerve is paralysed, and the patient puts a cup to his lips, ' he feels only half of it ; it seems to him exactly as though it were broken.' (Fagge.) No. 6.—The abducens (because it supplies the external rectus) arises in the floor of the fourth ventricle, and emerges between the anterior pyramid and pons. It passes through the inner part of the cavernous sinus, lying on the outer side of the carotid artery, and, entering the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure, ends on the inner surface of the ex- ternal rectus. At its origin this nerve does not decussate with its fellow across the median line, as the third does, because the two external recti have no experience of working in concert. When the nerve is paralysed the eye-ball is drawn inwards, and the patient sees a double image, because the yellow spots cannot both be placed in focus unless the head be turned and tilted to make up for the error {see p. 80). As he cannot abduct the eye-ball, he turns his head. And in this, as in every other case of ocular paralysis which is the result of cerebral lesion, the patient apologetically turns his head towards the side of the cerebral lesion—he keeps looking towards the cerebral damage, as it were. No. 7.—The facial nerve arises, together with the sixth, from a nucleus in the floor of the fourth ventricle, and leaves the medulla just below the pons, through the groove between the olive and restiform. It enters the internal auditory meatus with, but above, the auditory nerve, and, passing into the aqueductus Fallopii, leaves the petrous bone by the stylo-mastoid foramen. It then passes through the parotid gland and divides into the temporo-facial and cervico-facial trunks, which, by secondary divisions, form the pes anserinus. Some of the fibres of origin of the two facial nerves decussate across the middle Hne, and thus it happens that with a lateral pontine lesion there may be paralysis upon the corresponding or upon the opposite side of the face ; hemiplegia, moreover, may exist with facial paralysis of the same or of the opposite side. The decussation takes place in the pons, at the level of the apparent origin of the fifth pair. A lesion anterior to this causes facial paralysis on the same side as the hemi- plegia, that is, upon the opposite side to that of the lesion. But if the lesion be behind this level ' crossed paralysis ' is produced—that F