Synovial Me^nbrane of Knee An The inter-articular fibro-cartilag°es are attached by their cornua in front of, and behind the tibial spine, and their convex borders are connected with the margin of the tuberosities of the tibia by short, vertical fibres, which constitute the coronary ligament. The in- ternal semilunar cartilage is firmly connected with the internal lateral ligament, but the outer disc is separated from the external lateral liga- ment by the tendon of origin of the popliteus which lies in a groove upon it. The inner cartilage is, therefore, far less movable than the outer ; still, if one of the discs become loosened and interfere with the working of the joint, it is most likely the inner. I cannot explain this paradox, except on the theory that the outer one is so movable that it escapes injury from a wrench which loosens the inner. Both sur- faces of the semilunar cartilages are covered with synovial membrane. The synovial membrane, the largest in the body, lines the capsule, and, having ascended as a pouch for about the width of four fingers, be- neath the quadriceps, turns down over the front of the femur. It forms also shallow pouches on either side of the patella and its ligament, and sends a collar round the tendon of the pop- liteus as it passes out of the joint. A cushion of fat intervenes between the ligamentum patellae and the mem- brane which, in that region, sends a pouch on to the crucial ligaments (ligamentum mucosum); the free borders of this pouch are the liga- menta alaria. In the neighbourhood of the crucial ligaments the membrane has rudimentary fringes. When the knee is extended, the top of the syno- vial pouch is drawn up by the sub- crureus working in harmony with the crureus. This part of the cavity is apt to communicate with a bursa higher up the shaft of femur under the quad- riceps ; that bursa may suppurate without the membrane of the knee being implicated. It is sometimes remarked that, because the synovial pouch ascends higher under the crureus when the knee is extended, one ought to keep the limb bent in operating upon the front of the femur near the joint. Vertical section of knee of young sub- ject. (After Thomson, from Quain.) I, I, synovial membrane; 2, lig. mucosum ; 3, lig. patellae with, 4, bursa behind it; 5 and 6, crucial ligts. Bursas are also shown in front of tubercle of tibia, in front of patella, and beneath crureus (7'. p. 478).