TracJicotouiy of the inferior thyroid artery ; the cesophagus and the inferior con- strictor of the pharynx and the lobes of the thyroid gland are also detached. The constrictor is then separated from the thyroid cartilage, and the superior laryngeal vessels and nerve are divided. The Trachea and Bronchi The trachea begins at the lower border of the fifth cervical vertebra, and divides opposite the lower border of the fifth dorsal— that is, a little below the transverse sternal ridge (p. 149). It is about 4 in. long and f in. wide, and consists of about sixteen horse-shoe cartilages connected by elastic fibres, whilst in the tissue which fills the deficiency in the cartilages at the back of the trachea is a trans- verse layer of non-striated muscular fibres. Probably the trachea is flattened behind so that it may not encroach upon the cesophagus and impede deglutition ; a foreign body impacted in the oesophagus, or malignant disease, may cause fatal dyspnoea. (For Mucous Mem- brane, V. p. 195.) Relations.—The most constant relation of the trachea is the oesophagus, which is close behind it both in the neck and in the thorax. In the lateral grooves between these tubes ascend the recurrent laryngeal nerves. The common carotid arteries, the lobes of the thyroid body, and the inferior thyroid arteries are also to the sides. In the superior mediastinum (p. 154) the trachea descends between the pleurae, a pneumogastric passing on either side of it to form the oesophageal and the posterior pulmonary plexuses. The innominate artery is somewhat to the right, and the beginning of the left carotid to the left of the trachea. In front are the skin and fasciae, the isthmus of the thyroid, and the lowest thyroid artery and thyroid veins ; the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid, and some more deep fascia. Lower down the anterior relations are the manubrium, the remains of the thymus, the left innominate vein ; the second part of the aortic arch with the origins of the innominate and left common carotid arteries, and the deep cardiac plexus. Supply.—The trachea derives its blood from the inferior thyroid artery, and returns it by the lower thyroid veins. The lymphatics pass to the deep cervical and the mediastinal glands. The nerves are branches of the vagi, the recurrent laryngeals, and the sympathetic. Tracheotomy.—The patient's shoulders are raised on a firm pil- low, and the head is thrown straight back so as to draw up and steady the trachea, and to give more room to the operator. The thyroid and cricoid cartilages and the upper part of the trachea are then made out by the tip of the index-finger. The incision even in a child had better be free, from to 2 in, K 2