Relations of Femoral Ariery 455 the overhanging vastus internus, and the roof of Hunter's canal ; also the long saphenous nerve, which, like the sartorius, crosses it obliquely from the outer side. To the outer side is the anterior crural nerve, and, lower down, are its saphenous branch and the sartorius, also the vastus internus, and, at the end of the canal, the superficial femoral vein. On the inner side are the common femoral vein and the pectineus, then the three adductors, and, further down, is the sartorius, which has crossed it. xrote.—To the surgeon the most important relations of the artery are the vein and the sartorius ; and, fortunately, by remembering the position which the muscle occupies (which is sufficiently obvious) he remembers also the situation of the vein, which is upon just the oppo- site aspect of the artery. Thus, when the sartorius is entirely to the outer side, as at the base of Scarpa's triangle, the vein is entirely to the inner side. When the sartorius is gaining the front of the artery from the outer side the vein is getting behind it from the inner side, as towards the apex of the triangle. When the muscle is exactly over the artery, as at the apex of the triangle, the vein is exactly behind it; and when, as in Hunter's canal, the sartorius is lying above and to the inner side, the vein is beneath and to the outer side. Lastly, when the muscle is quite to the inner side, as at the lower end of the canal, the vein is quite to the outer side, in which relative position it is found at the top of the popliteal space. The relationship of the long saphenous nerve to the artery is the same as that of the sartorius. The branches of the commoji femoral artery are the three super- ficial twigs which, coming through the cribriform fascia, pass between the layers of the superficial fascia, towards, as their names respectively denote, the epigastric region, over Poupart's ligament, the iliac region {circumflexc^^ and the external pudic region. The former branches communicate with the deeper and larger vessels of the same name (P- 370)- The third branch passes to the scrotum or labium, and, lying over the spermatic cord, is wounded in inguinal herniotomy and in castration. A fourth branch, the deep external piidic^ pierces the fascia lata on the inner side of the thigh, and, ending like the last, anastomoses with the superficial perineal artery. The superficial femoral artery gives off various mnsciilar braiiches^ and, in Hunter's canal, the anastomotica mag-na. This important branch divides mto 2i superficial part, which leaves the canal through the roof, in company with the saphenous nerve ; and a deep part, which passes obliquely across the lower end of the femur, under the quadriceps extensor, giving branches into the articulation, and anasto- mosing on the inner side with the superior articular of the popliteal, and on the outer side with the superior external articular, the recur- rent tibial, and the descending branches of the external circumflex.