The Knee-Joint signs of fracture of the femur, shortening and eversion (p. 462), but the dislocated Hmb is rigidly fixed, the great trochanter is absent from its place, and the head of the femur is felt on the pubic ramus. In each dislocation the ilio-femoral Hgament remains entire, and impedes reduction—at any rate, wh^n the attempt is made on the old system of extension by pulleys and counter-extension by a band around the perineum. But when the ligament has been first slackened, as occurs when the thigh is flexed, a small amount of movement, if in the right direction, suffices to get the head of the bone in its place again. 'After flexion, and perhaps circumduction (to enlarge the rent in the capsule for the return of the femoral head), the reduction may be com- pleted by rotation, or by extension of the thigh ' (Hamilton). This is the anatomical or scientific method of restoring the bone. As a result of congenital deformity of the acetabulum, and of the hip-joint generally, the head of the femur rests upon the dorsum ilii, the great trochanter being above Nelaton's line. On account of the backward displacement of the femora, the centre of gravity of the body is advanced, and, in order to ensure stable equilibrium, the shoulders have to be thrown back. Thus the defect is always associated with lordosis, and especially so when it happens to exist on both sides of the body. The buttocks are prominent and the lower limbs are small. (For illustration see last page.) The Knee-Joint The bones forming the knee-joint are the femur, tibia, and patella ; their articular surfaces are enclosed in a capsule which is greatly strengthened by fibrous expansions from the crureus and vasti, and from the hamstring tendons. The anterior ligament^ or the ligamentum patellae, is the tendon of insertion of the quadriceps. The posterior ligainent descends from above the condyles of the femur to the back of the head of the tibia, and derives a strong acces- sion from part of the insertion of the semi-membranosus. The popli- teal vessels rest upon the posterior ligament. The lateral ligaments^ descending from the tuberosities of the condyles, are placed behind the vertical axis of the knee, so as to check over-extension. The inner band is wide, and descends several inches down the hinder border of the tibial shaft. The outer passes to the head of the fibula, over the tendon of the popliteus ; its upper end may be felt beneath the skin, just in front of the tendon of the biceps, the knee being sHghtly bent. The crucial lig-aments cross each other obliquely, and, becoming locked together, specially check inward rotation of the leg. When, in an old case of knee-disease, the surgeon is able to rotate the ex- tended leg inwards, he knows that these ligaments are deeply impli- cated, if not destroyed.