412 TJie Bladder centre is thrown out of working order, not only is the patient unaware when the bladder is full, but no motor impulse is transmitted to the muscular coat, and the bladder ' brims over.' Extreme retention of urine may exist without causing distress when the patient has become gradually accustomed to it, but sudden accumu- lation from tension of sensory nerves, causes great agony. Chronic retention may be mistaken for abdominal ascites. Before tapping for the latter condition it is, therefore, the rule to pass a catheter. The over-loaded bladder may also be mistaken for ovarian disease or pregnancy. The distended bladder may be ruptured from violence. If the rent implicate the postero-lateral aspect, peritonitis is very likely to follow. If the rent be at the front or base of the bladder the escape will be extra-peritoneal, cellulitis and abscess probably occurring. As a rule the urethra gives way rather than the bladder, perineal abscess being the result. The chief signs of the intra-peritoneal rupture are inability to mic- turate from the time of the injury ; onset of collapse on account of the extravasation into the peritoneal cavity ; the bladder containing only a little blood-stained urine whilst a long metal catheter may, perhaps, pass through the rent until its beak is found behind the linea alba. Lastly, warm water quietly injected into a ruptured bladder quickly disappears. Abdominal section, suture of the wound, and flushings of the peritoneum with a warm antiseptic solution, would be needed. When ascites has been mistaken for retention of urine, the catheter being introduced and the bladder being found empty, the practitioner has sometimes imagined that the instrument was not thrust in far enough, and has thereupon driven the beak of the instrument through the posterior wall of the bladder, which would in such circumstances fall near to the trigone, and has thus evacuated the peritoneal cavity of serum. In the case of an enormous calculus, or of villous disease, the bladder may be opened above the pubes through an incision in the linea alba; but before performing this operation the bladder should be carefully washed out and distended, and thrust bodily forwards and upwards by the gentle inflation of an india-rubber bag in the rectum. Thus the peritoneum is pushed high up and the bladder opened without difficulty and without much danger. In the case of urgent cystitis from prostatic enlargement a tube might be permanently worn above the pubes. Through an incision in the perineum the finger can usually be made to explore the whole of the interior of the bladder, its summit and anterior wall being pushed downwards by the hand upon the abdominal wall. The Prostate Gland The prostate is a mixture of fibrous tissue, non-striated muscle, and of follicular gland-tissue. It is placed in front of the bladder (tt/jo,