54 TJie EncepJialon explained on p. 348. At the autopsy of such a case the arteries are found diseased, and therefore weakened, the left ventricle being hyper- trophied and therefore strengthened. Sometimes Nature hoists a danger-signal before the final apoplectic fit occurs : such signals are headaches, epistaxis, and retinal haemor- rhages which may be seen by ophthalmic examination. The internal capsule consists of fibres from both the motor (crusta) and sensory (tegmentum) tracts of the crus, which hold the cortex in direct communication with the cord. Thus damage to the anterior part of the internal capsule causes motor paralysis, and to the posterior part loss of sensation, upon the opposite side of the body. The paralysis in the former case is diffuse, and not confined to a group of muscles as in the case of a cortical lesion. The optic thalami lie behind the corpora striata, and nearer to the middle line, being separated from each other only by the narrow third ventricle. They receive fibres from the sensory tracts of the cord, which reach them through the cerebral aspect of the crura—the tegmenta ; each thalamus sends fibres into all parts of the cerebral cortex, and these constitute the corona radiata. The crura cerebri consist of fibres ascending from the cord, those from its motor tracts being gathered in the superficial part, the crusta^ and those from the sensory tracts in the deeper part, the tegnienttnn. The former set pass, for the most part, through the corpus striatum and internal capsule, to the motor area, by the corona radiata, whilst the tegmental set pass to the thalamus and through the corona radiata to the sensory area of the cerebral cortex. Between crusta and teg- mentum is a mass of grey cells, locus 7tiger, through which the fibres of the third nerve pass. Between the crura, as they diverge at the front of the pons Varolii, is the posterior perforated space, by which a group of vessels from the posterior cerebral artery reach the thalamus. The tegmental fibres descend In the cord, in the direct (Tiirck's) and in the crossed pyramidal tracts. HcEinorrhage into the crus cerebri Q'^w^^'i hemiplegia on the opposite side of the body, and of the third nerve upon the side of the lesion, provided that the inner fibres are involved. Pons Varolii.—As the fibres descend from the crura to the medulla they pass under cover of the middle commissure of the cerebellar hemispheres, and, though the term ^ pons' should only apply to the bridging cerebellar fibres, still the word is usually applied to the entire mass of the tuber anitulare. As the fibres from both crura descend through the pons, cerebral haemorrhage in its substance generally causes motor paralysis on both sides of the body, coma following immediately, and death not being long delayed. But when the haemorrhage is limited to one side there is hemiplegia upon the opposite side of the body, but paralysis of fifth, sixth, and seventh nerves upon the same side.