TJie BracJiial Artery 264 superficial fascia, and the deep fascia with its reinforcement from the inner side of the biceps-tendon—the bicipital fascia. The floor of the space is formed by the brachialis anticus and by a little of the supi- nator brevis. In the superficial fascia are the M-like arrangement of the veins (p. 237) and many branches of the internal and musculo-cutaneous nerves. Contents.—The most prominent object in the space is the tendon of the biceps ; and, as the brachial artery has lain on the inner side of biceps all the way down the arm, it lies close to the inner side of its tendon in this fossa. On either side of the arter}' is a small com- panion vein, and well to the inner side is the median nerve. In the fossa, at the level of the neck of the radius, the artery divides into the radial and ulnar, which, consequently, begin their course somewhat superficially. The radial artery leaves the space over the insertion of the pronator teres, but the ulnar artery quickly descends beneath the origin of that muscle and beneath the median nerve in its oblique course to the inner border of the fore-arm. The radial recur- rent artery is seen ascending to the crevice between the brachialis anticus and the supinator longus. Under cover of the supinator longus, and, therefore, scarcely within the space, is the radial nerve. In a thin subject the posterior interosseous nerve may also be found coming from the division of the musculo-spiral, but to see so much the supinator longus will have to be pulled considerably outwards. Iiigation of the brachial is the proper treatment for recurrent haemorrhage after a deep wound of the palm, for it is impracticable to search through the layers of nerves, tendons, and lumbricals to find the bleeding point. It is also resorted to for aneurysms high in the fore- arm. Operation.—The patient is lying on his back with the arm abducted, rotated outwards, and resting on a firm pillow. An incision is then made for 2\ in. along the groove upon the inner side of the biceps. In dividing the superficial fascia, the basilic vein, if seen, must be drawn to one side. The deep fascia having been divided on a director, the inner border of the biceps is looked for and drawn outwards. The median nerve is probably lying over the arterial sheath, but if the operation be performed high in the course of the brachial the nen e will be to the outer side ; if in the lower part, to the inner side. Heed must be given not to tie the nerve instead of artery, nor to include it with the artery in the ligature. A loose sheath is opened, and the needle passed round the artery (the venae comites being avoided) from the side of the median nerve, whichever that may be. If tigation be required at the be7id of the elbow., the vessel is found by making a 2-inch incision along the inner side of the biceps tendon. The lower limit of the incision reaches to the level of the internal condyle, and will probably be just above and to the outer side of the median-basilic vein. The bicipital fascia is divided on a director, and