256 l^Jie SJioulder Johif The Shoulder Joint The shoulder-joint is formed by the glenoid cavity and the humerus, the articular surfaces being enclosed in a loose capsular ligament which is attached just beyond the border of the glenoid cavity, and to the anatomical neck of the humerus. Its strongest part is superiorly, where it receives accessoiy fibres from the coraco-hiuneral ligament. contact with the capsule are the supra-spinatus above, the triceps below, the subscapularis in front, and the infra-spinatus and teres minor behind. Most of these muscles are blended with the capsule, and thus play the part of ligaments. The axillary vessels and nerves are to the inner side, separated from the capsule, however, by the sub- scapularis. Above the joint are the acromion process and the coraco-acromial ligament ; to the inner side are the coracoid process and its muscles, and covering all is the deltoid. A bursa underlies the deltoid, which in rheumatic subjects is often in communication with the interior of the joint through an opening in the upper part of the capsule. Other opcTiings in the capsule are those by which the bursa beneath the subscapularis and that beneath the infra-spinatus communicate with the synovial membrane of the joint. There is also a gap between the tuberosities by which the tendon of the biceps and its synovial invest- ment escape into the bicipital groove. When the subdeltoid bursa is in communication with the synovial membrane of the joint, the open- ing in the top of the capsule is occasionally so large that the head of the humerus comes into extensive contact with the under aspect of the acromion. In such cases a facet is produced, so that the appear- ance presented after death is of an upward partial dislocation of the humerus having existed. {See ' Trans. Soc. Med. Chirurg.,' 1875.) The glenoid ligament is the fibro-cartilaginous rim which gives a pliable border to the glenoid cavity ; just inside the capsule it is Hned by synovial membrane. The origin of the long head of the biceps blends with it above. The syiiovial membrane lines the capsule and the glenoid ligament, but, though reflected on to the joint-surfaces of the bones, it cannot after birth be traced over their articular cartilages. It often com- municates with the subdeltoid bursa, and usually so with bursse beneath the subscapularis and the teres minor. It sends a tubular process between the tuberosities to line the bicipital groove and to lubricate the tendon. Supply.—The arteries supplying the joint come from the supra- scapular, the anterior and posterior circumflex, and the dorsalis scapulae; the 7ie7^ves are derived from the supra-scapular and the circumflex. movements.—The humerus is raised by the supra-spinatus and