Corpus Striatum 53 the uncinate gyms. Close above it is the convohition which Hes along the margin of the longitudinal fissure—the marginal convohition. It begins at the anterior perforated space, and ends just in front of the quadrate lobe. Between the gyrus fornicatus, or callosal convolution, and the marginal convolution, is the calloso-marginalfissure. The para-central lobe is chiefly formed by the top of the ascending frontal convolution, which looks into the marginal convolution. The quadrate tobe is the mesial surface of the parietal lobe ; just behind it is the cuneate tobe of the occipital. Tacksonian epilepsy is the convulsive attack, followed by tem- porary paralysis, of a group of muscles, which results from irritation of some part of the motor area. Chronic inflammation of the brain or its membranes is a common cause of it, the inflammation being very often the result of syphilis. Perhaps at first only one group of muscles is affected, but as the irritation extends the neighbouring parts of the cortex are implicated, and the convulsions become more widely distributed. From what has gone before (p. 52) it is evident that if the epilepsy begin as a facial spasm the muscles of hand and arm will be next mvolved, and lastly those of the leg. When the last group of muscles is first attacked those of the arm are likely to follow suit, and ultimately those of the face. If the disturbance begin in the arm-centres the muscles both of leg and of face are likely to be involved subsequently. The fibres from the motor area subsequently pass through the corpus striatum and the internal capsule ; haemorrhage, therefore, in either of these latter situations may cause extensive paralysis upon the opposite side of the body. Indeed, the corpus striatum has been called, on account of its associations, ' the motor ganglion,' the optic thalamus, on the other hand, being ' the sensory ganglion.' The sensory reg-ion of the cortex is posterior to the motor, and in the case of a destructive lesion of the motor area, if there be hemi-ansesthesia as well, it is certain that the injury is widespread, and the chance of relief by trephining remote. The Basal Ganglia The corpus striatum is a grey ganglion which is streaked, or striated, by white fibres on their way down to the antero-lateral column of the cord, through the superficial, or motor, part of the crus—the crusta. These fibres reach the cortex through the fan-like corona radiata. The presence of the vesicular tissue in the ganglion detracts from its strength, and, being freely supplied with branches of the middle cerebral, which enter it through the anterior perforated space, it is often the seat of haemorrhage. Motor paralysis of the opposite side results, just as if the lesion were in the motor area or in the crus. Cerebral hemorrhage is generally the result of kidney-disease, as