3^4 The Pelvis the side of the rectum, and, enclosing it, passes over the front of the pyriformis and sacrum. Thus the pelvis is completely shut off from the ischio-rectal fossas by the fascia passing on to the sides of the rectum and bladder ; this sheet is the recto-vesicalfascia. At the level of the upper border of the levator ani the pelvic fascia gives off two sheets, one of which is thin {anal fascia) and passes on the under surface of the muscle to the lower end of the rectum, whilst the other descends along the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa {obtu- rator fascia) to cover the obturator internus, to be attached to the bony and ligamentous margin of the pelvic outlet, and to join the posterior layer of the triangular ligament. (The wood-cut is from Gray.) The Planes of the Pelvis Obstetricians have divided the true pelvis into three planes, and have given each plane three diameters—antero-posterior or conjugate., transverse., and oblique. In the superior plane—the brim of the true pelvis—the conjugate diameter extends between the sacro-vertebral angle and the crest of the pubes ; it, ab., is the shortest diameter, 4 in., the transverse diameter, /r, being the greatest, 5 in. In the middle pla7ie—the pelvic cavity—the oblique dia- meter, ob., is the longest, 5 in.; it extends from the middle of the sacro-sciatic foramen to the obturator membrane. The antero-posterior diameter, be- tween the middle of the sacrum and the symphysis, is 4^ in., the distance between the ischial tuberosities being 4f in. ab^ superior, and cf, inferior plane; edand lis., t ^x. • j- • axes of inlet and outlet. Ivi inferior plane—ovX- let—the diameter between the tip of the movable coccyx and the pubic arch, is 5 in.; and, whilst the diameter extending obliquely from sciatic ligament to ischial ramus measures about 5 in., the interval between the tuberosities is but 4 in. Superior plane Middle plane Inferior plane Transverse . 5 in. . 4f„ Oblique 4f in. 5 » 5 » Antero-posterior 4 in. 5 »