502 TJie Aj^ches of the Foot no elasticity, and man would walk heavily, ungracefully, and with discomfort. When in the erect position, the weight of the body is received and transmitted by the inner tuberosity of the os calcis and by the heads of the first and of the fifth metatarsal bones ; the plantar vessels, nerves, muscles, and tendons occupy the intervening hollow, and are there kept from pressure by the strong plantar fascia. The antero-posterior arch is best marked upon the inner side ; it is formed by the point of the os calcis, the astragalus, and the scaphoid, cuneiform, and the three inner metatarsal bones. Great elasticity is obtained by this arrangement. Along the outer side of the foot the antero-posterior arch has not so much spring, but it is extremely strong. It is composed of the os calcis, the cuboid, and the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. The transverse areli is built up of the scaphoid, the internal cuneiform, and the first metatarsal bones on the inner side, and of the cuboid and the fourth and fifth metatarsals on the outer. The integrity of the antero-posterior and transverse arches is maintained by the keystone arrangement of the bones, by the dorsal, interosseous, and plantar ligaments, and by the tendons and fascia. The oblique tendon of the peroneus longus gives valuable support to both the antero-posterior and the transverse arch ; so also does the widespread insertion of the tibialis posticus. Flat-foot.—Those who are not strong enough for the task and who carry about heavy burdens, who are wearied by too much walk- ing or standing, complain of dull pains up the legs, and of aching feet. This is due to the stretching of sensory nerve filaments, and to the fatigue of muscles, which, like the tibials, are trying to support the sinking foot. Sometimes these aches are mistaken for rheumatic or for ' growing' pains. Even if the deformity be but slight, the subject is not fit for active work ; he tires after a long walk, and is, therefore, unfit for soldiering, and for hard physical work generally. In flat-foot the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid, the long and short calcaneo-cuboid ligaments ; the plantar fascia ; the insertions of the tibialis posticus and anticus, and of the peroneus longus, have all yielded a little. The result is that the head of the astragalus rolls downwards and inwards, whilst the tuberosity of the scaphoid, the internal cuneiform, and the base of the first metatarsal bones sink to the inner side of the sole. The condition may be treated by rest, and by strengthening the tibial muscles, as by making the patient walk on tiptoe and on the outer side of the feet. An ingenious operation for flat-foot is that of opening the astragalo-scaphoid joint, scraping away all the articular lamellae of cartilage and bone from its interior, and, having arched the foot, inducing the raw surfaces of astragalus and scaphoid to become ankylosed, in their tilted and im- proved position.