Abdominal Dropsy 31; small, there is dulness in each flank, and resonance over the whole antero-lateral aspect of the abdomen as the patient lies on his back— the resonance being due to the inflated intestines floating on the fluid. But on turning the patient upon the side the area of dulness changes. Were the fluid enclosed in a cyst, as in ovarian disease, percussion would be but little affected by change of position. If the patient sit up or stand the area of dulness extends across the inguinal and hypo- gastric zone, the higher regions becoming resonant. When the effusion is excessive, resonance may be discoverable only behind the recti, as the patient lies supine. The diaphragm is then pushed far up, and respiration is short and thoracic. The patient may breathe more easily in the sitting posture, for in that way the compressible intestine, and not serum, lies against the diaphragm. {See figs, on p. 316.) Tapping- the abdomen.—An enormously distended bladder has sometimes been mistaken for ascites; the rule, therefore, is to empty the bladder before thrusting in the trocar. The puncture should be made in the median or semilunar line (p. 296) ; as the fluid escapes pressure is removed from the caval and other deep abdominal veins, which now become distended, so that the heart is robbed of its accus- tomed supply, and faintness comes on; the descent of the diaphragm also embarrasses the heart's action. Puncture through the semilunar line of the recumbent patient is a satisfactory operation ; the patient should be rolled a little on to the side selected. But if there be so much distension that the rectus is flattened out and displaced, and the situation of the semilunar line cannot be determined, it were better to follow the usual English custom, and to operate in the exact median line. There, for certain, no vessel will be injured or muscular plane traversed. The patient sits over the edge of the bed, and the puncture is made a few inches below the umbilicus; as the fluid escapes, a jack-towel, which was previously arranged round the trunk, is tightened up, so that the risk of faintness may be lessened. Some- times, when the serum is only partially drawn off, the flow is checked by the omentum or a piece of intestine being carried against the end of the tube ; the obstruction is to be overcome by passing a probe down the cannula. Development of intestines.— The early intestinal canal is a straight cylindrical tube in the internal blastodermic layer ; it runs in the long axis of the germ, and its ends are closed. As the growth of the tube proceeds with great rapidity, it escapes in abundant coils through the front of the abdomen, which is as yet not closed in. But after the end of the second month energetic growth of the abdominal walls takes place, so that the truant viscera are soon surrounded and swept within the cavity. I have seen a new-born infant in whom there had not been this subsequent growth of the parietes, so that not only were the bowels protruding from sternum to pubes, but the liver and the urinary bladder were also prolapsed. These viscera