TJie Leg 488 which is fastened above the knee. In certain cases of paralytic taHpes calcaneus a piece is cut out of the tendon, and the ends are spliced together. The flexor longrus ballucis is a large and very powerful muscle arising from the lower two-thirds of the back of the fibula. Its tendon passes over the tibia, to the outer side of the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, and behind the ankle-joint ; it then grooves the back of the astragalus, and, passing under the sustentaculum tali, runs between the two heads of the flexor brevis hallucis to be inserted into the ungual phalanx. To the outer side of the muscle are the fibula and the soleus, to the inner side are the long flexor of the toes, the tibialis posticus, and the posterior tibial vessels and nerve ; in its substance is the peroneal artery. In the sole the tendon is united with that of the flexor longus digitorum by a strong slip. The flexor longrus dig-itorum arises from the tibia below the soleus. Its tendon lies in the groove behind the inner malleolus, with that of the tibialis posticus, but in a separate synovial sheath ; and, passing through the sole, where it receives a slip from the tendon of the long flexor of the great toe, it divides into four tendons which are inserted into the ungual phalanges of the four outer toes. These tendons perforate those of the flexor brevis digitorum. The posterior tibial vessels and nerves rest upon the long flexor. Tenoto7ny of the flexor longiis is sometimes required in extreme talipes equino-varus ; the tendon is then divided, together with that of the tibialis posticus, by a wound made a little above the inaer malleolus, or, preferably, by an open incision nearer the sole of the foot. In the former case, should the posterior tibial artery be accidentally punctured or divided, the bleeding may be arrested by bandaging a firm pad over the inner ankle, so as to compress the artery against the posterior surface of the tibia. It is rarely necessary to enlarge the wound and tie the vessel. The tibialis posticus arises from the back of the interosseous membrane and from the adjacent surfaces of the tibia and fibula. The tendon passes inwards on the tibial aspect of that of the flexor longus digitorum, and rather to its inner side, and, running with that tendon beneath the head of the astragalus, is inserted into the scaphoid and internal cuneiform bones. It also sends back a slip to the sustentaculum tali, and other slips to the outer cuneiform bones, the cuboid, and the bases of the middle metatarsal bones. Thus it is an important structure in supporting the transverse as well as the antero-posterior arch of the foot. The muscle is covered by the flexor longus digitorum on the inner, and by the flexor longus hallucis on the outer side ; on it rest the beginnings of the posterior tibial and the peroneal arteries, and the posterior tibial nerve. At the ankle its tendon is the innermost, lying in the same groove with that of the flexor longus digitorum, but in a separate synovial sheath.