437 IscJiio-rectal Fossa the pelvis, on account of a sheet of fascia which, coming from the obturator fascia, slopes along the under surface of the levator ani to the anus. This is the anal fascia. A stronger and much more important layer of fascia also passes from the obturator fascia, over the upper surface of the levator ani and the coccygeus, to lose itself on the side of the rectum and bladder ; it is the recto-vesical Jascia. Behind the bowel the layers from the opposite sides of the pelvis meet and invest the pyriformis and the sacral plexus, and between the bladder and rectum the fascia invests the seminal vesicles. The opposite sheets also form the lateral and anterior true ligaments of the bladder, and also provide a special investment for the pro- state and the prostatic plexus of veins. The most anterior part of this recto-vesical fascia constitutes the pubo-prostatic ligament (p, 413). The recto-vesical fascia helps the levator ani in preventing the abdo- minal viscera sinking towards the ischio-rectal fossa ; it is at once a sloping floor to the abdom n and roof to the fossa. In lateral lithotomy the knife sometimes passes beyond the limit of the lobe of the prostate, and, the ischio-rectal fossa being opened up into the pelvic cavity, fatal cellulitis may occur. The presence of abundant loose tissue in the fossa allows the de- scent and expansion of the rectum during defsecation ; it is through the tissue at the front of the fossa that the surgeon cuts to reach the pro- state and the neck of the bladder in lateral lithotomy {z>. p. 443). As the return of venous blood from this tissue is aided neither by the in- fluence of gravity nor by active pressure of surrounding muscles, the part is extremely liable to congestion and inflammation, and especially so in the subject of feeble circulation, embarrassed respiration (phthisis), or of advancing disease of the liver. Inflammation may also be set up by a wet seat, or by injury. If the inflammation be followed by suppuration, iscMo-rectal abscess is the result. A common cause of ischio-rectal abscess is the escape of a foreign body, such as a fish- bone, or of some hard fasces, through the lateral wall of the bowel. Such perforation of the bowel may be preceded by an ulcer, especially in the case of stricture of the rectum or of tuberculosis. When suppuration occurs the abscess bulges at the side of the anus, at the border of the gluteus maximus, or against the rectal wall. In the last case there is great pain on defit:cation, and on introducing the finger into the bowel the fulness on its outer side is evident, and perhaps fluctuation may thus be detected. In sitting the patient bears all his weight on the opposite ischial tuberosity, resting upon the very edge of the seat of the chair. If left to itself, the pus will find exit either into the rectum or through the skin at the side of the anus ; the surgeon should open such an abscess through the base of the fossa, making his incision in a line radiating from the anus : that is, parallel with the hsemorrhoidal vessels. The sooner that he opens it, the less will be the resulting chasm.