222 The Spinal Cord That part of the anterior column which is to the outer side of Tiirck's column consists of fibres destined for the anterior roots of the spinal nerves ; its strands, therefore, are for motor condiictio7i. In the lateral column are two strands of fibres, one of which passes to the cerebellum, the direct cerebellar tract^ the other being the crossed pyramidal tract. The latter is composed of fibres which have crossed in the decussation of the anterior pyramids of the medulla oblongata (those fibres of the pyramid which have not so decussated passing down in Tiirck's column). Thus, secondary to disease of the motor area of the cerebrum—say of the right side—degeneration occurs in the right direct (Tiirck's) tract and in the left crossed tract. (The direct cerebellar tract is for the transmission of sensory im- pulses, as indicated in the diagram on p. 215.) Disease of the antero-lateral column causes loss of voluntary action of the muscles below, and, control from the brain being lost, the re- flexes are exaggerated and a spasmodic contraction results—tetanoid paraplegia. But the muscles implicated are not wasted unless the there is no loss of sensation or of co-ordina- tion, for the posterior columns are still sound. Children are specially subject to sclerosis of the lateral column, the disease being generally called spastic paraplegia. The child gradually loses the power of walking, and as he is being exa- mined a storm of reflexes may arise ; his knees are thrown up in bed and his thighs are violently adducted. When he tries to walk a character- istic spasm of the muscles of locomotion prevents him, his heels being drawn up and his limbs stiffened. All the reflexes are in excess, and that of the ankle is so strong that rhythmic contrac- tions are replaced by muscular rigidity. (The reflex loops are entire, but the cerebral control cannot travel down to them by the diseased motor paths.) Subse- quently the muscles become cojttractured, the hands and feet are ' clawed,' and the patient is hopelessly bed-ridden. As already remarked, the motor area of the brain is held in com- munication with the anterior roots of the spinal nerves by means of the pyramidal tracts—chiefly the crossed tract—with the intervention of the large multipolar cells of the anterior cornu. And thus, if a muscle of the arm, for instance, be paralysed, the fault may be in the motor area of the brain, in a pyramidal tract, in the ganglionic cells, or in the efferent filaments of the nerve. Descending deg;eneration.—In the case of a lesion of the motor area of the brain (p. 48)—say of the right side—degeneration descends by the pyramidal tracts, those muscles being paralysed on the left side Spastic paraplegia; muscles contractured.