Perityphlitis 327 lies in the right ihac fossa, or rests upon the psoas ; it may e\ en, Hke the sigmoid flexure, hang over into the true pelvis. Above it is carried on as the ascending colon, and on its inner side the ileum enters by the ileo-cascal valve. It is about 2^ in. deep and the same across. The vermiform process, 3 or 4 in. long, and, completely ensheathed by peritoneum, is curled up along the left aspect of the Ccccum. Under its serous coat are muscular and mucous layers, as in the crecum itself A shot- corn, seed, or fjEcal concretion lodged in the process may cause a localised peritonitis and inflammation of the neighbouring tissues generally ; the condition is named perityphlitis (Trept, around ; Tv<p\os, blind). The tissues become matted together. In due course ulceration or gangrene of the process occurs, fasculent matter es- caping, and suppuration advancing. The disease is characterised by hard- ness and tenderness deep in the right iliac fossa. The inflammation of the muscular coat of the bowel entails paralysis of its fibres, constipation being the result. The constipation is beneficial in that it keeps the parts at rest and encourages the formation of adhesions which may shut the abscess out of the general peritoneal cavity ; opium, not pur- gatives, should be prescribed, and leeches may be applied. The abscess should be opened through the iliac fossa, or it may discharge into the colon, or may wander into the pelvis ; its bursting into the peritoneal cavity is always to be dreaded. Small hard masses are sometimes found in the vermiform process, which, though much resembling cherry-stones, are found on section to be formed of inspissated intestinal secretion. In two cases of acute peritonitis in children which were under my care we found that the cause of the trouble was an ulceration over a concretion in the root of the process. I ligatured and amputated the process, and washed out the peritoneal cavity, but, unfortunately, the children sank shortly afterwards. In the case of recurrent typhlitis an exploratory laparotomy, and amputation of the vermiform process, may be indicated ; it must be remembered, however, that the ureter lies close m the neighbourhood and may possibly be implicated in the adhesions. The surgery of the vermiform process is of far more interest than is its anatomy. Left lumbar colotomy. (Herbert Allingham.)