Fhud in Pleura nerves being implicated. Such peripheral pains are like those met with in lower dorsal caries, but they are not usually bilateral. If pain extend into the armpit or down the inner side of the arm, the explanation is to be sought in the distribution of the lateral cutaneous branches of the inter- costal nerves, and especially of the intercosto-humeral. Hydrothorax.—As the re- sult of pleurisy, serum oozes from the capillaries of the pleura into the cavity, filling, perhaps, one side of the chest, but hydrothorax is apt to occur in disease of heart (p. 178) and of kidney. The fact of the pleura being a large lymph- space accounts for the rapid ab- sorption which ' water in the chest' sometimes undergoes. If there be only a small amount of fluid in the chest there is a dull percussion note behind as the Heart displaced vertically and to the right by ^ . . enusion into left pleura. (Bkaune.; man lies supme, but as he is turned on to his face the dulness may shift its position. As he sits up the dull area is just above the diaphragm, front and back, the lung being floated up. When the pleura is choke-full the intercostal furrows of that side are effaced, the lung is driven into the costo-vertebral groove, and the heart, as shown by the position of the apex-beat (p. 162), is displaced right or left, as the case may be. The lung being com- pressed, that area is absolutely dull on percussion ; the gentle breath- sounds are lost, and the water-logged side of the chest scarcely moves with respiration ; the air may be heard at the back, however, entering and leaving the rigid tubes {bronchial respiratio7i^ p. 200). There is a general bulging of that side of the chest. The patient obviously prefers to be upon the heavy side ; and, as he speaks, the hand placed on the chest detects absence of vocal vibration^ for the fluid cuts off all the sound-waves. The lung does not float on the fluid. Some of the above signs equally apply to a solid thoracic tumour, but a solid growth does not cut off the vibrations—a wooden carriage- seat transmits vibrations, a water-cushion dissipates them. In the case of effusion the liver and spleen are driven from the shelter of the ribs and may be brought within reach of the fingers. The full pleura may also bulge below the clavicle or in root of neck. In left hydrothorax, as the diaphragm and phrenic pleura are lowered, the pericardium, which is attached to the central tendon, also