Peritonitis 31 5 may pass forwards between the peritoneum and transversalis fascia to the middle Hne or even across it. Except in the female, where the Fallopian tubes pierce it, the peritoneum is a shut sac. It is lined by squamous endothelium, which secretes a serous exudation so as to allow the coils of intestine to roll freely over each other. In intestinal wounds and ulcerations plastic peritonitis often prevents leakage of the contents of the bowel into the general cavity. Thus, gall-stones may escape into the colon ; spinal abscess may be discharged into small or large intestine, and peri- csecal suppuration may be relieved through the groin with the occur- rence of no more than a limited and conservative inflammation. By the theory of inflammatory adhesions encysted peritoneal collections are explained. In peritonitis, on account of the swelling and tenderness, the patient lies supine with his shoulders raised and his knees drawn up, so as to relax the abdominal muscles and to ward off the weight of the bed-clothes. As the inflammation extends to the muscular Avail of the intestine it paralyses it, and thus constipation sets in. Decom- position of the contents of the bo\vel occurs, gas being evolved, and tympanites resulting. To ensure complete rest for the inflamed bowel, opium is administered. As the descent of the diaphragm in respiration disturbs the inflamed membrane, respiration is carried on entirely by the ribs and the intercostal muscles. The arms are often thrown up and the hands placed behind the head, so as to give the pectoral muscles a greater command over the ribs. Inflammation of the peritoneum is accompanied by the deposit of plastic material upon its surface, and when two areas of inflamed membrane lie in quiet apposition the effusion may glue them perma- nently together. But it often happens that before the effusion can be thus organised the movements of the bowel itself, or of the abdominal walls, gently drag the sticky surfaces apart, ^<2;?(^i- and lengthened fibrous adhesions being thus spun out. These bands offer a dangerous snare to the neighbouring coils of bowel, and are a common cause of intestinal obstruction, especially in the neighbourhood of the uterus. In the course of acute peritonitis the muscular coat becomes implicated in due course ; the exudation into it and into the nerve plexuses throws them out of working order, and the symptoms of acute obstruction arise. It has happened to surgeons (besides my- self) to open the abdomen for the relief of acute obstruction and to find no other cause for it than acute peritonitis. When a patient has intestinal muscular cramps—colic—it may be at first a question whether his distress is due to peritonitis or not. If the surgeon can move the flaccid abdominal wall freely over the bowel there is no peritonitis. The peritoneal cavity is like a joint—when the latter moves easily there is no synovitis.