Muscles of Head and Neck 4 sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid muscles ; the posterior belly of the digastric ; scaleni, levator anguli scapulae, and splenius ; the common, and perhaps the beginning of external and internal carotid arteries ; the internal and anterior jugular veins ; vagus ; descendens and com- municantes noni ; spinal accessory ; cervical nerves ; occipital artery, lymphatic glands, and the deep part of the parotid. Beneath the muscle also, in contact with the scalenus anticus, are the subclavian vessels and the phrenic nerve. Though contraction of the cicatrix left after congenital rupture of the muscle is the commonest cause of wry-neck, the deformity may also be determined by ulceration of the cervical vertebrse, in which case complaint will be made of peripheral neuralgias. Tenotomy of the sterno-mastoid.—When the contraction of the muscle is such that the head cannot be brought straight, both slips of origin of the sterno-mastoid must be divided subcutaneously. OpeT-ation.—The muscle having been put upon the stretch, a strong and slender blade is passed close beneath each band in turn, the section being made towards the skin. But the procedure is not devoid of risk, as the anterior jugular (p. 36) or some other large tributary of the subclavian or external jugular vein may be in the way of the knife. Should this happen, the wound in the vessel is held wide open, on account of the head being tightly dragged up, and thus air may pass by the subclavian vein into the heart, where, being churned up with the blood, it may cause a fatal arrest of the circulation. As the anterior jugular and the subclavian arc close behind the clavicle, the risk of wounding an important vessel is diminished if the tenotomy is done half an inch above that bone. The external jugular descends close by the posterior border of the clavicular head of the muscle. Section of the clavicular part of the muscle may be conveniently and safely effected by a free and open wound above and parallel with the clavicle. In a case in which I recently operated by this method I found the internal jugular vein so close beneath the contracted band that, had I performed subcutaneous tenotomy, I could hardly have failed to wound it. Subcutaneous surgery has no doubt played a use- ful part, but at the present day it is an anachronism in many cases of wry-neck and in most cases of club-foot. When spasmodic contraction is deemed to be due to irritation of the spinal accessory nerve, excision of half an inch of nerve as it is entering the muscle may be resorted to with some hope of success (P- 71). The levator anguli scapulee arises from the posterior tubercles of the four upper cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the upper part of the vertebral border of the scapula. It is supphed by the anterior divisions of the middle cervical nerves.