253 Ulnar Nerve clenched hand is to forcibly flex the wrist ; by this trick the flexors are slackened, and, the extensors of the fingers being tightened, the grasp yields.) The inner cord^ which is composed of strands from the eighth cer- vical and first dorsal, supplies, in addition to an anterior thoracic nerve {vide supra), the ulnar, the inner head of the median, the internal cutaneous, and the lesser internal cutaneous. The internal cutaneous (eighth and first) pierces the deep fascia at the middle of the arm, and gives off anterior branches which descend in front of the median-basilic vein to supply the front of the forearm nearly to the wrist, and posterior branches which wind behind the internal condyle for the back of the fore-arm. The nerve also sends twigs through to supply the skin on the inner side of the arm. The lesser internal cutaneous (eighth and first) is joined by the intercosto-humeral, and, piercing the deep fascia halfway down the arm, is distributed to the skin over the inner head of the triceps. The ulnar nerve (eighth and first) descends from the inner cord along the third part of the axillary and the beginning of the brachial artery ; but it gradually bears away towards the inner condylar ridge, resting on the brachialis anticus and the inner head of the triceps, in company with the inferior profunda artery. Having pierced the inner septum, it descends to the hollow between the internal condyle and the olecranon, entering the fore-arm there through the origin of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and giving branches to the elbow-joint. It then lies upon the flexor profundus digitorum, under cover of the flexor carpi ulnaris, both of which it supplies, though the outer part of the latter muscle also receives branches from the anterior interosseous of the median. Coming from behind the inner condyle, the nerve runs for some distance before it joins company with the ulnar artery ; it does not afterwards change its position, but runs close along the inner side of that vessel close external to the pisiform bone, under the shelter of which it passes over the annular ligament and into the palm. Like the median nerve, it gives off 2ipalmar cuta7teous branch. Its dorsal cutaneous branch passes, after the manner of the radial nerve, beneath a tendon (the flexor carpi ulnaris), and pierces the deep fascia to supply the dorsal surface of the little and of half the ring-finger. The ulnar nerve gives some twigs to the wrist-joint, and supplies the palmaris brevis and the palmar aspect of the little and of half the ring-finger. The deep palmar branch dips between the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti, which, together with the opponens minimi digiti, it supplies. Passing with the deep palmar arch, it then gives branches to the two inner lumbricals and to all the interossei ; it ends in the adductor and the deep half of the flexor brevis pollicis. In paralysis of the ulnar nerve adduction and flexion of the hand are imperfectly performed ; there is wasting of the muscles forming