Lachrymal Abscess 75 The Lachrymal Apparatus The lachrymal grland, which is somewhat of the size and shape of an almond, is lodged in the hollow under the external angular process of the frontal bone. To reach the front of the globe, the tears have to pass through the conjunctiva, which they do through half a score of slender ducts, which open on the inner surface of the upper lid. Part of the gland descends behind the lid, and its lower border rests over the superior and external recti, and upon the eye-ball. Being thus poured upon the upper surface of the globe, the tears fall over the front of the eye-ball, washing it completely, whilst the contractions of the orbicularis (p. 72) sweep them constantly inwards, in their course to the puncta lachrymalia. Its structure is like that of a salivary gland. It receives its supplies from special branches of the oph- thalmic nerve (p. 61) and artery, and from the sympathetic. The puncta lachrymalia are the pin-point openings of the superior and inferior lachrymal canals^ which lead from the inner sixth of the margin of the lids to the lachrymal sac. The punctum may be seen on a small papilla on everting the lid. At first each canal runs for a slight distance vertically away from the border of the lid, then it alters its course and enters the lachrymal sac. The canal is com- posed of delicate fibrous tissue, and of mucous membrane lined with squamous epithelium. The puncta are kept in position against the globe of the eye by the contractions of the small tensor tarsi, which is, really, a deep part of the orbicularis. It arises from the lachrymal bone, behind the lach- rymal sac, and passes with the canals to the eye-lids. If the punctum is displaced it may be necessary to slit up the canal so that the tears may flow away along the gutter which is then formed. The lachrymal sac is the upper, dilated end of the nasal duct, lying in the groove between the nasal process of the superior maxilla and the lachrymal bone. It has the strong tendo oculi in front and the tensor tarsi behind, whilst the lachrymal canals enter its external aspect. lachrymal abscess is the result of inflammation of the lining o the sac ; it forms a swelling at the inner corner of the orbit which may