346 TJie Kidneys tufts. The vein, after emerging from the capsule, breaks up into a plexus upon the tubule, and under the influence of the epithelial lining of the tube rids itself of the solids of the urine in solution. In desquama- tive nephritis the epithelium is stripped off, leaving the interior of the tubes naked ; then the urine is comparatively destitute of salts, and is of low specific gravity. If the glomeruli remain, however, there is still plenty of urine poured out, though of low specific gravity. In certain cases fibrinous moulds or casts are found in the urine with epithelial wreckage incorporated with them. From those tubes whose epithelial lining has already been shed the casts are large and clear (as seen in microscopic examination of the urine), but in other casts epithelial cells and blood-corpuscles are im- bedded. The large casts are of bad augury ; they show that the tubes are stripped and valueless, and that the patient is in danger of non- elimination of the urine-salts. Congrestion.—It has been shown experimentally that ligation of the renal vein causes the escape of albuminous fluid from the congested renal vessels. Similarly, albumen or blood appears in the urine in inflam- mation of the kidneys, or in the more mechanical obstruction caused by the pressure of a gravid uterus, an aneurysm, or other tumour upon the vena cava or renal vein. Congestion may also be due to delayed circulation through the lung or the heart ; and, as congestion is a preparatory stage to inflammation, so phthisis and emphysema, mitral and aortic disease, are common precursors of nephritis. Long continu- ance of congestion of the kidney begets thickening of the inter-tubular fibrous tissue, just as happens also in the case of liver-congestion ; subsequently the tissue undergoes atrophy and the cirrhotic or con- tracted kidney is produced. Congestion may be relieved by venassection or by cupping over the loins ; in the latter case through the direct anastomosis between branches of the lumbar and renal vessels (p. 309). In Brig-ht's disease the kidney may be increased or diminished in size, the cortical part of the gland being chiefly affected. In one case the bases of the pyramids are thickly covered with cortex, in the other they approach very near to the surface of the gland. The large kidneys may together weigh twelve ounces, and the small ones but two ; the former might in due course have contracted into small cirrhotic glands. If the inflammation be acute, the renal capillaries, and especially the Malpighian tufts, are engorged, and in places even bursting, some of the tubules being choked with blood and abundant epithelial cells, whilst others are blocked with fibrinous moulds or ' casts.' Contracted kidney.—As the result of inflammation of the kidney there is hypertrophy of the connective tissue pervading the gland ; then atrophy supervenes {see cirrhosis of liver, p. 336) and, the tubules being compressed, disarranged, and strangled, the gland dwindles