383 Malformation of Rectum , depression for anal piece of rectum, r ; b, bladder; m, Meckel's diverticulum ; ce, future oesophagus; p, pharynx ; u, urachus. more stretched and thinned is its wall; the surgeon must proceed, therefore, with the utmost gentleness in using' the enema or scoop when endeavouring to empty it. The muscular coat being greatly stretched and enfeebled, there is no chance of a natural evacuation taking place. Development.—The blind end of the large intestine descending into the pelvis is separated by a thick septum from the surface of the perineum. Then a de- pression at the site of the future anus deepens upwards to form a short, shut sac ; at last the septum is absorbed, and the pelvic and anal pieces of the rectum become continuous. Thus, the pelvic portion of the rectum is developed from the hypoblast, whilst the anal portion is the result of an involution of the epiblast. Emperforate rectum results from persist- ence of the septum; it may exist with a perfectly formed anus. Should absorption of the septum be incomplete, an annular constriction will be detected an inch or so within the anus. The close association of the rectum and urinary bladder during development suggests how, from arrest of development, the bowel may open into the vagina or urethra, or on to the perineum. In obstinate constipation in infants digital exploration of the rectum must not be neglected, for, although the anus is well formed, the pelvic portion of the large intestine may not be deve- loped, or may be represented only by a cord descending towards the perineum. Imperforate anus. — Though the pelvic and anal portions may be perfectly developed, the orifice may be occluded by a membrane which may be easily broken through. Kelations.—The upper part of the rectum rests upon the sacrum, the sacral plexus, and the pyriformis. Coils of small intestine dropping down into the recto-vesical pouch intervene between it and the distended bladder. The uterus and vagina would also be in front of it iv. p. 389). The ureters and various branches of the internal iliac artery lie against its side. (There is no definite limit between the first and second parts of rectum, opening into bladder, b ; a. penis.