Dislocations of Hiinicnis 257 deltoid, and depressed by the subscapularis, infra-spinatus, and teres minor, and by the pectoraHs major, teres major, and latissimus dorsi. I.t is drawn forwards by the pectoralis major, coraco-brachialis and biceps, and by the anterior part of the deltoid; backwards by the posterior part of the deltoid, the teres major, latissimus dorsi, and triceps. The external rotators are the infra-spinatus and teres minor, and the internal rotators are the pectoralis major, teres major, latissimus dorsi, and subscapularis. Elevation of the arm above the head is accomplished by the action chiefly of the trapezius and serratus magnus, and other muscles which rotate or fix the scapula; without rotation of the scapula the arm cannot be raised above the head. In synovitis of the slioulder^joint there is impairment of move- ment, and when the patient is stripped and the arms are raised the scapula of the affected side moves with the humerus, its inferior angle travelling forwards as the arm is abducted. If effusion occur there is a deep-seated and elastic fulness beneath the deltoid. If abscess form in the joint, the pus may escape by the offshoot of the synovial membrane which descends along the bicipital groove, and so the abscess becomes diffused in the subdeltoid tissue, whence it will work its way to the surface beneath the anterior or posterior border of the muscle, for it is not likely that the pus would approach the skin through the substance of the deltoid. Sometimes the articular suppuration escapes by the gaps which exist beneath the insertions of the subscapularis and infra-spinatus. The sinuses leading to the dis- eased joint may open through the infra-clavicular fossa at any spot along the anterior border of the deltoid, or even into the axilla, or along the posterior border of the muscle. Dislocations of the humerus.—The great freedom of movement which the humerus enjoys renders it specially Hable to dislocation, and when once the bone has slipped out of the shoulder-joint the luxation is apt to recur. The commonest cause of dislocation is a fall upon the elbow or hand. When a man is falling he instinctively puts out his arm to ' break the fall' This is done by the energetic contraction of the supra-spinatus and deltoid, the axillary muscles at the same instant contracting, so as to fix the arm. Then, partly by the shock trans- mitted to the socket, and partly by the downward muscular pull, the head of the bone tears through the lower part of the capsule. Sometimes the head of the humerus rests in the axilla as a sub- glenoid dislocation. But more often it is dragged by the muscles, or thrust by the shock, into the sub-coracoid or even into the sub- clavicular region. If the elbow or hand happen to be advanced as well as raised when the himierus tears through the capsule, the head of the bone s