339 Syniptoins of Cirrhosis testinal tract is stagnant, and water escapes into the bowel and causes diarrhoea, or into the peritoneal cavity, producing ascites (p. 316). A dropsy which begins in the peritoneal cavity is generally due to cirrhosis of liver. Haemorrhage may occur along the alimentary canal, giving rise to black stools. Because the blood cannot escape freely from the portal vein by the usual route, it learns to reach the general circulation by going through the veins of the abdominal wall, and through those upon the surface of the liver. In the former case a chain of dilated veins may be seen ascending from groin to chest ; in the latter case the collateral route can be recognised only after death. {See the figure on p. 301.) Hepatitis.—In acute inflammation of the fibrous tissue of the liver there is a tender and deep-seated fulness in the right hypochon- driac region, and the patient lies upon that side, so that there may be no dragging upon the fibrous and peritoneal bands which keep the heavy gland in its place. When the right lobe is the chief part involved, and this is usually the case, there is pai7i in the top of the right shoulder; and, the left lobe being implicated, there may be pain at the left shoulder. This, as shown on p. 147, is due to the fact that filaments of the phrenic nerves enter the substance of the liver ; the phrenic nerve comes from the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical nerves ; the fourth gives off acromial twigs, and when the phrenic in the liver is implicated the pain is reflected by those supra-clavicular nerves. The movements of the diaphragm distress the liver and set up a dry cough or a hiccough, and, by way of resting and protecting the inflamed gland, the abdominal muscles, and especially the right rectus, are rigid. The figure on p. 192 shows how close the lung and the pleura are to the liver and peritoneum ; and when there is pain in that neighbourhood, with a short cough and shallow breathing, it may be difficult to say promptly whether the base of the lung or the liver is inflamed. But ' the ear will tell us, if we employ auscultation and percussion, whether the contents of the chest or of the belly are suffering : and my own experience has taught me that sharp pain, with feverishness, occurring in the debatable ground of the right side, denotes pleuritic inflammation far more often than it denotes hepatic' (Sir Thos. Watson.) Acute hepatitis may end in abscess, and, the pus escaping, may set up fatal peritonitis. But more often the inflammation glues the liver to the stomach, bowel, or abdominal wall, a safe evacuation taking place. The pus may also be discharged through the diaphragm into the right pleura or into a bronchial tube, or even into the pericardium. K frequent catise of hepatic abscess is dysenteric inflammation of the rectum, thrombi being carried through rootlets of the vena portas, z 2