TJiyroid Cartilage T25 THE LARYNX The larynx is hung from the hyoid bone and the styloid process. It is continuous with the trachea at the level of the lower border of the fifth cervical vertebra. Above and in front is the tongue ; behind is the pharynx, into which it opens by the glottis. Standing out in the middle line of the neck, between the two sterno- mastoids, it forms a groove in which lie the common carotid artery with the internal jugular vein and the vagus. The thyroid cartilag-e consists of the alae which unite in a promi- nent angle, the pomum Adanii, separated from the fascia and skin by a small bursa. On the outer surface of the ala a ridge runs downwards and for- wards from the root of the superior cornu, for the insertion of the sterno-hyoid and the origin of the thyro-hyoid. The inferior con- strictor of the pharynx arises from the surface behind the ridge. The inner surface of the ala is covered by mucous membrane, and, at the retiring angle, gives attachment to the vocal cords and the thyro- arytasnoid muscles. To the upper border is attached the thyro-hyoid membrane. The crico-thyroid muscle and membrane are connected with the lower border. The posterior borders of the cartilage are widely separated, the gap being filled in below by the cricoid and arytasnoid cartilages, and they receive the insertion of the stylo-pharyngei. The width of the lower part of the pharynx is maintained by the attachment of the inferior constrictor to the posterior part of the alas. The posterior borders lie close to the front of the middle cervical vertebrae, and in roughly pushing the cartilage across the front of the vertebras a moist sort of crepitus is produced, which, being first noticed after an injury, might possibly suggest fracture. Fracture of the thyroid cartilage may result from violence. There is difficulty and pain in coughing and swallowing, and there are swell- ing and tenderness about the larynx. The patient should be kept on his back and fed on enemata and liquid food; he should not be allowed to talk. Tracheotomy may be needed if the injury and swelling are great. The cricoid cartilagre, named from its resemblance to a signet- ring (KpiKos), has its expanded part in the gap between the alae of the thyroid, and its slender part in front, below the thyroid, with which it is connected by the crico-thyroid membrane. Its lower border is at- tached to the first ring of the trachea by a thin membrane. From the posterior part arise the crico-arytasnoidei postici and the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus. The arytasnoid cartilages articulate with the upper part of the expanded portion, and the inferior cornua of the