Orbit 7B The Muscles of the Orbit The levator palpebrse superioris, the four straight muscles, and the superior oblique one arise around the optic foramen ; the straight muscles pass forwards, closely applied round the optic nerve, to their insertion into the sclerotic about a quarter of an inch behind the cornea. The third nerve supplies the superior, inferior, and internal recti, the external one being supplied by the sixth. Acting together, the straight muscles retract the eye-ball, whilst the oblique muscles draw it forwards. The external rectus of one eye acts in concert with the internal rectus of the other. If the long axis of the orbit were in the straight line with that of the eye-ball, the superior and inferior recti would simply turn the cornea upwards or downwards ; but, because these muscles pass for- wards obliquely to their insertion, that is, in the axis of the orbit, they turn the cornea slightly inwards as well. The inward inclination caused by the superior rectus is counteracted by the action of the in- ferior oblique, and that of the inferior rectus is checked by the superior oblique. The superior oblique passes forwards to the upper and inner part of the orbit, where its slender tendon runs through a fibro-carti- laginous ring which is lubricated by a delicate synovial membrane. The tendon then passes downwards, outwards, and backwards, be- tween the superior rectus and the sclerotic, to be inserted between the superior and external recti, in the hemisphere of the globe behind the transverse equator. The supply is from the fourth nerve, which has been called ' patheticus' on the supposition that it supplied the muscle which gave a ' pathetic' turn to the eye-ball. The pulley can be obscurely felt by thrusting the finger into the inner and upper part of the orbit. Chronic serous effusion into the synovial membrane of the pulley causes a prominent cyst ; it is often seen in those beyond middle life. The inferior oblique arises from the superior maxilla just external to the nasal duct, and, passing obliquely upwards, between the in- ferior rectus and the floor of the orbit, and then between the sclerotic and the outer rectus, is inserted just below the superior oblique, behind the equator of the globe. It is supplied by the third nerve. The action of the oblique muscles.—If an imaginary pin be driven vertically through the centre of the globe, movement becomes possible only in the horizontal plane, and the superior oblique, coming from the inner side, to be inserted on the outer side of the globe, behind the transverse axis, or equator, on contracting must draw the posterior hemisphere inwards and so turn the cornea outwards.