478 The Knee-Joint p. 482), and anterior tibial. The nerves are branches of the obturator, anterior crural, internal popliteal (three), and external popliteal (two). Pains about the knee may be due to local troubles, such as disease of the synovial membrane, the bones, the epiphyses, or the burs^ (p. 473). But it may be due to some distant cause, such as disease of the spinal cord, or its membranes, or of the column (p. 210) ; to pressure upon the trunk of the anterior crural, obturator, or sciatic nerve ; or to reflex irritation, caused by disease of the sacro-iHac or hip-joint. Bursae in the neigrhbourhood of knee-joint.—There is a large one between the patella and the skin, and a small one between the tubercle of the tibia and the skin. Either of these may become in- flamed by continued pressure, the disease constituting housemaid's knee. When the bursal inflammation is acute, the surrounding parts are SAvollen, red, and hot, and the case looks like one of joint-disease. In the latter case the swehing is behind the patella and its ligament, whilst in bursal inflammation the effusion is in front of them. If sup- puration occur the abscess should be promptly opened, lest the pus find its way into the articulation. {See illustration on p. 473.) A third bursa intervenes between the ligamentum patellae and the upper part of the tubercle of the tibia. When acutely inflamed, this bursa, bound down as it is, causes great pain, and bulges on either side of the ligament. There is a bursa beneath each head of the gastrocnemius ; that beneath the inner head often communicates with the interior of the knee-joint, and also with another bursa which sepa- rates the tendon of the semi-membranosus from the head of the tibia. There are other bursas between the internal lateral ligament and the tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus, and between the external ligament and tendon of biceps. Lastly, there is the subcrureus bursa, to which reference has already been made. The superior-tibio fibular mem_brane may communicate with that of the knee-joint. The bursa under the inner head of the gastrocnemius and the in- sertion of the semi-membranosus is often full of fluid. When the knee is extended the tendons are tightened and the tumour is made hard and tense ; when it is flexed the outline of the tumour becomes less definite. Sometimes fluctuation may be readily obtained between the contents of this tumour and the over-abundant synovial fluid in the joint. If the tumour be carelessly opened, septic inflammation spread- ing from it may involve the knee-joint in acute disease. The relative position of structures around the knee.—In front the joint is almost subcutaneous. Behind are the popliteal vessels and the internal popliteal nerve ; and on either side of them are the heads of the gastrocnemius (the plantaris being with the outer), the semi- tendinosus and membranosus, the biceps, and the external popliteal nerve, Internally are the gracilis and sartorius, the internal saphenous