284 TJic Radius and Ulna As the upper fragment cannot be influenced by pad or splint, the surgeon must direct his attention to the shaft-fragment, bringing it into the best position by flexing the fore-arm and supinating it, so as to relax the biceps. When both bones are broken, say at about the middle of the fore-arm, the limb must not be put up with the hand either pronated or half-pronated, as in that position the radius closely overlies the ulna and there is risk of the four broken ends being solidly cemented together with new bone. When the fore-arm is supinated the bones are far apart ; therefore, as a practical surgeon once remarked, ' you must arrange the limb so that the patient could spit into his hand.' That is, the elbow is flexed so as to relax the biceps, whilst the fore- arm is supinated and raised in a wide sling. In dealing with a fracture in the fore-arm, the bandages must not be tight, lest the superficial veins be compressed—which easily hap- pens—or lest the circulation through the arteries themselves becomes arrested, and pressure-sores or extensive gangrene supervene. Fracture of the ulna.—As the result of direct violence or muscular action the olecraiion process may be broken off. The separation does not take place through the epiphyseal cartilage, as this is a mere shell of bone at the top of the process, but through the narrow part halfway down the great sigmoid cavity. Sometimes the detached piece is dragged up by the triceps, but at other times, when the surrounding fibrous tissue is not much torn, there may be no displacement whatever. The fracture is, of course, into the joint, and is occasionally followed by arthritis and ankylosis. The union may be only of fibrous tissue, but, to secure the best chance of solid repair, the elbow must be kept on a straight splint for three weeks, so that there may be no dragging by the triceps. When a bone is broken in a synovial cavity^ as in the case of the olecranon process, the patella, and the neck of the femur, synovial fluid bathes the fractured surfaces and often prevents their osseous re- union. No7i-imion of the olecranon may leave the arm comparatively useless, the fragment being drawn up the arm by the triceps, and the power of extension being seriously interfered with. To remedy this defect the joint may be laid open from behind, the surfaces of bone freshened up, and the loose piece of the olecranon brought down and fixed by wire sutures. The coronoidprocess may be broken off in backward dislocation of the bones of the fore-arm, or it may possibly be detached and drawn up by the energetic action of the brachialis anticus. Like the last injury, it is a fracture into the joint. The elbow has to be fixed by a rectangular splint for three weeks. In this way the brachialis anticus is kept in perfect rest, and the broken surfaces are approximated to the utmost degree attainable. Amputation in the fore-arm may be performed in the upper,