Disease of Kidney 348 part of this vascular change, the arteries lose their elasticity, and one day, as the vigorous ventricle is straining to force some unusually impure blood through the resisting capillaries, a vessel gives way, perhaps in the brain, and the patient is attacked with apoplexy. The effect of the impure blood upon the lungs is to cause cough, bronchitis, and pneumonia ; upon the stomach, to cause dyspepsia, loss of appetite, and vomiting ; upon the bowel, to set up diarrhoea ; and upon the brain, to give rise to headache, convulsions, and coma. Occasionally the uriniferous tubules become distended in number- less spots by limpid urine, producing general cystic degoteratioji of the gland. As a tubule bulges, the vascular tissue and the neighbouring tubules disappear from pressure, the pyramids being first pressed upon and wasted. There is much truth in the saying that a man is as old as his kidneys. The practitioner should make it his rule to examine the urine of every patient with obscure illness ; when it contains albumen or casts he may expect to find the pulse hard and resisting, the temporal arteries mobile and tortuous, the impulse of the heart increased, and its apex-beat displaced outside the normal line. The kidneys of such a patient should be rested to the utmost, by placing him upon a diet without alcohol and poor in nitrogenous foods ; the bowels and skin should be encouraged to eliminate by purgings and sweatings, and he should be specially careful to avoid chills and violent exercise. The kidney may be ruptured from a blow on the loin, blood escaping into the surrounding tissues, and also into the ureter, where it is well mixed with the urine. If a clot be carried into and plug the ureter, urine may collect above it. (For Surgical Kidney see p. 410.) Hydronephrosis.—If from congenital malformation of ureter, bladder, or urethra, pressure of a tumour, clot, or stricture, there be serious impediment to the outflow of urine, the fluid collects in the interior of the kidney, and, by the mere effect of pressure, causes wasting of all the proper renal tissue and converts the gland into a mere water-bag. A large and painless tumour, possibly yielding a sense of fluctuation, fills the entire lumbar region, and, on aspiration, limpid urine is with- drawn. For certain, the tumour is dull on percussion behind, but there will be resonance in front if the colon intervene between it and the anterior abdominal wall. The obstruction being overcome, an enor- mous quantity of pale urine is passed and the area of dulness subsides, the diaphragm descending and the coils of intestine passing outwards to resume their proper place. The fluid of hydronephrosis does not change its position as the patient is turned ; this distinguishes hydronephrosis from ascites, but not from ovarian dropsy. In ovarian disease, however, there may be some resonance in the loins, and the dulness is traceable into