87 Myopia the book ; then, that he may have binocular vision, the internal, the superior, and inferior recti must be in constant contraction. This causes the posterior, and unsupported, part of the feeble globe to bulge, so that its length becomes increased. The strained and stoop- ing position of the head compresses the cervical veins, and hinders the return of blood from the eye-ball, which is already in a condition of too great physiological activity, and in which there is also excessive intra-ocular secretion. That there is increased intra-ocular pressure is evidenced by the fact that the choroid becomes so much flattened and thinned in the neighbourhood of the optic nerve that a 7nyopic crescent of the sclerotic can be detected by the ophthalmoscope. The treatment is first preventive :— ' Not with blinded eyesight poring over miserable books.' Subsequently it demands the careful adjustment of concave glasses, so that the rays of light may be rendered more divergent before they reach the cornea. The iris is the coloured circular curtain which floats in the aqueous humour, in front of the lens, its central opening being the pupil. By its circumference it is attached to the junction of the sclerotic and cornea, and is continuous behind with the ciliary processes. Structure.—The iris is composed of delicate connective tissue, the filaments being chiefly arranged in a radiating manner. Towards the anterior part are a group of coloured cells, and behind is a dark pigmentary layer, the uvea {uva^ a bunch of grapes). The posterior surface of the iris moves upon the front of the lens, the narrow space between it and the periphery constituting the posterior chamber of the aqueous. The anterior chamber is the interval in front of the iris, and, like the posterior chamber, is virtually a large lymph space. The muscular tissue consists of a sphincter of plain fibres around the pupil, and of a radiating series which extend through the width of the iris. The sphincter set are governed by the third nerve, the dilator fibres being under the influence of the sympathetic. Up to the seventh month of foetal life 2^pupillary membrane occu- pied the central opening of the iris. Its arteries were derived from the arteria centralis retinae and from those of the iris. In the eighth month the membrane begins to clear away from the centre, but occa- sionally it persists after birth. The vessels of the iris.—The long ciliary—one running on either side of the optic nerve—eventually send an arterial circle around the attached border of the iris, where they anastomose with the short ciliary. Both sets then send twigs through the iris to make an anastomotic circle round the pupillary border.