263 Branches of BracJiial Arteiy in the lower part ; also to the inner side, but separated by the deep fascia and the bicipital fascia, are the basilic and the median-basilic veins. The artery has on either side a vena coiues. Branches.—The superior profunda springs from the very begin- ning of the brachial, and descends into the interval between the inner and outer heads of the triceps, under cover of the long head, and thus winds with the musculo-spiral nerve (p. 25j) to the outer condylar ridge. It there passes through the external intermuscular septum and lies between the supinator longus and the brachialis anticus, where it anastosmoses with the radial recurrent. It sends a branch to the back of the external condyle, which anastomoses with the interosseous recurrent, and another to the back of the internal condyle, which anastomoses with the posterior ulnar recurrent, and the posterior branches of the inferior profunda and anastomotica magna. The nutrient artery to tlie medulla enters the bone near the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, and courses towards the elbow. In amputation just below the middle of the arm this vessel in the medullary canal may require a touch with the thermo-cautery. The inferior profunda comes off below the middle of the arm, and runs with the ulnar nerve to the inner intermuscular septum, in front of which a branch may descend from it to communicate with the anastomotica magna and the anterior ulnar recurrent. The rest of the profunda passes through the septum, lying on the inner head of triceps, and anastomoses behind the condyle with the anastomotica magna, superior profunda, and posterior ulnar recurrent. IMiuscular branches are given off to the coraco-brachialis, biceps, and brachialis anticus. The anastomotica mag-na runs inwards on the brachiahs anticus, "about an inch above the condyle, anastomosing with the inferior profunda and the anterior ulnar recurrent ; some of it passes through the septum and anastomoses with the inferior and superior profunda and the posterior ulnar recurrent. Thus it anastomoses with every neighbouring branch except the radial recurrent, which it is obviously unable to reach without trespassing through the external intermuscular septum. Irregiclarities.—The division into radial and ulnar may take place anywhere between the arm-pit and elbow, the two trunks descending side by side. If after ligature of an unusually small brachial artery pulsation continue in the radial or ulnar artery, search must be made a little to the inner or outer side for a ' seco7td brachial^ At the bend of elbow there is a triangularfossa which is bounded on the outer side by the supinator longus, and on the inner by the pronator radii teres. The latter muscle slopes outwards, and the apex of the space is at the approximation of these muscles, and to the outer side of the fore-arm. The base is an imaginary transverse Hne drawn through the condyles of the humerus. Covering the fossa are skin and