435 Covermgs of Spermatic Cord with serum exuded from the congested vessels. This condition corre- sponds to the oedema of the arm associated with mahgnant invasion of the axillary glands ; it is called diffuse hydrocele of the cord, and is more frequently described in books than observed in practice. The nerves of the testis are derived from the aortic and renal plexus, and it is probable that a few filaments from the communication with the anterior trunks of the lumbar nerves pass down with the sympathetic fibres. The free association of the spermatic nerves with the great pre-vertebral system of the sympathetic system of the abdomen explains the sickness, faintness, or collapse which may ac- company a blow upon the testis, symptoms which occur also on rupture of the stomach or kidneys. The pain extends into the loins, and the patient is ' doubled up' ; that is, he slackens his abdominal muscles so as to take all pressure from the inguinal canal and from the abdo- minal plexus. The close association between the renal and spermatic plexuses is further shown by the neuralgia or the acute inflammation of the testis which may be caused by the passage of a renal calculus, and by the pain in the back which follows the injection of a hydrocele, or the dragging of a tumour of the testis. ]Leeching- the front of the scrotum in acute epididymitis affords relief through the anastomosis existing between the vessels of the gland, the cord, the tunica vaginalis, and the scrotum ; the leeches should be chiefly placed along the course of the cord. The supervention of orchitis on mumps has not yet been satis- factorily explained. All that is known is that there is a strange association between the parotid gland and the testis, or the ovary, and also with the inguinal and genito-urinary region generally Parotitis sometimes follows operation on these parts—a parotitis which is not, apparently, septicsemic in origin. In castration the testis is thrust well forwards by the grasp of the left hand, which is behind the scrotum, and an incision is made from the external abdominal ring down to the bottom of the scrotum. The cord is laid bare and raised, tightly ligated, and divided ; the lower piece of the cord, the testicle, and the tunica vaginalis are then enucleated. The structures divided to lay bare the cord are the skin and the superficial fascice (which latter, in the scrotal part of the incision, constitute the dartos); the thin inter-columnar fascia derived from the aponeurosis of the external oblique ; the cremasteric fascia from the internal oblique ; the infundibuliform fascia from the fascia transversalis ; and a little loose connective tissue. If the unobliterated funicular process of peritoneum be encountered it must be tied along with the cord. In reaching the cord, branches of the superficial epigastric and external pudic arteries, and the cremasteric twig of the deep epigastric artery, may be divided ; also some twigs of the super- ficial perineal arteries. The ligature around the cord secures the following blood-vessels : the spermatic artery, from the abdominal F F 2