428 TJie Testis kidney ; 2, testis ; 3, peritoneum ; 4, vas ; 5, bladder ; 6, abd. ring ; 7, Poupart's lig. ; 8, pubic part of cremaster, and, 9, outer part ; 10, gubernaculum in scrotum. part of the allantois which is to become the urinary bladder. This duct will be either the vas deferens or the Fallopian tube. The descent of the testis soon begins. This ' descent' is partly due to the growth of the upper part of the body being out of proportion to that of the lower part, and partly to the influence of the gubei'-naciilum testis^ a soft, conical structure which lies between the peri- toneum and the psoas. Its apex is con- nected to the testis, whilst its base passes through the inguinal region to a threefold attachment. Each division is said to con- tain striated muscular tissue. The inner piece runs to the pubic crest, the middle piece loses itself in the depths of the scrotum, whilst the outermost is attached to Poupart's ligament near the inguinal canal. Thus, the connections of the gubernaculum are those of the adult cremaster (p. 304); indeed. Curling believed that this foetal structure eventually becomes the cremaster. The piece of the gubernaculum which is attached to Poupart's ligament is supposed to guide the testis into the canal, the pubic piece to draw it through the external abdo- minal ring, and the scrotal piece to complete the descent. The testis reaches the internal abdominal ring at about the seventh month of foetal life ; during the eighth month it is working its way along the inguinal canal, and at birth it has generally reached the depths of the scrotum. Abnormalities.—One or both testes may fail to reach the scrotum, remaining within the abdomen or the inguinal canal, or wandering into the groin or perineum. Beyond the limits of the deep layers of the superficial fascia, beneath which they are placed, they cannot stray. An inflamed testes in an unusual situation may be mistaken for abscess. An undescended gland is likely to be of no physiological value; moreover, it is somewhat apt to be attacked with malignant disease. Whilst within the abdomen the testis is covered in front by peri- toneum, and the accompanying diagrams show how the gland takes a serous covering in front of it down into the scrotum. The lower end of the funicular process eventually becomes detached from the rest of the peritoneal sac, and persists as the tunica vagrinalis. The rest of the funicular process dwindles into a slender fibrous cord. The closure of the abdominal end of the serous process should occur about birth. The tunica vaginalis covers the front and sides of the testes, and is reflected from the epididymis to the scrotum; the laminated epithelium lining it ensures a moist and glistening surface, which allows the sensitive gland to escape injury in forcible abduction of the