50 The Encephalon Were the hemiplegia to be on the same side as the cerebral lesion, the explanation would be that, from an error of development, there was no crossing in the pyramids, but that all the motor fibres had descended uncrossed, like the fibres in the column of Tiirck (p. 215). This element in the calculation, however, may practically be dis- regarded. In irritation of the motor area, as from meningitis or slight haemor- rhage, there is twitching of the muscles of the opposite side, but when the area is destroyed, as by abscess, injury, softening, or tumour, there is complete paralysis of motion only on the opposite side, with sub- sequent contracture of the muscles. The larger the area affected, the more extensive the hemiplegia. Thus, in the case of softening in the neighbourhood of the left fissure of Rolando, there will be right hemi- plegia, right facial paralysis, and also aphasia. The softening is usually caused by plugging of the middle cerebral artery, and, the area of brain being suddenly deprived of its supply, the symptoms are much like those of apoplexy. Disease in the motor area, as already remarked, causes loss of voluntary movements in the muscles of the opposite side ; and, as the lateral columns of the cord become involved in a descending degenera- tion (p. 222), spasm and subsequent rigidity of these muscles are entailed. The degeneration may be traced by the microscope through the crus cerebri, anterior pyramid, and the antero-lateral column of the cord. There is no loss of sensation in these cases, unless, indeed, the degeneration extends deeply into the hemisphere. When hccmor- rhage has occurred, and is continuing from a middle cerebral artery, the patient should be propped up in bed, so as to retard somewhat the leakage ; and it is a question whether in some of these cases con- tinuous compression, or even ligation, of the common carotid might not be resorted to with advantage. Varieties of paralysis.—Paralysis of the arm with the leg consti- tutes bracJdO'Crural monoplegia \ the condition is a common one, for a tumour implicating the upper part of the arm-centre need spread but little to interfere with that of the leg. Perhaps the arm-centre might first be attacked, and then, as the growth extended upwards, leg-para- lysis would follow, and as it extended downwards facial paralysis and aphasia would result. The exact situatio7i of the leg-centre is probably in the superior parietal lobule and in the para-central lobule (p. 53). Thus, briefly, the leg-centre is about the top of the fissure of Rolando. Crural moiioplegia means paralysis of the muscles of the lower extremity only (juoi o?, alone) that is, without any implication of the muscles of the upper extremity. Brachial.—The centres for the ar?n, hand, andfingers are extensive, just as the movements of the limb are important and complicated ; they are situated about the middle of the ascending frontal and ascend-