Locomotor Ataxy 223 which are supplied by the cross fibres, and those on the right which are supplied by the fibres of the direct tract, Tiirck's column. Thus it is that a lesion on one side of the brain may be followed by paralysis and contracture of muscles on both sides of the body. The degeneration descending in the pyramidal tracts (as after haemorrhage in the motor area of the brain), the muscles associated with them are not only paralysed but also contractured, and if the disease extends into the anterior horn of the grey crescent they also begin to atrophy. Th.e postero-external or BicrdacJis column consists to a large extent of fibres of the posterior roots of the nerves and of fibres that convey tactile impressions to the brain. Under the guidance of the brain, these fibres co-ordinate muscular movements. Thus, when the postero- external columns are diseased the muscles are not paralysed, but they act tumultuously, without co-ordination. There are also the peripheral pains, impaired sensation, and the other characteristics of locomotor ataxy. Later, as the sclerosis extends to the anterior cornua, mus- cular weakness appears, with atrophy (p. 218). But when the anterior cornua remain sound, whilst the posterior and lateral columns are diseased, the nutrition of the muscles continues, though they become weak because of the implication of the crossed pyramidal tract. Thus locomotor ataxy (d, without; ra^ty, order) is a want of harmony in the working of muscles of locomotion, and is due to fibroid degene- ration (sclerosis : aKXrjpos, hard) beginning in the columns of Burdach and spreading into those of Goll. As the fibrosis is followed by atrophy in the spinal or dorsal cord, the disease also bears the name ta^es dorsalis {tabeo^ waste away). Burdach's column being very closely associated with the posterior roots of the spinal nerves—conveying sensory impulses and co-ordinating movements—the sclerosing irrita- tion of the sensory nerve roots accounts for the characteristic peri- pheral ' lightning-pains' of locomotor ataxy ; and as the strands are pressed upon by the inflammatory thickening their power of co-ordi- nating diminishes. Normal sensation is gradually lost, and the patient cannot tell when his feet touch the ground. As the disease advances the ataxic man can keep his muscles under nominal control only by watching every step ; he stumbles and falls unless his path is light, and with his eyes shut he cannot keep his balance. As he walks his feet fly out in a meaningless manner, and in time the muscles of his hands and arms become aflected. The patella reflex is entirely lost because the sensory impulse fails to reach or to traverse the grey crescent, and erection of the penis, another reflex act, becomes in due course im- possible. (For the state of the//////, v. p. 59.) The Sympathetic System The sympathetic system consists of two knotted cords along the front of the vertebral column, which are joined together on the anterior communicating artery (p. 42), and, at the tip of the coccyx, in