174 Disease of tJie Heart creases the amount of the refluent blood. The regurgitation murmur occurs immediately after the radial pulse, that is during ventricular diastole, and is heard at the second right cartilage, over the valve, along the left sternum, and down to the apex, replacing, possibly, the second sound, or all of it but that which is due to the slamming of the pulmonary valves. Now, for some obscure reason the regurgitating blood does not always carry this murmur down to the apex^ but, throwing the sternum into vibration, it is well heard over that bone, for the sternum is a good conductor of sound. When the regurgitation con- tinues until the ventricle is actually ready to contract again the murmur lasts until the first sound. This means that a little blood is squeezing its way back during the whole time that the aortic valves are shut. When the regurgitant murmur is a short one the valve must be desperately out of order, allowing the arterial tension to send plunging back as much blood as it likes, and all in a lump, as it were. Thus the short-lived aortic regurgitant murmur is of much graver import than that which persists up to the next ventricular contraction. When the aortic valve permits regurgitation the arteries cannot be kept full, and so it is that the radial pulse collapses during diastole. Then when the ventricle contracts again blood is injected into the half-empty vessel, and the water-hammer^ or whipping pulse, is produced—a sign of great clinical value. When an aortic murmur lasts only through the first half of the diastole, and the radial pulse is seen to expand and collapse rapidly, regurgitation is extreme. But when it lasts through the whole diastole, and the collapsing pulse is not very visible, even on raising the wrist, the valvular insufficiency is but slight. Aortic obstruc- tion very often co-exists with aortic insufficiency ; then a ' see-saw' -murmur is produced. E?igorgement of the superficial cervical vei7is occurs when the right ventricle is much embarrassed, as in pulmonary emphysema ; in mitral insufficiency ; in tricuspid insufficiency ; or when an aneurysmal or other thoracic tumour presses upon the superior vena cava or the innominate veins. The engorgement is less noticeable when the head and neck are raised, as then gravity helps to empty the veins. Inspiration relieves the cervical congestion ; but with each expiratory act, and markedly in coughing, the intra-thoracic pressure is increased, and the veins stand out fuller than ever along the neck, showing a respiratory tindulation imparted to their contents. A definite venous pulse in the neck occurs when the right ventricle is unable to drive its contents through the lungs (p. 172) and some of the blood escapes by the tricuspid valve into the right auricle, and thence into the superior cava, the innominate and the jugular veins. Regurgitation may occur through even a healthy tricuspid valve. As already remarked, the right auriculo-ventricular orifice has a third flap to provide for this safety-action ; through a healthy two-flap valve it