314 Femoral Hernia downwards, and backwards round the falciform process, and then upwards through the crural ring. The seat of the strangulation of a femoral hernia is at the rigid margin of the crural ring, that is, outside the sac. Therefore, the operator may expect to effect reduction, after easing this constriction, with the hernia-knife, without opening the sac. He divides all the coverings down to the sac by a vertical incision, and then slips the probe- pointed bistouri through the crural ring, in front of the neck of the sac, easing the constriction by a slight incision upwards and inwards, but not too much upwards, lest he sever Poupart's ligament, and wound the spermatic cord which lies along it, or the epigastric artery which is above it. The fibres divided are those at the junction of Poupart's and Gimbernat's ligaments. Allusion is made elsewhere (p. 371) to those rare instances in which the operator wounds an irregular obturator artery. Perineal and vag-inal bernise are closely associated anatomi- cally ; they pass down in front of the rectum. The former descends in its peritoneal sac along the rami of the ischium and pubes to the perineum through the levator ani, deriving a covering from the recto- vesical fascia ; the latter simply bulges into the vagina. Obturator hernia escapes through the upper part of the thyroid foramen, where it would compress the obturator nerve, causing peri- pheral neuralgia. (There is a good example of this hernia in the museum of St. Mary's Hospital, No. C. d. 19). To ease the strangula- tion of an obturator hernia, an incision would be made from the inner third of Poupart's ligament vertically down the thigh for three or four inches, dividing skin, superficial fascia, fascia lata—the common femoral and the long saphenous veins being carefully avoided. Then the pectineus would be exposed, and the interval between it and the adductor longus would be carefully traversed. The short adductor having been drawn downwards and inwards, the small protrusion would be recognised. If it were necessary to enlarge the shallow obturator canal, the obturator membrane might be incised by the hernia-knife. Hernia through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, like the varieties just mentioned, is very rare. The Cavity of the Abdomen The peritoneum lines the abdominal cavity and is stretched around (Trepi, reiveiv) most of the viscera, its reflections constituting ' false ligaments.' The attachment to the abdominal walls is not very intimate except in the neighbourhood of the umbilicus ; in the opera- tion of ligation of an iliac artery the peritoneal pouch can be easily stripped up from the iliac fossa ; whilst an abscess bursting through the iDack of the liver, between the layers of the coronary ligament.