86 The Eye after a long and enfeebling illness, such as scarlet fever, and then, for the first time, it may be discovered that the person is hypermetropic. Myopic eye : axis too long ; parallel rays, a, a, brought to focus at b before reaching retina, and eventually giving blurred image at b', b'; concave glass needed. (Dixon.) With advancing age the power of accommodation naturally dimi- nishes, whilst, at the same time, the lens grows flatter, so that the Hypermetropic eye : axis too short; parallel rays, a, a, tending to a focus at b, form circles of dispersion on retina at b\ b', but are brought to proper focus by the convex glass. (Dixon.) old man {rrpea^vs) is almost sure to be hypermetropic. But, as the loss of accommodation in his case is the result of age, and not of a con- genital defect, it is called _presl^jopm. Reference is made elsewhere (p. 58) to the fact that contraction of the ciliary muscle is constantly associated with that of the internal rectus—both muscles being supplied by the third nerve—and so it comes about that the hypermetropic child who triumphs over the defective depth of his eye-ball by a course of ciliary athletics is apt to develop a convergent squint. It would, indeed, be a grave error to perform tenotomy in such a case ; the child should be treated by convex lenses. In due course the myopic man finds such difficulty in securing bin- ocular vision of near objects that he gets into the habit of using one eye at a time. Mr. Juler ^ gives an excellent account of the anatomy of near- sightediiess—myopia {fivco, close, (o^, eye—from the habit which myopic people have of partly' closing the eyes' for distant vision), the defect in which the eye-ball is too long, rays of light being brought to a focus before the proper time. The defect usually comes on in childhood, and is due to deficient strength in the ocular tunics, especially when the child is busied with fine work, and in a bad light; he attempts to obtain larger retinal images by keeping his head close down to ' Ophthalviic Science and Practice, 1884, p. 333.