TJie Subclavian Artery 230 supine, with the shoulders raised and the head thrown back, the arm being pulled down to the utmost, so as to lower the clavicle—the base of the posterior inferior triangle: when the clavicle is raised, as in axillary aneurysm, ligation is rendered much more difficult. The la7id-inarks are the clavicle, posterior border of sterno-mastoid, and, possibly, the anterior margin of the trapezius, but this is not generally defined. Perhaps the artery may be felt pulsating upon the first rib. In a muscular subject the interval between the sterno- mastoid and trapezius may be so small that much of the attachment of the muscles may need section. The skin is well drawn down, and an incision is made through it, the superficial fascia, and the platysma for about 2\ to 3 in. along the middle of the clavicle, beginning at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid. Then, when the skin is released, the incision is drawn up along the superior border of the clavicle. The external jugular vein is seen as it is about to pass through the deep fascia ; if it be much in the way it must be tied in two places and divided. The deep fascia, which, being attached to the upper border of the clavicle, is not drawn down with the skin and platysma, is then divided above the clavicle, and the finger is passed through it into the connec- tive tissue in the depths of the subclavian triangle. The first rib is then felt, and the scalene tubercle with the attach- ment of the scalenus anticus—the outer border of that muscle lying behind that of the sterno-mastoid. As this tubercle is at the inner border of the rib, and as the subclavian artery passes behind the muscle, the finger must be directed outwards and a little backwards over the first rib, in order to feel the artery. The lowest cords of the brachial plexus are close behind the artery, and on a rather higher plane, resting upon the sloping rib ; they are apt to be picked up in mistake for the artery. But even in the cadaver it is easy to make out the difference, for on rolling the artery with the tip of the finger upon the rib it is felt to be hollow and collapsing, the nerve being solid and cord-like. The artery having been freed by the cautious use of the director, the aneurysm-needle is passed round it from behind, so that there may be no risk of any of the plexus being enclosed in the loop. The vein is well below the level of the artery, and behind the clavicle, and is in but slight danger of being wounded. The operator does not usually see the vein. Care must be taken that the point of the needle is not thrust too much downwards, lest the dome of the pleura be wounded. On one occasion in which I was performing this operation a large and dusky lymphatic gland appeared in front of the artery, and at first sight looked like the swollen vein. Some of the irreg-ularities are mentioned on p. 180, the most interesting of them being that in which the right subclavian is given off