Pneumogastric Nerve 69 it which supply the hinder part of the tongue are concerned in the special sense of taste. Arising in the fourth ventricle, the nerve appears between the olive and restiform, and leaves the skull by the jugular foramen. It sends a branch (Jacobson's) to the tympanic plexus, and it enters into the formation of the pharyngeal plexus (p. 138) by passing downwards and forwards between the external and internal carotids. It gives branches also to the stylo-pharyngeus and the tonsil. No. 10, the pneumog-astric, or, as it might also be called, cardio- pneumogastric, takes a long and wandering {vagus) course, and holds the medulla in direct association with pharynx and oesophagus ; the larynx, trachea, bronchi, and lungs ; the heart ; the cervical, thoracic, and abdominal sympathetics ; and with the stomach, liver, and spleen. It arises from the fourth ventricle and emerges between the olive and restiform, and, having left the skull by the jugular foramen, runs straight down, beneath and between the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein, and then between the vein and the common carotid artery (p. 24 ). Arrived at the root of the neck, it travels onward to the back of the root of the lung, passing on the right side over the beginning of the subclavian artery and behind the vein. On the left it descends between the common carotid and subclavian arteries, behind the left innominate vein, and over the transverse part of the aortic arch. At the back of the root of the lung each nerve spreads out into the posterior pulmonary plexus, from which fibres pass into the lung, in company with sympathetic twigs. From the back of the roots of the lungs the remnants of the vagi are gathered up into two cords which descend upon the oesophagus {-plexus gtdce)^ those of the left side passing, for the most part, on to the front of the stomach, and those of the right on to the back of that viscus. The former branches communicate with the hepatic plexus, and the latter with the splenic and solar plexus. As the vagus leaves the skull it gives off the auricular^ or Arnold^s nerve^ which enters the petrous bone near the jugular fossa, and leaves it by the fissure between the external auditory meatus and the mastoid process ; it supplies the skin behind the pinna, and the lining of the auditory meatus. It is generally supposed that the stimulation of this sensory filament by wetting the skin with cold M^ater after a heavy dinner stimulates the pneumogastric to renewed efforts at digestion. £ar-coug-b.—An important fact in connection with Arnold's nerve is that irritation of its branches, as by a plug of wax, or any foreign body in the meatus, may set up uncontrollable cough. The probable explanation is that there is a communication between this twig and the filaments of the superior laryngeal branch. Outside the skull the pneumogastric nerve receives the accessory part of the spinal accessory. Some of the motor filaments which are thus obtained pass out for the pharyngeal plexus, and others