Ligation of Dorsalis Pedis 495 ILig-ation of the dorsalis pedis.—An incision of two inches is made over the artery in the Hne running from the middle of the ankle to the base of the first space, through the skin and the superficial and deep fascise. The tendon of the special extensor of the great toe is not the guide to the artery, which is running at some distance on its outer side ; the guide is the inner belly and tendon of the short ex- tensor of the toes. This latter closely overlaps the dorsalis pedis, and is beginning to cross it from the outer side. The artery is thus to be looked for close on the inner side of, or just beneath, that part of the extensor brevis digitorum, and a second layer of deep fascia, which binds the artery to the tarsus, has to be divided before the vessel is quite cleared. On either side is a vein, and to the outer is the an- terior tibial nerve. The ligature is to be passed from the outer side. Branches.—Various tarsal branches anastomose with the malleolar and plantar arteries, and the outermost of them may be also joined by twigs of the anterior peroneal. The metatarsal branch runs over the bases of the metatarsal bones, under the extensor brevis digitorum, and gives off dorsal interosseous branches, which run along the three outer spaces. These slender vessels divide at the clefts of the toes, and receive there the anterior perforating branches from the digitals of the external plantar. At the hinder end of the spaces the dorsal interosseous arteries are joined by the posterior perforating twigs of the external plantar. The outermost interosseous artery gives a branch along the outer side of the little toe. The dorsalis hallucis comes from the bifurcation of the dorsalis pedis, and runs on the first dorsal interosseous muscle to the cleft, both sides of which it supplies. It also sends a branch under the tendon of the extensor proprius hallucis to the inner side of the great toe. The communicating- branch descends between the heads of origin of the first dorsal interosseous muscle to become continuous with the external plantar, and so to form the plantar arch. It supplies also the inner side of the great toe and the adjacent sides of the great and second toes on their plantar aspect, the internal plantar artery failing to reach so far forwards. The Bones of the Leg The tibia has three centres of ossification, that for the shaft appearing early in fcetal life. The upper epiphysis consists of the tuberosities and the tubercle, and begins to ossify at birth. The centre for the lower end appears in the second year and joins the shaft soon after puberty. The upper epiphysis joins at manhood, that is when the growth of the leg is perfected. The upper junction-cartilage, therefore, has more concern with the growth of the bone than the lower—for it is in active increase for several years longer—and must