The Leg 486 EA.L.D between this tendon and that of the extensor longus digitorum, the nerve being to the outer side of the artery and its venae comites. When effusion—the result of a sprain or of gout, for instance—takes place into the synovial sheaths of the tendons about the ankle, the outline of the tendons is somewhat obscured, and flexion and ex- tension of the foot are accompanied by painful and strange creakings or crack- lings in the sheaths. At the back of the leg- the deep fascia is continuous with the fascia lata of the thigh, and receives some strengthen- ing slips from the biceps, sartorius, graci- lis, and semi-tendinosus. Over the ham,, where it is very strong, it is pierced by the short saphenous vein. Lower down, it is continuous with the sheet which covers the peroneus longus and brevis, and it is attached between them, and the soleus Synovial ^^^^^^[^^jf^^/^^^^ and flexor longus hallucis, to the fibula. Internally it is attached to the posterior border of the tibia. It binds down the calf muscles. Another layer of deep fascia, as remarked elsewhere (p. 490), passes across beneath the soleus, binding down the tibialis posticus and the flexors longus digitorum and proprius hallucis, covering also the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. Towards the inner ankle these two layers of deep fascia blend to form the internal annular lig:ament, and are then lost in the deep plantar fascia. This annular ligament passes from the inner malleolus to the adjacent part of the os calcis, and binds down the structures behind the inner ankle. Most internally is the sheath for the tendon of the tibialis posticus, which, like that of the tibialis anticus, has a synovial investment of its own. Close to the outer side of this is another compartment for the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, with its own synovial investment. Then comes a wide passage for the posterior tibial artery with a vena comes on either side, and, a little farther out, is the posterior tibial nerve. More externally still is the tunnel for the tendon of the flexor proprius hallucis, with its synovial sheath. The external annular lig-ament passes from the tip of the external malleolus to the outer side of the os calcis, and binds down the ten- dons of the peroneus longus and brevis and their common synovial sheath, the shorter tendon being anterior. The longer tendon is apt to slip from its position and thereby to cause lameness and pain on walking ; this accident may also happen to the tendon of the tibialis posticus as it v/inds behind the inner malleolus.