Arteries of Leg and Foot 491 tibial itself, and it may practically take its place ; sometimes this large artery passes through as the anterior peroneal to become the dorsalis pedis. In addition to the peroneal, the posterior tibial also gives off a nutrient branch which runs downwards in the tibia; iimscidarhx?a\Qh^'s>; a coininunicating to join the corresponding branch from the peroneal, and some internal calcanean twigs which nourish the inner part of the flap in Syme's amputation. Collateral circulation after ligation of the posterior tibial artery below the origin of the peroneal would be carried on by numberless muscular branches. Blood would also enter the empty trunk through the communicating artery, and the other anastomoses from the pero- neal ; through the plantar arch, and through other communications with the anterior tibial and the dorsalis pedis. Ligatio7z of the pero7ieal artery is required in the case of a punc- tured wound, when the surgeon would have the track of the original wound to guide him. Should he be called upon, however, to tie the artery in its continuity, when there was no wound to guide him, he had better make a four-inch incision between the bellies of the gastro- cnemius, and, having traversed that muscle, the soleus, and the second layer of deep fascia, secure the artery just previous to its entering the long flexor of the great toe. The internal plantar division of the posterior tibial artery runs forward between the abductor hallucis and the flexor brevis digitorum, and, arriving at the ball of the great toe as a small twig, ends by anastomosing with the innermost digital branch. The internal plantar is an unimportant trunk ; it takes no part in the formation of the plantar arch. The external plantar artery comes off from the bifurcation of the posterior tibial, under cover of the abductor hallucis. It is a large artery, and, having passed outwards between the flexors brevis and accessorius, runs forwards between the former muscle and the abduc- tor minimi digiti to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. From that situation it curves inwards across the metatarsal bones to the root of the first interosseous space, where it joins the branch from the dorsalis pedis to form the plantar arch. In this latter bend the artery lies deeply beneath the long flexor tendons and the lumbricals. The branches are calcanean^ nntscidar^ and cittaneoiis; also three posterior perforating^ which mount through the roots of the three outer interosseous spaces to join the interosseous branches of the metatarsal artery, and four digital arteries, of which one runs along the outer side of the little toe, whilst the others pass in the inter- osseous spaces to divide at the three outer clefts, to supply the toes, and to inosculate by short a7iterior pejforating branches with the end- ings of the dorsal interosseous arteries. The innermost cleft, and the inner side of the great toe, are supplied by the dorsalis pedis.