The Uterus 390 passing from the navel to the coccyx—that is with the axis of inlet of the pelvis (p. 364). In the normal state it is suspended within the true pelvis ; thus it cannot be felt above the pubes ; during pregnancy it ascends towards the anterior abdominal wall. Relations.—The large end is surrounded by coils of small intestine. Posteriorly is the rectum ; and into the recto-vesical pouch of peri- toneum loops of jejunum and ileum descend. In front is the bladder, and laterally are the ovaries and Fallopian tubes, between the layers of the broad ligament. Inferiorly is the vagina, and lower still is the perineum ; after rupture of the perineum the uterus sinks until the cervix and some of the body hang permanently outside the vulva ; this is protapse of the uterus. The presence of the uterus between the bladder and rectum divides the recto-vesical cavity into the antero-uterine and the retro-uterine pouches, each of which contains coils of small intestine ; the retro- uterine cul-de-sac is commonly called Doug-las's poucli, which may be reached by the finger through the upper part of the back of the vagina. When the bladder is distended the uterus is thrust backwards and upwards ; when the rectum is loaded it is pushed forwards. The peritoneal covering- of the body of the uterus is complete on the posterior surface ; indeed, the retro-uterine pouch descends con- siderably below the level of the body covering the posterior part of the cervix, which extends above the vagina, and the upper part of the back of the vagina itself Laterally, the recto-uterine pouch is bounded by the ureters and the obliterated hypogastric arteries. Anteriorly the peritoneum does not descend so far, but, leaving a small part of the uterus bare below, passes forwards to the back of the bladder. It, uterus; c, cervix ; od, oviduct, andz and Ji, fimbriated exty. ; /, round ligament; o, ovarj', and /0, its ligament; / o, parovarium, with small cyst, h. The layers of peritoneum from the front and back extend laterally to the side of the pelvis under the name of broad ligaments. The