Vessels of Brain 42 from the ascending" pharyngeal, through the anterior condylar fora- men. The veins^ with the exception of the pair of middle meningeals, which emerge by the foramen spinosum to join the internal maxillary vein, end in the adjacent sinuses. The middle mening-eal artery ascends for a short distance in the substance of the anterior inferior angle of the parietal, so that fracture of that part of the skull is apt to be followed by haemorrhage between the bone and dura mater. For the most part, the vessel is wrapped in the dura, so that a rent of the membrane tears the vessel also, in which case bleeding is also external to the dura. The looseness of the attachment of the membrane to the vault of the skull allows the formation of an enormous blood-clot outside the dura, the brain being thereby gradually compressed. The nature of the compression is readily suspected : thus, it is over the motor area ; the symptoms do not follow immediately on the accident, as they would if the compres- sion were due to depression of bone : they come on gradually after a few days, and there is no rise of temperature such as would be associated with the compression due to suppuration. Being thus enclosed in bone and in the dura, there is little chance of spontaneous cessation of bleeding when the artery is rent. The haemorrhage being over the motor area, the progress of the clot can be precisely noted. Trephining will be indicated, and on opening the skull, if leakage from the vessel have not then ceased, there will be little difficulty in finding and securing the torn vessel. (Jacobson, ' Guy's Hospital Reports,' vol. xliii.) The arteries of the brain are derived from the internal carotid and the vertebral, the former giving off the anterior and middle cerebral. The anterior cerebral enters the front of the longitudinal fissure, where it is joined with its fellow by the short anterior coininunicating artery. It then winds on to the upper surface of the corpus cal- losum, where it anastomoses with the posterior cerebral. It gives off branches to the anterior perforated space (p. 53), to the anterior lobe, and to the median surface of the hemisphere. The middle cerebral, ' the artery of cerebral hccmorrhage/ supplies the motor area (p. 48). Entering the Sylvian fissure, it gives branches to the island of Reil, through the anterior perforated space, to the corpus striatum, and to those parts of the frontal and parietal lobes adjacent to the fissure of Rolando. Thus, when the main artery of the left side (p. 49) is plugged, there is right hemiplegia and aphasia, and when the right vessel is plugged there is left hemiplegia. When a branch only is blocked the motor paralysis is partial, and, perhaps, temporary, as the anastomotic branches of the pia mater may in clue time repair the lesion. The left middle cerebral is said to be more often plugged than the right, because, it is argued, a vegetation is more likely to pass with the blood-stream into it than into that of