433 Varicocele ; HcPiiiatocele toneum and rests upon the psoas and crosses very obliquely the ureter and the external iliac artery. The right artery lies over the inferior vena cava. Passing into the inguinal canal, the spermatic artery joins in the formation of the spermatic cord, and communicates with the cremasteric branch of the deep epigastric, and, when piercing the back of the fibrous capsule of the gland, with twigs of the artery of the vas deferens. Having entered the body of the testis through the posterior part of the fibrous capsule of the testicle, the branches of the spermatic artery spread out upon its inner surface, and upon the fibrous septa in the interior. Sir Astley Cooper compared the vascular layer to the pia mater, and called it the tunica vasculosa. As the spermatic artery lies in the back of the cord near the vas deferens, the probability is that it will have been separated from the veins before the latter are ligated in the radical treatment of varico- cele. If it be included in the ligature, atrophy of the testis is likely to follow {vide i?tfra). But as the spermatic artery anastomoses with the artery of the vas deferens, and with the cremasteric branch of the deep epigastric, the testis does not depend entirely on the aortic branch for its supply. The spermatic veins return the blood from the tunica vasculosa, and, leaving the gland through the back of the tunica albuginea, receive branches from the epididymis. They are much twisted together and communicate freely, and, though possessing valves, they maybe injected in either direction. They are called the pampiniform plexus, from their resemblance to the tendrils {panipinits) of a vine. They become fewer as they ascend along the inguinal canal, and by the time that the renal region has been reached there is usually but a single vein ; this on the right side enters the inferior vena cava, on the left the renal vein. In the development of the left testicle it would have been impractic- able for its spermatic vein to pass over mto the vena cava. Within the abdomen the spermatic veins are behind the peritoneum, and those of the left side take their course beneath the sigmoid flexure of colon. When this piece of the bowel is habitually overloaded the return by these veins is impeded, and the dilated veins form a tumour —varicocele {varix, KrfKr], tumour). A varicose vein is apt to burst into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, and so form an opaque blood- tumour, hcBinatocele {alixo, blood ; Kr)\r), tumour). Rupture of a vein into the cord may give rise to ' diffuse haematocele of the cord,' and the extravasation may reach even to the renal region. Other reasons have been suggested for varicocele usually occurring on the left side : such as that the left spermatic vein is at times embarrassed in pouring- its blood, at a right angle, into the renal vein ; that, the left testicle hanging somewhat lower than the right, the vein is longer and con- sequently weaker. In all probability there is some developmental explanation for the occurrence of the varix upon the left side. Certainly most of the F F