Arch of Aorta lyg right auricular appendix. Behind is the root of the right lung. To the right are the superior vena cava and the right auricle, and to the left is the pulmonary artery {v. p. 185). The second part inclines backwards, and to the left, from the second right cartilage, gently bending over the trachea, till it reaches the left side of the fourth dorsal vertebra. Relations.—In frojtt are the left pleura and lung, and the left pneumogastric, phrenic, and cardiac nerves. The left innominate vein may overlap it above, and the left superior intercostal vein ascends obliquely in front to join the left innominate. Behind are the trachea, oesophagus, thoracic duct ; the left recurrent laryngeal, and the deep cardiac nerves. Above are given off the innominate, the left carotid, and the left subclavian arteries; the left innominate vein runs across the roots of those arteries. Below are the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, the ductus arteriosus, and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. This part of the arch is badly named ' transverse/ as it runs almost directly backwards from the second right cartilage. Its upper border is about an inch below the episternal notch, and corresponds with the tip of the third dorsal spine, and its lower border is on the level of the transverse sternal ridge. But in feeble and small- chested persons the transverse aorta may lie on the level of the top of the manubrium ; in big-chested men it is placed much deeper—behind the top of the gladiolus, for instance. Its concavity is, of course, downwards, but there is a second concavity directed backwards and to the right which is due to the vessel being bent round the trachea. The third part of the arch is very short, extending only down the left side of the fifth dorsal vertebra, which thus forms its posterior relation. In front is the root of the left lung, and 07t the right side are the fifth vertebra, and the oesophagus and thoracic duct ; o?t the left are the lung and pleura. To mark out the larg^e vessels.—The aorta begins opposite the sternal end of the third left space. Roughly, it is about as wide as the thumb. It slopes upwards to the second right cartilage. Thence it turns backwards, and slightly to the left, behind the manubrium, its lower border corresponding with the ridge between the manubrium and the gladiolus. The third part descends by the fifth dorsal vertebra, rather to the left of the middle line. From immediately behind the middle of the manubrium the inno- minate artery and the left common carotid mount to their respective sterno-clavicular joints. The left subclavian ascends a little to the outer side of the left carotid. The pulmonary artery, two inches long, ascends in the pericardium from the right ventricle to the concavity of the aortic arch, where it bi- furcates ; that is, it reaches from the third left chondro-sternal joint (the situation of the pulmonary valve) to the second left chondro-sternal joint. N 2