Scalenus Anticus 141 is then made through the skin, platysma, and fasciae along the an- terior border of the left sterno-mastoid, the middle of the incision being over the foreign body. The head is then raised, as in ligation of the common carotid (p. 25), and the sterno-mastoid is drawn out- wards. The omo-hyoid is then seen crossing the carotid sheath, and the sterno-hyoid and thyroid are passing inwards and upwards over the trachea. As the oesophagus is imbedded between the trachea and the carotid sheath, the latter must be gently drawn outwards, and the sterno-hyoid and thyroid and the trachea inwards, the omo-hyoid being divided if necessary. The superior and middle thyroid veins must be tied and divided if they are in the way, but care must be taken not to injure the thyroid body, the inferior thyroid artery, or the recur- rent laryngeal nerve. The position of the oesophagus may be definitely shown, if neces- sary, by the introduction of a bougie or of curved forceps from the mouth. Bleeding having been entirely arrested, the gullet is opened and the foreign body extracted. If the foreign body be impacted in the lower part of the oesophagus —and it is apt to be lodged just before the diaphragm is traversed—it may be extracted by gastrotomy, as demonstrated by Dr. Maurice Richardson, of Boston, U.S.A. In passing an esophageal bougie a gag may be needed between the teeth. Then the tube, being warmed and lubricated, is passed to the back of the pharynx, and, guided by the left forefinger, is pushed safely beyond the laryngeal orifice and down towards the stomach. As it passes by the soft palate and fauces the patient chokes, but as soon as the oesophagus is entered the choking ceases. It has happened that a physician, administering beef-tea by the stomach-pump, injected the trachea, and unfortunately set up a fatal pneumonia. In diphtheritic paralysis of the palate the patient may conveniently be fed by a soft catheter passed across the floor of the nose and into the oesophagus. The Prevertebral Muscles The scalenus anticus (aKoKrjvos, uneven) arises by a flat tendon from the tubercle upon the inner border and upper surface of the first rib, and, passing upwards and inwards, is inserted into the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vetebrie. Relations.—In front are the clavicle, and the subclavius, sterno- mastoid, and omo-hyoid ; the subclavian vein ; the supra-scapular and transversalis colli arteries and the phrenic nerve. Behind it are the subclavian artery, the pleura, and the cords of the brachial plexus. On its inner side, between it and the longus colli, is the vertebral