37 thencefortli until his successor shall be elected as hereinafter provided, and he sliall then go out of office, but shall be forthwith re-eligible. 17. —C. D. &c. shall be the first resident Members of the said Council, and E. F. &c. shall be the first other Members of the said Council; and the said I’esident and other Members shall all continue of the Council until the several days and times hereinafter mentioned, and until the successors of those who shall then be the members to go out of office shall be elected; and on the last Wednesday in the month of in each of the years One Thousand Eight Hundred and Fifty-one, One Thousand Eight Hundred and Fifty-two, and One Thousand Eight Hundred and Fifty-three, one-third of the resident Members, and one-third of the other Members of the said Council hereinbefore named, shall go out of office in the order in which the Council shall in each of such years appoint among them- selves, and shall not be re-eligible on the Council until the year following that in which they shall go Out of office. 18. —THE Council shall be hereafter elected by a majority of the votes of such Members of the College for the time being, as at the time of such election shall either have been for five years Members of the said College, or shall have possessed the diploma or license by virtue of which they shall be Members of the said College, for at least five years before the day of election, and such Members shall be entitled to give their votes either personally or by proxy in writing, according to such regulations as the Council shall establish by any bye-law. 19. —ON the last Wednesday in the month of in the year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Fifty-one, and on the la^t Wednes- day in the month of in every thu-d succeeding year the Council of the College shall meet in the Common Hall for the time being of the said College, or in such other place as the said Council shall from time to time direct, and shall elect a President from those Members who are qualified to be elected President as hereinafter provided ; and every President so elected shall continue to be President for three years, and until his successor shall be appointed, and shall then go out of office, but shall be forthwith re-eligible. 20. —THE Council for the time being shall nominate from time to time, in such order as they shall think fit, three Vice-Presidents from the Members of the Council, two of whom at least shall be nominated from the resident Members; and the Vice-Presidents shall continue to hold their office during the presidency of the President in whose presidency they shall have been appointed, if they shall so long continue Members of the Council, and if not, their place shall be filled up by the Council for the time being; and in every case of the vacancy of the office of President in any maimci' other than by