65 The sixth paragi’aph of this Petition, in context with the first, contains also, the glaring inconsistency of desiring to throw all the interests of the General Practitioners into the hands of that Council, which, according to its own statement, has exer- cised its powers hy inflicting upon them the greatest injustice. A numerous Meeting of the “ Sh?'oj)shi?'e and Nori/i Wales Medical and Surgical Association " was held on the 26th of June, 1848, at which the following Petition to Parliament was also agreed upon:— \Copy.'\ To the Honourable the House of Commons in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the Associated Medical and Surgical Practitioners of Shropshire and North Wales, and other Members of the Pro- fession, adopted at a Public Meeting, held at Shrewsbury, June 26, 1848, Showetb, that your Petitioners consider— 1st. That no adjustment of the grievances under which the profes- sion have so long laboured can be satisfactory unless the obnoxious Charter of the College of Surgeons be first rescinded. 2d. That in any new Charter to be granted to that body provision should be made to empower all those who were members of the Col- lege in September, 1843, and all who shall hereafter be members of ten years’ standing, to vote in the election of the Council; or that Mr. Gutlirie’s proposal, as given in evidence. No. 194, be adopted, and that the election of the Council shall be regulated on just and equitable principles. 3d. That the College of Physicians and the College of Surgeons, if properly modified, are sufficient for all the requirements of the pro- fession, and that no third College (much less an inferior one) is ne- cessary. 4th. That the Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons be empowered to appoint a Board of Examiners (subject to the supervision and ap- proval of a Council of Education), to make such a preliminary exami- nation as shall be a fair test of qualification in all those sciences, a knowledge of which may be considered necessary to the formation of a competent medical and surgical practitioner, and that every candi- date shall pass this preliminary examination previously to undergoing such other examination or examinations as may be required for ob- taining his licence to practice, or being registered under any grade or