Medical Reform, and explained the circumstances which had given rise to these conferences, and the correspondence with the Secretary of State which had resulted from them, and referring in particular to the suggestion contained in a letter from the Right Honourable Sir George Grey to the President of the College of Physicians, whether some representative of the body of General Practitioners could not be included in the conferences, I am directed by the Master and War- dens to intimate to you, for the information of the Council of the National Institute, that the Society, with the view of carrying out the suggestion of the Secretary of State, are desirous of enquiring— 1st, Whether the Council of the National Institute consider that they do at the present time represent the body of General Practitioners; and, 2ndly, assuming from the reply given by the Deputation to this enquiry, that the Council consider they do so represent the body of General Practitioners, whether the Council would wish that the Master of this Society and Messrs. Bacot and Ridout, who have been deputed to act on behalf of this Society at the conferences in ques- tion, should be regarded as the representatives of the body of General Pi'actitioners ; and if not, then the Master and Wardens beg to sug- gest that the Council should nominate two General Practitioners (being Members of the Royal College of Surgeons, and Licentiates of this Society) to act as snch representatives; and I am desired to add, that the Master and Wardens have been authorized to invite to the conferences two gentlemen, possessing the qualifications I have men- tioned, in the character of representatives of the body of General Practitioners. • I am, Sir, your most obt. Servt., ROBT. B. UPTON, To Geo. Ross, Esq. Clerk to the Society. Secy, of the Natl. Institute of Medicine, &c. The National Institute of Medicine, Surgery, and Midwifery. 4, Hanover Square, 2lst Dec., 1847. Sir, I am directed to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 18tli instant, referring to certain conferences now in progress between the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons and the Society of Apothe- caries ; and enquiring, first, whether the Council of the National Institute consider that they do at the present time represent the body of General Practitioners; and, secondly, in the event of tlieir con- sidering that the Council do so represent the body of General Prac- titioners, whether they would consent that the Master of the Society of Apothecaries and Messrs. Bacot and Ridout, who have been deputed