28 As to strik- ing: from the Eegister. Privileges of Persons re- gistered. Penalties on unqualified Persons, and for false pre- tences of qualication. should appear to bo necessary, in order to secure efficiency and uniformity of examinations, to depute one or more of its members to be present at the examinations of any of the Colleges: provided the Members of the Council so deputed be Medical Practitioners, and of the same class in the Profession as the College to be so visited; and if, upon the Eeport of such visitor, or otherwise, the Council should be of opinion that its regulations are not complied with by any ex- amining body, that it should be lawful for the Council to refuse to register, upon the Testimonials of the Body so in default, until the same be amended to the satisfaction of the Council. That the Council should be empowered to strike from the Register the names of any persons who shall be proved to have obtained the registry of their names by any fraud or false certificate, or who shall have been convicted of felony, or of having wilfully and knowingly given any false certificate in any case in which the certificate of a Medical Practitioner is required by law; also the names of any persons who shall have been expelled from either of the Colleges, according to the terms of their respective Charters, provided such expulsion shall have been approved and allowed by the Council, as before required, respecting Bye-laws. VII. That no one who is not registered should be judged capable of performing any act which is required by law to be done by a Medical Practitioner; nor should any but a registered person be appointed to any office which is deemed by the Council to be a public Medical or Surgical offide; nor should any but registered General Practitioners be entitled to demand or recover fees for Medical and Surgical advice and attendance, or for medicines prescribed or administered. VIII. That penalties should be imposed by summary process on all unregistered persons practising Medicine or Surgery. Also, on all unregistered persons falsely pretending to be registered. Also, on all persons assuming any professional name or designation to which they are not by law entitled, or which implies that they belong to a class in the Register in which they are not registered, or that they are Members of a College in which they are not enrolled. In thus laying down the principles on which a Bill should be framed for regulating the whole Medical Profession, the Committee has entered into particulars only as regards the Profession in England; but, under the fifth head, respecting reciprocity of practice in the three kingdoms, it has assigned the conditions wliich ai-e clearly in- dispensable for the attainment of that desirable object. The Committee is aware that some variations from the plan which is here drawn out for England may be rendered advisable or necessary, by local circumstances and the rights of existing institutions, in Scot- land and Ireland.