44 Establish- ment of a Council. Tenure of office by No- minees of the Crown. Secretaries, Clerks, and Messengers. Salaries and expenses. sliall be freed and exempt from being returned, and from serving upon any Juries or Inquests wliatsoever, and shall not be inserted in the lists to be prepared by virtue of that Act; and also of so much of any Act passed or Charter granted before the passing of this Act, as prohibits any person from practising physic or surgery in any place without such examination, certificate, license, or qualification, as is mentioned in such Act or Charter respectively, or as imposes any re- striction on the practice of physic or surgeiy, other than is contained in this Act, or as specifies any qualification for holding any medical or surgical office in any public or local institution other than is con- tained in this Act, shall be repealed, but not so as to revive any Act or Charter, or part of any Act or Charter, repealed by the Acts hereby repealed, or any of them; and excepting always from the Acts hereby repealed an Act passed in the Session of Parliament holden in the fourteenth and fifteenth years of the reign of King Henry the Eighth, intituled, ‘‘The Privileges and Authority of Physicians in London.” That a Council shall be established to superintend the registration of all Medical and Surgical Practitioners, and for the general eontroul of medical education and practice, to be styled “The Medical Council.” That the Council shall consist of one of Her Majesty’s Principal Secretaries of State, in right of his office, and that the other members of the Council (of whom not less than two-thii-ds shall be registered members of the Medical Profession) shall be such persons, not more than twelve, whom Her Majesty, with the advice of Her Privy Council shall deem fit to be members of the said Council. That those members of the said Council who are appointed as afore- said by Her Majesty, with the advice of Her Privy Council, shall continue to be members of the said Council during Her Majesty’s pleasure; and upon every vacancy among the last-mentioned mem- bers of the said Council, and their successors, it shall be lawful for Her Majesty, witli the advice of Her Privy Council, to appoint . another fit person to be a member of the said Council during Her Majesty’s pleasure. That it shall be lawful for the said Council, with the approval of one of Her Majesty’s Principal Secretaries of State, to appoint a principal secretary for the said Council, and also local secretories for Scotland and Ireland, and so many clerks and messengers as the said Secretary of State shall deem necessary, and also with the like approval, to remove at their pleasure any of the said secretaries, clerks and messengers, and appoint others in their room. That there shall be paid to the members of the said Council, and to . the said secretaries, clerks and mcssengci*s, such salaries as shall be