23 to act on behalf of the Society at the conferences in question, should be regarded as the representatives of the body of General Practi- tioners; and, in the third place, if the reply to the second question be in the negative, then informing the Council that the Society is authorized to invite the Council to nominate two General Practi- tioners (being members of the Royal College of Surgeons, and Licen- tiates of the Society,) to act as representatives on the part of the General Practitioners in the said conferences. I am instructed to state in reply to the first inquiry, that in accordance with the reasons assigned by the Deputation at the conference with the Master and Wardens of the Society, on Saturday, the 18th instant, the Council of the National Institute consider that they do at the present time represent the body of General Practi- tioners, inasmuch as they have been recognized both by the former and present Government as the representatives of the General Prac- titioners ; inasmuch, also, as Sir George Grey had recently assured them that they should be admitted concurrent parties to any scheme of medical legislation that might be adopted by the Government. In reference to your second enquiry, I am desired to state that the Council being themselves a delegated body, have no authority to re- delegate their powers to any other body. Moreover, that the Council of the Institute represents a principle that is not represented by any of the existing corporate institutions. The College of Physicians represents Medicine; the College of Surgeons represents Surgery; and the Society of Apothecaries does not include Surgery in the qualifica- tions required for its licence. The General Practitioners consider that the principle of education and qualification, both in Medicine and Surgery, and the practice of all branches of the profession by the same individual ought to be represented. The Council must, therefore, necessarily decline to depute the Society of Apothecaries to represent them in the proposed conferences. I am further directed to acquaint you that in compliance with the invitation to the Council to nominate two General Practitioners (being Members of the Royal College of Surgeons, and Licentiates of the Society of Apothecaries,) to act as such representatives, the Council have nominated James Bird, Esq., and Henry Anoell, Esq., on behalf of the Council, to represent the General Practitioners at the pro- posed conferences with the Royal Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons and the Society of Apothecaries, on the subject of medical legislation. I have the honour to be. Sir, Your most obt. Servt,, To Robt. B. Upton, Esq. GEORGE ROSS, Secretary. Clerk to the Society of Apothecaries.