27 have been examined and admitted as Members of the Royal College of Surgeons. That those persons shall be entitled to be registered as Surgeons, Surgeons, who shall have been admitted as Fellows or Members by the Royal College of Surgeons. That the Members of the College of Surgeons who dispense medicines or supply medicines to them patients, shall be re- quired to enrol themselves in the College of General Practitioners, and to be registered as Surgeons and General Practitioners; and after the pass- ing of the Act, Members of the Royal College of Surgeons shall not be registered as Surgeons unless they be also admitted as Members of the Royal College of General Practitioners, and registered both as Surgeons and General Practitioners. That those persons should be entitled to be registered as Physicians, Physicians, who shall have been admitted as Members of the Royal College of Physicians, according to the provisions of^a new Charter which has been prepared for the College of Physicians, and also has been per- mitted to the Government, which Charter it is expedient should be granted to the College of Physicians. That the cases of persons, who have been engaged in practice prior to tbe passing of the Act, without being Members of any Corporate Cases. Body in the Profession, should be referred to the College of the department in which they have practised respectively, for special in- vestigation of their claims to be admitted to register. V. That the Members of each class of the Profession, registered in each of the three kingdoms respectively, should be entitled to be registered and to practise reciprocally in either of the three kingdoms as Physicians, Surgeons, or General Practitioners, as the case may be, provided the education and examinations of each class respectively be assimilated and regulated by a certain standard common to each class; , and provided that, previous to registration, they be enrolled in the College appropriated to their class, in the country in which they practise. VI. Tliat the Council shad be empowered to allow or disallow any lowers of _ , 1 . 1 1 n 1 , , . 1 n 1 ^ the Council new Bye-law which shall be made by either of the Colleges. as to Bye- Also, to cause a Register to be made of Medical and Surgical K^htry of Students, and to make such dispensing regulations as shall seem fit in students, favour of those Students who shall have commenced their professional studies before the passing of the Act. Also to call for Returns respecting examinations, and Fees for pggg™ Letters Testimonial and Admission into the respective Colleges, and aminations, to take such other measures as may be necessary in order to assimilate, curing uni- as nearly as possible, the education, examinations, and fees for each emde^ncy of class of the Profession, respectively, in each of tlie three kingdoms. And that the Council should be empowered, in any case in which it