96 It is, perhaps, not easy satisfactorily to account for the striking dissimilarity of results in this number of operations, and those furnished from the peninsular war, and more parti- cularly, that while the secondary operations, upon the whole, present a more successful average, the primary should give a contrary result. In the second series the average is in favour of the primary. Some causes, however, are evident and conclusive, and among the chief are the following :* It has been shown, in the first part of this work, that the class of men comprising the Legion was far inferior to those carefully selected for the British service. Thus, it often hap- pened that a patient requiring amputation was already much enervated by long disease, probably after having been in- valided from the Indian or British service, or even previously invalided in the Legion; exactly such a subject as no surgeon would voluntarily operate upon, 2. The fatal endemic fever, which carried off almost the entire of one series of amputations, consisting of more than a thii'd of the whole number, nearly two-thirds of which were primary. The smallness of the total of operations not afford- ing sufficient body to counterbalance this accidental circum- stance. 3. The depressing influence of the mind, constantly ob- * Nothing, however, proves the difficulty of establishing an accurate average of results more than those of my own operations in Spain. In the first sixteen per- formed for gun-shot wounds, consisting of primary and secondary, including a shoulder-joint case, the majority of the thigh and leg, I lost but one, and that was an all but hopeless case of secondary amputation of the thigh, at the trochanter minor, rendered imperative by secondary hemorrhage in a gun- shot fracture of femur, the whole limb greatly diseased. In the nest eight I lost seven, and the one saved was a complicated case requiring amputation at the shoulder-joint. In Portugal, I remember some of the worst injuries and least promising cases were at one time the most successful. 1 should say from my own experience, that no number under 1000, and those taken from different series, and at different periods, could furnish a true or positive average.