38 the tables are calculated to give in a succinct and complete form may be considered. From a great number of returns, carefully made after every action, and registering their results at stated periods, those which give the general results of the whole have alone been selected. For although none are deficient in interesting detail, and taken collectively, as bear- ing upon each other, form a body of evidence of the most com- plete nature; yet they are so numerous, that they would render thi^ slight sketch of greater length and more compli- cated than is desirable. Without giving the tables, I will endeavour to condense some of the contents. The returns of the first action only commence on the 14th of May, the ninth day after it took place. A wound in the knee, otherwise too slight to have confined me to my room, by effectually laming me, prevented any exertion for several days after the 5th. Thus it was not until the 14th that the surgical hospital of San Tehno could be said to be established, the organization of which establishment was entrusted after the action to me. And to this circumstance is to be attributed the number of gun-shot fractures of the femur, reserved for treatment. The campaigns in Portugal had left no doubt in ray mind, as to the propriety of primary amputation in all such cases. Our wounded, however, during the first few days, were crowded into churches and temporary buildings, where classi- fication was difficult and the conveniences for operations very limited. It was at this period that the ladies of San Sebastian furnished us with bedding, linen, and everything required, with great generosity; and their own care and attention was devoted during these first days to our wounded, with a kind ness of heart and feeling, and a degree of courage and pa- tience, which would have done honour to tlie humblest and best sceursde charite, or the bygone days of their own chivalry, when the fairest dames were the kindest nurses. In considering the wounded of each action, it must be ob-