14 marshy by thaws niid rain. With respect to the third cause, General Cordova, and our late Deputy Commissary General, Faxardo, have each published a pamphlet, in which the supply of rations forms a very prominent feature of the quar- rel. Wherever the fault might lie, very just grounds of complaint existed. They were indeed bad in quality. The biead was often made of unsound flour, of the worst kind, imperfectly kneaded and baked ; forming a mass of black and heavy dough, calculated to puzzle the digestion of an ostrich, incapable of affording nourishment, and well adapted, on the other hand, to produce disease. It was said, the bread was inten- tionally mixed with deleterious matter—that it was poisoned, &c.: but I am not aware that any proof existed, and nothing is easier or more common, in times of great distress, than to raise such a cry.* All bad food is more or less poisonous; and I saw quite sufficient to generate disease, without searching for arsenic. The bread may have had something to do with the distinguishing and most distressing feature of the prevailing disease—the gangrened feet. We know at least that diseased rye will produce dry gangrene; why may not some dele- terious property of bad corn produce a parallel disease—moist gangrenef • The contractor for bread, bowerer, was found guilty of corresponding witb Villareal, and attempting to induce our men to desert, to poison their minds, if not their bodies; and lie was garoted in the square of Vitoria with a baker coad- jutor. t A similar prominent and fatal symptom accompanied the fever which at- lacked the British army in the same month, twenty-five years before. Thus Sir .lames Macgrigor, in the " Sketch" already quoted, states :— " Tn January, 1812, fever made great havoc in all the general hospitals. At " Ciudad Rodrigo, Dr. Neale informed me, that the cases of typhus bad almost universally mortification of the lower extremity, witb livor, and mortification of the nose. This contagious fever soon seized on all the ward masters, nurses, and orderlies, and, Dr. Neale himself excepted, upon every one of the medical officers attending the hospital.'' Not less than eleven of our medical men died there, &c. " I believe 1 have already stated, that the clothes of the soldier was very bad ;