83 Sympton}s, two days after.—Tolerably free from pain ; con- siderable sanguineo-serous discharge; stump looking well, pulse 104, soft, bowels open, tongue moist. Stump dressed, cold lotion omitted. Mist: Febrifuge. 3rd. A little tenderness and redness of the edges of the stump ; pulse 84, soft. 4th. Restless night, from slight but frequent spasms of stump. Diaphoretics and anti-spasmodics. 5th. Pain in the bowels, which are costive; copious healthy discharge. 7th. Rather heavy and feverish. Externa] angle closed by first intention ; internal discharging, and the discharge since yesterday of a sanguineous character; lower part of flap tumid, and very tender on pressure ; pulse 96, sharp, tongue dry, bowels open. Diaphoretics and anti- spasmodics ; hot fomentations. 8th. Improved in all respects. 9th. Bad night; frequent cough ; no pain of chest; pulse 96, sharp and tense, tongue furred, bowels open. Add. Tr. scillse. 10th, Much and general improvement. 11th. The same; one of the ligatures came away. 12th. Rather restless night; stump appears doing well, although tender and painful on pressure; discharge pretty healthy, less in quantity; two ligatures removed; pulse 84, rather full, tongue pretty clear and moist, bowels open, little appetite. Pil. morph. 13th. Fourth and last ligature removed. 14th. Severe rigor, fol- lowed by perspiration, during reaction, pulse 104, rather tense, tongue furred posteriorly, but moist; no particular pain or uneasiness. Calomel and antimony. Mist. Diaphoret. 15th. A goodnight; perspired much, complains only of weakness; pulse 112, soft, tongue covered with a dry fur. 16th. Vomited last night fluid of a dark colour and bad taste; easy night, no particular pain or uneasiness, bowels very loose, pulse 108, sharpish, and of moderate strength, tongue covered with a thin brown fur; two small sloughs came away yesterday ; and to-day, an unhealthy, and foetid discharge, mixed with small slouglis. Absorbents and eff'ervescents. 17th. Diarrhoea abated ; returned, and tigain abated. Some o 2