85 Other questions of interest also arise on careful considera- tion of this case. A primary amputation of arm, done under highly-favourable circumstances, by a good and experienced operator, ends fatally in twenty-one days. On exami- nation, the stump is found unhealthy ; matter burrowing up to the acromion; extremity of bone denuded: bronchise inflamed, containing purulent matter; old and extensive adhesions of pleurse; vomicae filled with pus in a small portion of the right and the upper lobe of left lung. There was tendency to inflammation of the vein, but it stopped short at the shoulder, and could not have caused death; neither was it likely to arise from the exhausting action of the stump. The time was short. Death may be attributed, with greater probability, to the lungs; and yet they were in a state to have carried on the functions of life for a long period. The most prominent cause, however, still is, in the state of the lungs and bronchiae. Yet, with all this, there never was any pain, and but moderate cough ; that even not till the ninth day. No altered expectoration until within three days of his death. The tinged skin and cellular tissue would, on the contrary, have indicated a disease, which did not exist, in the liver. It would seem, from a careful analysis of the symp- toms in their order, that the bad action of the stump preceded any active disease in the chest; that both subsequently reacted upon each other is more than probable. Taking the symptoms for guide, no disease, of any kind, could have been suspected until the ninth day after amputation; and no- thing serious until the seventeenth, within three days of his death. The diarrhoea, foul tongue, and vomiting, must be looked upon as merely the results of sympathy with the dis- eased actions of the stump and lungs, as no oi'ganic disease could be traced in the viscera of the abdomen. This case was treated without general bleeding ; in others of somewhat simi- lar character, where (le|)letion was freely adopted, tlie result was still c()ually unfavourable.