46 after they are liealed, is a question upon which I do not pre- sume to decide. But I feel assured, and the Frencli have proved by long experience the fact, that a corps peculiarly and solely destined for the transport of wounded and the service of hospitals, is not only highly advantageous to the sick and wounded, but a politic measure in every point of view. When properly formed and directed, such a corps must greatly tend to produce three important results. 1st. To prevent great straggling to the rear of effective men accompany- ing the disabled; which not only weakens materially the actual strength of a battalion under fire, but tends also to produce a disorganising effect, more or less strong in propor- tion to the character and discipline of the troops, and the na- ture of existing circumstances. 2nd, To insure the more prompt and efficient transport of the wounded. 3rd, A more efficient system of hospital treatment and administration : for as a sur- geon, however zealous, cannot do everything with his own hands, the result of his treatment depends, in no unimportant degree, upon others. Thus there would be a saving of human suffering, and the more prompt and certain cure of the patients. Not only this, but such a measure will remove many sources of irregularity and injury to the service, arising from the in- cessant struggle between the opposing wishes and interests of commanding officers, who are naturally intent upon the strength and efficiency of their corps, and medical officers not less anxiously bent upon the efficiency of their establish- ments. These evils existed, not in the British Legion alone, but have always been experienced, and often commented upon, in the British army ; and I confidently refer to the testimony of the British officers who served in the Peninsular war; for from the lips of many I have heard them detailed. Why should not this be remedied ? The Canadian war, if not already extinguished, offers an excellent opportunity of trying, on a moderate scale, some new and better system.