64 oway above the knee. Although the shock was evident and great, I entertained hopes, that in a little time the limb might be removed, with a fair prospect of recovery ; and ordering him a little brandy-and-water, to be given at intervals, endea- voured to compose his mind, and promised to return in an hour. I returned alone, expecting to find the surgeon of his regi- ment and his assistant there. The surgeon was there indeed, but in mixing the brandy-and-water for his patient, it is to be presumed he had inhaled its perfumes to such a degree, as to render him useless. A steady orderly was there, however, on whom reliance could be placed, and an intelligent brother officer of the captain's; and I proceeded to the operation, after requesting the medical officer to compress the artery in the groin, taking care to place his hand myself, but fully prepared to take the artery up the moment it was divided. The laceration of bone and muscle had extended so far, that a tourniquet could not be applied without interfering injuri- ously with the steps of the operation. I was unwilling, how- ever, to defer it, for the action was yet undecided, as the roar of cannon and musketry, and the whistling of shot and shell, round and sometimes into the house, fully proved; and we knew not what might follow, my own life being as little insured as that of my comrades. As had been anticipated, no sooner was the artery divided, than a jet of arterial blood followed ; the femoral was secured, however, at once, and not more than an ounce of blood was lost from it. My calculation also that there would probably be little haemorrhage from the branches, proved correct, for only the femoral required a ligature. He did perfectly well, and from being a very handsome, slim young man, has become portly, and, as I told him laughingly when we met in Lisbon, twice the man he was—in size, at all events. My last amputation presented a difficulty connected with an artery of a very different nature; for the divided axillary artery had retracted so deeply, that it was impossible to