10 Having now generally stated the results and the circum- stances under which they took place, defining, first, the class of subjects comprising the force, we may enter more fully into details, and follow, in regular order, the movements of the Legion ; tracing accurately the various phases of dis- ease, their determining causes and special results. The months of July, August and September, were occu- pied in the gradual disembarkation of the men, and the orga- nization of the force. In October nearly the wliole, with the exception of the cavalry, were concentrated in Bilbao ; a town of some size, situated on the banks of a river, in a deep valley. A portion of the troops were but badly quartered ; and neither the discipline nor internal economy could, at so early a period, be very perfect, consequently considerable excess was frequent—the cheapness of the wine and aquadiente of the country greatly increasing the difficulty of prevention. Not- withstanding this, the sickness both at Santander and Bilbao was exceedingly moderate; about 500 out of the whole num- ber, and by far the greater proportion trifling cases—sprains, slight fevers, or diarrhoeas, and catarrhs, from debauchery: for a general hospital, which was established at Bilbao, des- tined only for severe cases, never had more than 150 in its wards. The cases admitted into San Esperanza, (the general hospital) were chiefly dysentery, or dysentery and fever com- bined; simple continued fever; rheumatism; acute ophthalmia;* in hospital. It will be sliown hereafter that many slight cases were not brought into those returns—probably 300 in the whole. * At one period the number of cases of acute ophthalmia reported by the regimental surgeons became sufficient to attract the attention of the Inspector- general, and a few cases that had been admitted into the general hospital, at that time under my charfj:e, seemed to have attained a degree of aggravation which medical aid, i)roperly directed, is well capable of preventing. In company with Mr. Callander I visited all the regimental establishments, and selected the whole of the cases, amounting to n«>ar fifty, and directed them to be sent to. the general hosjiital. The simjile but efficacious treatment practised and tauglit by Mr. Gutlirie was adopted without delay, and in a fortnight all the ophthalmia cases had returned to tlieir duty well: in one or two cases, afier blistering, bleeding, cup|iing and leeches, ban previously been tried in vain.