45 The two companies were commanded by a lieutenant, under the orders of the head of the department; and a deputy purveyor of hospitals, with 2s. 6d. additional pay per diem, appointed paymaster, who was enabled to perform the duties of that office as well as those of deputy purveyor. The men were selected with reference in some degree to their trades; so that if the carts required repair, or any minor work in the hospitals, they were always at hand ; and were the means of saving the government much expense, and the hospital administration delays—inevitable in Spain. From this last company the hospital staff were allowed each a servant. The whole of the two companies were instructed in their duties, the wardmasters and clerks being selected from the " Ambulance Transport Corps," and the orderlies and inferior servants from the Hospital Corps," with the prospective advantage, if their intelligence and conduct merited it, of promotion to the "Am- bulance Transport Corps." The conductors, and a small guard in charge of the carts, medical stores, &c., when required in the lines or on the field, were furnished from these last. A month had not elapsed after these arrangements were made before the general hospitals assumed an improved appear- ance. The utmost order, regularity, and cleanliness, were maintained in every division: every man soon knew his duty thoroughly; and being under the entire control of the medical department, with equal quickness learnt the necessity and advantage of strictly conforming to his instructions. The hospitals became a source of pride to all connected with them, and the General commanding, often took occasion to express his satisfaction when visiting the wounded. How far it might be possible or advisable, on service, in a British army, to form a corps of this kind, by selecting, from time to time, those who become weakly from climate and chronic complaints, or in consequence of flesh wounds, which often prevent the perfect use of an arm or a leg for months