98 —" What, lose my leg, sir?—Oh, no—no. What shall I do afterwards ? What is to become of my wife and children ? How am I to work for them ? we shall all starve ! Die !— well, I had rather. What's the use of life to a poor man after? Ay—it is all very true, sir, I dare say—but I can't —I won't—I had rather die !" And this train of thought pur- sued each of the two classes generally through the treatment. One other cause influencing the recovery of secondary amputa- tions, alone, existed. As it was only from some accidental circum- stance of rare occurrence, after the first action, that cases which, from the nature of the injury, required amputation from the first, were deferred, it followed that those who were the sub- jects of secondary amputation had already proved, by the very fact of their arriving at the second period, that they were among those best capable of bearing the effects of a shock and subsequent disease, and the original injury was generally less severe. It should ever be borne in mind that a cause of fallacy pervades all the returns of secondary amputation given by the advocates of that practice, viz. that the cases are altogether lost sight of which uever arrive at the second period, many of which would have been saved by operation at the first, and which, in my opinion, ought strictly to be added to the losses from that practice—an arrangement which would materially affect their tables of results. 5. Evidence on the proportion of secondary h(Bmorrhage and tetanus in wou7ids. The following abstract of the nature, treatment, and result of the two classes shows, that, no simple case of secondary haemorrhage occurred, nor out of more than three thousand wounded, who have been under my charge in Portugal and Spain, have I met with one. On the contrary, they generally supervene in the most complicated injuries, as Mr. Guthrie has remarked. Among the cases of tetanus there were two of recovery, for although the second terminated fatally, it was long after and from other causes. Amputation was tried in three cases