22 pearing stationary, I proposed removing the limb. In con- sultation with the Portuguese surgeon alluded to, and a col- league, they expressed themselves so strongly opposed to it, that I waived my opinion and consented to wait. In three days the diseased action seemed to have gained increased vigour, and instead of forming a lineof demarcation, began to spread rapidly over the knee. There seemed no hope of saving the patient's life, if the operation was longer delayed, and I amputated about midway up the thigh, some inches above the highest external mark. The lad never had a bad symptom—the stump healed ra- pidly and soundly, and in six weeks he was quite well. If asked, in one sentence, to give the chief feature of the fever of Vitoria, I should say, " the inflammation and gan- grene of the lower exti'emities." Although exact data on the subject are wanting, I cannot be far from the truth in stating that I saw 300 cases of gangrened extremities; for in my daily rounds the medical officers were requested to show me all such cases, whether in the incipient or advanced stages. In February, having obtained the convent of San Antonio, and much to the annoyance of the Spanish authori- ties, who sent a complaint to Madrid, stood by while our pioneers threw down some fifty thin partitions, cutting the building up into little cells, but ill adapted for the purposes of an hospital :* all these cases were transferred ; and thus could be kept more immediately under my eye. Here a great number of amputations were performed at the tar- sal and metatarsal articulation, and across the metatarsal bones, also of both legs ; for it was rare that one foot or leg alone was • After we left, the Spaniards took possession of it also for nn hospital—and forthwith threw down, without compunction or crime, the partitions I had spared —cleaned, whitewashed, and made the changes and repairs urgently called for, but then it was not for llie Eiiglisli! 'J'lie crime of demolition, it would seem, lay in the colour of our coals.