18 by a spell in this fatal circle, out of whicli many never escaped. One more feature is wanting to conclude this picture of misery—the deficiency of medical aid—one of the many con- sequences of these combined causes.* The medical staff, at the beginning of this period, consisted of a fair average for the amount of the force, taking into con- sideration its organisation into fourteen different corps, each requiring to.be complete in itself; besides the regimental staff, of three to each corps, which had been originally provided. Several, however, of the battalions, from resignation, &c. had but two, a surgeon and assistant. There was a general medi- cal staff of nine superior medical officers, and sixteen assistants; of these, at the depot at Santander, where they had a sick list of 300 and upwards, there were eight. At Bribiesca, another depot, where the number of sick was from 100 to 200, there were four. At head-quarters, we had, at the commencement of the winter, fourteen officers of the general establishment for hospital duty. The number of hospitals, caused by the smallness of many of the buildings, of course also increased the labour. Thus we had seven general hospitals in Vitoria, and every regiment had some sick in its cantonments. From January to Api'il eleven medical officers died, and seventeen lay seriously ill in Vitoria alone, at the same time, leaving but • When I remember, that in after-days I heard many officers raise an outcry, in unison with agents of the Spanish government, and talk of the numerous medi- cal staff of the Legion, considerably diminished, too, at that period, it is difficult to judge them with that moderation which perhaps all our errors merit, however selfish their motive, or fatal their consequences. It abundantly proved to me that there are minds so curiously protected by a hard shell of prejudice and ignorance, and 80 incapable of taking within their grasp more than the little present, that all experience, however powerful, in striking examples, is lost upon them ; no ray of light from past or future can ever find entrance. When they act but for them- selves, they are to be pitied ; but woe to those whose fate is to be influenced by them ! Fortunately General Jivans's mind was of a very different stamp, and the proposition of the agents, and the opinions of the few individuals alluded to, met with the degree of attention they deserved.