/ 69 1. The nature of the original injury. * 2. The general constitution depending upon the organiza- tion and previous health and habits of the patient, and his particular condition at the period referred to. 3. The mode of operation, (in vvhich the time occupied is included,) and a great variety of circumstances, some easily and others with difficulty appreciated or defined. 4. The after treatment, into which the locale, the state of the atmosphere, and many other features, enter. 5. The complexion of the mind, and the consequent mental influence which may be beneficial or deleterious to a high degree. • The strong and determining influence of this class of causes, although gene- rally admitted, can only be understood in all its force perhaps, by the striking difference in the results of closely parallel injuries which is forced upon the at- tention of every surgeon whose practice is extensive. I do not speak of the ob- vious differences between a broken down and impaired constitution, and one which, originally healthy, has never been tried by severe sickness or excess ; although these differences are never taken into account, in comparative tables of the results of the two operations, but of a difference of organization and consti- tution which can only be observed and appreciated under severe trial. A crowd of such cases present themselves at once to my memory—two or three of which will better illustrate the subject than long arguments. 1. Two cases occurred nearly at the same period of superficial injury to the knee ; a musket-shot entering below the integuments, at the inner edge of the patella, and without injuring the joint in either case. The most extensive and uncontrollable inflammation and subsequent suppuration ensued in one, and the case ended unfavourably within the mouth. The other had but little local iur flammation, and very slight febrile action or constitutional derangement, and in the month was well. 2. Two cases of shattered femur at the middle, occun-ed near the same time, both fine healthy young men ; both underwent primary amputation. One was car- ried off by the severe nervous febrile action about the twentieth day, the other suffered from a similar attack, but in a much milder form, and recovered within six weeks. 3. Two cases occurred, one in Portugal and another in Spain, of gun-shot frac- ture of skull, both young men ; a musket-ball traversing the brain from temple to temple. The one in Portugal recovered and was sent home, although the displacement of bone and injury generally, was certainly greater than in the case which occurred in Spain. Both cases for the first ten days presented very similar symptoms, but the latter died within the first mouth.