20 All the preliminary information which seemed important hav- ing now been furnished, and the reader having before him the first general table of results, the distinctive characters of the diseases may be considered, which carried off a fifth of our force in less than five months, and threw 5,000 cases for treatment into the hospitals, out of a force of scarcely 7,000 men. The following was the most usual course of the disease. The patient felt for some days a general sensation of lassitude, fre- quent nausea or even vomiting, attended with pain of the head alone, or in others down the spine, sometimes extending to the whole frame. A disordered state of the bowels, diarrhoea more or less violent and frequent, very often was an attendant, though less prominent subject of complaint. No longer able to perform his duty, the patient would at last report himself; and this preliminary stage varied much in duration from twenty-four hours to as many days, but more generally from two to five days. On examining the patient, the medical offi- cer would often find a full pulse, flushed face, dry hot skin, violent pain of the head, a crusted or loaded state of the tongue, with total prostration of strength; at other times greatly diminished vitality, purple and livid countenance, or skin shrunk. Delirium very quickly supervened—the tongue and fauces became dry and hai'dened, the lips loaded with sordes. Dysentery became developed, the rapid decline of the pulse and all the powers of life followed, and from the tenth to the twentieth day the patient died. During this period the feet, partially or entirely, sometimes including the whole of the legs, would run rapidly through all the stages of gan- grene. post, and means were entirely deficient for the proper organization of hospitals— although men used to be brought in carts in the middle of the night, sometimes moribund and unable lo speak ; yet, with all this, the Commission and Senor Llano s, who had been on the spot, were quite willing that sundry hundred pounds should be charged against the account of the head of the department, I?ut Mr. Callander had already returned to England — et let absents ont tnujuurs torts !