8 country to be 9,600, including recruits, a loss in hospital of about one in six of the whole force. The number of cases treated, however, and the number of deaths, were both rather more than would appear in these returns, which only include the general hospitals established. There were also from time to time, and at different stations, where there was no general hospital, regimental wards; and during the period of our extreme loss, the troops were, in the depth of a most rigoi'ous winter, changing their quarters from village to village, sometimes at two and three leagues from the larger establishments, and from the state of the roads cut off from all frequent communication. Thus arose the necessity of treating the sick in their miserable cantonments, as circum- stances would best allow. At other times men were taken sick on the road, and left in the nearest Spanish hospital, or where a portion of the force was temporarily detached, the sick were received altogether in those establishments. Availing myself, therefore, of such returns and notes as I was enabled to collect, the total number of cases treated is estimated at 14,307, and the deaths in hospital 2,012, or in round numbers at 14,000, and 2,000, including wounded, making the propor- tion of deaths to cases treated, one in seven, or of deaths to the whole force, about one in four and two-thirds. The following abstract, as regards the total loss in twenty- three months, is instructive. It will be seen, that the pro- portionate loss upon the whole force, both officers and men, is precisely the same — while the proportionate mortality in wounded officers and men varies considerably. Mr. Guthrie remarks the same fact, after the battle of Thoulouse, without being able to offer any satisfactory explanation of the cause of difference. A feather's weight will turn the balance upon which a life often hangs; and probably advantages of posi- tion and nursing, apparently trifling, are sufficient, in many cases, to decide the result.