74 ing disease. It is, after all, the key to our organization, and its actions, the laws by which it breathes and lives. These observations may have seemed to diverge far from the subject under consideration, yet have they sprung involuntarily from those made at the bedside, from the study of symptoms and effects, which could only be satisfac- torily explained by reference to this subtle controlling prin- ciple— and which it has seemed to me influences much the question of primary and secondary operations; that it influences greatly the result of the primary. One or two details in reference to facts, which I shall condense into two classes, will show alike the opinions, and the grounds upon which they have been formed. 1. Those regarding the stumps. 2. Those regarding the general symptoms. The first I find already in a note made in one of my case-books of amputations, while the cases were under my observation. 1. " None of the primary amputations of the series of the 6th of June, have shown any disposition to healthy union by the first intention,—a singular fact when taken in connexion with the progress of the secondary amputations of the same series, many of which have, on the contrary, manifested a particular disposition, and nearly all have healed partially in that way." 2. I had frequent occasion to observe that in primary ampu- tations, done under the most favourable circumstances, the ope- rations performed unexceptionably, after the first two or three days, sometimes extending even to ten or twelve, during which the operation would seem to act as a sedative, a febrile action came on, without any evident cause, without appreciable irri- tation or inflammation of stomach or intestines, in young, healthy, and robust subjects. In many instances, in spite of the greatest care and attention of medical officers well informed, and of experience and judgment which rendered them generally successful in their treatment, this action led to a fatal termina- tion, the post mortem examination affording generally no satis- factory clue. In three cases only was there inflammation