79 no tourniquet was applied ; the bone was cut down to, in two or three rapid sweeps—single ligatures only were used, and both ends w^ere cut short, and the stump was presented to them with the bone deeply buried in the apex of the cone; scarcely any arterial blood was lost, and it may be remarked, en passant, that I had the satisfaction of seeing a visible improve- ment in their succeeding operations. The next morning I per- formed Mr. Guthrie's operation for amputation close to the head of the humerus, the one I have always adopted in such in- juries as by far the best which has been suggested, and the me- dical officers who served with me in Portugal and Spain never used any other method, after having once seen it, from their conviction of its superiority. It seemed perfectly new to the Spanish staff, and attracted their attention much. This patient, by-the-bye, was the only one who survived of some twenty amputations that were performed in Santa Maria. For the first ten days he was without an unfavourable symp- tom, the stump closing gradually and healthily. About this time his face became flushed, pulse accelerated, anxiety and a general sense of malaise supervening; bowels loose. A diaphoretic and gentle saline mixture was administered, and he was strictly enjoined to abstain from all food. The febrile action and malaise continued without intermis- sion to his death, and during the last five or six days only as- suming a more determined form in pain referred to the abdomen generally. The day previous to his death the following note was made, and describes his state:— April 2nd. He slept last night; skin hot and dry ; pulse rather full, rapid and irregular, 120; tongue moist, but a little coated posteriorly, dark red. Within the last three days he has much deteriorated in general health, febrile action considerable : since yesterday he has complained of pain in his knee, which I find upon examination swelled above the articulation with indistinct fluctuation, but no tension,