10 Mr. Edward Arnold's List. THE EXPLORATION OF THE CAUCASUS. By DOUGLAS W. FRESHFIELD Lately President of the Alpine Club, and Honorary Secretary of the Royal Geographical Society. With Contributions by H. W. Holder, J. G. Cockin, H. Woolley, M. Db Dechy, and Prof. Bonney, D.Sc, F.R.S. Illustrated by 3 Panoramas, 74 Full-page Photogravures, about 140 Illustra- tions in the text, chiefly from Photographs by Vittorio Sella, and 4 Original Maps, including the first authentic map of the Caucasus specially prepared from unpublished sources by Mr. Freshfield. In two volumes, large 4to., 600 pages, Three Guineas net. ' We can only say in a word, that a more interesting, more vivid, more conscientious more exhaustive, and in parts more thrilling, account of a region as yet comparatively un- known has never come before us. No record of exploration has ever been published in this country m so splendid a material form, and, beyond contradiction, no pictures of a^nhffV0 llllls„tr^^the exploits of climbers have approached the very numerous photo- graphs of Signor Sella. —Daily Chronicle. • Mr Freshfield's work on the Caucasus is not merely the most important mountaineering book of the year, but probably the most important that has been published since the timt of Tyndall and Ball Every part of Mr. Freshfield's book is solid, and will remain perma- nently valuable. It brings within two volumes the record of everything that has been done and the substance of everything that has been learnt during the first twenty-eight years of Caucasian exploration by expert climbers.'— Manchester Guardian. * Two superb volumes. No book of travel or exploration within our remembrance has disclosed such a wealth of illustration as the one now before us, in which are depicted every Caucasian range and mountain of any moment with perfect clearness and sharpness There is not one blurred photograph or drawing in the whole collection. Nothing has been omitted that could impart completeness to this magnificent work.'— Daily Telegraph. • What singles these magnificent volumes out on a very brief inspection from all climbing literature is that for once ihe illustrations are worthy of the text. If the publishers had done nothing beyond giving us these magnificent reproductions from the cameras which Signor Sella and others have carried upwards of 16,000 feet above the sea, they would still be entitled to our praise and gratitude. Mr. Freshfield has given us truly one of the most delightful and inspiring works upon the "everlasting hills " which any library can hold, and it is produced and illustrated with a s,umptuousness which it is a pleasure to find so well bestowed.'—Birmingham Post. 'The two volumes are "great," not only from the prosaic standpoint of measurement and avoirdupois, but pre-eminently so in the more meritorious sense of representing infinite labour in the amassing of materials at first hand, and high literary and artistic skill in blending letterpress and photography in a way calculated to extort the admiration even of the most stoical reader.'—Liverpool Post. ' A princely example of British scholarship.'—Glasgow Herald. ' Enough, perhaps, has been said in recommendation of these volumes, which are instruc- tive without being didactic, full of novel information without any suggestion of guide-book literature, which contain most graphic descriptions of the scenery, without ever descending to word-painting, and which contrive to impart freshness even to the well-worn theme of mountain and glacier expeditions. It would be difficult to praise too highly the map. Only a few in this country will be able to appreciate the geographical knowledge and the infinite labour that the construction of this map must have cost. For the first time the topography of this great mountain-chain from Elbruz to Kasbek is laid down in its entirety with accuracy, and the extent of the glacial system is clearly demonstrated on a scale of about 3$ miles to one inch.'—Mr. Clinton Dent, in The Daily Nevus.