7 Mr. Edward Arnold's List. THE PLANT-LORE AND GARDEN-CRAFT OF SHAKESPEARE. By HENRY N. ELLACOMBE, M.A., Vicar of Bitton, Author of ' In a Gloucestershire Garden,' etc. Fully illustrated by Major E. Bengough Ricketts. Large crown 8vo., handsomely bound, ios. 6d. This is a new edition of a book originally issued for private circulation, which has now been long out of print. It was spoken of by the Spectator as 'a work which is entitled from its worth to a place in every Shakespearian library,' and efforts have been made in the present edition to give the text an adequate adornment. The volume is a complete and standard work of reference on the plants mentioned by Shakespeare. Canon Ellacombe takes each plant separately, and gives interesting particulars of its life-history and its place in legend and poetry. The illustrations by Major Ricketts are very beautiful and charac- teristic of the work. The artist has made a special visit to Stratford-on-Avon to sketch the scenes of Shakespeare's Garden-Lore, and has also depicted many of the plants named with great skill. A BOOK ABOUT ROSES. By the Very Rev. S. REYNOLDS HOLE, Dean of Rochester, Author of ' A Rook about the Garden,' ' A Little Tour in Ireland,' etc. Illustrated by H. G. MOON and G. Elgood. The Presentation Edition, with coloured plates, etc., handsomely bound, ios. 6d. ; Popular Edition, with frontispiece, 3s. 6d. The call for a fifteenth edition of this popular work has enabled Dean Hole to thoroughly revise and largely to rewrite the book, bringing the infor- mation in it well up to date. Advantage has also been taken of the oppor- tunity to respond to the frequently-expressed wishes of many admirers of the book for a more handsome and illustrated edition ; it has, therefore, been reprinted, and beautifully Coloured Plates have been drawn by Mr. H. G. Moon, while Mr. G. Elgood contributes charming black-and-white pictures. There is also a facsimile of a sketch by John Leech given to Dean Hole, and never before published. The book will be issued in two forms : (1) with the coloured plates, etc., at half a guinea ; and (2) with frontispiece, at 3s. 6d.