ii Mr. Edward Arnold's List. FOURTH EDITION. FIRE AND SWORD IN THE SUDAN. A Personal Narrative of Fighting and Serving the Dervishes, 1879-1895. By SLATIN PASHA, Colonel in the Egyptian Army, formerly Governor and Commandant of the Troops in Darfur. Translated and Edited by Major F. R. Wingate, R.A., D.S.O., Author of ' Mahdiism. and the Egyptian Soudan,' etc. Fully Illustrated by R. TALBOT Kelly. Royal 8vo., One Guinea net. ' Whether Slatin's work is more important and attractive as a powerful exhortation on a subject of the greatest political importance and of special national significance from the noble English blood spilt in the Sudan, or as a chapter of human experience wherein truth far surpassed fiction in hair-breadth escapes and deeds of daring beyond what seemed possible, it would be difficult to decide ; but the whole result is one that places this volume on a shelf of its own, not merely as the book of the day, but as the authority for all time on the great Mahommedan upheaval in the Sudan, which was accompanied by an amount of human slaughter and suffering that defies calculation.' — Times. ' It would be hard to name a fictitious narrative of more thrilling interest than this true story of Colonel Slatin Pasha's captivity in the Sudan and escape from the terrors which have marked the rule of the atrocious Khalifa Abdullahi.'—Standard. ' Here is a work on matters of contemporary fact, which for romance, colour, adven- ture, and complexity and intensity of human feeling, outdoes many a novel by the masters of the art of fiction.'—St. James's Gazette. ' Absolutely unique. Were we to try to extract, or even notice, all the striking things in this book, we should fill our paper. '—Spectator. ' Told with a vividness and vigour that will carry you away.'—Truth. ' The story told in this work is one of enthralling interest. In the whole modern literature of travel and adventure we cannot call to mind a work so absorbing as this ' —Manchester Guardian. 'An exceedingly fascinating and engaging book, which is not surpassed in interest by any other of the kind that has been published for many years. It is written with rare ability and force. The narrative throughout is vivid, graphic, and picturesque abounding in dramatic incident and striking character.'—Leeds Merctiry. ' °ne'°l the,most interesting books of the year, or, indeed, of the past decade.'- Daily lelegraph. 1 ^\ St°ry ofthf experiences of Slatin Pasha as a ruler, a soldier, and a captive in the Sudan is one of the most striking romances of modern times. The return of this distinguished officer, after a disappearance of eleven years and more, from what lather Ohrwalder with b.tter recollections calls a "living grave " and the neriW InS* ?ffl;ght' f°rm " themsdves an exfrfordTnary tale Eu t the interest of the book is much increased by the importance which, in the minds of English people attaches to the melancholy events in which he bore a pan and by the ^l^^l^l^ *» *« ^ «*« the sto'ry of thereat