4 Mr. Edward Arnold's List. THROUGH THE SUB-ARCTIC F0REST— Continued. many months he supported himself entirely by hunt ™ andfishw'fclS couldUS?ai! toffbe°rdnyctChanCre °f 0btaini"ff -PP'i- Such'nou^ ? couiu not tan to be productive of many exc t nsr episodes ™H thr,,,^ ,ul ^ue^oS^' ^ hardShip/he -nftha^t^tJ'of The Sportsman's Library. Edited by Sir HERBERT MAXWELL, Bart, M.P. This series will consist of a selection from the best works of past writers on sport, carefully chosen either on account of their literary merit, of the light thrown by them on the habits and resources of a bygone age, or of their dealt" with! ^ C°ntributions t0 knowledge of the various subject The volumes will be issued at the rate of two or three a year. They will contain in every instance an introductory chapter by the Editor, and such notes as may be necessary to explain or correct the author's statements Illustrations in the original works, when of sufficient merit or interest will be reproduced in facsimile, supplemented with new ones by the modern artists best qualified to deal with the various subjects. Among the artists 7co-operation has already been secured are Messrs. G. E. Lodge J. G Millais A. Thorburn, C. Whymper, G. H. Jalland, A. C. Corbould! P. Chenevix Trench, etc. The size of the volumes will be a handsome 8vo., and special care will be bestowed upon every detail of paper, print, and binding. The following will be published this season : THE LIFE OF A FOX. By THOMAS SMITH, Master of the Hambledon and Pytchley Hounds. With Illustrations by the Author and Six Coloured Plates by G. H. Jalland. Large 8vo., handsomely bound, 15s. Also a limited Large-paper Edition, two guineas net. This volume will contain both of Smith's published works—'The Life of a Fox' and 'The Diary of a Huntsman.' The author's reputation as a hunts- man, as well as his gift of literary expression and his skill as a spirited draughtsman, made these books exceedingly popular in their day, and they have now become very rare.