APPENDIX. 165 The green ginger and the nutty infusion are important features rarely attended to in England, and yet they are easily got. You can use an infusion of the desiccated cocoanut and ground sweet almonds sold for pudding- making. The " milk " thus produced makes a very good substitute for the fresh extract of cocoanut used in India. Green ginger can be got at all the Stores or the herbalists in Covent Garden. Next as regards the subacid. Apple is, I know, recommended by many. I see no harm in it, but it is not nearly as good as tamarind, the ingredient used in India. I am personally quite contented with red- currant jelly blended with lemon-juice. This dissolves easily, can be added as desired, and provides all that is wanted. There is another thing. In some recipes you find that you are advised to rub the pieces of chicken or meat with curry powder, and fry them with onions. This is quite superfluous in my system. All that is necessary is to toss the meat in butter in a sauie-pan sufficiently to "seize it," and then to pass it into the curry sauce. We have enough onions and " curry stuff" already in the composition. Touching curries made of cooked meats. It is a mistake to say that these are not worth eating. They can be turned out very well indeed by my method, provided you take care to have a really good moistening broth, assisted, say, with an ounce of meat glaze, and if you will remember these points :—Cooked meat does not need re-cooking, therefore, when you have got your well-flavoured sauce ready, slip in the meat, and let it marinade as long as you can therein without any cooking whatever. Then, when you want to serve, bring the contents of your casserole very gently to steaming-point, and send it up without delay. Dry Curry. To prepare a Dry Curry proceed to commence with exactly as in the previous case, but omit the crime de riz. When the onion has browned nicely, stir in the " curry stuff," which should be worked to a paste with good broth or gravy. Fry this in the same manner for ten minutes, then put in the squares of meat, the green ginger well pounded, and a coffee-cupful of strong nutty infusion—no other moistening. Keep the fire low throughout the process,