Mr. Edward Arnold's List. THROUGH UNKNOWN AFRICAN COUNTRIES. The First Expedition from Somaliland to Lake Rudolf and Lamu. A Narrative of Scientific Exploration and Sporting Adventures. By A. DONALDSON SMITH, M.D., F.R.G.S., Hon. Member of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia. With nearly 30 full-page Plates and a large number of smaller Illustrations, drawn from the author's Photographs and Sketches by A. D. McCormick, Charles Whymper, etc. Large 8vo., One Guinea. The body of the work is occupied by the narrative of the expedition, and its valuable scientific results are given in a series of Appendices to be contributed by such eminent specialists as Dr. Bowdler Sharpe, Dr. Giinther, Dr. Gregory, Mr. Boulenger, Mr. Pocock, Dr. Holland, and others. Dr. Donaldson Smith arrived at Berbera, on the coast of Somaliland, about Midsummer, 1894. During a previous expedition undertaken for sporting purposes in Somaliland, he had conceived the plan of penetrating into the unknown interior of the Dark Continent and forcing his way to Lake Rudolf. The present volume tells how he was enabled to achieve his object after just a year's march, beset by constant dangers and difficulties that would have proved fatal to a less hardy or persevering explorer. From Lake Rudolf Dr. Donaldson Smith made his way to the east coast at Lamu, by which time he had marched no less than four thousand miles. Dr. Smith found it necessary to take with him the considerable force of eighty armed men, for self-defence in case of attack by the savage tribes of the interior, and on more than one occasion the force was called into action in a most exciting manner. The party experienced all kinds of hardships and perils, but nothing was allowed to interfere with the scientific objects of the expedition, although sport, both for its own sake and for purposes of food supply, filled an important place in the plans. Valuable collections were made of plants, birds, insects, geological speci- men?, and ethnographical curiosities, by which the great museums of America and Europe have been sensibly enriched. Dr. Donaldson Smith discovered a town in which there were stone houses and beautiful shrines, in regions where only mud huts were supposed to exist. He came into prolonged contact with the warlike Abyssinians, and was even the recipient of an autograph letter from the Emperor Menelek. His journey took him through some of the loveliest scenery in the world.