Mr. Edward Arnold's List. i vol., crown 4to. OLD ENGLISH GLASSES. An Account of Glass Drinking-Vessels in England from Early Times to the end of the Eighteenth Century. With Introductory Notices of continental Glasses during the same period, Original Documents, etc. By ALBERT HARTSHORNE, Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries. Illustrated by upwards of So full-page Tinted Plates in the best style of L.thography, and several hundred outline Illustrations in the text. Super royal 4to., price Three Guineas net. The plates and outline illustrations are prepared for reproduction by Mr. W. S. Weatherly and Mr. R. Paul respectively, from full-size or scale drawings by the author of the actual drinking-vessels in nearly every instance. The text will be printed in the finest style, and the lithographic work executed by Messrs. W. Griggs and Son. The volume is now in the press, and will, it is hoped, be ready for delivery before the end of the year. The First Edition will be limited to One Thousand Copies at Three Guineas rvf>t net ,%OTf- —jfllllPr°sPectHS> giving a complete account of the principal contents of this ,»Za, , r maS>"ficenJ work, which treats of a subject never before comprehensively unde, taken for England, can be had post free on application. A TREASURY OF MINOR BRITISH POETRY. Selected and arranged, with Notes, by J. CHURTON COLLINS. Crown 8vo., ys. 6d. In compiling this volume Mr. Churton Collins has been influenced by a desire to form a collection of poetry containing many charming pieces hitherto ignored in similar works.. It is believed that compilers of anthologies have confined themselves too much to a few standard authors, and that there are a number of less-known writers who have composed one or two poems quite as fine as anything by the great masters. The present selection will reveal a mine of hitherto unsuspected treasures to many lovers of English Poetry. EARLY ENGLISH FURNITURE. An Account of the Famous English Cabinet-makers, With numerous fine Illustrations of their Work. By Mrs. Warren Clouston.