164 APPENDIX. so add to them the curry mixture, and carefully fry for ten minutes at least, so as to work away the crudity of the curry powder. This step is absolutely essential, and its omission in English recipes and in ordinary practice is the cause of the roughness in curries so much complained of bv foreign artists. When well fried, moisten, as in sauce-making, by degrees, with the best broth or stock at hand—fish broth for fish, milk or vegetable broth for vegetables, giblet broth for chicken, and so on. A pint will be found enough for the quantity of meat under treatment. When all has been stirred in accelerate the heat some- what, and then prepare the flavouring of green ginger (very necessary) and subacid. The former is contributed in a rasped or pounded state to the extent of a generously filled teaspoonful; the latter by a teaspoonful of red- currant jelly with the juice of half a lemon. If available, a dessert-spoonful of good chutney may also go in. Now let the contents of the pan boil, skim, and add, after browning it in a sow/^-pan in an ounce of butter, the uncooked meat, reducing the heat at once to simmering. The process now cannot be too gently conducted—an hour and a half is not too much to allow. Taste the sauce to see whether the subacid is sufficiently noticeable, also whether any more salt is needed. Corrections having been made accordingly, the nutty infusion should be poured into the curry through a strainer, the sediment being well pressed to expel all the milk. The curry can now be served, rice, dished separately, accompanying. Kindly observe a few salient points in this system of curry- making. Why do I use creme de riz ? I do so because I want to absorb the butter as by liaison. Few Indian cooks take this trouble unless instructed to do so. The conse- quence is that there is generally a most undesirable exudation of the fatty element in their curries, which, the moment extreme heat passes off, becomes greasy. A halo of this surrounding a curry is not an attraction to be encouraged. Next it may be asked, Why employ both powder and paste ? This, I think, is quite necessary to produce a Madras curry at its best, because there are ingredients in the paste which cannot enter into a powder—tamarind, green ginger, a very little garlic, almonds, mustard oil, &c.