163 APPENDIX. On Curry-Making. The proportions I am about to give will be found reliable approximately for one pound of meat, or fish, a full-sized chicken, or a pound of vegetables. The vessels I recom- mend are French earthenware casseroles, which I consider by far the best for curry-making. They are admirable for slow cooking, and are very easily cleaned. Curries may be left in them without any risk, and may be served in them without dishing up if a napkin or frilled paper be pinned neatly round them. As curries improve by a day's keeping this is worth noting. Prepare the meat as follows :—Uncooked veal, mutton, lamb, pork, or beef, in three-quarter inch squares ; a chicken as for fricassee, but making three pieces of the breast (cross- cut), two of each thigh, and two of each leg, for chickens in India are used when much smaller than English birds. Fish should be cut into squares like meat; cucumbers, vegetable marrows, potatoes, and Jerusalem artichokes in neat pieces, cauliflower in sprigs, eggs (hard boiled) in halves lengthwise, &c, &c. Weigh four ounces of onion (Portugal preferred), and chop it up quite small; put two ounces of fresh butter into the casserole, set it over a moderate fire, and when the butter has melted put in the minced onion and cover the pan, leaving the onion to fry gently, softening it thoroughly, and gradually browning. There must be no burning, but it must brown. While this is going on, prepare the " curry stuff," or mixture, as follows :—Put into a soup plate a tablespoon- ful and a half of curry powder, a dessert-spoonful of curry paste, a saltspoonful of salt, and a tablespoonful of crime de riz or rice-flour. Turn these to a paste by moistening them slightly with stock or milk, amalgamating the whole* Next make the nutty infusion. In a small bowl put one tablespoonful and a half of desiccated cocoanut and one of ground sweet almonds, and pour over them a breakfast- cupful of boiling water. Cover this up to infuse, and leave it alone until the end of the whole process. By this time the onions should have cooked sufficiently,