14 Mr. Edward Arnold's List. RECENT WORKS OF FICTION. {See also p. 23.) A New Story by the Author of ' The Red Badge of Courage ' GEORGE'S MOTHER. By STEPHEN CRANE. Author of ' 7he Red Badge of Courage,' etc. Cloth, 2S. «^?wilnf!ST?k St?Phen.Cr^e,scores heavily. It is a swatch torn from the great neb of city life, a picture in which every touch reveals the true literary workman. n.t,5S 1 gnpS r ? rt cl?se ; itS characters are t° the life, and here and .here are caught gleams of humour that complete the symmetry of the paces. The already enviable reputation of the author of "The Red Badge of Courage " will be heightened by this small volume.'—Aberdeen Free Press. HADJIRA. A Turkish Love Story. By 'ADALET.' One vol., crown 8vo., cloth, 6s. ' Certainly one of the most interesting and valuable works of fiction issued from the press for a long time past. Even if we were to regard the book as an ordinary novel, we could commend it heartily; but its great value lies in the fact that it reveals to us a hidden world, and does so with manifest fidelity. But the reader must learn for himself the lesson which this remarkable and fascinating book teaches.'—Speaker. ' One of the best stories of the season.'—Daily Chronicle. By the Author of ' The Apotheosis of Mr. Tyrawley.' A MASK AND A MARTYR. By E. LIVINGSTON PRESCOTT, One vol., crown 8vo., cloth, 6s. 'A story which, once read, will never be forgotten.'—Manchester Guardian. 'This is an undeniably clever book. A picture of self-sacrifice so complete and so enduring is a rare picture in fiction, and has rarely been more ably or more finely drawn. This singular and pathetic story is told all through with remarkable restraint, and shows a strength and skill of execution which place its author high among the novel-writers of the day.'—Westminster Gazette. THE BONDWOMAN. A Story of the Northmen in Lakeland. By W. G. COLLINGWOOD, Author of ' Thorstein of the Mere,' ' The Life and Work of John Ruskin,' etc. Cloth, i6mo., 3s. 6d. 'As for the thrilling details of the plot, and the other sterling charms of the little work, we must refer our readers to its pages, especially those of them who may be touring, or contemplating a tour, in Westmorland and Cumberland.'—Leeds Mercury.