167 APPENDIX. 3. Three eggs, mixed whole, make a nice-sized omelette, quite the best for the beginner to commence with. 4. Use a proper utensil, rather shallow, with narrow, well- sloping sides; a twelve-inch fireproof china pan will be found excellent ; see that it is clean, and quite dry. 5. Do not overdo the amount of butter that you use for the frying—enough to lubricate the pan evenly to the extent of a quarter of an inch is sufficient. 6. Be sure that your pan is ready to receive your mixture. If not hot enough the omelette will be leathery, or you will have to mix it in the pan like scrambled eggs (ceufs brouilles). 7. The moment the butter ceases to fizz and turns brownish, the moisture having been expelled, the pan is ready. 8. Pour the mixture into the pan so that it may spread well over the lubricated surface, then instantly lift up the part of the omelette that sets at the moment of contact, and let the unformed portion run under it; repeat this two or three times if the pan be at all full, keep the left hand at work with a gentle see-saw motion to encourage rapidity in setting, give a finishing shake, and turn the omelette into the hot dish before the whole of the mixture on the surface has quite set. 9. The omelette, slightly assisted by the spoon, will roll over almost of its own accord if the sides of the pan be sloped as I have described, burying within it the slightly unformed, juicy part of the mixture which remained on the surface ; it will not require folding. 10. Three-quarters of a minute is ample time for the whole operation, if the pan be properly hot when the mixture is poured into it, and the heat evenly maintained. 11. Have the hot dish close by the fire, so that you can turn the omelette into it instanter. A little melted butter, with some chopped parsley and chives, may, with advan- tage, be put into the dish. 12. It is above all things necessary to have a brisk fire under the pan while the omelette is being cooked. A fairly sized gas boiler serves the purpose. The small three-egg omelette can be made successfully over a powerful methy- lated spirit lamp. The ordinary kitchen fire is unsuited for this work unless it can be brought up level with the hot plate, with a clear live coal surface.