APPENDIX. As it lies in the dish this omelette will not look like a bolster—it will take a natural, rather flat, irregular oval shape, golden yellow in colour, and flecked with green, with the juicy part escaping from beneath its folds. The Sweet Omelette. Break three eggs, carefully separating the yolks from the whites, whisk the latter to a stiff froth, and mix the former in a basin with an ounce of sugar and a few drops of lemon- juice. Set a twelve-inch omelette-pan on the fire with an ounce of butter, melt this and see that it covers the pan well without leaving any dry spaces; when the butter is hot without browning, quickly blend the yolks with the stiff whites and pour the mixture into the pan, smoothing it over with the palette-knife. Keep the heat below the vessel rather low, and leave the omelette alone for two minutes, after that detach the edges with the palette-knife, and note if the under part is setting nicely; as soon as this is observable pass the palette-knife under the whole omelette, double it over, and turn it into a hot silver dish, which should be ready close at hand, dusted well with sugar. Dredge sugar over the omelette liberally, and serve. Any flavour can be communicated with the sugar when mixing the yolks—orange, lemon, ratafia, vanilla, &c, &c. For omelette an rhum put a dessert-spoonful of this spirit into the bowl with the sugar and yolks, and when the omelette is dished pour a sherry-glassful of rum round it, and ignite it as you do brandy for a Christmas plum-pudding. If preserve of any kind is to be added, melt four table- spoonfuls of it separately in a small stewpan, adding a table- spoonful of liqueur, and just before doubling the omelette over spread the preserve rapidly over its surface. If provided with a glazing-iron the sugar spread over the surface of the omelette may be turned to caramel by an application of the heated iron. It will be found that the mixture I have described is as much as a twelve-inch pan can hold. Accordingly, if several guests have to be served, have two omelettes made and sent in rapidly in succession, the mixture being got ready before- hand.