APPENDIX. turning the meat about with a wooden spoon until the moisture is gradually absorbed, the pieces of meat separate trom each other, and surrounded with a powder formed by the ingredients which have been slowly dried during the process. This only requires patience. A quick fire will burn the curry, and make the meat tough. The Savoury Omelette. The recipe for this omelette differs somewhat from those usually propounded, being that of the cuisiniere bour^eoise rather than that of the Chef. The latter looks very nice, and is often finished tastefully with a pattern skilfully wrought with glaze, cordons of purees, and other decoration. To my mind the omelette suffers in being made so pretty, and is not as good a thing to eat as that of roadside inn or cabaret. An omelette ought never to be stiff enough to retain a very neatly rolled-up appearance. If cooked with proper rapidity it should be too light to present a fixed form, and on reaching the hot dish should spread itself rather, on account of the delicacy of its substance. Books that counsel you to turn an omelette, to fold it, to let it brown on one side, to let it fry for about five minutes, &c, are not to be trusted. If you follow such advice you will only produce, at best, a neat-looking egg pudding. Timed by the seconds hand of a watch an omelette of six eggs, cooked according to my method " by the first inten- tion," takes forty-five seconds from the moment of being poured into the pan to that of being turned into the dish. Though cream is considered by some to be an improvement, I do not recommend it. Milk is certainly a mistake, for it makes the omelette leathery. I confess that I like a very little minced chives in all savoury omelettes; but this is a matter of taste. Finely chopped parsley should be added with a seasoning of salt and pepper. The general rules to be observed in omelette-making, according to my process, then, may be thus summed up :— 1. Mix thoroughly, but do not bent the eggs, and never use more than six for one omelette, omitting two of the whites. 2. It is better to make two of six than one of twelve eggs. Success is impossible if the vessel be too full. If using four eggs, omit one white.