481 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. fossae of the base of the skull, and separated posteriorly from the cerebellum by the tentorium cerebelli. About the middle of its under surface, is a narrow con- stricted portion, part of which, the crura cerebri, is continued onwards into the pons Varolii below, and through it to the medulla oblongata and spinal cord; whilst another portion, the crura cerebelli, passes down into the cerebellum. The cerebellum (little brain or after brain) is situated in the inferior occipital fossae, being separated from the under surface of the posterior lobes of the cere- brum by the tentorium cerebelli. It is connected to the rest of the encephalon by means of connecting bands, called crura : of these, two ascend to the cerebrum, two descend to the medulla oblongata, and two blend together in front, forming the pons Varolii. The po?is Varolii is that portion of the encephalon which rests upon the upper part of the basilar process. It constitutes the bond of union of the various segments above named, receiving, above, the crura from the cerebrum; at the sides, the crura from the cerebellum; and below, the medulla oblongata. The medulla oblongata extends from the lower border of the pons Varolii to the upper part of the spinal cord. It lies beneath the cerebellum, resting on the lower part of the basilar groove of the occipital bone. Weight of the encephalon. The average weight of the brain, in the adult male, is 49! oz., or little more than 31b. avoirdupois; that of the female, 44 oz.; the average difference between the two being from 5 to 6 oz. The prevailing weight of the brain, in the male, ranges between 46 oz. and 53 oz.; and, in the female, between 41 oz. and 47 oz. In the male, the maximum Aveight out of 278 cases was 65 oz., and the minimum weight 34 oz. The maximum weight of the adult female brain, out of 191 cases, was 56 oz., and the minimum weight 31 oz. It appears that the weight of the brain increases rapidly up to the seventh year, more slowly to between sixteen and twenty, and still more slowly to between thirty and forty, when it reaches its maximum. Beyond this period, as age advances and the mental faculties decline, the brain diminishes slowly in weight, about an ounce for each subsequent decennial period. These results apply alike to both sexes. The size of the brain appears to bear a general relation to the intellectual capacity of the individual. Cuvier's brain weighed rather more than 64 oz., that of the late Dr. Abercrombie 63 oz., and that of Dupuytren 62 \ oz. On the other hand, the brain of an idiot seldom weighs more than 23 oz. The human brain is heavier than that of all the lower animals excepting the elephant and whale. The brain of the former weighs from 8 lb. to 10 lb.; and that of the whale, in a specimen seventy-five feet long, weighed rather more than 5 lb. Medulla Oblongata. The medulla oblongata is the upper enlarged part of the spinal cord, and extends from the upper border of the atlas to the lower border of the pons Varolii. It is directed obliquely downwards and backwards; its anterior surface rests on the basilar groove of the occipital bone, its posterior surface is received into the fossa between the hemispheres of the cerebellum, forming the floor of the fourth ventricle. It is pyramidal in form, its broad extremity directed upwards, its lower end being narrow at its point of connection with the cord. It measures an inch and a quarter in length, three-quarters of an inch in breadth at its widest part, and half an inch in thickness. Its surface is marked, in the median line, in front and behind, by an anterior and posterior median fissure, which are con- tinuous with those of the spinal cord. The anterior fissure contains a fold of pia mater, and terminates just below the pons in a cul-de-sac, the foramen caecum. The posterior is a deep but narrow fissure, continued upwards along the floor of the fourth ventricle, where it is finally lost. These two fissures divide the medulla into two symmetrical halves, each lateral half being subdivided by minor I I