INTERNAL EAR. The veins of the tympanum terminate in the middle meningeal and pharyngeal veins, and, through these, in the internal jugular. The nerves of the tympanum may be divided into: I. Those supplying the muscles; 2. Those distributed to the lining membrane; 3. Branches communicating with other nerves. Nerves to muscles. The Tensor tympani is supplied by a branch from the otic ganglion; the Laxator tympani, and the Stapedius, by a filament from the facial (Sommerring). The nerves distributed to the lining membrane are derived from the tympanic plexus. Communications between the following nerves take place in the tympanum: the tympanic branch from the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal; a filament from the carotid plexus; a branch which joins the great superficial petrosal nerve from the Vidian; and a branch to the otic ganglion (small superficial petrosal nerve). The tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal (Jacobson's nerve), enters the tympanum by an aperture in its floor, close to the inner wall, and ascends on to the promontory. It distributes filaments to the lining membrane of the tympanum, and divides into three branches, which are contained in grooves on the promontory, and serve to connect this with other nerves. One branch runs in a groove, for- wards and downwards, to an aperture situated at the junction of the anterior and inner walls, just above the floor, and enters the carotid canal, to communicate with the carotid plexus of the sympathetic. The second branch is contained in a groove which runs vertically upwards to an aperture on the inner wall of the tympanum, just beneath the anterior pyramid, and in front of the fenestra ovalis. The canal leading from this, opens into the hiatus Fallopii, where the nerve contained in it joins the great petrosal nerve. The third branch ascends towards the anterior surface of the petrous bone; it then passes through a small aperture in the sphenoid and temporal bones to the exterior of the skull, and joins the otic ganglion. As this nerve passes by the gangliform enlargement of the facial, it has a connecting filament with it. The chorda tympani quits the facial near the stylo-mastoid foramen, enters the tympanum at the base of the pyramid, and arches forwards across its cavity, between the handle of the malleus and long process of the incus, to an opening internal to the lis sura Glasseri. It is invested by a reflection of the lining mem- brane of the tympanum. Internal Ear, or Labyrinth. The internal ear is the essential part of the organ, receiving the ultimate dis- tribution of the auditory nerve. It is called the labyrinth, from the complexity of its shape, and consists of three parts, the vestibule, semicircular canals, and cochlea. It is formed by a series of cavities, channelled out of the substance of the petrous bone, communicating externally with the cavity of the tympanum, through the fenestra ovalis and rotunda; and internally, with the meatus audito- rius intern us, which contains the auditory nerve. Within the osseous labyrinth is contained the membranous labyrinth, upon which the ramifications of the auditory nerve are distributed. The Vestibule is the common central cavity of communication between the parts of the internal ear. It is situated on the inner side of the tympanum, behind the cochlea, and in front of the semicircular canals. It is somewhat ovoidal in shape from before backwards, flattened from side to side, and measures about one-fifth of an inch from before backwards, as well as from above downwards, being narrower from without inwards. On its outer, or tympanic wall, is the fenestra ovalis, closed, in the recent state, by the base of the stapes, and its annular ligament. On its inner wall, at its fore part, is a small circular depression, fovea hemisphe- rica, which is perforated, at its anterior and inferior part, by several minute holes RR