MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 228 carotid artery and its lingual and facial branches, the internal carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and hypoglossal nerve. The Stylo-Hyoid is a small, slender muscle, lying in front of, and above, the posterior belly of the Digastric. It arises from the middle of the outer surface of the styloid process; and, passing downwards and forwards, is inserted into the body of the hyoid bone, just at its junction with the greater cornu, and immediately above the Omo-hyoid. This muscle is perforated, near its insertion, by the tendon of the Digastric. Relations. The same as the posterior belly of the Digastric. The Digastric and Stylo-hyoid should be removed, in order to expose the next muscle. The Mylo-Hyoid is a flat triangular muscle, situated immediately beneath the anterior belly of the Digastric, and forming, with its fellow of the opposite side, a muscular floor for the cavity of the mouth. It arises from the whole length of the mylo-hyoid ridge, from the symphysis in front to the last molar tooth behind. The posterior fibres pass obliquely forwards, to be inserted into the body of the os hyoides. The middle and anterior fibres are inserted into a median fibrous raphe, where they join at an angle with the fibres of the opposite muscle. This median raphe is sometimes wanting; the muscular fibres of the two sides are then directly continuous with one another. Relations. By its cutaneous surface, with the Platysma, the anterior belly of the Digastric, the supra-hyoid fascia, the submaxillary gland, and submental vessels. By its deep or superior surface, with the G-enio-hyoid, part of the Hyo-glossus, and Stylo-glossus muscles, the lingual and gustatory nerves, the sublingual gland, and the buccal mucous membrane. Wharton's duct curves round its posterior border in its passage to the mouth. Dissection. The Mylo-hyoid should now be removed, in order to expose the muscles which lie beneath ; this is effected by detaching it from its attachments to the hyoid bone and jaw, and separating it by a vertical incision from its fellow of the opposite side. The Genio-Hyoid is a narrow slender muscle, situated immediately beneath the inner border of the preceding. It arises from the inferior genial tubercle on the inner side of the symphysis of the jaw, and passes downwards and backwards, to be inserted into the interior surface of the body of the os hyoides. This muscle lies in close contact with its fellow of the opposite side, and increases slightly in breadth as it descends. Relations. It is covered by the Mylo-hyoid, and lies on the Genio-hyo-glossus. Nerves. The Digastric is supplied, its anterior belly, by the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental; its posterior belly, by the facial; the Stylo-hyoid, by the facial; the Mylo-hyoid, by the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental; the Genio-hyoid. by the hypoglossal. Actions. This group of muscles performs two very important actions. They raise the hyoid bone, and with it the base of the tongue, during the act of deglu- tition; or, when the hyoid bone is fixed by its depressors and those of the larynx, they depress the lower jaw. During the first act of Deglutition, when the mass is being driven from the mouth into the pharynx, the hyoid bone, and with it the tongue, is carried upwards and forwards by the anterior belly of the Digastric, the Mylo-hyoid, and Genio-hyoid muscles. In the second act, when the mass is passing through the pharynx, the direct elevation of the hyoid bone takes place by the combined action of all the muscles; and after the food has passed, the hyoid bone is carried upwards and backwards by the posterior belly of the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles, which assist in preventing the return of the morsel into the mouth. 4. Lingual Region. Genio-Hyo-Glossus. Lingualis. Hyo-Glossus. Stylo-Glossus. Palato-Glossus.