OSTEOLOGY. 42 they are seldom symmetrical, and are often partially subdivided by irregular osseous laminas. Occasionally they extend into the basilar process of the occipital nearly as far as the foramen magnum. The septum is seldom quite vertical, being commonly bent to one or the other side. These sinuses do not exist in children; but they increase in size as age advances. They are partially closed, 35.—Sphenoid Bone, Anterior Surface.* in front and below, by two thin curved plates of bone; the sphenoidal turbinated bones, leaving a round opening at their upper parts, by which they communicate with the upper and back part of the nose, and occasionally with the posterior ethmoidal cells or sinuses. The lateral margins of this surface present a serrated edge, which articulates with the os planum of the ethmoid, completing the pos- terior ethmoidal cells; the lower margin, also rough and serrated, articulates with the orbital process of the palate bone; and the upper margin with the orbital plate of the frontal bone. The inferior surface presents, in the middle line, a triangular spine, the rostrum, which is continuous with the vertical plate on the anterior surface, and is received into a deep fissure between the alas of the vomer. On each side may be seen a projecting lamina of bone, which runs horizontally inwards from near the base of the pterygoid process: these plates, termed the vaginal processes, articulate with the edges of the vomer. Close to the root of the pterygoid process is a groove, formed into a complete canal when arti- culated with the sphenoidal process of the palate bone; it is called the pterygo- palatine canal, and transmits the pterygo-palatine vessels and pharyngeal nerve. The Greater Whigs are two strong processes of bone, which arise at the sides of the body, and are curved in a direction upwards, outwards, and backwards; being prolonged behind into a sharp-pointed extremity, the spinous process of the sphenoid. Each wing presents three surfaces and a circumference. The superior or cerebral surface forms parts of the middle fossa of the skull; it is deeply concave, and presents eminences and depressions for the convolutions of the brain. At its anterior and internal part is seen a circular aperture, the foramen rotundum, for the transmission of the second division of the fifth nerve. Behind and ex- ternal to this, is a large oval foramen, the foramen ovale, for the transmission of the third division of the fifth nerve, the small meningeal artery, and the small petrosal nerve. At the inner side of the foramen ovale, a small aperture may * In this figure, both the anterior and inferior surfaces of the body of the sphenoid bone are shown, the bone being held with the pterygoid processes almost horizontal.