250 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE. 162.—Dissection of Abdomen. are received between corresponding processes of the Serratus magnus; the three lower ones diminish in size from above downwards, receiving between them cor- responding processes from the Latissimus dorsi. From these attachments, the fleshy fibres proceed in various directions. Those from the lowest ribs pass nearly verti- cally downwards, to be inserted into the anterior half of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium; the middle and upper fibres, directed downwards and forwards, ter- minate in tendinous fibres, which spread out into a broad aponeurosis. This aponeurosis, joined with that of the oppo- site muscle along the median line, covers the whole of the front of the abdomen: above, it is connected with the lower border of the Pectoralis major; below, its fibres are closely aggregated together, and extend obliquely across from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the spine of the os pubis and the pectineal line. In the me- dian line, it interlaces with the aponeurosis of the opposite muscle, forming the linea alba, and extends from the ensiform cartilage to the symphysis pubis. That portion of the aponeurosis which extends between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the spine of the os pubis, is a broad band, folded inwards, and continuous below with the fascia lata; it is called Powparfs ligament. The portion which is reflected from Poupart's ligament backwards and inwards into the pectineal line, is called Gimbernafs ligament* From the point of attachment of the latter to the pectineal line, a few fibres pass upwards and inwards beneath the inner pillar of the ring, to the linea alba. They diverge as they ascend, and form a thin, triangular, fibrous band, which is called the triangular ligament. In the aponeurosis of the External oblique, immediately above the crest of the os pubis, is a triangular opening, the external abdominal ring, formed by a separ- ation of the fibres of the aponeurosis in this situation; it serves for the trans- mission of the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. This opening is directed obliquely upwards and outwards, and corresponds with the course of the fibres of the aponeurosis. It is bounded, below, by the crest of the os pubis; above, by some curved fibres, which pass across the aponeurosis at the upper angle of the ring, so as to increase its strength; and, on either side, by the margins of the aponeurosis, which are called the pillars of the ring. Of these, the external, which is, at the same time, inferior, from the obliquity of its direction, is inserted into the spine of the os pubis. The internal, or superior pillar, is attached to the front of the symphysis pubis, and interlaces with the corresponding fibres of the opposite muscle, the fibres of the right muscle being superficial. To the margins of the pillars of the external abdominal ring is attached an exceedingly thin and delicate fascia, which is prolonged down over the outer surface of the cord and testis. This has received the name of inter- columnar fascia, from its attachment to the pillars of the ring. It is also called the external spermatic fascia, from being the most external of the fasciae which cover the spermatic cord. Relations. By its external surface, with the superficial fascia, superficial epigastric and circumflex iliac vessels, and some cutaneous nerves. By its internal * All these parts will be found more particularly described below, with the Surgical Anatomy of Hernia.