569 THORACIC GANGLIA. of the pulmonary artery, to form part of the anterior coronary plexus; those behind the pulmonary artery distribute a few filaments to the right auricle, and form part of the posterior coronary plexus. The branches from the left side of the cardiac plexus distribute a few filaments to the left auricle of the heart and the anterior pulmonary plexus, and then pass on to form the greater part of the posterior coronary plexus, a few branches passing to the superficial cardiac plexus. The superficial (anterior) cardiac plexus lies beneath the arch of the aorta, in front of the right pulmonary artery. It is formed by the left superior cardiac nerve, the left (and occasionally the right) inferior cardiac branches of the pneu- mogastric, and filaments from the deep cardiac plexus. A small ganglion (cardiac ganglion of Wrisberg) is occasionally found connected with these nerves at their point of junction. This ganglion, when present, is situated immediately beneath the arch of the aorta, on the right side of the ductus arteriosus. The superficial cardiac plexus forms the chief part of the anterior coronary plexus, and several filaments pass along the pulmonary artery to the left anterior pulmonary plexus. The posterior coronary plexus is prolonged chiefly by filaments from the left side of the deep cardiac plexus, and by a few from the right side. It surrounds the branches of the coronary artery at the back of the heart, and its filaments are distributed with those vessels to the muscular substance of the ventricles. The anterior coronary plexus is formed chiefly from the superficial cardiac plexus, but receives filaments from the deep cardiac plexus. Passing forwards between the aorta and pulmonary artery, it accompanies the right coronary artery on the anterior surface of the heart. Valentin has described nervous filaments ramifying under the endocardium; and Remak has found, in several mammalia, numerous small ganglia on the cardiac nerves, both on the surface of the heart and in its muscular substance. The elaborate dissections lately completed by Dr. Robert Lee have demonstrated with- out any doubt the existence of a dense mesh of nerves distributed both to the surface, and in the substance of the heart, having numerous ganglia developed upon them. Thoracic Part op the Sympathetic. The thoracic portion of the sympathetic consists of a series of ganglia, which usually correspond in number to that of the vertebras; but, from the occasional coalescence of two, their number is uncertain. These ganglia are placed on each side of the spine, resting against the heads of the ribs, and covered by the pleura costalis: the last two are, however, anterior to the rest, being placed on the side of the bodies of the vertebras. The ganglia are small in size, and of a greyish colour. The first, larger than the rest, is of an elongated form, and usually blended with the last cervical. They are connected together by cord-like prolongations from their substance. The external branches from each ganglion, usually two in number, communicate with each of the dorsal spinal nerves. The internal branches from the six upper ganglia are very small: they supply filaments to the thoracic aorta and its branches, besides small branches to the bodies of the vertebras and their ligaments. Branches from the third and fourth ganglia form part of the posterior pulmonary plexus. The internal branches from the six lower ganglia are large and white in colour; they distribute filaments to the aorta, and unite to form the three splanch- nic nerves. These are named, the great, the lesser, and the smallest or renal splanchnic. The great splanchnic nerve is of a white colour, firm in texture, and bears a marked contrast to the ganglionic nerves. It is formed by branches from the thoracic ganglia between the sixth and tenth, receiving filaments (according to Dr. Beck) from all the thoracic ganglia above the sixth. These roots unite to