34i SUPERIOR THYROID; LINGUAL. The Superior Thyroid Artery (figs. 207 and 212), is the first branch given off from the external carotid, being derived from that vessel just below the great cornu of the hyoid bone. At its commencement, it is quite superficial, being covered by the integument, fascia, and Platysma, and is contained in the trian- gular space bounded by the Sterno-mastoid, Digastric, and Omo-hyoid muscles. After running upwards and inwards for a short distance, it curves downwards and forwards in an arched and tortuous manner to the upper part of the thyroid gland, passing beneath the Omo-hyoid, Sterno-hyoid, and Sterno-thyroid muscles; and distributes numerous branches to the anterior surface of the gland, anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the inferior thyroid arteries. Besides the arteries distributed to the muscles and the substance of the gland, the branches of the superior thyroid are the following. Hyoid. Superior laryngeal. Superficial descending branch (Sterno-mastoid). Crico-thyroid. The hycid is a small branch which runs along the lower border of the os hyoides, beneath the Thyro-hyoid muscle; after supplying the muscles connected to that bone, it forms an arch, by anastomosing with the vessel of the opposite side. The superficial descending branch runs downwards and outwards across the sheath of the common carotid artery, and supplies the Sterno-mastoid and neigh- bouring muscles and integument. It is of importance that the situation of this vessel be remembered, in the operation for tying the common carotid artery. There is often a distinct branch from the external carotid distributed to the Sterno- mastoid muscle. The superior laryngeal, larger than either of the preceding, accompanies the superior laryngeal nerve, beneath the Thyro-hyoid muscle ; it pierces the thyro- hyoid membrane, and supplies the muscles, mucous membrane, and glands of the larynx and epiglottis, anastomosing with the branch from the opposite side. The crico-thyroid (inferior laryngeal) is a small branch which runs trans- versely across the crico-thyroid membrane, communicating with the artery of the opposite side. The position of this vessel should be remembered, as it may prove the source of troublesome hemorrhage during the operation of laryngotomy. Surgical Anatomy. The superior thyroid, or some of its branches, are often divided in cases of cut throat, giving rise to considerable hemorrhage. In such cases, the artery should be secured, the wound being enlarged for that purpose, if necessary. The operation may be easily performed, the position of the artery being very superficial, and the only structures of importance covering it being a few small veins. The operation of tying the superior thyroid artery, in bronchocele, has been performed in numerous instances with partial or temporary success. When, however, the collateral circulation between this vessel and the artery of the opposite side, and the inferior thyroid, is completely re-established, the tumour usually regains its former size. The Lingual Artery (fig. 212) arises from the external carotid between the superior thyroid and facial; it runs obliquely upwards and inwards to the great cornu of the hyoid bone, then passes horizontally forwards parallel with the great cornu, and, ascending perpendicularly to the under surface of the tongue, turns forwards on its under surface as far as the tip of that organ, under the name of the ranine artery. Relations. Its first, or oblique portion, is superficial, being contained in the triangular space already described, resting upon the Middle constrictor of the pharynx, and covered by the Platysma and fascia of the neck. Its second, or horizontal portion, also lies upon the Middle constrictor, being covered at first by the tendon of the digastric, and the Stylo-hyoid muscle, and afterwards by the Hyo-glossus, the latter muscle separating it from the hypo-glossal nerve. Its third, or ascending portion, lies between the Hyo-glossus and Genio-hyo-glossus muscles. The fourth, or terminal part, under the name of the ranine, runs along the under surface of the tongue to its tip : it is very superficial, being covered only by the mucous membrane, and rests on the Lingualis on the outer side of