OSTEOLOGY. 102 Epiphyses ef Head &Tj ^ Tuberosities lletid at I cy* 5 y T- and unite ( with ShaftatzuQij TJ according to Beclard, by one for each tuberosity, that for the lesser being small, and not appearing until after the fourth year. By the fifth year, the centres for the head and tuberosities have enlarged and become joined, so as to form a single large epiphysis. The lower end of the humerus is developed in the following manner: At the end of the second year, ossification commences in the radial portion of the ar- ticular surface, and from this point extends inwards, so as to form the chief part of the articular end of the bone, the centre for the inner part of the articular sur- face not appearing until about the age of twelve. Ossification commences in the internal condyle about the fifth year, and in the external one not until between the thirteenth or fourteenth year. About , „ , TT sixteen or seventeen years, the outer 8 9--Han of the Development of the Humerus. condyle and both portions of the arti- culating surface (having already join- ed) unite with the shaft; at eighteen years, the inner condyle becomes join- ed, whilst the upper epiphysis, although the first formed, is not united until about the twentieth year. Articulations. With the glenoid ca- vity of the scapula, and with the ulna and radius. Attachment of Muscles. To the greater tuberosity, the Supraspinatus, Infraspinatus, and Teres minor ; to the lesser tuberosity, the Subscapu- lars; to the anterior bicipital ridge, the Pectoralis major; to the posterior bicipital ridge and groove, the Latis- simus dorsi and Teres major; to the shaft, the Deltoid, Coraco-brachialis, Brachialis anticus, external and in- ternal heads of the Triceps; to the internal condyle, the Pronator radii teres, and common tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis, Palmaris longus, Flexor digitorum sublimis, and Flexor carpi ulnaris; to the external condy- loid ridge, the Supinator longus, and Extensor carpi radialis longior; to the external condyle, the common tendon of the Extensor carpi radialis brevior, Ex- tensor communis digitorum, Extensor minimi digiti, and Extensor carpi ulnaris, the Anconeus, and Supinator brevis. Unites with Shaft at \$ The Forearm is that portion of the upper extremity which is situated between the elbow and wrist. It is composed of two bones, the Ulna, and the Kadius. The Ulna. ' The Ulna (figs. 90, 91), so called from its forming the elbow (wXevrj), is a long bone, prismatic in form, placed at the inner side of the forearm, parallel with the radius. It is the larger and longer of the two bones. Its upper extremity, of great thickness and strength, forms a large part of the articulation of the elbow-joint; it diminishes in size from above downwards, its lower extremity being very small, and excluded from the wrist-joint by the interposition of an interarticular fibro- cartilage. It is divisible into a shaft, and two extremities. The Upper Extremity, the strongest part of the bone, presents for examination