VERTEBRAL. 365 body, the first three branches arise close together at the inner margin of the Sca- lenus anticus; in the majority of cases, a free interval of half an inch to an inch existing between the commencement of the artery and the origin of the nearest branch; in a smaller number of cases, an interval of more than an inch exists, never exceeding an inch and three-quarters. In a very few instances, the interval has been found less than half an inch. The Vertebral Artery (fig. 212) is generally the first and largest branch of the subclavian; it arises from the upper and back part of the first portion of the vessel, and, passing upwards, enters the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra,, and ascends through the foramina in the transverse processes of all the vertebras above this. Above the upper border of the axis, it inclines out- wards and upwards to the foramen in the transverse process of the atlas, through which it passes; it then winds backwards behind its articular process, runs in a deep groove on the surface of the posterior arch of this bone, and, piercing the posterior occipito-atloid ligament and dura mater, enters the skull through the foramen magnum, It then passes in front of the medulla oblongata, and unites with the vessel of the opposite side at the lower border of the pons Varolii, to form the basilar artery. At its origin, it is situated behind the internal jugular vein, and inferior thyroid artery; and, near the spine, lies between the Longus colli and Scalenus anticus muscles, having the thoracic duct in front of it on the left side. Within the foramina formed by the transverse processes of the vertebras, it is accompanied by a plexus of nerves from the sympathetic, and lies between the vertebral vein, which is in front, and the cervical nerves, which issue from the intervertebral foramina behind it. Whilst winding round the articular process of the atlas, it is contained in a triangular space formed by the Rectus posticus minor, the Superior and Inferior oblique muscles; and is covered by the Rectus posticus major and Complexus. Within the skull, as it winds round the medulla oblongata, it is placed between the hypoglossal nerve and the anterior root of the suboccipital nerve. Branches. These may be divided into two sets, those given off in the neck, and those within the cranium. Cervical Branches. Lateral spinal. Muscular. Cranial Branches. Posterior meningeal. Anterior spinal. Posterior spinal. Inferior cerebellar. The lateral spinal branches enter the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina, each dividing into two branches. Of these, one passes along the roots of the nerves, to supply the spinal cord and its membranes, anastomosing with the other spinal arteries; the other is distributed to the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebras. Muscular branches are given off to the deep muscles of the neck, where the vertebral artery curves round the articular process of the atlas. They anastomose with the occipital and deep cervical arteries. The posterior meningeal are one or two small branches given off from the vertebral opposite the foramen magnum. They ramify between the bone and dura mater in the cerebellar fossae, and supply the falx cerebelli. The anterior spinal is a small branch, larger than the posterior spinal, which arises near the termination of the vertebral, and unites with its fellow of the opposite side in front of the medulla oblongata. The single trunk thus formed, descends a short distance on the front of the spinal cord, and joins with a succession of small branches which enter the spinal canal through some of the intervertebral foramina; these branches are derived from the vertebral and ascend- ing cervical, in the neck; from the intercostal, in the dorsal region; and from the