723 UTERUS. pearance of branches from the stem of a tree, and hence the name arbor vitm uterinus, applied to it. These folds usually become very indistinct after the first labour. Structure. The uterus is composed of three coats: an external serous coat, a middle or muscular layer, and an internal mucous coat. The serous coat is derived from the peritoneum; it invests the fundus and the whole of the posterior surface of the body of the uterus; but only the upper three- fourths of its anterior surface. The muscular coat forms the chief bulk of the substance of the uterus. In the unimpregnated state, it is dense, firm, of a greyish colour, and cuts almost like cartilage. It is thick opposite the middle of the body and fundus, and thin at the orifices of the Fallopian tubes. It consists of bundles of unstriped muscular fibres, disposed in layers, intermixed with areolar tissue, blood, and lymphatic vessels and nerves. In the impregnated state, the muscular tissue becomes more prominently developed, and is disposed in three layers: external, middle, and internal. The external layer is placed beneath the peritoneum, disposed as a thin plane on the anterior and posterior surfaces. It consists of fibres, which pass transversely across the fundus, and, converging at each superior angle of the uterus, are con- tinued on the Fallopian tubes, the round ligament, and ligament of the ovary; some passing at each side into the broad ligament, and others running backwards from the cervix into the recto-uterine ligaments. The middle layer of fibres presents no regularity in its arrangement, being disposed longitudinally, obliquely and transversely. The internal, or deep layer, consists of circular fibres arranged in the form of two hollow cones, the apices of which surround the orifices of the Fallopian tubes, their bases intermingling with one another on the middle of the body of the uterus. At the cervix, these fibres are disposed transversely. The mucous membrane is thin, smooth, and closely adherent to the subjacent tissue. It is continuous, through the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tubes, with the peritoneum; and, through the os uteri, with the mucous membrane lining the vagina. In the body of the uterus, it is smooth, soft, of a reddish colour, lined by columnar-ciliated epithelium, and presents, when viewed with a lens, the orifices of numerous tubular follicles arranged, perpendicularly to the surface. They are of small size in the unimpregnated uterus, but shortly after impregnation they are enlarged, elongated, presenting a contorted or waved appearance towards their closed extremities which occasionally dilate into two or three sacculated extremities. The circular orifices of these glands may be seen on the inner surface of the mucous membrane, many of which during the early period of pregnancy are surrounded by a whitish ring formed of epithelium which lines the follicles. In the cervix, the mucous membrane between the rugae and around the os uteri, is provided with numerous mucous follicles and glands. The small, transparent, vesicular elevations, so often found within the os and cervix uteri, are due to closure of the mouths of these follicles, and their distension with their proper secretion. They were called the ovula of Naboth. The mucous membrane covering the lower half of the cervix, presents numerous papilla?. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries of the uterus are the uterine, from the internal iliac; and the ovarian, from the aorta. They are remarkable for their tortuous course in the substance of the organ, and for their frequent anastomoses. The veins are of large size, and correspond with the arteries. In the impregnated uterus, these vessels are termed the uterine sinuses, consisting of the lining mem- brane of the veins adhering to the walls of canals chanelled through the substance of the uterus. They terminate in the uterine plexuses. The lymphatics are of large size in the impregnated uterus, and terminate in the pelvic and lumbar glands. The nerves are derived from the inferior hypogastric and spermatic plexuses, and from the third and fourth sacral nerves. A A A 2