MUSCLES AND FASCIAE. 238 Dorsal region. Sacro-lumbalis. Musculus accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem. Longissirrms dorsi. Spinalis dorsi. Cervical region. Cervicalis ascendens. Transversalis colli. Trachelo-mastoid. Complexus. Biventer cervicis. Spinalis cervicis. Fifth Later. Semi-spinalis dorsi. Semi-spinalis colli. Multifidus spina3. Rotatores spinas. Supra-spinales. Inter-spinales. Extensor coccygis. Inter-transversales. Rectus capitis posticus maj^. Rectus capitis posticus minoi or. Obliquus capitis superior. Obliquus capitis inferior. First Later. Trapezius. Latissimus Dorsi. Dissection (fig. 159). Place the body in the prone position, with the arms extended over the sides of the table, and the chest and abdomen supported by several blocks, so as to render the muscles tense. Then make an incision along the middle line of the back, from the occipital protuberance to the coccyx. Make a transverse incision from the upper end of this to the mastoid process; and a third incision from its lower end, along the crest of the ilium to about its middle. This large intervening space, for convenience of dissection, should be subdivided by a fourth incision, extending obliquely from the spinous process of the last dorsal vertebra, upwards and outwards, to the acromion process. This incision corresponds with the lower border of the Trapezius muscle. The flaps of integument are then to be removed in the direction shewn in the figure. triangular muscle placed immediately beneath 159.—Dissection of the Muscles of the Back. The Trapezius is a broad, flat, the skin, and covering the upper and back part of the neck and shoulders. It arises from the inner third of the superior curved line of the occipital bone; from the ligamentum nuchas, the spinous process of the seventh cervical, and those of all the dorsal vertebras; and from the cor- responding portion of the supra-spinous ligament. From this origin, the superior fibres proceed downwards and outwards; the inferior ones, upwards and outwards ; and the middle fibres, horizontally ; and are inserted, the superior ones, into the outer third of the posterior border of the clavicle; the middle fibres, into the upper margin of the acromion process, and into the whole length of the upper border of the spine of the scapula; the inferior fibres converge near the scapula, and are attached to a triangular aponeurosis, which glides over a smooth surface at the inner extremity of the spine, and is inserted into a tubercle at the outer part of the surface. The Trapezius is fleshy in the greater part of its extent, but tendinous at its origin and insertion. At its occipital origin, it is connected to the bone by a thin fibrous lamina, firmly adherent to the skin, and wanting the lustrous, shining appearance of aponeurosis. At its origin from the spines of the vertebras, it is connected to the bones by means of a broad semielliptical