338 ARTERIES. pharynx. On its outer side are placed the internal jugular vein and pneumo- gastric nerve. At the lower part of the neck, the internal jugular vein on the right side diverges from the artery, but on the left side it approaches it, and often crosses its lower part. This is an important fact to bear in mind during the performance of any operation on the lower part of the left common carotid artery. Plan of the Relations op the Common Carotid Artery. In front. Integument and fascia. Omo-hyoid. Platysma. Descendens noni nerve. Sterno-mastoid. Sterno-mastoid artery. Sterno-hyoid. Thyroid, lingual, and fascial veins. Sterno-thyroid. Anterior jugular vein. Externally. — Internally. Internal jugular vein. / ^\ Trachea. Pneumogastric nerve, ( p^^^ \ Thyroid gland. Recurrent laryngeal nerve. Inferior thyroid artery. Larynx. Pharynx. Behind. Longus colli Sympathetic nerve. Rectus anticus major. Inferior thyroid artery. Recurrent laryngeal nerve. Peculiarities as to Origin. The right common carotid may arise above or below its usual point, the upper border of the sterno-clavicular articulation. This variation occurs in one out of about eight cases and a half, and the origin is more frequently above than below the usual point; or the artery may arise as a separate branch from the arch of the aorta, or in conjunction with the left carotid. The left common carotid varies more frequently in its origin than the right. In the majority of abnormal cases, it arises with the innominate artery, or if the innominate artery is absent, the two carotids arise usually by a single trunk. The left carotid has a tendency towards the right side of the arch of the aorta, being occasionally the first branch given off from the transverse portion. It rarely joins with the left subclavian, except in cases of transposition of the arch. Peculiarities as to Point of Division. The most important peculiarities of this vessel, in a surgical point of view, relate to its place of division in the neck. In the majority of abnormal cases, this occurs higher than usual, the artery dividing into two branches opposite the hyoid bone, or even higher ; more rarely, it occurs below fits usual place, opposite the middle of the larynx, or the lower border of the cricoid cartilage; and one case is related by Morgagni, where the common carotid, only an inch and a half in length, divided at the root of the neck. Very rarely, the common carotid ascends in the neck without any subdivision, the internal carotid being wanting ; and in two cases, the common carotid has been found to be absent, the external and internal carotids arising directly from the arch of the aorta. This peculiarity existed on both sides in one subject, on one side in the other. Occasional Branches. The common carotid usually gives off no branches ; but it occa- sionally gives origin to the superior thyroid, or a laryngeal branch, the inferior thyroid, or, more rarely, the vertebral artery. Surgical Anatomy. The operation of tying the common carotid artery may be necessary in a wound of that vessel or its branches, in an aneurism, or in a case of pulsating tumour of the orbit or skull. If the wound involves the trunk of the common carotid, it will be necessary to tie the artery above and below the wounded part. But in cases of aneurism, or where one of the branches of the common carotid is wounded in an inaccessible situa- tion, it may be judged necessary to tie the trunk. In such cases, the whole of the artery is accessible, and an}7 part may be tied, except close to either end. When the case is such as to allow of a choice being made, the lower part of the carotid should never be selected as the spot upon which to place a ligature, for not only is the artery in this situation placed very deeply in the neck, but it is covered by three layers of muscles, and on the left side the jugular vein, in the great majority of cases, passes obliquely in front of it. Neither should the upper end be selected, for here the superior thyroid, lingual, and facial veins would give rise to very considerable difficulty in the application of a ligature. The point most favourable for the operation is opposite the lower part of the larynx, and here a ligature may be applied on the vessel, either above or below the point where it is crossed by the Omo-hyoid muscle. In the former situation the artery is most accessible, and it