PANCREAS. The lesser end or tail of the pancreas is narrow; it extends to the left as far as the spleen, and is placed over the left kidney and suprarenal capsule. The body of the pancreas is convex in front, and covered by the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon and the posterior surface of the stomach. The posterior surface is concave, and has the following structures interposed between it and the first lumbar vertebra: the superior mesenteric artery and vein, the commencement of the vena portse, the vena cava, the aorta, the left kidney, the suprarenal capsule, and the corresponding renal vessels. The upper border is thick, and has resting upon it, near its centre, the coeliac axis; the splenic artery and vein are lodged in a deep groove or canal in this border; and to the right, the first part of the duodenum and the hepatic artery are in relation with it. The lower border, thinner than the upper, is separated from the transverse 346.—The Pancreas and its Relations. portion of the duodenum by the superior mesenteric artery and vein; to the left of these the inferior mesenteric vein ascends behind the pancreas to join the splenic vein. The pancreatic duct, called the canal of Wirsung from its discoverer, extends transversely from left to right through the substance of the pancreas, nearer to its lower than its upper border, and lying nearer its anterior than its posterior sur- face. In order to expose it, the superficial portion of the gland must be removed. Traced backwards, it is found to commence, by an orifice common to it and the I ductus communis choledocus, upon the summit of an elevated papilla, situated at the inner side of the descending portion of the duodenum, a little below its middle: from this papilla it passes very obliquely through the mucous and muscular coats, separates itself from the common choledic duct, and, ascending slightly, runs from right to left through the middle of the gland, giving off numerous branches, which commence in its lobules. Sometimes the pancreatic and common choledic ducts open separately into the duodenum. The excretory duct of the lesser pancreas is called the ductus pan- creaticus minor; it opens into the main duct near the duodenum, and sometimes separately into that intestine, at a distance of an inch or more from the termination of the principal duct.