556 SPINAL NERVES. branch of the internal cutaneous; beloiv the knee, with other branches of the long saphenous; and, on the outer side of the joint, with branches of the middle and external cutaneous nerves, forming a plexiform network, the plexus patellce. The cutaneous nerve of the patella is occasionally small, and terminates by joining the internal cutaneous, which supplies its place in front of the knee. Below the knee, the branches of the long saphenous nerve are distributed to the integument of the front and inner side of the leg, communicating with the cutaneous branches from the internal cutaneous, or obturator nerve. The Deep Group of branches of the anterior crural nerve are muscular and articular. The muscular branches supply the Pectineus, and all the muscles on the front of the thigh, except the Tensor vagina? femoris, which is supplied from the gluteal nerve, and the Sartorius, which is supplied by filaments from the middle or internal cutaneous nerves. The branches to the Pectineus, usually two in number, pass inwards behind the femoral vessels, and enter the muscle on its anterior surface. The branch to the Rectus muscle enters its under surface high up. The branch to the Vastus externus, of large size, follows the course of the descending branch of the external circumflex artery, to the lower part of the muscle. It gives off an articular filament. The branches to the Vastus internus and Crureus enter the middle of those muscles. The articular branches, two in number, supply the knee-joint. One, a long slender filament, is derived from the nerve to the Vastus externus. It penetrates the capsular ligament of the joint on its anterior aspect. The other is derived from the nerve to the Vastus internus. It descends along the internal inter- muscular septum, accompanying the deep branch of the anastomotica magna artery, pierces the capsular ligament of the joint on its inner side, and supplies the synovial membrane. The Sacral and Coccygeal Nerves. The sacral nerves are five in number on each side. The four upper ones pass from the sacral canal, through the sacral foramina; the fifth through the foramen between the sacrum and coccyx. The roots of origin of the upper sacral (and lumbar) nerves are the largest of all the spinal nerves; whilst those of the lowest sacral and coccygeal nerve are the smallest. The roots of these nerves are of very considerable length, being longer than those of any of the other spinal nerves, on account of the spinal cord not extending beyond the first lumbar vertebra. From their great length, and the appearance they present in connection with the spinal cord, the roots of origin of these nerves are called collectively the cauda equina. Each sacral and coccygeal nerve divides into two branches, anterior and posterior. The posterior sacral nerves are small, diminish in size from above downwards, and emerge, except the last, from the sacral canal by the posterior sacral foramina. The three upper ones are covered, at their exit from the sacral canal, by the Multifidus spinse, and divide into external and internal branches. The internal branches are small, and supply the Multifidus spina?. The external branches communicate with one another, and with the last lumbar and fourth sacral nerves, by means of anastomosing loops. These branches pass outwards, to the outer surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where they form a second series of loops beneath the Gluteus maximus. Cutaneous branches from this second series of loops, usually three in number, pierce the Gluteus maximus, one near the posterior inferior spine of the ilium; another opposite the end of the sacrum; and the third, midway between the other two. They supply the integument over the posterior part of the gluteal region.