VEINS 428 termination of this vein in the heart; in the trunks of the hepatic veins; in all the large trunks of the vena portae; in the splenic, superior mesenteric, external iliac, renal, and azygos veins. Where the middle coat is absent, this muscular layer extends as far as the inner coat. In the renal and portal veins, it extends through the whole thickness of the outer coat; but in the other veins mentioned, a layer of connective and elastic tissues are found external to the muscular fibres. All the large veins which open into the heart, are covered for a short distance by a layer of muscular tissue continued on to them from the heart. Muscular tissue is wanting in the veins:—I. Of the maternal part of the placenta. 2. In most of the cerebral veins and sinuses of the dura mater. 3. In the veins of the retina. 4. In the veins of the cancellous tissue of bones. 5. In the venous spaces of the corpora cavernosa. The veins of the above-mentioned parts consist of an internal epithelial lining, supported on one or more layers of areolar tissue. Most veins are provided with valves, which serve to prevent the reflux of the blood. They are formed by a reduplication of the middle and inner coats, and consist of connective tissue and elastic fibres, covered on both surfaces by epithe- lium; their form is semilunar. They are attached by their convex edge to the wall of the vein; the concave margin is free, directed in the course of the venous current, and lies in close apposition with the wall of the vein as long as the current of blood takes its natural course; if, however, any regurgitation takes place, the valves become distended, their opposed edges are brought into contact, and the current is intercepted. Most commonly two such valves are found, placed opposite one another, more especially in the smaller veins, or in the larger trunks at the point where they are joined by small branches; occasionally there are three, and sometimes only one. The wall of the vein immediately above the point of attach- ment of each segment of the valve is expanded into a pouch or sinus, which gives to the vessel, when injected or distended with blood, a knotted appearance. The valves are very numerous in the veins of the extremities, especially the lower ones, these vessels having to conduct the blood against the force of gravity. They are absent in the very small veins, also in the venae cava?, the hepatic vein, portal vein and its branches, the renal, uterine, and ovarian veins. A few valves are found in the spermatic veins, and one also at their point of junction with the renal vein and inferior cava in both sexes. The cerebral and spinal veins, the veins of the cancellated tissue of bone, the pulmonary veins, and the umbilical vein and its branches, are also destitute of valves. They are occasionally found, few in number, in the azygos and intercostal veins. The veins are supplied with nutrient vessels, vasa vasorum, like the arteries; but nerves are not generally found distributed upon them. The only vessels upon which they have at present been traced, are the sinuses of the dura mater; the spinal veins; the venae cavae; the common jugular, iliac, and crural veins; and the hepatic veins. (Kolliker). The veins may be arranged into three groups:—I. Those of the head and neck, upper extremity, and thorax, which terminate in the superior vena cava. 2. Those of the lower limb, pelvis, and abdomen, which terminate in the inferior vena cava. 3. The cardiac veins, which open directly into the right auricle of the heart. Veins of the Head and Neck. The veins of the head and neck may be subdivided into three groups:—l. The veins of the exterior of the head. 2. The veins of the neck. 3. The veins of the diploe and interior of the cranium. The veins of the exterior of the head are, the Facial. Temporo-maxillary. Temporal. Posterior auricular. Internal Maxillary. Occipital.