201 OF THE TARSUS. it passes forward from the inner side of the anterior extremity of the os calcis to the outer side of the scaphoid bone. These two ligaments resemble the letter Y, being blended together behind, but separated in front. The Inferior Calcaneo-Scaphoid (fig. 145) is by far the largest and strongest of the two ligaments of this articulation; it is a broad and thick band of fibres, which passes forwards and inwards from the anterior and inner extremity of the os calcis, to the under surface of the scaphoid bone. This ligament not only serves to connect the os calcis and scaphoid, but supports the head of the astra- galus, forming part of the articular cavity in which it is received. Its upper surface is lined by the synovial membrane continued from the anterior calcaneo- astragaloid articulation. Its under surface is in contact with the tendon of the Tibialis posticus muscle. The articulation between the astragalus and scaphoid is an arthrodial joint; the rounded head of the astragalus being received into the concavity formed by the posterior surface of the scaphoid, the anterior articulating surface of the calcaneum, and the upper surface of the calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, which fills up the triangular interval between those bones. The only ligament of this joint is the superior astragalo-scaphoid, a broad band, which passes obliquely forwards from the neck of the astragalus, to the superior surface of the scaphoid bone. It is thin and weak in texture, and covered by the Extensor tendons. The inferior calcaneo-scaphoid supplies the place of an inferior ligament. The Synovial Membrane which lines the joint, is continued forwards from the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation. This articulation permits of considerable mobility; but its feebleness is such as to allow occasionally of dislocation of the astragalus. 146.—Oblique Section of the Articulations of the Tarsus and Metatarsus. Shewing the Six Synovial Membranes. The Synovial Membranes (fig. 146) found in the articulations of the tarsus, are four m number: one for the posterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation; a second for the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid and astragalo-scaphoid articulations; a third for the caJcaneo-cuboid articulation; and a fourth for the articulations of the scaphoid with the three cuneiform, the three cuneiform with each other, the external cuneiform with the cuboid, and the middle and external cuneiform with the bases of the second and third metatarsal bones. The prolongation which lines the metatarsal bones, passes forwards between the external and middle cuneiform bones. A small synovial membrane is sometimes found between the contiguous surfaces of the scaphoid and cuboid bones. Actions. The movements permitted between the bones of the first row, the astragalus and os calcis, are limited to a gliding upon each other from before