758 PELVIC FASCIA. close the front part of the outlet of the pelvis, blending with the posterior layer of the triangular ligament. At the level of a line extending from the lower part of the symphysis pubis to the spine of the ischium, is a thickened whitish band; this marks the attachment of the Levator ani muscle to the pelvic fascia, and corresponds to its point of division into two layers, the obturator and recto- vesical. The obturator fascia descends and covers the Obturator internus muscle. It is a direct continuation of the pelvic fascia below the white line above mentioned, and is attached to the pubic arch and to the margin of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. This fascia forms a canal for the pudic vessels and nerve in their pas- sage forwards to the perinseum, and is continuous with a thin membrane which covers the perineal aspect of the Levator ani muscle, called the ischio-rectal {anal) fascia. The recto-vesical fascia (visceral layer of the pelvic fascia) descends into the pelvis upon the upper surface of the Levator ani muscle, and invests the prostate, bladder, and rectum. From the inner surface of the symphysis pubis a short rounded band is continued to the upper surface of the prostate and neck of the bladder, forming the pubo-prostatic or anterior true ligaments of the bladder. At the side, this fascia is connected to the side of the prostate, enclosing this gland and the vesical prostatic plexus, and is continued upwards on the surface of the bladder, forming the lateral true ligaments of the organ. Another prolongation invests the vesicular seminales, and passes across between the bladder and rectum, being continuous with the same fascia of the opposite side. Another thin pro- longation is reflected round the surface of the lower end of the rectum. The Levator ani muscle arises from the point of division of the pelvic fascia; the visceral layer of the fascia descending upon and being intimately adherent to the upper surface of the muscle, while the under surface of the muscle is covered by a thin layer derived from the obturator fascia, called the ischio-rectal or anal fascia. In the female, the vagina perforates the recto-vesical fascia, and receives a prolongation from it.