PARIETAL BONE. sphenoid ; the middle portion is arched, bevelled at the expense of the outer surface, and overlapped by the squamous portion of the temporal; the posterior portion is thick and serrated for articulation with the mastoid portion of the temporal. The anterior border, deeply serrated, is bevelled at the expense of the outer surface above, and of the inner below; it articulates with the frontal bone, forming the coronal suture. The posterior border, deeply denticulated, articulates with the occipital, forming the lambdoid suture. z6.—Left Parietal Bone. Internal Surface. Angles. The anterior superior, thin and pointed, corresponds with that portion of the skull which in the foetus is membranous, and is called the anterior fon- tanelle. The anterior inferior angle is thin and lengthened, being received in the interval between the great wing of the sphenoid and the frontal. Its inner surface is marked by a deep groove, sometimes a canal, for the anterior branch of the middle meningeal artery. The posterior superior angle corresponds with the junction of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures. In the foetus this part of the skull is membranous, and is called the posterior fontanelle. The posterior inferior angle articulates with the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, and generally presents on its inner surface a broad shallow groove for lodging part of the lateral sinus. Development. The parietal bone is formed in membrane, being developed by one centre, which corresponds with the parietal eminence, and makes its first appearance about the fifth or sixth week of foetal life. Ossification gradually extends from the centre to the circumference of the bone: the angles are conse- quently the parts last formed, and it is in their situation, that the fontanelles exist, previous to the completion of the growth of the bone. Articulations. With five bones; the opposite parietal, the occipital, frontal, temporal, and sphenoid. Attachment of Muscles. One only, the Temporal.