130 OSTEOLOGY. To the inner lip of the linea aspera, nates at a small tubercle at the summit bifurcations, which enclose between them a triangular space (the popliteal space), upon which rests the popliteal artery. Of these two bifurcations, the outer branch is the most prominent, and de- scends to the summit of the outer condyle. The inner branch is less marked, presents a broad and shallow groove for the pas- sage of the femoral artery, and termi- of the internal condyle. its whole length, is attached the Vastus internus; and to the whole length of the outer lip, the Vastus externus. The Adductor magnus is also attached to the whole length of the linea aspera, being connected with the outer lip above, and the under lip below. Between the Vastus externus and the Adductor magnus are attached two muscles, viz., the Gluteus maxim us above, and the short head of the Biceps below. Between the Adductor magnus and the Vastus internus, four muscles are attached: the Iliacus and Pectineus above (the latter to the middle of the upper divisions); below these, the Adductor brevis and Adductor longus. The linea aspera is perforated a little below its centre by the nutritious canal, which is directed obliquely from below upwards. The two lateral borders of the femur are only slightly marked, the outer one extending from the anterior inferior angle of the great trochanter to the an- terior extremity of the external condyle; the inner one from the spiral line, at a point opposite the trochanter minor, to the anterior extremity of the internal condyle. The internal border marks the limit of attachment of the Crureus muscle internally. The anterior surface includes that por- tion of the shaft which is situated between the two lateral borders. It is smooth, convex, broader above and below than in the centre, slightly twisted, so that its upper part is directed forwards and a little outwards, its lower part forwards and a little inwards. To the upper three- fourths of this surface the Crureus is attached; the lower fourth is separated from the muscle by the intervention of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint, and affords attachment to the Subcrureus to a small extent. The external surface 04.—Right Femur. Posterior Surface.