CLAVICLE. 9* convex, nearly subcutaneous, being covered only by the Platysraa; but correspond- ing to the inner half of the bone, it is divided by a more or less prominent line into two parts : an anterior portion, elliptical in form, rough, and slightly convex, for the attachment of the Pectoralis major; and an upper part, which is rough behind, for the attachment of the Sterno-cleido-mastoid. Between the two muscular impressions is a small subcutaneous interval. The posterior or cervical surface is smooth, flat, directed vertically, and looks backwards towards the root of the neck. It is limited, above, by the superior border; below, by the sub- clavian border; internally, by the margin of the sternal extremity; externally, it is continuous with the posterior border of the flat portion. It is concave from within outwards, and is in relation, by its lower part, with the suprascapular vessels. It gives attachment, near the sternal extremity, to part of the Sterno- hyoid muscle; and presents, at or near the middle, a foramen, directed obliquely outwards, which transmits the chief nutrient artery of the bone. Sometimes, there are two foramina on the posterior surface, or one on the posterior, the other on the inferior surface. The inferior or subclavian surface is bounded, in front, by the interior border; behind by the subclavian border. It is narrow internally, 82.—Left Clavicle. Anterior Surface. Acromial Hxf?J 83—Left Clavicle. Inferior Surface. but gradually increases in width externally, and is continuous with the under surface of the flat portion. Commencing at the sternal extremity may be seen a small facet for articulation with the cartilage of the first rib. This is continuous with the articular surface at the sternal end of the bone. External to this is a broad rough impression, the rhomboid, rather more than an inch in length, for the attachment of the costo-clavicular (rhomboid) ligament. The remaining part of this surface is occupied by a longitudinal groove, the subclavian groove, broad and smooth externally; narrow and more uneven internally; it gives attachment to the Subclavius muscles, and, by its anterior margin, to the strong aponeurosis which encloses it. Not unfreqnently this groove is subdivided into two parts, by a longitudinal line, which gives attachment to the intermuscular septum of the Subclavius muscle. The internal or sternal end of the clavicle is triangular in form, directed in- wards, and a little downwards and forwards; and presents an articular facet, con- cave from before backwards, convex from above downwards, which articulates with the sternum through the intervention of an inter-articular fibro-cartilage; the