433 CEREBRAL. Iii adult life, as long as the cranial bones are distinct and separable, these veins are confined to the particular bones; but in old age, when the sutures are united, they communicate with each other, and increase in size. These vessels commu- nicate, in the interior of the cranium, with the meningeal veins, and with the sinuses of the dura mater; and on the exterior of the skull, with the veins of the pericranium. They are divided into the frontal, which opens into the 237 —Veins of the Diploe, as displayed by the Removal of the Outer Table of the Skull. supraorbital vein, by an aperture at the supraorbital notch; the anterior temporal, which is confined chiefly to the frontal bone, and opens into one of the deep temporal veins, after escaping by an aperture in the great wing of the sphenoid; the posterior temporal, which is confined to the parietal bone, and termi- nates in the lateral sinus by an aperture at the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bone; and the occipital, which is confined to the occipital bone and opens either into the occipital vein, or the occipital sinus. Cerebral Veins. The Cerebral Veins are remarkable for the extreme thinness of their coats, in consequence of the muscular tissue in them being wanting, and for the absence of valves. They may be divided into two sets, the superficial, which are placed on the surface, and the deep veins, which occupy the interior of the organ. The Superficial Cerebral Veins ramify upon the surface of the brain, being lodged in the sulci, between the convolutions, a few running across the convolu- tions. They receive branches from the substance of the brain, and terminate in the sinuses. They are named, from the position they occupy, superior, inferior, internal, and external. > The Superior Cerebral Veins, seven or eight in number on each side, pass forwards and inwards towards the great longitudinal fissure, where they receive the internal cerebral veins, which return the blood from the convolutions of the flat surface of the corresponding hemisphere; near their termination, they become invested with a tubular sheath of the arachnoid membrane, and open into the superior longitudinal sinus, in the opposite direction to the course of the blood. F F