197 ANKLE JOINT. The Transverse Ligament is a long narrow band, continuous with the pre- ceding, passing transversely across the back of the joint, from the external malleolus to the tibia, a short distance from its malleolar process. This ligament projects below the margins of the bones, and forms part of the articulating surface for the astragalus. The Synovial Membrane lining the articular surfaces is derived from that of the ankle-joint. Actions. The movement permitted in these articulations is limited to a very- slight gliding of the articular surfaces one upon another. IV. Ankle Joint. The Ankle is a ginglymoid or hinge joint. The bones entering into its forma- tion are the lower extremity of the tibia and its malleolus, and the malleolus of the fibula, above, which, united, form an arch, to receive the upper convex surface of the astragalus and its two lateral facets. These surfaces are covered with cartilage, and connected together by the following ligaments — Anterior. Internal Lateral. External Lateral. The Anterior, or Tibio-tarsal Ligament (fig. 143) is a broad, thin membranous layer, attached, above, to the margin of the articular surface of the tibia; below, 143.—Ankle-Joint: Tarsal and Tarso-Metatarsal Articulations. Internal View. Right Side. to the margin of the astragalus, in front of its articular surface. It is in relation, in front, with the extensor tendons of the toes, with the tendons of the Tibialis anticus and Peroneus tertius, and the anterior tibial vessels and nerve; behind, it lies in contact with the synovial membrane. The Internal Lateral or Deltoid Ligament consists of two layers, superficial and deep. The superficial layer is a strong, flat, triangular band, attached, above, to the apex and anterior and posterior borders of the inner malleolus. The most anterior fibres pass forwards to be inserted into the scaphoid; the middle descend almost perpendicularly to be inserted into the os calcis; and the posterior fibres pass backwards and outwards to be attached to the inner side of the astragalus.