751 MUSCLES OF THE PERINiEUM. erection of the penis, as they are inserted into, and continuous with, the fascia of the penis, compressing the dorsal vein during the contraction of the muscle. ■ The Erector Penis covers the unattached part of the crus penis. ^ It is an elongated muscle, broader in the middle than at either extremity, and situated on either side of the lateral boundary of the perineum. It arises by tendinous and fleshy fibres from the inner surface of the tuberosity of the ischium, behind the 39o.—The Superficial Muscles and Vessels of the Perinaeum. crus penis, from the surface of the crus, and from the adjacent portion of the ramus of the pubes. From these points, fleshy fibres succeed, which end in an aponeurosis which is inserted into the side and under surface of the crus penis. This muscle compresses the crus penis, and thus serves to maintain the organ erect. The Transversus Perincei is a narrow muscular slip, which passes more or less transversely across the back part of the perinseal space. It arises by a small tendon from the inner side of the ascending ramus of the ischium, and, passing obliquely forwards and inwards, is inserted into the central tendinous point of the perinaeum, joining in this situation with the muscle of the opposite side, the Sphincter ani behind, and the Accelerator urinae in front. Between the muscles just examined, a triangular space exists, bounded internally by the Accelerator urinae, externally by the Erector penis, and behind by the Transversus perinaei. The floor of this space is formed by the triangular ligament of the urethra (deep perineal fascia), and, running from behind forwards in it, are the superficial perinseal vessels and nerves, the transversus perinaei artery coursing along the posterior boundary of the space, on the Transversus perinaei muscle. In the lateral operation of lithotomy, the knife is carried obliquely across the back part of this space, downwards and outwards, into the ischio-rectal fossa, dividing the Transversus perinaei muscle and artery, the posterior fibres of the Accelerator urinae, the superficial perinaeal vessels and nerve, and, more posteriorly, the external haemorrhoidal vessels.