SOLAR PLEXUS; SEMILUNAR GANGLIA. 571 fifteen or twenty in number, have numerous ganglia developed upon them. They accompany the branches of the renal artery into the kidney; some filaments on the right side being distributed to the vena cava, and others to the spermatic plexus, on both sides. The spermatic plexus is derived from the renal plexus, receiving branches from the aortic plexus. It accompanies the spermatic vessels to the testes. In the female, the ovarian plexus is distributed to the ovaries and fundus of the uterus. The cceliac plexus, of large size, is a direct continuation from the solar plexus: it surrounds the cseliac axis, and subdivides into the gastric, hepatic, and splenic plexuses. It receives branches from one or more of the splanchnic nerves, and, on the left side, a filament from the pneumogastric. The gastric plexus accompanies the gastric artery along the lesser curvature of the stomach, and joins with branches from the left pneumogastric nerve. It is distributed to the stomach. The hepatic plexus, the largest offset from the celiac plexus, receives filaments from the left pneumogastric and right phrenic nerves. It accompanies the hepatic artery, ramifying in the substance of the liver, upon its branches, and upon those of the vena portas. Branches from this plexus accompany all the divisions of the hepatic artery. Thus there is a pyloric plexus accompanying the pyloric branch of the hepatic, which joins with the gastric plexus, and pneumogastric nerves. There is also a gastro-duodenal plexus, which subdivides into the pan creati eo-du odenal plexus, which accompanies the pancreatico-duodenal artery, to supply the pancreas and duodenum, joining with branches from the mesenteric plexus; and a gastro- epiploic plexus, which accompanies the right gastro-epiploic artery along the greater curvature of the stomach, and anastomoses with branches from the splenic plexus. A cystic plexus, which supplies the gall-bladder, also arises from the hepatic plexus, near the liver. The splenic plexus is formed by branches from the right and left semilunar ganglia, and from the right pneumogastric nerve. It accompanies the splenic artery and its branches to the substance of the spleen, giving off, in its course, filaments to the pancreas (pancreatic plexus), and the left gastro-epiploic plexus, which accompanies the gastro-epiploica sinistra artery along the convex border of the stomach. The superior mesenteric plexus is a continuation of the lower part of the great solar plexus, receiving a branch from the junction of the right pneumogastric nerve with the cseliac plexus. It surrounds the superior mesenteric artery, which it accompanies into the mesentery, and divides into a number of secondary plexuses, which are distributed to all the parts supplied by the artery, viz., pancreatic branches to the pancreas; intestinal branches, which supply the whole of the small intestine; and ileo-colic, right colic, and middle colic branches, which supply the corresponding parts of the great intestine. The nerves composing this plexus are white in colour, and firm in texture, and have numerous ganglia developed upon them near their origin. The aortic plexus is formed by branches derived, on each side, from the semi- lunar ganglia and renal plexuses, receiving filaments from some of the lumbar ganglia. It is situated upon the sides and front of the aorta, between the origins of the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries. From this plexus arise the inferior mesenteric, part of the spermatic, and the hypogastric plexuses; and it distributes filaments to the inferior vena cava. The inferior mesenteric plexus is derived chiefly from the left side of the aortic plexus. It surrounds the inferior mesenteric artery, and divides into a number of secondary plexuses, which are distributed to all the parts supplied by the artery, viz., the left colic and sigmoid plexuses, which supply the descending and sigmoid flexure of the colon; and the superior hsemorrhoidal plexus, which supplies the upper part of the rectum, and joins in the pelvis with branches from the left hypogastric plexus.