VEINS. 448 of small size, accompany the phrenic nerve and comes nervi phrenici artery; the right terminating opposite the junction of the two venae innominatae, the left in the left superior intercostal or left. internal mammary. The two inferior phrenic veins follow the course of the phrenic arteries, and terminate, the right in the inferior vena cava, the left in the left renal vein. The hepatic veins commence in the substance of the liver, in the capillary terminations of the vena portae: these branches, gradually uniting, form three large veins, which converge towards the posterior border of the liver, and open into the inferior vena cava, whilst that vessel is situated in the groove at the back part of this organ. Of these three veins, one from the right, and another from the left lobe, open obliquely into the vena cava; that from the middle of the organ and lobus Spigelli having a straight course. The hepatic veins run singly, and are in direct contact with the hepatic tissue. They are destitute of valves. Portal System of Veins. The portal venous system is composed of four large veins, which collect the venous blood from the viscera of digestion. The trunk formed by their union (vena portae) enters the liver and ramifies throughout its substance; and its branches again emerging from that organ as the hepatic veins, terminate in the inferior vena cava. The branches of this vein are in all cases single, and destitute of valves. The veins forming the portal system are, the Inferior mesenteric. Splenic. Superior mesenteric. Gastric. The inferior mesenteric vein returns the blood from the rectum, sigmoid flexure, and descending colon, corresponding with the ramifications of the branches of the inferior mesenteric artery. Ascending beneath the peritoneum in the lumbar region, it passes behind the transverse portion of the duodenum and pancreas, and terminates in the splenic vein. Its haemorrhoidal branches inosculate with those of the internal iliac, and thus establish a communication between the portal and the general venous system.* The superior mesenteric vein returns the blood from the small intestines, and from the caecum and ascending and transverse portions of the colon, corresponding with the distribution of the branches of the superior mesenteric artery. The large trunk formed by the union of these branches ascends along the right side and in front of the corresponding artery, passes in front of the transverse portion of the duodenum, and unites behind the upper border of the pancreas with the splenic vein, to form the vena portae. The splenic vein commences by five or six large branches, which return the blood from the substance of the spleen. These uniting form a single vessel, which passes from left to right behind the upper border of the pancreas, and terminates at its greater end by uniting at a right angle with the superior mesenteric to form the vena portae. The splenic vein is of large size, and not tortuous like the artery. It receives the vasa brevia from the left extremity of the stomach, the left gastro-epiploic vein, pancreatic branches from the pancreas, the pancreatico- duodenal vein, and the inferior mesenteric vein. The gastric is a vein of small size, which accompanies the gastric artery from left to right along the lesser curvature of the stomach, and terminates in the vena portae. The Portal Vein is formed by the junction of the superior mesenteric and * Besides this anastomosis between the portal vein and the branches of the vena cava, other anastomoses between the portal and systemic venous system are formed by the communication between the left renal vein and the veins of the intestines, especially of the colon and duodenum, and between superficial branches of the portal veins of the liver and the phrenic veins, as pointed out by Mr. Kiernan (Todd and Bowman).