MUSCLES AND FASCLZE. 262 Muscles of the Hand. Radial Region. Abductor pollicis. Flexor ossis metacarpi pollicis (opponens) Flexor brevis pollicis. Adductor pollicis. Ulnar Region. Palmaris brevis. Abductor minimi digith Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Flexor ossis metacarpi minimi digiti (opponens). Palmar Region. Lumbricales. Interossei palmares. Interossei dorsales. Dissection of Pectoral Region and Axilla (fig. 168). The arm being drawn away from the side nearly at right angles with the trunk, and rotated outwards, make a vertical incision through the integument in the median line of the chest, from the upper to the lower part of the sternum; a second incision along the lower border of the Pectoral muscle, from the ensiform cartilage to the outer side of the axilla; a third, from the sternum along the clavicle, as far as its centre; and a fourth, from the middle of the clavicle obliquely down- wards, along the interspace between the Pectoral and Deltoid muscles, as low as the _ fold of the arm-pit. The flap of integument is then to be dissected off in the direction indi- cated in the figure, but not entirely removed, as it should be replaced on completing the dissection. If a transverse incision is now made from the lower end of the sternum to the side of the chest, as far as the posterior fold of the arm-pit, and the integument reflected outwards, the axillary space will be more completely exposed. Fasciae of the Thorax. The superficial fascia of the thoracic region is a loose cellulo-fibrous layer, continuous with the superficial fascia of the neck and upper extremity above, and of the abdomen below; opposite the mamma, it subdivides into two layers, one of which passes in front, the other behind this gland; and from both of these layers numerous septa pass into its substance, supporting its various lobes: from the anterior layer, fibrous processes pass for- ward to the integument and nipple, enclosing in their areolae masses of fat. These processes were called by Sir A. Cooper, the ligamenta suspensoria, from the support they afford to the gland in this situation. On removing the superficial fascia, the deep fascia of the thoracic region is exposed: it is a thin apo- neurotic lamina, covering the sur- face of the great Pectoral muscle, and sending numerous prolongations between its fasciculi: it is attached, in the middle line, to the front of :68. —Dissection of Upper Extremity. S.DLsseetion of SHOULDER St ARM it . FORE-ARM PALM of HAND the sternum; and, above, to the cla- vicle: it is very thin over the upper part of the muscle, somewhat thicker in the interval between the Pecto- ralis major and Latissimus dorsi, where it closes in the axillary space, and divides at the margin of the latter muscle into two layers, one of which passes in front, and the other behind it; these proceed as far as the spinous processes of the dorsal vertebrae, to which they are attached. At the lower part of the thoracic region, this fascia is well developed, and is con- tinuous with the fibrous sheath of the Recti muscles.