ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION. 688 pleura may be traced over the convex surface of the lung, the summit and base, and also over the sides of the fissures between the lobes. It covers its anterior surface, and the front part of its root, and is reflected upon the side of the pericar- dium to the inner surface of the sternum. Below, it covers the upper surface of the Diaphragm. Above, its apex projects, in the form of a cul-de-sac, through the superior opening of the thorax into the neck, extending about an inch above the margin of the first rib, and receives the summit of the corresponding lung: this sac is strengthened, according to Dr. Sibson, by a dome-like expansion of fascia, derived from the lower part of the Scaleni muscles. A little above the middle of the sternum, the contiguous surfaces of the two pleura? are sometimes in contact for a slight extent; but above and below this point, the interval left between them forms the anterior mediastinum. The inner surface of the pleura is smooth, polished, and moistened by a serous fluid: its outer surface is intimately adherent to the surface of the lung, and to the pulmonary vessels as they emerge from the pericardium; it is also adherent to the upper surface of the Diaphragm; throughout the rest of its extent, it is somewhat thicker, and may be separated from the adjacent parts with extreme facility. The right pleural sac is shorter, wider, and reaches higher in the neck than the left. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries of the pleura are derived from the intercostal, the internal mammary, the phrenic, inferior thyroid, thymic, pericardiac, and bronchial. The veins correspond to the arteries. The lymphatics are very numerous. The nerves are derived from the phrenic and sympathetic (Luschka). Kolliker states that nerves accompany the ramifications of the bronchial arteries in the pleura pulmonalis. Mediastinum. The mediastinum is the space left in the median line of the chest by the non- approximation of the two pleurae. It extends from the sternum in front to the spine behind, and contains all the viscera in the thorax, excepting the lungs. The mediastinum is subdivided, for convenience of description, into the anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior mediastinum is bounded in front by the sternum, on each side by the pleura, and behind by the pericardium. Owing to the oblique position of the heart towards the left side, this space is not parallel with the sternum, but directed obliquely from above downwards, and to the left of the median line; it is broad below, narrow above, very narrow opposite the second piece of the sternum, the contiguous surfaces of the two pleurae being occasionally united over a small space. The anterior mediastinum contains the origins of the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, the Triangularis sterni, the internal mammary vessels of the left side, the remains of the thymus gland, and a quantity of loose areolar tissue, in which some lymphatic vessels are found ascending from the convex surface of the liver. The middle mediastinum is the broadest past of the interpleural space. It contains the heart enclosed in the pericardium, the ascending aorta, the superior vena cava, the bifurcation of the trachea, the pulmonary arteries and veins, and the phrenic nerves. The -posterior mediastinum is an irregular triangular space, running parallel with the vertebral column; it is bounded in front by the pericardium and roots of the lungs, behind by the vertebral column, and on either side by the pleura. It contains the descending aorta, the greater and lesser azygos veins and superior intercostal vein, the pneumogastric and splanchnic nerves, the oesophagus, thoracic duct, and some lymphatic glands.