366 ARTERIES. lumbar, iliolumbar, and lateral sacral arteries in the lower part of the spine. They unite, by means of ascending and descending branches, to form a single anterior median artery, which extends as far as the lower part of the spinal cord. This vessel is placed beneath the pia mater along the anterior median fissure; it supplies that membrane and the substance of the cord, and sends off branches at its lower part, to be distributed to the cauda equina. The posterior spinal arises from the vertebral, at the side of the medulla oblongata; passing backwards to the posterior aspect of the spinal cord, it descends on either side, lying behind the posterior roots of the spinal nerves; and is reinforced by a succession of small branches, which enter the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina, and by which it is continued to the lower part of the cord, and to the Cauda equina. Branches from these vessels form a free anasto- mosis round the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and communicate, by means of very tortuous transverse branches, with the vessel of the opposite side. At its commencement, it gives off an ascending branch, which terminates on the side of the fourth ventricle. The inferior cerebellar artery, the largest branch of the vertebral, winds back- wards round the upper part of the medulla oblongata, passing between the origin of the spinal accessory and pneumogastric nerves, over the restiform body, to the under surface of the cerebellum, where it divides into two branches; an internal one, which is continued backwards to the notch between the two hemispheres of the cerebellum; and an external one, which supplies the under surface of the cerebellum, as far as its outer border, where it anastomoses with the superior cerebellar. Branches from this artery supply the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle. The Basilar artery, so named from its position at the base of the skull, is a single trunk, formed by the junction of the two vertebral arteries; it extends from the posterior to the anterior border of the pons Varolii, where it divides into two terminal branches, the posterior cerebral arteries. Its branches are, on each side, the following : Transverse. Superior cerebellar. Anterior cerebellar. Posterior cerebral. The transverse branches supply the pons Varolii and adjacent parts of the brain; one accompanies the auditory nerve into the internal auditory meatus; and another of larger size, passes along the crus cerebelli, to be distributed to the anterior border of the under surface of the cerebellum. It is called the anterior {inferior) cerebellar artery. The superior cerebellar arteries arise near the termination of the basilar. They wind round the crus cerebri, close to the fourth nerve, and, arriving at the upper surface of the cerebellum, divide into branches which ramify in the pia mater and anastomose with the inferior cerebellar. Several branches are given to the pineal gland, and also to the velum interpositum. The posterior cerebral arteries, the two terminal branches of the basilar, are larger than the preceding, from which they are separated near their origin by the third nerves. Winding round the crus cerebri, they pass to the under surface of the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, which they supply, anastomosing with the anterior and middle cerebral arteries. Near their origin, they receive the posterior communicating arteries from the internal carotid, and give off numerous branches, which enter the posterior perforated spot. They also give off a branch, the posterior choroid, which supplies the velum interpositum and choroid plexus, entering the interior of the brain beneath the posterior border of the corpus callosum. Circle of Willis. The remarkable anastomosis which exists between the branches of the internal carotid and vertebral arteries at the base of the brain, constitutes the circle of Willis. It is formed, in front, by the anterior cerebral and anterior communicating arteries; on each side, by the trunk of the internal carotid, and the