INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. 61 in front, where it articulates with the two superior maxillary bones; thin and sharp behind, where it joins with the palate bones. The upper half of the anterior border usually consists of two laminae of bone, between which is received the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, the lower half consisting of a single rough edge, also occasionally channelled, which is united to the triangular cartilage of the nose. The posterior border is free, concave, and separates the nasal fossae behind. It is thick and bifid above, thin below. Development. The vomer at an early period consists of two laminae separated by a very considerable interval, and enclosing between them a plate of cartilage which is prolonged forwards to form the remainder of the septum. Ossification commences in it at about the same period as in the vertebrae, the coalescence of the laminae taking place from behind forwards, but is not complete until after puberty. Articulations. With six bones; two of the cranium, the sphenoid and ethmoid; and four of the face, the two superior maxillary and the two palate bones, and with the cartilage of the septum. The vomer has no muscles attached to it. The Inferior Maxillary Bone. The Inferior Maxillary Bone, the largest and strongest bone of the face, serves for the reception of the lower teeth. It consists of a curved horizontal portion, the body, and two perpendicular portions, the rami, which join the back part of the body nearly at right angles. The Horizontal portion, or body (fig. 56), is convex in its general outline, and curved somewhat like a horse-shoe. It presents for examination two surfaces 56.—Inferior Maxillary Bone. Outer Surface. Side View. and two borders. The external surface is convex from side to side, concave from above downwards. In the median line is a vertical ridge, the symphysis; it extends from the upper to the lower border of the bone, and indicates the point of junction of the two pieces of which the bone is composed at an early period of life. The lower part of the ridge terminates in a prominent triangular eminence, the mental process. On either side of the symphysis, just below the roots of the incisor teeth, is a depression, ihe incisive fossa, for the attachment of the Levator menti ; and still more externally, a foramen, the mental foramen, for the passage of the mental nerve and artery. This foramen is placed just below the root of