ARTERIES. 4H The third or inferior perforating artery is given off below the Adductor brevis; it pierces the Adductor magnus, and divides into branches which supply the flexor muscles of the thigh; anastomosing with the perforating arteries above, and with the terminal branches of the profunda below. Muscular Branches are given off from the superficial femoral throughout its entire course. They vary from two to seven in number, and supply chiefly the Sartorius and Vastus internus. The Anastomotica Magna arises from the femoral artery just before it passes through the tendinous opening in the Adductor magnus muscle, and divides into a superficial and deep branch. The superficial branch accompanies the long saphenous nerve, beneath the Sartorius, and piercing the fascia lata, is distributed to the integument. The deep branch descends in the substance of the Vastus internus, lying in front of the tendon of the Adductor magnus, to the inner side of the knee, where it anastomoses with the superior internal articular artery and recurrent branch of the anterior tibial. A branch from this vessel crosses outwards above the articular surface of the femur forming an anastomotic arch with the superior external articular artery, and supplies branches to the knee-joint. Popliteal Artery. The popliteal artery commences at the termination of the femoral, at the opening in the Adductor magnus, and, passing obliquely downwards and outwards behind the knee-joint to the lower border of the Popliteus muscle, divides into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. Through the whole of this extent the artery lies in the popliteal space. The Popliteal Space. Dissection. A vertical incision about eight inches in length should be made along the back part of the knee-joint, connected above and below by a transverse incision from the inner to the outer side of the limb. The flaps of integument includeed between these incisions should be reflected in the direction shown in fig. 189, p. 303. On removing the integument, the superficial fascia is exposed, and ramifying in it along the middle line are found some filaments of the small sciatic nerve, and towards the inner part, some offsets from the internal cutaneous nerve. The superficial fascia having been removed, the fascia lata is brought into view. In this region it is strong and dense, being strengthened by transverse fibres, and firmly attached to the tendons on the inner and outer sides of the space. It is perforated below by the external saphenous vein. This fascia having been reflected back in the same direction as the integument, the small sciatic nerve and external saphenous vein are seen immediately beneath it, in the middle line. If the loose adipose tissue is now removed, the boundaries and contents of the space may be examined. Boundaries. The popliteal space, or the ham, occupies the lower third of the thigh and the upper fifth of the leg; extending from the aperture in the Adductor magnus, to the lower border of the Popliteus muscle. It is a lozenge-shaped space, being widest at the back part of the knee-joint, and deepest above the arti- cular end of the femur. It is bounded, externally, above the joint, by the Biceps, and below the joint, by the Plantaris and external head of the Gastrocnemius. Internally, above the joint, by the Semimembranosus, Semitendinosus, Gracilis, and Sartorius; below the joint, by the inner head of the Gastrocnemius. Above, it is limited by the apposition of the inner and outer hamstring muscles; below by the junction of the two heads of the Gastrocnemius. The floor is formed by the lower part of the posterior surface of the shaft of the femur, the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, the upper end of the tibia, and the fascia covering the Popliteus muscle, and the space is covered in by the fascia lata. Contents. It contains the Popliteal vessels and their branches, together with the termination of the external saphenous vein, the internal and external popliteal