THE LUNGS. 691 Structure. The lungs are composed of an external serous coat, a subserous areolar tissue, and the pulmonary substance or parenchyma. The serous coat is derived from the pleura; it is thin, transparent, and invests the entire organ as far as the root. The subserous areolar tissue contains a large proportion of elastic fibres; it invests the entire surface of the lung, and extends inwards between the lobules. The parenchyma is composed of lobules, which, although closely connected together by an interlobular areolar tissue, are quite distinct from one another, and are easily separable in the foetus. The lobules vary in size; those on the surface are large, of a pyramidal form, the base turned towards the surface; those in the interior smaller, and of various forms. Each lobule is composed of one of the ramifications of the bronchial tube and its terminal air-cells, of the ramifications of the pulmonary and bronchial vessels, lymphatics, and nerves: all of these structures being connected together by areolar fibrous tissue. The bronchus, upon entering the substance of the lung, divides and subdivides dichotomously throughout the entire organ. Sometimes three branches arise together, and occasionally small lateral branches are given off from the sides of a main trunk. Each of the smaller subdivisions of the bronchi enters a pulmonary lobule (lobular bronchial tube), and, again subdividing, ultimately terminates in the intercellular passages and air-cells of which the lobule is composed. Within the lungs the bronchial tubes are circular, not flattened, and their constituent elements present the following peculiarities of structure. The cartilages are not imperfect rings, but consist of thin laminge, of varied form and size, scattered irregularly along the sides of the tube, being most distinct at the points of division of the bronchi. They may be traced into tubes, the dia- meter of which is only one-fourth of a line. Beyond this point, the tubes are wholly membranous. The fibrous coat, and longitudinal elastic fibres, are continued into the smallest ramifications of the bronchi. The muscular coat is disposed in the form of a continuous layer of annular fibres, which may be traced upon the smallest bronchial tubes: they consist of the unstriped variety of muscular fibre. The mucous membrane lines the bronchi and its ramifications throughout, and is covered with columnar ciliated epithelium. According to the observations of Mr. Rainey,* the lobular bronchial tubes, on entering the substance of the lobules, divide and subdivide from four to nine times, according to the size of the lobule, continuing to diminish in size until they attain a diameter of -g-^th to -^th of an inch. They then become changed in structure, losing their cylindrical form, and are continued onwards as irregular passages (intercellular passages, Rainey—air-sacs, Waters), through the substance of the lobule, their sides and extremities being closely covered by numerous saccular dilatations, the air-cells. This arrangement resembles most closely the naked eye appearances observed in the reticulated structure of the lung of the tortoise, and other reptilia. Opinions have differed as to the existence of communications or anastomoses between the inter-cellular passages, or air-sacs. According to the most recent authority, Dr. Waters, f these air-sacs, as he terms them, are arranged in groups, or ' lobulettes' of five or six, which spring from the terminal dilatation of a single bronchial tube, but have no other communication with each other, or with neighbouring lobulettes, than that which is afforded by their common con- nexion with the bronchial tubes. The air-cells, or alveoli (Waters), are small, polyhedral, alveolar recesses, separated from each other by thin septa, and communicating freely with the inter- cellular passages. They are well seen on the surface of the lung, and vary from g-g-oth to yqUi of an inch in diameter; being largest on the surface, at the thin borders, and at the apex; and smallest in the interior. At the termination of the bronchial tubes, in the intercellular passages, their constituent elements become changed: their walls are formed by an interlacing of * Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxviii. 1845. f 'The Anatomy of the Human Lung,' i860, pp. 13^—150. Y Y 2