Of the Veins. THE Veins are the vessels which serve to return the blood from the capillaries of the different parts of the body to the heart. They consist of two distinct sets of vessels, the pulmonary and systemic. The Pulmonary Veins, unlike other vessels of this kind, contain arterial blood, which they return from the lungs to the left auricle of the heart. The Systemic Veins return the venous blood from the body generally to the right auricle of the heart. The Portal Vein, an appendage to the systemic venous system, is confined to the abdominal cavity, returning the venous blood from the viscera of digestion, and carrying it to the liver by a single trunk of large size, the vena porta?. From this organ, the same blood is conveyed to the inferior vena cava by means of the hepatic veins. The veins, like the arteries, are found in nearly every tissue of the body. They commence by minute plexuses, which communicate with the capillaries. The branches which have their commencement in these plexuses unite together into trunks, and these, in their passage towards the heart, constantly increase in size as they receive branches, and join other veins similar in size to themselves. The veins are larger and altogether more numerous than the arteries; hence, the entire capacity of the venous system is much greater than that of the arterial; the pul- monary veins excepted, which do not exceed in capacity the pulmonary arteries. From the combined area of the smaller venous branches being greater than the main trunks, it results, that the venous system represents a cone, the summit of which corresponds to the heart; its base, to the circumference of the body. In form, the veins are not perfectly cylindrical like the arteries, their walls being collapsed when empty, and the uniformity of their surface being interrupted at intervals by slight contractions, which indicate the existence of valves in their interior. They usually retain, however, the same calibre as long as they receive no branches. The veins communicate very freely with one another, especially in certain regions of the body; and this communication exists between the larger trunks as well as between the smaller branches. Thus, in the cavity of the cranium, and between the veins of the neck, where obstruction would be attended with imminent danger to the cerebral venous system, we find that the sinuses and larger veins have large and very frequent anastomoses. The same free communication exists between the veins throughout the whole extent of the spinal canal, and between the veins composing the various venous plexuses in the abdomen and pelvis, as the spermatic, uterine, vesical, prostatic, etc. The veins are subdivided into three sets: superficial, deep, and sinuses. The Superficial or Cutaneous Veins are found between the layers of superficial fascia, immediately beneath the integument; they return the blood from these structures, and communicate with the deep veins by perforating the deep fascia. The Deep Veins accompany the arteries, and are usually enclosed in the same sheath with those vessels. In the smaller arteries, as the radial, ulnar, brachial, tibial, peroneal, they exist generally in pairs, one lying on each side of the vessel, and are called vence comites. The larger arteries, as the axillary, subclavian, popliteal, and femoral, have usually only one accompanying vein. In certain organs of the body, however, the deep veins do not accompany the arteries; for instance, the veins in the skull and spinal canal, the hepatic veins in the liver, and the larger veins returning blood from the osseous tissue.