CRANIAL NERVES. 522 the posterior ethmoidal cells, a few being prolonged to the upper and back part of the septum. The naso-palatine nerve (Cotunnius), enters the nasal fossa with the other nasal nerves, and passes inwards across the roof of the nose, below the orifice of the sphenoidal sinus, to reach the septum; it then runs obliquely downwards and forwards along the lower part of the septum, to the anterior palatine foramen, lying between the periosteum and mucous membrane. It descends to the roof of the mouth by a distinct canal, which opens below in the anterior palatine fossa; the right nerve, also in a separate canal, being posterior to the left one. In the mouth, they become united, supply the mucous membrane behind the incisor teeth, and join with the anterior palatine nerve. The naso-palatine nerve occasionally furnishes a few small filaments to the mucous membrane of the septum. 281.—The spheno-Palatine Ganglion and its Branches. The posterior branches are the Vidian and pharyngeal (pterygo-palatine). The Vidian nerve, if traced from Meckel's ganglion, may be said to arise from the back part of the spheno-palatine ganglion, and then passes through the Vidian canal, enters the cartilage filling in the foramen lacerum basis cranii, and divides into two branches, the large petrosal, and the carotid. In its course along the Vidian canal, it distributes a few filaments to the lining membrane at the back part of the roof of the nose and septum, and that covering the end of the Eustachian tube. These are upper posterior nasal branches. The large petrosal branch {nervus peirosus superficialis ?najor), enters the cranium through the foramen lacerum basis cranii, having pierced the cartilaginous substance which fills in this aperture. It runs beneath the Gasserian ganglion and dura mater, contained in a groove in the anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, enters the hiatus Fallopii, and, being continued through it into the aqueductus Fallopii, joins the gangliform enlargement on the facial nerve. Properly speaking, this nerve passes from the facial to the spheno- palatine ganglion, forming its motor root. The carotid branch is shorter, but larger than the petrosal, of a reddish-grey