373 AXILLARY. The application of a ligature to the axillary artery may be required in cases of aneurism of the upper part of the brachial; and there are only two situations in which it can be secured, viz., in the first and in the third parts of its course; for the axillary artery at its central part is so deeply seated, and, at the same time, so closely surrounded with large nervous trunks, that the application of a ligature to it in that situation would be almost impracticable. In the third part of its course, the operation is more simple, and may be performed in the following manner:—The patient being placed on a bed, and the arm separated from the side, with the hand supinated, the head of the humerus is felt for, and an incision made through the integument over it, about two inches in length, a little nearer to the anterior than the posterior fold of the axilla. After carefully dissecting through the areolar tissue and fascia, the median nerve and axillary vein are exposed; the former having been dis- placed to the outer, and the latter to the inner side of the arm, the elbow being at the same time bent, so as to relax the structures, and facilitate their separation, the ligature may be passed round the artery from the ulnar to the radial side. This portion of the artery is occasionally crossed by a muscular slip derived from the Latissimus dorsi, which may mis- lead the surgeon during an operation. The occasional existence of this muscular fasciculus was spoken of in the description of the muscles. It may easily be recognised by the transverse direction of its fibres. The first portion of the axillary artery may be tied, in cases of aneurism encroaching so far upwards that a ligature cannot be applied in the lower part of its course. Notwith- standing that this operation has been performed in some few cases, and with success, its performance is attended with much difficulty and danger. The student will remark, that in this situation, it would be necessary to divide a thick muscle, and after separating the costo-coracoid membrane, the artery would be exposed at the bottom of a more or less deep space, with the cephalic and axillary veins in such relation with it as must render the application of a ligature to this part of the vessel particularly hazardous. Under such circumstances, it is an easier, and, at the same time, more advisable operation, to tie the subclavian artery in the third part of its course. In a case of wound of the vessel, the general practice of cutting down upon, and tying it above and below the wounded point, should be adopted in all cases. Collateral circulation after ligature of the axillary artery. If the artery be tied above the origin of the acromial thoracic, the collateral circulation will be carried on by the same branches as after the ligature of the subclavian; if at a lower point, between the acromial thoracic and subscapular arteries, the latter vessel, by its free anastomoses with the other scapular arteries, branches of the subclavian, will become the chief agent in carrying on the circulation, to which the long thoracic, if it be below the ligature, will materially contribute, by its anastomoses with the intercostal and internal mammary arteries. If the point included in the ligature be below the origin of the subscapular artery, the anastomoses are less free. The chief agents in restoring the circulation, will be the posterior circumflex, by its anastomoses with the suprascapular and acromial thoracic, and the communications between the subscapular and superior profunda, which will be afterwards referred to as performing the same office after ligature of the brachial. The cases in which the operation has been performed are few in number, and no published account of dissection of the collateral circulation appears to exist. The branches of the axillary artery are,— r, . r> . ( Superior thoracic. From 1st Part. \ k . , ( Acromial thoracic. -n j n, . ( Thoracica lonara. rrom 2nd Part. < r|M . , ° ( ihoracica alaris. {Subscapular. - Anterior circumflex. Posterior circumflex. The superior thoracic is a small artery, which arises from the axillary separately, or by a common trunk with the acromial thoracic. Running forwards and inwards along the upper border of the Pectoralis minor, it passes between it and the Pectoralis major to the side of the chest. It supplies these muscles, and the parietes of the thorax, anastomosing with the internal mammary and inter- costal arteries. The acromial thoracic is a short trunk, which arises from the fore part of the axillary artery. Projecting forwards to the upper border of the Pectoralis minor, it divides into three sets of branches, thoracic, acromial, and descending. The thoracic branches, two or three in number, are distributed to the Serratus magnus,