372 ARTERIES. The second portion of the axillary artery lies beneath the Pectoralis minor. It is covered, in front, by the Pectoralis major and minor muscles; behind, it is separated from the Subscapularis by a cellular interval; on the inner side, it is in contact with the axillary vein. The brachial plexus of nerves surrounds the artery, and separates it from direct contact with the vein and adjacent muscles. Relations of Second Portion of the Axillary Artery. In front. Pectoralis major and minor. Outer side. I Axillary \ Liner side. Outer cord of plexus. f Artery. j Axillary vein. \ Second portion.-/ Inner cord of plexus. Behind. Subscapularis. Posterior cord of plexus. The third portion of the axillary artery lies below the Pectoralis minor. It is in relation, in front, with the lower border of the Pectoralis major above, being covered only by the in tegument and fascia below; behind, with the lower part of the Subscapularis, and the tendons of the Latissimus dorsi and Teres major; on its outer side, with the Coraco-brachialis; on its inner, or thoracic side, with the axillary vein. The brachial plexus of nerves bears the following relation to the artery in this part of its course: on the outer side is the median nerve, and the musculo-cutaneous for a short distance; on the inner side, the ulnar, the internal, and lesser internal cutaneous nerves; and behind,ihe musculo-spiral,and circumflex, the latter extending only to the lower border of the Subscapularis muscle. Relations of Third Portion of the Axillary Artery. In front. Integument and fascia. Pectoralis major. Outer side. Coraco-b rachi alis. Median nerve. Musculo-cutaneous nerve. Behind. Subscapularis. Tendons of Latissimus dorsi, and Teres major. Musculo-spiral, and circumflex nerves. Peculiarities. The axillary artery, in about one case out of every ten, gives off a large branch, which forms either one of the arteries of the fore-arm, or a large muscular trunk. In the first set of cases, this artery is most frequently the radial (i in 33), sometimes the ulnar (1 in 72), and, very rarely, the interosseous (1 in 506). In the second set of cases, the trunk has been found to give origin to the subscapular, circumflex, and profunda arteries of the arm. Sometimes, only one of the circumflex, or one of the profunda arteries, arose from the trunk. In these cases, the brachial plexus surrounded the trunk of the branches, and not the main vessel. Surgical Anatomy. The student having carefully examined the relations of the axillary artery in its various parts, should now consider in what situation compression of this vessel may be most easily effected, and the best position for the application of a ligature to it when necessary. Compression of the vessel is required in the removal of tumours, or in amputation of the uoper part of the arm; and the only situation in which this can be effectually made, is in the lower part of its course; by pressing on it in this situation from within outwards against the humerus, the circulation may be effectually suspended. Inner side. Ulnar nerve. Internal cutaneous nerves. Axillary vein.