ARTERIES. 422 position, the injured limb should rest on its outer side, the knee being partially bent, and the foot extended, so as to relax the muscles of the calf. An incision about four inches in length should then be made through the integument, along the inner margin of the tibia, taking care to avoid the internal saphenous vein. The deep fascia having been divided, the margin of the Gastrocnemius is exposed, and must be drawn aside, and the tibial attach- ment of the Soleus divided, a director being previously passed beneath it. The artery may now be felt pulsating beneath the deep fascia, about an inch from the margin of the tibia. The fascia having been divided, and the limb placed in such a position as to relax the muscles of the calf as much as possible, the veins should be separated from the artery, and the aneurism needle passed round the vessel from without inwards, so as to avoid wounding the posterior tibial nerve. The branches of the posterior tibial artery are, the Peroneal. Nutritious. Muscular. Communicating. Internal calcanean. The Peroneal Artery lies, deeply seated, along the back part of the fibular side of the leg. It arises from the posterior tibial, about an inch below the lower border of the Popliteus muscle, passes obliquely outwards to the fibula, and then descends along the inner border of this bone to the lower third of the leg, where it gives off the anterior peroneal. It then passes across the articulation, between the tibia and fibula, to the outer side of the os calcis, supplying the neighbouring muscles and back of the ankle, and anastomosing with the external malleolar, tarsal, and external plantar arteries. Relations. This vessel rests at first upon the Tibialis posticus, and, in the greater part of its course, in the fibres of the Flexor longus pollicis, in a groove between the interosseous ligament and the bone. It is covered, in the upper part of its course, by the Soleus and deep fascia; below, by the Flexor longus pollicis. Plan of the Relations of the Peroneal Artery. In front. Tibialis posticus. Flexor longus pollicis. Outer side. Fibula. Behind. Soleus. Deep fascia. Flexor longus pollicis. Peculiarities in Origin. The peroneal artery may arise three inches below the Popliteus, or from the posterior tibial high up, or even from the popliteal. Its Size is more frequently increased than diminished; and then, it either reinforces the posterior tibial by its junction with it, or altogether takes the place of the posterior tibial in the lower part of the leg and foot, the latter vessel only existing as a short muscular branch. In those rare cases, where the peroneal artery is smaller than usual, a branch from the posterior tibial supplies its place, and a branch from the anterior tibial com- pensates for the diminished anterior peroneal artery. In one case, the peroneal artery has been found entirely wanting. The anterior peroneal is sometimes enlarged, and takes the place of the dorsal artery of the foot. The peroneal artery, in its course, gives off branches to the Soleus, Tibialis posticus, Flexor longus pollicis, and Peronei muscles, and a nutrient branch to the fibula. Peroneal Artery