524 CRANIAL NERVES. frequently derived from the buccal, but it may be given off separately from the anterior trunk of the nerve. The posterior and larger division of the inferior maxillary nerve also receives a few filaments from the motor root. It divides into three branches, auriculo- temporal, gustatory, and inferior dental. The Auriculotemporal Nerve generally arises by two roots, between which the middle meningeal artery passes. It runs backwards beneath the External pterygoid muscle to the inner side of the articulation of the lower jaw. It then turns upwards with the temporal artery, between the external ear and condyle of the jaw, under cover of the parotid gland, and escaping from beneath this struc- ture, divides into two temporal branches. The posterior temporal, the smaller of the two, supplies the Attrahens aurem muscle, and is distributed to the upper part of the pinna and the neighbouring integument. The anterior temporal accompanies the temporal artery to the vertex of the skull, and supplies the integument of the temporal region, communicating with the facial nerve. The auriculotemporal nerve has branches of communication with the facial and otic ganglion. Those joining the facial nerve, usually two in number, pass forwards behind the neck of the condyle of the jaw, and join this nerve at the posterior border of the Masseter muscle. They form one of the principal branches of communication between the facial and the fifth nerve. The filaments of com- munication with the otic ganglion are derived from the commencement of the auriculo-temporal nerve. The auricular branches are two in number, inferior and superior. The inferior auricular arises behind the articulation of the jaw, and is distributed to the ear below the external meatus; other filaments twine round the internal maxillary artery, and communicate with the sympathetic. The superior auricular arises in front of the internal ear, and supplies the integument covering the tragus and pinna. Branches to the meatus auditorius, two in number, arise from the point of communication between the auriculo-temporal and facial nerves, and are distributed to the meatus. The branch to the temporo-maxillary articulation is usually derived from the auriculo-temporal nerve. The parotid branches supply the parotid gland. The Gustatory or Lingual Nerve (fig. 280), one of the special nerves of the sense of taste, supplies the papillae and mucous membrane of the tongue. It is deeply placed throughout the whole of its course. It lies at first beneath the External pterygoid muscle, together with the inferior dental nerve, being placed to the inner side of the latter nerve, and is occasionally joined to it by a branch which crosses the internal maxillary artery. The chorda tympani also joins it at an acute angle in this situation. The nerve then passes between the Internal pterygoid muscle and the inner side of the ramus of the jaw, and crosses obliquely to the side of the tongue over the Superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, and between the Stylo-glossus muscle and deep part of the submaxillary gland; the nerve lastly runs across Wharton's duct, and along the side of the tongue to its apex, being covered by the mucous membrane of the mouth. Its branches of communication are with the submaxillary ganglion and hypo- glossal nerve. The branches to the submaxillary ganglion are two or three in number; those connected with the hypoglossal nerve form a plexus at the anterior margin of the Hyo-glossus muscle. Its branches of distribution are few in number. They supply the mucous mem- brane of the mouth, the gums, the sublingual gland, the conical and fungiform papillae and mucous membrane of the tongue, the terminal filaments anastomosing at the tip of the tongue with the hypoglossal nerve. The Inferior Dental is the largest of the three branches of the inferior maxillary nerve. It passes downwards with the inferior dental artery, at first beneath the External pterygoid muscle, and then between the internal lateral