469 GENERAL ANATOMY. in a tubular sheath, is called a funiculus: if the nerve is of small size, it may consist only of a single funiculus, but if large, the funiculi are collected together into larger bundles or fasciculi; and are bound together in a common membranous investment, termed the sheath. In structure, the common sheath investing the whole nerve, as well as the septa given off from it, which separate the fasciculi, consist of areolar tissue, composed of white and yellow elastic fibres, the latter existing in greatest abundance. The tubular sheath of the funiculi, or neurilemma, consist of a fine, smooth, transparent membrane, which may be easily separated, in the form of a tube, from the fibres it encloses; in structure, it is, for the most part, a simple and homogenous transparent film, occasionally composed of numerous minute reticular fibres. The cerebro-spinal nerves consist almost exclusively of the tubular nerve-fibres, the gelatinous fibres existing in very small proportion. The blood-vessels supplying a nerve terminate in a minute capillary plexus, the vessels composing which run, for the most part, parallel with the funiculi; they are connected together by short transverse vessels, forming narrow oblong meshes, similar to the capillary system of muscle. The nerve-fibres, as far as is at present known, do not coalesce, but pursue an uninterrupted course from the centre to the periphery. In separating a nerve, however, into its component funiculi, it may be seen that they do not pursue a perfectly insulated course, but occasionally join at a very acute angle with other funiculi proceeding in the same direction; from which again, branches are given off", to join again in like manner with other funiculi. It must be remembered, however, that in these communications the nerve-fibres do not coalesce, but merely pass into the sheath of the adjacent nerve, become intermixed with the nerve- fibres, and again pass on to become blended with the nerve-fibres in some adjoining fasciculus. Nerves, in their course, subdivide into branches, and these frequently commu- nicate with branches of a neighbouring nerve. In the subdivision of a nerve, the filaments of which it is composed are continued from the trunk into the branches, and at their junction with the branches of neighbouring nerves, the filaments pass to become intermixed with those of the other nerve in their further progress; in no instance, however, have the separate nerve-fibres been shewn to inosculate. The communications which take place between two or more nerves, form what is called a plexus. Sometimes a plexus is formed by the primary branches of the trunks of the nerves, as the cervical, brachial, lumbar, and sacral plexuses, and occasionally by the terminal fasciculi, as in the plexuses formed at the periphery of the body. In the formation of a plexus, the component nerves divide, then join, and again subdivide in such a complex manner that the individual fasciculi become interlaced most intricately; so that each branch leaving a plexus may contain filaments from each of the primary nervous trunks which form it. In the formation also of the smaller plexuses at the periphery of the body, there is a free interchange of the fasciculi and primitive fibrils. In each case, however, the individual filaments remain separate and distinct, and do not inosculate with each other. It is probable, that, through this interchange of fibres, the different branches passing off from a plexus, have a more extensive connection with the spinal cord than if they each had proceeded to be distributed without such connection with other nerves. Consequently, the parts supplied by these nerves have more extended relations with the nervous centres; by this means, also, groups of muscles may be associated for combined action. By the expression 'the terminations of nerve-fibres' is signified their mode of connection with the nerve-centres, and with the different tissues which they supply; the former are called their central, the latter their peripheral ter- minations. As to the mode in which the nerve-fibres are disposed in the nervous centres, it is probable that many originate from nerve-corpuscles, as above-mentioned; others