FEMORAL. 409 Pectineus, Adductor longus, and a small part of the Adductor brevis muscles; and it is divided into two nearly equal parts by the femoral vessels, which extend from the middle of its base to its apex; the artery giving off in this situation its cutaneous and profunda branches, the vein receiving the deep femoral and internal saphenous veins. In this space, the femoral artery rests on the inner margin of the Psoas muscle, which separates it from the capsular ligament of the hip-joint. The artery 231.—Surgical Anatomy of the Femoral Artery. in this situation is crossed in front by the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, and behind by the branch to the Pectineus from the anterior crural. The femoral vein lies at its inner side, between the margins of the Pectineus and Psoas muscles. The anterior crural nerve lies about half an inch to the outer side of the femoral artery, deeply imbedded between the Iliacus and Psoas muscles; and on the Iliacus muscle, internal to the anterior superior spi- nous process of the ilium, is the external cutaneous nerve. The femoral artery and vein are enclosed in a strong fibrous sheath, formed by fibrous and cel- lular tissue, and by a pro- cess of fascia sent inwards from the fascia lata; the vessels are separated, how- ever, from one another by thin fibrous partitions. In the middle third oj the thigh, the femoral ar- tery is more deeply seated, being covered by the in- tegument, the superficial and deep fascia, and the g SajJ^ ne us Nerve Annstomclica Magna in an aponeurotic canal, formed by a dense fibrous band, which extends trans- versely from the Vastus internus to the tendons of the Adductor longus and magnus muscles. In this part of its course it lies in a depression, bounded externally by the Vastus internus, internally by the Adductor longus and Adductor magnus. The femoral vein lies on the outer side of the artery, in close apposition with it, and, still more externally, is the internal (long) saphenous nerve. Infer. External Artie ter. Tibial Becurrent- -Aimstomotiea. Magna. Sitjie"Internal Articular Internal Artii-T