POSTERIOR TIBIAL. 421 Relations. It lies successively upon the Tibialis posticus, the Flexor longus digitorum, the tibia and the back part of the ankle-joint. It is covered by the intermuscular fascia, which separates it above from the Gastrocnemius and Soleus muscles. In the lower third, where it is more superficial, it is covered only by the integument and fascia, and runs parallel with the inner border of the tendo Achillis. It is accompanied by two veins, and by the posterior tibial nerve, which lies at first to the inner side of the artery, but soon crosses it, and is, in the greater part of its course, on its outer side. Plan of the Relations op the Posterior Tibial Artery. In front. Tibialis posticus. Flexor longus digitorum. Tibia. Ankle-joint. Inner side. Posterior tibial nerve, upper third. Outer side. Posterior tibial nerve, lower two-thirds. Behind. Gastrocnemius, Soleus. Deep fascia and integument. Behind the Inner Ankle, the tendons and blood-vessels are arranged in the following order, from within outwards:—First, the tendons of the Tibialis posticus and Flexor longus digitorum, lying in the same groove, behind the inner mal- leolus, the former being the most internal. External to these is the posterior tibial artery, having a vein on either side; and, still more externally, the posterior tibial nerve. About half an inch nearer the heel is the tendon of the Flexor longus pollicis. Peculiarities in Size. The posterior tibial is not unfrequently smaller than usual, or absent, its place being compensated for by a large peroneal artery, which passes inwards at the lower end of the tibia, and either joins the small tibial artery, or continues alone to the sole of the foot. Surgical Anatomy. The application of a ligature to the posterior tibial may be required in cases of wound of the sole of the foot, attended with great hemorrhage, when the vessel should be tied at the inner ankle. In cases of wound of the posterior tibial, it will be necessary to enlarge the wound so as to expose the vessel at the wounded point (excepting where the vessel is injured by a punctured wound from the front of the leg). In cases of aneurism from wound of the artery low down, the vessel should be tied in the middle of the leg. But in aneurism of the posterior tibial high up, it would be better to tie the femoral artery. To tie the posterior tibial artery at the ankle, a semilunar incision should be made through the integument, about two inches and a half in length, midway between the heel and inner ankle, or a little nearer the latter. The subcutaneous cellular membrane haying been divided, a strong and dense fascia, the internal annual ligament, is exposed. This ligament is continuous above with the deep fascia of the leg, covers the vessels and nerves, and is intimately adherent to the sheaths of the tendons. This having been cautiously divided upon a director, the sheath of the vessels is exposed, and being opened, the artery is seen with one of the vena? comites on each side. The aneurism needle should be passed round the vessel from the heel towards the ankle, in order to avoid the posterior tibial nerve, care being at the same time taken not to include the vense comites. The_vessel may also be tied in the lower third of the leg, by making an incision about three inches in length, parallel with the inner margin of the tendo Achillis. The internal saphenous vein being carefully avoided, the two layers of fascia must be divided upon a director, when the artery is exposed along the inner margin of the Flexor longus digitorum, with one of its vense comites on either eide, and the nerve lying external to it. To tie the po sterior tibial in the middle of the leg, is a very difficult operation, on account of the great depth of the vessel from the surface, and its being covered by the Gastrocnemius and Soleus muscles. The patient being placed in the recumbent