415 POPLITEAL. nerves and their branches, the small sciatic nerve, the articular branch from the obturator nerve, a few small lymphatic glands, and a considerable quantity of loose adipose tissue. Position of contained parts. The internal popliteal nerve descends in the middle line of the space, lying superficial and a little external to the vein and artery. The external popliteal nerve descends on the outer side of the space, lying close to the tendon of the Biceps muscle. More deeply at the bottom of the space are the popliteal vessels, the vein lying superficial and a little external to the artery, to which it is closely united by dense areolar tissue; sometimes the vein is placed on the inner instead of the outer side of the artery; or the vein may be double, the artery lying between the two venae comites, which are usually connected by short transverse branches. More deeply, and close to the surface of the bone, is the popliteal artery, and passing off from it at right angles are its articular branches. The articular branch from the obturator nerve descends upon the popliteal artery to supply the knee; and occasionally there is found deep in the space an articular filament from the great sciatic nerve. The popliteal lymphatic glands, four or five in number, are found surrounding the artery; one usually lies superficial to the vessel, another is situated between it and the bone, and the rest are placed on either side of it. In health, these glands are small; but when enlarged and indurated from inflammation, the pulsation communicated to them from the popliteal artery makes them resemble so closely an aneurismal tnmour, that it requires a very careful examination to discriminate between them. The Popliteal Artery (fig. 232), in its course downwards from the aperture in the Adductor magnus, to the lower border of the Popliteus muscle, rests first on the inner, and then on the posterior surface of the femur; in the middle of its course, on the posterior ligament of the knee-joint; and below, on the fascia covering the Popliteus muscle. Superficially, it is covered, above, by the Semi-membra- nosus; in the middle of its course, by a quantity of fat, which separates it from the deep fascia and integument; and below, it is overlapped by the Gastrocnemius, Plantaris and Soleus muscles, the popliteal vein, and the internal popliteal nerve. The popliteal vein, which is intimately attached to the artery, lies superficial and external to it, until near its termination, when it crosses it and lies to its inner side. The popliteal nerve is still more superficial and external, crossing, however, the artery below the joint, and lying on its inner side. Laterally, is bounded by the muscles which form the boundaries of the popliteal space. Plan of Relations of Popliteal Artery. In front. Femur. Ligamentum posticum. Popliteus. Inner side. { Popliteal 1 Outer side. Semimembranosus. I Artery. J Biceps. Behind. Popliteal vein. Internal popliteal nerve. Fascia. Peculiarities in point of division. Occasionally the popliteal artery divides prematurely into its terminal branches ; this division occurs most frequently opposite the knee-joint. Unusual branches. The artery sometimes divides into the anterior tibial and peroneal, the posterior tibial being wanting, or very small. In a single case, the popliteal was found to divide into three branches, the anterior and posterior tibial, and peroneal. Surgical Anatomy. Ligature of the popliteal artery is required in cases of wound of that vessel, but for aneurism of the posterior tibial, it is preferable to tie the superficial femoral. The popliteal may be tied in the upper or lower part of its course ; but in the