ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION. 676 The lower border is connected to the cricoid cartilage, in the median line, by the crico-thyroid membrane; and, on each side, by the Crico-thyroid muscle. The posterior borders, thick and rounded, terminate, above, in the superior cornua; and, below, in the inferior cornua. The two superior cornua are long and narrow, directed backwards, upwards, and inwards; and terminate in a conical extremity, which gives attachment to the thyro-hyoid ligament. The two inferior cornua are short and thick; they pass forwards and inwards, and present, on their inner surfaces, a small, oval, articular facet for articulation with the side of the cricoid cartilage. The posterior border receives the insertion of the Stylo- pharyngeal s and Palato-pharyngeus muscles on each side. The Cricoid Cartilage is so 356.—The Cartilages of the Larynx. Posterior View. EPiGLOTTSS called from its resemblance to a signet-ring (fcpl/cos, a ring). It is smaller but thicker and stronger than the thryoid carti- lage, and forms the lower and back part of the cavity of the larynx. Its anterior half is narrow, convex, affording attachment in front and at the sides to the Crico-thyroid muscles, and, be- hind those, to part of the Inferior constrictor. Its posterior half is very broad, both from side to side and from above downwards; it presents in the middle line a vertical ridge for the attachment of the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus; and on either side a broad depression for the Crico- arytamoideus posticus muscle. At the point of junction of the two halves of the cartilage on either side, is a small round elevation, for articulation with the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The lower border of the cricoid cartilage is horizontal, and con- nected to the upper ring of the trachea by fibrous membrane. Its tipper border is directed ob- liquely upwards and backwards, owing to the great depth of its posterior surface. It gives at- tachment, in front, to the crico- thyroid membrane; at the sides, to part of the same membrane and to the lateral Crico-arytenoid muscle; behind, the highest point of the upper border is surmounted on each side by a smooth oval surface, for ar- ticulation with the arytenoid cartilage. Between the articular surfaces is a slight notch, for the attachment of part of the Arytainoideus muscle. The inner surface of the cricoid cartilage is smooth, and lined by mucous membrane. ARYTENOID POST ICUSET LATERALIS Art/adcer faoet Arytenoid C'a,rtil<Mjz Articular- fi Infer. Co of TJiyroid C.