HUMERUS. 10: .—Left Humerus. Posterior Surface. trochlear surface, is seen a small depres- sion, the coronoid depression ; it receives the coronoid process of the ulna during flexion of the forearm. These fossee are separated from one another by a thin transparent lamina of bone, which is sometimes perforated ; their margins afford attachment to the anterior and posterior ligaments of the elbow joint, and they are lined in the recent state by the synovial membrane of this articula- tion. Above the front part of the radial tuberosity, is seen a slight depression which receives the anterior border of the head of the radius when the forearm is strongly flexed. The external condyle is a small tubercular eminence, less pro- minent than the internal, curved a little forwards, and giving attachment to the external lateral ligament of the elbow joint, and to a tendon common to the origin of some of the extensor and supinator muscles. The internal condyle, larger and more prominent than the ex- ternal, is directed a little backwards, it gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament, and to a tendon common to the origin of some of the flexor muscles of the forearm. These eminences are di- rectly continuous above with the external and internal borders. The greater pro- minence of the inner one renders it more liable to fracture. Structure. The extremities consist of cancellous tissue, covered with a thin compact layer ; the shaft is composed of a cylinder of compact tissue, thicker at the centre than at the extremities, and hollowed out by a large medullary canal, which extends along its whole length. Development By seven centres (fig. 89); one for the shaft, one for the head, one for the greater tuberosity, one for the radial, one for the trochlear portion of the articular surface, and one for each condyle. The centre for the shaft appears very early, soon after ossifica- tion has commenced in the clavicle, and soon extends towards the extremities. At birth, the humerus is ossified nearly in its whole length, the extremities re- maining cartilaginous. Between the first and second years, ossification commences in the head of the bone, and between the second and third years the centre for the tuberosities makes its appearance usually by a single ossific point, but sometimes,