ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION. 68o crescentic margin, which constitutes the upper boundary of the ventricle of the larynx. The inferior or true vocal cords, so called from their being concerned in the production of sound, are two strong fibrous bands {inferior thyro-arytenoid liga- ments), covered externally by a thin layer of mucous membrane. Each ligament consists of a band of yellow elastic tissue, attached in front to the depression between the two alas of the thyroid cartilage, and behind to the anterior angle of the base of the arytenoid. Its lower border is continuous with the thin lateral part of the crico-thyroid membrane. Its upper border forms the lower boundary of the ventricle of the larynx. Externally, the Thyro-arytaenoideus muscle lies parallel with it. It is covered internally by mucous membrane, which is extremely thin, and closely adherent to its surface. The ventricle of the larynx is an oblong fossa, situated between the superior and inferior vocal cords on each side, and extending nearly their entire length. This fossa is bounded above by the free crescentic edge of the superior vocal cord; below, by the straight margin of the true vocal cord; externally, by the corresponding Thyro-arytaenoideus muscle. The anterior part of the ventricle leads up by a narrow opening into a caecal pouch of mucous membrane of variable size, called the laryngeal pouch. The sacculus laryngis, or laryngeal pouch, is a membranous sac, placed be- tween the superior vocal cord and the inner surface of the thyroid cartilage, occasionally extending as far as its upper border; it is conical in form, and curved slightly backwards, like a Phrygian cap. On the surface of its mucous membrane are the openings of sixty or seventy small follicular glands, which are lodged in the submucous areolar tissue. This sac is enclosed in a fibrous capsule, continuous below with the superior thyro-arytenoid ligament; its laryngeal surface is covered by the Arytseno-epiglottideus inferior muscle [Compressor sacculi laryngis, Hilton); whilst its exterior is covered by the Thyro-epiglottideus muscle. These muscles compress the sacculus laryngis, and discharge the secretion it contains upon the chordae vocales, the surfaces of which it is intended to lubricate. Muscles. The intrinsic muscles of the larynx are eight in number; five of which are the muscles of the chordae vocales and rima glottidis; three are con- nected with the epiglottis. The five muscles of the chordae vocales and rima glottidis are the Crico-thyroid. Arytaenoideus. Crico-arytaenoideus posticus. Thyro-arytaenoideus. Crico-arytaenoideus lateralis. The Crico-thyroid is triangular in form, and situated at the fore part and side of the cricoid cartilage. It arises from the front and lateral part of the cricoid cartilage; its fibres diverge, passing obliquely upwards and outwards, to be inserted into the lower and inner borders of the thyroid cartilage, from near the median line in front, as far back as the inferior cornu. The inner borders of these two muscles are separated in the middle line by a triangular interval, occupied by the crico-thyroid membrane. The Crico-arytcenoideus posticus arises from the broad depression occupying each lateral half of the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage; its fibres pass upwards and outwards, and converge to be inserted into the outer angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The upper fibres are nearly horizontal, the middle oblique, and the lower almost vertical.* * Dr. Merkel of Leipsic has lately described a muscular slip which occasionally extends between the outer border of the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage, and the posterior margin of the inferior cornu of the thyroid: this, he calls the 'Musculus kerato-cricoideus.' It is not found in every larynx, and when present exists usually only on one side, but is occasionally found on both sides. Mr. Turner (Edinburgh Medical Journal, Feb., i860) states that it is found in about one case in five. Its action is to fix the lower horn of the thyroid cartilage backwards and downwards, opposing in some measure the part of the crico-thyroid muscle which is connected to the anterior margin of the horn.