CRANIAL NERVES.—OLFACTORY, OPTIC. The middle, or grey root, arises from a papilla of grey matter (caruncula mammillaris), imbedded in the anterior lobe. This root is prolonged into the nerve from the adjacent part of the brain, and contains white fibres in its interior, which are connected with the corpus striatum. The internal, or short root, is composed of white fibres, which arise from the inner and back part of the anterior lobe, being connected, according to Foville, with the longitudinal fibres of the gyrus fornicatus. These three roots unite, and form a flat band, narrower in the middle than at either extremity, and of a somewhat prismoid form on section. It is soft in texture, and contains a considerable amount of grey matter in its substance. As it passes forwards, it is contained in a deep sulcus, between two convolutions, lying on the under surface of the anterior lobe, on either side of the longitudinal fissure, and is retained in position by the arachnoid membrane which covers it. On reaching the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, it expands into an oblong mass of greyish- white substance, the olfactory bulb. From the under part of this bulb are given off numerous filaments, about twenty in number, which pass through the cribriform foramina, and are distributed to the mucous membrane of the nose. Each filament is surrounded by a tubular prolongation from the dura mater, and pia mater; the former being lost on the periosteum lining the nose; the latter, in the neurilemma of the nerve. The filaments, as they enter the nares, are divisible into three groups: an inner group, larger than those on the outer wall, spread out over the upper third of the septum; a middle set, confined to the roof of the nose; and an outer set, which are distributed over the superior and middle turbinated bones, and the surface of the ethmoid in front of them. As the filaments descend, they unite in a plexiform network, and become gradually lost in the lining membrane. Their mode of termination is unknown. The olfactory differs in structure from other nerves, in containing grey matter in its interior, and being soft and pulpy in structure. Its filaments are deficient in the white substance of Schwann, are not divisible into fibrillar, and resemble the gelatinous fibres, in being nucleated, and of a finely-granular texture. Optic Nerve. 273-—The Optic Nerves and Optic Tracts. The Second, or Optic Nerve, the special nerve of the sense of sight, is distributed exclusively to the eyeball. The nerves of opposite sides are connected together at the commissure; and from the back of the commissure, they may be traced to the brain, under the name of the optic tracts. The optic tract, at its connection with the brain, is divided into two bands which arise from the optic thalami, the corpora geniculata, and the corpora quadrigemina. The fibres of origin from the thalamus may be traced partly from its surface, and partly from its interior. From this origin, the tract winds obliquely across the under surface of thecrus cerebri, in the form of a flattened band, destitute of neurilemma, and is attached to the crus by its anterior margin. It now assumes a cylindrical form, and, as it passes forwards, is connected with the tuber cinereum, and lamina cinerea, from both of which it receives fibres. According to Foville, it is also connected with the taenia semi- circularis, and the anterior termination of the gyrus fornicatus. It finally joins with the nerve of the opposite side, to form the optic commissure.