417 ANTERIOR TIBIAL. side of the joint, to supply the head of the tibia and the articulation of the knee. The external one passes outwards above the head of the fibula, to the front of the knee-joint, lying in its course beneath the outer head of the Gastrocnemius, the external lateral ligament, and the tendon of the Biceps muscle, and divides into branches, which anastomose with the anterior of the opposite side, the superior articular, and the recurrent branch of the anterior tibial. Anterior Tibial Artery. The anterior tibial artery commences at the bifurcation of the popliteal, at the lower border of the Popliteus muscle, passes forwards between the two heads of the Tibialis posticus, and through the aperture left between the bones at the upper part of the interosseous membrane, to the deep part of the front of the leg; it then descends on the anterior surface of the interosseous ligament, and of the tibia, to the front of the ankle-joint, where it lies more superficially, and becomes the dorsalis pedis. A line drawn from the inner side of the head of the fibula to midway between the two malleoli will be parallel with the course of the artery. Relations. In the upper two-thirds of its extent, it rests upon the interosseous ligament, to which it is connected by delicate fibrous arches thrown across it. In the lower third, upon the front of the tibia, and the anterior ligament of the ankle-joint. In the upper third of its course, it lies between the Tibialis anticus and Extensor longus digitorum; in the middle third, between the Tibialis anticus and Extensor proprius pollicis. In the lower third, it is crossed by the tendon of the Extensor proprius pollicis, and lies between it and the innermost tendon of the Extensor longus digitorum. It is covered, in the upper two-thirds of its course, by the muscles which lie on either side of it, and by the deep fascia; in the lower third, by the integument, annular ligament, and fascia. The anterior tibial artery is accompanied by two veins (venae comites), which lie one on either side of the artery; the anterior tibial nerve lies at first to its outer side, and about the middle of the leg is placed superficial to it; at the lower part of the artery, the nerve is generally again on the outer side. Plan of the Relations of the Anterior Tibial Artery. In front. Integument, superficial and deep fascise. Tibialis anticus (overlaps it in upper part of leg) Anterior tibial nerve. Inner side. / \. Outer side. Tibialis anticus. / ^nterjor \ Anterior tibial nerve. Extensor proprius pollicis [ Tibial Extensor longus digitorum. (crosses it at the bend \ * / Extensor proprius pollicis. of the ankle). V y Behind. Interosseous membrane. Tibia. Anterior ligament of ankle-joint. Peculiarities in Size'. This vessel may be diminished in size, may be deficient to a greater or less extent, or may be entirely wanting, its place being supplied by perforating branches from the posterior tibial, or by the anterior division of the peroneal artery. Course. The artery occasionally deviates in its course towards the fibular side of the leg, regaining its usual position beneath the annular ligament at the front of the ankle. In two instances, the vessel has been found to approach the surface in the middle of the leg, being covered merely by the integument and fascia below that point. Surgical Anatomy. The anterior tibial artery may be tied in the upper or lower part of the leg. In the upper part, the operation is attended with great difficulty, on account of the depth of the vessel from the surface. An incision, about four inches in length, should be made through the integument, midway between the spine of the tibia and the outer margin of the fibula, the fascia and intermuscular septum between the Tibialis anticus and Extensor E E