339 EXTERNAL CAROTID. may be tied there in cases of wounds, or aneurism of any of the large branches of the carotid ; whilst in cases of aneurism of the upper part of the carotid, that part of the vessel may be selected which is below the Omo-hyoid. It occasionally happens that the carotid artery bifurcates below its usual position : if the artery be exposed at its point of bifurcation, both divisions of the vessel should be tied near their origin, in preference to tying the trunk of the artery near its termination; and if, in consequence of the entire absence of the common carotid, or from its early division, two arteries, the external and internal carotids, are met with, the ligature should be placed on that vessel which is found on compression to be connected with the disease. In this operation, the direction of the vessel and the inner margin of the Sterno-mastoid are the chief guides to its performance. To tie the Common Carotid, above the Omo-hyoid. The patient should be placed on his back with the head thrown back; an incision is to be made, three inches long, in the direction of the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, from a little below the angle of the jaw to a level with the cricoid cartilage: after dividing the integument, superficial fascia, and Platysma, the deep fascia must be cut through on a director, so as to avoid wounding numerous small veins that are usually found beneath. The head may now be brought forwards so as to relax the parts somewhat, and the margins of the wound held asunder by copper spatulse. The descendens noni nerve is now exposed, and must be avoided, and the sheath of the vessel having been raised by forceps, is to be opened over the artery to a small extent at its inner side. The internal jugular vein may now present itself alternately distended and relaxed; this should be compressed both above and below, and drawn outwards, in order to facilitate the operation. The aneurism needle is now passed from the outside, care being taken to keep the needle in close contact with the artery, and thus avoid the risk of injuring the jugular vein, or including the vagus nerve. Before the ligature is tied, it should be ascertained that nothing but the artery is in- cluded in it. To tie the Common Carotid below the Omo-hyoid. The patient should be placed in the same position as above mentioned. An incision about three inches in length is to be made, parallel with the inner edge of the Sterno-mastoid, commencing on a level with the cricoid cartilage. The inner border of the Sterno-mastoid having been exposed, the sterno-mastoid artery and a large vein, the middle thyroid will be seen, and must be carefully avoided; the Sterno-mastoid is to be drawn outwards, and the Sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles inwards. The deep fascia must now be divided below the Omo-hyoid muscle, and the sheath having been exposed, must be opened, care being taken to avoid the descendens noni, which here runs on the inner or tracheal side. The jugular vein and vagus nerve being then pressed to the outer side, the needle must be passed round the artery from without inwards, great care being taken to avoid the inferior thyroid artery, the recurrent laryngeal, and sympathetic nerves which lie behind it. Collateral Circulation. After ligature of the common carotid, the collateral circulation can be perfectly established, by the free communication which exists between the carotid arteries of opposite sides both without and within the cranium—and by enlargement of the branches of the subclavian artery on the side corresponding to that on which the vessel has been tied, the chief communication outside the skull taking place between the superior and inferior thyroid arteries, and the profunda cervicis, and arteria princeps cervicis of the occipital; the vertebral taking the place of the internal carotid within the cranium. Sir A. Cooper had an opportunity of dissecting, thirteen years after the operation, the case in which he first successfully tied the common carotid (the second case in which the operation had been performed). Guy's Hospital Reports, i. 56. The injection, however, does not seem to have been a successful one. It showed merely that the_ arteries at the base of the brain (circle of Willis) were much enlarged on the side of the tied artery, the basilar artery on that side having been one of the chief means of restoring the circulation, and that the anastomosis between the branches of the external carotid on the affected side and those of the same artery on the sound side was free, so that the external carotid was pervious throughout. External Carotid Artery. The external carotid artery (fig. 207), arises opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and taking a slightly curved course, ascends upwards and for- wards, and then inclines backwards, to the space between the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, and the external meatus, where it divides into the temporal and internal maxillary arteries. It rapidly diminishes in size as it ascends the neck, owing to the number and large size of the branches given off from it. In Z 2