SURGICAL ANATOMY OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 738 through which the gut passes. In dividing the stricture, the incision should in all cases be directed upwards. If the hernial protrusion passes into the inguinal canal, but does not escape from the external abdominal ring, it forms what is called incomplete direct hernia. This form of hernia is usually of small size, and, in corpulent persons, very difficult of detection. Direct inguinal hernia is of much less frequent occurrence than the oblique, their comparative frequency being, according to Cloquet, as one to five. It occurs far more frequently in men than women, on account of the larger size of the external ring in the former sex. It differs from the oblique in its smaller size and globular form, dependent most probably on the resistance offered to its progress by the transversalis fascia and conjoined tendon. It differs also in its position, being placed over the pubes, and not in the course of the inguinal canal. The epigastric artery runs on the outer or iliac side of the neck of the sac, and the spermatic cord along its external and posterior side, not directly behind it, as in oblique inguinal hernia. SURGICAL ANATOMY OF FEMORAL HERNIA. The dissection of the parts comprised in the anatomy of femoral hernia should be per- formed, if possible, upon a female subject free from fat. The subject should lie upon its back ; a block is first placed under the pelvis, the thigh everted, and the knee slightly bent, and retained in this position. An incision should then be made from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium along Poupart's ligament to the symphysis pubis; a second incision should be carried transversely across the thigh about six inches beneath the pre- ceding ; and these are to be connected together by a vertical one carried along the inner side of the thigh. These several incisions should divide merely the integument; this is to be reflected outwards, when the superficial fascia will be exposed. The superficial fascia at the upper part of the thigh, consists of two layers, between which are found the cutaneous vessels and nerves, and numerous lym- phatic glands. The superficial layer is a thick and dense cellulo-fibrous membrane, in the meshes of which is found a considerable amount of adipose tissue, varying in quantity in different subjects; this layer may be traced upwards over Poupart's ligament to be continuous with the superficial fascia of the abdomen; whilst below, and on the inner and outer sides of the limb, it is continuous with the superficial fascia covering the rest of the thigh. This layer should be detached by dividing it across in the same direction as the external incisions; its removal will be facilitated by commencing at the lower and inner angle of the space, detaching it at first from the front of the internal saphenous vein, and dissecting it off from the anterior surface of that vessel and its branches ; it should then be reflected outwards, in the same manner as the integument. The cutaneous vessels and nerves, and superficial inguinal glands are then exposed, lying upon the deep layer of the superficial fascia. These are the internal saphenous vein, and the superficial epigastric, superficial circumflexa ilii, and external pudic vessels, as well as numerous lymphatics ascending with the saphenous vein to the inguinal glands. The internal saphenous vein is a vessel of considerable size, which ascends obliquely upwards along the inner side of the thigh, below Poupart's ligament. It passes through the saphenous opening in the fascia lata to terminate in the femoral vein. This vessel is accompanied by numerous lymphatics, which return the lymph from the dorsum of the foot and inner side of the leg and thigh; they ter- minate in the inguinal glands, which surround the saphenous opening. Diverging from the same point are the superficial epigastric vessels, which run across Poupart's ligament, obliquely upwards and inwards, to the lower part of the abdomen; the superficial circumflexa ilii vessels, which pass obliquely outwards along Poupart's ligament to the crest of the ilium; and the superficial external pudic vessels, which pass inwards to the perinaeal and scrotal regions. These vessels supply the subcutaneous areolar tissue and the integument, and are accom-