i88 ARTICULATIONS. The Synovial Membranes of the wrist (fig. 136) are thus seen to be five in number. The first, the membrana sacciformis, lines the lower end of the ulna, the sigmoid cavity of the radius, and upper surface of the trianguiar interarticular fibro-cartilage. The second lines the lower end of the radius and interarticular fibro cartilage above, and the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones below. The third, the most extensive, covers the contiguous surfaces of the two rows of carpal bones, and, passing between the bones of the second row, lines the carpal extre- mities of the four inner metacarpal bones. The fourth lines the adjacent surfaces of the trapezium and metacarpal bone of the thumb. The fifth lines the adjacent surfaces of the cuneiform and pisiform bones. Actions. The movement permitted in the carpo-metacarpal articulations is limited to a slight gliding of the articular surfaces upon each other, the extent of which varies in the different joints. Thus the articulation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium is most moveable, then the fifth metacarpal, and then the fourth. The second and third are almost immoveable. In the articulation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium, the movements permitted are flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, and circumduction. 136.—Vertical Section through the Articulations at the AVrist, showing the five Synovial Membranes. 3. Articulations of the Metacarpal Bones with each other. The carpal extremities of the metacarpal bones articulate with one another at each side by small surfaces covered with cartilage, and connected together by dorsal, palmar, and interosseous ligaments. The Dorsal and Palmar Ligaments pass transversely from one bone to another on the dorsal and palmar surfaces. The Interosseous Ligaments pass between their contiguous surfaces, just beneath their lateral articular facets. The Synovial Membrane lining the lateral facets, is a reflection from that between the two rows of carpal bones. The digital extremities of the metacarpal bones are connected together by a narrow fibrous band, the transverse ligament, which passes transversely across their under surfaces, and is blended with the ligaments of the metacarpo-phalangeal