19 SACRUM. angle, called the -promontory or sacro-vertebral angle, whilst its central part is directed backwards, so as to give increased capacity to the pelvic cavity. It pre- sents for examination an anterior and posterior surface, two lateral surfaces, a base, an apex, and a central canal. The Anterior Surface is concave from above downwards, and slightly so from side to side. In the middle are seen four transverse ridges, indicating the original division of the bone into five separate pieces. The portions of bone intervening between the ridges correspond to the bodies of the vertebrae. The body of the first segment is of large size, and in form resembles that of a lumbar vertebra; the succeeding ones diminish in size from above downwards, are flattened from before backwards, and curved so as to accom- 15.—Vertical Section of the Sacrum. modate themselves to the form of the sacrum, being concave in front, convex behind. At each end of the ridges above- mentioned, are seen the anterior sacral foramina, analogous to the intervertebral foramina, four in number on each side, somewhat rounded in form, diminishing in size from above downwards, and di- rected outwards and forwards; they transmit the anterior branches of the sacral nerves. External to these fora- mina, is the lateral mass, consisting, at an early period of life, of separate seg- ments, which correspond to the anterior transverse processes, these become blend- ed, in the adult, with the bodies, with each other, and with the posterior transverse processes. Each lateral mass is transversed by four broad shallow grooves, which lodge the anterior sacral nerves as they pass outwards, the grooves being separated by prominent ridges of bone, which give attachment to the slips of the Pyriformis muscle. If a vertical section is made through the centre of the bone (fig. 15), the bodies are seen to be united at their circumference by bone, a wide interval being left centrally, which in the recent state, is filled by intervertebral sub- stance. In some bones, this union is more complete between the lower seg- ments, than between the upper ones. The Posterior Surface (fig. 16) is convex and much narrower than the anterior. In the middle line, are three or four tubercles, which represent the rudimentary spinous processes of the sacral vertebras. Of these tubercles, the first is usually prominent, and perfectly distinct from the rest; the second and third, are either separate, or united into a tubercular ridge, which diminishes in size from above down- wards ; the fourth usually, and the fifth always, remaining undeveloped. External to the spinous processes on each side, are the lamince, broad and well marked in the three first pieces; sometimes the fourth, and generally the fifth, being undeveloped; in this situation the lower end of the sacral canal is exposed. External to the laminae are a linear series of indistinct tubercles representing the articular pro- cesses ; the upper pair are large, well developed, and correspond in shape and direction to the superior articulating processes of a lumbar vertebra; the second and third are small; the fourth and fifth (usually blended together) are situated C 2