VEINS.—GENERAL ANATOMY. Sinuses are venous channels, which, in their structure and mode of distribution, differ altogether from the veins. They are found only in the interior of the skull, and are formed by a subdivision of the layers of the dura mater; their outer coat consisting of fibrous tissue, their inner of a serous membrane continuous with the serous membrane of the veins. Veins have thinner walls than arteries, the difference in thickness being due to the small amount of elastic and muscular tissues which the veins contain. The superficial veins usually have thicker coats than the deep veins, and the veins of the lower limb are thicker than those of the upper. Veins are composed of three coats: internal, middle, and external. The internal coat is similar in structure to that of the arteries. In the smallest veins, it consists of epithelium and nucleated connective tissue, arranged so as to form an outer and an inner layer; the latter, which is the thinnest, being the centre lamina of this coat. As these vessels approach the capillaries, the epithelium and outer layer of connective tissue become gradually lost. On the contrary, in the veins of rather larger size, there is superadded a layer of muscular fibre-cells, a circular fibrous coat, with areolar elastic tissue beneath the epithelium, and in the muscular and external coats. In middle-sized veins, the internal coat consists of epithelium supported on one or more striped nucleated lamellae, external to which is a layer of elastic fibrous tissue. In the veins of the gravid uterus, and in the long saphe- nous and popliteal veins, muscular tissue is one of the component parts of the inner coat. In the largest veins, as the inferior vena cava, the trunks of the hepatic, and in the innominate veins, the internal coat has a similar structure to that described above ; but is somewhat thicker, owing to the increase in the number of the striped lamella?, and the greater thickness of the elastic fibrous coat. The middle coat is thin, and differs in structure from the middle coat of arteries in containing a smaller amount of elastic and muscular tissues, and more connective tissue. In the smallest veins, as already mentioned, it consists merely of a thin layer of nucleated connective tissue, the fibres of which run in a longitudinal direction; to which is added, in those of rather larger size, a layer of muscular tissue, the cells of which are disposed transversely. In middle-sized veins, such as the cutaneous and deep veins of the limbs, as far as the brachial and popliteal, and the visceral veins, the middle coat is of a reddish-yellow colour, remarkable for its great thickness, being more developed than the same coat in the large veins. It consists of a thick inner layer of connective tissue with elastic fibres, having intermixed in some veins a transverse layer of muscular fibres; and an outer layer consisting of longitudinal elastic lamellae, varying from five to ten in number, alternating with layers of transverse muscular fibres and connective tissue, which resembles somewhat in structure the middle coat of large arteries. In the large veins, as in the commencement of the vena portae, in the upper part of the abdominal portion of the inferior vena cava, and in the large hepatic trunks within the liver, the middle coat is thick, and its structure similar to that of the middle coat in medium-sized veins; but its muscular tissue is scanty, and the longi- tudinal elastic networks less distinctly lamellated. The muscular tissue of this coat is best marked in the splenic and portal veins, it is absent in certain parts of the vena cava below the liver, and wanting in the subclavian vein and terminal parts of the two cavae. The external coat is usually the thickest, increasing in thickness with the size of the vessel; it is similar in structure to the external coat of arteries; but its chief peculiarity is, that in some veins it contains a longitudinal network of mus- cular fibres. In the smallest veins, it consists of a thick layer of nucleated con- nective tissue. In middle-sized veins, it is much thicker than the middle coat, and consists of elastic and connective tissues, the fibres of which are longitudinally arranged. In the largest veins, this coat is from two to five times thicker than the middle coat, and contains a large number of longitudinal muscular fibres. This is most distinct in the hepatic part of the inferior vena cava, and at the