MALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. 712 hypogastric branches of the lumbar plexus, the two superficial perinatal branches of the internal pudic nerve, the inferior pudendal branch of the small sciatic nerve, and the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve. The Spermatic Cord extends from the internal abdominal ring, where the structures of which it is composed converge, to the back part of the testicle. It is composed of arteries, veins, lymphatics, nerves, and the excretory duct of the testicle. These structures are connected together by areolar tissue, and invested by the fascia? brought down by the testicle in its descent. In the abdominal wall, the cord passes obliquely along the inguinal canal, lying at first beneath the Internal oblique, and upon the fascia transversalis; but, nearer the pubes, it rests upon Poupart's ligament, having the aponeurosis of the External oblique in front of it, and the conjoined tendon behind it. It then escapes at the external ring, and descends nearly vertically into the scrotum. The left cord is rather longer than the right, consequently the left testis hangs somewhat lower than its fellow. The arteries of the cord are the spermatic, from the aorta ; the artery of the vas deferens, from the superior vesical; and the cremasteric, from the epigastric artery. The spermatic artery supplies the testicle. On approaching the gland, it gives off some branches which supply the epididymis, and others which perforate the tunica albuginea behind, and spread out on its inner surface, or pass through the fibrous septum in its interior, to be distributed on the membranous septa, between the lobes. The artery of the vas deferens is a long slender vessel, which accompanies the vas deferens, ramifying upon the coats of this duct, and anastomosing with the spermatic artery near the testis. The cremasteric branch from the epigastric supplies the Cremaster muscle, and other coverings of the cord. The spermatic veins leave the back part of the testis, and receiving branches from the epididymis, unite to form a plexus (pampiniform plexus), which forms the chief mass of the cord. They pass up in front of the vas deferens, and unite to form a single trunk, which terminates, on the right side, in the inferior vena cava, on the left side, in the left renal vein. The lymphatics are of large size, accompany the blood-vessels, and terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are the spermatic plexus from the sympathetic. This plexus is derived from the renal and aortic plexuses, joined by filaments from the hypogastric plexus, which accompany the artery of the vas deferens. Testes. The testes are two small glandular organs, suspended in the scrotum by the spermatic cords. Each gland is of an oval form, compressed laterally and behind, and having an oblique position in the scrotum; the upper extremity being directed forwards and a little outwards; the lower, backwards and a little inwards; the anterior convex border looks forwards and downwards, the posterior or straight border, to which the cord is attached, backwards and upwards. The anterior and lateral surfaces, as well as both extremities of the organ, are convex, free, smooth, and invested by the tunica vaginalis. The posterior border, to which the cord is attached, receives only a partial investment from that mem- brane. Lying upon the outer edge of this border, is a long, narrow, flattened body, named, from its relation to the testis, the epididymis (SlSv/jlos, testis). It consists of a central portion, or body, an upper enlarged extremity, the globus major, or head; and a lower pointed extremity, the tail, or globus minor. The globus major is intimately connected with the upper end of the testicle by means of its efferent ducts; and the globus minor is connected with its lower end by cellular tissue, and a reflection of the tunica vaginalis. The outer surface and upper and lower ends of the epididymis are free and covered by serous mem- brane j the body is also completely invested by it, excepting along its posterior