715 VAS DEFERENS; VESICULiE SEMINALES. Its length varies from an inch and a half to fourteen inches, and sometimes it becomes dilated towards its extremity: more commonly, it retains the same diameter throughout. Its structure is similar to that of the vas deferens. Occasionally, it is found unconnected with the epididymis. The Vas Deferens, the excretory duct of the testis, is the continuation of the epididymis. Commencing at the lower part of the globus minor, it ascends along the posterior and inner side of the testis and epididymis, and along the back part of the spermatic cord, through the spermatic canal, to the internal abdominal ring. From the ring it descends into the pelvis, crossing the external iliac vessels, and curves round the outer side of the epigastric artery: at the side of the bladder, it arches backwards and downwards to its base, crossing outside the obliterated hypogastric artery, and to the inner side of the ureter. At the base of the bladder, it lies between that viscus and the rectum, running along the inner border of the vesicula seminalis. In this situation, it becomes enlarged and saccu- lated; and, becoming narrowed, at the base of the prostate, unites with the duct of the vesicula seminalis to form the ejaculatory duct. The vas deferens presents a hard and cord-like sensation to the fingers; it is about two feet in length, of cylin- drical form, and about a line and a quarter in diameter. Its walls are of extreme density and thickness, measuring one-third of a line; and its canal is extremely small, measuring about half a line. 372.—Base of the Bladder, with the Vasa Deferentia and Vesicula? Seminales. In structure, the vas deferens consists of three coats: I. An external, or cellular coat; 2. A muscular coat, which is thick, dense, elastic, and consists of two longi- tudinal, and an intermediate circular layer of muscular fibres; 3. An internal, or mucous coat, which is pale, and arranged in longitudinal folds; its epithelial covering is of the columnar variety. VESicuLiE Seminales. The Seminal Vesicles are two lobulated membranous pouches, placed between the base of the bladder and the rectum, serving as reservoirs for the semen, and secreting some fluid to be added to that of the testicles. Each sac is somewhat pyramidal in form, the broad end being directed backwards, and the narrow end forward towards the prostate. They measure about two and a half inches in length, about five lines in breadth, and from two to three lines in thickness.