MUSCLES AND FASCIiE. 276 pairs, the anterior pair corresponding to the middle and ring fingers; the posterior pair to the index and little fingers; the posterior pair to the index and little fingers. The tendons diverge from one another as they pass onwards, and are finally inserted into the lateral margins of the second phalanges, about their centre. Opposite the base of the first phalanges, each tendon divides, so as to leave a fissured interval, between which passes one of the tendons of the Flexor profundus, and they both enter an osseo-aponeurotic canal, formed by a strong fibrous band, which arches across them, and is attached on each side to the margins of the phalanges. The two portions into which the tendon of the Flexor sublimis divides, so as to admit of the passage of the deep flexor, expand somewhat, and form a grooved channel, into which the accompanying deep flexor tendon is received; the two divisions then unite, and finally subdivide a second time to be inserted into the fore part and sides of the second phalanges. The tendons, whilst contained in the fibro-osseous canals, are connected to the phalanges by slender tendinous filaments, called vinculo, accessoria tendinum. A synovial sheath invests the tendons as they pass beneath the annular ligament; a prolongation from which surrounds each tendon as it passes along the phalanges. Relations. In the forearm, by its anterior surface, with the deep fascia and all the preceding superficial muscles; by its posterior surface, with the Flexor profundus digitorum, Flexor longus pollicis, the ulnar vessels and nerve, and the median nerve. In the hand, its tendons are in relation, in front, with the palmar fascia, superficial palmar arch, and the branches of the median nerve; behind, with the tendons of the deep Flexor and the Lumbricales. Anterior Brachial Region. Deep Layer. Flexor Profundus Digitorum. Jflexor Longus Pollicis. Pronator Quadratus. Dissection. Divide each of the superficial muscles at its centre, and turn either end aside : the deep layer of muscles, together with the median nerve and ulnar vessels, will then be exposed. The Flexor Profundus Digitorum (perforans) (fig. 173), is situated on the ulnar side of the forearm, immediately beneath the superficial Flexors. It arises from the upper two thirds of the anterior and inner surfaces of the shaft of the ulna, embracing the insertion of the Brachialis anticus above, and extending, below, to within a short distance of the Pronator quadratus. It also arises from a depression on the inner side of the coronoid process, by an aponeurosis from the upper two-thirds of the posterior border of the ulna, and from the ulnar half of the interosseous membrane. The fibres form a fleshy belly of considerable size which divides into four tendons: these pass under the annular ligament beneath the tendons of the Flexor sublimis. Opposite the first phalanges, the tendons pass between the two slips of the tendons of the Flexor sublimis, and are finally inserted into the bases of the last phalanges. The tendon of the index finger is distinct; the rest are connected together by cellular tissue and tendinous slips, as far as the palm of the hand. Four small muscles, the Lumbricales, are connected with the tendons of the Flexor profundus in the palm. They will be described with the muscles in that region. Relations. By its anterior surface, in the forearm, with the Flexor sublimis digitorum, the Flexor carpi ulnaris, the ulnar vessels and nerve, and the median nerve; and in the hand, with the tendons of the superficial Flexor. By its posterior surface, in the forearm, with the ulna, the interosseous membrane, the Pronator quadratus; and in the hand, with the Interossei, Adductor pollicis, and deep palmar arch. By its ulnar border, with the Flexor carpi ulnaris. By its radial border, with the Flexor longus pollicis, the anterior interosseus vessels and nerve being interposed.