511 SIXTH, FACIAL. they pass to the orbit, bear a certain relation to each other in the cavernous sinus, at the sphenoidal fissure, and in the cavity of the orbit, which will be now described. In the cavernous sinus, the third, fourth, and ophthalmic division of the fifth, are placed in the dura mater of the outer wall of the sinus, in their numerical order, both from above downwards, and from within outwards. The sixth nerve lies at the outer side of the internal carotid artery. As these nerves pass forwards to the sphenoidal fissure, the third and fifth nerves become divided into branches, and the sixth approaches the rest; so that their relative position becomes consi- derably changed. In the sphenoidal fissure, the fourth, an<J the frontal and lachrymal divisions of the ophthalmic, lie upon the same plane, the former being most internal, the latter external; and they enter the cavity of the orbit above the muscles. The remaining nerves enter the orbit between the two heads of the External rectus. The superior division of the third is the highest of these; beneath this lies the nasal branch of the fifth; then the inferior division of the third; and the sixth lowest of all. In the orbit, the fourth, and the frontal and lachrymal divisions of the ophthalmic, lie on the same plane immediately beneath the periosteum, the fourth nerve being internal, and resting on the Superior oblique, the frontal resting on the Levator palpebral, and the lachrymal on the External rectus. Next in order comes the superior division of the third nerve lying immediately beneath the Superior rectus, and then the nasal division of the fifth crossing the optic nerve from the outer to the inner side of this cavity. Beneath these is found the optic nerve, surrounded in front by the ciliary nerves, and having the lenticular ganglion on its outer side, between it and the External rectus. Below the optic is the inferior division of the third, and the sixth, which lies on the outer side of the cavity. Facial Nerve. The Facial Nerve, or portio dura of the seventh pair, is the motor nerve of all the muscles of expression in the face, and of the Platysma and Buccinator. It supplies also the muscles of the external ear, the posterior belly of the Digastric, and the Stylo-hyoid. Through the chorda tympani it supplies the Lingualis; by its tympanic branch, the Stapedius and Laxator tympani; through the otic ganglion, the Tensor tympani; and through the connection of its trunk with the Vidian nerve, by the petrosal nerves, it probably supplies the Levator palati and Azygos uvulas. It arises from the lateral tract of the medulla oblongata, in the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies. Its deep origin may be traced to the floor of the fourth ventricle, where it is connected with the same nucleus as the sixth nerve. This nerve is situated a little nearer to the middle line than the portio mollis, close to the lower border of the pons Varolii, from which some of its fibres are derived. Connected with this nerve, and lying between it and the portio mollis, is a small fasciculus {portio inter duram 277. -The Course and Connections of the Facial Nerve in the Temporal Bone. Exter/ial Fetrosal_ Small Petrosal- _£ arge Petrosal et mollem of Wrisberg, or portio intermedia). This ac- cessory portion arises from the lateral column of the cord. The nerve passes forwards and outwards upon the crus cerebelli, and enters the in- ternal auditory meatus with the auditory nerve. Within the meatus, the facial nerve lies first to the inner side of the auditory, and then in a groove upon this nerve, and is connected to it by one or two filaments. Itilwmescentitt QangTifovmis