288 SURGICAL ANATOMY [79.—The Palmar Interossei of Left Hand. the hand. The outer head arises from the upper half of the ulnar border of the first metacarpal bone; the inner head, from the entire length of the radial border of the second metacarpal bone; the tendon is inserted into the radial side of tha index finger. The second and third dorsal interossei are inserted into the middle finger, the former into its radial, the latter into its ulnar side. The fourth is inserted in the radial side of the ring-finger. The Palmar Interossei, three in number, are smaller than the Dorsal, and placed upon the palmar surface of the metacarpal bones, rather than between them. They arise from the entire length of the metacarpal bone of one finger, and are inserted into the side of the base of the first phalanx and aponeurotic expansion of the common Extensor tendon of the same finger. The first arises from the ulnar side of the second metacarpal bone, and is in- serted into the same side of the index finger. The second arises from the radial side of the fourth metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the same side of the ring finger. The third arises from the radial side of the fifth metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the same side of the little finger. From this account it may be seen, that each finger is provided with two Interossei muscles, with the exception of the little finger. Nerves. The two outer Lumbricales are supplied by the median nerve; the rest of the muscles of this group, by the ulnar. Actions. The Dorsal interossei mucles abduct the fingers from an imaginary line drawn longitudinally through the centre of the middle finger; and the Palmar interossei adduct the fingers towards that line. They usually assist the Extensor muscles; but when the fingers are slightly bent, they assist in flexing them. SURGICAL ANATOMY. The Student, having completed the dissection of the muscles of the upper extremity, should consider the effects likely to be produced by the action of the various muscles in fracture of the bones. In considering the actions of the various muscles upon fractures of the upper extremity, I have selected the most common forms of injury, both for illustration and descrip- tion. Fracture of the clavicle is an exceedingly common accident, and is usually caused by indirect violence, as a fall upon the shoulder; it occasionally, however, occurs from direct force. Its most usual situation is just external to the centre of the bone, but it may occur at the sternal or acromial ends. Fracture of the middle of the clavicle (fig. 180) is always attended with considerable dis- placement, the outer fragment being drawn downwards, forwards, and inwards ; the inner fragment slightly upwards. The outer fragment is drawn down by the weight of the arm, and the action of the Deltoid, and forwards and inwards by the Pectoralis minor and Sub- clavius muscles: the inner fragment is slightly raised by the Sterno-cleido-mastoid, but only to a very limited extent, as the attachment of the costc-clavicular ligament and Pectoralis major below and in front would prevent any very great displacement upwards. The causes of displacement having been ascertained, it is easy to apply the appropriate treatment. The outer fragment is to be drawn outwards, and, together with the scapula, raised iipwards to a level with the inner fragment, and retained in that position. In fracture of the acromial end of the clavicle between the conoid and trapezoid ligaments,