Of the Lymphatics. 'THE Lymphatics have derived their name from the appearance of the fluid con- tained in their interior (lympha, water). They are also called absorbents, from the property they possess of absorbing certain materials from the tissues, and conveying them into the circulation. The lymphatic system includes not only the lymphatic vessels and the glands through which they pass, but also the lacteal, or chyliferous vessels. The lacteals are the lymphatic vessels of the small intestine, and differ in no respect from the lymphatics generally, excepting that they contain a milk-white fluid, the chyle, during the process of digestion, and convey it into the blood through the thoracic duct.. The lymphatics are exceedingly delicate vessels, the coats of which are so transparent, that the fluid they contain is readily seen through them. They retain a nearly uniform size, being interrupted at intervals by constrictions, which give to them a knotted or beaded appearance. These constrictions are due to the presence of valves in their interior. Lymphatics have been found in nearly every texture and organ of the body, with the exception of the substance of the brain and spinal cord, the eyeball, cartilage, tendon, the membranes of the ovum, the placenta, and umbilical cord, the nails, cuticle, and hair. Their existence in the substance of bone is doubtful. The lymphatics are arranged into a superficial and deep set. The superficial lymphatics, on the surface of the body, are placed immediately beneath the integu- ment, accompanying the superficial veins; they join the deep lymphatics in certain situations by perforating the deep fascia. In the interior of the body, they lie in the submucous areolar tissue, throughout the whole length of the gastro-pulmonary and genito-urinary tracts; or in the subserous areolar tissue, beneath the serous membrane covering the various organs in the cranial, thoracic, and abdominal cavities. These vessels probably arise in the form of a dense plexiform net-work interspersed among the proper elements and blood-vessels of the several tissues; the vessels composing which, as well as the meshes between them, are much larger than those of the capillary plexus. From these net-works small vessels emerge, which pass, either to a neighbouring gland, or to join some larger lymphatic trunk. The deep lymphatics, fewer in number, and larger than the superficial, accompany the deep blood-vessels. Their mode of origin is not known; it is, however, probable, similar to that of the superficial vessels. The lymphatics of any part or organ exceed, in number, the veins; but in size they are much smaller. Their anastomoses also, especially those of the large trunks, are more frequent, and are effected by vessels equal in diameter to those which they connect, the continuous trunks retaining the same diameter. The lymphatic vessels, like arteries and veins, are composed of three coats. The internal is an epithelial and elastic coat. It is thin, transparent, slightly elastic, and ruptures sooner than the other coats. It is composed of a layer of elongated epithelial cells, supported on a simple net-work of elastic fibres. The middle coat is composed of smooth muscular and fine elastic fibres, disposed in a transverse direction. The external, or areolar-fibrous coat, consists of filaments of areolar tissue, intermixed with smooth muscular fibres, longitudinally or obliquely disposed. It forms a protective covering to the other coats, and serves to connect the vessel with the neighbouring structures.