ARTERIES. 33^ clavicular articulation; the left from the highest part of the arch of the aorta. The left carotid is, consequently, longer and placed more deeply in the thorax. It will, therefore, be more convenient to describe first the course and relations of that portion of the left carotid which intervenes between the arch of the aorta and the left sterno-clavicular articulation (see fig. 205). The left carotid within the thorax passes obliquely outwards from the arch of the aorta to the root of the neck. In front, it is separated from the first piece of the sternum by the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, the left innominate vein, and the remains of the thymus gland; behind, it lies on the trachea, oeso- phagus, and thoracic duct. Internally, it is in relation with the arteria innominata; externally, with the left pneumogastric nerve, and left subclavian artery. Plan of the Relations of the Left Common Catotid. Thoracic Portion. In Front. Sternum. Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles. Left innominate vein. Remains of thymus gland. Internally. ^ Left \ Externally. Arteria innominata. / Common. \ Left pneumogastric nerve, I Carotid. 1 p. i 1 • \ Thoracic / \ Portion. / Left subclavian artery. Behind. Trachea. (Esophagus. Thoracic duct. In the neck, the two common carotids resemble each other so closely, that one description will apply to both. Each vessel passes obliquely upwards, from behind the sterno-clavicular articulation, to a level with the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, where it divides into the external and internal carotid; these names being derived, the former from its distribution to the external parts of the head and face, the latter from its distribution to the internal parts of the cranium. The course of the vessel is indicated by a line drawn from the sternal end of the clavicle below, to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process above. At the lower part of the neck the two common carotid arteries are separated from each other by a very small interval, which corresponds to the trachea; but at the upper part, the thyroid body, the larynx and pharynx project forwards beween these vessels, and give the appearance of their being placed further back in this situation. The common carotid artery is contained in a sheath, derived from the deep cervical fascia, which also encloses the internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve, the vein lying on the outer side of the artery, and the nerve between the artery and vein, on a plane posterior to both. On opening the sheath, these three structures are seen to be separated from one another, each being enclosed in a separate fibrous investment. Relations. At the lower part of the neck the common carotid artery is very deeply seated, being covered by the superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep fascia, the Sterno-mastoid, Sterno-hyoid, and Sterno-thyroid muscles, and by the Omo~hyoid opposite the cricoid cartilage; but in the upper part of its course, near its ter- mination, it is more superficial, being covered merely by the integument, the superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep fascia, and inner margin of the Sterno- mastoid, and is contained in a triangular space, bounded behind by the Sterno- mastoid, above by the posterior belly of the Digastric, and below by the anterior