SEPTUM CRURALE.—DESCENT OF HERNIA. 745 the obturator artery curves along the free margin of Gimbernat's ligament in its passage to the obturator foramen; it would, consequently, skirt along the greater part of the circumference of the crural canal, and could hardly avoid being wounded in the operation (fig. 387). Variations in Origin and Course of Obturator Artery. 386. 387. Septum Crurale. The femoral ring is closed by a layer of condensed areolar tissue, called, by J. Cloquet, the septum crurale. This serves as a barrier to the protrusion of a hernia through this part. Its upper surface is slightly concave, and supports a small lymphatic gland, by which it is separated from the subserous areolar tissue and peritoneum. Its under surface is turned towards the femoral canal. The septum crurale is perforated by numerous apertures for the passage of lymphatic vessels, connecting the deep inguinal glands with those surrounding the external iliac artery. The size of the femoral canal, the degree of tension of its orifices, and, conse- quently, the degree of constriction of a hernia, varies according to the position of the limb. If the leg and thigh are extended, abducted, or everted, the femoral canal and its orifices are extremely tense, from the traction on these parts by Poupart's ligament and the fascia lata, as may be ascertained by passing the finger along it. If, on the contrary, the thigh is flexed upon the pelvis, and, at the same time, adducted and rotated inwards, the femoral canal and its orifices become considerably relaxed; for this reason, the limb should always be placed in the latter position when the application of the taxis is made in attempting the reduc- tion of a femoral hernia. The septum crurale is separated from the peritoneum by a quantity of loose subserous areolar tissue. In some subjects, this tissue contains a considerable amount of adipose substance, which, when protruded forwards in front of the sac of a femoral hernia, may be mistaken for a portion of omentum. Descent of the Hernia. From the preceding description, it follows, that the femoral ring must be a weak point in the abdominal wall; hence it is, that when violent or long-continued pressure is made upon the abdominal viscera, a portion of intestine may be forced into it, constituting a femoral hernia; and the changes in the tissues of the abdomen which are produced by pregnancy, together with the larger size of this aperture in the female, serve to explain the frequency of this form of hernia in women. When a portion of intestine is forced through the femoral ring, it carries before it a pouch of peritoneum, which forms what is called the hernial sac; it receives an investment from the subserous areolar tissue, and from the septum crurale, and descends vertically along the crural canal in the inner compartment of the sheath of the femoral vessels as far as the saphenous opening: at this point, it changes its course, being prevented from extending further down the sheath, on account of its greater narrowness and close contact with the vessels, and also from the close attachment of the superficial fascia and crural sheath to the lower part of the circumference of the saphenous opening; it is, consequently, directed forwards, pushing before it the cribriform fascia, and then curves upwards on to the fal- ciform process of the fascia lata and lower part of the tendon of the External