i58 ARTICULATIONS. thus, they are uniformly thick in the lumbar region; thickest, in front, in the cervical and lumbar regions which are convex forwards; and behind, to a slight extent, in the dorsal region. They thus contribute, in a great measure, to the curvatures of the spine in the neck and loins ; whilst the concavity of the dorsal region is chiefly due to the -shape of the bodies of the vertebrae. The interverte- bral discs form about one-fourth of the spinal column, exclusive of the first two vertebrae ; they are not equally distributed, however, between the various bones; the dorsal portion of the spine having, in proportion to its length, a much smaller quantity than in the cervical and lumbar regions, which necessarily gives to the latter parts greater pliancy and freedom of movement. The intervertebral discs are adherent, by their surfaces, to the adjacent parts of the bodies of the vertebrae ; and by their circumference are closely connected in front to the anterior, and behind to the posterior common ligament; whilst, in the dorsal region, they are connected laterally, by means of the interarticular ligament, to the heads of those ribs which articulate with two vertebrae ; they, consequently, form part of the articular cavities in which the heads of these bones are received. 116.—Vertical Section of two Vertebrae and their Ligaments, from the Lumbar Eegion. ANTERIOR POSTERIOR COMMON COMMON The intervertebral substauce is composed, at its circumference, of laminae of fibrous tissue and fibro-cartilage ; and, at its centre, of a soft, elastic, pulpy matter. The laminae are arranged concentrically one within the other, with their edges turned towards the corresponding surfaces of the vertebrae, and consist of alternate plates of fibrous tissue and fibro-cartilage. These plates are not quite vertical in their direction, those near the circumference being curved outwards and closely approximated ; whilst those nearest the centre curve in the opposite direction, and are somewhat more widely separated. The fibres of which each plate is composed, are directed, for the most part, obliquely from above downwards; the fibres of an adjacent plate have an exactly opposite arrangement, varying in their direction in every layer ; whilst in some few they are horizontal. This laminar arrangement belongs to about the outer half of each disc, the central part being occupied by a soft, pulpy, highly elastic substance, of a yellowish colour, which rises up con- siderably above the surrrounding level, when the disc is divided horizontally. This