256 MUSCLES AND FASCIiE. of the linea alba, lineaa semilunares, linese transversa?; when the dissection of the muscles is completed, these structures should be examined. The linea alba is a tendinous raphe or cord seen along the middle line of the abdomen, extending from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes. It is placed between the inner borders of the Recti muscles, and formed by the blending of the aponeuroses of the Oblique and Transversalis muscles. It is narrow below, corresponding to the narrow interval existing between the Recti, but broader above, as these muscles diverge from one another in their ascent, becoming of considerable breadth after great distension of the abdomen from pregnancy or ascites. It presents numerous apertures for the passage of vessels and nerves; the largest of these is the umbilicus, which in the foetus transmits the umbilical vessels, but in the adult is obliterated, the cicatrix being stronger than the neigh- bouring parts; hence umbilical hernia occurs in the adult above the umbilicus, whilst in the foetus it occurs at the umbilicus. The linea alba is in relation, in front, with the integument, to which it is adherent, especially at the umbilicus; behind, it is separated from the peritoneum by the transversalis fascia; and below, by the urachus, and the bladder, when that organ is distended. The linecB semilunares are two curved tendinous lines, placed one on each side of the linea alba. Each corresponds with the outer border of the Rectus muscle, extends from the cartilage of the eighth rib to the pubes, and is formed by the aponeurosis of the Internal oblique at its point of division to enclose the Rectus. The linece transversa are three or four narrow transverse lines which intersect the Rectus muscle as already mentioned: they connect the linese semilunares with the linea alba. Actions. The abdominal muscles perform a three-fold action. When the pelvis and thorax are fixed, they compress the abdominal viscera, by constricting the cavity of the abdomen, in which action they are materially assisted by the descent of the diaphragm. By these means, the foetus is expelled from the uterus, the faeces from the rectum, the urine from the bladder, and its contents from the stomach in vomiting. If the spine is fixed, these muscles compress the lower part of the thorax, materially assisting in expiration. If the spine is not fixed, the thorax is bent directly forward, when the muscles of both sides act, or to either side when those of the two sides act alternately, rotation of the trunk at the same time taking place to the opposite side. If the thorax is fixed, these muscles, acting together, draw the pelvis upwards, as in climbing; or, acting singly, they draw the pelvis upwards, and rotate the vertebral column to one side or the other. The Recti muscles, acting from below, depress the thorax, and consequently flex the vertebral column; when acting from above, they flex the pelvis upon the vertebral column. The Pyramidales are tensors of the linea alba. The Quadratus lumborum, by the portion inserted into the last rib, draws down and fixes that bone, acting thereby as a muscle of forced expiration: by the portion inserted into the lumbar vertebrae, it draws the spine towards the ilium, and thus inclines the trunk towards its own side: or if the thorax and spine be fixed, it may act upon the pelvis—raising it towards its own side when only one muscle is put in action, and when both muscles act together, either from below or above, they flex the trunk. Muscles and Fasciae of the Thorax. The muscles exclusively connected with the bones in this region are few in number. They are the Intercostales Externi. Infracostales. Intercostales Interni. Triangularis Sterni. Levatoreb Costarum.