OBTURATOR, INTERNAL PUDIC. 403 artery. The origin of the obturator from the epigastric is not commonly found on both sides of the same body. When the obturator artery arises at the front of the pelvis from the epigastric, it descends almost vertically to the upper part of the obturator foramen. The artery in this course usually lies in contact with the external iliac vein, and on the outer side of the femoral ring (fig. 228); in such cases it would not be endangered in the operation for femoral hernia. Occasionally, however, it curves inwards along the free margin of Gimbernat's ligament (fig. 229), and under such circumstances would almost completely encircle the neck of a hernial sac (supposing a hernia to exist in such a case), and would be in great danger of being wounded if an operation was performed. Variations in Origin and Course of Obturator Artery. 228. 229. The Internal Pudic is the smaller of the two terminal branches of the anterior trunk of the internal iliac, and supplies the external organs of generation. It passes downwards and outwards to the lower border of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and emerges from the pelvis between the Pyriformis and Coccygeus muscles; it then crosses the spine of the ischium, and re-enters the pelvis through the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen. The artery now crosses the Obturator interims muscle, to the ramus of the ischium, being covered by the obturator fascia, and situated about an inch and a half from the margin of the tuberosity; it then ascends for- wards and upwards along the ramus of the ischium, pierces the posterior layer of the deep perinaeal fascia, and runs forwards along the inner margin of the ramus of the pubes; finally, it perforates the anterior layer of the deep perinaeal fascia, and divides into its two terminal branches, the dorsal artery of the penis, and the artery of the corpus cavernosum. Relations. In the first part of its course, within the pelvis, it lies in front of the Pyriformis muscle and sacral plexus of nerves, and on the outer side of the rectum (on the left side). As it crosses the spine of the ischium, it is covered by the Gluteus maximus, and great sacro-sciatic ligament. In the pelvis, it lies on the outer side of the ischio-rectal fossa, upon the surface of the Obturator internus muscle, contained in a fibrous canal formed by the obturator fascia and the falciform process of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. It is accompanied by the pudic veins, and the internal pudic nerve. Peculiarities. The internal pudic is sometimes smaller than usual, or fails to give off one or two of its usual branches; in such cases, the deficiency is supplied by branches derived from an additional vessel, the accessory pudic, which generally arises from the pudic artery before its exit from the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and passes forwards near the base of the bladder, on the upper part of the prostate gland, to the perinseum, where it gives off those branches usually derived from the pudic artery. The deficiency most frequently met with, is that in which the internal pudic ends as the artery of the bulb; the artery of the corpus cavernosum and arteria dorsalis penis being derived from the accessory pudic. Or the pudic may terminate as the superficial perinaeal, the artery of the bulb being derived, with the other two branches, from the accessory vessel. The relation of the accessory pudic to the prostate gland and urethra, is of the greatest interest in a surgical point of view, as this vessel is in danger of being wounded in the lateral operation of lithotomy. Branches. Within the pelvis, the internal pudic gives off several small branches, which supply the muscles, sacral nerves, and viscera in this cavity. In the perinceum the following branches are given off. Inferior or external haemorrhoids!, Artery of the bulb. Superficial perinaeal. Artery of the corpus cavernosum. Transverse perinaeal. Dorsal artery of the penis. DD 2