361 SUBCLAVIAN. Plan op Eelations of First Portion of Right Subclavian Artery. In front. Clavicular origin of Sterno-mastoid. Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid. Internal jugular and vertebral veins. * Pneumogastric, cardiac and phrenic nerves. ^ Eight Subclavian \ Beneath. Artery. J Pleura. First portion. Behind. Eecurrent laryngeal nerve. Sympathetic. Longus colli. Transverse process of seventh cervical vertebra. First Part of the Left Subclavian Artery (fig. 205). The left subclavian artery arises from the end of the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta, opposite the second dorsal vertebra, and ascends to the inner margin of the first rib, behind the insertion of the Scalenus anticus muscle. This vessel is, therefore, longer than the right, situated more deeply in the cavity of the chest, and directed almost vertically upwards, instead of arching outwards like the vessel of the opposite side. It is in relation, in front, with the pleura, the left lung, the pneumogastric, phrenic, and cardiac nerves, which lie parallel with it, the left carotid artery, left internal jugular and innominate veins, and is covered by the Sterno-thyroid, Sterno- hyoid, and Sterno-mastoid muscles; behind, it is in relation with the oesophagus, thoracic duct, inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, Longus colli, and vertebral column. To its inner side is the oesophagus, trachea and thoracic duct; to its outer side, the pleura. Plan of Relations of First Portion of Left Subclavian Artery. In front. Pleura and left lung. ^ Pneumogastric, cardiac, and phrenic nerves. Left carotid artery. Left internal jugular and innominate veins.' u Sterno-thyroid, Sterno-hyoid, and Sterno-mastoid muscles. Inner side. ( J^e^ \ Outer side. (Esophagus. Subclavian \ Pleura. Trachea. \ Artery. Thoracic duct. Virst Portion. Behind. (Esophagus and thoracic duct. Inferior cervical ganglion of sympathetic. Longus colli and vertebral column. The relations of the second and third portions of the subclavian arteries are precisely similar on both sides. The Second Portion of the Subclavian Artery lies between the two Scaleni muscles; it is very short, and forms the highest part of the arch described by that vessel. Relations. It is covered, in front, by the integument, Platysma, Sterno-mastoid, cervical fascia, and by the phrenic nerve, which is separated from the artery by