177 SCAPULOCLAVICULAR JOINT. the sternum. It is in relation, in front, with the interarticular fibro-cartilage and synovial membranes; behind, with the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles. The Interclavicular Ligament is a flattened ligamentous band, which varies considerably in form and size in different individuals; it passes from the upper part of the inner extremity of one clavicle to the other, and is closely attached to the upper margin of the sternum. It is in relation, in front, with the integument; behind with the Sterno-thyroid muscles. The Costo-Clavicular Ligament (rhomboid) is short, flat, and strong: it is of a rhomboid form, attached, below, to the upper and inner part of the cartilage of the first rib: it ascends obliquely backwards and outwards, and is attached, above, to the rhomboid depression on the under surface of the clavicle. It is in rela- tion, in front, with the tendon of origin of the Subclavius; behind, with the subclavian vein. The Interarticular Fibro-Cartilage is a flat and nearly circular disc, inter- posed between the articulating surfaces of the sternum and clavicle. It is attached above, to the upper and posterior border of the clavicle; below, to the cartilage of the first rib, at its junction with the sternum: and by its circumference to the anterior and posterior stereo-clavicular ligaments. It is thicker at the circum- ference, especially its upper and back part, than at its centre, or below. It divides the joint into two cavities, each of which is furnished with a separate synovial membrane; when the fibro-cartilage is perforated, which not unfrequently occurs, the synovial membranes communicate. Of the two Synovial Membranes found in this articulation, one is reflected from the sternal end of the clavicle, over the adjacent surface of the fibro-cartilage, and cartilage of the first rib; the other is placed between the articular surface of the sternum and adjacent surface of the fibro-cartilage; the latter is the more loose of the two. They seldom contain much synovia. Actions. This articulation is the centre of the movements of the shoulder, and admits of motion in nearly every direction — upwards, downwards, backwards, forwards, as well as circumduction; the sternal end of the clavicle and the inter- articular cartilage gliding on the articular surface of the sternum. II. Scapulo-Clavicular Articulation. The Scapulo-Clavicular is an arthrodial joint, formed between the outer extremity of the clavicle, and the upper edge of the acromion process of the scapula. Its ligaments are the Superior Acromio-Clavicular. Inferior Acromio-Clavicular. i ( Trapezoid Coraeo-Clavicular < and / ( Conoid. Interarticular Fibro-Cartilage. The Superior Acromio-Clavicular Ligament'^ a broad band, of a quadrilateral form, which covers the superior part of the articulation, extending between the upper part of the outer end of the clavicle, and the adjoining part of the acromion. It is composed of parallel fibres, which interlace with the aponeurosis of the Trapezius and Deltoid muscles; below, it is in contact with the interarticular fibro-cartilage and synovial membranes. The Inferior Acromio-Clavicular Ligament, somewhat thinner than the pre- ceding, covers the under part of the articulation, and is attached to the adjoining surfaces of the two bones. It is in relation, above, with the interarticular fibro- cartilage (when it exists) and the synovial membranes ; below, with the tendon of the Supraspinatus. These two ligaments are continuous with each other in front and behind, and form a complete capsule around the joint. N