CRANIAL NERVES. 53° accessory nerve is connected by several delicate filaments; it also has an anasto- motic twig with the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal, with the facial nerve by means of the auricular branch, and with the sympathetic by means of an ascending filament from the superior cervical ganglion. The ganglion of the trunk (inferior) is a plexiform cord, cylindrical in form, of a reddish colour, and about an inch in length; it involves the whole of the fibres of the nerve, except the portion of the nerve derived from the spinal accessory, which blends with the nerve beyond the ganglion. Connecting branches. This ganglion is connected with the hypoglossal, the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and the loop between the first and second cervical nerves. The branches of the pneumogastric are— In the jugular fossa In the neck . In the thorax In the abdomen The auricular branch (Arnold's) arises from the ganglion of the root, and is joined soon after its origin by a filament from the glosso-pharyngeal; it crosses the jugular fossa to an opening near the root of the styloid process. Traversing the substance of the temporal bone, it crosses the aqueductus Fallopii about two lines above its termination at the stylo-mastoid foramen; it here gives off an ascending branch, which joins the facial, and a descending branch, which anasto- moses with the posterior auricular branch of the same nerve: the continuation of the nerve reaches the surface between the mastoid process and the external auditory meatus, and supplies the integument at the back part of the pinna. The pharyngeal branch, the principal motor nerve of the pharynx and soft palate, arises from the upper part of the inferior ganglion of the pneumogastric, receiving a filament from the accessory portion of the spinal accessory; it passes across the internal carotid artery (in front or behind), to the upper border of the Middle constrictor, where it divides into numerous filaments, which anastomose with those from the glosso-pharyngeal, superior laryngeal, and sympathetic, to form the pharyngeal plexus, from which branches are distributed to the muscles and mucous membrane of the pharynx. As this nerve crosses the internal carotid, some filaments are distributed, together with those from the glosso-pharyngeal, upon the wall of this vessel. The superior larnygeal is the nerve of sensation to the larynx. It is larger than the preceding, and arises from the middle of the inferior ganglion of the pneumogastric. It descends, by the side of the pharynx, behind the internal carotid, where it divides into two branches, the external and internal laryngeal. The external laryngeal branch, the smaller, descends by the side of the larynx, beneath the Sterno-thyroid, to supply the Crico-thyroid muscle and the thyroid gland. It gives branches to the pharyngeal plexus, and the Inferior constrictor, and communicates with the superior cardiac nerve, behind the common carotid. The internal laryngeal branch descends to the opening in the thyro-hyoid membrane, through which it passes with the superior laryngeal artery, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the larynx, and the Arytenoid muscle, anastomosing with the recurrent laryngeal. Auricular. Pharyngeal. Superior laryngeal. Recurrent laryngeal. Cervical Cardiac. Thoracic Cardiac. Anterior pulmonary. Posterior pulmonary. Oesophageal. Gastric.