6o6 ORGANS OF SENSE. with the carotid canal, from which it is separated by a thin plate of bone ; it presents for examination the Canal for the Tensor tympani. Orifice of the Eustachian Tube. The Processus Cochleariformis. The orifice of the canal for the Tensor tympani, and the orifice of the Eustachian tube, are situated at the upper part of the anterior wall, being separated from each other by a thin, delicate horizontal plate of bone, the processus cochleari- formis. These canals run from the tympanum forward, inward, and a little downward, to the retiring angle between the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bone. The canal for the Tensor tympani is the superior and the smaller of the twoj it is rounded, and lies beneath the upper surface of the petrous bone, close to the hiatus Fallopii. The tympanic end of this canal forms a conical eminence, which is prolonged backwards into the cavity of the tympanum, and is perforated at its summit by an aperture, which transmits the tendon of the muscle contained in it. This eminence is sometimes called the anterior pyramid. The canal contains the Tensor tympani muscle. The Eustachian tube is the channel through which the tympanum communicates with the pharynx. Its length is from an inch and a half to two inches, and its direction downwards, forwards, and inwards. It is formed partly of bone, partly of cartilage and fibrous tissue. The osseous portion is about half an inch in length. It commences in the lower part of the anterior wall of the tympanum, below the processus cochleariformis, and gradually narrowing, terminates in an oval dilated opening, at the angle of junction of the petrous and squamous portions, its extremity presenting a jagged margin, which serves for the attachment of the cartilaginous portion. The cartilaginous portion, about an inch in length, is formed of a triangular plate of cartilage, curled upon itself, an interval being left below, between the non-approximated margins of the cartilage, which is completed by fibrous tissue. Its canal is narrow behind, wide, expanded, and somewhat trumpet-shaped in front, terminating by an oval orifice, at the upper part and side of the pharynx, behind the back part of the inferior meatus. Through this canal the mucous membrane of the pharynx is continuous with that which lines the tympanum. The membrana tympani separates the cavity of the tympanum from the bottom of the external meatus. It is a thin semi-transparent membrane, nearly oval in form, somewhat broader above than below, and directed very obliquely downward and inwards. Its circumference is contained in a groove at the inner end of the meatus, which skirts the circumference of this part excepting above. The handle of the malleus descends vertically between the inner and middle layers of this membrane, as far down as its centre, where it is firmly attached, drawing the membrane inwards, so that its outer surface is concave, its inner convex. Structure. This membrane is composed of three layers, an external (cuticular), a middle (fibrous), and an internal (mucous). The cuticular lining is derived from the integument lining the meatus. The fibrous layer consists of fibrous and elastic tissues; some of the fibres radiate from near the centre to the circum- ference ; others are arranged, in the form of a dense circular ring, round the attached margin of the membrane. The mucous lining is derived from the mucous lining of the tympanum. The vessels pass to the membrana tympani along the handle of the malleus, and are distributed between its layers. Ossicles of the Tympanum. The tympanum is traversed by a chain of moveable bones, three in number, the malleus, incus, and stapes. The former is attached to the membrana tympani, the latter to the fenestra ovalis, the incus being placed between the two, to both of which it is connected by delicate articulations.