Nervous System. THE Nervous System consists: i.of a series of connected central organs, called, collectively, the cerebrospinal centre, or axis; 2. of the ga?iglia; and, 3. of the nerves. The cerebro-spinal portion of the nervous system includes the brain and spinal cord, with the nerves connected with them, and the ganglia seated upon those nerves. It was distinguished, by Bichat, as the nervous system of animal life. It includes those nervous organs which are more immmediately connected with the mental processes, as volition and sensation; but this portion of the nervous system is also concerned in many nervous actions, with which the mind has no connection. The ganglionic or sympathetic system consists of a double chain of ganglia connected by nervous cords, situate along the spinal column. Nerves derived from these ganglia proceed to the viscera in the thoracic, abdominal, and pelvic cavities; and these nerves have, again, ganglia developed on them. This system was distinguished, by Bichat, as the nervous system of organic life. It is less immediately connected with the mind, appearing to be more closely concerned with the processes of organic life than the cerebro-spinal system is. The several organs of the nervous system are composed of two different substances, which differ from each other in density, in colour, in their minute structure, and in their chemical composition. They are called the vesicular nervous matter, and the fibrous nervous matter. The former is often called the grey or cineritious substance; and the latter, the white or medullary. The fibrous nervous matter is most extensively diffused throughout the body. It forms a large portion of the nervous centres, either alone, or mixed with vesicular matter; and is the principal constituent of the nerves which connect them with the various tissues and organs. The vesicular nervous matter is usually known by its soft consistence, and dark reddish-grey colour; it is generally collected into masses intermingled with the fibrous structure, in various parts of the brain and spinal cord, and in the several ganglia. Chemical Composition. The following analysis, by Lassaigne, represents the relative proportion of the different constituents composing the grey and white matter of the brain. Grey. White. Water 85-2 • 73'° • • 7*5 . 9-9 • i3'9 Red fat • • 37 . 0-9 Osmazome and lactates . . . 1-4 I'O . . 1*2 • i*3 lOO'O . lOO'O It appears from this analysis, that the cerebral substance consists of albumen, dissolved in water, combined with fatty matters and salts. The fatty matters, according to Fremy, consist of cerebric acid, which is most abundant, cholesterin, oleophosphoric acid, and olein, margarin, and traces of their acids. The same analyst states, that the fat contained in the brain is confined almost exclusively to the white substance, and that its colour becomes lost when the fatty matters are removed. According to Vauquelin, the cord contains a larger proportion of fat than the brain; and, according to L'Heritier, the nerves contain more albumen and more soft fat than the brain.