VEINS 432 and this dilatation is called the sinus, or gulf of the internal jugular vein. It runs down the side of the neck in a vertical direction, lying at first on the outer side of the internal carotid, and then on the outer side of the common carotid, and at the root of the neck unites with the subclavian vein, to form the vena innominata. The internal jugular vein, at its commencement, lies upon the Rectus lateralis, behind, and at the outer side of the internal carotid, and the eighth and ninth pairs of nerves; lower down, the vein and artery lie upon the same plane, the glosso-pharyngeal and hypoglossal nerves passing forwards between them; the pneumogastric descends between and behind them, in the same sheath; and the spinal accessory passes obliquely outwards, behind the vein. At the root of the neck the vein of the right side is placed at a little distance from the artery; on the left side, it usually crosses it at its lower part. This vein is of consider- able size, but varies in different individuals, the left one being usually the smaller. It is provided with a pair of valves, which are placed at its point of termination, or from half to three quarters of an inch above it. Branches. This vein receives in its course the facial, lingual, pharyngeal, superior and middle thyroid veins, and sometimes the occipital. At its point of junction with the branch common to the temporal and facial veins, it becomes greatly increased in size. The lingual veins commence on the dorsum, sides, and under surface of the tongue, and passing backwards, following the course of the lingual artery and its branches, terminate in the internal jugular. The pharyngeal vein commences in a minute plexus, the pharyngeal, at the back part and sides of the pharynx, and after receiving meningeal branches, and the Vidian and spheno-palatine veins, terminates in the internal jugular. It occasionally opens into the facial, lingual, or superior thyroid vein. The superior thyroid vein commences in the substance and on the surface of the thyroid gland, by branches corresponding with those of the superior thyroid artery, and terminates in the upper part of the internal jugular vein. The middle thyroid vein collects the blood from the lower part of the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland, and, being joined by some branches from the larynx and trachea, terminates in the lower part of the internal jugular vein. The occipital vein has been described above* The Vertebral Vein commences in the occipital region, by numerous small branches, from the deep muscles at the upper and back part of the neck, passes outwards, and enters the foramen in the transverse process of the atlas, and descends by the side of the vertebral artery, in the canal formed by the transverse processes of the cervical vertebras. Emerging from the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical, it terminates at the root of the neck in the back part of the innominate vein near its origin, its mouth being guarded by a pair of valves. This vein, in the lower part of its course, occasionally divides into two branches, one of which emerges with the artery at the sixth cervical vertebra; the other escapes through the foramen in the seventh cervical. Branches. The vertebral vein receives in its course the posterior condyloid vein, muscular branches from the muscles in the prevertebral region; dorsi-spinal veins, from the back part of the cervical portion of the spine; meningo-rachidian veins, from the interior of the spinal canal; and lastly, the ascending and deep cervical veins. Veins of the Diploe. The diploe of the cranial bones is channelled, in the adult, by a number of tortuous canals, which are lined by a more or less complete layer of compact tissue. The veins they contain are large and capacious, their walls being thin, and formed only of epithelium, resting upon a layer of elastic tissue, and they present, at irregular intervals, pouch-like dilatations, or culs de sac, which serve as reservoirs for the blood. These are the veins of the diploe: they can only be displayed by removing the outer table of the skull.