SPLEEN. 657 Structure. The spleen is invested by two coats ; an external serous, and an iuternal fibrous elastic coat. The external, or serous coat, is derived from the peritoneum; it is thin, smooth, and in the human subject intimately adherent to the fibrous elastic coat. It invests almost the entire organ; being reflected from it, at the hilus, on to the great end of the stomach, and at the upper end of the organ on to the Dia- phragm. The fibrous elastic coat forms the framework of the spleen. It invests the exterior of the organ, and at the hilus is reflected inwards upon the vessels in the form of vaginas or sheaths. From these sheaths, as well as from the inner surface of the fibro-elastic coat, numerous small fibrous bands, trabecules (fig. 347), are given off in all directions; these uniting, constitute the areolar framework of the spleen. The proper coat, the sheaths of the vessels, and the trabecular, consist of 34.7.—Transverse Section of the Spleen, showing the Trabecular Tissue, and the Splenic Vein and its Branches. a dense mesh of white and yellow elastic fibrous tissues, the latter considerably predominating. It is owing to the presence of this tissue, that the spleen possesses a considerable amount of elasticity, to allow of the very considerable variations in size that it presents under certain circumstances. In some of the mammalia, in addition to the usual constituents of this tunic, there are found numerous pale, flattened, spindle-shaped, nucleated fibres, like unstriped muscular fibres. It is probably owing to this structure, that the spleen possesses, when acted upon by the galvanic current, faint traces of contractility. The proper substance of the spleen occupies the interspaces of the areolar framework of the organ; it is a soft, pulpy mass, of a dark reddish-brown colour, consisting of colourless and coloured elements. The colourless elements consist of granular matter; nuclei, about the size of the red blood-discs, homogeneous or granular in structure; and nucleated vesicles in small numbers. These elements form, probably, one-half or two-thirds of the whole substance of the pulp, filling up the interspaces formed by the partitions of the spleen, and lying in close contact with the walls of the capillary vessels, so as to be readily acted upon by the nutrient fluid which permeates them. Thus in Well-nourished animals, they form a large part of the entire bulk of the spleen, whilst they diminish in number, and occasionally are wanting in starved animals. UU