ARTERIES. 400 close connection with its accompanying vein. On the right side, both common iliac veins, as well as the inferior vena cava, are in close connection with the artery, and must be carefully avoided. On the left side, the vein usually lies on the inner side, and behind the artery; but it occasionally happens, that the two common iliac veins are joined on the left instead of the right side, which would add much to the difficulty of an operation in such a case. The common iliac artery may be so short that danger may be apprehended from secondary haemorrhage if a ligature is applied to it. It would be preferable, in such a case, to tie both the external and internal iliacs near their origin. Collateral Circulation. The principal agents in carrying on the collateral circulation after the application of a ligature to the common iliac, are, the anastomoses of the haemorrhoidal branches of the internal iliac, with the superior haemorrhoidal from the inferior mesenteric; the anastomoses of the uterine and ovarian arteries, and of the vesical arteries of opposite sides ; of the lateral sacral, with the middle sacral artery; of the epigastric, with the internal mammary, inferior intercostal, and lumbar arteries ; of the ilio-lumbar, with the last lumbar artery; of the obturator artery, by means of its pubic branch, with the vessel of the opposite side, and with the internal epigastric ; and of the gluteal, with the posterior branches of the sacral arteries. Internal Iliac Artery. The internal iliac artery supplies the walls and viscera of the pelvis, the gene- rative organs, and inner side of the thigh. It is a short, thick vessel, smaller than the external iliac, and about an inch and a half in length, which arises at the point of bifurcation of the common iliac; and, passing downwards to the upper margin of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, divides into two large trunks, an anterior, and posterior; a partially obliterated cord, the hypogastric artery, extending from the extremity of the vessel forwards to the bladder. Relations. In front, with the ureter, which separates it from the peritoneum. Behind, with the internal iliac vein, the lumbo-sacral nerve, and Pyriformis muscle. By its outer side, near its origin, with the Psoas muscle. Plan of the Relations of the Internal Iliac Artery. In front. Peritoneum. Ureter. Outer side. Psoas magnus. Behind. Internal iliac vein. Lumbo-sacral nerve. Pyriformis muscle. In the foetus, the internal iliac artery (hypogastric), is twice as large as the ex- ternal iliac, and appears to be the continuation of the common iliac. Passing forwards to the bladder, it ascends along the side of that viscus to its summit, to which it gives branches; it then passes upwards along the back part of the anterior wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus, converging towards its fellow of the opposite side. Having passed through the umbilical opening, the two arteries twine round the umbilical vein, forming with it the umbilical cord; and, ultimately, ramify in the placenta. The portion of the vessel within the abdomen, is called the hypogastric artery; and that external to that cavity, the umbilical artery. At birth, when the placental circulation ceases, that portion of the hypogastric artery which extends from the umbilicus to the summit of the bladder, contracts, and ultimately dwindles to a solid fibrous cord; the portion of the same vessel extending from the summit of the bladder to within an inch and a-half of its origin, is not totally impervious, though it becomes considerably reduced in size; and