VEINS 43° arch; and the angular vein receives the veins of the ala nasi on its inner side, and the superior palpebral veins on its outer side; it moreover communicates with the ophthalmic vein, which establishes an important anastomosis between this vessel and the cavernous sinus. The facial vein commences at the inner angle of the orbit, being a contiuua- tion of the angular vein. It passes obliquely downwards and outwards, beneath the great zygomatic muscle, descends along the anterior border of the Masseter, crosses over the body of the lower jaw, with the facial artery, and, passing obliquely outwards and backwards, beneath the Platysma and cervical fascia, unites with a branch of communication from the temporo-maxillary vein, to form a trunk of large size which enters the internal j ugular. Branches. The facial vein receives, near the angle of the mouth, communi- cating branches from the pterygoid plexus. It is also joined by the inferior palpebral, the superior and inferior labial veins, the buccal veins from the cheek, and the masseteric veins. Below the jaw, it receives the submental, the inferior palatine, which returns the blood from the plexus around the tonsil and soft palate; the submaxillary vein, which commences in the submaxillary gland; and lastly, the ranine vein. The Temporal Vein commences by a minute plexus on the side and vertex of the skull, which communicates with the frontal vein in front, the corresponding vein of the opposite side, and the posterior auricular and occipital veins behind. From this network, anterior and posterior branches are formed which unite above the zygoma, forming the trunk of the vein. This trunk is joined in this situation by a large vein, the middle temporal, which receives the blood from the substance of the Temporal muscle and pierces the fascia at the upper border of the zygoma. The temporal vein then descends between the external auditory meatus and the condyle of the jaw, enters the substance of the parotid gland, and unites with the internal maxillary vein, to form the temporo-maxillary. Branches. The temporal vein receives in its course some parotid veins, an articular branch from the articulation of the jaw, anterior auricular veins from the external ear, and a vein of large size, the transverse facial, from the side of the face. The Internal Maxillary Vein is a vessel of considerable size, receiving branches which correspond with those of the internal maxillary artery. Thus it receives the middle meningeal veins, the deep temporal, the pterygoid, masseteric, and buccal, some palatine veins, and the inferior dental. These branches form a large plexus, the pterygoid, which is placed between the Temporal and External pterygoid, and partly between the Pterygoid muscles. This plexus communicates very freely with the facial vein, and with the cavernous sinus, by branches through the base of the skull. The trunk of the vein then passes backwards, behind the neck of the lower jaw, and unites with the temporal vein, forming the temporo-maxillary. The Temporo-Maxillary Vein, formed by the union of the temporal and in- ternal maxillary vein, descends in the substance of the parotic gland, between the ramus of the jaw and the Sterno-mastoid muscle, and divides into two branches, one of which passes inwards to join the facial vein, the other is con- tinuous with the external jugular. It receives near its termination the posterior auricular vein. The Posterior Auricular Vein commences upon the side of the head, by a plexus which communicates with the branches of the temporal and occipital veins; descending behind the external ear it joins the temporo-maxillary, just before that vessel terminates in the external jugular. This vessel receives the stylo-mastoid vein, and some branches from the back part of the external ear. The Occipital Vein commences at the back part of the vertex of the skull, by a plexus in a similar manner with the other veins. It follows the course of the occipital artery, passing deeply beneath the muscles of the back part of the neck, and terminates in the internal jugular, occasionally in the external jugular. As