346 ARTERIES. anastomosing with the artery of the opposite side, the posterior auricular, and temporal arteries. They supply the back part of the Occipito-frontalis muscle, the integument and pericranium, and one or two branches occasionally pass through the parietal or mastoid foramina, to supply the dura mater. The Posterior Auricular Artery (fig. 209) is a small vessel which arises from the external carotid, above the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles, opposite the apex of the styloid process. It ascends, under cover of the parotid gland, to the groove between the cartilage of the ear and the mastoid process, immediately above which it divides into two branches, an anterior, passing forwards to anas- tomose with the posterior division of the temporal; and a posterior, communicating with the occipital. Just before arriving at the mastoid process, this artery is crossed by the portio dura, and has beneath it the spinal accessory nerve. Besides several small branches to the Digastric, Stylo-hyoid, and Sterno-mas- toid muscles, and to the parotid gland, this vessel gives off two branches. Stylo-mastoid. Auricular. The stylo-mastoid branch enters the stylo-mastoid foramen, and supplies the tympanum, mastoid cells, and semi-circular canals. In the young subject, a branch from this vessel forms, with the tympanic branch from the internal maxillary, a vascular circle, which surrounds the auditory meatus, and from which delicate vessels ramify on the membrana tympani. The auricular branch is distributed to the back part of the cartilage of the ear, upon which it minutely ramifies, some branches curving round its margin, others perforating the fibro-cartilage, to supply its anterior surface. The Ascending Pharyngeal Artery (fig. 212), the smallest branch of the external carotid, is a long slender vessel, deeply seated in the neck, beneath the other branches of the external carotid and the Stylo-pharyngeus muscle. It arises from the back part of the external carotid, near the commencement of that vessel, and ascends vertically between the internal carotid and the side of the pharynx, to the under surface of the base of the skull, lying on the Rectus capitis anticus major. Its branches may be subdivided into three sets: 1. Those directed outwards to supply muscles and nerves. 2. Those directed inwards to the pharynx. 3. Meningeal branches. The external branches are numerous small vessels, which supply the Recti antici muscles, the sympathetic, hypoglossal and pneumogastric nerves, and the lymphatic i glands of the neck, anastomosing with the ascending cervical artery. The pharyngeal branches are three or four in number. Two of these descend to supply the middle and inferior Constrictors and the Stylo-pharyngeus, ramifying in their substance and in the mucous membrane lining them. The largest of the pharyngeal branches passes inwards, running upon the Superior constrictor, and sends ramifications to the soft palate, Eustachian tube, and tonsil, which take the place of the ascending palatine branch of the facial artery, when that vessel is of small size. The menifigeal branches consist of several small vessels, which pass through foramina in the base of the skull, to supply the dura mater. One, the posterior meningeal, enters the cranium through the foramen lacerum posterius with the internal jugular vein. A second passes through the foramen lacerum medium; and occasionally a third through the anterior condyloid foramen. They are all distributed to the dura mater. The Temporal Artery (fig. 209), the smaller of the two terminal branches of the external carotid, appears, from its direction, to be the continuation of that vessel. It commences in the substance of the parotid gland, in the interspace between the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw and the external meatus, crosses over the root of the zygoma, immediately beneath the integument, and divides about two inches above the zygomatic arch into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior temporal inclines forwards over the forehead, supplying the muscles,