OSTEOLOGY. 8 end of the bone where there is no additional centre: as, towards the acromial end in the clavicle; towards the distal end of the metacarpal bone of the thumb and great toe; and towards the proximal end of the other metacarpal and metatarsal bones. A knowledge of the exact periods when the epiphyses become joined to the shaft, aids the surgeon in the diagnosis of many of the injuries to which the joints are liable; for it not unfrequently happens, that on the application of severe force to a joint, the epiphyses become separated from the shaft, and such injuries may be mistaken for fracture. Growth of Bone. Increase in the length of a bone is provided for by the deve- lopment of new bone in the cartilage at either end of the shaft (diaphysis); and in the thickness, by the deposition of soft ossifying blastema in successive layers upon the inner surface of the periosteum. The entire skeleton in the adult consists of 200 distinct bones. These are— Vertebral column (sacrum and coccyx included) . 26 Cranium 8 Face Os hyoides, sternum, and ribs Upper extremities .... Lower extremities .... 200 In this enumeration, the patella? are included on account of their practical im- portance; but the smaller sesamoid bones, the ossicula auditus, and the Wormian bones are not reckoned. The teeth belong to the tegumentary system. THE SPINE. The Spine is a flexuous column, formed of a series of bones called Vertebrae. The Vertebrae are thirty-three in number, exclusive of those which form the skull, and have received the names cervical, dorsal, lumbar, sacral, andcocci/geal according to the position which they occupy; seven being found in the cervical region, twelve in the dorsal, five in the lumbar, five in the sacral, and four in the coccygeal. This number is sometimes increased by an additional vertebra in one region, or the number may be diminished in one region, the deficiency being supplied by an additional vertebra in another. These observations do not apply to the cervical portion of the spine, the number of bones forming which is seldom increased or diminished. The Vertebras in the three uppermost regions of the spine are separate through- out the whole of life; but those found in the sacral and coccygeal regions, are, in the adult, firmly united, so as to form two bones—five entering into the formation of the upper bone or sacrum, and four into the terminal bone of the spine or coccyx. General Characters of a Vertebra. Each vertebra consists of two essential parts, an anterior solid segment or body, and a posterior segment, the arch. The arch is formed of two pedicles and two laminae, supporting seven processes; viz. four articular, two transverse, and one spinous process. The Bodies of the vertebrae are piled one upon the other, forming a strong pillar, for the support of the cranium and trunk; the arches forming a hollow cylinder behind for the protection of the spinal cord. The different vertebrae are connected together by means of the articular processes, and the inter-vertebral cartilages; while the transverse and spinous processes serve as levers for the attachment of muscles which move the different parts of the spine. Lastly, between each pair of vertebrae, apertures exist through which the spinal nerves pass from the cord. Each of these constituent parts must now be separately examined. 26 64 62