NERVOUS SYSTEM. 468 ganglia, intermingled with the fibrous nervous substance, but is never found in the nerves. It is composed, as its name implies, of vesicles, or corpuscles, commonly called nerve or ganglion corpuscles, containing nuclei and nucleoli;. the vesicles being imbedded either in a finely granular substance, as in the brain, or in a capsule of nucleated cells, as in the ganglia. Each vesicle consists of an exceed- ingly delicate membranous wall, enclosing a finely granular material, part of which is occasionally of a coarser kind, and of a reddish or yellowish-brown colour. The nucleus is vesicular, much smaller than the vesicle, and adherent to some part of its interior. The nucleolus, which is enclosed within the nucleus, is vesicular in form, of minute size, and peculiarly clear and brilliant. The nerve corpuscles vary in shape and size; some are small, spherical, or ovoidal, with an uninterrupted outline. These forms are most numerous in the ganglia of the sympathetic. Others, called caudate or stellate nerve-corpuscles, are characterised by their larger size, and from having one or more tail-like processes issuing from them, which occasionally divide and subdivide into numerous branches. These processes are very delicate, apparently tubular, and contain a similar granular material to that found within the corpuscle. Some of the processes terminate in fine transparent fibres, which become lost among the other elements of the nervous tissue; others may be traced until, after losing their granular appearance, they become continuous with an ordinary nerve-fibre. The Ganglia may be regarded as separate and independent nervous centres, of smaller size and less complex structure than the brain, connected with each other, with the cerebro-spinal axis, and with the nerves in various situations. They are found on the posterior root of each of the spinal nerves; on the posterior or sensory root of the fifth cranial nerve; on the facial nerve; on the glosso- pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves; in a connected series along each side of the vertebral column, forming the trunk of the sympathetic; on the branches of that nerve, and at the point of junction of those branches with the cerebro-spinal nerves. On section, they are seen to consist of a reddish-grey substance, trar versed by numerous white nerve-fibres: they vary considerably in form and size; the largest are found in the cavity of the abdomen; the smallest, not visible with the naked eye, exist in considerable numbers upon the nerves distributed to the different viscera. The ganglia are invested by a smooth and firm closely-adhering membranous envelope, consisting of dense areolar tissue; this sheath is continuous with the neurilemma of the nerves, and sends numerous processes into the interior of the ganglia, which support the blood-vessels supplying its substance. In structure, all ganglia are essentially similar; consisting of the same structural elements as the other nervous centres, viz., a collection of vesicular nervous matter, traversed by tubular and gelatinous nerve-jibres. The vesicular nervous matter consists of nerve-cells or ganglion-globules, most of which appear free, and of a round or oval form, these are more especially seated near the surface of the ganglion; others have caudate processes, and give origin to nerve- fibres. In the ganglia, the nerve-cells are usually enclosed in a capsule of granular corpuscles and fibres. The tubular nerve-fibres run through the ganglion, some being collected into bundles, while others, separating from each other take a circuitous course among the nerve-cells before leaving the ganglia. The Nerves are round or flattened cords, which are connected at one end with the cerebro-spinal centre or the ganglia, and are distributed, at the other, to the various textures of the body : they are subdivided into two great classes, the cerebro-spinal, which proceed from the cerebro-spinal axis, and the sympathetic or ganglionic nerves, which proceed from the ganglia of the sympathetic. The cerebro-spinal are the nerves of animal life, being distributed to the organs of the senses, the skin, and the organs of locomotion : the sympathetic, or gan- glionic nerves, are distributed chiefly to the viscera and blood-vessels, and are termed the nerves of organic life. The Cerebrospinal nerves consist of numerous nerve-fibres, collected together and enclosed in a membranous sheath. A small bundle of primitive fibres, enclosed