72 OSTEOLOGY. jaw; they vary in depth and size according to the teeth they contain. Imme- diately behind the incisor teeth is the anterior palatine fossa. At the bottom of this fossa may usually be seen four apertures, two placed laterally, which open above, one in the floor of each nostril, and transmit the anterior palatine vessels, and two in the median line of the intermaxillary suture, one in front of the other, the anterior transmitting the left, and the posterior (the larger) the right naso- palatine nerve. These two latter canals are sometimes wanting, or they may join to form a single one, or one of them may open into one of the lateral canals above referred to. The palatine vault is concave, uneven, perforated by numerous foramina, marked by depressions for the palatal glands, and crossed by a crucial suture, formed by the junction of the four bones of which it is composed. One or two small foramina, in the alveolar margin behind the incisor teeth, occasionally seen in the adult, almost constant in young subjects, are called the incisive foramina; they transmit nerves and vessels to the incisor teeth. At each pos- terior angle of the hard palate is the posterior palatine foramen, for the transmission of the posterior palatine vessels and anterior palatine nerve, and running forwards and inwards from it a groove, which lodges the same vessels and nerve. Behind the posterior palatine foramen is the tuberosity of the palate bone, perforated by one or more accessory posterior palatine canals, and marked by the commencement of a ridge, which runs transversely inwards, and serves for the attachment of the tendinous expansion of the Tensor palati muscle. Projecting backwards from the centre of the posterior border of the hard palate is the posterior nasal spine, for the attachment of the Azygos uvulae. Behind and above the hard palate is the posterior aperture of the nares, divided into two parts by the vomer, bounded above by the body of the sphenoid, below by the horizontal plate of the palate bone, and laterally by the pterygoid processes of the sphenoid. Each aperture measures about an inch in the vertical, arid half an inch in the transverse direc- tion. At the base of the vomer may be seen the expanded alae of this bone, receiving between them the rostrum of the sphenoid. Near the lateral margins of the vomer, at the root of the pterygoid processes are the pterygo-palatine canals. The pterygoid process, which bounds the posterior nares on each side, presents near its base the pterygoid or Vidian canal, for the Vidian nerve and artery. Each process consists of two plates, which bifurcate at the extremity to receive the tuberosity of the palate bone, and are separated behind by the pterygoid fossa, which lodges the Internal pterygoid muscle. The internal plate is long and narrow, presenting on the outer side of its base the scaphoid fossa, for the origin of the Tensor palati muscle, and at its extremity the hamular process, around which the tendon of this muscle turns. The external pterygoid plate is broad, forms the inner boundary of the zygomatic fossa, and affords attachment, by its outer surface, to the External pterygoid muscle. Behind the nasal fossa? in the middle line is the basilar surface of the occipital bone, presenting in its centre the pharyngeal spine for the attachment of the Superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, with depressions on each side for the insertion of the Rectus capitis anticus major and minor. At the base of the external pterygoid plate is the foramen ovale; behind this, the foramen spinosum, and the prominent spinous process of the sphenoid, which gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw and the Laxator tympani muscle. External to the spinous process is the glenoid fossa, divided into two parts by the Glaserian fissure, the anterior portion concave, smooth, bounded in front by the eminentia articularis, and serving for the articulation of the condyle of the lower jaw; the posterior portion rough, bounded behind by the vaginal process, and serving for the reception of part of the parotid gland. Emerging from between the laminae of the vaginal process is the styloid process; and at the base of this process is the stylo-mastoid foramen, for the exit of the facial nerve, and entrance of the stylo- mastoid artery. External to the stylo-mastoid foramen is the auricular fissure for the auricular branch of the pneumogastric, bounded behind by the mastoid process. Upon the inner side of the mastoid process is a deep groove, the digastric fossa;