398 ARTERIES. supply the posterior surface of the rectum. Other branches are given off on each side, which anastomose with the lateral sacral arteries, and send off small offsets which enter the anterior sacral foramina. Common Iliac Arteries. The abdominal aorta divides into the two common iliac arteries. The bifurcation usually takes place on the left side of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra. This point corresponds to the left side of the umbilicus, and is on a level with a line drawn from the highest point of one iliac crest to the other. The common iliac arteries are about two inches in length; diverging from the termination of the aorta, they pass downwards and outwards to the margin of the pelvis, and divide opposite the intervertebral substance, between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum, into two branches, the external and internal iliac arteries; the former supplying the lower extremity; the latter, the viscera, and parietes of the pelvis. The right common iliac is somewhat larger than the left, and passes more obliquely across the body of the last lumbar vertebra. In front of it are the peritoneum, the ileum, branches of the sympathetic nerve, and, at its point of division, the ureter. Behind, it is separated from the last lumbar ver- tebra, by the two common iliac veins. On its outer side, it is in relation with the inferior vena cava, and right common iliac vein, above; and the Psoas magnus muscle, below. The left common iliac is in relation, in front, with the peritoneum, branches of the sympathetic nerve, the rectum and superior hemorrhoidal artery; and crossed, at its point of bifurcation, by the ureter. The left common iliac vein lies partly on the inner side, and part beneath the artery; on its outer side, the artery is in relation with the Psoas magnus. Branches. The common iliac arteries give off small branches to the peritoneum, Psoas muscles, ureters, and the surrounding cellular membrane, and occasionally give origin to the ilio-lumbar, or renal arteries. Plan of the Relations of the Common Iliac Arteries. hi front. Peritoneum. Small intestines. Sympathetic nerves. Ureter. Outer side. Eight common iliac vein. Vena cava. Behind. Right and Left common iliac veins. In front. Peritoneum. Sympathetic nerves. Rectum. Superior hemorrhoidal artery. Ureter. Inner side. / Left common / iliac vein. Left \ Common Iliac. J Outer side. Psoas muscle. Behind. Left common iliac vein. Peculiarities. The point of origin varies according to the bifurcation of the aorta. In three-fourths of a large number of cases, the aorta bifurcated either upon the fouitbt lumbar vertebra, or upon the intervertebral disc between it and the fifth; the bifurcation being, in one case out of nine below, and in one out of eleven above this point. In ten out of every thirteen cases, the vessel bifurcated within half an inch above or below the level of the crest of the ilium ; more frequently below than above. The point of division is subject to great variety. In two-thirds of a large number of cases, it was between the last lumbar vertebra and the upper border of the sacrum ; being above that point in one case out of eight, and below it in one case out of six. The left common iliac artery divides lower down more frequently than the right. The relative length, also, of the two common iliac arteries varies. The right common iliac was longest in sixty-three cases ; the left, in fifty-two ; whilst they were both equal in fifty-three. The length of the arteries varied in five-sevenths of the cases examined, from an inch and a-half to three inches; in about half):' the remaining cases, the artery was