ANATOMY, DESCRIPTIVE AND SURGICAL. Osteology. TN the construction of the human body, it would appear essential, in the first place, to provide some dense and solid texture capable of serving as a frame- work for the support and attachment of the softer parts, and of forming cavities for the protection of the more important vital organs; and such a structure we find provided in the various bones which form what is called the Skeleton. Structure and Physical Properties of Bone. Bone is one of the hardest structures of the animal body; it possesses also a certain degree of toughness and elasticity. Its colour, in a fresh state, is of a pinkish white externally, and deep red within. On examining a section of any bone, it is seen to be composed of two kinds of tissue, one of which is dense and compact in texture, like ivory; the other consisting of slender fibres and lamellae, which join to form a reticular structure; this, from its resemblance to lattice work, is called cancellous. The compact tissue is always placed on the exterior of a bone; the cancellous tissue is always internal. The relative quantity of these two kinds of tissue varies in different bones, and in different parts of the same bone, as strength or lightness is requisite. Close examination of the compact tissue shows it to be extremely porous, so that the difference in structure between it and the cancellous tissue depends merely upon the different amount of solid matter, and the size and number of the spaces in each; the cavities being small in the compact tissue, and the solid matter between them abundant; whilst in the cancellous tissue the spaces are large, and the solid matter diminished in quantity. Chemical Analysis. Bone consists of an organic, or animal, and an inorganic, or earthy material, intimately combined together; the animal matter giving to bone its elasticity and toughness, the earthy part its hardness and solidity. The animal constituent may be separated from the earthy, by steeping bone in a dilute solution of nitric or muriatic acid : by which process, the earthy constituents are gradually dissolved out, leaving a tough semi-transparent substance, which retains, in every respect, the original form of the bone. This is often called cartilage, but differs from it in the following respects : viz., that it is softer and more flexible, and, when boiled under a high pressure, is almost entirely resolved into gelatine. Cartilage does, however, form the animal basis of bone in certain parts of the skeleton. Thus, according to Tomes and De Morgan, it occurs in the petrous part of the temporal bone; and, according to Dr. Sharpey, on the articular ends of adult bones, lying underneath the natural cartilage of the joint. The earthy constituent may be obtained by subjecting a bone to strong heat in an open fire with free access of air. By these means, the animal matter is entirely consumed, the earthy part remaining as a white brittle substance, which still preserves the original shape of the bone. Both constituents present the singular property of remaining unaltered in chemical composition after a lapse of centuries. B