479 DURA MATER.—ARACHNOID MEMBRANE. These bodies are not found in infancy, and very rarely until the third year. They are usually found after the seventh year; and from this period they increase in number as age advances. Occasionally they are wanting. Processes of the Dura Mater. The processes of the dura mater, sent inwards into the cavity of the skull, are three in number, the falx cerebri, the tentorium cerebelli, and the falx cerebelli. The falx cerebri, so named from its sickle-like form, is a strong arched process of the dura mater, which descends vertically in the longitudinal fissure between the two hemispheres of the brain. It is narrow in front, where it is attached to the crista galli process of the ethmoid bone; and broad behind, where it is connected with the upper surface of the tentorium. Its upper margin is convex, and attached to the inner surface of the skull as far back as the internal occipital protuberance. In this situation, it is broad, and contains the superior longitudinal sinus. Its lower margin is free, concave, and presents a sharp curved edge, which contains the inferior longitudinal sinus. The tentorium cerebelli, is an arched lamina of dura mater, elevated in the middle, and inclining downwards towards its circumference. It covers the upper surface of the cerebellum, supporting the posterior lobes of the brain, and pre- venting their pressure upon it. It is attached, behind, by its convex border, to the transverse ridges upon the inner surface of the occipital bone, and there encloses the lateral sinuses; in front, to the superior margin of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, enclosing the superior petrosal sinuses, and from the apex of this bone, on each side, is continued to the anterior and posterior clinoid processes. Along the middle line of its upper surface, the posterior border of the falx cerebri is attached, the straight sinus being placed at their point of junction. Its anterior border is free and concave, and presents a large oval opening for the transmission of the crura cerebri. The falx cerebelli is a small triangular process of dura mater, received into the indentation between the two lateral lobes of the cerebellum behind. Its base is attached, above, to the under and back part of the tentorium; its posterior margin, to the lower division of the vertical crest on the inner surface of the occipital bone. As it descends, it sometimes divides into two smaller folds, which are lost on the sides of the foramen magnum. Arachnoid Membrane. The arachnoid {apayyr\, etSo?, like a spider's web), so named from its extreme thinness, is the serous membrane which envelopes the brain, and is then reflected on the inner surface of the dura mater. Like other serous membranes, it is a shut sac, and consists of a parietal and a visceral layer. The parietal layer covers the inner surface of the dura mater,* and gives this membrane the smooth and polished surface which it presents; it is also reflected over those processes which separate the hemispheres of the brain and cerebellum. The visceral layer invests the brain more loosely, being separated from direct contact with the cerebral substance by the pia mater, and a quantity of loose areolar tissue, the subarachnoidean. On the upper surface of the cerebrum, the arachnoid is thin and transparent, and may be easily demonstrated by injecting a stream of air beneath it by means of a blowpipe; it passes over the convolutions without dipping down into the sulci between them. At the base of the brain, the arachnoid is thicker, and slightly opaque towards the central part; it covers the anterior lobes, and is extended across between the two middle lobes, so as to leave a con- siderable interval between it and the brain, the anterior subarachnoidean space ; it is closely adherent to the pons and under surface of the cerebellum; but between * Kolliker denies this; and states, that the inner surface of the dura mater is covered with pavement epithelium, but has no other investment which can be regarded as a parietal layer of the arachnoid.