OF THE NECK. this vein passes opposite the mastoid process, it receives the mastoid vein, which establishes a communication with the lateral sinus. Veins of the Neck. The veins of the neck, which return the blood from the head and face, are the External jugular. Anterior jugular. Posterior external jugular. Internal jugular. Vertebral. The External Jugular Vein receives the greater part of the blood from the exterior of the cranium and deep parts of the face, being a continuation of the temporo-niaxillary and posterior auricular veins. It commences in the substance of the parotid gland, on a level with the angle of the lower jaw, and runs perpen- dicularly down the neck, in the direction of a line drawn from the angle of the jaw to the middle of the clavicle. In its course, it crosses the Sterno-mastoid muscle, and runs parallel with its posterior border as far as its attachment to the clavicle, where it perforates the deep fascia, and terminates in the subclavian vein, on the outer side of the internal jugular. In the neck, it is separated from the Sterno-mastoid by the anterior layer of the deep cervical fascia, and is covered by the Platysma, the superficial fascia, and the integument. This vein is crossed about its centre by the superficial cervical nerve, and its upper half is accompanied by the auricularis magnus nerve. The external jugular vein varies in size, bearing an inverse proportion to that of the other veins of the neck : it is occasionally double. It is provided with two pairs of valves, the lower pair being placed at its entrance into the subclavian vein, the upper pair in most cases about an inch and a half above the clavicle. These valves do not prevent the regurgita- tion of the blood, or the passage of injection from below upwards."* Branches. This vein receives the occipital, the posterior external jugular, and, near its termination, the suprascapular and transverse cervical veins. It com- municates with the anterior jugular, and, in the substance of the parotid, receives a large branch of communication from the internal jugular. The Posterior External Jugular Vein returns the blood from the integument and superficial muscles in the upper and back part of the neck, lying between the Splenius and Trapezius muscles. It runs down the back part of the neck, and opens into the external jugular just below the middle of its course. The Anterior Jugular Vein collects the blood from the integument and muscles in the middle of the anterior region of the neck. It passes down between the median line and the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, and, at the lower part of the neck, passes beneath that muscle to open into the subclavian vein, near the termination of the external jugular. This vein varies considerably in size, bearing almost always an inverse proportion to the external jugular. Most frequently there are two anterior jugulars, a right and left; but occasionally only one. This vein receives some laryngeal branches, and occasionally an inferior thyroid vein. Just above the sternum, the two anterior jugular veins communicate by a transverse trunk, which receives branches from the inferior thyroid veins. It also communicates with the external and with the internal jugular. There are no valves in this vein. The Internal Jugular Vein collects the blood from the interior of the cra- nium, from the superficial parts of the face, and from the neck. It commences at the jugular foramen, in the base of the skull, being formed by the coalescence of the lateral and inferior petrosal sinuses. At its origin it is somewhat dilated, * The student may refer to an interesting paper by Dr. Struthers, ' On Jugular Vene- section in Asphyxia, Anatomically and Experimentally Considered, including the Demon- station of Valves in the Veins of the Neck,' in the Edinburgh Medical Journal, for November, 1856.