ARTERIES. 396 moses with the sigmoid artery. From the arches formed by these inosculations, branches are distributed to the descending colon. The sigmoid artery runs obliquely downwards across the Psoas muscle to the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and divides into branches which supply that part of the intestine; anastomosing above, with the colica sinistra; and below, with the superior hcemorrhoidal artery. This vessel is sometimes replaced by three or four small branches. The superior hcemorrhoidal artery, the continuation of the inferior mesen- teric, descends into the pelvis between the layers of the meso-rectum, crossing, in its course, the ureter, and left common iliac vessels. Opposite the middle of the sacrum it divides into two branches, which descend one on each side of the rectum, where they divide into several small branches, which are distributed between the mucous and muscular coats of that tube, nearly as far as its lower end; anastomosing with each other, with the middle haamorrhoidai arteries, branches of the internal iliac, and with the inferior hcemorrhoidal, branches of the internal pudic. The student should especially remark, that the trunk of the vessel descends along the back part of the rectum as far as the middle of the sacrum before it divides; this is about a finger's length or four inches from the anus. In disease of this tube, the rectum should never be divided beyond this point in that direction, for fear of involving this artery. The Suprarenal Arteries are two small vessels which arise, one on each side of the aorta, opposite the superior mesenteric artery. They pass obliquely upwards and outwards, to the under surface of the suprarenal capsules, to which they are distributed, anastomosing with capsular branches from the phrenic and renal arteries. In the adult these arteries are of small size; in the fcetus they are as large as the renal arteries. The Renal Arteries are two large trunks, which arise from the sides of the aorta, immediately below the superior mesenteric artery. Each is directed out- wards, so as to form nearly a right angle with the aorta. The right is longer than the left, on account of the position of the aorta; it passes behind the inferior vena cava. The left is somewhat higher than the right. Previously to entering the kidney, each artery divides into four or five branches, which are distributed to its substance. At the hilus, these branches lie between the renal vein and ureter, the vein being usually in front, the ureter behind. Each vessel gives off some small branches to the suprarenal capsules, the ureter, and the surrounding cellular membrane and muscles. The Spermatic Arteries are distributed to the testes in the male, and to the ovaria in the female. They are two slender vessels, of considerable length, which arise from the front of the aorta, a little below the renal arteries. Each artery passes obliquely outwards and downwards, behind the peritoneum, crossing the ureter, and resting on the Psoas muscle, the right spermatic lying in front of the inferior vena cava, the left behind the sigmoid flexure of the colon. On reaching the margin of the pelvis, each vessel passes in front of the corresponding external iliac artery, and takes a different course in the two sexes. In the male, it is directed outwards, to the internal abdominal ring, and accompanies the other constituents of the spermatic cord along the spermatic canal to the testis, where it becomes tortuous, and divides into several branches, two or three of which accompany the vas deferens, and supply the epididymus, anastomosing with the artery of the vas deferens; others pierce the back part of the tunica albuginea, and supply the substance of the testis. In the female, the spermatic arteries (ovarian) are shorter than in the male, and do not pass out of the abdominal cavity. On arriving at the margins of the pelvis, each artery passes inwards, between the two laminae of the broad ligament of the uterus, to be distributed to the ovary. One or two small branches supply the Fallopian tube; another passes on to the side of the uterus, and anastomoses with the uterine arteries. Other offsets are continued along the round ligament, through the inguinal canal, to the integument of the labium and groin.