654 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. and joins the hepatic duct to form the common duct. It lies in the gastro-hepatic omentum in front of the vena cava, the cystic artery lying to its left side. The mucous membrane lining its interior is thrown into a series of crescentic folds, from five to twelve in number, which project into the duct in regular succession, and are directed obliquely round the tube, presenting much the appearance of a continuous spiral valve. They exist only in the human subject. When the duct has been distended, the interspaces between the folds are dilated, so as to give to its exterior a sacculated appearance. The ductus communis choledocus, the largest of the three, is the common ex- cretory duct of the liver and gall-bladder. It is about three inches in length, of the diameter of a goose-quill, and formed by the junction of the cystic and hepatic ducts. It descends along the right border of the lesser omentum, behind the first portion of the duodenum, in front of the vena portas, and to the right of the hepatic artery; it then passes between the pancreas and descending portion of the duodenum, and, running for a short distance along the right side of the pancreatic duct, near its termination, passes with it obliquely between the mucous and mus- cular coats, the two opening by a common orifice upon the summit of a papilla, situated at the inner side of the descending portion of the duodenum, a little below its middle. Structure. The coats of the biliary ducts are, an external or fibrous, and an internal or mucous. The fibrous coat is composed of a strong areolar fibrous tissue. The mucous coat is continuous with the lining membrane of the hepatic ducts and gall-bladder, and also with that of the duodenum. It is provided with numerous glands, the orifices of which are scattered irregularly in the larger ducts, but in the smaller hepatic ducts are disposed in two longitudinal rows, one on each side of the vessel. These glands are of two kinds. Some are ramified tubes, which occasionally anastomose, and from the sides of which saccular dilatations are given off; others are small clustered cellular glands, which open either sepa- rately into the hepatic duct, or into the ducts of the tubular glands. The Pancreas. Dissection. The pancreas may be exposed for dissection in three different ways : i. By raising the liver, drawing down the stomach, and tearing through the gastro-hepatic omentum. 2. By raising the stomach, the arch of the colon, and great omentum, and then dividing the inferior layer of the transverse meso-colon. 3. By dividing the two iayers of peritoneum, which descend from the great curvature of the stomach to form the "great omentum ; turning this organ upwards, and then cutting through the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon. The Pancreas (jrav-fcpeas, all flesh) is a conglomerate gland, analogous in its structure to the salivary glands. In shape, it is transversely oblong, flattened from before backwards, and bears some resemblance to a dog's tongue, its right extremity being broad, and presenting a sort of angular bend from above down- wards, called the head, whilst its left extremity gradually tapers to form the tail, the intermediate portion being called the body. It is situated transversely across the posterior wall of the abdomen, at the back of the epigastric and both hypo- chondriac regions. Its length varies from six to eight inches, its breadth is an inch and a half, and its thickness from half an inch to an inch, being greater at its right extremity and along its upper border. Its weight varies from two to three and a half ounces, but it may reach six ounces. The right extremity or head of the pancreas (fig. 346) is curved upon itself from above downwards, and is embraced by the concavity of the duodenum. The common bile duct descends behind, between the duodenum and pancreas ; and the pancreatico-duodenal artery descends in front between the same parts. On the posterior aspect of the pancreas is a lobular fold of the gland, which passes trans- versely to the left, behind the superior mesenteric vessels, forming the back part of the canal in which they are contained. It is sometimes detached from the rest of the gland, and is called the lesser pancreas.