595 VITREOUS BODY. LENS. iris; behind, by the capsule of the lens and its suspensory ligament, and the ciliary processes. In the adult, these two chambers communicate through the pupil; but in the foetus before the seventh month, when the pupil is closed by the membrana pupil- laris, the two chambers are quite separate. It has been generally supposed that the two chambers are lined by a distinct membrane, the secreting membrane of the aqueous humour, analogous in struc- ture to that of a serous sac. An epithelial covering can, however, only be found on the posterior surface of the cornea. That the two chambers do, however, secrete this fluid separately, is shown from its being found in both spaces before the removal of the membrana pupillaris. It is probable that the parts concerned in the secretion of the fluid, are the posterior surface of the cornea, both surfaces of the iris, and the ciliary processes. Vitreous Body. The vitreous body forms about four-fifths of the entire globe. It fills the concavity of the retina, and is hollowed in front for the reception of the lens and its capsule. It is perfectly transparent, of the consistence of thin jelly, and consists of an albuminous fluid enclosed in a delicate, transparent membrane, the hyaloid. This membrane invests the outer surface of the vitreous body; it is intimately connected in front with the supensory ligament of the lens; and is continued into the back part of the capsule of the lens. It has been supposed, by Hannover, that from its inner surface numerous thin lamella? are prolonged inwards in a radiating manner, forming spaces in which the fluid is contained. In the adult, these lamellae cannot be detected even after careful microscopic . examination; but in the foetus a peculiar fibrous texture pervades the mass, the fibres joining at numerous points, and presenting minute nuclear granules at their point of junction. The fluid from the vitreous body resembles nearly pure water; it contains, however, some salts, and a little albumen. In the foetus, the centre of the vitreous humour presents a tubular canal, through which a minute artery passes along the vitreous body to the capsule of the lens. In the adult, no vessels penetrate its substance; so that its nutrition must be carried on by the vessels of the retina and ciliary procesess, situated upon its exterior. Crystalline Lens and its Capsule. The crystalline lens, enclosed in its capsule, is situated immediately behind the pupil, in front of the vitreous body, and surrounded by the ciliary processes, which slightly overlap its margin. The capsule of the lens is a transparent, highly elastic, and brittle membrane, which closely surrounds the lens. It rests, behind, in a depression in the fore part of the vitreous body: in front, it forms part of the posterior chamber of the eye; and it is retained in its position chiefly by the suspensory ligament of the lens. The capsule is much thicker in front than behind, structureless in texture; and when ruptured, the edges roll up with the outer surface innermost, like the elastic laminae of the cornea. The lens is connected to the inner surface of the capsule by a single layer of transparent, polygonal, nucleated cells. These, after death, absorb moisture from the fluids of the eye; and, breaking down, form the liquor Morgagni. In the foetus, a small branch from the arteria centralis retinas runs forwards, as already mentioned, through the vitreous humour to the posterior part of the cap- sule of the lens, where its branches radiate and form a plexiform network, which covers its surface, and are continuous round the margin of the capsule, with the vessels of the pupillary membrane, and with those of the iris. In the adult, no vessels enter its substance. Q Q 2