ULNA. 105 forwards, and from within outwards, so as to be convex behind and externally; its central part is quite straight; its lower part rounded, smooth, and bent a little outwards; it tapers gradually from above downwards, and presents for examination three borders, and three surfaces. The anterior border commences above at the prominent inner angle of the coro- noid process, and terminates below in front of the styloid process. It is well marked above, smooth and rounded in the middle of its extent, and affords attachment to the Flexor profundus digitorum: sharp and prominent in its lower fourth for the attachment of the Pronator quadratus. It separates the anterior from the internal surface. The posterior border commences above at the apex of the triangular surface at the back part of the olecranon, and terminates below at the back part of the styloid process; it is well marked in the upper three-fourths, and gives attachment to an aponeurosis common to the Flexor carpi ulnaris, the Extensor carpi ulnaris, and the Flexor profundus digitorum muscles; its lower fourth is smooth and rounded. This border separates the internal from the posterior surface. The external border commences above by two lines, which converge one from each extremity of the lesser sigmoid cavity, enclosing between them a triangular space for the attachment of part of the Supinator brevis, and terminates below at the middle of the head of the ulna. Its two middle fourths are very prominent, and serve for the attachment of the interosseous membrane; its lower fourth is smooth and rounded. This border separates the anterior from the posterior surface. The anterior surface, much broader above than below, is concave in the upper three-fourths of its extent, and affords attachment to the Flexor profundus digi- torum; its lower fourth, also concave, to the Pronator quadratus. The lower fourth is separated from the remaining portion of the bone by a prominent ridge, directed obliquely from above downwards and inwards; this ridge marks the extent of attachment of the Pronator above. At the junction of the upper with the middle third of the bone, is the nutritious canal, directed obliquely upwards and inwards. The posterior surface, directed backwards and outwards, is broad and concave above, somewhat narrower and convex in the middle of its course, narrow, smooth, and rounded below. It presents above an oblique ridge, which runs from the posterior extremity of the lesser sigmoid cavity, downwards to the posterior border; the triangular surface above this ridge receives the insertion of the An- coneus muscle, whilst the ridge itself affords attachment to the Supinator brevis. The surface of bone below this is subdivided by a longitudinal ridge, sometimes called the perpendicular line, into two parts: the internal partis smooth, concave, and gives origin to (occasionally is merely covered by) the Extensor carpi ulnaris; the external portion, wider and rougher, gives attachment from above downwards to part of the Supinator brevis, the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, the Extensor secundi internodii pollicis, and the Extensor indicis muscles. The internal surface is broad and concave above, narrow and convex below. It gives attachment by its upper three-fourths to the Flexor profundus digitorum muscle; its lower fourth is subcutaneous. The Loiver Extremity of the ulna is of small size, and excluded from the articu- lation of the wrist joint. It presents for examination two eminences; the outer and larger is a rounded articular eminence, termed the head of the ulna. The inner narrower and more projecting, is a non-articular eminence, the styloid process. The head presents an articular facet, part of which, of an oval form, is directed downwards, and plays on the surface of the triangular fibro-cartilage, which separates this bone from the wrist joint; the remaining portion, directed outwards, is narrow, convex, and received into the sigmoid cavity of the radius. The styloid process projects from the inner and back part of the bone, and descends a little lower than the head, terminating in a rounded summit, which affords attach- ment to the internal lateral ligament of the wrist. The head is separated from the styloid process by a depression for the attachment of the triangular inter-