2l8 MUSCLES AND FASCIiE. numerous muscles which converge to the mouth from various parts of the face. Its inner circumference is free, and covered by the mucous membrane. The Buccinator is a broad, thin muscle, quadrilateral in form, which occupies the interval between the jaws at the side of the face. It arises from the outer surface of the alveolar processes of the upper and lower jaws, corresponding to the last three molar teeth; and, behind, from the anterior border of the pterygo-maxillary ligament. The fibres converge towards the angle of the mouth, where the central fibres intersect each other, those from below being continuous with the upper segment of the Orbicularis oris ; and those from above, with the inferior segment; the highest and lowest fibres continue forward uninterruptedly into the corre- sponding segment of the lip, without decussation. Relations. By its superficial surface, behind, with a large mass of fat, which separates it from the ramus of the lower jaw, the Masseter, and a small portion of the Temporal muscle; anteriorly, with the Zygomatici, Kisorius, Levator anguli oris, Depressor anguli oris, and Stenon's duct, which pierces it opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw; the facial artery and vein cross it from below upwards; it is also crossed by the branches of the facial and' buccal nerves. By its internal surface, with the buccal glands and mucous membrane of the mouth. The pterygo-maxillary ligament separates the Buccinator muscle from the Superior constrictor of the pharynx. It is a tendinous band, attached by one extremity to the apex of the internal pterygoid plate, and by the other to the posterior extremity of the internal oblique line of the lower jaw. Its inner surface corresponds to the cavity of the mouth, and is lined by mucous membrane. Its outer surface is separated from the ramus of the jaw by a quantity of adipose tissue. Its posterior border gives attachment to the Superior constrictor of the pharynx ; its anterior border, to the fibres of the Buccinator. The Risorius (Santorini) consists of a narrow bundle of fibres, which arises in the fascia over the Masseter muscle, and passing horizontally forwards, is inserted into the angle of the mouth, joining with the fibres of the Depressor anguli oris. It is placed superficial to the Platysma, and is broadest at its outer extremity. This muscle varies much in its size and form. Nerves. The Orbicularis oris is supplied by the facial, the Buccinator by the facial and by the buccal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. Actions. The Orbicularis oris is the direct antagonist of all those muscles which converge to the lips from the various parts of the face, its ordinary action producing the direct closure of the lips; and its forcible action throwing the integument into wrinkles, on account of the firm connection between the latter and the surface of the muscle. The Buccinators contract and compress the cheeks, so that, during the process of mastication, the food is kept under the immediate pressure of the teeth. 9. Temporo-Maxillary Region (fig. 151). Masseter. Temporal. The Masseter has been already exposed by the removal of the integument from the side of the face (fig. 148); it is a short thick muscle, somewhat quadrilateral in form, consisting of two portions, superficial and deep. The superficial portion, the larger, arises by a thick tendinous aponeurosis from the malar process of the superior maxilla, and from the anterior two-thirds of the lower border of the zygomatic arch: its fibres pass downwards and backwards, to be inserted into the angle and lower half of the ramus of the jaw. The deep portion is much smaller, and more muscular in texture; it arises from the posterior third of the lower border and the whole of the inner surface of the zygomatic arch; its fibres pass downwards and forwards, to be inserted into the upper half of the ramus and outer surface of the coronoid process of the jaw. The deep portion of the muscle is partly concealed, in front, by the superficial portion; behind, it is covered by the parotid gland. The fibres of the two portions are united at their insertion.