PHRENIC.—MIDDLE SACRAL. 397 At an early period of foetal life, when the testes lie by the side of the spine, below the kidneys, the spermatic arteries are short; but as these organs descend from the abdomen into the scrotum, the arteries become gradually lengthened. The Phrenic Arteries are two small vessels, which present much variety in their origin. They may arise separately from the front of the aorta, immediately below the coeliac axis, or by a common trunk, which may spring either from the aorta, or from the coeliac axis. Sometimes one is derived from the aorta, and the other from one of the renal arteries. In only one out of thirty-six cases, did these arteries arise as two separate vessels from the aorta. They diverge from one another across the crura of the Diaphragm, and then pass obliquely upwards and outwards upon its under surface. The left phrenic passes behind the oesophagus, and runs forwards on the left side of the oesophageal opening. The right phrenic passes behind the liver and inferior vena cava, and ascends along the right side of the aperture for transmitting that vein. Near the back part of the central tendon, each vessel divides into two branches. The internal branch runs forwards to the front of the thorax, supplying the Diaphragm, and anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the musculo-phrenic, a branch of the internal mammary. The external branch passes towards the side of the thorax, and in- osculates with the intercostal arteries. The internal branch of the right phrenic gives off a few vessels to the inferior vena cava; and the left one some branches to the oesophagus. Each vessel also sends capsular branches to the suprarenal capsule of its own side. The spleen on the left side, and the liver on the right, also receives a few branches from these vessels. The Lumbar Arteries are analogous to the intercostal. They are usually four in number on each side, and arise from the back part of the aorta, nearly at right angles with that vessel. They pass outwards and backwards, around the sides of the body of the corresponding lumbar vertebra, behind the sympathetic nerve and the Psoas muscle; those on the right side being covered by the inferior vena cava, and the two upper ones on each side by the crura of the Diaphragm. In the interval between the transverse processes of the vertebrae, each artery divides into a dorsal and an abdominal branch. The dorsal branch gives off, immediately after its origin, a spinal branch, which enters the spinal canal; it then continues its course backwards, between the transverse processes, and is distributed to the muscles and integument of the back, anastomosing with each other, and with the posterior branches of the inter- costal arteries. The spinal branch, besides supplying offsets which run along the nerves to the dura mater and cauda equina, anastomosing with the other spinal arteries, divides into two branches, one of which ascends on the posterior surface of the body of the vertebra above, and the other descends on the posterior surface of the body of the vertebra below, both vessels anastomosing with similar branches from neighbouring spinal arteries. The inosculations of these vessels on each side, throughout the whole length of the spine, form a series of arterial arches behind the bodies of the vertebras, which are connected with each other, and with a median longitudinal vessel, extending along the middle of the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, by transverse branches. From these vessels offsets are distributed to the periosteum and bones. The abdominal branches pass outwards, behind the Quadratus lumborum, the lowest branch occasionally in front of that muscle, and, being continued between the abdominal muscles, anastomose with branches of the epigastric and internal mammary in front, the intercostals above, and those of the ilio-lumbar, and circumflex iliac, below. The Middle Sacral Artery is a small vessel, about the size of a crow-quill, which arises from the back part of the aorta, just at its bifurcation. It descends upon the last lumbar vertebra, and along the middle line of the front of the sacrum, to the upper part of the coccyx, where it terminates by anastomosing with the lateral sacral arteries. From it, branches arise which run through the meso-rectum, to