138 OSTEOLOGY. the styloid process, which projects upwards from the posterior part of the head. The prominence gives attachment to the tendon of the Biceps muscle, and to the long external lateral ligament of the knee, the ligament dividing the tendon into two parts. The summit of the styloid process gives attachment to the short external lateral ligament. The remaining part of the circumference of the head is rough, for the attachment, in front, of the anterior superior tibio-fibular liga- ment, and the uj^per and anterior part of the Peroneus longus ; and behind, to the posterior superior tibio-fibular ligament, and the upper fibres of the outer head of the Soleus muscle. The Lower Extremity, or external malleolus, is of a pyramidal form, some- what flattened from without inwards, and is longer, and descends lower than the internal malleolus. Its external surface is convex, subcutaneous, and con- tinuous with a triangular (also subcutaneous) surface on the outer side of the shaft. The internal surface presents in front a smooth triangular facet, broader above than below, and convex from above downwards, which articulates with a corre- sponding surface on the outer side of the astragalus. Behind and beneath the articular surface is a rough depression, which gives attachment to the posterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle. The anterior border is thick and rough, and marked below by a depression for the attachment of the anterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament. The posterior border is broad and marked by a shallow groove, for the passage of the tendons of the Peroneus longus and brevis muscles. The summit is rounded, and gives attachment to the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament. The Shaft presents three surfaces, and three borders. The anterior border com- mences above in front of the head, runs vertically downwards to a little below the middle of the bone, and then curving a little outwards, bifurcates below into two lines, which bound the triangular subcutaneous surface immediately above the outer side of the external malleolus. This border gives attachment to an inter- muscular septum, which separates the muscles on the anterior surface from those on the external. The internal border or interosseous ridge, is situated close to the inner side of the preceding, and runs nearly parallel with it in the upper third of its extent, but diverges from it so as to include a broader space in the lower two-thirds. It commences above just beneath the head of the bone (sometimes it is quite indistinct for about an inch below the head), and terminates below at the apex of a rough triangular surface immediately above the articular facet of the external malleolus. It serves for the attachment of the interosseous membrane, and separates the extensor muscles in front, from the flexor muscles behind. The portion of bone included between the anterior and interosseous lines forms the anterior surface. The posterior border is sharp and prominent ; it commences above at the base of the styloid process, and terminates below in the posterior border of the outer malleolus. It is directed outwards above, backwards in the middle of its course, backwards and a little inwards below, and gives attachment to an aponeurosis which separates the muscles on the outer from those on the inner surface of the shaft. The portion of bone included between this line and the interosseous ridge, and which includes more than half of the whole circumference of the fibula, is known as the internal surface. Its upper three-fourths are subdivided into two parts, an anterior and a posterior, by a very prominent ridge, the oblique line of the fibula, which commences above at the inner side of the head, and terminates by being continuous with the interosseous ridge at the lower fourth of the bone. The oblique line attaches an aponeurosis which separates the Tibialis posticus from the Soleus above, and the Flexor longus pollicis below. This ridge some- times ceases just before approaching the interosseous ridge. The anterior surface is the interval between the anterior and interosseous lines. It is extremely narrow and flat in the upper third of its extent; broader and grooved longitudinally in its lower third ; it serves for the attachment of three muscles, the Extensor longus digitorum, Peroneus tertius, and Extensor longus pollicis.