123 OS INNOMINATUM. crus penis. Its outer border forms part of the circumference of the obturator foramen. The cotyloid cavity, or acetabulum, is a deep, cup-shaped, hemispherical de- pression ; formed, internally, by the pubes; above, by the ilium; behind and below, by the ischium, a little less than two-fifths being formed by the ilium, a little more than two-fifths by the ischium, and the remaining fifth by the pubes. It is bounded by a prominent uneven rim, which is thick and strong above, and serves for the attachment of a fibro-cartilaginous structure, which contracts its orifice, and deepens the surface for articulation. It presents on its inner side a deep notch, the cotyloid notch, which transmits the nutrient vessels into the interior of the joint, and is continuous with a circular depression at the bottom of the cavity : this depression is perforated by numerous apertures, lodges a mass of fat, and its margins serve for the attachment of the ligamentum teres. The notch is converted, in the natural state, into a foramen by a dense ligamentous band which passes across it. Through this foramen, the nutrient vessels and nerves enter the joint. The obturator or thyroid foramen is a large aperture, situated between the ischium and pubes. In the male it is large, of an oval form, its longest diameter being obliquely from above downwards; in the female smaller, and more triangular. It is bounded by a thin uneven margin, to which a strong membrane is attached; and presents, at its upper and outer part, a deep groove, which runs from the pelvis obliquely forwards, inwards, and downwards. This groove is converted into a foramen by the obturator membrane, and transmits the obturator vessels and nerve. Structure. This bone consists of much cancellous tissue, especially where it is thick, enclosed between two layers of dense compact tissue. In the thinner parts of the bone, as at the bottom of the acetabulum, and centre of the iliac fossa, it is usually semi-transparent, and composed entirely of compact tissue. Development (fig. 99). By eight centres : three primary—one for the ilium, one for the ischium, and one for the pubes; and Jive secondary—one for the crest of the ilium its whole length, one for the anterior inferior spinous process (said to occur more frequently in the male than the female), one for the tuberosity of the ischium, one for the symphysis pubis (more frequent in the female than the male), and one for the Y-shaped piece at the bottom of the acetabulum. These various centres appear in the following order: First, in the ilium, at the lower part of the bone, I immediately above the sciatic notch, at about the same period that the develop- ment of the vertebrae commences. Secondly, in the body of the ischium, at about the third month of foetal life. Thirdly, in the body of the pubes, between the fourth and fifth months. At birth, the three primary centres are quite separate; the crest, the bottom of the acetabulum, and the rami of the ischium and pubes, being still cartilaginous. At about the sixth year, the rami of the pubes and ischium are almost completely ossified. About the thirteenth or fourteenth year, the three divisions of the bone have extended their growth into the bottom of the acetabu- lum, being separated from each other by a Y-shaped portion of cartilage, which now presents traces of ossification. The ilium and ischium then become joined, and lastly the pubes, through the intervention of the portion above mentioned. At about the age of puberty, ossification takes place in each of the remaining portions, I and they become joined to the rest of the bone about the twenty-fifth year. Articulations. With its fellow of the opposite side, the sacrum and femur. Attachment of Muscles. Ilium. To the outer lip of the crest, the Tensor vaginae femoris, Obliquus externus abdominis, and Latissimus dorsi; to the internal lip, the Transversalis, Quadratus lumborum, and Erector spinas; to the interspace between the lips, the Obliquus internus. To the outer surface of the ilium, the Gluteus maximus, Gluteus medius, Gluteus minimus, reflected tendon of Rectus, j portion of Pyriformis; to the internal surface, the Iliacus; to the anterior border, the Sartorius and straight tendon of the Rectus. Ischium. To its outer surface, the Obturator externus; internal surface, Obturator internus and Levator ani. To the spine, the Gemellus superior, Levator ani, and Coccygeus. To the