570 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. form a large round cord of considerable size. It descends obliquely inwards in front of the bodies of the vertebrae along the posterior mediastinum, perforates the crus of the Diaphragm, and terminates in the semilunar ganglion, distributing filaments to the renal plexus and suprarenal capsule. The lesser splanchnic nerve is formed by filaments from the tenth and eleventh ganglia, and from the cord between them. It pierces the Diaphragm with the preceding nerve, and joins the coeliac plexus. It communicates in the chest with the great splanchnic nerve, and occasionally sends filaments to the renal plexus. The smallest or renal splanchnic nerve arises from the last ganglion, and piercing the Diaphragm, terminates in the renal plexus and lower part of the coeliac plexus. It occasionally communicates with the preceding nerve. A striking analogy appears to exist between the splanchnic and the cardiac nerves. The cardiac nerves are three in number; they arise from the three cervical ganglia, and are distributed to a large and important organ in the thoracic cavity. The splanchnic nerves, also three in number, are connected probably with all the dorsal ganglia, and are distributed to important organs in the abdominal cavity. The epigastric or solar plexus supplies all the viscera in the abdominal cavity. It consists of a dense network of nerves and ganglia, situated behind the stomach and in front of the aorta and crura of the Diaphragm. It surrounds the cccliac axis and root of the superior mesenteric artery, extending downwards as low as the pancreas, and outwards to the suprarenal capsules. This plexus, and the ganglia connected with it, receive the great splanchnic nerve of both sides, part of the lesser splanchnic nerves, and the termination of the right pneumogastric. It distributes filaments, which accompany, under the name of plexuses, all the branches from the front of the abdominal aorta. The semilunar ganglia, of the solar plexus, two in number, one on each side, are the largest ganglia in the body. They are large irregular gangliform masses, formed by the aggregation of smaller ganglia, having interspaces between them. They are situated by the side of the coeliac axis and superior mesenteric artery, close to the suprarenal capsules: the one on the right side lies beneath the vena cava; the upper part of each ganglion is joined by the greater and lesser splanch- nic nerves, and to the inner side of each the branches of the solar plexus are connected. From the solar plexus are derived the following:— Phrenic or Diaphragmatic plexus. Suprarenal plexus. Coeliac plexus. Renal plexus. Gastric plexus. Superior mesenteric plexus. Hepatic plexus. Spermatic plexus. Splenic plexus. Inferior mesenteric plexus. The phrenic plexus accompanies the phrenic artery to the Diaphragm, which it supplies, some filaments passing to the suprarenal capsule. It arises from the upper part of the semilunar ganglion, and is larger on the right than on the left side. In connection with this plexus, on the right side, at its point of junction with the phrenic nerve, is a small ganglion (ganglion diaphragmaticum). This ganglion is placed on the under surface of the Diaphragm, near the suprarenal capsule. Its branches are distributed to the vena cava, suprarenal capsule, and the hepatic plexus. There is no ganglion on the left side. The suprarenal plexus is formed by branches from the solar plexus, from the semilunar ganglion, and from the splanchnic and phrenic nerves, a ganglion being formed at the point of junction of the latter nerve. It supplies the suprarenal gland. The branches of this plexus are remarkable for their large size, in com- parison with the size of the organ they supply. The renal plexus is formed by filaments from the solar plexus, the outer part of the semilunar ganglion, and the aortic plexus. It is also joined by filaments from the lesser and smallest splanchnic nerves. The nerves from these sources,