SUBCLAVIAN. 363 part, and passes obliquely towards the right side, behind the oesophagus and right carotid, sometimes between the oesophagus and trachea, to the upper border of the first rib, where it follows its ordinary course. In very rare instances, this vessel arises from the thoracic aorta, as low down as the fourth dorsal vertebra. Occasionally it perforates the Anterior scalenus; more rarely it passes in front of this muscle: sometimes the subclavian vein passes with the artery behind the Scalenus. The artery sometimes ascends as high as an inch and a half above the clavicle, or to any intermediate point between this and the upper border of this bone, the right subclavian usually ascending higher than the left. The left subclavian is occasionally joined at its origin with the left carotid. Surgical Anatomy. The relations of the subclavian arteries of the two sides having been examined, the student should direct his attention to consider the best position in which compression of the vessel may be effected, or in what situation a ligature may be best applied in cases of aneurism or wounds. Compression of the subclavian artery is required in cases of operations about the shoulder, in the axilla, or at the upper part of the arm ; and the student will observe that there is only one situation in which it can be effectually applied, viz., where the artery passes across the outer surface of the first rib. In order to compress the vessel in this situation, the shoulder should be depressed, and the surgeon, grasping the side of the neck, may press with his thumb in the hollow behind the clavicle downwards against the rib; if from any cause the shoulder cannot be sufficiently depressed, pressure may be made from before backwards, so as to compress the artery against the Middle scalenus and transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. In appropriate cases, a preliminary incision may be made through the cervical fascia, and the finger maybe pressed down directly upon the artery. Ligature of the subclavian artery may be required in cases of wounds, or of aneurism in the axilla; and the third part of the artery is that which is most favourable for an operation, on account of its being comparatively superficial, and most remote from the origin of the large branches. In those cases where the clavicle is not displaced, this operation may be performed with comparative facility ; but where the clavicle is elevated from the presence of a large aneurismal tumour in the axilla, the artery is placed at a great depth from the surface, which materially increases the difficulty of the operation. Under these circum- stances, it becomes a matter of importance to consider the height to which this vessel reaches above the bone. In ordinary cases, its arch is about half an inch above the clavicle, occasionally as high as an inch and a half, and sometimes so low as to be on a level with its upper border. If the clavicle is displaced, these variations will necessarily make the operation more or less difficult, according as the vessel is more or less accessible. The chief points in the operation of tying the third portion of the subclavian artery, are as follows : the patient being placed on a table in the horizontal position, and the shoulder depressed as much as possible, the integument should be drawn downwards upon the clavicle, and an incision made through it upon that bone from the anterior border of the Trapezius to the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, to which may be added a short vertical incision meeting the centre of the preceding; the Platysma and cervical fascia should be divided upon a director, and if the interval between the Trapezius and Sterno- mastoid muscles be insufficient for the performance of the operation, a portion of one or both may be divided. The external jugular vein will now be seen towards the inner side of the wound: this and the suprascapular and transverse cervical veins which terminate in it should be held aside, and if divided both ends should be tied: the suprascapular artery should be avoided, and the Omo-hyoid muscle must now be looked for, and held aside if necessary. In the space beneath this muscle, careful search must be made for the vessel; the deep fascia having been divided with the finger-nail or silver scalpel, the outer margin of the Scalenus muscle must be felt for, and the finger being guided by it to the first rib, the pulsation of the subclavian artery will be felt as it passes over its surface. The aneurism needle may then be passed around the vessel from before backwards, by which means the vein will be avoided, care being taken not to include a branch of the brachial plexus instead of the artery in the ligature. If the clavicle is so raised by the tumour that the application of the ligature cannot be effected in this situation, the artery may be tied above the first rib, or even behind the Scalenus muscle : the difficulties of the operation in such a case will be materially increased, on account of the greater depth of the artery, and alteration of the surrounding parts. The second part of the subclavian artery, from being that portion which rises highest in the neck, has been considered favourable for the application of the ligature, when it is diffi- cult to tie the artery in the third part of its course. There are, however, many objections to the operation in this situation. It is necessary to divide the Scalenus anticus muscle, upon which lies the phrenic nerve, and at the inner side of which is situated the internal jugular vein; and a wound of either of these structures might lead to the most dangerous consequences. Again, the artery is in contact, below, with the pleura, which must also be avoided; and, lastly, the proximity of so many of its larger branches arising internal to this point, must be a still further objection to the operation. If, however, it has been determined to perform the operation in this situation, it should be remembered that it occasionally happens, that the artery passes in front of the Scalenus anticus, or through