ARTICULATIONS / i. Surfaces connected by fibre-cartilage, not separated by a 7 . , . f synovial membrane, and having limited motion. As in jr±7YlJ) ftZCLT't/l?'*0SIS* J • ■ j 1 j i -i • r» , i -»«-• j a j.' ^ y < joints between bodies of vertebrae. Mixed Articulation. \r Q 2. burlaces covered by fibro-cartilage; lined by a partial \ synovial membrane. As in sacro-iliac and pubic symphyses. Arthrodia. Gliding joint; articulations by plane surfaces, which glide upon each other. As in sterno- and acromio- clavicular articulations. Enarthrosis. Ball and socket joint; capable of motion in all directions. Articulations by a globular head received into a cup-like cavity. As in hip and shoulder joints. Diarthrosis* Moveable Joint \ Ginglymus. Hinge joint; motion limited to two directions, forwards and backwards. Articular surfaces fitted together so as to permit of movement in one plane. As in the elbow, ankle, and knee. Diarthrosis rotatorius. Articulation by a pivot process turning within a ring, or ring around a pivot. As in supe- rior radio-ulnar articulation, and atlo-axoid joint. The Kinds of Movement admitted in Joints. The movements admissible in joints may be divided into four kinds, gliding, angular movement, circumduction, and rotation. Gliding movement is the most simple kind of motion that can take place in a joint, one surface gliding over another. It is common to all moveable joints; but in some, as in the articulations of the carpus and tarsus, it is the only motion permitted. This movement is not confined to plane surfaces, but may exist between any two contiguous surfaces, of whatever form, limited by the ligaments which enclose the articulation. Angular movement occurs only between the long bones, and may take place in four directions, forwards and backwards, constituting flexion and extension, or inwards and outwards, which constitutes abduction and adduction. Flexion and extension are confined to the strictly ginglymoid or hinge joints. Abduction and adductiou, combined with flexion and extension, are met with only in the most moveable joints; as in the hip, shoulder, and metacarpal joint of the thumb, and partially in the wrist and ankle. Circumduction is that limited degree of motion which takes place between the head of a bone and its articular cavity, whilst the extremity and sides of a limb are made to circumscribe a conical space, the base of which corresponds with the inferior extremity of the limb, the apex with the articular cavity; this kind of motion is best seen in the shoulder and hip joints. Rotation is the movement of a bone upon its own axis, the bone retaining the same relative situation with respect to the adjacent parts; as in the articulation between the atlas and axis, where the odontoid process serves as a pivot around which the atlas turns; or in the rotation of the radius upon the humerus, and also in the hip and shoulder. The articulations may be arranged into those of the trunk, those of the upper extremity, and those of the lower extremity. ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK. These may be divided into the following groups, viz.:— I. Of the vertebral column. VII. Of the cartilages of the ribs with II. Of the atlas with the axis. the sternum, and with each other. III. Of the atlas with the occipital bone. VIII. Of the sternum. IV. Of the axis with the occipital bone. IX. Of the vertebral column with the V. Of the lower jaw. pelvis. VI. Of the ribs with the vertebra. X. Of the pelvis.