ARTERIES. 332 Descending Part of the Arch. The descending portion of the arch has a straight direction, inclining downwards on the left side of the body of the third dorsal vertebra, at the lower border of which it becomes the thoracic aorta. Relations. Its anterior surface is covered by the pleura and root of the left lung; behind, it lies on the left side of the body of the third dorsal vertebra. On its right side are the oesophagus and thoracic duct; on its left side it is covered by the pleura. Plan of the Relations of the Descending Part of the Arch. In front. Pleura. Eoot of left lung. Left side. Pleura. Behind. Left side of body of third dorsal vertebra. The ascending, transverse, and descending portions of the arch vary in position according to the movements of respiration, being lowered, together with the trachea, bronchi, and pulmonary vessels, during inspiration by the descent of the Diaphragm, and elevated during expiration, when the Diaphragm ascends. These movements are greater in the ascending than the transverse, and in the latter than the descending part. Peculiarities. The height to which the aorta rises in the chest is usually about an inch below the upper border of the sternum; but it may ascend nearly to the top of that bone. Occasionally it is found an inch and a half, more rarely, three inches below this point. Jn Direction. Sometimes the aorta arches over the root of the right instead of the left lung, as in birds, and passes down on the right side of the spine. In such cases, all the viscera of the thoracic and abdominal cavities are transposed. Less frequently, the aorta, after arching over the root of the right lung, is directed to its usual position on the left side of the spine, this peculiarity not being accompanied by any transposition of the viscera. In Conformation. The aorta occasionally divides, as in some quadrupeds, into an ascending and a descending trunk, the former of which is directed vertically upwards, and subdivides into three branches, to supply the head and upper extremities. Sometimes the aorta subdivides soon after its origin into two branches, which soon reunite. In one of these cases, the oesophagus and trachea were found to pass through the interval left by their division; this is the normal condition of the vessel in the reptilia. Surgical Anatomy. Of all the vessels of the arterial system, the aorta, and more especially its arch, is most frequently the seat of disease ; hence it is important to consider some of the consequences that may ensue from aneurism of this part. It will be remembered, that the ascending part of the arch is contained in the pericar- dium, just behind the sternum, being crossed at its commencement by the pulmonary artery and right auricular appendage, and having the root of the right lung behind, the vena cava on the right side, and the pulmonary artery and left auricle on the left side. Aneurism of the ascending aorta, in the situation of the aortic sinuses, in the great majority of cases, affects the right coronary sinus; this is mainly owing to the fact that the regurgitation of blood upon the sinuses takes place chiefly on the right anterior aspect of the vessel. As the aneurismal sac enlarges, it may compress any or all of the structures in immediate proximity with it, but chiefly projects towards the right anterior side; and, consequently, interferes mainly with those structures that have a corresponding relation with the vessel. In the majority of cases, it bursts in the cavity of the pericardium, the patient suddenly drops down dead, and, upon a post-mortem examination, the pericardial sac is found full of blood: or it may compress the right auricle, or the pulmonary artery, and adjoining part of the right ventricle, and open into one or the other of these parts, or may press upon the superior cava. Aneurism of the ascending aorta, originating above the sinuses, most frequently impli- cates the right anterior wall of the vessel; this is probably mainly owing to the blood Right side. (Esophagus. Thoracic duct.