FIBULA. J37 111.—Plan of the Development of the Tibia. By 3 Centres. er eoctrenizt.. Appears at hirth avmr $Juift n,6out 26 P.' y.r the recent state, and articulating with the fibula. This surface is bounded by two prominent ridges, continuous above with the interosseous ridge ; they afford attachment to the anterior and posterior tibio-fibular ligaments. The internal surface of the lower extremity is prolonged downwards to form a strong pyramidal process, flattened from without inwards, the inner malleolus. The inner surface of this process is convex and subcutaneous ; its outer surface, smooth and slightly concave, deepens the articular surface for the astragalus ; its anterior border is rough, for the attachment of ligamentous fibres ; its posterior border presents a broad and deep groove, directed obliquely downwards and inwards, which is occasionally double : this groove transmits the tendons of the Tibialis posticus and Flexor longus digitorum muscles. The summit of the internal malleolus is marked by a rough depression behind, for the attachment of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint. Structure. Like that of the other long bones. Development. By three centres (fig. ill): one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. Ossification commences in the centre of the shaft about the same time as in the femur, the fifth week, and gradually extends towards either ex- tremity. The centre for the upper epiphysis appears at birth ; it is flat- tened in form, and has a thin tongue- shaped process in front, which forms the tubercle. That for the lower epiphysis appears in the second year. The lower epiphysis joins the shaft at about the twentieth year, and the upper one about the twenty-fifth year. Two additional centres occa- sionally exist, one for the tongue- shaped process of the upper epiphysis, the tubercle, aud one for the inner malleolus. Articulations. With three bones : the femur, fibula, and astragalus. Attachment of Muscles. To the inner tuberosity, the Semimembra- nosus: to the outer tuberosity, the Tibialis anticus and Extensor longus digitorum : to the shaft ; its internal surface, the Sartorius, Gracilis, and Semitendinosus; to its external sur- face, the Tibialis anticus; to its poste- rior surface, the Popliteus, Soleus, Flexor longus digitorum, and Tibialis posticus: to the tubercle, the ligamentum patellas. years at %'."f- Joins Shu ft a hoiot The Fibula. The Fibula is situated at the outer side of the leg. It is the smaller of the two bones, and, in proportion to its length, the most slender of all the long bones; it is placed nearly parallel with the tibia. Its upper extremity is small, placed below the level of the knee joint, and excluded from its formation; the lower extremity inclines a little forwards, so as to be on a plane anterior to that of the upper end, projects below the tibia, and forms the outer ankle. It presents for examination a shaft and two extremities. The Upper Extremity, or Head, is of an irregular rounded form, presenting above a flattened articular facet, directed upwards and inwards, for articulation with a corresponding facet on the external tuberosity of the tibia. On the outer side is a thick and rough prominence, continued behind into a pointed eminence,