349 INTERNAL MAXILLARY. The middle meningeal is the largest of the branches which supply the dura mater. It arises from the internal maxillary between the internal lateral ligament and the neck of the jaw, and passes vertically upwards to the foramen spiuosum of the sphenoid bone. On entering the cranium, it divides into two branches, an anterior, and a posterior. The anterior branch, the larger, crosses the great ala of the sphenoid, and reaches the groove, or canal, in the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone; it then divides into branches, which spread out between the dura mater and internal surface of the cranium, some passing upwards over the parietal bone as far as the vertex, and others backwards to the occipital bone. The posterior branch crosses the squamous portion of the temporal, and on the inner surface of the parietal bone divides into branches which supply the posterior part of the dura mater and cranium. The branches of this vessel are distributed partly to the dura mater, but chiefly to the bones; they anastomose with the arteries of the opposite side, and with the anterior and posterior meningeal. The middle meningeal, on entering the cranium, gives off the following colla- teral branches:—I. Numerous small vessels to the ganglion of the fifth nerve, and to the dura mater in this situation. 2. A branch to the facial nerve, which enters the hiatus Fallopii, supplies the facial nerve, and anastomoses with the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular artery. 3. Orbital branches, which pass through the sphenoidal fissure, or through separate canals in the great wing of the sphenoid, to anastomose with the lachrymal or other branches of the ophthalmic artery. 4. Temporal branches, which pass through foramina in the great wing of the sphenoid, and anastomose in the temporal fossa with the deep temporal arteries. The small meningeal is sometimes derived from the preceding. It enters the skull through the foramen ovale, and supplies the Casserian ganglion and dura mater. Before entering the cranium, it gives off a branch to the nasal fossa and soft palate. The inferior dental descends with the dental nerve, to the foramen on the inner side of the ramus of the jaw. It runs along the dental canal in the substance of the bone, accompanied by the nerve, and opposite the bicuspid tooth divides into two branches, incisor and mental: the former is continued forwards beneath the incisor teeth as far as the symphysis, where it anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side; the mental branch escapes with the nerve at the mental foramen, supplies the structures composing the chin, and anastomoses with the submental, inferior labial, and inferior coronary arteries. As the dental artery enters the foramen, it gives off a mylo-hyoid branch, which runs in the mylo-hyoid groove, and ramifies on the under surface of the Mylo-hyoid muscle. The dental and incisor arteries during their course through the substance of the bone, give off a few twigs which are lost in the cancellous tissue, and a series of branches which correspond in number to the roots of the teeth; these enter the minute apertures at the extremities of the fangs, and supply the pulp of the teeth. These branches are distributed, as their names imply, to the muscles in the The deep temporal branches, two in number, anterior and posterior, each occupy that part of the temporal fossa indicated by its name. Ascending between the temporal muscle and pericranium, they supply that muscle, and anastomose with the other temporal arteries; the anterior branch communicating with the lachrymal through small branches which perforate the malar bone. The pterygoid branches, irregular in their number and origin, supply the Pterygoid muscles. Branches of the Second, or Pterygoid Portion. Deep temporal. Pterygoid. Masseteric. Buccal. maxillary region.