6go ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION. The anterior border of the right lung corresponds to the median line of the sternum, and is in contact with its fellow, the pleurae being interposed, as low as the fourth costal cartilage; below this, the contiguous borders are separated by an irregularly shaped interval, formed at the expense of the anterior border of the left lung, and corresponding to which the pericardium is exposed. Each lung is divided into two lobes, an upper and lower, by a long and deep fissure, which extends from the upper part of the posterior border of the organ, about three inches from its apex, downwards and forwards to the lower part of its anterior border. This fissure penetrates nearly to the root. In the right lung the upper lobe is partially divided by a second and shorter fissure, which extends from the middle of the preceding, forwards and upwards, to the anterior margin of the organ, marking off a small triangular portion, the middle lobe. The right lung is the largest; it is broader than the left, owing to the inclin- ation of the heart to the left side; it is also shorter by an inch, in consequence of the Diaphragm rising higher on the right side to accommodate the liver. The right lung has also three lobes. The left lung is smaller, narrower, and longer than the right, and has only two lobes. A little above the middle of the inner surface of each lung, and nearer its pos- terior than its anterior border, is its root, by which the lung is connected to the heart and the trachea. The root is formed by the bronchial tube, the pulmonary artery, the pulmonary veins, the bronchial arteries and veins, the pulmonary plexus of nerves, lymphatics, bronchial glands, and areolar tissue, all of which are enclosed by a reflection of the pleura. The root of the right lung lies behind the superior cava and upper part of the right auricle, and below the vena azygos. That of the left lung passes beneath the arch of the aorta, and in front of the descending aorta; the phrenic nerve and the anterior pulmonary plexus lie in front of each, and the pneumogastric and posterior pulmonary plexus behind each. The chief structures composing the root of each lung are arranged in a similar manner from before backwards on both sides, viz.: the pulmonary veins most anterior; the pulmonary artery in the middle; and the bronchus, together with the bronchial vessels, behind. From above downwards, on the two sides, their arrangement differs, thus: On the right side, their position is, bronchus, pulmonary artery, pulmonary veins; but on the left side, their position is, pulmonary artery, bronchus, pulmonary veins; which is accounted for by the bronchus being placed on a lower level on the left than on the right side. The weight of both lungs together is about forty-two ounces, the right lung being two ounces heavier than the left; but much variation is met with according to the amount of blood or serous fluid they may contain. The lungs are heavier in the male than in the female, their proportion to the body being, in the former, as I to 37, in the latter, as I to 43. The specific gravity of the lung tissue varies from 345 to 746, water being 1000. The colour of the lungs at birth is of a pinkish white; in adult life, mottled in patches, of a dark slate colour; and, as age advances, this mottling assumes a dark black colour. The colouring matter consists of granules of a carbonaceous substance, deposited in the areolar tissue near the surface of the organ. It increases in quantity as age advances, and is more abundant in males than in females. The posterior border of the lung is usually darker than the anterior. The surface of the lung is smooth, shining, and marked out into numerous poly- hedral spaces, indicating the lobules of the organ: the area of each of these spaces is crossed by numerous lighter lines. The substance of the lung is of a light, porous, spongy texture; it floats in water, and crepitates when handled, owing to the presence of air in the tissue; it is also highly elastic; hence the collapsed state of these organs when they are removed from the closed cavity of the thorax.