399 COMMON ILIAC. longer; and in the other half, shorter ; the minimum length being less than half an inch, the maximum, four and a-half inches. In one instance, the right common iliac was found wanting, the external and internal iliacs arising directly from the aorta. Surgical Anatomy. The application of a ligature to the common iliac artery may be required on account of aneurism or haemorrhage, implicating the external or internal iliacs, or on account of secondary haemorrhage after amputation of the thigh high up. It has been seen, that the origin of this vessel corresponds to the left side of the umbilicus on a level with a line drawn from the highest point of one iliac crest to the opposite one, and its course to a line extending from the left side of the umbilicus downwards towards the middle of Poupart's ligament. The line of incision required in the first steps of an operation for securing this vessel, would materially depend upon the nature of the disease. If the surgeon select the iliac region, a curved incision, about five inches in length, may be made, commencing on the left side of the umbilicus, carried outwards towards the anterior superior iliac spine, and then along the upper border of Poupart's ligament, as far as its middle. But if the aneurismal tumour should extend high up in the abdomen, along the external iliac, it is better to select the side of the abdomen, approaching the artery from 227.—Arteries of the Pelvis. above, by making an incision from four to five inches in length, from about two inches above and to the left of the umbilicus, carried outwards in a curved direction towards the lumbar region, and terminating a little below the anterior superior iliac spine. The abdominal muscles (in either case) having been cautiously divided in succession, the transversalis fascia must be carefully cut through, and the peritoneum, together with the ureter, separated from the artery, and pushed aside : the sacro-iliac articulation must then be felt for, and upon it the vessel will be felt pulsating, and may be fully exposed in