OSTEOLOGY. 52 forms, when completed by its articulation with the palate bone, the posterior palatine canal. In front of the opening in the antrum is a deep groove, converted into a canal by the lachrymal and inferior turbinated bones, and lodging the nasal duct. More anteriorly is a well-marked rough ridge, the inferior turbinated crest, for articulation with the inferior turbinated bone. The concavity above this ridge 46.—Left Superior Maxillary Bone. Inner Surface. forms part of the middle meatus of the nose; whilst that below it, forms part of the inferior meatus. The inferior division of this surface is concave, rough, and uneven, and perforated by numerous small foramina for the passage of nutrient vessels. The Antrum of Highmore, or Maxillary Sinus, is a large triangular-shaped cavity, hollowed out of the body of the maxillary bone; its apex, directed out- wards, is formed by the malar process; its base, by the outer wall of the nose. Its walls are everywhere exceedingly thin, its roof being formed by the orbital plate, its floor by the alveolar process, its anterior wall by the facial, and its pos- terior by the zygomatic surface. Its inner wall, or base, presents, in the disarticu- lated bone, a large irregular aperture, which communicates with the nasal fossae. The margins of this aperture are thin and ragged, and the aperture itself is much contracted by its articulation with the ethmoid above, the inferior turbinated below, and the palate bone behind. In the articulated skull, this cavity communicates with the middle meatus of the nose generally by two small apertures left between the above-mentioned bones. In the recent state, usually only one small opening exists, near the upper part of the cavity, sufficiently large to admit the end of a probe, the other being closed by the lining membrane of the sinus. Crossing the cavity of the antrum, are often seen several projecting laminae of bone, similar to those seen in the sinuses of the cranium; and on its posterior wall are the posterior dental canals, transmitting the posterior dental vessels and nerves to the teeth. Projecting into the floor are several conical processes, corresponding to the roots of the first and second molar teeth;* in some cases, the floor is per- * The number of teeth whose fangs are in relation with the floor of the antrum is vari- able. The antrum ' may extend so as to be in relation to all the teeth of the true maxilla, from the canine to the dens sapiential —See Mr. Salter on Abscess of the Antrum, in a System of Surgery, edited by T. Holmes, vol. iv. p. 25.