GLUTEAL REGION. 3°5 at the back of the hip joint. It arises from the front of the sacrum by three fleshy digitations, attached to the portions of bone between the second, third, and fourth anterior sacral foramina, and also from the grooves leading from the foramina: a few fibres also arise from the margin of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and from the anterior surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The muscle passes out of the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, the upper part of which it fills, and is inserted, by a rounded tendon, into the upper border of the great trochanter, being generally blended with the tendon of the Obturator internus. Relations. By its anterior surface, within the pelvis, with the Rectum (espe- cially on the left side), the sacral plexus of nerves, and the internal iliac vessels; external to the pelvis, with the os innominatum and capsular ligament of the hip joint. By its posterior surface, within the pelvis, with the sacrum; and external to it, with the Gluteus maximus. By its upper border, with the Gluteus medius, from which it is separated by the gluteal vessels and superior gluteal nerve. By its lower border, with the Gemellus superior; the ischiatic vessels and nerves, the internal pudic vessels and nerve, and the nerve to the Obturator internus, passing from the pelvis in the interval between them. Dissection. The next muscle, as well as the origin of the Pyriformis, can only be seen when the pelvis is divided, and the viscera removed. The Obturator membrane is a dense layer of interlacing fibres, which completely closes the obturator foramen, except at its upper and outer part, where a small oval canal is left for the obturator vessels and nerve. Each obturator muscle is connected with this membrane. The Obturator Internus, like the preceding muscle, is situated partly within the cavity of the pelvis, partly at the back of the hip joint. It arises from the inner surface of the anterior and external wall of the pelvis, around the inner side of the obturator foramen, being attached to the descending ramus of the pubes, and the ascending ramus of the ischium, and at the side to the inner surface of the body of the ischium, between the margin of the obturator foramen in front, the great sacro-sciatic notch behind, and the brim of the true pelvis above. It also arises from the inner surface of the obturator membrane and from the tendinous arch which completes the canal for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve. The fibres are directed backwards and downwards, and terminate in four or five tendinous bands, which are found on its deep surface; these bands are reflected at a right angle over the inner surface of the tuberosity of the ischium, which is grooved for their reception: the groove is covered with cartilage, and lined with a synovial bursa. The muscle leaves the pelvis by the lesser sacro-sciatic notch; and the tendinous bands unite into a single flattened tendon, which passes hori- zontally outwards, and, after receiving the attachment of the Gemelli, is inserted into the upper border of the great trochanter in front of the Pyriformis. A synovial bursa, narrow and elongated in form, is usually found between the tendon of this muscle and the capsular ligament of the hip: it occasionally communicates with that between the tendon and the tuberosity of the ischium, the two forming a single sac. In order to display the peculiar appearances presented by the tendon of this muscle, it must be divided near its insertion and reflected outwards. Relations. Within the pelvis, this muscle is in relation, by its anterior surface, with the obturator membrane and inner surface of the anterior wall of the pelvis; by its posterior surface, with the pelvic and obturator fasciae, which separate it from the Levator ani; and it is crossed by the internal pudic vessels and nerve. This surface forms the outer boundary of the ischio-rectal fossa. External to the pelvis, it is covered by the great sciatic nerve and Gluteus maximus, and rests on the back part of the hip joint. The Gemelli are two small muscular fasciculi, accessories to the tendon of the X