ARCH OF AORTA. 333 being impelled against this part. The direction of the aneurism is also chiefly towards the right of the median line. If it attains a large size and projects forwards, it may absorb the sternum and the cartilages of the ribs, usually on the right side, and appear as a pulsating tumour on the front of the chest, just below the manubrium ; or it may burst into the peri- cardium, or may compress, or open into, the right lung, the trachea, bronchi, or oesophagus. Regarding the transverse part of the arch, the student is reminded that the vessel lies on the trachea, the oesophagus, and thoracic duct; that the recurrent laryngeal nerve winds around it; and that from its upper part are given off three large trunks, which supply the head, neck, and upper extremities. Now an aneurismal tumour taking origin from the posterior part or right aspect of the vessel, its most usual site, may press upon the trachea, impede the breathing, or produce cough, hsemoptysis, or stridulous breathing, or it may ultimately burst into that tube, producing fatal hemorrhage. Again, its pressure on the laryngeal nerves may give rise to symptoms which so accurately resemble those of laryngitis, that the operation of tracheotomy has in some cases been resorted to, from the supposition that disease existed in the larynx; or it may press upon the thoracic duct, and destroy life by inanition; or it may involve the oesophagus, producing dysphagia ; or may burst into this tube, when fatal hcemorrhage will occur. Again, the innominate artery, or the left carotid, or subclavian, may be so obstructed by clots, as to produce a weakness, or even a disappearance, of the pulse in one or the other wrist; or the tumour may present itself at or above the manubrium, generally either in the median line, or to the right of the sternum, and may simulate an aneurism of one of the arteries of the neck. Aneurism affecting the descending part of the arch is usually directed backwards and to the left side, causing absorption of the vertebrse and corresponding ribs ; or it may press upon the trachea, left bronchus, oesophagus, and the right and left lungs, generally the latter : when rupture of the sac occurs, this usually takes place into the left pleural cavity ; less frequently into the left bronchus, the right pleura, or into the substance of the lungs or trachea. In this form of aneurism, pain is almost a constant and characteristic symptom, referred to either the back or chest, and usually radiating from the spine around the left side. This symptom depends upon the aneurismal sac compressing the intercostal nerves against the bone. Branches of the Arch of the Aorta (figs. 205, 206). The branches given off from the areh of the aorta are five in number : two of small size from the ascending portion, the right and left coronary; and three of large size from the transverse portion, the innominate artery, the left carotid, and the left subclavian. Peculiarities. Position of the Branches. The branches, instead of arising from the highest part of the arch (their usual position), may be moved more to the right, arising from the commencement of the transverse or upper part of the ascending portion ; or the distance from one another at their origin may be increased or diminished, the most frequent change in this respect being the approximation of the left carotid towards the innominate artery. The Number of the primary branches may be reduced to two: the left carotid arising from the innominate artery ; or, (more rarely), the carotid and subclavian arteries of the left side arising from a left innominate artery. But the number may be increased to four, from the right carotid and subclavian arteries arising directly from the aorta, the innomi- nate being absent. In most of these latter cases, the right subclavian has been found to arise from the left end of the arch ; in other cases, it was the second or third branch given off instead of the first. Lastly, the number of trunks from the arch may be increased to five or six ; in these instances, the external and internal carotids arose separately from the arch, the common carotid being absent on one or both sides. Number usual, Arrangement different. When the aorta arches over to the right side, the three branches have an arrangement the reverse of what is usual, the innominate supply- ing the left side; and the carotid and subclavian (which arise separately) the right side. In other cases, where the aorta takes its usual course, the two carotids may be joined in a common trunk, and the subclavians arise separately from the arch, the right subclavian generally arising from the left end of the arch. Secondary Branches sometimes arise from the arch; most commonly such a secondary branch is the left vertebral, which usually takes origin between the left carotid and left subclavian, or beyond them. Sometimes, a thyroid branch is derived from the arch or the right internal mammary, or left vertebral, or, more rarely, both vertebrals. The Coronary Arteries. The coronary arteries supply the heart; they are two in number, right and left, arising near the commencement of the aorta immediately above the free margin of the semilunar valves.