CRANIAL NERVES. 5io close to the middle line of the floor of the Sylvian aqueduct; the posterior one from a grey nucleus, at the upper part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, close to the origin of the fifth nerve. The two nerves are connected together at their origin, by a transverse band of white fibres, which crosses the surface of the valve of Vieussens. The nerve winds round the outer side of the crus cerebri, immediately above the pons Varolii, pierces the dura mater in the free border of the tentorium cerebelli, near the posterior clinoid process, above the oval opening for the fifth nerve, and passes forwards through the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, below the third; but, as it enters the orbit, through the sphenoidal fissure, it becomes the highest of all the nerves. In the orbit, it passes inwards, above the origin of the Levator palpebrse, and finally enters the orbital surface of the Superior oblique muscle. In the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, this nerve receives some filaments from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic. It is not unfrequently blended with the ophthalmic division of the fifth; and occasionally gives off a branch to assist in the formation of the lachrymal nerve. It also gives off a recurrent branch, which passes backwards between the layers of the tentorium, dividing into two or three filaments, which may be traced as far back as the wall of the lateral sinus. 276.—Nerves of the Orbit and Ophthalmic Ganglion. Side view. Sixth Nerve. The Sixth Nerve (Abducens), supplies the External rectus muscle. Its apparent origin is by several filaments from the constricted part of the corpus pyramidale, close to the pons, or from the lower border of the pons itself. The deep origin of this nerve has been traced, by Mayo, between the fasciculi of the corpus pyramidale, to the posterior part of the medulla, where Stilling has shown its connection with a grey nucleus in the floor of the fourth ventricle. The nerve pierces the dura mater, immediately below the posterior clinoid pro- cess, lying in a groove by the side of the body of the sphenoid bone. It passes forwards through the cavernous sinus, lying on the outer side of the internal carotid artery, where it is joined by several filaments from the carotid plexus, by one from Meckel's ganglion (Bock), and another from the ophthalmic nerve. It enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and lies above the ophthalmic vein, from which it is separated by a lamina of dura mater. It then passes between the two heads of the External rectus, and is distributed to that muscle on its ocular surface. The above-mentioned nerves, as well as the ophthalmic division of the fifth, as