THE SKIN. 577 evaporation of their fluid contents, and finally form a transparent, dry, mem- branous scale, lose their nuclei, and apparently become changed in their chemical composition, as they are unaffected now by acetic acid. The black colour of the skin in the negro, and the tawny colour among some of the white races, is due to the presence of pigment in the cells of the cuticle. This pigment is more especially distinct in the cells of the deeper layer, or rete mucosum, and is similar to that found in the choroid. As the cells approach the surface and dessicate, the colour becomes partially lost. The arteries which supply the skin divide into numerous branches in the sub- cutaneous tissue; they then pass through the areolae of the corium, and divide into a dense capillary plexus, which supplies the sudoriferous and sebaceous glands and the hair follicles, terminating in the superficial layers of the corium, by forming a capillary network, from which numerous fine branches ascend to the papillae. The lymphatic vessels are arranged in a minute plexiform network in the superficial layers of the corium, where they become interwoven with the capillary and nervous plexuses; they are especially abundant in the scrotum and round the nipple. The nerves which supply the sk'in ascend with the vessels through the areolae of the deep layers of the corium to the more superficial layers, where they form a minute plexiform mesh. From this plexus, the primitive nerve-fibres pass to be distributed to the papillae. The nerves are most numerous in those parts which are provided with the greatest sensibility. Appendages of the Skin. The appendages of the skin are, the nails, the hairs, the sudoriferous and sebaceous glands, and their ducts. The nails and hairs are peculiar modifications of the epidermis, consisting essentially of the same cellular structure as that membrane. The Nails are flattened elastic structures of a horny texture, placed upon the dorsal surface of the terminal phalanges of the fingers and toes. Each nail is convex on its outer surface, concave within, and is implanted by a portion called the root into a groove of the skin; the exposed portion is called the body, and the anterior extremity, the free edge. The nail has a very firm adhesion to the cutis, being accurately moulded upon its surface, as the epidermis is in other parts. The part of the cutis beneath the body and root of the nail, is called the matrix, because it is the part from which the nail is produced. Corresponding to the body of the nail, the matrix is thick, and covered with large highly vascular papillae, arranged in longitudinal rows, the colour of which is seen through the transparent tissue. Behind this, near the root of the nail, the papillae are small, less vascular, and have no regular arrangement; hence, the portion of the nail corresponding to this part is of a whiter colour, and called lunula, from its form. The cuticle, as it passes forwards on the dorsal surface of the finger, is attached to the surface of the nail, a little in advance of its root: at the extremity of the finger, it is connected with the under surface of the nail, a little behind its free edge. The cuticle and horny structure of the nail (both epidermic structures), are thus directly continuous with each other. The nails, in structure, consist of cells having a laminated arrangement, and these are essentially similar to those composing the epidermis. The deepest layer of cells which lie in contact with the papillae at the root and under surface of the nail, are of elongated form, arranged perpendicularly to the surface, and provided with nuclei; those which succeed these, are of a rounded or polygonal form, tlie more superficial ones becoming broad, thin, and flattened, and so closely compacted together as to make the limits of each cell very indistinct. It is by the successive growth of new cells at the root and under surface of the body of the nail, that it advances forwards, and maintains a due thickness, whilst, P P