566 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. The cephalic portion of the sympathetic, consists of four ganglia. I. The ophthalmic ganglion. 2. The spheno-palatine, or Meckel's ganglion. 3. The otic, or Arnold's ganglion. 4. The submaxillary ganglion* These have been already described in connection with the three divisions of the fifth nerve. Cervical Portion of the Sympathetic. The cervical portion of the sympathetic consists of three ganglia on each side, which are distinguished according to their position, as the superior, middle, and inferior cervical. The Superior Cervical Ganglion, the largest of the three, is placed opposite the second and third cervical vertebrae, and sometimes as low as the fourth or fifth. It is of a reddish-grey colour, and usually fusiform in shape: sometimes broad, and occasionally constricted at intervals, so as to give rise to the opinion, that it con- sists of the coalescence of several smaller ganglia. It is in relation, in front, with the sheath of the internal carotid artery, and internal jugular vein; behind, it lies on the Rectus capitis anticus major muscle. Its branches may be divided into superior, inferior, external, internal, and anterior. The superior branch appears to be a direct continuation of the ganglion. It is soft in texture, and of a reddish colour. It ascends by the side of the internal carotid artery, and, entering the carotid canal in the temporal bone, divides into two branches, which lie, one on the outer, and the other on the inner side, of that vessel. The outer branch, the larger of the two, distributes filaments to the internal carotid artery, and forms the carotid plexus. The inner branch also distributes filaments to the internal carotid, and, con- tinuing onwards, forms the cavernous plexus. Carotid Plexus. The carotid plexus is situated on the outer side of the internal carotid. Filaments from this plexus occasionally form a small gangliform swelling on the under surface of the artery, which is called the carotid ganglion. The carotid plexus communicates with the Gasserian ganglion, with the sixth nerve, and spheno-palatine ganglion, and distributes filaments to the wall of the carotid artery, and to the dura mater (Valentin). The communicating branches with the sixth nerve consist of one or two fila- ments, which join that nerve as it lies upon the outer side of the internal carotid. Other filaments are also connected with the Gasserian ganglion. The communica- tion with the spheno-palatine ganglion is effected by the carotid portion of the Vidian nerve, which passes forwards, through the cartilaginous substance filling the foramen lacerum medium, along the pterygoid canal, to the spheno-palatine ganglion. In this canal it joins the petrosal branch of the Vidian. Cavernous Plexus. The cavernous plexus is situated below, and to the inner side of that part of that internal carotid, which is placed by the side of the sella Turcica, in the cavernous sinus, and is formed chiefly by the internal division of the ascending branch from the superior cervical ganglion. It communicates with the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth nerves, and with the ophthalmic ganglion, and distributes filaments to the wall of the internal carotid. The branch of communication with the third nerve joins it at its point of division; the branch to the fourth nerve joins it as it lies on the outer wall of the cavernous sinus; other filaments are connected with the under surface of the trunk of the ophthalmic nerve; and a second filament of communication joins the sixth nerve. The filament of connection with the ophthalmic ganglion arises from the