437 OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 240.—The Superficial Veins of the Upper Extremity. The Inferior Petrosal Sinus is situated in the groove formed by the junction of the inferior border of the petrous portion of the temporal with the basilar process of the occipital. It commences in front at the termination of the cavernous sinus, and opens behind, into the jugular foramen, forming with the lateral sinus the commencement of the internal jugular vein. These sinuses are semi-cylindrical in form. The Transverse Sinus is placed transversely across the fore part of the basilar process of the occipital bone serving to connect the two inferior petrosal and cavernous sinuses. A second is occasionally found opposite the fora- men magnum. The Superior Petrosal Sinus is situated along the upper border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, in the front part of the attached margin of the tentorium. It is small and narrow, and connects together the cavern- ous and lateral sinuses at each side. It receives a cerebral vein (inferior lateral cerebral) from the under part of the middle lobe, and a cere- bellar vein (anterior lateral cerebellar) from the anterior border of the cerebellum. VEINS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The veins of the upper extremity are divided into two sets:—1. The superficial veins. 2. The deep veins. , Internal The Superficial Veins are placed imrae- "J'erZT" diately beneath the integument between the two layers of superficial fascia; they com- mence in the hand chiefly on its dorsal aspect, where they form a more or less complete arch. The Deep Veins accompany the arteries, and constitute the venae comites of those vessels. Both sets of vessels are provided with valves, which are more numerous in the deep than in the superficial. The superficial veins of the upper extremity are the Anterior ulnar. Posterior ulnar. Basilic. Radial. Cephalic. Median. Median basilic. Median cephalic. The Anterior Ulnar Vein commences on the anterior surface of the wrist and ulnar side of the hand, and ascends along the inner side of the fore-arm to the bend of the elbow, where it joins with the posterior ulnar vein to form the basilic. It communicates with branches of the median vein in front, and with the posterior ulnar behind.