H. M. YOUNG.22101718904Med K10984 • V-' ‘ : •• y. .. ^ ^ *DOMESTIC COOKERY WITH SPECIAL EEFERENCE TO COOKING- BY GAS. BY H. M. YOUNG, First Class Diplomee as Demonstrator of Cookery, Medalist, ^c., Sfc. PRICE, TWO SHILLINGS. EIGHTH EDITION. Published by H. M. YOUNG, 27, Arplkt Street, Warrington. JOHN HEYWOOU, Deansgate and Ridgefieu), Manchester; 1, Paternoster Buildings, LONDON. [entered at stationers’ hall.]% WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmee Call No. -fPEEFACE. -:o:- At the request of many Ladies who have attended my Lectures on Cookery, I have been induced to write the following pages, and, in doing so, I have striven to give the information as plainly and practi- cally as possible. The Kecipes will not be found High-Class, but Domestic and Economical, and, I trust, useful. I have added some remarks on Cooking by Gras, together with a few instructions upon the use of the Gras Range—not because it is absolutely necessary to the success of the dishes which may be prepared from the Recipes, but because my personal experience has taught me its extreme utility and convenience. H. M. YOUNGl. October 7th, 1886.DOMESTIC COOKERY WITH SPECIAL EEFEEENCE TO COOKING BY GAS. SOUPS, No. 1. ARTICHOKE SOUP. 2 lb. Jerusalem artichokes 1^ oz. butter 1 teaspoonful salt 2 bay leaves ^ pint milk 1 medium onion 1 teaspoonful white pepper- corns 1 potato 1 quai-^ tv’r'te stock Cut up the vegetables into slices and put into a saucepan with the butter, fry lightly eight minutes, taking care they do not brown ; then add Uie stock, peppercorns, salt and bay leaves. Simmer for 1 hour. Pass through a wn-e sieve, rubbing the pulp through with the back of a wooder spoon; pour hack into the saucepan, add the milk, a little more seasoning if required, and heat up. K liked a J pint of cream may be put into the tureen and the soup poured to it. Serve with toasted bread cut in small squares.2 No. 2. ALMOND SOUP. ^ lb. sweet almonds 1 head celery 1^ pint milk i pint cream 1 teaspoonful peppercorns 1 oz. butter ^ oz. bitter almonds 1 medium onion pint white stock 1 teaspoonful salt 1 oz. dour Blanch and pound the almonds, then boil them one hour in the stock with the peppercorns, onion and celery: rub through a hair sieve with the back of a wooden spoon. Heat the butter in a saucepan, but not brown it, throw in the flour, mix until smooth, add the milk and stir, boil two or three minutes, then add stock and salt; re-heat; put the cream into a tureen and add to it the soup. Serve at once. No. 3. BROWN SOUP (with Forcemeat Balls). f lb. lean beef 1 good-sized carrot 2 onions, medium size 1 teaspoonful peppercorns 1 good teaspoonful salt A few sprigs of parsley A stalk of celery 3 pints water 1 small turnip 1 tablespoonful mushroom ketchup 1 bunch sweet herbs 1^ oz. butter oz. dour 3 or 4 cloves Put the butter into a saucepan, let it get brown, then brown in it the onions, cut up in rings ; then remove from pan, and brown the flour in the butter ; then add the water, stir till smooth, allow this to boil, put back the onions, and add all the above ingredients, cutting the vegetables into small squares, also the meat; simmer very slowly 1^ hours, pass through a wire sieve, remove the meat, and rub as much of the vegetables through the sieve as possible. Put the soup back into the saucepan with the meat and forcemeat balls (made as No. 4); simmer again 10 minutes, skim off the fat if necessary, and dish.3 3 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs i teaspoonful minced parsley J teaspoonful pepper A little grated lemon rind 1 small egg No. 4. Forcemeat Balls for Brown Soup. 1^ tablespoonful minced suet ^ teaspoonful minced sweet herbs ^ teaspoonful salt A dust of ground mace Beat up the egg and mix the above ingredients to a stiff paste, form into balls just large enough to eat at once, roll in flour, and add to soup as described in recipe No. 8. No. 6. CELERY SOUP. 1 quart white stock 1 oz. butter 1 02. flour 2 heads of celery ^ pint cream 1 teaspoonful salt ^ teaspoonful peppercorns Wash and cut up the celery, put on in the stock with the peppercorns, and boil until tender ; rub through a hair sieve. Put the butter into a pan, let it get quite hot, but not brown ; throw in the flour, mix until smooth, add the stock gradually, boil two or three minutes, add salt; put the cream into a tureen and pour in the soup. Serve at once. No. 6. FISH SOUP. 1 fish, about 1 lb.—mackerel or haddock Some fish bones or skin 2 stalks of celery 2 oz. flour ^ teaspoonful peppercorns i pint milk 1 large onion 2 quarts water 1 oz. butter 1^ teaspoonful salt A little chopped parsley Skin and fillet the fish, put the bones, skin, and any other fish trimmings into a saucepan with two quarts of cold water and the salt; bring to the boil and skim thoroughly, add celery, peppercorns, and onion, boil for 1^ hours; pass through a sieve. Put the butter into a pan, allow it to get quite hot, add the flour, stir till smooth, then add milk; allow this to boil three or four minutes, then add soup and a little minced parsley if liked, also the fillets of fish cut in small pieces ; boil eight or ten nainutes, and serve.4 No. 7. GRAVY SOUP (Clear). 2 lb. of shin of beef 2 sprigs of parsley A bunch of sweet herbs Whites and shells of 2 eggs ^ lb. lean gravy beef 1 teaspoonful salt 1 large carrot 1 small turnip 1 bay leaf 1 teaspoonful peppercorns 3 pints water A stalk of celery Cut the shin of beef up into small pieces, removing all the fat; put into a pan with the cold water and the salt; bring slowly to the boil, and skim thoroughly ; add the vegetables, cut up, and the onion, whole, which must first be browned with the skin on ; also herbs, parsley, bay leaf, and peppercorns. Simmer very slowly for 4 hours. Strain, and remove the fat; then add the whites and shells of 2 eggs, the ^ lb. of lean beef finely shredded, and both beaten together in Jpint cold water. Place the soup over a gentle heat, and whisk until it comes to the boil; allow the scum which rises to boil up to the top of the saucepan; then cover the pan and draw away firom the heat; allow this to stand ten minutes. Meanwhile, pour through a linen towel a pan of boiling water; the towel should be pinned on two chairs; then pour through the soup, and if not quite clear, pour through the towel again. A little more seasoning may be added if required, also a glass of wine if liked ; also throw in some mixed vegetables, cut in thin strips or rounds according to taste ; these should be cooked till tender in a separate saucepan of boiling water, contain- ing a little salt. To brown the onion, place it on a tin in the oven, or over a gas burner until a nice brown ; this will give the soup a good colour. No. 8. HARE SOUP. 1 hare 1 carrot 2 cloves 2 stalks of celery, or 4 teaspoonful celery seeds 2 oz. butter 2 quarts cold water Clean and joint the hare; saucepan with the cold water 1 lb. shin of beef 1 onion 1 teaspoonful peppercorns 1^ teaspoonful salt A bunch of sweet herbs 2 oz. flour 1 glass of port cut up the beef, put into a and salt, bring slowly to the5 boil, and skim thoroughly. Meanwhile, heat the hutter in another saucepan, and fry in the vegetables (cut up) a nice brown and the flour; add to this the hare, beet, stock, and all the above ingredients, and simmer slowly 2 hours; lift out the best joints and remove the meat ; pass the soup through a wire sieve ; add the pieces of hare and forcemeat balls (page 28). Simmer 15 minutes; add the wine, and pour into the tureen. No. 9. HARICOT SOUP. 1 pint haricot beans 1 large carrot 1 teaspoonful peppercorns 1 pint milk 2 quarts water 1 large onion A bl^e of mace A stalk of celery 1 good teaspoonful salt Soak the heans in plenty of cold water over-night, di-aiu, and put them into two quarts of cold water, bring gently to the boil, add onion, mace, celery, peppercorns, and canot, sim- mer till the heans are tender ; ruh through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon, pour back into the saucepan, add the milk and salt, also a little finely-minced parsley, if liked. No. 10. LENTIL SOUP. ^ lb. split lentils 3 stalks celery 3 sprigs parsley 1 onion 1 oz. butter 1 oz. flour ^ pint milk 3 pints water A blade of mace • 1 teaspoonful peppercorns 1 teaspoonful salt pint cream (if liked) Wash the lentils thoroughly, put into a saucepan with the three pints of cold water, bring gently to the boil, and skim well; then add celery, parsley, onion, mace, and peppercorns, simmer slowly for 1^ hours. Put the butter into a saucepan and let it get hot, but not brown ; shake in the flour and stir till smooth, add the milk and allow this to boil three or four minutes. Pass the soup through a wire sieve, rubbing as much of the pulp through the sieve with a wooden spoon as possible; add this to the milk, also the salt; re-heat and serve. If cream is used this must be put into the tureen, and the soup poured to it.6 No. 11. OX-TAIL SOUP (Thick). 2 ox-tails , 1 onion 2 oz. butter 2 oz. flour 2 quarts water or stock A stalk of celery, or i teaspoonful celery seeds 2 carrots 1 turnip A bunck of sweet herbs A few sprigs parsley 1 teaspoonful peppercorns 3 cloves 1 dessert-spoonful mushroom ketchup Put the butter into a saucepan, allow it- to get quite hot, divide the ox-tails, and bro-wn them in the butter; remove, and brown the vegetables, cut up, in the butter; add also the herbs and flour, when brown add the stock, boil up, then add the ox-tail and all the other ingredients ; simmer very slowly 3^ to 4 hours, skim OB’ the fat and lift out the meat into the tureen, pass the soup through a wire sieve, rubbing through the vegetables ; re-heat and pour over the tails. A glass of port may be added if liked. No. 12. OX-TAIL SOUP (Clear). 2 ox-tails 2 stalks of celery or J teaspoonful celery seeds 2 sprigs of parsley A bunch of sweet herbs 2 quarts water or stock 2 carrots 1 onion 2 or 3 cloves 1 blade of mace 1^ teaspoonful of salt 1 teaspoonful peppercorns Divide the tails into pieces about one inch long, put into a pan with the water or stock cold and the salt; bring slowly to the boil, and skim thoroughly; then add all the above in- gredients, the vegetables, cut up, simmer slowly 3i to 4 hours. .Lift out the meat and pass the soup through a linen towel or jelly bag ; if not clear put into a saucepan with the whites and shells of three eggs, beaten with J pint cold water, whip until it boils, let it stand 10 minutes, then pass through the towel again ; add the meat, re-heat, and serve with shredded vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, French beans, &c., which must be cooked before they are added to soup.7 No. 13. POTATO SOUP. 1 tablespoonfnl sago 1^ lb. of potatoes 2 small teaspoonfals salt i pint milk 3 pints water 1^ oz. dripping 2 or 3 onions ^ teaspoonful pepper Cut the potatoes and onions in thin slices, put into a sauce- pan over a gentle heat with the dripping for five or ten minutes ; shake the saucepan occasionally so as they will not stick to the bottom ; add the water or liquid in which meat or ham has been boiled, and boil until the vegetables are tender ; rub through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon; put back into pan with the pepper, salt, milk, and sago; boil 15 minutes ; then serve. No. 14. TURTLE SOUP (Mock). 1 small onion A stalk of celery 1 sprig of thyme and marjoram 2 sprigs of basil; this should be the predominating flavour 1 glass sherry 2 oz. flour 1 teaspoonful salt i lb. minced ham 1 quart hrown stock 1 small carrot 1 doz. peppercorns Juice of ^ lemon 1 oz. butter A few grains of cayenne 1 esch^ot About i lb. of boiled calf’s head Put the butter into a saucepan, add the vegetables, cut up, also the sweet herbs and ham ; fry ten minutes; add the flour, and when brown, add the stock, gradually stirring all the time; also salt, peppercorns, and cayenne; simmer slowly 1 hour ; pass through wire sieve ; add sherry, lemon juice, and calf s head, which should first be boiled till tender and cut up in ^ inch squares ; add also forcemeat balls, as on page 3.8 No. 16. TOMATO SOUP. ^ tin of tomatoes, or 4 fresh toma- 1 teaspoonful salt ^ teaspoonful peppercorns 1 onion 1 small turnip oz. butter toes, good size 1 good-sized carrot 1 oz. flour 1 quart stock ^ pint milk A few drops of carmine to colour if required. Cut up the vegetables into squares, put them in a saucepan and fry for 10 minutes with the butter, then add the flour, stock, tomatoes, peppercorns, and salt. Simmer half an hour. Kub through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon; then add the milk, boil for three or four minutes, and serve. The carmine may be dropped in last, enough to give the tomato shade. Wash and clean thoroughly the cod’s head, and rub down the bone a little salt; put into a pan of boiling water, with a tea- spoonful of salt to each quart; allow it to come to the boil, then skim thoroughly, and simmer' very slowly, allowing seven minutes to each pound ; drain thoroughly, serve on a folded serviette, and garnish with a thick border of curly parsley, cut lemon, and horseradish. Serve with oyster or shrimp sauce (page 113). FISH No. 16. COD'S HEAD and SHOULDERS.9 No. 17. CURRIED COD. 1 Ib. cod 1 onion pint milk I pint gravy 1 tablespoonful lemon juice 3 oz. butter 1^ tablespoonful curry powder 1 dessert-spoonful sugar 1 teaspoonful salt 3 tablespoonfuls cocoanut Fry the fish in 2 oz. of the butter ; put the remaining 1 oz. of butter in a saucepan, and brown in it the onion ; add the curry, cocoanut, milk, gravy, sugar, salt; boil 15 minutes ; divide the fish into large flakes, add to curry, also the lemon juice, and boil five minutes. Serve with a dish of rice. 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs Clean, scrape, and wash the fish; mix all the above ingredi- ents together with the egg or a little milk; lay this inside the fish and sew up, to keep it in its place. Lay in a well- greased dripping tin, and put some bits of dripping on the top ; bake 20 to 30 minutes. When done, dish, and sprinkle over the top some brown bread crumbs. Serve with parsley sauce. No. 18, HADDOCK (Baked). 1 haddock, about 1^ pounds 1 tablespoonful minced suet A pinch of sweet herbs i teaspoonful pepper 1 teaspoonful minced parsley ^ teaspoonful salt 1 small egg J oz, dripping No. 19. HADDOCK (Grilled). See Grilled Mackerel (page 11). No. 20. HADDOCK (Fried). See Fried Mackerel (page 11).10 No. 21. HALIBUT STEAKS (Fried). A good Bteak of halibut, about 1 I 1 egg inch thick 1 Some frying fat 2 oz. white bread crumbs j Dry the halibut thoroughly, cover with egg, which must be beaten, and roll in the crumbs ; put in a wire basket or on fish strainer, and put in enough smoking-hot fat to cover it. Fry 7 or 8 minutes, or until a nice gold. Garnish with lemon and parsley. Serve with shrimp sauce (page 118). No. 22. HALIBUT (Steamed). Take a good thick steak of hahbut, and put in a buttered dish; cover with buttered paper; set in a pan of boiling water, allowing the water to come only within one inch of the top of the dish, and steam 15 minutes to each pound. Garnish with lemon and parsley. Serve with parsley sauce (page 114). No. 23. GATEAU DE LOBSTER. ^ lb. lobster ^ lb. bread crumbs 2 tea^oonfuls salt 1 oz. butter 1 oz. brown bread crumbs ^ pint milk or cream I teaspoonful pepper 'A little cayenne Yolks of 3 eggs Boil the milk and pour over the bread crumbs, add the salt, butter, pepper, cayenne, and the yolks of the eggs. Put this with the lobster into a mortar, and pound and mix thoroughly. Butter thoroughly a plain or fancy mould, and throw into it the brown crumbs, shake the mould and see that it is quite covered with the crumbs, pour in the mixture ; bake half-an-hour or until firm. Turn out and garnish with green parsley.11 No. 24. LOBSTER CUTLETS. 1 fine lobster, or 1 tin of lobster IJ oz. butter i pint milk 1 teaspoonful lemon juice 1 small teaspoonful salt A few grains cayenne 1 egg I5 oz. flour 1 tablespoonful cream teaspoonful pepper J lb. white bread crumbs Some fat for frying If fresh lobster is used remove the meat from the shell, reserving the claws and feelers for garnishing. Mince the lobster, put the butter and flour into a saucepan, and when the butter is dissolved add the milk, boil 3 minutes, then add the cream, lemon juice, pepper, salt, and cayenne ; mix thoroughly and add the lobster, spread this on to a large dinner-plate and allow it to cool. When cool and Arm, divide into 12 equal parts, form these into the shape of a mutton cutlet with a knife, beat up the egg, and paint over each cutlet, then roll it in the bread crumbs; put these into a wire frying basket and fry a light brown in enough smoking-hot fat to cover them; Drain on soft paper. Stick into the thin end of each about an inch of the feeler or a piece of the stem of parsley. Dish in a ring on a folded serviette or lace paper and garnish with green parsley. No. 26. MACKEREL (Grilled). Wash and clean the flsh, cut down the back and remove the backbone ; wipe the fish very dry, and lay on the gridiron. Place this underneath the gas burner or over a bright dear fire for four or five minutes; turn the fish, and allow it to remain about the same time. Serve on a hot dish, with a small lump of maitx’e d’hotel butter (page 116) on each fillet. No. 26. 1 mackerel 1 egg MACKEREL (Fried). 2 oz. bread crumbs Prepare the fish as above, paint each fillet with egg, and roll in bread crumbs ; fry a light brown in enough smoking12 hot fat to cover. Drain on soft cap paper. Serve at once, on a folded serviette or lace paper. The fillets may be divided before egging, if preferred. Serve with parsley sauce (page 114). Enough water to cover the fish 1 teaspoonful of salt to each quart of water No. 27. MACKEREL (Boiled). A little vinegar Open the fish and wash thoroughly in cold water, using a little salt, and taking care to remove the thin black skin that lines the inside. Wipe the fish, and lay on the fish slice; put in the water, which must be boiling, and containing the salt and vinegar ] allow the water to boil for a minute, then simmer slowly until the fish is tender (10 to 20 minutes, according to the size of the fish). Drain and serve at once with parsley sauce (page 114). No. 28. 1 mackerel 1 oz. suet, minced i teaspoonful salt J oz. dripping MACKEREL (Baked). 2 oz. bread crumbs i teaspocnful minced parsley \ teaspoonful pepper i pint stock Cut the mackerel in two, and remove the back bone, wash and dry thoroughly; lay the fillets on a well greased dripping tin. Lay half of the forcemeat on each, and half of the dripping cut up in small pieces ; pour round the stock; bake 15 minutes. Serve up with the gravy strained round. Take care not to break the fish in dishing. No. 29. OYSTERS (To Scallop). A few tablespoonfuls of cream Pepper, salt, and sayenne Brown bread crumbs 1 score of oysters and the liquor 1 oz. butter i pint liquor 1 oz. fiour Beard the oysters, strain the liquor, and stew the beards in the liquor for ten minutes. Put the butter and flour into a13 saucepan ; rub together with a wooden spoon until the butter absorbs the flour, then add a little pepper, salt, cayenne, and the liquor from the beards; boil three minutes; add a little cream, just enough to make the sauce a nice thickness, drop the oysters into boiling water for about a quarter of a minute; strain, and stir into sauce. Butter some scallop tins, and fill with the mixture, cover with some brown bread crumbs which have a little butter mixed with them, and bake S or 4 minutes in a medium oven. The oysters on no account must be allowed to boil. No. 30. OYSTERS (to Fry). Choose some fine oysters, and beard them, drop them in boiling water just a quarter of a minute ; drain and dry thoroughly; dip in batter No. 3 (page 117), then drop in smoking-hot fat until just a light brown ; drain on kitchen paper. These may be served with bread and butter or round boiled fish, or in the centre of a dish of lobster cutlets. No. 31. OYSTERS (Rissolettes). 1 oz. flour 2 tablespoonfuls of liquor from ' oysters i pint good cream 4 oz. butter 1 dozen oysters 1 egg i lb. white bread crumbs Fat for frying A very little pepper, salt, and cayenne Beard the oysters, and stew the beards for ten minutes in a little of the liquor. Put the butter and flour into a small saucepan, and rub together until the butter absorbs the flour, then drain the hquor from beards and add to flour; boil thoroughly, then add cream and seasoning; heat, but do not boil after the cream is added; drop the oysters into boiling water for a quai-ter of a minute ; mince them, and add to sauce ; put on to a plate, and allow to cool and set. Meanwhile* c14 prepare a little pastry of J lb. of flour, with 2 oz. of butter rubbed into it, and just enough cold water to make into a nice stiflf paste ; roll out as thinly as possible, and cut in pieces about 2^ inches square; put a small teaspoonful of the mixture on each square ; damp round the edges very slightly, and fold over three-corner shape, fasten them well together ; break up an egg, and paint each of the rissolettes, taking care they are covered all over, then roll them in very fine bread crumbs; they should just be covered with crumbs, not too thickly. Put into a wire basket and fry in hot fat about one minute, or until they are a nice light brown. Garnish with parsley, green or fried, or cresses. No. 32. PLAICE OR FLUKE (FiUeted). Cut the plaice down the centre of the back and gently raise the fillets, pressing the knife close to the bone. Lay the fillet with skin downwards, raise the fish from the skin at the tail end, hold the skin in the left hand and slip the knife between the fish and the skin and lift off the fillet; dip in beaten egg and roll in bread crumbs ; fry in smoking-hot fat. Drain and serve on a lace paper. No. 33. PLAICE OR FLUKE (Fried). See Fried Sole (page 16), or the plaice may be cut in pieces, dipped in frying batter. No. 1 (page 116), then dropped in the hot fat. If batter is used, it must not be put into a frying basket. No. 34. PLAICE OR FLUKE (Baked). 1 plaice teaspoonful sweet herbs 1 egg or a little milk A very small piece of onion, if liked ^ toaspoonful pepper A little grated lemon rind ^ pint brown stock 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs 1 tablespoouful minced suet 4 teaspoonful minced parsley I- teaspoonful salt Fillet the plaice, and then remove the skin ; to sMn the plaice lift the fiesh from the skin with a knife at the tail end, then15 hold the skin, and slip the knife between the skin and the flesh, pressing towards the skin. Put the bones and skin to stew in half-pint of brown stock for 20 minutes. Meanwhile prepare the forcemeat of above ingredients, moistened with the egg or a little milkspread a httle on each fillet, and roll up and fasten with a small wood skewer. Pour round the stock from fish trimmings, cover with greased paper, and bake 20 minutes ; dish neatly, and strain round the gravy. No. 35. PLAICE OR FLUKE (Stuffed). 1 plaice 1 teaspoonful minced parsley 1 egg, or a little milk A dust of nutmeg ^ pint brown stock 4 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs 2 tablespoonfuls minced suet ^ teaspoonful salt J teaspoonful pepper A dust of cayenne Remove the brown skin from the plaice, cut down the centre of the fish as for filleting; raise the fillets to the fins, but do not remove them ; prepare the forcemeat of above ingredients, mixing it all together with the egg ; lay this under each of the fillets, lay the fish in a dripping tin, and pour round the stock ; bake 20 to 30 minutes, according to size. E»ish, and strain over the gravy, which must be nicely seasoned ; serve hot. No. 36. i pint fresh picked shrimps 1 pint water 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls cream A little pepper, cayenne, and some mint 1 egg SHRIMP CROQUETTES. 1 lb. bread crumbs 2 oz. butter 2 oz. flour A little lemon juice A little salt Fat for frying Rub the butter and flour together in a small saucepan over a gentle heat until the butter is dissolved, then add water ; beat well, and allow it to cook thoroughly ; then add all the seasonings, cream, and shrimps slightly minced; re-heat but do not boil. Spread on a plate to cool and set; when firm.16 roll out about half an inch thick, cut in rounds, squares, or any shape prefen-ed, round, ball, or pear shape. Paint them all over with the egg, which should be beaten, and roll in the bread crumbs; put in frying basket, and fry in smoking hot fat; garnish with parsley. No. 37. SOLE (Fried). 1 sole _ A little pepper and salt 1 egg Some frying fat 3 oz. bread crumbs Skin the sole on both sides, cut off the fins, head, and tail, beat the egg on a plate and paint the sole all over ; then roll this in the bread crumbs, which should be made by rubbing the crumbs of bread through a wire sieve, and seasoned with salt and pepper ; have sufficient fat in an oval pan to cover the sole ; allow this to heat until it ceases to rise and bubble, and is quite still, and a thin blue smoke is seen to rise from the top, then put in the fish, and fry about seven minutes, or until the fish is a nice golden colour. When done, drain thoroughly on a piece of cap paper; dish on a lace paper or folded serviette, and decorate with green parsley. No. 38. SOLE A LA CREME. 1 fine sole 1 oz. butter 1 oz. flour i teaspoonful salt I teaspoonful pepper ^ pint milk j pint cream 1 blade of mace 1 bay leaf Skin the fish on both sides and fillet it; divide the fillets into two, roll them, and fasten with a small wooden skewer ; put these into a well buttered tin; cover with buttered paper, and bake 15 minutes. Put the skin and bones with salt, pepper, mace, and bay leaf to simmer half an hour; strain. Put the butter into a pan, let it get quite hot, but not brown;17 thi-ow in the flour, mix until quite smooth, add the milk from bones, and any liquid that has run from the fillets; also the cream ; boil two or three minutes. Dish the fish neatly, removing the skewers, pour over the sauce, coating the fish entirely; serve at once ; garnish with cut lemon or parsley. No. 39. SOLE (Fried Fillets). 1 sole Frying fat 1 egg Pepper and salt 3 oz. bread crumbs Skin the sole on both sides, cut down the centre of the fish from the head to the tail, and gently raise the fillets, pressing the knife to the bone ; wash the fillets and dry thoroughly; cut each fillet into two, and roll up or cut into diamond, or pieces according to taste, roll in flour; break the egg on to a plate, paint over each with a brush, roll in the bread crumbs, which must be seasoned with salt and pepper. Have enough fat to cover the fillets, and allow it to heat until it is quite still and smoking ; put the fillets into a frying basket, and immerse in the hot fat for four or five minutes, or until they take a nice golden colour ; dish in a ring on a lace paper or folded serviette, and decorate with green or fried parsley (see page 116). No. 40. SOLE (Stuffed). 1 fine sole 1 teaspooiiful pepper 1 teaspooiiful minced parsley teaspoonful salt A little grated lemon rind I pint of brown stock or gravy 1 small egg 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs 1 tablespoonful suet, minced 1 tablespoonfui minced lobster or picked shrimps teaspoonful minced herbs Skin the sole on both sides, and cut down the centre as if filleting; raise the fillets about one inch on each side of the bone, but do not remove them. Make the forcemeat of the above ingredients, all mixed with the egg ; lay this under each fillet; place in a buttered tin, and pour round the stock or gravy, and bake 20 minutes, basliug occasionally. Dish on a hot dish, strain round the base the gravy, and dust over the fish a few brown bread crumbs. Only one side of the fish is stufied.18 No. 41. SALMON STEAK (Baked). Cat the steaks about one inch thick, lay them in a dripping tin well oiled with salad oil, cover with a piece of paper well oiled, and bake 16 minutes. Dish, and pour over the following sauce : Two tablespoonfuls tarragon vinegar, two tablespoonfuls brown stock, 1 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful minced parsley. Put the vinegar and stock into a small saucepan; stand inside another containing a little boiling water; stir, and drop in the butter gradually, until it is all dissolved and hot; add parsley, and pour round the fish. No. 42. SALMON (Steamed). Take a nice piece of salmon, and put into a buttered dish ; cover with buttered paper, set the dish into a pan of boiling water, allowing the water to come within one inch of the top of the dish ; steam 10 minutes to the pound, or 16 minutes if a thick piece. Serve on a serviette, and garnish with lemon, parsley, or fennel; serve with it fennel sauce (page 114), which may be made partly from the liquor that has run firom the salmon into the dish. This will be found a most economical way of cooking salmon, as it retains the whole of the flavour. No. 43. SALMON (Boiled). Boiling water to cover the fish 1 teaspoonful of salt to each quart Put the fish on the fish slice, and put in enough boiling water to cover; boil one minute, then draw on one side, and simmer slowly until cooked, allowing 7 to 10 minutes to the pound according to the thickness ; drain thoroughly, and serve on a folded serviette; decorate with parsley or fennel. Serve with melted butter, parsley butter, or shrimp sauce.19 MEAT DISHES. No. 44. BEEF OLIVES (Entree). 14 lbs. beef steak 1 teaspoonful minced parsley 1 teaspoonful salt ^ teaspoonful pepper 1 oz. flour I pint water or stock 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs 1 tablespoonful suet 1 small onion 1 egg 1 oz. butter A few grains cayenne Cut the meat into thin strips, 4^ inches long and 2 inches wide, beat these with a cutlet bat or rolling pin. Mince the trimmings of the meat, and add to them the bread crumbs, salt, pepper, suet, onion, parsley, all minced, and mix together with the egg. Spread a little of this mixture on each length of meat, roll up, and skewer neatly. Put into a pan the butter, and when quite hot brown in it the olives ; remove these from the pan, add the flour and brown also; add the stock or water gradually, and when boiling put back the olives, and simmer slowly hours. Dish in a ring ; season the gravy, and strain on to dish. No. 45. BEEF GRENADINS WITH OLIVES (Entree). 2 lbs. rump steak, 1 inch thick 1 carrot 1 onion 1 stalk of celery, or ^ teaspoonful celery seed i teaspoonful pepper 1^ dozen Spanish olives lb. fat bacon 1 turnip A bunch of sweet herbs ^ teaspoonful salt I oz. butter ^ oz. flour Cut the steak into small rounds, and carefully lard each round on the top with neatly cut lardoons cut from the bacon about 1 inch long and ^ inch square. Lay at the bottom of a saucepan the vegetables (cut in slices), the herbs, pepper and salt. Lay on the top the grenadins, and pour round a little boiling stock or water ; allow these to simmer20 slowly 1;^ hours. Remove the grenadins into a dripping tin with a few tablespoonfuls of gravy ; set in a hot oven to brown. Meanwhile, heat the butter in a saucepan until brown, brown in it the flour, strain to this the gravy; then add 1^ dozen olives, parboiled, stoned, and minced ; boil 15 minutes. Dish the grenadins in a ring, pour the gravy, and olives in the centre. No. 46. BEEF STEAK PIE. 1^ lbs. beef steak 1 teaspoonful salt FJakey pastry ^ teaspoonful pepper 1 tablespoonful flour Cut the beef up into thin strips, 2| inches long and 1 inch' wide; mix the flour, salt, and pepper together, dip each piece of beef into this; cut up the pieces of fat into very small pieces ; lay a piece of the fat at the end of each piece of beef, and roll up into neat rounds ; pile in a small pie dish. Pour in two tablespnoT'^^^s of water; line the edges of the dish, cover and decorate with flakey pastry '(page 84). Paint over the top with a beaten egg or milk. Bake 1J hours; when done, fill the pie with hot water, seasoned, or good stock. Fold a serviette round the dish, and serve. If served cold, add a little gelatine to gravy, and serve with parsley. No. 47. BEEF STEAK PUDDING. I lb. beef steak ^ pint of water Suet pastry ^ tablespoonful flour i teaspoonful salt teaspoonful pepper Line a deep basin, well buttered, with suet paste (page 86), rolled -J- inch thick. Put the flour, salt, and pepper on a plate;-'cut the meat into strips 2^- inches long and 1 inch wide, and the fat into very small pieces ; roll each piece of meat in the seasoned flour; place a small piece of fat at the end of each piece, and roll it up into a neat round. Place21 these in the hasin and pour over the water; the basin may be neai-ly filled. Wet the edges of pastry, and cover with a round piece of pastry ; thoroughly seal the edges, cover with buttered paper, and steam for hours. Turn out and serve, I lb. of flour will make sufficient pastry for this pudding. No. 48. STEWED BEEF STEAK. li to 21b. steak 1 onion 1 carrot 1 turnip ^ pint water 1| oz. butter or dripping 1 oz. flour A bunch of sweet herbs A sprig of parsley Put the butter into a pan, and when hot brown in it the steak, then the onion and flour ; add the water gradually, and when boiling add the vegetables, herbs, and steak ; simmer very slowly to 2 hours. When done, dish the steak and vegetables on the top, or the gravy may be strained over the steak, and garnished with fancy cut carrots and turnips, which should be boiled in separate pans containing boiling water, a little sugar and salt. No. 49. CURRIED CHICKEN, VEAL, OR RABBIT. 1 chicken 3 tablespoonfuls cocoanut 1 tablespoonful lemon juice 1 onion 1 dessertspoonful sugar 2 oz. butter 2 tablespoonfuls curry powder i pint milk i pint of gravy or stock 1 teaspoonful salt Joint the chicken neatly, and fry a light brown in the butter; remove from the pan, and fry the onion (sliced), add the curry powder, cocoanut, sugar, salt, milk, and gravy ; put back the chicken and simmer half-an-hour; a fowl or rabbit will take an hour ; add the lemon juice, and serve with a dish of rice.22 No. 60. FRICASSED FOWL OR CHICKEN (Entree). 1 fowl or 2 small chickens oz. flour 1^ oz. butter A blade of mace 1 teaspoonful white peppercorns 2 yolks of eggs 2 tablespoonfuls cream 1 small shallot 1 bay leaf 2 sprigs of parsley A small bunch of sweet herbs 1 pint of milk or water Skin and joint the fowls neatly, and blanch them by dropping the joints into a pan of boiling water for a minute ; then lift them out and dip them into cold water ; then keep covered. Meanwhile, put the feet (which must first be scalded), neck and trimmings into a saucepan with the shallot, mace, parsley, sweet herbs, peppercorns, salt, and bay leaf, and 1 pint of milk. Simmer slowly for half an hour ; now add the fowl and simmer slowly one hour, if chicken 40 minutes. Put the butter and flour into a saucepan, and when dissolved strain the gravy from the chicken to it, stir thoroughly, and allow it to boil three or four minutes, add a little more seasoning, if required, beat up the yolks of the eggs, and add to them the sauce, also the cream; strain over the chicken, which should be neatly dished. On no account must the sauce be allowed to boil after the eggs are added, or it will curdle. No. 51. GALATINE OF FOWL OR CHICKEN (Entree). 1 fowl A few grains cayenne teaspoonful sweet herbs A little tongue, or a few slices of ham ^ doz. truffles or pickled walnuts ^ teaspoonful grated lemon rind 1 quart aspic jelly ^ lb. sausages J lb. bread crumbs 1 teaspoonful salt ^ do. pepper 2 eggs. Bone the fowl, commencing by cutting straight down the back, and removing the wings, then the legs, and last of all the body, taking care not to break the outside skin, nor the inner skin; cut off the head and remove the skeleton, draw23 the legs and wings inside, spread flat on a board, and cover with a forcemeat made with the sausages, bread crumbs, sweet herbs, salt, pepper, cayenne, and lemon rind, all mixed together with the eggs (beaten). Lay on the top of the forcemeat the tongue or ham, and a row of truffles or walnuts, roll up and sew together, taking care to secure the ends ; roll in a linen cloth, and bind firmly with tape, boil two hours in some stock, made as follows : Take the bones and trimmings from the fowl, put into a pan with three pints of cold water, half teaspoonlul peppercorns, blade of mace, sprig of parsley, and one onion ; boil one hour, then put in the fowl. When the fowl is boiled sufflciently, lift out and put between two plates with a weight on the top. Allow this to stand until cold, then remove the cloth, and draw out the stitches carefully; put into a mould, large enough to take the fowl, half-an-inch of good aspic jelly (page 230), which may be made from the stock in which the fowl has been boiled. When set, lay in the fowl and cover with more jelly, just liquid, but not hot; when set, dip into warm water and turn out quickly; decorate with chopped parsley, aspic jelly (which may be coloured), hard boiled white of egg cut in fancy patterns, and three silver hatlet skewers will be an improvement. No. 62. CALF’S HEAD (Boned and Stuffed). 1 calf’s head ^ teaspoonfnl lemon rind 1 teaspoonful salt i teaspoonful pepper J teaspoonful powdered mace 1 teaspoonful minced parsley J teaspoonful minced sage 1 carrot 1 onion 1 doz. peppercorns 1 egg J lb. bread crumbs 2 oz. suet A blade of mace A strip of lemon peel Take the calfs head, blanched, and the hair removed, take out the brains, put the head into a pan of boiling water, and simmer three-quarters of an hour ; take out, and when nearly cold remove the bones and tongue. Prepare a forcemeat with the bread crumbs, suet, parsley, sage, mace, salt, and24 pepper, mixed with one egg; add to it the brains, first washed in cold water, then in warm, then boiled and chopped. Lay open the head, spread on the forcemeat, skin the tongue, lay in the centre, whole or cut up; roll up the head and sew together, wrap in a linen cloth and hind firmly. Put the bones together with one carrot, one onion, a blade of mace, one dozen peppercorns, a strip of lemon peel, three pints of cold water, to stew for one hour; remove bones, and stew the head in this liquor two and a half hours; remove the cloth and serve with parsley or oyster sauce (pages 118 and 114). This may also be served cold. No. 53. i lb. beef i lb. potatoes A dust of parsley CORNISH PASTIES. 4 teaspoonful salt J teaspoouful pepper i a small onion, minced Cut up the beef and potatoes into small squares, mix with them the pepper, salt, onion, and parsley. Make a dripping paste (page 85) of half lb. flour. Roll out, and cut into six or eight squares or rounds ; fill the centre with the above mixture, wet the edges, fold over three-corner ways and thoroughly seal; bake half-an-hour. No. 54. DUCKS (to Roast). The ducks should be well plucked and singed, the pinions cut off to first joint, the feet left on and scalded and skinned ; pass a skewer through the pinions, also the top part of the legs. Draw the bottom part of the legs over the back and tie ; roast three-quarters to one hour, basting thoroughly; serve with a brown gravy, and sage and onion stufiing as for goose (page 27) may be used if liked. Green peas should be served when in season.25 No. 55. STUFFED FOWL. J teaapoonful grated lemon rind i do. pepper I do. salt I do. sweet herbs 1 do. parsley 1 egg 4 tablespoonfula bread crumbs 2 do. suet A little powdered mace A few grains cayenne A little minced ham Mix the whole with the egg, which should be slightly beaten, and place in the breast of the fowl. Truss and roast as follows ;— ROAST FOWL. To truss a fowl for roasting ; If a chicken, leave on the feet, which should be scalded and skinned ; if an older bird, cut off the legs half-way to the first joint, tui'n back the pinions, run a skewer through them, catching the top part of the legs; tie the bottom part of the legs together. Set in a hot oven, or in front of a hot fire, from f to 1^ hours, according to size ; baste well with butter or dripping, and about a quarter of an hour before it is finished dredge with fiour and brown nicely. To make gi’avy, pour from the tin the fat, sprinkle in a good teaspoonful of browned fiour, then add half pint boiling water, contain- ing half teaspoonful of Liebig’s extract of beef, a little salt and pepper ; allow this to boil three minutes, strain over the fowl, or serve in separate tureen. If liked serve with this bread sauce (page 109). No. 56. BOILED FOWL. To truss the fowl for boiling, the legs should be removed from the first joint, and the sinews drawn; to draw the sinews just cut the skin round the first joint of the leg, then give the leg a strong pull and it will be easily removed with the sinews. Fold over the pinions and pass a skewer through26 them and the top part of the legs, tie the bottom part of the logs together, cover the breast of the fowl with thinly cut rounds of lemon, wrap up in a piece of buttered paper, and put into a pan of boiling water ; allow this to boil five or six minutes, draw on one side and simmer very slowly, ^ to 1^ hours ; when done, remove the paper, and drain; cover the fowl entirely with a white sauce made as follows: Put one ounce ot butter into a saucepan, dissolved, add the fiour, and mix until smooth, then add ^ pint of milk and ^ pint of liquid in which the fowl has been boiled, allow this to cook three minutes, add ^ teaspoonful of salt, J teaspoonful pepper, and sti'ain over the fowl; garnish with the yolk of a hard-boiled ®gg > fliis may be rubbed through a sieve on to fowl, or cut in slices, and then into small rounds or difierent patterns as preferred. If the fowl is to be served cold, add ounce of gelatine dissolved in ^ pint stock to sauce, and coat ihe fowl with this twice when it is nearly cold but not set; dish on a bed of salad. No. 67. GOOSE (to Roast). ^ lb. onions 2 teaspoonfuls salt 1 dessertspoonful minced sage ^ teaspoonful pepper ^ lb. bread crumbs A goose should not be more than a year old. It must be well plucked, singed, drawn, wiped, and the head cut ofl’ near to the back; cut off the pinions to the first joint, also the legs; run a skewer through the pinions, also the top of the logs. Stuff the bird as follows : Peel the onions and boil for hdf-an-hour ; drain and chop them, then add sage and seasonings ; put this in the body of the bird, and tie up the opening; also tie the bottom of the legs together. Roast for If to 2^ hours, according to size ; baste thoroughly; when done, pour ofi" the fat from the tin, put into it one good tablespoonful of brown flour-, pint of good stock, seasoned with salt and pepper ; boil up, and serve a little round the goose, and remainder in a tureen. Also serve with this apple sauce (page 1091.27 No. 58. GOOSE, Roasted, with Chestnut Forcemeat. 2 onions 1^ teaspoonful of salt 15 roasted chestnuts ^ teaspoonful pepper 1 dessertspoonful of minced parsley Boil the onions half-an-hour, and add the chestnuts, roasted and minced, parsley, pepper and salt; dress and stuff bird ; serve with brown gravy, as on page 26. Tomato sauce (page 115) may be served with this if liked. No. 59. GIBLET PIE. The neck, feet, pinions, liver, and gizzard of the goose A little grated lemon rind A little powdered mace 2 tablespoonfuls water tablespoonful flour 4 teaspoonful sweet herbs teaspoonful salt teaspoonful pepper Scald and skin the feet, open the gizzard, and wash all thoroughly, and cut the neck into small pieces ; put the flour, sweet herbs, salt, pepper, grated lemon rind, and mace on a plate; roll the giblets well in this mixture, put into a dish, and add 2 tablespoonfuls of water. Cover and decorate with rough puff pastry (page 84); bake 2 hours ; when done, add i pint of well-seasoned stock, and serve. No. 60. STEWED GIBLETS. The neck, feet, pinions, liver, and gizzard of goose 14 oz. butter Bunch of sweet herbs A blade of mace 1 pint stock or water 1 onion A sprig of parsley 1 teaspoonful of salt 4- teaspoonful pepper 1 oz. flour Scald and skin the feet, open the gizzard, and wash all thoroughly, divide the neck into small pieces ; put the butter into saucepan, and when brown put in the onion, sliced, then brown the flour ; add one pint of stock or water ^adually, stir until it boils ; add the giblets and all the above ingredients; simmer slowly two hours ; dish neatly and strain over the gi'avy28 No. 61. HARE (Jugged). 1 hare 2 small onions ^ lb. ham 2 sprigs of parsley 1 good teaspoonful salt The juice of 1 lemon 2 oz. butter 1 lb. gravy beef 4 cloves A bunch of sweet herbs A blade of mace J teaspoonful pepper pint of port or claret 2 oz. flour ^ pint of stock, made from bare bones. Wash and wipe the hare thoroughly ; joint it neatly, and remove hones from legs and breast, and stew the bones in 1 pint of water for an hour ; put the butter into a saucepan, allow it to get brown ; flour the hare and beef, cut in pieces, and fry a light brown ; remove from the pan, and fry the onions sliced ; now add flour, and brown that, and add the f pint of stock ; gradually stir till it boils. Put the pieces of hare in a stone jar ; on the top put the ham sliced, then the beef ; pour over .the gravy, and add all the other ingredients, except the wine, which must be added last; cover the jar, and set in a pan of boiling water, which should come within an inch and a half of the top of jar. Boil for 2| hours. Meanwhile prepare Forcemeat Balls, or Veal Forcemeat. 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs ^ teaspoonful minced sweet herbs i teaspoonful parsley J teaspoonful salt 1 teaspoonful pepper 1 egg 1 tablespoonful suet do. grated lemon rind A dust of powdered mace A few grains of cayenne 1 tablespoonful minced ham Put all the ingredients together, and mix with the egg, which must be beaten; form into small balls, and fry a light brown, in hot butter or smoking-hot fat; drop these into the jar with the hare about half-an-hour before it is finished ; when done, lift out the balls, and arrange round the edge of a dish ; pile the hare in the centre, and strain over the gravy; serve at once. A dish of red currant jelly should also bo served with it.29 No. 62. HARE (Roasted). 4 tablespoonfula bread crumba 2 do. minced suet 2 do. minced ham ^ teaspoonful sweet herbs I do. minced parsley i a grated lemon rind 1 small teaspoonful salt ^ do. pepper A dust of cayenne 2 or 3 mushrooms minced, if liked 2 small eggs The hare should hang for two or three days, it should then be skinned and drawn, allowed to soak in warm water for an hour ; take care to remove all the blood and wipe thoroughly. Stew the liver for five minutes, then mince and add to above ingredients, mix the whole with the two eggs beaten, lay inside the hare and sew top ; wrap a piece of buttered paper round the ears so as to prevent them from burning, skewer back the head and the legs, tie some thin strips of fat bacon over the back of the hare, and roast 1 to hours ; about a quarter of an hour before it is finished remove the bacon and dredge the hai-e with flour, and baste well with butter, and brown nicely, remove skewers, and dish ; make a good brown gravy by pouring from the tin all the fat, then put in 1 tablespoonful of brown flour, ^ pint of good stock, or water flavoured with ^ a teaspoonful of Liebig’s extract of beef, and a little pepper and salt; serve a little round the dish with little heaps of red currant jelly ; serve remainder of gravy in tureen; also a dish of red currant jelly should be served with it. Prepare and stufF as hare (as above), lard over the back, roast for 1 hour ; the first half hour baste it with milk, then dredge with flour and baste with butter ; make gravy and serve as hare. No. 63. LEVERET (Roasted). n80 No. 64. KIDNEY SAUTE 4 sheep’s kidneys 1^ oz. butter i pint of stock 1 teaspoonful minced parsley ^ A little pepper and salt Pat the butter into a saut6 pan, and when quite hot put in the kidneys, which must be skinned and Cut through length- ways ; shake these for 2 minutes, add the parsley, pepper, salt, and the stock ; and if liked, leave out 2 tablespoonfuls of stock and add the same quantity of sherry. No. 65. 3 or 4 kidneys 1 oz. butter i pint stock 1 teaspoonful flour 1 minced shallot KIDNEYS (Stewed). i teaspoonful sweet herbs ^ do. salt i do. pepper 1 do. Worcester sauce Skin and cut up the kidneys about ^ inch thick, put on to a plate the shallot, herbs, salt, and pepper, and roll each piece of kidney in this seasoning; put the butter into a pan and when quite hot and brown drop in the kidneys, fry a light brown; remove from pan and add to the butter the flour, and when nicely browned add the stock and sauce, allow this to boil up ; put back the kidneys and simmer very slowly 5 minutes. Dish on a hot dish, and strain over the gravy. No. 66. BREAST OF LAMB, Boned and Stuffed (Entree). 1 breast of lamb ^ grated lemon rind A dust of nutmeg A dust of mint 2 small eggs 1^ oz. butter 1 oz. flour 4 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs 2 tablespoonfuls suet, minced J teaspoonful minced sweet herbs ^ do. do. parsley 1 do. do. salt J do. do. pepper 1 pint of water 1 onion Bone neatly the breast of lamb, taking care not to break the outer skin; make a forcemeat of bread crumbs, suet, sweet81 herbs, parsley, nutmeg, mint, lemon rind, all mixed together, with two eggs. Spread this on the breast and roll up, skewer into a good shape. Put the butter into a stewpan, and when brown put in the breast and brown lightly, remove from the saucepan, then brown the onion cut up, also the flour, add the water gradually; allow this to boil up, put in • the breast, also the bones and a blade of mace ; let this simmer very slowly 1^ to 1^ hours. Dish the breast in the centre of a hot dish, with a border of peas round, and strain over it a little gravy, the remainder may be served in a tureen. ■ No. 67. LAMB CUTLETS with Spinach (Entree). 2 lb. spinach \ pint good white stock 8 or 9 cutlets 1 egg ^ lb. bread crumbs 2 oz. butter 2 oz. flour 1 small teaspoonful salt ^ do. pepper Some frying fat Form the cutlets by removing the meat about 1 inch from the top of the bone, all the fat, and saw oflf the chine bone, beat these with a cutlet bat or rolling pin ; paint over each with the egg, beaten, and roll them in bread crumbs, put into a frying basket and fry in smoking hot fat for five minutes; drain on soft paper ; pick, wash, and drain thoroughly the spinach, throw it into a pan with plenty of boiling water, containing 1 teaspoonful of salt to each quart. Boil quickly three or four minutes with the lid off, drain and press out all the water, then rub the spinach through a wire sieve; put the butter and flour into a saucepan and rub together over a gentle heat until the butter is dissolved, then add the stock, beat and cook thoroughly four minutes; season and add to spinach ; press this into a mould well buttered. Turn out on the centre of a hot dish, arrange the cutlets neatly round, and serve with sauce Robert (page 114). No. 68. LAMB’S SWEETBREADS (Entree). 4 sweetbreads Some frying fat 1 egg 4 tablespoonfuls white bread crumbs i teaspoonful salt I do. pepper Soak the sweetbreads in cold water two or three hours.82 dry them thoroughly on a clean towel, put them into a pan of boiling water for 12 minutes, remove and drop into cold water for five or six minutes ; place between two plates and press until quite set; cut each sweetbread in two, paint them all over with 1 egg, beaten, roll them in some finely made bread crumbs seasoned with salt and pepper; put into a wire basket and fry a light brown in smoking hot fat; drain on soft paper; dish in a ring; garnish with cut lemon; a pile of peas or new potatoes in centre, and a rich brown gravy (page 110) round the base of dish. No. 69. LAMB PIE. 3 Ib. breast, neck, or loin, of lamb 1 tablespoonful flour 1 teaspoonful minced parsley I pint water 1 onion 1 teaspoonful salt i do. pepper 1 blade of mace Bone the lamb ; put the bones to stew with | pint cold water, 1 small onion and a blade of mace for 1 hour; put the flour, salt, pepper and parsley on a plate, divide the meat into small pieces about 2 inches long and 1 inch wide; roll these in the seasoned flour, then roll up each piece, pile them in a heap in a pie dish; add 2 tablespoonfuls of water, line the edges of the dish with rough puff pastry (page 84), then cover and decorate; paint over the top -with egg, bake 1^ hours ; when done, strain the gravy from bones, add a little gelatine, then pour into the pie. Allow this to set, and serve cold, with a serviette folded round the dish, and ornamented with a little parsley. No. 70. \ LAMB’S (Entree). 1 or 1^ lb. lamb’s fry Some flour 1 good bunch of parsley 1 egg 1 tablespoonful milk Salt and pepper Wash the firy thoroughly, put it into a pan of cold water and simmer five minutes, lift out and dry on a soft towel, and33 divide into nice pieces; dip in a batter made of 1 egg, 1 tablespoonful of milk, a little pepper, salt, and enough flour to make it the consistency of good thick cream; have ready a frying pan containing 2 oz. of butter browned, put in the fry and fry a light brown; remove the fry, dust a little flour into the frying pan, allow this to brown, and add a little water and seasoning, boil 4 or 5 minutes, strain over the fry, decorate the dish with fried parsley (page 116) and cut lemon. No. 71. LIVER (Baked). 1 dessertspoonful mushroom ketchup 1 lb. calf’s liver 1 small onion i teaspoonful sweet herbs j do. salt J teaspoonful pepper 1 do. minced parsley 3 oz. bread crumbs 3 oz. fat bacon Cut the liver into slices ^ of an inch thick, wash and dry it thoroughly, lay the slices in a well buttered dripping- tin ; make a forcemeat of bread crumbs, parsley, sweet herbs, salt, pepper, and onion minced, cover each strip of liver with this, and on the top place a strip of bacon; pour' round this ^ pint of water, and bake slowly f of an hour; dish in a ring, taking care not to disturb the forcemeat and bacon ; strain the gravy round the base. No. 72. BRAIZED LOIN OF MUTTON, with Mushrooms. 3 lb. loin of mutton 1 stalk of celery 4 teaspoonful peppercorns A bunch of sweet herbs 1 oz. butter Pepper, salt, and cayenne 1 turnip 1 carrot 2 or 3 cloves A sprig of parsley 1 oz. flour Remove the bone from the mutton, thoroughly rub it with 1 teaspoonful salt, ^ do. pepper, and a few grains of cayenne mixed ; roll up and tie into a neat roll; cut up the celery, onion, carrot, and turnip, and lay them at the bottom of a34 stewpan with the sweet herbs and parsley ; Jay the mutton on the top of these, and pour round enough water to three- parts cover it, simmer slowly 1^ to 2 hours ; lift the mutton into a dripping tin with a few tablespoonfuls gravy; set in a brisk oven until nicely .brovra ; strain the gravy and skim off the fat, put the butter into a saucepan, and when brown, add the flour, and brown also ; then add the gravy gradually, a little pepper and salt, and about 1 dozen button mushrooms, skinned; boil 8 minutes; dish the mutton with the mushrooms round, and the gravy strained over. No. 73. HARICOT MUTTON. 2 lb. beat end neck of mutton 2 small onions 1 dessertspoonful mushroom ketchup 1 dessertspoonful Worcester sauoe 1 oz. flour ^ pint water 1 oz. butter 1 large carrot ^ turnip ^ teaspoonful salt 4 teaspoonful pepper Punch of sweet herbs Saw off the chine bone, and remove some of the fat. divide into cutlets; flour and fry the cutlets in their own fat, remove from pan, and heat 1 oz. butter, and fry in that the onion, carrot, and turnip, cut in dice, 10 minutes ; add the flour, and when all are slightly brown, add all the above ingredients and the cutlets; simmer slowly 1J to 1^ hours ; dish the vegetables in the centre and the cutlets round, with the gravy strained over the mutton. No. 74. LEG OF MUTTON (Boned and Larded). 1 leg Welsh mutton 1 good teaspoonful parsley, minced ^ lemon rind, grated 1 teaspoonful salt ^ teaspoonful pepper A piece of celery A bunch of parsley 3 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs Prepare the forcemeat of the bread crumbs, minced bacon, nutmeg, parsley, lemon rind salt and pepper, mixed 1 oz, of minced bacon A dust of nutmeg 2 small eggs 1 carrot 1 turnip 1 onion Sweet herbs35 all together with 2 eggs, bone the mutton to first joint, fill the cavity with the forcemeat; lard it neatly with small lardoons of bacon, cut about 1 inch long and ^ inch square ; lay at the bottom of a stewpan the carrot, turnip, onion, celery, all cut up with the herbs and seasoning ; lay the leg on the top of these vegetables, pour round enough water to come 'half way over the mutton, but do not cover ] simmei this slowly 2 hours lift out and set in the oven, and brown about half an hour ; reduce the gravy by fast boiling ; dish the mutton, and strain over a little of the gravy, the remainder serve in a tureen. If liked, a few mushrooms may be used to garnish the dish, and they should be stewed in the gravy 10 minutes after the mutton has been removed. No. 75. BREAST OF MUTTON (Boned and Stuffed). See Breast of Lamb (page 30). Simmer 1^ to 2 hours. No. 76. MUTTON CUTLETS 6 or 8 thick cutlets 1 dessertspoonful minced parsley 2 oz. butter 2 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs 2 shallots a la Maintenon (Entree). , 4 mushrooms, minced i teaspoonful salt i do. pepper 1 doz. whole mushrooms To prepare the cutlets saw off the chine bone, and cut them as thick as possible at the bottom, leaving a bone in each, which must be bared about 1 inch from the top, and nearly all the fat removed. To prepare the forcemeat put the butter in a fryingpan, and when brown, add the shallots, mushrooms, parsley minced, also the bread crumbs; fry these until a light brown ; strain off the butter, add salt and pepper, cut the bottom part of the cutlet through nearly to the bone and insert a little of the forcemeat, skewer together with a fine skewer at the outer edge; grill these from 7 to 8 minutes; meanwhile prepare the gravy, for which re-heat86 the butter strained from the forcemeat, add 1 tablespoonful of flour and brovra it, then add gradually ^ pint of good brown stock, a dozen small mushrooms, pepper, and salt, simmer 10 minutes ; remove the skewers from the cutlets, and dish them in a ring round a mould of mashed potatoes, or any other vegetable, and pour the gravy and mushi'ooms round the base. No. 77. MUTTON CUTLETS, with Tomato Sauce (Entree). 2 lb. best end neck of mutton Pepper and salt 2 oz. bread crumbs Some frying fat 1 egg Saw ofi" the chine bone and divide the meat into cutlets, leaving a bone to each cutlet; bare the top end of the bone about 1 inch down, pare ofi" the fat and beat the cutlets, put them in shape again, paint over with egg and roll in bread crumbs seasoned with salt and pepper ; put in a basket, and fry in smoking-hot fat 7 to 8 minutes, drain on soft paper ; dish in a ring, with tomato sauce (page 116) poured in the centre, not over, or the sauce may be served in a separate tureen. No. 78. MUTTON CUTLETS a la Soubise. 6 or 8 cutlets 6 small onions 1 medium potato 1 pint of good white stock 1 oz. flour 1 oz. butter f teaspoonful white peppercorns 1 small teaspoonful salt ^ pint of cream Dissolve the butter and the flour but do not brown them, add gradually the stock, and when boiling add the cutlets, which should be prepared by sawing off the chine bone, dividing and leaving a bone 4^ inches long to each, which should be bared at the top 1 inch ; add the onions, which must first be peeled and blanched by putting them into boiling water, also the potato, cut in slices, and the peppercorns and salt; simmer slowly for three-quarters of an hour ; dish neatly round a dish, with a heap of asparagus or French beans in centre ; pass the sauce through a hair or tammy sieve, and strain round the cutlets.37 No. 79. MUTTON KIDNEYS a la Maitre d’Hotel. 4 sheep’s kidneys 1 oz. butter A little pepper and salt 2 tablespoonfuls of bread cruml'S Skin the kidneys and cut them nearly through, lay them open and run a skewer thi’ough them ; dissolve the butter, roll each kidney in it, then cover with bread crumbs, grill them 7 to 8 minutes, repeatedly turning them ; when nicely brown remove the skewers and replace them with silver hatlet skewers; dish neatly, and place a heap of maitre d’hotel butter (page 116) on each. No. 80. POTATO PIE. 2 lb. potatoes J lb. scraps of beef 2 teaspoonfuls salt 1 onion, good size ^ do. pepper Peel the potatoes and cut up into rough pieces, cut up meat and onions, season these well with the salt and pepper, mix them together thoroughly, heap in a pie dish, line the edge of the dish and cover and decorate with dripping pastry (page 85) ; bake 1^ hours in a moderate oven; f lb. of flour will be sufficient for this pie. No. 81. PIGEON PIE. 2 pigeons 2 eggs, hard boiled ^ teaspoonful pepper 1 oz. butter i lb. beef steak 1 tablespoonful flour 1 teaspoonful salt pint stock Draw, singe and wipe the pigeons ; cut each into four pieces, leaving a leg or wing in each piece, mix the flour, salt, and pepper together on a plate, and roll in it each piece88 of pigeon, then put in the under part of each piece of pigeon a small piece of butter; cut up the beef in strips 2^ inches long and 1 inch wide, roll in the seasoned flour, put a small piece of fat in the centre of each, and roll up ; place this at the bottom of the pie dish, then lay the eggs on, cut in slices, then the pigeons, and 2 tablespoonfuls of water ; line the edges of pie dish; cover and decorate with rough puff pastry (page 84) ; paint over with beaten egg, bake 2 hours. The oven should be hot at first, then allowed to cool. When done, add ^ pint of very good seasoned stock, and decorate the top of pie with the feet of the pigeons, which should be scalded and skinned. No. 82. RABBIT (Roast). Wipe the rabbit, and season inside with a little pepper, salt, and powdered clove; prepare forcemeat as for hare (page 29); skewer the head back and the legs on each side ; roast an hour, well basting with butter ; about a quarter of an hour before it is finished, dredge with fiour and brown. It may be served with black eurrant jelly, like the hare, and a nice brovm gravy. No. 83. RABBIT (Stewed). 1 rabbit Sprig of parsley A bunch of sweet herbs 1 pint water or milk 2 cloves 3 oz. fat bacon 1 oz. flour 1 onion 4 teaspoonful salt \ do. pepper Cut the bacon into squares, fry a nice brown; remove the squares of bacon from the pan, leaving in the fat; joint the rabbit neatly, and fry quickly in the fat; remove the rabbit, and fry the onion, which should be sliced, a light brown;39 draw this on one side and brown the flour; now add gradually the water, and stir quite smooth ; when boiling, add the rabbit, bacon, and all the above ingredients ; simmer slowly 1 to li hours; dish neatly, and strain over the gravy. No. 84. EABBIT (Boiled). Wash and dry the rabbit, skewer back the head and the legs along the side; put into a pan of boiling water, let it boil five minutes, then draw on one side and simmer slowly ^ to 1 hour; serve with a good white sauce poured over, made with 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, rubbed together over a gentle heat until the butter is dissolved, then add ^ pint milk, ^ pint liquid in which the rabbit has been boiled ; season with ^ teaspoonful salt, and J teaspoonful pepper, or it may be served with onion or parsley sauce. No. 85. RABBIT PIE. 1 large rabbit, or 2 small ones 4 lb. ham or bacon 1 tablespoonful flour J teaspoonful pepper 2 hard boiled eggs 1 teaspoonful salt A dust of mace and sweet herbs Cut the rabbit into neat joints, remove the top bone from the legs; put the flour, salt, pepper, mace, and herbs on to a plate, roll in this the rabbit, cut the eggs in thin slices, also the ham; arrange alternately layers of rabbit, egg, and ham, sprinkling a little salt and pepper over the egg ; add two tablespoonfuls of water, and line the edges of the dish, cover with rough pufi' pastry (page 84) ; decorate and paint over with a little beaten egg; bake 1-| hours; mean- while stew the bones with a little water, a small onion, a blade of mace, a few sweet herbs, and season with pepper and salt; a little gelatine may be dissolved in gravy; pour into pie when done. May be served cold or hot.RABBIT (Curried). See Curried Chicken (page 21). ^ lb. gravy beef 1 onion teaspoonful pepper 1 small carrot f pint of water No. 87. STEW, EXETER. 1 oz. butter or dripping 1 oz. flour 1 teaspoonful salt A bunch of sweet herbs Put the butter into a saucepan, and when quite hot brown the onion sliced, also the flour, then add gradually the water, and when boiling add the meat, cut in small squares, the carrot, sliced, and pepper and salt; simmer slowly 1|- to 2 hours: about an horn- before this is ready make some suet balls and drop into the stew. No. 88. SUET BALLS. lb. flour 1 teaspoonful minced parsley A pinch of baking powder 2 oz. minced suet ^ teaspoonful salt \ do. pepper Mix into a stiflf paste with cold water and form into 9 balls ; dish the balls round the dish, the meat and gi'avy in the centre. No. 89. STEW, IRISH. 1 to 2 lb. neck or scraps of mutton 3 lb. potatoes - 2 onions 3 pint water 2 teaspoonfuls salt 1 do. pepper Divide the meat into neat pieces, cut up the potatoes into rough pieces, slice the onions, put in a saucepan alternate layers of meat, potatoes, and onions, with a good sprinkle of the salt and pepper between each layer; pour over the water, and simmer very slowly IJ to 1^ houi'S ; dish the meat round the edge of the dish, and the potatoes in a heap in the centre, pour over the gravy.41 No. 90. SEA PIE. 1 lb. scraps beef 1 oz. dripping 1 oz. flour I pint water or stock 1 onion 1 teaspoonful salt ^ do. pepper 2 lb. potatoes Put the dripping or butter into a saucepan, not too large, and, when quite hot, brown in it the onion, then the flour; then add the water or stock gradually ; pepper and salt; cut up the meat into squares, and lay at the bottom of the pan, then the potatoes cut in rough pieces, on the top of this put a layer of suet pastry (page 86), rolled the size of pan, inch thick; simmer hours. For pastry, about^ lb. of flour will be suflicient. No. 91. TURKEY (Roast). Prepare forcemeat as for hare (page 29). See that the turkey is well plucked, singed and wiped; fold over the pinions, and pass a skewer through them, the thick part of the legs and the body, catching the leg and pinning it on the other side; also, well secure the bottom part of the leg, which should have the feet cut ofi" half-way to the first joint; fill the breast of the bird with the forcemeat, and skewer down the skin; cover the breast with buttered paper, roast to 2^ hours, according to size; baste thoroughly ; about a quarter of an hour before it is finished, dust well with flour, and brown nicely; 1 or 2 lbs. of sausages may be cooked with the turkey, with which garnish the dish ; serve with a good brown gi’avy, made by pouring ofi" all the fat in the tin ; add 1 tablespoonful of brown floui’, and ^ pint of good seasoned stock ; boil up and strain. Bread sauce (page 109) should be served with it.42 No. 92. ' TURKEY (Roast), with Chestnut Forcemeat. Prepare and fill the body of turkey with forcemeat as for hare (page 29), then prepare a forcemeat of 20 roasted and minced chestnuts, 1^ lb. of sausage meat, mix together with one large egg, or two small ones, with this fill the breast of turkey; also, cover the breast of tm’key with slices of thin bacon, which must be removed about a quarter of an hour before it is done ; dredge with flour and brown ; serve brown gravy, as for hare ; bread sauce (page 109) or oyster sauce (page 113) may be served with it. The dish may be garnished with sausages if liked, but this is scarcely necessary. No. 93. VEAL, Fillet of (Braized). 4 lb. fillet veal 1 oaiou 1 stalk celery or J teaspoonful celery seed A bunch of sweet herbs 1 carrot 1 turnip ^ lb. fat bacon 2 sprigs of parsley Remove the bone from the fillet and fill the hollow with veal forcemeat (page 28); cut some even pieces of fat bacon 1 inch long, ^ inch square, and with these lard the fillet on the top ; put in a saucepan the vegetables, cut up, also the herbs and parsley, lay the fillet on the top of this and pour round enough boiling water or stock to three parls cover it, add the juice of half a lemon, cover with buttered paper, see that the lid fits firmly, and simmer very gently 2 to 2^ hours; lift the fillet into a tin, pour round a little gravy, and put in a sharp oven for 20 minutes.to take a nice brown ; meanwhile reduce the gravy by boiling it fast with the lid off; dish the veal and strain over the gravy, and decorate the dish with cut lemon, and forcemeat b^ls if liked (page 28).43 No. 94. VEAL, Haricot (Entree). 2 lb. best end neck of veal i pint peas 4 small onions 1 teaspoonful salt J do. pepper 1 small cauliflower 1 pint good stock 1 oz. butter 1 oz. flour 1 teaspoonful lemon juice Divide the meat into neat cutlets, heat the hutter till hrown, hrown in it the onion and the flour, add the stock gradually, and when boiling add the veal, pepper and salt, simmer slowly 1 hour ; partly hoil the peas and cauliflower, drain them and add them to haricot, simmer until vegetables are tender, add the lemon juice ; dish the cutlets in centre of a hot dish, the vegetables and gravy round ; garnish with forcemeat balls (page 28) and cut lemon. • No. 95. VEAL OLIVES (Entree). 1^ lb. fillet of veal 1 tablespoonful of-suet ^ lemon rind, grated V teaspoonful salt f do. pepper A few grains cayenne 1 oz. butter ^ pint of water or stock ^ lb. fat bacon 2 oz. bread crumbs i teaspoonful sweet herbs ^ do. minced parsley A dust of powdered mace 1 egg 1 oz. flour 8 or 9 mushrooms Divide the flllet into thin pieces 5 inches long, by 2^ inches wide; beat them until quite flat; lay on the top a thin strip of bacon, then spread on the top of that a thin layer of forcemeat made with bread crumbs, sweet herbs, parsley, mace, suet, lemon rind, salt, pepper, and cayenne, all mixed with one egg ; roll up and skewer ; put the butter into a pan, and when quite hot and brown, put in the olives, and brown also ; remove from pan, add the flour and brown; then a,dd pint of water or stock, and when boiling, put back the olives, and simmer slowly 1-J hours; about 10 minutes before dishing, drop into the gravy 8 or 9 button mushrooms, ^ skinned, boil 10 minutes ; dish the olives on a hot dish with the mushrooms round ; strain over the gravy, and decorate the dish with cut lemon and green parsley.44 No. 96. VEAL AND HAM PIE. 1J lb. veal 2 hard boiled eggs A few grains cayenne A dust of powdered mace ^ teaspoonful grated lemon rind ^ lb. ham 1 tablespoonful flour 1 teaepoonful salt i do. pepper i^-do. powdered sweetherbs Cut the veal and ham into very thin pieces; mix on a plate the flour, salt, pepper, sweet herbs, lemon rind, cayenne, and mace, roll in this seasoning each piece of veal, and lay in a pie dish, alternately, layers of veal, ham, and egg, cut in slices; pile this in the centre of the dish, add two tablespoonfuls of water ; line the edge of the dish, cover and decorate with rough puff pastry (page 84), or puff pastry (page 82) ; when baked add a little very good seasoned stock, which should become a jelly when the pie is cold, or a little gelatine may be added; garnish with parsley if served cold. COLD MEAT COOKERY. No. 97. BEEF FRITTERS. ^ lb. very finely minced cold beef or mutton 4 oz. flour 2 eggs A few grains cayenne i pint water I teaspoonful salt J teaspoonful pepper Some fat for frying Put the flour into a basin. Add the water gradually, beat until quite smooth, add the yolk, also the whites whipped to a stiff froth, the salt, pepper, and minced meat; drop this mixture in small pieces into some smoking-hot fat, and when nicely bro^ro, drain on soft paper. Dish round a dish, decorate with parsley, and serve hot.45 No. 98. BEEF (Minced). 1 lb. minced beef or mutton 1 oz. flour i pint gravy or stock 1 dessertspoonful mushroom ketchup 1 small onion 1 oz. butter 1^ teaspoonful salt ^ teaspoonful pepper Put the butter into a pan, and when hot brown in it the onion, finely minced, then the fiour; add the gravy, salt, pepper, and ketchup; boil 8 or 4 minutes, then add the minced meat; allow this to warm through, hut not to boil ; pour in a heap into a dish ; garnish with toasted sippets of bread and parsley. The onions may be omitted if not liked. No. 99. BEEP (Hashed). 1 lb. cold beef, cut in thin slices 2 small tomatoes • i onion 1 oz. butter I teaspoonful salt J teaspoonful pepper 1 carrot small turnip f oz. flour ■j pint gravy or water 1 dessertspoonful Worcester sauce Put the butter into a saucepan, and when quite hot, brown in it thetjnion (Sliced), also the fiour ; add the stock, and boil up. Add tomatoes, carrot, turnip (cut up), Worcester sauce, pepper, and salt; simmer slowly three-quarters of an hour; skim the fat from the gravy, lay in the meat, and simmer very slowly half-an-hour ; dish the meat neatly, and strain over the gravy ; garnish with toasted sippets and green parsley. If liked, the vegetables may be dished in the centre. E46 No, 100. BEEF BOLLS. i lb. minced beef or mutton § oz. flour 1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce i teaspoonful minced parsley 2 tablespoonfuls gravy j oz. butter A dust of powdered mace i teaspoonful pepper Heat the butter, and brown in it the flour ; add gravy, anchovy sauce, parsley, mace, and pepper; boil 8 or 4 minutes ; add beef, and have ready some squares of rough puff pastry (page 84) ; put in two teaspoonfuls of the mixture ; fold over each edge, and mark with the back of a knife ; paint over with egg or milk; bake 16 minutes (6 oz. of flour will make sufficient pastry for this quantity) ; dish on a lace paper, and garnish with green parsley. No. 101. BEEF CAKES. lb. minced beef 1 teaspoonful minced parsley 1 teaspoonful salt i teaspoonful pepper 1 dessertspoonful mushroom ketchup i oz. butter i lb. cold potatoes 1 egg i lb. bread crumbs Some frying fat Rub the potatoes through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon ; add to them the meat, pepper, salt, ketchup, - half of the egg, and the ^ oz. of butter, dissolved; mix thoroughly ; form into round cakes half an inch thick; paint over with the remainder of the egg ; put in a frying basket, and fry in a bath of smoking-hot fat; drain, and dish in a ring on a serviette or lace paper, with a good bunch of green parsley in the centre.47 No. 102. CROaUETTES OF BEEP OR MUTTON. ^ lb. cold minced meat i lb. mashed potatoes 1 oz. butter 1 oz. flour 3 oz. bread crumbs 1 egg Some fat for frying 1 teaspoonful Worcester sauce 1 teaspoonful mushroom ketchup 1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce J teaspoonful pepper 1 teaspoonful salt ^ pint stock or gravy 1 teaspoonful minced parsley Put the butter and flour into a pan, and when dissolved stir in the stock; beat until quite smooth, and boil 3 or 4 minutes; add the sauce, pepper, salt, parsley, potatoes, and minced meat; mix thoroughly; set on one side until the mixture is cool and set; form into balls a little larger than a walnut; beat the egg slightly on a plate, paint over each of the balls with the egg, then roll them in finely made bread crumbs ; put in a frying basket and fry a light brown in smoking-hot fat; drain on soft paper, dish in a heap on a folded serviette or lace dish paper; garnish with green or fried parsley (page 116). No. 103. COTTAGE PIE. Some cold minced meat Some cold potatoes A little gravy Pepper, salt A little dripping Rub the potatoes through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon ; grease a pie dish, put alternate layers of potatoes and meat ; add a little pepper, salt, and gravy to each layer ; continue this until the dish is full, and leave a good layer of potatoes for the top ; mark the top with a fork, and put on a few bits of dripping or butter. Bake a nice brown, and serve hot.48 No. 104. CASSEROLE OF POTATOES. 1J to 2 lb. cold potatoes J lb. cold minced meat 1 teaspoonful mushroom ketchup 1 teaspoonful Worcester sauce 1 oz. butter ^ pint stock or water ^ oz. flour Pepper, salt 1 tablespoonful brown bread crumbs 1 egg Rub the potatoes through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon; add to them half the butter, dissolved, pepper and salt to taste, half the egg; mix thoroughly, and with the potatoes line a plain cake tin about half an inch thick round the sides and the bottom ; the cake tin must first be well buttered, and then line with brown bread crumbs ; in lining this take care not to disarrange the crumbs, also press the potatoes well in, or the casserole will break when turned out; paint over the inside and top with the remaining half of the egg ; bake 20 minutes, or until a nice brown ; turn out into a dish, then it will be necessary to turn it back on to the dish, as when turned out of the mould it will be the wrong way up ; have ready the meat, prepared as follows : Put 1 oz. of butter into a pan, and when hot brown in it the flour; then add the stock, ketchup, sauce, pepper, and salt; boil 3 or 4 minutes; then add the minced meat; let this slowly heat through, but on no account boil; pour this into the centre of the casserole. Decorate and garnish the dish with green parsley. No. 106. CASSEROLE OF RICE. ^ lb. rice 1 1 tablespoonful cream 1 1 tablespoonful brown bread,crumbs 2 i lb. minced chicken or veal 1 i pint white stock or water 1 A few drops lemon juice 1 A little grated sour apple Put the rice into a saucepan with of water or stock ; allow this to boil pint white stock or water teaspoonful salt teaspoonfuls flour teaspoonful curry powder small eschalot oz. butter 1 teaspoonful salt and ^ pint until the water is absorbed ;49 add the remainder gradually until it is all absorbed and the rice well cooked and stiff; butter very well a plain cake tin mould, and line it with the brown bread crumbs; line this with the rice, half an inch thick round the sides and bottom ; cover the top with buttered paper, and bake 10 minutes ; turn out the casserole, then turn on to the dish for the table ; it will then be right way up. Have ready the mince, made as follows ; Put the butter into a pan, and when hot brown in it the onion (minced), the flour, .and the curry ; add the apple, lemon juice, a little salt, and the stock, boil 3 or 4 minutes ; add the minced veal or chicken, and heat through, slowly, but do not boil; pour into casserole, garnish with green parsley and cut lemon. No. 106. DURHAM CUTLETS. 6 oz. cold minced meat, mutton or beef 6 oz. bread crumbs ^ pint stock or gravy 1 teaspoonful salt A very little pepper 1 tablespoonful mushroom ketchup Some frying fat 14 oz. butter ij oz. flour 4 teaspoonful curry powder Put the butter and the flour into a saucepan, and when dissolved add the stock, curry, salt, pepper, and ketchup; let this cook 3 or 4 minutes, then add the minced meat, and 3 oz. of bread crumbs ; mix thoroughly, then spread on the centre of a large dinner plate; set aside until cool; then divide the mixture into 12 equal parts, form as near the shape of a mutton cutlet as possible ; put in the thin end of each about an inch of piped macaroni ; beat the egg slightly, and with it paint over each cutlet, then roll them in the remainder of the bread crumbs ; put in a frying basket, and fry a light brown,^ in smoking-hot fat; drain on soft paper; arrange neatly in a ring on a folded serviette or lace paper ; in the centre place a good bunch of green parsley.60 No. 107. MUTTON (Hashed). The remains of cold mutton, cut into nice slices 1 oz. flour 1 stalk celery A bunch sweet herbs i pint stock 1 oz. butter 1 small onion 2 sprigs parsley teaspoonful salt \ teaspoonful pepper Put the butter into a saucepan, and when quite hot, brown the onion, sliced, then the flour ; add the stock, which may- be made by stewing the bones with an onion, a carrot, a turnip, and a blade of mace; when boiling, add celery, herbs, parsley, pepper, and salt ; boil half-an-hour, then add the mutton, taking care to remove the fat; allow this to simmer veiy slowly half-an-hour ; dish neatly, and strain the gravy ; garnish with fried sippets of bread. No. 108. RISSOLES CHICKEN (Entree). i lb. cold minced chicken or veal 1 oz. flour 2 tablespoonfuls good -white stock 1 teaspoonful cream 2 or 3 button mushrooms, minced f oz. butter teaspoonful salt teaspoonful pepper A few drops lemon juice Put the butter into a small saucepan, and when dissolved add the flour and mix until smooth, then add the stock and cream, stir until it thickens, add seasoning and mushrooms; allow to boil 4 minutes, then add minced fowl; set aside to cool; meanwhile prepare a little short pastry with 8 oz. of butter rubbed into 6 oz. flour, and mix to a stiff' paste ■with a little cold water ; roll out as thin as possible and cut into squares about 4 inches; put in the centre a small roll of the chicken mixture, egg the edges and fold over ; break an egg on a plate and paint over the rissoles; roll them in some finely made bread crumbs, put into a wire basket and fry in smoking-hot fat a nice light brown; drain on soft paper, arrange in a ring round a dish or in a heap ; garnish with parsley, green or fried (page 116).51 No. 109. VEAL (Minced). 1 lb. minced veal, free from fat 1 oz. batter 1^ teaspoonful salt ^ teaspoonful pepper I pint very good stock or gravy 1 oz. flour A little lemon juice A dust of powdered mace Put the butter into a pan, and when quite hot add the flour and brown it, then add the stock ; boil 3 or 4 minutes, then add veal and seasoning; heat through, but do not boil; dish in a heap in the centre of a dish, and garnish with sippets of toast, cut lemon, and parsley. The gravy or stock may be made by stewing the veal bones with a carrot, turmp, onion, hunch of sweet herbs, a sprig of parsley, and a strip of lemon rind for an hour. No. 110. SALMON A LA CREME. 1 oz. butter i pint milk or cream ^ teaspoonful salt A few drops of lemon juice 1 lb. cold salmon or 1 tin 1 oz. flour ^ pint fish stock ^ teaspoonful pepper Put the butter into a saucepan, and when dissolved add the flour; stir until smooth, then add stock. Boil 3 minutes, and add milk and seasoning; put into this sauce the salmon in as large pieces as possible (if tinned salmon is used, take care to strain it from the oil); allow this to heat through, but not to boil; lift out the salmon carefully, add to sauce lemon juice, and strain over the salmon; garnish with parsley or fennel.62 No. 111. FISH PUDDING. Some cold fish, any kind Twice the quantity cold boiled potatoes Pepper, salt, and cayenne A little butter or dripping A little egg or milk Remove all the bones and'skin from the fish and mince it, then rub the potatoes through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon, or mash them very finely with a fork, add to fish, with enough pepper, salt, and cayenne to flavour nicely; then add ^ oz. of butter to each pound of mixture (dissolved), and enough milk or egg just to moisten (it must not be too damp); thoroughly grease a fancy pudding mould, and throw into it some brown bread crumbs, put in the mixture, carefully pressing it into the mould, put on the top a few bits of butter and bake 20 minutes; turn out and garnish with pai'sley. Serve with egg sauce (page 111). VEGETABLES. No. 112. ARTICHOKES, JERUSALEM (Boiled). Peel the artichokes and throw them into cold water contain- ing a little lemon juice, to preseiwe the colour until requii-ed; then throw them into a pan containing two parts water and one part mUk; add a little salt and boil until tender, 16 to 20 minutes, drain and dry; then pile in a tureen and pour over white sauce (page 115). Serve hot. No. 113. ASPARAGUS (Boiled). The asparagus should be quite firesh; scrape off the skin at the white end, tie in bundles and throw into a pan of boiling water, containing one teaspoonful of salt to each quart.63 and a pinch of sugar ; boil until tender, 15 to 20 minutes will be sufficient; toast a round of bread, cut off the crust, lay at the bottom of a tureen ; arrange the asparagus neatly, with the green part inside; pour over white sauce (page 115); or, if preferred, the sauce may be served in a separate tureen. No. 114. BEANS, French or Kidney. Cut off the ends and remove the skins ; cut lengthways or crossways according to taste ; throw them into a pan of boiling water containing one teaspoonful of salt to each quart of water, a very little sugar, and a dust of cai’bonate of soda; boil until tender, 15 to 20 minutes; when done, drain and shake in the pan until dry ; add a little pepper and a small piece of butter; serve quite hot. A little minced parsley may be added if liked. No. 114a. BEANS, French or Kidney (White). Cut off the ends and remove the stringy part; throw them into a pan of boiling water containing one teaspoonful of salt to each quart of water, a pinch of sugar and soda; boil until tender, with lid off, 20 to 25 minutes ; drain and shake a few minutes in the pan until dry; dish neatly, and pour over white sauce (page 115) or parsley sauce (page 114). SNo. 115. BEANS, Haricot. j; Soak the beans over-night, drain them, and throw them i into a pan of cold water; bring to the boU, and simmer very ! gently 1^ to 2 hours ; about half an hour before the beans I are done add a little salt, about one teaspoonful to each quart54 of water; when tender, drain; put back over a gentle heat for a minute or two to dry, with the lid half off; shake the pan occasionally like potatoes; add a piece of butter, and, if liked, a tablespoonful of minced parsley. Before chopping the parsley dip it in boiling water. No. 116. BRUSSELS SPROUTS, Allow the sprouts to stand some time in salt and cold water, changing it occasionally ; cut off the stems and pick ; throw them into fast boiling water, adding to each quart one teaspoonful of salt and half teaspoonful of sugar and a pinch of soda ; boil fast, with the lid off, and skim occasionally ; when done, drain, add a small piece of butter, a little pepper and salt; serve at once ; if liked, white sauce (page 115) may be poured over the top. No. 117. BEANS, Broad or Windsor. Shell the beans (which should be young); throw them into enough boiling water to cover them, containing a little salt; boil until tender, 15 to 20 minutes ; drain, add a little butter and pepper; dish in a tureen with parsley sauce (page 114) poured over. Serve with boiled ham or bacon. No. 118 CABBAGE (Boiled). Remove the outer leaves, cut off the stalk, divide the cab- bage into two or four pieces, according to size ; allow this to soak for an hour or two in some salt and water ; drain thoroughly, and put into plenty of boiling water, which contains one teaspoonful of salt, half teaspoonful of sugar, and a pinch66 of soda to each quart; allow them to boil fast, with the lid off, for 16 to 30 minutes; pour into a colander, press out all the water, add a little salt, pepper, and a piece of butter; press into a dish and divide into squares. Serve as hot as possible. No. 119. CAULIFLOWER (Boiled). Cut off the stem and remove the outer leaves, allow it to soak in cold salt and water for an hour before it is cooked; put the cauliflower head downwards into a pan of boiling water, containing one teaspoonful of salt, half teaspoonful of sugar, and a pinch of soda to each quart of water; allow it to boil rather fast, with the lid off, 12 to 25 minutes, skimming occasionally; ^ain, and serve flower uppermost, covered with white sauce (page 116). No. 120. CAULIFLOWER (An Gratin). 2 small cauliflowers ^ teaspoonful pepper A few grains cayenne ^ teaspoonful salt 1 oz. butter 3 oz. Parmesan cheese, grated ^ pint water pint milk 1 oz. flour A few drops lemon pice Allow the cauliflowers to soak for an hour in salt and water, drain well, and cut off the stems quite close, put them head downwards into a pan of boiling water, adding one tea- spoonful salt, half teaspoonful sugar, and a pinch of soda to each quart; allow these to boil until tender, 12 to 20 minutes, drain, and set in a dish with the flower uppermost; make a sauce by putting the flour and butter into a saucepan, rub them together over a gentle heat until dissolved, then add the water, milk, seasonings, and allow to boil three minutes, then add half the grated cheese ; pour this over the cauli- flowers, sprinkle over the top the remainder of the cheese; put in a hot oven for two or three minutes, to brown slightly.56 i doz. carrots, medium size « ^ oz. butter Pepper and salt | No. 122. CARROTS (Boiled and Mashed). See Cauliflower (page 66). No. 121. BROCCOLI. Scrape and wash the carrots, and divide if large ; put into a pan of boiling water, containing one teaspoonful salt and ' half teaspoonful sugar to each quart of water ; boil fast, with the lid off the pan, until tender ; drain and rub them through a wire sieve with the back of a wooden spoon ; put back into the pan, add salt, pepper, and butter ; mix well and re-heat, press into a plain or fancy mould, turn out at once and serve ; a tablespoonful of cream may be added, if liked. No. 123. ■ CARROTS (Boiled). ■ Wash and scrub the carrots if young, if old they will require S lightly scraping and dividing into two or four pieces, according to size ; throw them into plenty of boiling water, containing one teaspoonful salt and half teaspoonful sugar to each quart; bon fast, with the lid off, until quite tender, half an hour when young, one to two hours if old. These may be served with beef. Sometimes a little white sauce (page 115) is served with them. Clean and remove the outside stalks, cut in even lengths, tie up in bundles, put into a pan of boiling water, containing a little salt, boU with the lid off until tender, about one hour; arrange neatly on a piece of toasted bread, and pour over white sauce (page 115). Serve hot. No. 124. CELERY (Boiled).57 No. 126, . MUSHROOMS (Baked). Wash and skin and remove the stems, put the tops into a baking tin with one tahlespoonful of water to each pint, some salt and pepper and a small piece of butter; bake 8 to 10 minutes. No. 126. MUSHROOMS (BroUed). Wash, skin, and remove the stems, add a tablespoonful of water to ^ lb., some salt, pepper, and J oz. butter ; put into a tin and broil 10 minutes. No. 127. MUSHROOMS (GriUed). Skin and peel the mushrooms, remove the stems, put them on a plate, season with pepper and salt, pour over them some dissolved butter, lay on a gridiron, place underneath the gas burner and grill on one side, then turn and grill the other side. They may be done in the same way over a red fire. No. 128. MUSHROOMS (Stewed). 1 oz. butter 1 oz. flour pint milk ^ pint stock ^ lb. mushrooms Pepper, salt, and cayenne A few drops lemon juice Put the butter and flour into a saucepan, when the butter is dissolved add the stock and milk, salt, pepper, cayenne, and lemon juice ; skin and remove the stems from the mushrooms, drop into the sauce, and simmer slowly 15 to 20 minutes. Serve hot. /58 No. 129. MUSHROOMS (with Marrow). 12 to 16 mushrooms 2 oz. butter ^ pint good brown stock 3 inches marrow % oz. flour Pepper, salt, and cayenne Put f OZ. butter and f oz. flour into a saucepan, and when dissolved add the stock, which must be very good; boil five minutes; add salt and pepper to taste; put the marrow, whole, into a pan of cold water, just bring to the boil, lift out and allow it to cool; remove the stems from the mushrooms and skin them, put them into a tin, dark side uppermost; sprinkle with salt and pepper and the remainder of the butter ; bake 15 minutes ; pour the sauce into a dish, cut the marrow into rounds quarter inch thick, lay on the top of the sauce, arrange the mushrooms on the top of each round of marrow ; dish hot. Put the butter into a pan, and when hot and brown place in the onions, peeled, and fry them a light brown; remove from the pan and add the flour, brown this, then add the stock, salt, and pepper; boU up, put back the onions and stew gently 1 to 1^ hours. Serve in a tureen with the gravy strained over. Peel the onions, drop into boiling water five minutes, strain and put into a pan of boiling water, containing a little salt; boil 1 to 1^ hours. Serve in a tureen with white sauce (page 115) poured over. No. 130. ONIONS (Stewed Brown). 4 Spanish onions 1 teaspoonful flour ^ teaspoonful salt 1^ oz. butter ^ pint brown stock ^ teaspoonful pepper No. 131. ONIONS (Boiled).69 No, 132. POTATOES (BoUed). Choose the potatoes as near one size as possible, wash them, peel them very thinly, and remove the eyes; as they are peeled drop them into cold water until they are all ready; put them into a pan of cold water, adding one teaspoonful of salt to each quart of water; allow them to boil very slowly until tender, drain, put back over the gas or fire for a few minutes with the pan lid half off, shake occasionally until quite dry and floury. In shaking take care not to break them. Twenty to thirty-five minutes should be enough to cook the potatoes, but this varies according to size and kind. No. 133. POTATOES (New, Boiled). The potatoes should be freshly dug, and the skins removed by scraping or rubbing with a cloth; drop into cold water until they are all ready, then put them into a saucepan of boiling water, containing one teaspoonful salt to each quai’tt of water and a sprig of mint; allow them to boil slowly 16 to 30 minutes, or until tender, drain, and set over the gas or fire a few minutes to dry, shake occasionally ; when diy put a piece of butter in the pan. Serve at once. No. 134. POTATOES (Steamed). Wash, peel, and remove the eyes from the potatoes, drop them into cold water until they are all readv; put them into a steamer and place it over a pan of boiling water until they are tender, they will require 30 to 40 minutes; when done, remove the steamer firom the pan of water, and set in a warm place, with the lid half removed ; shake occasionally so as to make them floury.i 60 No. 135. POTATOES (Roasted). Wash the potatoes thoroughly and wipe them, lay them on the grid shelves if a gas oven is used, and roast gently for 30 to 40 minutes, according to size. Serve on a folded serviette, with pats of butter. No. 136. POTATOES (Baked). Wash and peel the potatoes thinly, cut into quarters, place them in a dish, season them with salt and pepper, add a few tablespoonfuls of water and a little beef dripping or butter; bake until tender and a nice brown ; if liked, a little onion may be mixed with the potatoes, and a piece of mutton or beef baked over the top of the potatoes. Serve hot. No. 137. POTATO CROQUETTES. 2 lb. cold potatoes 1 oz. butter ^ teaspoonful salt 3 oz. white bread crumbs 2 eggs A little pepper and cayenne 2 teaspoonfuls minced parsley Some frying fat Mash the potatoes by rubbing them through a wire sieve with the back of a wooden spoon ; dissolve the butter, beat up one egg, add these, with the salt, pepper, and cayenne, to the potatoes, mix thoroughly; flour the Angers and a baking board; form these into pear shapes, paint over with the remaining egg (which must be beaten), then roll them in some flnely made bread crumbs, put them in a wire frying basket, and fry them in enough smoking-hot fat to cover them; drain on soft paper and stick a small piece of stem of parsley in the thin end of each, and serve on a folded serviette or lace paper.61 No. 138. POTATO CHIPS. Peel and cat the potatoes into even strips, about three- eif'hths of an inch square ; wipe them very dry and put them in°a wire frying basket, put the basket into enough hot fat to cover them, allow the fat to remain hot until the potatoes are soft; do not allow the fat to smoke until the potatoes are soft; lift out the potatoes and get the fat smoking-hot; put in the potatoes again until brown, drain on soft paper, sprinkle over with pepper and salt and add a little butter; dish hot, and a little minced parsley may be sprinkled over, if liked. No. 139. POTATO SURPRISES. 2 or 3 sausages, cooked 1 egg A little salt and pepper Some fat for frying lb. mashed potatoes 3 oz. bread crumbs ^ oz. butter Mix with the potatoes the butter, dissolved, a little pepper, salt, and part of the egg ; form this into small cakes, lay in the centre a small ball of the sausage meat, close over the meat the potatoes, form into a round ball; paint over with the remainder of the egg, roU in the bread crumbs, put into a wire frying basket, and fry in enough smoking-hot fat to cover them; drain, and dish on a folded serviette or lace paper ; garnish with parsley and serve. No. 140, PEAS, GREEN (Boiled). Shell the peas just before they are required; throw them into enough boiling water to cover them, allowing one teaspoonful of salt, half teaspoonful of sugar, and a pinch of soda to each quart; boil until tender, about 15 to 20 minutes, with the lid off, and skim occasionally; when done, drain and add a little pepper, a small piece of butter ; serve at once ; if liked, a sprig of mint may be boiled with the peas. F62 No. 141. PEAS A LA CREME. 1 pint peas, shelled ^ pint cream 2 tablespoonfuls good white stock A pinch of sugar A few drops lemon juice 4 oz. butter J oz. flour i teaspoonful salt J teaspoonful pepper Shell the peas and throw them into a pan of boiling water, containing one teaspoonful salt, half teaspoonful sugar, and a pinch of soda to each quart; boil until tender, 15 to 20 minutes; drain; make a thick white sauce by putting the flour and butter into a saucepan, rub them together over a gentle heat until the butter is dissolved, then add stock, cream, pepper, salt, and lemon juice; boil three minutes, then add the peas, re-heat and dish at once. A little finely minced fresh mint may be sprinkled over the top if liked. No. 142. PARSNIPS (BoUed). Wash and pare thinly the parsnips, put into a pan of boiling water, allowing one teaspoonful of salt to each quart of water; boil until tender, 80 to 40 minutes, if large they should be divided; drain and place m a tureen, or round boiled meat with carrots; or, if liked, a white sauce (page 116) may be poured over them. No. 148. TURNIPS (BoUed). Choose the turnips all as near one size as possible, peel them thickly and drop them into boiling water; allow one teaspoon- ful of salt to each quai't, boil until tender, drain, and arrange in a tureen; cover with white sauce (page 115).63 No. 144. TURNIPS (Mashed). Boil the turnips until soft, drain them, and mash with a fork; add a little salt, pepper, and cream, mix thoroughly, and dish in a heap. Turnips are generally served with mutton. No. 146. SEA KALE. Soak the sea kale and wash thoroughly ; remove the dark leaves and tie up in bunches; throw into a pan of boiling water, allowing one teaspoonful of salt, half teaspoonful sugar, and a pinch of soda to each quart of water; boU until tender, about 30 to 40 minutes; drain, untie, and serve in a tureen; if liked, pour over white sauce (page 115). No. 146. SPINACH (BoUed). Soak the spinach well in cold water, wash and pick it from the stems; throw it into a pan of boiling water, con- tainmg one teaspoonful salt to each quart; boil, with the lid off, until tender, 8 to 10 minutes ; drain and press out the water; add a little pepper, salt, and butter; chop fine, and serve in a tureen, quite hot. No. 147. SPINACH PUREE. 2 lb. spinach 2 tablespoonfuls cream i teaspoonful pepper Some salt 2 oz. batter 2 oz. flour 2 tablespoonfuls white stock i teaspoonful sugar Wash and pick the spinach thoroughly ; throw into a pan of boiling water, containing one teaspoonful salt to each quart;64 boil until tender, about 8 to 10 minutes; drain and press thoroughly, and rub through a wire sieve; put the butter and flour into a pan, and when the butter is dissolved add the stock and cream; boil three minutes, add salt, pepper, sugar, and the spinach; mix thoroughly and re-heat. This may be served in a tureen, or in the centre of cutlets, or for a border, according to taste. No. 148. VEGETABLE MARROW. Divide the vegetable marrow into four or eight quarters, . according to size ; peel and trim them’neatly and remove the seeds ; put them into a pan of boiling water containing a little salt and a small piece of butter ; boil gently until tender, 16 to 40 minutes, according to age ; drain, and dish them on toasted bread; pour over them white sauce (page 116). PUDDINGS. No. 149. APPLE PUDDING. ^ lb. apples 6 oz. butter Whites of 5 eggs ^ lb. castor sugar 2 lemon rinds, grated Peel, core, and weigh the apples, put them into an enamelled saucepan with one tablespoonful of water, and stew gently until soft; pass through a wire sieve, allow the apples to cool, beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the pulp of the apples, the lemon rind, and the whites, whipped; pour into a small pie dish lined and decorated with rough puff pastry (page 84), made from 6 oz. flour; bake 30 to 40 minutes ; cover with castor sugar and serve hot or cold.65 No. 150. APPLE PUDDING (Baked). 1^ lb. apples 6 oz. bread crumbs 1 lb. sugar 2 oz. suet, minced 1 lemon rind, grated 2 tablespoonfuls brown bread crumbs Pare, core, and cut the apples in half-quarters, and stew till soft; add 3 oz. of the sugar and part of the lemon rind ; rub through a wire sieve ; mix together the minced suet, the remainder of the sugar and grated lemon rind ; butter thoroughly a plain or fancy mould, and throw in the brown bread crumbs ; shake all round the mould, lay at the bottom a layer of the white crumbs, &c., then a layer of the apples,' continuiug alternate layers until the mould is full ; bake half- an-hour; turn out, and serve with cream or milk. No. 161. APPLE ROLY-POLY. 1 lb. apples A little grated lemon rind or 2 oz. sugar nutmeg Make a suet paste of ^ lb. flour (page 86), roll out ^ inch thick; peel, core, and cut in half-quarters the apples; lay them on the top of the paste, sprinkle over the sugar and a few currants or raisins if liked ; roll up, and seal the ends and edges thoroughly, roll up in a pudding cloth, wetted and floured, and tie up ; put into a pan of boiling water and boil 1^ hours. No. 162. ' APPLE DUMPLINGS (Baked). 6 apples, as near one size as possible Some brown sugar or a little jam Make a short paste, household (page 85), of f lb. flour ; roll out J inch thick; peel and core the apples without dividing them.66 and fill the centres with the brown sugar or a little jam ; cut the pastry in squares, and stand an apple on each; wet and draw round the edges, sealing well together; bake in a moderate oven half-an-hour, or until the apples are soft. Cover with castor sugar and serve. No. 163. BAKEWELL PUDDING (No. 1). 4 eggs ^ lb. castor sugar A few drops vanilla 2 oz. butter 2 tablespoonfuls jam 1 oz. flour Line a flattish dish with rough puff pastry (page 84), deco- rate the edges; put on the bottom the jam; melt the butter with the sugar, add the yolks of the eggs and the white of one; mix thoroughly; dust in the flour, pour over the jam, and bake until set, about 45 minutes; whip up the white, add one dessertspoonful castor sugar; lay roughly on the top; put back in the oven a few minutes to set the white of the egg. Serve hot or cold. No. 164. BAKEWELL PUDDING (No. 2). 1 egg The weight of the egg in butter, castor sugar, and flour A dust of baking powder A^little grated lemon rind 1 good tablespoonful of jam Short pastry, household Line a shallow dish or tin with short pastry (page 86), spread on the bottom the jam, beat the butter with the sugar to a cream, add to it the egg, lemon rind, flour and baking powder ; pour this over the jam, bake half-an-hour, or until the mixture is set; dust with sugar, and serv^ hot or cold.67 2 oz. flour 2 oz. sugar 2 oz. suet 2 oz. crumbs No. 155. BACHELOR’S PUDDING. 1 egg ^ teaspoonfnl baking powder 1 teaspoonful grated ginger 2 oz. raisins Mince the snet, stone and divide the raisins, pnt them into a basin with the flour, sugar, bread crumbs, baking powder, and ginger; mix all together with the egg ; butter a mould thoroughly and throw into it a good handful of brown sugar, shake well, so that the mould is entirely covered; pour in the mixture, cover with buttered paper ; steam one hour. No. 156. BEDFORDSHIRE PUDDING. 2 eggs ^ oz. candied peel A little nutmeg 1 tablespoonful sugar 2 oz. currants 2 oz. Yalencia raisins ^ pint milk Line a flat dish with short pastry, household (page 85), using 4 oz. flour, and decorate the edges; beat up the eggs, add to them the sugar and nutmeg, then the milk, which should be boiling; mince the peel and raisins rather coarse, add these with the currants to the custard; pour into the prepared dish, bake half-an-hour, or until set; cover with castor sugar ; serve hot or cold. No. 157. CHOCOLATE PUDDING. i lb. chocolate, grated I lb. linger biscuits 3 eggs 3 oz. sugar ^ pint milk 4 teaspoonful TaniUa 5 pint thick cream Put the chocolate and biscuit crumbs into a saucepan, add the milk, and boil together three or four minutes ; allow this68 to cool slightly, then add the yolks of the eggs and whites whipped to a stiff froth; butter a mould thoroughly, pour in the mixture, cover with buttered paper and steam hours; turn out, and when cool serve round it the cream whipped to a stiff froth, flavoured with a little sugar and vanilla. A border mould may be used and the cream served in the centre if prefeiTed. No. 168. CHERRY PUDDING. 2 oz. butter 1 pint milk Bind of 1 lemon, grated 3 eggs J lb. dried cherries 2 oz. flour lb. bread crumbs i lb. sugar 1 teaspoonful vanilla Put the butter and the flour together over a gentle heat, add the milk, and stir until boiling, and quite thick and smooth; pour over the bread crumbs, lemon rind and sugar, beat up the eggs and add also the essence and cherries; pour into a mould well greased, and decorated with dried cherries at the bottom; cover with buttered paper, and steam hours ; serve with cherry sauce (page 110). No. 169. BREAD PUDDING (Baked). ^ lb. stale bread 3 oz. sugar 1 egg A little nutmeg 2 oz. currants 2 oz. raisins pint milk A little grated lemon rind Soak the bread one hour in some cold water, squeeze it, and add to it the currants, raisins, sugar, lemon rind, and nutmeg, also the egg well beaten with the milk ; pour into a greased pie dish, and bake slowly one hour or until set.69 No. 160. BREAD PUDDING (Boiled). 1 lb. stale bread 2 o*. currants ^ lb. brown sugar A little nutmeg 3 tablespoonfuls flour 1 oz. Valencia raisins 3 oz. suet, minced 1 teaspoonful baking powder Soak the bread in cold water one hour, squeeze it very dry, add the flour, currants, sugar, nutmeg, baking powder, suet, and raisins stoned and cut in half, mix thoroughly, put in a weU greased basin or mould, cover with buttered paper, and steam one hour. Turn out and serve with white pudding sauce (page 116). No. 161. BROWN PUDDING. 3 oz. bread crumbs 3 oz. flour 2 eggs 2 oz. sultanas 1 oz. crushed almonds J teaspoonful carbonate of soda 3 oz. suet 3 oz. brown sugar ^ teaspoonful cinnamo." 2 oz. currants A little salt Wash, pick, and dry thoroughly the sultanas and currants, shred and mince the suet finely, mix all the dry ingredients together with the two eggs, beaten, last of all add the soda, dissolved in 2 teaspoonfuls of water, pour into a well- buttered mould, lined with brown sugar, cover with buttered paper and steam two hours ; turn out and serve with white pudding sauce (page 116), flavoured with ahnond essence. No. 162. CABINET PUDDING (No. 1). 6 oz. bread crumbs 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence ^ lb. Valencia raisins Some slices of bread 1 pint of milk 2 eggs 2 oz. sugar A little salt Take a plain pudding mould or basin, and butter it thoroughly; stone the raisins and form a star at the bottom70 of the mould by laying the raisins one over the other, carrying the star up the sides of the mould ; cut some strips of bread and fill in with strips between the raisins; beat up the eggs, add to them the sugar, boil the milk and pour over the eggs, heating all the time ; add to this custard the crumbs, salt, vanilla, and raisins ; pour into the prepared mould, cover with buttered paper, and steam 1^ hours; serve with custard sauce (page lllj or German egg sauce (page 112). No. 163. CABINET PUDDING (No. 2). ^ lb. Savoy biscuits 1 pint milk A little ratafia essence 1 oz. castor sugar Some candied cherries, angelica or pistachio nuts 3 eggs Divide the Savoy biscuits and trim the edges neatly; butter a plain mould and decorate the top with the cherries, angelica or pistachio nuts ; arrange the cut biscuits round the edge of the mould, beat the eggs, add to them the sugar, essence, and the milk (which should be boiling) ; pour this over the trimmings and remainder of the biscuits, crushed; pour this into the prepared mould, allowing it to come within half an inch of the top of the mould; cover with buttered paper; allow it to stand 20 minutes, then steam 1^ hours; serve with German egg sauce (page 112). No. 164. CHESTER PUDDING. 1 ox. sweet almonds 1 6 bitter almonds J lb. castor sugar 2 oz. butter 3 eggs I About 1 doz. almonds, browned Line a small pie dish with rough puff pastry made with 4 oz. flour (page 84), decorate the edges according to taste, paint over the edges with egg, put the butter and sugar into71 a saucepan, and when dissolved add the almonds (which should be blanched by dropping them in hot water, allowing them just to boil), then remove the skins and crush them; then stir in the yolks of the three eggs and the white of one; stir this mixture over a gentle heat until it thickens, taking care that it does not bum ; pour into the prepared dish, bake 30 minutes, or until set, whip up the two remaining whites of the eggs, add one dessertspoonful of sugar, piled on the top. Meanwhile, have ready one dozen of the blanched almonds, browned in the oven ; stick the top thickly vsdth these; put in the oven a few minutes to set the whites. Serve hot or cold. No. 165. FIG PUDDING. 6 oz. figs ^ lb. bread crumbs i lb. brown sugar i pint milk f teaspoonful baking powder 2 oz. apples i lb. flour 3 eggs ^ lb. suet Boil the milk, pour over the crumbs, stir in the flour, minced suet, eggs (beaten), the flgs and apples (cut up), also the sugar and baking powder; grease a mould, and line it with brown sugar; pour in the mixture within three- quarters of an inch of the top of the mould, cover with buttered paper; steam 2 to 2^ hours; serve with white sauce (page 116), with one or two figs cut up in it. No. 166. FELDEN PUDDING. i lb. apples 3 oz. brown sugar 1 oz. butter 1 tablespoonful bread crumbs 2 tablespoonfuls water Grated rind of 1 lemon 2 eggs Peel, core, and cut the apples in quarters ; put into a pan with two tablespoonfuls water, boil until soft, then add the sugar and lemon rind, and yolks of eggs, rub through a wire72 sieve with a wooden spoon, line and decorate the edges of a small pie dish with short pastry made from 4 oz. flour (page 35), pour in the mixture; bake until set, about 80 minutes ; whip up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add one tablespoon- ful of castor sugar, pile on the top, decorate with pistachio nuts, blanched, and cut in strips; bake a few minutes, until set. Serve hot or cold. No. 167. FAVOURITE PUDDING. 3 or 4 sponge cakes 1 tablespoonful apricot jam ^ pint milk 1 tablespoonful castor sugar glass of sherry A few drops of ratafia 2 eggs A little angelica A few dried cherries Divide the biscuits, lay at the bottom of a dish, add a few drops of ratafia to the wine, sprinkle over the sponge cakes, spread on the top the jam ; beat up the eggs, boil the milk with the sugar, pour over the eggs; put this into a jug or custard pan, set in a pan of boiling water and stir until it thickens; add a few drops of ratafia, and when slightly cool pour over the biscuits and jam; decorate with angelica cut in pieces, and dried cherries. Serve cold. t No. 168. FRUIT PUDDING (Steamed). Make a suet paste according to recipe (page 86), roll out about ^ inch thick ; grease a pudding basin and line it with the pastry, trim the edges, and fill with any seasonable fruit, which should be picked ; add a little sugar and water, roll out the trimmings just the size of the top of basin, wet the edges, cover neatly and seal the two together; cover with greased paper, and steam 1^ to 2 hours ; turn out and serve.73 No. 169. GENERAL’S PUDDING. ^ lb. flour I lb. suet 1 teaspoonful baking powder 2 tablespoonfuls treacle A dust of nutmeg A little milk ^ lb. bread crumbs 2 oz. Demerara sugar 2 eggs 1 grated lemon rind and juice 2 oz. currants Pinch of salt 1 oz. crushed almonds Put all the ingredients into a basin, the suet finely minced, beat up the eggs and add to mixture, also a little milk if required ; grease a pudding mould, plain or fancy, and throw into it some coarse brown sugar, shake well, so that the mould is well coated with the sugar; cover with buttered paper, and steam 2 hours ; serve with white sauce (page 116). Pinch of salt Mix the bread crumbs, flour, sugar, and suet, finely shredded and minced ; beat up the egg in the marmalade, add to bread crumbs, &c., mix thoroughly, and last of all stir in the soda^ dissolved in two teaspoonfuls of water; pour into a well- buttered mould, lined with brown sugar, cover with buttered paper, and steam 2^ hours in a pan of boiling water, allowing the water to come within an inch of the top of the mould ; turn out and serve with the marmalade sauce No. 170. GOLDEN PUDDING. ^ lb. bread crumbs J lb. suet, finely minced 1 large egg ^ teaspoonful carbonate soda 1 lb. flour Jib. brown sugar^ 5 oz. marmalade 2 teaspoonfuls water (page 113).74 No. 171. ITALIAN PUDDING. i lb. Savoy biacuiU 1 tia of peaches 1 egg 1 giU of milk A few drops of lemon essence 2 oz. sugar ^ pint of thick cream Divide the biscuits and arrange alternate layers of biscuits and peaches until the dish is full; beat up the egg, add the milk and sugar, put into a custard pan or a jug, set in a pan of boiling water, stii- until it thickens, pour over the biscuits, &c.; allow this to cool; whip up the cream until stiff, add a little castor sugar, arrange roughly on the top. This may be coloured with cochineal if liked; serve cold. No. 172. ICE PUDDING. 2 or. Savoy biscuits, crushed ^ pint of boiling milk I pint of rich custard (page 106) I pint of cream 4 lb. candied fruit 3 teaspoonfuls noyeau 4 glass sherry Pour the boiling milk over the crushed biscuits, add all the other ingredients ; when cool put into a freezer, and freeze ; then mould, and freeze until quite set; dip in water, and turn out. No. 173. LEMON PUDDING. 2 small eggs ' 3 oz. castor sugar 2 oz. Savoy biscuits 3 oz. butter 2 small lemons, juice and rind Line a small dish with rich short pastry made with 4 oz. flour (page 85), and decorate the edges with cut leaves of pastry to taste ; beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the biscuits, crumbs, crushed, alternately with the eggs, beaten; grate off75 thinly the outside, of the lemon rind, add to the juice, then add these quickly to the mixture, beat thoroughly, pour the mixture into the prepared dish ; bake 40 minutes, or until the mixture is set; cover with castor sugar, and serve hot or cold. No. 174. ORLEANS PUDDING. 2 eggs IJ oz. sugar ^ lb. marmalade oz. butter 3| oz. flour teaspoonful carbonate of soda Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the yolks, marmalade, and flour, then the whites, whipped to a stiff fi '>th, and, lastly, the carbonate of soda, which must be dissolved in one teaspoonful of milk; pour into a buttered mould, cover with buttered paper, and steam If- hours ; seiwe "with arrowroot sauce (page 109), flavoured with a little marmalade. No. 176. PARADISE PUDDING. A little lemon or orange jelly J oz. pistachio nuts J pint milk 2 oz. gelatine i oz. castor sugar J teaspoonful vanilla 1 pint water 4 yolks of eggs 2 whites of eggs 3 oz. ratafia biscuits 2 oz. preserved fruit Line a plain mould at ' bottom and sides with the jelly, and sprinkle it with the pistachio nuts, blanched and finely minced; beat up the eggs, add to them the milk, boiling, pour into a custai-d pan or jug, stand in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir until it thickens ; add the gelatine, dissolved in ^ pint of water, also sugar and vanilla; put at the bottom of the mould a layer of biscuits, sprinkle these with a little jelly, then a layer of fruit and a little custard, which must be cool, but not set; continue this until the mould is full; set in a cool place until firm, dip in warm water and turn out. If liked, the dish may be garnished with a little whipped cream.7G No. 176. PRINCESS PUDDING. 3 oz. sugar 4 oz. bread crumbs 3 oz. candied cherries i wineglassful brandy 3 apples 3 eggs Pinch, of grated nutmeg Pinch of salt Peel, core, and chop the apples, and the cherries, mix with the sugar, bread crumbs, nutmeg, and salt, beat up the eggs, and add to the mixture ; butter a plain mould, arrange round the edge a row of dried cherries, dust with sugar, pour in the mixture, cover with buttered paper ; steam 1^ hours ; serve with brandy sauce (page 110). No. 177. PLUM PUDDING (No. l). ^ lb. flour 1 teaspoouful baking powder ^ lb. suet 2 oz. currants 1 egg 1 oz. candied peel ^ lb. bread crumbs ^ teaspoonful allspice 1 teaspoonful ground ginger 2 oz. Valencia raisins A little ale or milk Wash and dry the currants, stone the raisins, mince the suet, and cut up the peel; mix all the dry ingredients, then add the egg, beaten, with as much ale or milk as will moisten it; pour into a greased mould or basin, cover with greased paper, and steam 4 hours ; serve with white pudding sauce (page 116). No. 178. PLUM PUDDING (No. 2). 6 oz. bread crumbs 1 teaspoonfol baking powder 3 oz. Valencia raisins 3 oz. sultana raisins Juice and rind of ^ lemon i teaspoonful mixed spices 6 oz. brown sugar 6 oz. flour 6 oz. suet 3 oz. currants 2 oz. candied peel 2 eggs A little ale or milk A little salt Wash the currants, stone the raisins, cut up the peel, and mince the suet; mix all together with the two eggs, well beaten, and just enough ale or milk to moisten the whole; pour into a well buttered mould or basin, cover with buttered paper, and steam 4 hours; serve with brandy sauce (page 110).77 No. 179. PLUM PUDDING, Rich (No. 3). ^ lb. flour lb. currants lb. suet lb. brown sugar i teaspoonful allspice J teaspoonful baking powder 1 oz. powdered almonds A little brandy, ale, or milk ^ lb. bread crumbs ^ lb. Valencia raisins h lb. sultana raisins J grated nutmeg 1 lemon, grated rind, and juice 3 oz. mixed peel 4 eggs Wash and pick the currants, stone the raisins, mince the peel; put all the ingredients into a howl, the suet finely minced, mix thoroughly, with the eggs, well beaten, and enough brandy, ale or milk to moisten the whole ; pour into a well buttered mould, cover with buttered paper, steam 5 to 6 hours—if divided into two, 4 to 5 hours will be long enough to steam; turn out and serve with brandy sauce Cpage 110), or hard sauce (page 111). No. 180. QUEEN PUDDING. ^ pint milk 1 oz. butter 1 tablespoonful jam ^ teaspoonful vanilla 2 eggs 2 tablespoonfuls sugar ^ pint white bread crumbs Boil the milk with the butter, add one tablespoonful sugar to the bread crumbs, pour over the milk, add the yolks, beaten, and the vanilla; pour into a buttered dish, bake 20 to 80 minutes, or until set; then spread on the top the jam, beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add the remainder of the sugar, pile on the top of the pudding, put back in the oven until set. Serve hot or cold. o78 No. 181. QUEEN MAB PUDDING. Some lemon or orange jelly 1 oz. gelatine i lb. sugar Yolks of 6 eggs i lb. candied fruit 1 pint milk 1 pint cream i pint water 1 good teaspoonful vanilla Line a mould with the jelly, and decorate with some of the fruit; allow this to set; beat up the yolks of eggs, add the milk, pour into a jug, and set inside a pan of boilmg water; stir until it thickens ; dissolve the gelatine in the ^ pint of water ; add the custard, also sugar and vanilla ; strain to the cream, and when just setting, add the remainder of the candied fruit; if very large it may be cut up ; pour into prepared mould, and when set, dip into warm water ; dry with a towel and turn out. Serve with raspberry sauce (page 114) poured round. No. 182. RICE PUDDING (French). i lb. ground rice 1 pint milk Grated rind of 4 lemon 2 oz. candied cherries 1 oz. butter 3 eggs 2 oz. castor sugar Some brown bread crumbs Put the milk and rice into a saucepan with the lemon rind and sugar, and slowly simmer 10 minutes; beat up the eggs and add when the mixture is slightly cool, then stir in the cherries ; grease a plain or fancy mould and line it with the brown bread crumbs ; pour in the mixture; bake in a slow oven 1 hour; turn out, and serve with raspberry sauce (page 114). No. 183. SOUTHPORT PUDDING. 3 oz. bread crumbs 2 eggs 6 oz. brown sugar A little grated nutmeg 1 oz. citron peel Pinch of salt 3 oz. flour ^ lb. apples 3 oz. suot, minced Peel, core, and chop up the apples, mince the suet and the citron finely, mix these together with the sugar, fiour., bread79 crumbs, salt, and nutmeg ; beat up the eggs and add, pour the mixture into a mould well buttered and lined with brown sugar ; cover with buttered paper and steam 2 hours. Serve with Southport sauce (page 115). 2 oz. sugar Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, heat up the yolks, add to them the milk and ratafia ; add this alternately, with the biscuits (crushed), to the butter and sugar, then the peel, finely minced ; line a small pie dish with thinly-rolled short pastry (page 85) ; decorate the edges with cut leaves, according to taste; pour in the mixture, and bake in a cool oven until set, about half- an-hour ; add to the whites of the eggs a pinch of salt, whip them to a stiff froth, add 1 tahlespoonful castor sugar ; stir in lightly ; pile on the top of the pudding ; hake a few minutes in a slow oven until slightly brown. Serve hot or No. 184. SAVOY PUDDING. 3 oz. Savoy biscuits 2 oz, butter 2 oz. candied peel ^ pint milk 3 eggs A few drops of ratafia cold. No. 185. TREACLE PUDDING. 6 oz. flour lb. suet 6 oz. treacle ^ teaspoonful ground ginger 6 oz. bread crumbs .J teaspoonful baking powder 1 egg A little salt Mix all the dry ingredients together, add the egg and treacle heaten together ; mix thoroughly; pour into a well* buttered mould, and steam 2 to 2^ hours.80 j No. 186. THREE AND THREE PUDDING. 3 large apples 3 eggs 3 oz. butter 3 oz. sugar 1 leoion, the juice and rind grated Line a small pie-dish with rough puff pastry (page 84), made from 6 oz. of flour ; decorate the edges with cut leaves, &c. ; peel, core, and cut the apples in half-quarters, put in an enamelled stew pan, with 1 tablespoonful of water, and simmer gently until soft; add the sugar, butter, lemon, and yolks of eggs, stir until thoroughly mixed, but do not boil; rub through a wii'e sieve, put the pulp into the prepared dish, bake 30 to 40 minutes, or until the mixture is set. When done, whip up the whites of the eggs, add to them, when whipped, one tablespoonful castor sugar ; pile on the top of the pudding in the centre, decorate with candied fruits ; bake until whites are set, in a slow oven. Serve hot or cold. No. 187. VENNOISE PUDDING. 5 oz. stale bread 3 oz. sultanas ' 3 oz. castor sugar 3 eggs 1 oz. almonds, crushed IJ oz. of mixed peel 1 oz. lump sugar ^ pint milk 1 glass of sherry Bind of 1 lemon Cut the bread into small squares about J of an inch, pour over the sherry, and allow it to soak for an hour, covered ; then add sultanas, castor sugar, lemon rind, almonds, and peel, finely minced ; put the lump sugar in an iron saucepan with 1 tablespoonful of water; set it over a gas burner until it takes a dark coffee colour; then add the milk, allow it to boil slowly until the sugar is dissolved ; beat up the eggs, and add to them the milk ; strain this custard over the bread, &c.; pour into a well-buttered mould lined with castor sugar; cover with buttered paper; steam 2 hours; serve with German egg sauce (page 112).81 No. 188. WAKEFIELD PUDDING. 4 stalks rhubarb 3 oz. brown sugar jj- pint milk A little lemon rind and grated ^ pint cold water ginger 1 thick slice of bread 1 tablespoonful cornflour Wipe and cut up the rhubarb into lengths about 1^ inch long, put into a saucepan with the water, set over a gentle heat, and stew until the rhubarb is tender; then add 2 tablespoonfuls of the sugar and a little grated ginger; cut the bread into strips, put a layer at the bottom of the dish, then a layer crosswise on the top ; pour over some of the fruit and juice, then another layer of bread and fruit until the dish is nearly full; set aside to soak and cool; meanwhile, prepare a custard as follows: Mix the cornflour with a little of the milk, add the sugar (1 tablespoonful) and lemon rind; boil the remainder of the milk and pour over the cornflour, &c.; pour back into the saucepan and stir until thick ; pour over the pudding, and serve cold. 6 oz. flour Put the flour into a basin with the salt, stir in the milk gradually, beat up the eggs and add to the batter when quite smooth; allow this to stand 2 hours; add the baking powder and pour into a dripping tin with some dissolved dripping; bake half an hour. If baked in a gas oven, it should be partly baked in the top part of the oven, then finished by placing it in the lower pai’t of the oven, underneath the joint. No. 189. YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 1 pint milk 2 eggs I 1 saltspoonful salt I A pinch of baking powder82 PASTRY. No. 190. PASTRY, PufiF (French). ^ lb. fine flour 1 yolk of egg Juice of i lemon About J pint cold water ^ lb. fresh butter Pass the flour through a wire sieve, put the yolk of egg, lemon juice and water together into a basin, and with it mix the flour into a paste (which must not be too stifi"); knead lightly with the hand and roll out ^in. thick ; flour or wet the corner of a clean towel, squeeze the butter thoroughly in this to get out all the moisture, but take care not to make it too soft (if it is made too soft it must be allowed to cool on ice before it is used); place this in a flat cake on one end of the paste, wet the edges and fold over the other side, sealing the edges well together; roll out once, fold in three, and set away in a cool place 15 minutes ; bring back and place on the board with the rough edges towards you, press lightly with the rolling pin, roll out, fold in three, and set away in a cool place for 15 minutes as before, continuing this seven times. When rolling the paste the last two rollings, sprinkle over it a few drops of lemon juice, and allow it to stand in a very cool place 2 or 3 hours before using it. For Patties roll out ^in. thick (see page 87); for Vol-au-Vent Cakes ^in. thick (see pages 89 and 90). Bake in a hot oven. No. 191. PASTRY (Puff). ^ lb. fine flour i lb. butter Juice of ^ lemon Some cold wate Pass the flour through a wire sieve into a basin, rub into it lightly 2 oz. of the butter, squeeze the lemon juice into a basm, add about J pint of cold water ; with this mix the flourCHOICE COOKERY, ' BY H. M. YOUNG, / Authoress of " Domestic Cookery," Diplomee as Demonstrator of Cookery, Medallist, &c. Price, Is. 6d.; by post, Is. 9d. MAY BE OBTAINED PROM H, M. YOUNG, ^7, ^rpley Street, W^IiT^ITVOTO]>.A GOOD AND INEXPENSIVE ARTICLE. H. M. YOUNG’S SUPERIOR BAKING POWDER. This preparation possesses the following advantages over all others ;—It is more economical in use. Puff pastry made with it requires less butter. No hurry required in putting the dishes into the oven directly they are made, as the action of the Powder does not commence until heat is applied, a slow oven being preferable. It does not deteriorate with age. Its composition is based on chemical law, and, though differing from other powders, it is guaranteed harmless, and will not disagree with the most susceptible stomach. Specially prepared for and sold by MISS H. M. YOUNG, Authoress of '^Choice Cookery’' and Domestic Cookery,” Diplomee as Demonstrator of Cookery, Medallist, etc,, etc. MAY BE OBTAINED BY POST PROM MISS YOUNG, 27, ARPLEY-STREET, WAHEINaTON, IN PACKETS, Is. 4d., POST FREE.88 into a paste, not too stiff; knead lightly with the hand, and roll out about ^ inch thick; wet or flour the corner of a towel, place the butter in this, and press it until the whole of the water is extracted ; lay this in a flat cake on one end of the pastry, slightly damp the edges, fold over the other end of the pastry, and seal the edges together, press lightly with the rolling pin and roll out; fold in three, set away in a cool place 15 minutes; then place it on the board with the rough edges towards you, and roll out again, fold in three, turn the rough edges towards you and roll again, and set away in a cool place 16 minutes as before; continue this until it has had seven rollings, or seven tm*ns, as it is correctly called ; before giving it the last two rollings squeeze over it a few drops oflemon juice; allow it to stand 2 hours, at least, before using it, in a cool place. For Patties roll out about ^ inch thick (page 87); for Vol-au-Vent Cakes roll out about ^ inch thick (see pages 89 and 90). Bake in a hot oven. No. 192. PUFF PASTRY (Household). 6 oz. butter 4 lb. flour Juic3 of i lemon J pint water Finch of salt Pass the flour through a wire sieve, squeeze the lemon juice into a basin, add the water and mix the flour with it into a paste; knead lightly with the hand; roll out inch thick ; flour or wet the corner of a towel, place in this the butter, press out all the moisture, then place it in little heaps all over the paste, damp the edges, and fold in three, and press together, turn the rough edges towards you, and roll out, fold again and roll out, continuing this five times ; the last two rollings sprinkle over a little lemon juice; before using set aside six hours ; or it may be made the day before it is required. Bake iu a hot oven.84 No. 193. 4 lb. flour Juice of ^ lemon A little water J^ASTRY (Rough). «T 5 oz. butter Pinch of salt Pass the flour through a wire sieve on to the baking board, add the salt, cut up the butter into pieces one inch square, then put all into a basin, add a little water to the lemon juice, - and with it mix the flour and butter into a stiffish paste; flour the board and roll out the paste, fold in three, turn the rough edges towards you and roll out again, continuing this for five times ; the last two rollings sprinkle over a few drops of lemon juice ; this may he used at once, but all kinds of puff'pastry is improved by standing a few hours in a cool place. Bake in a hot oven. No. 194. PASTRY (Flakey). 2 oz. butter 41b. flour A little salt 2 oz. lard or dripping Juice of ^ lemon A little water Put the flour on to a baking board, add the salt, and cut up the butter and lard among the flour in pieces about 1 in. square, put this into a basin and mix to a paste with the lemon juice and water, using a knife; flour the board and rolling pin, and roll the pastry out; fold in three, turn the rough edges towards you and roll out again, continuing this for five times; the last two rollings sprinkle over with a few drops of lemon juice.85 No. 195. PASTRY (Dri 3 oz. dripping or lard i - fl' A pinch of salt A little iter Add the salt to the flour and ruh into it 1 oz. of the drip- ^ ping, mix into a paste with the water, roll out and spread on the remainder of the dripping, fold in three and roll out, fold in three and roll again, continuing this four or five times. This pastry is suitable for cheap pies. No. 196. PASTRY (Short, rich). 6 oz. butter i lb. flour A little cold water A pinch of salt Pass the flour through a wire sieve, add a pinch of salt, rub the butter into the flour lightly with the tips of the fingers, keeping it as cool as possible, add enough water to mix into a stiff paste (the less water used the shorter the paste will be); flour the board and roll out the pastry once only. If for sweets a teaspoonful of castor sugar may be used to each half pound of flour. No. 197. PASTRY (Short, household). 2 oz. butter A pinch of salt 2 oz. dripping i teaspoonful baking powder A little water ^ lb. flour Rub the butter lightly into the flour, add the salt and baking powder, and enough cold water to mix the whole into a stiff paste; flour the board and roll out once; it is then ready for use.86 No. 198. PASTRY (Suet). i lb. flour I ^ teaspoonful salt J lb. suet I ^ teaspoonful baking powder Shred and mince the suet finely, add to flour with the baking powder and salt and enough cold water to make into a paste, which must not be too stifi'. This may be boiled hours in a cloth or mould, or rolled out and used for fruit, puddings, roly-polies, &c. No. 199. PASTRY (Cocoanut). i lb. butter 6 oz. grated cocoanut or ^ lb. desiccated cocoanut 2 oz. flour \ lb. sugar 6 oz. eggs Beat the sugar and butter to a cream, add eggs (beaten) alternately with the flour, sifted, beat thoroughly, lastly add the cocoanut; line a flat tin with oiled paper, spread on the mixture about three-quarters of an inch thick; bakehntil firm in a moderate oven, about 20 minutes; when cold cover with cocoanut icing (page 130); when set cut in lengths three inches, and one inch wide. No. 200. ^ lb. flour I lb. butter i lb. castor sugar 3 eggs Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs, beaten alternately with the flour, sifted, beat .thoroughly, and lastly add the ground almonds and baking powder; spread on a flat tin (lined with buttered paper) about half an inch thick; bake in a moderate oven about 20 minutes; when cold cut through and place the jam between, cover with castor sugar or water icing (page 130); cut in finger lengths or fancy shapes, according to taste. PASTRY (Genoa). 2 oz. ground almonds A little jam A pinch of baking powdera? No. 201. PASTRY (Genoese). 4 small eggs or 3 large ones i lb. castor sugar 2 or. butter 3 or. flour Put the eggs and sugar into a bowl and set it over a pan of hot water, whip briskly with a whisk 20 to 30 minutes; when the mixture is nicely warmed remove from the pan and whip until quite a stiff froth; meanwhile dissolve the butter, but do not heat it too much, then add to the eggs and sugar a little butter and a little flour, sifted, alternately, until the whole are added, stirring very gently, but on no account beat the mixture while adding the butter and flour; pour into a mould well lined with oiled paper, bake in a moderate oven 20 to 30 minutes. When cold this may be iced, made into sandwiches, tai'tlets, &c. PATTI E S. No 202. PATTIES (Chicken or Veal). The breast of 1 chicken, uncooked, or as much veal I oz. flour f pint milk 1 pint cream I oz. butter ^ teaspoouful lemon juice § teaspoonful salt A few grains cayenne ^ teaspoonful pepper Puff pastry, French (page 82) About f lb. of flour will be sufli- cient for 1 doz. patties Cut the chicken into small pieces, put the butter into a saucepan; and when quite hot, but not brown, fry in it the chicken three or four minutes, taking care the butter does not88 become brown, then add the flour, milk, cream, and season- ing; simmer slowly five minutes. Eoll the pastry out a quarter of an inch thick, cut in rounds about 2^ inches in dia- meter, wet a small cutter about three-quarters of an inch in diameter, and cut half way through the centres ; roll out a little pastry very thin, and cut in rounds with a cutter 1 inch in diameter ; these are for lids for the patties ; paint over the top of each with a little beaten egg, place on a baking sheet, and bake 10 to 15 minutes in a hot oven; the lids will only require about five or six minutes to bake. The patties should rise about two inches high; when done, take a skewer and remove the centres, fill with the patty mixture, place a lid on the top of each, and serve. If there is time, it is a good plan after the patties are cut to allow them to stand half-an-hour in a cool place before baking them. Cooked chicken may be used for the above, it must be finely minced and added after the sauce is made, and only allowed to warm through after the chicken is added. No. 203. PATTIES (Lobster). 1 small lobster or ^ lb. tinned lobster 1 oz. flour 2 tablespooufuls milk ^ teaspoonful salt ^ teaspoonful lemon juice A dust of cayenne 1 oz. butter i pint cream I teaspoonful pepper A small dust of nutmeg Put the butter into a saucepan, and when dissolved add the flour, mix well, then add milk, cream, and seasoning; stir thoroughly until quite smooth, allowing it to boil four or five minutes; then add the lobster, which must be removed from the shell and minced ; re-heat, but do not boil. Prepare the patty cases as for chicken patties (page 87), fill with the mixture and serve. Enough for 1 dozen patties.89 No. 204. PATTIES (Oyster). 1 score oysters i pint cream A pinch of salt A dust of cayenne 1 oz. flour 1 oz. butter teaspoonful pepper A dust of nutmeg Eemove the beard from the oysters and stew them in their liquor, which must be strained through a fine piece of muslin or sieve ; put the butter and flour into a saucepan, and when the butter is dissolved add the cream and two tablespoonfuls of the liquor from the beard and all the seasonings; simmer slowly four or five minutes; drop the oysters into boiling water for about half a minute, but on no account allow the water to boil while the oysters are in ; strain, and divide each into two or four, according to size ; stir into the sauce, and fill the patty cases with the mixture, prepared as for chicken patties (page 87). Serve at once. Enough for 1 dozen patties. No. 205. VOL-AU-VENT (Savoury). Take some pastry made with 1 lb. flour according to recipe for French puff pastry (page 82), roll it out § inch thick, take a large oval cutter, about 8 inches by 4 inches, and cut out one piece of pastry; take a cutter 2 inches smaller, place this in the centre and cut half way through the vol-au-vent, as for patties; roll out the remainder of the pastry J inch thick, and cut this into an oval shape with a cutter 7 inches by 3 inches; lay both pieces on a baking sheet, pin round the large piece of pastry a piece of oiled paper about 5 inches deep, to keep it in shape ; bake in a hot oven half to three- quarters of an hour; about 15 minutes before removing from the oven paint over the top with a little egg; when done remove the centre and fill with chicken, veal, lobster, or oyster patties mixture; place the lid on the top and serve.90 No. 206* VOL-AU-VENT (Sweet). Puff pastry, French (page 82) 2 tablespoonfuls sugar pint thick cream dessertspoonful castor sugar 1 pintof strawberries, or any fruit in season 2 tablespoonfuls water ^ teaspoonful vanilla Make pastry of f lb. flour, roll out f inch thick, cut with a large oval cutter, 8 inches by 4 inches, place on the centre a cutter 1 inch smaller, and cut half way through, as for patties ; pin round a piece of oiled paper about 5 inches deep, to keep it in shape; bake in a hot oven half to three- quarters of an hour; about 15 minutes before it is done, paint over with a little egg; when done, remove the centre. Prepare the fruit as follows: Boil the sugar and the water together 10 minutes, put in the fruit and boil until tender, when cold, pour into the vol-au-vent case; whip the cream until stiff, add the castor sugar and vanilla^feid if liked a few drops of cochineal or carmine, pile on the top of fruit and serve. The cream may be left white and sprinkled with candied fruit or minced pistachio nuts according to taste. CHEESECAKES. No. 207. ALMOND CHEESECAKES. 2 oz. sweet almonds 4 oz. bitter almonds 1 of a grated lemon rind 2 yolks of eggs Some scraps puff pastry 2 oz. castor sugar 2 oz. butter 1 tablespoonful rice flour 1 white of egg Koll out the paste very thinly and line 1^ dozen patty tins; blanch the almonds, chop and pound them very flnely, beat91 ■ » the butter and sugar to a cream, add the yolks of the eggs and the rice flour, beat thoroughly, then add the lemon rind and almonds, and last of all the -white of the egg, beaten up to a stifif froth; put a teaspoonful of this mixture into each patty case, and bake 10 to 15 minutes. No. 208. APPLE CHEESECAKES. i lb. apples 3 cloves 1 oz. butter Some scraps of short or puff pastry 3 oz. brown sugar 2 eggs 1 tablespoonful castor sugar Eoll out the pastry, cut in rounds, and line some small patty tins ; peel, core, and cut in quarters the apples, put into an enamelled pan with one tablespoonful of water and the 'cloves; stew until soft, add sugar and butter, when dis- solved rub all through a fine wire sieve ; beat up the eggs and add to apples; put a teaspoonful of this mixture into each patty case; bake 10 to 15 minutes. No. 209. BREAD CHEESECAKES. i lb. white bread crumbs 1 oz. butter A dust of nutmeg 1 tablespoonful brandy Some scraps of puff or short pastry ■i pint 01 milk 2 oz. sugar 2 oz. currants 2 eggs A little lemon rind Roll out the pastry, cut in rounds, and line some small patty tins ; put the milk and butter into a saucepan, allow it to boil, pour this over the bread crumbs, sugai’, and nutmeg ; add the brandy, cun-ants, and a little grated lemon rind; beat up the eggs and add also; put a good teaspoonful of this mixture into each patty case, and bake 10 to 15 minutes. H92 No. 210. BAKEWELL CHEESECAKES. 1 egg A pinch of baking powder The weight of the egg in castor sugar, butter and flour i teaspoonful grated lemon rind 1 tablespoonful jam Some pastry Line a dozen small patty tins with scraps of short or pufi pastry, put in the centre of each a quarter of a teaspoonful of jam, beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the egg, beaten, alternately with the flour, lastly add lemon rind and baking powder, put a teaspoonful of this mixture on the top of the jam ; bake in a moderate oven 16 minutes, dish and cover with castor sugar; serve cold or hot. If pastry has to be made, take ^ lb. of flour for this quantity. No. 211. COCOANUT CHEESECAKES. 3 oz. grated oocoanut or 2 oz. desiccated cocoanut 1 tablespoonful rice flour 1 egg 1^ oz. castor sugar l|- oz. butter Some scraps of pastry, short or puff Roll out the pastry very thinly and line one dozen patty tins, beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the egg and rice flour, beat well, and lastly add the cocoanut, put a good teaspoonful of this mixture into each patty tin, and bake 10 to 16 minutes. Serve hot or cold. No. 212. GROUND RICE CHEESECAKES. 2 oz. ground rice 1 oz. Valencia raisins 1 oz. castor sugar 1 egg ^ pint milk 1 oz. candied peel, minced 1 oz. currants A little grated lemon rind Some scraps of short and puff pastry Line some small patty tins with the pastry, mix the rice with two tablespoo^uls of milk, boil the remainder and sth93 to the rice, pour back into saucepan and boil four or five minutes, beat up the egg and pour the milk and rice to it, adding all the above ingredients; three parts fill each patty- case, and bake 10 to 15 minutes. No, 213. LEMON CHEESECAKES. 2 oz. butter ^ lb. lump sugar Bind and juice of 1 lemon ' Yolks of 3 eggs White of 1 egg Some puff pastry, French (page 82) Boll out the pastry about a quarter of an inch thick, cut in rounds -with a plain or fancy cutter ; cut the centres half -way out with a small cutter; bake 10 to 15 minutes ; push the centres in -with the finger. Put all tho above ingredients into an enamelled saucepan, and stir over a very gentle beat until the mixture becomes about as ^iak as honey ; fill each patty case ■when cold. This mixture -will keep if put into a jar and covered No, 214. MACAROON CHEESECAKES. If oz. sweet almonds f oz. butter 3 oz. castor sugar Whites of 2 eggs 1 tablespoonful rice flour f teaspoonful of orange flower water Some scraps of puff pastry Roll out the pastry thinly, and cut in rounds ; -with this line some small patty tins ; blanch and pound the almonds, and add the orange flo-vver -water ; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth; add the sugar, rice, fiour, and almonds ; put a teaspoonful of the mixture into each patty case, and bake 10 to 15 minutes.94 No. 216. ORANGE CHEESECAKES. 2 oz. Savoy biscuits 2 tablespoonfuls milk or cream 1 dessertspoonful of brandy, if liked 1 ^ oz. butter 1 ®gg The rind (grated) and juice of 1 orange Scraps of short or puff pastry IJ oz. sugar Roll out tHe pastry, cut in rounds, and line a dozen patty tins; beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the egg and Savoy biscuits, crushed, then the rind of the orange and juice, put a teaspoonful of the mixture into the patty tins, and bake 10 to 15 minutes. * TARTLETS, &c. No. 216. . CREAM TARTLETS. 2 eggs 2 oz. butter i pint thick cream A little red currant jelly 2 oz. biscuit crumbs 2 oz. sugar 4- teaspoonful vanilla Some scraps of puff pastry Lme some small patty tins with the pastry, beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add eggs and crumbs, put a teaspoonful of this into each patty tin, bake 15 minutes, allow to cool; whip the cream until stiff, add the vanilla and a little sugar, put a thin layer of jelly on the tartlet, then pile a little cream on the top. 4 lb. flour 1 oz. sugar 1 egg teaspoonful salt 1 oz. butter No. 217. DOUGH NUTS. ^ oz. yeast About 2 tablespoonfuls milk i teaspoonful jam for each A little grated lemon riud Some frying fat Rub the butter into the flour, add lemon rind, salt, and sugar ; warm the milk and pour over the yeast with one teaspoonful95 of sugar and the same of flour, cover and set in a wai’m place 10 minutes; beat up the egg and mix with the yeast and milk, pour this into the flour and knead like bread, until it leaves the hand quite clean; set in a warm place to rise one hour; roll out one-eighth of an inch thick, cut in rounds about 2^ inches in diameter, lay half a teaspoonful of jam on half of the rounds, wet the edges slightly, cover with the remaining half of the round and seal the edges thoroughly; drop these a few at a time into smoking-hot fat, fry about 1J minutes or until risen about 1^ inches thick and brown, drain and sprinkle with castor sugar, and serve hot. No. 218. JAM TARTLETS. Some puff pastrj (page 82} | A little jam Roll out the pastry a quarter of an inch thick, cut in rounds with a fancy cutter, cut the centi'es half-way through with a smaller cutter, paint over with egg, and bake 10 to 15 minutes; when done push the centres down with the finger and fill with jam; if liked they may be decorated with a little sugar icing (page 130). No. 219. PRINCESS TARTLETS. Some Q-enoese pastry (page 87) 1 pint thick cream 1 dessertspoonful castor sugar or some candied fruits A little jam A few drops of cochineal i teaspoonful ratafia or vanilla Cut the Genoese pastry into rounds about 1^ inches in diameter, take out the centres with a small cutter and fill with jam ; whip up the cream, add the sugar and essence, and pile on the top of the jam ; the cream may be coloured with the cochineal or sprinkled over with the candied fruits or minced Pistachio nuts, according to taste.96 No. 220. PETITE APPLE SOUFFLE. 1 lb. apples 3 oz. brown sugar Some scraps of short pastry Some merangue mixture (page 97) Some boiled sugar (page 97) 2 tablespoonfuls water 2 or 3 cloves Koll out the pastry thinly and cut in rounds about 2 inches across, cut some strips of pastry half an inch, paint the rounds of pastry with a little egg, and lay the strips of pastry round the outside, edgeways; hake 10 minutes ; peel, core, and divide the apples, stew until soft, with the water and cloves, add the sugar and fill each of the cases; then cover each with the merangue mixture, pointed shape ; set in a slow oven until firm and slightly brown ; have the boiled sugar ready, dip into it quickly each souffle; sprinkle with chopped Pistachio nuts and serve. No. 221. SLIPPERS A LA CREME. J pint thick cream teaspoonful vanilla Some scraps of puff pastry 1 dessertspoonful sugar A little cochineal or candied fruits for decorating Roll out the pastry very thinly into a length about 16 inches, cut this into 10 or 12 strips one inch wide, wet slightly along one edge of each; grease some slipper moulds on the outside, and wrap round the pastry, allowing the wetted side to wrap over each fold; paint over the top with a little beaten egg ; bake 10 minutes, and allow to get quite cold; whip the cream until stiff, add the sugar, vanilla, and a few di-ops of cochineal, and with this fill each of the cases; serve dished in a ring. If preferred the cream may be left white, and sprinkled over with candied fruit.97 No. 222. SWISS ROLL. 4 oz. flour Grated rind of ^ lemon 4 eggs 6 oz. castor sugar 1 teaspoonful baking powder 2 tablespoonfuls jam Put the eggs and sugar into a basin, set over a pan of hot ■water, and whip briskly 20 minutes; -when the mixture is | warm remove from the pan ; mix the baking powder "with the flour, and sift to the eggs and sugar; stir in very lightly, taking care not to beat the mixture after the flour is added ; lastly stir in the lemon rind; line a large flat tin "with buttered paper, and dust it over with castor sugar; pour in the mixture; it should cover the tin, and be about one third inch deep; bake in a moderate oven 8 to 10 minutes; warm the jam, spread over the top, and roll as quickly as possible after it is taken from the oven ; cover with castor sugar and serve hot or cold. Put some castor sugar into a brass pan; cover it with water, and boil it until the sugar begins to turn light brown; while hot dip anything into it that is to be decorated; allow this to cool, and serve. _ Whip up the whites very stiffly, add part of the sugar, sifted, whip again, add the remainder, and stir in lightly, also the essence and lemon juice ; put into a forcing bag and squeeze into egg or steeple shape, according to taste; set in a cool oven two hours to dry; remove from the tin carefully and scoop out the centres, fill with whipped cream nicely flavoured, or with jam; paint with white of egg and stick two together, and serve; if liked the merangue mixture may be coloured by adding a few drops of cochineal. No. 223. SUGAR (Boiled). No. 224. MERANGUES. 4 whites of eggs A few drops lemon juice ^ lb. castor sugar ^ teaspoonful vanilla98 CREAMS, JELLIES, TRIFLES, &c. In making jellies and creams it is necessary to have some experience, as the quantity of gelatine required will depend upon the season of the year; in the hot weather a little more will be required than in the winter time. It also depends a great deal upon the make of gelatine, as it varies very much in quality. The French leaf gelatine does not require to stand in cold water any time, it will dissolve immediately in warm water. Macay’s extract of calves’ feet requires to stand 10 minutes in cold water. Nelson’s and others require to stand in cold water two hours before being ready for use. No. 226. CREAM (Fruit). ^ oz. leaf gelatine 2 oz. lump sugar ^ lb. mixed candied fruits Soak the gelatine until dissolved in a quarter of a pint of warm water ; rub the sugar on the lemons until the whole of the yellow rind is taken off, put the sugar into a pan with the juice of the lemons, and set by a gentle heat until the sugar is dissolved, add this to the gelatine; whip up the cream until stiff, add to it the gelatine, &c., stir occasionally until almost set, then stir in the fruits, which may be cut up; pour into a wetted mould until set. If necessary, dip in warm water, and turn out. ^ pmt double cream Rind and juice of 2 lemons i pint water No. 226. CREAM (Sherry). ^ pint double cream 3 oz. lump sugar 1 giU sherry i oz. gelatine •Juice and rind of 1 lemon Rub the sugar on the rind of the lemon until the whole of the yellow part is taken off; put into a saucepan with the99 juice, set by a gentle beat until dissolved ; then add to the gelatine dissolved in J pint of water; whip the cream until stiff, then strain to it the shen-y, &c.; put into a wetted mould, and set in a cool place until firm. If necessary, dip in warm water and turn out. No. 227. CREAM (Coffee). ^ pint milk 1 oz. castor sugar 1 oz. freshly roasted coffee berries i pint double cream Yolks of 3 eggs ^ pint water ^ oz. leaf gelatine Dissolve the gelatine in the water, put the coffee berries into a saucepan with the milk, and simmer slowly half-an- hour ; beat the yolks with the sugar, strain to them the milk from the berries, pour back into a custard pan or jug, place this in a pan of boiling water, and stir until it coats the spoon, pour into a basin and strain to it the gelatine; whip up the cream until stiff and stir well into it the custard, pour into a well wetted mould, and set in a cool place until firm. If necessaiy dip the mould into wai’m water and turn out. No. 228. CREAM (Strawberry or Raspberry). 1 pint strawberries or raspberries 3 oz. castor sugar ^ pint double cream i oz. leaf gelatine Ir pint water If fruit is not in season ^ lb. of jam may be used Put the fruit into a basin and cover with the sugar, allow this to stand one hour, put the gelatine in the quarter pint of water in a warm place until dissolved ; rub the fruit through a fine hair sieve, add to it the gelatine; whip the cream until quite stiff, add the fruit, juice, &c., to the cream, stir well together, pom- into a wetted mould and set in a cool place until firm; dip the mould into warm water, just for a second, and turn out; the top of the mould may be decorated with a little jelly and fruit if liked, but this must be allowed to set before pom-ing in the cream, which should be cool. If jam is used 2 oz. sugar wiU be sufficient.100 No. 229. CREAM ^ pint milk 2 oz. sugar i oz. leaf gelatine i pint water 1 teaspoonful lemon juice (Swiss). 1 pint double cream 3 yolks of eggs 3 oz. preserved ginger 2 tablespoonfuls of ginger syrup Pat the gelatine into a saucepan with the water, set in a waim place until dissolved; beat up the yolks, add to them the sugar and the milk, boiling, pour this back into a custard pan or jug, stand the jug in boiling water and stir the custard until it coats the spoon, add to it the gelatine, lemon juice and ginger syrup ; whip the cream until stiff, then add to it the custard, &c.; allow this to stand until it is almost set; then stir in the ginger, cut in pieces (size according to taste); pour into a well wetted mould, and, if necessary, dip the mould in warm water before turning out. No. 230. JELLY, ASPIC (Good). 1 quart good stock 1 tjEkblespoonful tarragon vinegar 1 tablespoonful common vinegar 4 cloves Whites and shells of 3 eggs Rind and juice of 1 lemon 1 dessertspoonful salt 1 onion, sliced 1 teaspoonful peppercorns 2 oz. leaf gelatine Beat the whites and shells of the eggs together in a few tablespoonfuls of water, peel off the lemon rind as thinly as possible, put these with all the above ingredients into a saucepan, whisk gently until it boils, take out the whisk and allow it to boil well up to the top of the saucepan; draw on one side and allow it to stand, covered, 10 minutes; pour through the jelly bag one quart of boiling water, then the jelly; it is then ready for use. No. 230a. JELLY, ASPIC 1 quart water 2 oz. leaf gelatine Bind and juice of 1 lemon ^ pint vinegar 1 onion, sliced (for garnishing only), 2 cloves 1 dessertspoonful salt 1 teaspoonful pepper Whites and shells of 2 eggs101 Put all the ingredients into a saucepan, the lemon thinly pared, the eggs beaten in a little water ; whip until it boils, allow it to boil up well; draw on one side and allow it to stand 10 minutes; pour through the jelly bag one quart of boiling water, then the jelly; this is ready for use, and if necessary may be coloured to taste. No. 231. J£jLL7 (Claret), 1 pint of water 6 07.. lump sugar 1 pint claret A few drops of cochineal 1 inch cinnamon stick Eind and juice of 2 lemons 4 cloves Whites and shells of 3 eggs Small blade mace 1^ oz. leaf gelatine Beat the whites of the eggs and the shells in two tablespoonfuls of water, add to all the above ingredients, which may be put into an enamelled saucepan, stir gently until it comes to the boil; allow it to boil up to the top of the pan ; draw on one side, cover the saucepan and allow it to stand 10 minutes; pour through the jelly bag first one quart of boiling water, then the jelly, returning it till clear; pour into moulds, and when set dip in warm water and turn out quickly. No. 232. JELLY (Lemon), Bind of 4 lemons Juice of 3 lemons 3 cloves Whites and shells of 3 eggs i lb. loaf sugar 1 quart of water 2 inches cinnamon stick oz. leaf gelatine Cut off the rind as thinly as possible, put this into a sauce- pan with the water, sugar, lemon juice, cloves, cinnamon, and gelatine, beat the whites of the eggs with a quarter of a pint of water and add to the above ingredients, whisk gently until it boils, allow it to boil up to the top of the pan, draw102 on one side and allow it to stand, covered, 10 minutes; pour through the jelly hag the quart of boiling water, then the jelly ; pour into the mould. A pretty way nf decorating this is to sprinkle into the jelly while it is setting a few minced pistachio nuts ; when firm dip in warm water and turn out quickly. No. 233. Rind of 3 lemons Juice of 2 lemons 2 cloves 1 inch cinnamon stick 6 oz. lump sugar JELLY (Wine). 1^ oz. leaf gelatine 1 pint water i pint sherry Whites and shells of 2 eggs Cut off the rind from the lemons as thinly as possible, beat the whites and shells in a quarter of a pint of cold water, put these, with all the above ingredients, into a saucepan, and stir gently until it boils, remove the whisk or spoon, allow it to boil to the top of the saucepan, draw it on one side and let it stand 10 minutes ; pour through the jelly hag one quart of boiling water, then the jeUy ; pour this into a mould, and when set dip in warm water and turn out quickly. No. 234. LEMON MOULD. 4 oz. leaf gelatine Rind of 3 lemons Juice of 3 lemons 4 pint cold water 3 eggs 4 lb. lump sugar Rub the sugar on the lemons to get off all the rind, put into a saucepan with the lemon juice, gelatine, and water, allow this to stand by a gentle heat until all is dissolved, let it cool slightly, then add to the eggs, which must be beaten; pass through a fine hair sieve or muslin; pour into a mould, and when firm dip in warm water and turn out.103 No. 235. JELLY (Orange). Bind of 4 oranges Juice of 6 oranges Bind and juice of 1 lemon 14 oz. leaf gelatine 6 oz. sugar 2 inches cinnamon stick Whites and shells of 3 eggs Enough water to make 1 quart with the juice of oranges and lemon Cut off the rind from the oranges and lemon as thinly as possible; beat up the whites and shells of the eggs with a quarter of a pint of cold water; put this with all the above ingredients into a saucepan, whip gently until it boils; allow this to boil well up to the top of the saucepan ; draw on one side, and allow it to stand covered 10 minutes; pour through the jelly bag one quart of boiling water, then the jelly; put into mould; and when firm, dip in warm water, and turn out quickly. No. 236. CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 2 or 3 oz. Savoy biscuits 1 teaspoonful vanilla 2 yolks of eggs •j pint double cream 4 oz. leaf gelatine 2 oz. sugar pint milk Some jelly and candied fruits for decorating Pour in the bottom of the mould about one-third of an inch oi jelly, arrange round the edge a row of cherries, put in a cool place to set; then arrange round the sides of the mould the biscuits, which must be first divided and trimmed; dissolve the gelatine in ^ pint of water; beat up the eggs, and add to them the milk and sugar, pour into a custard pan or jug, set in a pan of boiling water, stir until it coats the spoon ; add the gelatine; whip up the cream, and add to it the custard, and when nearly cold, pour into the prepared mould ; when set dip in warm water, and turn out.1U4 No. 237. RICE MOULD WITH STEWED FRUIT. ^ lb. Carolina rice 2 oz. sugar 1 teaspoouful vanilla ^ pint water ^ pint milk I teaapoonful salt Wash the rice thoroughly, put it into an enamelled pan with the water and salt; stand this pan in another saucepan containing some boiling water ’ boil until all the water is absorbed, then add the milk and sugar, and boil until this is absorbed ; by this time the rice should be quite tender, if not a little more milk may be added; add the vanilla, press well into a mould that has been soaked in cold water; turn out at once, and serve round the edge some stewed fruit as below. No. 238 STEWED FRUIT. 1 pint plums, or any o^her 2 oz. brown sugar seasonable fruit pint water Boil the water and the sugar until it becomes syrupy, about 16 minutes ; put in the fruit, and simmer until it is tender; dish round the rice. No. 239. TRIFLE (Orange.) 3 oranges 1 tablespoonful castor sugar A few drops lemon juice 2 tablespoonfuls sherry ^ pint double cream 1 tablespoonful brown sugar Cut the rind off the oranges as thinly as possible, soak this one hour in the sherry, boil the brown sugar with two table- spoonfuls of water until it becomes syrupy, strain to this the sherry, peel the oranges and cut in rounds, lay these at the bottom of a glass dish, pour over the syrun. put the cream105 into 2 pints of water and whip from side to side of the basin throwing up a froth on one side, skim off the froth and set it to drain on a hair sieve, pile this on the top of the oranges with a good dust of the castor sugar between each layer; decorate with strips of orange peel. No. 240. TRIFLE CAKE. 3 small sponge cakes 1 teaspoonful cornflour 4 pint milk i teaspoonful vanilla A few almonds 1 tablespoonful sugar 1 glass sherry 2 tablespoonfuls jam 2 eggs A few pistachio nuts Divide the sponge cakes, lay them at the bottom of a dish, pour over the sherry, spread on the top the jam, mix the cornflour with a little milk, add the remainder of the milk boiling, beat up the eggs, and add the milk to them; pour into a custai'd pan or jug, stand in boiling water and stir until thick, add the vanilla and strain over the jam ; sprinkle over the top of this, when cold and nearly set, the almonds and pistachio nuts minced. No. 241. CUSTARD 1 pint milk 1 egg 1 teaspoonful cornflour (Cheap). 2 teaspoonfuls sugar A little essence of vanilla or lemon Wet the cornflour with a little milk, add to it the remainder of the milk boiling, beat up the egg with the sugar, add to cornflour and milk, pour into a custard pan or jug, stand in a pan of boiling water, stir until it coats the spoon, add the flavouring and pour into a dish at once.106 No. 242. CUSTARD (Medium). 1 pint milk I 2 eggs 2 teaspoonfuls sugar | 1 teaspoonful vanilla Beat the eggs with the sugar, add the milk cold, pour into a custard pan or jug, set in a pan of boiling water, stir until it coats the spoon, add the essence, pour into a dish and serve when cold with fruit, &c. No. 243. CUSTARD (Rich). 1 pint milk 6 yolks of eggs 3 teaspoonfuls sugar , 4 whites of eggs A little flavouring essence Beat up the eggs, add the milk and sugar, pour into a custard pan or jug, stand in a pan of boiling water, stir until it coats the spoon, add the essence, and pour into a dish or custard glasses. CHEESE SAVOURIES, OMELETTES, &c. No. 244. AIGRETTES DES PARMESAN. 2 oz. flour 1 oz. butter A little pepper, salt, and cayenne Some fat for frying pint water 1 «“gg 2 oz. Parmesan cheese, grated Put the butter and flour into a saucepan, and when dissolved add the water; boil three minutes and beat it107 smooth, add the cheese and seasonings; lastly stir in the egg and beat thoroughly; drop this in rough pieces into some smoking-hot fat, and fry a light brown; drain, and serve on a folded serviette; garnish with parsley and serve at once. No. 245. CHEESE BALLS. oz. flour oz. butter Pepper, salt, cayenne, mustard 1 egg 2 oz. cheese ^ pint milk 2 oz. bread crumbs Some frying fat Put the butter and flour into a saucepan, rub them together over a gentle heat until the butter is dissolved, add the milk, heat well, and boil three or four minutes; then add the seasonings and the cheese, mix thoroughly, spread on a plate to cool slightly; form into balls about the size of a walnut, paint over with the egg beaten, roU in bread crumbs, place them in a wire frying basket and fry in enough smoking-hot fat to cover them a nice light brown; drain on soft paper, serve on a folded serviette and garnish with parsley. No. 246. CHEESE AND MACARONI. 3 oz. Naples macaroni 1 oz. butter ^ oz. flour I teaspoonful salt i teaspoonful pepper i teaspoonful raw mustard 2 oz. Parmesan cheese, grated, or 3 oz. any dry cheese ^ pint milk ^ pint boiling water A few grains cayenne Wash the macaroni and break it into pieces one inch long, throw this into the boiling water with half an ounce of the butter, boil until tender, about 20 to 30 minutes, put the flour and remaining half ounce of butter into a saucepan, rub these together over a gentle heat until the butter is dissolved, I108 then add the milk, boil 8 or 4 minutes, strain the macaroni, add to the sauce half of the cheese and seasonings ; pour into a greased dish, cover the top with the remainder of the cheese, put in a hot oven to brown, or if you have a gas griller place the dish under it; serve hot. No. 247. OMELETTE (Savoury). 2 eggs A small piece of onion, the size of a pea, minced ^ teaspoonful minced parsley A pinch of salt and pepper A dust of sweet herbs 1 oz. butter Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, add to the yolks the salt, pepper, sweet herbs, parsley, and onion, stir them together, whip up the whites until quite stiff, stir these lightly to the yolks, dissolve the butter in an omelette pan, hut do not brown it; pour in the mixture, place over a gentle heat and fry a light brown, drawing it to one side of the pan, turn over and brown the other side; dish on'a hot dish and serve at once. No. 248. OMELETTE (Sweet). 2 yolks of eggs ^ teaspoonful vanilla, or any flavouring that may be pre- ferred 1 dessertspoonful castor sugar 3 whites of eggs 1 oz. butter 1 tablespoonful jam Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, add to the yolks the sugar and vanilla, stir lightly, whip up the whites until they are a stiff froth, stir these lightly to the yolks, &c.; dissolve the butter in an omelette pan, but do not allow it to become brown, pour in the mixture and fry gently until a nice light brown and slightly set; brown the top part in front of a very hot fire, or better still, place it under a gas griller; when brown tm-n on to a hot dish, spread on one half the jam, slightly warm, turn over the other half, cover with castor sugar and serve.109 SAUCES, FRYING BATTERS, &c. No. 249. APPLE SAUCE. i lb. apples I 1 teaspoonful sugar I oz. butter | 1 tablespoonful water Pare, core, and cut the apples in slices, put into an enamelled pan with the water, boil until soft, add the butter and sugar, rub the pulp through a wire sieve, re-heat, and serve in a tureen. No. 250. ARROWROOT SAUCE. 1 dessertspoonful arrowroot pint milk 1 tablespoonful sugar A little flavouring J pint water Mix the arrowroot with the water, add the milk, boUing, pour back into the saucepan with the sugar, and boil four minutes; add one tahlespoonful of brandy or sherry, or any flavouring preferred. No. 261. BREAD SAUCE. 2 oz. bread crumbs 1 small onion toaspoonful salt A dust of cayenne J pint milk pint cream teaspoonful pepper Boil the onion in the milk 15 minutes, strain the milk over the crumbs, add the cream and seasoning, and simmer slowly 10 minutes; serve at once.110 No. 252. BRANDY SAUCE. 1 oz. butter ' 1 pint water 2 tablespoonfuls sugar A little lemon rind, thinly peeled 1 oz. flour i pint milk 1 glass brandy Put the butter and flour into an enamelled pan, and when dissolved, add the milk, sugar, and lemon rind, stir until smooth; boil five minutes, add the brandy, re-heat, and strain into a tureen. No. 253. BROWN SAUCE (for Gravies, &c.). 1 oz. butter I 1 oz. flour J pint stock ■ I Very little salt and pepper Brown the butter in a pan, then brown in it the flour, add the stock and seasonings, boil five minutes, strain, and it is ready for adding to gravies, &c. Covered, this will keep several days. No. 254. CHERRY SAUCE. ^ lb. cherries I 2 oz. sugar A few drops cochineal | i pint water Boil the sugar and water 10 minutes, drop in the cherries and boil until tender, rub through a hair sieve, add a few drops of cochineal if required, and serve.Ill No, 255. CUSTARD SAUCE. 1 egg i pint milk A pinch of salt 1 teaspoonful sugar A few drops of flavouring Beat up the egg, add the milk and sugar, pour into a custard pan or jug, stand in boiling water and stir until it coats the spoon, add flavouring; pour through a sieve into a tureen, and serve. No. 266. EGG SAUCE. 1 egg, hard boiled ^ pint stock I teaspoonful salt 1 oz. butter i pint milk i teaspoonful pepper A dust of cayenne 1 oz. flour Put butter and flour into a saucepan, and when dissolved add the stock, milk, and seasoning, beat and stir until quite smooth, boil flve minutes, add the egg, minced, and serve. If for flsh, the stock should be made from the bones and trimmings of the flsh. No. 267, HARD SAUCE. ^ lb. fresh butter 2 oz. sweet almonds 2 oz. castor sugar ^ oz. bitter almonds 1 tablespoonful sherry or brandy Beat the butter and sugar- to a cream, add brandy or sherry and almonds, blanched and finely minced; serve in a heap; generally with plum pudding.112 No. 268. GERMAN EGG SAUCE. 1 egg I i pint sheny 1 dessertspoonful sugar | A strip of lemon peel Put all into a basin, the sherry slightly warm, place the basin over a pan of -warm water, whip briskly 10 minutes, or until the sauce is quite a froth ; take care it does not get too hot, or it will curdle. Serve at once. No. 259. LEMON SAUCE. Bind and juice of 2 lemons j pint water ^ lb, brown sugar | Boil the sugar and water 16 minutes, add the juice and rind of lemons, boil five minutes and strain; shred a little of the cooked lemon rind very fine and throw into the sauce. No. 260. MELTED BUTTER. 3 oz. butter Salt and pepper, or sngar and flavouring essence i pint milk or water 1 oz. flour Dissolve the butter with the flour, add the milk or water, just allow it to boil; add the pepper and salt if for a savoury, sugar and essence if for a sweet.113 No. 261. MARMALADE SAUCE. 1 tablespoonful marmalade 2 tablespoonfuls brown sugar pint water Boil the sugar and water 10 minutes, stir in the marmalade and serve. No. 262. OYSTER SAUCE AND SHRIMP SAUCE. i pint milk ^ pint cream i score oysters i oz. flour ^ pint stock A dust of cayenne A few drops of lemon juice 1 oz. butter Beard the oysters, put the heards, with the liquid and enough water to make J pint, into a pan, simmer slowly 10 minutes ; put the butter and flour into a saucepan, and when dissolved add the milk and the stock from the oyster beards, beat until quite smooth, and boil five minutes; add the season- ings, lemon juice, and cream, strain and add the oysters (which must first be dropped into boiling water for half a minute), and be divided into two or four according to size. On no account must the sauce be boiled after the oysters are added. Shrimp Sauce may be made as above by substituting ^pint of picked shrimps for oysters and milk for stock. No. 263. ORANGE SAUCE. Bind and juice of 2 oranges 2 tablcspoonfuls brown sugar Bind of ^ lemon ^ pint water Put all into a pan and boil 10 minutes, pass through a fine sieve, and serve.114 No. 264. PARSLEY SAUCE AND FENNEL SAUCe! 1 oz. butter pint stock ^ teaspoonful salt A dust of cayenne Put the butter 1 oz. flour i pint milk teaspoonful pepper 1 dessertspoonful minced parsley and flour into a saucepan, and when dissolved, add the stock and milk, also the seasonings, beat untd quite smooth, and boil six minutes; mince the parsley veiy fine, put it in the corner of a towel, and dip in boiling water, wring out, and stir into sauce; serve. If for fish, the stock should be made from the bones and trimmings. For Fennel Sauce, scald, pick and chop the fennel, and add to white sauce instead of parsley. No. 265. RASPBERRY SAUCE. 2 tablespoonfuls raspberry jam I pint water 2 tablespoonfuls brovra sugar | Boil these all together for 20 minutes, pass through a hair sieve. If fresh fruit is in season, half a pint of raspberries may be used instead of the jam. No. 266. ROBERT SAUCE. 2 small onions 1 oz. flour 4 teaspoonful salt ^ teaspoonful pepper 1 teaspoonful French mustard pint brown stock i 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar 1^ oz. butter 2 mushrooms 1 teaspoonful anchovy 1 tomato, small Put the butter into a saucepan, heat until brown, add the onions, sliced, and brown also; stir in the stock until quite smooth; add all the above ingredients, and simmer slowly 30 to 40 minutes; pass through a hair sieve, rubbing as much of the pulp through as possible. Re-heat and seiwe.115 No. 267. SOUTHPOET SAUCE, 1 oz. butter I 1 oz. flour 4 pint water 2 medium apples A strip of lemon rind | 2 cloves 2 tablespoonfuls sugar | Peel, core, and cut in small quarters the apples, put into a pan with the water, sugar, cloves, and lemon rind; boil until soft, pass through a wire sieve, rubbing the pulp through with a wooden spoon; dissolve the butter with the flour, and add the pulp from the apples, stir until smooth; boil five minutes, and serve. No. 268. TOMATO SAUCE. ^ lb. tomatoes 1 onion A bunch of sweet herbs 4 pint stock or water A few drops cochineal 4 teaspoonful salt Put the butter into a pan with carrot, turnip, onion, and tomatoes cut up, also sweet herbs, peppercorns, and parsley, fry these for 10 minutes, add the flour, also the stock, salt, and cochineal; simmer slowly 30 minutes, pass through a hair sieve, rubbing as much of the pulp through as possible; re-heat and serve. This sauce will keep, if covered, several days. 1 carrot 1 turnip 2 oz. butter 1 oz. flour ^ teaspoonful peppercorns Bunch of oarslev No. 269. WHITE SAUCE (for Vegetables). 1 oz. butter 1 oz. flour i pint milk A little pepper 4 teaspoonful salt Beat the butter and the floiu' together over a gentle heat, and when dissolved add the milk and seasonings, stir until quite smooth; boil 5 minutes, strain, and serve.116 No. 270. WHITE SAUCE (for Puddings). ^ oz. flour 1 dessertspoonful sugar J pint milk A few drops of essence 1 oz. butter Kub the butter and flour together until dissolved, add the milk and sugar, heat quite smooth; hoil 6 minutes, add the essence, strain, and serve. No. 271. MAITRE d’HOTEL BUTTER. 2 oz. Gutter 1 dessertspoonful parsley A few drops of lemon juice Dip the parsley into boiling water, pick, and chop very fine, add this to the butter, also the lemon juice, and mix thoroughly. Serve with grilled chops, steaks, fish, &c. No. 272. PARSLEY (Fried). Wash and pick the parsley, not too small, dry it thoroughly, put it into a wire frying basket, and put it into enough smoking-hot fat to cover it for a few seconds (it should turn a darkish green, hut not black, and be crisp), pour on to soft paper and drain; dust with pepper and salt, and serve with fish, &c. No. 273. FRYING BATTER (No. 1). Two ounces flour, enough water or milk to make into a batter about as thick as cream, a little salt or sugar (this depends upon what it is required for;. ■ %' . 1? - 4*FRYING BATTER (No. 2.). 2 oz. flour I little milk or water legg 1 Mix the flour smooth with the egg, and add enough water or milk to make it about the consistence of good thick cream; if for a savoury dish add salt and pepper; if for a sweet, add sugar and a little flavouring, such as brandy, essence of lemon or vanilla. No. 275. FRYING BATTER (No. 3.). 2 oz. flour Yolks of 2 eggs, i white of egg A little milk Mix the flour smooth with the yolks, add enough milk to make quite smooth, and a little thicker than cream; whip up the white of egg quite stiff, add last with a little flavouring; salt and pepper if for savoury dish; sugar and flavouring essence if for a sweet. All batters are better made some two hours before they are required for use. CAKES. No. 276. BIRTHDAY CAKE. i lb. flour 3 oz. mixed candied peel i lb. butter i lb. eggs lb. castor sugar 2 oz. ground almonds § lb. currants 2 tablespoonfuls brandy Some almond paste (page 129) Some sugar icing (page 130) Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, beat up the eggs, and add to butter and sugar alternately with the flour, which must be sifted ; beat thoroughly, and lastly add the remainder of the118 ingi-edients; pour into a mould well-lined with buttered paper; bake three hours in a moderate oven; after the first hoM the heat must be reduced, and the cake finished slowly. This should be kept 3 or 4 weeks, then covered with the ^ X p8>ste about half an inch thick, and if liked, it may be cut through the centre and half an inch of almond paste put between—if the two layers of paste are used, three-quarters of a pound of ground almonds will be required, if one, just half the quantity will be sufficient—when this is set, cover the cake with the sugar icing; allow the first coating to set, then decorate; set in a warm place until quite set; then the cake is ready for use. It wHl take about IJ lb. of icing sugar to cover and decorate the cake. No. 277. CHERRY CAKE. 10 oz. flour 3 eggs lb. sugar 3 oz. candied cherries A little grated lemon rind ^ lb. butter About pint milk 1 teaspoonful baking powder Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, beat up the eggs, add alternately with the flour and milk, and beat thoroughly j lastly add the lemon rind, fruit, and baking powder; pour’ into a mould well lined with oiled paper. Bake in a moderate oven 1^ hours. ' No. 278. COCOANUT CAKE. 10 oz. flour 1 teaspoonful baking powder i lb. desiccated cocoanut Grated rind of ^ lemon 4 eggs ^ lb. butter lb. sugar Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, beat up the eggs and add alternately with the flour, sifted, to the butter and sugar; beatithoroughly, and lastly stir in the baking powder and the cocoanut; pour into a mould well lined with oiled paper. Bake in a moderate oven hours.119 No. 279. ALMOND CAKE. See Cocoanut Cake (page 118). Leave out the cocoanut, and add the same quantity of ground almonds. 1 lb. flour i lb. brown sugar ^ lb. butter No. 280. EASTER CAKE. G oz. currants ^ wine glass of brandy I teaspoonful allspice Dissolve the butter ini the brandy, but do not allow it to boil; mix all together with the dissolved butter; roll out ^ inch thick, cut in rounds, and bake 30 minutes in not too hot an oven ; serve with castor sugar dusted over the top. These will keep for some time. .. No. 281. ECCLES CAKE. 2 oz. currants Some scraps puff pastry 1 oz. candied peel, finely minced 1 oz. sugar Roll out the pastry, about 9 inches wide, lay along one side the currants, sugar, and peel, roll up like a roly-poly, cut in pieces about 1 inch, roll out flat, keeping the currants in the cgntre; if not round, cut with a round cutter; paint over with vater, and sprinkle with coarse sugar. Bake 8 to 1(> minutes. No. 282. GINGER BREAD SPONGE. ^ lb. golden syrup 2 oz. butter 1 large egg or 2 small ones i oz. ground ginger 10 oz. fiour 2 oz. brown sugar About 2 tablespoonfuls milk 1 small teaspoonful allspice ^ teaspoonful soda Pass the flour through a sieve into a basin, mix with it the ginger, allspice, and sugar; put the milk, syrup, butter.120 \ k and soda into a saucepan, heat until all is dissolved, add this to the flour, also the egg, -well beaten ; mix thoroughly, and pour into a mould well lined with buttered paper. Bake 1 to 1^ hours. No. 283. GINGER BUNS i ft. flour 1^ teaspoonfuls baking powder 1 teaspoonful grated ginger Pinch salt 1 egg 1^ oz. butter l| oz. dripping or lard 3 oz. brown sugar 1 oz. mixed candied peel A little milk Rub the butter and dripping into the flour, add all the dry ingredients ; beat up the egg with a little milk, add to flour &c., mix thoroughly; divide in 12 small heaps on a greased tin; hake 15 minutes in a rather hot oven. No. 284. GINGER CAKE. 10 oz. flour i lb. butter J lb. castor sugar 3 oz. preserved ginger 4 eggs i teaspoonful grated ginger 1 teaspoonful baking powder A little grated lemon rind A tablespoonful syrup Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, heat up the eggs, and add to them the syrup from the ginger; add the eggs alternately with the flour, sifted, to the butter and sugar; beat thoroughly, and lastly add the baking powder and the ginger; cut in f inch squares ; bake in a moderate oven l-^- hours.LONDON BUNS. 1 lb. flour ^ lb. castor sugar 2 eggs Grated rind of ^ lemon 3 oz. sultanas ^Ib butter 2 teaapoonfuls baking powder 2 oz. candied peel A little milk A few pieces of lump sugar Pass the flour through a wire sieve; rub into it the butter, add all the dry ingredients, the peel cut up; heat^ up the eggs, add to them a little milk, add to flour, &c., mix rather stiffly; divide into nine heaps on a greased tin; paint over each with a little egg or milk; break up the lump sugar into coarse pieces, and sprinkle over each; bake in a rather hot oven 20 to 30 minutes. No. 286. LEMON BUNS. ■ f lb. flour 1 egg \ pint milk Juice and rind (grated) of 1 lemon 2 oz. currants 2 oz. lemon peel A little nutmeg 2 oz. castor sugar 1 oz. butter ^ oz. German yeast or 2 tea- spoonfuls of baking powder ^ oz. carraway seeds Pinch of salt Warm the milk, add to the yeast 1 teaspoonful sugar and the same of flour, pour over the milk and set in a warm place to rise; rub the butter into the flour, add all the dry ingredients, beat up the egg, add to yeast and milk, with this mix the flour to a stiffish paste, set to rise 2 hours ; divide into 12 buns, place on a greased baking-sheet, paint over with a little milk and sugar. Bake in a quick oven 8 to 10 minutes. If baking powder is used the mixture must be baked at once.122 ^ lb. flour 5 oz. butter 4 eggs No. 287. MADEIRA CAKE. 1 teaspooaful baking powder 5 oz. castor sugar 1 tablespoonful brandy Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add alternately the flour and yolks of eggs, well beaten, beat 10 minutes, and, lastly, add the baking powder and whites of eggs, beaten to a very stiff froth; pour into a mould lined with oiled paper. Bake in a moderate oven 1 hour. t 10 oz. fipe flour 4 eggs Rind of 1 lemon, grated 3 oz. sultana raisins 1 tablespoonful brandy No. 288. POUND CAKE. ^ lb, castor sugar ^ lb. butter 2 oz. candied peel 3 oz. currants Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, beat up the eggs and strain these to the butter alternately with the flom' (which also must be sifted); beat this mixture thoroughly, stir in all the above ingredients, pour into a mould well lined with buttered paper ; bake in a moderate oven two hours. The heat of the oven must be reduced after the cake has risen and become a light brown. No. 289. ROCK CAKES. i lb. flour 3 oz. brown sugar 3 oz. currants A little grated ginger A little grated nutmeg A pinch of salt 1^ oz. dripping or lard 1^ oz. butter teaspoonful baking powder 1 ®gg A little milk Pass the flour thi’ough a wire sieve, rub into it the butter and lard, add all the dry ingredients, beat up the egg with a little milk', mix thoroughly, arrange in little high heaps on a greased baking sheet; put on the top of each a small piece of candied peel; bake in rather a hot oven 16 minutes. This quantity should be.divided into 12 cakes.123 No. 290. EICE CAKE. S oz. rice flour Grated rind of ^ lemon J lb. sugar 1 teaspoonful baking powder 6 oz. fine flour 4 small eggs J lb. butter Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, beat up the eggs, add alternately with the flour, sifted ; beat thoroughly, add the rice flour, lemon rind, and baking powder ; pour into a mould lined with buttered oiled paper. Bake 1^ hours in a moder- ately heated oven. No. 291. . SPONGE CAKE (No. 1). Yolks of 7 eggs Whites of 5 eggs f lb. flour Grated rind of 1 lemon 1 lb. loaf sugar J pint water Beat up the yolks of the eggs with the lemon rind, whip up the whites of five to stiff froth and add to yolks; boil the sugar in the water, add to eggs when slightly cooled and whisk for 20 minutes, stir in gently the flour, sifted; on no account beat the mixture while adding the flour; butter some moulds thoroughly, and dust them with castor sugar, pour in the mixture, and bake in a slow oven 1^ hours if in one mould, three-quarters of an hour if in two moulds. No. 292. SPONGE CAKE (No. 2). 3 eggs 1 3 oz. flour 3 oz. castor sugar [ The rind of J a lemon, grated Put the eggs and sugar into a basin, set over a pan of hot water and whip until warm and frothy, about 20 minutes; toss in lightly the flour (which should be sifted), and the lemon rind; pour into a well-buttered mould, dusted with castor sugar. Bake about three-quarters of an hour in a slow oven. K124 No. 293. SEED CAKE (Rich). i lb. fine flour 6 o*. butter 1 oz. carraway seeds 6 eggs ^ lb. castor sugar A little lemon rind, grated Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, beat the yolks of all the eggs and two whites together, add these alternately with the flour (which should be sifted) to the butter and sugar, and beat thoroughly ; add the remainder of the ingredients, and the whites of the eggs, whipped to a stiff froth and stirred lightly in; pour the mixture into a mould lined with well-buttered paper. Bake in a moderate oven hours. No. 294. SEED CAKE (Cheap). :J lb. flour 1 oz. candied peel ^ oz. carraway seeds J lb. brown sugar 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder A little nutmeg 2 oz. dripping or lard 2 oz. butter Finch of salt 1 egg About i pint milk Pass the flour through a sieve, rub into it the butter and lard, add all the above dry ingredients except the baking powder ; beat up the egg with the milk, strain this to the cake mixture and beat five minutes ; lastly add the baking powder ; pour into a mould lined with oiled paper. Bake IJ to 1J hours. No. 295. SIMNEL CAKE. i lb. flour j lb. butter i small nutmeg 1 lb. castor sugar 5 oz. German yeast 2 tablespoonfuls brandy 10 oz. currants 3 eggs • IJ oz. citron l| oz. lemon peel teaspoonful cinnamon About i pint milk Rub the butter into the flour, add all the dry ingredients, warm the milk slightly, add to the yeast, also a teaspoonful126 sugar ancm. ‘iTt set in a warm place to rise ; then beat up the eggs and adcl to ye^st; make a hollow in the centre of the cake mixture and pour in the milk, &c., mix the whole and set in a warm place two hours to rise; pour half the mixture into a mould lined well with buttered paper; have some almond paste ready (page 129), made with about 6 oz.^faonds, pour this in the centre, then on the top pour the remainder of the cake mixture; bake 2^ to 3 hours, reducing the heat of the oven after the cake has risen and slightly browned. When cold, make some more almond paste of lb. almonds, put a thin layer on the top of the cake; then form the remainder into half-egg shapes; brush the cake over with white* oj egg, place the egg-shapes of almonds all round the cake, -p^t all over with white of egg, dust with castor sugar ; set in a cool o''^n until slightly browned. Decorate with candied fruits. No. 296. SULTANA CAKE. .'•V 12 oz. flour 2 oz. candied peel ' 1 teaspoonful baking powder 3 eggs i lb. butter i lb. castor sugar i lb. sultanas A little milk A little grated lemon rind ^ Pass the flour through a wire sieve, rub into it lightly the h' butter, add all the dry ingredients except the baking powder ; ' separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, beat up the ^ yolks with a little milk, with this mix the flour, &c., rather stiffly and add the baking powder; whip up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir in lightly; pour into a mould ■p lined with well-oiled paper. Bake 1^ hours in a moderate oven.126 No. 297. SODA CAKE. J lb. flour i lb. currants i lb. sultanas 1 lb. brown sugar 2 eggs 2 oz. butter 2 oz. dripping 2 oz. candied peel ^ teaspoonful carbonate of soda A little milk i teaspoonful nutmeg Pass the flour thi-ough a sieve, rub into it the butter and dripping, add all the dry ingredients except the soda, which must be dissolved in a very little milk; beat the eggs, and add together with the milk to the mixture ; pour at once into a mould lined with oUed paper; bake in a moderate oven 1^ to 1^ hours. No. 298. TEA 1 lb. flour 1 teaspoonful salt 1 oz. yeast 1 teaspoonful sugar CAKES. 4 oz. butter Enough milk to make into a soft dough Put the yeast into a basin with one teaspoonful sugar, one teaspoonful of flour, pour over this a little lukewarm milk; set in a warm place 5 or 10 minutes to rise ; Kmeanwhile, rub the butter into the flour, and add the salt; make a well in the centre of the flour, stir the yeast, and pour into the centre of the flour; then add enough milk (lukewarm) to mix this to a soft dough ; stir this with a spoon, it must be softer than ordinary bread ; cover, and set in a warm place two to three hours to rise ; turn out and knead, divide into small pieces and roll out the size of a tea cake about half an inch thick; place on a greased tin ; paint over with milk; allow this to stand 15 minutes in a warm place to rise; bake in a hot oven 8 to 10 minutes.127 No. 299. BREAD. 6 lbs. flour 1^ oz. German yeast 1 dessertspoonful salt Some water Crumble the yeast into a basin, add to it one teaspoonful sugar and the same of flour, pour over it half a pint of luke- warm water, cover and set in a warm place to rise ; mix the salt with the flour, make a well in the centre, mix the yeast together with the water; pour into the flour with a little more lukewarm water, stir in a little flour and allow this to stand 1^ hours, covered; add enough warm water to make into a dough, knead lightly with the hands until the dough leaves them quite clean ; turn the smooth side uppermost, cut across, cover, and leave in a warm place to rise, two hours: divide, and knead slightly, make into loaves, allow it to rise 10 to 15 minutes. Bake in a hot oven until it is risen and slightly browned, then reduce the heat until it is baked—three-quarters of an hour should be allowed for a 2 lb. loaf. If bread is required in a hurry, the yeast may be added and kneaded without allowing it to stand. The principal thing in making bread is to get good yeast, and take care that the water is lukewarm. Rub the butter into the flour, add the salt and baking powder, mix thoroughly; then stir in the milk and knead lightly; divide into two, roll each piece into a round, and cut in four ; paint over the top of each with a little milk or egg. Bake 6 to 10 minutes in a rather quick oven. 1 oz. sugar and 2 oz. sultanas may be added, if liked. No. 30a SCONES. 1 lb. flour 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder A little salt 2 oz. butter or dripping, Enough milk to mix into a light paste128 No. 301. BREAD (Vienna). 3 lb. Vienna flour 1 good teaspoonful salt 1 oz. German yeast 3 oz. butter Enough milk to make into a dough Crumble the yeast into a basin, add to it one teaspoonful sugar and one teaspoonful flour, cover with lukewarm milk, cover and set in a warm place to rise ; rub the butter into the flour, add the salt, make a well in the centre, miY the yeast, and add with enough warm milk to make a dough ; knead this lightly with the hands until the dough leaves them quite clean; turn the smooth side uppermost, cut across, cover and set in a warm place, to rise, two hours; knead lightly, divide into small rolls, plaits, twists, or according to taste; set them on a greased tin in a warm place, to rise, 10 minutes; paint over with a little milk and sugar. Bake in a rather hot oven a light brown. No. 302. SUGAR BISCUITS. i Ih. castor sugar J lb. flour Enough milk to mix into stiff paste 2 oz. butter i teaspoonful grated nutmeg A pinch of baking powder Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar, nutmeg, and baking powder, and moisten the whole wdth the milk, roll out J inch thick, cut in rounds with a fancy cutter; place on a baking sheet, dust with castor sugar, and hake 8 to 10 minutes in a slow oven. No. 303. WHEATEN MEAL BISCUITS. I lb. wheaten meal ^ pint milk I oz. sugar 1 oz. butter ^ saltspoonful salt A pinch of carbonate soda Dissolve the butter and soda in the milk, mix the meal, sugar, and salt together, then add the milk, mix the whole129 into a stiff paste, roll out thinly, cut in rounds, pierce all over with a fork, place on a greased tin, and bake 10 minutes in a rather slow oven. One egg may be used instead of the milk if required richer. No. 304. WINE BISCUITS. 4 lb. flour \ lb. butter 1 large egg 2 oz. currants, if liked 4 teaspoonful baking powder ^ lb. sugar A little grated lemon rind Rub the butter into the flour, add lemon rind and baking powder, moisten with the egg, beaten; roU out J inch thick, cut with a variety of cutters; place on a greased baking sheet, and bake eight minutes in a moderate oven. No. 306. ALMOND PASTE. 8 oz. sweet almonds 4 oz. bitter almonds Yolks of 2 eggs White of 1 egg ^ lb. castor sugar 1 teaspoonful orange flower water Drop the almonds into hot water, bring just to the boil, strain and remove the skins, drop into cold water until all are ready—this is to keep the colour ; chop finely, then pound in a mortar with the orange fiower water ; put the almonds, sugar and eggs into a saucepan, and stir over a very gentle heat until reduced to a paste ; it is then ready for use ; cover cake, or whatever it is required for, and allow it to stand until firm.130 No. 306. SUGAR ICING. Put into a basin some icing sugar, finely sifted, and add enough white of egg to make it into the consistence of whipped cream ; add a few drops of lemon juice and a little essence according to taste; beat thoroughly for 15 minutes; it is then ready for use ; after covering or decorating a cake, set it in a warm place until set; cochineal or chocolate powder may be used as colouring. No. 307. Water Icing, Chocolate Icing, Cocoanut Icing, Almond Icing, Coffee Icing. i lb. sugar 1 2 tablespoonfuls cold water Put this into a saucepan, and slightly warm it; if for water icing add a few drops of vanilla, and it is ready ; for choco- late icing, add a little powdered chocolate ; for cocoanut icing, add a little grated cocoanut; for almond icing, a few pounded almonds ; and for coffee icing leave out water and add some strong coffee. INVALID COOKERY. No. 308. APPLE WATER. 2 sharp juicy apples 1 pint of boiling water 1 oz. sugar A strip of lemon rind Peel and core the apples and cut into thin slices, put into a jug, add sugar, lemon rind, and boiling water, cover, set aside to cool, strain, and it is ready.I 131 No, 309. ARROWROOT (BoUed). ^ pint water A little grated lemon rind 2 dessertspoonfuls arrowroot 1 glass of sherry, or 1 table- spoonful brandy 1 dessertspoonful sugar Moisten the arrowroot with two t'ablespoonfuls of water ; boil the remainder and pour over the arrowroot, pour back to the saucepan and add the sugar and lemon rind; boil five minutes, add the wine or brandy ; allow this to cool, and serve. No. 310. ARROWROOT PUDDINa. 1 tablespoonful arrowroot i ^ pint milk 2 eggs 2 teaspoonfuls lump sugar A dust of nutmeg | Mix the.arrowroot with one tablespoonful of milk, boil the remainder and pour over the arrowroot; pour this back into the pan and boil three or four minutes, adding the sugar and nutmeg ; beat up the yolks and whites of the eggs separately, add to the above mixture; pour this into a greased basin, cover with buttered paper, stand in a pan of boiling water, allowing the water to come within an inch of the top of the mould; steam in this way half an hour, or until the mixture is firm, or, if preferred, it may be poured into a buttered dish and baked in a slow oven. No. 311. BARLEY GRUEL. 2 oz. pearl barley 1 quart water A strip of lemon rind or a Uttle A little sugar cinnamon stick Wash the barley thoroughly with cold water ; boil in the water with the lemon rind and cinnamon until quite thick and reduced to half the quantity; strain and add the sugar, re-beat, and thin with sherry or port as required.132 No. 312. BARLEY WATER. 1 oz. pearl barley 1 quart water Juice and rind of ^ lemon 1 dessertspoonful sugar Wash the harley, allow it to boil three minutes, strain oflf all the water, add one quart of fresh water, the lemon rind and juice, and simmer slowly one hour; strain and serve as required. No. 313. BEEF TEA. ^ lb. lean beef off the neck I Pinch of salt i pint water | Cut the beef into shreds, then shred it with a knife, keeping back the sinews and fat; put the shredded meat into a jar with the cold water and sdt; cover with a paper, and allow it to stand two hours ; put into a pan of cold water, allowing the water to come -within one inch of the jar, set over a gentle heat, bring slowly to the boil, and then draw on one side, and simmer slowly half an hour ; stir, and pass through a coarse strainer, pressing the meat, so as to extract all the juice ; take some small pieces of cap paper, draw them lightly over the , tea ; in this way the whole of the fat will be easily removed. No. 314. BEEP TEA (Quickly Made). tlb. lean beef off the neck I ^ pint water pinch of salt | Cut the meat into strips, and shred it with a knife, keeping back all the sinews and fat; put this into a saucepan with a dust of salt and the water ; set this over a very gentle heat for 15 minutes, taking care it does not boil, by this time the juice will be extracted from the meat; strain through a coarse sieve ; draw small pieces of cap paper over the top to remove the fat; serve as required.133 No. 315. BEEF TEA (Kaw). ^ lb. lean beef off the neck A pinch of salt ^ dozen drops of lemon juice A little water Cut the beef into strips, and shred it, put the shredded meat into a jar, add the sdt, lemon juice, and just enough water to cover the meat; cover and allow this to stand two or more hours; pass through a coarse strainer, press well to get all the juice from the meat; serve generally in a coloured glass. No. 316. CHICKEN CREAM. Breast of 1 chicken 1J pints water ^ oz. pearl barley Pinch of salt Shred the chicken with a knife, put into a saucepan with the barley, salt, and water; simmer very slowly 1^ hours, strain, and pound the solid part in a mortar, pass through a wire sieve, add to liquor, re-heat, and serve. If required cold, add to the above ^ oz. of extract of calves’ feet, dissolved in two tablespoonfuls cold water, stir in thoroughly; pour into moulds and turn out like cream. No. 317. CUSTARD (Invalid). i pint milk 1 egg 1 teaspoonful sugar A pinch of salt A dust of nutmeg Beat up the egg, add to it the milk, sugar, salt, and nutmeg; strain into a small basin, buttered thoroughly, cover with buttered paper and stand in a pan of boiling water, allowing the water to come within an inch of the top of the basin; simmer very slowly 20 minutes, or until the custard is just set; turn out and serve.184 No. 318. CUSTARD (Savoury). i pint good teef tea 1 egg Pinch of salt Beat up the egg, add to it the beef tea and salt; pour into a buttered basin, cover with buttered paper, steam as above, 20 minutes, or until firm; turn out and serve. No. 319. CHICKEN BROTH. 1 chicken or fowl teaspoonful peppercorns 3 pints water A little salt 1 dessertspoonful pearl barley Divide the chicken into joints (the breast may be reserved for Chicken Fillets), put into a saucepan with the cold water, peppercorns, salt and barley; bring slowly to the boil, and skim thoroughly, simmer this very slowly two hours; pass through a wire strainer and serve. No. 320. CHICKEN FILLETS. Take the breasts of a chicken and lay them on a buttered plate, squeeze over them a few drops of lemon juice, cover this with another buttered plate; put the plates over a pan of boiling water for 20 to 30 minutes; serve the fillets on a warm dish as they are, or with white sauce (page 115). No. 321. CHICKEN PANADE. Breast of 1 chicken A little water Pinch of salt 1 tablespoonful cream Cut the chicken into strips and shred it finely, put this into a jar with as much cold water as will cover it, add the salt.135 and cover firmly with paper; stand this in a pan of boiling water, allowing the water to come within an inch of the top of the jar; steam in this way to 2 hours ; strain the liquid from the chicken, pound the chicken in a mortar thoroughly, and rub it through a hair sieve, using the liquid to help it through ; re-heat, add the cream and a little more seasoning, if required. No. 322. EGG RESTOEATIVE. 4 new-laid eggs Lemon juice 1 tablespoonful castor sugar ^ pint new milk 2 glasses rum Put four new-laid eggs into a basin, and cover with lemon juice, turn them every day for four days, when they wiU have become soft; beat them up with the shells, add the sugar, milk, and rum, strain through fine muslin into a bottle. One-third of a wineglassful taken three times a day will be found most strengthening. No. 323. CHOPS OR STEAKS. Lay the chop or steak between two buttered plates, and place the plates over a pan of boiling water for 30 minutes. Serve at once. No. 324. CHOPS OR STEAKS (Grilled). To grin a chop or steak it must be placed on a gridiron without any pepper or salt, and exposed to a very hot, bright fire, turned frequently, but on no account must a fork be put into the meat, as this will let out the gravy; if grilling tongs are not at hand to turn the meat it is best to use a spoon. As it is difficult to get a fire exactly in the correct condition for grilling it is most convenient to use a gas griller.136 No. 325. CALVES’ FOOT STOCK FOE JELLY. 2 calyes’ feet | 1 pint water to each pound Divide and wash the feet thoroughly, and remove all the fat, put them into a pan with the water cold, bring slowly to the boil and skim thoroughly; simmer very slowly six hours, strain through a wire sieve, allow this to stand 12 hours; remove the fat, and it is ready for the jelly. It should be very stifi’; if not, a little isinglass must be used. No. 326. CALVES’ FOOT JELLY. 1 quart calves’ foot stock Bind and juice of 3 lemons 6 oz. lump sugar Whites and shells of 3 eggs A little isinglass if required 2 inches cinnamon stick 2 cloves i pint sherry i pint brandy Put the stock, lemons, cinnamon, cloves, and sugar into a saucepan, beat the shells and eggs in two tablespoonfuls of water, add to the other ingredients, stir occasionally until the jelly boils; let it boil well up until it reaches the top of the saucepan, draw on one side and let it stand 10 minutes, pour through the jelly bag, or a linen cloth, one quart of boiling water, then the jelly. The first little drop of jelly may require pouring back through the bag ; add the sherry and brandy to the jelly in the bag, pour into small moulds, set in a cool place until quite firm, dip in lukewarm water, and turn out as required. No. .327. FISH. Take the fillets of sole or plaice, wash and wipe them very dry, lay them between two buttered plates, sprinkle over a few drops of lemon juice, place the plates over a pan of hot water, and steam 15 minutes, until-the fillets look quite white; dish and decorate with parsley or cut lemon. White sauce (page 115) may he served with this, if liked. Any kind of fish steak may be cooked in this manner.LINSEED TEA. 1 oz. linseed ^ oz. liquorice A strip of lemon rind 1 quart water i oz. sugar candy ^ oz. brown sugar Wash the linseed, put it into a saucepan with the water and lemon rind, bring to the boil and skim thoroughly,, simmer slowly h^f an hour, stirring occasionally; then add sugar and liquorice, and when both are dissolved strain and use. No. 329. LEMONADE. 1 lemon 1^ oz. sugar ^ pint water Cut off the very outside rind of the lemon vpith a sharp knife, taking care not to get any of the white pith, put this into a jug with the juice and sugar, pour over this half pint of cold water, cover and allow it to stand two hours; strain, and it is ready for use. No. 330. MUTTON BROTH. 1 lb. scrag end of neck of mutton ^ teaspoonful peppercorns ^ oz. pearl barley A little salt 3 pints cold water Divide the mutton and soak in warm water 15 minutes; place in a saucepan with the baidey, peppercorns, salt and cold water ; bring slowly to the boil and skim thoroughly, simmer slowly two hours, strain, remove the fat, and serve. The broth should be reduced to about half the quantity.138 No. 331. OATMEAL GRUEL. 1 oz. oatmeal 1 oz. brown sugar i oz. butter rj pints of water ^ teaspoonful grated nutmeg Pinch of salt Mix the meal with a little cold water, pour over the re- mainder of the water, boiling ; pour this back to the saucepan, add salt, sugar, and nutmeg; simmer slowly 20 minutes, stir in the butter and serve. If the meal is coarse, and preferred, the gruel may be strained. A little milk is also sometimes considered an improvement, or an egg, beaten. No. 332. PUDDING (InvaUd). i oz. ground rice ^ pint milk J oz. castor sugar 1 egg J lemon rind, grated Mix the rice flour with one tablespoonful milk, add to it the remainder of the milk, boiling, also the sugar-, lemon rind, and a pinch of salt; pour this back into the saucepan and boil three or four minutes ; beat the yolk and white of the egg separately add the yolk to the milk, &c., then the white, which must be lightly stirred in ; pour this into a buttered pie dish, and bake in a slow oven half an hour ; serve hot or cold. No. 333. PORT WINE DROPS. A pint port wine Grated rind of ^ lemon ^ oz. isinglass ^ inch cinnamon stick 3 oz. lump sugar Put all the above ingredients into a saucepan, and simmer slowly half an hour ; ^ow it to cool slightly, then pour on a wetted plate; when set, cut into small rounds.139 No. 334. SAGO SOUP. 1 pint beef tea 2 tablespoonfuls cream i pint water ^ oz. sago, fine Yolk of 1 egg Pepper and salt Cook the sago until clear in the quarter pint of water, then add the beef tea, pepper and salt, simmer 10 minutes ; beat up the egg with the cream, pour the soup to this, put back into saucepan and re-heat, but take care it does not boil, or it will curdle. EGG SAVOURIES, &c., &c. No. 335. SAVOURY EGGS. 6 eggs A little butter 4 tablespoonfuls minced ham, 1 tablespoonful minced parsley chicken, or tongue Take some small dariole moulds and butter them thoroughly, mix the minced ham and parsley together, throw a little into each mould, shake it well round the sides; break into each mould one egg, taking care not to break the yolk, sprinkle with pepper and salt, steam three or four minutes, or until set; turn out on to small rounds of buttered toast and serve at once. No. 336. EGGS a la TURQUE. 3 or 4 eggs A little minced ham, chicken, or tongue Some small rounds buttered toast A little minced parsley 1 oz. butter Dissolve the butter in an enamelled frying pan, break into it the eggs, fry gently until set, taking care the yolks do not get too close together ; when set take a round cutter, just a little larger than the yolk, and cut out the yolk with a small border of white round each, cover the rounds of buttered toast (which must be cut the same size as the egg) with the minced ham, lift carefully each round of egg on to the top of the ham ; dish neatly, and sprinkle over with minced parsley. L140 No, 337. EGGS a la CONCORDE. \ pint milk i pint cream A little minced parsley A little minced mushroom 3 eggs A little cooked minced ham, chicken, or tongue A little pepper and salt Mix the minced ham, parsley, and mushroom together, butter thoroughly eight or nine small dariole moulds and line them with the ham, &c, ; beat up the eggs, add to them the ttiiIV and cream, also a little pepper and salt, three parts fill the moulds, stand them in a pan of boiling water, allowing the water to come within half an inch of the top, simmer very slowly 16 minutes, or until they are set. Turn out on to a dish, and pour round the base a sauce as follows:—1 egg, ^ pint milk, 1 teaspoonful minced parsley, a little pepper and salt. Beat up the egg and add all the other ingredients, put into a custard pan or a jug, stand in a pan of boiling water, and stir until it thickens slightly; pour into the dish and serve. No. 838, FAT FOR FRYING. For frying, oil, lard, or clarified mutton fat may be used; oil is considered the best, lard the second best, but clarified mutton is the more economical and answers the purpose very well indeed. An iron saucepan about 4^ inches deep will he found the most convenient for frying. The pan should he three parts filled with fat and allowed to heat until it ceases to hiss and bubble and becomes perfectly still, and a bluish smoke is seen to rise from the outer edge of the fat. When the fat arrives at this stage it is quite ready for frying. When dishes are coated with a little beaten egg and rolled in bread crumbs they may be put into a wire basket, placed in the smoking fat until they take a light brown, then drained on soft paper. If batter is used for the coating the basket must not be used, but the fish, or whatever it may be, must be dropped into the fat, fried until brown, lifted carefully out141 on to soft paper to drain. After the fiying is finished, and the fat slightly cooled, it should be passed through a fine wire sieve, it is then ready for frying again, and if it is carefully heated and strained the same bath of fat may be used many times for different dishes. No. 339. TO CLAEIFY FAT. Take about 4 lb. of mutton fat trimmings sufficient for one bath, cut this into about half-inch squares, put into an iron stew-pan, cover with cold water, bring slowly to the boil, and skim off the thick scum thoroughly; then allow it to boil slowly four to five hours, until all the water has evaporated, and the pieces of skin rise to the top, crisp and hard ; allow it to cool a little, then strain, and it is ready for frying. No. 340. TO MAKE WHITE BREAD CRUMBS. Take the crumbly part of some stale bread, and rub it through a wire sieve with the palm of the hand. No. 341. TO MAKE BROWN BREAD CRUMBS. Take the crusty part of some stale bread, put it into a slow oven to dry, and bake a golden brown shade, crush in a mortar, or with a rolling-pin, pass through a fine sieve. These may be kept for a long time if put into a jar or bottle and covered. No. 342. TO COVER A PUDDING WITH PAPER. Take a piece of cap paper, twice folded, about 1^ inches larger than the pudding mould, all round ; butter the centre, hold it firmly on the top of the mould with the left hand, and roll the edge firmly under with the right hand. This mode will be found to answer the purpose as well as a pudding cloth, and much more convenient.142 No. 343, TO STEAM A PUDDING. Stand the mould in a pan of boiling water, allowing the water to come within an inch of the top of the mould. No. 344. BROWN STOCK FOR GRAVIES, SOUPS, &c. 4 lb. shin of beef or bones 1 teaspoonful salt 1 stalk celery A bunch parsley 1 carrot 6 pints water 1 onion, browned A bunch sweet herbs ^ teaspoonful peppercorns A small piece turnip Cut the meat in half-inch squares, removing all the fat; break up the bones and remove the marrow, put this into a saucepan with the cold water and salt, bring slowly to the boil, and remove the thick brown scum, add the above ingredients, and simmer very slowly four to five hours, strain, and when cold remove the fat; it is then ready for use. To brown the onion place it in a tin with the skin on, set it over a small gas burner or in the oven until brown. The meat may be stewed again with more vegetables for second stock, and used for cheap soups. No. 345. WHITE STOCK. 4 lb. knuckle of veal, rabbit or fowl bones 1 onion A blade of mace i teaspoonful white peppercorns 6 pints water 1 stalk celery 1 teaspoonful salt Break the bones, remove all the fat, and cut up the meat into small pieces, put into a pan with the salt and cold water, bring slowly to the boil, skim thoroughly, add all the other ingredients, allow it to simmer very gently, four to five hours; strain, and when cold remove the fat; the bones may be stewed again for making cheap soups.143 No. 346. TO PEEL AND GRATE A LEMON. To peel a lemon for flavouring just remove the yellow skin with a sharp knife, taking care to take none of the white pith. To grate a lemon take a coarse grater, and grate off the yellow part only, the white being of no use for flavouring, besides being very indigestible. No. 347. TO BLANCH ALMONDS. Drop the almonds into some hot water, allow it just to boil, then strain, and remove the brown skins, drop the almonds into cold water until required, so as to keep their colour. No. 348. TO BLANCH PISTACHIO NUTS. Drop them into some hot water containing a little carbonate of soda; allow the water just to boil, strain and remove the skins. No. 349. BOILED RICE FOR CURRIES. Patna rice will be found the best for curries. It must be washed thoroughly, and thrown into plenty of boiling water, containing one teaspoonful of salt to each quart, and a few drops of lemon juice; boil 15 to 20 minutes, or until the grains will break between the thumb and finger; drain on a wire sieve, pour over a little cold water, and dry thoroughly, keeping the grains quite separate. Dish as a vegetable.THE GAS COOKING RANGE: ITS CONVENIENCE, CLEANLINESS, AND ECONOMY. The Ranges used for cooking by gas consist of two parts, the oven and the hot plate. The oven usually contains within itself the heating appliance, in the shape of a bumei of more or less power according to the size of the Range; this oven is frequently open at the bottom and is always provided with a much larger amount of ventilation than is usual in the coal oven. Above the oven is placed the hot plate, with rings or other burners for boiling, stewing, toasting, and grilling, each burner being provided with a separate tap for the supply and regulation of the gas. Some makers add a water boiler, which is placed at the side of the Range. This short description will enable those who do not know the Gas Cooking Range to understand its general features. The three advantages especially claimed for the Gas Range are its Convenience, Cleanliness, and Economy. CONVENIENCE. In most towns a good Gas Range may be hired from the Gas Company for a small rent, and tested before it is purchased. It will stand in a small space, and the fixiag is a matter any145 gasfitter can accomplish successfully and cheaply. In this respect it compares most favourably "with the Coal Range, which requires great judgment and experience in the “ setting,” and is even then often a source of much annoyance from leaky flues and other causes. The Gas Range can be lighted or extinguished at will, hence the trouble that exists with the lighting of fires, the conveyance to and fro of coal, the necessity of waiting until the fire is properly alight, &c., are dispensed with. Even for baking and roasting the gas may be lighted and the operation commenced almost immediately. At any hour of the day or night infants’ or invalids’ food, hot water, &c., may be obtained in an incredibly short space of time, thus providing a great convenience at unseasonable hours. CLEANLINESS. Compared with the Coal Range it is evident that the Gas Range is much more cleanly. When the burners are properly lighted they make no smoke, and the entire absence of dust or dirt, the clean condition of saucepans, kettles, &c., render cooking an agreeable occupation, instead of being a hot, dirty, and fatiguing task. ECONOMY. The gas being under such perfect control, no more than the exact quantity for the work in hand need he used, thus dispensing with the waste of fuel and time usually occupied in connection with an ordinary Coal Range. With gas at146 3s. 6d. per 1,000 feet, it is calculated that the whole of the cooking for a middle-class family may be done at a cost not exceeding 2^d. per day, whereas to do the same amourit of work in a Coal Range, including keeping in the fire during the intervals, would cost 7d. to Is. per day ; thus it will be seen that the cost of gas for cooking is only about one-third that of coal. Another very important item is the question of economy in food cooked by gas. For example, a joint weighing lOlbs. when cooked by a Coal Range yields 61bs. when done, but when cooked by a Gas Range yields 7^1bs., showing a differ- ence of l^lbs. in favour of the Gas Range; so that this item alone would more than cover the cost of gas. And according to our best authorities on the subject, meat cooked by gas retains more of its juices, and in consequence becomes more nutritious and wholesome than when cooked by coal. Then there is the saving of time, which we are often told is money. The cooking operations occupy less time and require less attention than under the old system ; for instance, a break- fast for a medium family, say coffee, chops, steaks, or bacon, eggs, and toast, may be prepared easily in 16 minutes ; and when we recall its cleanliness, coolness, instant readiness at all hours, the ease of its regulation and its reliable action, we are not surprised at the verdict of those who now possess those excellent inventions when they say, “ They would not be without them for double or treble their first cost.”AID TO THE USE OF THE GAS RANGE. In selecting a Gas Eange it is important to see that the Eange is strong and durable, and large enough for the family; also that it is packed round the sides and top with some non-conductor, so that when the oven is heated a small quantity of gas keeps it hot, the packing preventing the escape of heat, also the fatigue that is felt by standing beside a hot oven or fire. TO HEAT THE GAS OVEN. Turn on the gas and apply a light to each burner in the oven, and close the door from eight to ten minutes; the time will depend upon the supply and pressure of gas, but generally in this time the oven will be hot enough for most purposes. FOR BAKING BREAD. Heat the oven as described before putting in the bread, arrange the grid shelves at a sufficient distance to allow the bread to rise, turn down the gas to about three-quarters, put the loaves on the grid shelves, aUowing a little space148 between each, leave them until they have risen and slightly browned, then turn down the gas very low until the bread is soaked. The time will depend upon the size of the loaf; a 21b. loaf will take from 40 to 45 minutes. Sometimes it will be found necessary to reverse the bread from one shelf to the other, as the top part of the oven is the hottest TO BAKE CAKES. Heat the oven as described, arrange the shelves as near the centre of the oven as possible, turn the gas down to one-half, put in the cakes, and when risen and slightly browned, turn the gas down as lota as possible until they are finished. This is most important, as many cakes will take several hours to bake, and as they contain an amount of sugar they are more likely to bum. For cakes that require three or four hours baking, the gas may be put out entirely for the last half hour, and then the oven will be found hot enough to cook them through. TO BAKE PASTRY. For puff pastry it is advisable to bake it alone, not only in the gas oven, but in any kind of oven. The oven must be very well heated, the gas on full for 16 minutes. Put in the pastry, turn down the gas to three-quarters. Puff pastry must be baked quickly. Patty cases should take about 10 to 16 minutes.149 TO BAKE FRUIT TARTS. The oven must be heated as for puff pastry. When the tart has risen and is slightly browned, reduce the gas to a very small jet until the fruit is cooked—25 to 40 minutes, according to the size of the tart. TO BAKE MEAT PIES. The oven must be heated as for puff pastry; put in the pie, reduce the gas to three-quarters, and when the pie is risen and slightly browned, turn down the gas as low as possible, so that the meat may cook slowly and be rendered tender. The pie will require baking 1^ to 2 hours, according to size; very small pies, of course, will require only 25 to 30 minutes. % ORDINARY SHORT AND ROUGH PUFF PASTRY, CHEAP CAKES, &c., May be very well baked over the top of a joint while it is roasting. TO ROAST MEAT. Heat the oven thoroughly, as on page 147; arrange the grid shelf about six inches above the burner, lay on it the joint, close the door, and allow the gas to remain full on for ten minutes—this is to cause the albumen of the meat to coagulate on the outside and prevent the loss of gravy —then reduce the gas to about one-third, and allow160 the meat to cook slowly until finished; about 12 minutes to each pound of meat should be allowed; the tin to catch the fat should be placed underneath the oven, just below the gas burners; after the gas is reduced the meat will require no other attention, as meat roasted in the gas oven requires no basting. Should the joint be too large to lay on the grid shelf, it may be suspended from the top by means of one or two hooks, which are generally supplied with the Bange,but on no account must a joint be placed in a dripping tin, or it will be baked, and not roasted. TO ROAST GAME, FOWLS, &c. Observe the same rules as in roasting a joint, only it will be necessary to baste the birds occasionally, and a good plan is to tie over the breasts a piece of fat bacon or buttered paper so as to keep the skin moist. Remove this about 16 minutes before they are done, dust with flour, turn on the gas a little, and brown quickly. THE HOT PLATE. This is generally arranged about six inches above the top of the oven, and contains a variety of burners suitable for. grilling^ toasting, boiling, stewing, &c. The space between the oven and hot plate will be found most useful for heating plates and dishes, also for keeping some things warm.161 TO GRILL. The gas burner used for this purpose is generally larger than the rest; it is made reversible so that the flame may be turned over to face the top of the oven, or something is supplied by which the heat of the burner is deflected, grilling always being done in gas cooking ranges underneath the gas, and not in any case over the top of the burner j if the latter is attempted a most disagreeable smell will be caused, besides the stopping up of the burners, causing them to light back in the pipes. The rule for grilling is to place the chop, steak, fish, &c., over a red-hot fire, or an equivalent. The equivalent is got by lighting the large burner, turning it over or placing the deflector over it to throw down the heat, and allowing it to get red-hot. Place the chop or steak on a grid inside a dripping tin (this is supplied with the Range), place this underneath the red-hot burner ; when done on the one side, turn over with the grilling tongs or a spoon. Never use a fork, as this will make holes in the meat, and the gravy will be lost, and, in consequence, the steak spoiled. The secret of a good grilled chop or steak is to accomplish the grilling without the loss of any gravy. When grilled on the under side, serve at once with a pat of plain or Maitre d’Hotel butter (page 116) on the top. A steak or chop about one inch thick will take seven to eight minutes. Salt should never be put on the meat before it is grilled, as this has a tendency to draw out the gi’avy. Bacon or ham may be grilled in the same way, always removing the rind first. A kettle or sauce- pan may be boiled over the top of the burner at the same time as the grilling is being done, so that the whole of the heat produced by the gas is utilized.162 TO MAKE TOAST. Arrange the burner as for grilling, and see that it is quite hot; cut the bread, which must not be too new, evenly, place it on the grid used for grilling, or in a tin supplied for the purpose, place this underneath the burner until brown, turn over and brown the underside; it should only take about 1J minutes to toast the bread on both sides. If the burner is a large one, two or three rounds of bread may be toasted at the same time, also a kettle or saucepan boiled over the top, the same as when gi-illing. TO BOIL, SIMMER, &c. To boil a saucepan, light the burner and place over it the pan, selecting a burner that the flame will well cover the bottom only of the pan; when boiling, if the contents are required to simmer or stew any time, turn off the large bm-ner and light the smallest one, turning on the least jet of gas, and place the pan over it; by this means it is an easy matter to keep a pan simmering for any length of time without any fear of it boiling. TO HEAT WATER FOR THE KITCHEN, &c. One of the bm-ners may be used for this purpose, or a better plan is to secure a range with a boiler attached. These are arranged with a burner underneath, so that they can be used separately from the range at any time.163 TO CLEAN THE RANGE. See that the grid shelves are washed after roasting meat. The sides of the oven must occasionally be wiped or washed. The enamelled oven is easily washed and kept clean; to lime- wash the oven occasionally is also a good plan if not enamelled. The burners must never be blackleaded, as this is likely to stop them up and become burnt and bard, and very difficult to remove. Should they become stopped at any time, they may be cleaned with a skewer, knife, or a brush. UTENSILS TO BE USED ON THE GAS RANGE. Tin, copper, or enamelled saucepans should be selected for use on the Gas Range, being bghter; consequently, the heat penetrates more quickly, and, in the end, they are the least costly. The pans should be kept as clean on the outside as in the inside, and on no account should sooty or greasy pans be used over the gas burners ; if they are, a most disagreeable smell will be caused with the soot and "^ease burning on the outside of the pan, besides the risk of the bits falling from the pans and stopping up the bmners and causing them to light back in the pipes. Should this lighting back in the pipes occur at any time, the gas must at once be put out and re-lighted. When the gas burner is properly lighted it bums blue ; if lit back it burns white, and will smoke the pans and smell very disagreeably.INDEX SOUPS. FiaH—continued. Almond Artichoke Brown Celery Fish Gravy (Clear) Hare Haricot lentil Ox-Tail (Clear) Do. (Thick) Potato Stock (for Soups)— Brown White Tomato Turtle (Mock) FAOB ... 2 1 2 3 3 4 4 5 5 6 6 7 ... 143 ... 143 ... 8 FISH. Cod (Curried) 9 Cod’s Head and Shoulders 8 Fish Pudding 53 Fluke- Baked 14 Filleted 14 Fried 14 Stuffed 15 Haddock— Baked 9 Fried 9 Grilled 9 Halibut- Steaks (Fried) 10 Steamed 7. 10 lobster— Gateau de ....; 10 Cutlets 11 Mackerel— Baked 13 Boiled 13 Fried 11 Grilled 11 Oysters— Blssolettes 13 To fry 13 To scallop 13 Plaice— Baked 14 Filleted 14 Pried 14 Stuffed 15 Salmon— A la crSme 51 Boiled 18 Steak (Baked) 18 Steamed 18 Shrimp Croquettes 15 8ol^™ A la crdnrio PAGB Fillets (Fried) Pried Stuffed ENTREES. Beef Grenadins with Olives . Beef Olives 19 Fowl or Chicken— ■ Prlcassed 22 Qalatine of 22 Rissoles 59 Iamb, Breast of (Boned & Stuffed) 30 Lamb Cutlets (with Spinach) 31 Lamb’s Pry 33 Lamb's Sweetbreads 31 Mutton Cutlets— A la Maintenon 35 With Tomato Sauce 36 Veal- Haricot 43 Olives 43 meat dishes. Beef Steak— Pie 20 Pudding 20 Stewed 21 Calf’s Head—Boned and Stuffed... 23 Chicken (Curried) 21 Cornish Pasties 24 Ducks (Boast) 34 Exeter Stew 40 Fowl— Boiled 25 Boast 25 Stuffed 35 GibletPle 27 Giblets (Stewed) 37 Goose— Boast 36 Boast (with Chestnut Foroe- meatj 27 Hare- Jugged 28 Boasted 29 Irish Stew 40 Kidney- Saute 30 Stewed 30 Lamb Pie 33 Leveret (Boasted) 29 Liver—Baked 33166 Mkat DI8HKS—continued. PAOB Mutton- Breast of (Boned and Stuffed) 36 Vksetablks—continued. PAGE Celery—Boiled 56 Mushrooms— Baked 57 Broiled 67 Kidneys, & la Maitre d’Hotel 37 Grilled 57 Stewed 67 With Marrow 58 Potato Pie 37 Babbit— TIM1a>1 .39 Onions— Boiled 68 Stewed brown.,. 68 Parsnips (Boiled) 62 Pie 39 Peas (Green)— A la Ordme 62 Boiled fil 6ea-ple 41 Turkey— Potatoes Baked 60 Boiled 59 Boast (with Chestnut Force- meat) 42 Veal— and Ham Fie 44 Casserole of 48 Chips 61 Croquettes 60 Hew, Boiled 59 Fillet of. Brazed 42 COLD MEATS. Beef- cakes 46 Croquettes of 47 Fritters 44 Hashed 45 Boasted 60 Steamed 59 Surprises 61 Sea Kale 63 Spinach— Boiled 63 Puree 63 Turnips— Boiled 62 'Pnlla dA Mashed 63 Casserole— Vegetable Marrow 64 Fotatoea 48 Bice 48 □ottage Pie 47 Porbam Outlets 49 Fish Pudding 52 Mutton- Croquettes of 47 Hashed SO Salmon & la CrOme 51 Veal (Minced) 51 VEGETABIiES. Artichokes (Boiled) 62 Asparagus (Boiled) 52 Beans— Broad or Windsor 54 French or Kidney 53 Po. do. (White) 53 Haricot 53 Broccoli 1 56 Brussels Sprouts 54 Cabbage—Boiled 54 Carrots- Boiled 56 Boiled and Mashed 56 Cauliflower- Au G-ratin 55 Boiled 65 PUDDINGS. Apple— Pumplings (Baked) Pudding Po., (Baked) Do. Boly-poly Arrowroot Bachelor’s Pudding Bakewell Do Bedfordshire ; Bread (Baked) Do. (Boiled) Brown Cherry Chester Chocolate Favourite Pelden Kg Pish Fruit (StMmed)., General’s Golden Ice Invalid Italian Demon 65 64 65 65 181 67 66 67 68 69 69 69 68 70 67 72 71 71 52 72 73 73 74 138 74 74166 PusDiiras-^ntlnued. PAGE Orleans 76 Paradise 76 Plum 76 Do. (Blob) 77 Prlnoess 76 Queen 77 Queen Mab 78 Bice 78 Bavoy 79 Southport 78 Three and Three 80 Treacle 79 To Oorer with paper 141 To Steam 142 Vennoise 80 Wakefield 81 Torksbire 81 ' PASTRY. Ooooanut 8^ Dripping 8& Flakey,. 8^ Genoa 8^ Genoese 8^ Puff , 82 Do. (French) J 82 Do. (Household) 83 Do. (Bough) 8^ Short (Household) 85 Do. (Bich) 85 Suet 86 PATTIES. Chicken 87 Lobster .' 88 Oyster 89 Veal 87 Vol-au-vent— Savoury 89 Sweet 90 CHEESECAKES. Almond : 90 Apple 91 Bakewell 92 Bread 91 Cocoanut 92 Ground Bice 92 Lemon 93 Slaccaroon 98 Orange 94 TARTLETS, &o. Cream 94 Dough Huts 94 Jam 95 Petite Apple Souffle 93 Princess 95 Slippers & la CrOme 96 Swiss Boll 97 CREAKS, JELLIES, TRIPLES, &o. PAGE Charlotte Biisse 103 Creams— Chicken 133 Coffee 99 Fruit 98 Baspberry 99 Sherry 98 Strawberry 99 Swiss 100 Custard— Cheap 105 Medium 106 Bich 106 Jelly- Aspic (good) 100 Do. tor garnishing 100 Claret 101 Lemon 101 Orange 103 Wine 102 Lemon Mould 102 Bice Mould, with Stewed Fruit... 104 Stewed Fruit 104 Trifle Cake 105 Trifle (Orange) 104 CHEESE SAVOURIES, OMELETTES, &0. Aigrettes de Parmesan 106 Cheese and Macaroni 107 Cheese Balls 107 Omelette (Savoury) 108 Do. (Sweet) 108 SAUCES. Apple Arrowroot Brandy Bread Brown (for Gravies, Ac.) .... Cherry Custard Egg V German Egg Hard Lemon Maitre d’Hotel Butter Marmalade Melted Butter Orange Oyster Parsley Baspberry Bobert Shrimp Southport Tomato White (for Vegetables) Do. (for Puddings) 109 109 110 109 110 110 111 lU 114 112 111 112 116 113 112 113 113 114 114 114 113 116 116 116 116157 CAKES, &o. Almond Birthday Cocoanut Easter Ecoles Ginger-bread Sponge Ginger Madeira..., Pound Bice Bock Seed (rich) .. Do. (cheap) Simnel Soda Sponge .... Sultana.... Tea BUNS, &C. Ginger Lemon London Boones PAGE .... 119 .... 117 .... 118 118 ... 119 ... 119 ... 119 ... 120 ... 122 ... 122 ... 123 122 124 124 124 126 123 126 126 120 121 121 127 BREAD. Bread Do. Vienna 127 128 BISCUITS. Sugar 128 Wheaten Meal 128 Wine 129 ICING, &c. Almond Paste 129 Icing- Almond 130 Chocolate 130 Cocoanut 130 Coffee 130 Sugar 130 Water 130 INVALID COOKERY. Apple Water 130 Arrowroot 131 Do, Pudding 131 Barley Gruel 131 Do. Water 132 Beef Tea, Do. (Baw) Invalid Cookeet—continued. Calves’ Foot— PAGE Jelly Stock for Jelly Chicken— Broth Cream Fillets Fanade Chops (Grilled) Egg Restorative Custard— Invalid Savoury Pish Lemonade Linseed Tea 137 Mutton Broth 137 Oatmeal Gruel 138 Pudding (Invalid) Port WFne Drops 138 Sago Soup 139 Steaks ((Jrilled) EGG SAVOURIES, Eggs— A la Concorde 140 A la Turque 139 Savoury 139 MISCELLANEOUS. Aid to the use of the Gas Range ... 147 Almonds, to hlanch 143 Batters (Prying) U6 & 117 Bread Crumhs— Brown 141 White 141 Curries (Bice for) ■ 143 Pat— For Prying 140 To Clarify 141 Forcemeat Balls— For Soup 3 Por Jugged Hare 28 Gas Cooking Range (The) 144 Do. Aid to use of 147 Lemon to Peel and (irate 143 Merangues 97 Parsley (Fried) !...'.'!!!!!! 116 Pistachio Nuts—To Blanch 143 Pudding- To Cover with Paper 141 To Steam 142 Rice, Boiled for Curries 143 Stock— Brown 142 White 143 Balls 40 (Boiled 97Prize Medals and other Awards have been received at the different International Exhibitions. JOHN MAOKAY & CO.’S Flavouring Essences.—From Spices, Fruits, and Vegetables, in general use for flavouring Jellies, Puddings, Creams, Ices, Biscuits, Cakes, &c. Artificial German Yeast Powder.—For Baking Bread, Pastry, Currant Cakes, &c., without Fermentation, 6d., Is., and 2s, per bottle. The Strongest Preparation known, Refined Gelatine.—For producing a Brilliant and Nutritious Jolly, 6d., Is., Is. 6d., and 2s. 6d. per packet. Calves’ Feet Jelly in bottles, ready for use. It has a Brilliancy and a Delicacy of Flavour quite its own, and distinct from the ordinary jellies in the market. Aromatic Herbaceous Mixture.—^Being composed of various Spices and Herbs, it will be found a great acquisition to Savoury Pies, Galantines, Patties, Mince Pies, Stuffings, Force Meats, and Soups. JOHN MACKAY and CO.’S FLAVOURING ESSENCES have for a long period been used in HER MAJESTYS HOUSEHOLD. Manufactory—Canning Street, Edinburgh. PURE RICH THICK CREAM OF THE FINEST QUALITY, PACKED FOR PARCELS POST. Half-pint Tins - - - 1/3 each. Quarter-pint Tins - - lid. each. FRESH FROM DAIRY EVERY MORNING. G. WOODHEAD &.SON, 28, VICTOEIA-STEEET, MANCHESTER.MISS YOTJNa GIVES I^i-actical Lessoas AND Demonstkative Lectures ON COOKERY BY SPECIAL ARRANGEMENT. FOR PARTICULARS APPLY 27, ARPLEY STREET, WAREINGTON, Ladies supplied with Cooking Utensils of all descriptions THE CATERER AND EEFEESHMENT CONTEACTOES’ GAZETTE Supplies a fund of practically useful, varied,. and interesting information for Hotel Keepers, Restaurateurs, Refreshment Caterers, Chefs, Pastrycooks, and all classes connected with the Purveying, Preparation, & Serving of Food. ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION (Post Free) FOUR SHILLINGS. NEWTON & ESKELL, 20, High Holborn, London. HOW TO MAKE HOME-MADE BREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRY. All good Housekeepers should procure THE BAKER’S GUIDE, And Cook’s Assistant to the Art of Bread-Making. Containing 130 pages of practical advice and valuable Recipes for all kinds of Breads, Biscuits, Cakes, Pastry, Sweet Dishes, &c. “ This hook is certainly one of the best, because one of the most practical, we have seen upon the art of bread-making. It will be valuable, not only to bakers, but to frugal housewives who desire to have home-made bread ”—The Grocer. Paper Covers, Is. 6d. ; cloth, 2s 6d. ; postage, 3d. extra. NEWTON 4 ESEELL, 20, High Holborn, London. NPEEPAEED FOE AND SOLD BY H. M. YOUNQ, ^7, ARPLEY STREET, WARRINGTON. In I lb. Packets, 1/4; by Post, 1/7. In I lb. „ 2/6; „ 2/10^. CHOICE COOKERY, BY H. M. YOUNG, Diplomee as Demonstrator of Cookery, Medallist, Sic. Price, Is. 6d.; by post, Is. 9d. MAY BE OBTAINED PROM H. M. YOXJIVO, 27, Arpley Street, WARRINGTON.f i i