DOMESTIC COOKERY. 1 10 and allspice, finely powdered. Mix the above with a quart of the blood, prepared as before directed ; then half fill the skins, after they have been cleaned thoroughly, and put as much of the leaf (that is, the inward fat) of the pig as will make it pretty rich. Boil as before directed. A small quantity of leeks finely- shred and well mixed, is a great improvement. Another way.—Boil a quart of half-grits in as much milk as will swell them to the utmost; then drain them and add a quart of blood, a pint of rich cream, a pound of suet, some mace, nutmeg, allspice, and four cloves, all in fine powder ; two pounds of the hog's leaf cut into dice, two leeks, a handful of parsley, ten leaves of sage, a large handful of penny-royal, and a sprig of thyme and knotted marjoram,all minced fine; eight eggs well beaten, half a pound of bread-crumbs that have been scalded with a pint of milk, pepper, and salt. Half fill the skins; which must first be cleaned with the greatest care, turned several times, and soaked in several waters, and last in rose-water. Tie the skins in links, boil and prick them with a clean fork to prevent their bursting. Cover them with a clean cloth till cold. WHITE HOG’S PUDDING. When the skins have been soaked and cleaned as before directed, rinse and soak them all night in rose- water, and put into them the following filling : Mix half a pound of blanched almonds cut into seven or eight bits, with a pound of grated bread, two pounds of marrow or suet, a pound of currants, some beaten cinnamon, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, a quart of cream, the yolks of six, and whites of two, eggs, a little orange flour water, a little fine Lisbon sugar, and some lemon-peel and citron sliced, and half fill the skins. To know whether sweet enough, warm a little in a panikin. In boiling;, much care must be taken to pre- vent the puddings from bursting. Prick them with a small fork as they rise, and boil them in milk and water. Lay them in a table-cloth till cold.