KISH. 35 produces the best. They are in season from January to March, and from July to September. Sprats.—Choose by the same rules as Herrings. OBSERVATIONS ON DRESSING FISH. If the fishmonger does not clean it, fish is seldom very nicely done; but those in great towns wash it be- yond what is necessary for cleaning, and by perpetual watering diminish the flavour. When quite clean, if to be boiled, some salt and a little vinegar should be put into the water to give firmness : but Cod, Whiting, and Haddock, are far better if a little salted, and kept a day; and, if not very hot weather, they will be good two days. Those who know how to purchase fish may, by taking more at a time than they want for one day, often get it cheap; and such kinds as will pot or pickle, or keep by being sprinkled with salt and hung up, or by being fried will serve for stewing the next day, may then be bought with advantage. Fresh-water fish has often a muddy smell and tas'.e: to take off which, soak it in strong salt and water after it is nicely cleaned ; or if of a size to bear it, scald it in the same ; then dry, and dress it. The fish must be put into the water while cold, and set to do very gently, or the outside will break before the inner part is done. Crimp fish should be put into boiling water; and when it boils up, pour a little cold water in, to check extreme heat, and simmer it a few minutes. The fish-plate on which it is done may be drawn up to see if it be ready : it will leave the bone when it is.— It should then be immediately taken out of the water, or it will be woolly. The fish-plate should be set crossways over the kettle, to keep hot for serving; and a clean cloth cover the fish to prevent it losing its colour. With all boiled fish, you should put a good deal of salt and horse-radish in the water, except mackerel, with which put salt and mint, parsley and fennel, which chop to put in the butter; some like scalded gooseber ies with them. Be sure to boil the fish well; but take great care they do not break.