MEAT. Cl when it comes in; and if flies have touched it, the part must be cut off, and then well washed. In the height of summer, it is a very safe way to let meat that is to be salted lie an hour in very cold water, rubbing well any part likely to have been fly-blown ; then wipe it quite dry, and have salt ready, and rub it thoroughly in every part, throwing a handful over it besides. Turn it every day, and rub the pickle in, which wTill make it ready for the table in three or four days. If to be very much corned, wrap it in a well- floured cloth, after rubbing it with salt. This last method will corn fresh beef fit for the table the day it comes on, but it must be put into the pot when the water boils. If the weather permit, meat eats much better for hanging two or three days before it is salted. The water in which meat has been boiled makes an excellent soup for the poor, by adding to it vege- tables, oatmeal, or peas. Roast-beef bones, or shank-bones of ham, make fine pea-soup ; and should be boiled with the peas the day before eaten, that the fat may be taken off. In some familes great loss is sustained by the spoil- ing of meat. The best way to keep what is to be eaten unsalted, is, as before directed, to examine it well, wipe it every day, and put some pieces of char- coal over it. If meat is brought from a distance in warm weather, the butcher should be ordered to cover it close, and bring it early in the morning; but even then, if it is to be kept on the road while he serves his customers, who live nearest to him, it will very likely be fly-blown. This happens often in the i country. Wash all meat before you dress it: if for boiling, the colour will be better for soaking ; but if for roasting, dry it. Boiling in a well-floured cloth will make meat white. Particular care must be taken that the pot is well skimmed the moment it boils, otherwise the foulness will be dispersed over the meat. The more soups or broth are skimmed, the better and cleaner they will be. G