CONTENTS. XXM Page Sago 425 Caudle for the sick and lying-in 426 PART XIII. VARIOUS RECEIPTS, AND DIREC- TIONS TO SERVANTS. VARIOUS RECEIPTS. To make soft pomatum.... 427 Another way : ib. Hard pomatum 428 Pomade divine ib. Pot pourrie 429 A quicker sort of sweet-pot ib. To make wash-balls ib. Paste for chapped hands, and which will preserve them smooth by constant use 430 For chapped lips ib. Hungary water ib. Honey water 431 Lavender water ib. An excellent water to pre- vent hair from falling off, and to thicken it ..*.... ib. Black paper for drawing patterns ib. Black ink 432 Another way ib. To cement broken China., ib. An excellent stucco, which will adhere to wood-work ib. Mason’s washes for stucco 433 Blue and yellow ib. Roman cement or mortar, for outside plastering or brickwork ib. To take stains of any kind out of linen 434 Stains caused by acids.... ib. Another ib. Another way ib. Stains of wine, fruit, &c., after they have been long in the linen ib. Many other stains ib. Iron moulds ib. Page To take out mildew 435 To make flannels keep their colour, and not shrink.. ib. To preserve furs and woollen from moths ib. To dye the linings of fur- niture, buft' or salmon- colour according to the depth of the hue ib. Pink and blue 436 To dye gloves to look like York tan or Limerick according to the deepness of the dye ib. To dye white gloves a beau- tiful purple ib. A liquor to wash old deeds, &c., on or paper parch- ment, when the writing is obliterated, or when sunk, to make it legible 437 To prevent the rot in sheep ib. To prevent green hay from firing ib. To preserve a granary from insects and weasels .... ib. To destroy crickets 438 DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. To clean calico furniture when taken down for the summer 438 To clean plate ib. To clean looking-glasses .. 439 To preserve gilding and clean it « ib. To clean paint ib. To clean paper hangings.. 440 To give a gloss to fine oak- wainscot ib. To give a fine colour to ma- hogany ib. To take ink out of mahogany 441 Floor-cloths ib. To clean floor-cloths 442 To dust carpets and floors ib. To clean carpets ib.