DOMESTIC COOKERY. 303 jelly from the sediment; then put it into a sauce-pan, with sugar, raisin-wine, lemon-juice to your taste, and some lemon-peel. When the flavour is rich, put to it the whites of five eggs well beaten, and their shells broken. Set the sauce-pan on the fire, but don’t stir the jelly after it begins to warm. Let it boil twenty minutes after it rises to a head; then pour it through a flannel jelly-bag, first dipping the bag in hot water to prevent waste, and squeezing it quite dry. Run the jelly through and through till clear ; then put it into glasses or forms. The following: mode will greatly facilitate the clear- ing of jelly: When the mixture has boiled twenty minutes, throw in a tea-cupful of cold water; let it boil five minutes longer; then take the sauce-pan off the fire covered close, and keep it half an hour; after which, it will be so clear as to need only once running through the bag, and much waste will be saved. Observe, feet for all jellies are boiled so long by the people who sell them that they are less nutritious ; they should be only scalded to take off the hair. The liquor will require greater care in removing the fat; but the jelly will be far stronger, and of course allow more water. Jelly is equally good made of cow-heels nicely cleaned ; and as they bear a less price than those of calves, and make a stronger jelly, this observation may be useful. Another sort.—Boil four quarts of water with three calves’ feet, or two cow-heels, that have been only scalded, till half wasted ; take the jelly from the fat and sediment; mix with it the juice of a Seville orange, and twelve lemons, the peels of three ditto, the whites and shells of twelve eggs, brown sugar to taste, near a pint of raisin wine, one ounce of corian- der seeds, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, a bit of cinnamon, and six cloves, all bruised, after having previously mixed them cold. The jelly should boil fifteen minutes without stirring; then clear it through a flannel bag. While running take a little jelly, and