59 MEAT. white; if clammy or spotted, the meat is stale and bad. The kidneys turn first in the loin, and the suet will not then be firm. Mutton.—Choose this by the fineness of its grain, good colour, and firm white fat. It is not the better for being young; if of a good breed and well fed, it is better for age; but this only holds with wether- mutton : the flesh of the erve is paler, and the texture finer. Ram - mutton is very strong-flavoured ; the flesh is of a deep red, and the fat is spongy. Lamb.—Observe the neck of a fore-quarter : if the vein is blueish, it is fresh ; if it has a green or yellow cast, it is stale. In the hind-quarter, if there is a faint smell under the kidney, and the knuckle is limp, the meat is stale. If the eyes are sunk, the head is not fresh. Grass-lamb comes into season in April or May, and continues till August. House-lamb may be had in great towns almost all the year, but is in highest perfection in December and January. Pork.—Pinch the lean, and if young it will break. If the rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily be im- pressed by the finger, it is old. A thin rind is a merit in all pork. When fresh, the flesh will be smooth and cool; if clammy, it is tainted. What is called measly pork is very unwholesome; and may be known by the fat being full of kernels, which in good pork is never the case. Pork fed at still-houses does not answer for curing any way, the fat being spongy. Dairy-fed pork is the best. Bacon.—If the rind is thin, the fat firm and of a red tinge, the lean tender, of a good colour, and ad- hering to the bone, you may conclude it good, and not old. If there are yellow streaks in it, it is going, if not already rusty. Hams.—Stick a sharp knife under the bone: if it comes out with a pleasant smell, the ham is good ; but if the knife is daubed and has a bad scent, do not buy it. Hams short in the hock are best, and long- legged pigs are not to be chosen for any preparation of pork. Brawn.—The horny part of a young brawn will