3! 9 PRESERVES. yellow; then wash, and set them over the fire, in fresh water, with a little salt and fresh vine leaves; cover the pan very close, but take care the fruit does not boil. If they are not of a fine green, change the water, and that will help to green them ; cover as before, and make them hot. When of a good colour, take them off the fire, and let them stand till cold ; then cut the large ones into quarters, take out the seeds, and soft parts, put them into cold water, and let them lay two days, but change the waters twice every day take out the salt. Take a pound of loaf sugar, and half a pint of water, and, when it has been boiled and well scummed, add the rind of a lemon, and four ounces of scraped ginger. When the syrup is very thick, take it off the fire, and when cold, wipe the cucumbers dry, and put them into the syrup. The svrup should be boiled once in two or three days, for a fortnight, and you may add more to it if necessary. When you pour the syrup upon the cucumbers, be sure that it is cold. Cover close, and keep in a dry place. TO KEEP LEMON-JUICE. Buy the fruit when cheap, keep it in a cool place two or three days, if too unripe to squeeze readily ; cut the peel off some, and roll them under your hand to make them part with the juice more readily ; others you may leave unpared for grating, when the pulp shall be taken out and dried. Squeeze the juice into a China basin ; then strain it through some muslin, which will not permit the least to pulp to pass. Have ready half and quarter ounce phials perfectly dry ; fill them with the juice so near the top as only to admit half a tea-spoonful of sweet oil into each ; or a little more, if for larger bottles. Cork the bottles, and set them upright in a cool place. When you want lemon-juice, open such a sized bottle as you shall use in two or three days; wind some clean cotton round a skewer, and dipping it in, the oil be attracted; and when all shall be removed, the juice will be as fine as when first bottled. 2 n