DOMESTIC COOKERY. 40 Tie it up, and put it on the fire in cold water which will completely cover it: throw a handful of salt into it. Great care must be taken to serve it without the smallest speck of black or scum. Garnish with a large quantity of double parsley, lemon, horse-radish, and the milt, roe, and liver, and fried smelts if approved. If with smelts, be careful that no water hangs about the fish: or the beautv of the smelts will be taken off, as well as their flavour. Serve with plenty of oyster and shrimp-sauce, and anchovy and butter. To bake Cod's Head. Butter the pan you intend to bake it in, make the head very clean, lay it in the pan, put in a bundle of sweet herbs, ail onion stuck with cloves, three or four blades of mace, half a large spoonful of black and white pepper, a nutmeg bruised, a quart of water, a little piece of lemon-peel, a little piece of horse-radish. Flour the head, grate a little nutmeg over it, stick pieces of butter all over it, and throw raspings all over that j then send it to the oven. When it is done enough, take it out of the dish, and lay it carefully in the dish in which you intend to serve it up. Set the dish over boiling water, and cover it up to keep it hot. In the mean time, quickly pour all the liquor out of the dish it was baked in into a saucepan, set it on the fire to boil three or four minutes, then strain it, and put to it a gill of red wine, two spoonsful of ketchup, a pint of shrimps, half a pint of oysters or muscles, liquor and all (but first strained), a spoonful of mush- room pickle, a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour, and stir all together till it is thick and boils j pour this in the dish, and have ready toast cut three- corner-ways, and fried crisp. Stick pieces about the head and mouth, and lay the rest round the dish. Garnish with lemon, notched horse-radish, and parsley, crisped in a plate before the fire. Lay one slice of lemon on the head, and serve it up hot. Crimp Cod. Boil, broil, or fry.