130 DOMESTIC COOKERY. In the country, however, there are generally no poul- terers, and consequently families are under the neces- sity of killing and trussing their own poultry. To be prepared, therefore, for this business, attention to the following general rules will be found useful. Be careful that all the stubs are perfectly taken out; and when you draw any kind of poultry, avoid breaking the gall, for should that happen, no means can be used to take away that bitterness, which will totally destroy the natural and proper taste of the article dressed. Great care should likewise be taken that you do not break the gut joining to the gizzard; for, should this happen, the inside will be gritty, and the whole spoiled. These are to be attended to as general matters. TO TRUSS TURKEYS. Having properly flicked the bird, break the leg bone close to the foot, and draw out the strings from the thigh, for which purpose hang it on a hook fastened in the wall. Cut off the neck close to the back ; but be careful to leave the crop skin sufficiently long to turn over the back. Then proceed to take out the crop, and loosen the liver and gut at the throat end with the middle finger. Then cut off the vent, and take out the gut. Pull out the gizzard with a crooked, sharp-pointed iron wire, and the liver will soon follow; but be careful not to break the gall. Wipe the inside perfectly clean with a wet cloth ; having done which, cut the breast-bone through on each side close to the back, and draw the legs close to the crop. Then put a cloth on the breast, and beat the high bone down with a rolling-pin till it lies fast. If the turkey is to be trussed for boiling, cut the legs off; then put the middle finger into the inside, raise the skin of the legs, and put them under the apron of the turkey. Put a skewer into the joint of the wing and the middle joint of the leg, and run it through the body and the other leg and wing. The liver and giz- zard must be put in the pinions ; but be careful first to open the gizzard and take out the filth, and the gall