22101419238Med K8533AN EAST AND ECONOMICAL BOOK OF JEWISH COOKERY, BY MRS. J. ATRUTEL. DEDICATED (bY KIND PERMISSION) TO THE BARONESS LIONEL DE ROIHSCHILD. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. ilantjon: Printed by ALABASTER & PASSMORE, 31, Little Britain. 1874.n T 4 V r ^ ) f‘r‘ ^ O Q WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. t' «To THE Baroness Lionel de Rothschild. Madame, Stimulated by the encouragement of your kind permission to dedicate this small work on the Art of Cookery to you, I trust the same will have the honour of your approval. I have done my endeavours to render the directions clear and concise, to be easily understood by young persons leaving public schools to enter service, and im- mediately to become moderately good cooks ; or, if this hook is in the hands of their mistresses, to enable them clearly to direct their servants therefrom. The Jewish formula of cooking is certainl}'' not con- fined to the old English of roast, boiled, or grilled, but largely partakes of the more savoury dishes of France, Italy, and Germany. Thus I have the pleasure to submit the produce of my experience in this art to the public, cherishing a hope that I have produced something required, and not altogether unwelcome ; and I earnestly hope that the subject matter, which I have arranged with care and attention, may be studied with profit by those for whom it is intended. Repeating, Madame, my thanks for your kind per- mission to dedicate this to you, I have the honour to remain, Madame, Your very obedient Servant, ESTELLA ATRUTEL.i ) ■4 i iPREFACE. TN offering to tlie Jewish public this work, the writer will feel proud if she has been the means, however humble, of introducing among the Sisters of her Faith a taste for easy and economical cookery, upon a strictl}' orthodox principle. She has long seen the want of such a book, therefore she has exerted her humble efforts to make it a useful guide for domestic economy to young persons who leave their homes without the slightest knowledge of cookins, or the general management of the kitchen. Bad management in that department spoils the whole machinery of the house. Therefore, if my young- readers, whether in a humble or high sphere, will be- stow a little trouble in studying this book, it will hel]) them out of many difficulties and will enable them to see that their money spent in housekeeping is not wasted, as is too frequently the case. Good food is often spoilt from the want of knowing how' it should be cooked, or how to order it to be done. I have also added a few observations upon the religious observances necessary in the kitchen, andPKEFACE. VI which should always be impressed upon the mind of young beginners, and also a few remarks upon things absolutely necessary in a kitchen to cook well. Cookery is an art that requires much time, in- telligence, and activity to be acquired in its perfection. It must be admitted that there are few good cooks, though there are many who advance themselves as such. The art of cookery is making a great stir in the present day, therefore I cannot see why we of the Jewish faith should remain quiet upon the subject. In conclusion, I beg to say that if a fair trial is given to my recipes they will be found much more economical than similar directions in works professedly written with that object. For example, the reader of the presei:^t work will find that some of those portions of meat and fish, which are too frequently wasted in large families, may be turned to account by contribut- ing to the variety and elegance of the table, and that the remains of the preceding day’s dinner may, in like manner, be so prepared as not only to improve the a[)pearance, but add to the attraction of the meal. Many writers of cookery books commence their list of kitchen utensils with the importance of scales and weights, even if you dispense with other articles that are much more required. I do not say so. The per- son who has a taste for cooking will not depend upon weights and measures. She ^yill use her own judg-PRKFACK. vn meiit. I have heard many ladies wlio attend to their oAvn cooking make the same remark. 1 attach import- ance to weights and measures to see that the things yon order from yonr tradespeople are sent in accord- ing to the Aveight ordered. All houses should haA'e them if possible, but not Avith the idea that good cooking depends upon them. In our kitchens AA^e require more utensils than in any other creed, in fact, Ave require a double set, and therefore, Avith care, I shall endeaA’Our to shoAv my young readers hoAv to manage AA’ith as feAA" as possible. I shall confine myself to articles that are absolutely necessary, and, my book being chiefly for young beginners, I am obliged to be more explicit than I otherwise should be. All daughters of Israel knoAv, or should knoAv, that before cooking meat or poultry of any kind, it must be laid in Avater for half an hour, and when taken out of the Avater laid upon a piece of board with holes in it, then sprinkle it with salt lightly, and let it lay for one hour, at the expiration of that time aausIi the salt well off and put it on a dish, wash the pan and board. The board should have a piece of string through one of the holes to keep it hung up. The pan is ne\"er used for any other purpose than the soaking of the meat. The putting the meat in water, irrespective of a religious observance, is a matter of cleanliness. Imagine hoAV many hands it passes through before we get it, and often comes to the door closely packed in aPREFACE. vni cart. Now the water, besides extracting the blood, which prevents many diseases, refreslies tlie meat, and by putting it on the board as described above, the water drains from it. Be sure not to salt it too heavily. The putting of poultry in water is a great improve- ment. It cleanses the inside and makes the flesh much whiter. I visit several Christian families, who have cooks that have lived in our families, and the cooks themselves have told me that they could not cook either meat or poultry without soaking it first. Fish requires an immense deal of washing and cleaning, and the skin well scraped, and then laid on a similar board to the one already described, and salted lightly, it hardens the flesh. Vegetables of all kinds require an immense deal of washing and laying in water, with a handful of salt to destroy any insect that may be in them, and before cooking they require to drain in a sieve or colander. Those who attend to the kitchen department, whether lady or cook, cannot be too par- ticular in all matters connected with the kitchen. A cook should be a pattern of cleanliness in herself and all ntensils requisite for cooking. Good cooking and cleanliness tend much towards the general health. Wives should remember that good cooking will keep their husbands in good temper. It certainly must be very annoying to the husband that, having provided well for his table, he finds his wife does not take the trouble to see it well cooked.LIST OF NECESSARIES FOR KITCHEN, HIGH I PEOMISED TO MAKE AS CONCISE AS POSSIBLE. Pan for soaldiijO- the meat and poultry. Board for salting the meat and poultry. Board for saltino- fish. Meat pastry board. Blitter pastry board. A small board for chopping onions and herbs. A chopper. A marble pestle and mortar. A spice box. A large grater. A funnel. A floim ch’edffer. O A salt box. A kitchen pepper box. A roasting jack. A dripping pan. 2 large meat hooks. 3 or 4 small ones. 1 set of large skewers 1 set of small skewers. 1 meat gridiron. 1 fish gridiron. 1 meat frying pan. 1 fish frying pan.PREFACE. X 1 frying pan for frying sweets. A meat stand. Tin baking dish for meat. Tin baking dish for fish. A small tin for melting cheese. A small tin for cooking smoked herrings. A few tartlet pans for tarts, in two different patterns, for meat and butter. 2 common knives for cooking. A large steel fork. A fish slice. A tin soup ladle for Idtchen use Saucepans for meat cooking are best made of iron, well tinned inside, of these you require a Stock pot. Three large saucepans, in sizes. Three stew pans in sizes, better to buy them a good size, as you can manage with a large saucepan better than with one that is too small. 3 smaller round saucepans : 1 quart, 1 three-pint, and 1 two-quart. For butter cookery the saucepans had better be of tin, to make a difference. 1 fish kettle. 2 stew pans. 1 small to boil milk. 1 two-quart for rice, milk, custard, &c., 1 for stewing fruit.PliEFACE. XI These saucepans must not be used to cook anything else in. The inside of all these saucepans must be well scrubbed with silver sand after being used. Be sui’e to keep everything in its place, as much time is saved. Be particular in the cloths you use in the kitchen, you must have very coarse cloths to dry fish for fry- ing, and that cloth must not be used for any other pur- pose, and always rinse in cold water as soon as done with. The person who cooks always requires a cloth at her side. There must be separate cloths for the dishes, the tea- things, the glass, and the silver. Be sure as soon as you empty a saucepan to fill it with water until the time for washing them. Do not be sparing of boiling water to wash up, and always put a little soda in the water, as we cannot use soap, neither is it required vdth such a substitute as fuller’s earth. Have a lump put in the oven for a few hours, and keep a jar expressly for it. Put it in as soon as it comes out of the oven ; pour boiling water over it. It becomes as soft as cream. You must use this to scrub your tables and all the boards you use in cooking. Keep a separate brush to scrub your cooking utensils, it removes ail grease spots, and the boards will be beautifully white.■ V;- •' ' I JV J.4 - - V i.. . ., - •■- ’ily, ,t^r>- •4i . »Si» •• . «# ■ A« . I' C . V ’ ^ c • .;' i ' Ivr * Km h » ' ^ WT' - i . . i. A . V > .<■ A > ,. V. ... -rV . : . .y . / s\ 1. - - /; ' : ■ • cl> Jjv '. . •'* .■ • ■ .•:!;-i.v :. • H #.*' ■ ' • 'j'” •*-i' • ,< ^•.' 1 ^ *^**'.11 .* -■ - * .- ...j... . —.i*. ■ litK - •.. - • •- I'Il' •'“ nr •% ^ ; ,*!•'./.*X sr f :■ ... L.. r .. 1 ••V ,*>•.*.•( ... ,-' , i • w ^ t 4S M tAmi « • • 4^ ,>^^4 V .. . t -.i U'v ^ •J ^ " ■ ,, . ;; ■‘v* .- ^^'.4 ..^ ■•' ■' ■< i', ..; ^•.■ . >'-4« ». A'Ja «.'’•.' A-. «4 .i C-* 0% X i.i . X , fi..i M i . X \ ■ .• * ■ / .V: ulOflv^ jU-,'.-. '■ ... J ...> t ' ' &ri r:>7/ . i.. -i ;■.•:>.<;•/ • *»:<■■ ; - . r .v i . ^ • ^ . • • *r ‘ < X J \ » i’. . . • .' * t ‘ **■ >• ; iji t*^ ^ J.- « ■'* ’X'»' ' ■ ' ' -'. - X' - 1A( •fCOOKERY. Good Stock and Good Sauces are the foundation of Good Cookery. I will, therefore, begin with them. No. 1.—Slock for White Soups. Knuckle of veal, a brisket bone, 3-lb. of clod. Put into a very clean stock-pot. 4 quarts of water, pepper, salt, a blade of mace, 1 large onion, a tooth of garlic, 1 leek, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 2 or 3 sticks of celery. Let it boil up quick, skim it well, then put it at the side to simmer for 3 hours. Eemember that fast boiling spoils everything. After it is well boiled and you find the meat leaves the bones, strain it through a nice clean sieve into one of those pans lined with white, into which put 1 pennyworth of saffron well dried and rubbed smooth. The next day you will find it a perfect jelly, from which you can make any clear white soup, such as vermicelli, macaroni, rice, and white sauces.2 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Wo. 2.—Eecipe for Stock for Brown Soups. Take all you strained from your white stock, put it back into the stock-pot, with a bullock’s foot, a bunch of dried herbs, such as marjoram, lemon thyme, parsley, a little basil, a large onion, a tooth of garlic, 3 or 4 cloves, a few allspice, pepper, salt, a carrot, some more sticks of celery, and any cooked bones you may have in your larder, crust of bread, 2 shalots, 3 quarts of water. Let it simmer, without stopping, on the hob for 4 or 5 hours. Then take out the foot, remove the flesh from it, and put it in the larder. Return the bones, and let it simmer for two hours longer. Stir it all well up with the kitchen ladle. Then strain it into a pan, rubbing the ingredients well through the sieve ; then you can give them away, they will be of no use to you. These stocks are made for company, or large families who have soup every day, but with care and reducing the quan- tities a careful housekeeper with small means can always have a pan of stock in her larder. The flesh of the foot put by is to make a mock turtle soup, according to the directions that will follow. Wo. 3.—Mock Turtle Soup from Stock. Take one quart of the stock, put it into a moderate sized saucepan, let it warm gently. Cut the flesh of the foot into nice pieces the size of a small biscuit, put that into the saucepan. Have ready some small meat balls, made ac- cording to the recipe, also a few egg balls. Boil the meat balls first, throw them into the saucepan with the liquor they were boiled in. Now let the whole boil together. Then throw in the egg balls, they only take ten minutes to boil. Have in a basin 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, the juice of half a lemon, a spoonful of browning, made from recipe for same, rub it all together, turn it back into the saucepan. Stir it well. Turn it into the tureen with a glass of sherry or madeira. Never let the wine boil in the soup. If thisDOMESTIC COOKERY. 3 soup is made according to the recipe it will be found equal to any mock turtle made from calfs head. A little cayenne improves its flavour, must be according to the taste of the parties it is made for. No. 4.—Giblet Soup. Take a set of giblets. Wash and clean them well, skin the feet, chop them and the wings in several pieces, also the neck. Cut the gizzard and heart in several pieces. Have a quart of the dark stock at the side. Having put the giblets in a small saucepan with a pint of water, with a little salt and pepper, an onion chopped fine, a little marjoram, and a pickled walnut, chopped small. Let them stew well, add a few small meat balls. When all this is well cooked, put them into the quart of soup. Mix a spoonful of flour with a spoonful of lemon juice in a small basin, mix it into the soup, stir it well. Serve it up to table very hot. This is a soup much liked. The liquor the giblets were boiled in improve the soup. I have not told you to put any browning, as I think the walnut will colour it sufficiently. If you have not walnuts, then use the browning. Eemember not to make these soups too dark or too thick. No. 5.—Ox Tail Soup. Have a large ox tail nicely chopped, every joint made into 2 pieces. Put it into a saucepan with 1 large carrot, a tooth of garlic, a little salt and pepper, pint and half of water. Let it boil till quite tender. Boil a few small meat balls with. When done take out the carrot, cut it up in pieces the size of dice, put it back into the saucepan with a quart of stock. Let it simmer for an hour. Have in your tureen the juice of a lemon, a dessert spoonful of browning. When you turn it into the tureen stir it well. The quantity will be quite enough for 8 or 10 persons.4 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 6.—Julienne Soup. Cut in thin long strips the length of 2 inches, half a carrot, half a turnip, a leek, 2 sticks of celery, a Jerusalem artichoke, a potato, several French beans, a few green peas, a small piece of lettuce, a little cabbage, in fact, a little of every vegetable you can get, but not much of each. Wash them well, strain through a colander. Put them into a clean saucepan with a pint of water, a little salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg. Boil a few meat balls with the vege- tables. When quite done put it all into a quart of the stock. Put in a little browning to colour it. I have now shown you how the principal soups are to be made from the stock No. 2. No. 7.—White Soups to be made from Stock No. 1. Warm a quart of stock, and when it boils put in i-lb. of vermicelli, let it boil for 10 minutes. The stock is already coloured with the saffron. A couple of tomatoes cut small and boiled, then put them through a sieve, put it into the tureen before you dish up the soup. Also a little grated nutmeg makes it very agreeable. No. 8. Macaroni is made just in same manner. Italian paste and rice also. Tomatoes taste ivell with all these soups. No. 9.—Cressy Soup. Take 4 or 5 nice fresh-looking large carrots. Cut them in small pieces, put them in a saucepan with a pint of water, a little salt and pepper, let them boil to a pulp, rub them well through a sieve. Have ready a quart of stock No. 1. When hot, put in the liquor the carrots were boiled in and the pulp, let it all boil together if not thick enough. Rub a couple of spoonfuls of flour with a little cold water, stir it in. This soup should be as thick as good cream. A little cayenne pepper improves it. Have ready in the tureen a few very small pieces of toasted bread cut in the shape of dice and a little fine chopped parsley.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 5 No. 10—Tomato Soup. Ha.ve G or 7 large red tomatoes. Cut them in halves, put them in a saucepan at the side of the fire with no ivaUr, let them simmer till quite tender, rub them through a sieve till only their skins remain. Have a quart of stock No. 1 ready at the side. Stir them well in till it is quite smooth. Have ready in your tureen the juice of a lemon and a little cayenne. Many persons like toasted bread with this soup. For company a few egg balls or little meat balls look well in the carrot or tomato soup. Hemember, only one kind. See recipe for egg and meat balls, bread balls, and suet balls. I have given you four different kinds. The suet balls are very nice in vegetable soup. Eemember you can make soups of Jerusalem artichokes, green peas, broad beans exactly in the same way as the carrot and tomato. No. 11.—Gravy Soup. Put in a saucepan 2-lb. of gravy beef, cut small, with 2 or 3 cloves, an onion, a tooth of garlic, salt and pepper. Let it boil for 2 hours. If you have any stale crust of bread put it in also. Eub it all well through a sieve. Put to it pint and a half of stock 2. Eub a tablespoonful of flour with a little browning to colour. Turn it into the tureen with a few meat balls very small. No. 12.—A good Soup, and will be found very economical in large families. Put in a good sized soup saucepan 3-lb knuckle of veal, 2 quarts of water, a little salt, pepper, a blade of mace. Cut and wash a carrot, turnip, leek, onion, a small white cabbage, 3 sticks of celery. Put them all in the saucepan. Wash ^-Ib. of rice, put with. Let it simmer for 3 hours, take out the knuckle, strip off the flesh, cut it in nice pieces,« DOMESTIC COOKERY. put the flesh back in the saucepan, let it all boil for half an hour longer. Colour with a little dried saffron, and have a little chopped parsley in the tureen. You can make it with shin of beef if preferred, exactly the same, or instead of rice you can put a pint of white beans, only that you must put them in soak the night before. No. 13.—Family Barley Soup. _ 3-lb. of boned brisket put on with a quart of water. A little salt, pepper, cut an onion small, a carrot, turnip, a few pieces of celery, witli a little of the green leaves chopped. Wash them well. Also half pound of barley, let it boil quick. Skim it well, then only let it simmer. You can boil in the same soup a couple of carrots whole to garnish the beef for dinner. Have in the tureen a little chopped parsley and a little grated nutmeg. Serve the beef with horseradish sauce. See recipe. Colour the soup with dried saffron. It will take 3 hours to be well done. No. 14.—Family Julienne Soup. Take 4-lb. boned brisket. Put it in a soup saucepan with 3 pints of water, with salt, pepper, a tooth of garlic, a blade of mace. Cut up a few of the vegetables in season, carrot, turnip, cabbage, peas, beans, celery, potatoes, leeks. Boil in a bunch of marjoram, thyme, parsley. Let it all boil quick, skim it well, then let it boil slowly for 3 hours. Do not cut your vegetables too small. That is good for company. Make a few suet balls, according to recipe, let them boil only 1 hour. Just before serving up for dinner rub a tablespoonful of flour with a little browning, stir into the boiling soup. Then turn it into the tureen. Serve the meat with nice sauce. Have a cauliflower boiled, cut it in quarters, lay it in the dish with the beef, it makes boiled beef look well. I think that nothing equals a good family soup if well made.7 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 15.—Mutton Broth. Three pounds of the best end neck of mutton, put in. your soup saucepan with a quart of water, 3 or 4 turnips cut in good size pieces, a little celery cut thin, a little salt, pepper, |-lb. of rice, well washed. Let it boil well. A large onion (Spanish) boiled whole, let it boil, skim it well, then let it simmer for two hours. Serve the mutton with the boiled onions in the dish with caper or tomato sauce. Kemember always to skim all the fat off of whatever kind of soup you make; as these family soups are always made for the day, it requires great care: soups made for the next day give no trouble in that way. Do not forget with mutton soup always to have parsley and grated nutmeg in the tureen. I think I shall close my list of soups with Mock Turtle Soup made easy. Many persons of small means think it too expensive, and never make it. Now, suppose you would like to have it for your Sabbath dinner. On Thursday have in a bullock’s foot, it is ready for putting on the fire as soon as the butcher brings or you fetch it from market. No. 16.—Mock Turtle Soup Made Easy. Put it in a good size saucepan with two quarts of water salt, pepper, 2 cloves, 2 allspice, a few sticks of marjoram, thyme, parsley, a large carrot, a tooth of garlic, 2 good sized onions, only wash them, do not peel them, any dry crumbs of bread you may have. Put it on the fire for a quick boil, then let it simmer for 4 hours, take out the foot, strip off all the flesh, put it in a plate, return the bones to the saucepan, let the whole of it simmer till the last thing at night, strain it in a nice clean pan, put it by till the morning. On Friday skim off all the fat, put the stock in the saucepan, cut in pieces the flesh of the foot, make a few meal balls, let them boil in the soup, have ready a few egg balls, boiling ten minutes. Puo in a basin a tablespoonful of flour, a little browning, the juice of a lemon, a little cayenne. Let it all boil up, turn it into your pan, and on Saturday you will haveDOMESTIC COOKERY. 8 a fine soup at a very little cost—should it be more soup than you require for your dinner, divide into 2 pans. The whole of these recipes have been made by the writer. No. 17.—A Simple Way of Making Beef Tea. One pound of gravy beef cut in pieces the size of dice put into a pint of water with a very little salt, 2 cloves, 2 all- spice. Let it boil for 1 hour only. Toast a small piece of crust. Let it boil with to colour it. Beef tea without colouring looks insipid to invalids. Strain it tlmough a very clean sieve into a white basin. For weak stomachs made with 1 lb. of veal in the same way. No. 18.—Essence of Beef Tea. Cut up 1 lb. of beef into a mince, put it into a small jug, with only a pinch of salt. Stand the mug in a saucepan with boiling water, let it boil at the side of the fire for several hours. You must tie down the top of the mug for no steam to escape. From the 1 lb. of meat you will only have half a teacup of juice. A teaspoonful of this beef tea is worth a cup of the other. No. 19.—Meat Balls for Soups. Chop very fine ^ lb. chuck steak, a small piece of onion, a little parsley, a little marjoram, a few crumbs of stale bread, a little salt, pepper, nutmeg, a small piece of lemon peel chopped with; beat up an egg, use only half to mix these balls. Mix all the ingredients well, form them into very small balls, sometimes round and sometimes in the shape of small olives. Use them as you require. No. 20.—Egg Balls for Soups. Boil 2 eggs very hard; when done throw them into cold water for 5 minutes; then take the yolks only, rub them' quite smoth with a spoon, have about the same quantity of bread crumbs, a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Mix them with the half of egg left from the meat balls. Make them very small, as they swell very much.9 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 21.—Suet Balls for Soups. Chop 2 oz. of suet very fine, 2 oz. of flour, a little salt, pepper, a little ground ginger, a little chopped parsley, a little lemon thyme, or marjoram. Mix it with a little cold water to a stiff paste. Then divide it into small pieces for the balls, throw them into the boiling soup; they require boiling for half an hour, in consequence of the raw suet. These balls are excellent in vegetable soup, and make a nice change. No. 22.—Bread Balls for Soups. Soak a piece of stale bread the size of half-penny roll, drain the water well from it by wringing it in a small piece of cloth, then put it in a basin with 2 oz. of chopped suet, a little parsley, marjoram, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg. Mix with half an egg, make into balls. These balls must be used as you require them to change the style of your cooking. The more you vary it the more agreeable it is, sameness in cooking is very disagreeable; a little taste and judgment will soon make you perfect. No. 23.—Browning for Soups Is neither meat or butter. When made must be put into a clean bottle and kept well corked, it will last for months. You merely put into a small yellow basin ^ lb. sugar, put it into your oven and let it get almost like hardbake, a deep brown colour. While it is bubbling up pour over it half a pint of boiling water off the fire, let it stand, then stir it well, strain it through a sieve, when quite cold bottle it for use. You should never be without it, it improves the appearance of all dark soup, stews, or any made dish. Now, I think I have written all that is required for your soups, the recipes that follow will be for the different sauces. The foundations for sauces are nearly all made alike. A good sauce is the making of the dish you require it for. It is a thing that I am very particular in, and would wish my young friends to be the same. I will commence with Egg Sauce, that requires great cai’e to prevent its curdling.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 10 No. 24.—Egg Sauce. Beat the yolks of 2 eggs in a basin with a dessert spoon- ful of flour well rubbed in a little salt, pepper, grated nutmeg (remember white pepper must be used for all white dishes). Have the juice of a large lemon, or two small ones, squeezed in a teacup kept for those purposes, strain all the pips, turn it gently, stirring all the time the egg and lemon till you have it quite smooth; if for boiled fowls take a ladle of the liquor the fowls were boiled in, stir it in, let it boil up to thicken, then turn it into the sauceboat with some chopped parsley or capers, either is very nice for fowls, if to put over flsh you put some of the liquor the fish was cooked in. This sauce is always served with boiled fowl and tongue. No butter sauce can equal it if well made. Boiled turkey is served with celery sauce. No. 25.—Celery Sauce. Take the heart of a white head of celery, boil it in J pint of water, with a little salt, pepper. When tender rub it through a sieve, beat in a basin one yolk of an egg with the juice of the lemon, rub the celery in with a couple of spoonfuls of the liquor the turkey was boiled in. Chop a little of the green leaves of the celery, put them in the sauceboat, and send it to table. No. 26.—Caper Sauce for Boiled Mutton. Take | pint of the liquor the mutton is boiled in, put it in a small saucepan, let it boil, stir in a teaspoonful of flour mixed with a spoonful of the vinegar from the capers, let it be nicely seasoned with salt, pepper, and_ grated nutmeg, chop 3 teaspoonfuls of capers, put them into the sauceboat, turn the sauce over them, then it is ready for table. No. 27.—Bread Sauce for Boast Turkey and Fowls. Half a pint of clear stock, the crumb of a stale roll, chop a small onion very fine, a little salt, cayenne, and a11 DOMESTIC COOKERY. pinch of ground mace, the roll must be soaked in water first, then well drained from the water, beat it well up to a cream, stir it, and let it all boil together, while it is boil- ing stir in a spoonful of the fat you have taken off plain broth that has no vegetable flavor. No. 28.—Apple Sauce for Geese and Ducks. Pare and core three or four large boiling apples, cut them small into a saucepan with a little water, enough to moisten them, when soft beat them up with a fork to a pulp, add some brown sugar, turn them into the sauceboat. No. 29.—Mint Sauce for Roast Lamb. Wash the mint well, strip the leaves from the stalk, chop it fine, put it in the sauce tureen, add to it 3 spoonfuls of mint, 2 of brown sugar, and a teacup of vinegar. Stir it all well together. Make it half an hour before dinner, if not all used it can be put away for the next day, to eat it with the cold lamb. No. 30.—Onion Sauce for Roast Shoulder of Mutton. Take a large Spanish onion or two smaller ones, peel them, lay them in cold water for a of an hour, put them oh to boil with a little salt, when quite tender rub them through a sieve into a basin, take a small basin, put in a teaspoonful of flour, a tablespoonful of the fat from clear broth, it looks like pure butter, rub it with the flour; a little salt and pepper. Take about a of a pint of the liquor the onions were boiled in, put it in a nice clean saucepan with the onions you rubbed through the sieve; when it boils stir in the flour and fat you mixed toge- ther, let it boi-L up and serve it. Some like it thrown over the roasted shoulder, but I think that all sauces should be served separately.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 12 NOi 31.—Tomato Sauce for immediate use for Fowls. Beef Steak, Mutton Chop. _ Cut several large tomatoes into a saucepan, let them simmer gently at the side of your fire, when quite soft rub them through a sieve into a basin, chop a tooth of garlic, fry it in a tablespoonful of good oil. When fried take out the garlic, stir in the pulped tomatoes with a little salt, pepper, and a dash of vinegar to taste. This sauce will only keep for a couple of days; it is very relishing. No. 32.—Mayonnaise Sauce. Take the yolks of 2 eggs, very fresh, put them in your sauceboat, to each yolk put a tablespoonful of oil. , Have a wooden spoon, rub the yolks and oil till it comes quite thick, put in a little salt and pepper, a tablespoonful of vinegar, the best that can be got—white vinegar. Eub all together; you can add a few capers or chopped parsley. This sauce is used for fowl, fish, and salad. No. 33.—A Sauce arranged expressly for when you - require Fish at the dinner table when you can neither use butter or stock. I Put into a small saucepan a tablespoonful of flour, 2 tablespoons of good oil; rub the flour and oil together to a paste, add a teaspoonful of made mustard, a little salt, pepper, a small shalot chopped fine, 2 anchovies washed and boned, 3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Stir all well together, stir in a pint of the liquor the fish was boiled in; let it simmer gently and when it boils it is ready to serve. This makes an excellent sauce. Should you require it for mackerel you have only to add some chopped fennel; for salmon, some capers; for haddock, chopped parsley. Fish ■sauces should always be the thickness of cream and very smooth.la DOMESTIC COOKERY. cut small, a small piece of mace, 2 or 3 cloves, and a pint of No. 34.—A relishing Sauce for Fish and quickly made, it is served cold. Mix in a basin 2 tablespoonfuls of the best oil, 3 of vinegar, a little salt, pepper; rub it well with a spoon till it comes like a cream, then chop a spoonful of mustard pickle. Put them in your sauceboat, and turn the sauce over them. This is a very relishing sauce for all kinds of fish, but more particularly for boiled or broiled salmon. I have now finished the list of sauces that you will require with meat cooking. In the part devoted to the butter cookery I -shall add a few more. No. 35.—Glaze. Take 1 pint of your dark stock No. 2, put it at the side of the fire in a small iron saucepan with a good spoonful of browning No. 23 and let it simmer till it comes to ^ pint. Then put it in a nice clean pot or small basin for use. You must keep a small brush for it. If you have company, and have a cold supper, you will require it to glaze the tongues, smoked shoulders of mutton, or ribs of beef, or cold roast poultry, it improves the appearance. No. 36.—To make Gravies. For making gravies' and having a little good in your larder requires only a little care and attention. The little bones of the rib or any little trimming you do not want boiled with a little pepper and salt, strained and coloured with a few drops of browning is all that is required. Make it boiling hot and pour over your roast. Baste it backwards and forwards with a spoon over the joint. If for poultry, boil the legs and the neck with a small onion. No. 37.—Brisket and Beans. Four pounds of boned brisket put in a stewpan, with a large Spanish onion sliced, salt and pepper, a tooth of garlicDOMESTIC COOKERY. 14 water. Let it simmer gently till done, it will take nearly ■3 hours. When half cooked hare a pound of French beans nicely cut, well washed, and drained, put them in with the meat. When done rub in a basin a tablespoonful of flour, one of brown sugar,' 2 of vinegar. When quite smooth turn it into the saucepan, baste the sauce well over the beef and beans. Let it stand for flve minutes. Colour the sauce with a little browning, not too deep a colour. It is then ready to dish up. If any beef should be left put it on a clean plate, and the beans in a basin. You must remember this with all stews—it prevents them from spoiling, and by putting the meat every morning upon a clean plate it wiU keep good for several days. No. 38.—Brisket with Jerusalem Artichokes. Three or four pounds of boned brisket put into a stewpan with a pint of water, pepper, salt, a tooth of garlic chopped fine, a small onion. Put it on to simmer, it will take 3 hours. Half an hour before it is done have ready peeled and washed a dozen artichokes as near one size as possible. Let them drain from the water, put them in with the meat. Rub in a basin a tablespoonful of flour, a little grated nut- meg, little chopped parsley, the juice of a lemon. Turn it into a saucepan, mix it well with the liquor, colour with a little dried saffron. Dish it up nicely, the meat in the centre, the artichokes round. You must take great care that they do not break. No. 39.—Brisket and Peas. Four pounds of boned brisket put in a stewpan with a pint of water, salt, pepper, a small piece of mace, an onion chopped small. Let it simmer for 3 hours. Half an hour before it is finished have | peck of peas carefully shelled— be careful of the maggots—wash them through a colander. Put them in with the beef, chop 3 or 4 sticks of mint, a little parsley, 4 or 5 lumps of sugar, put all in together. Let it finish cooking, then stir in a spoonful of flour rubbed15 DOMESTIC COOKERY. smooth with a little cold water to thicken the liquor. This requires no colonring. Always remember to look if there is too much liquor before you put in the thickening; if so, strain it off into a basin, as stew must never have too much liquor in the dish, it looks unsightly. Eemember always to be particular in the dishing up. Have the beef in the centre and the peas all round. No. 40.—Brisket and Carrots. Four pounds of brisket put on with a pint of water, salt, pepper, mace; cut up in strips of 2 inches long, and one thick, 3 or 4 good size carrots, a tooth of garlic chopped small. Let them cook for three hours beef and carrots together. When done thicken with flour, a little browning just to turn the colour. Rub the flour with a spoonful of vinegar, and a little chopped parsley. This is a good dish for a large family. Dish up the same as the last. No. 41.—Brisket with the large White Beans. Four pounds ofboned brisket put in a stewpanwith a pint of water, salt, pepper. Put in soak the night before 1 pint of the large white beans. Strain them well from the water they were soaked in. Put then on with the beef, a large onion sliced, a tooth of garlic, the white heart of a head of celery cut very fine. Let all cook together, this will retire no thickening. Colour with a few drops of browning. iou can stew brisket with broad beans the same as the peas, with the exception of the mint, with cauliflower, like the artichoke. You can, if you prefer it, use double flank, it stews just as well as the brisket. I have given you the quantity for a family dinner. You can use a larger or a smaller by reducing the quantity of water and thickening. With care one pound will stew as well as a dozen. No. 42,—To stew Beef Sweet and Sour. Put in a deep dish 4 or 5-lb. of beef with an onion sliced, 2 teeth of garlic, a few cloves, and allspice, salt, and pepper.DOMESTIC COOKERY. IG Leave it for four or five days, turning it each day. Put over it pint of vinegar. When you are ready to cook it put it in a stewpan with the vinegar and all the other ingredients. Let it simmer, it will only take an hour-and- a-half. As the meat becomes tender by being soaked in the vinegar take it out of the saucepan, then strain the liquor through a sieve. Put the meat back in the saucepan, throw over what you strained. Rub in a basin a spoonful of flour, 2 of brown sugar, a little browning to colour; mix it all well with the liquor in the saucepan. If new potatoes are in season have some ready boiled and put them into the liquor before you dish it up ; if not, you can cut some old ones into small ones. This is an excellent dish for a family. Dish it up with the potatoes round. A bay leaf gives it a nice flavour put with it in the pickle. No. 43.—Rolled Beef. Four or 5-lb. of the thin flank, free from bone. Lay it on a chopping board, beat it quite flat. Have a pound of chopped meat well seasoned with marjoram, chopped onion, parsley, pepper, salt, grated nutmeg. Spread this flat on the beef, put a few slices of sausage cut thin, lay them on top of the forced meat, a couple of hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. Commence rolling it carefully, then sew it with a coarse needle and thread; roll it in a coarse cloth, tie the ends tight with string. If you have a long stock pot put it in that, let it boil for 4 hours gently. Take it out of the saucepan, unroll it from the cloth carefully. If to eat hot you must have a nice liquor made and seasoned well, and coloured with a little browning, to put it in, and have some meat balls to garnish it. If cold you must press it flat between two chopping boards by putting two heavy weights upon it. Cut the rough ends off and garnish it with parsley and slices of beetroot. The gravy for it if you have it hot: You must boil a pound of gravy beef in a pint of water till it reduces, with onion, marjoram, a tooth of garlic, salt, pepper, gratedDOMESTIC COOKERY. 17 nutmeg; skim it; put a spoonful of flour in a basin with the juice of a lemon, a little browning to colour. Strain it all into a stewpan, and put in the rolled beef as you take it out of the saucepan. Put it in a dish with the balls round, pour the gravy over. Cold, it makes a nice dish for summer eating. No. 44.—Stewed Beef with Chestnuts. Take a nice piece of beef, 2 or 3-lbs., put it into a stew- pan, with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, ^ pint of water. Let it simmer gently for 2 hours. Boil 1-lb. of chestnuts for ^ an hour. Take them out of the water, peel them whole, ^ an hour before the meat is done put in the chestnuts to finish cooking. Rub a teaspoon ful of flour with the juice of ^ a lemon, and a little dried saffron. Be careful the chestnuts do not break when you put in the thickening. Dish them up nicely by putting them round the meat. This is a dish that is much liked. No. 45.—Steak Stewed with Walnut Liquor. Take a pound of the first cut of chuck steak, which is almost the best steak you can get. Put it in a stewpan with a ^ pint of water, salt, and pepper. Let it stew gently, for 1 hour till the liquor is quite reduced. Chop a small onion very fine to stew with. When quite done rub a pickled walnut quite smooth, stir it in the liquor. When you put the steak in the dish put the liquor over. This with a nice boiled potato, is very good. No. 46.—Steak Stewed with Tomatoes. Cut 3 or 4 good sized tomatoes, put them in a stewpan with an onion (remember always to use Spanish or Lisbon onion, they are much milder), salt, pepper. Put in the steak; as soon as it is tender take out the steak, rub the tomatoes and onion through a sieve. Put back the steak in the saucepan and throw over the sauce. 218 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No, 47.—Stewed Steak with Carrots and Turnips. Put in a stewpan the steak you intend to stew. Cut up a carrot in strips of 2 inches long, cut 2 turnips in pieces of an equal size, also an onion with salt and pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Let it all stew till tender, thicken with a teaspoonful of flour and a little dried saffron. No. 48.—Fried Steak and Potatoes. Put a little fat in a pan. Season the steak with salt and pepper, and sprinkle a little flour over the steak. Fry it a nice brown colour. Have boiled and washed a few potatoes and mashed with the yolk of an egg, turn the potatoes out in the dish you intend sending up the steak. Shape it nicely, and lay the steak upon it. Serve it on a very hot dish. No. 49.—Broiled Steak with Carrots. Boil a carrot, cut it in the shape of dice, put your dish to get hot, take a tooth of garlic rub it over the hot dish to give it a flavour. Then lay the cut carrot, sprinkle over it a little salt and pepper, and pour over it a teaspoonful of salad oil. Take your steak off the gridiron, place it on top, and season it with salt and pepper. Serve it up directly. No. 50.—Steak and Mushrooms. Take some nice mushrooms, peel them, and wash them well, let them drain in a colander. Put on your meat fry- ing-pan, a little dripping, let it boil, put in your steak, sprinkle over it salt and pepper. When nearly done put in the mushrooms to fry. Have a hot dish ready, put your steak in, place the mushrooms round. Strain the fat from the frying-pan, then put in a little salt, pepper, and the juice of a lemon, and a little boiling water; set it over the fire and when it boils turn it over the steak.19 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No, 51.—Stewed Breast of Veal- Take 2 or 3-lb. of breast of veal, lay it on the chopping board, have ready a stuffing made of soaked bread, marjoram chopped, lemon peel, parsley, pepper, salt, a little grated nutmeg, an ounce of chopped suet. Mix this with one egg. Place it between the flesh and bones, sprinkle flour over the breast, put it in a flat stew pan with ^ pint of water, salt, pepper, a little dried marjoram, and a good-sized onion sliced. Let it stew gently for 2 hours. Then take out the veal, put it on a dish until you have strained the liquor. Then put your meat back into the stewpan, and pour over the strained liquor, let it boil up, have ready in a basin a tablespoonful of flour rubbed smoothly with the juice of a lemon, a little dried safPron, turn this over your stew, baste it backwards and forwards with a spoon. Dish it up. A few button mushrooms or a few Jerusalem artichokes are very nice in this. No. 52.—Stewed Knuckle of Veal. Put a knuckle of veal in a stewpan, with a chopped onion, salt, pepper, a blade of mace, a bunch of marjoram, lemon thyme, and parsley (understand when I say a bunch you must take it out as soon as the meat is cooked). Let this cook for 3 hours. Then make a sauce like the last, and throw over it; have ready in ^another saucepan some rice according to this receipt. No. 53.—Stewed Eice to be eaten with Stewed Veal. Slice in a small saucepan an onion with a tablespoonful of oil, let it fry, then put in a pint of water, a little salt, pepper, and a little dried saffron. Wash a teacupful of rice, slice in 3 or 4 tomatoes. Let it simmer at the side of the Are till it has absorbed all the water and the rice is quite firm and dry. Dish this up round the knuckle of veal. This is a most nourishing disb, and if well cooked is very delicious.20 DOMESTIC COOKEEY. No. 54.—Veal Cutlets with Tomatoes. Slice 4 or 5 large red tomatoes in a stewpan with a sliced Spanish onion, salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Lay on top 3 or 4 veal cutlets with | pint of water. Let it simmer for an hour. Take out the cutlets, rub the tomatoes and onion through a sieve. Place the cutlets back into the stewpan, pour over what you have pulped, then serve it upon a hot dish. Put the cutlets first, then throw over the tomato sauce. It must be perfectly red, add the juice of ^ a lemon to the pulp. This makes a nice entree dish. To make it look pretty you may chop a little parsley over it. No. 65.—Collared Veal. Order 4 or 5-lb. of breast of veal to be boned for collaring. When it is ready for cooking lay it flat upon your paste board, beat it down with the rolling pin. Have a pound of chopped meat, well seasoned, as for the rolled beef Ho. 43. Lay it on the veal, put some slices of boiled beet- root, and slice of smoked beef, 3 or 4 gherkins, 2 hard boiled eggs cut in slices, boil a small quantity of spinach, drain it from the water, put that in a boiled carrot cut in halves, sprinkle a little salt and pepper. Eoll it up and sew it, put it in a cloth, tie the ends tight with string, put in a long stock pot. Let it boil for 3 hours. Take it out, untie the cloth, if you have napkin press lay a coarse cloth on it, mind that is very clean. Press it down to the thickness of 4 inches. Let it remain till cold, then take it out, cut off the rough ends, glaze the top, and when served at table it is cut in very thin slices. Looks very pretty for supper or lunch, as it is always served cold garnished with a meat jelly according to the receipt you will find and parsley and strips of beetroot. It will keep in a cool place for three or four days. No. 56-—Savoury Jelly for Garnishing Collared Veal, EoUed Beef, Fowls, in Galantine, &c. Take a call’s foot, put in a saucepan with some salt and pepper, a little saffron, a little marjoram, grated nut-21 DOMESTIC COOKERY. meg, pint and a half of water. Let it simmer for 3 or 4 hours. Strain it through a clean sieve into a clean pan, put it by till next day, then skim ofiP all the fat, put it into a clean saucepan. Beat up the white of an egg, stir it well in, let it boil till it all rises on top. Then let it stand, throw in 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water. Then strain it through a jelly bag the same as sweet jelly. When cold, you cut it in any shape you like to garnish. This makes a very pretty garnish mixed with a few slices of large sausage. No. 57.-Roast Neck of Veal. Three pounds of the best end neck of veal, make a stuffing as for stewed veal, No. 52, only adding a slice of fat smoked beef^ or a piece of large sausage (called worsht). Season it well, and flour it over. Put it down to roast with a brisk fire for 1 hour and Veal requires well doing. When roasted nice and brown squeeze the juice of a lemon over it and a little gravy, and a little cayenne pepper. Serve it up very hot, and put a few cresses round. Breast of veal stuffed and roasted eats well. The fillet is roasted just the same. No. 58.—Minced Veal. If you should have any cold veal left, mince it very fine with a little onion, parsley, a little of the rind of lemon. Put it into a stewpan with a cup of stock, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg. Let it simmer for ^ an hour. Then toast a slice of bread, cut it in three-cornered pieces, and put it round the dish after you have turned in your mince. Minced veal, if well done, is very much liked. No. 59.—Pie made from Cold Veal. If you have any cold veal left, cut it in nice pieces, put it in a stewpan with some of the fat of smoked beef, an onion, and parsley '’hopped very fine, also a little of the rind of lemon, grated nutmeg. Make a few forced-meat balls. Let it all simmer for ^ an hour with a cupful of gravy. Then turn it nicely into a pie dish, put the smoked beef at the bottom,22 DOMESTIC COOKERY. the veal on top, the halls all round. Cut a hard-boiled egg^ in quarters, place it in the four sides of the dish. Make a nice crust according to the receipt yon will find for pastry. Cover your dish with it, trim it all round nicely, shape it to rise in the centre, cut a piece of pastry in 4 leaves, shape them on the dish, wash it all over with the yolk of an egg well beat. No. 60.—Stewed Sheep’s Tongues. Boil 4 sheep’s tongues, boil them till tender enough to skin. Have ready in a stewpan J pint of clear stock, pepper, salt, an onion chopped, a tooth of garlic, 3 cloves, 3 allspice. Put in the tongues when skinned, and as soon as it boils put in a few meat balls (according to receipt for meat balls), boil a carrot with. When quite done put a sieve over a deep dish or basin, lay the tongues and balls in the under dish, strain and rub the liquor through the sieve over them. Put back the tongues and balls, and turn the gravy over them, cut the carrot in strips 2 inches long and 1 wide. Rub in a basin a dessert-spoonful of flour, one of brown sugar, one of vinegar, and a little browning to colour, not too deep. Stir it in the liquor quite smooth. Dish it up very nicely, arranging the balls and carrots. This is a very pretty entree dish for company. A large fresh tongue dressed in the same manner looks well: instead of the balls cut some large carrots and turnips to the size of new ones and boil them. Dish them round the tongue. As soon as it comes from table put the tongue on a clean plate and the sauce in a basin. It is very nice cold the next day. Put it in a clean dish, take the fat off the gravy which will be a jelly, turn it over the tongue and garnish it with cold carrot and parsley. We have now some very pretty cutters for vegetables for garnishing. A good cook will try to please the eye as well as the taste. No. 61.—Sausage and Rice, in Spanish Choriza, German Worsht. Slice an onion in a small stewpan with 2 tablespoonfuls of oil, let it fry, put in a i pint of boiling water, a little salt23 DOMESTIC COOKERY. and pepper. As the sausage is generally well seasoned, wash well ^-Ib. of rice, the best, well drain it from the water, put it in the saucepan with a little saffi’on to colour it. Have a |-lb. of the large sausage is best, take the skin ofP, put it in also. Let it simmer very gently till the rice swells and soaks up all the water. The sausage will be on the top. Take it out of the saucepan, lay it on a plate, cut it in round slices, put the rice in the dish, lay the slices of sausage round it. If tomatoes are in season slice 2 or 3 and cook with the rice. It makes a very pretty dish, and is very relishing. No. 62.—Eggs and Tomato Omelet. Put a little fat into the fryingpan, when it is hot skin a :^-lb. of sausage, cut it in very thin slices, lay it in the pan, slice 3 tomatoes lay with it. Beat up 4 eggs with a little salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. When done, slip it on to the dish. It looks very pretty and is quickly made if an extra dish is wanted. No. 63.—Brains Stewed in the Spanish Fashion. Brains must be well washed and cleansed from every particle of blood, and must be skinned, then throw them into clean water again. Brains must be very firm. Cut a good-sized tooth of garlic into a small stewpan, with 2 spoonfuls of the best oil. Let it fry, then take out the garlic, put in 3 spoonfuls of vinegar, a little salt, pepper, saffron, and a little cayenne, then the brains. Let them cook slowly, add a teaspoonful of dried winter savory. Boil a few new potatoes, skin them, and put them in a few minutes before it is finished. You cannot cook the potatoes with the vinegar, it would harden them. This dish will only take | an hour to cook. The gravy must not be thickened, a few small meat balls can be put also. No. 64.—Brains with Egg Sauce. Prepare the brains the same as the last. Slice in a stew- pan some onion, pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and a cup of24 DOMESTIC COOKERY. beef broth if you have it. Put in the brains with a little marjoram, and a little saffron to colour. Let it cook gently for half and hour. Beat in a basin 2 eggs, the juice of a lemon, a teaspoonful of flour, a little chopped parsley; when it is rubbed smooth, stir it into the saucepan, basting it backwards and forwards to mix the sauce well. In making Egg Sauce you must be very particular not to let it curdle, you can prevent it by beating up all the ingredients for your sauce, and putting the lemon juice the last. No. 65.—Brain Fritters. Prepare the brains as before, then put them in a sauce- pan to boil; when cold chop them with a little parsley, a little onion, put in a little fine marjoram, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a little of the rind of a fresh lemon chopped fine, a few crumbs of bread, about an ounce, or one boiled potato mashed. Mix with 3 eggs, fry them in dripping or oil, serve them very hot, with lemon juice, and garnish with parsley. No. 66-—Spanish Onions filled with Forced Meat. Boil 3 Spanish onions in water with some salt. When they have boiled for three-quarters of an hour; take them out, put them to drain in a colander, when cold make a slit down with a knife to enable you to strip each leaf without breaking them ; place each onion on a separate plate, as you have to make them up again. Prepare | lb. of forced meat as for balls, season it well, divide it in three, form them into balls, begin with the smallest leaf, not the heart, so go on replacing the leaves till you will make up the three onions again, they should look as though they had not been touched. Have in a stew- pan the hearts of the onions, some salt, pepper, a little marjoram, grated nutmeg, J pint of stock, put in the onions and let them stew for an hour. Rub in a basin one spoonful of flour, the juice of a lemon, and a little browning to colour lightly. They eat very nicely, and look very pretty; for a change you can use for them egg sauce, or tomato sauce.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 25 No. 67.—Sausage Eoll. Make a paste of ^ lb. flour, | lb. of chopped suet, a pinch of salt. Mix it with a little cold water, roll it out three times, lb. sausage, boil it and skin it, roll the paste out the size of the sausage, lay it on it and roll it up, and fasten the ends with a little yolk of an egg; brush the roll all over with the egg, bake it in a brisk oven. This is very nice for lunch, or for a side dish cut in rounds and garnished with parsley. No. 68.—Stewed Sweetbreads with Egg Sauce, Take 2 or 3 throat sweetbreads, put them in boiling water to plump them up. Take them out, put them on your paste board, shape them nicely. Cut a piece of the fat of smoked beef in length of two inches, put each piece through the larding needle, and run it through the sweetbread till it looks like a porcupine, place the sweetbreads in your stewpan with an onion sliced, a little marjoram, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, put in a few small meat balls, a few button mushrooms, boil them first so that they do not make the stew dark. Make an egg sauce as before directed. No. 69.—Stewed Calves’ Feet with Egg Sauce. Cut 2 calfs feet in several pieces, slice an onion in a stewpan, with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, a little marjoram. Put in the feet with a pint of water, give them a quick boil to skim the liquor, then let them cook slowly for 2 hours. Have some meat balls, not too small. When the feet are very tender, put in the sauce made as directed before, with a little chopped parsley. This dish, if well cooked, is much liked, but it must be well done and the feet very tender. For a large family bullocks’ feet cooked in same way is excellent.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 26 No. 70.—Plain Boiled Calfs Head, French Fashion. Boil half a calfs head very carefully in a quart of water seasoned with salt and pepper, a bunch of marjoram, thyme, and parsley, and a large onion whole—be sure to take out the bunch of herbs—flour the head lightly before putting it on to boil, be careful of the brains and tongue. When done serve it on a very hot dish, send up in another small dish an onion chopped very small, and some very fine chopped parsley—the only sauce used with this is plain oil and vinegar. When the head is carved each person is served with a little of the onion and parsley, and then they assist themselves to the oil and vinegar to taste. It is a very nice dish. No. 71.—Stewed Calfs Head—Half. Take half calfs head, put it in a stewpan with quart of water, salt, pepper, onion, tooth of garlic, 2 cloves, 2 allspice, marjoram, thyme and parsley a bunch, a little rind of lemon. Let it simmer gently till tender, not to break at all, do it the day before you want it. When done take out the head carefully, take out the brains, put them by themselves with the half tongue, strain all the liquor into a basin and the head, put half of the liquor in a flat stewpan, put the head carefully. Make a few small meat balls, boil them separately. A few egg balls and a few mushrooms. Let it all simmer together; put in a little browning to make it quite a light brown, the liquor must be quite transparent, and will be quite like a syrup—remember that it must be very nicely seasoned—do not forget the juice of half a large lemon well strained, put that in when you stir in the browning, be very particular in the dishing up. Place the half head in the centre of the dish with the cheek up, place the balls and mushrooms alternately; remember the mushrooms must be buttons. Boil two eggs very hard, when cold cut them in slices in a plate, cut some thin slices of lemon, chop a little green parsley, put a slice ofDOMESTIC COOKERY. 27 lemon, on top of that a slice of hard egg, on the egg a little chopped parsley, and on the top cross it with narrow strips of beetroot. This is a very handsome dish, and eats well cold with the jelly over it. 72.—Rissoles. Make a good forcemeat of cold meat, veal or poultry, well seasoned if of veal or poultry, chop with it a little cold smoked beef or sausage you may have in the house. Make- a fine puff paste of the veal fat (according to the receipt for Puff Paste), roll it out very thin. You may make them in balls or small triangular shapes, or long narrow ribbons,^ the edges must be well pressed together and brushed over with yolk of egg to prevent their bursting in the frying. Fry them in good clarified dripping or melted veal fat,, flavour the forced meat with a little lemon juice. 73.—Croquettes. Pound very fine cold poultry or veal, make it into deli- cate forcemeat, the flavour can be varied according to taste» With poultry a few mushrooms chopped will improve it. When you have mixed the forcemeat form it into balls round or the shape of olives, the size of small eggs, beat up two eggs, dip them well into the eggs, then into some fine bread crumbs or pounded vermicelli. Fry them in the same as the Rissoles, a handsome brown colour. These make very pretty dishes, and very economical, as they are made from what was left the day before. 74.—Italian Salad, Cut up the white part of any cold fowl that may be left, grate some cold smoked beef. Boil 4 eggs hard, have a lettuce nicely washed, also some mustard and cress. Take a salad bowl, put little heaps of the cold chicken, the grated smoked beef, the yolks of the eggs chopped, and some of the white, arrange it tastefully, mixed with little portions of the lettuce and mustard and cress, then put round some slicesDOMESTIC COOKERY. 28 of hard eggs. Make a mixture of 2 spoonfuls of the best salad oil, 2 of vinegar, 1 of tarragon vinegar, 2 yolks of eggs raw, some salt, pepper, a little mustard, and a tooth of garlic chopped very fine; this mixture must be all rubbed together like a cream, and not put on till dinner or supper time. This makes a very refreshing entree. You can vary the style of this salad by putting the fowl and meat in the centre, and making walls of the salad round with strips of beetroot and hard eggs. No. 75.—A few Eules for Forced Meats made from cold remnants. Forced meat may be made from any dressed material, such as beef, mutton, veal, poultry, sweetbreads and hash. The chief art is to mince them well, and give them their proper flavour and sauce. For veal, sweetbread or poultry these can be used together or separately. The usual seasoning are mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, mush- rooms, tomatoes, marjoram, and lemon thyme, the rind of lemon and sometimes the juice. If wanted to make pasties, you put a small quantity in a very clean small saucepan, with a little clear stock to warm, make a white sauce and throw over it, mixing it well, it must not be at all liquid as would spoil the pastry. Line your little tins, put in some of the mince, cover over with paste, turn the edges neatly, do not mark them, brush them over with the yolk of egg, bake in a quick oven. The seasoning for beef or mutton: salt, pepper, allspice, sweet herbs, and a little ketchup or walnut liquor, thicken with a little flour, make the sauce, fill your tins just the same. 76.—Stewed Mutton, with Turnips and Potatoes. Put 3 lb. of best end neck of mutton, cut off the fat into a stewpan with a pint of water, salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg, peel three large turnips, cut in quarters, slice a large onion, let it all simmer for two hours very gently, halfDOMESTIC COOKERY. 2^ an hour before the meat is done peel and half 3 or 4 potatoes, lay them on top, so that the steam from the stew will cook them, be sure that they do not break when ready for dinner, put the mutton in the dish, turnips and potatoes round, skim off the fat, have ready rubbed in a small basin a spoon- ful of flour with a little cold water, turn it into the stewpan, let it have one boil, put it over the mutton and vegetables. Chop a little green parsley, and throw over the whole, send up very hot with hot plates. This is a nice dish for a family. Do not forget what I told you before, when making these stews, if too much gravy draw it off in a basin, it will make a nice plate of soup, put in colouring to this dish. No. 77.—Breast of Mutton Stewed with Celery. Take a nice breast of mutton, not too fat, put it in a stewpan with salt, pepper, nutmeg, half pint of water. Cut and wash well a large head of celery in good size pieces, put it in with the mutton, and a tooth of garlic chopped fine, let it simmer nicely till tender, skim off all the fat. Rub in a basin a spoonful of flour with the juice of a lemon and a little dried saffron, put it into the gravy, stir it well. 78.—Breast of Mutton with Green Peas. Take a breast of mutton not too fat, lay it on your board. Make a nice dressing of soaked bread, parsley, salt, pepper, marjoram, grated nutmeg, the grated rind of a lemon; mix up with one egg, put it between the bone and flesh, skewer it through with a fine iron skewer, put it in a stewpan with some chopped onion, salt and pepper. When it has sim- mered for an hour, have washed some peas, put them in when done, chop some parsley and mint, put it in a basin with a spoonful of flour mixed with a little cold water, when you put in the peas, put three or four lumps of sugar, stir in the sauce just before you dish it up.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 50 No. 79.—Breast of Mutton with French Beans. Prepare the breast just as you did for the peas, with the stuffing. Put it in a stewpan with sliced onion, salt, and pepper. Wash and cut the French beans. Put them on top of the mutton with ^ pint of water. When done, rub in a basin one spoonful of flour, one of moist sugar, two of ■vinegar, and browning to colour. Mind that you take off all the fat before you put the sauce in. No. 80.—Rolled Breast of Mutton Roasted. Lay the mutton on the board, take out the bones, beat it flat, make a forced meat as for the balls. Lay it on, squeeze the juice of a lemon over it, roll it up nicely, sew the seam along tight, sew the ends also ; put it down to roast, or if you. have a good oven, bake it, put some fat over it, boil some potatoes, careful they do not break, put them in the tin with the mutton to brown. All these are relishing and economical dinners for those who cannot afford more ex- pensive joints. No. 81.—Breast of Mutton Baked with Rice and Potatoes, Cut the breast of mutton in nice pieces, cut off the fat, take a deep baking dish, slice an onion at the bottom, salt, pepper, a little dried saffron. Wash ^-Ib. of rice, cut as many potatoes as you require, put them also in the dish, then put in the pieces of mutton. Fill the dish with water, chop a little parsley and marjoram, put it in the oven to bake. No. 82.—Mutton Chops with Green Peas. Take 2-lbs. of chops cut short, and not too fat, lay them in a stewpan, with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, an onion chopped, 3 or 4 lumps of sugar. Let them cook till tender, rub in a basin a spoonful of flour, some chopped mint and parsley, and a little cold water. Skim off the fat, put in the sauce when the mutton is done. They eat as well as ^ lamb chops, and not so expensive.DOMESTIC COOKERY. oL ^ 1 No. 83.—Mutton Chops with Tomatoes. ■ Take some nice mutton chops with the fat trimmed off, put them in a stewpan with salt, pepper, an onion chopped, slice 3 or 4 large tomatoes. Let it all cook together with about a cupful of water. When the chops are tender take them out, let them drain well from the gravy, then turn the tomatoes and liquor into a sieve, pulp it well, it will be quite thick, put the juice of a lemon with. Turn it all over the chops. Let it boil before you dish it up, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, if liked a little cayenne is always an improvement to the tomatoes. No. 84.—Haricot Mutton Chops. Put 5 or 6 chops, cut short, in a baking tin in the oven, when they get a little brown take them out. Have in a stewpan cooking one large carrot, and 1 turnip cut in strips about 2 inches long and 1 wide, with a chopped onion, pepper, salt, a little grated nutmeg. When this is nearly done put in the chops, with 2 or 3 lumps of sugar. Let it all stew together. Skim off the fat, rub a spoonful of flour with a little cold water. All these things must be dished up very hot. No. 85.—Stewed Sheep’s Hearts. Take 2 or 3 little hearts, clean them well, after the allotted time for soaking. You will find a great deal of blood settled, clear it all off. Cut them in slices, lay them in a stewpan, with salt, pepper, onion, marjoram, with ^ pint of water. Let it cook well. Then stir in a basin a spoonful of flour, 2 of vinegar, a little chopped parsley, and some saffron to colour. A few Jerusalem artichokes stewed with are very nice. No. 86.—Sheep’s Hearts Fried with Bread Crumbs. Prepare the hearts as before, cut them in slices, dry them on a coarse cloth. Have in a plate some bread crumbs.32 DOMESTIC COOKERY. mixed with parsley chopped, some marjoram, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg. Mix this all well together, have in another plate 2 eggs well beaten, put in the fryingpan some fat. When boiling dip the slices well in the eggs and then in the crumb mixture, put them into the boiling fat. Have some potatoes boiled and mashed, with a little salt and pepper, made a bed of them in the dish you have ready for the slices of the heart, then lay the heart upon the mashed pota- toes. Strain the fat from the fryingpan into a basin, then pour on to the pan a little walnut liquor or ketchup. Set it over the fire, when it boils pour it over the heart and potatoes. If careful with all the pieces of fat you cut off mutton and beef, and melt it down, and then clarity it, you will always have plenty of fat for frying purposes. And all these little things make relishing dishes, a cabbage or Brussels sprouts boiled and put under instead of potatoes make a nice change. Cutlets are very much liked, they require a great deal of fat to fry them nicely. No. 87.—Ragout Beef- Take a nice piece of beef, well cut, lard it with the fat of smoked beef. Place it in a stewpan, with | pint of beef gravy, highly seasoned, with allspice, cloves, pepper, salt, and garlic. When the beef is cooked remove it from the gra%7, which skim carefully and remove from it every par- ticle of fat. Add to it a glass of port-wine, the juice of a lemon, a pinch of cayenne, and a little mushroom ketchup. The beef should be glazed when you wish to cook extra nice. A few small forced-meat balls made be put round the dish. This is a savory and pretty dish, eats well cold. No. 88.—Kinunel Beef. Place a piece of round of beef in a deep baking pan, with a pint of water, 2 ounces of carraway seeds tied in a piece of muslin, salt, pepper, and a few cloves and allspice, cover the pan down tight with the lid, and tie brown paper over it. Put it in a moderate oven for 3 or 4 hours. This is a good relish for luncheon.DOMESTIC COOKERY. ^3 3 No. 89.—A la Mode Beef. Have a pair of ribs, boned and rolled, or a piece of the round. Put it in a stewpan with ^ pint of vinegar, \ pint of water, season with onion, salt, pepper, allspice, 3 or 4 bay leaves, a cup of raspings from the baker. Let it stew gently for 3 or 4 hours, according to the weight of the beef. This dish is excellent when cold. A steak can be stewed in the same way. Remember that the gravy must be strained before sending up to table, and not thickened. No. 90.—Savoury Jelly. Take a knuckle of veal, with a calf’s foot or a cow heel, put it into a saucepan with a thick slice of smoked beef, a few dried herbs, marjoram, and lemon thyme, a blade of mace, salt, pepper, a little of the fresh rind of a lemon, 2 quarts of water, a tooth of garlic. When it boils skim it well. This must simmer for 6 or 7 hours. The next day skim off the fat, and if not clear boil it for a few minutes with the white of an egg, beat to a snow and the shell, pass it through a jelly bag with the juice of 3 lemons and a little saffron. Oil a mould, cut some hard eggs and slices of sausage, some sprigs of parsley. Have a couple of salted sheep’s tongues, well skinned, pour in the mould some of the jelly, about a quarter full. Lay in a few pieces of the sausage, egg, parsley, and beetroot, tastefully arranged. Let that get cold. Then put on the tongues gracefully with some more of the egg, sausage, parsley, and beetroot, then fill the mould up. Of course the jelly must be very stiff, if not very cold weather set it on ice. When ready to serve it pass a cloth dipped in boiling water round the mould. It is a very pretty dish for cold collations. You can make it with slices of tongue, pieces of truffles, boiled chestnuts, and some balls. I have made it in many different ways. When you want to ornament any dish with savoury jelly you run some of it into flat tins, then you can turn it out and can cut any pattern you like with little cutters. This is the jelly you will have to use to make galantine of fowls, pigeons, or turkeys.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 34 No. 91.—A Relishing Sauce for Steaks. Put into a small saucepan a piece of melted fat, the size of an egg, with 2 onions sliced thin, let them brown, add a little beef gravy, with a small spoonful of flour, a little cayenne, salt, boil it well, throw it over the steak. This is quickly made. No. 92.—Lamb Cutlets with Cucumbers. Take 3 fine cucumbers, peel and cut them in lengths of 3 inches, lay them in vinegar for an hour. Stew them in a little good stock with salt and pepper till tender. See that there is not too much liquor. Beat 2 eggs with a teaspoon- ful of flour, the j nice of a lemon, stir it into the liquor. See that it does not boil, have ready some lamb cutlets trimmed nicely and fried a light brown. Arrange the cucumber in the middle of the dish and put the cutlets round. Colour the sauce with a little saffron, and be sure the cucumbers do not break. To look well the pieces must be whole. No. 93.—Pried Veal Sausages. Take a pound of veal sausages, divide them, roll them in flour, have a pan with boiling fat. Cut 3 or 4 potatoes, wash them, dry them on a cloth, sift some flour lightly over them, fry them crisp and brown. Take them out of the pan with a slice, put them just inside of the oven to keep hot till the sausages are done, fry them lightly. Have a dish very hot, put the sausages in, and the potatoes round. This is a dish quickly cooked. No. 94.—Calf’s Liver and Smoked Beef. Take a pound of calf s liver after it has been properly pre- pared, lay it again in water in another pan, cut it in slices first, leave it for an hour, take it out, dry it in a cloth, put it on the gridiron before the fire for a few minutes. Then have a pan on the fire with boiling fat, salt and pepper the liver, fry it a nice brown. When nearly done put in the slices ofDOMESTIC COOKERY. 35 smoked beef, have some potatoes nicely mashed, lay the liver and beef upon them, pour off the fat from the pan, put in the juice of a lemon, with a little ketchup. Then turn it over the liver, beef, and potatoes. . No. 95.—Calf’s Liver Stewed with Eg^g Sauce. Prepare the liver as above, then put it on the gridiron for a short time, then cut it in pieces the size of a walnut. Slice in a stewpan a good-sized onion, pepper (white), salt, a little grated nutmeg, ^ pint of water. Let it cook till done. Stir in a basin 2 yolks of eggs, a teaspoonful of flour, the juice of 2 lemons, and a little chopped parsley, and a few pieces of marjoram. Turn the sauce over, and serve up very hot, you may put a few small meat balls. No. 96 —Calf’s Liver Fried with Sweet and Sour Sauce. Prepare the liver as before when it comes from the grid- iron. Put it on a plate, have on the Are a pan with boiling fat. Slice a large Spanish onion very flne, fry this first a light brown, have at the side of the fire a sieve on a plate. When the onion is done put it on the sieve to drain, then fry the liver and some slices of sausage. Take them out, pour off the fat from your pan, rub in a basin a tablespoon- ful of flour, with a spoonM of brown sugar, 2 of vinegar, some pepper and salt, with a cup of water. Let this all boil in the pan with a little browning to colour, then put back the onions, then the liver and sausage. Have a very hot dish. Dish up the liver and sausage, put the onions round, and the sauce over. A very economical dish. No. 97.-Giblet Pie. Take a pound of chuck steak, cut it in pieces the length of 2 inches long and square. Have a set of goose or turkey giblets well washed and cut in small pieces, the liver must be broiled first. Have ready a few small forced meat balls, well seasoned, chop in your stewpan an onion very small,36 DOMESTIC COOKERY. also a tooth of garlic, put salt, pepper, a little grated nut- meg, some powdered marjoram and lemon thyme, chop a quarter of the rind of a lemon. When this is all ready lay in the steak, then the giblets, set it on the fire, and when it boils draw it to the side to simmer. Put in the balls when it boils. As soon as it is done rub in a basin, 1 tablespoon- ful of fiour, the juice of a lemon, a little cayenne, and browning to colour. Mix it all well together, have 2 eggs boiled hard, cut in quarters, to put round the dish. Make a good puff paste, line the dish, put in the steak at the bottom, then the giblets, the balls, and the hard egg quarters. Cover the dish with the paste, trim the edges neatly. Roll out a piece of paste, cut it in two strips, divide each strip in two to make four leaves for the top. Make a hole in the centre and form a piece of the dough the shape of a cork, cut the top across twice, put it in the centre of the 4 leaves. Wash the pie over with the yolk of an egg, put it in a quick oven. It will look very handsome. If well made it is a dish that is much liked. No. 98.—Giblet Stew. Take 1-lb. of edge-bone steak, it is very full of gravy, cut it in nice pieces larger than for the pie, prepare all the seasoning the same and put it in the stewpan, steak at bottom, giblets on top, with small balls. Cut up a pickled walnut. Take the skin of the neck, tie one end, put in a little forced meat, then a hard boiled egg peeled, then some more meat, then another hard egg, then some more meat, fill it well, tie the other end, put it to stew with the other. When the stew is done take out the neck, cut it in even slices, stir in a basin a spoonful of flour, the juice of half a lemon, and a little of the walnut liquor. Turn it on the stew and mix it well. Mind that it does not look too dark when you dish it up. Put the slices of the neck round, it looks well as a garnish. Mind not to put the gravy over the eggs, it spoils the appearance.37 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 99.—Cutlets with. Gherkin Sauce. Take 4 plump chops, take out the bones, cut each chop into 3 small chops, flatten them very nicely, mind you do not lose the shape of the chops. Have some bread crumbs in one plate and 2 eggs beat up in another plate, put with the eggs some chopped parsley, a little powdered marjoram, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Beat it all well, have your frying-pan on the fire with some boiling fat, dip the little cutlets fi.rst in the bread crumbs, then into the egg. Fry them a light brown, have ready for them the following sauce. Chop an onion, put it in a small saucepan with a small piece of dripping, fry it, put some salt, pepper, the juice of a lemon, cut up small two green gherkins pickled. Do not let the gherkins boil. Mix a teaspoonful of flour with the juice of the lemon, and | a teaspoonful of brown sugar. Stir all this well together, it must be ready by the time the cutlets are fried. Place cutlets in a graceful pile in the centre of the dish, and pour the sauce round. No. 100.—For the arrangement of Cutlets. Cutlets can be arranged in a dozen different ways. Cut them just the same as for the last, but do not put them in bread or eggs. Have a nice tomato sauce, according to recipe, ready at the side. Fry your cutlets, arrange them prettily in the dish, put round the sauce; and if for com- pany, as cutlet, form a pretty entree, blanch a few button mushrooms, boil them in a little flour and water to keep them white. Place them prettily round on the red sauce. You can also have some spinach nicely stewed, but keep it very green. Put that in the middle of the dish, and arrange the cutlets round with the narrow end up. Mashed potatoes done in the same manner in the middle of the dish with cutlets all round look well, but for the potatoes fry them in bread and eggs. Peas well stewed, with mint and sugar, and meat gravy with cutlets also look well; in fact, if the cook has a little taste, and short of a dish, she can arrange one of cutlets very quickly. Supposing the master of the38 DOMESTIC COOKEEY. house unexpectedly brings home a friend to dinner and you have a few chops in the house, turn them into cutlets with a nice sauce and some vegetable, it looks better than plain chops. A little fish, a roast, and a dish of cutlets form a pretty dinner. No. 101.—Curried Chops. Chop an onion in a stewpan with salt and pepper, a little nutmeg, place in the chops, cut off some of the fat, let them cook. When done stir in a basin 2 spoonfuls of curry, 1 of flour, with the juice of a lemon. Stir this over the chops, have some large rice boiled quite dry with a little salt. Put a bordering round your dish, a little chopped parsley thrown over it makes it look pretty. No. 102.—Fried Smoked Beef and Eggs- Cut some thin slices of fat smoked beef, put in your meat fryingpan a little dripping, fry the beef, put it on a plate at the side to keep hot. Then fry the eggs nice and round a light brown, put the beef on the dish and one egg on each slice, turn a little of the hot fat in the dish. Serve very hot. No. 103.—Irish Stew. Two pounds of chops cut nicely, not too fat, 1 lb. of good chuck steak, cut in pieces, 4 lb. of large potatoes all one size, cut in thick slices, as near as possible, 3 large onions, put the steak at the bottom of your stewpan with a layer of the potatoes, and some thick slices of onions, then a layer of chops, potatoes, and onions, let the last layer only be onions and potatoes, pepper and salt to taste, pint of water, stew gently for 2ii hours, keep the lid close, not to jet the steam out, shake the saucepan occasionally. The onions to be sliced thickly. A good dish for a family.39 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 104.—Stewed Ox Tail. Have an ox tail cut small, put it in a stewpan with salt, pepper, chopped onion, and a tooth of garlic, a little mar- joram, put it on to stew with a pint of water, have some meat balls, made the size of an egg, to cook with it, will take 1|- hours to get tender, half-an-hour before it is done cut 3 tomatoes in halves, put on the top to cook. When the meat is done lay the halves of tomatoes on a plate, rub in a basin a dessert spoonful of flour, the juice of a lemon, a little browning to colour, mix it in with the stew, arrange it prettily in the dish, the tail in the middle of the dish, the balls and tomatoes round. No. I05.-Boiled Beef. To each pound of beef only allow ^ pint of water, it is a wrong impression to boil meat in a large quantity of water, it spoils; this should be strongly impressed upon your cook. Put on a nice piece of boned brisket, or double flank of 4 lbs., put it in a quart of water, some salt, pepper, a blade of mace, a tooth of garlic, boil 2 carrots with to garnish, let it boil fast, skim it, then let it simmer for 2 hours. Dish it up, cut the carrots round the meat, put a spoonful of the liquor over to make it look moist, serve it up with horseradish or tomato sauce in the sauce tureen. Make the sauces according to the recupes, use some of the liquor for it, the other skim ofl“ in a basin the next day, it will make a nice soup. No. 106.—Boiled Mutton. Take half a shoulder, the knuckle part, or 3 lb. of the best end of the neck, put it in the saucepan with an onion, salt, pepper, a little nutmeg. Boil with 2 or 3 turnips to garnish, or boil in another saucepan a white cauliflower to garnish. Serve with caper sauce in a sauce tureen made40 DOMESTIC COOKERY. from recipes. To any one who likes fat meat the breast of mutton eats well boiled and dressed in the same manner, strain the liquor, and put it by till next day, the fat of these boiled meats fries potatoes very nicely, melted down in a basin and kept for that purpose. No. 107.—Boiled Salt Beef with Carrots and Greens. Take a nice piece of salt beef. You should always salt your own meat and tongues. I shall give you a valuable recipe for so doing. Put it in a deep saucepan with two or three carrots, let it boil quickly, skim it, then let it simmer at the side. Half an hour before dinner have a cabbage or some greens well washed, such as Scotch kale, let them drain well from the water, have a few plain suet dumplings boiled with also, they will only take half-an-hour. This dish will require rather more water, to 3 lbs. of meat put 3 pints of water. Dish up the meat in a good sized dish, put the greens and cabbage round, with two or three spoon- fuls of the liquor. The greens eat so relishing boiled in the salt liquor, the dumplings are sent in as vegetable, but are eaten with the meat. You cannot use this liquor. Half a pound of suet, ^ lb. flour, a pinch of salt, mix up with a little cold water, make them into four dumplings. No. 108.—Boiled Smoked Beef with Broad Beans. Take a nice piece of smoked beef, soak it first for an hour, put it in a saucepan, only half covering it, let it boil and skim it, then let it cook very gently according to its weight. Have ready picked | peck of the beans, put them in with the meat. Dish up the beef, strain the beans into a colander, put them round the beef, save the liquor till the next day for the fat, the liquor is no use, the fat does for frying chops. This dish eats well with roast veal.41 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 109—To make Brine for Salting Meat and Tongues. One pound salt, ^ lb. of coarse brown sugar, ^ oz. salt- petre, I pint of water. When the meat or tongue is ready lay it in the pan, rub in the salt and sugar, and the powdered saltpetre, put over the ^ pint of water, press it down and put a heavy weight on it. It must be turned every day. I only use the brine twice. This quantity is only for 1 tongue, 5 or 6 lbs. of meat., and a small shoulder of mutton, if you wish to put beef, tongue, and mutton at the same time, you must double the quantity, it will then be ready in a week. I prefer the salting of meat and tongues at home. No. no.—Vegetable Marrows filled with Forced Meat. Scrape lightly the vegetable marrows, wash them well, put them on in a saucepan with boiling water and a little salt, feel them with a fork, and when tender take them out carefully, lay them on your pasteboard, divide them in halves lengthways, scoop out the inside, let it drain well from the water. During the time you are preparing this slice in a deep pie dish an onion, with two tablespoonfuls of oil, a little salt and pepper, put it in the oven to fry; if you have some tomatoes slice 2 or 3, and put with the onion. Take some cold meat, if you have any in your larder. Mince it like for the forcemeat balls, with the same seasoning, put in a dish, mix it up with two eggs, then take the dish from the oven, lay the vegetable marrows in, do not put them too close, it spoils the shape, fill them with the mixture you have just made, then beat in a plate two more eggs with the juice of a lemon, or two tablespoonfuls of good vinegar. (Lemons sometimes are very scarce and dear.) Put it over the vegetable marrow, with a spoon, put them in a rather brisk oven to bake, they will be a nice light brown colour, dish them up carefully. The eggs and lemon, or vinegar, makes like a custard, put that round them and garnish with parsley. This is a very pretty dish, and a good way to use up any cold meat that may be left.42 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 111.—Potato Pie with Cold Meat. Prepare some cold meat exactly as you did for the marrows, with the difference that you chop the tomatoes and onion with the meat, season it well, and add to the mixture two extra eggs. Boil some floury potatoes according to the sizo you wish to make it, cut them in pieces, put a little salt and very little water; when they are done drain them well, mash them in the saucepan, taste and see if they are salted enough, if so, put some pepper, a little grated nutmeg, a little chopped parsley, 1 egg. Mash it all well together, lay some at the bottom of your dish, grease it well flrst, then put in the forced meat. Sprinkle the juice of half a lemon, then cover it over with the remainder of the mashed potatoes, smooth it well, and crossbar it with a knife, put in the oven to bake, it looks very pretty when done. Serve it in the same dish with another dish under. No. 112.—Cold Meat Fritters. Prepare some cold meat as above, if too thick add another egg. Have your frying pan ready with boiling fat or oil— put a large spoonful at the time as many as the pan will hold, only mind that they do not touch each other, or it spoils the shape, flatten them as you put them in, they ought to be flattened to the thickness of an inch, fry them a light brown, have a dish nice and hot at the side with a sheet of white paper. Lay them on with a slice of lemon upon each, and garnish with parsley. No. 113.—Fritada of Cold Meat. Prepare some cold meat as before. To about 1 lb. of the cold chopped meat, well seasoned, add 6 eggs well beaten. Take a deep pie dish, slice an onion thinly, with 2 spoon- fuls of oil, slice a tomato, or if not liked, do it without, let it fry in the oven. When ready put your mixture, shaping it from the sides to be higher in the centre. Let it bake a.43. DOMESTIC COOKERY. nice brown, when done loosen it all round with a knife, and slip it on to a dish, garnish with parsley, and send it to table with a lemon for use. This is excellent cold. Cold meats prepared from these recipes will be found much more relishing than hashed up. The meat in general becomes tough. Cooked this manner it will be found much more easy of digestion for children and elderly persons. No. 114. A few remarks upon the roasting of Meat and Poultry. To roast well either meat or poultry you must not make a large fierce fire. The outside gets dried up or burnt, and the inside remains raw. I speak from practical experience. Few cooks roast well, therefore young beginners should pay strict attention to the rules laid down for them, and keep strictly to time in roasting. It is a part of cookery that should never be hurried, but have the necessary time required to do it well, and by so doing you will cook the joints well and save your coals, which is an important matter in the present expensive times. If the weather will allow it you should always have the joint intended for roasting hung up for two days in a dry place. After it is prepared, lay it in a coarse cloth (mind a very clean one) to dry it well. Put the seasoning, that is to say, sprinkle it with salt and pepper, and sprinkle lightly over it a little flour. Then prepare your tire, rake all the small dirt from the bottom bar, so that you give it a draught. Then have some coal and coke broke in small pieces, lay it in close so that for two hours the fire will not require touching. That time will roast a joint of ribs, or a good sized turkey or goose. The not making the fire well up at first causes a great deal of dust to settle on the dripping pan. Hang the joint to the fire so that it warms as the fire burns up. Then when clear you will have no trouble, only to see that it is well basted. That part of the roasting must be well attended to, otherwise the meat will be dry.44 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 115.—To Roast Ribs of Beef. A large piece of ribs looks better rolled, and it is nob an extravagant way of cooking them, as the bones and little trimmings make a very nice soup, or can be put into the stock pot. Roll them nicely, and skewer them light, if necessary tie them round with string. Put plenty of salt and pepper, and dredge them over with flour. You cannot roll a pair of ribs to look well. Under the weight of 10 or 12 lbs. time for roasting will be 2^ hours, with a good fire, keep basting constantly, when done dish them up in a well dish, strain the fat from the dripping pan through a sieve take the brown part, add a little more salt and pepper, a little browning, with a ladle of boiling water, pour it over the meat, scrape some horseradish ready, put it in bunches round the dish. Be careful to save the gravy that comes down in the dish, strain it and put it in the larder: put the meat in a clean dish. No. 116.—To Roast a Sirloin of Beef. This is prepared exactly the same as the ribs. But, of course, will require a much longer time in cooking, as a good sirloin never weighs less than 14 to 16 lbs., and will take about 3 hours to roast. Dish up in a well-dish, with horseradish round and a good gravy. Always add a little browning to make the gravy look rich. The under cut is the finest part and very tender, should any of it be left it will cut into nice fillets, fried and put into a good sauce. Be sure to take care of the gravy, always strain it. No. 117-—To Roast a Leg of Mutton. In our orthodox families we do not use the leg without being forged. This operation does not affect the flavour, only the appearance, which is very easily remedied, the porging takes away about 1 lb. or 1| lb. Therefore make a nice stuffing of force meat or veal stuffing, and put it in where the porging was taken from. You can then restore45. DOMESTIC COOKERY. it to its original shape. Season it well with pepper and salt, sprinkle a little flour over it, keep it well basted, have a nice gravy for it, send up with some currant jelly in a small glass dish. A leg of 8 or 10 lbs. will take two hours roasting. No. 118—To Roast a Loin of Mutton. This portion has also to be porged before we use it. This is almost the best joint in mutton, if well roasted, serve with a good gravy and jelly. A loin of 4 or 5 lbs. will take hours, well seasoned with pepper and salt. No. 119.—To Roast a Saddle of Mutton. This is a very handsome joint for company, but very un- profitable, this has also to be porged, it is a double loin, and when you have seasoned it with salt and pepper, lay over the back a sheet of paper well greased till within a half hour of its being sent up, then remove it, and dredge a little flour over it, let it brown nicely, send up very hot with a good gravy. Remember currant jelly is always sent up with mutton. This joint must be roasted very gently, it will take about 2^ hours. No. 120.—To Roast the best end of the Neck of Mutton. This is a joint that roasts well if not too fat. This joint is from the fore quarter, it seldom weighs more than 3 to 4 pounds, it will take 1^ hours doing; serve it up very hot, as all mutton joints should be served—a good gravy. Mashed turnips should generally be sent up with roast mutton. See recipe for same. No. 121.—To Roast a Fillet of Veal. Veal is a meat that must be well cooked, or else it is in- jurious to health. When the joint is ready to prepare forDOMESTIC COOKERY. 46 •cooking, take out the round bone, and make a good stuffing to fill up that part, salt and pepper it well, and dredge it with flour. It will take about 3 hours, and should be a beautiful brown, not too dark, that is why it requires so long doing. When you dish it up have a nice gravy, with the juice of a lemon well strained, mix it with the gravy, and throw it over the meat. The stuffing is made as follows:—Soak a thick piece of bread, drain it well from the water, chop 2 oz. of suet with a little of the rind of the lemon, a little chopped parsley, a little powdered marjoram, salt, pepper, and a little grated lemon peel, mix well with an egg and use it where described. No. 122.—To Eoast the best end of Neck of Veal. Three or four pounds of the best end neck of veal —divide the flesh at the top from the bones gently with your hand, have ready some slices of smoked beef or a piece of choriza, cut lengthways, lay it in and skewer up the flesh to the bone, season it with salt, pepper, hang it down to roast to a brisk fire, it will take 2 hours, dish it up with a good gravy, and the juice of a lemon, a little cayenne is a great improvement to veal. Tomato sauce is very relishing with roast veal. Choriza means sausage, or worsht. No. 123.—Kemarks upon the Dressing of Poultry. Stuffing for all white poultry is made in one way, with bread, chopped suet, parsley, marjoram, grated nutmeg, salt, pepper, and chopped rind of lemon, mix it with an ■egg—unless for particular occasions. Then turkeys are stuffed with forcemeat and chestnuts, you parboil the chest- nuts, peel about a dozen and put them whole in the force- meat, and sometimes you cut some sausages in long slices and slip it up the skin of the breast, that eats well with veal stuffing. Two or three truffles mixed with the stuffing ■occasionally makes a change.47 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No- 124.—To Roast a Turkey. After you have put it in water and salted it, then let all the water drain out of the inside, dry the outside well with u clean cloth, prepare the stuffing, put it in at the breast. Plump it nicely, sew the skin with a needle and thread. Never fill it too much or the skin might burst. Then rub it well outside with mixed pepper and salt, then flour it lightly, lay it in a dry dish and leave it for one hour before you require to roast it. Put a sheet of white paper well greased over the breast to prevent it being scorched, remove it i an hour before sending it up, dredge it lightly with flour to make it froth. Remember the fire must be very brisk, have ^-Ib. of the melted veal fat to baste it, and a pound of the veal sausages fried to put round the dish, pour over it a nicely coloured gravy, and send up a tureen of bread sauce according to recipe. It will take 2 hours to roast. Put a few water cresses in the dish to garnish with the sausages. No. 125.—Boiled Turkey. Put the turkey in a saucepan, cover it with boiling water, as the boiling water sete the colour of the flesh at once, put salt into the water; and a little pepper, a blade of mace. Rub the turkey over with the juice of ^ a lemon before you put in the water. Stuff it with a veal stuffing. Let it simmer for 2 hours gently. If a large turkey, send up in the sauce tureen celery or mushroom sauce. Boiled tongue or smoked beef must always accompany this dish, garnish the turkey with small pieces of boiled cauliflower and water cresses. No. 126.—To Roast Fowls. Prepare fowls for roasting the same as turkeys, well dry them, then put in the stuffing. Fowls are also stuffed at the breast, sew the piece of skin on to the backbone, but not too tight. Season them well, dredge with flour, and put greased paper ofer the breast. Remove that a of an hour48 DOMESTIC COOKERY. before you dish them up, baste the part well where the paper was. Have a little gravy nicely coloured, pour some over the fowls boiling hot. Serve with bread sauce, garnish them with water-cresses. One hour to roast a good-size fowl. No. 127.—To Eoast a Goose. Prepare the goose first by drying it well with a clean cloth, then parboil a large onion, chop it with about a dozen leaves of sage, 2-oz. of bread crumbs, 1-oz. of chopped suet, pepper, salt, season rather high. Mix it well together, no eggs, put it into the bottom part of the goose, turn the rump inside, sew the bottom part together to secure the stuffing. Then put on the pepper and salt, dredge it over with flour, skewer a greased paper over the breast, remove it ^ an hour before serving it ; must be constantly basted, and roasted before a brisk fire to keep it crisp. Pour over a good gravy boiling hot, do not put too much in the dish, a goose is an awkward bird to carve. Send up a sauce tureen with some hot gravy, and one with apple sauce. A large goose will take 1 hour and | to cook. No. 128.—To Roast Ducks. Ducks are prepared precisely the same as geese for roast- ing, they are also stuffed at the lower end. Cover the breast with greased paper. Serve with boiling gravy and apple sauce. A good-sized duck will take 1 hour. Dish it up very hot. No. 129.—To Boil Fowls. Fowls are prepared for boiling the same as turkeys, season the water well that they are boiled in. Dish up and garnish the same with small white heads or pieces of a large white cauliflower. Serve with fowls egg sauce or mayonnaise according to recipe for same. Boiled tongue or^smoked beef should always accompany them.40 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 130.—To Boil Tongues, Choose a nice plump tongue, if salted at home it is pre- ferable. Put it on in cold water, if you have a tongue saucepan it will keep the shape better; if not, boil it in a long stock pot, it should lay flat. Let it boil gently for 2-| hours, then it will be tender enough to skin, be careful you do not tear the flesh, return it to the water to finish boiling. To garnish it, if you send it up for company, boil some yery white turnips and some rich coloured carrots, boil them separately and mash them separately, with a little salt and pepper to flavour. Arrange them in alternate colours, with strips of spinach boiled very green. Cut a frill for the root of the tongue to cover it, fasten it on with a plated skewer. Another garnish that is also very pretty: boil some rice white and very dry, make a bed of it in the dish, lay on the tongue, have slices of lemon with slices of hard eggs, lay on chopped parsley, and strips of beetroot. The tongue, when taken out of the water, must be put on one of the chopping boards, and plump it up by pushing from the point to the centre, that must rise higher than the other part; a little glaze on the top makes it look rich. A smoked tongue must be soaked for 2 hours in cold water before you boil it. No. 131.—To fry Cold Tongue, If you have any left cut it in thin slices, and a few slices from the fat part. Have some fat boiling in your pan, dip the slices in bread crumbs seasoned, and then into egg, fry it a light brown. Have some potatoes well mashed, spread them in the dish, place the slices on arranged nicely, gar- nish with parsley. No. 132.—Cold Tongue Omelet, Cut the slices very thin, beat up 3 or 4 eggs with some chopped parsley, marjoram, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg. Put in the frying pan a little oil or fat to grease it, you must not have lOO much in or your omelet will not turn 4DOMESTIC COOKERY. 50 out well. Mix the slices of tongue with the beaten eggs, turn it into the pan, fry it nicely, turn it on a dish with a sheet of Avhite paper under, garnish with parsley. Grated cold tongue is very nice in fowl salads. No. 133.—Curried Fowl. Place a fowl in a stewpan with 1 pint of water, saltj'and pepper, a little grated nutmeg, one chopped onion,’ a tooth of garlic. Let it simmer gently for | of an hour. After you have skimmed it, then take the fowl.out, strain the liquor through a clean sieve, place the fowl back in the saucepan, wash and drain well ;^-lb. of the best rice, put it in a basin, mix with salt and pepper, the juice of a large lemon, 2 spoonfuls of curry powder, put it in the saucepan •with the fowl. Let it simmer gently till the rice is quite done and dry. Lay the fowl in the dish and lay the rice round like a little wall, cut some slices of lemon thin, then cut them in halves, and make a border round the rice, chop some very green parsley, sprinkle a little on the lemon. This is an excellent dish if well cooked. No. 134.—Stewed Fowl—White. Cut a fowl 4n pieces, the same as if you were carving the pieces for table from a roast fowl. If the cook is young and inexperienced, she should ask her mistress to cut it for her. Chop in a stewpan an onion small, with a tooth of garlic, salt and pepper, with grated nutmeg, a little dried saffron, and a few slices of smoked beef or worsht. Then lay in the fowl with ^ pint water, let it simmer till done. Then have ready an egg sauce according to recipe, pour it over the stewed fowl, baste it backwards and forwards with a spoon so that it covers the fowl. Cook a few small forced meats balls with, and after you have put in the sauce, be sure that it does not boil, or you would curdle the sauce. Dish it up nicely, sprinkle over some chopped green parsley. Always remember before you chop parsley51 DOMESTIC COOKERY. that you dry it by shaking it in a cloth, or it will spoil the flavour of your dish. Remember the balls are to be pub in as soon as it boils. A few white button mushrooms are very nice with this stew. No. 135-—To Stew Fowl—Brown. Cut up the fowl as for the last stew, put in a stewpan an onion chopped, also a tooth of garlic, some marjoram and lemon thyme, a little walnut liquor or mushroom ketchup. Then place in the pieces of fowl, let it boil up, then put it ut the side to simmer, put in a few balls. When done rub in a basin a spoonful of flour, the juice of a lemon, a little browning to colour, stir it into the stew, dish it up. • No. 136.—To Cook Remnants of Cold Poultry. Should you have any remnants of cold turkey or fowl, they can be stewed quite as well. Remnants of goose or duck must be stewed much stronger. These remnants are very nice made in a ragout as follows:—Cut the pieces nicely and neatly, put them in a stewpan with ^ pint of stock, an onion, garlic, pepper, salt, mace, 2 or 3 allspice, marjoram, thyme, a few pieces of smoked beef, let it cook well, add a pickled walnut. When done take out the fowl, strain the liquor through a sieve, return the fowl and gravy to the saucepan, rub in a little flour with the juice of a lemon, a a little browning, stir it all well together, dish it up, and garnish with slices of hard eggs. Mind always that the gravies are not too thick. You can make the gravy to stew it in from the rough pieces you cut from the poultry, or any pieces or bones of meat. No. 127.—Minced Fowl. The remnants of cold fowl chopped very fine with parsley, onion, rind of lemon, add a little marjoram, salt, pepper, ground mace. When it is well mixed put on all the bonesDOMESTIC COOKERY. 62 and remnants, stew them down to half a pint, strain it, put it in a small stewpan, then put in your mince, stir in the juice of half a lemon, let it simmer till it thickens, then have some sippets of toast made, place the mince in the dish and the sippets round. Dish up very hot. No. 138.—To Stew Cold Poultry with Vegetables. Eemnants of cold fowl or duck are very nice stewed with peas. Fry an onion sliced in a little dripping, pour in a good size cup of gravy, made from odd pieces. Wash and drain well ^ peck of peas, put them with a couple of spoonfuls of sugar, pepper, salt; when nearly done lay in the pieces of fowl or duck. When done dish up, poultry in the centre of the dish, and vegetables round. They are very nice done with turnips, Jerusalem artichokes, or small new potatoes, for all these vegetables colour with saffron, and dish up very hot. 139.—Fried Fowl or Turkey with Sausage. Cut off the best pieces you can from the carcase left, make them of a good shape, the thigh will cut in two pieces, the drumsticks two pieces if you chop the stick off, and cut pieces off the breast. Have a pan with boiling fat, dip the pieces in egg, mix with parsley, marjoram, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, fry them a light brown, fry some slices of sausage in the same way, mash some potatoes nicely, lay them ip a dish, put the fried fowl round, squeeze the juice of a lemon, strain over the fowl, garnish with parsley. This is a nice dish for lunch. No. 140—Roast Pigeons- Wash them, dry them well after they have been soaked, take a piece of the melted veal fat, rub it in salt, pepper, and chopped parsley, put it inside to keep it moist. Secure both ends of pigeons so that it does not fall through, roll them iu greased paper, put them back to back, you can roast two at once by turning them, serve them up with a Yery rich gravy, and very hot.53 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 141.—Broiled Pigeons and Mushrooms. Split the pigeon open down the back, dry it well, season it with pepper and salt, rub them well over with fat, put them on the gridii’on, to a very clear fire, when done squeeze the juice of a lemon over, and a rich gravy. Broil 2 or 3 large mushrooms, lay them under. This is a very relishing dish. No. 142.—Stewed Pigeons. Cut them in quarters, put them in a stewpan, with chopped onion, garlic, marjoram, thyme, salt, pepper, a little cayenne, a pickled walnut cut in pieces, with half a pint of water, let it stew till done, about half an hour if very young, put in a very few small meat balls, and 2 or 3 small mushrooms chopped. "When done rub in a basin a dessert spoonful of flour, the juice of half a lemon, and put it into the stew garnished with slices of hard eggs. No. 143.—Pigeon Pie. The pigeons are stewed just the same, only add ^ lb. of first cut of chuck steak, put it at the bottom of the dish, put the pigeons on top, the small balls round, 2 hard boiled eggs, cut in quarters intermixed with the balls. Make a fine puff paste, ornament it with 4 leaves, when you put on the top crust, wash over with yolk of egg, bake in a brisk oven, put a few pieces of nice green parsley on the crust to garnish when you send up. You must cut off the little feet, and when you have put on the crust, before you put it in the oven, you must stick the bone of the feet in at each end leaving out their little claws. No. 144.—Pigeon Stew with Olives. Dry the pigeons well, plump them up nicely. Put in a stewpan a chopped onion, a tooth of garlic, pepper, salt, a little nutmeg, then place the pigeons in whole, with h alf a pint of liquor from beef; let them stew gently till nearly done;DOMESTIC COOKERY. 54 then take half a pint of French olives, cut them round and round off the stone, so that they will form the olive again, put in the olives a little dried saffron, and the juice of half a lemon. When done put the pigeons in the centre of the dish, the olives round, and the gravy poured over. This is an admired dish, and makes a pretty entree. No. 145—Boned Duck Stewed Eagout Fashion. Take a duck and bone it, it is not a difficult job, or your poulterer will do it for you. Make a pound of forced meat well seasoned, have a sheep’s tongue that has been salted, boil it, skin and trim it, put it in the centre of the forced meat with 2 hard boiled eggs, peeled whole ; make a nice ball of that, put it inside of the duck and give it its original shape ; put it in a stewpan and stew it with chopped onions, garlic, marjoram, thyme, salt, pepper, a pickled walnut, a little cayenne. When done take out the duck, strain the liquor, put it over the duck, cook with a few small meat balls and 2 or 3 slices of fat smoked beef, rub in a basin a spoonful of flour (a small spoon), the juice of a lemon, a little browning if not dark enough, stir it in, mix it well together, dish up duck in the centre, with slices of beef under, balls round with a few quarters of hard boiled eggs. No. 146.—Eggs in Mask serve as a pretty dish by themselves or for Garnish. Boil 4 eggs very hard, throw them into cold water for 5 minutes, then peel them, have ready 1 lb. of forced meat well seasoned, divide it in 4 equal portions, roll each egg in one piece fixing them well so that you cannot see where the eggs were put in, press them by putting your fingers in cold water : if well arranged they will look like four large meat balls ; chop an onion very fine, a tooth of garlic, salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg and a few of the dark mush- rooms, if you can get them, chopped fine : put all this in aDOMESTIC COOKERY. 55 Btewpan with quarter pint of water, let it boil up, put in the large balls and a few small meat balls, let them cook gently for 1 hour; when done rub in a basin a spoonful of flour with the juice of a lemon, a little browning, stir it into the saucepan, take out the eggs, put them on a plate, have a sharp knife, cut them each in halves, place them in the dish, put round the small balls, pour the gravy round the dish, be carefnl not to put it over the eggs, garnish with parsley. I will now write a few useful dishes, and very economical for people of small means. No. 147.—A Poor Man’s Goose. Take a piece of prime bola from 5 to 6 lbs., according to the family, chop a large onion, a small bunoh of sage, pepper, salt, a piece of soaked bread, 2 oz. of suet, mix it all well together with an ecrg, open the crevices of the meat, fill them up with the stuffing, skewer them tight together, tie it round with string, put it down to roast with some dripping, baste it well with melted suet, serve it hot with some apple sauce. You can parboil as many potatoes as you require, then put them in a tin dish, take a few spoons of the fat from the dripping pan, put them in the oven to brown, don’t forget to sprinkle over them salt, pepper, and a little flour. With a good large boiled cabbage this is good and economical for a large family.—3 hours to roast. No. 148.—A Bullock’s Heart Stuffed and Roasted, a cheap and useful dish for families. Wash well, after it has been soaked, every particle of blood, dry it well on a clean coarse cloth, fill it with the same stuffing as the above, put it down to roast, baste it well, it will take 1 hour and \ to roast, pour over it when dished up a good gravy, boil a half pound of rice with salt, pepper, and a little dried saffron, drain it well, make a bed of it in the dish, lay on it the heart. Serve it up very hot.56 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 149.—Boiled Sheep’s Head. Put in a deep saucepan a sheep’s head well trimmed and slit in halves, with some turnip, carrot, celery, onions, and a little garlic, season with salt and pepper and a little mar- joram, a blade of mace ; put it on with 3 pints of water. Wash well ;^lb. of rice, put it in also with a little dried saffron to colour, let it cook gently for 2 hours, dish up the sheep’s head, turn the soup in the tureen, take a small saucepan, rub in a tablespoonful of flour with a little good dripping, or soup fat, put salt, pepper, and the yolk of an egg, rub all till smooth, stir in a little of the clear soup, you can flavor it with a spoonful of vinegar, let it boil, it will be like melted butter, chop some parsley, put it in a sauce boat, turn the boiling sauce over, put round the head some boiled turnips cut in halves. This is a most nourishing and economical soup for people of small means with large families. You can change the soup by putting barley or macaroni, or making it entirely a vegetable soup. The soup the next day is a perfect jelly. No. 150.—A Baked Sheep’s Head. Have a sheep’s head well seasoned slit in halves, make a nice stufling of any stale bread you may have with parsley, marjoram, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and chopped onion. Well mix it with one egg, lay it over the inside of the head, put in a dish a good lot of fat from soup, or any that is not required for pastry, with salt and pepper. Lay in the head, flour over the dressing, boil some potatoes, then put thern round the head. When you put it in the oven let it all bake together, it will take about 1 hour and i. No. 161.—Stewed Shin of Beef. Take 3 or 4 lb. of the fleshy part of shin of beef, cut off all the flesh, cut it in nice pieces, put them in a saucepan with 2 or 3 sliced onions, large ones, salt, pepper, a blade of mace, a little marjoram, a little dried saffron, a pint of57 DOMESTIC COOKERY. water. Half an hour before it is done cut some potatoes in halves, lay them on top of the meat, so that they will cook with the steam. When it is quite done rub in a basin a spoonful of flour with 2 of vinegar, throw it over. This is a very relishing dish for a family, and not at all expensive. Put the shin bones on in a soup saucepan with plenty of vegetables, cut nicely, with barley or rice, salt and pepper, a little saffron, a quart of water, it will make a delicious soup. It must simmer for 3 hours. No. 152 —An Easy Way to Cook Tripe. Have it well washed and cleaned, boil it in a saucepan in thin flour and water to keep its colour, salt and pepper. When done drain it out of the water, slice an onion in a stew pan, with a little fat, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, half pint of the water in which it was boiled ; let it cook for half an hour; have in a basin some chopped parsley, a few capers, a spoonful of floui’, a little dried saffron, 2 spoonfuls of vinegar, mix it all well together, dish it up. Serve with mashed potatoes. No. 153.—Peas and Beans. You must have to make this dish a red bread pan and cover, before using it stand it on the hob with boiling water for 2 or 3 hours to season it. Put in a bullock’s foot, 3 lbs. of boned brisket, 1 lb. of worsht, 1 pint of Spanish peas, 1 lb. of the small white beans, both peas and beans must be laid in soak from the night previous, slice 2 large onions, 2 teeth of garlic, cut a couple of white sticks of celery fine, pepper, salt, a very little cayenne, 3 large potatoes well washed and scrubbed, prick them with a fork, wash 6 fine eggs, (the shells are sometimes very dirty.) Put the foot at the bottom of the pan, then lay the peas and beans, onions, and all the seasoning, then put in the beef, the potatoes, and the eggs, put in some dried saffron and the worsht, fill 3 parts with cold water. This dish is generally made on Priday for Sabbath, therefore put it in the oven as soon as58 DOMESTIC COOKERY. you have it ready, so that it boils well, it is left in the oven all night. When you dish it up, put the foot and meat in, one dish, the eggs and potatoes in another, some like a pud- ding baked in it, if so, you have only to make a small rich plum pudding in a basin, tie it down with a clean piece of cloth, and put it at the bottom of the pan under all the in- gredients. You should take the beef out the next morning and return it to the pan in time to warm for the dinner. It should look a rich brown colour if properly cooked, and the fat should be removed before you put the soup in the tureen. SALT WATER FISH. Turbot, Brill, John Dory, Salmon, Cod, Whiting, Smelts, Soles, Plaice, &c. No. 164.—Boiled Turbot. Choose a very white and fine skin turbot, an hour before dinner put it into boiling water and salt, rub the juice of a lemon over it, let it boil fast at first, then draw the fish- kettle to the side. If the turbot boils too fast it will be woolly. Slit the skin at the back a little to prevent it breaking, if it is done before it is wanted lift the steamer out of the water and put it across the kettle with a cloth to- keep it warm. Dishit on a fish napkin garnished with fried smelts, horseradish, and parsley, serve with caper, anchovy sauce, or sauce No. 33. No. 155.—Fillets of Turbot with Cream Sauce. This is a dish made from the remnants of the day before. When the turbot comes from table take off the fillets and skin them at once, this must be done while hot or there will be great waste. The next day you must cut your fillets, as even as possible, put them in a deep dish at the side of the fire with some salt and pepper, a little water, to keep-DOMESTIC COOKERY. SO- them warm ; you should save some of the water the turbot was boiled in, it is quite a jelly, then make a sauce as follows :—Put into a small saucepan ^ lb. of butter, a table- spoonful of flour, salt, a little cayenne. Do not let this sauce boil, only melt it till it is thick, and season high, have some mashed potatoes in a dish for table, take the fillets out carefully, lay them on the potatoes, pour the sauce over, send it up. No. 156.—Broiled Turbot. Take a small turbot, lay it in a marinade of oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, let it lay for an hour, then broil it a nice- colour, remember to slit the skin on the black side, dish it up, and serve with caper sauce. No. 157.—Brill. This is very delicate and delicious eating, when broiled, with caper sauce. Boiled Brill. Boiled the same as tnrbot. No. 158.—Fillets of Brill. Made exactly the same as turbot. No. 159.—Salmon Fried. Cut your salmon in slices, wash it well, lay it in salt for half an hour, wash it off, lay it in a cloth to dry. Have your fish pan on the fire with oil enough to cover the slices, let it boil up; put a very small piece of bread or a tooth of garlic to fry, before you put the fish in, to take off the flavour of the oil; then have a plate with flour, and one with some eggs, beat in with a little salt and a little cayenne, dip the fish first in the flour, cover it all over lightly, then dip it in the eggs, put it carefully into the pan of oil, let it fry60 DOMESTIC COOKERY. nicely on one side then turn it on the other, put it on a fish drainer. When the oil is drained off, if to eat cold, put it on a fish napkin, garnish with parsley. Fried salmon eats better the next day. No. 160.—Broiled Slices of Salmon with Caper Sauce. Marinade your slices of salmon with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, f of an hour before you want to broil it Broil them before a very slow fire on both sides, then lay them on white paper at the bottom of the dish. Send up with caper sauce. No. 161.—Salmon Salad. This is an economical dish when you have any salmon left. Cut the salmon in pieces the size of dice, halve some anchovies. Wash them well, roll each half up like a fillet. Add some fine capers, cut up a pickled cucumber in pieces, chop 2 boiled eggs, and have a nice white lettuce. Put all this in a salad bowl, and make the sauce as follows :—Make a kind of mayonnaise. Put in 3 spoonfuls of oil, 1 of vine- gar, some chopped parsley and mint, a little fennel, beat all this together till it comes like a cream. Decorate your salad with some strips of beetroot. This, with a little taste, will make a very pretty dish. No. 162.—A Slice of Salmon with Montpelier Butter. If you have a good slice of cold salmon left, put it in a dish. Put 8 anchovies well washed and boned in a mortar, with a I lb. of fresh butter ; put into boiling water 2 shalots, 1 tooth of garlic, a little tarragon, a little fennel; take them out, dip them in cold water, and when quite cold put them in the mortar with the rest, add to them the yolks of 4 eggs boiled hard, with salt and a little cayenne, pound it all well, and rub it through a sieve, and put it over the slice of salmon. It is very relishing to eat cold.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 61 No. 163.—To Stew Salmon with Egg Sauce. See recipe to stew fish white. No. 164.—To Stew the Head of Salmon Carp Fashion. See recipe of stewed carp. No. 165.—To Stew Salmon with Green Peas. Wash and drain well pint of very young green peas, fry in a fish stewpan a chopped onion with 2 spoonfuls of oil, when fried, put salt, pepper, 2 lumps of loaf sugar, with ^ pint of water, let it cook well. When half done lay in the slices of salmon, rub in a basin 1 tablespoonful of fiour with the juice of a lemon, a little chopped mint and parsley, turn it into the stewpan. Dish up salmon in the centre of the dish, the peas all round, some of the juice over the salmon. No. 166.—Salmon. Thames salmon is the most esteemed, crimped salmon is very fine. Boiled slices of crimped salmon with anchovy sauce. Boil the slices quickly in boiling water, 15 minutes is enough, if you leave it longer in the water it will lose colour. Dish it up with anchovy sauce. No. 167.—Boiled John Dory. You boil it exactly the same as turbot, and serve with the same sauces. It is a very ugly fish, but extremely delicate. No. 168.—Broiled John Dory. Broil john doiy the same as turbot, lay it in marinade first, and serve with same sauces. No. 169.-Boiled Cod. Put the cod in a fish kettle with cold water, a handful of salt, let it boil fast at first, then draw it to the side. TheDOMESTIC COOKERY. ■62 time must be according to the size of the fish. When done lift the steamer across the kettle with a cloth to keep it warm, lay it on a fish napkin, garnished with parsley. Serve with caper sauce or sauce No. 33. No. 170-Fried Cod. Prepare and dress like fried salmon. No. 171—Stewed Cod with Egg Sauce- See fish stewed white. No- 172.—Cod Stewed with Turnips. Take 2 or 3 white, hard turnips, peel and cut in nice size pieces, say one turnip in 4 pieces, slice an onion in the stewpan with 2 spoonfuls of oil, let it fry, put in a ^ pint of water, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, put the turnips in, let them stew tender, then lay the slices of cod, let them stew till done, take out the cod, put it in the dish intended to send it to table. Then mix in a basin a spoonful of flour, 2 of vinegar or the juice of one lemon, with a little dried saffron, some chopped parsley, throw it in with the turnips, mix it well, dish the turnips round the cod, and put all the sauce over fish and turnips with a spoon. Garnish with sprigs of parsley. No- 173.-Baked Cod. Take a nice piece of the tail of cod, cut all the fins off, have some mashed potatoes with butter and yolk of eggs ready, slice in your fish tin 2 or 3 onions, with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, chopped parsley, and some marjoram. Notch the tail in slices just half down to the bone. Make layers of mashed potatoes and put where you have cut the slices of the fish to fill up, so that the tail will look twice the size, lay the tail on the fried onions, beat up 2 eggs with the juice of a lemon, and pour it over the fish, put it in the ■oven to bake a light brown, garnish with parsley.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 63 No. 174.—Croquettes of Cold Cod. Croquettes are made from any cold cod that may be left. Take all the white pieces of flesh free from bone, chop it wery flnely with parsley, marjoram, and a little rind of lemon; season with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, mix them up with a few crumbs of bread and an egg, roll them into balls the size of a pippin apple. Have a plate with fine bread crumbs, and one with eggs. Have your pan with oil, and when boiling hot put the croquettes in, fry a light brown, serve this on a fish napkin garnished with parsley and slices of lemon. No. I75.-T0 Boil Salt Cod. The black skinned ones are generally reckoned the best. Mind that it is well soaked and looks very white, put it to boil in cold water, as soon as it has boiled take it off the fire and let it stand at the side, simmering for|- an hour ; when done serve it on a fish napkin garnished with parsley. Serve with it boiled parsnips cut in nice pieces, and floury boiled potatoes. Make the sauce, serve separate in the sauceboat. No. 176.—Sauce for Salt Cod. Put in a small saucepan ^ lb. of butter, a spoonful of flour, a small tea-cup of the liquor the fish was boiled in, chop a little parsley and add the juice of a lemon to it, have 2 eggs boiled hard and chopped very small, put them in the sauceboat with the chopped parsley, a little salt and pepper, then pour over the melted butter. No. 177.—Salt Cod Stewed in the French fashion. Pound 2 or 3 teeth of garlic, put it into the stewpan with ^ pint of oil, pepper, and ground mace, and a little dried saffron, let it fry on the fire for five minutes, keep stirring it, squeeze and strain the juice of 3 lemons, add them, then have 2 lbs. of the thick part of the salt cod, dry it well, put it in the saucepan and let it simmer gently for ^ an hour. The salt fish must be boiled first. When done put the cod64 DOMESTIC COOKERY. in a dish, have a few large potatoes cut into small ones, and ready boiled by the time the stew is done, lay them round the fish and throw over the gravy. This is a very rehshing dish. Can be done with onions if garlic is objected to. No. 178.-TO Fry Whiting. The fishmonger generally .sends them ready skinned and turned round. Fry them the same as any other fish. They are very delicate boiled and served with caper or anchovy sauce. No. 179-Soles. Soles are an excellent fish and can be cooked in so many different ways. No. 180.—To Fry Soles whole. Soles can be fried whole, sent to table on a fish napkin, garnished with parsley. No. 181.—Fillet of Soles Fried. Fillet a nice pair of soles into 8 fillets, roll each fillet up and fasten with a fine piece of cotton, dip them in flour, and then well in the eggs. Fry in boiling oil or butter; dished on a fish napkin with little tufts of parsley looks very pretty. Some persons prefer the fillets fried without rolling up ; they do not look so pretty as the rolled ones. Dish them up the same if for luncheon; a few fried potatoes in the dish is an improvement. No. 182.—Stewed Fillets of Soles with Egg Sauce. Prepare the fillets as for frying, slice in a stewpan some onions with 2 spoonfuls of oil, let it fry, then add a cup of boiling water, lay in the fillets with salt, pepper, gratedDOMESTIC COOKERY. 65 nutmeg; let them cook for an hour; rub in a basin a spoonful of flour, 2 eggs, the juice of a large or 2 small lemons, a little dried saffron to colour, rub it quite smooth, then turn it into the saucepan ; dish the fillets up and lay the sauce over them. This is a very pretty dish for dinner or supper, garnish with a little parsley. No. 183.—To Boil Soles. Boiled soles are very delicate. Wash them well and let them lay in salt for ^ an hour before boiling; put them in the fish kettle, just cover them with water, lay them in with the white skin on top: that is the proper side to send them to table : 20 minutes will boil a good sized pair. As soon as the water boils skim it, and when you lift it see that all scum is washed off; they must look beautifully white. Have a dish ready with a fish napkin, slip them off the drainer on to the napkin, garnish round with parsley. Serve with caper or anchovy sauce in the sauce tureen. No. 184 —Boiled Soles are very good with Montpelier Butter, Boil the soles as above, make the Montpelier butter ac- cording to recipe ; mind to rub it well through a sieve. When you use the butter you must not put the fish upon a napkin as above. No-185.—Stewed Soles with Tomatoes. Slice in a stewpan an onion very thin, a tooth of garlic, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, 2 spoonfuls of oil or 2 oz. of butter, let it fry for 3 minutes; then lay in the soles— white skin on top—with 4 or 5 red tomatoes sliced on the soles; let it cook for 20 minutes, or i an hour if the soles are large. Then take out the soles very carefully, lay them on the dish you intend serving them up; rub the liquor through a sieve, it will look like a thick tomato sauce; when strained add the juice of a lemon and a little cayenne ; put it back in the saucepan to get hot, then lay it over the soles. 5DOMESTIC COOKERY. 66 . Remember that you put no water to this dish. A young beginner might fancy that I had forgotten it. The tomatoes will give sufficient liquor, as it requires to be rather thick. This is an excellent dish. No. 186.—Sole a la Normande. Take a fine large thick sole, wash it well and dry it, open it carefully, draw the bone as though you were going to cut off the fillets, slip the knife lightly not to cut the flesh, loosen the bone down the centre, get it out; chop very fine 6 mush- rooms, a little parsley ; put this into a small stewpan with 2 ounces of fresh butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg; stir it on the fire for 5 minutes till the mushrooms are cooked. Then beat 2 eggs and stir them in and put it over the fire till the eggs are set; then turn it all on a plate to cool. When cold put the mixture inside the sole in the place of the bone taken out. Then lay the sole on a baking dish covered over with paper buttered, first sprinkle over the fish salt and pepper, then put the paper, lay 2 oz. of butter in the dish, with the juice of a lemon. Be careful not to leave the sole too long in the oven ; have a few button mushrooms boiled in a little milk to keep them white, drain them dry when done ; cut 2 hard boiled eggs in slices, ready for gar- nishing, also a little chopped parsley. Lay the sole, take off the paper, in a very hot dish, turn the liquor into a small saucepan, mix a spoonful of flour with a glass of white wine, stir it into the liquor, let it boil to get thick like another sauce, pour it over the sole, and garnish one slice of egg with a little chopped parsley on and one button mush- room all round the dish. This is a very choice dish if well made. It will require practice for a young cook to accom- plish this, but with attention it is not at all difficult. No. 187.—Broiled Soles. Take a fine pair of soles, wash and dry them well, season them with salt and pepper; then dredge them lightly with flour, rub the gridiron with butter or oil, put them in before a very clear and bright fire, keep turning them, you must67 DOMESTIC COOKERY. not hare them done a minute before wanted, slip them off the gridiron on to a very hot dish, serve them with caper or anchovy sauce, or plain butter rubbed over them, with the juice of a lemon and a little cayenne. No. 188.—Boiled Plaice. Plaice when in season is often superior to turbot. A very large one can be dressed as boiled turbot, and sent up just the same, with caper, anchovy, or No, 33 sauce. No. 189.—Pried Plaice. Cut the plaice in slices, wash it well, salt it, and let it drain all the water ; then lay it in your fish cloth for half an hour before you are ready to fry it, prepare it just the same as other fried fish in oil or butter. No. 190.—Stewed Plaice. Plaice is stewed the same as other fish; it can be stewed with turnips the same as cod, or with egg sauce. No. 191.—Broiled Plaice. Take a fine thick plaice, wash, scrape the skin well, and lay it in salt for half an hour; drain it well, dry it in a cloth, notch it in slices like for frying, but do not cut it through, broil it like the soles, season it well, and serve it with sauce or plain butter, and lemon or vinegar. Vinegar may always be used when lemons are scarce or dear. No. 192.—Baked Plaice. Slice in your fish tin two or three onions with two spoonfuls of oil, with salt and pepper, put it in the oven to get hot; wash and dry well a thick plaice notched as above, lay it on the tin, season it well, and sprinkle over a little dried marjoram; dredge it with fiour, mix in a cup a little dried saffron with two spoonfuls of water, baste it over th®68 DOMESTIC COOKERY. plaice; boil some small potatoes, and when done put them round the tin with the plaice to get brown. When you dish it up, squeeze the juice of a lemon over, and a little chopped parsley; dish it up with the potatoes round, and garnish with parsley. This is a nice dish for dinner for a change. Eemember, if tomatoes are in season, two or three sliced with the onions improves it very much, or a few mushrooms chopped up. No. 193.—Boiled Haddocks. Haddocks are a very fine firm fish when fresh. Wash them well inside and out, put them on in cold water with salt, let them boil for half an hour, let them drain well on the strainer before you dish them up on a fish napkin, garnish with slices of lemon and parsley, serve with caper, anchovy, or tomato sauce. No. 194.—Fried Haddock. Haddocks fry well. Split them open, cut each haddock if a good size into eight pieces, fry them the same as the other fish. No. 195.—Broiled Haddocks. Wash a haddock, dry it well, lay it in the marinade (re- member, that is a little oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt), then prepare the gridiron as for the other broiled fish, dish it up with one of the sauces or the plain oil, and vinegar, or butter and lemon. A dish of mashed potatoes eats well for lunch with broiled fish. No. 196.—Baked Haddock. This is an excellent dish if well cooked. Prepare a stufiing of the mashed potatoes, herbs and spice, as before described, place it in the inside, sew it up. These are better baked in a deep earthenware dish ; turn the had- dock round with the tail in the mouth, chop some onionDOMESTIC COOKERY. 69 very fine, season the fish outside with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, dredge with flour or some raspings from the baker, put in the dish ^ lb. of butter to baste it well as it cooks. 2 or 3 tomatoes sliced with it. When you dish it up put on some chopped parsley, it must look green. You can prepare some potatoes as for the baked plaice. When you put it in the dish, pour the gravy all over it with a spoon. This is another nice dish for a fish dinner. No. 197.—Stewed Haddock with Turnip or Jerusalem Artichokes. Wash and clean well a fine haddock, cut it in 7 or 8 pieces, do not slit it open; put in a stewpan some onion sliced, with 2 spoonfuls of oil, salt, pepper, let it fry, then peel and cut some turnips as for stewed cod, put the pieces in with a teacup of water, let them boil till nearly tender, then put in '■^he pieces of haddock; when cooked, take out the haddock, lay it in the dish ready, stir in a basin a spoonful of flour, a little grated nutmeg, a little dried saffron, a little cayenne, and a little chopped parsley ; rub it all smoothly, then stir it in the stewpan with the turnip till it is a nice thickness, then place the turnip round the fish, and spoon the sauce over both; garnish with parsley. These dishes are good cold or hot. No. 198—^Haddock Stewed with Tomatoes. Stew the haddock and tomatoes exactly like the sole and tomatoes; garnish with parsley. No. 199.—Gurnet Boiled. Boiled gurnet is very fine. Wash and clean the gurnet well, boil it exactly as other boiled fish, and serve with either of the sauces according to taste. No. 200.—Gurnet Stewed with Tomatoes. Prepare the gurnet the same as the haddock, slice the onions and tomatoes at once with 2 spoonfuls of oil, or ^ lb.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 70 of butter, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg (no water to any fish that is stewed with tomatoes). When done, take out the fish, rub the sauce through a sieve, add the juice of a lemon, and cayenne pepper. No. 201.—Baked Gurnet. Prepare the same as baked haddock. No. 202.—Gurnet Soup. Take a fine gurnet, put it in a saucepan with a quart of water, salt, pepper, a blade of mace, a little dried saffron, cut up some vegetables, put it on with, wash a lb. of rice or ^ lb of macaroni or vermicelli, make a few fish balls, small, or a few German kleis, which must only be dropped in 10 minutes before going to table ; take out the fish, as it will not require boiling so long as the ingredients, or put your ingredients on first, then half an hour before dinner you can put in the fish, and 10 minutes before the kleis ; dish up the fish with a boiled cauliflower cut round, and pour over a good sauce made with butter. Before turning the soup out, rub in a basin \ lb. of fresh butter with a spoonful of flour, stir it in the soup, then turn it in the tureen or basin. This is an excellent dinner; you can make it entirely vegetable if you like. No.‘ 203.—Butter Kleis for Soups German Fashion. Eub in a basin 2 ounces of fresh butter with 3 spoonfuls of flour, a little salt, pepper, a little chopped parsley, and a little ginger or ground mace ; then beat an egg, mix it well with the other ingredients (it ought to be like a thick batter), take up a piece with a spoon, and drop it into the boiling soup. No. 204.—Shad. This is a fish almost equal to salmon, only that it has so many bones. The French cook it the best style I think. Let71 DOMESTIC COOKERY. the fishmonger split it open, then wash and dry it well, then lay it on a flat dish in a marinade (remember, oil, vinegar, pepper, salt), let it lay till next day, then broil it, and put over it oil and lemon. Serve for breakfast or lunch. No. 205.—Fried Shad. Prepared as the other fried fish, but it should be eaten hot, with lemon and cayenne. No. 206.—Shad Stewed, with Egg Sauce. Shad cooked in this way is excellent. You must prepare it exactly like the other fish. Stewed white with egg sauce. No. 207.—Shad Stewed with Tomatoes. Prepare the shad just as you prepared the soles with tomatoes. No. 208.—Boiled Mackerel. Wash and clean the mackerel well, put them on in cold water with salt, let them boil very gently, it makes the flesh hard; dish them on a fish napkin, garnish with fennel, serve with fennel sauce, and also a little apple or goose- berry sauce. No. 209.—Broiled Mackerel. Mackerel well broiled are excellent. Wash them well in two or three waters, they have a great deal of blood in them, dry them in a cloth well, season them with salt, pepper, and rub some juice of a lemon over them, grease the gridiron, lay them on, let them broil both sides well, put in a cup to melt 2ozs. fresh butter, dish them on a hot dish, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over it with a little cayenne. Be sure always to send up hot plates with broiled fish.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 72 No. 210.—Soused Mackerel. Wash them well, split them open, cut them in four, place them in a stewpan with some vinegar, 2 or 3 cloves, the same of allspice, pepper, salt, and a little cayenne, and 2 or 3 bay leaves; let them boil quickly for half an hour, put them in a deep dish, and serve as required with a little fennel. Turn them over each day. No. 211.—Baked Fillets of Mackerel. Wash the mackerel well, dry them, split them in halves, take out the bones, roll each half up, fasten with a piece of cotton, put in a deep dish some chopped onion, parsley and marjoram, pepper, salt, 3 or 4 cloves, with 2 spoonfuls of oil, or a lb. of butter, a cup of vinegar; let them bake for 1 hour, keep basting them, dish them up. This is very nice dish cold for luncheon or supper. Garnish with fennel. The sauce will be quite a jelly; put it nicely over the mackerel when cold. No. 212.—To Stew Mackerel with Winter Savory, Spanish Fashion, Wash and split the mackerel in halves, then cut the halves in two, dry them in a cloth, cut in a stewpan 2 or 3 teeth of garlic, with 3 spoonfuls of oil, let it fry, take out the garlic when fried, put on the juice of 3 lemons or 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar, salt, pepper, and a little cayenne, np water; lay in the mackerel with a spoonful of the dried leaves of winter savory, a little dried saffron, let it boil quickly for an hour, dish the mackerel up, pour the gravy ever, garnish with parsley. This dish is better cold. No. 213.—To Broil Red Mullet. Wash the mullet well, take care of the liver, dry them, season well with salt, pepper; butter or oil a sheet of paper well to wrap up eat h mullet, broil before a clear fire ; when73 DOMESTIC COOKERY. done, take off the paper carefully, squeeze over them some lemon juice with a little cayenne ; serve very hot, garnished with parsley. No. 214.—Stewed Red Mullet. Wash the mullets, let them dry in a cloth, put in a stew- pan a tooth of garlic fried in 2 spoonfuls of oil, when it fries a light colour take out the garlic, put in the juice of a large lemon (be sure always to strain the juice of lemons), a little salt, pepper, and a little cayenne, dried saffron to colour; put in the mullets, cook for half an hour, dish up, garnish with parsley. You can bake them just the same if jou like; instead of putting the ingredients in a saucepan, put them in a baking dish ; they will take about three-quarters of an hour to bake. No. 215.—To Boil Grey Mullet. Grey mullet is a very fine fish. Boil it the same as had- dock, dish it on a fish napkin, serve with caper, anchovy, or No. 33 sauce. No. 216.—To Broil Grey Mullet. The same as mackerel, or you can lay it for 2 or 3 hours in a marinade (oil, vinegar, pepper, salt), then bake it; serve with a melted butter sauce; garnish with parsley. No. 217.—To Stew Grey Mullet, with Egg Sauce. Prepare it the same as the other fish stewed with egg sauce. No. 218.—Baked Grey Mullet. Prepare it the same as baked haddock, stuffing and all. It is &st-rate if well done.DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 219.—To Fry Flounders. Flounders when fresh are very nice fried hot for luncheon. Fry them like any other fish; serve on a fish napkin, gar- nished with parsley. No. 220.—To Fry Fresh Herrings. Fresh herrings are not thought much of, but they really are a very rich fish. Wash them well, split them open, dip them in flour and eggs, fry them. No. 221.—Broiled Fresh Herrings. Broiled fresh herrings are very good and rich if eaten the moment they are broiled. Cut off the heads, draw out the entrails, wash and dry them well. Give 2 or 3 cuts across on each side, as they are broiled whole, grease the gridiron, season the herrings with salt and pepper, dredge a little flour on them lightly, put them on the fish gridiron, broil them on both sides. Put them on a hot dish with a piece of butter, | of lemon juice, a little cayenne and chopped parsley. Very hot dish and plates. No. 222.—To Bake Fresh Herrings. Wash the herrings well, take off the heads ; cut in a baking dish some onion, salt, pepper, a little marjoram, grated nutmeg, a teacup of vinegar. Place in the herrings a little saffron, let them bake till done ; dish them up, put a little chopped parsley over. This dish is very good cold, and very cheap for breakfast or lunch. No. 223.—To Fry Sprats in the Spanish Fashion. Sprats are very nice, but to look well give a great deal of trouble. Done in this way, make a very pretty dish, and in fact no one would know them for sprats. Choose some very large sprats, wash them well iu 3 or 4 waters; sprats75 DOMESTIC COOKERY. are very dirty. Take off the heads, split them open by running: your thumb up the centre, take out the bone care- fully, wash them well when boned, lay them in salt for ^ an hour. When you wash off the salt, lay each one separately in a very clean cloth. When well dried, put two sprats together, dip them in flour, then in eggs, fry them in boiling oil. Fry them a nice colour, put them on a dish for the oil to drain if to be eaten cold ; if hot, send them up on a flsh napkin in rows one above the other, garnished with layers of parsley. No. 224.—To Bake Sprats. Wash and clean them well, drain all the water from them, dry them well, put them in layers in a baking dish with salt, pepper, bay leaves, allspice, and cloves, and a ^ pint of vinegar. No. 226.—Broiled Sprats. These are delicious if you can get them hot from the fire. Pick the largest you can get, take off the heads, put them in layers on the gridiron, let them broil nicely both sides, have a dish at the side of the fire with a good lump of butter, turn them on the dish, season well with salt and pepper and the juice of a lemon; serve with very hot plates ; no garnish. No. 226.—Fried Guard Fish. Guard fish is a fine fish. Cut them open and wash and dry them well, lay them in salt; each fish can be cut in 4 pieces. Fry them like the other fish. % No. 227.—Stewed Guard Fish. Chop very fine a large onion, put it in a stewpan with 2 spoonfuls of oil or ^ lb. butter, cut the guard fish, lay it in with salt and pepper, a little grated nutmeg, a little driedDOMESTIC COOKERY. 76 saffron. Put it on to stew, when done rub in a basin a dessert spoonful of flour with the juice of a lemon, turn it over the fish. When dished up, chop some parsley and sprinkle it over. This is a very delicious way of cooking guard flsh. \ No. 228.—To Eoil Guard Fish. Boil them in salt and water, turn them round with the tail in the mouth, put them on a fish napkin, garnished with parsley. Serve with caper or anchovy sauce. ■ 4 No. 229.—To Fry Smelts. Smelts are only good fried. Fry them the same as soles or any other fish. Dish on a napkin and garnish with parsley. FRESH WATER FISH. Carp, Tench, Perch, Salmon Trout, Pike, and Dace. Salmon trout is a very delicate fish; it is good boiled, fried, broiled, stewed white or brown. No. 230.—Baked Trout. Wash it very clean and dry it well, make a nice stufl&ng of mashed potatoes, which is much lighter than bread, season the same as for the baked pike, sew it up, take your fish tin, slice some onions, put them in the dish, let them fry in the oven a light brown, take out the dish, squeeze the juice of a lemon in with a little cayenne, salt and white pepper; put over the salmon some raspings, you must put in the baking dish a ^ lb. of butter or a ^ pint of oil, and as it cooks you must keep basting it with a spoon, have some parsley chopped, and when you lay the trout in the dish throw over the gravy and the chopped parsley. 'X-77 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 231.—Boiled Salmon Trout. Salmon trout must be boiled in boiling water with a good spoonful of salt, no vinegar, that would spoil the colour of the fish. When it is done, drain it well, serve it up on a fish napkin, garnished with fennel, served up with anchovy- sauce or the sauce made expressly for fish No. 33. Keep to time with this fish or the flavour will be lost. No. 232.—Broiled Salmon Trout. Split them open like a mackerel, wash it, dry it well, lay- on it a spoonful of oil, the juice of a lemon, salt, pepper, a little cayenne, leave it for an hour, then broil it before a clear Are, you can put over it more oil and lemon, or caper or anchovy sauce; to lay flsh in oil and lemon, salt and pepper is called to marinade it, the French term. No. 233.—Pike Polish Fashion. Wash the pike clean, cut it in slices, put in a stewpan \ lb. of butter or 2 spoonfuls oil, cut 2 carrots in square pieces, a few roots of parsley, and 2 or 3 onions seasoned with mace, cloves, thyme, and 2 bay leaves. When this has fried a little in the butter, moisten it with ^ pint of water and boil it for an hour gently, then strain it through a sieve over the slices of pike, and let them stew till done, be careful they do not break; then rub in a basin a tablespoonful of flour with a little dried saffron and the juice of a lemon. Stir it in and dish it up garnished with parsley. The pike is a flne flsh. No. 234.—Fillets of Pike. Slit the pike open, eut it in pieces as near the shape of cutlets as possible, season them with salt and pepper, well beat in a plate 2 eggs, have on another some crumbs of bread with chopped parsley. Dip the pieces in the eggs, then in the crumbs, then again in the eggs, and then in the78 DOMESTIC COOKERY. crumbs. Fry^ them nicely; dish them up in a dish that you have put in some potatoes mashed with butter, cutlet fashion, garnish with slices of lemon and parsley. No. 235.—Baked Pike. Make a stuffing of mashed potatoes with butter and 2 eggs, chopped parsley, marjoram, salt, pepper, grated nut- meg, a little rind of lemon, put this into t& fish, sew it up; chop an onion fine at the bottom of a round baking dish (or your fish tin) with salt, pepper, butter or oil, lay the fish on it, squeeze a lemon over it and put a few lumps of butter on top of it. Turn the fish round, by putting the tail in the mouth, fastened with a skewer, put it in a good oven. When baked, dish it up and put over a good caper sauce; send up with nice boiled potatoes, all cut one size. No. 236.—Perch Boiled. Perch is an excellent fish for invalids who have a weak digestion. Put in a saucepan 2 or 3 parsley roots, an onion in slices, some salt, pepper, blade of mace. Wash the perch well free from scales, boil in the liquor for ^ of an hour, only 1 pint of water. Take them out, put them in a dish, pour over them a little melted butter and chopped parsley. No. 237.—Fried Perch. Split them open from the back, wash them well, dry them, season them well with salt and pepper, with the juice of a lemon. Let them lay in that for ^ an hour, dip them in flour and eggs, frying them in oil or butter. Send them up hot on a fish napkin garnished with parsley. No. 238.—Fried Tench. Tench is fried exactly as perch. It can also be stewed white.79 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 239.—Dace, Stewed WMte. Dace are very nice stewed white or like carp, and also are very good fried to be eaten hot. No. 240.—To Stew Carp Sweet and Sonr. Wash and cleanse the carp from the blood, cut a good sized carp in 6 pieces, slice in a stewpan a large Spanish onion with one tablespoonful of oil, salt, pepper, 3 cloves, 3 allspice, a little ground mace, put on ^ pint of ale or porter, set it on to boil, add the carp with pennyworth of gingerbread, crumble it to dust. When the carp is done, lay it in the dish you intend sending to table, rub the liquor through a sieve, put it back into the saucepan, mix in a basin a spoonful of brown sugar with 3 of vinegar, if not brown enough from the gingerbread, add little browning, stir it all smooth; put it over the fish with a spoon, cover it all over alike, cut slice of lemon, garnish the dish with them, and on top of each slice put a little chopped parsley as green as possible. If preferred, you can put port wine instead of ale. No. 241.—Boiled Carp with Caper Sauce. Wash the carp well, slit it open, dry it well, lay it in a little oil and the juice of a lemon, with salt and pepper, for an hour before cooking it. Then put it on the gridiron before a slow and clear fire, so that it may have time to cook well through when broiled on both sides. Serve it with caper sauce in which put 2 teaspoonfuls of anchovy sauce; put the sauce over the fish. No. 242.—Carp Sauce. Put in a saucepan } lb. of fresh butter, a dessert spoonful of flour, salt, pepper, nutmeg; a very little of each, a wine glass of cold water. Put it on the fire, stir it till it comes80 DOMESTIC COOKERY. smooth; taste it; add to it a spoonful of fine capers without the vinegar. No. 243.—Baked Carp. Split open the carp, lay it in a baking dish with some chopped onion, a little oil, vinegar, pepper and salt. Mash 2 or 3 potatoes with 2 eggs, parsley, marjoram, a little nut- meg. Lay it over the carp, let it bake a nice colour, send it up with sauce made in the same way with no caper, but flavoured stronger of the anchovy sauce. No. 244.—Soused Carp is excellent. Put it in a saucepan with ^ pint of water, ^ pint of vinegar, 3 cloves and allspice, salt, pepper and a little cayenne, a tooth of garlic. Let it cook till done, lay the carp in a dish, strain the liquor over. Remarks upon the Cookery necessary for the Nine days previous to the Fast of Ah. Having devoted a portion of this work to that purpose all recipes in which butter and milk are used will be found there ; several I have written expressly for those days, such as fish, soups, vegetables stewed with butter, puddings, calces, tarts, creams, custards, &c. And if a little attention is bestowed in selecting from the different recipes for the meals during the time, they can be varied as much as at any other period of the year, and makes an agreeable change from the constant use of meat. No. 245.—To make Fish Soup. Slice an onion thin in a saucepan, fry it in 2 ounces of butter ; have ready all kinds of vegetables, cut as for a julienne soup. Put in the saucepan pint of water, with salt, pepper, a blade of mace. Let it all stew well, then put on a gurnet, a piece of turbot, or any other fish you81 DOMERTIC COOKERY, intend dining: off to boil with a little salt in a pint and half of water. When it is done, take it ont and pnt it at the side to keep hot, and strain the water on to the vegetables; have ready some small fish or bread balls, boil them in with the vegetables, rub in a basin a spoonful of flour with a little browning to thicken the soup. This is an excellent soup; serve the gurnet with a good butter sauce with capers, and garnish with parsley. No. 246.—Butter Caper Sauce. Put in a small saucepan 2 oz. of butter, 1 spoonful of flour, ^ a teacup of milk or water, salt, pepper. Set it to warm, keep shaking the saucepan all the time till it thickens, then stir in a good spoonful of capers. No. 247.—To make Butter Cressy Soup. Boil and rub through a sieve 4 large carrots to a pulp. Fry an onion in a saucepan with 2 oz. of butter, fry it a light brown, put in pint and ^ of water, then add the pulp of the carrot with a tooth of garlic chopped very fine, salt and pepper. Then boil some fish and strain the liquor into the soup, if not thick enough stir in a basin a spoonful of . flour with the juice of ^ a lemon, a little grated nutmeg and a pinch of dried saffron. Toast a round of bread, cut it in dice, put them in the tureen with 2 oz. more of butter and a little chopped parsley, throw over the soup, and stir it well; serve the fish with parsley, boil a cauliflower or some turnips or any vegetable you like to put round the fish with anchovy or caper or tomato sauce. No. 248.—For Vermicelli or Macaroni Soup. Vermicelli soup is very nice made with milk and a few vegetables, with a lump of butter put in the tureen. Macaroni can be made exactly like the vegetable soup, instead of the balls, break in lb. of macaroni or ^ lb. rice. 6DOMESTIC CO' KERY. 82 No. 249.—Sole Pie. Fillet a good sized pair of soles; put them in a stewpan ■with a little salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, a few fine capers, 2 oz. of butter, a cup of water; rub a teaspoonful of flour in a basin with the juice of a lemon, a little dried saifron. Stir it in the saucepan to thicken the gravy. When done, put them in a nice sized pie dish, cut 2 hard boiled eggs in quarters. Make a good butter puff-paste to cover the dish, ornament it with a few leaves easily shaped out of pastry, and brush it over with the yolk of an egg. Bake it in a hot oven; garnish with parsley. No. 250.—Fish Patties. Boil 1 lb. of cod, or if you have any cold left, mince it with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, chop a few capers, mix it all up with an egg and juice of ^ a lemon. Make a good puff paste, grease the little patty pans, line them with the pastry, put in each a little of the minced fish, cover them with pastry and turn the edges neatly, brush them over with the yolk of an egg, put them in a quick oven. When done, take them out of the tins, dish them on a fish napkin, garnished with parsley. No. 251.—To make a Fish Fritada. Take any cold fish you may have left, mince the same as for the patties, pub some chopped parsley and marjoram, beat with 3 or 4 eggs, slice in a pie dish an onion, and, if you have them, 2 or 3 tomatoes with 2 spoonfuls of oil. When it is fried, put in a spoonful of vinegar, stir it together. Then add the fish and let it bake a nice brown, slip it out of the dish on to. a hot dish; garnish it with parsley. No. 252.—Ste'wed Fish Balls ■with Egg Sauce. Take 2 lbs. of cod and free it from all the bones ; chop it and season it with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and a83 DOMESTIC COOKERY. little of the rind of lemon chopped fine, parsley, and mar- joram, a little soaked bread, with the water drained from it. Mix well together with an egg, make them into nice-sized balls the size of an apple. Slice in the stewpan a large onion, 3 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, let it fry, add a teacup- ful of boiling water, let it boil up, put in the balls. When done beat in a basin 3 eggs, strain the juice of 2 large lemons, with a little dried saffron and a little chopped parsley. Stir and mix it all well together, dish them up by first taking out the balls, then strain the sauce over them. Garnish with parsley ; 3 or 4 tomatoes added to the balls is a great improvement and makes it a pretty dish. No. 253—Salmon Pie. Cut 2 lbs. of fine fresh salmon in slices, about f of an inch thick, wash and clean 5 or 6 anchovies and halve them, chop a dozen button mushrooms, a little parsley, a little lemon thyme, a couple of shalots very fine, put them into a very clean stewpan with 3 oz. of butter, some pepper, salt, nutmeg, the juice of a lemon, a teacup of water ; put in the salmon. Let it simmer gently, not the anchovies. Boil hard 4 eggs, when done put them in cold water, cut them in slices. Grease a pie dish with butter, put layers of the slices of salmon with some of the anchovies, and the slices of hard egg. When you have used it all throw over the gravy it was cooked in, have ready a good puff paste, make your pie as ornamental as you can, wash it over with yellow of eggs, with the paste brush. No. 254.—To Cook Sole with Vermicelli. Chop an onion and put it in a stewpan with a teacup of water, salt, and pepper, a little grated nutmeg. Let it boil till the onion is quite tender, add a pint of milk. Wash a large sole well, let it cook in the milk, then add a ;^-lb. of vermicelli; when done put the sole in a dish, and the vermicelli round, throw over a little chopped parsley. This is an exquisite and delicate dish for an invalid. Whiting may be cooked in the same manner.84 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 255.—To make Macaroni with Cheese. Take a pound of macaroni, haye a saucepan ready with boiling water with a little salt. Put in the macaroni, let them boil till they look white and soft, take them out, lay them on a sieve to drain. Then have a deep dish ready, grate ^-Ib. Dutch cheese, not too fresh, put a layer of maca- roni in the dish with some pieces of butter and a layer of grated cheese; continue the layers till you have used the macaroni, cheese, and butter, ^-Ib. will be required for this dish. Put it into the oven for 20 minutes. It must be sent to table in the same dish it. is baked in. This is a dish that is much admired if well arranged. No. 256.—To Stew White Beans. Lay in soak 1 pint of the large white beans the night before you require them. Put in a stewpan ;|-lb. of butter, and an onion chopped very fine, let it fry, add pint of water, put in the beans. Let them simmer gently till done. Then rub in a basin a teaspoonful of fiour with a little browning and a little chopped parsley. Stir it in, mix it well, season it with pepper and salt, and a teaspoonful of vinegar. The seasoning is added the last, as salt and vinegar harden the beans. This is sent up as a vegetable for butter dinners. TO STEW VEGETABLES WITH BUTTER. No. 257.—To Stew Potatoes. Peel 4 or 5 large potatoes, cut them in square pieces, chop an onion very fine, put it in a saucepan with 2 oz. of butter, let it fry, then add the pieces of potatoes, with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, sprinkle over some flour very lightly, and stir it all together with a spoon, then pour over ^ pint of cold milk. Set them on to cook, let them simmer till85 DOMESTIC COOKERY. done, be careful the potatoes do not break. When done the sauce will look like cream. Turn them into a vegetable dish and sprinkle over chopped parsley; send up very hot. Xo. 258.—To Mash Potatoes with Butter. Boil 4 or 5 potatoes cut in pieces, put on with a very little water, a little salt and pepper, let them boil, when done mash them well with a fork, put in 2 oz. of butter, 1 egg, mash it quite smooth. Xo. 259,—Fried Potato Balls. Mash 4 or 5 large potatoes with a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and a little chopped parsley. Mix it up with 2 eggs into a paste, roll it out on a pasteboard with flour the same as making paste, cut it in strips 2 inches wide and 6 long, then roll up each strip, dust it with flour, fry them in butter or oil. Xo. 260,—Fried Potato Chips. Wash some potatoes and dry them in a cloth, pare them in thin ribbons, and fry them dry, lay them on a strainer to drain off the oil or butter, then put them on a hot dish, sprinkle over salt and pepper mixed together. Xo- 261.—To Boil Potatoes. To boil them well they must be as near as possible one size, put them on with salt and not much water. Strain them five minutes before they are done, let them finish with their own steam. Dish them up as soon as done. Xo. 262.—To fry Potatoes French Fashion. Peel them, cut them in quarters rather thin, dry them in a cloth, sprinkle flour over them, have the butter or oil frying ready for them, put them in, keep turning to have them all one colour. Drain them, sprinkle them with salt and pepper mixed together.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 86 No. 263.—Potatoes Baked in the Skin. Wash and scrub well some large potatoes, dry them well in a clean cloth, prick them with a fork to prevent the skin bursting, feel them occasionally and press them with a clean cloth to make them floury. Send them to table on a cloth, no cover. No. 264.—To Stew Jerusalem Artichokes. Before peeling the artichokes wash them well, free of all dirt, in 2 or 3 waters, dry them on a^coarse cloth, then peel them and put them in cold water for 10 minutes, chop an onion very fine like a mince, put it in a saucepan with 1 ounce of butter, salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg, 1 tea- cup of milk, cut the artichokes in halves, let them simmer till done, careful they do not break. Stir in a basin a tea- spoonful of flour with a little water. Pour it over the artichokes, dish them up. No. 265.—To Stew Tnmipg. Turnips are stewed exactly the same as the artichokes. When you dish up the turnips sprinkle parsley over. No.‘ 266.—To Stew Spinach with Eggs. Wash and pick the spinach well, pass it through several waters, put it to drain, then put it in a saucepan with some salt, no water, put it at the side to boil, spinach gives a great deal of water. When done put it in a colander to drain, then chop it very fine on a board. Chop very fine in a saucepan an onion, fry it with 2 spoonfuls of oil, or 2 ounces of butter, put a teacup of boil- ing water. Lay in the spinach, let it simmer for 10 minutes, then break 5 or 6 eggs, each one separately in a cup, then put the eggs on the spinach. When all the eggs are in, sprinkle over some pepper and salt, let them boil with the spinach. When they are set dish them up gently, not to disturb the eggs.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 87 No. 267.—To Stew Peas with Eggs. Fry an onion sliced in 2 spoonfuls of oil, or |^-lb. of butter; salt and pepper. Pick carefully i peck of peas, wash and drain them, put them in the saucepan with the oil and onion, add a teacup of boiling water, 3 or 4 lumps of sugar, chop a little fresh mint. Let it all cook till the peas are done, then break 5 or 6 eggs, each one separately in a cup, put them on the peas, let them cook till they are done, dish up carefully. No. 268.—To Stew Cabbage and Rice. Get a nice white cabbage very hard, wash it well, lay it in water with a little salt, then drain it well, divide it into halves, slice very fine on a board; have washed :]^-lb. of rice. Then take an onion, slice it into a stewpan with 2 table- spoonfuls of oil or :|-lb. of butter, let it fry, add | pint of boiling water, salt, and pepper, a little dried saffron, put in the chopped cabbage. Let it cook for of an hour, then put in the rice, let it simmer till done, it will be set like a pudding, quite dry from the liquor. Dish it up. All these vegetables are suited for the nine days. They mix well with fish dinners. No. 269.—To Boil a Cauliflower with Butter Sauce. Put a fine white cauliflower in salt and water to boil, be careful it does not break, put it to drain in the colander over the boiling water, make a good sauce of melted butter with chopped parsley, put the cauliflower in a dish, and pour over the sauce. Boiled cauliflower with egg sauce is excellent. No. 270.—Green Peas and Blleis. Pick a ^ peck of peas, wash them well, let them drain, put them in a saucepan with ^ pint of milk, seasoned with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, let it simmer till the peas are cooked; then mix in a basin 1 oz. of butter, 2 eggs.88 DOMESTIC COOKERY. with two spoonfuls of flour into a yery loose paste; as the peas and milk boil, so take up a dessert spoonful at the time of the mixture, drop it into the peas; the kleis will adhere to the peas; dish it up in a deep dish very hot. No. 271.—To Boil the Globe Artichoke. Let them lay in water and salt to cleanse them well, put them on in salt and water to boil: when you can pull off a leaf easily they are done. No. 272.—To Stew Globe Artichokes. I Take 6 fresh ones, cut off the stalks, peel them, and cut them in pieces, take off all the hard leaves, cut them in quarters, cut out the chokes, wash them well, put in a stew- pan a I pint of oil, cut in 2 teeth of garlic, let it fry a light .brown, then take out the garlic, put in a tea-cup of boiling water with salt and pepper, lay in the artichokes with a little dried saffron, let them stew till quite tender, then add the juice of a lemon, mix it well with the liquor; dish them up in a deep dish. To be eaten cold. No. 273.—To Boil Sea Kale. Lay the sea-kale in salt and water for \ an hour, put it on to boil in a saucepan, cover it with boiling water and salt, have ready a slice of bread toasted to lay the kale on, serve it up with melted butter. No. 274.—To Boil Asparagus. Scrape it, tie it in bundles, boil the same as kale; dish it on a toast, serve with melted butter. No. 275.—To Boil Vegetable Marrows. Scrape them gently outside, cut them in quarters, cut out all the seeds, 5am it well, lay it on a toast, serve with melted butter.DOMESTIC COOKERY. , 89 No. 276.—To Stew Windsor Beans with Butter. Pick a ^ peck of beans, and remove the inside shells; put them in a stewpan with a chopped onion, salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg, I lb of butter, a tea cup of water, let them cook till tender, rub in a basin quite smooth a dessert spoonful of flour, with a spoonful of water, a little chopped parsley, turn it into the beans, stir it with the liquor. h ■i \REMARKS ON SWEETS, &c As I have now commenced upon the Sweets, Pud- dings, Tarts, Pies, Custards, Jellies, Blancmanges, and various other sweets, I wish to show you a substitute for Milk and Butter. For Butter you must get 1 lb. of veal fat; melt it yourself by cutting it in very small pieces, put it into an old iron saucepan, which should be kept for that purpose only. When it is quite melted, have a clean basin ready with a little cold water, strain the fat through a sieve and let it stand till the next day. Then take the fat out of the basin, scrape the bottom of it, as the water clarifies it; put92 DOMESTIC COOKERY. it in a deep dish with two tablespoonfuls ot oil. Warm it, and beat it up well with a fork, and it will come as white as snow, and serves for Pastry and all other dishes that require butter. When you make a Pudding or a Cake that has no suet or butter in it, so that you can use it at any time, have always in your store closet a bottle with two or three ounces of the Oil of SAveet Almonds to grease your tins or moulds. When you Avish to have a Custard or a Pudding made with milk for dinner, and as our religion does not alloAv us to use butter and meat together, you must make some almond milk. I have seen it made to such perfection that butter has been churned from it. I Avill noAv give you the recipe to make it; if Avell made, you can send it in with Coffee after dinner. No. 277.—Almond Milk. Take 1 lb. of good Valentia almonds sweet (you must never have bitter in almond milk), lay them in hot water to get off the skins, as you peel them out of the hot water throw them into a basin with cold water. Have your marble mortar very clean, pound them by degrees, have a very fine sieve (which keep only for this purpose), have a pint of cold water in a mug, and as you put the pounded almonds in the sieve, throw a little cold water over them till you have used up the pint for theDOMESTIC COOKERY. 93 pound, turn the milk with the almonds into a very clean saucepan, boil it up, strain it again into a basin for use. You use it just the same as you would milk, the almonds serve for many purposes, if you are making other sweets. I shall speak upon that again. HOT AND COLD PASTRY. It may not be amiss to observe in this place that, notwithstanding the number of articles of Pastry that may be made, you proceed nearly always upon the same principle and the same paste. It rests with the cook to change the arrangements and forms; it will always be found to be a compound of sugar and fat if for a meat dinner, and sugar and butter if for a fish dinner. The different Sweetmeats that serve for garnishing greatly contribute to improve the flavour and appearance. Puff-paste, which is sent up to table in so many forms, can only be made in one way. It may- be more or less thick or thin. The baking of pastry requires particular care and attention. You must make yourself well acquainted with the oven. The best prepared pastry, if not well baked, will be good for nothing. I would recommend strict attention to these remarks. Be particular also that your flour is dry.94 DOMES'!IC COOKERY. DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING THE DIF- FERENT PASTES FOR PIES, PUDDINGS, TARTS, e<^c. I will begin with the paste which is called pulF-paste. To make this to perfection, you must make it of equal quantities either for meat or butter. For meat you must take 1 lb. of the melted fat, either Yeal or beef Let it get warm and soft like butter, put with 2 tablespoonfuls of oil, mix it well and beat it till it is white as snow and just the consistency of butter; place in a basin 1 lb. of flour to make puff-paste, it must be the best. Take up the lb. of fat you have beaten in the lump, lay it on the flour, * turn it over to cover it with flour, lay it on the paste board, then make a paste with the re- mainder of the flour with a little cold water, not harder or softer than the fat; it would be an impossibility to tell you what quantity of water; you must use your own judgment. When you have made this paste, roll it out on the board, then take the lump of fat. lay it on top and roll it over the paste, sprinkle a little flour over, then fold it up on the board and cover it with the basin you made it in, and let it be for one hour; if in summer it must be put in a very coldDOMESTIC COOKERY. 95 place for the fat not to melt; if in winter, you can leave it in the kitchen, as the fat must not ^et hard. To make good puff-paste, either butter or meat, you must be very particular not to handle it too much, and as light as you can ; before beginning it in the summer let the cold water run well over your hands. Sometimes in the summer you have to put it on ice to get it the proper firmness. The pufi-paste well made and well baked, while hot cannot be told from butter pastry. You must use puff-paste for all your pies and tarts, tartlets, and pigeon or giblet pies. I think I have given you the directions how to make it as clearly as it is possible to do, now I will show you how to use it. After it has laid for an hour, put it on your paste board, roll it out lightly 3 times, if you require it for a pie, grease the edge of the dish, roll out a piece not thicker than half-an-inch, cut it in strips the width you require for the edge of the dish, put in the fruit, meat or poultry, shape it nicely, then roll out a piece to cover it over; always shape your pies to rise in the centre, trim the edges nicely round by holding the dish on the palm of your hand and passing the knife round quickly and smoothly. If for a fruit pie, make an incision with the knife at one end to prevent the juice from boiling out,DOMESTIC COOKERY. 9G and the steam evaporates from it, then sprinkle over a little very fine powdered sugar, and beat a little of the white of an egg in a little water, sprinkle it over with a paste brush to damp the sugar, bake it in a very quick oven, 20 minutes or I an hour is enough, as the ingredients are always cooked first for puff-paste. If for a meat pie, you trim the edges of the dish just the same, cover it over and make an incision also, and with the pieces you cut off make a few leaves to ornament the top; in a meat pie you always make a hole in the centre, and form your trimming to point up there; cut 4 square pieces, rather a long shape, off the end on the slant, like cutting a piece of ribbon for a string, j^inch up the top, then those 4 pieces will form like 4 leaves. Then roll a small piece up, ornament it with the knife and set it in the centre over the ends of the 4 pieces. Wash the pie over with the yolk of an egg ; bake it in a very quick oven, put a few sprigs of double parsley on the top care- fully when you send it to table. You use the puff-paste for tarts of any description, you must remember always to have the ingredients ready according to the recipes. Before you begin the paste, if fruit let it be quit^. cold, or }mu will spoil the paste, for little tartlets you97 DOMESTIC COOKERY. must grease them well, line them by laying them on the paste and shaping them round, square, or oval, till them then either with sweet fruit or meat, and always cut the cover from one of the small tartlet pans ; if meat, wash over with yolk of an egg; if fruit or sweetmeats, with sifted sugar and the white of eggs, and water according to direction in a former page. Now, I repeat again, if for butter, use it as 1 lb. of butter to 1 lb. of flour. The next paste to puff-paste is qnade as follows : f lb. of melted fat, 1 lb. of* flour, or Jib. of butter, 1 lb. of flour. You use it just the §ame as the puff-paste in making it up. The short crust or crust for ordinary pur- poses is made with J lb. of fat, J of flour; for butter, J lb. butter and J of flour. This paste is for beef-steak pies or fruit pies for daily use. For baked fruit or meat puddings, the crust is best made with tine chopped suet in the like pro- portions as above. No. 278.—A Baked Apple Pudding. Peel 4 good sized apples, cut them up rather small, put them in a stewpan, with of moist sugar, 1 oz. of dried currants, 1 oz. of raisins, 1 oz. of almonds chopped, 2 oz. of lemon and orange peel chopped, a little cinnamon, and a little ground cloves; let it stew till the* apples are quite soft, chop a f lb of suet very fine, put it in a dish with 6r O 98 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 5 dzs. of flour, a little salt, mix with a little cold water, make 1 it ^into a paste, roll it out on your paste-board 3. times, '[ divide it in 4 pieces, grease a pudding basin well, and put ^ in k little brown sugar with.n little cinnamon; roll out one ‘ )the pieces of dough, put it at the bottom of the basin, n put a layer of the stewed fruit, so on alternately, leav- the last layer of paste to form the top; bake it, and turn it out of the basin to send it to table, it will look all lazed. • * No, 279.—To Make Baked Fruit Puddings. % Stew your fruit and let it get cold; then make a paste like the former, roll it out the three times, grease the basin and sugar it, roll out the paste in one round, line the basin with it, cut it off all round, those pieces are to form the cover, lay in your fruit, roll ont what you cut, off, cover it over, press it down; bake it, turn it Out like the last. Some prefer the puddings baked to boiled. These puddings can be filled with gooseberries, plums, damsons, cherries, cur- rants and raspberries, in fact, any fruit in season. Always stew your fruit with sufficient sugar to sweeten; it is disagreeable to add more sugar at table, or for the fruit to be sour. J , No. 280.—Cherry, Currant, and Raspberry Pie. Pick, wash, and drain your fruit well; | lb. cherries, \ pint of raspberries, ^ pint of currants, put to stew with ^ lb. of moist sugar ; if too much syrup, strain off the syrup and put it in a b^ottle to drink with cold water. Let the fruit get cold, line a dish (if for company with puff paste, if for ordinary occasions with medium paste), cover over, and follow out directions for baking. - All fruit pies to be made the same; No. 281.—To Make a Dutch Apple Pie. Peel and core 3 or 4 good l:p^es, cut them small, with a few currants, raisins, and almonds, candied lemon and I IDOMESTIC COOKERY. 00 orange peel, a few chopped almonds, cinnamon, and cloves, •^Ib of moist sugar; let this stew well together, turn it out to get cold, make a pulf-paste, line and cover the dish, bake in a very brisk oven. This pie, if well made, is equal to mincemeat. No. 282.—To Make an Apple Pie. Peel and core 4 or 5 good cooking apples, boil them with 41b. of loaf sugar and a few cloves; when done, beat it up to a cream v.dth a fork, blanch and quarter a dozen almonds, cut up 1 oz. of citron in small pieces; when cold, add to it 2 tablespoonfuls of orange-flower water, line your dish with puff-paste, cover it over, sprinkle with powdered sugar, and damp with white of egg and water ; bake in a quick oven. No. 283.—To Make a Greengage Pie. Wash and drain a quart of greengages, stew them with 4 lb. of loaf sugar, 1 oz. ground almonds, a little cinnamon, (remember not to put any water to stewed fruit for pies or tarts), let it get cold, line a dish with pufip-paste, cover, bake in a quick oven. These pies are always served with a baked custard. Make from recipe for custard with almond milk if for a meat dinner; otherwise make with milk. No. 284.—To Make a Guince Pie. Peel and core 4 or 5 quinces, boil them with the rind of a lemon chopped fine, a little ground cloves, and fib. of moist sugar. When done, beat it up to a pulp, mix with the yolks of 2 eggs well beaten, line a pie-dish with pufi-paste, lay in the fruit quite cold, cover over, bake in a quick oven. Eemember always to dust your pies with sifted sugar, and damp with white of egg and water. No. 285.—Cream Codling Tart. Peel and core 6 codling apples, cut them in small thick pieces, put them in a saucepan with | lb. of loaf100 DOMESTIC COOKERY. sugar, 2 or 3 cloves. Let them boil to a pulp, then beat them well with a spoon till they are quite smooth. Mix with them a wine-glass of orange-flower water. Line a pie dish with puff paste, and when the apples are cold turn them into the pie dish, put a border of paste round, crossbar the top with pastry. Bake it in a quick oven. Mix in a basin 3 eggs, with 3 tablespoonfuls of sifted sugar, mix it well together, boil J pint of almond milk, and stir your eggs in with a little more orange-flower water—not much, your custard is then made. Let it cool, then turn it over the top. Codling tart is very much liked. No. 286.—Dried. French Plum Pie. Stew 1 lb. of French plums until tender, in a very little water, pint. When done add 1 glass of port wine and 4 ounces of loaf sugar. Put them into a pie dish, line it and cover it with a rich puff crust. Bake in a hot oven, a little grated lemon peel adds to the flavour. No. 287.—Omelet Souffl^ Break 6 eggs, the yolks in one dish, the whites in another; add to the yolks 3 tablespoonfuls of castor sugar, ^ a spoon- ful of the best flour, 10 drops of orange-flower water. Beat the yolks and sugar well together, whip the whites to a stiff snow, add the yolks to the whites, beating the snow all the time. Have ready a silver or plated dish, or for want of either a round cake tin; grease it with the almond oil and sift some sugar over it, place the mixture in, put it in a hot oven, look that it rises, if so, run a knife round it, sift some more sugar lightly over it, put it in the oven again. When well risen serve it quickly with a table napkin round the shape. No. 288.—Cocoa Nut Tart. Brealv a cocoa-nut, cut the brown skin off,..cut the nut in pieces and put them in cold water. When ready to make the tart take it out of* the water, dry it well, grate a101 DOMESTIC COOKERY. I lb. very fine into a plate, put in a ^ lb. of castor sugar, ^ lb. of the clarified veal fat well beaten, stir the sugar and fat together till it comes like a cream, a tablespoonful of brandy, 4 dro'ps essence of vanilla, beat up the whites of 6 eggs well, add gradually the fat and sugar, keep stirring it, then add gradually the grated cocoa-nut. Line a pie dish with good puff paste, put in the mixture, crossbar the top, put it in a moderate oven for ^ an hour, sift over some pounded sugar and cinnamon. You can make it with butter instead of the fat should you require it. No. 289.—Marrow Pudding. Half-pound of marrow beat to a froth, h lb. sifted sugar, i lb. of ground almonds, cut up 2 oz. of candied lemon and orange peel, flavour with orange-flower water, 8 eggs, each one beat in separately. Line a dish with good puff paste, lay in the mixture, crossbar. Bake it in a quick oven. This is a delicious pudding well made. No. 290.—Carrot Pudding. Six ounces of grated carrot, G oz. of bread crumbs, 2 oz. of orange and lemon peel, 6 oz. of chopped suet, 8 eggs, I lb. ground almonds, 6 oz. of sifted sugar. Beat all up well together, grease an earthenware mould, and sift sugar over it, put in the mixture and boil for 3 hours. Serve with wine or brandy sauce. No. 291.—Ground Eice Pudding. Take a ^ lb. ground rice mixed with a cup of cold milk. Boil I of a pint of ihilk, stir in the rice, let it boil till it thickens. Put it out to get cold, put in lb. of fresh butter, ^ lb. of sifted sugar, tablespoonful of orange-flower water, the yolks of 3 eggs, and the whites of 2, 2 oz. of lemon and orange peel cut in slices. Make a good puff paste, line the dish, put in the rice, put over lemon and orange peel, crossbar.Jt with strips of paste, and between each put half of a blanched almond. Bahe ,in a quick oven.102 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Ifo. 292. Richmond Maids of Honour. A teacup of cream, mix with G oz. of fresh butter, break the yolks of 4 eggs into a basin, beat them with a glass of brandy, add to this 6 oz, of castor sugar, beat this Avell to- gether. Have a very floury potato boiled, and when cold rub it up to a flour quite smooth, 1 oz. of sweet almonds, ^ an oz. of bitter pounded very fine, pound also with them 1 oz. of Barcelona nut, grate the rind of 2 lemons, the juice of 1, ^ grated nutmeg. Now mix all well together, add the cream and butter, stir well together. Have a rich puff paste, line the little patty pans, trim the edges neatly, put in some of the mixture. Bake quickly in a hot oven. No. 293.—Cheesecakes. TVarni 4ozs. of butter, mix with 4 ozs. of castor sug^;-^ grate in the rind of 3 lemons, the juice of one (rememl^r always where the juice of lemon is used to strain it), beat well 3 eggs, a spoonful of brandy, a little grated nutmeg, mix all well together, line your tartlet pans with rich puff- paste, put a small quantity in each, bake in a quick oven. Cheesecakes can be varied by putting ground almonds instead of the grated lemon, or a little Seville orange, and adding a few slices of candied lemon or orange peel, or thin cut citron. No. 294.—A Sweet Tart. Soak ^ lb. of savoy biscuits in a pint of milk, beat them up, add G oz. of fresh butter, the yolks of 4 eggs,’2 oz. of candied orange and lemon peel, 4 oz. of castor sugar, mix all well up together; butter well a deep dish, bake in a quick oven; beat the 4 whites to a stiff snow, and just before the tart is done spread over the snow, return it ta the oven for it to colour a light brown. Please to remember that in all sweets you must put a small pinch of salt, it brings up the flavour.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 103 No. 295.—Plum Puddingy. Half lb. flour, ^ lb. soaked bread, 1 lb. well washed and dried currants, 1 lb. well stoned raisins, lb. citron, orange, and lemon peel, h oz. of mixed spice, 1 lb. of finely chopped suet, 2 oz. of almonds blanched and cut in long strips, the rind of a fresh lemon chopped finely, | lb. of moist sugar, 6 eggs well beat, ^ glass of good ale; beat all well together for an hour, grease a mould or basin well, and sift some sugar over it, tie it in a cloth (if a mould it will have a cover), let it boil for 6 or 7 hours. Although old fashioned, the boiling of a plum pudding in a cloth is superior to moulds or basins. Serve with a good wine or brandy sauee (see sauces), have some almonds blanched and cut in equal sizes to stick it like a porcupine, or whip some whites of eggs to a snow with a little castor sugar, and flavoured with lemon, or put some rum or brandy in the dish, and light it at the door of the dining-room before it goes in. No. 296.—Pudding a la Reyuah. 2 oz. of savoy biseuits, 2 oz. of almond cakes, 1 oz, ‘ of ratafias, ^ lb. of loaf sugar, ^ a tumbler of sherry, 1 wine- glass of rum, 6 eggs, ^ pint of almond milk, 1 oz. of isinglass; boil the isinglass in a little water to dissolve, then strain it into the milk, beat up the eggs, stir in the wine and rum, stir it into the almond milk in which you have boiled the sugar, let it all boil to a custard, turn it out to cool; then crumble up the whole of the cakes, grease the mould with oil of almonds, dust it well with sifted sugar, cut up 1 oz. of orange and lemon peel, 1 oz. of angelica, all cut in nice strips; ornament the mould well with them, then put a layer of the crumbled cake and one of custard till the mould is filled, then put it in the ice to set, turn out just before it is wanted, if for supper you can use milk instead of almond milk. No. 297.—The Original Almond Pudding. 16 eggs, leave out 8 whites, 1 lb. of ground almonds (2 oz. of bitter are included in the 1 lb. of almonds), 1 lb. of sifted104 DOMESTIC COOKERY. sugar, two-penuyworth of orange-flower water, beat the eggs well with the orange-flower water, then add the sugar and almonds gently, then beat it all for 1 hour till it bubbles, then grease the dishes with almond oil, then put in the mixture. This quantity will make two large, or four small round dishes look prettier. If you wish to have them very rich, clarify Jib. of sugar, J pint water, and when the pud- ding comes out of the oven pour it over. They must be baked in rather a moderate oven, and when half done that the mixture is set, put over them a paper greased with the almond oil for them not to get too dark, just loosen them, and let them cool before you take them out of the dish. Garnished with blanched almonds and thousands they look well for table. No. 298.—Baked Bread Pudding. Soak a piece of stale bread, say about 1 lb., drain it well from the water, beat the bread with a fork, add to it 2 oz. of currants well washed, 2 oz. of raisins well stoned, J lb. of moist sugar, 2 oz. of melted fat, a little grated nutmeg and cinnamon; beat it up with 4 eggs and a J-cup of water, grease a dish, place it in, cut a few pieces of orange or lemon peel, and cut a few almonds: put them on the outside with the peel. No. 299.—Vanille Pudding. Melt J lb. of butter, stir in 3 oz. flour very dry, work it up well, stir in J pint of milk, stir it till it is quite thick, let the liutter get quite cold again, then beat in the yolks of 8 eggs one after the other, pound a piece of vanille with J lb. of sifted sugar, mix that in also, then beat the 8 whites to a snow, stir them in, grease a shape well with butter and sugar, put the mixture in, stand it in a flat stewpan half full of water, let it boil slowly for 2J hours. Turn these puddings out very carefully, and always lay the sauce round in the dish, not over the pudding. Eemeraber that all these puddings can be made either way for meat or butter purposes.105 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 300.—Noodle Pudding. Break 8 eggs, mix it with sufficient flour to make a paste, and a pinch of salt; roll the paste out as for frimsells, cut it in strips of an inch wide, boil them for a few minutes, put them in a sieve to drain, then put the noodle strips in a basin with a ^ lb. of currants well washed and dried, lb. of raisins Avell stoned, grate the peel of a lemon, 2 ozs. of orange and lemon peel, j lb. of melted suet, mix all well together, with 6 eggs well beaten, grease and sugar a mould, boil for 2 hours, serve with wine or brandy sauce. You can make this pudding for a fish dinner. Boil the paste in milk instead of water, butter instead of the melted fat. ^ No. 301.—To Make Eve’s Pudding. 8 ozs. of chopped suet, 8 ozs. of bread crumbs, 8 ozs. of currants well washed and dried, 6 oz. of apple, 8 eggs, a little grated nutmeg; beat the eggs well, the yolks and whites separately, mix all well together, beat for 20 minutes, grease a pretty shape well, sift over some sugar, boil for 2 hours, serve with a rich rum sauce. No, 302.—Punch Sauce for Puddings- Beat the yolks of 3 eggs with an ounce of sifted sugar, boil a teacupful of water with the juice of a lemon, add ^ a teaspoonful of arrowroot to the eggs. When you have beaten them, pour the beaten eggs and sugar into the boiling water and lemon. When it is thick, stir in a wine-glass of good rum. This is called punch sauce. This is a most delicious pudding sauce. No. 303.—A Cabinet Pudding- Two ounces of savoy biscuits, 2 do. of sponge cake, 2 do ratafias, 2 do. of good raisins, 2 do. of lemon and orange peel. Grease a shape well with almond oil, with sugar sifted over; -make at the bottom a star with the finger106 DOMESTIC COOKERY. biscuits, ornament 'with a few of the raisins, a few pieces of the candied peel and ratafias, then crumble up the whole of the remainder of the cakes, mix with the peel and raisins. Mix in a basin a pint of almond milk, lb. of sugar, orange- flower or vanilla flavour, beat in the yolks of 6 eggs, then beat the whites to a snow ; stir in also a few spoonfuls of raspberry, strawberry jam, or orange marmalade improves the pudding. Put the cover on the mould with a piece of writing paper under, stand it in a flat saucepan with boiling water. Boil hours. Serve with a good sauce. No. 304.—Ratafia Pudding. * Quarter pound of ratafias, 6 sponge cakes, 3 oz. of citron, the grated rind of a lemon, lb. of castor sugar, soak the cakes in J pint of almond milk ; beat in 6 eggs, leave out 3 whites. Grease and sugar your mould, lay over it some orange marmalade, turn in the mixture. Boil for an hour the same as the other puddings. Serve a sauce round. You can sometimes ornament these puddings with cut almonds. I will now give you a fruit sauce, you can use it when wine is not approved of. No. 305.—Fruit Sauce for Puddings. Beat up the yolks of 2 eggs with a teaspoonful of arrow- root very smooth, if fresh fruit is not in season take some jam, pour over it a little hot water to enable you to run it through a sieve, stir it into the egg with a spoonful of lemon juice, then boil a teacupful of almond milk, stir it in and let it boil to thicken. Then turn it round your pudding. No. 306.—An Excellent Carrot Pudding. Mix in a basin J lb. flour, ^ lb. chopped suet, | lb. grated, carrot, ^ lb. of raisins stoned, J lb. of currants, well washed, I lb. of sifted sugar; beat up 2 eggs,the yolks of 4 more, with a gill of ale, and a little grated nutmeg. Mix it all well together, put it in a well-greased mould, bake or boil it for 1 hour. Serve with wine or brandy sauce.107 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 307.—Preserved Ginger Pudding. Six ounces of melted veal fat, to which add 6 oz. of flour, stir it over a slow fire, a pint and a half of almond milk, which mix in gradually with the above over the fire; then beat up the yolks of G eggs, | lb. of preserved ginger cut fine, beat the whites of the eggs to a snow ; mix in well. Grease a mould well with almond oil and sifted sugar, tie it down and let it steam for 2 hours. Serve with a brandy or rum sauce. No. 308.—Charlotte Russe. One ounce of isinglass broken small, boil it in | pint of water, put in a piece of vanilla to boil with, when the isin- glass is dissolved strain it through a sieve ; beat the yolks of 8 eggs, stir in ^ pint of almond milk (or if for a supper I pint of milk), beat the whites to a strong snow, stir it into the eggs, isinglass, and almond milk. Take a round mould, grease it well with the oil of sweet almonds, line it with savoy finger cakes, cross them at the bottom to form a star in the mould, put several ratafias and a few dried cherries. When this is fixed well, pour your mixture in gently, cover the top with the finger cakes like the bottom. Put it in ice or a very cold place, pass a hot cloth round, turn it out on your dish. This is a very choice sweet, and very easy to make with a little attention. No. 309.—Souiile of Raspberries. Rub through a sieve a pint of raspberries, grate the rind of a lemon and the juice of ^ a lemon, add I lb. of powdered sugar. Let it simmer till it thickens a little, then turn it out to get cold ; beat up the yolks of 8 eggs, and grate 3 stale sponge cakes, beat the eggs and cakes together, add the snow of 3 eggs,^slowly mix in, melt about 2 oz. of veal fat in also. GreasO a mould, sift sugar over. Bake in a slow oven.108 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 310.—Lemon SouffleT Crumble 1 lb. of the crumb of bread, pour over a pint of almond milk, 2 oz. of the melted fat, beat this all up toge- ther till it is like a cream; grate the rind of 2 fi’esh lemons, ^ lb. powdered sugar, the juice of a lemon. When this is all well mixed stir in the yolks of 6 eggs, well beaten, then the whites beat to a snow, put it in a greased mould; bake the same as the others. No. 311.—An Apricot Anflauf. Mash 12 or 14 ripe apricots through a sieve, pound the kernels quite fine, make a thick paste with ^ pint of milk and as much fiour as it w'ill take up, and when cold put it in a basin; dissolve in the n)ilk 2 oz. of butter, then stir the apricots up with this paste, mix with yolks of .6 eggs, I lb. of powdered sugar, work this in with the paste and. apricots, then beat the whites to a snow, stir in lightly, grease the shape, put it in. Then place in a middling oven; when it rises and is a good colour it is done. About | of an hour before you send it up sprinkle sugar over it. No. 312.—A Country Pudding. Butter your mould well, arrange some dried cherries in strips, with some citron cut thin, cut some slices of bread and butter, spread over some dried currants, then arrange the slices one over the other in the mould till you pave filled it; boil a pint and half of milk with some fresh lemon peel in it, 4 ounces of castor sugar, a pinch of salt, beat.6 eggs with this. When cold then fill up the mould, let it soak in, then put the mould in a stewpan to boil for an hour. Serve it with wine sauce. No. 313.—German Pufis. Quarter pound of flour, dried and sifted, \ lb. of butter, ^ pint of milk. Boil the milk, and while boiling stir in the109 DOMESTIC COOKERY. flour; beat well 4 eggs and stir them into the paste of milk and flour. Have some teacups, grease them with butter, drop in a spoonful of the mixture, put them on a baking sheet, put them in a quick oven, they will rise over the top of the cup. Clarify | lb of sugar flavoured with lemon, orange-flower water, or vanilla. Serve the puffs hot or cold, with the sugar in a sauce tureen. You can if you like when you take them out of the oven put jaqi on the top. For meat use melted fat and water. Ho. 314.—Bola d’Amour. Clarify 2 lb. of loaf sugar to a thick syrup. Take the yolks of 20 eggs, mix them up quickly and pass them through a sieve; have ready a funnel, the hole must be the size of a vermicelli, hold the funnel over syrup while it HDoils over a charcoal fire, pass the egg through stirring the sugar at the same time, and take care to hold the funnel such a distance from the sugar to admit of the eggs drop- ping into it. When the eggs have been in a few minutes it will become hard enough to take out with a silver fork, must be placed on a drainer; continue adding the eggs to the boiling sugar until you have used up the whole of them. There should be previously prepared 1 lb. of ground sweet almonds, boiled in ^ lb. of clarified sugar flavoured with orange-flower water. Place a layer of this paste in a dish, then a layer of candied citron cut thin, then a thick layer of the eggs prepared as above. Continue in alternate layers of almond paste, citron, and the eggs until it is high enough to look handsome. It should be piled in the shape of a cone, and the eggs should be the last layer, put it then in a slow oven for it to set a little, and the last layer a little crisp. A few minutes will effect this, it must be served in the dish it is'baked in ; it is generally garnished with gold, silver, and myrtle leaves. It is very expensive, and, like the sister cake, should only be made for particular occasions. When making these cakes all attention must be given to them.110 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 315.—To make Sister Cake, the Q,ueen of Cakes. 1 lb. of roll dough, 1 lb. fresh butter, 6 eggs, 8 oz. of ground almonds, 1 lb. citron, 1 lb. of orange and lemon peel, 3 lb. of loaf sugar clarified with 3d. of orange-flower water. Put the dough in a very nice pan, put it near the fire to warm, if the dough is cold it will not rise; melt the lb. of butter in a teacup of milk, take a piece of the butter first to rub your dish with, beat up the 6 eggs, put them in the pan with the dough, then put in the ground almonds, then the butter and milk, a small pineh of salt, beat it all well for 1 hour, have ready a nice round yellow dish, butter it well, cut up before you beat it the citron in slices in one plate, then the orange and lemon in another. Now put at; the bottom of your dish a layer of the mixture of dough, butter, almonds, &c., then a layer of citron, then dough, then orange and lemon. Continue making layers till you have used up all your ingredients. Eemember to make your layer very lightly, your oven must be ready for it as soon as it is made, not a fierce oven; it will take an hour to bake, it will rise very much. Put an iron skewer through to see if it is done ; if the skewer comes out clean it is done; have 2 oz. of Jordan almonds bleached, put them on a plate in the oven to dry and get a light brown colour. Put them by till the cake is done, put the 3 lbs. of sugar in a very clean saucepan with a pint of water, let it boil till it comes like a syrup, then throw the orange-flower water in, have the sugar ready when the cake is done, as it must be poured hot when the cake comes out of the oven, it will take it all. Just pass a knife round to let it soak, let the last layer on the cake be citron, put it on in pattern, then ornament it with the almonds and thousands. When it is cold you can turn it in a china or deep glass dish. It is a very superior cake, and is suited for the naming or confirma- tion of a son.Ill DOMESTIC aiOKERY. No. 316.—A Portugal Cake. Take half-a-pound of the best flour, put it before the fire to dry for h an hour, sift it through a sieve, put it aside, melt ^ lb. of butter to oil, then put J lb. of castor sugar in a skillet or pan that is round at the bottom. Break over the sugar 9 fresh eggs, stir the eggs and sugar till it froths, then put in the butter by degrees ; let another person stir the eggs and sugar while you put in the butter gently. When the butter is well worked in, then put the flour in the same way by spoonfuls. When it is well worked in, but not too fast, grease your tin and sift a little fine sugar in the tin ; put it in a slow oven. No. 317.—English Bola. 1 lb. of flour, Y lb. butter, 5 eggs, a teacup of milk, i oz. of G-erman yeast. Work it into a paste, let it stand for 1 hour, then work in 6 oz. of sugar, i lb. of sweetmeat, grease your tin, bake it in a slow oven. Eemember in all sweets to put a little salt. No. 318.—German Bola. ^ an oz. of German yeast, put in a cup of milk and 2 eggs all beat together, f lb. of butter worked in a lb. of flour, with the yeast, milk and eggs, to a paste, set it to rise for an hour, then roll it out and work in | lb. of sweet- meats. Baked in a slow oven. Have ready 1 lb. of clarified sugar, pour over the cake boiling hot, as it comes out of the oven. No. 319.—Bice Cake with Butter. 1 lb. butter, 1 lb. castor sugar, 12 eggs, lb. flour, | lb. ground rice, melt the butter in your pan, only warm,* not to oil, then add the sugar, stir it well till it is like a cream, then break the eggs three at the time, and stir the paste all the time. "Vv’hen all the eggs are worked in, add the ground rice and flour; bake it in a round tin buttered.112 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 320.—Rice Cake without Butter. 12 eggs, 12 oz. of castor sugar, rasp the rind of 2 lemons, 6 oz. of flour, 6 oz. of ground rice, separate the yolks from the whites. Beat the whites to a strong snow. Then mix the yolks and powdered sugar and the lemon rasping in a basin, stand in a flat saucepan with boiling water over a slow fire till you observe it comes thick and light; it will take ^ an hour. Take it off and stir it till cold, then stir in the flour and ground rice, grease some paper with the almond oil to line the tin, and bake in rather a slow oven. No. 321.—Rich Currant Cake. 1 lb. fresh butter, 1 lb. castor sugar, 1 lb. of flour, 1 lb. of currants, 1 lb. mixed citron, lemon and orange peel, lb. ground almonds, 10 eggs, ^ oz. of allspice, } oz. of cinnamon. Melt the butter to a cream, put in the sugar and mix it well together, add the ground allspice and. cinnamon. When you have well worked this, take the yolks of the eggs, 2 or 3 at the time, and work them in; beat the white to a strong snow, work in gently, cut the sweetmeats in long pieces, add the currants, first well- washed and dried, then add the flour and a glass of brandy. Bake it in a round deep tin with 3 or 4 rounds of paper at the bottom well buttered; it will take 3 hours to bake. No. 322.—Walnut Biscuits. 1 lb. ground almonds, 6 whites eggs, lb. castor sugar, a little nutmeg and allspice to make the shell of the walnut, pound the almonds in a marble mortar with the whites of eggs; add the sugar, take it out of the mortal’, put it in a liasin, work in some nutmeg and. allspice to colour like the real walnut; roll up and break it in pieces the size of a walnut; shape it, roll up the walnuts in a little sugar to prevent their sticking; bake them on plates in a slow oven, they are soon done.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 113 No. 323.—A good Plum Cake. Beat 1 lb. of butter to a' cream with a spoon, add one pound of brown sugar, beat for 10 minutes, add 8 eggs one at the time until it is smooth, then stir in 1;^ lb. of flour, put in the flour a little at the time till it is well mixed; add a little nutmeg and 1 lb. of currants, ^ lb. of citron and orange peel; bake it 2 hours in a moderate OYen. No. 324.—Raspberry Roll, Swiss Pastry. Beat 3 eggs thoroughly, add a cup of castor sugar, 1 ditto of flour; stir them well together, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. The soda to be dissolved in a very little warm water. Have a tin about f yard long, a ^ wide, grease the tin with almond oil, pour the mixture in, bake quickly, place a sheet of writing paper over the top to prevent its scorch- ing ; it must be quite yellow when done. Slip it out of the tin on a clean cloth, the bottom side up, spread over it raspberry or strawberry jam or orange marmalade, then gently roll it up and cut it as wanted. No. 325.—Flat Gingerbread Nuts- 1 lb. butter, 1| lb. of sweetmeats, 2 oz. allspice, 1 oz. ginger, ^ lb. moist sugar, 2 lbs. of treacle, 3 lbs. of flour. Sift the flour on your board, make a wall round, it means to make a hole in the centre of the flour, so that it is higher all round. Put in the butter, treacle, spices, the orange and lemon peel, and citron chopped very tine. Make this all into a paste, using as little extra flour as you can, roll it out and cut in pieces the size of half-a-crown. When you ^ut them on your buttered tins, flatten them with your finger and pul on each half a blanched almond. Bake in a quick oven, they are soon done. 8DOMESTIC COOKERY. 114 No. 326.—Almond Cake. 6 oz. of ground almonds, ^ lb. sifted sugar, 6 oz. flour, 7 eggs, and the raspings of 2 lemons; put the almonds in a pan, with the sugar and yolks of the eggs. Mix it all together till it comes like a cream, beat the whites to a strong snow; mix it with the other, then put in the flour as light as you can. G-rease your tin with the oil of sweet almonds, and sprinkle a little sugar on the tin; bake it in rather a slow oven. No. 327.—To Make a Sponge Cake. I lb. of loaf sugar, 6 eggs well beaten, 2 cups of flour, rasp the rind of a lemon, beat the eggs well with the sugar, place your dish in a pan of boiling water while you are beating them, then add the flour gently with the rasped lemon, grease a tin well, and grease a thin paper and put round; bake in a moderate oven. No. 328.—To Make Lemon Cakes. 1 lb. sugar, ^ lb. of flour, 14 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of rose water, the raspings and juice of 4 lemons; the eggs must be very fresh, separate the whites from the yolks, beat the whites up to a strong snow, beat the yolks well, add the powdered sugar, the raspings of the lemon, and the rose water, beat this altogether for half an hour till it becomes quite light, beat the whites to a strong snow, mix it very lightly with your other ingredients with a spoon, when well mixed add the flour, put on the baking tin 3 greased sheets of paper, bake these biscuits in oval small tins well greased, in a moderate oven; the less they are handled the better. No. 329.—Rice Milk. 1 pint of milk, 2 oz. loaf sugar, a teacupful of the best rice; wash the rice well, and let it soak for a quarter of an hour, rinse out the saucepan, and put in § a teacupful of cold115 DO:^ESTIC COOKERY. water, then put the milk and the rice well drained from the water. When you wish to flavour it with lemon, cut some of the rind very thin, boil it with the rice and milk, with orange-flower water, you put that in when it is done. Turn it out in a china or glass dish, put over some powdered cinnamon. No- 330.—Ground Rice and Milk. Boil 1 pint of milk with whatever flavouring you like, mix 2 ozs. of ground rice with ^ pint more milk, 2 ozs. of loaf sugar, let it boil till it thickens, turn it out, put cinnamon over. 2 yolks of eggs stirred in improve this very much. No. 331.—Semolina Boiled with Milk. This is made in the same manner as the ground rice. No. 332.—To Make Pancakes. Make a batter of 3 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls of dry flour, 1 teacupful of milk, a little salt (only a dust), a little chopped rind of lemon cut very fine, take a very clean pan, put a very small piece of butter, drop in some of thg batter"(they should not be thin unless you like to roll them with some jam and sifted sugar), a little apple chopped fine in the batter is a great improvement. They can be fried in oil. If for dinner, instead of the milk add another egg and a little water, they are just as good for rolling with preserve. Sprinkle over them powdered sugar and a little lemon juice. They must be sent up very hot. No. 333.—Baked.Rice Puddings. Boil ^ lb. of good rice in water with a dash of salt; when it has absorbed the water, beat up four eggs with | pint of water, 3 ozs. of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and part of a rind of a fresh ''emon, or a little chopped lemon and orange peel, with 1 oz. of dried currants, 2 ozs. of melted suet, mixDOMESTIC COOKERY. 116 all well together, grease a dish and bake it. This is a cheap pudding, and very good for children. You make just the same for butter use, add milk and butter instead of the water and suet. No. 334.—To Stew Pears. Take 6 fine-looking pears, halve them, take out the core, lay them in a stewpan, with 1 lb. of brown sugar, pint of water, the rind of a lemon, a few cloves, 2 spoonfuls of vinegar. They require stewing for 4 or 5 hours gently; the vinegar will make them red as coral. No. 335.—To Stew Apples. Take 12 small pippins, peel them very thin, lay them carefully in a stewpan, with 1 lb. of loaf sugar, J pint of cold water, and a little orange-flower water; when the apples are nearly done, take them out, place them in a dish, and when the syrup is cold, pour it over the apples, then place a little marmalade on each one. No. 336.—To Stew Quinces. Peel the quinces, quarter and core them, throw them into cold water as you do them, drain them, lay them in a stew- pan, allow for every quince 2 ozs. of sugar, and to every 12 quinces add 1 pint of water, the rind of a lemon cut thin, a few cloves; if the syrup is not thick enough add some more sugar. When nearly .done add 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar; finish them off by quick boiling. . No. 337.—To Make Cocoa Nut Sweet. Clarify 1 lb. of loaf sugar with | pint of water, 1 glass of orange-flower water, have ready 1 lb. of grated cocoa-nut. When the sugar has become a thick syrup, stir in the cocoa- nut, let it boil till it looks quite a preserve, part it in small glasses, with a little cinnamon on top.117 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 338.—Quince Marmalade. Boil and pulp some fine quinces, pulp them through a sieve, take equal weights of sugar and quince, put them in a preserving pan, let it simmer gently, keep stirring all the time to prevent it burning, when thoroughly done it looks quite glossy; put it into saucers {common tohite ones), it cuts out better than in deep jars. When cold put over the top of the saucers fine tissue papers, dip them in brandy, fasten the marmalade down with paper washed over with the white of eggs. When thoroughly cold it will cut out in pieces. This is a delicious sweet. No. 339.—To Stew Tangerine Oranges. Take 12 of these oranges, peel them very carefully, peel off all the white skin, boil 1 lb. of loaf sugar in ^ pint of water to a syrup, then put in the oranges to simmer for half an hour, dish them up, and when the syrup is cold pour it over the oranges. Cut a little of the peel in very thin strips and boil in with the sugar. No. 340.—To Stew Normandy Pippins. Lay them in water for 2 or 3 hours, ^ pint of water to 1 lb. of pippins; put 1 lb of brown sugar, with a little of the rind of a lemon, and a few cloves ; let them boil well, put them in a dish, pour the syrup over the pippins. This is a very good sweet. No. 341—To Preserve Seville Oranges whole. Take a dozen, let them be of equal sizes, lay them in salt and water for 6 or 7 days, changing the water each day. At the end of the time dry them well, carve each one in dif- ferent patterns with a small knife, put in a preserving-pan 3 lbs of sugar, set it on the fire with 3 pints of water, let it boil, put in the oranges, let them simmer gently for an hour.118 DOMESTIC COOKERY. take out the oranges, lay them in a sieve to drain; repeat this process for 3 days; on the 4th add another pound of sugar to the syrup, put in the oranges, let them boil fast for half an hour, the syrup will then be very thick. Put the oranges in a glass jar, pour over the syrup let them get thoroughly cold, then fasten it down tight. This is a delicious sweet, and looks very pretty for dessert in glass dishes. No. 342.—To Preserve Strawberries whole. Put in a preserving-pan 3 lbs. of loaf sugar with 2 pints of water, let it boil to a syrup, skim it as it boils up. Have 2 lbs. of fine, fresh, hard strawberries, pick off the stalks, let them simmer in the syrup for 10 minutes, do this for 2 days, then boil up the syrup very stiff, put the strawberries in pots, and pour over the thick syrup; let them get quite cold, therefore they must not be fastened down till the next day. Cut round papers the size of the top of the jar, dip in brandy, then cover them over with papers brushed over with white of eggs. Bunches of white and red currants can be done just the same, and are not at all expensive, and very useful for the winter. Glass jars are best. No. 343.—To Make a Trifle. This is a handsome sweet for the centre of a supper table, either meat or butter. If for butter, use milk and cream ; if for meat, almond milk and snow from the whites of eggs. Put in a large glass dish some sponge cakes broken in pieces, break some almond cakes, put them in with a few ratafias, a few dried cherries, and pieces of raspberry or strawberry jam; then put a layer of the custard, continue so till you have piled the dish. You must have a pint of sherry, into which put 2 wineglasses of brandy; upon each layer of the cakes pour some to soak them. When it is all finished, if for butter, whip a pint of cream, with 2 ozs. -of sifted sugar, the whites of 2 fresh eggs, lay that on at the119 DOMESTIC COOKERY. last, garnish it with thousands and pieces of green citron, dried cherries; if for meat, heat the whites of 4 eggs, with 2 ozs. of sifted sugar, and the juice of J a lemon ; put it on as you would the cream. No. 344.—To make Apple Cream. Peel and core 6 apples, boil them with a little water, 2 oz. of raisins, a little of the rind of lemon; let them get cold, add a glass of wine, beat up the whites of 6 eggs with ^ lb. of sifted.sugar, lay it over the top and bake in a slow oven. No. 345.—Vanille Cream. Half pint of almond milk, a piece of vanille and a piece of cinnamon, ^ of an oz. of isinglass, lb. sugar (loaf). Boil this for 5 minutes, then pass it through a sieve ; when quite cold beat up the yolks of 8 eggs in a bowl, pour the milk in, pass it again through a sieve, put it in an earthen- ware mould, set in a flat saucepan with boiling water, cover it with the flat lid after it has been on the Are for a few moments. Put on the lid some lighted charcoal to set the top of the cream. When it is firm, take it out of the water, it must be remembered the moment you see it looks firm, all creams must be taken out of the water, or they will turn watery. This cream can be made with milk. No. 346.—Chocolate Cream. Half pint of almond milk, a small piece of whole cinnamon, the rind of a fresh lemon, ^ lb. of sugar. Boil this, cut lb. of good chocolate in a basin, pour over some of the boiled milk. When the chocolate is soft, mix it well with the boiled milk, rub it through a sieve, dissolve of an ounce of isinglass in a little water, strain it and add to it the milk and chocolate. Let this get cold, beat up the yolks of 8 eggs to a froth, pour it through the sieve into the milk and chocolate, mixing it all the time. When well mixed, pour it into the mould; put it in a flat saucepan on120 DOMESTIC COOKERY. the fire like the vanille cream; attend to it just the same. All these can be made with milk or cream. No. 347.—lemon Creams. 1 lb. of loaf sugar melted in § pint of water, 8 yolks well beat, squeeze the juice of three large lemons, scrape the rind of one on several lumps of sugar, throw them into the water, put the juice of the lemon into the sugar and water, mix it well, then stir in the yolks of the eggs, stirring well all the time, strain through a fine sieve, put it into a jug with a spout, stand the jug in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire, stirring all the time till it thickens like a custard. Have the whites beat to a stiff snow, stir it when you take it off, till it looks quite light; fill your custard glasses, and put a little cinnamon on top. No. 348.—A Floating Island. Peel thin 6 good-sized cooking apples, core them, cut in pieces, put them in your fruit saucepan with pint of boil- ing water. Let them cook till you can pulp them to a cream, grate in the rind of a lemon, and boil with several cloves ; pass it through a sieve, put it on the fire with ■§• lb. of sifted sugar. Let it simmer like a preserve, press it down in an earthenware mould till cold, have ready a custard made with almond or other milk as required, flavoured with vanille, 4 yolks of eggs with a pint of milk, ^ lb. of sugar; turn it in a mug to cool. Turn the apples out of the shape into the centre of a glass dish, pour the custard all round ; garnish with pieces of citron or angelica. No. 349.—To make Calf s-feet Jelly. Put on to boil 2 calfs feet in 6 pints of water. L6t it boil till every part of the foot comes to pieces ; strain it through a fine sieve, let it stand till the next morning (calf’s-foot jelly cannot be made the same day), then take121 DOMESTIC COOKERY. off all the fat and wipe the top with a clean cloth. The liquor will have reduced to a quart; put it in a clean saucepan with the rind of a lemon, cut very thin, not a particle of the white or it will taste bitter ; a small piece of whole cinnamon, 2 cloves, a pinch of salt, a little dried saffron, ^ lb. of loaf sugar. Beat the whites of 2 eggs with the shells, stir it in well. Set it on to boil, keep stirring all the time ; when the whites of the eggs set on the top thick move the saucepan from the fire, pour in ^ pint of sherry and 2 wine-glasses of rum, with the juice of a large lemon well strained; let it stand at the side of the fire well covered over, so that the strength of the wine and spirit does not evaporate. I never boil wine or spirit in the jelly, it is only wasting it. Then have your jelly bag ready, rinse it well in boiling water; before yon strain the jelly have it as near as you can to the fire, it soon cools, rinse the mould with cold water, fill it; set it in a very cold place, if for company you must stand it in ice an hour before you are ready to turn it out. I will now tell you what is preferable to a jelly bag, and much cleaner. Have a yard of flannel, wash it well in boiling water, turn one of the kitchen chairs upon another bottom upwards, place this flannel across, tie each corner to one of the legs tight with string, let it sink a little in the centre, have a large white basin underneath, pour the boiling jelly in, place the chairs close to the fire, when it runs through quickly, if not clear enough pour it again through the flannel into another basin; if you find it sets when it is nearly done running, fill a pie dish with boiling water and place on the flannel, that will cause it to run through to the last drop. You then wash well your flannel in hot water, rinse it in cold, dry it, and put it away with the four pieces of string for another time. You will find one bullock’s foot will give you a much stronger jelly than 2 calf’s feet, and tastes quite as delicate. When you make jelly, if you find the stock is not quite as strong as you require, you must put in ^ an oz. of isinglass. The feet do not always boil alike, rum and lemon aloneDOMESTIC COOKERY. 122 make a very fine jelly. You need not put more than the 2 wine-glasses of rum, but you must put the juice of 3 large lemons instead of 1. Now that you have the full particulars how to make the jelly, you will have no difficulty from my directions to understand how to mix them in different colours, or how to ornament them for particular occasions. No. 350.—How to arrange Jellies with Fruit or Blancmange. Have ready the calfs-foot jelly or jelly made from isinglass, rub the mould very slightly with 2 or 3 drops of almond oil, do it with a small piece of clean rag, pour in some of the jelly just to take the pattern at the top of the mould. Set it to get cold; when set, take some fresh strawberries or bunches of currants. Wipe them well, see that they are quite clean; fix the fruit into the jelly lightly, so that they hang gracefully, then pour over another layer of warm jelly enough to cover them, let that set, then you can put in another layer of fruit, not too many. When this is quite set, fill your mould with the jelly, leave it in a cool place till you are ready for it; before you turn it out just loosen it gently all round with a clean cloth, only the top, then wring a cloth out of boiling water quite dry, pass it all over the mould. Turn the mould on a dish, it will easily slip out. No. 351.—To mix Jelly and Blancmange. Have ready a pint of jelly and 1 pint of blancmange, just slightly grease your 2 pint moulds. To make the blancmange pink you must get the pink sugar from the confectioners ; they sell it all ready, and when you make the blancmange you colour it with that: say you wish to mix it pink and white, then colour half of the blancmange and leave the other part white; put in to one mould a portion of the pink, into the other a portion of the white ;12a DOMESTIC COOKERY. put them both in a cold place to set. When quite cold, pour in a layer of the jelly (it need only be just warm like a thick liquid) into both moulds, return them to the cold place. When set, use the remainder of the blancmange between the 2 moulds, let that set, then' divide the jelly between the two moulds. When turned out, they look very pretty, and with a little attention you are sure to be successful. You must remember you can make the jellies any size you like by increasing the quantity of each, but the working part is the same for a pint as a quart. No. 352.—To make Jelly with Isinglass instead of Calfs-feet. This jelly can be made the day you require it; you must dissolve 2 oz. of isinglass in 1 quart of water, then make it exactly the same as the directions for calf’s feet jelly. No. 353.—To make Blancmange with Almond Milk. You must first have the stock ready if you make it from the jelly of calf’s feet or bullock’s foot. Then put the quantity after you have warmed it into a saucepan, and add the same proportion of almond milk as you would wine and rum. You can flavour it with orange-flower, vanille, and add also a glass of rum. Eemember that you prepare the stock as you would for calf’s feet jelly, as far as boiling it with the thin rind of a lemon, cinnamon, and cloves; you need not put the white of eggs, as it does not need to be made clear for the almond milk. If you use isinglass, you dissolve it in water according to the directions for jelly, and add the almond milk and flavouring. No. 354.—To make a Jaumange. When you have the blancmange quite ready, beat the yolks of 6 eggs with 2 oz. of sifted sugar ; stir the boiling mixture in, put it in the mould, turn out the same as the124 DOMESTIC COOKERY. others. Your can flavour both jellies and blancmanges with maraschino or curagoa. No. 355.—Blancmange of Ground Rice. Boil 1 quart of milk or almond milk, lb. of sifted sugar, a little cinnamon, 2 oz. of flnely pounded almonds; set it at the side, when it boils mix in a basin ^ lb. of ground rice; mix it stiff with a little cold milk and 2 tablespoonfuls of orange-flower water, stir it into the boiling mixture, let it boil till it is quite thick, keep stirring it all the time to prevent its burning. Have a pretty earthenware mould, slightly grease it with the oil, turn the mixture in, set it in a very cold place. When ready, turn it out on a glass dish, and put round it some raspberry or strawberry jam. This requires no isinglass or stock. Good for dinner or supper; stick it with a few cut blanched almonds. No. 356.—Almond Blancmange. 1 oz. of isinglass dissolved in a little water—^ pint; add f of a pint of almond milk sweetened to taste and flavoured with vanille or orange-flower water, or whatever may be preferred. No. 357.—Wine Blancmange. Dissolve the isinglass as above, beat the yolks of 4 eggs with ik of castor sugar, boil in the isinglass the thin rind of a lemon and a piece of cinnamon, skim it, and add to it the eggs and 1 pint of sherry. Grease your mould well; put it in ice or a cool place. No. 358.—Brandy Blancmange. Is made just the same, by adding to the wine ^ pint of brandy.125 DOMESTIC CeOKERY. No. 359.—To make Ices. You should have a couple of freezers and a spaddle, 2 small tubs to put the freezers in to work, the rough ice must be broken in small ‘pieces, and you require also common bay salt. You begin by putting the freezer in the tub, then you make a layer of rough ice, then one of bay salt, until you have filled the tub. Youthen put the cream in the freezer, put over the top a sheet of white paper, then place on the lid, the paper keeps it tight. Then commence turning the handle right and left, look at it every five minutes, and scrape down the cream as it freezes with the spaddle until it is done. Then put’ it in glasses or in a dish—on a d’oyley—with 2 freezers; you can arrange your ices in 2 different colours, you should also have a couple of ice moulds, they have a cover top and bottom. I will now tell you how to put the ice in the moulds. Put on the inside of cover a piece of writing paper, shut up one side, then take the ice out of the freezers and press it down tight in layers of different colours. When full, remember it must be pressed down very tight, put over a piece of paper like at the bottom, then the cover; put the mould in one of your tubs in a bed of ice and salt for half-an-hour before you want it. When ready, take off one of the covers and push it out at the other end. You make either cream or water ice in the same manner. No. 360.—Chocolate Ice Cream. 1 pint of cream, 4 oz. of the best chocolate; dissolve in a cup of boiling water 4 oz. of sifted sugar ; mix it all with the cream, stir it over a slow fire. When cold, put it in the freezing pot and work it according to directions. No. 361.—Coffee Ice Cream. Grind 4 oz. of fresh roasted Mocha coffee, put it into a pint of cream with 4 oz. of sifted sugar. Let it simmer126 DOMESTIC COOKERY. over the fire, let it stand for ^ an hour, and when cool put it in the freezer ; work it the same. No. 362.—Tea Ice Cream. Steep an ounce of the best green tea in a cup of boiling water; let it stand for of an hour, strain it into a pint of cream; sweeten it to flavour. Put it in the freezer and work it. No. 363.—Strawberry Ice Cream. Mash ^ pint of strawberries through a sieve, mix with them the juice of ^ a lemon and 4 oz. of sugar, add this to a pint of cream. Do not boil it, put it in the freezer and work it. No. 364.—Raspberry Ice Cream. Raspberry ice cream is made exactly like the straw- berry. No. 365.—Red Currant. The same, only adding the juice of a few raspberries. No. 366.—Vanille Ice Creams. Pound a small piece of vanille, ^ a stick, boil it in 2 pints of milk; when cold, strain it and add it to a pint of cream; sweeten it to flavour, put it in the freezer and work it. No. 367.—To make Custard for Ice Puddings. It should, if for particular occasions, be made with cream, but by adding 2 or 3 more yolks it can be made with milk, which is much cheaper, therefore you can enjoy it j list as well, and certainly at a much less cost. This custard is only necessary for ice puddings. Take pint of pure milk, beat the yolks of 10 eggs, mix them well with127 DOMESTIC COOKERY. the milk, add 2 oz. of well pounded, almonds, flavour either with vanille or orange-flower water; to this quantity you must add h lb. of castor sugar. When it is well boiled to a custard, turn it out to get cold. Now we will begin to make the ice pudding. Firstly, you must have a proper ice pudding mould; secondly, you must have ready a little angelica cut in strips, some dried cherries, or any kind of dried candied fruits. Prepare them all ready cut as you like, separating each kind for you to work them in properly, a few small rataflas is an improvement. When all this is ready, rinse the mould with cold water. Then take the custard; when cold stir it up well, put some' of the prettiest of the garnishing you have arranged at the bottom of the mould, then mix the remainder well with the custard. Remember to have a very little of each (do not forget a little preserved ginger), turn it all into a freezer, work it the same as if you were making the ordinary ice, do not let it get hard; take the mixture out of the freezers and fill your mould, pressing it down tightly. Then put over the white paper, cover it over, and put it in a bed of ice in one of the ice tubs for ^ an hour. Ice puddings must not be frozen too hard. The moulds generally open at both sides to enable you to get it out easily; if any diflBculty, put a hot cloth over, it will then slip out; some- times a little of the custard is left out to put over the pudding before it is sent to table. You must bear in mind this is an expensive dish, and therefore you should try with a small quantity before you make one for company. The flavour can be changed as you like. Now I must impress upon you that these puddings are just as well made with almond milk as with cream or milk, the only difference when made with almond milk you must add 4 oz. of ground almonds instead of 2. You can also make it during the 9 days. No. 368.—To make a Fruit Charlotte Russe. Oil a pretty ielly mould with the oil of almonds, sift over some powderea sugar, take ‘some fine fresh strawberries,128 DOMESTIC COOKERY. dip them in a little dissolved isinglass to make them stick to the mould, then fill the mould with strawberry cream prepared as follows: Have a basket of strawberries, pick off the stalks, rub them through a clean sieve with ^ lb. of sifted ^ sugar, rub them through quite dry. Mix with them a pint of milk with ^ an oz. of isinglass dissolved in, stir it all together, turn into the garnished mould, put it in rough ice till you are ready to serve it; it must be turned out very carefully, and garnish the dish to fancy. This is just as well made with almond milk, with the addition of the yolks of 4 eggs boiled with the almond milk and a little more sifgar. No. 369.—To make Marrons Glace, or Chestnuts in Preserve. Take 3 or 4 dozen of picked large Spanish chestnuts, par- boil them, peel them very carefully with a small knife and pick out the pieces of inside skin with a darning needle, put in a preserving pan 2 lbs. of loaf sugar with 1 pint of water, let it boil to a syrup, put the chestnuts in the syrup, let them boil up, take each out carefully, lay them on a large dish, one not to touch the other, roll them well over with fine castor sugar, let the syrup boil up again, dip the chestnuts in again. Take them out, put a few drops of vanille into the syrup, let it boil till quite thick, dip each chestnut in again, they will then appear quite candied. Then roll each chestnut in fine sugar, dip them again, then the whole of the syrup will be absorbed; keep each chestnut separate, put them in a dry place till quite cold. No. 370.—To Roast Chestnuts French Fashion. Roasted chestnuts are so frequently sent to table uneat- able, that I will give the French recipe for them. They should be boiled for 5 minutes and then finish them on a pan over the fire, they will finish in a quarter of an hour; cut the skin slightly before putting them to roast; send them up in a d’oyley very hot.129 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 371.—To Boil Chestnuts. Put them in a small saucepan covered with water, tie in a piece of muslin J an oz. of aniseed, boil with the chestnuts, 15 minutes will boil them. Hang up the aniseed bag, it Avill serve for several times. No. 372.—Toasted Almonds. Toasted almonds are very nice sent up with the dessert, they ai’e very relishing with wine. Blanch them, dry them, then lay them on a plate With salt sprinkled over them ; let them bake a light brown colour. All nuts are very good toasted, put them on a tin with salt, let them bake for ^ an hour; they must be watched. No. 373.—Souffle of Raspberries. Rub a pint of raspberries through a sieve, rub the rind of a lemon on some loaf sugar, and add to the raspberries ^ lb. of sifted sugar. Let it simmer thick, and when cold beat the yolks of 8 eggs with 3 grated sponge cakes, 2 oz. of melted veal fat, and when well beaten, mix the whites of 3 eggs to a stiff snow. Mix gently, grease a mould, bake in a slow oven. No. 374.—Strawberry Souffle Is made just the same. No. 375.—Custard Souffle Is made just the same. No. 376.—To make Lemonade. For a large quantity, take the rinds of 4 very fresh lemons, cut up as fine as possible, put it in 2 quarts of water, cut the lemons in halves, squeeze them through a 9130 DOMESTIC COOKERY. sieve into tlie water, boil 1 lb. of loaf sugar with a pint of water to a syrup. When cold, turn the syrup into the water, stir it all well together, if not acid enough put more lemon, or more sugar if required, let it stand for an hour before using. This drink is very nice iced in the summer. No. 377—Orangeade. This is made exactly the same as the lemonade ; be sure to pick fine juicy oranges, and strain it well. No. 378.—Orgeat Water. Blanch J lb. sweet almonds, about 1 dozen bitter ; pound them well in a marble mortar, add to them 2 pints of water or more to taste, flavour with orange-flower water, and put it into bottles for use; it will only keep for 2 or 3 days; it is very nice iced. All these drinks are very useful for juvenile parties. No. 379.—Boiled Custards. Boil 1 pint of almond milk or plain milk (according for what purpose you require the custards) with 2 oz. of powdered sugar, 2 laurel leaves or a little piece of vanille or orange-flo.wer water; beat in a basin 4 eggs, stir the boil- ing milk into the eggs, then put it in a jug in a saucepan of boiling water, keep stirring until it thickens, do not let it boil, pour it into custard glasses or cups, put a little ground cinnamon on each, stand them in a dish for table. Custard for baking is made just the same, grease a dish and turn the mixture in without boiling. No. 380.—To make Meringues. 12 whites of fresh eggs, 1 lb. of fine sifted sugar; beat up the whites of eggs to a snow. When firm, add in the sifted sugar by degrees, flavoured with any flavouring you like.131 DOMESTIC COOKERY. The only one I-ever use is lemon or vanille, and not the essence. Take a small piece of vanille and pound it with a little of the sugar ; if lemon, rasp the rind off with 2 or 3 pieces of loaf sugar, pound it and add it to the other. When it is beaten up quite firm, have a clean piece of board that will go in the oven, cover it with writing paper; dust the paper over lightly with sifted sugar; take up a spoonful of the mixture the exact shape of the bowl of the spoon, when laid on the board they will look like a long egg; do not let one touch the other. Place the board in a very cool oven, when just a very light brown take them out, turn them over very lightly, press in the liquid part with the back of the spoon to form the hollow, place them back in the oven to dry that part. When required, they should be filled with one of the creams already described or preserves. It must only be put in the moment you send them up, then put 2 together. Meringues can be made and kept in a dry place covered in a glass for several weeks, and then you have only to fill them as required. No. 381.—Icing for Cakes. Beat up ^ lb. of sifted sugar with 2 tablespoonfuls of orange-flower water or the juice of a lemon well strained. Then beat the whites of 2 eggs to a stiff snow, whisk it quickly into the sugar and flavouring; it must be beaten until it is thick and white. When the cake is nearly cold put it on smoothly with a brush all over the cake; put it in a cool oven to dry, mind that the oven is scarcely warm. No. 382.—To Make Gingerlee. Pick clean 1 lb. of seed, put it in a pan to roast, over a slow fire, stirring it all the while with a spoon, should any of the seed burn it would be spoilt; it will take an hour or more, and cannot be done well any other way than on the fire. When toasted, turn the seed out, put in a saucepan kept for sweets 1 lb. of honey, 1 lb. of loaf sugar, melt it,132 DOMESTIC COOKERY. and when dissolved, put in the toasted seed; let it simmer; have ready 1 lb. of almonds blanched and toasted a light brown (if you lay them on a flat dish after you have taken ofiP the skins, they will toast in the oven). When the seed boils put in the almonds, stir it well all together to prevent it sticking; when it gets hard, which you can tell by putting a spoonful on a plate if it sets. Then oil a clean board, turn the sweet on it, damp the rolling-pin with cold water, roll the sweet out about 1 inch thick, cut it in strips, then cut those strips in squares, or any shape you like. No. 383.—Bread Fritters. Cut two French rolls in rounds (each roll will cut in four rounds), lay them in a dish with ^ pint of cold milk, let them soak for ^ an hour, take them out, lay the rounds be- tween a clean cloth, beat up in a plate 2 or 3 eggs,, put the fiying-pan on with the best oil, before putting in the fritters fry a piece of crumb of bread to take off the flavour of the oil, dip carefully each fritter in the eggs on both sides, fry them a light brown, when they are done put them in a deep dish, sprinkle over sugar and cinnamon, have some good thick clarified sugar ready flavoured with orange-flower water in a sauceboat, pour it over the fritters. No. 384.—To Make a Pound Cake. 1 lb. of butter, 1 lb. of dry sifted flour, 1 lb. of castor sugar, 2 oz. of candied peel, 1 oz. of citron, 1 lb. of currants well washed and dried, a little grated nutmeg, a small piece of salt, the rind of a lemon grated, beat up 8 eggs well, work the butter and sugar well together, then add the currants, peel, and all the other ingredients, add the eggs, put the flour in lightly, beat it well for half an hour, grease your cake tin, butter some paper, lay a round at the bottom, and strips round, be sure the oven is well heated before you put it in, or the ingredients will sink to the bottom. It will take nearly 2 hours baking, all cakes re- quire BO much soaking.133 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 385.—A Plain Pound Cake. Is made in the same way, leaving out all the extras. No. 386.—Plum Rock Cakes. i lb. butter, lb. flour, ^ lb. sugar, ^ lb. sultana raisins, 2 oz. of chopped lemon and orange peel, 2 oz. of ground almonds, a little grated rind of lemon, mix all well together with two eggs, break the paste in pieces like little rocks, bake on a tin in a quick oven. No. 387.—A Good Plain Cake. 1 quartern of roll dough, J lb. of currants well washed and dried, ^ lb. raisins stoned, or | lb. sultanas (they have no stones), ^ oz. of mixed spice, \ lb. sugar, lb. butter, 4 eggs, mix all well together, beat it for half an hour, butter well your tin, bake in a good oven one hour and a half. You can make it half or quarter the size; reduce ingre- dients in proportion. No. 388.—To Make a Soda Cake. 1 lb. of flour, a pinch of salt, warm ^ lb. of butter in a cup of milk, i lb. currants, ^ lb. raisins, ^ lb. sugar, lb. peel, I oz. mixed spice, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda; mix all well together, beat up for 20 minutes, butter the tin, bake in a quick oven. A good cake, and quickly made. No. 389.—To Make Tea Cakes. 1 lb. of roll dough, ^ lb. of fresh butter, ^ lb. of sugar, 1 egg beat into a cup of milk, warm the butter in the milk, then mix all well together; a small pinch of salt, divide the mixture into 4 pieces, shape them round, bake them in a brisk oven for 20 or 30 minutes. If you make them hot for tea, cut them open and butter them, or toast them first;DOMESTIC COOKERY. 134 this depends upon taste. The same mixture, with a few currants and a little mixed spice, will make ffood buns for children. No. 390.—To Make a Seed Cake with Oil. 1 quartern of dough, 1 lb. of sifted sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, 1 oz. of seeds, carraway or aniseed, pint of the best oil, boil it first with a small piece of bread or a piece of the dough, let it cool before you put in, 4 eggs, oil the tin, bake as before ; beat the eggs well before you add them ; bake in a good oven till done. No. 391.-A Good Seed Cake. 1 quartern of roll dough, i lb. sugar, i lb. of butter, 1 oz. of carraway or aniseed well picked, a pinch of salt, 3 eggs, mix all well together, beat for half an hour, bake in a good oven one hour and a half. To know if cakes are baked through, run a clean piece of wood cut like a skewer through; if it comes out clean it is done. You cannot always calcu- late alike with the oven, nor depend entirely upon the time given you; use your own judgment. No. 392.—An easy Pudding in compliment to the little Cooks who will Study this Book. Grease a mould well with butter, arrange inside some dried cherries or candied peel with taste, cut some thin slices of bread and butter, spread on them some raspberry or strawberry jam, put them in the mould one over the other, make a nice custard, 1 pint of milk flavoured with lemon or orange-flower water, beat up 3 eggs, mix it alto- gether, then put it in the mould, boil it for one hour, turn it out, make a good wine sauce, turn it over.PEESERVES. I HAVE only a very small space left for a few recipes for preserving. I must impress on your minds tliat when you intend to preserve, do it as soon as each fruit comes in season, so that it mil be dry. Straw- berries are the first fruit to preserve. Pick them well, and see that there are no rotten ones; a little good preserve is worth a lot of bad. No. 393.—To Make Strawberry Jam. Get the strawberries dry, take 1 lb. to 1 lb. of sugar. You can preserve just as well with crystallised brown sugar as with loaf. The easiest way is to lay the quantity of fruit you intend to preserve the day before in an equal quantity of sugar; this way extracts the juice. The next morning put it in the preserving-pan or a new saucepan (preserving-pans are very expensive), stand it on a clear fire, let it simmer for a little while (if you find too much syrup, drain it off, and boil it up, strain it, bottle it; it is very agreeable with cold water in the summer), then give it a quick boil till finished; it must set quite hard ; drop a little on a plate, and let it get cold; if you find it hard, put it in the jam pots, let it stand till next day, put on a little tissue paper steeped in rum or brandy, cover them over with paper brushed over with white of egg. Preserves must be kept in a dry place.136 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 394.—Raspberry Jam. Is made just the same. No. 395.—Red or Black Currant Jam. Is made just the same. No. 396.—Gooseberry Jam. This is a very useful and cheap jam for the winter. Made the same. No. 397 —Plum Jam. You must take out the stones, break some of the stones, and put the kernels in the jam. Always pound to pound. No. 398.—Greengage Jam. This is a very delicate preserve, and makes a useful jam for company, and in the season it is not expensive. Made just the same. No. 399—Preserved Cherries. This is a most useful preserve, as you can employ the cherries in so many sweets for occasions. Lay them with the sugar the night before, and drain off the syrup to boil the sugar with before you put in the cherries, as you should endeavour to keep them as whole as you can, put them in pots, cover with the syrup, cover down the same as the others. No. 400.—Cherries in Brandy or Rum. One is as good as the other. Pick some fine Morelia cherries, the larger the better, cut off half the stalk, put them in dry bottles, 1 oz. of sifted sugar in each bottle, fill up with cherries, then fill up with brandy or rum, cork the bottles, and put skin over them tied tightly.PICKLING I HAVE always endeavoured in Pickling to make it as easy as possible. I shall only write out a few useful recipes upon Pickling. No. 401.—Pickled Walnuts. Pickled walnuts is one of the most necessary pickles for use in cookery, therefore be sure to select some fine large ones as soon as they can be had. Prick them all over with a large darning needle, lay them on a fiat dish, sprinkle them well with salt, lay them out in the sun, turn them every day and add more salt; in 5 or 6 days they will become quite black. Then put them in a jar with d oz. of allspice, cloves, some peppercorns, some more salt; fill the jar with cold vinegar, tie it down tight, put it in a dry closet. They will be ready for use in 4 or 5 months, one in a stewed steak or meat pie improves the flavour. No. 402.—Pickled Cucumbers. Select a few green cucumbers when they get cheap, lay them in cold water for 2 or 3 hours to make them crisp, put them on a flat dish with salt for a day, then put them in a jar with a few cloves, allspice, black peppercorns, 2 or 3 blades of mace, plenty of salt, fill the jar up with cold vinegar,DOMESTIC COOKERY. 138 cover ifc over air tight, put it in a dry place ; 3 or 4 teeth of garlic put in nrRkes them a nice flavour. Mind to choose the cucumbers as near one size as possible; this is a very nice pickle. No. 403.—Pickled Gherkins. Pick 50 or 100 gherkins, nice sized ones; put them in glass bottles with salt, cloves, allspice and peppercorns, All the bottles up with cold vinegar, tie down air tight, keep them in a dry place. Do not put too much of each spice. No. 404.—Pickled Button Onions. Get a few bunches as they come in, skin them, lay them in a colander, well rub them with salt, let them lay in salt for one day, put them in glass bottles; these small onions look well in glass bottles. Put very little spice to them, a large spoonful of salt to each bottle, and a little of the rind of a fresh lemon. All up with cold vinegar, they will be fit for use in 6 weeks; cork them down tight. No. 405.—Pickled French Beans. Get 1 lb. when very fresh and young, strip them both sides, put them in bottles whole, with salt and peppercorns only; fill up the bottles with cold vinegar, cork them tight. This is a useful pickle for made dishes. No. 406.—Pickled Cauliflowers. Select a fine white cauliflower, lay it in water for an hour with a handful of salt, then take it out and let it drain in the colander, strip off all the green, divide each little white bunch by itself. When dry, put them into a jar or bottles seasoned with salt, a few cloves and allspice, a blade or two of mace, fill up with cold vinegar and cork jar or bottles very tight.139 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 407.—Pickled Red Cabbage. Select a very hard cabbage, strip off the outside leaves,, cut it in halves, lay it in salt and water for an hour, drain it in a colander, then shred it very fine, lay it on a dish with plenty of salt for 3 or 4 hours, then put in a jar with allspice, cloves, peppercorns and salt, cover with cold vinegar, cover over air tight. / No. 408.—Pickled Nasturtiums. Pick them into little pieces and they often answer the purpose of capers; put them in small bottles with salt and pepper only ; fill up the bottles with cold vinegar and cork them tightly. Radish pods are very nice pickled in bottles in the same way. No. 409.—To Pickle Green Tomatoes. Dry them, put them in a jar with allspice, cloves and pepper, and some mustard pods. This is indispensable to pickle green tomatoes well ; they make an excellent pickle done in this way. No. 410 —To Preserve Ripe Tomatoes for winter use. Select some hard red tomatoes, not too large, wipe them carefully, put them in a glass jar if you have one ; do not press them down, fill the jar with good salad oil. The oil can be used for cooking purposes when you have used the tomatoes; in this manner 1 have always had tomatoes at all seasons of the year. No- 411.—Mixed Pickles. A jar of mixed pickles is of great use in a family during the winter. Prepare a little of each kind of picklingDOMESTIC COOKERY. 140 vegetables, put them in a jar with salt, peppercorns, cloves, allspice, and a few blades of mace. When you have filled the jar, put in as much vinegar as it will take cold, tie it down tight, put it in a dry place ; it will be fit for use in 3 months. No. 412.—Mustard Pickle. If you wish to make mustard pickles, prepare a jar as above, let it stand for 6 weeks, then take ^ lb. of the best mustard, mis it in a basin with ^ lb. of coarse brown sugar and a little cold vinegar, salt, pour off the whole of the jar of pickles that you had prepared. Let them drain through a sieve or colander; put that vinegar in a clean saucepan with a pint more, some ground marjoram and lemon thyme, ^ a little chopped fresh rind of a lemon. Let it boil, then stir in the mixed mustard and sugar with a penny- worth of dried saffron ; let it boil, it will come quite thick. Let it cool, then return the pickles to the jar and pour this mixture over. Let the jar be uncovered till the next day, then tie it up and place it away for 6 weeks. No. 413.—To Pickle Beetroot. It is always well to have some beetroot pickled, it is so often required for garnishing. Parboil 2 or 3 fine beetroots, skin them and let them drain well, slice them, put them in a jar with salt and ground pepper, a few allspice. Boil as much vinegar as you require to cover them, pour it over boiling hot, tie down when cold. No. 414.—To Pickle Lemon. Take some very fresh lemons, cut them in quarters, put them in glass bottles with plenty of salt, 2 or 3 teeth of garlic to each bottle, 3 or 4 cloves. Fill the bottle up with cold vinegar, cork tight; this is a delicious pickle, and a little of the liquor gives a fine flavour to made dishes. The liquor becomes almost like a syrup.141 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 415—To make Chili Vinegar- Boil a quart of the best vinegar; pour it over 2 dozen ripe chilis if not for immediate use; to every wine bottle of vinegar put in 1 dozen of ripe chilis, cork it down. The older it gets the stronger it will be. No. 416.—To make Tomato Sauce. Take a dozen large ripe tomatoes, slice them, put them in a preserving pan, let them simmer over a slow fire till all the juice is dry, then pulp it through a sieve, add salt and white pepper, fry 2 tablespoonfuls of oil with 2 teeth of garlic. T^Tien the garlic is brown take it out, put in the pulp with a little chili vinegar to flavour, do not make it too hot. Boil it for 10 minutes over a slow fire; when quite cold put it in small bottles, cork tightly and seal them with melted rosin. RELISHES FOR THE BREAKFAST TABLE. > No. 417.-Fried Eggs. Have a small frying-pan, put in a little oil or butter, let it boil; if oil, put a very small piece of bread to fry quite brown before you put in the eggs, break each egg separately in a teacup, be careful not to break the yolk, that spoils the appearance of the Med eggs, then put them into the pan.142 DOMESTIC COOKERY. keep them as round as possible, have a very small slice to take them out of the pan, put in a dish a sheet of writing paper, let the dish he very hot, put on the eggs, garnish with nice little dry sprigs of parsley, remember the hot plates, sprinkle over the eggs salt and pepper. No. 418.—Poached Eggs. I find that eggs always poach better in a frying-pan ; but to poach well the eggs must be very fresh, otherwise it is useless to do them. Put on the pan with some boiling water, and enough salt to season the water, crack each egg separately, into a teacup, slip them into the pan, see that the water covers them, have a round of bread toasted and laid in the dish at the side of the fire ; take out each egg separately and lay it on the toast; each egg should look like a snowball; lay them on the toast, send up with hot plates. No. 419.—Eggs Stirred with Butter. Break as many eggs as you require in a small basin, beat them well with salt and pepper to taste, have in a small saucepan an ounce of butter, warm it well, turn in the eggs, keep stirring them with a fork, dish up on a hot dish, have hot plates ready. No. 420.—Eggs with Butter whole. Have a small white dish or plate that will stand the fire, put it on the hob quite close to the fire, put a good piece of butter (I an ounce will be enough for 6 eggs), sprinkle a little salt and pepper, crack the eggs in a cup, slip each one separately on the dish that is ready to cook them, they will set nicely, put over them a little salt and pepper so that they will be seasoned right through, send them up to table on the same dish, another dish under. No. 421—Eggs and Cheese. Put in your small butter tin ^ oz. of butter, cut up small 2 oz. of good Cheddar cheese, as soon as the butter is warmDOMESTIC COOKERY. 143 lay that in, beat in a basin 4 eggs with a little pepper, not much salt, as the cheese flavours, let it cook in the oven, on the hob, or before the Are on a stand. This is a very nice relish; you can cook this for a light lunch, with 2 tomatoes cut in slices at the bottom of the tin with the butter. Have 2 or 3 slices of well-made toast to send up, place them in the toast rack as you make them. This must also be sent up in the dish or tin it is made in. Xo. 422—Stirred Eggs with Tomatoes. Boil 2 or 3 tomatoes, that is to say, cut them in slices, put them in a small saucepan at the side of the fire with no water, pulp them through your sieve kept for butter purposes, put in another small saucepan ^ oz. of butter to fry, then put in the tomato, beat 4 or 5 eggs with salt and pepper, stir it with the butter and tomatoes till done, send up in a hot dish. Xo. 423—Welsh Rarebit. Melt in the cheese tin some good Cheddar cheese with a small piece of butter, ^ teacup of ale or porter, stir in a little made mustard and pepper, have ready hot dry or buttered toast to send up with. Xo. 424.—Egg Omelet with Herbs. Beat 4 or 5 eggs with a little salt and pepper, a little grated nutmeg, some chopped parsley and marjoram, a very little of each, put a little oil or butter in the pan to grease it, and fry it like a pancake ; turn it on a hot dish. Xo. 425.—Solomon Gundy; a West Indian Recipe. Soak a pickled herring and then scald it, pick out all the bones, chop it up very fine with a little onion and parsley, then put over some oil, vinegar, and pepper, also a little cayenne. Make it an hour before it is wanted, put it in a small deep glass dish.144 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 426.—To Broil Smoked Haddocks. ^ Take a nice thick haddock, cut ofp the tail and the top pieces by the head, grease the gridiron, lay it on, and put it before a clear fire, lay it on a hot dish, rub a piece of butter oyer it, pepper it, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over it. Send it up quickly. No. 427.—To Boil a Smoked Haddock. Put a haddock in a flat stewpan, barely cover it with Jbpiling water, let it simmer for 10 minutes, dish it up, have pady in a teacup a small piece of butter, a teaspoonful of made mustard, and the juice of a lemon, let *it get hot in the cup, and pour it over; gaimish with parsley. No. 428.—To Broil Salt Ling Fish. Buy 2 lb. of the thick part, lay it in soak for 2 days, then take it out, dry it nicely on a clean cloth, put it on the gridiron, let it broil each side a bright gold colour, take the black skin off before you broil it, have in a teacup 2 oz. of butter, a teaspoonful of made mustard, some pepper, and the juice of a lemon; pour it over directly it is done. No. 429.—To Boil Salt Ling Fish. Take the same quantity and boil it, and when done pour the sauce over ; garnish with parsley. No. 430.—Ling Fish Fritters. If you have any of the cold fish left, chop it nicely with onion, parsley, a little marjoram, grated nutmeg, pepper, and a few dried currants, mix it up with 2 or 3 eggs, and fry in hot oil or butter. Dish them up on a fish napkin with parsley. No. 431.—To Cook Bloaters. Many persons broil them; I think it preferable to cook them in a tin. Cut off the heads, in so doing draw out theDOMESTIC COOKERY. 145 entrails, split them open down the back, lay them in a tin with a piece of butter and a little pepper, dish them on a hot plate. A little mixture of vinegar and mustard makes them very nice; that depends upon taste. No. 432.—To Cook the High Dried Herring. Take off the head and skin them, put them in a tin whole with boiling water for 10 minutes, slit them down the back with a knife when done, and put in a piece of butter with pepper. Dish upon a hot plate. No. 433.—To Cook Dried Sprats. Lay them on a tin, lay them quite fiat, put them at the side or before the fire, let them frizzle well, dish them up. No. 434.—An Anchovy Relish. "Wash well a dozen anchovies, halve them, have boiled 3 eggs hard, put them in cold water for 5 minutes, peel them, chop some parsley, take a large china plate, chop a tooth of garlic very fine, lay it in the plate with 3 spoonfuls of oil, 2 of vinegar, pepper it lightly, place the halves of the an- chovies in strips round the plate (it forms like a star), cut the eggs in round slices very thin with a sharp knife, place them in the rows round the plate, and then the chopped parsley over. No. 435.—Anchovy Paste. For sandtviches or hot toast; an excellent recipe given to me ly a valued friend. 2 oz. of fresh butter, the yolks of 2 fresh eggs boiled hard rubbed with the butter very smoothly, take 6 anchovies well cleaned and boned, pound them well with the eggs and butter in a marble mortar; when very smooth put it into small pots, and run over them a little plain butter warmed to oil; 10146 DOMESTIC COOKERY. this will keep for a week. It is very useful if a few friends come unexpectedly to make a few sandwiches to mix with fish sandwiches, or on hot toast for breakfast. Bloater paste is made exactly like this, only be sure to remove all bones. The hard roe made alone in a paste like this is excellent. REMARKS UPON THE COOKERY FOR PASSOVER. Although the last Tvritten it will not be the ♦ least important part of this work. I have arranged a few useful recipes for the Passover cookery, a time when so many fancy it is impossible to have the food varied like at another time of the year. I knoYvfrom experience that with a little trouble, and certainly with very little more expense, we can have everything as nice if not bettei*. And why not? Have we not meat, poultry, fish, and vegetables ? The only difference is bread and flour. My recipes will show you what to sub-147 DOMESTIC COOKERY. stitute for them. The greatest inconvenience is the want of the usual kitchen utensils, as we are compelled to change them at that time, and we cannot all afford to have a double set. However, we should all endeavour to keep this sacred holiday as well as we can. In commencing upon the Passover cookery, I must impress upon your minds that all stocks for soups are made exactly the same as at any other time of the year; therefore as I proceed I shall refer you to my recipes in the first portion of the book. You must take the Passover flour and pound it well in a mortar, and then sieve it through a fine sieve. The fine will then be equal to the ordinary flour; the coarse can be used for the motsa balls, and the stock-pot, should it be required. By preparing the flour in this way, it will save a great many eggs. For fine cakes I have always used potato flour; it is rather troublesome to make, but it is useful for many things. No. 436.—Stocks for Dark Soups Must be prepared as I said before in recipe No. 2. You •will find that you can obtain everything for that stock during Passover. Now, to thicken it you must use some of the fine sieved motsa meal; the browning is also only made from plain brown sugar, as you will see by referring to No. 23.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 148 The meat balls are made just the same; egg balls can also be made; the suet balls during that week can be made with the fine meal as well as with flour. The soups during Passover that can be made are as follows: Mock-Turtle. Ox-Tail. Julienne. Cressy. No. 437,—To Make White Soup. Boil 3 or 4 lb. of boned brisket with 8 pints of water, salt, pepper, a blade of mace, a little dried saffron, cut up one turnip, a carrot, a stick of celery, an onion, a tooth of garlic very small, let it boil fast, then skim it well, then let it simmer till the meat is tender enough for dinner, beat up in a basin 2 eggs, a little chopped parsley, the juice of a lemon, a little grated nutmeg, stir it in while boiling. No. 438.—To Make the Horseradish Sauce for the Boiled Meat. Beat an egg, season it with salt and pepper, stir in a cup of the clear broth, make it smooth, put in the scraped horseradish with a little vinegar and grated nutmeg. No. 439.—To Make Knuckle of Veal Soup; very nourishing.’ Boil a knuckle of veal in 2 quarts of water, salt, pepper, blade of mace, cut in turnip, carrot, celery, leek, onion, and tooth of garlic ; let it boil till the meat leaves the bone, then take out the knuckle, cut all the flesh in small pieces, put the flesh back in the soup, boil and mash quite fine 1 lb. of potatoes, stir them well in, make a few small motsa balls, boil with. This soup is very economical for a family during the Passover, it makes up for the want of bread; colour with a little dried saffron.149 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 440.—A Family Vegetable Soup. 2-lb. nob of bola, 2-lb. knuckle of mutton, put on with 3 pints of water, salt, pepper, cut up all kinds of vegetables you can get (turnips, carrots, celery, leek, a small cabbage, Jerusalem artichokes, potatoes, a bunch of dried herbs), let it all simmer till the meat is done, boil with some motsa balls, colour with a little browning, boil cauliflower, or carrots, or a fine cabbage to garnish the boiled meat, and throw over a little chopped parsley. You cannot use capers or anchovies for sauces during the Passover. No. 441.—To Stew Brisket with Carrots. According to No. 40. Thicken the gravy with some of the fine meal. No. 442.—Brisket with Jerusalem Artichokes. S As No. 38. No. 443.—Stewed Steak with Carrot and Turnip. As No. 47. No. 444.—Steak and Mushroom. As No. 50. No. 445.—Steak with Fried Potatoes. As No. 48. No. 446.—Broiled Steak with Carrot. As in No. 49. No. 447.—Stewed Breast of Veal. As in No. 51. Make the stuffing during Passover with mashed potatoes instead of soaked bread. The egg sauce will require one egg more, as you cannot use flour.150 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 448.—Stewed Knuckle of Veal. Can be done with the same alteration. No. 449.—Collared Veal. Collared veal can be done just the same. Make the forced meat without any bread crumbs, and no pickle of any kind. You can put in hard boiled eggs, beetroot, and spinach. No. 450.—Stewed Sheep’s Tongues. As No. 60. Coloured with browning, and thickened with the fine meal. No. 451.—To Stew Calves’ Feet. Cut up 2 feet in pieces, put them in a stewpan with a pint of water, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, marjoram, a little dried saffron, an onion and a tooth of garlic; let it simmer for 2 or 3 hours till quite tender, add some meat balls 1 hour before it is done. Just before you dish it up add the egg sauce, beat up 2 eggs, strain the juice of a lemon and a little chopped parsley. No. 452.—To Stew Sweetbreads with Button Mushrooms. Have 2 or 3 throat sweetbreads ; before putting them on to stew put them in a saucepan with boiling water for 10 minutes, take them out, shape them nicely, then stew them exactly like the calf s feet, add a few button mushrooms and a few very small meat balls; a couple of sheep’s tongues, cut in pieces after they have been boiled and put in the stew, makes a nice change; add the egg sauce. No. 453.—Meat Balls rolled in Onions. Boil 2 large Spanish onions, lay them on a plate, open them leaf by leaf, make up 1 lb. of chopped meat according151 DOMESTIC COOKERY. to recipe for forced meat, form it into balls the size of a small apple, roll each ball in one of the leaves, chop an onion in the stewpan with salt and pepper and a little ground mace. Let it boil, put in the balls, let the liquor be very short. When done, stir in the juice of a lemon with a little browning. No. 454.—A Stewed Fresh Tongue. Can be stewed exactly the same with forced meat balls, according to former recipe. No. 455.-For Cutlets. Either veal or mutton, can be stewed or fried just the same, and as so much vegetables come from abroad, during Passover, now, you can get tomatoes, green peas or small asparagus, therefore, if to be had, you can refer to the recipes for these dishes, the only difference, as I said before, is the flour for thickening the gravy. No. 456.—For Roast Lamb. You can make the mint sauce just the same, it is only made of mint, vinegar and brown sugar. No. 457.—To Stew Sheep’s Heart with Celery. Wash the hearts well, they are very small, you will require 2; see that they are free from all blood, cut them in slices, cut and wash some celery, put it in a stewpan with a chopped onion, pepper, salt and grated nutmeg, a few meat balls or a few small motsa balls; flavour with lemon and colour with browning. No- 458.—To make a few Cutlets quickly for Lunch. Take 2 large chops, cut out the bones free from any of the flesh, cut each chop with a sharp knife into 3 small ones.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 152 fry them, have a little mashed potato or stewed spinach in a dish, lay them on, season with salt and pepper. No. 459.—For Roast Beef. You can use the horseradish. No. 460 —For Roast Mutton. You cannot use the currant jelly unless you make it in the season, in all new utensils. No. 461.—To Stuff the Leg of Mutton. Make the stuffing only of the forced meat or of mashed potatoes, dried herbs, parsley and grated nutmeg. No. 462.—For the Stuffing of Poultry. The stuffing for turkeys or fowls must be made of the mashed potato stuffing instead of soaked bread. No, 463.—For Geese or Ducks. Add to the sage and onions also a little mashed potatoes. Apple sauce can be used for these also during Passover. No. 464.—Pigeon Pie. Stew the pigeons the same as in No. 143. Then make a potatoe crust as follows : Boil 4 or 5 large floury potatoes, cut in pieces in a very little water; when done, strain them dry, mash them with a fork, some salt and white pepper, a little dried marjoram and chopped parsley, a little good dripping or melted fat, mix in 2 eggs, then put a layer round the bottom and sides, lay in the stewed pigeons, cover over with the potatoes, shape the edge all round nicely, form it well on the top just as another pie, wash it over with the yolk of an egg, bake in a good oven. Be sure to have a nice gravy with pigeons.DOJIESTIC COOKERY. 153 No. 465.—To make a Beef Steak Pie. Cut lip 1 or 2 lb. of good chuck steak, put it on to stew with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg. You cannot use pickled walnut, therefore you must put in the juice of a lemon, stir it well till the liquor thickens, cook a few forced meat balls made very small and a few potatoes, cut in halves etewed with, arrange the dish as for pigeon pie, bake in a good oven a light brown. You must remember as soon as ' the potatoes brown it is done. No. 466 —Eggs in Disguise Can also be made. ■ No. 467.-Motsa Ball. Soak 2 biscuits, squeeze the water well out of them, put them in a basin with 2 oz. of fine chopped suet, a little marjoram, parsley, a little grated nutmeg, salt, pepper, fry a little onion in a little fat or oil, then turn it into your mixture, add a couple of spoonfuls of the sieved meal, mix with 2 eggs beaten with 2 spoonfuls of water, roll it up and form the balls; boil 20 minutes. No. 468.—Cold Meat Cookery for the Passover. If you have any cold meat left, either boiled, roasted or stewed, chop it very fine with onion, parsley, a tooth of garlic, marjoram, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg. Mix it with 2 eggs, make the potato crust as for pigeon pie, put a layer of potatoes at the bottom, then put in the minced meat; cover over and bake a nice colour. No. 469. You can make cold meat fritaders or small fritters during Passover, the same as 112, 113, only substituting mashed potatoes for bread.154 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 470.—Rissoles and Croquettes. Can be made by putting the rissoles in potato crumbled^ and the croquettes can be dipped in the sieved meal instead of bread crumbs. I have given as many recipes as are necessary. Any one of the ^ recipes can be used with making the necessary alterations, if for white stew, eggs only with the lemon, if for brown stew, the browning and the fine sieved meal. No. 471.-Boiled Fish. For the cooking of fish you must refer to the portion devoted to that cookery, and you will only have to make the same alterations. You can arrange every dish just as nice if you should require them for company. The only difference is the sauces for the boiled fish. You must beat up eggs for a good sauce, you will require 4 yolks of eggs, season it with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, boil ^ pint of the liquor the fish is cooked in, and the juice of ^ a lemon; have some chopped parsley in the sauce boat. When the sauce has thickened, have ready the white of one egg whipt to a snow, that will give it a creamy flavour. No. 472.—To Fry the Fish during Passover- Wash and clean the fish well, lay it in salt, when you wash it off drain it well, then lay it in a nice dry cloth, beat up the egg in a plate and some of the finest meal you can pound and sieve. Let the oil boil well, put in a piece of the dry biscuit to get brown ; when well fried, take it out and begin to fry your fish. I find that during Passover with this fine meal the fish frys better than at any other time and takes no more oil or eggs. No. 473.—To Stew Halibut’s Head. Slice in a stewpan 3 or 4 onions with 3 tablespoonfuls of oil, let it fry, then put pint of water, salt, pepper, ground155 DOMESTIC COOKERY. mace, lay in the pieces of the head, make a few balls of some of the flesh of the halibut and a piece of the liver, lay them oh top. Have a good egg sauce ready to pour over it, rub in a basin 4 eggs, a little dried saffron, chopped parsley and the juice of 2 large lemons or more, according to taste. Dish it up very carefully, lay the balls round, pour over some of the sauce, the remainder put in a sauce- boat. This is a favourite dish for Passover. No. 474.—Broiled Fish for Breakfast. If yon would like broiled flsh for breakfast, you can lay it in a marinade just the same as another time. You remember the marinade is to lay the fish after it is washed and dried in a little oil, pepper, salt, vinegar, or juice of ^ a lemon. When done, rub some butter over, or more oil and lemon. No. 475.—Mashed Potatoes and Butter. During Passover, a dish of mashed potatoes should always be sent up with the breakfast. No. 476.—Eggs for Breakfast. Refer to the recipes for eggs and cheese, fried eggs,, poached eggs, omelets. All kinds of vegetables are cooked the same as at anj other time. No. 477.—To make Potato Flour. ^ You must have 2 very clean flat pans, a new grater, get some fine large potatoes, peel and wash them, divide them in halves, put some water in each pan, grate the potato es- into one, then pour the water off into the other. Each time you do this, you will find a white sediment at the bottom of the pan, run that on to clean white paper. Continue doing this until there is no more sediment left,,s 15G DOMESTIC COOKERY. then put the paper with the flour near the fire to dry. When dry, it will be a beautiful white powder ; it is a trouble- some job, and for a quantity it takes a gfreat many potatoes. When thoroughly dry you can use it like ordinary flour for thickening sauces or gravies. No- 478—Plum Pudding. 1 lb. suet, 1 lb. plums well stoned, 1 lb. currants, ^ lb. sugar, oz. of mixed spice, a little salt, 2 soaked biscuits, I lb. of the fine sieved meal. Whisk 8 eggs, mix well, 2 oz. of chopped almonds and the rind of a fresh lemon chopped finely. Beat it up for J an hour, boil in a shape or cloth, served with burnt rum. Wine or rum sauce. No. 479.—To make Wine or Rum Sauce. Beat up 2 or 3 eggs well with a spoonful of sugar, a cup of water or almond milk ; add a glass of rum or 2 of wine and the juice of a lemon. No. 480.—To make Potato Fritters. Boil 4 floury potatoes, mash them with a little salt—very little; when smooth, like a cream, beat up 4 eggs with or without a cup of almond milk. Mix it well with the mashed potatoes like a butter, have a pan with boiling oil, put them in by a spoonful for each fritter, let them drain from the oil, arrange them in a glass dish, put over sojnae ■cinnamon and sugar, pour over some clarified sugar made like for German puffs, they are all the better for soaking ; turn them over so that both sides are soaked alike. No. 481.—To make Almond Puddings. Refer to recipes for same. They are made the same for Passover as at any other time.DOMESTIC COOKER r. 157 No. 482.—German Puffs. A lb. of melted fat put into a ^ pint of water, have a ^ lb. of meal finely sifted, stir it into the boiling fat and water, which must be boiling, then it will form a thick paste. Beat up 4 eggs, stir it in, grease your cups, put a spoonful in each, bake in a quick oven. Cover with clarified sugar ; when you dish up the puffs, sprinkle over cinnamon and sugar. / No. 483.—To Clarify Sugar. Put in a saucepan -I-.lb. of loaf sugar with some of the rind of a fresh lemon, pint of water, boil to a syrup; serve in a sauce-boat. No. 484.—To make Fritters of the Meal, Sieve some meal very fine, and to every spoon of meal allow 1 egg. Mix it to a batter, with some lemon peel rasped and 1 oz. of ground almonds. Have a pan with boiling oil, take up a spoonful at the time, put them in as round as you can, they will form a round ball, sprinkle over some sugar and cinnamon. Serve them with clarified sugar, fiavoured with lemon juice and rum. « No. 485.—Apple Fritters. Make a batter of some sieved meal and eggs, peel some good sized apples, cut them in nice slices, take out the centre where the core is, dip the slices in the batter both sides, fry them, arrange them pr^tily in a dish, sprinkle over some cinnamon and sugar. No. 486.—Apple Puddings. Soak 3 biscuits, squeeze the water out well, put them in a basin, cut up 3 good sized apples in small thick pieces.158 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 2 oz. of currants, 2 oz. of stoned raisins, a little cinnamon, some rind of lemon cut thin, ^ lb. of moist sugar, 2 oz. of melted fat; mix all well together with 6 eggs, grease a dish, bake in a good oven. This pudding can be boiled if preferred, served with wine or rum sauce or shrub ; re- member always to put lemon juice in the sauce. No. 487.—Cream Codling Tart. Stew the apples, lay them in a dish, make a custard of ^ eggs, almond milk, flavour with the rind of a lemon, sprinkle over some cinnamon. You cannot use the orange flower water or essence during the week of Passover. You will find almond milk very useful for many things. You can make many dishes with it. No. 488.—Creams. During Passover you can have chocolate, apple, lemon, tea and coffee creams, made with the almond milk and «ggs. No. 489.—Pears Stewed. Pears stewed are very nice for a Passover sweet. No. 490.—Floating Island. A floating island can be made in Passover; it is only composed of apples, eggs and almond milk. No. 491.—Lemon Creams. Can also be made. Eefer to recipe. No. 492.—Stewed Rhubarb. If in season, stewed rhubarb is very refreshing. Stew the rhubarb, cut very thin and peeled, with plenty of159 DOMESTIC COOKERY. suo-ar and rind of lemon. Turn it in a dish, make a mustard of almond, milk and eggs, flavoured with cinna- mon, pour over it. No. 493.—Egg Marmalade- 1 lb. of loaf sugar boiled with ^ pint of water to a fiyrup. Beat up 12 yolks of eggs with 36 almonds, blanched and pounded; when well beat up, stir the almonds and eggs into the boiling syrup, keep stirring all the time in a jug, put in a saucepan of boiling water. When it becomes thick, pour it into custard glasses, put a little cinnamon on the top. This is a very delicious sweet. No. 494.—Bola d’Amor- This cake can also be made in Passover, as the candied peels are prepared expressly for Passover by some of the grocers. No. 495.—Drinks for Passover. The Lemonade No. 376. The Orangeade No. 377. Cut some apples in pieces and some rind of lemon. Pour over boiling water; let it get cool, put in a little shrub. This forms a pleasant drink. No. 496.—Toast Water. You can make excellent toast water. Toast a piece of biscuit well, put it in a j ug, pour over boiling water, let it get cold, strain it; it is then ready to drink. No. 497.—Sassafras. This is a most refreshing drink. Take some ofthe sassa- fras wood, with some of the stick liquorice and some aniseed tied in a piece of muslin, put it all in a jug, pour over boiling water.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 160 No. 498.—To Preserve Orange and Lemon Peel. During the week of Passover a great many oranges and lemons are used ; now, if you are careful, the rinds will make a nice sweetmeat. Clear the insides out when you have squeezed the juice from them, lay them in cold water for 3 or 4 days, change the water each day. Then boil them tender, put some loaf sugar in a clean saucepan with suf- ficient water to make a thin syrup, boil the peels in that for 2 or 3 hours, simmer gently, turn them into a basin, put them on again the next day, let them simmer again for an hour, if the syrup is not thick enough, add some more sugar; the syrup must be thick. Put them in a jar, they are ready for use directly they are done. No. 499.—To Make Orange Water Ice. Add to the pint of syrup the juice of 6 good sized oranges well strained, rub off the essence from the rinds with 2 or 3 lumps of sugar, dissolve it in the juice, and add the juice of 1 lemon to throw up the flavour of the oranges. No. 500.—Water Ices. To make good water ice you should flrst make the syrup by boiling 1 lb. of loaf sugar in a pint of water, put in the shell of an egg to clarify it, let it get cold. During Passover you can only make lemon, orange, and punch ice. No. 501.—To Make Punch Ice. Add to the pint of syrup the juice of 3 large lemons well strained, and 2 wine-glasses of rum ; stir it all well together for about 10 minutes, put it in the freezer, and work the same as described before. No. 502.—To Make Lemon Water Ice. Add to the pint of syrup the juice of 4 lemons well-strained, grate some of the fresh rind on a lump of sugar, put it in161 DOMESTIC COOKERY, (this improves the flavour wonderfully), mix it well for 10 minutes, put it in the freezer, and work same as last. No. 503.—For Jellies {See Recipe 349). ^ During the Passover you can make calf’s foot jelly, also lemon flavoured with rum and shrub ; for the calf’s foot you can have very good white wine, flavour with a little rum and lemon. No. 504.—Blancmanges {See Recipe 353). You can make almond or wine, but you must make them from the stock of calf or bullock’s feet. You cannot use isinglass during the week. No. 505.—English Macaroons, sweet. 1 lb. of sweet almonds well pounded, 1:^ lb. of sifted sugar, the whites of 6 eggs, and grated rind of 2 lemons. Pound the almonds very fine (they must be pounded, as the ground almonds are seldom fine enough), beat the whites of eggs to a snow, add the sugar and grated lemon, mix it all well together, it will be like a paste ; shape them as you please, have some almonds blanched, cut them in quarters, and put a few on each cake. You must grease a very thin paper with almond oil, and sift some fine sugar on it, put it on the tin, and place the cakes at a distance from each other, bake them in a moderate oven ; when done, let them cool before you touch them. At any other time of the year they should be baked upon wafer paper. No. 506.—Potato Soufflet. This dish has the double advantage of being excellent and economical. Take 6 large potatoes; as the potatoes do not look well peeled, wash them well, select the best shaped, put them in the oven, when baked sufficiently make a hole at the top of each, scrape out the insides with a spoon, and 111G2 DOMESTIC COOKERY. put it in a stewpan with a small cup of milk, 2 oz, of butter, a pinch of salt, ^ lb. of pounded sugar, rasp a lemon on a piece of sugar, or flavour with a little orange-flower water, add the yolks of 2 eggs, beat the white to a snow, mix it with the rest. All the potatoes with this mixture. This is a very pretty dish for a butter dinner. No. 507.—Apple Soufifl.et. Apple soufflet may be prepared in the same manner, only that the apples must not be baked previously to being filled, but merely cored, and the interior scooped as above directed. No. 508.—Baked Apples. Baked apples are a very wholesome dish, and very nice for Passover for children. Pick some good baking apples, prick them with a fork, lay them in a deep dish, 12 apples will require 1 lb. of sugar, some cloves, and the rind of a lemon; a little of the juice will improve them very much. No. 509. The stewed pippins and stewed oranges according to recipes Nos. 335 and 339 are also very nice sweets for these days. No. 510.—Passover Rock Cakes. Half a pound of butter, ^ lb. sugar, ^ lb. of currants, the rind of a lemon chopped, 4 eggs, ^ lb. of the sieved meal, mix the butter, sugar, currants and lemon with 2 oz. of ground almonds and the meal, beat the eggs and add them, it will form a thick paste, and if not thick enough, add more meal; break them in pieces, and put them on a tin to bake, chop a few almonds, and stick a few pieces in each rock.A FEW OBSERVATIONS UPON CARVING AND THE MEALS OF THE DAY, WITH BILLS OF FARE AND RECIPES FOR SAME. CAEVING. The art of carving is too nearly allied to the interest of n, family to be neglected. Firstly, by carving the joint properly it eats much better; secondly, where a joint is properly carved, there will remain enough of it to be sent LO table again; on the other hand, a joint badly carved is entirely spoilt. For instance, in the case of roast beef: If you do not like the outside, cut off the first slice very thin and lay it in the dish, then proceed to carve it very even from the thin part up to the top, (do not dig into the centre of the meat,) in this manner the joint will have a good appearance as long as it remains at table, and will retain the gravy. Hold your knife very lightly ; by so doing you will find carving much easier, it is a mistaken idea to press upon the knife. Many families are fond of cold meat, and are often prevented from having it from the joint being badly carved. Cooks are often blamed for the meat eating dry, when it is too frequently the result of bad carving.DOMESTIC COOKERY. ICI- I knew a lady who insisted upon her daughters heading the table in turns, so that they should learn to carve well and gracefully, it is certainly a great acquisition for a lady when she heads the table to be able to carve well; of course, like everything else, it requires practice ; with attention it is soon learnt. Sirloin of Beef. This is a piece of beef that is tenderer than any other part, and looks better, that is why it is selected for par- ticular occasions. Now, as I told you before, the best part is the under cut, and for those who like it very tender you must turn it on one side and cut a thin slice out of the thick part, with a small piece of fat, and put a spoonful of gravy over. The upper part should be carved like ribs, and, as I said in recipe 116, a sirloin to be good must weigh from 14 to 16 pounds. The cook, before hanging either sirloin or ribs down to roast, should remove all the small bones from the top, by so doing the carver is assisted, and these little bones do for gravy or to put in the stock pot. All these observations should be strictly attended to by those who have large families or keep large establishments, or they will soon find to their cost the numerous expenses that occur from bad carving and bad management. Saddle of Mutton. As I told you before, this is by no means a profitable joint, you can cut very little meat from it, there is so much skin, fat, and bone, and what is left is generally hashed up with tomatoes or vegetables. But still for an occasion you may be compelled to have one. It is a joint that looks very handsome on the table. The method usually adopted in carving this joint is to pass the knife straight down the bone, and cut out long, thin slices, with a little of the fat.165 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Leg of Mutton. This is a joint that the wealthy as well as the humble enjoy. To choose prime mutton, the skin should look brown, another proof of the goodness of meat is that the leg should be short. To carve this well, you must use your knife very lightly, in particular as we have to have it porged and filled up with a stuffing, as described in recipe 117 ; in fact, it is almost the easiest joint to carve, there- fore I need not lengthen upon it. It is very delicious cold. Fillet of Veal. Fillet of veal, if well cooked, eats well; it must be well basted. Eemember to stuff it in the fat part. I have described this already. Always carve this joint flat, in straight slices, for it to eat well, not here and there. Tongue and Smoked Beef. As these joints always come to table with white poultry and veal, they must be cut in very thin slices. The tongue must be begun from the thick end. Eemember not to press the knife in carving, or you will spoil whatever you are carving. Calf’s Head. This is seldom brought to table, being very expensive, but, I will just give you a rule to carve it, in case it should make its appearance upon the table of any of my readers. The most delicate part is the bit under the ear, next the eye, and the side of the cheek. When carving it, keep the side of the skin uppermost; try to assist each person to a small piece of the tongue and the brains. Turkey. When carving a turkey for company you should only cut thin slices from the breast, put on each plate a piece ofDOMESTIC COOKERY. IGG the veal sausage it is garnished with. Do not put any gravy over the meat, as that cannot look too white. If serving in your own family, after having sliced the breast nicely, cut first one wing, then the other, then the legs— they must be divided in two pieces, then divide the thigh again and cut the meat off the drumstick, for if the turkey is large, the bones look unsightly. In roasted fowl the breast is the best, in boiled the leg. Fowl. In carving a fowl, cut off the wings first, then the legs, then the small side bones, then slice the breast in as many pieces as you can, then the wishing bone, then divide the carcase, disjoint the neck from the back, divide the back bone in three. Ladies are always assisted to the breast and the wings first. Goose. This is a very difficult bird to carve. The joints are difficult to get off, slice the breast and cut off as much of the fiesh as you can from the wings and legs. If you have occasion for more, divide the carcase. Duck, Is not so difficult, you can carve it like a fowl. I have now said all that is necessary upon carving. You can only become proficient by practice and attention.MEALS OF THE DAY. Breakfast, Luncheon, and Dinner; Supper for a Party; Bills of Fare, AND Recipes. BREAKFAST. Breakfast to many is the greatest consideration of the day. There are those who leave their homes after breakfast and do not take anything till their 6 o’clock dinner, there- fore it is necessary that they should make a hearty break- fast. I have written a few useful and relishing recipes in page 141, so that if the preparing depends upon the cook she will have no difficulty in pleasing the tastes of her employers, if upon the young housewife, this book will afford her the same facilities. Another important matter for the breakfast table is that the coffee or tea must be very hot in the winter. It should always be made in the room to insure that the kettle boiled. With coffee it requires that the milk should be boiled; tea or coffee made out of the room is seldom worth drinking. LUNCHEON. For ordinary luncheons it would be difficult to lay down a rule, so much depends upon the family taste, some persons only like a cup of coffee or a few sandwiches. Now there168 DOMESTIC COOKERY. is more art in making a sandwich than many will allow ; unless they are well made they are not worth eating. For lunch, a few meat or fish sandwiches, with a glass of wine, is as much as can be desired. The bread must be cut very even, some only like the crumb, then you must cut off the crust after you have made them. If for fish or eggs, you would butter the bread first, lay on the fish or eggs, then cover them over with another slice of bread and butter. See that it all lays even (a slice of boiled beetroot on the fish tastes very nice) then cut in four, each two slices, lay them on a plate garnished with some very clean and dry parsley. Sandwiches made from the recipe for anchovy paste are excellent: cut a nice fresh loaf in thin slices, trim the edges, lay on the paste, not too thick, cover it over with another slice of bread and butter, cut them in long strips. When you make the meat sandwiches, see if you have some good dripping from roast beef, that has a relishing flavour, cut the.bread nice and thin, spread it with the dripping, then lay on the meat; or if you have any cold tongue or poultry in the summer, a little well washed cress salad, dried well, and lay a little on. Be sure in meat sandwiches always to remember mustard and salt; with fish or eggs pepper and salt; in regular families there should always be ready a good luncheon cake or a few biscuits. See recipes 387, 391. DINNERS. For ordinary dinners I shall only refer you to the recipes for same. There are plenty to select from, to suit the tastes and means of all classes. I shall arrange a few for particular occasions, to assist the young and inex- perienced. When you expect company, make out your bill of fare by selecting from the different recipes. You begin with soup,—refer to the list of soups. Fish the same, for the second course you do the same; be sure that the roasts do not resemble each other. In the summer time you have no difficulty with the vegetables. They can also be procured169 DOMESTIC COOKERY. in the winter, but at a fearful price. Sweets you must also select from the many recipes you have, jellies, blancmanges, ices, and other delicate things. I will now go over the bill of fare with you. You are expecting 12 persons to dinner ; where you arrange for 12, 14 can dine, the only difference for that will be in the laying of the table. A dinner table should not be crowded, it loses all the elegance. We will begin with the soups; should it be in the warm weather, }Du must always select a light soup. No. 1.—BILL OF FARE FOR TWELVE OR FOURTEEN PERSONS. Spring Soup. Boiled salmon garnished with horseradish and parsley, caper, anchovy, or 34 sauce. Cucumber salad, green peas, new potatoes, on a napkin. Removes. A boiled fowl with mayonnaise. Salt or smoked tongue; garnish with mashed turnips and carrots; frill on the root. Vegetables. Boiled cauliflower and boiled Jerusalem artichokes. Four Entrees. Stewed sweetbreads with button mushrooms and egg sauce. Veal patties on a napkin, garnish with parsley. A few rissoles on a napkin. Pigeons with olives. •170 DOMESTIC COOKERY. SECOND COUKSE. Eoast turkey with veal sausages, and garnished with cresses, a rich gravy and bread sauce. Vegetables. Stewed spinach, and potato balls fried according to recipe.. Sweets. A jelly garnished with fruit. A blancmange. . Boiled cabinet pudding with rich punch sauce. A wet almond pudding. A dish of small tartlets. Dessert. According to fruit in season. Water Ices. Punch ice according to recipe. Strawberry or raspberry. Eeraember always to have a good salad, well washed and dried, well arranged and garnished; mixture not to be put on till just before it is wanted, 2 good heads of celery well washed and dressed, and put into celery glasses. Should 2 roasts be required, you can have some ribs of lamb with mint sauce.171 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 2.—BILL OF FARE FOR FOURTEEN OR SIXTEEN PERSONS. Two Soups. Mock-Turtle. Vermicelli. Fish. Boiled turbot, garnished with fried smelts and water- cresses, anchovy, caper, or No. 33 sauce. Vegetables.—iSl’ew potatoes. Removes. Boiled turkey with celery sauce. Boiled tongue on a bed of rice, garnished with eggs &c» {See Reciye 130). Vegetables.—Asparagus and stewed potatoes. Four Entrees. Stewed sheep’s tongues. Cutlets with tomatoes. Eggs in mask cut in quarters. A giblet stew. Roast. Two ducks, apple sauce. A Sirloin of beef, good gravy. Vegetables. Brussels sprouts and fried potatoes. Sweets. Hot puddings. Eve’s pudding with rich wine sauce. Carrot pudding with vanille sauce. Mixed jelly and blancmange. Lemon creams. Stewed oranges. Stewed pears.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 172 Dessert. According to fruit in season. 2 water Ices. Salad and celery. No. 3.—BILL OF FAllE FOB SIXTEEN OR EIGHTEEN PERSONS. Soups. Ox-tail Tomato. Fish. Boiled cod with good sauce, garnished nicely. Fillets of soles stewed with egg sauce. Removes. Boiled capon with egg sauce. Boiled smoked shoulder of muttou, glazed outside, and a frill on the knuckle. Four Entrees. Lamb cutlets with peas. Veal patties. A giblet stew. Sweetbreads larded with the fat of smoked beef. Vegetables. Boiled asparagus and boiled potatoes. SECOND COURSE. Saddle of mutton, currant jelly, good gravy. Roast goose, apple sauce. Fried potatoes. Mashed turnips.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 173 Sweets. Cream codling tart. Boiled Cocoa Nut pudding. Cold Almond pudding. Pudding la Reynah. % Dessert and Ices. Salad and Celery. You can change any of these arrangements for any others you may prefer from the recipes. SUPPER. Suppers for young people are better arranged on side tables for them to take it standing, for, unless in very large houses, you seldom find room for a sitting supper. I have always found that young ladies prefer these to sitting suppers, more particularly in the present day, when the dresses are so extensive, and take up so much room. Therefore a well arranged supper, consisting of several different kinds of sandwiches, with good jellies, blancmanges, creams, and various kinds of sweets with fruit, is as much as can be required. They are certainly less expensive, and dispense with the fatigue of carving which devolves upon the young gentlemen, who, I am sure, would prefer the enjoy- ment of the ball room. The table should be decorated with raised dishes of fruits and flowers gracefully arranged, with plenty of lights. This will form a very elegant supper, and you will find that suppers thus arranged will be far more agreeable to the company, who can then partake of all the good things without being obliged to seat themselves where ladies cannot rise without the danger of tearing their dresses, which is of far more importance to them than the finest supper.174 DOMESTIC COOKERY, BILL OF FARE FOR SUPPER. Sandwiches of Fowl. 5 J 35 Tongue. 5? 55 Veal. JJ 75 Roast beef. 55 Smoked beef. 35 35 Salmon. 35 53 Halibut or Cod. 55 35 Fillets of Sole. 55 35 Eggs and Anchovy. 53 55 Salad. Cold Puddings. Pudding a la Reynah. Cold boiled cabinet. (Both these made with the almond milk.) Wet and dry almond puddings. Fruit jellies. Wine jellies in mixed colours. Blancmanges. Lemon creams. Cocoa-nut sweet in glasses. Raspberry roll. Charlotte Russe. A few fancy calces. Candied fruits, and ices. I shall now give you the recipes for the different sand- wiches, and refer you to the recipes for sweets already written. Fowl Sandwiches. Roast the fowls and let them get quite cold, then cut off the flesh as even as you can and thin; have the bread for the sandwiches made expressly, cut it very thin, leave the crust on, make a mayonnaise according to recipe for same, spread it thinly over the bread, lay on the fowl, see that all the edges look neat, cut each 2 rounds into 4 sandwiches; do not make the sandwiches until a couple of hours before you want them ; keep them covered with a damp cloth.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 175 Tongue Sandwiches. Cut the bread exactly the same, only spread mustard instead of mayonnaise, cut them very even, cut the tongue very thin, arrange them on a dish, with cut paper or a white napkin under. Veal Sandwiches. Cut the bread the same, spread over some mayonnaise, prepare them the same as for fowl. Roast Beef. Spread on the bread the dripping, mustard, and salt, re- member to cut the meat very thin. Smoked Beef Sandwiches. Prepare the bread the same, spread lightly with mustard, cut the beef very thin indeed. FISH SANDWICHES. Salmon Sandwiches. Cut the bread very even, spread on it some of the mayon- naise, or relishing sauce No 34, cut up the salmon small, spread it on lightly, press it down, cut into four. Halibut or Cod. Prepared just the same. Remember to put a little salt and pepper on all fish sandwiches. Sole Sandwiches. Prepare the bread with a little of the mayonnaise, have the soles filleted and fried straight, then cut them in pieces for the sandwiches.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 176 Eggs and Anchovy. Boil some eggs very hard, lay them in cold water before you peel them for 5 minutes, cut each egg in 4 or 5 slices, wash and bone some anchovies, dry them well, spread on the bread some mayonnaise, put on 1 piece of egg with ^ an anchovy to each sandwich, place the 4 pieces of egg on the bread so that when you divide the 4 sandwiches you do not cut the egg, dish them up on a paper expressly for sandwiches, or a napkin. Salad Sandwiches. For these sandwiches you can only use mustard and cress, as lettuces contain too much water; it must be well washed and dried in a cloth. You must prepare first the sauce to put on the bread: you must boil 3 or 4 eggs very hard, take the yolks, pound them well in a mortar, put in a dessert- spoon of made mustard, 3 spoonfuls of Tarragon vinegar, a little white pepper and salt. When this is well mixed in the mortar, rub it through a sieve in a basin, when in the basin rub in it 3 tablespoonfuls of the best oil (if not thick enough you must add more yolk of egg, it must be thick), lay it on the bread, put in some of the salad, with a piece of boiled beetroot to each sandwich, see that the salad does not hang out of the bread. The salad sandwich must be made the last of all, and must be garnished with dry double parsley, and not too many on each dish. A card with the name of the sandwiches should be placed under each dish, and when the table is laid the space must be left where the dishes of sandwiches are to go, and in arranging for a supper see that you have an equal quantity of dishes, no odd one. At tlie request of my Nieces and several young Friends, I have added a recipe for making bride’s cake.DOMESTIC COOKERY, 177 To Make Bride’s Cake. 3 lb. of raisins well stoned, 3 lb. of cnrrants well washed and dried, 1 lb. of good fresh citron cut in slices, 1 lb. of orange and lemon peel cut also in slices, ^ lb. of Valencia almonds blanched, and cut in strips and laid in the oven to crisp before mixing with the ingredients for the cake, 2 lb. of moist sugar, 2 oz. of ground cloves, cinnamon, and nut- meg mixed together, an equal proportion of each, 3 lb. of fresh butter, ^ pint of rum or brandy, the grated rind of 3 fresh lemons, 3 lb. of flour, 36 eggs. Have a very large pan, one lined with white, put in the fruit, stir raisins and currants well together, put in the peel, do the same, the almond, also spice, sugar, the same, grated lemon peel, stir this well with a large wooden spoon, add a teaspoonful of salt, keep stir- ring it till you see that it is well mixed, warm the butter, beat it to a cream, add that, stir again for a good half hour, then beat up the eggs well till they froth, crack each one separately for fear any one should be at all stale, mix this all well together, then stir the flour by degrees till it is all mixed, add the brandy before you put in the flour. To be well mixed it must look like a rich plum pudding; the mixing of it will take about 3 hours. Your baker will lend you a proper tin to bake it in, if you tell him the weight you have made. You must grease it well, and after the tin is greased, you must grease some large sheets of writing paper to line the tin with, and put about six thick at the bottom to prevent the cake burning. If you have a good oven, bake it at home, if not, send it to the baker’s. A cake of this weight will take 4 or 5 hours to bake; the oven must be well regulated, not too quick nor yet too slow, and when it is well done it must be left to soak for nearly an hour in a very moderate oven; it must not be turned out of the tin till the next day, and must be kept in a very dry place. A bride’s cake should be made 3 or 4 weeks before it is wanted. The almond and sugar icing should only be put on a week before the wedding. You should have a round of thin wood cut the size of the bottom of the cake, cover 12178 DOMESTIC COOKERY. the wood with white paper gummed on, let it dry well, pub the cake on that before you put on the icing. After the almond icing is dry, you can purchase the ornaments you would like for it from any of the good confectioners, and then, after the sugar icing is nearly dry, you put on the ornaments, that will make them fix tightly. You must cut some tissue paper very fine for the frilling round; you can buy the silver bands for round the cake where you buy the ornaments. Some like it tied round with broad white satin ribbon, the ornamenting part is a matter of taste. The Almond Icing for the Bride’s Cake. Put in a saucepan 1 lb. of loaf sugar with half-pint of water, let it boil to a syrup, then stir in 1 lb. of ground almonds, have in the lb. of almonds 2 oz. of bitter, let it boil till it looks thick, put in a wine-glass of orange-flower water. When it has all boiled, put a small piece on a plate to see if it is sticky; if so, lay it all over the top of your cake as thick as the quantity will allow. If not thick enough, you can make some more and lay it over. Some like it laid on thick; have ready the sugar icing, as soon as the almond icing has set you can lay on the sugar. For this size cake you will require to make 1 lb. of sugai’ icing. > Icing for Bride’s Cake. Break the whites of 4 fresh eggs in a deep basin, mix in < 1 lb. of sifted sugar, the juice of a lemon well strained ; j whisk it all well together till it comes very thick, and feels .J quite hard, then lay it all over the cake, it will look like snow, just stand it inside of a cool oven or in a warm ^ place to harden the sugar. Mind when you put on the ornaments not to disturb the sugar more than you can help. If you follow these directions you will have as good - j a cake as you can buy at any of the first confectioners. I iDOMESTIC COOKERY. 179 have made many for my youn^ friends, and they have all turned out first-rate. I have written under the bride’s cake a recipe worthy of it. To imitate Chestnuts. A French sweetmeat. This is a most delicious sweetmeat, and not verv difficult to make. Clarify 1 lb. of the best lump sugar, boil it in pint of water till it comes quite thick, and if you dip a little from a spoon on a plate, it should stick like hardbake. Then remove it from the fire, work it up with a spoon (a silver one) like you would a preserve. Have the yolks of 6 very fresh eggs well beaten (mind, only the yolks), add to them a glass of maraschino, work them well with the sugar till you produce a stiff paste, turn it on a piece of marble with some fine powdered sugar, and roll it up into small balls the size of a chestnut, imitating the shape also, making the dents like you see in a peeled chestnut. Everything being ready and imitated in the best manner possible, take a piece of iron wire, make it red hot, draw it across several parts of the chestnut to imitate the roasted nut, the hot iron on the sugar improves the flavour. These sweetmeats must be put in glass dishes. To make Masapanes. A Spanish cake. Blanch and pound very fine 1 lb. of good Valencia almonds, clarify 1 lb. of best loaf sugar in half a pint of water till it comes quite thick, add the almonds, stirring it well together till it is well mixed. Put it away till the next day ; then take the yolks of 6 eggs (quite free from any of the whites), mix them well with the mixture you put aside, flavour with orange-flower water, beat up 2 whole eggs with the 6 whites, mix with sufiicient flour to make a paste, add to the eggs. When beat, the juice of I a lemon and a tablespoonful of the best oil, roll it out on180 DOMESTIC COOKERY. your pasteboard, aud cut out rounds ’with a good size tumbler; pinch up those rounds into a little square shape, they will have 4 corners, lay them on a baking tin slightly floured, put a spoonful of the almond mixture into each. They must be placed in a very quick oven, as they ought not to remain more than 10 minutes to set the paste; the mixture is cooked enough. When they come out of the oven, let them get cold, brush over the top with thick clarified sugar, then sprinkle over each a few thou- sands. These are a very rich cake.INDEX. NO, RECIPE. PAGE, r NO. EKCIPK. PAGE. 1. stock for WMtc Soups 1 28. Apple Sauce for Geese or Ducks 11 2. Stock for Brown Soups 2 29. Mint Sauce for Roast Lamb ... 11 3. Mock Turtle Soup fi'om Stock 2 30. Onion Sauce for Roast Mutton 11 4. Giblet Soup 3 31. Tomato Sauce 12 5. Ox Tail Soup 3 32. Mayonnaise Sauce 12 6. Julienne Soup 4 38. A Special Sauce... 12 7. "WTiite Soups to be made from 34. A Sauce Quickly Made 13 Stock No. 1 4 35. Glaze 13 8. Macaroni 4 36. To make Gravies 13 9. Cressy Soup 4 37. Brisket and Beans 13 10. Tomato Soup 5 38. Brisket with Artichokes 14 11. Gravy Soup 5 39. Brisket and Peas 14 12. A good and economical Soup... 5 40. Brisket and Carrots 15 13. Family Barley Soup 6 41. Brisket with large White Beans 15 14. Family Julienne Soup 6 42. To stew Beef, Sweet and Sour ... 15 43. Rolled Beef 16 15. Mutton Broth 7 44. Stewed Beef with Chestnuts ... 17 16. Mock Turtle Soup made easy 7 45. Steak with Walnut Liquor ... 17 17. Simple "Way to make Beef Tea 8 46. Steak Stewed with Tomatoes ... 17 18. Essence of Beef Tea 8 47. Stewed Steak, with Carrots &c. 18 19. Meat Balls for Soups 8 48. Fried Steak and Potatoes ... 18 20. Egg Balls for Soups 8 49. Broiled Steak with Carrots ... 18 21. Suet Balls for Soups 9 50. Steak and Mushi'ooms 18 22. Bread Balls for Soups 9 51. Stewed Breast of Veal 19 23. Browning for Soups 9 52. Stewed Knuckle of Veal 19 24. Egg Sauce 10 53. Stewed Rice with Stewed Veal 19 25. Celery Sauce 10 54. Veal Cutlets with Tomatoes ... 20 26. Caper Sauce for Boiled Mutton 10 55. Collared Veal ... 20 27. Bread Sauce for Roast Turkey 56. Savoury Jelly for Garnishing... 20 and Fowls 10 57. Roast Neck of Veal 21182 INDEX. NO. KBCIPK. PAGE. NO. hkcipe. page. 58. Minced Veal 21 95. Calf’s Liver Stewed with Egg 59. Pie made from Cold Veal 21 Sauce 35 60. Stewed Sheep’s Tongues 22 96. Calf’s Liver Fried with Sweet 61. Sausage and Bice 22 and Sour Sauce 35 62. Eggs and Tomato Omelet 23 97. Giblet Pie 35 63. Brains Stewed as in Spain 23 98. Giblct Stew 36 64. Brains with Egg Sauce 23 99. Cutlets with Gherkin Sauce ... 37 65. Brain.Eritters 24 100. For the arrangement of Cutlets 37 66. Spanish Onions filled with Meat 24 101. Curried Chops 38 67. Sausage Boll 25 102. Fried Smoked Beef and Eggs 38 68. Sweetbreads with Egg Sauce... 25 103. Irish Stew 38 69. Calves’ Eeet with Egg Sauce... 26 104. Stewed Ox Tail 39 70. Calf s Head, French Fashion... 26 105. Boiled Beef 39 71. Stewed Calf s Head—Half ... 26 106. Boiled Mutton 39 72. Bissoles 27 107. Boiled salt Beef with Carrots 73. Croquettes 27 and Greens 40 74. Italian Salad 27 108. Boiled Smoked Beef with Broad 75. Buies for Forced Meats 28 Beans 40 76. Stewed Mutton with Turnips 109. To make Brine for salting Meat and Potatoes 28 and Tongues 41 77. Mutton Stewed with Celery ... 29 110. Vegetable Marrows filled with 78. Breast of Mutton with Peas ... 29 Forced Meat 41 79. Mutton with French Beans ... 30 111. Potato Pie with Cold Meat ... 42 80. Boast Rolled Breast of Mutton 30 112. Cold Meat Fritters 42 81. Mutton with Bice and Potatoes 30 113. Fritada of Cold Meat 42 82. Mutton Chops with Green Peas 30 114. To Boast Meat and Poulti'y ... 43 83. Mutton Chops with Tomatoes 31 115. To Boast Bibs of Beef 44 84. Haricot Mutton Chops 31 116. To Boast a Sirloin of Beef ... 44 85. Stewed Sheep’s Hearts 31 117. To Boast a Leg of Mutton ... 44 86. Sheep’s Hearts with Fried Bread 118. To Boast a Loin of Mutton ... 45 Crumbs 31 119: To Boast a Saddle of Mutton 45 87. Bagout Beef 32 120. To Boast a Neck of Mutton ... 45 88. Kimmel Beef 32 121. To Boast a Fillet of Veal 45 89. A la Mode Beef 33 122. To Boast a Neck of Veal 46 90. Savoury JeUy 33 123. How to Dress Poultrj'... 46 91. A Belishing Sauce for Steahs... 34 124. To Boast a Turkey 47 92. Lamb Cutlets and Cucumbers 34 125. Boiled Turkey 47 93. Fried Veal Sausages 34 126. To Boast Fowls 47 94. Calf’s Liver and Smoked Beef 34 127. To Boast a Goose 43INDEX. 183 xo. EECIPJb:. P.VGE. NO. RECIPE. PAGE 128. To Eoast Ducks ... 48 163. To stew Salmon with Egg Sauce 61 129. To Boil Fowls ■ t* 48 164. To stew the Head of Salmon 130. To Boil Tongues 49 Carp Fashion 61 131. To Fry Cold Tongue ... 49 165. To stew Salmon with Green Peas 61 132. Cold Tongue Omelet ... 49 166. Salmon 61 133. Curried Fowl • •• 50 167. Boiled John Dory 61 134. Stewed Fowl—'WTiite ... • •• 50 168. Broiled John Dory 61 135. To Stew Fowl—Brown... ••• 51 169. Boiled Cod 61 136. To Cook Eeninants of Cold 170. Fried Cod 62 Poultry ••• 51 171. Stewed Cod with Egg Sauce ... 62 137. Minced Fowl ... 51 172. Cod stewed with Turnips 62 138. To Stew Cold Poultry with 173. Baked Cod 62 Vegetables ... 52 174. Croquettes of Cold Cod 63 139. Fided Poultry with Sausages 52 175. To Boil Salt Cod 63 140. Boast Pigeons ••• 52 176. Sauce for Salt Cod 63 141. Broiled Pigeons & Mushrooms 53 177. Salt Cod stewed in the French 142. Stewed Pigeons... ••• 53 Fashion 63 143. Pigeon Pie ••t 53 178. To Fry Whiting 64 144. Pigeon Stewed with Olives ... 53 179, Soles 64 145, Boned Duck Stewed Bagout 180. To Fry Soles whole 64 Fashion 64 181. Fillet of Soles Fried 64 146. Eggs in Mask for Garnish ••• 54 182. Stewed Fillets of Soles with 147. A Poor Man’s Goose ... ••• 55 Egg Sauce 64 148. Boast Bullock’s Heart, Stuffed 55 183. To Bon Soles 65 149. Boiled Sheep’s Head ... ... 56 184. Boiled Soles are very good with 150. A Baked Sheep’s Head ••• 56 Montpelier Butter 66 151. Stewed Shin of Beef ... ••t 56 185. Stewed Soles with Tomatoes ... 65 152. An Easy Way to Cook Tripe... 57 186. Sole a la Normande 66 153. Peas and Beans 57 187. Broiled Soles 66 Salt Water Fish. 188. Boiled Plaice 67 154. Boiled Turbot ••• 58 189. Fried Plaice 67 155. Turbot with cream sauce 58 190. Stewed Plaice 67 156. Broiled Turbot ••• 59 191. Broiled Plaice 67 157. Brill ... ... ... ••• 59 192. Baked Plaice 67 Boiled Brill 59 193, Boiled Haddock 68 158. Fillets of Brill 59 194. Fried Haddock 68 159. Salmon Fried ... 59 195. Broiled Haddock 68 160. Broiled Salmon with caper sauce 60 196. Baked Haddock 68 161. Salmon Salad ... 60 197. Stewed Haddock with Turnip 162. Salmon with Montpelier Butter 60 or Jerusalem Artichokes 69I 184 INDEX. NO. RECTPK. PAGE. NO. RECIPE. PAGE. 198. Haddock Stewed with Tomatoes 69 233. Pike, Polish Fashion 77 199. Gurnet Boiled ... 69 234. Fillets of Pike 77 200. Gurnet Stewed with Tomatoes 69 235. Baked Pike 78 201. Baked Gurnet ... 70 236, Perch Boiled 78 202. Gurnet Soup ... 70 237. Fried Perch 78 203. Butter Kleis for Soups, Gennan 238. Fried Tench 78 Fashion 70 239. Dace, Stewed White 79 204. Shad ••• 70 240. To Stew Carp, Sweet and Sour 79 205. Fried Shad ... 71 241. Boiled Carp with Caper Sauce 79 206. Shad Stewed, with Egg Sauce 71 242. Carp Sauce 79 207. Shad Stewed with Tomatoes • •• 71 243. Baked Carp 80 208. Boiled Mackerel ... 71 244. Soused Carp is excellent 80 209. Broiled Mackerel ... 71 Remarks upon the Cookery neces.sary for 210. Soused Mackerel ... 72 the Nine days previous to the Fast 211. Baked Fillets of Mackerel ... 72 of Ah. 212. To Stew Mackerel with "Winter 245. To make Fish Soup 80 Savory, Spanish Fashion ••• 72 246. Butter Caper Sauce 81 213. To Broil Red Mullet .... • •• 72 247. To make Butter Cressy Soup... 81 214. Stewed Red Mullet ... 73 248. For Vermicelli or Macaroni Soup 81 215. To Boil Grey Mullet ... • •• 73 249. Sole Pie 82 216. To Broil Grey Mullet ... .. 73 250. Fish Patties 82 217. To Stew Grey Mullet, with Egg 251. To make a Fish Fritada 82 Sauce ... 73 252. Stewed Fish Balls with Egg 218. Baked Grey Mullet .. 73 Sauce 82 219. To Fiy Flounders • •• 74 253. Salmon Pie 83 220. To Fry Fresh Herrings ... 74 254. To Cook Sole with Vermicelli... 83 221. Broiled Fresh Herrings 74 255. To make Macaroni with Cheese 84 222. To Bake Fresh Heri'ings ... 74 256. To Stew White Beans 84 223. To Fry Sprats, Spanish Fashion 74 To Stew Vegetables with Butter. 224. To Bake Sprats ... 75 257. To Stew Potatoes 84 225. Broiled Sprats 76 258. To Mash Potatoes with Butter 85 226. Fried Guard Fish ... • •• 75 259. Fried Potato Balls 85 227. Stewed Guard Fish 75 260. Fried Potato Chips 85 228. To Boil Guard Fish ••• 76 261. To Boil Potatoes 85 229. To Fry Smelts 76 262. To Fry Potatoes French fashion 85 Fresh "Water Fish. 263. Potatoes Baked in the Skin ... 86 230. Baked Trout 76 264. To Stew Jerusalem Artichokes 86 231. Boiled Salmon Trout ... 77 265. To Stew Turnips 86 232. Broiled Salmon Trout... ... 77 266. To Stew Spinach with Eggs ... 86185 INDEX NO. RECIPE. PAGE. NO. KECIPE. PAGE. 267. To Stew Peas with Eggs 87 298. Baked Bread Pudding ... • • • 104 268. To Stew Cabbage and Rice ... 87 299. Yanille Pudding • •« 104 269. To Boil a Cauliflower with 300. Noodle Pudding ••• 105 Butter Sauce 87 301. T 0 Make Eve’s Pudding ... 105 270. Green Peas and Kleis 87 302. Punch Sauce for Puddings ... 105 271. To Boil the Globe Ai-tichoke... 88 303. A Cabinet Pudding ••• 105 272. To Stew Globe Artichokes 88 304. Batafla Pudding ••• 106 273. To Boil Sea Kale 88 305. Fruit Sauce for Puddings 106 274. To Boil Asparagus 88 306. An Excellent CaiTot Pudding 106 275. To Boil Vegetable Marrows ... 88 307. Preserved Ginger Pudding ••• 107 276. To Stew "Windsor Beans with 308. Charlotte Russe • >. 107 Butter 89 309. Souffle of Raspberries ... ... 107 Remarks on Sweets, &c. 91 310. Lemon Souffle . . 108 277. Almond Milk 92 311. An Apricot Auflauf ... 108 Hot and Cold Pasti’y 93 312. A Country Pudding ... 108 Directions for making the 313. German Puffs 109 different Pastes for Pies, 314. Bola d’Amour ••• 109 Puddings, Tarts, &c. 94 315. To Make Sister Cake ... ... no 278. A Baked Apple Pudding 97 316. A Portugal Cake 111 279. To Make Baked Fruit Puddings 98 317. English Bola ... 111 280. Cherry, Currant and Raspberry 318. German Bola 111 Pie 98 319. Rice Cake with Butter... ••• 111 281. To Make a Dutch Apple Pie... 98 320. Rice Cake without Butter ••• 112 282. To make an Apple Pie 99 321. Rich Currant Cake ••• 112 283. To Make a Greengage Pie 99 322. Walnut Biscuits ••• 112 284. To Make a Quince Pie 99 323. A good Plum Cake ... ••• 113 285. Cream Codling Tart 99 324. Raspberry Roll, Swiss Pasti-y 113 286. Dried French Plum Pie 100 325 Flat Gingerbread Nuts... ... 113 287. Omelet Souffle 100 326 Almond Cake 114 288. Cocoa Nut Tart... 100 327. To Make a Sponge Cake ••• 114 289. Marrow Pudding 101 328. To Make Lemon Cakes... ... 114 290. Carrot Pudding... 101 329. Rice Milk ... 114 291. Ground Rice Pudding 101 330. Ground Rice and Milk... ... 115 292. Richmond Mai^s of Honour ... 102 331. Semolina Boiled with Milk ... 115 293. Cheesecakes 102 332. To Make Pancakes ••• 115 294. A Sweet Tart .. 102 333. Baked Rice Puddings ... ••• 115 295. Plum Pudding 103 334. To Stew Pears ... 116 296. Pudding a la Reynah 103 335. To Stew Apples ••• 116 297. The Original Almond Pudding 103 336. To Stew Quinces ... 116186 INDEX NO. B.ECIPE. PAGE. NO, RECIPE, PAGE. 337, To Make Cocoa Nut Sweet ... 116 370. To Roast Chestnuts French 338. Quince Marmalade 117 Fashion 128 339. To Stew Tangerine Oranges ... 117 371. To bon Chestnuts ... 129 340. To Stew Normandy Pippins ... 117 372. Toasted Almonds ... 129 341. To Preserve Seville Oranges 373. Souflfld of'Raspberries... 129 whole 117 374. Strawberry Souffld ... 129 342. To Preserve Strawberries 375. Custard Souffle • •• 129 whole ... ... ... ... 118 376. To make Lemonade • •• 129 343. To Make a Trifle 118 377. Orangeade • •• 130 344. To Make Apple Cream 119 378. Orgeat "Water 130 345. VaniUe Cream 119 379. Boiled Custards ••• 130 346. Chocolate Cream 119 380. To make Meringues ••• 130 347. Lemon Creams 120 381. Icing for Cakes 131 348. A Floating Island 120 382. To make Gingerlee • •• 131 349. To make Calf’s-feet Jelly 120 383. Bread Fritters ... 132 350. How to arrange Jellies with 384. To make a Pound Cake 132 Fruit or Blancmange 122 385. A Plain Pound Cake ... ... 133 351. To mix Jelly and Blancmange 122 386. Plum Rock Cakes ... 133 352. To make Jolly with Isinglass 387. A Good Plain Cake 133 instead of Calf’s-feet 123 388. To make a Soda Cake ... 133 353. To make Blancmange with 389. To make Tea Cakes 133 Almond MiUc 123 390. To make a Seed Cake with Oil 134 354. To make a Jaumange 123 391. A Good Seed Cake • •• 134 355. Blancmange of Ground Rice ... 124 392. An easy Pudding in compliment 356. Almond Blancmange 124 to the little Cooks who will 357. ■yrine Blancmange 124 study this Book ... 134 358. Brandy Blancmange 124 Preserves. 359. To make Ices 125 393. To make Strawberry Jam ... 135 360. Chocolate Ice Cream 125 394. Raspberry Jam ... 136 361. Coffee Ice Cream 125 395. Red or Black Curmnt Jam 136 362. Tea Ice Cream 126 396. Gooseberry Jam ... 136 363. Strawberry Ice Cream 126 397, Plum Jam ... 136 364. Raspberry Ice Cream 126 398. Greengage Jam ... 136 365, Red Currant 126 399. Preserved Cherries ... 136 366. Vanille Ice Creams 126 400. Cherries in Brandy or Rum ... 136 367. Custard for Ice Puddings 126 PlCKIilNG. 368. To make a Fruit Charlotte 401. Pickled Walnuts ... 137 Russe 127 402. Pickled Cucumbers ... 137 369. To make Marrons Glace, or 403. Pickled Gherkins ... 138 Chestnuts in preserve 128 404. Pickled Button Onions... ... 138187 INDEX NO. RECIPE. PAGE. NO. RECIPE. PAGE. 405. Pickled French Beans ... ••• 138 440. A FamUy Vegetable Soup 149 406. Pickled Cauhflo'wers ... ••• 138 441. To stew Brisket with Carrots... 149 407. Pickled Red Cabbage ... ••• 139 442. Brisket with Jenisalem Arti- 408. Pickled Nasturtiums ... ••• 139 chokes 149 409. To Pickle Green Tomatoes ... 139 443. Stewed Steak with Carrot and 410. To Preserve Ripe Tomatoes ... 139 Turnip 149 411. Mixed Pickles ••• 139 444. Steak and Mushroom 149 412. Mustard Pickle 140 445. Steak with Fried Potatoes 149 413. To Pickle Beetroot ... 140 446. Broiled Steak with Carrots ... 149 414. To Pickle Lemon ... 140 447. Stewed Breast of Veal 149 415. To make Chili Vinegar... ••• 141 418. Stewed Knuckle of Yeal 150 416. To make Tomato Sauce 141 449. Collared Veal 150 Relishes for the Breakfast Table. 450. Stewed Sheep’s Tongues 150 417. Fried Eggs 141 451. To stew Calf’s Feet 150 418. Poached Eggs ••• 142 452. To stew Sweetbreads with 419. Eggs Stirred with Butter ... 142 Button Mushrooms 150 420. Eggs with Butter whole • •• 142 453. Meat Balls rolled in Onions ... 150 421. Eggs and Cheese. • •• 142 454. A stowed Fresh Tongue 151 422. Stirred Eggs with Tomatoes • •• 143 455. For Cutlets 151 423. "Welsh Rarebit 143 456. For Roast Lamb 151 424. Egg Omelet with Herbs ••• 143 457. To stew Sheep’s Heart with 425. Solomon Gundy • •• 143 Celery 151 426. To broU Smoked Haddocks .. 144 458. Cutlets made quickly for Lunch 151 427. To boil a Smoked Haddock 144 459. For Roast Beef 152 428. To broil Salt Ling Fish ... 144 460. For Roast Mu tton 152 429. To boil Salt Ling Fish... i.. 144 461. To stuff the Leg of Mutton ... 152 430. Ling Fish Fritters ... 144 462. For the stuffing of Poultiy ... 152 431. To Cook Bloaters • •• 144 463. For Geese or Ducks 152 432. To Cook High Dried Heiiings 145 464. Pigeon Pie 152 433. To Cook Dried Sprats ... •• 145 465. To make a Beef Steak Pie 153 434. An Anchovy Relish 145 466. Eggs in Disguise 153 435. Anchovy Paste • • 145 467. Motsa Ball 153 Remarks upon the Cookeiy for 468. Cold Meat Cookery for Passover 153 Passover ... 146 469. Cold Meat Fiitaders 153 436. Stocks for Dark Soups... 147 470. Rissoles and Croquettes 154 437. To make White Soup ... • •• 148 471. Boiled Fish 154 438. To make the Ho “scradish Sauce 472. To Fry Fish during Passover 154 for the Boiled Meat ... 148 473. To Stew Halibut’s Head 154 439. To make Knuckle of "Veal Soup 148 474. Broiled Fish for Breakfast ... 155 t188 INDEX NO. RKCIPK. VAGH, NO. IIECIVE. 1*AGK. 475. Maslied Potatoes and Butter... 155 500. Water Ices 160 476. Eggs for Breakfast 155 501. To make Punch Ice 160 477. To make Potato Flour 155 502. To make Lemon Water Ice ... 160 478. Plum Pudding 156 503. For Jellies (See Recipe 349) 161 479. To make Wine or Rum Sauce 156 504. Blancmanges (See Recipe 353) 161 480. To make Potato Fritters 156 505. English Macaroons, sweet ... 161 481. To make Almond Puddings ... 156 506. Potato Soufflet 161 482. German Puffs 157 507. Apple Soufflet 162 483. To Clarify Sugar 157 508. Baked Apples 162 484. To make Fritters of the Meal 157 509. Stewed Pippins 162 485. Apple Fritters 157 510. Passover Rock Cakes ... «... 162 486. Apple Puddings 157 Observations upon Carving ... 163 487. Cream Codling Tart 158 Meals of the Day 167 488. Creams 158 Menu for 12 or 14 persons 169 489. Pears StewM 158 „ 14 or 16 „ 171 490. Floating Island 158 ,, 16 or 18 „ 172 491. Lemon dreams 158 Supper 173 492. Stewed Rhubarb 158 Bill of Fare for Supper 174 493. Egg Marmalade 159 Fish Sandwiches 175 494. Bola d’Amor 159 Eggs and Anchovy 176 495. Drinks for Passover 1.59 Salad Sandwiches 176 496. Toast Water .. 159 To make Bride’s Cake 177 497. Sassafras 159 Almond Icing for Bride’s Cake 178 498. To Preserve Orange and Lemon Icing for Bride’s Cake 178 Peel 160 To Imitate Chestnuts 179 499. To make Orange Water Ice ... 160 To make Masapanes 179