FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 33 rind (chop the two latter very finely), 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, i teaspoonful each of thyme, marjoram, and chives (or shalot). Mix well with the bread crumbs, S:c.; break an egg into the basin, strew over the contents a little pepper, salt, and cayenne; mix all together, take out the bone carefully and put it aside for the stock-pot; fill the place where you have cut it out with stuffing, skewer it over, wind twine or tape round it to keep the meat in a good shape; now put the meat on a stand so that it may not touch the dripping, but remain above it; so that the hot air may reach every portion of the meat and produce the delicious crispness so much appreciated in properly baked meat. Meat sodden in the fat, or even in water which is sometimes introduced into the dripping-tins to make gravy (?) is very unpleasant to eat. Gravy.—Thick gravy may be served in a tureen, not on a dish, as in No. 3 (Lesson 9, on Roasting). Yorkshire Pudding is the usual accompaniment to baked beef. Take 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 pint of milk, 2 eggs ; drop the eggs into the basin with the flour ; mix a little, add the milk by degrees, beating the pudding up well, for on the light and thorough beating depends the success of the pudding. Grease the baking-tin, put about two tablespoonfuls of dripping from the meat into the tin, and put it into the oven to get thoroughly hot, then pour in the batter mixture. It will be ready in about a quarter of an hour. On Stock-making and Soups.—We will now take a general practical lesson. Stock, as I told you before, is the foundation of all soups and gravies. All liquor in which meat is boiled should be put into the stock-pot; Papin’s Digester, as a stock- pot, is one of the most useful purchases a housewife can make, also a bone-crushing machine. All bones that come into the house, whether butcher’s meat, ham, or fowl, should be crushed or broken with a hammer and put into the stock-pot, and boiled, or stewed rather, from morning till night, when it should be strained off, and the pot filled with cold water, and scoured out next day, before putting the stock back or making fresh. If the stock is permitted to remain in the pot all night, with the lid on, it will turn sour, and, even if the lid is off, it will acquire a taste of metal anything but pleasant. On putting the liquor, from meat, with any bones, spare pieces of meat, &c., into the stock-pot, fill it up with water. Peel a turnip, scrape and