7 8 LESSONS ON COOKERY, potatoes and onions, peeled, sliced, and boiled together till quite tender; drain and pass through a wire sieve, add minced or powdered sage-leaves and seasoning, mix well together with a fork, stuff the duck, truss and roast before a clear fire, basting well. Serve with good gravy made from the liquor in which the giblets have been boiled ; green gooseberry or apple sauce can be sent to table with duck. The giblets will make a nice pie with a little piece of coarse meat. 159. Dumplings, Suet.—Are a very nice addition to dinner, and can be either baked or boiled. Mince ^ lb. mutton suet, mix it with § lb. flour, add one tea-spoonful of baking powder, work into a light dough with water. Flour a board, form into balls, and either bake or boil as preferred. If boiled, flour cloths, tie the dumplings up, and have a pot on the fire with boiling water; plunge it in and boil for one hour. 160. Dumplings. Green Gooseberry (Nottingham recipe).— Pick 1 lb. of green gooseberries, make the suet dumplings as in No. 159, mixing the gooseberries and one table-spoonful of moist sugar, one tea-spoonful of ginger with it; tie up in a floured cloth and boil; serve with sugar and thickened milk as sauce. This makes a fine dinner for little people. Cherry dumplings, plum dumplings, &c., can be made in the same way and form; a nice change to boiled fruit puddings, besides being more substantial. 161. Dumplings, Norfolk,—Take 1 lb of flour, put it into a basin with 1 heaped tea-spoonful of baking powder, mix well, add a little salt; make a dough of this with a little tepid water, have a pot on the fire with plenty of boiling water, form the dough into round balls, pop them into the pot, but be certain the water is boiling before they go in, close the lid down, and do not lift it for twenty-five minutes by the clock. Dinner ought to be quite ready then, and the dumplings served at once with gravy, stewed fruit, treacle or preserves ; they should be torn asunder with two forks; they will not be light if cut with a knife. 162. Drop Pudding.—Prepare a batter as in No. 52, grease a baking-tin and pour it in. Take any kind of ripe fruit, such as gooseberries, currants, damsons or plums, and drop them into the batter; bake as for ordinary batter, and serve with sugar and milk or thick milk for sauce. N.B.—In winter, raisins or currants can be substituted. 163. Dulse.—Rhcdomcnia falmata is a very common sea-