FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. J2I 4 oz. carrot, i oz. turnip, 2 oz. celery, two or three button mushrooms, mace, cloves, allspice, long pepper, salt. Herbs : thyme, parsley, tarragon, bay-leaf. Recipe. —Weigh the meat, remove the marrow from the bones by means of your vegetable-knife, wipe out the inside of the bones with a clean cloth. Cut the meat off in neat little cubes, and saw the bones in two (if you have a bone-crusher, use it) ; put all into the pot with three quarts of water, one table- spoonful of salt, six long peppers (pimento) a blade of mace, six cloves, six allspice, the mushrooms (peeled), thyme, parsley, tarragon, and a bay-leaf; put on the fire to boil, skimming now and then, and prepare the vegetables—scrape and wash the carrots, peel the turnip, scrub the celery (do not cut them up), also quarter of a leek. When the water boils, add the vegetables, skim frequently, and let it boil for six or eight hours. As the water will evaporate, add cold water now and again—this will cause the scum to rise—and skim well after adding the water. When it has boiled the requisite length of time there should be 2 quarts good strong stock. Strain through a hair sieve or coarse towel. N.B.—For white stock, use knuckle of veal, and prepare as above. The marrow is used for toast or pate. To Clarify.—Put the stock into a clean stewpan or saucepan, with a scraped and washed carrot cut into four, a stalk of celery 3 inches long, washed and cleaned, also two button mushrooms. Chop £ lb. sticking part of beef (commonly called gravy beef) very finely, removing any fat ; put into a basin the white and shell of one egg, whisk it a little, add the minced beef to this, also add one gill (equal to £ pint) of cold water; whisk all well together, add to the stock and vegetables already in the pan, whisk or stir with a wire spoon until it boils. Let it boil for ten minutes and draw on one side; have ready tied over the legs of a chair yard of fine Indian mull muslin (kept for straining jellies and soups. It is similar to the muslin used by gentlemen for their hats in summer (cost is. 3d. per yard); under this, place a quart basin. When the soup has stood for three minutes on the hob, carefully pour it on to the straining cloth. If not quite clear, pour the first straining back into the bed and let it drip into another clean basin. The soup will be the colour of pale sherry. N.B.—I have to thank a celebrated London club Chef for teaching me this method of making and clearing.—B.W.G. To Garnish.—Cut vegetables into fancy devices, boil separately