FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 3 round, either with an old scrubbing-brush or what is termed a “Tickler" /.<?., about 2 doz. pieces of heather or fine round whale- bone or cahair-broom tied together, and used for cleaning sauce- pans. Spirit of Salt also removes the fur or scales formed on the inside of kettles. Half-a-pint is poured into the kettle and emptied through the spout into the drains, direct; care being taken not to inhale any of the vapour which arises. The kettle is rinsed out twice, filled and put on to boil, the water after boiling is poured away, and the kettle is fit for use. This is a far better plan than sending the kettle to be scaled at a tin-shop, as it is liable in the latter process to be damaged. In a scientific journal lately, a receipt was given for using dense petroleum for loosening the scale on boilers, water pipes, *&c., and would no doubt be useful for coppers or boilers where the water it not required for the preparation of food. One quart is sufficient for a 125-gall, boiler, and is introduced with water. It is “ boiled out,” rinsed with a flush of cold water, and the boiler is then fit for use. Glass.—Wash in cold water, wipe with a clean glass cloth, and polish. If the tumbler or glass dish is greasy, wash in lukewarm water with a little soda as large as a walnut, rinse in cold water, and wipe dry. Stands for table and centre dishes, with looking-glass or mirror reflectors, may be cleaned by putting gin on the surface, rubbing with a soft cloth till all stains and spots are removed, then shake over a little powdered blue, rub and polish with an old silk handkerchief or soft cloth. Sieves.—Brass wire sieves are highly objectionable, the steel wire are preferable; to clean either, have a large tub full of hot soft water with a little soda ; take a sieve-brush, or very clean scrubbing-brush, dip it into the hot water and rub a little soap over the surface ; dip the brush into silver sand, take the sieve in the left hand, dip it into the hot water; now scrub the wire network, particularly round the edges, working out any particles that may have lodged between the woodwork and the wirework. Rinse in the hot water from time to time. Finish by putting the sieve under the tap. Let the water play on both sides to carry away loose sand, &c. Give the sieve some sharp light taps on the edge of the stone sink, wipe and place near (not too near) to the fire to dry. Eair Sieves are washed as above; only the sand is omitted. Tammy, Silk, and Lawn Sieves, require brushes to be kept b 2