56 LESSONS ON COOKERY. skin disturbed ; put it, leaves and all, into cold water, and let it lie for a couple of hours to loosen the earth, wash it oft, but do not break the skin. Cut the leaves, leaving about two inches of them from the crown of the root. Put into a moderate oven, and bake for an hour and a-half or two hours ; take the root out, and let it become perfectly cold. Peel the skin off and slice in rings; add rings of hard boiled eggs, and 1 Spanish onion, boiled or raw, as preferred. Season some vinegar with 1 teaspoonful of sugar, a little pepper, salt, and a teaspoonful of ready-made mustard, and pour over the salad. This is excellent with cold meat. 75. Beetroot Jam and Colouring.—Bake the roots as in No. 67 ; when they are cold, weigh and peel them. For every pound of beetroot, take the rind and juice of one lemon ; peel the rinds very thin, and strain the juice ; also use 6 pounds of sugar for every 7 of beet. Put the sugar into a saucepan with two pints of water, the rind and juice of the lemons (or oranges if they are preferred), stir till all the sugar is dissolved, let it boil whilst you cut the beetroot into slices, and put them into the syrup, let it boil for a half an hour and pour into pots, cover it up when it is cold. One teaspoonful of the syrup from this jam will colour any sweets most beautifully—a blanc- mange for instance—and be much more wholesome than bought colouring. 76. Bread, Home-made.—Take 7 lbs. of flour and put it into a clean dry earthenware pan ; mix one tablespoonful of salt well into the flour, put 2 oz. of fresh German yeast into a basin, mix into a smooth batter with ^ a teacupful of tepid water ; make a well in the centre of the Hour, pour this barm in, mix it up at once with tepid water into a nice stiff dough, kneading it well (the more it is kneaded the lighter and better it will be); leave it until it has well risen, then see that the oven is nice and hot; without working too much, fashion into loaves, flour the tins and place in each dough enough to half fill them, leave it a quarter of an hour in a warm place to rise, and then put into the oven and bake. Test with a bright skewer; if the skewer comes out bright and clean, the loaf is done ; if not, it must have more baking. There are many very good receipts for making bread, and every good housewife has her own way; for students the above method will be found to answer in every respect for practice. 77. Bread-pudding {cheap).—Soak about one pound of crusts