FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 7 the matter of oil, are very useful in kitchens to boil small quantities of water rapidly, when the fire is otherwise in use, or not lit. Lesson III.—To Scrub Wood. I should advise the Scotch method of scrubbing to be followed, whether for deal tables, dressers, or floors. It is first to carefully sweep the floor, or dust the table. Have two buckets, one of hot and another of cold water. Take the flannel, wash over the wood to be scrubbed with the warm water, in which dip the brush, put a little soap over the bristles, which dip in silver-sand, or white-sand, scrub till all spots are removed, letting the brush move to and fro in the direction of the grain of the wood. Wipe over with the flannel, dip the wiping cloth in the bucket of cold water, wring it dry, and finish by wiping the table as dry as possible. The effect of the sand is to render the wood a beautiful colour, far superior to that washed with soap and soda, which in time gives the wood a dark dirty hue. It is proper to use plenty of clean water for scrubbing; whenever the water begins to look dingy and dark, change it, rinsing the flannel in clean cold water before immersing it in the new supply of hot water. Wood should be scrubbed with a hair brush. Bricks and Stone require cocoanut fibre, or some harder description of brush than bristles. A separate flannel should be used, and warm water and soda for both, but in washing brick, it is usual to have a piece of soft brick, and after washing and scrubbing the hard brick, to rub the soft brick on just as in cleaning hearthstones women use pipeclay, rubbingstone, &c., smoothing it over afterwards with the flannel. Stone is simply well washed, scrubbed, and wiped dry. If -greasy, make a little fuller’s earth into a paste with boiling water; lay it on quickly after making, whilst it .is still hot; let it stay for 12 hours, or longer, wash off with very hot water and soda, scrub- bing the spot with a little sand. It is dangerous as well as slovenly, to permit grease stains to remain on a kitchen floor. If there is no fuller’s earth at hand when grease is spilt, at once have it wiped up and sand strewn over. To Clean Oil Cloth.—Wash well with warm water (not too hot) and a flannel, taking care not to make the oil cloth too wet, wipe with a drying cloth ; then polish with paraffin,