129 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. whilst the turnips were cooking. Put 1 pint of new milk in a sauce-pan, with 1 lump sugar, season with pepper, salt, 2 cloves, a little mace, a little lemon-rind ; boil for 2 or 3 minutes, and then thicken with 1 table-spoonful of arrowroot or Johnston’s corn-flour, into which lias been rubbed -J oz. butter. After adding this, let it boil a few minutes to cook the corn-flour, pour over the turnips, and garnish to taste. 24. Brim.—Boil the turnips, as in first receipt, till they are half done, then lift out carefully and lay into some good rich brown stock. Let them finish cooking in this. Then lift out the turnips into a hot dish, reduce the stock to a glaze, adding 1 lump sugar and a little soaked gelatine if the stock is not strong enough to reduce quickly. When it is a thick glaze, pour over the turnips and send at once to table. 25. Soup jardiniere.— Utensils.—Kettle, knife, basin of water for cut vegetables, saucepan, frying-pan, and wire spoon. In- gredients.—Carrot, turnip, celery, green peas, asparagus, pot herbs, lump sugar, stale bread, frying butter, water. Recipe.— Put into a kettle 1 quart of water to boil. Cut a thin round of stale bread into triangles, fry them in a little butter a rich brown; after cleaning and scraping or peeling, &c., cut into dice 2 oz. carrots, 1 oz. turnip, 1 oz. celery, 4 oz. green peas, J- oz. shalot, 3 asparagus heads cut the size of the carrot, a few pot herbs tied in a little piece of muslin. Put all the vegetables into a sauce-pan with 4 oz. lump sugar and 1 quart boiling water. Cook until the vegetables are tender, season with pepper and salt, and 1 gill of cream, place the fried bread in the tureen, pour the hot soup over and serve quickly. N.B.—Do not add the asparagus and the green peas until ten minutes before dishing, as they do not require so long to cook as the carrot, celery, etc. Lesson VI. 26. Marmalade.—To every dozen of Seville oranges four lemons. All the fruit must be soaked in salt and water one night before preserving it. Slice your oranges thin, only taking out the pips. To every 1 lb. sliced fruit add 3 pints cold water; let them stand twenty-four hours. Boil till the chips are tender, set away till next day when it must be weighed, and to every 1 lb. of fruit i-^lbs. of loaf-sugar must be added. Boil nearly three-quarters-of-an-hour or less if it appears done enough. K