LESSONS ON COOKERY, 122 in salt and water, drain and add to the soup before serving. To Warm the Consomme, place in a jug, plunge the jug into boiling water till required for table (do not let the soup boil), pour into a hot tureen. Mushrooms a la Gothard.— Utensils.—Frying kettle, wire eggspoon, knife, plates, dish, napkin, kitchen paper.—Ingre- dients.—Flap mushrooms, flour, oil, egg, pepper, salt, lemon, cayenne, fat (2 lbs.).—Recipes.—Choose large flap mushrooms (.Agaricus Campestris), carefully peel, and remove the stems. Squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice on each mushroom, shake over a little pepper, cayenne, and salt, lay them on a plate back downwards. Now place on the fire a frying-kettle or stew-pan with 2 lbs. of fat to boil. (N.B.—Fat is quite still when boiling.) Whilst this is attaining the proper degree of heat (360? F.) prepare the following batter :—Put into a basin two table-spoonsful of flour, make a well in the centre of the flour, drop in the yolk of one egg, putting the white on a plate for future use; also one table-spoonful of salad oil and sufficient lukewarm water to make it into a thickish batter, add a grain of salt to the white of egg on the plate, whip it with a broad- bladed knife into a stiff froth, and stir into the batter gently. If the fat is hot enough, dip the mushrooms into the batter one at a time, lift carefully out, and plunge them into the boiling fat. When they are a bright golden colour lift out with a wire spoon, drain the mushroom on kitchen paper, sprinkle over with salt, serve on a hot napkin. N.B.—Be careful to clear the fat from time to time so that the pieces of batter floating about may not burn and spoil the fat. 13. Croustades de Veau.— Utensils.—Pasteboard, rolling pin, flour dredger, knife, fluted cutter, baking sheet, croustade tins or very small pattypans, mincing knife or machine, two wooden spoons, two saucepans, chopping board, nutmeg grater, strainer for herbs, gill measure. Ingredients.—Fillet of veal (J lb.), flour, eggs, cream, milk, butter, nutmeg, John- ston’s corn-flour, pepper, salt, powdered mace, mushroom, lemon, parsley, thyme, shalot. Recipe.—Make some short paste by rubbing in lightly 2 oz. butter into £ lb. of fine flour and mixing it with the yolk of an egg, and a little water into a firm, smooth paste. Roll it out evenly, brush over with a little lemon-juice, double into three, dredge the board lightly, roll out, and cut with a fluted cutter to the size of your croustade tins. Make some balls (of seconds flour and water)