29 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. put too much in, as the oatmeal will swell), hang it on the jack the reverse way to a leg of mutton, viz., with the knuckle downwards and the hook through the thin end of the blade. Now form the rest of the stuffing into little balls. It is very nice if an egg is mixed with it before making-up into the balls. Put | oz. of dripping into a little dripping-tin, place the balls in the tin and put it into the oven to bake ; about { of an hour (or more, according to the heat of the oven) before the joint is done. Serve on a separate dish from the joint. Gravy (as in No. 3).—Use corn flour (instead of households), which will give a clear gravy. For all gravies use nicely flavoured and properly prepared stock, as directed under the head “ Soups.” Never put salt over the joint or pour hot water over it, for that is not gravy, and only renders the meat, if properly cooked at first, flabby, poor in taste, and absolutely nauseous after such an operation. It is a sure sign of a bad method of cookery and domestic arrangement. Pork.—Pork will require to be well cooked if it is used at all as an article of diet; but it is the author of so much sickness, that, if such a thing were possible, it ought to be banished from every well-regulated household. We have only to read the articles in the medical journals to find the harm it is working amongst pork-eaters. 5. Loin of Pork.—Prepare the following stuffing:—2 oz. bread- crumbs, 1 oz. of boiled onions, i a teaspoonful of chopped lemon-rind, and 1 teaspoonful powdered sage leaves (fresh minced). Mix well together ; season highly with pepper and salt. Take the pork, and with a sharp knife score the rind in narrow, even, regular lines. Make an incision between the kidney fat of the pork, and fill with stuffing. Roast in the usual way, previously pouring some melted dripping over the scored skin, and giving half an-hour longer than other joints to ensure the meat being thoroughly cooked, and rendered as digestible as pork can ever be made. Gravy as in No. 3. Roast pork is usually eaten with apple sauce (No. 3). In Yorkshire it is eaten with boiled apple pudding or baked apple dumplings, either of which forms a most agreeable accompaniment, besides being very economical, and especially suited for children, whom it is not wise to over-feed with meat, especially pork. Receipts for Roasting Veal, Lamb, &c., will be found in Part II.