16 LESSONS ON COOKERY, closely resembles fibrin and albumen in its component parts. It is found in vegetable as well as animal matter. It is represented by the curd of cheese. Gluten, the viscid substance found in flour. In its composi- tion it somewhat approaches animal matter. It is highly nitrogenous. The husk of wheat contains a large quantity. Gelatine, an animal substance found in bones. It is soluble in hot water, and takes its name from being a solid when cold, viz., gelatio, a freezing. It is described thus : C3Hs03. The purest form of gelatine is isinglass prepared from the swimming-bladder of the sturgeon. Chondrin, a substance closely resembling gelatine, and ob- tained from cartilage. Keratin, a substance found in small quantities in the juices of animals, C4H9N30i!, H20. Osmazone, that portion of muscular fibre which we extract for beef teas, soups, &c. It is applied more particularly to the red juices. The word is derived from the Greek ostne, odour, zomos, broth. Ossein, the substance in bone from which gelatine is ob- tained. Phosphorus, a substance found in bone and useful in food for building up bone and tissue, as phosphate of lime found in milk, Phosphorus is brain-feeding, but a too great quantity constantly used or even inhaled produces disease of the lower jaw, as in the match factories. The antidote is animal char- coal. Sulphur. The substance which turns a silver spoon black when dipped into a boiled egg. It is this substance in food which renders egg and vegetables so obnoxious to health if they are allowed to become putrid or decayed. Chloride of Sodium, common salt, Na. Cl. Useful as a digestive and preservative agent in conjunction with food. Potash Salts, found in vegetable and animal foods, very necessary to health. Oxide of iron, a mixture of oxygen and iron, found in the blood and muscle of animals, and most vegetable foods. A small quantity of this is found in milk. Starch, the most common vegetable principle ; in fact, it is the chief heat-giving power used in human food. It is de- scribed in chemistry thus : Ci2H20O10. Carbon. This substance abounds both in animal and