FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 5 r 55. Barley Tea.—Place in a jug 2 oz. of barley, the rind and juice of one lemon, and about four lumps of sugar. Pour over it one pint of boiling water, cover with a paper cap and let it cool, and strain into another jug. The barley may be afterwards put with milk into the oven to swell a little, and then made into a pudding as in No. 54. 56. Bath Chap to Boil.—These may be bought cheaper than almost any portion of the cured, dried, and smoked pig. And where people like pork and do not object to fat, they will be found economical. Soak the chap in water all night pre- vious to boiling. Take it out, scrape, and clean it well, and then put it into a pan with cold water, and allow it to boil gently for a quarter of an hour to the pound weight, and a quarter of an hour over. Take it up and remove the skin. Grate some brown bread-crust over. It is usual to serve boiled parsnips or greens with this dish whilst hot, but do not boil them with the meat as it will retain the flavour after, and it is no improvement to the vegetables. The liquor in which the chap is boiled will make excellent pea-soup or vegetable soup the next day. 57. Batter for frying fish, meat, or fruit.—Put into a basin £ lb. of flour, drop into it the yolk of an egg, put the white into a clean dry basin, add to the flour oz. of butter melted to an oil. Mix to a light batter (but not too thin) with tepid water, let it stand for an hour or so whilst you prepare the fish, meat, or fruit. Then put a frying-pan on the fire with \ lb. of dripping, let it get quite hot, test it with a piece of bread, if that browns quickly the fat is ready. Now whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir it thoroughly into the batter. Dip the fish or whatever you wish to fry into the batter, plunge into the boiling fat. When it is a rich brown it is sufficiently cooked; drain on a piece of paper, sprinkle over with salt or sugar according as the dish is savoury or sweet. Oil may be used instead of butter if it can be afforded; in fact it is preferable. 58. Batter Pudding boiled.— Put two heaped tablespoonsful of flour into a basin, drop in one egg, add a small pinch of salt; add by degrees a half pint of milk, working it into a smooth batter with a wooden spoon. The more it is worked the lighter the pudding will be. Grease a basin thoroughly, pour the batter in, grease a paper with a little dripping, put it over the top, place the basin in a pan with boiling water, e 2