63 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. a-half or two hours, and test with a bright skewer. This is better two or three days after it is made. In fact, it improves by keeping. 101. Cake from Dough.—Take 2 lbs. of dough (see No. 76), put it into a large basin or pan, and place near the fire to keep it warm until you are ready to make the cake. Get •5- lb. of good dripping, lb. currants nicely washed, cleaned, and put down to the fire to plump, also 3 oz. of moist sugar. Put on the table a paste board, roll the dough out with a rolling-pin till it is quite thin, spread a third of the dripping, currants and sugar over the surface, fold in three, roll out again, repeat this operation twice more, work up lightly, fashion into rounds and place in well greased baking-tins. Bake from one and a-half to two hours, according to the quality of your fire and oven, and test as before. 102. Carraway Seeds (Carum Carvi).—A plant largely cultivated on the Continent, and in the South-Eastern Counties of England, for its seeds. It is very prolific. It is used as a sort of spice or flavourer. 103. Caramel, or Colouring for Soups, Gravies, &>c.—Put the sugar into an iron saucepan, stir it until it becomes perfectly black, add one quart of water, let it boil five minutes, strain, and bottle. A good colouring is made from chicory ; quarter of a pound put into a jug, and one pint of boiling water poured upon it. Strain when cold, and bottle. It is tasteless. 104. Coui’s-heel Stock.—Get a dressed cow’s heel from the butcher, i.e., a cow’s heel with the hair scraped off (not cooked in any way), wash it, put it into a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover it, and 1 tablespoonful of salt, let it come slowly to the boil, skimming carefully; when it has just boiled lift out the foot, scrape it and wash in cold water, and put on again in cold water (3 quarts); let this boil slowly for six or eight hours, stirring now and then, so that it may not adhere to the bottom of the pot and burn ; skim all oil and fat off with an iron spoon into a clean jar, (the oil is useful foi domestic purposes.) Strain the liquor off the heel at the end of eight hours. (N.B. The heel will make excellent soup next day and the remains made up into collared meat, cow-heel pie, or savoury stew ; Nos. 106, 107, 108.) 105. Cow's-heel felly.—Take 1 quart of the stock, put it into a clean stew-pan, with 2 oz. lump sugar, the thin rind of the lemon and oranges, 1 inch of cinnamon, a lump of nutmeg