I03 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. it is quite soft wring it as dry as possible in a cloth), mix with herbs, salt, and pepper; place a little of this inside each herring, roll them up, fasten each with a small piece of white sewing-cotton wound round, dip each little roll in flour, place in a pie-dish with some good stock, a few cloves, pepper, salt, one lump of sugar, and two table-spoonsful of vinegar; bake one hour. 260. Herrings, fried.—Wash and clean the herrings, wipe dry, dip in flour, fry in boiling fat till they are a good golden brown. They may be prepared as in No. 259, only, instead of baking, fry in plenty of fat after flouring. Drain on paper, pile on a dish, and send to table hot. The roes may be fried separately. 261. Herrings, baked.—Clean the herrings, carefully remove the heads, flour each herring, place them head to tail in a greased pie-dish till it is quite full; then put a cupful of stock in the dish and some bread-crumbs piled over the top, with little bits of dripping here and there. Bake in the oven for one hour, and serve to table in the same dish. 262. Herringsy potted.—Bone the herrings and put them into the oven to bake in a little stock ; remove the outer skin, place them in a wooden bowl or basin, pound them well with a wooden potato-masher, season with pepper, salt, mace, nut- meg, &c., when they are about half-done. When quite reduced to a pulp pass through the wire sieve, press intolittle oval pots, and run a little dripping or butter over the top. 263. Herrings, home-cured.—No. 1.—Foi quick consumption, clean, scale, and cut open each herring, wash and dry them ; rub salt thoroughly into each one, then dust pepper over, take a little stick and fasten or skewer each one open, string them on a line or on a stick through the eye and hang in the open air, and use as they are wanted. They will keep two or three weeks. No. 2.—Procure a good strong tub, butter-firkin, or a large barrel, if 'you wish to pickle a large quantity. Clean the herrings ; but do not wash them, lay them in regular rows in the barrel with layers of salt between, a layer of salt at the bottom of the barrel, and finish with salt at the top. They will keep as long as you like treated in this manner, and to cook simply require soaking in cold water a few hours before cooking. No. 3.—Make a brine of salt and saltpetre in the proportion of i oz. saltpetre to every 2 lbs. of salt used; this quantity is sufficient for 6 quarts of water. Put the water in