134 LESSONS ON COOKERY, in small boxes at 2s. 6d. each, mixed kinds sufficient for one pudding.) 35. The S. C. Hall Souffle.— Utensils.—Stew-pans, knives, souffle dish, wooden spoons, egg-whisk, basins, chopping-board. Ingredients—Cold roast or jugged hare, stock, herbs, eggs, pepper, salt, cayenne. Recipe.—Let the meat stew gently for two hours, remove from it the bones, chop it very finely or pass it through a mincing machine. Place it in a clean copper sauce-pan, season it with pepper and salt, add one table-spoon- ful of the liquor in which it is boiled, add a little cayenne, and half-a-teaspoonful of powdered herbs and two table-spoonsful of cream, half the rind of a lemon grated, a lump of butter as large as a walnut (about oz). Then separate the yolks and whites of four eggs, place the meat mixture over the fire, stir very rapidly until it boils ; remove the sauce-pan from the fire, adding the yolks of the eggs one by one, and stirring rapidly. Now thoroughly butter or oil the lining of a souffle dish; prepare a high band of buttered paper and fasten round it, securing it at the top by a tiny pin, and round the souffld case lining with twine or tape band. Now beat the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth ; give the mixture in the sauce-pan a thoroughly good stir, then mix in very lightly, but thoroughly, the whipped white of egg; hold high over the souffle lining and pour in. Bake in a moderate oven for half-an-hour ; have the silver souffle case very hot, have a warm towel to throw round it, slip it, if possible, into the souffle case, and remove the band of paper without taking it out of the oven. Wrap the hot towel round, not over it, and convey with the utmost speed to the dining-room. Souffles are worth nothing when cold, and they fall and are spoilt in less than five minutes after leaving the oven unless the foregoing precautions are taken. To be eaten with red currant jelly. The Steward Ross Triumph.— Utensils.—Sauce-pans, knives, chopping-board, large grater, wooden spoons, basins, egg-whisk, wire sieve. Ingredients.—Sweetbreads, cold tongue or lean ham, small mushroom, eggs, breadcrumbs, parsley, thyme, lemon-rind, pepper, salt, cayenne. Recipe.—Choose two nice throat sweetbreads, place them in a stew-pan, cover with cold water, and allow them to come very slowly to the boil, skimming carefully from time to time. Lift them out, rinse in cold water, skin and cut each into three pieces, grate some lean cold boiled tongue or ham, peel, wipe and mince a small