LESSONS ON COOKERY. 53 any scum which may arise will rest on the stalk, and not on the flower. Try it with a skewer at the end of a quarter of an hour, and if done, lift carefully out with a slice on to the wire sieve to drain ; then place in the vegetable dish, and serve melted butter in a sauce-boat, or good thick gravy. 83. Bullock's Heart, stuffed.—Put the heart into salt and water to soak for an hour; clean it thoroughly, and trim, cutting off the deaf ears. Make a stuffing of minced suet, parsley, and thyme, with a tiny bit of lemon-peel (if you have it), mix all well together, moisten with a little milk, stuff the heart, and skewer a piece of buttered paper over. Put it into a stew-pan with a carrot, turnip, and onion, all properly prepared. Stew it for an hour, turning it round, but not piercing it with a fork. Lift it out and place on a baking-dish, and bake in the oven for half an hour or more, according to the size, or roast in front of a bright fire ; in either case, baste well. Serve on a very hot dish ; reduce the liquor the heart was stewed in sufficiently to make gravy, and pour round the meat. 84. Bullock's Liver.—This is best larded, and as larding needles are not expensive it will not be out of place in Artizan Cookery, and make a nice relief to liver and bacon, which every cottager in the country knows. Cut the bacon and lard as directed in Lesson 19, practical illustrations; when the meat is neatly larded make a stuffing, as above directed, for the heart, No. 83, and spread over the bottom of a greased tin. Lay the liver on this, put into a quick oven, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. Make a thick gravy from the stock-pot liquor, thickened with flour, and coloured with caramel or with bread sauce ; No. 86. 85. Take any cold cabbage and cold potatoes, rub both together through a wire sieve, or chop it very finely, mix ■well and season with pepper and salt. Put into a greased basin, with a bit of dripping on the top, place a pot on the top, and put it into the oven to warm. Fry some slices of cold meat in boiling lard or dripping, sprinkle with pepper and salt. Be careful not to fry the meat too hard, only just to warm it in the boiling fat, and lightly brown; when the meat is cooked turn the vegetable out of the basin on to a meat dish, and arrange the meat round. 86. Bread Sauce.—Make about half a pint of skim milk hot over the fire, with an onion in the pan as well. Pass through the wire sieve about or 2 oz. of breadcrumbs. Remove