LESSONS ON COOKERY, S2 cheese, strew over the eggs, put pieces of butter here and there, and brown in the oven; serve hot. 177. Eggs Fried and Cheese.—Boil two eggs hard, shell, cut each egg into about six slices, fry a light brown, put on toast which has been buttered, grate 2 oz. cheese, season with pepper, pile over the eggs. Put pieces of butter or dripping in little tiny pieces here and there, brown before the fire or in the oven ; serve hot. 17S. Eggs and Spinach.—Boil and dress the spinach as directed under that head. Poach the eggs as in No. 172, and place carefully on the spinach. Eggs may be served on mock spinach by using lettuce, nettle tops, or cabbage sprouts, in either case very well boiled. 179. —Elder Flowers and Berries.—The elder tree (sam- bucus nigra), is one of the most useful wild products we have. Its flowers make most delicious wine and elder-flower water; they are also used for fomentations, ointment poultices. The leaves are used for ointments; from the inner bark is made a decoction ; cordials and syrups are made from the berries. 180. Elder-Flower Water is made by gathering about 7 lb. of the flowers, bruising them, and putting them into an earthen- ware pan; pour on them half-gallon of boiling water; cover tightly down so as to keep in all the steam or vapour ; stand the pan on the hob or near the fire so that it may cool gradually; when cool, filter through blotting paper. For the wine, see under head wine. 181. Elder-Flower Ointment.—This ointment is useful in cases of burns or scalds. Take 1 lb. of lard, beat it to a cream; add two-pennyworth oxide of zinc, and one-pennyworth glycerine, and 1 pint of hot (not boiling, however,) elder-flower water, mix it well with the lard, which should be slightly warmed; put it aside and let it stand till next day; pour off the water, warm it again and stir in about 1 tea-spoonful of essence of bergamot. When required for use, spread on a little soft rag or lint. 182. Fat.—In many households there is a great waste of fat and grease; careless or dirty cooks will skim off the oil rising to the top of the soup and throw into the fire that which ought to be collected. Small bits of fat taken off mutton chops, left from breakfast bacon, or trimmed off a joint of cold meat when preparing to stew, &c., ought to be most carefully collected and