FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. I 1 CHAPTER III. Food from a General Point of View. We eat food to supply the constant waste of the body. In fact, we eat that we may live. The human body has been repre- sented as a wonderfully constructed living machine, having an internal fire which requires feeding. Should that fire be extin- guished, then the life or cause of motion and warmth ceases, and the body is dead. If we lift our arm, bend the head, eat, talk, or walk, all these actions tend to wear out the machine, and food, as well as keeping the furnace of the body supplied with fuel, also repairs this waste. Looking at the object of food from a general point of view, we see, then, that it ought to be so eaten that there shall be a due admixture ; in fact, such an admixture as will best supply the waste, feed the body, and help it to perform its proper functions without creating too much work for the internal organs. By this I do not mean to say people are to diet themselves in a ridiculous manner, eating perhaps three or four set articles of diet and no others, because they contain all the requisites for the support of the body. No, God would never have sent on this earth all the bounteous store of fruits, vegetables, &c., if they were not for our use; but we must study their use and not abuse His precious gifts. The study of food is one of the most important sciences; it involves other sciences in its study, it is a harmless and pure recreation, and a good and useful task. Lesson V. We find temperance in eating and drinking is an absolute necessity. It is true, that rich delicious foods are made to be used, but it is not true that the more one gets of them the better. It is not always that which tastes like nectar that is best suited to digestion. In selecting our food, we must pre- viously study the component parts of our bodies, and then the component parts of the various foods. We shall then arrive at two important facts, viz., (i) what is necessary to supply the waste of the body, and (2) what foods will best do this. Thus we are led to the study of chemistry in some little degree.