LESSONS ON COOKERY, I 2 S of grated parmesan cheese. Place the pan over the fire, stir well and quickly until the mixture leaves the sides of the pan easily, pour it over the vegetable, shape it into a dome with a knife dipped into water, sprinkle 2 ozs. of grated cheese over the whole of the vegetable and sauce, put a little piece of butter here and there, put it into the oven or before the fire till it is a beautiful golden brown, then serve as quickly as possible. For garnish, cut potatoes in thin rings, place them in a frying- basket, and plunge them into boiling fat until of a golden colour, drain on kitchen paper, sprinkle with salt, and put round the dish when it comes out of the oven. 22. Beignetsa L’Espagnole.— Utensils.— Sauce-pan, wooden spoon, tea-spoon, wine glass, kitchen paper, frying kettle and basket. Ingredients.—Flour, butter, jam, almonds (bitter and sweet), syrup, noyeau, lemon, Johnston’s corn-flour, eggs, water (2 lbs. fat), castor sugar. Recipe.—Make a panada with 3 oz. self-raising flour, J oz. bitter almonds, blanched and chopped, 1 oz. Jordan almonds, also minced finely, £ oz. castor sugar; mix well together. Now put into a sauce-pan 1 oz. of fresh butter, let it melt, take the pan off the fire, and mix in the flour, almonds, &c. Place on the fire and make into a stiff paste with a little water-; let it be well-cooked, so as to leave the sides of the pan easily. Now the yolks of two eggs. Stir it well and put on a plate to cool. When cold form into little calls as large as a walnut: insert a little jam to each ball, dip in egg, roll in chopped almond, and put into boiling fat. Drain on kitchen paper. When they are fried a bright golden brown pile in pyramids on a clean napkin, dust with castor sugar and serve hot. Or they may be sent to table with the following sauce :—Moisten one table-spoonful of Johnston’s corn-flour with a little cold water. Place on the fire a small sauce-pan with 1 oz. lump sugar on which the rind of a lemon has been grated. Strain the juice over the sugar in the pan, add one glass of noyeau and one glass of water, stir till at boiling point, then pour in the corn-flour, stir till it thickens ; add more water if necessary, draw to one side, and add the yolks of two eggs. Pour round the balls on a very hot dish and dust them with castor sugar. 23. Turnip Glaces Blanc-et-Bnm.—Wash, peel, and boil in salt and water 5 turnips as nearly of one size as possible ; when they are done lift them carefully out on to a dish and pour over them the following white sauce which you have made