48 LESSONS ON COOKERY, chopped herbs, one teaspoonful of Yorkshire Relish, and pepper and salt over; make a light batter by putting in a basin two tablespoonsful of flour, drop an egg in, add a pinch of salt, and mix to a thin batter, with skim or new milk, pour the batter over the meat, and bake ten or fifteen minutes. 41. Australian Mutton Balls.—Chop ^ lb. of Australian mutton very finely, also one small onion, soak any stale crusts in cold water for one hour, express the water from the bread, and mix it with the onion and meat, add a few dried or minced herbs, such as parsley and thyme, season with pepper and salt, mix two tablespoonsful of flour with this and form into balls ; dip in egg, and fry in boiling fat. 42. Australian Meat Soup.—This soup makes a famous dinner for a working man’s family. Take 1 lb. of meat from a tin and chop it a little, peel two onions and slice them, one carrot and one turnip, and 1 lb. of potatoes, all washed, scraped, or peeled, and cut into the thinest possible slices. Put all this into a large pot with two quarts of water, let it boil slowly for two hours, season with pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of sauce, and serve with bread. Crusts, cut up and put in five minutes before serving, give the soup a rich taste, and use up pieces which might be wasted. 43. Australian Mince.—This is one of the nicest methods of using this kind of meat. Boil a couple of onions in a little stock or water until they are tender, mince them, and reduce the stock they were boiled in to about one teacupful; mince 1 lb. of Australian meat, chop some herb, and mix with the onion, meat, and liquor, in a saucepan, add salt, and one tea- spoonful ofYorkshire relish ; let it become hot, and whilst it is heating make either a wall of potatoes, rice, or, better still, boiled haricot beans on a large meat-dish (see Haricot Beans), put the meat in the centre, and serve hot. 44. American Beef.—The pressed beef is very excellent, and is usually eaten just as it is sent over. It is an excellent relish to potatoes and other vegetables, and is nice if cut in thick slices and just warmed in a little good stock with a teaspoonful of some sauce. The American roast beef, too, at is. for two pounds is excellent, and only requires heating in the tin after it is opened to make a really good dish. Numerous excellent receipts are given on the tins, which answer very well if carefully worked out. 45. Artificial Asses’ Milk.—Where asses’ milk is ordered