FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 35 (crescents) with a round, fluted cutter, fry them in the dripping before you fry the meat, and put them on one side till you begin to dish up. A properly stewed rabbit, and properly stewed meat, requires no artificial colouring or flavour from sauces. Lesson XIII. Broiling—Must be done over a clear fire. The gridiron ought to be kept scrupulously clean, and never put away dirty; a silver gridiron is considered the best, but it can only be had in the houses of the rich, in first-class hotels, and restaurants. Take the gridiron, place it over the fire to heat a little, rub the bars over with suet or a buttered paper, and place the meat on the grid; turn it every two or three minutes, so that none of the red juices escape. The process is simple, but it requires care and attention, together with the exercise of a little common sense. For instance, the grid should be put rather slantingly over the fire, so that the fat from the chops, or other meat, may not fall into the fire, and thus create, not only a smell of burning grease in the house, but make a flame rise which will cause the outside of the meat to have a charred, blackened appearance, and to taste of cinders and grease. Again, in broiling fish, such as Red Mullet, it is usual to wrap them in buttered paper, and to slightly chalk the bars of the grid. Never turn or liftrany meat which is cooking, especially when broiling or grilling, by sticking a fork into it; use a skewer, and, if it must be pierced, let it be inserted in the fat portion of the meat, and there will be then no great waste of nutriment. To Broil a Steak.—Take a steak which has been cut and hung up two or three days—if it is summer weather, and it has been brushed over with acetic acid to keep off the flies, wash it in warm water—wipe it dry, put it into a soup plate or dish, and cover it with salad oil. Let it remain in this about twenty minutes (or longer), then sprinkle a little pepper over, and broil as above directed, heating the gridiron, &c. A broiled steak requires no gravy; if properly managed, it will be full of delicious gravy, which will pour out as it is cut. When dishing sprinkle a tiny quantiny of salt o\er the meat, serve at once on a hot plate, and have ready fried potatoes,—dressed thus—peel the potatoes, cut them into small strips, or rings, or like new potatoes, but of an uniform size and thickness; put them on in a pan with cold water and plenty of salt, let them just come D 2