LESSONS ON COOKERY, 136 rolling-pin, pie-dish, sharp knife, paste-brush, paste-cutters, flour-dredger, cutlet, bat or steak-presser, plate. Ingredients.— Beefsteak, oysters, flour, butter, pepper, salt, herbs, stock, spices. Recipe.—Put on a plate one tablespoonful of flour, one tea-spoonful of salt, half-a-teaspoonful of black pepper (a small pinch of cayenne), six cloves ground to powder, a grate of nutmeg, and a suspicion of powdered mace. Cut lbs. of beefsteak into pieces (3 inches wide by 4 inches long), dip the cutlet-bat in cold water and beat the steak (or use the steak- pressers) to tender them. Dip each piece in the flour mixture on the plate, thoroughly covering it, and laying it on a clean dish until wanted. Now mince a teaspoonful each of thyme, marjoram, and basil. Open and beard two dozen oysters. If fresh oysters are not available, use the tinned oysters (Crosse and Blackwell’s brand are the best I have yet seen). Place an oyster at one end of a piece of steak, roll it up and place it in the pie-dish. Do all the other pieces in a similar manner, filling in the spaces between the rolls with oysters. Pile the pieces high up in the centre of the pie-dish, cover with flaky paste, brush over with an egg, decorate, and bake in a moderate oven for one-and-a-half hours. 39. Kidney Pudding.— Utensils.—Basins, paste-board, and rolling-pin, knife, kitchen paper, chopping-board. Ingredients. —Kidneys, bacon, herbs, lemon, beefsteak or gravy beef, vinegar, suet, flour, water, butter. Recipes.—Skin and slice nine sheep’s kidneys or two bullock’s kidneys, place them in a deep dish or soup-plate, melt 1 oz. of butter and pour over, also one table-spoonful of vinegar. (N.B.—The French use oil instead of butter.) Allow them to remain in this for one hour. Mince i£ lbs of gravy beef very finely, put it into a basin with a tea-cupful of water, and beat it up with a fork to separate the granules. Now cut two thin slices of gmoked bacon into small dice. Prepare the following pastry : Chop very finely 6 oz. of suet, mix with 1 lb. of fine flour, and sufficient cold water to make it into a light paste, roll it out lightly and quickly: the less it is touched the better. Butter a pudding-basin, line it with the paste, which should not be too thick, keeping back sufficient to form the top cover ; place in a layer of kidney, sprinkle over some dried herbs, then a few pieces of the bacon, next a layer of the minced beef, seasonings of pepper, salt, &c., a little cayenne, until the pudding basin is full. Now flavour a tea-cupful of nice stock, pour it over