FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 85 three pints of skim milk, or one pint of milk and half-pint of water; let it cree for twelve hours, stirring now and then, and adding more water as the wheat may require it. This will keep a week or so. To use for table—Take three spoonsful of the cree, mix it with half-pint of new milk, add one table-spoonful of white moist sugar, half-tea-spoonful of mixed spice, and one > table-spoonful of raisins. This is delicious, made of new corn, [ and makes a capital dish, hot or cold, for summer use. In the ] North of England this is used as a Christmas dish. 192. Fruit Pies.—Fruit pies require careful preparation, so that the fruit may be thoroughly cooked as well as the pastry. Cottagers’ ovens are not always very good, and although the crust may be done to a turn, it is often found that the contents of the pies are half raw. This is particularly injurious to people of delicate constitution or weak digestion. If it is once found that the fruit will not cook in an oven, parboil it before putting into the pie-dish, and place a cup, tiny tumbler, or broken egg-cup in the centre so as to prevent the paste sinking in. 193. Fruit Puddings.—Soak ^ lb. stale crusts in cold water for two hours ; place a plate with a weight on the top of the crusts to keep them under. Whilst they are soaking, pick the fruit, and mince £ lb. mutton or beef suet. Wring the crusts dry in a clean cloth, put them into a basin with the chopped suet, two table-spoonsful of flour, one tea-spoonful of baking- powder, and a pinch of salt. Mix well and lightly together, just adding enough water (if required) to make a nice light dough. Roll lightly and quickly out. Line a greased basin, half fill with fruit, then put in the necessary sugar, one or two table-spoonsful, according to the character of the fruit, i.e. whether sweet or acid ; pile the rest of the fruit well up, cover with the paste, grease a piece of clean wrapping paper, and put the basin into a pan with boiling water reaching to within one inch of the top of the basin. This crust is much lighter, more digestible, and cheaper than the ordinary pudding-crusts, be- sides being a method of using up old crusts—always a matter for the consideration of good housekeepers. 194. Fruit Staved for Children.—Take three or four pounds of fruit, place it in an earthenware jar with two table-spoonsful of sugar for every pound of fruit, pour over all the fruit one tea-cupful of water, put any crusts of bread on the top, place in a slow oven, and stew for three or four hours. Dish up by