LESSONS ON COOKERY. 70 curd, beat up two eggs and mix with it. Pick, wash, dry, and plump before the fire \ lb. of currants; mix them with the curd ; also two tablespoonsful of moist sugar, and about three drops of essence of lemon. (N.B. Twopennyworth of essence of lemon from the chemist will last a long time if properly used.) Line saucers or patty-pans with plain thick crust; put one tablespoonful into each patty ; bake in a quick oven for quarter of an hour. Curd is expensive to buy or make in the Southern Counties, although the milk can be turned by alum or rennet, bought from the druggist. 129. Castor Oil.—Ricinus Communis is obtained from the Palma CJiristi. It is cultivated in the South of Europe, West Indies, and United States. The oil is obtained from the seeds, which are bruised by means of heavy machinery and the juice expressed through bags. It is then exposed to the sun’s rays to bleach. The best quality is a pale light colour perfectly transparent. An inferior quality is extracted by subjecting the seeds to a stewing process and then resorting to pressure whilst the seeds are still warm. It is the safest medicine to administer to young children or delicate people. Castor Oil being difficult to administer, I will give two recipes which appeared in some of the medical journals, &c., and which I have proved of value. 130. Castor Oil for Children.—Take the prescribed quantity of oil, put it into a perfectly clean earthenware lined saucepan, drop in an egg, also one dessertspoonful of sugar, place the pan over the fire, add one teaspoonful of the strained juice of a lemon; stir rapidly until the egg and oil become perfectly blended, and the egg coagulated. Spread this on a plate, cover with plum jam and give to the child, either hot or cold. The former is best. 131. Castor Oil for Adults.—Dose, jounce. “Mix ina mortar ten grains of powdered tragacanth, with two and a half drachms of water (equal three teaspoonsful), pour upon this very slowly, drop by drop, | oz. of castor oil, stirring constantly with the pestal. When the mixture is complete, add three oz. of water, one oz. of syrup, and a few drops essence of almonds. This will form a white emulsion, pleasant to the taste, and superior to the method of giving castor oil in sherry, brandy, hot coffee, or milk.” This may be given with safety even in Enteritis. 132. Collops minced.—This is quite a national dish in Scot- land. Take about one lb. of juicy lean gravy beef, mince