FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 55 an hour; test it at the end of that time by putting a little in a saucer; put it out of doors to cool, and if it sets, it will be found to be sufficiently cooked. If not boiled enough it will not set firmly. Fill dry jam pots in the usual way, and cover down when cold with brown paper. 72. Bilberry Syrup.- Put 2^ lbs. of loaf sugar into a saucepan with 1 pint of water; bet it boil for a quarter of an hour, stirring all the time. Put on the fire, in a saucepan, 3 lbs. of bilberries ; let them boil for half an hour, pass them through a jelly bag, and add the juice to the syrup. Clear with the white and shell of one egg, lightly whipped, and put into the syrup. Put it on the fire again, let it boil well up for three minutes ; lift it carefully to one side, skim all the froth off as gently as possible, then pour into bottles and cork for future use. 1 tablespoonful in a tumbler of water before breakfast is considered quite a heal-all by some of the people in the midland counties. It certainly contains some valuable acids, and is a refreshing beverage on a hot summer’s day. 73. Beetroot (Beta Valgaris).—Is rich in carbonaceous food. There are several varieties. The white sugar beet is grown largely on the Continent, and used in the manufacture of sugar; it is computed that over two million tons of this sugar are made annually. It may be known from cane t sugar by the peculiar whiteness of the moist sugar, and the softness of the crystals. It also produces, from the refuse of the sugar, molasses which yield from 25 to 30 per cent, of pure spirit, at about is. per gallon, used largely for the making of mock whiskies and brandies. From the further refuse left from distillation excel- lent potash is obtained, and from the refuse after the manu- facture of potash, pasteboard and brown paper; thus one beet- root contains substances from which sugar, spirit, potash, paper, and pasteboard can be successively obtained, without waste of material. 73A. Mangold Wurzel-—is another name under which we dis- cover the beet, and is cultivated principally for the use of cattle in this country. The red Garden Beet is the one with which we shall have to deal. It is richer and more juicy, and of a brilliant red colour; the fibrine, too, is finer. Beetroot bears the proportions of 35 parts cabonaceous to 1 part of nitrogenous matter. 74. Beetroot Salad.—Carefully raise a beetroot from the ground with a prong, being sure that it is not broken or the