LESSONS ON COOKERY, IOO one turnip; put the meat and vegetables in a sauce-pan, with one pint of stock. Let it stew till the meat is tender, then thicken with baked brown flour; garnish it with toasted bread. 247. Ham Bone Soup.—Pound the bones with a large hammer until they are well broken up. Put them into a pot with 3 pints of cold water and 1 tea-spoonful of salt. Whilst it is coming to the boil, skim well, and prepare the vegetables, ;viz:—One carrot, one turnip, two onions; cut them into | dice, and when the water in the pot fairly boils, add them, \) also a little pepper. Let it boil for four or five hours ; thicken with either oatmeal (coarse Scotch is the most nutritious), or Symington’s pea-flour, and boil till well cooked, say half-an- hour to one hour. 248. Heart Stewed a la Gothard.—Lay the heart in salt and water, cut off the deaf ears, scrape a carrot, peel a turnip, and wash them together with a leek (or a Portugal onion, if preferred). Chop them up, and place in the bottom of a stew-pan with 1 pint second stock, and a few herbs. Prepare a stuffing in the proportion of 1 table-spoonful coarse Scotch oatmeal, put into a basin with 2 table-spoonsful of water, and leave to soak whilst 1 oz. of mutton suet is minced, and b oz. onion. Now mix with the oatmeal, season with pepper and salt, and put into the heart tubes. Lay the heart on the vegetables, and stew for 1^ hours. If the heart is larded it is a great improvement. 249. Heart, to roast. — Parboil the heart, putting it into boiling water, and letting it boil for one hour. Then have ready a nicely prepared veal stuffing ; fill the heart tubes with this, put a greased paper round the heart, and have plenty of good dripping in the tin to baste the heart with. Keep it well basted for half-an-hour, then remove the paper and still keep the meat basted. Prepare a thick brown gravy, and put it into a hot tureen. Ten minutes before dishing the heart, ' dredge it over with flour. Dish every part of the dinner required to be served with the heart, and send it in before attempting to take it from the fire. Have the dishes and plates very hot, and serve on a dry hot dish. 250. Heart cold, to hash.—This may be prepared as in No. 251, but care must betaken to keep it well supplied with stock whilst cooking, and to serve very hot. 251. Hash d la Gothard.—After many trials to make a tender, palatable dish of hash, in contradistinction to the