LESSONS ON COOKERY, 3° Lesson XI. To-day we will take examples of boiling. Food, to be nutritious, must be juicy, tender, and easily digested. There are more failures in boiling meat, perhaps, than any other method of cooking; and simply because people do not care to study the science, if I may so term it, of cause and effect. Put meat into a saucepan with cold water, apply heat to it, and you will find the juice gradually drawn out into the water, instead of being retained in the meat; let the liquid in the saucepan boil fast for an hour or so, and then examine the meat. It will be hard and horny almost in texture, the result of too great a force of long-continued heat, which has hardened the albumen in the juices and rendered the fibrine a dense indi- gestible mass of animal matter. Now, to prepare food for table, whether it be “ Fish, flesh, or fowl,” remember the great object in view, and think of the chemical work your cookery is to begin, viz., the process of digestion, and assist it as much as possible. First, see that the pot in which you are to boil the meat is thoroughly bright and clean. Second, that the fire is clear, not heavy, dull or smoky. Fill tire pot |-full of water, put it on the fire, and let it come to the boil. Now, if that boiling water in the pot were to be spilt over your hand by accident, you would find that the pores of the skin contracted, the skin thick- ened, and the serum, a white juice of the body, would collect under it, having no means of escape; so if you plunge the meat into boiling water, a case of contracted skin is formed round it, preventing the escape of the juices, the most valuable portion of the meat. Having put the meat into the boiling water, let it boil up quickly for two or three minutes ; then draw the saucepan to one side and let it boil gently—not exactly simmer; a rather more forcible movement of the water is required, allowing the same time per lb. for butcher’s meat as for roasting, i.e., i- hour to the lb., a quarter over where the joint is under io lbs. A superior method of treating meat to that of boiling, is by the use of Capt. Warren’s patent cooking-pot, which anyone who is possessed of any intelligence can use, although it is often put on one side and mismanaged by careless, idle, or ignorant people who try it. Leg of Afutton.—Cut the joint as for roasting, bending the knuckle round. Tie it up in a clean cloth, which has been well rinsed in cold water, to insure the absence of soap suds and