LESSONS ON COOKERY, 88 2or. Fricasse of Rabbit.—Cut the rabbit into neat joints. I an old rabbit, lay it in vinegar for 20 minutes. Take it out, flour it well, and fry for about five minutes in boiling fat, drain and put it into a stew-pan with three cloves, six whole pepper- corns, salt, a small onion shred finely, thyme, majoram and parsley, about one teaspoonful when chopped, one small slice of carrot, and one of turnip, let it stew slowly in stock (on no account use water ; every careful housekeeper will have plenty of stock) sufficient to cover it for hour. When it is nice and tender strain off the stock, and put it into a clean saucepan to boil. There should be about two tea-cupsful of the gravy. Have ready mixed in a basin one table-spoonful of flour, and half ditto of cornflour mixed to a batter with a little milk ; pour this into the gravy, stirring the latter till it thickens, taste it and season properly; let it boil five minutes to cook the flour. Arrange the rabbit neatly on the dish ; pour the hot sauce over and serve at once. G. 202. Garlic.—The common garlic Allium sativum is the chief of our onion tribe, and the various species such as the onion, Allium Cepa; the leek, Allium Porrum ; the shalot, Allium Ascalonicum ; chives, Allium Schcenoprasum, are all more or less used in this country for cookery. The garlic itself is divided into cloves. It is very pungent. The aroma and flavour are imparted by an oil known as sulphide of allyle. The medicinal qualities of the bulb are well known, especially amongst Continental physicians. It is a powerful stimulant, diuretic, and tonic. Excellent in lung and dropsical diseases. Externally it acts as an irritant and resolvent. It is used in whooping-cough to produce counter irritation, and produce expectoration. Abroad the garlic is found in every savoury dish. 203. Garlic Mixture for Whooping-Cough.—One large gar- lic, minced very finely, and put into a bottle with one pint best rum; let it stand two days, when it will be fit for use. Rub the chest, back, palms of the hands, and soles of the feet well twice a clay with the rum, and give the marshmallow syrup, or linseed tea. If taken at an early stage this will save a doctor’s bill. 204. Garlic Vinegar.—This is much employed abroad, and for those who like the flavour of garlic it is an inexpensive and economical method of keeping garlic flavouring. Take