FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 37 take off the long hard stalks and place in the frying-basket; plunge into boiling fat, holding the basket at arm’s length, as the moisture in the parsley will cause the fat to splutter. Let it remain for three or four seconds; feel if it is crisp—if not, put it back again for a short time ; then drain on kitchen-paper, and garnish the fish according to taste. Slices of lemon are a nice finish to fish-garnish, and are often very much liked as a relish by those who partake of fish at table. Braising and Larding go hand in hand. Most dishes that are braised are previously larded, so our example will be— Larded Capon.—Choose a good capon. Draw it in the ordinary manner, but before trussing, cut some slices of bacon into thin slices, and again into strips, which are a very little smaller in size than the end of the larding-needle. Then begin at the neck of the capon, and lard in regular, neat, alternate rows down the breast, /.<?., beginning the second row between the stitches of larding, and the third row on a level with the first; the fourth on a level with the second, and so on. When larded, stuff with sausage meat or lemon stuffing, truss, and put it into a braising-pan on the following vegetables : i small turnip peeled and cut into slices, i carrot scraped and sliced, half a leek (the white portion), a bunch of sweet herbs, 6 cloves, 6 whole peppers, and a blade of mace. Lay the capon on these, butter a piece of kitchen-paper cut round the size of the pan, and lay over the capon. Put sufficient stock in the pan to reach to the paper; put it over the fire and let it stew slowly for about one hour, then place hot coals on the top lid of the braising-pan, first removing the paper, until the surface is completely browned. Remove the capon on to a clean dish, reduce the gravy, melt some gelatine and mix with the gravy; boil to a glaze, and pour over the whole capon, so- that '“very portion is covered with the glaze. Garnish with friedpotatoe ribbons.—Cut a large round potatoe into three. After it has been washed and dried, peel the centre slice, and cut the ribbons off in very thin peels, going round and round the slice till you get a nice long ribbon, place them in water, and salt as you cut them, so that they may preserve the colour. Dry them carefully with a towel, tie into knots or form into long ties, put into the frying-basket, plunge into boiling fat, and fry a light golden brown. When properly cooked they should be crisp. Drain them on kitchen-paper, sprinkle over with salt, and use by placing round the dish. f vf•«%/c pc *! "