LESSONS ON COOKERY. 68 The former is called Vegetable Charcoal, the latter Animal Charcoal. Both are used as antiseptics and disinfectants. Slightly tainted meat may be restored by boiling it with char- coal in the pot. Cabbage when boiling may be divested of its disagreeable odours if charcoal be used in the preparation. It is used for filtering water, but must be frequently changed ; ' and in the sick room it is mixed with poultices, in cases of ,cancers, ulcers, &c., or laid over lints to prevent tendency to i proud flesh and gangrene; charcoal is also an antidote to several vegetable and other poisons. 122. Cheese: derived from the saxon word cyze. It is a highly nitrogenous food, and is made from milk-curd, which is separated from the milk by means of rennet, which turns the sugar of milk into lactic acid, and produces the same effect (only in a stronger degree) which you would obtain by pouring a wineglassful of vinegar into a pint of slightly-warmed new milk. The curd thus obtained is washed and pressed. The Dutch peasants’ cheese-making is the simplest process known. They collect the curd, place it in wooden bowls or shapes, and weight it down with heavy stones in lieu of the regular cheese press. This system of pressing causes the honeycomb appearance of the Dutch cheese. Cream cheese is made from the fresh curd of whole milk. Cohoick cheese is made from skim milk, is a good imitation of cream cheese, and costs about one-third of the money; it is a capital relish for supper when ripe. Cream Cheese is richer in fatty particles; skim milk is the most nourishing, and best fitted as an article of diet. Cheese is coloured principally with Annatto, and parti- cular kinds of cheese are coloured with sage leaves, parsley, marigold flowers, carrots, saffron, seaweed, &c.; and varieties of substances, such as potatoes, &c., are mixed with the curd to impart flavour, &c. 123. Cheese and toast.—Cut two rounds of bread from a stale loaf, toast it well and carefully; spread a little dripping over each slice whilst hot. Grate 2 oz. of American cheese, mix it with {- teaspoonful of black pepper and dry mustard mixed, spread evenly over the toast, put the slices one over the other on an old plate or baking-tin, and place in the oven ten minutes before you wish to use it. It must be eaten directly it is taken out of the oven. 124. Cheese Sauce for Toast (or bread.)—Take 2 oz. of American cheese (about one pennyworth), cut it into slices and