LESSONS ON COOKERY, 10 similar manner. The outer and waste leaves of vegetables and cabbage and the stumps ought to be burnt at once, together with turnip peelings, carrot scrapings, fish or any small bones, and in fact all the waste refuse of the kitchen, unless fowls, rabbits, or pigs are kept. With regard to the pigs’ tub versus health, I would only assure the student that they are most un- healthy things to have in close proximity to a house, and ought never to be kept in towns. Pigs themselves are even worse, and unless the creatures can be kept clean, as at the late Prince Consort’s Model Farm at Windsor, and other properly managed farms, or get their freedom in woods and pastures, there is danger of the effluvia from their dwellings affecting the health of those living near them, and when they are dead of bringing upon those who partake of the pork thus reared the most dreadful diseases. Fresh Air is an absolute requisite in the kitchen, not alone on account of health, but on account of the absorbing qualities of many liquids and other substances used in cooking. Meat left in an over-heated room, with poisonous gases flying about, will soon become tainted and rapidly add to the discomfort and unhealthiness of the apartment. To keep the kitchen in a perfect state of ventilation there should be a continuous and gentle current of fresh air passing through, and where a kitchen is badly ventilated it ought to be at once obviated by the use of some such apparatus as Boyle’s air-pump ventilation. Ash-heaps and Dustbins ought to be kept solely for ashes and dust; never throw vegetable matter, bones, herring-heads, etc., into either; if there is no other way of disposing of them except by the way of the ash-heap or dust-bin, burn them first; this will secure the health of your own family and that of your neighbours. If you doubt the purity of the drains or the ash-heap use “ Sanitas,” which is a mixture of water and turpentine exposed to a current of air. It is a powerful dis- infectant, and is not poisonous or injurious to textile fabrics. It also contains hydrogen, peroxide and camphoric acid. I would also call attention to the fact that a great deal of bad air might be absorbed by means of giant sunflowers grown in the back yards and gardens. Gas, which would be easily drawn into the kitchen when strong fires are burning, will thus be dis- posed of at the cost of a few pence, whilst the seeds of the sun- flower will serve' to feed the poultry.