FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 107 272. Isinglass.—I would say a word about isinglas. If you cannot afford to purchase the pure isinglass, which runs from 15s. to 18s. per oz., Nelson’s loose gelatine will answer the purpose quite as well, for most of the isinglass is simply a very pure gelatine, most frequently never made from fish gelatine at all. The best gelatine is supposed to be made from the swimming bladder and sounds of the sturgeon ; the second quality from fish bones, such as plaice, skate, soles, &c., after the fishmonger has filiated them. 273. Isinglass Jelly (savoury).—Take i oz. pure isinglass; put it into a saucepan with one quart of water, six peppercorns, six cloves, quarter salt-spoonful of salt, and a crust of bread from the top side of the loaf; stir till the isinglass is melted ; let the water simmer away to about one pint or rather less ; beat up the crust well so as to be equally mixed with the jelly; dip a mould into water; lift the saucepan with the jelly off the fire, pick out the cloves and peppercorns, pour in a small glass of port or sherry, mix and pour the whole into the mould. If stood in ice, this will be found an excellent sick- room food where it is necessary to feed and give cooling jellies to the patient. If isinglass cannot be had, Nelson’s gelatine (loose), will answer the purpose, using f instead of £ oz. J. 274. Jams.—General directions for making jam will be suffi- cient to guide the student. For instance, rhubarb, blackberries, and all fruits of a like wet nature, require to be boiled for an hour, or even two hours if it is a wet season, skimming well before adding the sugar, or the jam will not keep ; this is to evaporate the water, or over-supply of moisture. Weigh the fruit previous to boiling, and then add, after it has boiled a sufficiently long time, in the proportion of 5 lbs. of sugar to every 7 lbs of fruit; boil for three-quarters of an hour to an hour. All jams that are wished to keep are best boiled first and well skimmed before adding the sugar. 275. Jelly, Cow's Heel.—See No. 105. 276. Jelly Fruit are nearly all similar in their method of manufacture. The fruits, whether they be currants, bilberries, gooseberries, blackberries, &c., all require first boiling ancl stirring, with one quart of water added to the 7 lbs. or gallon of fruit. This must boil from three-quarters of an hour to an hour over a clear fire, being well and carefully skimmed the whole time. Then strain through a clean cloth, being careful not to