LESSONS ON COOKERY, 98 238. Hake Cutlets.—Cut a nice fresh hake into thick slices after it has been well cleaned, wipe each cutlet quite. dry, flour it well all over; fry in plenty of boiling fat till quite brown. The great secret of having good fried-fish is to have the fat both plentiful and quite boiling. Fried parsley must be used as a garnish, and some good thick brown gravy with a table- spoonful of vinegar (see No. 229) makes a cheap and delicious sauce piquante. 239. Hake (dried), boiled— Soak the fish at least twenty- four hours before you use it, unless you prefer it very salt. Choose thick white-looking fish, which has not the appearance of having been turned rancid by exposure to the sun. Change the water at the end of twelve hours, scraping and cleaning the fish thoroughly; let it lie in the clear fresh water till you require to use it, then lift it out; dry it in a cloth. Have ready a sauce-pan with boiling water, to which add one table- spoonful of vinegar; place the fish in this, and boil from ten minutes to a quarter-of-an-hour. When thoroughly cooked lift it out, drain it, put a tiny piece of dripping or butter over, dust with pepper and serve hot, or with melted butter. 240. Hake (dried), fried.—Soak and dry the fish as in No. 239, and cut into neat pieces about three or four inches square. Prepare a batter as in No 57, flour the pieces of fish separately, cover with the batter, and fry in boiling fat. When a bright brown, drain on paper. 241. Hake Pie.—Cut a fresh hake into cutlets, and sub- divide each into two or three pieces according to its size. Put on a plate one table-spoonful of flour, one tea-spoonful of salt, half-a-teaspoonful of pepper, mix well together; dip each piece of hake in the mixture, chop a small onion up very finely, strew it in the bottom of a pie-dish with 2 cloves and a little chopped thyme and parsley, place the pieces of hake in till the pie-dish is half full, then sprinkle more herbs ; add 2 bay-leaves, and then pile the rest of the pieces up, keeping them well raised in the centre; add 1 tea-cupful of second stock, make a little short crust, cover the pie, and bake for one hour in a moderate oven. 242. Halibut Steaks—Are cheap and plentiful in the Northern and Midland counties, but they are often spoilt by bad cookery, and come to table tasting greasy and of burnt fat. They must be fresh, wiped dry, and dipped in flour; if it can be afforded to use an egg and some breadcrumbs as well as