77 FOR TIIE USE OF SCHOOLS. the dory as in No. 156; rub the bars of the gridiron with chalk; place the fish on the greased paper; sprinkle with pepper and salt, fold it neatly up, folding the ends in tightly, place on the grid, and grill over or in front of the fire. Make a little thick gravy to serve with the fish ; be sure that it is nicely flavoured. When cooked, which will be in about ten minutes, take the fish up, send to table in the paper, and the sauce in a tureen. 158. Duck, to Bake or Roast.—I have seen cottagers treat themselves to a duck, and cook it in the most strange manner, and then declare that fat bacon was preferable. No wonder ! A clergyman of my acquaintance found one of his very poorest parishioners frying a duck for dinner in a dirty frying- pan, and loudly exclaiming because it was burning outside and not doing in. The simplest method for cottagers to try, is to bake or roast it. We will suppose the duck carefully plucked ; next cut the skin of the duck round near the head; remove the crop, and take off the neck close to the body; make an incision a little below the breastbone, and draw the bird. Take some salt and rub down the backbone; then pour boiling water from the neck through the body, letting it run along the back, the brown substance or sole will then be easily removed; wipe the duck dry inside ; steep the feet in boiling water, and remove the outer skin. 1 have seen some professed training cooks slovenly enough to stick the legs of fowls and ducks between the bars, but it is untidy and dirty, and ashes are not absolutely required as a coating to the breasts of poultry about to be cooked. Boiling water is the most correct method of freeing the skin from the flesh. Now light a piece of paper, hold the duck over the flame to singe off the hairs. Clean the giblets ; cut off the beak from the head, and plunge the latter into boiling water: skin it, and put all these on in a saucepan to stew. Prepare a stuffing of either— (A.) Three oz. bread-crumbs, one table-spoonful of chopped onion (put into a basin and scalded for ten minutes), one tea- spoonful crumbled sage-leaves. Drain the water off the onion ; mix the bread, &c., with them ; season with pepper and salt; moisten with milk, and stuff the duck. Truss carefully, turning the feet to rest on the back. Dust the bird over with flour; place it in a baking-tin ; it will be done in one hour in a smart oven. Or— (B.) Prepare the duck as above, and make the stuffing of