FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 9 CHAPTER II. Lesson IV.—Sanitary Hints. Hygiene of the Kitchen. The sanitary state of the kitchen is of the most vital conse- quence to all the dwellers in the house. Carelessly managed kitchens, either in the cottage or the palace, will be and are more conducive to the spread of fevers and other dire diseases than anything else. The kitchen may be a pattern of cleanli- ness and tic i less, but if the disposal of the garbage and the refuse liquids be not attended to properly there will be atoms of disease and death floating round in the midst of apparent health and order. It is a well-known fact that, judging from the Registrar’s returns, one death in every five that takes place in England is the consequence of neglect of the sanitary laws which ought to govern the working of our households. A very able sanitary writer, lamenting the many deaths on this account, urges strict cleanliness, for, he writes, there are not only deaths, “ But an enormous and incalculable amount of sickness resulting—not in actual death, but only in severe present pain, and but too probably life-long debility—arising from the simple fact that our homes are not sweet homes!” Firstly, it is the duty of the cook to see that all solid kitchen garbage should be burnt, put on the back of the fire, and the refuse liquids rendered harmless by adding twenty grains of per- chloride of iron to every gallon of liquid before pouring it down the drains. Cabbage.—The act of boiling greens or cabbage is generally pretty well-known in the neighbourhood where it is performed. There is an aroma which greets the olfactory nerves during the process, and for a long time after greens are boiled, which is anything but agreeable or healthy. To obviate this there are some simpie methods. The first is to drain the juice expressed from the cabbage, after boiling, back into the pot in which it was cooked, to use a steel wire sieve for the operation of straining the water off, to do it as quickly and thoroughly as possible, and then put the lid on the pot. After putting a few drops of the perchloride into the pot, let it remain until cold, then pour the water down the drain, and let a bucket of clean cold water follow. Water in which fish (salt or fresh) has been boiled, if not required for fish stock, ought to be treated in a