137 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. the whole, cover with a top crust, previously wetting the edges of the under crust; cover with a cap of buttered kitchen paper and steam for four hours. Lesson X. 40. PoundCake.— Utensils.—Basins, spoon, mould, kitchen paper. Ingredients. — Flour, sugar, eggs, rice, baking-powder, Sultana raisins, candied orange-peel, Vanilla essence. Recipe. —Mince 2 ozs. of orange-peel very finely, butter a cake mould, and line with buttered paper. Put 1 lb. of butter in a basin and reduce to a cream with a wooden spoon, add the sugar (1 lb.) by degrees, also 8 eggs, one by one ; a wine-glassful of brandy, a few drops of essence of Vanilla; then stir in fib. of dried flour, and j- lb. of ground rice, with which has been mixed a tea-spoonful of baking-powder; mix in 1 lb. of Sultana raisins and the mixed candied-peel, beat the whole for quarter-of-an- hour after all the ingredients have been added, put into the mould, and bake for an hour-and-a-half; test when done with a clean skewer. 41. Stewed Duck.— Utensils.—Knives, stew-pan, mincing board, basins, boiling water, skewers, sauce-pan. Ingredients.— Duck, butter, pepper, salt, onions, herbs, carrot, turnip, &c., stock. Recipe.—Clean and truss the duck, remembering to rub the inside well with salt, and pour boiling water through it to remove the sole. Prepare the vegetables and cut them in slices, place them in the bottom of the stew-pan, place the duck on them, and nearly cover it with strong stock, season with pepper and salt, place a buttered paper over the broad of the duck, put on the lid, and let it stew slowly for i£ hours. At the end of that time lift it out carefully on to a dish, dredge it over with flour, and place it in front of the fire to brown or use the salamander; next pass all the vegetables and gravy through a hair sieve, remove the fat with a spoon, and finally clear with kitchen paper ; place it over the fire and re- duce it almost to a glaze. When the duck is sufficiently brown place it on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, garnish with a wall of green peas round it, and send at once to table. N.B.— Pigeons and young fowls dressed in this manner are delicious. Hare (Field Fashion).— Utensils.—Needle and thread, skewers, small funnel, roasting-jack.—Ingredients.—Hare, veal- stuffing, port wine, dripping, ale or porter, fat bacon. Recipe. —Paunch the hare, saving the blood to make hare-soup with.