41 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. in English households, but which every Scotch housewife economises and knows the value of. Lay in the bottom of your pie dish 2 laurel or peach leaves. Pile the apples up in the dish, making them quite high and dome-shaped. Put the sugar in the middle of the pie, so as it may not burn at the bottom of the dish or render the paste sodden by melting ; brush the strips of paste over with water, roll out, and cover with the rest of the paste. Trim by taking the dish in your left hand, and a sharp knife in the right; cut in an opposite direction from yourself in trimming the tart. Crimp the edge with a knife, brush over with milk—do not make it sloppy, but just damp. Grate 1 lump of sugar over, and bake in a quick oven for half an hour. 7. Apple Pudding Baked.—Put into a basin, J lb. stale crusts, broken up small, pour over them one pint skim milk ; let them soak an hour, and beat up with a fork, add one table- spoonful of sugar, and two of minced suet, with ^ lb. chopped apples, and one egg; grease a tin pie-dish, put the mixture in, bake one hour in a moderate oven, and serve with the follow- ing sauce :—Put the peel and cores into a saucepan, with sugar and water, as before directed in No. 5 ; when it has boiled a quarter of an hour, strain and put it back into the saucepan. Mix a tablespoonful of Johnston’s corn-flour, with one teacupful of milk; when the syrup in the pan boils, stir it in, add more milk if necessary; boil ten minutes, put into a basin or sauce-boat, and serve with the pudding. 8. Apple Pudding.—Grate 6 oz. bread crumbs; pare, core, and slice 6 ozs of apples, well grease a tin pie-dish, strew bread-crumbs over the bottom and sides of the dish, cut a thin slice of bread and lay in the bottom of the dish; over the strewing of crumbs put a layer of apples, and grate some nut- meg, and strew one tablespoonful of sugar over the apples ; next, a layer of bread-crumbs; then apples as before, finishing with crumbs. Mix one egg well beaten up with half-pint of skim milk, pour over the pudding, put a little bit of dripping on the top, and put it into a hot oven, and bake three-quarters of an hour. Turn out on to a clean hot dish. 9. Apples and Rice Baked.—Prepare the rice as in No. 2, grease a pie-dish, put alternate layers of prepared rice and apples, till the pie-dish is f full, pour over it a custard of one egg beaten up, and half a pint of milk; put a small piece of dripping on the top, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake one hour in a moderate oven.