LESSONS ON COOKERY, 84 186. Fig Pudding.—Chop very finely £ lb figs, also \ lb suet; put these into a basin with six ounces of breadcrumbs, one table-spoonful of flour, and one raw carrot grated ; moisten with a little milk, add a table-spoonful of sugar, grease a basin, put in the mixture, grease a paper and put over the top. Place this in a saucepan with sufficient water to come half way up the basin or within one inch of the top of the basin. Let it boil for two-and-a-half hours. Serve with thickened milk. 187. Fish to Fry.—Wipe the fish carefully, dip it into flour, and then in an egg broken into a plate and beaten up a little, toss in breadcrumbs, which should be placed in clean paper for the purpose, and put into boiling fat. Fry till they are a golden brown. Drain on paper, sprinkle with salt, and serve on a clean cloth. 188. Fish Cake.—Carefully separate into flakes any cold fish that may have been left from the previous day’s dinner free from bones ; if the pieces are very large, halve or quarter them, pass through a wire seive -i-lb of cold potatoes (if there are none left, boil ^-lb), season them with pepper and salt, add |-lb stale breadcrumbs or crusts that have been soaked in water. If the crusts are used wring them dry in a cloth and mix with the fish and potatoes; add 1 egg. Form into flat cakes, dip in flour, and fry a golden brown. If an egg can be spared for the outside so much the better; strew each cake over with a few breadcrumbs in this case. 189. Fish, Potted.—Take any cold fish, mince it very finely with a sharp knife, season it with pepper and salt, a little grate of nutmeg—only a suspicion of it—and a little powdered mace. Press it into a little glass butter-cooler or oval ware dish ; run a little clarified dripping or butter over the top. This is ex- cellent with bread for a breakfast, luncheon, or supper dish, or as a quickly-made extra dish for a meat tea. 190. Flummery.—This is a dish that is much appreciated in some of the North-west coast towns of England. The people consider it a good food for children or delicate people : ± lb of oatmeal is taken, put into a clean jar or basin, with one quart of cold water. It is placed on the hob near the fire and stirred frequently, until it has turned quite sour. It is then boiled like porridge, and eaten with new milk. 191. Frumety or Firmety.—Bruise 1 lb of wheat with a roll- ing-pin or wooden mallet to remove the outer husk, and slightly crush it. Put the wheat into a jar into the oven, with