52 LESSONS ON COOKERY, which will reach about one inch below the rim of the basin. If the water gets low in the pot add hot water from the kettle or boiler, pouring it down the side of the pot, not over the pudding, taking care when more water is added that it will not rise above the rim of the basin when it boils, or the pudding will be watersoaked. Boil slowly for ii hours. 59. Batter Pudding baked.—First prepare the oven and make it thoroughly hot; then mix the batter as in No. 57. Grease a tin dish or baking tin, pour the mixture in, place in the oven, and bake twenty minutes. Serve with meat, gravy, sugar, preserve, or treacle, and use while hot. 60. Beef to Roast.—The process of roasting, baking, and boiling have been described in the example lessons for students (10, xi, 12, etc.), and if read carefully over may be worked out with good results. Horse-radish sauce, and horse-radish scraped are sent to table with roast beef, and will be found under their respective heads. In Lesson 7, directions are given for choosing beef. 61. Beef Roley Foley.—Take 1 lb of the lean, fleshy part of beef, commonly called “sticking part;” cut it into nice, long, even slices; add the scraps to one end. Soak some crusts in a basin till they are soft, drain them, and mix with them a chopped onion, pepper, salt, and a dessertspoonful of parsley, also a quarter of a pound of suet, (minced finely) add two cloves; place this evenly over the meat, and roll it up, beginning at the end where you have patched the meat. Flour a cloth, roll the meat in it, secure at the ends with twine. Plunge it into a pot with boiling water, boil for about 10 minutes very rapidly, then draw to one side and let it boil gently for about four hours ; take it up, let it get set, remove the cloth, first dipping it in boiling water. This makes an excellent cold meat for a working-man to take out for his dinner, if cut in thin, delicate slices, wrapped in a clean cloth, and eaten with brown bread at the dinner hour. 62. Beef tea.—Take 1 -lb. of the sticking part of beef, take off all skin and fat, mince it very finely, and mix with 1 pint of cold water, till each little grain is separated; then put it in an earthen jar, into a cool oven for three hours, or into an enamelled saucepan, and place near (not on) the fire, so that the gradual application of the heat may extract the red juices. Do not add salt to any beef tea in serious cases without permission of the medical attendant. (See 54.)