131 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. yellowish green) is made from powdered gamboge and indigo. It may be very lovely, but is not healthy. Pink, Lake, and Carmine are obtained from cochineal: oz. cochineal pounded in a mortar, 3 oz. loaf sugar; put this into a brass pan with 1 tea-spoonful of potash, 1 tea-spoonful carbonate soda, 1 pint of soft water, let it boil for ten minutes, then add ^ oz. alum, x tea-spoonful cream of tartar; boil slowly twenty minutes, strain and bottle. Blue.—Very beautiful blue may be obtained from indigo. Brown.—Caramel may be used as directed in Series 1, No. 2, or dissolved chocolate. Blue-Black is powdered charcoal or ivory black. Yellow is made by an infusion of saffron in warm water (hay saffron is the best), or using the yolk of an egg where it is possible. Orange.—Mix yellow with a little red. Purple.—Cochineal and solution of indigo. N.B.—To none of these colourings must extreme heat be applied after mixing with the sugar, jellies, blanc-manges, &c. 30. Flavotirings.—For Sweets.—The leaves of the flowering currant will give any syrup or pie a delicious taste resembling a mixture of black and red currants. Orange, Citron, and Lemon leaves will answer as well as using the fruit. Almond essence is much more wholesome when obtained from either the leaves of the peach, almond, or laurel trees than that sup- plied in bottles, which is often composed of coal-tar refuse. Bay-leaves give nice flavour for either sweet or savoury dishes. For Savoury Dishes. — Carrot-tops or leaves give the same flavour as carrots; they may be dried, powdered, and used in soups, stews, and hashes. Celery leaves will bear drying and storing, being quite equal to the seed or stalk for kitchen use Cucumber.—The leaves of this plant will flavour salads, soups or any dishes where cucumber is required. Lesson VII. 31. Queen Cakes.— Utensils.—Basin, wooden spoon, hair sieve, plate, heart-shaped baking-tins. Ingredients.—Half-pound but- ter, castor sugar, currants, essence of lemon, dried flour, oil. Recipe.—Put into the oven to dry for a quarter-of-an-hour 7 oz. of flour; be careful that it does not burn or brown in any way; lift it through a hair sieve, beat the butter to a cream, until it is perfectly white, then add £ lb. of castor sugar, add one by one 4 eggs, beating well and lightly for twenty minutes, lift in the flour lightly, stir in 3 oz. of currants and essence of lemon to taste, oil the little tins, three quarters k 2