138 LESSONS ON COOKERY, Wipe it thoroughly dry inside, previously having plucked off all the hair, as you would the feathers from a fowl; next pre- pare a veal stuffing, put it inside the hare, and stitch it up with needle and thread, truss it, open its mouth, and insert the funnel, pour in a glass of port wine, fasten the slices of bacon round the body, hang it on the jack and roast, baste it well with dripping for the first half-hour, then with porter or ale. Prepare a good brown gravy, well seasoned and flavoured, and serve with the hare when it has finished roasting. (A similar recipe to this appeared in the “ Field ” newspaper about the year 1866, and has been tried in my own family with great success ever since, the hare being more juicy and palatable than when skinned.) INVALID COOKERY. Lesson XI. 1. Mutton Broth.—Take 3 lbs. of the scrag end of the neck of mutton, wash it and wipe it, but do not let it soak in the water. Put it into a stew-pan with two quarts of cold water, let it come very slowly to the boil, skimming carefully all the time. When it is just on the point of boiling throw in a tea-spoonful of salt. Now remove all scum and oily particles. Draw the pan aside from the fire, so that it may simmer slowly. Wash 1 oz. of pearl barley in two or three waters, add it to the mutton broth, let it stew for five hours, strain it, put the meat into the general stock-pot, and when the broth is cold remove all fat. In serving for the patient, warm a small quantity at a time, season, and serve with toasted bread. 2. Rusk Pudding.—Take two flat rusks, place them in a buttered pie-dish, pour over them a glass of sherry, and whilst soaking beat up two eggs with one tea-cupful of milk, pour over the soaked rusks, and bake in a moderate oven for three- quarters-of-an-hour. Spongecake puddings are made in the same manner. 3. White Wine Whey.—Put 1 pint of new milk on the fire, let it boil; add pint of sherry, let it boil up again, and stand on one side till it cools and the curd subsides to the bottom of the pan. Pour off the clear whey, sweeten, and serve hot. The curd will make nice cheesecakes for those of the family who are well. 4. Lemonade.—The rind of three lemons and the strained