So LESSONS ON COOKERY, most delicate, the latter most nutritious, when fresh and not salted. 167. Eels (Sand), to fry.—Skin the eels by cutting the skin close round the head, and drawing it down over the body ; cut it into lengths of about 3 inches. Beat up an egg, grate some bread-crumbs, and dip each piece of the eel first in flour, then in the egg, and toss in the bread-crumbs. Fry in boiling fat till each piece is a delicate bright brown; drain on kitchen paper. Pile on a clean napkin, or white cloth, and serve quickly. 168. Eels (Mud) stewed.—Skin and cut the eels into lengths of about i i to 2 inches, wash thoroughly in salt, and water and drain. Put the pieces into a saucepan, cover with water or second stock, add six cloves, one onion finely minced, salt and pepper, stew slowly for hours. Then put into a basin, one table-spoonful of baked flour; moisten it with water, mince one table-spoonful of parsley, stir in the flour and water and parsley, let the stew boil for five minutes, stirring the whole time. Serve in a deep dish. 169. Eels (Conger), to boil.—This is quite a delicacy if pro- perly cooked. Soak a middle cut of conger eel in strong salt and water two hours, take it out, wash and clean; have a pot with boiling water on the fire, place an old plate in the bottom if you have not a perforated tray, and tie the fish in a clean cloth. Put one table-spoonful of vinegar into the water, and a lump of salt as large as a walnut. When the water quite boils again, put in the fish; boil gently till the flesh seems free from the bone, then lift the pot off the fire. Leave the fish in the water for two or three minutes, then lift carefully up, untie the cloth, and place on the dish for table. Serve with melted butter and parsley poured over. 170. Eel, Baked.—Conger eel may be baked as in No. 51, first soaking it in the salt and water, and then proceeding in every respect as for ling. 171. Eggs a?id Bacon.—Fry the slices of bacon first, then lift them out carefully on to thin, delicately-toasted squares of bread. Put this in the oven with the door open, or on the top, covered down with a plate ; break the eggs one by one into a tea-cup. Having broken the shell, be careful to slip it gently into the tea-cup, so as to preserve the yolk whole; next slip it from the cup into the boiling fat in the frying-pan ; cover the surface of the pan with eggs, and with an iron spoon