FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 5 Lesson II. To clean stoves: The first, simplest, and most general stove is the open grate. Its management and cleaning are simple operations. The great drawback to these open ranges or grates is the quantity of fuel they require to attain the degree of heat which is to be had from some of the close ranges with about half the supply. But as the open grates are to be found in houses, and tenants are not always inclined to put in new ranges, so the student must learn the best method of econo- mising with the apparatus at command. If the oven is not in constant use, on the days when it is not required to be heated I should advise that a “ coal saver,” made either of clay or iron, be used. The former is preferable. They are very cheap, and can be had from 6d. each at the retail shops. They save the coal, and retain a great heat for a long time, and assist very much in the processes of roasting and boiling. In cleaning the stove, see that the chimney is swept frequently, and before the fire is lighted every morning an old sweeping brush with a long handle ought to be used, as far as it will go up the chimney; the grate must be well brushed down, the ashes raked out, the “ coal saver ” adjusted or removed, as may be required for the day’s cooking. A little piece of paper should be placed on the top of the cinders which have been swept from the hearth, riddled, and returned to the grate as a foundation to laying the fire. Then some pieces of dry sticks should be laid crosswise, leaving spaces for the air to pass between, and surmounted by little pieces of bright, gasy coal put on carefully with the hand, not shovelled pell-mell out of a coalscuttle, forming a weight and mass of coal it is perfectly impossible for the combustion to struggle against, an action novices in fire making are very apt to indulge in. It is always the best economy to use good brushes and the best black lead. I prefer Nixey's, it gives a high polish with little or no dust. The Close Ranges are most popular. The range which seems to have gained most ground, and is most frequently met with in large kitchens, is the “ Leamington Kitchener.” Its management and cleaning are very simple, the only thing that requires any attention is the cleaning of the flues. It has the double advantage of having both an open and close range roaster. The flue-brush should be used every morning, and, after sweeping up all dust, and clearing out the grate, clean