FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 53 63. Beef Tea (Hospital).—Half-chicken, 1 lb. of beef, 1 lb. mutton, remove all fat, sinew, skin, &c., from the butcher’s meat, mince it very finely, also remove the flesh from the chicken and mince it also. Take the bones, crush them, and remove the marrow from leg and wing bones and put it all into an earthen ware pot, put a paper cap over and place in a saucepan with sufficient water to come half-way up the pot containing the minced meat. Stew for four hours, keep the water up to this level by adding boiling water to that already in the saucepan. When the patient is extremely weak, this mixture will remain on the stomach when all other foods fail. Strain through muslin with a sheet of white blotting paper placed on it. (See 66.) 64. Beef Tea (raw).—One tablespoonful raw gravy beef minced fine, one tablespoonful of water added, stir well with silver spoon, let it stand ten minutes, strain, and serve to the patient in a covered medicine cup. This is used in the London Hospitals in cases of typhoid and smallpox. (See 66). 65. Beef (Essence).—Half-pound gravy beef freed from fat, minced finely, put into gallipot, covered with paper cap, and bake in a slow oven two hours. (See 66). Strain and serve. 66. Beef tea, how and when to administer.—The raw beef- tea is administered in cases of Gastric, Typhoid, and other malignant fevers, also during the earlier stage, till the height; of small-pox, three days after that period the essence No. 65 is generally substituted ; dose, from one teaspoonful every hour to one tablespoonful, No. 63. The Hospital beef-tea is given in cases of extreme weakness, dyspepsia, and consump- tion. No. 62 is used in general cases. 67. Beans, French, to boil.—Scarlet-runners or French beans, may be first wiped or washed to remove all grit; then take a small piece off the top, and the stripe of fibre that runs down the sides, cut the French beans in narrow fine strips lengthways and the scarlet-runners in slanting slices very fine, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, with one dessert-spoonful of salt, and a little lump of washing soda as large as a pea; boil them in plenty of water, keeping the lid off the whole time; drain them on the wire sieve, serve with a small piece of butter stirred in amongst them. To test if they are cooked take a piece out with a fork, and if tender it is boiled enough. From ten to twenty minutes is the usual time which beans require to boil, varying with their age; a lump of sugar added to the beans if old or not freshly gathered is an improvement.