120 LESSONS ON COOKERY, 8. Compote of Apples.— Utensils.—One stew-pan, glass dish, wooden spoon, knife. Ingredients.—1 lb. apples, lb. lump sugar, coriander seeds, cloves, nutmeg, red colouring (either beetroot syrup or cochineal (see No. 12), quarter-pint cream, claret, lemon. Recipe.—Pare the apples (take care that you have selected a kind that will not fall to pieces, but retain their shape whilst cooking), remove the little bud and stalk ; put into the stewpan the rind and juice of one lemon, one glass of claret, one tea-spoonful of colouring, the sugar, six coriander seeds, six cloves, and a little lump of nutmeg; put it over the fire ; melt the sugar, add half a tea-cupful of water, lay in the apples, stew till tender, turning them now and then that they may be evenly coloured ; when tender lay the apples in a glass dish ; reduce the liquid to a glaze, strain over the apples ; when this is a little cool, whip the cream and pour over the apples, or round, if you prefer the apples to be seen. 9. Egg Cheesecakes.—Ingredients.—Four eggs, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. lump sugar, 4 oz. currants, one lemon, nutmeg, brandy, butter, paste. Recipe.—Boil the eggs for halfan-hour, lift them out into cold water, let them stay in the cold water a few minutes whilst you clean the currants, crush the sugar ; press and strain the juice, and grate the rind of the lemon. Now peel the eggs, mince them very finely; put the butter into a small stew-pan, add the eggs, and other ingredients (except the brandy), with quarter spoonful of grated nutmeg; stir till it is warm. Have some patty pans lined with paste, pour the glass of brandy into the stewpan after you life it from the fire, mix well, fill the paste, and bake in a moderate oven. 10. Omelette Souffle.—The yolk of three eggs stirred up with one table-spoonful of sugar till quite smooth, six drops of lemon juice or essence of lemon. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add to the yolks. Butter a round tin dish or small frying pan very thoroughly with 1 oz. of butter (melted), pour the mixture into the frying-pan over the butter, place in a very hot oven for three minutes, turn out on a hot dish, and serve with jam laid over the top. Lesson III. 11. Consomme and Stock Clarifying, — Utensils. —Stock-pot, or large sauce-pan, iron spoon, basin, vegetable-knife, saw, chopper, meat knife. Ingredients.—Three lbs. shin of beef,