LESSONS ON COOKERY, 124 cut it into three, carefully remove the crumb, leaving a layer of crumb at the bottom (which must be kept whole), to form a case for the marrow. Put on the fire the frying kettle, when the fat is hot enough put the marrow cases in, and let them fry a light golden brown, drain them on kitchen paper, sprinkle a little salt on the inside of each; fill with marrow mixture, &c. Pass the crumbs through a wire sieve, pile them cone-shaped on the top with a tiny bit of butter here and there, and put into the oven to brown. Lesson IV. 16. Compote de Pigeon, Garni, a la Gotbard. Utensils.— A hot oven, stewpan, sauce-pan, sharp knife, pork pie moulder, two knives, paste cutters (oak leaves, &c.) Kettle of hot water, basins, gravy strainer (or sieve). /. Ingredients for Case.—Half oz. butter, \ lb. lard, 2 lbs. flour, \ spoonful salt, b teacupful water. II. Ingredients for Compote.—Half lb. best beefsteak, two woodpigeons, ^ oz. gelatine, six cloves, six allspice, three long peppers, one blade of mace, salt, pepper, flour, shalots, six cardamom seeds, six coriander ditto, lemon, 11 pints good stock, sherry sauce, lean ham stock. III. Ingredients for Garnish.—Aspic jelly as in No. 3, lemon, green peas (tinned or fresh), young cress. I.—Put the lard, butter and water into a sauce-pan, let them boil, draw to the edge of the fire-place and simmer for five minutes, then stir it (whilst hot) into the flour with a knife. It requires a very great amount of working. When it is sufficiently cold, stiff, and well worked, take your wooden mould and shape round it, taking care to leave an even thickness of paste all round. Fill with bran, make a cover of flour and water, fasten round the edge, brush the sides of the case over with egg, cut out leaves with the cutters, fasten on and brush over with egg, put into the oven and bake until of a beautiful deep brown. (N.B.—This is an excellent recipe for pork-pie case. Instead of bran, put in pieces of pork from spare-rib, cut into dice and seasoned with pepper, salt and a little powdered sage; also pint of stock made from the bones, a proper crust on the top). Having put the pie in the oven—II.—Mince the beef very finely, season wifh a small shalot, 1 tea-spoonful of sauce, pep- per and salt, and a little stock ; (half tea-cupful) put in a small sauce-pan near the fire, to stew for two hours. Prepare and dress the pigeons, cut off the feet, cut each pigeon in four, put