Tuns Passage, Paternoster Square, E.C. * 2 HUGHES'S EDUCATIONAL COURSE. SIXTH EDITION. BY JOSEPH HUGHES, F.R.G.S., Author of “Infant-School Arithmetic,” “ Easy Problems for Young Thinkers,” “A Series of Memory Cards," etc. Standards I. and II., each Id.; ill., IV,, V., and VI., each 2d., Answers 6d. each part. Exercises,!/-; complete with Answers, 2/6. OPINIONS. “These are admirable little books; the examples are well graduated, unusually numerous, and varied in every conceivable way, so that pupils who have worked through them may be presented for examination with the most perfect confidence. Some of our young friends have, for us, tested a large number of these examples, but have not found an incorrect answer!"—Teachers' Assistant. “The sums are judiciously graduated and deftly arranged for preventing the children from copying each other’s work. There are excellent batches of problems for testing the ability of the pupil to apply the rules taught him by the teachers.” —The School Boakd Chronicle. “New type has been used in the printing, and the work has been carefully graduated to meet every form of question likely to be propounded by H.M. Inspectors. Mr. Hughes has taken especial care with regard to the Answers—The Educational Guide. “ The volumes are handy in size, the exercises numerous and well-selected, and the price will suit the most scantily supplied pocket.’’—The Irish Teachers’ Journal. “They sustain the reputation which Mr. Hughes has already achieved, and we doubt not they will meet with the same reception at the hands of an appreciative public.” —The School Magazine. “We can recommend these little books to any teacher requiring a fresh set of Arithmetical Exercises. The examples are numerous, practical, and well graduated, and the Answers perfectly accurate. The arrangement adopted enables a teacher easily to give different work to each boy: so that a class may be at all times left to work by themselves without fear of copying taking place."—The Schoolmaster. “ I congratulate you on producing such admirable manuals. In type and arrangement, as in their graduation and general character, they seem to me all that could be desired.”—C. Mansford, Esq., B.A., Mathematical Lecturer Westminster Training College, S.W. “I find them admirably adapted for class and standard work."—Mr. Goodyear, Board School, Wakefield. “ By this simple expedient, the teacher is enabled to give to each boy a different letter, thus rendering copying in class well-nigh an impossibility. The examples are moreover carefully graduated and contain specimens of almost every kind of question proposed by Her Majesty’s Inspectors.”—The Educational Times. LONDON: HUGHES & CO.,