2 LESSONS ON COOKERY, Should the handles of forks or knives become loose, they can easily be mended by mixing half a teaspoonful of finely pow- dered bathbrick dust, with one teaspoonful of powdered resin : fill the aperture in the handle, heat the portion of the knife or fork which is to be put into the handle to a red heat by holding it in the fire (by means of tongs or nippers), then force it well into the handle, and leave it to cool. Iron.—Saucepans are cleaned with silver-sand and vinegar Wash out the saucepan thoroughly with hot water and soda, then take a table-spoonful of silver-sand, throw it into the pot add a few drops of vinegar sufficient to moisten the sand, take a piece of coarse flannel, scour the pot or saucepan well, rinse in clean warm water and wipe dry with a clean cloth. The inside of all saucepans maybe treated in the same manner. If they are very dirty, boil several hours with a strong solution of common washing soda, then scour as before directed. No- thing is so highly injurious to the cause of cookery as dirty pots and pans. If the saucepans are copper, and tin-lined, clean the inside as above, and the outside as directed under the head of Copper and Brass. Tin is cleaned with Spanish-white or whiting (/.<?., chalk pulverized after being freed from grit and stones), moistened with a little water, rubbed on the article with a piece of flannel-, and when dry polished with a soft cloth. Paraffin and brick- dust can also be used. Pewter is cleaned by putting the articles into a copper with sufficient water to cover them, i lb. of silver-sand to the gallon of water and ^lb of soda, then boil for half-an-hour (or longer if very dirty). They are then taken out, rinsed in two waters, wiped, and placed in front of the fire to dry. Or they can be cleaned by placing in a saucer some silver-sand, moisten it with oil of tartar, apply with a flannel or soft rag, polish with clean cloth. The first method is the best, safest and simplest, and the result is excellent. Eritannia Metal can be cleaned with either rottenstone pulverized and moistened with a little sweet oil or paraffin, or bathbrick and leather. (See “ Steel.”) Earthenware.—Put 2 drops Spirit of Salt,* into any earthen- ware lined saucepan (or other vessel), which may have become discoloured, add 1 tea-cupful of water, rinse the mixture well * Spirit of Salt is a poison, and must be carefully used, and the bottle plainly labelled and put out of juvenile reach.