139 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. juice, with 2 oz. of loaf sugar, cover closely till quite cold. It may then be used. 5. Pgg Caudle. — Make a pint of thin gruel, flavour it with lemon-peel and sugar. Beat up an egg, remove the gruel off the fire, stir the egg in rapidly, and continue stirring for two or three minutes, add a wineglass of white wine or brandy, a few drops of lemon-juice, pour it into a hot basin, and grate a little nutmeg over the top. Lesson XII. 6. Strengthening Jelly.—Put 1 oz. of packet gelatine to soak in cold water for two hours, then put it into a sauce-pan with half-a-pint of water, the rind and juice of one lemon ; stir it well from the bottom of the pan until the gelatine is dissolved. Add 2 oz. of loaf sugar, and let that dissolve also, then draw the pan to one side. Beat up the yolks of six eggs, add them to the gelatine, and stir them very rapidly over the fire till it begins to thicken, but do not on any account let it boil. Add half-a-pint of sherry or cream, as may be ordered. Pour into a mould ; when it is set, give a spoonful at a time. 7. Boiled Custard Pudding.—Beat up three eggs, add half-a- pint of new milk, dissolve in a table-spoonful of boiling milk a table-spoonful of sugar, and mix gradually with the custard. Butter a basin, pour in the custard, place a buttered paper over the top, and steam it for one hour. A custard pudding should never boil, or it will become honeycombed. 8. Rabbit Steio.—Choose a young, tender rabbit, clean and truss it; place in a stew-pan carrots, turnips, &c., with a bunch of sweet herbs ; cover it in milk. Let it stew very slowly indeed for two hours; in fact, hardly simmer. Lift it on to a dish; strain off the milk from the vegetables, thicken with a little of Johnston’s corn-flour, season, and pour over the rabbit; serve hot. 9. Drink used for Consumptive Patients on the Cojitincnt. —Blanch 2 oz. of Jordan almonds, and oz. of bitter almonds ; pound them in a mortar with 3 oz. of loaf sugar. Mince 1 oz. of raisins and £ lb. of figs, put the whole in a basin and cover with new milk; allow it to stand for two hours, stirring oc- casionally, strain it, and serve to the patient. In cases of fever the milk is omitted and water only used. Printed by Smyth & Yekyyokth, Holborn Buildings, E.O,