HUGHES'S EDUCATIONAL COURSE. 3 Tuns Passage, Paternoster Square, E.C. IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT. COMPLETION AND RE-ISSUE OF HUGHES’S Graduated Exercises in Arithmetic In six 'packets for the six Standards. Price 1/- per packet. ADVANTAGES. 1. The clear and distinct type nsed. 2. One side of the card contains numerous carefully graduated, exercises in figures, and the other an examination in words. 3. They may be used as a test at any stage of a pupil’s progress. 4. As the work of each Standard is not limited to the bare requirements of the Code, a capital opportunity is afforded for acquiring a thorough knowledge of each rule. 5. No cards extant are so suitable for revising the Arithmetic of each class, and for securing rapidity in working. 6. The sums are so arranged that no change in the Code can affect the value of the cards. Teachers anxious to secure the best possible results at the Annual Inspection should adopt these Cards for ordinary daily class work. IS”They have been highly recommended by H.M.I. of Schools. Many hundreds of unsolicited Testimonials have been borne as to their excellence. The following are specimens of TEACHERS’ OPINTOHS. A London Master, writes: “ All the teachers to whom I have shown them agree with mo that they aro undoubtedly the best that have appeared. The arrangement throughout is excellent." A Scotch Master, writes : “ I have great hopes of profiting much by using your valuable educational aids. The Fifeshire teachers speak highly of your works.” A Welsh Master, writes: “ They surpass anything that I have seen in the course of thirty-two years’ experience.” A Clergyman, writes : “ A friend has strongly recommended them to me.” Another Master, writes : “ Eminently suited for the object intended.” Another Master, writes: “I have examined them thoroughly, and can truly say that I have seen nothing lately that has afforded me so much gratification.” Another Master, writes : “lam very much pleased with them—they are excellent.” Another Master, writes: “ The most sensible and useful cards I have ever seen.5’ A Mistress, writes: “ I have always passed 97 and 98 per cent.; and I attribute the success greatly to your cards.” Another Master, writes (June 4th, 1878): “ Ever since I used your cards, which I consider excellent, I never gained such high results before. Last year I got 100 per cent., this year 97; and this I owe in a great measure to your cards, which I find very valuable.” LONDON : HUGHES & CO.,