18 LESSONS ON COOKERY, Lacieals, little vessels which act as conductors for the food into the blood. Lesson VII.—Meats. Beef.—To choose good beef see that the grain is open, that the lean is juicy and of a rich full red colour, the fat firm (not hard), and creamy in colour. It is best when not too fat, but with an admixture here and there of fat with the lean. The lean should be of good depth from the bone. It should be tender and elastic to the touch. Beef is more tender if hung for a few days after being killed before it is cooked. To render coarse tough meat tender steep it in vinegar for 20 minutes before cooking; vinegar softens the fibres and renders the toughest meat tender and delicate, whilst if it be properly wiped and dried the flavour is in no way impaired. If it is wished to keep a joint fresh during the hot summer and autumn days and to prevent its being attacked by flies, brush it over thoroughly with pure acetic acid and hang it up in a draught; before cooking wash the joint in lukewarm water, and wipe dry. This will keep meat fresh for many days in the hottest weather, and is no detriment to the joint. Dr. Zoller tells us that “ 2 drops (not more) of disulphide of carbon allowed to evaporate spon- taneously in a closed vessel of the ordinary temperature will keep meat, fruit, vegetables, and bread perfectly fresh for several weeks,” and that “ the articles submitted to this process acquire neither smell nor taste, the carbon disulphide evaporating entirely when the foods are exposed to the air. The vapour of carbon disulphide being very inflammable, ex- periments should be performed in the daytime.” Beef is not so digestible as mutton, but in the juice there is more strengthening and nourishing properties. The analysis of a piece of beefsteak proved that nearly -i of its weight was water, with which was mixed certain substances which formed the principal nutritious elements of the article. Thus in 100 parts of beef we find the following analysis :— Water • • • 77'5 Fat ... • • • 2-8 Phosphates... • • • 'i Fibrine • • • I2'4 Albumen ... • • • 4'3 Organic extract • • • 2-9 ioo* In cooking, the juices must be carefully preserved.