FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 59 the onion after it has been in the milk 5 or 10 minutes. Put the milk over the fire again, and, when in begins to boil, take the crumbs in the left hand, and a wooden spoon in the right hand, stir the milk whilst you strew in the crumbs, and stir also whilst it boils for 3 or 4 minutes; season with pepper and salt, and add a bit of butter as large as a walnut. If it is too thick add more milk, and always remember it is a sauce, not a poultice, which is being made. 87. Blackberry and Plum Jam.—Open the plums and crack the stones. Let there be 1 lb. of plums to 3 of blackberries ; see that the blackberries have been gathered during dry weather. Put all into a large saucepan and boil for one hour, skim well and carefully. Then add six pounds of sugar to every seven pounds of fruit; boil it for half or three-quarters of an hour, fill the jars, and, when it is cold, tie down. Blackberry and apple jam, or plain backberry, may be made as above, leaving out the plums and substituting peeled, cored, and sliced apples, or by boiling the berries by themselves. C. 88. Cabbage. Brassica Olcracea—contains many valuable properties in scorbutic cases ; like the potato it contains a large percentage of potash. It was first introduced into this country from Holland. 89. Cabbage Soup.—Take 2 quarts of the liquor in which meat has been boiled; free it from fat. Cut up 1 or 2 heads of cabbage after it has been thoroughly soaked in salt and water, examined, and washed. Put it into the stock-liquor in the pot; wash and peel i lb. of potatoes, peel £ lb. of onions, slice these very finely, and put into the pot; also, £ lb. of liver, minced very finely, season with pepper and salt, and let it boil for two or three hours, stirring frequently from the bottom of the pan. Pass all through the wire sieve, mix thoroughly the liquor with the pulp, return to the sauce- pan, and keep warm; serve with either toast or crusts of bread, broken up into a basin, and the soup poured over. If there is no pot-liquor to use cut up lb. of green bacon, in dice, and boil with the soup. 90. Cabbage and Mince(Cologne recipe).—Choose a large, firm cow cabbage or savoy. Clean and boil it in the usual manner with the lid off, with soda and salt added to heighten the colour and make it savoury. Many Germans add a lump of