62 LESSONS ON COOKERY. 97. Capers (Mock).—A preparation at once wholesome, cheap, and within the reach of the pocket of the working man’s family may be made by sowing in the spring, about the first week in May, 3 or 4 pennyworth of Major Nasturtiums (Tropceolum Majus), and gathering the young seeds or fruit as they appear. Choose a nice, fine day to pick the seeds, place them on a dish, strew salt over them for 24 hours, drain, and place in bottles. Boil for twenty minutes sufficient vinegar to cover them, with 2 oz. of 7vhite peppers to the pint of white vinegar, let it cool after boiling, and then pour over the capers, straining off the white peppers, which will do for other pickle after, or may be used for a second boiling of vinegar for mock capers. Green peas are sometimes pickled as above, a»d used for caper sauce. 98. Caper Sauce.—Take a tablespoonful of mock capers, chop them finely; prepare some melted butter, stir into it one tablespoonful of vinegar, add the mock capers, and serve in a tureen. This sauce is used with boiled mutton; it is nice with rabbit and fish. 99. Cake, Plain Seed.—Take 2 lbs. of flour, put it into a basin, rub into it 4 oz. of good dripping, mix £ lb. moist sugar, a heaped teaspoonful of baking powder, and 1 oz. of car- raway seed thoroughly with the flour and dripping. Take as much tepid water as will form it into a light dough. Mix well, but not too much, flour a baking-tin or tin pie-dish,and place in a hot oven and bake for about two hours, test with a skewer as in bread ; No. 76. When it is nearly done, brush over with a little milk or water, just to develop the dextrin and give the cake a glaze. Currant cake can be made in the same way, using \ lb. currants instead of the seeds. These are nice for children’s tea and supper, and will save butter in the winter season. 100. Cake for Family Use, a la Gothard.—lb. ground rice, ^ lb. Johnstone’s cornflour, 1 lb. households flour; mix well together. Rub lb. of dripping into the flour, &c., add ^ lb. moist sugar, one teaspoonful baking powder, half tea- spoonful carbonate of soda, and 1 lb. sultana rasins carefully picked ; mix all these dry ingredients well together, then drop in one egg, and sufficient water to make the dough, mix well and lightly, drop into a well-greased tin, but do not fill it. Let the dough fill about three-quarters of the tin, so that it may rise. Tie a band of greased paper, rising a couple of inches above the rim of the tin, place in a quick oven, bake for one and