FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 17 vegetable matter, and is also found in minerals. The chief carbonaceous foods are fat, starch, and sugar. Dextrin, a kind of gum-like substance, having the same chemical composition as starch. It derived its name on account of its effect on the plane of polarisation. Ci2H;0Oio. Sucrose, pure sugar, C^H^Oh. Dextrose, a form of grape sugar or glucose, found in honey and sweet fruits; forms into hard crystals when dried. C6H1;06, H20. Laevulose, a form of grape sugar or glucose, found in honey and acid fruits, does not, like dextrose, crystallize on drying. CsfdnOg. Maltose, a third form of glucose, found in malt. Lactose, or milk-sugar, found in milk. Inosite, muscle sugar, found in brains of animals and in meats. Mannite, manna, sugar found in mannas, etc. Oleaginous is the name applied to foods containing oil. Stcarine, one of the four proximate principles of oils and fats, Cs.-HhqOj ; derived from the Greek stear, fat. Glycerine, from the Greek glukus, sweet. It consists of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. It is the principal basis of fat, C3Hs03. Margarine, like Stearine, is the 3rd proximate principle in fat, C51H9806; derived from the Greek margarites, a pearl. Oleine, the 4th of the proximate principles in fat, differs from Stearine, Glycerine and Margarine in being a combination of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen without water C^H^Oe. Derives its name from the Latin word, oleum, oil. It is the thin oily part of fat. Mucilage, a gum-like substance which can be extracted from marshmallow roots, quince, and linseeds, on steeping them in water. Pectin or pectose, from the Greek pektos, signifying a sort of solid, is a gum-like principle found in certain vegetables and fruits, such as currants, pears, apples, peaches, damsons, etc. Cellulose, the principle of which the cell-membrane of plants is composed of. It is nearly allied to starch and dextrin, CisH30Oi5. Chyme, a fluid formed by the mixing of the gastric juice with food which we have eaten. Chyle, the food after becoming chyme, undergoes a still further process of digestion by the addition of fluid substances, when it is converted into a white milky fluid containing the nutritious portions of the food. C