FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 123 and place in the centre of the tins and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. To prepare the veal take i lb. fillet of veal, mince extremely fine, add to it the grated rind of a lemon, a little nutmeg and powdered mace, salt, pepper to taste, a chopped button mushroom, half a shalot. Put all into a sauce-pan with 1 gill of new milk, keep it well stirred until the milk is absorbed and the veal has a dry, granulated appear- ance. Put it on the hot plate to keep warm whilst you make the sauce. Take 1 tablespoonful of Johnston's corn-flour, moisten it with a little milk; put on the fire one gill of nicely flavoured white stock. When it boils pour in the corn flour and add 1 table-spoonful of good cream, boil for three or four minutes. Fill the croustade cases with the veal, set on a warm dish for sending to table, pour the white sauce over the croustades and entirely cover them. Four or five make a dish. Sauce give sufficient for three. 14. Cafe a la Gothard.—Mix 1 lb. best Mocha, 1 lb. Java or West Indies, J lb. chicory (be sure that it is freshly ground), mix well; put into an ordinary jug two table-spoonsful of this mixture with about six raw or unroasted coffee-berries which have been bruised ; pour on this one pint of boiling water, cover the jug over after stirring well; boil one pint of new milk, strain the coffee in, put into the coffee-pot, and serve hot. N.B.—If the raw beans cannot be had, use fresh hazel nuts instead, which give the rich peculiar flavour. 15. Marrow patties.— Utensils.—Sauce-pan, knife, paste board, and rolling-pin, flour dredger (or French roll), instead of pastry. Hair sieve. Ingredients.—Marrow, lemon, pepper, salt, thyme, parsley, chives or shalot, one table-spoonful of cream. Recipe. —Take the marrow fresh from the bones, cut it into pieces as large as a walnut, put it into a small sauce-pan with cold water and one tea-spoonful of salt, and place over the fire. Let it just boil for one minute, and throw it at once on to the hair sieve. Make some light paste, line the patty pans. Chop a small piece of parsley, thyme, and chives, in all for six patties one tea-spoonful when the grated rind of quarter of a lemon is added; mix this with two table-spoonsful of cream, and one tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, salt and pepper, divide the marrow between the patties, add a little of the savoury cream to each, cover with paste, and bake in a moderate oven for quarter-of-an-hour. Another method.—Prepare the marrow as above with cream and herbs. Take a stale French roll,