FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 57 or pieces of bread in one quart of skim milk for three or four hours; chop ^ lb. mutton suet very finely, and when the bread is well soaked, beat it up with two tablespoonfuls of sugar, the suet, £ lb. of currants, and i packet of mixed spice ; grease a tin pie-dish, put the pudding in, lay one or two pieces of dripping here and there, put it into a moderate oven, and bake an hour. If the currants are left out, the pudding is very nice eaten with cheap home-made jam, such as Orange Marma- lade for the million.” 78. Bread-pudding (savoury).—Soak the crusts in skim milk as in No. 77, mince £ lb. of suet, one tablespoonful of parsley and thyme, mixed; beat these up with a fork in the bread, also season with pepper and salt; bake in a tin dish and serve with hot gravy. 79. Broth Kettle.—Cut up some crusts or a slice of bread into a basin, add a piece of dripping as large as a walnut, pour boiling water from the kettle upon the bread, and season with pepper and salt. So. Bone Broth.—Get 2d. or 3d. worth of bones, pound them with a hammer so that they are broken into small pieces; put them into a pot with two or three quarts of water, and let it boil five or six, or even eight hours, till reduced to about two quarts; skim and clear from all fat and grease whilst it is boiling; strain the liquor. When it is cold be sure to remove every particle of grease; add to the liquor, when you wish to use it for broth, one carrot scraped, washed and cut into rings, one turnip washed, peeled and cut into slices, one onion, peeled and sliced, ^ lb. of either Scotch barley or rice, a little chopped parsley, thyme, and savory should be added, together with pepper and salt, half an hour before serving ; but the broth must boil until the vegetables and barley are cooked —about one hour altogether. This will make a good, substantial dinner with bread. 81. Breast of Mutton.—(See Lesson xo, example 3.) 82. Brocoli, to boil.—Cut a brocoli, put it into salt and water sufficient to cover it, with the flower downwards, and let it remain for about an hour; rinse in cold water under the tap ; if it has been raining, put a little vinegar into the water, and it will bring out any slugs that may have taken refuge amongst the branches of the flower. Have ready a pot with boiling water in it, 1 tablespoonful of salt, and a little soda. After trimming the brocoli, put it in, flower downwards, so that