LESSONS ON COOKERY, 42 10. Apple Cake (Yorkshire farm receipt).—Cover a. plate with some nice flakey paste. Peel, core, and slice one or two apples in very fine shreds or slices, place them on the paste, strew one tablespoonful of moist sugar over, grate about a quarter of a teaspoonful of ginger, break apiece of butter the size of a walnut into little pieces, and put here and there over the apples, put paste on the top, clip the paste round the edge with a pair of scissors as a decoration, bake in the oven for half an hour, and when taken out grate one lump of sugar over. The round is generally cut into eight or ten pieces, and is eaten hot or cold. 11. Apple Cake (Hampshire receipt).—Put one lb. of flour into a large basin, rub 4 oz. of dripping into the flour, peel and core 1 lb. of apples, slice them into thin small slices, grate some nutmegs, and add a little spice (about one teaspoonful in all), and two tablespoonsful of sugar with a teaspoonful of ba- king powder, mix with the flour, then take sufficient cold water to make it into a dough, grease a tin pie-dish or baking-tin, and bake in the oven for one and a half or two hours. 12. Apples Stewed.—Take six or eight eating apples, peel and core them carefully, fill the centre where the cores have been withdrawn. Put them into a stewpan with six cloves and a bit of nutmeg as large as a pea, and a little bit of either lemon or orange rind, one tablespoonful of sugar, also three teaspoonfuls of water, boil till the apples are tender, lift them out on to a clean dish, reduce the syrup to about one cupful and strain over the apples. 13. Apple Fool.—Pare six nice cooking apples, put them into a saucepan with a lemon-rind and two tablespoonsful of sugar, also one teacupful of water, put them through a wire sieve when sufficiently cooked. Add to this one cupful of new milk. This is nice for children’s tea or supper. 14. Apple and Batter Pudding.—Peel, core, and cut in two four baking apples, place them in a greased baking-tin, put in a basin two tablespoonsful of flour, drop in an egg, mix it into a smooth batter with one pint of milk and pour over the apples, bake in quick oven for three quarters of an hour, strew sugar over, and serve hot. x5- Apple Roley-Poley.—Chop a quarter of a pound of suet very finely, and mix with 1 lb. of flour; add a pinch of salt and half a teaspoonful of baking-powder. Mix this into a paste; roll it out the width, length, and thickness you