FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. ICQ and three shalots. Boil for two-and-a-half-hours very slowly, strain and bottle. Cork and seal the bottles ; it will be ready for use at once and will keep for years ; used for flavouring stews, hashes, steaks &c. 280. Knuckle of Mutton, Stewed.—A knuckle of mutton can often be made into a tasty little dinner, whilst it contains a good deal of bone and may be bought cheap. Plunge the \ knuckle into a sauce-pan, having sufficient boiling water to cover it; let it boil fast for five minutes, then pull it back from the fire and let it simmer for about four hours. As soon as the knuckle has boiled the five minutes, add the following vegetables, cleaned and cut into small dice, and let them stew for the four hours with the mutton :—1 oz. of carrot, 1 oz. turnip, ^ oz. onion, -l- oz. celery or a dozen celery seeds, six cloves, six peppercorns, one tea-spoonful of salt; now place 1 oz. of sago in half pint of cold water and let it soak. When the meat has stewed for the required length of time, lift it out and keep hot, pass the gravy through a sieve, passing the vegetables also through ; return it to the sauce-pan, let it come to the boil, stir in the sago, boil for five minutes, stirring the whole time ; flavour with sauce, season, and pour round the knuckle. L. 281. Liver Balls.—The German peasants make some of the nicest dishes possible out of liver; a few may be useful, and only require to be tasted to be thoroughly appreciated. Liver Balls are made by mincing finely 2 oz. of boiled liver. The water in which the liver is boiled is just sufficient to cover it, and, instead of being given to the pigs or thrown out in front of the house, is used for gravy. After mincing the liver, 2 oz. of breadcrumbs are taken (or even stale crusts soaked, in lieu) and mixed with about one tea-spoonful of finely chopped herbs, and an onion also minced. This is all seasoned with pepper and salt, bound together with an egg, formed into balls or flat cakes, egged over and fried in plenty of boiling fat. A thick gravy is made with the liquor and served round the balls. 282. Liver Pie.—Prepare a seasoning of an onion, parsley, and thyme, well minced. Soak any stale crusts in cold water and wring them dry ; mince 2 oz. of fat bacon. Mix all this well together. Mix on a plate one table-spoonful of flour, one tea-spoonful of salt, half tea-spoonful of pepper; cut the liver