44 LESSONS ON COOKERY, cupful of cold water. Boil till the apples are reduced to a pulp, if they do not fall well, pass them through a wire sieve. This sauce is eaten to Roast or Baked Goose, Duck, Pori Irish Goose, &c. 20. Apple Custard (German).—Grease a pie-dish ; pare, core, and slice in fine thin slices 2 apples ; put them into the pie-dish with a tablespoonful of sugar over and the juice from the boiled skins and cores. Place the pie-dish in a hot oven for quarter of an hour or less; if the oven is very hot, until the apples are tender. Beat up 1 egg with 1 pint of milk ; flavour and sweeten to taste, then pour over the apples and bake for three quarters of an hour at a moderate heat. 21. Apple Custard a la Watronsville (American).—Pare the apples, grease a pudding-basin, slice the apples into it till it is about a quarter full; break two eggs into a basin, with 1 tablespoonful of sugar and a few drops of lemon essence, whisk them up and add sufficient milk to fill the pudding-basin to within half an inch of the top. Butter a piece of wrapping paper and put it over the top of the basin. Place the basin in a saucepan, with sufficient boiling water to come within one inch from the top of the basin. Let it boil very slowly, in fact only simmer, for 1^ hours. If the pudding boils fast it will be quite like a honeycomb, and unfit to come to table. 22. Apple-water.—Slice a large, tart, cooking apple (without peeling it), also a small portion of the rind of a lemon. Put all into a saucepan, with six lumps of sugar and i£ pints of cold water. Let it come slowly to nearly boiling point; draw it back from the fire, and let it simmer slowly for a quarter of an hour ; strain into a jug. Useful during fevers, or for a summer beverage. 23. Apple Tea.—Slice apples (after peeling and coring) into a jug, also slice up half a lemon, first taking out the pips, add sugar to taste; pour 1 pint of boiling water on this and let it stand until cold. This makes a pleasant drink, little inferior to lemonade, but it is not so valuable from a medical point of view, as the rind of apple contains some valuable properties which are extracted by the process described in No. 22. 24. Apple Whip (German).—Peel and grate 3 large apples, add to them a quarter of a teaspoonful of mixed spice, and 1 tablespoonful of moist sugar. Take a spoon or fork of white metal (do not use steel) and whip it well up, add 3 tablespoonsful