FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 113 tea-spoonful of salt, and one tea-spoonful of baking-powder. Mix with tepid water into a dough, Hour a board, form into little balls, and put into a pot with boiling water, put the lid on, and let the dumplings boil for twenty minutes without lifting the pot-lid. Serve at once on taking out of the boiling water. Do not cut, but tear them open with two forks, and they will be deliciously light. O. 294. Oatmeal Porridge.—One pint of boiling water, a little salt. Take a wooden spoon in the right hand, and a handful of coarse Scotch oatmeal in the left; commence stirring the water with the spoon, and drop the grains of meal slowly from the left hand until it is emptied. Let the porridge boil slowly for half-an-hour at least, but an hour will greatly improve it. Eat with milk. Porridge is overheating to the system when eaten with sugar or treacle, and is quite spoilt as an article ot diet. 296. Ox Cheek.—Take three or four pounds of ox-cheek, wash it, and lay it out on a board. Prepare a stuffing, as for a heart, of breadcrumbs, suet, thyme, parsley, pepper, salt, &c. Roil the meat tightly up, bind with tape or tie with twine, and put it into a stew-pan with one pint of water, a turnip, carrot, &c., then stew for three or four hours ; strain the gravy and thicken. Serve in a tureen hot round the ox-cheek. Haricot beans and ox-cheek are delicious, the former making a pretty garnish to the dish. P. 297. Potato Croquets.—Boil 3 or 4 potatoes, mash them through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon, add 1 oz. of butter, the yolk of an egg, season with pepper and salt, whip the white of the egg to a stiff froth, and stir half of it in. Now form into balls, dip into an egg beaten up, roll in breadcrumbs. Have ready a pan of fat at boiling point, put the little balls into a frying-basket, so that they only just touch each other, plunge them into the fat, and let them stay until a golden brown colour (chopped chicken added to the potato makes croquets of chicken), and drain on kitchen paper and serve h*)t. 298. Poor Maris Plum Pudding.—lb. currants, washed and picked, £ lb. raisins stoned and picked, | lb. sugar (moist) J-lb. mutton suet, minced. Put into a basin with | lb. of 1