93 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. vigourously £ pint of brewers’ yeast, or i oz. German yeast mixed to a liquid with powdered sugar. Whisk it well, cover with a cloth, let it stand for 15 hours, skim off the top, strain through a piece of an old tablecloth or dinner-napkin, bottle. If it is liked, after skimming, merely stir and bottle without straining ; thus it can be either clear or with the ginger as preferred. In bottling, only half fill the bottles. 219. Goose, Roast.—Pluck the goose carefully, reserving the feathers for after picking and drying; singe carefully by ‘ lighting a piece of kitchen paper and holding the goose over it, then commence to draw, and prepare as in No. 151. Make a seasoning of 3-oz. stale bread-crumbs, half tea-spoonful of salt, half ditto of pepper, i-oz. of parboiled onions, and one tea-spoonful of dried and powdered sage leaves. Truss and place a greased paper over the breast. Roast for i i hours ; if the goose is large, serve with apple sauce. In Ireland they frequently stuff the goose with mashed potatoes and onions ; seasoned with salt and pepper it is excellent. P>aste well during the roasting, and prepare good brown gravy. 220. Goose, Irish.—See Chap. V., Lesson 10, Examp. 3. 221. Goose, Mock.—Take four fresh hocks of pork; the portion of the leg above the foot; they will be very cheap. Score them as you would a leg or loin of pork; next bone them with a sharp knife, or if you cannot find time to perfectly bone them loosen the flesh round the bone; prepare a nice stuffing as for goose, No. 219, press it well in between the meat and the bone, roast for about one hour, or bake for the same time in a quick oven, basting well. Serve with apple or gooseberry sauce. Even salted hocks are nice treated in this manner. 222. Gooseberry.—An indigenous plant in this country. Ribes Grossularia. It is the same genus of plant as the currant. Cultivation has wonderfully improved the fruit, of which there are many varieties. It is a very wholesome fruit and is largely employed in making preserves, mock champagnes, as well as for general domestic purposes. In fact, a great deal of sparkling gooseberry wine is sold in this country as cham- pagne at very high rates. 223. Gooseberry Fool.—Take 1^ lbs. of gooseberries, pick them, scald them by putting them into a saucepan with a little water, let them come to the boil. If green berries they must cook a few minutes; pass them through a wire sieve. Sweeten the pulp, and put on one side until they are a little cool, put