LESSONS ON COOKERY, 116 peel, bitter and sweet almonds, eggs, cream, corn-flour, sugar, noyeau, lemon, castor-sugar. Recipe.—Bruise in a mortar £lb. Osborne biscuits, pass through a wire sieve, put into a basin, and throw over the crumbs a wineglass of noyeau and let them soak. Blanch six bitter and about i oz. sweet almonds, bruise in the mortar with the white of an egg to prevent them oiling, add to the crumbs. Pick -J- lb. Sultana raisins, grate the rind of a lemon, mince i oz. citron peel, also \ lb. suet. Mix thoroughly with the crumbs which have been soaking in the liquor, and add 2 oz. castor-sugar. Prepare a cold custard of three eggs, well whisked, and 1 gill of cream. Fill a well- buttered mould and pour the custard over, cover down with paper, and steam for one-and-a-half hours. Sauce.—One table- spoonful Johnston’s corn-flour, moisten with a little cold milk. Put on the fire half-gill of water and the strained juice and grated rind of a lemon, 1 tablespoonful castor-sugar, let it come to the boil, add the corn-flour ; Jet the whole boil three minutes. Now add the yolks of two eggs and one wineglass of noyeau. Strain round the pudding, cap it with castor- sugar, and serve. 2. Beaconsfield Soup.— Utensiis.—One vegetable knife, sharp knife, whisk, two wooden spoons, frying-pan, stewing-pan, three basins of water for vegetables, fluted cutter, sauce-pans. Ingredients.—Two pints of stock, seasoned with salt, &c., 2 oz. fresh butter, carrot, turnip, lettuce, cucumber, leek, chervil, taragon, celery, mushroom, sugar, pepper, salt, nutmeg, mace, soda, stale bread, eggs, milk, cream, cloves. Recipe. — Put the stock on the fire to boil. Shred very finely all the vege- tables, using only a little of the tender heart of the lettuce, viz.:—1 oz. carrot, \ oz. turnip, 1 oz. cucumber, a few leaves of chervil and tarragon, \ oz. button mushroom, \ oz. celery (if you cannot procure celery use celery seed tied up in muslin with the mace, cloves, nutmeg, &c., added to the stock). Put all the vegetables into water as they are cut; the leeks in a basin by themselves, and to be cooked by themselves as a sort of garnish. When they are all ready, put into a frying-pan 2 oz. of butter, dry the vegetables in a cloth, fry them a golden brown, and drain them on kitchen paper; place them next into a clean stewpan, pour on them the boiling stock and sim- mer for one hour until the vegetables are tender. Now place some water in a small sauce-pan to boil with a piece of soda as large as a pea and the shred leeks. Let it just come to the