126 LESSONS ON COOKERY, quarts) ; let this boil slowly for six or eight hours, stirring now and then, so that it may not adhere to the bottom of the pot and burn ; skim all oil and fat off with an iron spoon into a clean jar (the oil is useful for domestic purposes). Strain the liquor off the heel at the end of eight hours. (N.B. the heel will make ecellent soup if put on and boiled with fresh cold water, vegetables, herbs, &c., the next day, and the remains made up into collard meat, cow-heel pie or savoury stew.) Sweet Jelly.—Take i quart of the stock, put it into a clean stew-pan with 2 oz. lump sugar, the thin rind of the lemon and oranges, one inch of cinnamon, a lump of nutmeg as large as a cherry stone, twelve coriander seeds, six cloves. Place the stew-pan over the fire, so that the stock may dissolve whilst you wash and dry the shells, and separate the yolks and whites of two eggs, keeping them in separate basins. Now crush the shells and put them into the basin containing the whites, beat them with a whisk a little, and add at once to the stock over the fire ; take your whisk, and after whisking for a minute, stir evenly the one way till the stock boils. Let it boil for two minutes, and lift carefully to one side to let it settle a little, have ready the strainer as in No. 1 of this Series. Dip your moulds into cold water, turn them upside down for a moment, and then pour in the jelly that has been strained through the muslin. If the weather is hot, set in ice to cool. For colour- ings, see No. 12. Aspic Jelly.—Take 1 quart of stock as above, and add to it the rind and juice of 1 lemon, 1 table- spoonful of vinegar, a few tarragon, parsley, thyme, and chervil leaves, 2 bay leaves, 2 or 3 inches of celery (or celery seed | teaspoonful), oz. turnip, ^ leek, 12 whole peppers, 3 all- spice, 1 blade of mace, put on the fire, clear, and finish as in sweet jelly with eggs, &c. 18. Jam Croustades.—Cut a stale French roll in three, scoop out some of the crumb, and prepare as in No. 2 recipe for marrow patties; instead of marrow, put in each 2 tea- spoonsful of jam, and cover with the following white sauce : 1 table-spoonful of corn-flour mixed with a little cold milk, and added to 1 gill (|- pint) of boiling milk, which has been sweetened and flavoured with either lemon or almond ess. Let it boil a few minutes after it has thickened, to cook the corn-flour. Chop 1 oz. blanched almonds; mix with sauce ; pour a little over the top of each croustade. They may be eaten hot or cold.