40 LESSONS ON COOKERY, milk as above directed in No. 2; peel, core, and slice six apples. Lay them in a quart basin with a little lemon-peel, one table- spoonful of moist sugar and a little nutmeg, or one or two cloves, according to taste. When the milk is absorbed by the rice in the saucepan, remove the peel and lay it into the basin, flour a cloth, and tie over; boil for two hours. This is a cheap and digestible summer dinner for children, far superior to using rich pastry, and it makes an excellent change. 4. Apple Dumplings.—Pare and scoop out the core of three apples, fill the centre with one clove and moist sugar, and then make the following paste : put into a basin i lb. of flour, rub into it 3 oz. of dripping, and when the lumps are all lightly rubbed into the flour, mix with it one teaspoonful of Borwick's baking-powder, and mix it well with the flour; then mix with the contents of the basin sufficient tepid water to make it into a light dough. Flour the paste-board, and, placing the dough on it, rollout, double it into three, give it another quick, even, regular roll, then cut it out into three parts. Place an apple in each of the pieces, wet the edges ; and roll round the apple, shaping into a ball with the hands, flour or grease a tin, and put them into it. Bake in a moderate oven for half-an-hour, or the dumpling may be boiled, first tying them up in floured cloths, and then placing them in a saucepan with plenty of boiling water. 5. Apple Pudding.—Line a basin, after greasing it, with paste made as directed in No. 4 ; peel, cut up, and core six apples. Put the cores and peels into a small saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of sugar, and 1 breakfast-cupful of water ; let it boil for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour. In the meantime, slice the apples; also mince very finely ^ oz. candied orange-peel. Add 1 oz. of moist sugar, ^ teaspoonful of ginger, and mix with the apples in the basin. Strain the liquor, which is boiling in the small saucepan, into the pudding ; cover with paste, tie a floured cloth over ; place in boiling water, and let it boil an hour and a half or two hours. 6. Apple Tart.— Rub into 1 lb. of flour 6 oz. of dripping ; add 2 lumps of white sugar grated ; mix into a paste with a knife, and roll out three times. Line the edge of the pie- dish with a strip of paste. Prepare 8 or 10 apples, as in No. 5, remembering to make the syrup from the boiled rinds and cores, for in these two portions of the apple lie some of its best qualities and essential properties, which are tco often wasted