FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 61 c oz. to the quart of vinegar, also one tablespoonful of salt. Boil for ten minutes, and pour whilst at boiling heat over the cabbage. Next day drain off the vinegar, boil for half an hour and again pour over the cabbage ; repeat this operation on the third day. When it is quite cold, bottle, and it is ready for immediate use. 93. Cabbage Balls.—Mince some cold cabbage finely, mix it with equal part breadcrumbs, season with pepper and salt, bind with an egg. Form in large-sized balls, roll in flour, and fry in boiling fat. Drain on paper, sprinkle over with salt, pile in a pyramid, and serve hot with gravy. 94. Cabbage plain boiled with Egg Sauce.—Boil an egg hard, i.e., for half an hour, and place it in cold water at once on lifting it from the saucepan. Put some cabbage into a pan of clean water with a little salt and vinegar, let it lie an hour and then thoroughly examine it, cut each head in four, and rinse in clean water. Now place the cabbage in a saucepan over the fire with boiling water, a tablespoonful of salt, and a piece of soda as large as a hazle nut. Let. it boil until the cabbage is tender, drain on a wire sieve, and press the water thoroughly out. Make the sauce and have it ready to pour over. Shell the egg care- fully, remove the yolk, chop the white very finely, and stir it into some seasoned malted butter. Pour the sauce over the cabbage. Dry the sieve and press the yolk of the egg through it over the cabbage and sauce, and you will .have not only a tasty, but an elegant-looking dish. 95. Cabbage and Bacon baked. —Take any cold cabbage, chop it, and season with pepper only. Take some rashers of bacon, cover the bottom of a pie-dish with some of the slices of bacon. Add a layer of cabbage, and then bacon, until the pie-dish is full, putting a layer of bacon on the top. Mash, through a wire sieve, any cold potatoes with a bit of dripping, mix in also pepper and salt; put this as a crust over the cabbage and bacon. Place in a quick oven, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. Slices of cold boiled bacon are nice re-w’armed in this manner. 96. Capers (Capparis Spinosa)—of the Capparidacece order of plants, chiefly grown in the southern parts of Europe. The unripe fruit, or flower-buds, are chiefly used ; they are prepared for the market by being pickled in white wine vinegar, and are often subject to poisonous colouring in the process. A few brands may he depended on, but very green capers are always objects of suspicion.