LESSONS ON COOKERY. 66 them, and pass through a wire sieve, season with pepper and salt, add a little piece of dripping as large as a walnut; pass through a wire sieve about 2 oz. of bread crumbs, mix 1 oz. with the carrots, reserving the other ounce ; mince very finely 2 oz. of Australian or any cold meat; mix all well together ; break an egg into a basin, blend it a little, put one half to the carrot mixture; flour a board, and form into little balls, dip them into the egg. Have the spare bread crumbs in a piece of clean wrapping paper, toss the little balls in them, and fry a nice bright brown in boiling fat. 115. Carrot-pudding.—Scrape, wash and boil about i lb. carrots as in No. 112, pass them through a wire sieve into a basin, ■ add 1 tablespoonful of sugar, three drops of essence of lemon. Make a custard of 1 egg and a teacupful of milk; after blend- ing the two well together with the whisk, add to the carrots. Grease a pie-dish, pour in the mixture; place tiny pieces of dripping here and there over the top; bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. 116. Carrot marmalade.—Scrape, wash and slice into thin rings, three pounds of bright red carrots; boil until they are quite tender ; mash them. Put into a large saucepan pints of water for every lb. of carrots. Slice on a plate, so as to save the juice, three oranges which have lain in strong brine for 12 hours; remove the pips, and add to the water in the saucepan; add the carrot, and boil for two hours, stirring every now and then to prevent its sticking to the pan. When the orange rind is tender, at the end of the two hours, add 1 lb. of sugar for every pint basinful of liquid in the pot. It must then boil for one hour, stirring the whole time with a wooden spoon. Put into jars, when cold, tie down with brown paper. Halfpenny oranges are best for this purpose, as the rinds, as a rule, are fine, and the flesh juicy. 117. Celery.—Apium gravelous.—Indigenous to this country and most parts of the Continent. Its natural habitation is near the sea-coast in sandy soil. Celery is usually sent to table in a raw state, and eaten as a relish, or dressed as a salad. It contains mannite, mucilage, starch, saccharine matter, and also an essential oil, which renders the plant useful when given in cases of dropsy. The seeds possess this oil in a greater degree than the other parts of the plant. Confections are made from the plant and the seeds on the Continent, and in this country both are used for savoury stews, soups, &c., as flavourers.