4 WESSONS ON COOKERY, purposely for cleaning them and used for nothing else. They are cleaned with soda and hot water only, and if soap is re- quired to loosen any extra matter or stains, it must first be boiled down and used in a liquid form ; viz., 2 oz. of yellow soap, cut into small pieces, and put into a clean saucepan with i qt. of water. Put over the fire, stir frequently until the soap is quite dissolved, then pour into the vessel in which it is intended to wash the sieve; add soda, and scrub. Finish at the tap as for Brass Sieves. Before closing this chapter, I would urge on all students the necessity of clean cooking vessels. It is an economy of time and fuel to have bright stewpans, saucepans, and pots; those who have studied the science of Heat will see the theories there expounded to us, are (or ought to be) put into practice in cookery. It is on the principle of the radiation of heat. Bright and well-polished saucepans are bad radiators of heat, i.e., they retain well the heat they gain from coming in contact with the fire, gas, &c.; water will boil more quickly in them, and it will keep hot a much longer time than in a dull black soot- covered saucepan which permits the heat to fly rapidly off, con- suming more fuel and occupying time in waiting for the boiling, which might be better occupied. The dull black is a good absorber of heat. The deduction to be drawn from these heat principles is, that the part coming in contact with the heat- giving power should be dull black, as the (outside) bottom of the saucepan, and sides and lid bright. Again, on the same principle, a cook should always see that the meat, entree, and other covers are very bright, as it will materially assist her to keep up her good reputation if her dishes are “piping hot” when sent to table. Another point I would draw attention to is the purchase of saucepans. Always purchase from reliable dealers and pay a fair price, especially for saucepans which are tinned, as the cheaper kinds are often made with an alloy of lead (with the tin) which, being soluble in certain liquids and combinations or liquids, produce highly dangerous cases of mineral poisoning. Should the tinned interior surface shew signs of wearing off the copper stewpans, have them at once sent to be re-tinned. It will cost but a trifle, but will save those who eat food prepared in it from the chances of cancer, or more direct symptoms of poisoning.