54 LESSONS ON COOKERY, 68. Broad Beans.—Shell the beans either in the usual way, or by placing them in a bucket and pouring over them a kettle- ful of boiling water; This will greatly economise time, as the beans will soon slip out. Have ready a pot with boiling water, put in the beans, add an iron spoonful of salt, boil from a quarter of an hour to half an hour, according to the age of the beans. Test them as in No. 67; they are served with either chopped parsely strewed, and butter stirred in amongst them, or with melted butter and parsely in a sauce-boat. 69. Broad Beans, Scotch fashion.—The beans after being shelled are blanched, i.e., put into a saucepan, and allowed to boil in salt and water for one or two minutes and slipped out of the husk ; they are then put into a sauce- pan with sufficient boiling water to cover them, a tea- spoonful of salt and a piece of soda; in about ten minutes examine them, and if tender drain on the wire sieve, and when quite dry pulp them into a clean basin through the sieve. Mix with a tiny piece of good dripping, season with pepper and salt, grease a cup well, fill it, and turn the shape out on a vegetable dish, greasing and refilling till the whole of the beans are dished ; put into the oven, with a basin inverted over the dish, to warm the beans, and serve with or without melted butter and parsley over. This is much the most pleasant method of sending beans to table for the comfort of the diners. If the blanching process is too troublesome, the beans can be rubbed through the wire sieve after boiling in the shell, a few at a time, throwing away the husks as they become empty, but it is more wasteful, and the beans are never such a pretty colour as when dressed as directed in the first part of this receipt. 70. Bilberry Pudding.—Make a suet crust, grease and line basin, half fill it with fresh bilberries, strew 2 tablespoonsful of sugar over them, and continue to fill the basin till it is heaped up. Put the top crust on and flour a cloth, tie it over, and boil for 2 hours. Bilberries in any form, either uncooked, made into pies, puddings, jam, or syrup, are particularly good for people suffering from scrofula, whether of the lungs or however it may be developed. 71. Bilberry Jam.—Gather the berries on a fine dry day, and after the sun has had time to dry the dew or moisture off the berries ; weigh the fruit, put into a preserving pan with 1 pint of water, let it boil half an hour, and then add 6 pounds of sugar to every 7 pounds of fruit. Boil for three quarters of