LESSONS ON COOKERY, 74 spoonful of lemon juice. Arrange the eggs on a hot dish, standing on the cut open end, pour the sauce round, and serve, garnished with toasted bread. 143. Ciirried Fish.—Prepare a curry mixture as above (No. 142), leaving out the yolk of egg, and adding one table-spoon- ful of baked flour instead. Take any cold fish which may be left from any previous dinner, pull it into flakes and put it into the curry sauce. When quite warm, serve with toasted bread laid round the dish as a garnish. If the curry is liked very hot, add one tea-spoonful of white pepper to the above mixture. 144. Curried Meat.—Prepare the curry as for fish, cut the meat into small dice, stew for one hour in sufficient stock to keep the meat well covered, then add the curry mixture, stew for another half-hour, stirring well now and then to prevent the curry from burning. Dish and garnish with boiled rice. 145. Curried Rabbit.—The tinned Australian rabbits are delicious curried, and are much cheaper than the English rabbits. Prepare the curry as for fish (No. 143). When it is thoroughly cooked, open the tin and carefully lay the rabbit into the curry in the pan ; let it remain about ten minutes in the sauce at the side of the fire ; dish carefully. Garnish with a wall of mashed potatoes. 146. Currants.—Pass aloe Minores are a small seedless variety of grape dried in the sun. The berries are red or blue. They take their name from the Grecian City, where they were first known to be cultivated. They form a chief article of export from Greece and the Ionian Isles. Zante currants are sup- posed to be the best, but the island would not and could not grow all the Zante currants (?) offered for sale in the English markets alone. Currants when purchased ought always to be washed, picked, plumped, and dried before the fire, and then be carefully packed away in a box for use. If this were practised it would often save much time and labour. Currant is also the name applied to the fruit of the Ribes order, the size of the fruit being somewhat similar. They are the Ribes rub- rutn or red currant, of which the white is simply a variety • the Ribes nigrum and the Ribes sanguineum, or flowering currant, are all used in cookery. Especially excellent are the leaves of the latter as a flavourer, whilst the fruit supposed by the uneducated to be poisonous is really not so, but capable of being turned to very good account.