79 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. weed used as food by the poor living near the coasts of Scot- land, Wales, and South-west of England, and I believe also in some parts of Ireland. It is said to be a great antiscor- butic, and to those who have much fish diet, especially salt fish, it is a wholesome and excellent corrective. In Scotland I have seen it used in the houses of the upper classes as a semi- medical resource, jelly being made from it, and the raw dulse being eaten at breakfast in the same way as mustard-and- cress or wTater-cress in England ; but it is an acquired taste. The jelly is made by stewing for a long time in milk, and treating it in a similar manner to Irish Moss. The per- fume of fresh dulse is very agreeable. 164. Destroying Flies.—Flies are particularly tormenting to cooks: the great question is, how to get rid of them, and better still, how to prevent them ? Flies, the large bluebottle especially, always indicate the presence of decaying or putrid matter, animal or vegetable. See that your dust-bins are really what they pretend to be, and not the receptacle for waste cabbage-leaves, pea-shells, radish-tops, turnip-tops, potatoes, and the like. Keep your sinks and drains sweet Look over the larder every day and turn out the corners. Let no little bits of meat lie about, and do not spoil ten or fifteen shillings’ worth of meat for the sake of three-pennyworth of lime or whitening to wash the walls of the kitchen or larder every four or six months. Brush all meat and fish and ducks over with acetic acid and vinegar mixed, during the very hot weather. This is the prevention. The cure is to boil 1 oz. of quassia chips in one quart of water till reduced to a \ pint, add one wine glass of old ale and one table-spoonful of treacle. Place it in saucers, and burn the flies as they are caught. This mixture is perfectly harmless. 165. Dock leaves as greens.—Gather the young tender leaves of the dock in the spring. Wash carefully in water, and put into a pot, with boiling water, a teaspoonful of salt and lump of soda as large as a pea. Cook with the lid off, pressing down the greens every now and then under the water; boil for twenty minutes. Drain on the steel wire sieve, press all the water thoroughly out and eat with roast meat, or give to the children with gravy. 166. Eels are not unlike serpents. They take their name from the Saxon cel; there are various species—sand eels, mud eels, conger eels, all good for table purposes ; the first are the