19 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. Mutton,—To choose mutton, see that the grain is fine and close, that it is juicy and rich in colour.. The fat a dull white and firm. The lean should, like beef, be elastic to the touch, and feel tender. Southdown and Portland mutton are con- sidered the best table mutton. The bones are small, the flesh juicy and tender. The Portland mutton owes a great deal of its good qualities to the pasturage. There are great varieties of grass found in the Dorset and Portland sheep pastures, also large numbers of very tiny snails which the sheep eat in con- junction with the grass; this latter portion of sheep diet an eminent cultivator of Portland mutton avers is the chief reason of the delicacy of this particular breed. The following is the analysis of a mutton chop :— Water ... ... ... 41*2 Fat ... ... ... ... 25’i Ossein and Phosphates ... 14^2 Fibrine ... ... ... io-3 Albumen ... ... ... 2’i Other substances ... ... yi IOO‘ Lamb is not so digestible as more full-grown meats and re- quires more cooking. To select lamb the flesh should be juicy, firm, and much paler in colour than mutton, the bones delicate and fine, the fat firm and white. Lamb is often tested by observing the vein in the fore-quarter, which should be a bright blue. To test if it is fresh, pass a clean knife between the loin and the kidney; on smelling the blade any trace of taint will rapidly be discovered. Veal, like lamb, requires much cooking to render it digestible. The flesh of good veal is smooth, juicy, and of a red colour. Very white and puffy veal shows that the calf has undergone great torture and cruelty, and ought never to be purchased by humane people. Veal, like lamb, should be cooked whilst it is freshly killed; if stale, it quickly changes colour, feels clammy, and has a faint, sickly, unwholesome smell. Pork is a meat which ought to be purchased and used with the greatest caution. Trichina are present in a great deal of pork. It has been found that cooking hardly kills them, and if once taken into the body there is no cure for these detest-