13 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 24 hours ; stir up with a stick, and when the lime has subsided to the bottom of the pan, and the liquid is pure and clear, it is ready for draining off and bottling ; let none of the white sedi- ment enter the bottle, the refuse to be thrown on the ash- heap. A teaspoonful of lime-water costs nothing but the trouble, and is invaluable as an adjunct to milk given to infants and delicate persons. If this receipt were more widely known and used, it would save the lives of hundreds of poor little infants who are killed through the want of knowledge on the part of their mothers. All corn flour and white farinas are simply so many sources of starvation to children. It is the milk which is mixed with them that feeds them; and even that is not perfect, as chemistry shows us it requires the additions above mentioned. Whole wheaten meal and oatmeal, ground to a fine flour and well cooked with milk, water, and lime, in the proportions already given, would form a perfect food. Babies should never be over-fed. Give them proper food at proper stated times, and you will have strong, healthy children. The over-feeding system is greatly in vogue amongst many classes of society. They gorge the child till it becomes like a young bear, sleeps heavily after its food, becomes hot, restless, bad-tempered, cross, and unhealthy ; the mother instantly offers it more food, the child takes it, is sick and ill, and the mother wonders, blames its teeth, anything but her own injudicious feeding. She has given the machine too much to do, and most likely bad material to work with, such as sweetmeats, biscuits, &c.; and Dame Nature rebels, speaking as loudly as she can. If, therefore, we would have our children healthy, select pure nourishing food, well and simply cooked ; let the vessels the child feeds from be clean, and the air it breathes pure. Food, in boyhood or youth, ought to be rich in nitrogen, with plenty of fruits and vegetables. In healthy boys and girls, getting plenty of employment and exercise for mind and body, the digestion is, or ought to be, strong and rapid. Their meals ought to be most carefully selected and prepared, and given at regular intervals; say, breakfast at 8 a.m., wholesome oatmeal porridge and milk, or whole wheaten meal prepared with milk carefully boiled, or rather stewed. N.B.—These dishes should be pre- pared with salt, and eaten with plenty of milk. Oatmeal is rather over-heating to the blood, and if eaten with sugar, golden syrup, &c., it becomes more so, and is rendered nauseous,