ii8 LESSONS ON COOKERY, sugar, two cloves and a bit of lemon rind, stew till it is tender, serve in a glass dish. This is a cheap and nice looking dish. 5. Stewed Rabbit a la Gothard.— Utensils. — Brown stew- jar or deep pie-dish, knife, basin, wooden spoon, wire sieve. Ingredients.—Rabbit, bacon, flour, Spanish onion, pepper, salt, cloves, sauce, nutmeg, carrot, turnip. Recipe. — Mix on a plate one table-spoonful of flour, one tea-spoonful of salt, one- half-teaspoonful pepper, one quarter-teaspoonful grated nutmeg, Peel and slice half a Spanish onion, about \ oz. turnip and 1 oz. carrot. Cut some slices of smoked bacon ; cut the rabbit into neat pieces after having properly cleaned it. Dip each piece in the flour mixture. Lay one or two pieces of the bacon into the jar, then a layer of vegetables, then the rabbit, with six cloves, one tea-spoonful of sauce; put the rest of the vegetables and bacon on the top, cover down, and let it bake in a moderate oven for two hours. It does not require any water or stock; a chopped kidney is a great improvement. Serve the rabbit in a hot dish with the bacon, rub the vegetable through a wire sieve with the wooden spoon, mix with the gravy, pour over the rabbit, and serve. Lesson II. 6. Piquees a la Regence.— Utensils.—Sharp knife, cutlet- bat (or rolling-pin), larding needle, basins, copper stew-pan, two sauce-pans, vegetable cutter, hair sieve, wooden spoons. Ingredients.— 1 lb. best beafsteak, \ lb. fat bacon, one carrot, one turnip, celery (or celery seed), herbs, leek, £ oz. gelatine, peas, sherry, spices, sauce. Recipe.—Cut the beef into neat pieces, dividing it as equally as possible into five. Lay them into vinegar for twenty minutes, whilst you cut the bacon into strips about one inch long and the square of your needle in thickness. Put a strip into the needle. Take the meat out of the basin, wipe it quite dry from the vinegar, and begin to lard in nice even rows. When it is larded prepare the following vegetables :—one carrot scraped and washed, the red portion cut into little square or round pieces with the vegetable cutter and put into a basin of water, the pale yellow portion cut into thickish rings and laid into the stew-pan. Peel the turnip, cut a similiar number of pieces to the carrot, and the remainder into slices, and put this also into the stew-pan, and the pieces cut for decoration into separate basins of water. Wash and cut up the white portion of half a leek, and put it also into the