LESSONS ON COOKERY, 132 fill each, and bake in a quick oven for a quarter-of-an-hour. Test with a bright skewer as for bread. 32. Sponge Cakes.—Utensils.—Wire whisk, basins, cake moulds, sugar dredger, plate, hair sieve. Ingredients.—Castor- sugar, flour, eggs, oil. Recipe.—Put on a plate 6 oz. of flour, dry it in the oven and pass through a hair sieve ; separate the yolks from the whites of six eggs into large clean basins, beat the yolks with h lb. of castor-sugar for half-an-hour until it forms quite a stiff batter, using the old-fashioned wire whisk ; next stir in the flour very gently, flavour with essence of lemon ; lastly, with a Dover egg-whisk beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth sufficiently firm to rest another egg upon ; stir this in lightly, throughly mixing it with the batter. Oil the cake moulds, dust them over with finely-powdered castor-sugar, half fill each mould with the mixture, thickly coat the top with castor-sugar, bake in a moderate oven, and when firm, turn carefully out on sieves to dry. 33. Cyprus Pudding.— Utensils.—Rolling-pin, paste-board, tart-mould, pestle and mortar, basins, wooden spoons, kitchen paper, egg-whisks.—Ingredients.—Flour, butter, lemon, water, castor - sugar, almonds sweet and bitter, orange flour water, white wine, eggs, cream, conserves, Borwick’s baking and egg- powders. Recipe.—Take -J- lb. of flour, dry it in the oven without browning, pass it through a hair sieve on to the paste- board, mix thoroughly with it half-a-teaspoonful of Borwick’s baking-powder, and a quarter of a id. packet of Borwick’s egg-powder (other egg-powders will not answer this purpose), make a little well in the centre, into which drop the yolk of one egg, the juice of half a lemon, and one table-spoonful of water ; commence to mix this together delicately with the tips of the fingers, adding more water, if required, until the whole is in a firm smooth paste. Press £ lb. of butter lightly in a cloth, but do not pat or pound it, keep it as hard and firm as possible. Dredge the board and roll out the paste, lay the butter on one half and cover it over with the other, roll it out and fold it in three ; lightly flour a clean plate, lay the pastry on it, cover it with a lightly-buttered piece of kitchen paper, place it in a cool cellar for half-an-hour, or on rough ice for ten minutes to a quarter-of-an-hour. To ensure the success of well-made puff paste these directions must be rigidly adhered to : at the end of the time specified above, roll it out again on the board, fold it in three, turn it round and roll it out again the reverse way,