Si FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. baste them well with the boiling fat. Take a penny egg-slice, and lift each egg carefully out on to the bacon. If properly basted, the surface of the egg will be quite white. 172. Eggs Poached.—Prepare some toast, and butter it, place it on a plate. Put on the fire a shallow saucepan with boiling water in it, a tea-spoonful of vinegar, and a little bit of salt. Break an egg carefully into a cup, and slip it into the saucepan of boiling water, be careful not to drop from a great height, or the yolk will be broken ; boil for two minutes, then lift carefully on to the toast, dust a little white pepper on the top, and serve hot. 173. Egg Fritters.—Boil an egg hard (for half-an-hour), lift it out of the boiling water, and place it in a basin of cold water at once to preserve the golden colour of the yolk, and cause it to shell more readily. Prepare the batter as in No. 57, adding sugar, instead of savoury seasoning. Then shell the egg, cut it into thin rings, dip into the batter, fry in boiling fat, drain on thin wrapping paper (kitchen paper), and let them be eaten hot, with stewed fruit. One egg will make ten or twelve good-sized fritters. 174. Egg Salad.—Eggs boiled for half-an-hour or an hour are perfectly digestible. Therefore, all hard-boiled eggs should be given plenty of time to boil. Boil two eggs quite hard, slice them after steeping, as in No. 173, slice a Spanish onion in thin slices, place on a dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, pour a little vinegar over, to which has been added half a tea- spoonful of sugar. 175. Eggs in Cheese Sauce.—Boil the eggs as in No. 173, shell and slice them. Prepare the toast and sauce as in No. 124. Before pouring the sauce over the toast, lay in the slices of egg, let them remain in the hot sauce five minutes, lift each slice out with a spoon, lay on the toast, and pour the sauce over. To be eaten as soon after dishing as possible. N.B.—This applies to all dishes in which cheese is an ingredient. 176. Eggs Stewed and Cheese.—Boil the eggs hard, put them at once into cold water, after a few minutes shell them and put them into a stewpan with some good, well-seasoned stock ; let them boil quite twenty minutes ; lift the eggs on to a round of toast cut in half; boil the stock with a few pepper- corns, cloves, a tiny bit of lemon rind, until it is reduced; then strain over the eggs. Have ready grated 2 oz. dry G