LESSONS ON COOKERY, 94 a pint of new milk in a dean pan on the fire to boil with two lumps of sugar and a tiny lump of nutmeg as large as a cherry stone; when it has boiled, remove the nutmeg and mix gradually with the gooseberry pulp. Stir well, or rather beat well, until it is nearly cold; place in a glass dish for table. 224. Gooseberry Pudding.—Pick | lb. of green gooseberries, mince % lb. mutton suet, mix them both with 1 lb. of flour, one tea-spoonful of baking-powder and one tea-spoonful of moist sugar; mix with enough water to form the whole into a firm dough; mix with a knife, do not touch with the fingers more than you can help. Grease a basin well with a piece of kitchen paper as a medium between the dripping and the fingers, drop in the dough; grease a piece of clean paper, place over the top of the pudding, and place the basin in a sauce-pan con- taining sufficient boiling water to reach within one inch of the top of the basin. Steam thus for one-and-a-half hours ; serve with thickened milk. 225. —Gooseberry Pudding.—When gooseberries are plentiful, a suet crust may be made of ^ lb. mutton suet minced finely, one teaspoonful of baking powder mixed with it, and a | lb. of flour. Form into a paste with tepid water; grease a basin, line it with the paste, reserving enough for a cover, half fill with gooseberries, then add one tablespoonful of sugar, put in the rest of the berries, cover with the paste, wetting the edges round first so as to make the paste adhere and prevent the syrup from boiling out. Grease a piece of clean paper and boil as directed in No. 224. 226. Gooseberry Drop Pudding.—Pick 4 lb. 0f ripe berries, make a batter pudding of two table-spoonsful of flour put into a basin, one egg dropped in and one tea-cupful of milk added by degrees until these ingredients are made into a smooth batter; now add another cupful of milk, one tea-spoonful of sugar. Have ready in the oven a dripping-tin with 1 oz. of good dripping melted in it, pour in the batter; drop in the berries quickly and place in the oven to bake for fifteen or twenty minutes. 227. Gooseberry Jam.—I have myself used this recipe for more than ten years and have always had excellent keeping jam. Pick the berries, weigh and put them into a preserving pan with one teacupful of cold water, let the fruit boil for one hour, skimming well and carefully. At the end of the hour add | lb. of sugar to every pound of fruit, boil for another hour,