LESSONS ON COOKERY. <4 as large as a cherrystone, 12 coriander seeds, 6 cloves. Place the stewpan over the fire, so that the stock may dissolve whilst you wash and dry two eggs, and separate the yolks and whites of two eggs, keeping them in separate basins. Now crush the shells and put them into the basin containing the whites, beat them with a whisk a little, and add at once to the stock over the fire ; take your whisk, and after whisking for a minute, stir evenly the one way till the stock boils. Let it boil for two minutes, and lift carefully to one side to let it settle a little ; have ready the strainer as in No. 1 of this Series. Dip your moulds into cold water, turn them upside down for a moment, and then pour in the jelly that has been strained through the muslin. If the weather is hot, set in ice to cool. 106. Cow's-hcel Collard.—Take a cow’s heel after it has made either jelly or soup, cut the meat into dice and put bones and meat into a saucepan with three pints of water, season with pepper and salt, a little powdered nutmeg or mace (if liked), a bunch of sweet herbs, and let the whole stew slowly for three hours, stirring now and again in case it should burn. At the end of that time remove the bones. Have a hard boiled egg ready, shelled and cut into rings, place them as a sort of decoration in the basin, and after removing the bunch of sweet herbs, pour the whole into the mould or basin. Let set and then turn out on a clean plate, first dipping the mould into warm water for an instant. 107. Cow's-hecl Pie.—Slice the cow’s heel. Put on a plate one tablespoonful of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, half a tea- spoonful pepper, quarter teaspoonful nutmeg, mix well. Put the bones on to stew with an onion, some herbs and season- ing, let them stew whilst you finish the pie. Dip each slice of meat in the flour mixture, place it in even layers in the pie- dish, sprinkle dried herbs over and a little chopped onion. Pile the pieces up high in the centre. Now strain the gravy into the pie-dish. Make a cover for the pie of ordinary paste. Bake in a quick oven for an hour. 10S. Cow’s-heel Stew.—Cut the meat into neat slices, pare a small turnip and slice it, scrape, wash, and slice a carrot, peel an onion and slice it, put the vegetables in first, and the cow’s heel on the top, add sufficient water to keep the meat and bones well covered and slew for three hours, stirring now and again, adding more water if necessary. Quarter of an hour before serving add to the stew one tablespoonful of chopped