FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 67 118. Celery stewed.—Take a head of celery, steep it in salt and water for one hour; then thoroughly clean, trim the roots, take off and put on one side the outer stalks and leaves; cut the head in two (lengthwise), rinse in cold water; next put the celery into a pot with a little gravy, or stock and water, enough to cover it; add pepper, salt, and a bunch of herbs ; stew till it is tender; then lift carefully out of the pot and place it on a round of toast, cover with melted butter, and serve hot. The liquor in which the celery has been stewed must not be thrown away, add it to the stock-pot, and it will greatly improve the flavour of the soups or gravies which you will make from it. The outside leaves and trimmings ought also to be well washed, and added to the stock-pot; if not so used, they ought to be burnt in preference to being put into the dust- bin or ash-heap. 119. Celery soup.—Take the outer leaves and stalks of a head of celery, cleanse them well. Peel two onions, one carrot, half a turnip ; slice them, and put into a saucepan with one quart of stock, and one pint of water; add pepper and salt; let it all boil for one-and-a-half hours; pass through a wire sieve; mix it well with the liquor in which it has been boiled. There will now be about one quart. Put one table- spoonful of flour into a basin, mix with a little cold water until it is quite smooth, and sufficient water to make it into a thin batter. Put the soup back into the saucepan, taste it, and correct the seasoning, adding more salt if necessary. Let it come quite to the boil, and then stir up and pour in the flour mixture from the basin, stirring the soup during the time you are pouring it in. Boil for five or six minutes. Toast some bread in the meantime, cut it into dice, and serve on a separate plate, to be eaten with the soup. 120. Celery Syrup.—Take 1 oz. of celery seeds, put them into a brown earthenware jar with one pint of cold water, and place in a cool oven for two hours. Let it reduce to half a pint, strain it. Make a syrup of 1 lb. of loaf sugar by putting into a perfectly clean saucepan, with one teacupful of water. Let the sugar dissolve and come to the boil, skim and remove from the fire ; now add the decoction of celery seeds. A table- spoonful of this once or twice a day, if necessary, is given in cases of dropsy and heart disease, and is much in vogue amongst German medical men. 121. Charcoal is obtained from charred wood or bones.