FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 39 pense and waste of material, but those who can make into toothsome digestible compounds the scraps from the poor- man’s table. The Artizan receipts will now be given in al- phabetical order, and those selected day by day which are most likely to accord with the material at hand to practise upon. RECEIPTS, &c. A. Apples (Pyrus-Malus).—An agreeable, healthy fruit of therose order. It contains malic acid and phosphorus in large quan- tities. The apple is useful as an article of diet, either in a cooked or uncooked state. 1. Apples, Baked.—Select the apples of uniform size, put them into a tin or pie-dish and place in a moderate oven, where they can receive a slow but regular supply of heat. Apples must not be too quickly baked. It is better that they should be some two hours in cooking than done in twenty-minutes, and all the goodness, in the shape of the phosphorus and essential oils, permitted to escape through the too great force ot heat, turning the moisture in the fruit to too great a bulk of steam, causing the apple to burst, and the valuable portions to be lost. When sufficiently tender, place on a clean dish, and grate one lump of loaf sugar over them. This is an excellent supper for children, given in conjunction with a slice of brown bread (or, better still, whole meal bread) and a cup of milk (skim or fresh). 2. Apple Snowballs.—Wash and pick \ lb. of rice, put it into a saucepan with one pint of skim milk or water, one teaspoon- ful of moist sugar, and a small piece of lemon-rind. Place the pan near the edge of the hob, so that the rice may swell slowly. When the rice has absorbed all the milk, remove the lemon-peel and have ready peeled and cored four ordinary- sized apples. Dip a clean pudding-cloth in clean water and wring it out, dust it over with flour, spread a ring of rice, suffi- ciently to cover the apple, stand the apple on the rice, and tie that portion of the cloth up. If the cloth is a large one, the four apples may be tied up in the four corners. Plunge into a pot of boiling water, and boil for an hour-and A-half. Serve with moist sugar. 3. Apples and Rice.—Prepare 2 oz. of rice and £ pint of