I 12 LESSONS ON COOKERY, expensive white coiled, and the Neapolitan, which is brown and in long sticks ; the price is about 46. per lb. This cheap brown macaroni is the true unadulterated macaroni, but the white is simply an imitation made in England from potato- starch and other ingredients to suit the English taste. 291. Macaroni, to dress.—Wash the sticks, say \ lb. for one person’s dinner, break them up into short lengths and put them to soak in a half-pint of milk or water for one hour, then boil till it has absorbed the milk, stirring so that it may not adhere to the bottom of the pan. (x). If savoury macaroni is required, grate 2 oz. of strong cheese, season with a little pepper, add a bit of butter as large as a hazel nut, stir this in amongst the macaroni; have a little more grated cheese ready, dish up on a hot plate and serve at once with the grated cheese over. If it is preferred, put it into the oven or before the fire and brown the top ; it makes a change the browning of it, but abroad the peasantry mostly cook it as above, and eat it without putting it in the oven or browning. (2). For puddings, prepare as far as No. 1, and then take one egg, blend it, add one tea-cupful of milk, mix, sweeten to taste, flavour with a laurel-leaf or lemon- rind, &c., at pleasure; mix in the cold custard, strew some breadcrumbs over the top and bake half-an-hour to one hour according to the capability of your oven. 292. Marrow (vegetable) Squash or Pie (American recipe). —Choose a nice fresh pumpkin or vegetable marrow, peel, and boil about 1 lb. weight of it until it is quite soft and tender. Pass it through a wire sieve into a clean basin, having first removed the seeds. Mix with one gill of cold milk, beat it up well. Next add 2 oz. sugar, ^ oz. butter, lemon essence, or the rind and juice of a lemon. Line a pie-dish with paste, pour in the squash mixture, and bake in a slow oven one hour. 293. Marrow ( Vegetable), stuffed.—Choose a small pumpkin or vegetable marrow, peel it and hollow out the seeds with a sharp knife, mince up two table-spoonsful of cold meat, season with pepper, salt, a chopped onion, and mix with breadcrumbs sufficient to fill the marrow, stuff it, put the lid on the end, tie in a floured cloth, boil till tender, and in the meantime prepare some melted butter and parsley, dish up the marrow, pour the sauce over, and serve at once. N. 295. Norfolk Dumplings. - Put into a basin | lb. flour, one