FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. IIC) stewpan. Now lay the pieces of meat carefully in with the piquees uppermost. Take half a pint of good stock, and season with pepper and salt, add six cloves, a blade of mace, six allspice, put into the stewpan, and put the pan on the fire and let it stew for one-and-a half hours : as soon as the pan is on the fire put the gelatine in to soak. Shell about twenty or thirty peas (or use tin peas), boil them with a little salt and a bit of soda and sugar, drain, then cook the carrot with salt and a bit of soda to heighten the color, drain them and add to the peas when quite dry. Also boil the turnip in salt and water, drain, and add to the other vegetables. When the meat has been stewing the proper time, remove the lid, and place the pan into the oven, to brown the little pieces of fat (or put them on a baking-tin with a little of the liquor). Pass all the gravy through a wire sieve, rubbing the vegetables through. Also add a wine glass of sherry, a tea-spoonful of sauce (Worcester or Mellor’s), put it into a small sauce-pan with the soaked gelatine, stir a little till the gelatine melts, and reduce to a glaze by boiling till the gravy looks thick. When the meat is brown, lay it neatly in the dish, forming a circle, and one piece just overlapping the other; put the vegetables in the centre, make them hot by placing on the hot-plate a few minutes, with a plate over. Pour the gravy over each piece of meat, and if any is left, over the vegetables. Les Fillets de Veau are prepared in the same manner, only garnished with strips of raw potatoes fried in boiling fat, drained, sprinkled with salt, and piled in the centre. In this case the glaze is poured only over the meat, and not over the garnish. Compote of Peaches.— Utensils—Stew-pan, or small pre- serving-pan, wooden spoon, kettle with boiling water, basins, glass dish. Ingredietits.—One small tin of peaches, £ lb. lump sugar, oz. bitter almonds, six pistachio nuts, angelica, half pint double cream, lemon, ratafia, castor sugar. Recipe.—■ Open the tin of peaches, drain the liquor into a clean stew-pan, add the lump sugar, the juice and rind of one lemon, the latter cut into thin strips; put over a clear fire to boil until it is quite transparent, reduce to a thick syrup. Pile the peaches up in a glass dish, blanch the almonds by putting into a basin and pouring boiling water on them ; lay in the peaches ; now pour the sugar glaze over. Whip the cream till it is thick, flavour with essence (very little), stir in one table-spoonful castor sugar, and pile over the compote; garnish with chopped pistachio nuts and angelica.