99 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. the flour, it is a great addition ; if not, they can be made to look and taste very nice with only the flour, ist, see that the fat is thoroughly boiling, that all the spluttering noise has ceased and is silent; 2nd, that there is enough to cover the steaks, and that it is sweet and fresh. When the steaks are a nice brown, lift them carefully on to a paper to drain before placing on the dish ; serve hot with good gravy or white sauce. 243. Halibut Marinade.—Melt a piece of dripping as large as an apple. Mix with it one table-spoonful of vinegar. Place the fish steaks on a flat plate, pour this mixture over, turn it , every 20 minutes or half-an-hour, and let it stay on the plate in a warm place for an hour-and-a-half, then dust it carefully over with flour, chalk the bars of the gridiron, and broil the fish over a clear cinder fire. 244. Ham Shank, to boil.—Very often a profitable little shank or knuckle of ham may be bought from grocers’ shops at a cheap rate, being the end of the ham, and not saleable as “ sliced ham.” If properly treated, three, or even four good dinners may be manufactured out of one of these, costing about is.3d., or is.8d. at the outside. Put the shank in soak for about twelve hours, scrape and clean it well, so that the water in which it is covered may be clean ; then place it in a large pot with sufficient water to cover it; let it come slowly to the boil, skimming carefully. When it is done, carefully remove the outer rind, which is perfectly indigestible, grate a few bread- crumbs from the top side of a well-browned loaf, serve with greens, or mashed turnips, but be sure that no vegetables are boiled with the ham, or it will taste of them, and spoil both ham and vegetables. 245. Ham Rissoles.—Mince ^ lb. cold ham, season with pepper, &c.; mince £ oz. onion, a little thyme, parsley, &c., also a tiny piece of lemon-rind, mix with the meat. Now grate £ lb. stale breadcrumbs, add to the meat; also one egg. Mix thoroughly, flour a board, form into little balls, dip each ball into a little egg, cover thoroughly with it, and then toss the ball in breadcrumbs. When they are all made up, have a quantity of fat at boiling point, test it with a piece of bread; if that browns quickly, the fat is ready : place the balls in a basket, and fry. Serve either on a napkin, or with some rich brown’gravy. 246. Ham Stew.—Cut the meat in nice slices, dip them in a mixture of flour and pepper. Cut up an onion, one carrot, h 2