FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 73 140. Cucumber Pickle.—If the cucumbers are old and likely to be tough-skinned, peel them, cut into lengths of about two inches, halve or quarter according to the size of the fruit. If the cucumbers are young, boil in water for quarter of an hour with 2 oz. of salt for every lb , and a piece of alum as large as a walnut to green them; then proceed to slice, &c. Put them into jars ; prepare a pickle as in No. 138. Let it become quite cold before adding to the cucumbers Cover the jars with brown paper. The pickle will be ready in three or four days. 141. Curry Powder.—It has been argued that the introduc- tion of curry powder into artizan cookery is a mistake, “no poor man could afford it.” I am quite certain that where they will eat it, the use of curry powder is an economy, and cheaper far than many of the sauces, mustard, and other condiments, which, although the rich may not always be aware of the fact, I frequently find used in cottages where one would least expect to see such aids to cookery. The use of curry is not at all hurtful if used in moderation, and will often make a dinner of vegetables as palatable as if meat were used. Indian curries are considered the best, and everyone who comes from India seems to have a different recipe. The recipe which I have found most successful was given me by a Singalese lady who was visiting in this country. The - curry powder I use for Class-teaching is Crosse & Blackwell’s, as I find it good, and of average strength. 142. Curried and Stuffed Eggs.—Put the eggs into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil a quarter of an hour; lift them at once into cold water, to preserve the colour of the yolk ; shell care- fully, cut a little lid off the broad end, scoop out all the yolk, and press it through a hair sieve ; crumble some dried herbs; on another plate mince of any cold meat, ham, beef or mutton, one tablespoonful; add to the herbs, season with pepper, salt (and chopped boiled onion if liked), mix with half the yolks, make into a paste, and stuff the eggs ; put a basin over the eggs, and put on a hot plate to keep warm a few minutes. Have ready the following mixture : 2 oz. apple, sliced; 1 oz. carrot, very thinly sliced ; one shalot stewed tender with cloves and mace, bayleaf, thyme, parsley. Press all through an hair sieve. Put this all into a saucepan with a little sauce, and the rest of the yolk of egg, and one dessert- spoonful curry powder, and stir till it thickens ; add one tea-