LESSONS ON COOKERY, 28 leg of pork with a sharp knife; turn it over, and bone it by taking a knife and cutting the membrane which covers the bone, pass the knife down the back of the bone and slip the bone out. Now trim the breast; put the pieces of fat aside for rendering down, and put the bones into the stock-pot. Take four dried sage leaves, crumble them through a fine strainer. Take 2 oz. onion, peel, and chop into small pieces ; put them into a basin with a teaspoonful of salt, pour boiling water upon them, and let them stay in the water five minutes. Whilst the strong flavour is being extracted from the onions pass 3 oz. of bread-crumbs through a wire sieve ; mix with the sage; add pepper, salt, and nutmeg to taste. Now strain off the water from the onions, wash them in cold water, strain, and mix with the rest of the stuffing. Spread this mixture evenly over the inside of the breast, then take the narrow end in your hand, roll it tightly up, secure it with twine and skew’ers, and roast for one hour. Sauce.—Pare and core 1 lb. apples, put into a saucepan with 1 gill of water, 1 oz. sugar, and \ teaspoonful grated nutmeg; boil till the apples are tender, pass through a wire sieve, and serve hot. Gravy.—When the meat is roasted lift it on to a clean dish. After removing the skewers, string, &c., have the following gravy ready, to pour round, not over, the meat:—Take 1 teaspoonful of flour, mix it with a little cold water till it is thick batter, and add to it r gill of boiling stock ; stir for a few minutes, flavour to taste with sauce, &c., andbrown w’ith a teaspoonful of caramel. 4. Shoulder of Mutton a la Gothard.—This is a dish fit for an epicure, and yet it is so wholesome, nourishing and economical, that it is very suitable to a family where there are growin°- children. Put into a basin £ lb. coarse Scotch oatmeal, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, ± tea spoonful of pepper, mix well, and pour over it £ of a pint (= 1 teacupful) of water. Whilst the oat- meal is absorbing the water, put the hastener to the fire, and see that all is in good order for roasting. Shred an onion very finely and chop it; also 2 tablespoonfuls of mutton suet; mix these with the oatmeal in the basin. Take the shoulder of mutton, examine it to see that it is quite fit for cooking, turn it with the outer skin next the table ; raise a flap of meat which you will find on the inside, pass the knife down between the silk-like membrane or skin, and, having loosened it, com- mence to stuff the joint. When the aperture is filled (do not