LESSONS ON COOKERY, 104 a pan over the fire, let it boil five minutes, add 2 oz. of coarse moist sugar, skim carefully whilst boiling; when it is quite cold, pour over the herrings, which ought to be laid in regular rows in a pickling-tub or barrel kept purposely for fish. On no account wash the fish ; they must be cleaned and wiped dry, and the heads taken off or left on at will. Let the herrings lie in the brine twenty-four hours, then take them out and hangup to dry. If smoked herrings are liked, this can be done by taking a number of herrings on an iron rod or stout stick, fastening them to the inside bottom of a butter-tub or little barrel open at one end, and, with that exception, air-tight as possible. Light a little fire of oak-chips or any chips, so that you have oak sawdust to sprinkle on the top. When the fire has thoroughly kindled, place several handsful of oak-chips or sawdust on the top, invert the barrel over the fire, prop it up a little with a stone, so that there may be a draught of air. and let it remain in the smoke for two days; feeding the fire, of course, from time to time. This makes a nice change to the plain pickled herrings, and where herrings are cheap and plentiful the careful housewife cannot do better than provide for the home circle so wholesome and good a food in as many different ways as possible, especially in the present heavy price of meat. 264. Horse-radish, Armoraisia Rusticana.—It much re- sembles Aconite, as the leaves are somewhat similar ; but it may easily be distinguished, as the roots are larger, thicker, and have a strong pungent smell. The plant is found growing wild in the hedges and ditches, but it is only the cultivated roots which are used either as sauce, garnish, &c. The horse-radish contains a volatile oil, and all the most important principles of the plant depend on this oil being retained ; therefore, in pre- paring it for table, it should be scraped or grated only a few minutes before it is used, as the oil quickly evaporates and leaves the root useless. The qualities of horse-radish are dietetic, antiscorbutic, stimulative, diuretic, anti-rheumatic, diaphoretic, and cosmetic; the latter when used in conjunction with milk and outwardly applied. Eaten by itself it has the same effect as mustard on the stomach, producing nausea. Eaten with meat assists digestion by exciting the action of the gastric juices, like mustard. 265. Horse-radish Vinegar is best made in the autumn, about October. Wash the root quite clean, grate £ lb. mince, two or