90 LESSONS ON COOKERY, dry bottles. Prepare a pickle of white wine vinegar in which has been boiled i oz. mustard seed, i oz. whole pepper (white), 2 oz. bruised ginger, i tablespoonful white sugar, strain and add to the lemons and oranges when quite cold, keep the fruit in separate and distinct bottles, so that the oranges may not colour the lemons—but serve together at table. Fit for use in six months. Currant jelly, mountain ashberries pre- served, and barberries, are used as garnish, and eaten with game. Sliced beetroot is used with cold boiled beef, and * forms a very pretty garnish if prettily cut out into shapes, &c., and contrasted with a little white turnip, and relieved with something green. The over-dressing of dishes is as much to be avoided as sending them to table without any decoration at all. 208. German Pancake.—Take any stale slices of bread, soak them in cold milk for ten minutes, put into the frying-pan one ounce of dripping, let it become boiling hot, beat up an egg, dip each slice of bread in the egg, or brush it over, cover it thoroughly, fry a golden brown in the fat, place it on a dish, spread some home-made preserves over, and it will be found to be a dish fit for a king, besides disposing of the stale bread-, The egg may be diluted with a dessert-spoonful of milk. 209. German Pudding.—Toast some slices of stale bread quite brown, say two, put them into a pie-dish with a layer of jam between, make a cold custard of one egg, well beaten, and sufficient milk to fill the pie-dish; also one tablespoonful of moist sugar, mix all well together, and pour over the toast in the pie-dish ; let it stand for twenty minutes or half-an-hour be- fore baking, then put a little piece of nice dripping on the top, and bake brown. 210. Giblet Soup.—Buy a set of nice giblets, wash them well, add 1 lb. of bones, and simmer for four hours with an onion, bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt. Remove the bones, which will do boiled again as second stock to use for pies, hash, or gravies, and is preferable to cold water. Cut the giblets into little dice. Mix in a basin one table-spoonful of baked flour, one tea-spoonful of caramel, and sufficient water to make it into a batter; put the soup and giblets back into the sauce-pan, let it come to the boil, stir in the thickening, stir till it again boils, taste, correct the seasoning by adding what may be deficient; serve with toasted bread on a separate plate.