FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 97 is much adulterated with barley-flour, and if kept long becomes sour and bitter to the taste. It is well only to have small quantities at a time and to buy only from respectable corn- chandlers and dealers. Put f of a pint of water in a sauce-pan on the fire to boil, take one dessert-spoonful of the oatmeal flour, put it into a cup or basin, moisten it and render it like a smooth batter with a tea-cupful of cold water. Pour this into the boiling water over the fire, stir till it thickens, let it boil ten minutes or a quarter-of-an-hour. Sweeten and flavour, or season with salt, as the patient may require. 235. Gudgeon.—Many little boys in the country catch quanti- ties of these fish, and I have seen them thrown wastefully away where they might have made a wholesome supper or breakfast for the children, who, with once showing, could clean the fish themselves. Scrape off the scales, holding the fish by the tail, cut off the fins with an old pair of scissors, rip open the fish, clean, wash, and wipe dry. Dip each one in flour, plunge it into boiling fat, and let it remain there till it becomes a golden brown. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and serve hot. H. 236. Haddock, to boil.—If you have not a proper fish-kettle to permit the fish to be put in its whole length, boil it in an ordinary sauce-pan ; fix the fish’s tail in its mouth ; after clean- ing it thoroughly, tie it up in a clean cloth; place a plate in the bottom of the sauce-pan to prevent the cloth burning; put enough water in to well cover the fish, also a table-spoonful of salt, and one of vinegar ; let the water come quite to the boil, then put in the fish; in about ten or fifteen minutes you may try if the fins pull out easily, and if so the fish is done; lift the pan on to the hob; let the fish rest in the water for a couple of minutes, then lift it out carefully on to a dish, untie the cloth, and serve either on a clean hot napkin, with lemon garnish, or make a melted butter and pour over. 237. Haddock, baked.—Carefully clean the fish well, wash and wipe quite dry ; now rub well into the inside a mixture of salt, pepper, and flour; cut up a small onion, and mince some parsley and thyme, place in the fish; put it into a tin pie-dish with one tea-cupful of water, two table-spoonsful of vinegar, pepper, salt, one tea-spoonful of moist sugar, and a bay or laurel-leaf. Bake in the oven for half-an-hour. 11