LESSONS ON COOKERY, 12 Upon analysis of the human body, we find Water, Albumen. Fibrin, Phosphates of Lime, Carbon, Silica, Keratin, Ossein. Nitrogen, Iron, various Sulphates, &c. Let us now look at. say, one grain of Wheat, and see what food elements we find there for the body. We find Water, Albumen, Fibrin, Carbon, Dextrin, Starch, Cellulose and Phosphate amongst the mineral matter; in fact, all that constitutes flesh, fat, bone, nerve, and tissue-forming elements—/.<?., when the flour is not separated from the bran. If the Wheat be ground, and the processes of bolting and sifting resorted to, before it is used as a food, the consumer is robbed of its chief elements of nutrition. I have heard it mentioned by eminent physicians, that people who use only fine flour at an early age lose their teeth and hair, these two elements of our body being supplied by some of the mineral constituents in the bran. The bran of wheat is rich in fat and fibrin, whilst the principle called cercalin found therein is a powerful digestive agent. It is fashionable now, in all well- regulated families, to have on the table loaves made from whole meal, which meal is generally ground at home in the steel mills sold for the purpose, or the bread is bought from “the whole meal bread supply company.” It is one of the best fashions our aristocracy have yet introduced, and is a step towards the cure of thousands of cases of dyspepsia arising from eating improper and badly cooked food. The next im- portant study will be how to dress our food. Again: at different periods of our lives, different foods are requisite. No one would dream of giving a baby the food set down for the full-grown man, or even giving a heavy meal to an old man in the decline of life. In cookery, it is essential that the student should be made acquainted with these matters. For a baby, there is no food so proper to give as the food nature has provided. But it is not at all times possible to give the child this. Then science steps in, and by her aid we analyse the food we wish to give the little creature, and the cook and chemist, acting in consort, will supply the want. In prepar- ing cow’s milk, so that it may be used instead of the mother’s milk, the following additions will be required to render it a per- fect substitute :—b pint of cow’s milk, £ pint tepid water, which has been boiled or filtered, one teaspoonful of best brown sugar, one teaspoonful of lime-water—the latter prepared as follows : Take one pound of unslacked lime, put it into an earthen pan, pour upon it one pint of boiled water; let it rest on the lime