FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. *33 fold it in three again and place in the cellar for another half- hour, or on the ice again for ten minutes; repeat this latter operation twice more, leaving the same interval between. It is then ready to line the tart dish ; brush it over with egg, and place a thin layer of some rich conserve at the bottom. Dur- ing the intervals of making the paste, prepare the following ingredients for the pudding :—Blanch and pound 2 oz. of sweet almonds, to which add six bitter almonds, also blanched and pounded, with a little castor-sugar to prevent oiling; beat them up with quarter-pint of cream, one table-spoonful of brandy, one table-spoonful of orange-flower water, and the whites of three eggs whisked to a stiff froth and stirred gently in ; pour this mixture into the paste-lined dish, bake for twenty minutes. With the yolks of the eggs prepare a wine sauce by placing them in a clean sauce-pan with two glasses of white wine and two table-spoonsful of crushed lump sugar; take a clean egg-whisk, and, placing the sauce-pan over the fire, stir rapidly without cessation till it thickens. When the pudding is quite done, serve on a folded napkin, with the sauce in a separate boat. Lesson VIII. 34. The Helen Faucit Gateau.— Utensils.—Sauce-pan, hair sieve, knives, wooden spoon, basin, mould, oil brush. Ingre- dients.—Cream, gelatine, dried fruits, almond essence, peaches. Recipe.—Place in a stewpan six peaches and one small tea-cupful of water over a moderate fire, where they will etew slowly until perfectly tender; add f lb. of castor sugar; about ten minutes before they are done, pass the whole through a hair sieve. Have ready 1 oz. of Nelson’s packet gelatine, which has been soaked for two hours in two table-spoonsful of cold water. Put this and the peaches back into the stewpan ; crack the kernels and add them also. Oil a mould. Now place the sauce-pan over the fire, stir the contents till the gelatine has dissolved ; remove it from the fire, put in one drop (not more) of almond essence. Stir it all up and pour it into the oiled mould; let it become quite cold before attempting to turn it out; in fact, it is better made the day before it is wanted. To serve—Place it on a handsome dish, cover neatly with double cream, well and carefully whipped. Decorate artistically with dried candied fruits, such as cherries, angelica, greengages, and other French bon-bons. (The dried fruits may be bought