LESSONS ON COOKERY, 96 per preparation of these I would specially in this example draw the attention of the student. For although entrees are not admissible in Artizan Cookery, yet where the materials cost little we may as well render the cottage home comfortable as not. To prepare the flour is the most important part of the whole secret; it is simply taking t lb of flour, or more if you use large quantities, press it tightly into a basin, pressing it down with the bowl of the spoon. When the basin is quite full, flour a cloth and tie it tightly over the basin. Have on the fire or stove a sauce-pan with boiling water, place the basin with the flour in this, and let it boil without ceasing for six or eight hours. Take out the basin, remove the cloth whilst it is hot, and then put the flour on one side to get quite cold. When it is cold, remove any portion that may look like paste, and rub the flour through a wire sieve, bottle for use. For the tv kite gravy take one table-spoonful of this boiled flour, put it into a basin and mix quite smoothly into a batter with a teacupful of cold stock ; put into a clean saucepan over the fire another teacupful of nicely flavoured white stock. Pour in the flour mixture when the stock in the saucepan comes to the boil, let them boil together for three minutes, stirring all the time, and then serve with whatever meat you wish, with or without garnish. Melted butter made with boiled flour is richer to the taste and requires less butter than that made with the raw material. 232. Gravy, clear white.—Is made from veal, rabbit, chicken, or any white stock ; it requires no colouring, and the flavouring must be simply sweet vegetables. To render it quite clear requires the white and shefH of an egg boiled up in it for three minutes and allowed to stand; carefully skim off the froth, or strain through a clean napkin or glass-towel. 233. Gruel, Scotch Oatmeal. — Put on the fire pints of water; when it boils add about one table-spoonful of the coarse Scotch oatmeal by taking the meal in the left hand, and a wooden spoon (or stick) in the right. Stir rapidly with the spoon whilst you let the little grains of meal fall in a thin shower from your clenched left hand until it is all in; then stir for a minute or so, and let it boil from 20 minutes to an hour. For serving, season with salt and butter, or sweeten with sugar, and add wine, nitre, or whatever the medical man orders. This gruel is aperient as well as healing. 234. Gruel, English Oatmeal.—The English meal as a rule