6 LESSONS ON COOKERY, with black-lead for the iron portions, use bathbrick and turpen- tine for the steel and brass portions. Give a high polish to the whole range, both for economy and appearance’ sake. For Cottage Cookery, I should strongly advise some of the American makes of close ranges; they are splendid heat- givers, coal-savers, and time-savers; almost any kind of fuel may be used in them, coal, coke, peat, or wood, and they do the work well, only the flues must be kept clean, and really, it is a matter that entails very little trouble, yet it is astonishing how often it is neglected. To clean them, attend first to the flues, next the grate and ash pan, lay the fire as directed for open grates, and polish well with black lead the whole of the range and flues which are in the room; by this means you will not only have the room warmed at a less expense for fuel, but will acquire for cooking purposes a greater amount of heat than from a dull black. I have had many trials of various makers of gas cooking stoves : the best I have tried and used as yet was a Birmingham maker’s. It was not lined with fire clay, was cheap, easily worked, easily cleaned, and would cook for eighteen people with the ordinary supply from a five-light meter, hardly affect- ing the house supply, at a rate of 8d. per day. To clean, well wash all the oven trays in soda and water, also the interior reflectors (if any), and polish the latter’pvith bathbrick, wash off any grease which may have been spilt on the hot plate, dry, light the gas a few minutes to evaporate all the moisture, then black lead and polish in the usual manner. Mineral Oil Stoves.—The best makes are Rippingille’s and H. Jurd’s. The former is exceedingly well suited to lady students, “ the Pet,” as it is called, being easily regulated and cleaned. To clean, trim the wicks, and take a piece of old flannel, rub the brass and tin work till all the stains are removed, polish with a leather. Paper makes an excellent medium for scouring purposes, and if a little powdered bath- brick is added, all the apparatus can be kept clean. Mr. Jurd, of Woolstone, has produced an excellent (cottagers) half- guinea stove, which has ovens and all, for cooking for a whole family. It is very easily cleaned, and cooks well. Spirit Lamps.—The brass work can be cleaned as directed in the first lesson. The sides and top of the kettle, saucepans, pots, and frying-pans, &c., must be kept very bright. These stoves, when kept clean, although a little more expensive in