32 LESSONS ON COOKERY, boil up again rapidly for a minute, skim it well and then draw the pan and let it simmer (not boil) slowly for 20 or 30 minutes. You will easily see when it is sufficiently cooked, as the flesh of the fish leaves the bones easily, or the fin-bones pull out with out dfficulty. When this is the case, lift the kettle off the fire and place it quite away from it on the floor on a pot-board, and let the fish rest in the water three minutes after it is cooked. It will then be quite firm and have no tendency to fall to pieces. In boiling all kinds of fish, this rule ought always to be observed, viz:—Never to attempt to lift fish from the water for three minutes after it has ceased boiling. Sauce.—Make a melted butter as page 3 x. Take 1 doz. tinned oysters (Crosse and Blackwell’s), warm them in a little of the liquor from the tin, season with pepper, salt, cayenne, and just about three drops of lemon-juice; when these are warm, stir into the melted butter, and serve in a hot tureen. Garnish for Fish Lemon.—Cut in thin slices, halved, and then almost quartered, and half a pickled walnut laid between the two quarters. Plain boiled fish should always be sent to table on a clean hot napkin. Lesson XII. Baking.—Many a good joint is spoilt by being put into a cool oven when it ought to have been kept out a few minutes longer, and the oven allowed to get properly hot. Putting % meat into a half-warm oven causes it to be flabby, tasteless, dry and insipid; there is no crispness about it, and the juices, which ought to have been found in the meat, are found in the dripping-tin. It is invariably the sign of bad cookery when any of the juices of the meat are allowed to escape. The dripping-tin, too, ought to be large enough to contain and receive all the fat likely to exude from the meat in the process of baking. If the fat runs over, or drops from the meat on to the oven-shelf, the consequence is that it burns, and the smell of the burning grease is not only disagreeable in the house, but it is absorbed by the meat and the dripping, and imparts to them a flavour which is far from agreeable. Let the oven be very hot, and then place the meat in it; about three minutes after it has been in, push in the dampers, so as to moderate the heat, and let it bake more slowly. Baked Silver side of Beef.—Prepare the following stuffing: Put into a basin 4 oz. bread crumbs, 2 oz. suet, a little lemon