3* LESSONS ON COOKERY, ARTIZAN COOKERY. The student, having seen the foregoing methods of cooking, must now follow practically through a class of artizan cookery, which is nothing more nor less than the A B C of cookery. The first thing we require are cooking utensils of the simplest, cheapest character, such as you would find in the working- man’s house, and of such a price that, if not actually to be found there, might be introduced at a moderate cost. I would say a word to landlords: if you are providing stoves, it is cheaper in every way to procure a'stove which will wear well, and keep the tenants or your work-people in good health, by as- sisting them to cook well. The Excelsior Stove (No. 112) made by R. Russell & Son, of the Peel Foundry, Derby, is the best stove I ever saw for either the artizan or middle-class kitchen, and the cost is small- It requires no setting, and will burn any kind of coal, while the consumption of fuel is smaller and more perfect than in any grate I have yet tested, and it has the advantage of an open fire. The implements required will be therefore—1 Kitchen range ; 1 ditto deal table with drawer; 1 pasteboard, is.; 1 rolling-pin, 4d.; 2 iron spoons, 2d.; 2 wooden do., 2d.; 1 steel wire sieve (instead of colander), is. 3d.; 6 basins, various sizes, at 2d., 3d., qd. (is. 6d.) ; 4 tin saucepans, 3d.,6d., is., 2s. (3s. nd.); 1 Rippingilles’ fryingpan, 6d., 1 large do. is. 6d.; 1 tin bowel, 7^d.; 6 pattypans, 6d.; 2 Baking tins, 6|d., and <^d. (is. 4d.) ; 2 tin pie-dishes, q^d., 6|d., (nd.); 2 earthenware do., 6d. and iod. (is. 4d.); 1 kettle is. nd.; 1 gridiron, id.; 1 American Egg-beater is. o|d.— Total 18s. o|d. Make your great motto in learning and teaching this branch (as in every other) of cookery “ waste not, want not,” even the liquor that vegetables are boiled in should never be thrown away—as they will make the foundation of good health-giving soupe. For example : According to Dr. Noad’s Analysis, water in which 1 lb. of potatoes had been boiled contained 17 grains of carbonate of potash, and, as you know, carbonate of potash is one of the greatest antiscorbutic principles we have in food and it also assists the oxidation of food in the body Scraps of bread and odd pieces of meat must not be thrown away —all will and must be utilized. Those are not the best or most useful kind of cooks who invent grand dishes at a great ex-