102 LESSONS ON COOKERY, into a wall round a meat dish. Have ready some cold meat minced very finely, and mixed with a tea-cupful of bread- crumbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, &c., enough stock to make it moist, and seasoned with dried herbs. Put this over the fire, stir it until it is hot, then pour in the centre of the wall of haricot beans. This makes a cheap nutritious and tasty little dinner. 255. Haricot Beans, jried.—Cold haricot beans left at dinner may be most deliciously served up next day by simply frying them in boiling fat, sprinkling them with salt, and serving on dripping toast. 256. Herbs, to grow and dry.—Nothing is more easy than to have plenty of herbs for kitchen use, even in the heart of London and large cities. Get a few herring or soap boxes, bore some holes through the bottom, put a layer of small stones in the bottom to act as a drain ; fill the box with a mixture of silversand and soil. Place the boxes in the windows of the kitchens, where they can have light and heat. Sow the seeds of chervil, thyme, or whatever herbs you wish to grow, and you will always have plenty of nice fresh herbs with little expense, and only the trouble of watering now and again. To dry herbs, gather on fine bright days in dry weather, and just before the period of flowering. Wash them, and if it is wished to retain a very green colour (in parsley, for instance), just plunge them into boiling soda water, and then place them on clean paper in a cool oven, leave the door open, and let them dry very gradually indeed. Pound, and sift the leaves ; bottle and cork up for winter use. 257. Herb Pic.—Two table-spoonsful of parsley, thyme, mint, mustard and cress minced very finely, three leaves of borage, and asmall heart of lettuce shred up. Place in apie-dish, covered with well-seasoned stock ; let them stew for twenty minutes in the oven, and prepare an ordinary light batter, well seasoned. Pour off the stock, pour in the batter, cover with a crust, and bake for three-quarters-of an-hour. 258. Herrings, how to choose.—See that the flesh is firm, the eyes clear, the gills red. Never be persuaded to buy limp looking herrings, they are bad ; and stale fish, like putrid meat, is highly poisonous. 259. Herritigs, rolled.—Clean, remove the head, and bone the herrings, mince one shalot, a little parsley and thyme, grate some breadcrumbs (or soak the hard crust of a loaf, and when