76 LESSONS ON COOKERY, a basin with ^ lb of flour and i table-spoonful of sugar ; stone and chop J lb of dates, mix with the flour and suet, drop in an egg, and add sufficient skim milk to work it up into a light batter; grease a pudding-basin and pour in the mixture. Steam for i\ hours. 154. Dates stewed.—Dates are almost as nice when stewed as primes; Take £ lb dates, put them into a saucepan with a tea-cupful of water, the juice and rind of half a lemon, about six cloves and a little lump of nutmeg. Stew slowly for half-an- hour; taste and see if the syrup is sweet enough; if not, add sugar to taste, lift out the dates, place them on a deep dish, and strain the syrup over. This should be eaten with boiled rice, corn-flour, &c. 155. Dory (Zensfaber).—This fish takes its name from the word Dor'ee, signifying golden or gilt, as it possesses a bright yellowish lustre. This fish was greatly esteemed by the ancient Normans, and at our own tables is considered a deli- cacy. John Dory is very plentiful on the Southern coast of England, and consequently very cheap, so it will not be out of place to give a few recipes for dressing it amongst the artizan cookery. If the fish is cheap you may safely buy a large quan- tity. Procure two-pennyworth of Acetic acid from the chemist, put it into a basin with a half-pint of vinegar, take a small brush and brush the fish you require to keep over with the mixture, lay on a clean dry dish so that the fish do not touch each other, sprinkle a little salt over, or hang them on a stick in a shady cool place without adding the salt, and the fish will keep some time. 156. Dory, Baked.—Clean the fish through the gills, trim the fins and spines, wipe the fish carefully ; make a stuffing of bread-crumbs, suet, parsley, thyme, and a little dried lemon rind. Moisten with milk, stuff the fish through the gills, put it into a tin pie-dish with sufficient stock to half cover it, place one or two pieces of dripping on the top, add three cloves, a blade of mace, pepper and salt; bake for twenty minutes, basting the fish every now and again. Strain the gravy before sending to table. Crusts are very nice put into the liquor, and baked in it with the fish, especially where there are children. 15 7; Dory,Grilled.—Have a clear cinder fire, grease a piece of white writing-paper for each fish, chop an onion, a little parsley, and thyme, and strew on the paper; clean and trim