FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 27 hastener round, so that the dust does not fly up and rest on the meat, or the ashes and cinders fall into the dripping-pan. 1. Leg of Mutton, to Roast.—Place the leg on the table; ex- amine it to see there are no flyblows or tainted portions; wipe it carefully; with a sharp knife cut the sinews near the knuckle- bone, bend it round, to give the joint a plump and elegant appearance. Put in the dripping-pan Mb. good dripping, and when it has melted, hang the leg with the knuckle end on the hook, and pour some of the hot dripping over the joint. Now move it close to the fire for the first five minutes, so as to let the heat contract the outer cuticle and preserve the osma- zone. After that time, draw it away about ten or twelve inches (according to the strength of the fire), and let it roast a quarter of an hour for every lb., and a quarter of an hour over if the joint is under io lbs. It must be well and frequently basted—much of the goodness of the meat will be lost if this is not attended to. Gravy.—Take some stock (say l pint), put it into a clean saucepan, with a teaspoonful of Worcester or similar sauce, one or two cloves, a small shalot (poeled, but not cut up), and a bunch of sweet herbs; season with salt, and put h teaspoon- ful of caramel, if necessary, to make it a rich colour. Place the saucepan on the hot plate, where it can have a gentle moderate heat without boiling, to extract the flavour from the herbs. When the joint is sufficiently cooked, have ready a little frill of white note-paper; join it round the shank : lay the joint on a hot dish, with the shank and paper frill resting on the broad brim of the dish. Let the gravy just boil up, and strain it round, not over, the meat. 2: Sirloin of Beef, or Loin of Mutton.—Put the meat before the fire by hanging it on the hook; do not pour dripping over, as this part of the beast is usually found to possess an abundance of fat. Place it close to the fire at first, as in No. i, basting continually during the process of roasting. Allow half-an-hour over the quarter given for each lb. of meat. Prepare the gravy as in No. i, remem- bering to pour it round the meat when dishing up. Five minutes before taking the joint from the fire, dredge it lightly over with flour, taking care not to put a thick coating, but simply a slight dusting. 3. Breast of Mutton, a la Golliard.—Take a breast of mutton ; remove the outer skin from the fat, or score it as you would a