FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 6 9 put into a clean saucepan with i dessert-spoonful of vinegar, pepper and salt to taste, and a mustard-spoonful of ready-made mustard, also half a teacupful of skim milk or small beer; toast some bread as in 123, stir the cheese in the saucepan over the fire, and when it is quite liquid pour over the slices of toast, which ought to be laid in a deep dish or soup plate. Eat whilst hot. 125. Cheese balls.—A nice little supper dish may be made from 2 oz. of cheese grated and mixed with any cold mashed potatoes, seasoned with pepper and salt and about 2 oz. of bread crumbs (or bread-crusts soaked in milk and squeezed dry); break an egg into a cup or basin, and whisk it for a minute, add half of it to the cheese, potatoes, and bread ; flour a board and form into little balls, dip in egg, and fry either in boiling fat or bake in a tin with dripping in the oven, turning the ball in the fat once or twice. 126. Take any cold potatoes that may be left from dinner (two or three), pass them through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon. Grate the same weight of cheese, season it well with pepper and salt. Put the potatoes into a saucepan with about a teacupful of milk. Place the pan near the fire. Make a little plain, short crust; line well-greased patty-pans. Then take a wooden spoon, and, stirring the potatoes and milk over the fire, thoroughly mix them. They should not be sloppy, boil until it is thick, then stir in the seasoned cheese, lift at once off the fire, and fill each of the little patty-pans. Place a very tiny bit of dripping on the top of each, and bake till it is brown on the top. They must be eaten as soon as they are cooked. 127. Cheese and bread patties.—Soak the stale crusts in water till quite soft; squeeze them quite dry; beat them up in a little milk. Prepare the cheese as in No. 125, whip an egg and mix with bread, then add the cheese. Line some patty- pans with paste ; fill with this mixture, which ought to be about the consistency of bread-sauce ; bake for half-an-hour. 128. Cheese-cakes (Yorkshire).—These Cheese-cakes are to be found in every Yorkshire home, however poor. Farm labourers have them for breakfast and supper. They consist of curd, the great principle of which is cusein. It rapidly supplies the waste of muscular power, and is to them what Professor Buckman describes the Dorset cheese to be to his farming men. Recipe : get twopennyworth of nice fresh