FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. Ill pared by boiling, but should not be given in cases of weak digestion. 287. Lemon Syrup.—One lb. lump sugar moistened with the juice of three lemons, and the grated rind added; one quart of water, bring to the boil, stirring with a wooden spoon all the time. Boil up twice, strain, cool a little, and bottle. Dose, 1 tea-spoonful to 1 gill of water. 288. Lemon Paste for Cheese Cakes.—Put 1 lb. of butter and 1 lb. of sugar into a clean sauce-pan, stir till the sugar is melted ; add the juice of 2 lemons; put the yolks of 8 eggs, and the whites of four, into a basin, blend well, add the grated rind of 2 lemons; now stir this into the mixture in the pan, let it boil gently (stirring the while) till it looks like honey ; pour into a dry pot when cool, cover as you would jam, and it will keep for twelve months or more in a cool dry place. N.B.—This paste is equally good without the butter, and will keep longer sweet. 289. Luncheon Cakes.—Put into the oven and dry r lb. of flour, when it has been in about ten minutes take it out and pass it through a wire sieve into a clean basin; add 1 tea- spoonful of baking powder, 4 lbs. of ground rice (it can be bought at 2d. per lb. and ground in the coffee-mill), also £ lb. Johnston’s corn-flour; with a clean wooden spoon beat 4 oz. of dripping to a cream, drop in i tea-spoonful essence of lemon, and add by degrees £ lb. moist sugar; either add Caraway seed at this point, if wished ; now add the flour mixture by degrees till the the whole is mixed thoroughly with the sugar and dripping. It will require very little more moisture, and that may be added in the shape of an egg, milk (sweet or buttermilk) or water. It is impossible to say the exact quantity, as flour differs so much, some qualities absorbing and requiring more liquid to moisten them than others. Beat the mixture up well with the spoon, grease a tin, tie a band of clean greased paper outside the tin, and reaching three inches above the top rim; pour in enough cake mixture to three parts fill the tin, bake for one-and-a-half hours in a moderate oven ; when it is done (test by a bright skewer) lift it carefully out of the tin and place it on the wire sieve till cool. M. 290. Macaroni.—There are two kinds of macaroni, the