FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 40 by the doctor for a patient, and not obtainable, a good sub- stitute may be made by taking one pint of milk obtained from an Alderney cow, if possible, put it into a basin, with b oz. of gelatine, let it soak in the milk for two hours, then put it over the fire, and warm it to dissolve the gelatine; add half a pint of barley-water, i oz. loaf sugar, and i dessert-spoonful of lime- water. Stir and give to the patient lukewarm. 46. Artificial Goats’ Milk.—Boil slowly for half an hour, in a pint of new milk, 1 oz. of mutton suet, chopped and tied in a piece of muslin ; sweeten with three lumps of loat-sugar. Let it cool, skim the fat off, and give to the patient luke- warm. B. 47. Bacon.—Home-cured, and forest-fed, makes the best bacon. If you have to choose bacon, select that which has a thin rind, the fat firm, white, and tinged a little red toward the rind, by curing, and the flesh of a nice red colour. 48. Bacon Cake (Yorkshire).—Make some common paste, line a plate with it, cut the bacon into little pieces, an inch square, lay them evenly over the paste, dust a little pepper over, cover with paste, pinch the edges, brush over with egg, and bake in a quick oven. 49. Bacon Boiled.—Bacon, to be well and nicely boiled, should be put into cold water, and allowed to come slowly to the boil, so that the salt may be extracted. Let it boil very slowly, allowing a quarter of an hour for every pound of meat, and half an hour over; skim it well. The fat or grease rising to the top will be nice to clarify. When it is sufficiently cooked, lift it out, take a towel in your hand and pull the skin off, rasp some crumbs from the top of a well-browned loaf, with a bread or nutmeg-grater. It is a spoiling of good bacon and cabbage to boil both together. Boil each separately, and you will be able to save the fat for the children’s bread, or the fat-pot, and the greens will be a proper colour. 50. Bacon;Roley Poley.—Make a nice suet crust of 1 lb. of flour, put into a basin, mince very finely 4 oz. of mutton suet, add 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, a pinch of salt, and mix with sufficient water to make it into a paste. Roll it out to a proper thickness, cut thin slices of bacon, and line the paste with it; season with pepper and 1 onion, and roll it up, flour a damp cloth, put the pudding into boiling water, and boil for one and a-half or two hours. E