45 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. of bread crumbs passed through the wire sieve, whip the whole up, pile on a plate, and serve with new milk or custard. 25. Apple and Sago'Pudding.—Use the large sago. Take 2 oz. of the sago, and swell it in a saucepan over the fire in j? pint of milk. Pare, core, and slice 2 large-sized apples, put them into the oven, as in No. 20, till tender, then take the sago off the fire, when it has absorbed the milk. Beat up 1 egg with 1 pint of milk, mix with the sago, and add half teaspoonful grated ginger. When the apples are tender mix all up together, and put back into the pie-dish ; bake for half an hour. 26. Apples and Tapioca.—Take 1 oz. of tapioca, crush it, and put it in one pint of cold water, and let it soak for five or six hours; then put it on the fire to cree, as for sago, No. 25, stirring it, so that it may not burn ; pare 4 apples, take the cores out, stick a clove in each cavity, and fill up with sugar, lay them in a pie-dish, sweeten the tapioca, flavour with 2 or 3 drops of lemon essence, mix with x egg, and 1 pint of milk, pour over the apples, and bake for one and a-half hours. 27. Arrowroot.—A starch or carbonaceous food obtained from the root of certain foreign plants. West Indian Arrow- root is obtained from Maranta Armidinacea, East Indian Arrowroot from the Curcuma leucorhiza. A starch from the potatoe is very frequently sold instead of the pure arrowroot. In nearly every case Johnston’s corn-flour will answer as well as arrowroot. Arrowroot is also adulterated with sago meal ; to test if the arrowroot is pure, take a pinch between the finger and thumb ; if it makes a sort of crackling sound, it is pure. The roots of the M. Arundinacea are about one foot long, white and jointed, with a thin, filmy scale like covering. It is chiefly used for invalids, and is too dear for every-day use in houseswhere economy is a point to be observed. 28. Arrowroo! for the Sick.—Take 1 tablespoonful of arrow- root in a basin, mix it with a little milk as you would for starch ; put, in a saucepan, on the fire, half a pint of new milk, sweeten it a little. When it is quite boiling pour it on the arrowroot in the basin, stirring the whole time till it thickens a little ; now put it back into the saucepan, and add wine or essence of beef, as may be directed by the medical man, or simply let it boil without other addition.—Or another method is, to take 1 dessert-spoonful of arrowroot, put it into a cup with a table- spoonful of cold water ; have on the fire half a pint of water in a saucepan to boil, with 1 inch stick cinnamon, a little grated