LESSONS ON COOKERY, no into thin slices and dip each piece in seasoned flour. Put a layer of liver in the bottom of the pie-dish, then a layer of the seasoning, and so on alternate layers until the dish is full. Let the last layer be liver, and pile it well up in the centre of the dish; put half-pint of stock for gravy, cover with a short crust, brush over with milk, and bake in an ordinary oven one- and-a-halfi hours. 283. Liver, stewed.—Cut the liver into thick pieces, about three inches long and two thick. Mince some thyme, parsley, and an onion. Cut some thin slices of fat bacon. Dip each piece of liver in flour, lay it on a strip of bacon, sprinkle a few of the herbs on the liver, roll it tightly up in the bacon, dip it again in flour, and lay on a plate till all the other pieces are similarly rolled. Now in the bottom of the saucepan or stew- pan place some rings of carrot, turnip, onion, &c.; place the rolls of meat on this. Add sufficient stock, seasoned with salt and pepper, to cover the rolls, put on the lid, and let the •whole simmer, not boil, for one hour. Lift the rolls out care- fully on to a hot dish, pass the gravy through a wire sieve, heat in the pan for a minute, and pour round the meat. 284. Liver Mince and Potato.—Mince 1 lb. of bullock’s liver, also \ lb. mutton suet; put into a basin with half pint of cold water and beat up with a fork, season with pepper and salt. Put the whole into a sauce-pan over the fire, beat with the fork until it is quite hot and all separated into little grains, draw the pan to the side of the fire and let it simmer for twenty minutes; peel, boil, and mash ii or 2 lbs. of potatoes, make them into a wall round a meat dish, put it in front of the fire to brown. Mince 1 tea-spoonful of parsley, and five minutes before serving stir it into the mince, pour the mince into the centre of a potato-wall, and serve hot. 285. Liver, stuffed.—Choose a call’s or sheep’s liver. Lard it carefully with little pieces of fat bacon. Prepare a stuffing of bread crumbs, thyme, parsley, a little piece of lemon-rind, 2 oz. suet; mix with a little milk. Grease a small baking-tin, spread the stuffing in the tin, lay the liver over, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. 286. Linseed Tea.—Quarter-pound linseeds put into a jug with the rind of 2 oranges and juice strained, also 1 oz. lump sugar. Pour on i| pints of boiling water, stir frequently until it cools, when it will have the appearance of bright golden wine. This is an infusion. The decoction of linseed is pre-