FOR THE USE CF SCHOOLS. IOI usual charming English composition of flour, water, leather, and onions, commonly receiving the cognomen of hash, success at last crowned my efforts, and the following is the result. If the dinner is at one o’clock, this hash must be prepared, and in a slow oven, by nine a.m. Pare all the meat off the bones in finely-shred slices, being careful to cut the way of the grain. Put on a plate one table-spoonful of flour, one tea-spoonful salt, £ ditto pepper, a little powdered mace, a little grated nutmeg (if liked); mix well. Take a small mushroom and one onion, shred finely, and strew in the bottom of the pie-dish ; dip each piece of meat in the mixture on the plate, and lay in the pie-dish in even rows. When the pie-dish is half-full, put two bay-leaves, a few mixed herbs (dried and passed through a strainer), and three bruised cloves; fill the dish till three-parts full, then take one tea-spoonful Worcester sauce, one pint of liquor from the stock-pot or stock jelly (on no account use water), strew 2 oz. bread crumbs passed through a wire sieve over the top, cover down with kitchen paper, and bake in slow oven four hours. 252. Haricot Beans.—Haricot beans may be soaked two hours before using, and a piece ot soda put into the water greatly assists in the process of rendering them ready for boiling. After soaking, drain and pick the beans over care- fully, removing withered or grub-eaten beans. Put them into a saucepan (say half-pint haricots for dish), with one dessert- spoonful of salt and cold water; let them boil at a moderate rate for about two hours, try them, and if tender, strain. Chop about two table-spoonsful of parsley very fine, and wring it in the corner of a towel after mincing. Now put the beans back into the saucepan with 1 oz. of butter, the parsley and the juice of half-a-lemon, saute them and put them into a hot dish and serve quickly. 253. Haricot Bean Soup.—Plain boil as in No. 252, drain and mash through a wire sieve, add to the pulp thus obtained one pint of good flavoured meat stock, and half pint-of milk; re-flavour with a little onion, season with pepper and salt, boil up, and serve with crutons of fried bread. 254. Haricot Beans and Mince.—Put the beans into a sauce- pan of cold water with a little piece of soda as large as a pea. The beans may be boiled at once without soaking, and if boiled rapidly for two-and-half hours, are quite as tender as if soaked all night; strain and dress as in No. 165, and make them