FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 8 9 one bulb of garlic, break it into cloves, peel them and cut each into two, put them into a perfectly clean, dry bottle, boil one pint of vinegar for ten minutes, or quarter-of-an-hour, pour it over the garlic, cork the bottle at once and seal it. It will be ready for use next day. One drop is sufficient to flavour a salad, and less will impart a delicate aroma to sauces where onion is liked. 205. Garlic Pickle.—Put into’a saucepan sufficient water to cover the quantity of bulbs you wish to pickle, add sufficient salt to make the water into a strong brine, in which an egg will float. Let it boil, and in the meantime place the bulbs into an earthenware pan, pour the boiling brine over; let it become quite cold and then peel them out of the brine and place them in dry bottles or jars. This method will greatly preserve the eyes during the operation of peeling. When the garlics have all been peeled see that each jar has about one inch from the neck free so that the vinegar may quite cover the cloves. Put into a saucepan sufficient vinegar to cover the pickle, and to every quart of vinegar add r oz. of whole black pepper, \ oz. pimento or long peppers, \ oz. horseradish, ^ oz. bruised ginger, \ oz. mustard seeds; boil for 20 minutes, strain over the garlic. The spices will do for other pickles if steeped in vinegar six hours and boiled as before directed. 206. Garnishes are always a subject of consideratioafor the good cook. Parsley is the most common form of garnish used, and is sent to table in its natural state for cold meats, butte r cheese, &c., but it must be fried when sent t© table with fried meats, and minced when intended to garnish hot vegetables, or any warm dish. It shows a great amount of ignorance on the part of a cook who either neglects this or really does not know it. It is as well in every house where there is a garden attached, or means to carry out the plan, to identify certain dishes with different garnishes. For instance, garnish cold fowl with watercress, cold ham with young carrot tops, which are feathery and light, cold fish with fennel or asparagus leaves. In fact there are multitudes of garnishes for cold dishes with- out always resorting to parsley. Sliced lemon cut in half, and almost quartered, is used as a garnish for hot or cold fish ; curries, veal, fowl, turkey, and all white meats. 207. Pickled Ora?iges and Lemons.—Put the lemons and oranges into separate brine pickles, strong enough to float an egg. Let them lie in it for three days ; drain and put into