LESSONS ON COOKERY, 86 lifting out the bread first into a deep vegetable-dish or large pie-dish, then pour the fruit and syrup over. 195. Fruits, Mashed.—Strawberries, currants, plums, bil- berries, cranberries, &c., are often eaten abroad mashed with or without breadcrumbs for breakfast, and fruits like the apple grated and then whipped. Nothing can be more wholesome than this preparation of fruits, and the making gives no trouble. The fruit is generally passed through a wire sieve, a wooden spoon or presser being used for the purpose ; the penny- wooden potatoe-mashers used in the North and Midland Counties are just suited for sieve pressers. When the fruit is through, ^ lb. of breadcrumbs are lightly whisked in, a silver fork or wooden salad fork being used for the purpose (steel ought not to touch the fruit); then sugar is sprinkled over and the fruit piled high in a dish. This is eaten with bread or thin strips of toast, and is a fine cure for dyspepsia if used for breakfast with brown bread and a glass of fresh cow’s or goat’s milk. 196. Fruit Fritters.—A cheap and nice method of using large ripe fruits is by making fritters. Slice the fruit, such as pears, peaches, plums, oranges, apples, &c., into thin rinqs or slices, and lay on a plate so that the slices may be easily l fted out. Then make the batter of one table-spoonful of floi r made into a thickish batter with tepid water and milk in eqi al pro- portions, add one table-spoonful of crushed lump-sugar, whip the white only of an egg to a stiff froth and stir into the batter, dip the slices in, turn them in the batter and plunge into boiling fat; fry till they are a nice brown, lift out with the wire spoon, drain on kitchen paper, pile on a dish, sprinkle over with sugar, and serve hot. Strawberries are excellent cooked in this way. 197. Flour.—The flour in most general use in this country for making bread, pastry, &c., is wheaten flour. The great thing is to get the flour pure and free from such adulterations as plaster of paris, &c. The best method of obtaining pure flour is to grind the corn at home in your own mills; they cost from about 6s., and can be had at 429, Oxford-street, Lon- don. To test flour there are one or two easy methods: the first is, to take a handful of flour, squeeze it tightly in the hand, and then open out your hand; and if the impres- sion of the fingers is still on the flour, and it does not break or fall apart, that is a sign that it is tolerably free