FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 47 lard when it is boiling. Fry a gold brown, sprinkle, salt and pepper over, and serve hot. 35. Artichoke Soup.—Clean and pare four artichokes and one onion, boil them in salt and water; when tender, pass through a wire sieve into a basin. Add one pint of skim or new milk, season with salt and pepper, and one teaspoonful of Yorkshire Relish. Stir till the mixture is smooth, put it back into the saucepan, and warm ; serve with toast cut into little squares. 36. Asparagus (Asparagus officinalis of the order Litiacece). —A plant indigenous to this coun try, found in a wild state by the seaside. It is cultivated, and the tender green portions of the young shoots eaten. It contains a principle called Asparagine, an alkaloid forming crystals. It is useful in cases of dropsy. 37. Asparagus Boiled.—Take the stalks carefully, wash and wipe with a cloth ; tie the asparagus in a little bundle, six or eight stalks in a bunch, put them into a stewpan (or saucepan large enough to let them lie flat, and be easily dished with- out breaking) with boiling water, salt, and a tiny piece of soda, when they are tender lift them up carefully, preserving the heads or buds from breaking. Have ready some nicely buttered toast, lay the asparagus on this, and pour melted butter over, or, if for an invalid, a little good stock gravy thickened with flour previously browned in the oven, and delicately seasoned. 38. Australian Meat.—This meat may be used with great benefit to many households—especially for people who reside in the country, and who cannot readily get supplies of fresh meat. As it is already cooked it requires careful manipulation, if it is to be served up hot. The following receipts may be found useful to those who require to use it: 39. Australian Meat Pie.—Cut the meat into neat delicate slices, dip in a seasoning of flour, pepper, and salt mixed, chop an onion and a few herbs, strew some of these in the bottom of the pie-dish, put a layer of meat and then a few herbs, and so on, till the pie-dish is full, not forgetting to use some of the jelly as well as the meat. Make a paste and cover the top, brush over with a little milk ; bake in a quick oven, and when the pastry is nicely browned the pie is ready for table, as it is only the paste that has to cook. 40. Australian Meat Toad-in-the-hole.—Choose some pieces of lean Australian meat, cut it into neat pieces and place in the bottom of a greased baking-tin, strew a seasoning of