i*7 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. boil, strain at once, and put the leeks into a tureen ready for table. Cut some thin slices of stale bread into fancy shapes, fry in the butter in frying-pan a rich brown, and add them also to the leeks in the tureen. Take three eggs, separate the yolks from the white, put the yolks into a basin with one gill of cream and one gill of milk, whisk well together, remove the stew-pan to the side of the fire, take a gill of the liquor or soup, and add, by degrees, to the eggs, &c.; then pour the whole into the soup, stirring rapidly for three minutes, pour into the tureen, and serve at once. It must not boil after the eggs are added, or it will curdle the soup. 3. Beef Olives a la Gothard.— Utensils.—Sharp knife, stew- pan, cutlet-bat (or rolling-pin), twine, chopping board. Ingredients.—1 lb. lean, beef, 2 oz. fat smoked bacon, flour, pepper, salt, sholot, cloves, nutmeg 1 oz., breadcrumbs, stock, mushrooms or mushroom powder, carrot, turnip, celery. Recipe.—Peel and mince very finely one or two shalots. Put on a plate one table-spoonful of flour, one quarter tea-spoonful pepper, one tea-spoonful salt, one quarter tea-spoonful grated nutmeg ; mix well together. Place the breadcrumbs on another plate. Now examine the meat; if you think it is tough, steep it in vinegar for twenty minutes (there is no necessity to use beefsteak for olives, any coarse portion of the beast will answer as well), take it out of the vinegar, wipe it dry in a cloth, next dip each slice into the flour mixture on the plate. Cut it into neat little slices, about four inches long and three inches wide. Then take the 2 oz. of bacon, cut it into as many slices as you have slices of beef, and dip each into the breadcrumbs. Lay a slice of meat on your board, give it a sharp rap on each side with the cutlet-bat or rolling pin, place on it a piece of the bacon, one clove, and two or three pieces of the minced shalot, and one-quarter of a mushroom. Now roll this up tightly, secure with twine, dip once more in the flour mixture and place in a clean stevvpan, in the bottom of which are strewn some little pieces of carrot, turnip, and celery. As soon as all the rolls are made up and in the pan, put in sufficient stock to cover the olives; let them stew slowly for two hours, adding more stock as it evaporates: then lift them out of the liquor, take off the twine, strain the gravy and reduce to a glaze, pour over the olives, and send at once to table. 4. Stewed Orange for Tea or Dessert.—Cut an orange into about six or seven rings, put into a tea-cupful of water and 2 oz.