43 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. require for the pudding. Cut some peeled apples into very- thin transparent slices, lay them over the paste, strew sugar over, and add one or two drops of lemon juice. Roll the pudding up, tie in a floured cloth, and plunge it into boiling water. Let it boil about ii- hours. Serve with thickened milk; i tablespoonful of flour, mixed with 2 tablespoonsful of cold water. Put on the fire a saucepan, with half a pint of milk and 1 dessertspoonful of moist sugar. As soon as the milk appears to rise in the saucepan, pour in the batter; stir till the milk thickens ; let it boil for three minutes, to cook the flour; flavour with lemon, if you have any rind by you: put into a sauceboat or basin, and serve with the pudding. 16. Apple Black Cap.—Wipe carefully six or eight little apples, remove the stalks, and place the apples in a greased baking-dish. Prepare a batter of four tablespoonsful of flour, mix by degrees with 1 pint of milk, add a tiny pinch of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder; beat this up lightly, pour over the apples, and bake till it is brown on the top. Serve with sugar. This is an economical dish; but it must be eaten hot, and not be over-baked. 17. Apple and Bread Pudding.—Grease a pie-dish; put in slices of bread, slices of apples, and fat scraps or chopped suet, and sugar to taste, in rows or layers, until the pie-dish is three parts full. Pour over enough milk to fill the pie-dish. Bake in a moderate oven for one hour. Excellent dinner for children. 18. Apple Marmalade.—When apples are cheap, this is one of the nicest jams that the cottager’s wife can make. Pare and core 7 lbs. of “windfalls,” cutting out any portions that are much bruised; cut them in halves, and put into a clean saucepan, with water enough to cover them; boil until they are tender, and then empty them into a basin. Take weight for weight with the apples, of Demerara sugar; put it into the saucepan, with about 1 pint of cold water; let it boil (skimming it carefully) till it is quite clear-looking; then add the apples and the juice of three lemons (add thin strips of the rinds also, if you like it). Boil for half an hour, till it jellies. Put into jars, and tie down with three or four thicknesses of brown paper. 19. Apple Sauce.—Pare, core, and slice six apples; put them into a saucepan, with half an ounce of butter, 1 oz. moist sugar, a quarter of a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, and 1 tea-