36 LESSONS ON COOKERY, to the boil, pour off the water, separate them out on a sieve to dry. Just before dishing the steak, have on the fire a frying- kettle, with boiling fat; put the potatoes in a wire frying-basket, plunge them into the boiling fat, let them become a golden brown (not too deep a colour), throw them on kitchen-paper, sprinkle salt over, and serve with the broiled steak as soon as possible. Frying.—It is a subject which, a few years ago, svas very , little understood, but the art is reviving amongst the people, and we have fried-fish shops in London and the provinces, where the poor man can, for a halfpenny, obtain a little piece of fried fish as well cooked as in any Ger- man, French, or American town, and infinitely superior to the fried fish one often meets with in houses which boast of a “ Good plain Cook.” In frying fish, or similarly cooking any article of diet, it is proper to use a frying-kettle, which is nothing more nor less than a large deep stewpan, oval or round, as the case may be, and according to the requirements of the family. For all general purposes an eight-inch wide stew-pan, at a cost of 2s. 6d., is sufficient, and a wire frying-basket to match, at is. 3d. ; the meshes not being too fine, or the wire too heavy and coarse. Into the frying-kettle is put about 2 lbs. of good dripping (bought lard should be avoided), which is suitable for all ordinary purposes. Oil may be used where it is preferred ; indeed, food cooked in oil is most wholesome, has a finer flavour, and is more crisp. Oil can attain greater degree of heat without burning than any other known fat, therefore it can be made hotter before the article to be cooked is placed in it. To Fry Fish.—Floimders.—Choose nice fresh, bright-look- ing fish. Wash and wipe them dry, dredge them with flour, dip in egg, and then toss in bread-crumbs. When the fat in the kettle is boiling, then place the fish in the basket, plunge it into the fat (or oil), and when the outside is a nice golden brown the fish will be ready. Drain it on kitchen paper and sprinkle with a little salt. The proper garnish to fried fish is fried parsley. It is simply ignorance, or, worse still, slovenliness when cooks do not fry the parsley, but dress fried fish, cutlets, rissols, &c., with uncooked parsley. To Fry Parsley. — Choose a few sprigs of well-curled, full- looking parsley. Put into a small saucepan some hot water, and a piece of soda as large as a hazel-nut; let it come to the boil, dip the parsley in for a second or two, take it out, dry it,