15 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. CHAPTER IV. The Chemical Composition of Food will be our next study; but before we enter into that, there are a few technical terms and their meanings with which the student must be acquainted. Lesson VI. Nitrogenous foods are those foods which contain a gas called Nitrogen, derived from two Greek words: tiitron, signifying nitre, and gennao, meaning I produce. This gas constitutes a large proportion of the air we breathe, being inodorous, without colour or taste. It is by itself fatal to animal life, and yet it is necessary in conjunction with other compounds. We find it in most animal substances, also in vegetable matters, but it pre- dominates in the former—nitrogenous foods are flesh- forming foods. Albumen, a viscous fluid, having neither taste nor smell, being transparent until subjected to heat, when it becomes coagulated and white in colour. It is found in the serum and blood of most animals, in nerves, milk, seeds, vegetable sub- stances, and it constitutes the white of egg, which is pure albumen. Albumen contains nitrogen, carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, sulphur, phosphorus, and soda, There is a large percentage of carbon found in albumen; oxygen ranks next for quantity, and then nitrogen, but all albuminoids are called nitrogenous foods. The albumen of an egg in chemistry is represented thus : C72 Hm Na N,s SO-, H, O. Fibrin, a substance found in both vegetable and animal matter. Derived from the Latin fibra, a fibre. The chemical constituents are similar to albumen, but the quantities differ. For instance, we find that, although carbon predominates, there is rather less than in albumen, whilst the balance is made up in a larger supply of oxygen. The blood fibrin is a solution. When a sheep is being bled in a slaughter-house, the blood begins to coagulate ; this is the fibrin. Solid fibrin may be illustrated by a beefsteak when the juices are extracted, or rather evaporated; it is found to be long elastic fibres. In colour it is white. Fibrin comes under the class of nitrogenous foods. Casein, another of the same class of foods, from the Latin caseus, cheese, consisting of about 51 per cent, carbon; it