I08 LESSONS ON COOKERY, press the fruit so as to render the juice muddy or thick ; then clean out the preserving pan, return the juice to it with i lb. of loaf sugar for every pint of liquid, skim well and let it boil rapidly for half-an-hour. Put into dry jars or moulds, and when cold tie down securely with brown paper. 277. Jelly Rusk.—This is a most useful jelly for the sick-room, and may be iced in summer. Take three rusks (cost id.), roll them into crumbs, place them in a sauce-pan with one quart of water, two or three pieces of lemon-peel, and a little sugar, let the whole boil, stirring frequently, until it is quite a stiff jelly; pour into a basin. The basin may be set in ice, and a spoonful of this administered alternately with other food. N.B.—It is not well to make food for the sick- room too sweet, rather let the patient ask for more sugar than give them a loathing for their food by supplying too much. 278. Jelly, strengthening.—One ounce sago (crushed), 1 oz. rice, 1 oz. best pearl barley, wash well in a sieve or strainer, and put into a sauce-pan with three pints of cold water. Stand the sauce-pan on the oven for one hour, so that just a gradual heat may come to the grains in it; then move it on to the fire and let it come to the boil, stirring the while. Now let it simmer for another hour, strain through a hair sieve, add a tea- spoonful of strong essence of beef or a glass of port, as maybe ordered by the medical man in attendance, and other season- ings as the case may permit. This jelly may be sweetened with sugar and eaten with milk. K. 279. Ketchup, Walnut.—Take 2 lbs. of the green shells of the walnuts (cost id.), put them into an earthen pan with 2 lbs. of salt; stir them frequently the first day; the second, take a wooden potato-masher, beat them well; the next day repeat the operation till they are quite like a pulp. Now drain off the liquor by pressing through a coarse towel; be careful not to squeeze the shells with your hands or they will be very much stained for some days; the shells may be returned to the pan; well beaten, another handful of salt sprinkled over and left till next day, then strained, the juice added to the rest. If the shells are fairly young and fresh gathered, there will be about three or four quarts of liquor; put this into a sauce-pan with £ oz. cloves, * oz. long pepper, 2 oz. ginger, 1 oz. whole pepper, 1 oz. mustard seeds, all well bruised,