91 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 21 t. Giblet Pie.—With a set of giblets buy either x lb. of ox-cheek or i lb. of shin of beef. Clean the giblets thoroughly, and if they are goose giblets soak them in salt and water for half-an-hour; this will take away any strong taste. Cut the gizzard into four slices, the heart in two, plunge the pinions into boiling water and with a knife remove the pen feathers. If there is a head pour boiling water on it also, and skin it, then split it open, remove the eyes and take off the beak by chopping. Cut the ox-cheek or shin ot beef into neat little pieces the size of the slices of giblet, dip each piece in a mixture of one table-spoonful of flour, one tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of black pepper. Put all the pieces into a stew-pan and stew slowly for two hours covered with second stock. Have ready a pie-dish and some plain dripping paste, and when the giblets and meat have stewed the proper time place all in the pie-dish, cover with paste, and bake for half-an- hour. 212. Ginger is the creeping stem, or rootstock, of the Zingiber officinale. The plant is reedlike in structure, possesses a powerful essential oil and a kind of resin, both of which are imbued with excellent qualities. Ginger is a strong stimulant, powerful sialogogue and stomachic. It is cultivated in the East and West Indies for market use, and is barked before being sent to market. 213. Ginger Cordial.—This is extremely useful for very young infants subject to colic or for grown-up people of dys- peptic habits of body. Take 1 lb of lump sugar, put it into a clean sauce-pan with half-a-pint of water, boil it to a syrup, skim, and when it is quite clear pour it upon \ lb. of bruised white ginger in a jar; fasten the jar down and let the syrup remain till next day, strain it off, heat it to boiling point and again pour over the ginger. Dose, one teaspoonful. Tie up the jar with thick brown paper. Method No. 2.—Prepare the syrup as above, No. 213, and add one dessert-spoonful of the strong tincture of ginger, which can be home-made by putting 3 oz. of powdered ginger (home-ground) into a pint bottle and filling it up with rectified spirits. Cork the bottles and seal. 214. Ginger Cakes.—Beat \ lb. dripping to a cream with a wooden spoon, beat in 1 oz. of ground ginger, and l lb. moist sugar ; add one egg and 1J- lb. of dried and sifted flour. The flour must be dried in the oven and passed through the wire sieve. If the flour is good, it will require no liquid in