FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 75 147. Currant Dumplings.—Shred £ lb. of mutton suet, mix it well with i lb. of flour, add one tea-spoonful of baking powder, one table-spoonful of sugar, tea-spoonful grated nut- meg, £ lb. of currants. Mix well together and make into a light dough with tepid water. Form into dumplings, and either bake or boil. 148. Currant Cake (Yorkshire).—Cover a large plate with paste, and leave enough paste to make a cover. Put 2 oz. of washed and picked currants into the centre of the dish, strew over the top one table-spoonful of sugar and a little grated nutmeg; also one or two drops essence of lemon, a piece of butter as large as a nut placed in little specks here and there. Cover with the paste and bake for half-an-hour in a brisk oven. 149. Custard, Baked. Line a pie-dish with paste. Break an egg into a basin, blend it with the whisk, add £ pint of new milk, whisk it for a second or two to thoroughly mix, add one tablespoonful of moist sugar, two drops of lemon essence. Pour into the pie-dish and bake in a moderate oven for one hour. 150. Custard-pudding, boiled, prepare as in No. 149, only line a greased basin with the paste instead of a pie-dish ; put on a greased paper cup. Place the custard carefully into a sauce- pan with boiling water sufficient to reach within half-an-inch of the rim of the basin. Steam for i * hours. This pudding is delicious eaten with stewed fruit. 151. Coffee (Coffea Arabica).—In this country the seeds or berry of this plant are roasted or ground, and either an infusion or decoction made from them. The former is the proper method, as the valuable principle, the coffme, is lost in boiling. Coffee is good for people who suffer from sluggish action of the heart. It is a powerful brain-stimulator. In the East, the natives prefer the roasted leaves gathered just before the period of the flowering of the plant, but they lose their strength, fragrance, and most valuable properties in transit, therefore we still continue to use the seeds. 152. Coffee. Take two table-spoonsful of is. coffee, place it in a jug or coffee-pot, pour upon it one pint of boiling water, stir it and let it stand for ten minutes ; boil one pint of skim milk, add to the coffee in the pot, and serve at once. Coffee should never boil, or the essential oils will escape and its best proper- ties be lost. 153. Date Pudding. Chop a \ lb suet, very finely, put it into