FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. three shalots, and put at once into a bottle ; cover with one quart of good vinegar, cork and seal, shake for a minute or two every day or so, and at the end of eight days it will be ready for use, and form a capital relish for roast meat. A few drops (15) in half a cup of water makes an excellent gargle for sore throat and in the early stages of diphtheria. 266. Hotch-Potch.—The most noted hotch-potch in the world is that made at the George the Fourth Hotel, in Edin- burgh. Epicures, statesmen, poor students, lawyers, men about town, ladies, all crowd thither in the sweet spring-time to taste this well-known dish at this well-known hotel. It was the fashion forty years ago, and the fashion has not worn out. The dish is made by carefully stewing a solid joint, say 2-lbs. of mutton or lamb neck chops (nicely trimmed), for about two or three hours. In another saucepan, in two quarts of good, well flavoured stock, made from bones and parings of meat, are stewed 4 oz. of young carrots, 2 oz. of turnips, \ oz. of onion, 2 oz. of young French beans; these stew till within a quarter-of-an-hour of the dish being required; then there is added seasoning of salt, pepper, &c., one head of blanched lettuce, shred fine, and the sprigs of a cauliflower. About one quart of peas are boiled in a separate saucepan. They are plunged into boiling water, with salt and soda, to make them an elegant green colour, and boiled for five minutes or less if the peas are quite fresh and very young. To each basin of hotch potch is put one chop from the stewed mutton, one measure (half-pint) of the vegetable stew, half a measure of peas, and one table-spoonful of very finely-chopped parsley. I. 267. Ice for the Sick Room.—The following, from the Lancet, may be of infinite use, not only to the student but the general reader in case of need :—“ It has been the practice of Mr. Sampson Gamgee to cut a piece of flannel about nine inches square, and secure it by a ligature round the mouth of an ordinary tumbler, so as to leave a cup-shaped depression of flannel within the tumbler to about half its depth. In the flannel cup so constructed pieces of ice may be preserved many hours—all the longer if a piece of flannel from four to five inches square be used as a loose cover to the ice-cup. Cheap flannel, with comparatively open meshes, is preferable, as the water easily drains through it, and the ice is thus kept quite