FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. i3S mushroom, add half-a-teaspoonful of finely-chopped thyme and parsley mixed, also a grated lemon-rind. Add an equal quantity of breadcrumbs to the grated ham or tongue, say 3 oz. of each. Season with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. Mix into a paste with the yolk of an egg, cover each sweetbread thoroughly with a slight coating of flour, make a case of the mixture round it, brush lightly and carefully every portion over with egg, toss in breadcrumbs, and fry in a wire basket in plenty of boiling fat until it is a golden brown. Drain on kitchen paper, dust over with salt, garnish with fine parsley. Serve on a hot napkin with good oyster-sauce. Lesson IX. 37. “Our Boys” Cream.— Utensils.—Mould, basins, egg- whisk, sauce-pan. Ingredients.—Cherries (fresh or dried), white currants, gelatine, cream, pounded loaf sugar, wine, brandy, essence. Recipe.—If the cherries you are about to use are freshly gathered, let them be quite ripe. Stone them by taking the cherry in the left hand between the fore-finger and thumb, press lightly on the top of the stone, working it round a little, then take the stalk in the right hand, still holding the cherry in the left, above the stone, give the stalk a pull and the stone will come out. A little practice will soon render the student dexterous at this work. Stone sufficient cherries to completely line the mould. Pick sufficient white currants to form the words “Our Boys” on the side of the mould. Dissolve some gelatine (1 oz.) which has been previously soaked in white wine. Dip each white currant separately into the melted gelatine, and with the assistance of a larding needle form the words in white currants on the sides of the mould, allowing one side to set before it is turned over to decorate the other. N.B.—If white currants are not in season use blanched almonds, whole or chopped, according to fancy, and dipped in the gelatine. Next dip the cherries in the liquid gelatine and cover the remainder of the mould with them. Beat one pint or one quart (according to the size of the mould) of double cream, till it is thick; be careful not to turn it to butter. Stir in 6 oz. of castor-sugar, and 1 oz. of dissolved gelatine. Pour into the mould and allow it to set quite firm. Plunge the mould for an instant into hot water, wipe it and turn the cream ouc on a dish. 38. Beefsteak and Oyster Pie.— Utensils.—Paste-board,