127 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 19. Stewed Watercresses.—Pick, and place in a little vinegar and water for one hour 2d. worth of watercresses, drain them and place them in a stew-pan, with £ oz. butter, 1 table- spoonful of cream, pepper and salt; shake the pan from time to time, and prepare a slice of thin toast. In five minutes the cresses will be cooked ; lay them on the toast. This dish is good for delicate or consumptive persons. N.B.—The hearts of lettuce are excellent prepared as above. Lesson V. 20. Pouding de Pomme-de-terre.— Utensils.—Two sauce- pans, knife, scrubbing-brush, wire sieve, egg whisk, pie-dish, lemon squeezer, butter knife, wooden spoon, gill measure. Ingredients.—Potatoes, sugar, almonds, butter, eggs, lemon, sherry, milk. For artizan recipe leave out almonds and sherry. Recipe.—Scrub, wash and peel three large potatoes, put them into a sauce-pan with cold water, and a little salt, boil till they are cooked, strain and mash through a steel wire sieve into a clean basin. Warm | gill of milk to blood heat in a clean sauce-pan, stir it into the potatoes with a wooden spoon, drop in the yolks of one or two eggs, putting the whites into another basin, add two table-spoonsful of sugar and one table- spoonful cooking sherry, and one doz. almonds, blanched and chopped, the grated rind and juice of a small lemon, beat up well with a wooden spoon, whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir this in gently, butter a pie dish, and pour in the mixture; bake in a moderate oven for one hour, sift white sugar over this, and serve. 21. Broculi au Parmesan.— Utensils.—Two sauce-pans (large and small), grater, knife, pot slice, sieve, frying-pan, and wire spoons. Ingredients.—Brocoli or cauliflower, parmesan cheese, butter, eggs, lemon juice, nutmeg, pepper, salt, flour, milk. Recipe.—After washing and steeping the vegetable in salt and water with the flower downwards, boil in the usual way. Take it up with a pot slice, dram on a wire sieve, trim and have ready to pour over it (when placed in the dish with the flowers uppermost) the following cheese sauce—2 ozs. flour, x oz. butter, warm the butter slightly in a small saucepan, and work the flour smoothly in, add by degrees 1 gill milk, and £ gill white stock; stir over the fire till it thickens, now stir in the yolk of one egg (taking the sauce-pan off the fire), also gradually the juice of half-a-lemon, pepper (white or cayenne), and 2 oz.