LESSONS ON COOKERY; 5° 51. Baked Ling.—Get two or three pounds of the middle cut of'ling. Grate 2 oz. bread crumbs, pass them through a wire sieve, put them into a basin with 2 oz. of chopped suet, a tea- spoonlul of minced parsley, a little salt and pepper, and a little piece of lemon-rind, finely shred, mix all well together, moisten with a little milk, and stuff the fish. Put it into a greased baking-tin, with a little piece of dripping, and about 0 or 8 (according to the requirements of the family) par-boiled pota- toes. Place the tin in the oven, and bake three quarters ot an hour, or less if the oven is very hot. 52. Baked Soup ( Yorkshire).—in Yorkshire everything that can be possibly cooked in the oven, is baked ; jam, soups, porridge, &c., are, in many Yorkshire villages, made in this useful portion of the range. For this purpose every house is supplied with an earthenware jar, of brown ware, covered Dy a lid. It must be understood that 1 am writing about the artizan and cottage homes. The kitchens of the upper classes are conducted according to modern principles. The soup is made by placing in the earthenware jar any bones and pieces of iean meat, covering them with water; say there is 1 lb of bones and meat, there would be three pints of cold water added, and a teaspoonful of salt; this would be put into the oven to stew for three or four hours, and then taken out, the lid removed, and put aside to prepare for soup the next day. The following day all the fat is carefully take?i of, a couple of onions are peeled and sliced, 2 carrots, and 1 turnip scraped or peeled, also sliced and put into the jar, with the stock and 2 oz. of rice pepper and salt to taste. The jar is then placed in the oven, couple of hours previous to the dinner hour, when it is served with either boiled potatoes or bread ; a sprig of parsley or a bit of celery is an improvement. 53. Barley Water.—Put 2 oz. of barley into an earthen jar, with a small piece of lemon-rind, and about three pints of water. Put it into the oven when it is not very hot, and let it simmer there for three or four hours. Strain it, and add sugar and lemon juice to taste. The barley will make a very delicious pudding. 54. Barley Pudding.—Take the barley prepared as above, add to it £ lb. sultana rasins, sugar to taste, and a few drops oi lemon juice, add one teacupful of milk, grease a dish, and bake it for half an hour. This pudding is excellent for sick people, leaving out the raisins and adding an egg and essence of lemon to flavour.