LESSONS ON COOKERY, 92 the mixing, but if it does, add a little water. Flour a baking- tin, and place the ginger cakes in little rough heaps. Put them into a very quick oven so that they may set at once, and not spread over the baking-tin. One tea-spoonful of baking powder makes the ginger cakes nice and light. 215. Ginger Piidding.—Four oz. of bread crumbs, 3 oz. of suet well chopped, one tablespoonful of ground ginger, two table-spoonsful of moist sugar. Mix all the dry ingredients well together. Beat up an egg with a cupful of milk, mix with the other ingredients, pour into a well greased basin, grease a piece of clean wrapping paper, place over the top, tuck in the edges of the paper, and put into a saucepan with boiling water sufficient to come within one inch of rim. Boil for two hours and serve with stewed fruit or thickened milk. 216. Gingerbread Squares (Scotch recipe).—Put 2 lbs. of coarse oatmeal into a basin, strew over it 4frd mix in one tea- spoonful of baking powder. Make a hole in the centre. With 1 lb. of treacle, mix £ oz. of ground ginger and one tea-spoonful of mixed spice, and-Hb. of melted dripping. Now pour it into the hole, and stir the whole into a stiff dough with a wooden spoon or round stick. Grease a baking-tin, flour a paste-board, place the dough on the board, and roll it out to half-an-inch in thickness ; brush it over with egg; cut into squares of three inches each way, lift carefully on to the tin, bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour. This is a useful sweet- cake for children, as it may be made the vehicle for introdu- cing medicines, such as cod liver oil, simple aperients, etc., which are covered by the ginger. 217. Ginger beer Powders. — K J lb. of lump sugar reduced to a fine powder, i-oz. carbonate of soda, ■§• oz. pow- dered ginger; mix this well, and put it into 12 equal parts, in 12 separate papers, on which write at once the No. 1. Take 1 \ oz. tartaric or citric acid, divide it also into 12 equal parts, and number the papers 2. To use, dissolve the contents of No. 1 in a glass three parts full of water; then stir in No. 2, and drink whilst in a state of effervescence. 218. Gingerbeer (American recipe).—I have to thank Messrs. Collins, Bros., of New Jersey, for the following excellent recipe for ginger-beer. Put into an earthen pan 1 lb. of lump sugar, 12 oz. bruised ginger, lemon sliced and the pips extracted, also £ oz. of cream of tartar. Pour one gallon of boiling water over. When it is milk-warm take a whisk and beat in