130 LESSONS ON COOKERY, 27. Ground-rice Cheesecakes.—Utensils.—Basin, wooden spoon, rolling-pin, paste board, pattypans, wire sieve.—Ingre- dients.—Ground rice, crushed loaf sugar, four eggs, butter, baking powder. Recipe.—Make a litte short crust, grease and line the patty-pans with the paste, put into a basin £ lb. ground rice, mix £ lb. sugar with it when it is thoroughly crushed, and pass through the wire sieve ; add one tea-spoon- ful of baking powder, drop in the four eggs one by one, and mix them with the rice and sugar. Melt 6 oz. of butter to an oil; pour it in last; flavour to taste with a few drops of essence of lemon, fill the patty-pans with the mixture, and bake till quite brown. 28. Rice-cake.— Utensils.—egg-whisk, wooden spoon, small saucepan, cake-tin, wire sieve, cup. Ingredients.—Ground rice, four eggs, lb. butter, loaf-sugar (crushed), eggs. Recipes.—Butter the cake-tin, cut a round of white paper or kitchen paper, slightly grease it and lay it in the bottom of the tin, next butter a deep band of paper rising 3 inches above the tin; and place it round inside. Crush ^ lb. of lump sugar, pass it through the wire sieve into a basin, break the four eggs one by one into a cup, and then add to the sugar, beat for twenty minutes, and add ^ lb. ground rice by degrees. Oil the butter in the sauce-pan, flavour with essence of lemon, and stir in; pour the whole into the mould, and bake for i-£ hours in a slow oven. 29. Colourings.—Grec?i.—There are various preparations of green dyes to be purchased for cooking ; the best are home- made. Sap Green may be obtained from the fruit of the buckthorn bruised and mixed with sugar. Grass Green, Liquid\ is obtained from spinach or young beat leaves pounded in a mortar, pressed on a hair sieve over a cup, or squeezed in a coarse cloth. The juice, if required for immediate use, can at once be put into the cream, jelly, soup, or whatever you wish to colour, but never apply a strong heat after adding spinach juice, or it will turn olive colour. Grass Green, Dry. —Wash, dry, and pound the spinach as above, squeeze and let the juice fall into a brass pan, set it over a clear fire, stir till it curdles, then take it off at once or the colour will be lost (do not let it boil). Throw it on to a fine air sieve, dry it on the sieve, and rub through a lawn sieve ; bottle, and it will keep for some time. It is only fit for thick soups, ices, creams, or syrups; not for clear jellies. The Fashionable Green (pale