FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 87 from foreign substances. Again, wet a small pinch of flour, take it between the finger and thumb, if it is glue-likc and will draw into a long thread, the flour is fair; a little practice with different kinds of flour will soon teach the student to apply this test with precision. Again, if the flour is adulterated with chalk, plaster of paris, whitening, &c., place one table-spoonful of the suspected flour in a tea-cup, pour in a few drops of acetic acid or strong vinegar; if it effervesces there is adul- terating matter in the flour. 198. Flour Porridge.—Take two tablespoonsful of flour, mix them into a smooth thin batter with a little cold water and half a tea-spoonful of salt. Have on the fire to boil one pint of skim milk ; just as it reaches boiling point, and begins to rise in the saucepan, pour in the flour mixture; stir well till it thickens. Let it boil for ten minutes to cook the flour ; pour on to plates and eat with sugar, treacle, new milk, or fresh fruit mashed as in No. 195. 199. French Beans, Italian fashion.—Prepare the beans as in No. 60, drain them on a wire sieve; put into a saucepan a lump of dripping as large as a walnut, a small onion chopped very finely, also minced thyme, and any other garden herbs that may be at hand, fry the herbs, &c., in the butter till they are cooked a little, then turn in the beans. Stir them round with a wooden spoon so that they become thoroughly mixed with the contents of the saucepan ; sprinkle over with pepper, salt and cayenne ; se ve on squares of buttered toast. This is eaten without meat, and forms an excellent method of dressing the vegetable for dinner or supper where meat is not required. 200. Fricasse of Beef.—Take half-a-pound of gravy beef from the neck (sticking part), cut it into neat slices, dip it into vinegar, and let it lie for 20 minutes. Then dry, flour the slices, taking care that every portion is well covered with the flour. Fry the meat in plenty of boiling fat until it is half done. Place the meat in a stew-pan with a small onion, two cloves, a little parsley, thyme; add one pint of second stock, or liquor in which meat or bones have been boiled, and let it stew for an hour-and-a-half. Thicken the gravy with baked flour, season with pepper and salt, and a little bit of lemon-rind. Arrange the beef neatly on a dish, strain, and pour the sauce over. N.B.-*-Cold beef may be used for this, but it must only simmer for about ten minutes or a quarter-of-an-hour in the gravy before it is thickened.