31 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. soda, and dried again. Put an old plate at the bottom of the saucepan or pot to prevent the cloth burning, if you have not a perforated tray. Put into the water half a lemon or one table- spoonful of vinegar, if you think the fibre of the meat is likely to be tough. As soon as it boils, put in the meat, finish as directed above; when it is sufficiently cooked lift it out, and put on a clean hot dish, and have ready a little clear well-flavoured strong stock; pour round and garnish with turnips, boiled and mashed, the water thoroughly expressed,and the turnips seasoned. A little bit of butter added, and the whole warmed up in a saucepan, fill a buttered cup with the turnip; turn the little mould thus formed out on the dish, making similar moulds until the dish is properly decorated; a little speck of finely chop- ped parsley laid on the top of each little shape, which is round the meat, makes a neat finish. Caper Sauce is the usual accompaniment to this dish. Prepare a melted butter by putting into a saucepan two ounces of butter; let it melt by placing the saucepan over the fire for a few seconds ; it must not boil or froth up. When the butter is melted bring the saucepan to the table, rest it on a pot- stand, and stir in gradually one ounce and a half of fine flour; add a large cupful of milk at the rate of a teaspoonful at a time, carefully working it so that it does not become lumpy. When you have made it to the consistency of a Yorkshire pudding batter, pour in the rest of the milk; put the saucepan over a clear fire, stir rapidly and evenly over the surface of the bottom of the pan until the mixture thickens, add one table- spoonful of cream, if you have it to spare—it makes the sauce whiter; let it boil for three or four minutes to cook the flour; have ready a dessertspoonful of finely chopped capers, stir them in together with a dessertspoonful of white vinegar, add a little salt, and serve in a hot tureen. A cheaper sauce can be made by using half the quantity of butter, mixing the milk with water, and using pickled nasturtiums instead of capers. Fish. Cod's Head and Shoulders.—Put sufficient water in the fish-kettle to cover the fish well which you intend to boil, and keep the perforated tray out until the water boils. Put in 1 tablespoonful of salt, and 1 dessert-spoonful of vinegar; this will harden the albumen in the fish. Place the fish on the tray and drop the whole into the kettle of boiling water; let it