46 LESSONS ON COOKERY, nutmeg and sugar, to the patient’s taste (sick people, as a rule, do not like very sweet dishes). When these have boiled a little, stir in the arrowroot, stir quickly for a minute or so after it is in ; if too thick add more water; boil for three minutes and serve, when it is rather cold, in cases of diarrhoea. 29. Arrowroot and Beef-tea.—Put a teacupful of strong beef- lea over the fire, in a clean saucepan, to boil; add a little salt, take 1 teaspoonful of arrowroot, moisten it with a little cold beef-tea, and when the beef-tea in the saucepan boils, stir in the arrowroot. As soon as it has boiled three or four minutes, to cook the arrowroot, it may be served with thin strips of dry toast. 30. Artichoke.—The Jerusalem Artichoke, Helianthus tube- rosns, is an edible root, a native of Southern Europe, like the Cynara Scolymus, the fleshy bases of the scales and blanched leaf of which are eaten. 31. Artichokes (Jerusalem) Boiled.—Wash, scrub, and scrape about 6 medium-sized artichokes, put them into a saucepan with plenty of boiling water, boil till they are tender, try them with a skewer to test when they are sufficiently cooked. Pass them through a wire sieve, season with pepper and salt, add a little piece of good dripping ; serve in a hot vegetable-dish. 32. Another Method.—Clean and boil, as above, wipe each artichoke, as it comes out of the pot, in a clean cloth before laying them in the vegetable-dish. Make a little melted butter, as follows, and pour over the vegetables : ^ oz. of butter, melted in a clean pan; take the saucepan off the fire, stir in 1 tablespoonful of flour, add 1 teacupful (quarter pint) of cold milk by degrees, working the flour into a thin batter, then add the rest of the milk, put a little salt in, and place over the fire to thicken, stirring all the time. When it has thickened let it boil for a moment or two to cook the flour, and then serve. 33. Artichokes (Jerusalem) Baked.—Clean and pare evenly, and place in a dripping-tin, with some good dripping, and bake in a hot oven. Turn them now and then during the process of cooking, and serve with roast mutton. 34. Artichokes (Jerusalem) Fried.—Clean, pare, and slice the artichokes, put them into a saucepan with cold water and salt; let them just come to the boil and strain on the wire sieve, let them drain there, and put into the frying-pan two or 3 oz. of dripping. Dip the slices of artichoke in flour and place in the