71 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. it extremely fine, put it into a basin with sufficient water to cover it, and beat it with a fork till all the little granules are separated; then put it into a saucepan with a small lump of butter as large as a walnut, season with pepper and salt; next place it over the fire, continue to stir it with the fork till it comes to the boil, being careful to keep the grains separate. Let it stew for twenty minutes, and serve with mashed potatoes. It is nutritious and digestible, and an excellent method of disposing of tough meat and obtaining a luxurious delicacy at little cost. 133. Cranberry (Oxycoccus palustris).—A fruit of the same order as the bilberry, and known in some countries as the mossberry, or moorberry. It is indigenous in bogs and marshy ground. They are valuable antiscorbutics. Large quantities are imported into this country from America and the Northern European countries. They make excellent preserves, delicious syrups and wines, and in cases of blood purifying they are found very useful. The fresh gathered Cranberries exposed for sale in our North and Scotch markets are preferable to those which are imported. 134. Cranberry tart.—Make a little short paste. Fill a pie- dish with freshly-gathered cranberries. Dissolve in a little water one tablespoonful of sugar, pour it over the fruit. Cover the pie-dish with paste, brush over lightly with milk, do not make the paste too wet, grate a lump of sugar over, and bake in a quick oven for half-an-hour. 135. —Cranberry jam.—Take 7 lbs. of freshly-gathered cranberries, put them into a preserving-pan with one pint of water • let it come to the boil, skim well; boil for half an hour; add 6 lbs. of sugar, and boil for three-quarters of an hour ; skim well, and then put into clean dry jars or bottles ; when cold, tie down with brown paper two or three thicknesses. 136. Cranberry syrup.—Boil 3 lbs. cranberries as in No. 135. Then put them into a bag made of a piece of white calico ; squeeze them till all the juice is expressed. Put into a saucepan 2 lbs. lump sugar ; add the juice you have taken from the cranberries; also one pint of cold water ; boil, and skim the dark brown froth off until the syrup is quite trans- parent ; bottle, cork, and seal the top of each cork. To cottagers whose children can gather the berries, this will be found an invaluable drink for them during the hot summer days, and costing only the sugar and the trouble of making.