6o LESSONS ON COOKERY. sugar. When it is well cooked, lift it on to the wire sieve and press all the water out, then place it on a hot dish, and cover with the following mince, which should have been prepared whilst the cabbage was boiling. Chop any cold meat very finely, season with pepper, salt, onions and herbs, chopped finely. Pass through the wire sieve 2 oz. (or more) breadcrumbs, so as to make the quantity, when mixed with the minced meat, sufficient to cover the cabbage. Cover the cabbage over with this mixture,'and bake it in the oven till it is quite brown on the top. Serve at once with gravy in sauce tureen. 91. Cabbage Stuffed.—Take a firm-hearted cabbage and cut out the stalk portion. Mince about four tablespoonsful of cold meat, also one onion, season this with pepper and salt, add one teaspoonful chopped parsley, stuff the cabbage, tie it in a flour-cloth, and boil for half or three-quarters of an hour, according to the size. Prepare a thick gravy. Take some stock from the stock-pot, put it into a clean saucepan, and put it over the fire to boil. Mix in a basin one tablespoonful of baked brown flour, season with pepper and salt, and mix with a little cold milk; when the stock boils, stir in the flour mixture, continue stirring till it thickens and boils, then pour into a hot sauce tureen and serve with the cabbage. 92. Choose full, firm Heads.—If white cabbage is used, the cow cabbage is best. Slice in fine delicate slices, place it on a dish or in an earthenware pan, cover it with salt, and let it remain on for twelve hours. Drain on a hair sieve or on a coarse towl, stretched and tied over the legs of an inverted chair, with a basin placed under to receive the salt water. When it is quite dry, loosely fill the bottles or jars. Put on the fire to boil 2\ quarts of vinegar with 2 oz. cloves, one tablespoonful of moist sugar, £ lb. of peppercorns, £ lb. bruised ginger, boil for half an hour, put it out into a basin or dish, and when quite cold pour over the cabbage. It will be ready for table in a week, and when thus treated the red cabbage retains its beautiful colour, whilst all the essence of the various spices are extracted by the vinegar in the process of boiling. Another Method is to slice the cabbage as before, and then put into a deep pan. Bake a beetroot; when cold, peel, slice, and add to the cabbage (some people prefer the beetroot raw). Put into a saucepan sufficient vinegar to cover the cabbage, add to it in the proportion of—1 oz. cloves, 1 oz. mace, peppercorns