LESSONS ON COOKERY, io6 dry. When good flannel with close texture is employed, a small hole must be made in the bottom of the flannel cup ; otherwise it holds the water and facilitates the melting of the ice, which is nevertheless preserved much longer than in the naked cup or tumbler. A reserve supply outside the bed-room door can be secured by making a flannel cup, on the plan above described, in a jug, and filling it with little lumps of ice, care being taken that there is space enough below the bag to allow the water to collect and leave the ice dry. This provision will allow ice to be used during the hottest night without the supply failing or the patient being disturbed.” 268. Irish Moss (Chondrus Crispus) is a sea-weed much used as an article of diet amongst the poorer inhabitants on the North and West coast of Ireland. It is also used medicinally in this country in cases of chest disease. It is known also as carraigeen, and was what may be termed a “ fashionable remedy ” some thirty years ago for consumption. It is still used, however, and contains very valuable properties. 269. Irish Moss Blanc Mange.—Take 1 oz. of the moss, soak it in cold water over night; rinse it well; put it into a sauce- pan with i|- pints of new milk. Stir it frequently, and leave it simmering near the fire for two hours ; sweeten, and strain into a mould. 270. Iceland Moss.— People are very apt to confound these two mosses (Irish and Iceland), as both are used in cases of consumption ; but the Iceland Moss( Cetraria Islandica) is quite distinct in taste to the Irish moss. In fact, the former is a lichen. Its taste is almost identical with reindeer’s milk, having a sort of wild bitterness. In Russia and Lapland a strong spirit is made from it. In Iceland it is ground up and used somewhat like flour. It is rich in saccharine matter, and car- bonaceous food. It is this quality for which it is used for delicate people. It has also tonic properties. 271. Iceland Moss Jelly.—Take 1 oz. of Iceland moss, put it into an earthenware pan or basin with 1 gallon of cold water, in which is dissolved £ oz. carbonate of soda. Let it remain in this solution for two or more hours, to remove the bitter- ness. Wash it well in clear cold water twice. Next place it in a stewpan with 1 quart of cold water; let it stew slowly for three hours, keeping the moss covered ; strain and sweeten. Pour into a pint mould. The liquor should reduce to 1 pint in the process of cooking.