72 LESSONS ON COOKERY. 137. Cucumbers (Cucumis sativus).—Can be cultivated by cottagers in the South of England in the open air, with little trouble or expense. Three-pennyworth of seed and the trouble of making a bed, and covering up the young plants at night for fear of slugs, is all the trouble entailed, whilst the addition of a few jars of pickle, as a relish to bread and cheese, cold meat, &c., more than compensates for the time spent in their culture. Cucumbers may often be bought in the open markets at three a penny, but that is only when they are very abundant, and they are often more than over ripe. The skin is considered by some medical men as injurious, by others as simply indigestible, and some German doctor, writing on the subject about six years ago, expounded a theory in one of his country’s scientific journals, proving that cucumbers grown in green and hot-houses contained in the skin valuable elements, whilst those subjected to out-door cultivation contracted certain poisonous substances, which, however, like the poisons in the cassava, were dispersed by cooking. 138. Cucumber and Onion pickle.—Slice about 4 lbs. of cucumbers, and peel and slice the same weight of onions ; lay them on a large flat meat dish, cover them with i-^lbs. of crushed salt; let them remain on the dish twelve hours, drain and place in a large jar or wide-mouthed bottle. Boil sufficient vinegar to cover the pickle (about two pints and <t-half will probably be ample), adding 2 oz. whole pepper, 1 oz. cloves, 1 oz. mace, 1 oz. bruised ginger. Let the whole boil for half-an-hour, strain and pour over the pickle in the jars whilst hot; repeat the same process, next pouring off the vinegar, and putting the spices to it again. After pouring the vinegar as hot as possible over the pickle, equally distribute the spices over the tops of the jars ; see that the pickle is well covered with vinegar, and, when cold, tie down with three or four thicknesses of brown paper. This will be ready for use in a week or ten days. 139. Cucumber Salad.—Peel and slice a cucumber, also an onion (parboiled if preferred). Mix in a teacup two table- spoonsful of vinegar, with one teaspoonful of salt, one ditto of sugar, one ditto of ready-made mustard, and a little pepper, also one tablespoonful of salad oil, if it is liked ; stir and mix well, then pour over the cucumber, &c. Garnish with cress and sliced radish.