34 LESSONS ON COOKERY, wash a carrot, a small piece of the outer stalks of celery (or dried celery leaves or seed), and a bunch of sweet herbs (thyme, parsley, marjoram, or bay-leaves). Let the water come slowly to the boil, skim carefully, and, when it is just on the point of boiling, add i teaspoonful of salt, which will assist the scum to rise, clear it all off, and then put in the vegetables and spices, such as whole pepper, &c. Fasten the lid on the Digester, looking at the soup every couple of hours or more, and taking off the fat. Any kind of wholesome every-day soup may be made from such stock, also good gravies. For the more expen- sive stock, see under the head “Soups,” in High Class Cookery. Remember that in this process the very opposite results are required when boiling meat for table : the juices of meat are required to be extracted. There are also vegetable soups, such as— Potatoe Soup.—Peel and chop about 3 oz. of onion, peel 1 lb. of potatoes, slice them, put them (the potatoes) into a saucepan, with a tablespoonful of salt, and let them come to the boil, and then pour away all the water. Take 1 quart of stock, put it into a clean saucepan, with the onions and potatoes, add pepper and salt, stir frequently and let it boil about half an hour; pass through a wire sieve into a clean basin, and put into the saucepan again to keep warm on the hob till the mo- ment it is required for dinner; pour into a hot tureen and serve. Stewing.—This method of cooking meat requires careful preparation and plenty of time to cook. Stewed Rabbit.—Cut up the rabbit, after it has been properly cleaned, into nice joints; wipe them, dredge them over with flour, and fry in boiling dripping; place each joint, when it is nicely browned, on kitchen paper, so that any dripping may be absorbed; take a slice of turnip, fry it, also 3 or 4 slices of onion, and a carrot; when all the vegetables are nicely browned, drain them on the paper. Take a clean stewpan, put in the fried vegetables, a slice of lean ham, and then the rabbit, cover it well with stock, add 3 cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a small portion of lemon-rind, 6 whole peppers, and salt to taste. Let it stew slowly by the side of the fire, with the lid on, for four hours ; if the stock evaporate, add more. Place the rabbit on a hot dish, pass the gravy, and rub the vegetables through a hair sieve; if it is too thick, add a little more stock ; pour this round the pieces of rabbit; garnish with croutons or toasted bread. The former are more elegant. Cut the bread into half moons