FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 125 the pieces into a stew-pan, after dipping in flour, with i pint second stock, 6 cloves, 6 allspice, 3 long peppers, 1 blade of mace, salt, pepper, 3 shalots, 6 cardamom and 6 coriander seeds, a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, a small piece of the rind (1 inch square), and a slice of lean ham. Stew for one and half hours, add ng more stock if necessary. Put the gelatine into half tea-cupful of water to soak. First take up the mince and chop it again, returning it to the pan to keep warm. Then take out the compote case, remove the lid and bran carefully, wipe out clean, place in the mince and stand on one side to cool. Now place the little claws in a basin, pour the boiling water over them, take a towel, skin and remove the nails, and put them in on the top of the pigeons to stew for five minutes. Then lift all carefully out on a plate, strain the gravy, and put back into the sauce-pan with one table-spoonful of sherry and the gelatine, stir till the latter melts, and then leave it to boil whilst you arrange the compote. Pile the pieces up like a pyramid over the mince, leaving the legs for the last (or out- side pieces), stick in the four claws as a trophy at the top, pour over the glaze and put on one side to cool. III.—Whilst the compote is cooling cut the jelly into dice, boil the peas, wash the cress and dry thoroughly ; then garnish—placing the compote on the dish for table, place round the dish alternate piles of aspic and green peas stewed with cress, and half-slices of lemon under the peas. Place jelly, cress, and lemon amongst the compote. 17. Jellies, Utensils.—Stock-pot or large sauce-pan, iron spoon, basin, knife, saw, chopper, clean straining cloth, blot- ting paper (white), two large basins, moulds. Ingredients (stock).—One cow’s-heel, or two calves’feet, salt, water. Ditto (Sweet Jelly).—One lemon, two oranges (or lemons), sugar, stick cinnamon, nutmeg, (not grated), coriander seeds, cloves, eggs, one quart stock. Ditto (Aspic or Savoury Jelly).—One quart stock, one lemon, tarragon, chervil, bay-leaf, celery, carrot, turnip, leek, thyme, parsley, vinegar, whole pepper, allspice, mace, capsicums. Recipe Jor stock.—Get a dressed cow-heel from the butcher—i.e., a cow-heel with the hair scraped off (not cooked in any way), wash it, and put it into a sauce-pan with sufficient cold water to cover it, and 1 table- spoonful of salt; let it come slowly to the boil, skimming carefully; when it has just boiled, lift out the foot, scrape it, and wash in cold w'ater, and put on again in cold water (three