LESSONS ON COOKERY, 114 breadcrumbs and £ lb. flour, 1 potato peeled and grated (this is superior to egg for binding), 1 carrot also grated, after being washed and scraped, and a ^d. packet of mixed spices. Mix all well together with a sufficient quantity of milk to make the pudding of a proper consistency. Put this into a quart basin, cover down, and boil four hours. 299. Pork Pie Crust.—8 lbs. of flour, 2lbs.of lard, Mb. of but- ter. Put the lard and butter into 3 pints of water, when itboilslet it simmer for five minutes, then stir it into the flour with a knife. You will not require all the liquor, half-a-pint or more will be left to make your crust of proper stiffness. It requires a very great amount of working ; these quantities are enough for six good-sized pies. R. 300. Rissoles of Cold Meat.—Make ashort crust, cut into circles with a fluted cutter, mince and season with pepper and salt and chopped onion any cold meat there may be at hand; mix a few breadcrumbs with it, and place a little of the mixture in the centre of each circle ; moisten the edges, fold the paste over the meat, brush with egg, and dip in breadcrumbs. Fry a golden brown in boiling fat, drain on kitchen paper, and send on a hot napkin to table. S. 301. Soup, Vegetable.—Take \ lb. potatoes, peel and slice them; scrape \ lb. carrots, 1 oz. of turnip, slice these, also 1 oz. of onion. Put all into a large sauce-pan, with 3 quarts of water. Boil for 1^ hours, and then pass through a wire seive; season with pepper and salt: add a tea-spoonful of Yorkshire relish. Boil for ten minutes, and serve with toasted bread. 302. Soiip,bo?ie.—Get from the butcher’s 2d. worth of bones; pound them with a large hammer until they are well broken up. Put them into a pot with 3 pints of cold water and 1 tea-spoon- ful of salt. Whilst it is coming to the boil, skim well, and prepare the vegetables, viz. :—1 carrot, 1 turnip, 2 onions; cut them into dice, and when the water in the pot fairly boils, add them, also a little pepper. Let it boil for four or five hours ; strain and thicken with either rice or oatmeal. The latter (coarse Scotch), is the most nutritious. T. 303. Trifle, d la folmston.— Prepare a blanc-mange as follows :—Two ounces of Johnston’s corn-flour, and 1 quart