FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 93 then pour into clean dry pots, and when cold tie down with two or three thicknesses of brown paper. 22S. Gravy.—It is a general complaint that much otherwise good cooking is spoilt by the gravy sent to table. A leg of mutton or roast of beef is apt to sutler much from the hands of an incompetent cook when she sprinkles salt over the joint, saturates and washes it with warm water and calls that gravy ; or, when thick brown gravy is wanted, takes and washes out her not over-clean dripping-pan, mixes a little raw flour with it, burns some sugar in a spoon, and succeeds in spoiling sugar, spoon, and gravy by thrusting the ash-covered spoon into the mess ; covering all its defects by large quantities of salt, half bottles of sauces, and relishes! No wonder people suffer from indigestion and dyspepsia! A good housewife and cook will always have for her gravies, ist, some Second Stock (see Stock); 2nd, Baked flourfor thick browti gravies', 3rd, Boiled Flour for white gravies and sauces; and 4th, Caramel to use when colouring is necessary (see No. 95). Again I would impress upon the student that unless glaze is used, and glazing necessary, gravy should never be poured over a roast or baked joint, and a gravy of salt and hot water never sent to table. 229. Gravy, thick brown.—Take one pint of second stock, or the liquor in which bones have been boiled, place it in a clean sauce-pan over the fire, add a tiny bit of mace, season with salt and a little pepper, let it come to the boil, mix in a basin one table-spoonful of flour which has been baked in the oven a deep rich brown (a store of this should always be kept for brown gravies by putting 1 lb of flour on a flat tin in the oven, and baking it a rich nut brown, not black), passing it through a wire sieve and bottling for use ; it gives the gravies a rich taste, and the flour is already cooked. With half-a-teacupful of cold stock, stir this into the boiling stock, stir till it thickens, let it boil for one minute and serve. If the stock is very poor you may use a tea-spoonful of sauce. 230. Gravy, clear brown.—Take some second stock sufficient for your dish or joint; put it into a sauce-pan with a small bunch of sweet herbs and a bay leaf; season it with salt, add one tea-spoonful of sauce, and one or two drops of caramel if the colour is not deep enough; let it come to the boil, and strain round the meat, not over. 231. Gravy, white.—Abroad the most exquisite whitegravies or sauces are made for many of the entrees, and it is to the pro-