FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 33 cut into tiny dice, put into a large saucepan, or, better still, stew-pan, covered an inch deep in water, and boiled well till the fat loses the muddy appearance and becomes quite golden, and the little scraps brown; then strained through the wire sieve into water. Even these scraps may not be wasted ; they make excellent little baked puddings and pies. 1 S3. Fat to Clarify.—In the above remarks, I gave you a recipe for rendering fat. To clarify, take any small quantities of dripping there may be collected together with the fat in your fish or frying stewpan or kettle, melt it, and strain through a wire sieve into a large clean pan, adding an equal quantity of cold water, and let it boil till all the water has evaporated; this you will know has been accomplished by the fat becoming perfectly still and the spluttering noise ceasing. Have ready a strong earthenware bowl half filled with water, strain the fat into the water through the wire sieve, let it stand till cold, remove the cake of fat, scrape the under side free from all black specks and impurities, and it will be fit for use. 184. Frying.—I would again remind the student that frying is nothing more nor less than boiling in fat, and that to fry properly no article of food to be so dressed ought to be put into the frying-kettle until the fat is thoroughly boiling; that is, when it is perfectly still, having neither noise nor movement. Always test the heat of the fat by a crumb of bread. After cooking, instantly remove the fat off the fire; do not leave it to burn and brown whilst you are dressing and garnishing the dish, or the fat will be spoilt by burning ; it might take fire, and so do great damage and mischief. Never pour water into boiling fat or the consequences caused by the act may be serious, as the fat will jump and splutter. 185. Frying Beefsteaks.—See that the beefsteak has hung for a day or two before cooking. If it is freshly killed place it in vinegar for twenty minutes to soften the fibre. At the end of that time wipe it carefully, dust it over with flour and pepper mixed, then see that the fat in the deep frying-pan is, first, suffi- cient to cover the steak; second, boiling. If so, put in the steak, fry till it is a nice brown on the outside, and have ready a couple of potatoes cut into thin rings. When the steak is done put the potatoes into the frying-basket, plunge them into the boil- ing fat, fry till they are a golden brown, drain them and sprinkle salt over, then place as a garnish round the steak. Chops should be fried in the same manner after removing the spare fat, boning, and trimming