65 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. parsley, also one teaspoonful of lemon thyme. Lay the meat on a hot dish when it is ready to serve. Pass the gravy through, and also the vegetables ; pour this over the meat, and garnish with fried crutons of bread or toast cut into triangles and place round, not sopped in the stew. 109. Cold's Heel Baked.—Cut the meat off the cow’s heel after it has been used for (105 or 106) soup or jelly; slice it. Peel and slice one onion, put a few slices in the bottom of a pie-dish, also a few bread crumbs. Lay the meat in season with pepper and salt, one or two cloves, the onion and bread crumbs being strewn over each layer. Put one or two pieces of butter or dripping over the top, add a teacupful of stock or water, and put into a moderate oven for half an hour. 1 ro. Cow's Heel Fried in Batter.—Prepare the batter as in No. 50, seasoning it with half teaspoonful of salt, and quarter teaspoonful of pepper. Boil the cow’s heel until it is quite tender, and whilst warm lift on to a dish. Cut in slices, dip into the batter, and fry in boiling fat until it is a bright golden brown, sprinkle over with salt when you dish it up. Fry some parsley and garnish ; send to table as hot as possible. nr. Carrots (Daucas Carota)—Is indigenous to this country ; in a wild state it is anything but the mild, agreeable food we find it when under cultivation. It is nutritious, but unless well mashed is not easy of digestion. It is rich in sacharine matter as well as in flesh formers. Long red carrots are best. 112. Carrots, Plain Boiled.—Wash and scrub 3 carrots. Put them into boiling water with salt and a piece of soda as large as a nut to heighten the colour. Boil with the lid off. Try whether the carrots are sufficiently cooked with a skewer, and, when done, take them up separately, rub the skin off, cut them even, and put into a saucepan with chopped parsley, and a bit of butter or dripping as large as a hazle nut. Toss them for a few minutes until warm and quite covered with the parsley and butter. Dish on a warm vegetable-dish. 113. Carrots mashed.—Boil the carrots as in No. 112; rub the skins off and pass through a wire sieve; mix a tiny bit of dripping with them, season with pepper and salt. Grease a cup and make little shapes of the carrot; place in a warm vegetable dish, and put into the oven a few minutes to warm. Serve hot. 114. Carrot-balls.—Boil three carrots as in No. 112, mash F