LESSONS ON COOKERY, 14 nature rebelling against the too great supply of fuel. This is why the Scotch and Irish peasantry use sour or butter-milk with the oatmeal: it is a corrective to its heat-giving powers. Dinner at 12. Very little meat, plenty of vegetable soups, vegetables, and light fruit and other puddings made with milk. Plenty of apples when they are in season. In fact, children ought never to be hindered from eating ripe apples, they, like oatmeal, being good brain-feeders, as well as famous articles of diet. Apples contain phosphorus, besides being rich in certain acids which are useful as blood purifiers and digestive agents. By way of beverage, pure water or an orange should be given, or even weak coffee, slightly sweetened and plenty of skim milk added. But it is not good to let children drink too much liquid with their dinner; it weakens the digestive powers. Tea at 4 p.m. Boiled milk and bread, or weak tea with plenty of milk and a little sugar, together with whole meal bread, and pure butter, household dripping, or stewed fruits; and for Supper, at 8, a slice of bread and a baked apple, or an orange, or any fresh fruit that may be in season, stewed or fresh. Full-grown people do not require such frequent or bountiful meals as growing youths. Three full meals a day are found sufficient for most people. A carefully well-selected breakfast at eight in the morning, dinner or lunch in the middle of the day, and another meal about seven in the evening, will tend to keep the body in good health, if there is a due attention paid, 1st, to the selection of food; 2nd, to the cooking; 3rd, to the manner of eating ; 4th, to the quantity eaten. For old age, the food should be well cooked, the quantity eaten small (in comparison to boyhood and manhood), but containing every element of nourishment, so prepared and so selected that it is easy of digestion, whilst it repairs the waste of the body as the digestive faculties grow weaker with each succeeding year. In this case, as in infancy, light nourishing foods are required, so cooked and so prepared that as much strengthening and nourishing matter may be given in as small a compass as possible. Cookery is, in fact, used for the purpose of beginning and aiding the process of digestion.