8 LESSONS ON COOKERY. or milk, or a mixture of beeswax and turpentine, thus: Scrape i oz. beeswax into an earthen pot, cover the wax with half-a- pint of turpentine and place in a cool oven or near the fire on the hot-plate to melt. When melted, stir up well with a stick, apply to the oilcloth with a soft cloth, and polish. Paraffin is cheaper, but if an extra gloss is required, spermaceti may be used instead of beeswax ; it is cleaner, but more expensive. To Clean Paint.—Wash with a soft flannel, tepid water k and soap ; wipe with a soft cloth. The more rapidly paint is dried after washing, the better. Use no brush. Varnished Woods are best cleaned by being wiped with a cloth wrung out of warm water and dried immediately, and then polished with the following mixture : 2 oz. beeswax, suffi- cient turpentine to moisten it, £ of an ounce powdered resin, form into a paste, add a little Indian Red, mix well and apply with a woollen cloth, and polish with a soft duster. This makes a fair furniture polish also. Wicker-work baskets, &c., when unvarnished, maybe washed in warm water with soap and a hair scrubbing-brush, rinse in cold water and hang up in the sun or place near the fire to dry. General Rules for Preparing Vegetables previous to cooking. All green vegetables should be well washed in two or three waters and allowed to lie in salt and water for an hour or so before cooking, when they should be thoroughly looked over. A little vinegar added to the soaking water assists in detaching larvae from cabbage, etc. Potatoes should be washed and scrubbed before peeling, so ought turnips, artichokes, and other similar roots. The rule for paring potatoes and turnips is to take a thin peel off the former, a thick off the latter. Carrots are first scraped and then washed. All vegetables are put into water whilst waiting to be cooked, after being cleaned and cut. If for garnishes or clear soups carrots and turnips must not be put into the same water, as the coloring matter in the carrot would stain the turnip.