-• - V V ;V' i^oQ >T c»a .; ' ' ' ‘ V * _ ^ ;iVAtt,)AOd a'/.K >.ak.>/(u J; ,»r,«CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEEVATIONS IN SURGEEY, MADE DURING AN ATTENDANCE ON THE SUEGICAL PEACTICE OE ST. BAETHOLOMENFS HOSPITAL. By W. P. ^EEOD, FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS OF ENGLAND; LATE HOUSE-SURGEON AT ST. BARTHOLOMEW’S UOSPTTAT,. ^ . ' \ '' ry ' y LONDON: V s 5 s PAINTED Ton LONGAIAN, BEOWN, GEEEN, AND LONGMANS, PATERNOSTER ROW. 1846.3 MU-vol'ot ‘)di to sonjij;; sh'T U; vf n ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS LIBRARY CLASS ^1 ACCN. I561S SOURCE DATE o- i«* ■'■'> M Wilson & Ooi'lvy, 57, Skinner Street, Snowhill, LoudonPREFACE. The substance of the following pages was collected during an attendance on tbe Surgical Practice of Saint Bartholomew's Hospitalj extending over nine years—from 1835 to 1844. During this period a large mass of notes^ embracing the most varied matters^ and collected from the most widely differing sources, was gradually gathered together. They were the notes of a student who was anxious to learn his profession practically; so that much was recorded simply because it related to matters of daily applica- tion, much because it attracted attention from its rarity, and much, again, hard of explanation at the time, in the hope that more extended observation might shew its real value, and remove its original difficulties. Materials thus collected, in so wide a field of observation, and with such kind assistance and encouragement as the author has constantly received, recording the experience of a lai’ge hospital on common though important subjects, the occasional peculiarities of ordinary disease, and the post-mortem examinations of rare cases, as well as much that had been drawn from the practice and instruction of those who had enjoyed most extensive experience for many years, seemed to present facts which might be acceptable to many; and now that the portion which was hkely to be of interest to others besides himself has gradually grown and acquired a size which appeared to justify the author in pubhshing it, it is here presented to the reader in the form of notes, with such connecting description as may serve to explain the subjects more fully.IV PREFACE. The first fourteen chapters relate to various subjects; the last six contain the substance of an Essay on the Comparative Merits of Mercuiy and Iodine in the Treatment of Syphihs^ to which the Jacksonian Prize of the Eoyal College of Surgeons for 1842 was awarded. The chief object in tins latter part is to give an ac- count of the treatment of Sypliilis at St. Bartholomew's Hospital^ Avhere nine wards are exclusively devoted to the treatment of venereal diseases. The number of cases related is considerable, and the context is often a relation or abstract of other cases. In aU, however, brevity has been studied, either by detailing only the part of the case bearing on the point, or by simply giving those additional particulars which a fair recital of the case required. Let it, however, be borne in mind, that the object of the fol- lowing pages is not to give a detailed account of diseases, or a complete description of any one surgical subject, but to present a series of observations on particular points, wliich, either from then- rarity or other circumstances have not been generally noticed, or which, by the cases here related, have been rendered more clear, and at the same time to relate the success of certain modes of treatment of important classes of disease from the observation of a large number of cases. The work claims to be no more than its title expresses,—collections made as the different subjects of observation presented themselves; and if the sudden transition from one subject to another should strike the reader as harsh, or the brevity with which any points are alluded to should seem to imply an omission, such faults will probably be pardoned, if the apparently unconnected details illustrate a great practical truth, or the small space allotted to an important subject contains some- thing new on points where others have already so copiously written. In offering the volume to the ])ublic, there is a debt of grati- tude due to those whose kindness has rendered the daily labour ofPREFACE. V the author a constant and increasing pleasure^ and beyond all others to Dr. Latham. I trust that these pages may shew that his advice and instructions have not been bestowed in vain; I would they had been as ably followed as they have been always freely and sincerely given. To the Medical and Surgical Ofhcers of St. Bartholomews Hospital the author's thanks are due^ and most especially to Mr. Lawrence and Mr. Stanley: from an attendance on the practice and chnical lectures of Mr. Lawrence the principal part has been learned^ whilst the remaining por- tion has been chiefly derived from the instruction and wards of Mr. Stanley^ whose constant kindness in affording every means of information can be but imperfectly appreciated from the brief narrations in the following pages. High Street, Oxeokd, August, 1846. bilU : tflK) iff.'b Ki ■ • V rjwjv .} ■ ifrVt • ?■ ' I'.j-'i I •■-■_): f.Ri: •■-.■>,>>? ''lb. --•••• ;^T7'7f fi»:V ' . - ' ,r; I'l,^^ '>'‘1 •■ ■'■■ • r ‘I ■'» 'SirtrVtf'.i i - :■, t ■ M</.‘ f‘ „.. *1.»- 'Tj ■: u.n-’!i-o «■ .'•■ i ' tizfij 3ilj V) fiU) I mWt ■AuJ.'.kS ,(f( srfl '■! ., i-i.it- .. mshUrr4fmte 9,j! -^.i.-w'-uftai »e vJjiiitrf ' 5-' " ^ ;;. ;%t«. ) '■■’■"aftfM NnOKJfrt^' i.^'iT*-?it i ‘l<* ftfmni ifJf* gji*'/';-"; • » -.-'> ■ . . ,,1 ■.,;. ,,t.:».ifivtrjr.i.' •-> .>■!•-'z'. '■ 1'-H' fflKiniW '' hrtii’ s' ^;.v .'(il. ift 7-'v! <>.<!• il ‘)i' ”io eolftWI .«;.iax!ntA - i''■■' .S'" ■’*•' • ^ t,i:r >..ru^ to <•■>''7w®A '•■;nv5t iJ*''»« ? I-,:,^;i,.y ' ■ '■■t , ’ .'’• it |S-' • * ■ r« Ig •' '•'''' ’-‘ •.■j-vvitc-' '-./>«> 7iSll «rf>5><r .w» '■ ’ ' ' *' ■■‘"■'7. ,' ., . i- ■„ ^ 'y,t-‘.' ;.'. •-■' ■.T"* ‘ " -.i-n 4 ^ ^ J I 4t ' * ' ■ ' 1 st«(q *<Df lidT:' I*. -.. r. r-vr: -V ■• • .-.<« *..!: ;.-• •• ''»’* i ,.- .'!? :• '’•/ •' w«l VsW-•«-«>»’l'> ♦«'* r-'» T«nw»'^- -- ■>•!’ •'•! '*^‘**^ rbU -«7 V , ■■ -iCONTENTS. PAGE Chap. I.—On Hernia. Account of patients admitted, of patients operated on twice, of the date of strangulation, and of the general condition of patients on admission. Employment of the taxis simply, or with other means. Circumstances occurring in the operation, before and after opening the sac. Fluid in the sac, its quantity as influencing the strangulation; its quality, whether transparent, bloody, or hrowm. Absence of fluid in the sac. Cases of patients with hernia and hernial symptoms suffering from other ailments. Cases of strangulation by the omentum. Treat- ment of the omentum ......... 1 Chap. II.—On rractures of the Eibs, Lower Jaw, and Pelvis. Fracture of the ribs; crepitus of fractm'e on auscultation. Admission of air into the lung on the injured side. Affections of the lung and pleiua after fracture. Venesection on the occmTcncc of fracture. Injuries to the chest in children ; case of simple compression of the chest, case of ruptured bronchus in a child, without fractiue, followed by escape of air into the pleura, and by plemisy. Case of air re- maining in the pleura for many weeks without any bad consequence. Injuries to the lung from fracture. Abscess round broken rib. Csiscs of lacerated lung. Case of sudden effusion of blood into the pleiua (from fracture ?) followed by recovciy. Dissection of a case of effusion into the pleura, eighteen years afterwards. Fracture of the lower jaw. Affection of mouth, resembling salivation. Fracture at the mesial line; absence of laceration of the gum. Frac- ture of the lower jaw followed by amaurosis. Friicliu'c of the Pelvis. Strength of the pelvis in one direction. Cause of laceration of the perineum . . . 24CONTENTS. vni PAGE Chap. III.—Injuries of tlie Bones of the Lower Extremities. Reduction of dislocation on ischiatic notch, sometimes unexpectedly easy. Cases of dislocated hip in young children. Case of irreducible dislocation of the hip, and of hip remarkably easy of dislocation and reduction, both probably from fracture. Loss of power in the hip from simple blows. Fracture of the neck of femur. Advantages of the long splint. Frac- ture of femur in the lower third, and its residt, even when running into the knee. Case of laceration of the ligamentum pateU®. Dis- location of knee. Unreduced dislocation of knee. Dissection of a dislocated knee. Fracture of the bones of the leg, of the fibula, and of the head of the tibia. Fractures, their displacement, want of crepitus, and accompanying pain. Consequences of fracture arising at remote periods ........... 40 Chap. IV.—Injuries of the Bones of the Upper Extremity. Alteration in length of the dislocated humerus. Advantage of ex- tension upwards in some cases. Dissection of an unreduced dislocation on the inner side of the coracoid process. Case of compound disloca- tion of the humerus into the axiUa. Case of laceration of the circum- flex nerve from fracture. Fracture of the clavicle. Union of clavicle in peculiar position. Cases of dislocated thumb. Injury to elbow- joint. Sevei-e compound fractures of am and leg . . . . 58 Chap. V.—Injuries of the Head and Spine. Abscess of brain after injury. Discharge of fluid from the ear after fracture or injuiies of the head. Indentation of the skuU in children. Fracture of the base of the skuQ, with remarkable deflciency of symp- toms. Slow inflammatoi-y changes occurring in the skuU of a child after fracture, resembling hydrocephalus. Fractm-ed base and apo- plectic effusion. Bleeding in injuiies of the head. Dislocation of the vertebra; at the junction of the dorsal and lumbar portions. Reason of this part yielding. Freedom from paralysis in these cases Chap. VI.—Bursal Tumors. Treatment by applications, incision, and removal. Suppuration at times only slightly painful. Bursa; about hand and foot. C^ase of large bui-sa of vnnst opened and ciued. Bursa under semi-mcmbra- nosus muscle, with dissection of a case . . . - . •CONTENTS. IX PAGE Chap. VII. — On certain circumstances influencing the Convalescence of Patients. Frequency of disease in patients requiring operations or suffering from accidents. Influence of drunkenness, organic disease, and want, in rendering operations and injm’ies in such cases fatal. Fatal eases of delirium tremens. Oecasional peculiarity of symptoms in injuries of the head of persons mentally affeeted, as weU as in habitually intemj)e- rate persons. Occurrence of tubercle in persons suffering from fistula in ano, as well as in persons affected with disease of the spine . . 95 Chap. VIII.—Affections of Joints. Occasional severity of pain in inflammation of the synovial membrane. Disease lingering in one joint after rheumatism, its destructive action and occasional want of marked symytoms. Sudden acute disease of joints in healthy persons, terminating in anchylosis without suppura- tion. Disease affecting the fibrous structure of a joint alone. Disease of the hip of a child suddenly followed by dislocation, apparently without ulceration of the joint. Disease of the hip suddenly fatal with cerebral symptoms. Anchylosis of the hip. Distension of the knee with fluid. Case of loose cartilage. Lumbar abscess containing an unusual quau- tity of matter. Affection of the spine, in which the. symptoms partly resembled those arising from disease and partly those from injury. Dissections of a contracted finger, of a case of talipes varus, and of contracted toes . . . . . . . . . .Ill Chap. IX.—On Amputations. Amputation of fingers. Dissection of an old stump, where the end of the metacarpal bone was left. Effects of pressure on the fingers. Amputation at the wrist and just above it. Flap and circular ampu- tations of tliigh. Division of vessels. Difference of dcgi’ec of retrac- tion of the vessels. Retraction of integuments spontaneously subsiding. Peculiarity of the stumps of the femur. Injuiy to vessels in the leg. Mobility of fibula. Cicatrix on tibia after flap amputation. Calcareous arteries often unite well, and attended with little inconvenience in some cases. Occurrence of phlebitis and cerebral aflection after amputation. Division of tarsus. Removal of metatarsal bone. Dissection of three ulcerated stumps, from amputation, from frost-bite, and from injury . 128CONTENTS. X Chap. X.—Affections and Injuries of Arteries and Veins. Dilatation of the common eavotid aiteiy. Rupture of the femoral .artery from a blow, unaccompanied by other injury. Aneurism of the femoral arteiy from a wound, with peculiar auscultatory signs. Injuries of the brachial, radial, ulnar, and posterior tibial arteries. Ecchymosis occiming spontaneously, also recmuing without apparent cause. Course of the obtui-atrix artery and point of origin of the arteria profunda femoiis . . , . . ... Chap. XI.—Affections of the Urinary and Genital Organs. Hydrocele. Employment of wine, iodine, and sidphate of zinc, for its cm-e. Cm’e from incision and simple puncture. Hych’oceles cured by injection, but recurring in two, six, and seven years. Hsematocele apparently commencing as such. The fluid of hsematocele. Hajinato- cele cui'ed by cold applications. Som’ce of the blood in ha;matocele. Retention of mine in women after fracture, and from retained men- strual secretion. Case of hsematuria of an obscure nature. Bladder suddenly recovering its power in paraplegia. Urethra ulcerating during convalescence from fever. Malignant disease of the testis, fatal in a few months, or lasting for seven years. Danger of incisions in the middle of the perinBcum. Unusual com-se of the artery of the bulb. Calculi lodged in the urethra. Stone drawn out of the bladder by the sound ........... Chap. XII.—Affections of Mouth and Ti’achea. Salivaiy calculus. Removal of tonsils. Abscess behind the pharynx. Cut throat. Nourishment by enemata after w'ounds of the throat. Cases of difficulty connected with the healing of the wmund. Suffoca- tion of adults and children from vomiting and from foreign bodies in the trachea. Space betw'een the cricoid cartilage and thyroid isthmus. Enlarged subclavian artery and bronchocele. Peculiar distiibution of suprascapular veins • • Chap. XIII.—Abscesses, See. Difficulty of diagnosis in abscesses on the abdomen. Suppuration on abdominal parietes after parturition. Case of abscess in iliac fossa, and recovery. Case of abscess, connected with the csccum, di.ssectiug out the cellular tissue of the loins. Case of abscess in the abdominal walls, PAGE 141 158 173XI CONTENTS. coinmunicating with both the digestive and uiinary organs j patient surviving for seven months. . Suppm’ation in the hand. Degree of danger to life in some forms of inflamed hand. Prohahility of affeetion of the joints or tendons. Peculiar fluctuation found in the arm. Delirium from matter amongst the muscles. Cases of inflammatory oedema of hand. Two cases of rapid mortification of one hand, occurring in persons labouring under gout, or obscure rheumatic pains. Mortification of the sMn of the groin. Abscesses with ulcerated legs. Carbunele running its own course. Poisoning with mercurial pre- cipitate ........... Chap. XIV.—Malignant Disease. Cysts in the breast, wdth cancerous base. Cancer of the axillary glands. Malignant tumors in the neck, commencing like enlarged glands. Cancer of the eye. Unusual changes in the tongue Chap. XV.—On Sypliilis. Employment of mercmy in simple and indiuated piimary ulcers Chap. XVI.—On Syphilis. Employment of mercui'y in phagedeenic sores, of iodine in primary ulcerations, and of mercury and iodine in affections of the absorbent glands, warts, and condylomata . Chap. XVII.—On SyiMis. Employment of mercury and iodine in venereal affections of the skin . Chap. XVIII.—On Syphilis. PAGE 185 201 207 218 235 Employment of merctuy and iodine in venereal affections of the thi’oat, laryia, tongue, and testicle . . 248xii CONTENTS. Chap. XIX.—On Sypliilis. Employment of mercury and iodine in venereal affections of the perios- teum, joints, eye, ear, and nail Chap. XX.—On Sypliilis. PAGE 263 General summary of the results derived from the employment of mercury and iodine in the treatment of venereal diseases . . . . 279MiipwupwiWTOgnn " '""IM CLINICAL COLLECTIONS, ’ dc. CHAPTER I. ON HEENIA. Account of patients admitted, of patients operated on twice, of the date of strangula- tion, and of the general condition on admission. Employment of the taxis simply, or with other means. Circumstances occurring in the operation, before and after opening the sac. Fluid in the sac; its quantity as influencing the strangulation; its quality, whether transparent, brown, or bloody; its absence. Cases of patients with hernia and hernial symptoms suffering from other ailments. Cases of strangulation by the omentum. Treatment of the omentum. Very few patients with strangulated hernia apply for rehef at first to St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, but the generahty are attended by the medieal practitioner of their neighbourhood, or even by two or three different persons. The proportion of patients operated on, as compared with those who are admitted, is thus large; yet many apply and have their ruptures reduced. The same patient often has his rupture reduced once or twice, or even tlnee times; but it is more common for the second strangulation to need an opera- tion, than to be reduced by the taxis. Of those which are returned, the majority are cases of inguinal hernia, of moderate size, not long down, and not previously handled. The number of cases of femoral hernia returned is very much less than that of inguinal. No class of cases varies more than these, in appai’ently accidental circumstances; thus many cases happen together, many fatal cases occur together, and many sixccessfid operations occur consecu- , lively; yet it is very rare for two cases to be exactly alike in every H» CLINICAL COLLEC'nONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. respect. The (lihiculties of the cases, liowever, are very similar, and the difference is oftener in matters of curiosity rather than in those of absolute practical interest. Patients admitted for stran- gulated hernia, when put to bed, are sometimes found to have no rupture at all, and not even any thing the matter with them in any way; whilst at other times they have some other disease, or hernia complicated with some other ailment. This class of cases, in which the patient is a gainer, is counterbalanced however by another set, and that a most important class, in which the patient is unaware of an existing rupture, and, by ascribing its symptoms to some other cause, runs a very serious risk. Amongst patients admitted for hernia the follovdng cases oc- curred :— 1. A young woman was admitted under Mr. Skey^scare; she talked about pain, vomiting, and constipation, wliich had not been reheved by medicines taken by her, and pointed to the situation of the internal inguinal ring. Her complaints were aU a matter of description; notliing could be found; and a dose of senna mixture shewed that she had deceived herself, or that others had alarmed her unjustly. 3. Hydrocele, hernia humoralis, and hydrocele of the cord. 3. Hernia partly reduced, but still strangulated. 4. Hernia reducible, but symptoms arising from internal stran- gulation. 5. Perforation of the intestines in the abdomen, with the secretion of peritonitis filling a hernial sac. 6. A small hernia in the canal, with the secretion of fluid into the tunica vaginahs, resembhng in appearance hydrocele. Within the last few years five patients have been admitted for strangidated hernia, who had been operated on previously: four again suffering strangulation in the same rupture, and one suffer- ing from rupture of the opposite side. Of these five patients, the one having a hernia on the opposite side died from peritonitis; one of the patients with strangulation on the same side, died from the omentum pressing the bowels high up; and the other three recovered, one being about 70, one 36, and the third about 35 years of age. Tn four of these five cases the appearances were noted:—ON HERNIA. 3 A woman, aliout 35 years of age, was operated on by Mr. Lawrence for a strangulated femoral hernia. The sac contained bowel and omentum; a considerable quantity of the latter was removed, and some more sloughed after operation. In about a year this woman was again admitted, and again operated on by Mr. Lawrence. The ruptm’e again contained bowel, and notwith- standing the large mass which had been removed by operation and sloughing, the mass of omentum was still very large indeed. She recovered well. A man, aged about 40, was operated on by Mr. Skey for an inguinal hernia, consisting of bowel and a mass of omentum; the omentum was. left. This man returned in eighteen months with somewhat obscure symptoms, and died. After death the sac was found to contain a small portion of howel high up in the neck of the sac, wMst, from the arch of the stomach to the scrotal cica- trix, to which the omentum was united, the omentum descended like a cord, tightly compressing the bowels against the back of the abdomen and hernial sac. A woman, about 67, was operated on by Mr. Skey for hernia of the right side, having had the left side operated on about twenty months previously by Mr. Vincent. She died. The hernial sac of the left side contained a small portion of reducible omentum. A man, about 40, was operated on by Mr. Stanley for hernia, and again by Mr. Lawrence four years afterwards. The sac con- tained’bowel and adherent omentum, which latter was left. The man got well. Amongst the number of patients in a large hospital who have hernia in addition to their other ailments, it is very rai-e indeed to find one who, having been ruptured for many years, has been really cured. Many leave off the truss, and only suffer from the rupture occasionally; whilst others have a constant degree of hardness or swelling, the difference perhaps depending on the absence or presence of a portion of omentum. In all the four cases just related, omentum was found in the sac on the second operation, and there was no appearance of any probability of closure from it. In the first case the omentum sloughed, and the sac inflamed, yet no closure of the sac occurred.4 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SUROERY. and it even seemed that the omentum in the sac had gone on growing in fatness as readily as if it had been in the abdomen. However adherent the omentum might be in any one of these cases to the fundus or the sides of the sac, it was free at its neck. In the cases where the omentum exercised a prejudicial in- fluence on the bowels contained in the abdomen, it was either attached by one broad, or by one or two narrow adhesions, near the neck of the sac, or in the sac itself, and assumed a more or less cord-like form, excepting, perhaps, just the part between the ring and fundus of the sac, which, by its enlargement, as com- pared vdth the portion in the ring, resembled the tassel of a bell- rope. This appeared to be by far the most serious form of pro- trusion of omentum, whilst the broad fatty masses adlierent to many parts of the sac at once, though comphcating the operation, appeared generally to produce all their mischief in the sac, and thus within reach. Patients almost always lay aside their truss at night, and gene- rally wdth imjDunity. In tliree cases, howxver, strangulation occurred wliilst the patient was in bed, with the truss ofi*. The patients admitted have often had the rupture strangulated for a considerable period. Of thirty patients operated on, the following are the periods which had elapsed between the strangu- lation of the hernia and the admission of the patient:— In 7 cases not more than thirteen houi’s had elapsed. 2 cases were operated on during the 1st day. Of these same tliirty cases which v^ere operated on at these periods, the taxis had been tried already before admission in six, by one medical man, and in two cases by two. Such v^ere some of the serious drawbacks in this class of cases, wdiere an early operation and as little handhng as possible before operation have been always found so advantageous. The circumstances just mentioned are connected as much with 3 1 9 5 1 2d day. 3d day. 4th day. 5th day. 7th day. 15th day.ON HEllNIA. the medical treatment as with the couditioii of the patient. The habits and accidental condition of patients with hernia, are some- times, however, very disadvantageous to any serious operation. Of tliree cases of umbilical hernia, one laboured under dropsy, and another was in her third month of pregnancy. Of the other cases, one woman, though young, appeared so utterly broken down by want and poverty, as to appear hardly sensible of her condition. In one case the operation was followed by delirium tremens, and the habits of another man were deseribed as con- sisting in living on rum and porter for weeks together. It is surely not to be wondered at, that in cases of such a nature, and admitted at so late a period, the average mortality after a gi’eat surgical operation shoidd be found so great. AIHien a patient with strangulated hernia is admitted, it is generally j)retty clear, from the general features of the case, whe- ther any delay can be allowed, as well as whether the taxis may be regularly applied. There is no doubt as little handling as possible is an excellent tiling, if the patient has to be operated on; but reduction compared with an operation is such an advantage, that it is generally tried. The taxis having been tried once, is a great inducement not to try it again. If it has been done once weU, there is little to be gained by it j if it has been tried often, and in a forcible manner, it is not a very encouraging circumstance, or an inducement to repeat it. There are two classes of patients who admit of no delay, if the ruptm’e does not seem likely to be reduced at once. Patients with recent small raptm’cs, which are intensely painful when handled. Old worn-out people, or middle-aged persons with old constitu- tions, who look very ill, have moderate-sized ruptures and a white clammy tongue, with very few and often mild symptoms. These persons, as soon as they have symptoms, often sink most rapidly. In the great majority of cases, an attempt at reduction is made before operating. One case differs so much from another, that a general rule can hardly be drawn, as to the projniety of attempting the reduction or not. Certain cases might be placed at one end of a scale, as rcciuiring an immediate operation, and others, in6 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. wliicli some delay might well be allowed; yet every now and then a tight small femoral hernia is reduced^ wliilst a flaecid ingidnal rup- ture requires an operation; and a case that promises weU in every way dies, wliilst a patient with a mortified hole in the bowel, or vdth peritonitis at the time of operation, gets quite weU. It might almost be said, that on the one hand there is no one sjunptom, short of commencing coUapse, wdiich absolutely precludes aU hope of success from an operation for hernia, but that at other times death has occurred when every favourable sign was present, and no bad symptom of any kind existed. The means employed 114111 the taxis have been the tobacco enema, ice, and purgative clysters; venesection and the warm bath. A young man, with a recently sti-angulated inguinal hernia, refused to have any operation performed; a tobacco clyster was given without any benefit; the warm bath, bleeding and pui-ga- tives, haidng been already tried. Every tiling failed, and at last the man consented to be operated on, on the third day. Mr. Lawrence operated. The sac contained small intestine and a large mass of omentum, in good condition. The man got quite well. An elderly man was admitted, under Mr. Stanley, with a stran- gulated scrotal hernia, and refused to be operated on. The operation was not very strongly pressed, as the rupture was large, and not very pauifiil, and his symptoms not very m-gent. The tobacco clyster was employed, and ice applied to the rupture. The ruptm-e gTadually went up. The tobacco enema, was a draclim of tobacco to one pint of boihng water, one hah' being given at a tune. The application of ice, with the administration of piu’gative me- dicine, has succeeded with large scrotal and femoral ruptures, when the symptoms were not very urgent, and the rupture bore handhug without much pain. The ice has also been ajiplied with success, when a bit of sometlmig hard, or a fulness of doubtful nature, has remauied after the decided but partial reduction of a rupture. The success of ice is, however, not very great; and in recent cases of small hernia ivitli pain, almost wanting. After the failmu of other means, when tlie patient objects to the opeiation, or the syin])toms are not very urgent, ice has been often tried, but the operation has generally been at last, required. The achninistration of purgatives in tlie following case wasON HERNIA. 7 attended with the greatest benefit:—A middle-aged^ man was admitted, under Mr. Lawrence, uath a good-sized scrotal rupture, recently strangulated. The warm bath was tried, without any benefit. A dose of senna mixture was then given, and the ruptiu-e went up of itself. Purgative enemata do not appear to effect any tiling more than purgative medicines in strangulated hernia; and, if the quantity of faecal matter returned with them be considered as a test in any de- gree of the previous state of the canal, they are attended with great inconvenience. Wlien the taxis has been tried, even if nothing has gone up, the ruptiu’e often seems to be a little smaller, or rather less tight at the neck, and the patient generally inchnes to the favourable view; these doubts would not be considered as any- thing, generally, but if at the same time the enema is loaded with fecal matter, there is a great inducement to delay. Such is the occasional inconvenience of enemata, where notliing has been re- turned ; and when the bowel is pervious, the fecal evacuations occurring from pm’gative medicine ai-e a much less valuable test of the condition of the parts, where enemata have been given at the same time, than where they have been omitted. Of all the means wliich have beeji tried, none have been at all comparable for success to the taxis employed in the warm bath, with or without venesection. Independent of a certain degree of ease which the patient feels in the warm bath, it allows of the ruptiue being handled with less pain, and of bemg examined more com- pletely. To the production of a more or less complete degree of faint- ing, the success of the warm bath appears, however, to be chiefly owing. The degree of faintness produced by the warm bath is gene- rally incomplete, and bleeding from the arm is often on tliis account employed. The value of bleeding to fainting from the arm, in reference to the chance of reduction, being thus so great, it is of some importance to consider an objection which has been made to it, namely, that peritonitis after the operation is much more com- mon, where the patient^s have been already bled from the arm before the operation, than where no blood has been taken. Ex- perience unfortunately show’s, that- perilonilis is an occasional attendant on the mere operation foj’ licrnia, whether bleeding hasO CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERI. been performed or not. Still, if bleeding does cause peritonitis, tliis affection should certainly be at least as frequent after bleeding as where no bleeding has been performed. Now the fact is just the reverse, and in so marked a manner, that it even becomes a ques- tion, whether in recent strangulated hernia which comes to an operation, the free bleeding from the arm employed with the taxis does not lessen the chance of the occurrence of peritonitis after the operation. Of tlurty-one cases of strangulated hernia operated on, twelve were bled from the arm before the operation. Of these, tliree had peritonitis and foui- died, but in two, peritonitis had nothing to do with the death; one dying suddenly on the twenty-fifth day without any particular cause, and the other having an internal strangulation of the bowel. This gives tliree cases in twelve, or one-fourth, as the proportion of peritonitis, where bleeding had been employed. Of the nineteen cases where no bleeding was performed before the operation, peritonitis occurred in ten in- stances, not including three cases of internal strangulation. This gives ten cases in nineteen, or rather more than one-half, as the proportion of peritonitis where no bleeding had been performed. This is quite proportion enough to get rid of any anxiety as to the danger of venesection—a measure which has been found of such repeated benefit in the reduction of hernia. It is remarkable how slight a change is often produced -by a very large venesection in the warm bath; even the removal of sixty ounces of blood in a good stream has sometimes produced but an incomplete degree of fainting; and in eight patients who were bled, the quantity of blood taken is only in one case marked so low as twenty ounces, whilst in the remaining seven it vaiies between thirty and forty ounces. The chief points of interest in the gperation itself are here noted in the order of their occurrence. In one case a large abscess existed over the external ring; small cysts have occurred over the femoral herjiia; and in one case an artery divided in the integuments over an inguinal hernia, bled so freely alter the wound was closed, as lo require the reopening of the wound. Varicose veiiis have been met with over the swelling,9 ON HERNIA. and in one case most serious bleeding, followed by peritonitis and death, occurred fi-om the division of a vessel beliind Gimbemat^s hgament. In looking over the notes of different operations for hernia, it is remarkable how much more difficulty has attended the operations on femoral than those on inguinal ruptures. From the first incision in the skin to the absolute return of the bowel, some difficulty may be met with in a femoral hernia, from the different layers of the sac, the presence of a cyst, the smaU size of the sac in a fat subject, the tightness of the stricture, or the fear of a vessel behind Gimbemaffs ligament. These are difficul- ties even by daylight, but by the hght of a candle in the middle of the night they have often caused considerable delay, and required great caution. The first serious difficulty, wliich has often attended the opera- tions for femoral hernia, has consisted in distinguishing the na- ture of a round polished surface, wliich has come into view after something like sac has been divided. Sometimes this surface is marked with little bits of fat, like those on the bowel; sometimes united closely, as if by old adhesions to the sac, hlce layers already dmded, and in some cases the round pohshed surface exposed has, when followed up to the ring, been fomid to gather itself into a neck just like the bowel. In these cases the substance exposed has shewn either a very few vessels here and there, or ap- peared as one uniform dark brown mass, neither circulai’ or longi- tudinal vessels being anywhere visible. In these cases, the doubtfid substance has turned out to be sac, and a continuance of the dissection has shewn somethhig more distinct, or allowed the fluid of the sac to escape at some one point. But again, the escape of fluid has not been always so regular, or so well marked, as to form a certain sign of the depth already arrived at in the operation, and even between the layers of the sac itself, from a cyst or from some indistinct point, sufficient fluid has at times escaped, to stand for the fluid of the sac, if tliis was opened, or only to add to the difficulty, if the sac is still unojiencd. In two cases of femoral hernia in women, containing bowel Avithout omentum, no fluid was found in the sac. The largest collec- tions have been in inguinal riqitures, and f he largest of all, per- haps, in the inguinal hernia of a young woman.10 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. Cysts ill front of the sac, and the deficiency of fluid in the sac, have occurred only in cases of femoral hernia, the flow of any quantity of fluid always indicating, in the cases of inguinal hernia wliich have occurred recently, that the sac has been opened. The presence of fluid in the sac of the inguinal hernia has not, how- ever, always been a protection to the bowel or omentum in open- ing the sac, for not unfrequently the omentum has presented itself immediately on the sac being opened, the mass of the fluid being behind. The character of the fluid has appeared in general to be con- nected with the condition of the bowel or omentum, and very little with the state of the sac itself. Thus a dark sac, or one quite pale and white, may contain any kind of fluid. Thus, in one case especially, the sac.outside was foimd of a purple coloiu-, and when opened to be of a very dark colour, even on its hning membrane, yet the fluid contained in the sac was tolerably clear. The characters of the fluid found in the sac have often formed an important subject of consideration, in reference to what has already happened, as well as to the real condition of the patient. Clear straw-coloured fluid, in any quantity, has never by itself been a matter of much interest in any Avay; the pi’esence of blood, more or less diluted, the existence of a brown shade in the fluid, or the free flow of fluid from the ring after the return of the bowel, have always however indicated something of importance. The bloody fluid in the sac appears to depend not unfrequently on the close stricture, the coats of the bowel itself feeling thick and leathery. A middle-aged man was admitted witli an inguinal rupture of the size of a goose-egg, tense, very small, and hard at the ring. On operation, only thirteen hours from strangidation, the protruded bowel was found of a deep purple colour, and much thickened with blood eflused into its coats. Tlie sac was full of bloody fluid. In this case bowel only was found in the sac: in the following case the same appearances were found, but the omentum ap])eared to have been the source of the blood. A middle-aged woman was admitted with a lemoral hernia, which was ojieratcd on bykir. Stanley forty-two liours from stran-11 ON HERNIA. gulation. Tlie sac was very tliick^ and found to contain a large quantity of bloody fluid, with about an’ inch and a half of large intestine in good condition. Behind the bowel was a large mass of omentum, very much thickened in its middle, and teiminating at the femoral ring in a narrow cord of the tliickness of the little finger. The whole of the protruded portion was thickened and congested irregularly, whilst the neck of the omentum was of quite a dark colour, and apparently consisted of vessels siurounded by ecchymosed omentum. TiiCse cases, in which the effusion of blood appears to depend on the closeness of the stricture, and where there are no’other unfavourable signs, have done well, and their progress throughout has been much more satisfactory than that of others, in winch the effusion of blood has depended on other causes. Bloody fluid has at times been found in another class of cases, depending apparently on a far different cause, and deserving much more consideration. Patients in whom many attempts at reduction have been made before admission, or m whom, from their refusal to submit to an operation, or those in whom from a probability of the hernia being reduced some delay has taken place, and more frequent, although careful, attempts have been made to return the parts;—in these cases the presence of bloody fluid has appeared to depend on the rupture of vessels in the protruded parts, and in these, too, peritonitis has followed the operation much more commonly than when the tightness of the stricture appeared to have been tlie cause of the effusion of blood. Where any perforation of the bowel has occurred, the fluid of the sac is generally more or less opaque and brown; still a bowel may be just on the point of giving way, and the fluid of the sac may present nothing unusual, beyond a very slight opacity. A man was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital under Mr. Lawrence, with an inguinal hernia, of moderate size, very tense and painful, and very narrow at its neck, lie was ope- rated on in twenty hours from the strangulation of the rupture. Hie sac contained a small quantity of opaque watery fluid. Tlie stricture was at the jicck of the sac, and so tight that the dircctv)r could only be introduced with difficidty. Du turning down the12 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. parts to exainine them, the intestine gave way at a dark spot in the hne of stricture. This hole was carefully tied with a ligature, and the bowel returned. No bad symptoms in reference to the bowels or peritoneum occurred, and the man was discharged v^ell in a month, with the parts all healed. Faecal odour of the fluid in the sac is described as having been met with in cases where no perforation existed in the bowel, the closeness of the stricture and complete arrest of the circulation allowing the odour to permeate the coats of the bowel. It is well deserving of notice, that distinct perforation of the bowel may take place, and very httle odour be perceptible in the fluid of the sac. In two cases of jierforation of the bowel at the line of stric- ture, the fluid in one case was of a dark reddish colour, and in the other of a somewhat brownish tinge, but destitute of any well marked fsecal odour. The presence or absence of faecal odom- in the fluid has not been by any means a certain sign of the bad or good condition of the bowel, its real state being oifly known by an accurate examination of the bowel itself. On the return of the bowel into the abdomen a tlnn stream of fluid is not unfrequently seen flovdng from the ring, which may indicate one or two important things. If there is the least shade of brown about it, or the least faecal odour, it may be a sign that the bowel has given way at the line of strictiue, and that chiefly on the side nearest the abdomen; the bowel, perhaps, not giving way till it was moved from the stricture, and then being so thin as to give way from that slight movement. The fluid may be clear, but most copious in quantity. In such a case peritonitis is at times severe, but of an active kind, and such as often yields to treatment. The treatment of the bowel and omentmn contained in the sac has rarely been a matter of doubt. A roughness on the bowel in one case, and a layer of lymph in another, both of which had severe peritonitis, were marked at the time of operation; in nearly all the bowel was more or less congested, and in one a leathery patch was noted on the convex part of the protruded bowel. The chief difl'ercnce of treatment in the various cases has consisted in the removal or return of the omentum. The omentum lias been found adherent, even when no truss18 ON HERNIA. has been ever applied. In no case, even amongst those operated on twice, has there been any thing like a closm’e of the ring by the omentum, but at times a hernial sac, containing adliereht omentum, has been met with, placed so as to allow a bit of bowel to slip into the ring at any moment, this being the part V'^here it was least adherent. In the cases mentioned below, the patients died solely from long bands of omentum pressing the bowels against the back of the abdomen, the omentum being adherent to the sac. There is, however, another way in wliich a cord of omentum may be formed without any adliesion. The omentum, in some cases, has simply adhered to the walls of the sac, and in these cases, excepting this adliesion, no great difference has been found between the portion of omentum in the abdominal cavity and that in the sac. In other cases, however, the portion of omentum in the sac itself has contracted no ad- hesions, but gone on increasing in bulk, the portion in the ring- undergoing no change. In tliis way the great omentum is di-awn as tightly over the bowel as if the omentum was firmly adlierent, for the enlarged lump of omentum cannot pass the ring in any way. This large pad of omentum may be free and simply en- larged, but at other times it is tliickened and adherent, and when so thickened may cause difficulty. In a man with an inguinal hernia, operated on by Mr. Stanley, large intestine and omentum were found. The protruded portion of omentum was about six inches long. In four or five places the omentum was hardened in patches, about the size of a testicle, wliich by their round form increased the resemblance to that organ. The cellular part of the omentum round these masses pre- sented a series of irregular cavities resembling bm-sse, but smaller in size, less regular in form, and traversed by cellular bands. The masses of hard fat, by their round form and free motion in the cel- lular interspaces, so accurately resembled testicles moving in their serous sacs, that one of these masses was supposed at first to be a testicle. In another case of hernia, also under Mr. Stanley, the mass of omentum appeared to consist of an enlarged ap- pendix epiploica, which had enlarged in the sac, but not at the ring.14 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. The two following cases are selected as of interest on account of the existence of the general symptoms of hernia, combined with a hernial sac in one case, and a reducible rupture on the other. In the first there was perforation of the duodenum, and in the second a displaced csecum; but in both the sjTnptoms w'ere sufficiently well marked to show that they were unconnected with the rupture. A man, aged twenty, was admitted, under Mr. Stanley, one morning in a dying state. His bowels had been constipated for three days; liis beUy was very painful; and though there was no vomiting, he had some liiccup. On the left side of the scrotum no testicle could be found, and there was some mdistinct fulness at the ring. Tor ten years he had laboured under a rupture easily reducible, and also suffered from dyspepsia and constipation. The day before he was seized with pain in the beUy, such as to require liim to leave his work. A medical man took sixteen ounces of blood from liis arm, and gave him some calomel and opium followed by a black dose without any effect in opening his bowels. He died in twenty minutes after admission. Dissection shewed a round ulcer perforating the duodenum, allowing the contents of the alimentary canal to escape into the cavity of the peritoneum, wliich contained several pints of a turbid sero-purulent fluid. The left testicle was placed near the external ring in the canal, and was contained in a sac wliich communicated freely with the peritoneal cavity. No protrusion or strangulation existed. In the following case the marked signs of strangulation existed in a patient labouring under a considerable hernia; this hernia was, how'ever, so flaccid and reducible as to render it most proba- ble that some internal obstruction existed. An old infirm man was admitted one, Saturday evening, under Mr. Lawrence, labouring under a scrotal hernia of old standing. The hernia was soft, easy, and quite reducible, with a large ring, which could be felt quite free. The rupture had generally been more or less doivn. He had been sick, and his bowels were confined. Tor some days he had complained of uneasiness in the abdomen, and was unwell; the pain, however, increased this morning wliilst lift-15 ON HT3UNIA, ing a weight. The pain was not relieved by the reduction of the swelling; he still complained of uneasiness in the right iliac fossa. A dose of opening medicine was given, winch at first produced vomiting. The medicuxe was repeated afterwards at intervals, and he retained portions of it without vomiting; but after some hours he vomited again, and rejected a faecal fluid like that usually found in the small intestines. The abdomen became more tender, especially in the right iliac fossa, in which part it more particularly swelled. He slowly died on the following evening of Sunday. On dissection the bow^els were found much distended; there was also some degree of peritonitis, especially near the right iliac fossa. Tlie caecum was lax’ge and loose, with a meso-caeciun. This caecum had been turned wrong way upwards, so that the base pointed upwards and to the right, the continuation into the colon forming an angle in the right ihac fossa, so that the anterior wall of the caecum was applied on the anterior wall of the ascending colon; and the portion of ilium to enter the caecum thus passed between the anterior wall of the ascending colon and the anterior wall of the caecum, which, by the change of position, had become posterior; this portion of small intestine thus acting like a cord, and compressing the ascending colon tightly, had caused the strangulation of the bowels at a point on the distal side of the caecum, which latter bowel, by its distension, formed the swelling in the right fiiac fossa. Young persons labouring under hernia, accompanied with well- marked symptoms, are in general submitted to an early operation; yet even in these cases the propriety of an immediate operation may be a matter of very nice judgment, or circiunstances may occur afterwards, shewing that a little delay would have perhaps been unattended with danger. A stout healthy young woman was admitted, under Mr. Vin- cent, in the autumn of 184-4, labouring under an inguinal rupture of some years^ standing, which had been strangulated twelve hours; she was in pain, was sick, and her bowels were confined. She had taken some opening medicine. She was operated on soon after admission. The sac was thin.16 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. and contained half a pint of serous fluid. Whilst the bowel was being felt for high up out of sights and before any thing had been divided^ the bowels were profusely open, and in such a way as to shew that the purgative medicine had passed through, no injection having been given. It seemed that the evacuation of tliis mass of fluid had relieved the stricture. She got quite weU. In tliis case the escape of the fluid seemed to allow the return of a bit of bowel just caught in the ring, without any division of the stricture. The following case shews a similar collection of a large quan- tity of fluid in the sac, with a recent hernia, in a young person, but where the bowel and fluid at last returned into the abdomen without operation:— A young man was admitted in the winter of 1840, under Mr. Lawrence, complaining of being sick, and of a severe pain in the lower part of his belly, chiefly on the right side. Tliis man stated that he had not had any swelling in the scrotum tiU an hour before, when it first appeared, whilst he was leaning forward and performing some work; at the same time the pain and sickness commenced. The right inguinal canal was fuller than natural; most prominent, however, just on the outer side of the external inguinal ring. The scrotum was, on the right side, distended in a round form, of the size of an orange, very tense, and exceedingly painful on pressure. The sweUing of the scrotum and canal were but slightly connected together; there was, however, sufficient fuhiess to depend either on a thick cord, or on a cord with some- thing more. The scrotum was quite transparent when a candle was held to it. The man was bled and placed in a bath, whilst the taxis was applied. Wo decided change was produced, except that some little reduction of the sweUing took place, and the pain was slightly lessened. He was then put to bed, and some senna mixture given. The man remained faint in bed for about half an hour, wdien he felt something move in the situation of the internal ring, Avith a gurgling and immediate relief to the pain, the sweUing also disap- pearing. When seen in a quarter of an hour, the two inguinal canals were equidly flat, the two sides of the scrotmn similar, theOK HERKIA. 17 two testicles equal in size, and tlie riglit inguinal ring larger than the opposite. Of the four cases just related, the two first illustrate the occur- rence of symptoms more or less closely resembling those of stran- gulated hernia, occurring in persons labouring under reducible hernia,—this hernia, however, having no part in the affection; whilst the two last shew the occasional difficulty in judging of the necessity of an immediate operation, the question being so finely balanced, that an immediate operation might have been perhaps performed or omitted with equal propriety in either case. The four following cases illustrate a question of much greater difficulty, being instances where an operation is generally urgently de- manded, but where httle hope can be entertained of a good result. The principal features of these cases consist in the existence of the symptoms of strangulation in a patient labouring under a hernial protrusion, to which the pain is referred, but wliich, on operation, is found to contain notlung, or an imperfectly strangulated bowel, the cliief strangulation arising from a band of omentum passing down to the abdominal parietes, or to the neck of the sac itself, and thus compressing the bowel in the abdominal cavity, or in the neck of the sac.* A man, aged about 48 years, was admitted, under Mr. Vincent, into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, April 30, 1842, labom-ing under a strangulated scrotal hernia of the right side, which had de- scended a few hours before. The patient had some sickness, Avith constipation. He was bled and put in the warm bath; the hernia was then partially reduced, and rendered quite flaccid, and in the evening it was nearly all returned. On the second day he slept at times, had little pain in the ab- domen, but was still sick and constipated. On the third day he was sick, the abdomen was distended, and no evacuations had occurred. The hernial protrusion existed to a certain degree, but was flaccid. On the morning of the fourth day he died. * A. paper on this class of cases, by Dr. Schuli, is contained in " Medeciu. Jalirbiicli. Wien.” Feb. 1844. C18 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. This man liad been operated on in the hospital sixteen months before, for the same rupture, by Mr. Skey, when the bowel had been returned, and the omentum left in the sac, to the cicatrix of which it had then united by granulation. On examination, the ring was found to be large and free. A small piece of ileum lay in the ring, continuous, in the direction of the caecum, with about a foot more of small intestine,—all this portion in the ring and abdomen being dark and much congested, but shining. These changes terminated abruptly at what ap- peared to have been the strictured part. Prom the arch of the stomach to the scrotal cicatrix the great omentum descended like a tight cord, tightly compressing the bowels against the back of the abdomen, and against the hernial sac. The bowels were very much distended above the strictured portion, whilst below they were quite empty and flaccid. In the case just related the strangulation was caused by a tight band of omentum passing down into the sac, which compressed the bowels in the neck of the sac and cavity of the abdomen. Tlie end of the omentum was within reach, and if the peculiar nature of the case had been pointed out by plain symptoms, and a division of it made, a fair hope might have been entertained of recovery. In the follovdng case the symptoms of strangulation depended, as in common strangulated hernia, on the contraction of the parts in the ring; but the fatal result was caused by extensive adhesion in the abdomen of the omentum along the upper edge of the pehds, wliich kept the boM'els in a mass at the back of the abdo- men, and which, by its pressure, prevented a free passage through the viscera. This adhesion was quite beyond reach. A woman, aged 51, was admitted, under Mr. Stanley, into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, on Dec. 22d, 1843, labouring under a large femoral hernia of the right side, wliich had descended on the previous day. The swelling was tender on pressure, and accom- panied with pain in the belly, sickness, and constipation. On operation, a large portion of omentum was found adherent to the sac, behind which was a portion of inflamed but shining intestine. The ring was freely divided, but tlie bowel was returned witli some difficulty.19 ON HKllNIA. Tliis patient continued in a low condition for some time, but improved considerably about the sixth day : on the evening of this day she was, however, attacked suddenly with pain in the belly with vomiting, and died on the night of the seventh day. No satisfactory evacuations occurred in this case, the only faecal evacuations occurring after the use of enemata. On examination, severe peritonitis, with effusion of blood, was found to have occurred. A curtain of great omentum was formed across the lower part of the abdominal cavity, by the union of the lower edge of this structure to the diac fossa. This curtain lay behind the right femoral ring, whilst its edge extended from the umbihcus to the pelvis on the mesial side of the ring. The in- testine, in being returned into the abdomen, had to pass round the edge of tliis omentum. The mass of small intestines wliich lay behind this portion of omentum was thickened and con- tracted, and it appeared probable that no clear passage had existed tlirough the bowels. In this case the appearance of the bowel in the sac resembled so closely that commonly found in strangulated hernia, that every object appeared to be answered by the operation. The omentum did not appear to be unusually tight, neither was its condition such as to require any interference. The distension, however, of the intestines on one side of the cord of omentum, and then- empty condition on the other, together with the marked line on the bowels from the pressure of the omentum, left no doubt that the extended sheet of omentum was the main cause of the stran- gulation, and of the fatal result. In the case just related the operation was performed with every prospect of success; the band of omentum, however, still remain- ing firm, a fatal result followed. In the following case a fatal result also followed the operation, from a similar band of omentum, the existence of wliich was known, but which was not supposed to be exercising any prejudicial inllueiice. In addition to the want of any direct proof of pressure of the omentum on the viscera, the mass of omentum obscured considerably the accurate examination of the contents of the sac. A woman, aged 67, was admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, under Mr. Skey, on March 18th, 1843, labouring under a femoral20 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. hernia of the right side, which had descended twenty hours previously, accompanied with constipation and vomiting. On operation tlie sac contained but little fluid. A portion of congested, but other- wise healthy small intestine, was found in the sac, together with a cord-like portion of omentum, which passed to the bottom of the sac. The bowel was returned, after a division of the parts at the neck of the sac had been made upwards and inwards ; the omentum was left. No relief in any marked degree followed the operation. The patient continued to vomit, and sank, without having passed any motions, on the morning of March 20th. On examination, peritonitis was found to have occurred. The position of the viscera was, however, remarkable. A cord-like portion of omentum passed from the great omentum on the right side to the fundus of the sac; the great intestine, and a portion of the small intestine to the right of this, were pale, empty and contracted, whilst that to the left was full, distended and vascular, the boundary being decidedly and well marked at the line of pres- sure of the omentum. This woman had been operated on, on the left side, eighteen months previously, by Mr. Vincent. The sac on this side con- tained a portion of reducible intestine, and a portion of omentum very similar to that on the right side. In all the three preceding cases, the omentum, by its pressure either as a tight cord or as a broad fold, compressed the bowel in the canal or abdomen. In the following case the broad adhesions of the great omentum seemed to have acted indirectly in hastening the death of the patient, by preventing the intestine recovering its natural position after it had become twisted on itself. Although ex- erting only slight pressure when the parts were in their natural posi- tion, the omentum would compress them forcibly when distended. A woman, aged 48, was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, under Mr. Stanley, labouring under a femoral hernia of the left side, irreducible, but free from pain. On the right side, in the femoral opening, a hernial sac was felt, which was painfid on pressure of the part and just above the crural arch, whilst a very slight degree of fulness .was perceptible by deep pressiue over the vessels.ON HERNIA. 21 The woman was in a very low and feeble condition. She had been ruptured some years on the right side, but she had been always able to return the swelling. Seven days since, after some pain of the bowels, constipation commenced, wliich had lasted to the present time. She had also been sick. Although great doubt existed as to the cause of the symptoms, there was just enough doubt as to the nature of the swelling in tlie right groin to render an operation arlvisable. She refused to be operated on then, but consented on the following day. When the sac on the right side had been opened, no intestine was found in it, but only a small portion of the lower end of the great omentum adherent to the sac. Tliis was divided and retiu-ned. She gradually died on the following day. On examination, the bowels were found to be much distended with air. The lower part of the great omentum was fixed by firm old adhe- sions round the right femoral ring, but did not close it. On the left side the omentum was also adlierent by old adhesions round the ring into the hernial sac. By this fixing of the omentum the bowels were to a certain degree compressed towards the spine. On dividing the omentum the small intestines were brought into view ; the duodenum and the upper part of the jejunum were dis- tended with air, this distension terminating abruptly on the left side of the spine, just where the mesentery begins, at which part the intestine was twisted beliind the mesentery. On separating the bowel, a recent ulcer was found perforating the intestine, close to the part at which the intestine was twisted, and where the con- traction and distension met. The following dissection shews a position of the omentum wliicb had not caused any inconvenience, but which might have given rise to a case resembhng those just described :— A man was dissected, labouring under an oblique inguinal hernia of the left side, descending into the scrotum. On examining the hernia, no bowel was contained in the sac, but a very large |)iece of the great omentum, which could not be returned. No great thickeiung of the omentum, nor any adhesion in any part of the sac, or of its neck, v'as jiresent. On opening the abdomen the ring was quite free, and allowed the entrance of the finger readily; the omentum was, however, closely22 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. adherent to the peritoneum, in the neighbourhood of the ring, by old firm adhesions, so that the great omentum extended from the great arch of the stomach to the ring, adherent at both points, but allowing the vessels to pass readily under it without any constric- tion. The treatment of the omentum has consisted in leaving it in the sac, in returning it into the abdomen, and in cutting it olf. The omentum is rarely left in the sac, and apparently with justice, as there are generally reasons for cutting it off, or for re- turning it into the abdomen. The benefit of leaving it in the sac is none, for it seems to have no tendency in general to close the sac, and the evils resulting from it remaining there are great. It may inflame and suppm'ate, and retard the cure after the operation, or it may prevent a truss being apphed, and it may in itself be the cause of strangulation of the bowel. Many cases do well when it is left, but the simple fact of a mass of omentum being in the sac does no good, and may destroy life. In refe- rence to returning the omentum there are often great objections, sometimes great risk, and generally little benefit. The omentum, in a doubtful condition, is never fit to be placed in the abdomen; and the question is, how far omentum, unin- flamed, is fit to be returned. To ascertain the condition of the omentum it has to be handled and exposed pretty freely; in returning it each part comes in con- tact with the finger, and when returned it does not immediately spread out, but lies together not far from the ring. These are not perhaps very serious matters individually, but they all tliree are conjoined in each case, and they are objections when the returned omentum, though healthy, is very large in extent. The omentum, however, is often much changed. Instead of being a delicate net-work of tissue filled with fat, and so soft that it almost takes a cast of the siu’faces of the \dscera and of the smooth peritoneal lining of the abdomen, it is often as hard as a pancreas, or twisted like a bell rope, or adherent in close and in- tricate folds. It is then, in fact, no membrane, but a tough hard solid mass; and if returned must take np room. It is hard to attribute bad consequences at once to the return of the omentum, but its return has never done any additional good, iuid ihe treat-ON HERNIA. 23 ment of it next to be described has seemed to be the most suc- cessful. Of the two alternatives—leaving the omentum in the sac and re- turning it—the former is attended with inconvenience and some risk, whilst the latter, in cases of any inflammatory affection of the omentum, is hazardous, and iu enlargement of it is questionable. These are risks not of simple inconvenience, but of life, and any means of avoiding them without incurring equal danger is most valuable. The loss of any portion of omentum contained in a hernial sac by removal, does not seem to have been found an in- convenience to the patient in any recorded case, and in the cases which have occurred at St. Bai’tholomew’s Hospital, the divided arteries carefully tied and sought out with warm water, have not given rise to any bleeding. AU the evils of returning the omen- tum and leaving it in the sac are avoided by its removal, except one; that is, its edges may adhere to the edge of the ring in the abdomen. Even if it does this, the bowel escapes being caught in the ring and sac by the omentum; and it even adheres here sometimes when it is free in the sac and no division has been made. These are matters of reasoning; but let us turn to the broad fact, and see if the results of cutting off the omentum are good; in short, if the patients so treated have done well. It is most satisfactory to look over the cases where the omentum has been removed. When the vessels have been carefuUy tied, every artery being encouraged to bleed, no bad consequences have ensued, whilst the risk attending the return of a healthy but necessarily well-handled portion of omentum has been saved, and the subsequent progress of the case has not been delayed by a tedious suppuration, or endangered by a second strangulation, caused, not by the neck or any part of the sac, but by the omentum itself.24 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. CHAPTER II. ON FRACTURES OF THE RIBS, LOWER JAW, AND PELVIS. Fracture of the ribs: Crepitus of ribs on auscultation. Admission of air into the lung on the injured side. Affections of the lungs and plem’a. Venesection on the occurrence of fracture. Injm’ies to the chest in children. Case of simple conipression of the chest. Case of ruptured bronchus in a child. Escape of air into the pleirra, imattended by any inflammatoiy affection of the pai-ts. Injuries to the lungs. Abscess round broken rib. Cases of lacerated lung terminating fatally. Case of sudden effusion of blood into the pleura, \vith recovery. Dissec- tion of case of effusion into the chest, eighteen years afterwards. Fractnre of the lower jaw : Affection of mouth resembling salivation after fractm’e. Fractm’e in the mesial line. Absence of laceration of the gum. Fi’acture of the lower jaw, followed by amaurosis. Fracture of the pelvis. Strength of the pelvis in one direction. Cause of laceration of the perineum. Broken ribs are perhaps the most common of all fractures, and are generally easily detected. In addition, however, to the common means of detection, the crepitus of a broken rib may often be also heard, if the ear is applied to the chest soon after the accident; but the crepitus of a broken rib generally ceases to be audible about the third, fifth, or sixth day. It is a regular harsh grate, and distinct from all crepitation, chiefly, and at times oidy, audible during inspiration, as well as sometimes audible oidy occasionally; at other times it is audible during several successive insj)irations, and then ceases for a time. It is generally a mere matter of curiosity, for the hand detects the crepitus more easily, and examines a larger sjiace at once. Pneumonia and pleurisy occur very seldom indeed after ordi- nary fracture of tlie ribs, but slight broncliitis of the smaller tubes is not at all uncommon. Tor many days after a rib h;is been broken, the injured side of the chest, moves less freely, and the lung admitsON FRACTURES OF THE RIBSj LOWER JAAV, AND PELVIS. 25 less air to move about in it, whilst a little intermediate, not small, crepitation may be heard low down on the injured side. Tliis crepitation does not generally proceed to any degree of importance, but yields to the mildest measures, and often spontaneously. The employment of opium to relieve the distress of the patient, after fracture of the ribs, is attended with as great hazard as when tliis means is employed in chronic broncliitis. Although one rib is rarely broken by itself, and the number of fractured ribs is nearly always greater than can be felt, yet the number of ribs which may be broken with impunity is very large indeed, patients recovering at times when the side is regularly crushed in. Bronchitis is the most common accident from this injury; and as the patients have often abeady been subject to this affection of the chest in a clironic form, a broken rib often brings on a serious attack. A very severe case of this affection was in the hospital in 1840-1, where the mucus at last collected in such quantity that the mabs life was in danger from suffocation. The ribs were very severely broken, but the mabs death appeared to be at hand, and vomiting seemed to afford some hope of relieving him. A strong emetic was given; the man vomited profusely, without further injury to the ribs, and with great relief. He ultimately recovered. It is very remarkable how commonly people are bled, simply because theb ribs are, or are supposed to be, broken. The reason is not very clear, but so commonly is bleeding performed under these cbcumstances, that poor patients occasionally consider its non- performance as an omission. This venesection can only have one, or perhaps two, objects in view ; the relief to the present difficulty in breathing, or a diminution of the chance of inflammation of the respiratory organs. The omission of venesection on the occurence of fracture of the ribs is not followed by any bad effects which would be prevented by its performance; neither is it more likely to be required in a sub- sequent period of the case for having been omitted at first. The inflammation of the pleura', or lungs, which arises occasionally after tliis accident, docs not depend in general on the plethoric con- dition of the individual, but on the injury inflicted on the struc- tures themselves, and arises at a short jicriod after its infliefion. These affections of the respiratory organs are attended with the26 CLTNICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. auscultatory sigus and tlie general characters of thoracic disease, and require the same treatment, however much the ultimate chance of recovery may be compromised by the local injury. The rehef by bleeding to the suffocative sensation caused by fracture of the ribs, has rarely appeared to be very decided, and certainly not so marked as to induce one to perform bleeding to relieve it. In short, venesection performed on the occurrence of fracture of the ribs does not appear to be attended with either immediate or ultimate benefit in a sufficiently marked degree to justify its general employment, even if this slight operation was free from risk; and as fatal plilebitis has sometimes occurred from this very practice, its performance, except for urgent reasons, may reasonably be omitted. A man was admitted, under Mr. Lawrence, into St. Bartholo- meVs Hospital, then labouring under phlebitis of the veins of the right arm, and broken ribs. Auscultation detected the crepitus of the ribs, but shewed the breathing to be healthy. This man gave the following history. Three days previously he fell out of a cab, and broke his ribs, for which he was bled from the right vena mediana cephalica. On the follomng day liis arm was stiff. On the third day he came first to the hos])ital. He died in a week. The vena cephalica and basihca of the right arm were thickened with lymph and pus, as well as the vena saphena of one leg. The right shoulder and left wrist joints were full of pus, with some loss of cartilage on the head of the right humerus. The lungs were quite healthy; the right pleura was adherent round two broken ribs with a little opaque serum. In dissecting the bodies of old women, and especially those of very old persons, who have become bent up, so that the chin and pelvis are approximated, the ribs are often found quite tliin and brittle, so that they break readily even in cleaning, and will not bear maceration. Those ribs would, probably, break readily dur- ing life, but the persons so aflecfed are generally bed-ridden, or so infirm as to move about very little, and consequently aie not much exposed to accident. One of these wasted old women vas admitted one day with a dislocated humerus, which was being reduced with the heel in the axilla, by the house-surgeon, when aON FEACTUKES OP THE UIBS, LOWER JAW, AND PELVIS. 27 crack, like a rib breaking, sounded from the direction of the chest: the humerus was reduced, and nothing happened wrong in the chest; but there seemed to be little doubt that a rib had broken from the simple pressure of the foot. Although the ribs may be broken to a very great extent with impunity, although the pleura is often quite entire over a frac- tured rib, and although the lung may escape wounding even when it is united to the broken rib by old adhesions, yet in every one of these cases death may ensue from some peculiarity of the frac- ture, or from bad consequences resulting, even though the fracture has not been accompanied with the ordinary degree of injury. In ausculting cases of broken ribs which are doing weU, the diminu- tion in the quantity of moving air on the injured side is very marked, and thus it may readily be conceived how much addi- tional injnr}'^ to breathing a fiacture of ribs on both sides of the chest may cause. It is not at all uncommon also for the same ribs to break both beliind and in front, and then the broken ribs sometimes fall on to the lung in mass, and compress it to a certain degree. The simple fracture of the ribs, unaccompanied by laceration of the pleura, may be followed by fatal inflammation of the pleura and lung. An unliealthy brewer's man was pressed between a wheel and a wall, and broke his ribs. He died with the signs of inflammation of the lungs. On examination four ribs were found broken before and behind on the right side, whilst a large quantity of blood was found eflused generally under the pleura costalis, without injury to the pleura itself. The pleura was, however, reddened, and two ounces of serum were effused into its cavity. The right lung was pushed forv'ards, so as to touch the mesial line, apparently from the compression of the ribs which had fallen in on it. The right lung, in its lower and part of tlie middle- lobe, was inflamed and impervious to air : the left lung was healthy. Children are not very liable to fracture of tlie ribs; partly be- cause they are less exposed than labouring persons to severe blows and accidents, but more especially from the softness and elasticity of their ribs, which yield readily and resume again their natural28 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. form. A little child was brought one day for relief. He ap- peared half choked; his skin was dusky, and liis conjunctiva quite loaded with blood. He had had a tremendous squeeze, which seemed to have done his frame no harm, except that by strain- ing he had ruptured many small blood-vessels, or dilated them for the time. The following case shews the degree of pressure which the ribs of children wiU bear without breaking. In this case the chest ■was compressed to such a degree as to rupture the bronchus, and yet without breaking the ribs. A little boy, about five years of age, was admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, under Mr. Stanley, in the winter of 1842, having been pressed between a wheel and the wall of a street. Within five minutes of admission, the face, arms, and chest, w^ere emphysematous, the right side of the face being the first bare part affected. Witliin one hoiu- the cluld was quite emphysematous from the forehead to the ankles, with hoarse breatliing and cough. He lay chiefly on liis back. The skin was so tense in eight hours that a puncture w^as made in it, from wliicli a stream of air flowed freely, with rehef to the emphysema. On the fifth day the child began to He con- stantly on the right side; and on the eighth he sat up a little time in bed, but lay nearly alw^ays on his right side; the emphysema was now almost removed. On the thirteenth day his breath be- came so foetid, that he was removed to a separate w^ard, and he gradually died on the seventeenth day, ha\ung continued to He from the fifth day to lus death on his right side; the extreme fcetor of the breath, and difficulty of breatlung, with cough, having existed from about the thirteenth day. On dissection all the ribs were entire. The right lung was col- lapsed, but not wounded, wdiilst the plem-a of that side w'as covered by false membrane, and contained ten ounces of pus, not foetid. The right bronchus was torn across in half its diameter, just at its division into smaller brandies; the edges of the mucous membrane round the w'ound being very red and vascular. The following case is inserted here in reference to tlie escape of air into the jileura, and its effects. In the last case the air in the jileura appeared to have produced a fatal result; in the followingON FUACTUKES OF THE MBS, LOWEE JAAV, AND PELVIS. 29 case air appeared to have reiriained in the pleura .without produc- ing an}f serious consequences.* A boy, aged eighteen years, was in St. BartholomeVs Hospital with a fungoid tumour of the pelvis; he went home and died there. The body was examined by Mr. Paget and myself. After examining the fungoid tumour, the chest was opened. In the upper part of the left lung some hard yellow tubercles were found. The right pleura was full of air; the right lung was completely collapsed, and sunk back quite free to the back of the chest. There was one long fine filamentous adliesion extending from the inside of the plem’a about the fifth rib to the lung, almost as fine as a coarse tlu’ead. The right plem’a was quite dry, free from foetor, smooth and sliining, and did not contain any fluid of any kind. Under the pleurae of both lungs some soft me- dullary matter was deposited, in one or two spots marked with blood. In one of these, on the lower and outer part of the right lung, the deposit being not much larger than a pin’s head, a minute apertm’e existed, forming a communication between the right pleura and the air cells of the right lung. This aperture was so small as to be hardly perceptible, but became plain on inflating the lung in water. The right lung itself was considerably, but not very closely, compressed, recovering, however, to a certain degree when blown into. The left lung was quite permeable, and united pretty closely to the thoracic walls by adliesions. The right side of the heart was flattened, so as accurately to corre- spond to the collapsed lung. The liver was also, to a certain degree, pushed down by the depression of tlie diapliragm on the right side. Looking at all these changes—the comparative impermeability of the lung, the flattening of the heart, the depression of the dia- phragm, and the length of the single adhesion—it appeared proba- ble that the lung had given way some time before death, but it was certain that the lung was in its present contracted state when the heart became rigid, and took a cast of it. * The absence of inflammation of the pleuiu of a dog, after free exposiu'e to the air by an external wound, is described by Mr. Hunter.—Hunter’s Works, by Palmer, vol. iij. p. 352.30 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. We asked his friends for any particulars which might explain he difficulty, and learned the following circumstances:— Four months before his death he was sitting in a chair, and was suddenly seized with most acute pain in one side, which caused such a sense of suffocation as to threaten his hfe. From this he recovered in an hour, and had afterwards no difficulty of breathing. The degree of injury inflicted on the lungs by fracture of the ribs varies much. Thus even with fracture of three or four of the ribs, and general adhesions of the pulmonary and costal pleura, the lungs sometimes entirely escape injury, if the ends of the ribs are broken in a simple transverse manner, and not so as to form acute points. It is not at all uncommon to find the pleura cover- ing broken ribs uninjured and quite entire. Fractui'e of a rib from great pressure is sometimes accompanied with such injury to the lung and pleura as to excite suppuration round the injured rib, and cause mortification of a neighbouring part of lung, terminating fatally by haemorrhage from the wound vdth haemoptysis. A man was admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, under Mr. Lawrence, in the summer of 1842, with fracture of the lower jaw, and injury to the upper part of the chest, from a wheel passing over it. He went on pretty well till the fourteenth day, when an abscess formed over the first and second ribs, beneath the pectoralis major, attended with an im- pulse on coughing, and containing about six ounces of well-formed matter without any mixture of air. The abscess discharged, without materially affecting the man’s health, till the twenty-first day, when haemoptysis, accompanied with profuse arterial haemorrhage from the abscess, occurred, under which he sank in two days. On examination, the first rib of the right side was found sepa- rated at its junction with the sternum, whilst the periosteum was separated from the first rib nearly as far back as its spinal extre- mity. An abscess of the capacity of half a pint was found round the sternal extremity of the rib, covered in front by the pectoralis major, and behind by a portion of the front surface of the lung, which was adherent to the ribs round the edges. A part of the lung forming the floor of the abscess was dead, and partially sepa-ON FRACTURES OF THE RIBS, LOWER JAW, AND PELVIS. 3i rated from the surrounding tissue. A bronchial tube commu- nicated with this dead portion of the lung, as well as with the abscess, from the neighbourhood of which the bleeding had pro- bably occurred. A man with an extensively ruptured Imig and broken ribs may live a short time. A waggon wheel passed over a man^s side; he lived only about one hour and ten minutes, and witliin one hour from the accident was cold and pulseless. Fom’ or five ribs were broken on each side before and beliind, and there was about a pint of blood in the left pleura: the upper lobe of the left lung was also rent. A waggon passed ovSr a maiFs left shoulder; he lived only one hour, but he walked tlu-ee quarters of a mile after the accident. The right side was uninjured. On the left side the lung was rent, six ribs were broken, and there were about six ounces of blood in the pleura. Both men seemed to fad. very much from exhaustion, and not from mere suffocation. The man with the least injury died first, but then he walked tliree quarters of a mde. It was noticed that his heart and pulmonary vessels were empty, and contained no blood, yet oidy six ounces were found in the pleura. In connection ■wdth effusion of blood into the pleura from injury of the chest, the following case is related, on account of its simi- larity in many respects to those just related. Although the real nature of the injury was never a matter of ocular demonstration, for the girl, with all her misfortunes, got quite well, yet its nature appeared to be clear. A girl, thirteen years of age, was admitted June 26,1843, under Mr. Vincent, about 11 p.m., two hours after breaking her left thigh by a fall from a window, in such extreme faintness that her life appeared to be in immediate danger; she was cougliing up a little blood. Some wine was given to revive her, and her thigh was then set. In the evening she was breathing with great diffi- culty, but was relieved by bleeding to four ounces. On the 27th the child was quite pale, restless, but drowsy at times, rolling about in bed, and very faint. A few leeches were32 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. applied to the sternum to relieve the difficulty of breathing, which was considerable. 3rd day.—^The child is decidedly stronger this day, and not sinking from weakness. She is, however, somewhat feverish and flushed; the tongue is furred, the skin hot, and the pulse decidedly hard. During yesterday and this day (28th), from her changing her position from time to time, a complete auscultation was ob- tained, which, though obtained collectively on two days, may be taken as the condition for the second and tlm-d days. She can lie on the back or left side, but beHeves herself not to be able to lie on the right side. The inspiratory motions of the right side of the chest are very great and forcible, the respiratory sounds louder than natural, but purely vesicular, and the resonance on percussion uniformly good. The left side presents, however, a remarkable contrast. The left side, before and behind, is dull on percussion, the apex being the least dull part; air can, however, be heard entering the lung beliind, at the upper as weU as at the middle part, in very small quantity, and in front in the apex, and that, more freely. No bronchial breathing, bronchophony, or crepitation in any marked or decided form, can be heard. There is a very pecuhar thi-iOing feel perceptible over the upper and left subclavicular space, the cause of which is not very clear. 6th day.—She now appears easier, and breathes with less diffi- culty. The left side of the chest stiU moves less freely than the right, but not very much less than in the natui-al degree. The upper tliird of the lung admits air more freely than before, and quite to the vesicular structure, but sounding distant. Per- cussion is very duU in front on the left side, but least duU towards the axiUa. There is no unnatural accompanying sound. Only the front part can be hstened to. 12th day.—The two sides move equally; the left side in front admits more air, but not so much as the right. The lateral part admits air all the way down to the ninth rib; but behind, the lower part admits no air, and in the middle the breathing is loud and rough. The apex behind caimot be listened to. Percussion of the left side is in front rather duUer than on the right; in the lateral part much didler, and behind quite didl. Child easier and more comfortable.ON FRACTURES OF THE RIBS^ LOWER JAW^ AND PELVIS. 33 14th clay.—The child has now no difficulty of breathing. The two sides of the chest admit air quite freely, even at the back, on the left side. Tlie whole breathing on the left side is, however, loud and coarse, whilst the percussion is just a little less resonant on the whole of the left side than on the right. She went home soon afterwards, convalescent. Wliat was the injury here ? The lung was not tom, for there was dulness of the side instead of resonance, and the auscultatory signs of imperfect entrance of air were too sudden to be produced by an inflammatory change dependent on injury to the lung. It could only be one thing — hsemorrhage into the pleura. To this the sudden and extreme fainting, the compression of the lung unaccompanied by moist sounds, and the slow, but gradual removal of the obstruction, point. There may have been a broken rib, or not; and certaiifly without it, it would be hard to accomit for the bleeding. The following case is related on accomit of the rare oppoi-tuni- ties wdiich occm- of examining such cases. It presents a summary of the changes wdiich the chest had gradually undergone during eighteen years, after an effusion into the ca\dty of the pleura fi’om inflammation, and where, from the peculiar appearance of the plema, the cavity still remaining in it, and the condition of the lung opposite tins cavity, in connection with the history, it would seem not improbable that the fluid had been more or less completely evacuated through the bronehial tubes. In March 1840, a woman, aged thirty, w'as admitted with di'Oj)sy and diseased liver, of wdiich she died almost immediately after ad- mission. On examining the body the chest appeared peculiarly altered. No mark of any puncture could be observed outside tlie chest. The right side of the chest was f of an inch smaller in cir- cumference than the left. Tlie fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs WT.re bent inwards, and appeared to form part of a smaller circle on the right than on the opposite side, but the thickness of the ribs on tlu; two sides of the cliest was equal. The anterior mediastinum w'as filled by a dense tissue of considerable thickness, completely hiding the lungs and heart from view. The right lung was quite n-dherent to the W'alls of the chest by the thickened pleura, the thickness of this being on the upper lobe, and iqiper part of the middle D34 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEEVATIONS IN SITEGERY, lobe about oue-tenth of au inch^ aucl on the lower part of the middle lobe and the lower lobe^ from oiie-quartcr of an inch above, to one inch below, at the base of the lung. This thickened pleura con- sisted of a dense white tissue, not distinguishable into different layers, and was connected with two cavities, one at the back of the heart, of the capacity of a drachm, filled with a substance like wet mortar, doubtfully in its substance, and a second cavity clearly contained in it, opposite the lower lobe of the right lung, capable of containing half an ounce, and filled with a mixture of a gritty and gelatinous substance. The right lung was smah, but healthy in substance, except in a spot of the size of a wal- nut, opposite the cavity in the pleura, wliich lay against the lower lobe of the lung; here the pulmonary tissue was firm, pale, and impendous to air. The left lung was partially adherent, the left pleura contained about ten ounces of serum, ndth udiich the peritoneal cavity was also filled’. The pericardium wns almost universally adherent, but the heart, except slight valvular disease, was nearly healthy. No tuberculous disease existed. This patient was so low when she was admitted, and died so soon, that no note of her case was obtained. The following history was however obtained from her friends, who were found living at Islington. Eighteen years before her death, having always been an unhealthy child, but well formed, she was attacked with scarlatina, which she went tlirough favourably, but on recovering, had a relapse, in which her chest was affected. This affection began with a stitch, and was followed by cough, and the treatment consisted in applying leeches to the chest and bleeding from the arm. She was so ill, that her friends were sent for, and told to come soon, if they wished to see her alive> and her recovery was thought so remark- able, that a magistrate- in the neiglibourhood of Brentford, (well known for lus kindness to the poor) allowed her free access to his private garden to walk in, and permission to eat fruit. Her side on first convalesceiTce was quite straight, but became gradually deformed and drawn in, wliich her friends thought came from lacing too tight. About nine years since, that is, about half-way between her illness and death, her mother describes her as having a cough, the most remarkable circumstance attending which wasON FKACTUUES OF THE RIBS^ LOTVER JAW, AND PELVIS. 35 the quantity of expectoration, of which slie wished to convey an idea to us by pointing to a pint-mug on the table. Wlien the lower jaw has been broken, and the patient is unable to move his tongue, or the soft parts of the mouth, in the natmal free manner, the saliva collects in the hollow parts round the gums and the fractured part. Under these circumstances the mucous membrane round the necks of the teeth is liable to inflame and ulcerate as in salivation, wliilst the saliva becomes foetid; thus adding to the inconvenience of the fracture some of the discomfort of salivation. This affection of the gums, though very irksome, does not appear in general to retard the cure. The fracture of the lower jaw, when occm'riug near the cliin, is not unfrequently accompanied with a wound of the skin and sub- jacent parts, extending down to the fractured part. Yery fre- quently, indeed, the gum is torn over the fracture. In both these eases the fracture is compound, and exposed also to the acrid secretion of the mouth. Although the union takes place more slowly under these circumstances than when there is less injury, yet no material delay occurs, not even if the inflammation is fol- lowed by suppuration to a small extent, which in general finds a ready outlet. Even if a portion of the bone be exposed both to the air and sahva, it does not invariably separate, but still retains its connection with the surrounding parts. Fracture of the lower jaw rarely occurs in the mesial line, but stiU it does happen occasionally. A man was admitted under Mr. Lawrence, with fracture of the lower jaw, at the symphysis, between the two central incisor teeth, from direct violence (blow v'ith the fist), occurring one week previously. No displacement had oc- curred. Tlic jaw was placed in a pasteboard splint, and united well. Fracture of the lower jaw may occur in the mesial line, unat- tended by any laceration of the gum, or any displacement. A fracture so occurring, without any signs, may be very easily passed over unnoticed. A man applied one morning at the hospital, for a wound on ibe chin, which had happened from falling down in a fit. Tlieivound was deep, and just in a point likely to break the jaw: no fracture was, however, found by the house-surgeon, and tlic man was30 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. made an out-patient on account of his fits. At the end of three weeks a seton in the neck was ordered. When the seton was about to be put in, he complained of liis jaw being often painful in front. His jaw w^as found broken, and still loose: he was ad- mitted, but it united very slowly. It would be difficult to give a satisfactory explanation of the following case. It is that of a woman who suffered from a frac- ture of the jaw, which injury was followed by most serious and sudden disturbance of the nervous powers of the eye : this affec- tion yielded very considerably to mercury and other means, but ultimately sight was completely lost in one eye. Mary Burward, let. 43, admitted Sept. 25th, 1840, under the care of Mr. Lawrence, in good health, vdth a fracture of the lower jaw near the symphysis, and considerable ecchjonosis of the eye- lids and surrounding skin, from the passage of a wheel over the head. She continued pretty well for the first two or three days. As the swelling round the eyes diminished, some ecchymosis ap- peared to have taken place on the ocular conjunctiva; she was, however, able to see distinctly. On the 28th, 29th, and 30th, slight delirium tremens, with restlessness, occiuTed, wliich was relieved by gin in small quantities, ivith porter. She took dm-ing these three days, gin Ojss.; porter, Oj.;—these produced com- plete rehef from the delirium tremens. Oct. 2d.—This morning she said that she had entirely lost her sight, not being able to distinguish light from darkness. The conjunctivBe- of both eyes are marked with ecchymosis, chiefly on the temporal side of the eye; no opacity is distinguishable in the cornea or deeper parts; the pupils are veiy much dilated, and also drawn somewhat upwai'ds; no motion of the iridcs is percepti- ble on exposure to a strong light. Pulse about 120, feeble, and free from any hardness ; slight pain in tlie head, not, liowever, so severe as to induce her to complain without being questioned; the bowels are open. She was ordered three leoches behind the ears; a blister to tlie nape of the neck; Hydr. c. Greta gr. ijss. every six hours. Oct. 5th.—No imjn’ovcment. The pulse is rather more forcible than natural, but still weak; the pupils continue dilated; the mouth is not affected.,ON FRACTURES OF THE RIBS, LOWER JAW, AND PELVIS. 37 Hydr. c Greta gr. v. every six hours. C. C. ad jviij. behind the ears. Oct. 7 th.—The pain in the head, winch was slight, has now ceased ; pulse feeble; there is a doubtful contraction of the right pupd.—A bhster to be repeated at the nape of the neck. Oct. 8th.—The blister has produced sHght strangury. She can nov/ observe the hght of the candle; when held in such a po- sition that the hght falls on the nasal half of the right retina, the candle appears like a hght-coloured spot. The breath has a slight mercurial fcetor.—To continue as before. Oct. 9th.—She can now observe an object di'awn between the wdndow and her eyes. The pupils are stiU dilated, especially the left. Mercurial fcetor slight. Oct. 10th.—She can distinguish a hand, glove, or hat, held before her; the glove from the hand, and the inside of the hat from the outside: these are seen most distinctly with the right eye, the pupil of which contracts distinctly after exposure to the glare -of a candle; the left pupil does not distinctly contract. The mercurial fcetor is distinct; the gums are, however, hardly affected. Oct. 16th.—She continued the Hych’. c. Greta in small doses till the 15th, and has had a third blister applied. The mercury has affected the gums, and produced slight ptyahsm. The union of the fractured jaw has proceeded favourably, except the forma- tion of a small abscess opposite the fracture. She can now count the panes of glass in the window, tell the finger from the thumb, and distinguish black from white. The right pupil is more con- tracted than the left, the right being in a condition midway between contraction and dilatation.—To apply another bhster, and to leave off all medicine. Oct. 21st.—Tlie jaw is uniting favourably. The gums are still sore from the mercury. The pupils arc much less dilated; the irides are still, liowever, narrow at the upper part. She can now read large letters, and distinguish the features of persons standing near her. Oct. 29th.—She has not taken any more medicine. The pupils arc still somewhat dilated, l)ut moveable. She can distinguish writing from printing, ajid the larger letters from each other.38 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. The union of the jaw has proceeded favourably. The gums are still sore from the mercury employed. Oct. 30th.—The soreness of the gums during the last one or two days has considerably diminished. She can distinguish objects well and clearly vdth the left eye, almost in a degree equal to that before the accident. She was unable during part of yesterday, and the whole of to-day, to distinguish objects with the right eye, and even now she can only distinguish light from darkness with it. The pupil of the left eye is more dilated than natund; the pupil of the right eye more contracted than the left. The motion of the right iris is not decided; it appears to move less freely than the left; the motions even of the left are, however, less free than natural. Bowels open. General health not worse, and still good,—To apply another blister. Hydr. c, Cretd, gr. ijss. bis. Nov. 3d.—The gums are now slightly affected. The left eye remains good; with the right she can now distinguish objects with tolerable clearness. The jaw has united, a small fistulous opening remaining in the situation of the abscess. She is so sa- tisfied with her improvement that she leaves to-day to become an out-patient.—Ordered to continue the Hydi'. c. Greta. Nov. 12th.—She came to the hospital to be looked at to-day. The left eye is in appearance natural, and she can read very small print with it. The pupil of the right eye is more contracted than the left, and perhaps not quite so freely moveable; the vision of it is very much impaired, but best in a strong bright light; but in the strongest light she can only trace the largest objects near this eye very indistinctly. December.—She has returned once more. The left eye conti- nues the same; the right is completely amaurotic, light not being distinguishable from darkness. Tdie arch of the pelvis will bear a great weight without injury, if the weight is tipplied oidy along the arch. A Avaggon wheel })assed over a maids pelids, from side to side, leaving an ecchy- mosis of the scrotum and upper part of thighs, but doing no other injury to any part. The mail stated that the waggon weighed 1 ton 4 cwt., and the load in it 4* tons 3 cwt.,—in all 5 tons 7 cwt.ON FRACTURES OF THE RIBS^ LOWER JAW, AND PELVIS. 39 The mail remained in the hospital tliree weeks, and then went out well, except some ecchymosis and a very slight lameness. Laceration of the perineum, with fractured pelvis, independent of the injury to the uretlira, is a most suspicious thing; so much so, that the simple fact of the perineum being torn, in a case of violence acting on the pelvis, unaccompanied by any other sign, is alone enough to make one suspect the fracture of the pelvis to be very severe. When the pelvis is simply broken in the ramus of the ischium or os pubis, it does not seem that the skin of the perineum is often iujm-ed by the fracture: if it does happen, it is a very rare occurrence indeed. When the perineum is lacerated, and the finger detects a fractiue of the pelvis, it does not always seem clear that the bone has passed tlirough the opening, as the bone is often at some distance from it. Whether the broken part of the pehds is close to the opening in the perineum or not, the pelvis is very generally broken behind in these cases, either tlirough the ilium, or at the sacro-iliac symphysis, and the lacerated perineum is produced, either by the protrusion of the broken bone through the skin, or by the whole side of the pelvis giving way from the fracture behind and in front; the perineum is thus lacerated, either by the violent extension of the skin, or by the broken bone being carried tlirough the skin. If this is the mode in which the laceration occurs, the presence of a laceration in the perineum, independent of that jiroduced by direct external violence, is an important indication of the extent of injury in these cases.40 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. ! CHAPTER III. INJURIES OP THE BONES OP THE LOWER EXTREMITY. llcdnction of dislocatiou on the ischiatic notcli sometimes unexpectedly easy. Cases of dislocated hip in young cliildren. Case of irreducible dislocation of the hip, and also of hip remarkably easy both of dislocation and reduction, both cases probably connected with fracture. Loss of power from simple blows. Fracture of the neck of the femur; advantages of the long splint. Fractm’e of femur iu the lower third into the Icnee-joiut, and its result. Case of laceration of the liga- mentum pateUm. Dislocation of knee. Um-educed dislocation of Imce. Dis- section of a dislocated knee. Fractiu’e of the leg, of the fibula, and of the head of the tibia. Fractures; their displacement, want of crepitus, and accompauyiug paiu. Consequences of fractime arising at remote periods. Although dislocation into tlie sciatic notch is generally reduced otdy by long extensioiL such is not invariably the case, A stout butcher was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital in the summer of 1841, labouring under a dislocation of the femur into tlie ischiatic notch, Avhich had only just happened. The man was carried into the operating theatre, the pulleys applied, and every thing got ready lor long continuous extension. The cords had hardly been drawn well tight, when the bone quietly slipped into its socket.' Dislocation of the femur may occur iu very young cliildren. In the following cases, the head of the bone was in the ischiatic notch in the fust, and probably in the foramen ovale in the second case. A girl, five and a ludf years old, was admitted under Mr. Stanley, with a dislocated hip. At 6 p.m. on the jirevious day, a portion of eartli fell upon her. On admission the left lower limb was shortened, inverted, the toes resting upon the great toe a mSmSSmINJURIES OE THE BONES OE THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 41 of the right foot; the head of the bone felt at the upper and back part of the sciatic notch. No abduction could be performed. Extension was made without pulleys for two miuuteSj when the bone slipped in, and remained there. Recovery was complete; she went out, walking quite well, in about three weeks. A boy, aged 5 years, was admitted under Mr. Vincent, labouring under a dislocation of the left thigh-bone. The limb was colder than the opposite one, and of a bluish colour; everted, not very moveable; the knee and groin both bent, and the limb resting on the toe. Wlien the child lay on the back, the head of the bone could hardly be felt; but on making him stand up, the head of the bone could be felt beneath the psoas and diacus, with the artery running over it. The want of any prominence, from the great trochanter being canied inwards, was very marked, as also a sinking in at the lower edge of the gluteus maximus muscle. The head of the bone could hardly be felt when the cliild lay down, but could be distinctly rotated with the thigh-bone when it stood up. No crepitus was any where found. The accident happened by the child falling on its legs wliilst riding on the beam of a cart, which suddeidy proceeded. The limb vns extended with little benefit till the thigh was well adducted, when the bone quietly slipped into its socket, and tlie blue colour of the limb began to subside directly. The limb now became quite natural in relations, motions, and form. He went out in about three wneks quite w^ell. In the two following cases some fracture had probably taken place in connection with the acetabulum. In the first case it pre- vented the reduction, but in the second (if the paticnEs account was true), it seemed as if it allow^ed the reduction to take place eiisily, at the same time that the dislocation w'as liable to recur. A young man, aged about 20, three weeks before admission dislocated his hip by a violent fall on the side, from cludk falling upon him: as the limb could not be reduced in the country, he was sent to the hospital, and admitted under Mr. Lawrence. The right limb w'as shortened an inch and a half, much inverted, and the head of the femur easily felt on the lower and back part of the dorsum ilii. 'Ihe limb was extended powerfully, nearly in a straight line, for4'2 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. three-quarters of an hour Avith the pulleys, without reducing it. The head of the bone was drawn right down to the tuber iscliii, and evidently below the joint. Crepitus was said to be felt by three persons present on rotating the hmb. No bad symptoms followed. The man objected to any more trials. Charlotte Edwards, set. 17, admitted July 3d, imder Mr. Stanley, labouiing under dislocation of the right femur on the sciatic notch, with some inversion of the limb, some bending of the knee, altered direction of the Hmb, sinking of the trochanter, and in- creased distance between it and the anterior superior spine of the ilium, but without shortening. The marked signs were, the direc- tion of the femur, and the fixed condition of the head of the bone. It was reduced in twenty minutes by extension in the common way. The exact time of the passage of the bone in was not de- cided j but the patient, at the end of twenty minutes, said that her limb could be moved, and that “ sometliing went in with a tick.” The accident happened from a simple fall on the ground whilst pumping. She gave the following account:—About six months since she was kicked by a horse, and became lame immediately, on her right leg; she was taken to a workhouse, where she lay in bed for tliree weeks, and then walked on crutches for two months: one day she fell down by her bed: sometliing went in with a tick in her right hip, and her Hmb was immediately restored to its natural condition, so that she could put her foot to the ground. She lay in bed for the day, did not again use her crutches, and began to w^alk about with a stick, but becoming stronger went to service. Tlie tick, when she fell down, so exactly resembled the sensation of reduction at the hospital, that she knew by this that the bone was in. She remained in bed for some days, and then went out weU. Looking to the direct violence of the original blow, the extra- ordinary reduction from the fall, the second occurrence of the luxation, and the silent and very gradual reduction, it is not im- probable that some fracture, as of the acetabidum, may have occurred in the first uistance with the luxation. Labouring men are admitted from time to time, who in their occupation, or from a faU, receive a violent blow on the back;INJURIES OE THE BONES OE THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 43 they are unable afterwards to stand, or to move their legs well for some time, but gradually get well, frequently without treatment, and resiune their occupation. In the ninter of 1840-41, several persons in this condition were admitted neaily together, as well as others in whom pain in the back was the cliief complaint. In some of these cases local abstraction of blood was employed, and apparently with most benefit, when the injury cliiefiy consisted in tliis slight degree of paralysis. When the blow is on the back, the motion of all the parts below is generally equally affected, but in one case the chief affection consisted in a weakened condition of the arms, from a blow on the back, the legs not presenting weakness in the same degree. Trom a violent blow on the liip joint and loins the patient is sometimes pairtially paralysed in only one lower limb; tliis may aiise from the blow on the muscles and joint, but in others the feebleness resulting fi’om the injuiy seems to be caused by the blow, either on part of the cord supplying that part, or by injury to the iscliiatic nerve, wliich is not unfrequently exactly in the situation of the blow. Tliere are two fractures constantly occurring, wliich, after the most careful examination, are sometimes doubtful, winch with all care are most serious injuries, and which, if neglected, are almost certain to end in a permanent injury to the limb; these two injm-ies are fracture of the lower thii-d of the radius, and fracture of the neck of the tlngh bone. It is perhaps more common to meet vuth a fractured neck of the thigh bone wanting in some signs of fracture, than possessing all, yet there is almost always some sign or other. Any one sign may be utterly wanting, but all are hardly ever absent; the sign ])resent may be at best doubtful, and often is so, but a doubtful sign in reasoning is often a very certain one in practice. There can be no doubt that every injury to the hip, especially in old people, be the signs ever so doubtful or slight, so as they do exist, recjuires to bo watched most anxiously, and cannot be pronounced at once, and sometimes even for many days, not to bo accompanied with fracture. The result alone can test the point, and nearly always the result is, that the bone is broken.44 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. The two following dissections illustrate two points : in the first case the want of eversion depended on the peculiar form of the fractiu’ed surfaces; in the second the fractured portions were so close to each other, that eveji in the dead body the fracture Avas doubtful. Mary Nick, aged 66, was admitted under Mr. Stanley, having been knocked down on her right hip by two di-unken men. The limb Avas apparently shorter by measurement to the amount of one inch, unattended however by any eversion, the hmb being laid straight out and quite powerless. She gradually died. The synovial membrane Avas oidy torn at the upper and front part of the neck of the bone, the rest remaining quite entire, and extended betAveen the slightly displaced parts. The neck was broken irregularly, so that the loAver portion was Avedged slightly into the upper, and overlapped by it in front. The fractured portions were thus somewhat Avedged into each other, Avdiilst the eversion was prevented by the upper overlapping the lower portion. In consequence of the shght laceration of the membrane on the neck of the bone, the tAAm parts Avere fixed in the position, wliich their hne of fracture caused them to assume. An old AA'oman Avas brought for dissection from St. Gileses Avorkliouse, having died there of astlnna. The left leg Avas some- Avhat everted, and apparently shortened. On measuring the tAvo limbs, the difference in favour of the right was at the best but a quarter of an inch; so httle indeed was the difference between the two limbs, that tightening the string slightly in measming the right leg removed the difference. The thigh moved Avell, and with- out any crepitus on the pelvis. The pelvis was a httle crooked. The limb moved so Avell, and the difference in the length of the two limbs Avas so little, that even in the dead body it Avas not clear Avhether the neck of the bone had been broken, or Avhether the peculiar appearance of the hmb depended on some curvature of the spine, and consequent change in the relations of the pelvis and hip. On opening the left hip joint, a fracture entirely Avithin the capsule, running right through the middle of the neck, was seen. 'I'lie synovial membrane covered llie hne of fracture perfectly, and presented luudly any signs of old injury; the two portions wereINJURIES OF THE BONES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 45 well united by moderately firm fibrous substance; the lower portion was drawm up, so that about one quarter of an inch of its fractured sm-face projected above and beyond the fractured bne of the upper portion, ivliilst below, a portion of the upper part projected beyond the lower edge of the neck. The line of fracture extended from above downwards and inwards, so that a long angle was formed at the lower pai-t of the neck : this angle was driven into the head and fixed there, some part of the neck being also crushed above into its interior substance. The head of the bone was slightly rotated from above downwards and inwards, the two ends of the ligamentmn teres being at the same time shghtly approxi- mated. The neck of the opposite femur was very horizontal, and slightly twisted forwards and downwai’ds. The bed of Mr. Earle, and the bent position on the side, have been discontinued latterly in great part at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, for the long straight splint. The limbs unite better, the trouble is less, and the expense is much less ; the high beds being verj'^ dear, and spoilmg a blanket each time that they are' covered. There is also another evil in hospitals; if fleas or bugs once get into a liigh bed, it is very hard to get rid of them. There are, however, some cases where a high bed is good. If a patient has two broken thighs, or legs, a high bed allows the chest to be raised, and thus he can move, and is less liable to risk in vomit- ing. It is said, that a fracture in the upper tim’d is not so liable to rise on the high bed, as the lower portion can be brought up to meet it. This is very doubtful, indeed, in practice. Thighs broken in the middle, and not fuUy extended, generally unite with the low'er end of the upper part on the outside, or iu front of the upper end of the lower portion. This is very hard to prevent on the high bed, and a mere matter of chance on the side ; but with a long splint, and a long inguinal band right up to the axilla, as high as can well be done, it is partially prevented. The femur is occasionally broken transversely just above, as well as at the same time vertically between the two condyles, so that the two fractures resemble the letter T ; the upper fractui’o representing the horizontal line, and the fracture between ihe condyles the descending line of the letter. This ii ijury is charac-46 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. terized by complete lameness, and a bent condition of the knee, with a falbng of the knee and leg backwards, so as to resemble to a certain degi’ee dislocation of the knee backwards; from which it is, however, readily distinguished by the crepitus, the facility of reduction, and occasionally also by the increased breadth of the knee from tlie separation of the condyles, to a certain degree, from each other. Dislocation of the patella is occasionally complicated with fracture of the lower tliird of the femur. In the summer of 1843, a man, about 60 years old, was admitted into St. Bartholomew\s Hospital, under Mr. Lawrence, laboining under a dislocation of the patella ontwards, which was easily reduced. The leg and thigh, however, formed an obtuse angle with each other, the point of intersection being just above tlie patella, at wliich part obscure crepitus could be felt; the patella, even when reduced, ai)pearing to be somewhat sunk between the condyles. The man recovered, but with an impaired condition of the hinb. In children, the lower portion of the femm-, constituting the epiphysis, is occasionally separated by the knee being twisted in a wheel, between beams, or by the cluld being accidentally suspended by one knee; This injury requires very close attention, from the injury to the soft parts which such violence necessarily causes, from its connection with the knee joint, as well as from the dis- tortion wliich may occur. The epiphysis, after tliis injury, is very liable to pass forwards and rest on the lower part of the shaft of the femur, wliich latter passes backwards into the popliteal space. Wliere union takes place, and the displacement is not very great, the impediment to motion is not considerable, motion being sometimes perfect even when the shortenuig is to the extent of one inch—a circumstance depending on the motions of the patella not being interfered with by the projecting portion of bone, as where the upper projects in front of the lower portion. The lower portion in this fracture may be carried either behind or before the upper portion, whilst occasionally at the same time a piece of bone is split off, and stuck so firmly into the neighboming muscles, as to be quite immoveable. This accident is generally accompanied with a very oblique frac- ture, on which account the limb is very likely to be shortened moreINJURIES OP THE BONES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 47 or less. When tlienpper portion becomes situated in front of the lower, it impedes the motion of the knee joint; the patella being sometimes drawn up in extension of the limb, close to the projecting point of bone. The best, mode of treating fractures of the femur near the knee joint, as well as most fractures mto the knee jomt, is to extend the limb quite straight; by wliich the even surface of the sound bone presses the irregular articular sm’faces of the broken bone firmly and evenly; the limb being at the same time placed in the most suitable position in case anclijdosis should occui-. Although the straight position is desirable for these reasons, yet this form of fracture sometimes does veiy weU on the double- incbned fi’actui’e-bed of Mr. Earle, by wliich the occasional ten- dency of the knee to fall backwards is very effectually prevented by the angle of the bed. Tliis kind of fracture unites slowly, and in general requires a confinement of sis. to seven weeks : the tendency to displacement of the lower portion backwards sometimes does not exist, and can in general be easily remedied. The two condyles are apt to separate somewhat from each other, and thus to allow the patella to fall somewhat backwards, and render the front part of the knee rather flat; the external condyle is also liable to become situated on a line rather anterior to the internal, and though capable of being pushed backwards often remains very sbghtly prominent. These cases generally do well, and the recovery is complete; even if the condyle is prominent, or somewhat separated, the functions of the limb are not generally impaired in any material degree. The patella may be torn away from the tibia by muscular violence; and this accident is extremely hard to cure. John Chesterfield, set. 59, admitted under Mr. Stanley, Sept. 21, 1842. A stout muscular man, labouring under an injuiy to one knee. The patella is drawn up in front of the femur as much as tw'o inches, or even more, above its natural situation ; the bone entire and smooth, without apparent separation of any part; from the drawing up of the patella the knee joint is only covered by skin, and appears quite bare. No piece of bone appears to be remaining attached to the ligamcntum patellie, so as to allows of this being considered as a fracture in any w'ay. The man states that he was wheeling a baiTow up an inclined plank, wlien the wheel moved somehow in the wrong direction,48 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. and threw him off liis balance: fearing that the barrow and lie would fall together, he instinctively threw himself backwards and jerked his legs up in the air, and hc’believes that in this act he suffered the injury. On being admitted, he was placed on a high inchned bed. 29th day.—The patella has descended nearly but not quite to its natural situation; the parts around the knee are swelled and thickened. He still continues bn the high bed. Tliisman went out of his own accord, the parts being still some- what separated, and the limb then not very useful. Jan. 27.—This man has been readmitted; the knee inflamed and painfid, whilst the patella is a full inch and a half above its natural situation, and situated entirely on the front of the femur. Feb. 12.—The knee is painful, the patella not yet depressed. Feb. 20.—"When he walks about, the knee inflames; this however, partially subsides with rest. The patella is so much dis- placed, that its lower end is as high as the natural position of its upper edge. April 1.—He has been discharged. The knee is free from pain or heat, quite straight, and able to bear his weight. It is, how- ever, not capable of being bent, and is thickened considerably in the parts round. The inflammatory changes appear to have been completely arrested; the joint, however, is not sufficiently cured to allow him to walk about, or to follow liis employment. The patella is still above the joint, resting entirely on the femm-. Dislocations of the knee are not common. Here are, hoiv- ever, two cases, one of dislocation of the knee forwai-ds, and the other outwards. A man, aged 19, was admitted, under Mr. Lawrence, Dec. 29, 1839. He was carried in lying on his abdomen, one limb shorter by tliree inches than the opposite one, the tibia evidently driven forwards, its flat articular upper surface being distinguishable, and the condyles of the femur projecting into the popliteal space; the ligamentum patellie was relaxed. Mdien drunk, he had jumped ten feet from a height with his knees bent, came on his feet, and then fell on his back. He became immediately sensible of great pain, and tried to relieve it by pressing on his knee. The knee was easily reduced hy extension, and laid on Mr.INJURIES OF THE BONES OP THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 49 Earle’s bed. Next day no difference was perceptible in tlie two limbs, and on January 12tli he was discharged, able to run and walk quite well. Ealpli Harvey, 35—40, admitted, Nov. 18, 1842, under Mr. Staide}q with injury to the right knee. The femur is dislocated outwards, so that its inner condyle rests upon the outer tuberosity of the tibia, its anterior surface looking forwards and outwards. The tibia is carried inwards in the same degree that the femur is dislocated outwards, the anterior edge looking forwards and in- wards, whilst the foot at the same tune 'ndth the leg is inverted. The patella lies flat on the inner condyle, its edges being forwards and backwards; the knee being semi-flexed and fixed. Just be- fore admission, he was riding in a cart, and fell out: his leg being caught by some iron, fixed him for a short time before he came to the ground : ivlien he fell, he tried to walk, and moved a little, but his knee gave way, and he came down to I,he ground. The pelvis was fixed by a towel round the thigh, the leg was extended slightly, and the knee went in directly without a snap. Dec. 9.—He has now been in about three weeks; the knee has its natural appearance, and he leaves the hospital Math crutches. He called afteru^ards at the hospital, walking so well as to induce him to begin to M^alk Mdthout crutches. Tliis case recovered completely; yet a partially dislocated knee unredueed may make a very useful limb, as in the following case. A man, aged 41, M'as in the hospital, for some ailment, but had also a deformed knee. When aged 19 years, he fell on his left side, earrying a n eight, and M as put to bed for fourteen days : he then got up, and walked about Avith a stick, and M^as well in three M ceks from the time of the accident; Ihe patient can M'alk tMTuty miles a day easily, and has good use of his limb. In this patient the left knee joint presented a crooked appear- ance, M'hcn viewed from the front. The femur appears to be throAv n partially forward to the patella, more so on the inside than on the outside; the patella is throM n very much to the outer side. Ihe tibia is drawn baclcMards, and moved from its natural position so uiuch that the smooth internal surface is directedoO CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGETIY. nlmost forwards. The ligamentum patellie assumes a direction from above downwards and outwards. An old woman was brought for dissection^ with an old un- reduced dislocation of the patella outwards. The aponeurosis of the extensor cruris formed a thick cover- ing over the front of the joints with small portions of bone in it, one particular piece beiijg situated over the condyles in the natural situation of the patella. The femur was twisted so that its front part looked inwards ui- steadof forwards; the ends of the bone were, however, on the two tuberosities of the tibia. The cartilage was partially gone, over the condyles of the femur; a smooth surface was formed for the patella, which lay right on the outer surface of the outer condyle. The front edge of the patella had much new bone added to it, whilst its articular surface was hollowed out to lit the new smooth surface of the condyle of the femur. The capsule had been torn, and was now thickened and attached to the front of the patella, enclosing its anterior half. The ligamentum patellae and external lateral ligaments were quite healthy, but mucli twisted. The internal, lateral, and crucial ligaments were quite healthy. The posterior ligaments were thickened. The knee could be bent, but only partially extended. The tibia was thin, and had broken accidentally,probably after death. How far can a man walk with a broken leg ? A man, aged 32, was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, under the care of Mr. Stanley, March 8th, 1843, laboming under a transverse fracture of the right tibia, a little below the middle of the bone, accompanied with the fractme of the fibula in the lower third. This accident happened at Highgate this morning. The shaft of his cart fell, and then the horse kicked his leg. The man now got a short crutch, about the length of a v^alking-stick, and walked to the Hospital in four hours. The leg was very erooked on ad- mission, and the nature of the injury was ascertained by Mr. Staidey. He was cured in about six weeks. In the great majority of cases fracture of tlie fibula may be de- tected; occasionally, liowever, doubt still exists of the real nature of the injury, even after all means have been tried. In theseINJTJUIKS OF THE BONES OF THE EOWEU EXTREJriTY. 51 cases the following plan is useful: place the right hand nith the ends of the fingers on the fibula midway between its two extremi- ties, and press it towards the tibia. Even in the stout fibula of a healthy man the bone will often play between its two extremi- ties luider this pressure. If a general easy movement is found, by passing the left hand up and dovm, to take place all the way between the two attaclnnents of the fibula, fracture is very impro- bable indeed, wliilst occasionally the pain and want of free motion produced by this pressure shew that fractiue has taken place. AVlien the tibia aird fibula are broken near the ankle joint, with- out any bruise or displacement, the detection of crepitus is sometimes very difficult, and can only be ascertained by firmly grasping the ankle with one hand, and the lower tliii’d of the leg with the other, and attempting to move the parts slightly on each other. Unless the greatest caution be obseiwed, fracture in tliis situation may pass unnoticed. Occasionally any displacement is so entirely wanting, that it is necessary to hold the part just above the injury ffi-mly with one hand, and to press the Iomtt part firmly backwai’ds with the thumb and fingers, when the acute pain with a very slight crepitus shew the existence of fracture. When the head of the tibia is broken transversely across, the injury is most easily detected by grasping the patella and upper part of the tibia with one hand, and bending the knee to a slight extent with the other hand placed near the ankle, when the injiuy will be detected by a slight juelding of the part. If the leg were examined in the extended position, tlris injury might pass unnoticed. When the tibia and fibula are both broken about the upper part of the middle third of the leg, the extended position of the limb is the best, and in general allows the limb to lie smoothly without any unnatmul prominence at the seat of injury; if with fracture in this situation the leg be placed in the flexed ])osition on the side, the lower end of the up])er portion is very liable to project against the skin, and produce a luiu]) there, after union has taken ])lace. This projection may, indeed, be generally prevented by an extra straight splint in front of the leg, with a small pad on this ]iart; but even this will not always succeed, and may be followed by idccration of the skin in that sitnation. When the two bones are broken about midway between the knee and52 CLINICAL COLLPX'TIONS AND OBSEUVATIONS IN SURGERY, ankle joints, the limb lies evenly either on the hack or side, unless the fracture has taken some particular direction. The foUowdng plan I have often seen employed, by Mr, Law- rence’s directions, with the greatest benefit, m cases where the leg was inclined to come forwards after fractures or injm’ies low down in the hmb. The leg is placed in the bent position on the outside, with a common side splint placed above and below, slightly hol- lowed out to fit the leg. In addition to these, two straight splints are used, padded on one side, one of sufficient length to extend from the patella to the upper part of the lower third of the leg, the other long enough to reach from the hollow of the knee to beyond the heel. If the straps be now passed round the leg, in- cluding the shorter of the two straight splints on the front, and the longer splint on the back of the leg, along nith the two hollow sphnts on the upper and mider side, the tibia and fibirla above the fracture will be pushed backwards, whilst the foot with the part below the fracture is pressed forwards. In this manner the tendency of the tibia to pass forwards, after simple dislocation or fracture near the ankle, is effectually prevented. In the following cases of fracture some reason existed in one instance, and none in the other, for the irregular union. A man, aged 60—70, broke liis leg, and died in about eight weeks. The tibia was broken about its middle, the fibula at its inferior tliii-d; the two portions of tibia could not be rendered parallel, although the limb could be extended to its natm-al length. The cancellous tissue of each extremity of bone was rendered compact, but no de- cided union had taken place between the two opposed extremities; the cancellous tissue of one end was opposed to the compact of the other bone; the limb was only slightly united, but as long as the opposite one. There was no apparent cause for the obliquity, only the muscles were strong during life, and when the lunb w;as extended, violent spasms immediately took place. Here there was no very evident cause for the displacement. In the following case the cause was more apparent, or perhaps pro- bable. An old woman, with flat feet, broke her leg in ISIO-lSIl, at the junction of the middle and lower thirds; the leg united firmly, but in bad position. The lower parts of bone were drawn upwaiis, backwards, and outwards. This displacement was justIN-TURIES OP THE BONES OP THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 53 that which the perouei muscles would cause. This woman had flat feet—a deformity accompanied with tense perouei, and for which they are often divided. Could these peroiiei muscles be the cause in this case ? She mifortuuately put it to a partial test. In 1S44-, she broke the other leg, but high up in the upper third, and consequently out of reach of the peronei. No displacement occiuTed here. Amongst the subjects to which Mr. Stanley particularly directs the attention of the pupils, there are few on which more stress is laid than the diagnosis and treatment of difficult cases of frac- ture of the limbs. Amongst these points are included, firstly, the importance of considering the degree of pain in the situation of a supposed fracture, and its great value in cases where crepitus is absent. Secondly, the necessity of bearing in mind to how great a degree many fractiues gradually right themselves, and the httle that is often gained by attempts to plaec every thing straight at an early period ; and thirdly, the importance of firm oedema rapidly forming over a supposed fracture. These are points not simply told in the clinical theatre, but shewn as the return of the accident weeks successively comes round. The degree of pain caused by the necessary examination of an injured limb sometimes assists in distinguishing a fracture from a simple bruise. Although a mere strain or bruise is occasionally accompanietl with the greatest surtering, yet extreme pain on the slightest degree of motion, more especially when that motion is not accompanied ndth exten- sion of any ligaments, is in itself a most important indication in favour of the existence of fracture. This extreme pain, and the rapidly fonning but well-defined ccdema, arc more frequently found in injury of the bones which lie superficially, than in fractiues amongst the deeper seated parts; and if any bones w^ere selected as those in which fracture was attended with extreme pain on slight motion, the metacarpal and metatarsal bones, with their phalanges, or the lower ends of the radius, tibia, and fibula, might be chosen. Where the pain is of a pricking character, or like that ])roduced by the presence of a foreign body wounding the pait, the character of the pain is distinguished from the dull ach- ing of a sprain, and is in favour of fracture; but in the great majority of injuiies, where aiiy doubt of its nature exists, the54 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. patients are unable to describe the pecubarities of tbeir pains and suffering. Instances of but little sufleriiig resulting from fracture, occasionally, however, present themselves in children as well as in adults. The little suffering not uncommonly experienced by children from fracture of the coUar-bone is sometimes very marked, and a laboui’ing man, with fracture of both bones of the fore-arm, has been seen to clench his fist and brandish his arm in a fighting attitude, without any apparent uneasiness. Ill 1844, a boy came in with an injured leg; he could not walk, and screamed in agony when his leg was examined; but there was no crepitus or yielding. Tliere was, however, pain, and the leg was puffy over the painful part. Mr. Stanley considered it to be broken. In about two or tliree weeks the limb had glided a little forwards at this line, and shewed clearly that it had been broken. The case did well. In 1844 an old woman broke her leg. The crepitus could not be felt for the first week; there was, however, great pain and }ielding of the bone on trying to bend it at the painful part. At the end of one week crepitus could be readily felt. A woman, (1840-41), was knocked down, and a wheel went over her leg, crushing the skin. She was admitted under Mr. Law- rence. There was no clear crepitus or fracture on the most atten-' tive examination, but the hmb was placed carefully on its side and watched. In a few days the upper portion came forward, and press- ing against the injured skin came through. The leg united well. These are a few cases out of many which have well illustrated the facts, that a bone may be broken and its fracture be unaccom- panied by the common signs, and that bones often come of them- selves into that position in wliich a surgeon cannot place them^ at an early period, and would often do harm by attempting to effect. When a man breaks his leg, the fracture generally unites, and does weU, no subsequent ailment arising from it. Such, how- ever, is not always the case. A growth may arise six-and-forty years afterwards, from parts which have remained hard over a fracture requiring the removal of the limb, as in the folloudng case. A man, aged 50, was admitted Nov. 1, 1843, under Mr. Stanley, laboiu’hig under a large fungous ulcer of the left leg. TheINJURIES OF TUB BONES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 55 left leg below tlie knee is wasted considerably, and marked with large veins j tlie foot is crooked, the inner side cliiefly toucli- ing tbe ground. The growth is situated in the upper part of the ^ lower tlihd of the leg, on its front and inner sides. The growth is tlu’ee inches and a half in extent from above downwards, and tliree inches from side to side, and projects about one inch and a half above the skin; the skin appearing to be bored tlirough from below by it, as well as to be overhung by it round the edges- The surface of the growth is rough and uneven, of a brown and red eolour, covered with foetid watery secretion, occasionally bleeding and very painful. He is apparently in good, but weak health: a native of Auglesea. Wlien four years old he broke liis leg, in the situation of tliis gi’owth: this fractm’e united, with the separation of a consi- derable portion of bone: the part remained hard, and occasionally painful, till five years and a half since, when he hit his leg on this spot, and first became subject to an open sore: about a year and a half since, the growth now existing first began to sptout out of this sore, and has continued to increase ever since; the pain in it being severe, and the bleeding from it frequent. The hmb was removed. The tibia exhibited an obliteration of its medullary cavity above the growth, wliich arose in connection with the hne of a very oblique old fractm’e; the compact tissue of the bone was also con- siderably increased in quantity round this fractm’e. The growth extended down to, and formed a mass united with, and forming part of the periosteum; this membrane being inseparable from it in the least degree. The surface of the bone below the growth was more vascular than the other part of the external sm’face of the bone; the medulla, a very considerable portion of which existed immediately beneath tlie growth, was red, very free from yellow fat, and near its junction with the compact tissue marked with distinct vessels. In the two following cases, distortions resembling those of club- foot occurred from fractures; one of the inner malleolus, the other of both malleoli. A girl, aged 15, was admitted, under Mr. Lawrence, iiilc) St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, lame of one log: the inner malleolus is50 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. depressed^ tlic ankle joint fixed and only very sliglitly moveable. The heel is elevated^ and the tendo-achillis tense. There is a cicatrix over the tendons just above and beliind the inner malleolus; the foot is somewhat inverted^ the inner edge being slightly ele- vated. During the last six months the lameness has been increasing. Two years since she appears to have fractured the inner malleo- lus : this was followed by lameness^ and tlie formation of an abscess nine months since behind the tibia: this abscess is now healed^ leaving a cicatrix, by means of wliich the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus poUicis are probably adherent to the bone. Eichard West, set. 60, was admitted Feb. 22, 1843, under Mr. Vincent, labouring under a distortion of the foot, wliicli, from the accompanying pain and lameness, affects his health, and pre- vents him so completely from following his trade tliat he wishes the limb to be removed. At twelve years of age (forty-eight years since) he twisted liis foot and ankle in a fall from a tree, and hurt his foot a week or two afterwards, so that he was obliged to wear a boot to keep the parts straight. At fourteen years and a half of age he left off the boot, and has since allowed the foot to assume the present unna- tural position. Dissection of the foot.—The foot is placed at an obtuse angle to the leg, the heel being elevated, with depression of the metatarsus and toes : the foot is also arched, with shortening of the distance between the toes and heel, whilst the upper surface looks upwards and outwards, and the under consequently partially inwards. The skin of the foot is generally thin, and is sepai-ated from the subja- cent parts in front of the ankle by two bm-ste, one being of con- siderable size. The gastrocnemii, tibialcs posticus and anticus, flexors and extensors of toes and great toe, as well as the three peromei, arc all wasted and fatty, which comhtion is tdso slightly presented by the extensor brevis digitorum, as well as by the flexor accessorius and interossci of the foot. The abductorcs polli- cis and minimi digiti, as well as the flexor brevis digitoriun, arc small, but red and healthy; the change thus implicating the flexors and extensors of the ankle, and the muscles of the foot especially connected with them. The cartilage ol the astragiilusINJURIES OF THE BONES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 57 is partially ulcerated, \vitli disease still in progress; tlie other joints, liowevei’, appear sound. The anterior ligament of the ankle, espe- cially on . the outer side, is thickened, and the ligamenta calc, cuboid, and calc, iiavic. are much shortened. The groove of the tibiidis posticus and flexor digitonun appears to be implicated in a fracture of the back part of the internal malleolus, so that these tendons come nearer the joint than usual; a portion of bone also beuig separated from the internal malleolus, has, by rubbing against the tibia, given rise to a growth of bone. The parts around the fibula are much thickened, and containt he lower part of a portion of the articular extremity of the fibula, separate from the rest of the bone, but attached to the anterior hgament of the ankle joint. In the following case the disease of the ankle appeared to have originated in an imsuspected fracture of the malleolus. A man was admitted with a swelled ankle, with fistulous open- ings. Ten months since he sprained liis ankle, but w'alked about dming the three following months : he then went to bed, and has been there more or less ever since. He died of diseased kidneys. The ankle joint was bare of cartilage on the ends of the tibia and fibula, as well as on the surface of the astragalus: the synovial membrane was tliickened, and the exposed bone was red, raw, and rough. A fistulous passage led into the joint. The lower part of the tibia, with the inner malleolus, had been broken off obhquely: the fracture had completely united, but not quite in its natural position, the broken portion being driven into the substance of the tibia.58 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. CHAPTER IV. INJURIES OP THE BONES OP THE UPPER EXTREMITY. Alteration in length of the dislocated humerus. Advantage of extension upwai’ds in some cases. Dissection of an unreduced dislocation on the inner side of the cora- coid process. Case of compoimd dislocation of the humerus into the axilla. Case of laceration of the circumflex nerve, with fracture. Practnre of clavicle. Union of clavicle in peculiar position. Cases of dislocated thumb. Injury to elbow. Severe fractures of arm and leg. In dislocation of the shoulder joint it is sometimes hard to account for the strange results of measurement. Even when the head of the bone is carried down into the axilla^ the arm is of the natural length in many cases; whilst^ where the head of the bone is carried into the subscapular fossa, and in contact with the subscapularis muscle, the shortening is occasionally excessive, and more than can be readily accounted for. Now in both these displacements the head of the bone is carried towards the central hue, whilst the elbow is at the same time separated in an unnatural degi’ee from the side; and as the acromion, from which the measurements are taken, remains fixed, the distance between the acromion and the outer condyle of the hmnerus is lessened. The degree of eleva- tion or depression of the head of the bone above or below the glenoid cavity may thus be concealed by the separation of the elbow from the side. In the following case of dislocation, extension upwards and backwards was employed with success, after extension in a liori- zontal hue had failed :— Sarah Wade, act. 62, admitted April 27tli, 1843, into St. Bar-INJURIES OF THE BONES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 59 tholomefl'^s Hospital, under the care of Mr. Lawrence, labouring under a dislocation of the head of the right humerus into the axilla. The ordinary signs of dislocation were present, the head of the bone being apparently on the axillary edge of the subsca- pular fossa, whilst the distance from the acromion to the outer condyle was lengthened by about three-quarters of an inch. Six weeks since she fell down, with her arm thrown forwards, on her hand. The bone slipped out of its place, and she was seen by a medical man, who tried to reduce it on the heel for two hours, but in vain. Till one week before admission she suflered much from pain in the shoulder, with numbness in the arm; tliis jiain has, however, latterly become somewhat less. The arm was extended in an almost horizontal hne for about twenty minutes, with the pulleys, without the least effect. She was now laid on her back on a bed, and the arm extended obhquely upwards and backwards, when the head of the bone slipped, in about a minute and a liaK, into the glenoid cavity; but on the arm being brought to the side, it shpped out agaiu. This ocem-red twice, when, at last, on the head of the humerus passing into the glenoid cavity, the hand was passed into the axiUa, pressed upwards and outwards, and used as a fulcrum to turn the bone on, whilst the arm was depressed, and brought weU across the chest; the head of the humerus being thus kept at the upper and back part of the joint. She stayed in the house a few days; the bone remained in its right position, and the arm was gradually recovering all its powers slowly. The bone in this case shpped out twice at the lower pai’t of the glenoid cavity, and was retained at last by keeping it up against the upper and back part of the joint. The following dissection* shews a condition of parts which presented just iujm-y enough to account for this peculiarity:— " In an old woman, who died in the hospital last August, we had an opj)ortunity of dissecting a dislocation of the shoulder- joint, which had remained unreduced for evidently a very long period. The long head of the biceps adhered to the groove in wliich it hes. Tlie lower part of the glenoid cavity had been * Professor Syme, in Edinbiu'gh Medical and Siu'gical Journal, vol. ssxv'. j). 241.60 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SUllGEllY, broken of^ and still remained loose^ being nourished through its adhesions to the capsule^ and a new articulating surface had been formed on the inner side of the neck of the scapula.” A stout man dislocated his left humerus, and had it reduced, but with considerable force. In a few months he api^lied, not being able to elevate his arm. The deltoid acted weU 5 the biceps was flabby, and the two spinati muscles were thin and wasted. Looking to the good con- dition of the deltoid, the circumflex nerve was here probably sound, and the injury muscular. In the following dissection the spinati and biceps muscles were chiefly injured: — An old woman was brought for dissection, with old unreduced dislocations of the right shoulder and left patella. Casts were made, and the parts preserved in the Museum of St. Bartholomewks Hospital. The right shoulder was flattened; the hollow below the acro- mion, and the lump below the clavicle, were very marked. The arm was shortened one inch. The deltoid, pectoralis major and minor, were not much wasted, nor very thin. The head of the bone lay under the clavicle, on the inner side of the coracoid process on the subscapular muscle, a very little part of it lying on the rib. The outer and the back portions of the capsule were entire, and extended tightly to the neck of the bone; the head of the bone was chiefly covered by firm thickened tissue. The capsules, old and new, thus formed, were lined by a synovial membrane. On examining the muscles, the tendons of the supra and infra spinatus, and teres minor, -were found torn off the bone, but fixed to the capsule. The tendon of the teres major was entire, and had its natm’al relations. The long head of the biceps had no relation to the glenoid cavif y, but ceased to be visible at the upjier part of the groove, in the new adherent tissue. The subscapularis was attached to the lesser tuberosity, as well as to the edge of the glenoid cavity, being flattened out beneath the head of the humerus. The plexus of nerves, axillary artery and vein, lay over and in front of the head of the bone. The glenoid cavity was enfire; the glenoid ligament and cartilage wei'c perfect; the joint was, however, covered with firm cellulai- tissue united to the cartilage and capsule.INJURIES OF THE BONES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 61 Compound dislocation of the shoulder joint is very rare, but occurred in the following case. George Maugle, mt. 19, admitted Jan. 26th, 1842, under Mr. Lawrence, labouring under a compound dislocation of the right shoulder, in consequence of ha\dng hurt liimseK in a threshing- mill. The skin was torn in a semicircle at the back, beneath and a little in front of the joint. The bracliial artery could be felt pul- sating, but neither it nor the plexus were exposed. The head of the bone rested on the ^ferior costa of the scapula, but was not visible; the finger passed between the muscles, however, reached it. A portion of the latissimus dorsi hung out, and was cut off by the house-sm-geon. The dislocation was easily reduced with slight extension, and the wound was then sewed up. The man had some very slight fever afterwards, ivith a small suppuration near the joint, wliich wns let out. He went outLeb. 20th, able to raise Ins ai’m to a certain degree, and to perform voluntary motion. The deltoid was diminished in size. On ]\Iarch 11th, three months after, he was seen. The wound quite healed, the shoulder much diminished in size, the power of elevation nearly lost, and the motions chiefly underhand. In this case of severe injury, either nerves or tendons might weU be torn. The following case is of interest in connection with it:— A man was admitted, in the summer of 1840, with a severe injury to the shoulder, and died of dehiium tremens. On exami- nation, the humerus was found broken high up, the capsule of the joint opened, and the circumflex nerve torn completely across. The same dislocation, in the same man, may be reduced with ease or difficulty according to liis condition. A man was admitted sober into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital with a dislocation of the humerus into the axilla, which had occurred several times before; but which, however, required the pulleys. In a day or two he again came, but drunk, with the arm dislocated: the dislocation now went in readily on the heel. AVhen the clavicle is broken in the outer third, the broken portions arc very frequently not separated from each other, in con- sequence of the strong attachments of the conoid and trajje- zoid ligaments to the part, which, with the fmn muscular attach-62 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. meiits above and below_, as well as the fibrous connections with the parts around the shoulder joints fix it firmly. The absence of any inequality^ as well as of crepitus^ render the detection of fracture in tliis situation often very difficult; the nature of the injury is, however, rendered more or less plain, in general, by a consciousness of injury, the description of the accident, a weakened and painfid condition of the arm, and pain over the injured spot. So great at times is the pain produced by pressm'e over the injured spot, that a strong nlan, on the clavicle being pressed on its outer tliird, will scream out, and describe the pain as resembling the pressure of an immense and unbearable weight. Tlie clavicle is situated so directly under the skin, that any irregu- larity in its outline is plain, especially in women, and occasionally very painful, from pressing on the plexus of nerves. The most common irregularity consists in the prominence of the outer end of the inner fragment, which rides over the outer and depressed portion. This inconvenience is often extremely difficult to obviate, and may occur from the simplest fracture; indeed, it occasionally happens that a comminuted fracture of the cla,vicle unites in a straight line, and ndth less unevenness than a simple fracture. A patient applied at the surgery of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, in whom, the collar bone having been broken near the sternal ex- tremity, the broken portions had united very irregidarly. The short sternal extremity had remained fixed at its union to the sternum; the broken end had been drawn obliquely upwards, whilst the remainder of the clavicle had remained horizontal, and, unit- ing to the under part of the obliquely placed inner portion, formed with it an acute angle. Fractures of the clavicle are treated sometimes purposely by position alone, and at other times the bandages have so little in- fluence on the position of the bone, that its adjustment is chiefly dependent on the recumbent position of the patient. The em- l)loyment of bandages affords, however, the best prospect of a complete and regular imion of the fracture, does not require con- finement to bed, and is the best mode of treatment: when, hon^- ever, the patient for other reasons is confined to bed, tlie know- ledge of the fact that fractures of the clavicle oft en unite very well when the patient is confined to the back in bed, and no ban-INJUUIES OE THE BOOTES OE THE UPPEE EXTREMITY. 03 rlages of any kind are employed, the ann being simply placed in a sling, will often save the patient some inconvenience. ^Vlien a flask with a moderate quantity of gunpowder is held over a flame, and a little dropped out of it, the flame often inns np the stream, and the flask blows up. The result of this acci- dent is pretty uniform; the Angers are injured more or less; but the stress of the mischief comes on the thumb, wliich is partially torn off at the carpus. These thumbs look very likely to slough off; but the wound is large, there are plenty of vessels, no matter is pent up, and these cases generally do very well. !• A boy, aged 15, was admitted, under Mr. Lawrence, vuth a large wound of the right hand from the explosion of gunpowder. The skin and muscles between the thumb and forefinger were torn, whilst the joint between the trapezium and first'phalanx was laid open. Two bleeding arteries were tied. The thumb was so move- able that it could be laid backwards to a certain degi’ee on the arm. Sutures and roller were applied, uuth water dressing. The parts all united well: the carpo-phalangeal joint remained stiff, whilst the other joints below were unaffected. 2. A boy, aged 14, was admitted under Mr. Lawi’ence with a somewhat similar accident, but less in degree, and only exposing the carpo-phalangeal joint of the thumb, with laceration of the fingers. In this case very severe inflammation ensued, which ter- minated in stiffness of the thumb and slight mortification of the fingers, but the hand remained ultimately good and useful. Wlien the dislocation of the thumb is complicated with fracture of one of the bones, the diffleulty of reduction may be so great as not to be overcome. A boy was admitted in 1842, with a dislocation of the ungual phalanx of the thumb on the back of the phalanx above it; the carpal phalanx of the thumb was also broke near its carpal ex- tremity. Extension was made in the extended position of the thumb, as well as in the bent position, without reducing the dis- location ; the extension appearing to be rendered useless by the yiehhng in the situation of the fracture. Tlie thumb was left un- reduced, and appeared in a few weeks in its new position to be better than no thumb at all; and, if one may guess in such mat-61> CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEHVATIONS IN SURGEKY. terSj likely to gain a more useful and extended degree of motion subsequently. Simple dislocation of tlie tliumb arises in general from a fall, or some considerable force applied to the extremity of the thiunb : perhaps one of the most common causes may be a fall, in wliich the end of the thumb is the part which first touches the ground, and which consequently receives the cliief part of the weight of the body. As the force is so great, a severe degree of injury might justly be expected; and experience shews no very great difference between the frequency of compound and simple disloca- tions of the thumb. In dislocation of the thumb, the distal phalanx is generally dis- located behind the proximal, and the injury is situated much more frequently between the middle and extreme, than between the carpal and middle phalanges. The distal extremity of the middle phalanx forms a round swelling on the palmar surface of the thumb, whilst the ungual phalanx is retracted considerably on the dorsal surface of the middle phalanx, and is rarely parallel to it, but in- clined to it at a very obtuse angle. The reduction of a dislocated thumb may be effected, in general, by applying a clove-hitch knot to the dislocated distal bone, and extending the part by it, whilst an assistant, by grasping the arm. at the wrist, exerts firm counter-extension. After extension has been made thus for a considerable period, the part generally on a sudden assumes its natural position. This plan, however, has been known to fail in the most experienced hands, and at other times to succeed oiily after great and long extension. Some years since, Mr. Wormald suggested the propriety of at- tempting the reduction of this dislocation by bending the elbow and wrist, as well as the metacarpus and joints of the thumb, to a considerable degi-ee, instead of applying the force whilst the parts were extended. This plan has now been tried for some years at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, with the result that the reduction is thus made much more easily than in the extended positionthat cases irreducible in the extended position are sometimes thus reduced;—and tliat, in the very few cases which are irreducible on this plan, some distinct cause may be found to account for the dilficulty. The most convenient plan for applyingIXJUUIES or THE BONES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 65 extension in this manner, is to place the patient upon- a stool, with liis back to the surgeon j to bend the arm over the shoulder, and thus, bringing the hand bent behind the patient^s neck, to apply extension there. Even this plan, however, fails at times. There ai’e, however, some cases of dislocation of the thumb which resist the employment of all means, and which appear to depend on the new relation which parts forming the joint assume to each other. The lateral ligaments have been supposed to ac- count for the difficulty experienced in some cases. In the two compound dislocations of the ungTial phalanx of the thumb in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, during 1843 and 1843, related below, the displacement was so considerable that the lateral ligaments were completely torn through, the bare bone being Hsible in the situation of the natmal attachment of the ligaments. Here the greatest difficulty existed in the reduction of the dislo- cated bones, wliich appeared to be torn quite free from the lateral ligaments. In the summer of 1843, a man was admitted under the care of Mr. Stanley, vlth a compound dislocation of the right thumb, the lower extremity of the middle phalanx being protruded, to a consi- derable extent through the skin, on its palmar surface, whilst the ungual phalanx was thrown backward. The lower extremity of the phalanx was quite bare, the tendon of the flexor longus not visible, and the lateral ligaments evidently torn through. The greatest diffieulty was found in reducing the bone, but at last it snapped in quite suddenly, the cavity of the joint closed, and the man gradually recovered in such a manner as to indicate the probability of the flexor longus bemg entire. Here the bent po- sition failed, and the thumb was reduced in the extended position. In tliis case the tendon of the flexor longus was shewn to exist by the subsequent progress of the case; and, as it was not on the front or lateral parts of the phalanx which were visible, it could only be situated at the back of the middle phalanx, and consequently also between the two phalanges, as it descended to its attachment to the ungual phalanx, in which situation it would powerfully assist the extensor tendon in pulling the ungual jhalanx up be- hind the middle phalanx, as well as be placed as an obstacle exactly in that line by wliich the ungual phalanx must travel to(i6 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEEVATIONS IN SURGERY. gain its proper situation. The sudden yielding of tlie parts, taken together with the immediate closure of the joint in front, i-endered it probable that the tendon -had suddenly slipped round the side of the extremity of the phalanx, and in this manner ceased to be any obstacle to the reduction of the dislocated parts. The peculiar features of this case tended to throw some light on the occasional difficulty which is found to exist in the reduction of this form of dislocation, and to suggest the idea of an impor- tant obstacle occasionally arising from the peculiar position of the flexor longus poUicis. In the preceding case the obstacle was overcome; but the following case, presenting exactly the same appearance, was accompanied with such complete immobility, as to be quite irreducible. A man was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, in the summer of 1843, under the care of Mr. Stanley, with a compound dislocation of the right thumb ; the lower end of the middle phalanx behig thrown forwards through the skin on its palmar surface, whilst the ungual phalanx was thrown backwards. The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis was not visible, although its groove, and the articular end of the middle phalanx, were plainly ' seen, the end being protruded so far through the skin that the situation of the attaclunents of the lateral ligaments was visible, destitute, however, of all hgament. The bone was also slightly tilted to one side. The thumb felt tolerably loose, but all efforts were ineffectual in reducing the dislocated bone, whether simple extension or lateral motion. Under these circumstances the part Avas ordered to be kept coAxred with a poultice, and left in its new situation. Looking at the difficulty of reducing this case, on June 18th the following experiment was made on the dead body by Mr. Stanley. An incision was made across the distal joint of the thumb, resembling that occurring in compound dislocation. The sheath of the tendon and lateral ligaments were divided, wliilst the tendon of the flexor longus Avas allowed to pass behind the middle phalanx, and consequently betAveen the tAvo bones at the joint, Avhich AA'as dislocated. Great difficulty Avas found now to exist in reducing the dislocation, wliich Avas found to increase in proportion as the sheath of the tendon AA'as divided higher up, and the tendonINJURIES OF THE BONES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 67 allowed to pass behind the phalaiux liigher up, and consequently more directly through the middle of the joint. When by lateral twisting the tendon could be brought round the extremity of the bone to its natural situation, the part was immediately reduced; so difficult, however, was reduction, that it was only by three persons trying with all their force, one after another, that the thumb of a dead man, artificially dislocated, cordd be reduced. The experiment on the dead body thus appeared to present a difficulty similar to that which existed in the living patient, when the parts were artificially placed in the same position as that wliich appeared to be the case in the two dislocations. In short, the displacement of the tendon of the fiexor longus poUicis, and its new position between the two articular surfaces of the dislocated bones, seemed to give rise to a difficulty, which might be more or less great in proportion as the tendon had slipped more or less completely behind the bone, and thus become situated more or less directly in the joint. For these reasons extension was applied again, in the last case, on the third day after the accident, but ineffectually. Under these circumstances, the ungual phalanx was removed: the tendon of the flexor longus was apparently entire, but its exact relations could not be seen during the amputation. The stump healed well; there was some suppuration up the course of the flexor longus, which was opened in the lower part of the fore-arm, which somewhat prolonged the cure. In the following case of injury of the elbow, the olecranon appeared to have been cut off, and the joint was exposed. The case, however, did quite well. Caroline Wallace, set. 8, June 8, 1843: admitted under Mr. Stanley. This injury happened from a fall upon the back part of the elbow against the edge of a broken plate, winch made a trans- verse wound extending across the back of the joint, completely dividing the olecranon in the ordinary situation of its fracture. The arm was strictly confined upon a splint, ivifcli the elbow slightly bent. Inflammation of the elbow ensued, but this very soon subsided. The case then proceeded uninterruptedly to its cure. The external wound healed completely. The separated piece of the olecranon reunited. The motions of the joint were.68 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. -on the child leaving the Hospital^ so rapidly returning, that there was every prospect of their being completely regained. When the openings around a compound fracture of the elbow have healed up, the motions of the joint are frequently very much impaired, and accompanied with pain. It is remarkable, however, to what an extent joints under these cu’cinnstances recover subsequently, when attention is paid to the part. Thus an elbow joint which, at the end of six or eight weeks time from the receipt of the injury, had gained very little motion, and that accompanied with pain, in two years will sometimes recover the power of free flexion and extension, limited only at the extreme degrees of these motions—the patient, in short, gaining almost complete use of his arm—when at a previous period a doubt might have been entertained of any great use of the hmb ever being obtained. Amongst the accidental cases of great interest occurring in a large hospital, may be reckoned compound fractures of the fore-arm and leg; not those where, from the severity of the injury, ampu- tation is immediately required, but those where the balance in favour of leaving or removing the hmb is so accurately adjusted, that it is doubtful to which side the greatest weight inclines. In many cases there is a question of choice between the compara- tive usefulness of a stump and a more or less impaired limb ; but this is far from being the general nde, and the decision often turns on the question of the patient surviving the natm’al consequences of the injury, or being in a condition to allow an operation at a future period, which is not performed at first. In the period elapsing between the accident and the ultimate restoration to health, there are often days and weeks which are dearly bought, even with a limb. There are days at the early period when a pain in the back or in the jaw, or a rigor, are equivalent to almost certain death; there are often weeks vlien recovery is slow, or the patient^s condition is but stationary; and even when aU things go well, some persons do not bear confinement. These are the dangers of a doubtful question of amputation, and they concern a maids life—not liis mere limb. The cases of injury in which the propriety of amputation has been doubtful have varied very much in their result, but injuriesINJURIES OE TUB BONES OE THE UPPER EXTREMITY. G9 about the same part have had a nearly uniform result. Severe! injuries of the leg have not terminated so well as severe injuries of the arm. In the arm^ very large lacerated injuries have done well, but hi the leg this has been rarely the case. The injuries unth deep contusion and little laceration to the skin have been much more dangerous to life than the lacerated injuries with exposure. In .the injuries of the leg wliich have been left, and where mortification has ensued, amputation has sometimes been per- formed at the end of the case, to make a stump, but in the serious part of the case it has not been practicable. In the arm it has at times been performed when the mortification was spreading, but not always with success. A doubtful injury of the arm often gets well, but a doubtful injury of the leg very rarely. The crusliing of any part of the cai-pus, the separation of the proximal ends of any of the metacarpal bones, or crusliing of the coronoid process of the ulna, have appeared to be much more serious injuries than injuries to the olecranon. Compound fracture of the olecranon, exposing the elbow joint, has done weU; but compound dislocation of the ankle has been generally a most serious injury, and sometimes fatal. No joint, however, suffers so much with impunity, at times, as that between the carpus and thumb. When this joint is freely exposed, and the muscles torn, so that the thumb lies back on the arm, it will sometimes unite and do well.CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. 70 CHAPTER V. INJURIES OP HEAD AND SPINE. Abscess of braiu after injury. Discharge of fluid from the ear after fracture or blows on the head. Indentation of the skull in children. Fractui’e of the base of the skull, with remai’kable deficiency of symptoms. Slow inflammatory changes occurring in the skull of a child after fracture, resembling hydrocephalus. Frac- tured base and apoplectic effusion. Bleeding in injuries of the head. Disloca- tion of the vertebrre at the junction of the dorsal and lumbai’ portions. Reason of this part yielding. Freedom from paralysis in these cases. Amongst the many changes in surgery, there are few greater than in the frequency of the use of the trepliine. In the wards where Mr. Pott collected liis experience, cases of matter under the bones of the skuU, as indicated by cerebral symptoms, are now rarely met with, and the pecuhar characters of the pufiy tumor of the scalp are seldom seen. The following case is related as interesting in reference to these cases. It was accompanied by symptoms of a very decided kind, but dissection showed that removal of the bone would not have been sufficient; and even if the abscess under the dura mater had been evacuated, the fluid eflused in the base of the skull would still have remained. But the abscess could not, in all probabihty, have been known of during life. Julia Cane, ait. 86, admitted Oct. 19, 1840, under Mr. Lawence. A portion of the scalp was turned off on the right side, equal to three inches square, on the left to two inches, Avliilst the bone was denuded considerably on the right side. Tern arteries in all were tied, the parts cleaned, and sutures applied in the evening, Avhich were removed on the following morning. The case proceeded71 INJURIES OF HEAD AND SPINE. well, and, ou November 3d, the wound of the left side had healed, wliilst large sloughs had come away on the right side. Nov. 12th.—On the 10 th she experienced two or three distinct sliivering fits, mth pain in the head and fever. The wonnd is granulating healtliily, but exhibits a portion of dead white bone. The pain in the head is reheved mnch, and the fever removed by the application of a few leeches to the scalp, as well as by the employment of antimony. 25th.—The shivering fits have not distinctly recurred since the 12th; she has not, however, been so well since; slight pain in the head, increased at intervals, occurs occasionally with some general fever. Tliis has been partially relieved by the occasional apphcation of leeches, and small doses of effervescing medicine, Avith antimonial wne. Hydr. c. Greta has been also given, but has been omitted dming the last one or two days, as her mouth was slightly sore, and she complained of extreme feebleness. The scalp is partially united on the right side, but puffy from a small quantity of watery pus coUectiug daily, whilst a considerable portion of dead bone may be felt with the probe under the partially adherent scalp. Tills afternoon, whilst walking to the closet, she seemed to fail on one side for the first time, and the left arm and leg were found to be partially useless; her mouth also appeared partially drawn to the right side. No loss of sensation is described, but as her mind does not appear so active as usual, her statement is not absolutely to be trusted. Blister; 8 Leeches to the temples. To take Hyd. c. Greta, gr. ijss. every foiu’ hours. 26th.—Pain somewhat relieved by the leeches. Paralysis of left arm and leg complete, as well as of the left side of the face. The only marked change is, that she appears to be less rational and more dull. To be cupped to eight ounces behind the ears. To omit the Ilydr. c. Greta, and to take Galomel, two grains every four hours. Tlic cupping produced no marked change, except extreme feebleness of pulse and considerable vomiting. Half past 10 p.M.—She has become suddenly quite, insensible,72 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIOJIS IN SURGERY. after severe shivering, accompanied with the most extreme feeble- ness of pulse. Her pulse is now, however, more perceptible, but rapid. Pupils rather dilated, quite insensible to light. The only motion is slow and difficult respiration, with stertor. She died calmly at 11 p.m. Head examined on the following day. Scalp natural on the left side. On the right side, a portion of the parietal bone was dead, and covered by a small quantity of watery pus. On the internal • surface a smaller portion of dead bone was seen, but not marked by a depression as on the outside, only by a deffiied line. A portion of diu’a mater, of a round form, half an inch in diameter, surrounded by a defined line, and exactly under this portion of bone, w^as found covered with a layer of a whitish-coloured creamy fluid: this portion of dura mater was firmly adherent to the arachnoid and to the surface of the brain, and easily separable from the suirounding dura mater at its circumference. The brain itself was much flattened, but equally so on the two sides ; the middle lobe, exactly under the injured portion of bone, con- tained an abscess with irregular greenish-coloured walls, separated from the ventricle and membranes by a tliin layer of cerebral substance. The abscess contained two ounces of a greenish foetid pus. The base of the skull contained two ounces of a semi-opaque fluid; the brain was otherwfise healthy. Discharge of a Avatery fluid from the ear, in considerable quantity, is seen as an occasional accompaniment of injury to the head. In some cases the patients recover, and, leaving the hospital, are not seen again; in other cases the patient dies, and, on examination, a fracture of the skuU may be found. The treatment of the case is not altered by the flow of fluid, but it is of inq)ortance to know the real value of this symptom. In the tlu’ce folloAving cases the parts were examined after death. James Dukes, set. 16, admitted April 21st, 1842, under Mr. Stanley, with a large head, bleeding from the left car, partially sensible, and having vomited just before admission. Pupils sen- sible; neither dilated nor contracted. He has falleJi eight feet on his head, just before admission, and is now apparently reco- vering from stiuming. The fluid escaping from the left Ccu: isINJURIES OF HEAD AND SPINE. 73 watery, and of a very tliin eonsistence, being only stained with blood. 2d day.—Ides dull and stupid; hardly sleeps even at night; vomits very frequently; but is sensible when spoken to, and answers his name. The fluid from the ear continues to flow, and has soaked the chief part of his sliirt. When he lies on the right side, the fluid fills the left ear. The boy continued m this condition, being dull and heavy, sleeping very httle at night, vomiting, and taking very little food, until the sixth day, when he gradually became insensible, breathed heavily, lay with his head flexed backwards, and died about 5 P.M., the symptoms having become gradually worse up to the fifth day, but not being attended with such acuteness or fever as to afford any weU-marked indication for treatment. The flow of fluid con- tinued during the two fii’st days; it then ceased, but recurred again before death : the consistence of it was very tliin, the chief part evidently consisting of blood. Some effusion of blood was found on the skull, over the left half of the frontal bone. A fracture, commencing at the frontal centre, passed across the left half of the frontal bone, the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and the petrous portion of the temporal bone, to the base of the skull. A considerable effusion of blood was found in the anterior fossa of the skull, on the left side, external to the dura mater, and a smaller one on the right half of the temporal bone, also external to the dura mater. The dura mater w'as torn right tlnough in the line of fracture, just over the superior semicircular canal; so that the cavity of the arachnoid communicated with the fractme. The whole cavity of the arachnoid and substance of-the pia mater, extending between the cerebral convolutions, was full of greenish recent lymph. Tlic cortical substance of the brain was more full of blood than natur^d; the ventricles rather large, and full of clear fluid. The outer part of the right lobe exhibited a rent about an inch and a half long, not extending deeper than the convolutions; on the left side, over the hole in the dura mater, was a small softened spot of brain, without much blood, which communicated with tlic arachnoid cavity, but which only included the cortical substance.74 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. William Basford, set. 14, admitted under Mr. Lawrence, par- tially insensible, but noticing objects round liim, and conscious of what was said to him when roused. From the meatus of the right ear a watery fluid, mixed udth a considerable quantity of blood, flowed on the pillow during the horn' after admission. He had fallen down seven steps, on the upper part and right side of his head, a short time before admission : this fall appears to have produced complete insensibility at the time. 2d day, 1 p.m.—The boy is now become quite sensible, as re- gards consciousness of persons and sounds near liim, answ'ering questions clearly and weU. Wlien he first woke, the objects in the ward were dim and cloudy, but gradually objects have become as clear as usual. From the right ear a clear watery fluid, un- mixed with blood, now flows freely, so that the pillow is quite wet. Tliis fluid comes quite deep from the meatus. 3d day.—Slept very little in the night, and complained of the light hurting him on waking. He was restless and very sick at times during the day. About 4 o’clock he became gradually in- sensible in about an hour, the discharge having ceased just about that time. In the night of the 3d, and 4th morning, he had a kind of convulsion, and died about 3 a.m. on the 4th day. The brain was not torn or marked with blood. The araclmoid was rather dry. The petrous portion of the temporal bone was broken in its long axis, right into the canals and tympanum; the membrana tympani was also considerably torn. It w^as not certain whether the dura mater was torn over the fracture, which extended nearly along the line of the superior petrosal sinus, with a lateral part extending to the internal meatus. Sarah Newland, mt. 5, admitted June 18th, 1842, 2 pm. under Mr. Skey. This child was brought in quite senseless and motion- less, with a slight wound of the scalp on the right side and upper part of the head: in tlus place the bone could be felt broken, and not depressed; there was some bleeding from the right ear. The scalp was divided, and some loose, broken portions of bone removed by Mr. Skey with the forceps ; an extensive fracture was found at the same time extending towards the base. The cliild’s condi- tion was not altered by the removal of the bone.INJURIES OF HEAD AND SPINE. 75 The child had fallen two stories on her head into the road^ injuring at the same time the right hand. She was picked up senseless, and brought to the hospital dii’ectly. 4th day.—The child lies on its back, unable to recognise any persons. She can move both her arms and legs. Breathing hurried, and pulse very frequent, small, and quite hard. Pupils contracted, not very sensible of light. She has taken no nourishment since admission: the bowels are quite confined. A bloody and watery fluid has continued to fiow from the bottom of the right ear up to the present time in small quantities, and collects in the concha of the ear, when the child lies on the left side. The urine is drawn off by the catheter. The cliild sank and died about 4 A. M. on the fifth day. A considerable quantity of effused blood existed on the outer part of the frontal and occipital bones. On the right side a fracture passed from the wound through the petrous portion of the right temporal bone, where it divided into two other fractures; one of these extended to the sella turcica, the other to the foramen occipitale. On the parietal and occipi- tal bones, to the left side of the occipital foramen, a small quan- tity of pus was found between the dura mater and bone near the injury. The dura mater was entire and healthy every where. An ecchymosis of considerable extent, but very thin, existed over the posterior upper part of the right cerebral hemisphere. The brain was healthy, except a very small slight softening on one spot of the base of the right middle lobe; numerous small spots, of the size of a mustard seed, of effused blood, were found in the substance of the brain, crura cerebri, and walls of the ventricles. In thirteen cases of injury to the head blood or fluid flowed from the ear. Of these thirteen, seven left the hospital appa- rently well, while six died. In aU these six the petrous bone was broken, and wliere the side is mentioned the bleeding and frac- tured sides corresponded. The cases ai’e here enumerated.76 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. RATAL RESULT. INJURY AND FLUID. GOOD RESULT. 1. Left ear. Blood 1. Eecovered. 2. Do. Do. 2. Do. 3. One ear. Do. 3. Do. 4. Left do. Do. 4. Do. 5. Died. Fractured base' running to petrous bone. 5. One do. Do. 6. Eight do. Do. 6. Do. 7. Died. Both petrous] bones broken. j 7. Both ears. Do. 8. — Fluid. 8. Do. 9. — Do. 9. Do. 10. Died. Fractured base ] and tympanum. j 10. One ear. Do. • 11. Died. Fractured base ] and left petrous bone. 11. Left do. Do, 12. Died. Petrous bone] broken. 12. Eight do. Do. 13. Died. Eight petrous] bone broken. j 13. Do. Do. Seveu of these patients recovered; two having suffered from watery discharge from the ear, and five from bleeding. In the fatal cases the petrous bone was broken, and when the side is noted, the fracture was on the same side as the discharge, of blood or fluid. This fracture causes the ear to communicate with the skull, and, if the dura mater is lacerated, with the cavity of tlic arachnoid, and affords a possible source of fluid in addition to the ear itself. If the skull is not broken, and the fluid ncces- smily flows from the ear, it is very difficult, to conjecture what77 INJURIES OF HEAD AND SPINE. vessels or cavity of the tyrapanum could pour out either blood or fluid in auy quantity. The two following cases are well-marked instances of that form of depression of the skidl wliich occurs in children, and wliich appears to be a simple indentation of the bone, unaccompanied by any fracture. In one case there were no cerebral symptoms, whilst in the other they were well marked. A girl, eleven months old, was admitted, under Mr. Lawrence, Oct. 18, 1840, having fallen from a personas arms on the back of her head tlnee-quarters of an hour previously; the child imme- diately became pale, and vomited. On admission a portion of the occipital bone on the left side was depressed about a quarter of an inch for the space of about a half-croum. The child moved its hmbs freely, sucked, and cried. On the same evening, the depression was less apparent, and on the evening of the second day was only perceptible on close examination. She left the hos- pital apparently well. Some months previously a part of the frontal bone had been depressed in a similar manner. A child, aged one year, was admitted, under Mr. Lawrence, June 1842. Quite sensible; sucking when put to the breast; crying when moved; not sick, and apparently well, but labouring under a depression of the upper anterior and lateral part of the right parietal bone. Tliis was considerably depressed, and ad- mitted of two Angers Ijdng in it. The accident had happened about half an hour preriously. The mother took the cluld home, and brought it to be seen on the second day; the cliild had continued well, and the depression was much less apparent. The number of cases of fractured base of the skull admitted is very considerable, and forms a large portion of the severe cases of injury of the head. Some are brought in dead, but this is rare; and even the very w'orst cases of fractured base generally live for a few hours. One case lived for fifty-six days, and patients leave from time to time, and are never heard of again, in ivhom the only objection to fracture of the skull is, that they are apparently well. The existence of a fractured base is hardly ever marked by any one individual synq)tom; but this does sometimes liappen. A man78 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. had suffered injury, and had the general symptoms of seyere injury to the head, but at the same time he had paralysis of one portio dura. Dissection shewed, what was probable, that the fractured base had included this nerve, and torn it across. It is remarkable how rarely the distinction between concussion and compression is required in relation to any operative proceeding; but the distinction of symptoms arising from a slight injury which vdll yield, and of those which are accompanied with injury to the brain or skull of an incurable nature, has to be made in almost every case. When the injury consisted in fracture alone, and was accom- panied with only slight effusion of blood, or with blood not in such quantity as to produce any marked pressure, or with blood effused in considerable quantity, but having an extenial outlet tluough the fracture or the ears, in these cases the patients have been very insensible, and had no convidsions, and generally died gradually in from twelve to thirty-six hours. Sometimes, with very severe fracture, and nothing else, the patient has failed rapidly in six hours, hke a severe case of con- cussion. Pure symptoms of severe concussion, though a source of anxiety as long as they last, may be a much more favourable sign than their absence. Although severe fractures of the skuU resem- ble cases of concussion so closely, they are generally accompanied with some peculiarity dependent either on the effusion of blood or the injury to bone; and even when such is not the case the mere lapse of hour after hour, without any unfavoui-able circumstance occurring, though no improvement takes place, often marks the case of mere concussion. Persons sometimes suffer the most severe falls, and escape; but in many cases there is no more unfa- vourable peculiarity, and no more certain sign of an injury, wliich will terminate fatally, than a rapid recovery hi a few minutes from a severe injury to the head. The statement that “ the person fell down and was quite in- sensible for a minute or two, and then got quite well, and was able to walk,” in a case of an injury likely to be followed by a fractured base, is a most suspicious thing, and in patients so situ- ated a lacerated brain or a fractured base are not at aU uncommon.79 INJURIES OF HEAD AND SPINE. An old man was brought to the hospital with a cut head, and quite sensible: the person accompanying him stated that he was knocked down by a cab, remained insensible for a short time, and at last got up only a little giddy. In tliree hours he had a violent convulsion, and he died on the eighth day with a fractured base and eifused blood on the brain. A man was thrown from his horse, drunk, and was stunned. He then got up, walked a hundred yards, and appeared quite rational to Ins friends. He went to bed, and slept well, but was found on the floor in the morning, and was said to have been con- vulsed. He died on the second day. There was a fractured base and a lacerated brain. One evening a young man applied with a cut head, having fallen off a ladder about half an hour previously, and lost his senses for a short time. He appeared tolerably well, and was chiefly admitted as a measure of precaution. In less than a week he was dead, with a recent fracture across the base of his skull. He had laboured under chronic hydrocephalus when a child, and ap- peared to have fallen down in a fit. An old woman was knocked down by a cab, and cut her head. She was not very dull, and after being dressed the policeman took her home. Her home could not be well made out; so she was admitted. The same evening she had a fit, became insensible, and died in the night. There was a large laceration of the base of the brain.* The following case of fracture of the skuU occurred in a child, and was remarkable for the slow inflammatory changes, wliich, in their symptoms and result, bore some resemblance to hydrocephalus. A child aged nine years, was admitted Tebruary 15, 1840, under Mr. Stanley, of tolerably healthy appearance, labouring under the ordinary symptoms of severe concussion, after a fall down stairs, but without any direct symptoms indicating further injury to the brain or skull, except bleeding from one ear. Trom these he recovered in one or two days; his condition was, how- ever, not that indicating complete recovery, and therefore a few * This class of coses is [Jluded (o Iiy Pr. Ahcrcronihic, and rcscmhles vciy closely the cases “ not primarily apoplectic,” described in his work on Diseases of (he Drain and Spinal Cord. 3d edilion, 1834, p. 217.80 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. leeches and blisters to the neck were applied. About the 25 th he became subject to general fever, restlessness, and general convul- sions, accompanied with crying and calling out at night; for this he was treated by leeches to the head, blisters to the neck, and calomel in small doses to salivation. Under this treatment the fever abated; he, however, became affected with strabismus, more or less insensibility, and complete inability to move freely in bed, the motions of his body and limbs being slow and few. This was his condition on the 26th March, when he was ordered nom-isliing diet; a seton was also placed in the neck, and small doses of mercury were employed, the evacuations being clay- coloured. Tliis treatment,’ however, prodneed no change; the skin on the extremities and joints sloughed, he became more feeble, and died quietly. May 11 (86th day). The external surface of the skull presented nothing unusual: the skull in the right temjioral fossa, from the sc|namo-parietal sutm'e to the petrous portion, through the middle fossa of the skull, was broken, and quite separated, presenting not the least traces of union: the edges of the bone were bloody, and not romided off in the least. In the right middle fossa of the skull, a small quantity of yellowish soft substance was observable Ipng between the bone and dura mater. The upper surface of the brain was somewhat flattened and compressed; the anterior part of tlie right lobe, and whole lower part of the right middle lobe, were wliite, free from vessels, and of an unusually soft consistence, breaking dorni and almost ''flowingunder the finger. The ventricles eontained about six ounces of a clear fluid; the arachnoid membrane at the base of the brain, more especially along the median line, was quite opaque, and very much thickened, more especially about the optic and third nerves. The clavicle was firmly united by callus, surrounding the broken extremities of the bones, and completely fixing them. The following case is related on account of the existence of a recent ajioplectic effusion in combination with a fracture of the bone. It was not clear how far the second effusion was dependent on the injury or not. A man, about forty, liad hemiplegia of the right side, and getting partially well, went home, April 7. On the follownng 7th of June he was brought in (juite insensible, and died in twoINJURIES OF HEAD AND SPINE. 81 days, having been thrown from a cart, the horse of which was running away. Dissection shewed a fracture of the base, through, the temporal bones, with the effusion of two ounces of blood. In the left optic thalamus was an old apoplectic cyst, of the capa- city of six drachms, with soft yellow sides. In the rigKt optic thalamus was a drachm of recently effused coagulated blood, not communicating with the ventricle. The three following cases of delirium apparently produced by bleeding after injuries of the head, occurred at St. Bartholomews Hospital, and formed part of a clinical lecture on the treatment of injuries of the head, delivered by Mr. Lawrence, May 17, 1844. 1. A man, aged 32, was thrown on his head, and picked up in- sensible ; he was immediately bled. Soon afterwards he became extremely delirious, and was brought to the hospital, where he was so violent as to require being fastened dow, and in one of his struggles the tape slipped from his arm, causing liim to lose more blood. Pulse soft: 76. Some httle bleeding from one ear. Half a grain of Acet. Morphise was administered, which gave him "some sleep. Half a grain of Acet. Morphise was again given after , a few hours. He slept part of the night, and next day was well. He went out in a few days. 2. A man, aged 35, fell from an omnibus, and was immediately bled to 16 ounces. He became delirious, with a soft pulse at 120. Half a grain of Acet. Morphise was administered, and repeated again in four hours. This made him quite quiet, and in a few days he was tolerably well. 3. A bricklayer, 36 years of age, fell off a scaffold, and was found insensible. He was bled, and soon after cupped. Next day he was rambh'ng and violent. For four or five weeks tliis man lay in bed, occasionally so violent sis to require restraint, rambling and talking in an incoherent manner. At last he came gradually round in about six weeks from the injury; appearing, however, to be somewhat dull in his faculties, and slow in his speech. Wine, opium, low diet, good diet, mercury, and blisters, were all tried, but without any very marked benefit; the man appearing to get well of himself. The upper lumbar and last dorsal vertebrae are liable to simple aSS CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. dislocation, or to dislocation accompanied with fracture of a slight nature. This injury occurs from, violent falls backwards or forwards, by which the trunk is either forcibly bent foi-wards, or the loins carried forwards, whilst the chest and upper extremities are carried backwards. The symptoms are on the whole mild, considering the part injured, as the loss of motion and sensation, which are occasionally present, generally rapidly subside, leaidug the sufferer able to follow liis employment vdth some deformity and considerable weakness of the back. The symptoms accompanying this injury are dependent on the displacement of one vertebra from another, by which an angle is formed in the back at the injured part, from the projec- tion of the spines of the vertebrae against the skin, with a depression between them. This depression is sometimes two inches in length, and depends on the degree of displacement of the vertebra, the spine of which may be so prominent as to make the skin sore, by its being carried backwards, and turned rather obliquely upwards. Wlien the displacement is considerable the whole body is inclined forwards above the injured part, but where the displacement is not very considerable the body only is inclined unnaturally forwards in a slight degree, and the patient maintains his equihbrium by throwing his shoulders and neck back to counterbalance the prominence of the abdomen. This prominence has been generally found to subside more or less, and even some- times, but rarely, to disappear at a distant period of time, the functions of the part being at the same time almost completely restored, and the patient able to return again to his usual occupation. It is remarkable, in looking over the recorded cases of displace- ment of the spine happening from falling forwards, and unattended with any apparent fracture or severe paralysis, that the junction of the dorsal and lumbar regions has been particularly affected. It is clear that the junction of the first lumbar vertebra with the last dorsal above, and with the second lumbar below, allows of this occurrence without any very great difficulty; but it still re- mains to be shewn how this part is placed in such a position as to render the displacement probable. This accident happens some- times from the body being bent violently forwards, so that theINJURIES OP HEAD AND SPINE. 83 patient seems to be doubled up, in which position the anterior surfaces of the vertebrae must form a concave, and their spines a convex line; tliis convexity being hkely to give way, if any where, at the place where the greatest extension is made. From common observation, as well as from expei-imeuts wliich have been made, it appears that the principal points of flexion of the back are three ; the first between the tliird and seventh cervical, the second be- tween the eleventh dorsal and second lumbar, and the third be- tween the fourth lumbar and upper part of the sacrum; but of these tliree places, the two lumbar, from the depth of the interver- tebral substance, and the form of their articular sui-faces, possess the greatest share of motion. The part between the eleventh dorsal and second lumbar verte- bra thus appears to be one of the two points at wliich the motion of flexion is cliiefly performed, in addition to being the part at which antero-posterior displacement is, to a certain degree, allowed by the peculiar form of the bones. If we now call to mind that this point is situated at the junction of the almost solid mass of the chest with the more yielding pillar of the lumbar vertebrae, it is not difficult to conceive how this should be the especial part to yield, when violent flexion is involuntarily forced on the spinal column. In violent blows, or falls upon the back, the displace- ment occurs sometimes at the same spot: this must arise from the body being pushed violently backwards or forwards, and the one vertebra ghding from its articulation with the other. So few opportunities have occurred of examining the injured parts in these cases, that they must be arranged according to their mode of occurrence, or the symptoms which they presented. When the displacement has occurred from a violent blow or fall, the nervous symptoms have generally been more severe than when the injury has arisen from a violent flexion of the back. William Baldwin, let. 23, admitted Sept. 7, 1843, under the care of Mr. Stanley, having hurt his back, by a fall of the height of twenty-four feet, in which he was bent up very much, and strained. Some blood was effused on the lumbar part of the spinal column, as well as about the right foot and ankle. No fi’acture of any bone was discovered, neither were there any symptoms of injury to the spinal cord. About one week after admission, when84< CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. the effused blood liad been absorbed^ he still complained of pain in the lumbar region. His back was now accurately examined, when the spines of the twelfth dorsal, and first lumbar vertebra, were found to project considerably, forming in fact a considerable angle, with a depression between them, into wliich the finger could be pressed. The curve was so great and sudden as to resemble much that resulting from organic disease of the spine, tiis os calcis was now found upon examination to be fractured. During about the fourth and fifth day from admission, this man found some difficulty in emptying his bladder, the ni'ine of which, when drawn off, was found to be natural in appeai’ance, and acid. Nov. £2.—The os calcis imited fii’mly, and the man has walked about the ward for some time. The projection of the spines of the vertebr® is stiU the same in all respects. The man complains occasionally of difficulty of passing his urine, and of weakness in the back, and Hes down for a considerable part of the day on account of tliis, as well as the pain in the back and left leg. When walking he bends forwards con- siderably, and shakes on his legs. As regards his previous history, he states that his back was previously quite straight, and that his health has been sufficiently good to enable him to work as a sawyer. There has been occasion- ally some pain in his back now and then, but nothing of a severe nature. Three cases very similar to this are recorded. In the following case tliis accident happened from a fall back- wards, but was so similar to the cases of falling forwards in a bent position, that it may justly be placed with them. A man,* aged 32, fell on a heap of rubbish, on his pos- teriors, and hurt his back. On examination, it was obvious that the spine formed an acute projection at the junction of the dorsal and lumbar jiortion, and that at the summit of this projec- tion there was a space of nearly two fingers^ breadth between the spinous processes. He complained of great pain, and was unable to move his legs, or expel his urine. On the second day he began to move bis left leg, and bad his bowels open. On the third day * Syme: Edijibrn-jili Med. and .Surg. Joiuaial, vol. xiivii. p. 335.INJURIES OF HEAD AND SPINE. 85 he passed his urine without the use of the catheter. On the fifth day he moved both his legs. On the fortieth day he was dis- missed, being able to walk with a stick, but somewhat feeble. The spine had become straighter, but still retained its convex form and separation between the spinous processes. In tliis the symptoms were more severe than in the following case, wliich presented many similar features, but less severe symp- toms. The injury arose from a fall, and was at exactly the same spot. A man,* aged 3^, fell thii-ty feet, from a scaffold, and was insensible for a short time. The body was found to be much bent, with an angular projection from displacement of the first lumbar and last dorsal vertebrae. There was considerable tumefac- tion over the bones, with a depression to the extent of about an inch between the most projecting spinous processes, whilst the transverse processes stood out so much, that they pressed against the skin. There was no diminution of sensation, or motor power, in the lower limbs, or any other part. He left the hospital about five weeks after admission, having remained free from any symptoms of injury to the spinal marrow. At the end of seven weeks the man remained weak in the spine, but able to raise himself into the erect position for a short time; he now supported his chest on the edge of a table, when sitting down, and by resting his hands on liis thighs when walking. At the end of two years his back was stiU weak, but flexible at the part injured, whilst the bones projected considerably against the skin. He was able to walk, between two and three miles daily to his work, as a bricklayer, and return in the evening : this he had done during a year and a half. A very similar case is also recorded,!* in whicli, from a fall on the back, the lower part of the body was carried forwards, whilst the upper part was carried somewhat backwards; so that at the eleventh dorsal vertebra the spine projected, whilst between the spinous process of that bone, and the spinous process of the last * Alex. Shaw ; Medical Gazette, vol. xvii. p. 937. T Case of Dislocation and Fracture of the Eleventh and Twelfth Dorsal Verfehrae, by R. A. SlalTord : Med. Gazette, vol. xvii. p. 873.86 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEEVATION3 IN SURGERT. dorsal, there was a chasm into which the tliree first fingers could be placed with ease, being in measurement full two inches in length. No paralysis of motion or sensation were present in this case; and at the end of three months the chasm between the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebrae gradually had lessened, with subsidence of the pain, leaving some deformity and weakness of the back. The similarity of these cases, in the situation of the injury, the mode of occurrence of the accident, and the peculiar features of the cases, is most remarkable. In the last case the injury was apparently one vertebra liigher than in the rest. The following two preparations illustrate these cases. Sir Charles Bell* has given a drawing of dislocation of the last dorsal from the first lumbar vertebra, which occurred in a cliild, from the wheel of a heavy coach going over its back. The child Hved thirteen months, and then died of croup. In this in- stance the last dorsal and fii’st lumbar vertebrae* are completely dis- located fi’om eacli other, both in the antero-posteriorand lateral direc- tions, with a very shght fracture of the lumbar vertebrae. In addi- tion to this injury, the spinal marrow was completely torn across. In the Museiun of St. Bartholomew's Hospital is a speciment of dislocation of the last dorsal vertebra forwards, with fracture of a small portion of the upper surface of the first lumbar vertebra, the articular processes remaining, however, entire. The fractured portion has united firmly, with great deposition of bone round the part, fixing the dislocated vertebra in its unnatural position. There ai’e some points of especial interest in these cases, which are,—the reason of displacement at this particular part, and the cause of the slight symptoms observed to succeed to it. The examination of the bones of the spine, and ot the motions of the trunk, explains the facility with which the bones may be sepa- rated at tliis part, whilst the form of the spinal cord and nerves at this part are such as to render pressure on them less dangerous and forcible. If we .examine the vertebrae of the lower part ol the dorsal and * Obs. oil Injuries of Spine and Thigh Bone. Tlo. 182T, pp. 79 and 25. t Injuries of Bones and .foints, IT. 9t.INJURIES OF HEAD AND SPINE. 87 upper part of the liuubar regions, it is plain, in many cases, how much more easily a displacement of a vertebra backwards or for- wards might here occm’, than in the other parts of the spine. The articular processes of the cervical and dorsalvertebi'3e,by their situa- tion alternately behind and before each other, tlu’ow a great impe- diment in the way of any displacement in these regions ; whilst an equal obstacle to displacement exists in the loins, by the articular processes being directed alternately obhquely outwai’ds and in- wards, as weU as from the sm'faces being convex and concave, and thus locking into each other. The superior articular processes of the twelfth dorsal vertebra look backwards with some inclination upwards, and the inferior articular processes of the second lumbar vertebra look obliquely out- wards and forwards; the former retaining the character of the dorsal, and the latter assuming the peculiar form of the lumbar articular processes, The intervening j oints, namely, the j oints of the first lumbar vertebra wdtli the lower processes of the last dorsal above, and with the upper processes of the second lumbar vertebra below, are almost enthely destitute of any antero-posterior relation to each other, but are united laterally, so that the superior processes look nearly directly inwards towards each other, and the inferior pro- cesses almost chi'ectly outwards; preventing thus most forcibly any lateral displacement, but being as much exposed to displacement in the backwards or forwards direction, as the cervical vertebrae are defended from it. The limbs are not always described as paralysed in the re- corded cases of this displacement; a circumstance of great im- portance, and explicable by the peculiar nature of the displace- ment, and the region of the spinal column in which the accident occurs. Let us examine this point also. In the upper part of the lumbar region tlie dura mater forms a large wide sac for the spinal cord, which ceasing about Ihe second lumbar vertebra, by its division into the bunch of nerves forms the cauda equina, and is thus, to a certain degree, less liable to pressure at tliis part. The origins of the five lumbar and five sacral nerves from the spinal cord are situated between a line corresponding above to the spine of the eleventh dorsal, and a line corresponding below to the88 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. first lumbar*. Pressure on tliis part would therefore act rather on the bunch of nerves tlian on the cord, and even if accom- panied with paralysis, would be a far less serious evil, and less likely to be complete, than if exercised on the cord itself. The nerves might thus escape pressure in the canal; they would also, in all probability, escape pressure at the intervertebral fora- mina, which are very large in the loins, being half an inch from before backwards, and which, by the obhque position of the verte- brse on each other, are in fact rendered much larger than when the bones are placed vertically above each other. It is deserving of especial notice, that in the case abeady described, as well as in those quoted, the depression between the prominent spines shewed that the bones were possibly placed obbquely on each other, and thus in that position which would be most hkely to be accom- panied with enlargement of the intervertebral foramina. * Jadelot, in Tr. d’Anatomic Chirurg. et de Chir. Experiment, par F. L. Mal- Koigne, tome 2de, p. 33, 1838.89 BURSAL TUMORS. CHAPTER VI. BURSAL TUMORS. Treatment by applications, and incisions, and removal. Suppuration at times only slightly painful. Bm’see about hand and wrist. Case of large binsa of wrist cured by opening. Bursa imder semi-membranosus muscle, with dissection of a case. __ Bursal tumors situated over the patella and olecranon ai’e treated successfully in various ways. If the sweUing is tolerably recent, the parts thin, and the enlargement chiefly dependent on the quantity of contained fluid, the repeated application of blisters, or the application of the tincture of iodine, are the best. When, however, the parts are thickened, or the enlargement of some standing, these means are slow and very uncertain; the relief pro- duced is indeed considerable, but the part again becomes painful on slight pressm’e. The best plan, however, seems to be, to pass a thread through the bursa, and leave it in. On the foUoudng day the bursa inflames and becomes painful; the thread may noM'^ be withdrawn, and tlirough the opening left by it a puriform se- cretion is gi’adually discharged, and the bursa becomes no longer prominent. These various plans of applying blisters, or the tiuctui'e of iochne, introducing a thread, or evacuating the fluid by puncture, are applicable where the part is enlarged and painful, the fluid being the ordinary secretion of the membrane lining the cyst, and not puriform in any way. Where, hou'ever, from the pain and .signs of inflammation round the bursa, su})puration may be sup- posed to have occurred, a free incision gives moi’e relief than any other means. Whatever accidents occasionally happen from the.90 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. opening of bursae containing a serous fluid, such accidents have not occurred where pus has formed. Under such circumstances the part may be considered and treated as a simple abscess. When the skin has become much thickened over the patella, it is some- times hard to detect the fluctuation in the bursa, especially if the quantity of fluid be very small. Occasionally, the bursa, under these cii’cumstances, without any very acute symptoms, or distinct enlargement, suppurates; and, on an incision being made into it, the natural seci'etion of the cavity is found mixed with a small quantity of ciu-dy matter. The evacuation of this piu-iforra serum gives great relief, and the cases do well. In some cases the inflammation of the structures surrounding the suppurated bursa is very c-onsiderable; the integuments on the lower part of the thigh becoming red and cedematous, whilst the bursa is acutely painful, much swelled, and, on incision, is found to be filled with a great quantity of thick yellow matter. These cases are accompanied with a deal of suffering, and are re- lieved by nothing but an incision, after which they get rapidly well. From those cases which have occurred, the folloM'iiig plan has seemed the best to adopt in cases of enlargement of the subcuta- neous bursm. When matter has formed in them, the only means is the evacuation of the fluid by a free opening; this is unattended with danger, and followed by a rapid and complete cure. ^Wien, however, the bursa is recent, the skin thin, and the fluid probably a mere increase of the natural secretion of the cavity, the employ- ment of blisters, or the external application of the tincture of iodine, is the best means of gradually lessening the swelling; but it will probably retm-n. Tor a complete cure, or in those cases where the swelling does not yield to the application of bUsters, or to the external apphcation of iodine, more especially if the swell- ing be not large, the best plan of treatment is to introduce a fine thread tluough the swelling, and use it as a seton. On the second day this tluead generally causes considerable pain, and requu-es withdrawal. A small quantity of puriform fluid passes for a few days through the opening, after which the swelling gets gradually less, and contracting, is completely cm-ed. Verj' frequently the bursa suppiuates so freely as to require a free opening, the hole for the thread having closed : although this is an extra source ofBURSAL TUMORS. 91 pain, yet the cure is more complete, and quite compensates for this accident. Kemoval of bursae simply for their inconvenience is a serious matter. In the summer of 1843, a woman was admitted under Mr. Lawrence, with a bursa of many years' standing, on the patella, disabling her from foHomng her employment. This bursa was round, wdth very tliick walls, mth a smooth internal lining, and its cavity contained a great quantity of small round bodies mixed with a very small quantity of fluid. The parts around in- flamed, abscesses formed in the thigh, and the woman got into so low a condition as to be in danger, but recovered ultimately. "Wlien the secretion is more or less mixed with pus, the pain is generally great, and the relief from any application none, or very slight. Occasionally, however, patients complain of very little pain, and the disease is of so mild a nature that it might be sup- posed to be a mere increased secretion of serous fluid; yet, even with tliis want of any urgent symptoms, the bursa has been seen to give way, and discharge puriform contents. The bursal enlargement on the patella generally assumes the simple round form, but occasionally presents itself as an irregular oval tumor, or as a swelling marked by contractions in one or two places; these contractions being generally dependent on the divi- sion of the internal cavity of the bursa by partitions proceeding from the walls of the bursa. In the dissection of the knee of a sailor, who had been a sea-cook, the bursa on the patella was found enlarged to much beyond its natural dimensions, and divided into foiu or even more cavities communicating with each other. It can be also easily conceived, that the enlarged bursa might be pressed on by the surrounding fibrous structures, and thus be of different capacity in different parts. Enlargement, with the collection of fluid in the sheaths of the flexor tendons of the fingers, forms occasionally a serious disease, from its extent, impairment of the functions of the piut, and diffi- culty of cure. This swelling extends occasionally from the extreme ends ol the metacarpal bones over the palm, and under the annular ligament to some distance above it; including, hi fact, the entire course ol the synovial sheaths of the flexor tendons.92 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. A girl was adiuitted in 1838^ under Mr. Stanley, labouring under this affection to such an extent, that the sweUing formed a large tumor in the palm of the hand and forearm. A free incision made into it, gave exit to a quantity of ffuid, mixed with hard bodies hke melon seeds. The parts were much inffamed, but ultimately got quite well, with removal of the enlarged bursa, and some impairment of motion from the thick- ening of the part, which, however, in about two years, subsided so completely, as to allow the free and almost perfect motion of the hand and wrist. In another case, however, where openings had been made before admission, amputation of the hand was at last required. This form of affection of the synovial sheaths of the tendon.'* about the wrists becomes apparent at its early stage both in the palm of the hand and above the annular hgament at the same time, by a slight degree of fulness in both situations. The situa- tion in M^hich the palmar affection is fii’st apparent is over the tendon of the index finger. This affection is generally met with in the sheaths of the fiexor tendons; it, however, is presented to us sometimes in the extensor tendons also. In the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital is a preparation shewing enlargement of the sheaths of the extensor tendons, with the formation of numerous small bodies in them; the tendons and sheaths are also somewhat thickened. There is also a preparation of the same kind from the bursa situated over the tendons attached to the great tuberosity of the humerus, exhibiting the formation of numerous small bodies there also. Small bursm are very often situated in the neighbourhood of the tendons on the back and front of the radius, where they grow to the size of a large nut; these bursae generally burst on firm pressure, and are thus very frequently got rid of entirely; they are, however, very hable to recur on any great use being made of the part. These bursae generally contain a thin watery fluid; they are, however, sometimes filled with a white cheesy substance, which may be pressed out from an opening made into them, after which the parts inflame slightly, and suppiuate, but ultimately heal well.93 BUESAL TUMOES. It is not uncommon to lind in these bursal tumors small white smooth substances, resembhng melon seeds; these have been found both in the sweUiugs around the tendons, and in the natural synovial hru'sae, as that on the patella. When closely examined, they appeal- to be of the size of a large melon seed, quite white, firm in substance, and contain a small cavity : they are generally mixed with a more or less considerable quantity of serum, of rather an opaque colour, and differ but little from each other in size. The quantity of fluid existing-' with these growths is generally greater in the synovial sheaths of tendons than in the synovial bursae, so that the bursa on the patella is sometimes found to be closely filled vdth them, with hardly any accom- panying fluid. The huing membrane of the bursae containing these gi-owths is generally opaque, and considerably thickened; so much so, indeed, tliat its continuation over the tendons is quite white and opaque, and the bright sliining appearance of the ten- dons quite wanting. There is a pecuhar form of tumor connected -with the sheaths of the tendons about the knee-joint. These tumors are elastic, and become prominent on extension of the knee-joint, but recede more and more from the feel as the joint is flexed, until the swell- ing at last disappears on complete or considerable flexure of the knee. These sweUings are in general about the size of a fives- ball, have a more or less distinct fluctuation, and are situated on the inner side of the popliteal space. They have occurred fre- quently in men, and once in a cliild about eight years old, situated on the inner side of the popliteal space, and at a short distance above the fibula; lying, in fact, beneath the tendons of the semi- tendinosus and semi-membranosus. In dissecting bodies in tire rooms, tumors of this kind have been found twice situated in the popliteal space, consisting of a cyst containing a viscid fluid of a yellowish colour, and situated close to the bursa, imder the semi-membranosus muscle in one instance, whilst in a second the fluid was contained in the proper bursa of the semi-membranosus tendon, and consisted of a fluid resembling apple-jeUy. The following is the note of one of these cases :— A. stout muscular man was found to labour under a bursal9-i CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. swelling, beneath the tendon of the semi-membranosus muscle of the right leg. This bursa was about the size of the end joint of one of the fingers, disappearing into the popliteal space, and lying partially on each side of and below the tendon, on extension of the knee. This bursa was^firmly fixed in the cellular tissue externally, being, however, smooth inside, and contained a fluid resembling rather thin apple-jelly. The bursa extended a short distance on each side of the general cavity by two small prolongations; these, how- ever, did not open into any joint, bursa, or other cavity. A natural bursa was found lower down, on the tendon of the semi- membranosus, corresponding to the bursa usually described as lying between the tendon and the inner condyle of the femur. This affection does not in general produce such inconvenience as to require an operation- Blisters and the tincture of iodine make the same, and as slow, an impression on swellings of this kind as on other bursal tumors; occasionally, however, the appli- cation of the tincture of iodine produces considerable increase of swelling and irritation of the part, if applied whilst pain or in- flammation exists. The application of mercurial ointment is not attended with any benefit.CIRCUMSTANCES INFLUENCING CONVALESCENCE OF PATIENTS, 95 CHAPTER VII. ON CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES INFLUENCING THE CONVALESCENCE OF PATIENTS. Fi'equency of disease in patients requiring operation, or suffering from accidents'. Influence of drunkenness, organic disease, and want, in rendering operations and injuries in such cases fatal. Fatal cases of delirium tremens. Occasional peculiarity of symptoms in injuries of the head of persons mentally affected, as well as in habitually intemperate persons. Occurrence of phthisis in persons suffering from fistida in ano, as well as in persons affected with disease of the spine. The success of surgical operations, independent of the operation itseK, appears to depend very much more on attention to many small, than to what might at first sight be considered the great points. Actual preparation of a patient for operation by bleeding or purging, or going through a course of anything, is rarely practised; neither, after an operation, are opiates, or any other means, ordinarily used to relieve what must necessarily happen. Although the health of patients is not attempted to be insured by doing great things, or adopting any defined course of proceeding, yet the real condition of patients requiring operation, and the existence of any particular circumstances of an unfavourable nature, are in practice accurately noticed. The favourable termination of amputations, and other operations, in patients who have been long under treatment, as compared with the same operations performed on patients in full health, illustrates the suitable and unsuitable conditions of two great classes respectively for operation; mere reduction of the standard of health within moderate limits being often I’ather a gain than a loss. Independently of the existence or non-existence of disease96 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. in parts directly connected with the organs to be operated on, wliich attracts attention, there are two particular conditions, wliich in hospital patients are often the cause of death, after injuries and operations even of the slightest kind; and an atten- tion to these conditions is often the means of understanding the peculiarity of an apparently difficult case. These two conditions are, intemperance with its results, and disease in one or two in- ternal organs, slight in degree, but often of considerable extent. There are certain organs which can be readily tested as to their soundness, but many can not, and the acquisition of this knowledge must be partly gained from the patient^s own account. It requires but a short attendance in the dead-house to learn that men who consider themselves as healthy may be seriously and extensively diseased, and even if the symptoms of disease had existed, but only of such a kind as were cognizable to the patient, they may not have been noticed by him. The sjunptoms of disease are not always plain to a workingman, in the way that they are to an educated person, and even pain, that symptom so cognizable to most, may be hardly noticed as such, by a man whose mental faculties, by his own habits, and an absence of all education, have been utterly neglected and seldom used. The history of the same aihnent may be spontaneously given ^by one man, whilst from another it has to be gained point by point, and sometimes even then only imperfectly. This frequent existence of organic disease in several organs of the body renders a large mass of disease very fatal, wliich appears at first sight curable, as well as destroys a certain number of patients after operations. Amongst those cases terminating fatally may be especially included erysipelas of the head from wounds, amputations in elderly persons, and compound fractures. The fatality of cases in a large hospital may be very liigh, even in diseases which are apparently imld, and in operations wluch are generally successful. Where sickness is the condition of admission, all classes of disease will come; neither the existence of any quan- tity of disease, the refusal of every body else to treat them, nor their utter incurability, will keep them away. Tew think that they are utterly beyond all the powers of the medical art; when they cease to apply for relief they still return to die, and a disease whichCIRCUMSTANCES INFLUENCING CONVALESCENCE OF PATIENTS. 97 removes a working man from all employment, even tliongli it be unattended by any immediate danger to bfe, may be to him so serious a misfortune as to induce liim even to beg an operation, which affords a chance of a restoration to health, even though at serious risk to lumself. There are certain occupations and trades in London which are especially drunken trades, and the simple fact of a person belong- ing to them is a very bad prognostic for sickness. These persons do not however drink at random, or drink anytliing, but each particular class drink after a certain rule, follow the same habits, and present nearly the same appearance. They all come to pretty much the same end at last, but they reach it by different roads. The great beer druikers, draymen, coal-wliippers, and watermen, work much in the open air, exercise their hmbs most powerfully, and though seldom of a healthy appearance, often have the size as well as the power of the finest and healtluest countrymen. These men are especially contrasted with the great spirit diinkers, who work in a hot close atmosphere, only employ some of their limbs, and often work at night or at late hours : such are often newspaper compositors, and tailors. These are the two extremes of a class; their habits and occupations are utterly different; their faults take a different turn from the same road, and the two classes present a totally difi'erent appearance for a certain time. These men are, so to speak, moderately well off; theh wages are good, their occupation pretty regular, and they are not the ready poor. There are, however, many trades which are foUowed by the poor in mind and the w^eak in body, the wages of which are never high, and often uncertain: the employment of these persons hai’dly ceases day or night, exposes them to the greatest changes in weather, and they often serve masters little above themselves. Amongst these are waiters at low taverns, stablemen at livery stables, and prostitutes. Tliese drink neither beer nor spirits in the same extreme degree as the two other classes, but they chink a great deal of any thing in small c^uantities, live on bad food, and poverty often presses very hard upon them. These are the habits of some few classes of the persons wdio form the patients of a London hospital; their life ends not n98 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. unfrequently in disease, which brings them under the care of the physician, but engaged in a trade, they are liable to accidents, and are then found in the surgical wards. Here their accident alone brings them; they believe themselves to be otherwise well, but the condition of body wliich their habits have estabhshed, though it may not have rendered disease visible by its effects, may already have done enough to prevent their rallying from even a slight accident; for the power which has enabled them to go smootlily and actively on up to the present time, may not be sufficient to overcome any sudden check, or to correct an injury in the body itself. The stout unliealthy drayman, who takes much of his nourish- ment in beer, differs often as much in sickness as in health from the pale and weakly ostler or waiter, who drinks what he can get, and works at irregular hours. The drayman is rare as a hospital patient, except for a wound on the leg, or a fracture; and then, if liis ailments are accompanied with erysipelas or delirium tre- mens, they are often of the most destructive and violent kind: liis life sometimes being lost within a few days from the sudden prostration of his powers, by extensive sloughing of the limb, or the continuous violence of the dehiium. The ostler and tavern waiter, vdth others that come very near them in habits, the knacker and the nightman, are very common hospital patients, for little tilings, but those very hard to cure. Bad ulcers of the legs with irregular inflammation round them, abscesses from slight causes and womids, which are tardy of healing, form their chief ailments, whilst low erysipelas occurs very readily in them, and they bear no active treatment. The bad leg of tliis last class is sometimes very severe, and bores deeply and widely amongst the surrounding tissues. In the sore leg of a nightman the ante- rior tibial artery burst, and in a similar disease of a stable-man the posterior tibial artery gave way from the extension of ulcera- tion, and in both cases the patients ultimately died. The effects of constant diinking tell by the general change on the habit and power, as well as by the production of disease; but it is extremely hard to say what degree of drinking short of the production of disease is hurtful. That it does teU appears to he beyond doubt, but every now and then some habitual drunkardCIUCUMSTANCES INFLUENCING CONVALESCENCE OF PATIENTS. 99 resists the powers of disease in a degree equal to that of the healtliiest man. These cases are^ however, exceptions, and the patient by his own words sometimes announces that he considers his recovery, after such a mode of Hfe, as contrary even to his oum expectation. Of all diseases of internal organs produced by drinking, the granular hver seems to have attracted most attention. Perhaps justly; but there is no doubt that of all organic diseases, the two most to be feared in intemperate persons with recent surgdcal in- juries are, the granular kidney, and slight but general emphysema, with a dilated, but not always much diseased, heart; and in per- sons past the middle period of hfe, dying rapidly in hospitals after ojierations and surgical injuries, combiued with much loss of blood, these two affections of the urinary and respiratory organs are very far from uncommon. The foUomng class of cases is not uncommon: —Men are ad- mitted with shght cuts on the cliin and wounds of the scalp, which have happened one or two days previously, or they apply with recent cut heads, from which large quantities of blood are lost; erysipelas of the parts around occurs, the patients look dusky, their minds seem rather dull, and they every now and then cough, as if they were husky, or had something in their fauces. If they take antimony or purgatives, they are profusely j)urged, and lose strength rapidly. These patients have not a regular iUness, which allows time for treatment, but tbeir whole ailments seem to consist in being taken ill and then rapidly dying; they apply for admission one day, and sometimes die tlie next. These patients are generally men of a full and florid habit, rather old than middle aged, and free livers, but strong and active. In ex- amining their bodies the liver is not always much or decidedly diseased, but the kidneys are more or less granular, whilst the lungs are considerably emphysematous, and often loaded with blood and fluid. The kidney and the lung in these cases are not generally in an extreme state of disease, but disease in a shght degree is very generally distributed: thus there are no bladders or extreme emphysema of any one part of the lung, but the cells in every part arc more or less affected, whilst the kidney is not contracted, but mottled and dotted in every part.100 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. buigical disease is not only complicated by old organic disease pressing with a dead weight on the powers of the patient, but a recent acute affection arising in a patient already surgically ill, is not unfrequently fatal at a very early period. The low fever of the metropolis and large towns, by acci- dental circumstances—as mortification of the limbs or portions of the ear—shews how far the patient may be reduced by it alone; and hence it is not a matter of surprise, that even mild sur- gical ailments, when fever is added, should assume a severe cha- racter, or that the fever itseK should terminate fatally, when the patient is already reduced by injury or operation. The simple discharge of gonorrhoea, which produces generally mere excoria- tions, is, under the influence of low fever, a cause of the most severe form of sloughing phagedena; and three instances have occurred, in wliich patients, hardly aware of any important affec- tion of the uretlira, have been attacked, during convalescence from fever, with sudden effusion of urine into the perineum, from the uretlira giving way. Scarlatina, unaccompanied by any particular circumstances, has been known, when occurring in a patient from whom a testicle hadbeen removed, to destroy life by the rapid failure of the patient in a few days. In these cases a distinct and well marked fever is added to an already existing ailment, and the severity of the iUness is materially increased; there are, how- ever, surgical cases of the most serious description in which one cannot say that any tiling is added, but can only consider what might at first seem a peculiarity as a necessary accompaniment of the case. Exclusive of compound fractures, and other serious injuries, in which fever of a low type often occurs, there are sur- gical cases stiU more closely resembhng low fever. At the bedside of many cases of traumatic erysipelas, some patients after operation, especially after the removal of deep-seated tumors, and even in some cases of simple injuries, as broken ribs, one recognises the general condition of low fever, ivith the want of any prominent indications for any special treatment, but with the necessity of con- stant watching for the commencement of local affections. In looking over the notes of these cases, their resemblance to cases of low fever is very marked; there is the same failure, where active means were used, the same necessity for support but with lessCmCUMSTANCES INFLUENCING CONVALESCENCE OF PATIENTS. 101 success ill its employment; and tlie post-mortem exammatioiis, even of some of these surgical casesj will be found to describe a soft pulpy spleen^ imperfectly coagulated dark blood, and a loaded condition of the lung-s, in as decided a manner as the notes of a regular case of ordinary low fever. But there is tliis difference; wliilst the organs of the fever case were perhaps free from old dis- ease, the notes of the surgical case wiU often describe a mass of changes, slight, perhaps, in any one single organ, but amounting collectively to a pressure oii several of the most important func- tions of the body. The lungs may be free from tubercles, but they ai’e emphysematous; the kidneys may not be granular, but they are mottled and pale; the hver, though not hobnailed, is greasy and yellow, and though the heart is not enlarged, there are old opacities in the arteries and on the mitral and aortic valves. The tlnee chief affections destroying patients, after operations and injuries—the general habit produced by drinking; secondly, organic disease in the lungs and kidneys, especially emphysema in the former, and granular disease in the latter; and thu’dly, tubercle—act very differently, and at diflereut periods. During the early period, and often for weeks after operations, patients labouring under tubercular disease do well; and it is often only at the absolute return to health, rather than during the recovery from the operation itself, that the effects of tubercle begin to shew themselves. Organic disease produced by drunkenness, and ha- bitual drunkemiess, act differently; the organic disease presses heavily at every period, and may destroy life either early or late; but the mere habits of the drunkard shew themselves chiefly at a very early period. The patient, who neaidy sinks from liis un- sound organs within the few fh-st days, often lags on for days and weeks in danger; but the man who has simple delirium tremens is taken ill directly, and often dies, but if he recovers from his delinum he generally gets well from the operation, and sometimes quickly. Amongst the number of poor in a large hospital there are many whose ostensible ailment is very slight, but who arc ad- mitted for the cure of this ailment, and especially to improve their wretched condition. Tor these a comfortable bed and good food are the principal medicines required. It not uncommonly, how- ever, happens that patients with very serious disease arc mhuitted.102 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEUVATIONS IN SURGERY. who have been already reduced by want and misery, and then this low condition adds most materially to their illness, whether it be that wliich is capable of rehef by operation, or be real orga- mc disease. It seems that under these circumstances patients labouring under organic disease may sink before their time, or before the disease has reached its ordinary fatal period, from the additional illness induced by poverty or mental distress. Ifor in- stance, the following case of hernia appeared to terminate fatally, not by its actual severity, but from many circumstances collectively, reducing the patient’s powers. A woman, only tliirty-tlmee years of age, was admitted, under Mr. Stanley, ivith a small femoral hernia, which had become stran- gidated a week previously: she appeared not to have been regu- larly treated by any body, but somebody had sent her some medi- cine. The abdomen was flaccid, and nearly free from pain; the tougue was stdl moist; the hernia unaccompanied by much pain; and the pulse simply feeble. She had, however, constipation, foetid vomiting, and the rupture was nreducible. In appearance she was tliiu and haggard, with sunken eyes, and seemed so broken down by want of every kind, that she appeared hardly aware of the danger of her condition, and almost inattentive to pain. The stricture was not close; there was some fluid in the sac, Avith a portion of dark but healthy small intestine. After the operation she ivas uneasy, and lay with her legs drawn up; the pulse was 100, and became decidedly hard. Twenty leeches were apphed to the surface of the abdomen, and the pulse became soft. She took one draclim of Epsom salts, and was purged even by this quantity. She gradually died. Dissection shewed the bowel, which had been returned, lying near the femoral ring, and coated with a thin layer of lymph, its mucous membrane red, and slightly ulcerated in one spot. There was some little vascularity of the peritoneal coat of the small intestines, and a small quantity of clear fluid in the pelvis. Again; in this case, however, the man laboured under slight disease of many organs. A man of 22 years of age was admitted under Mr. Lawrence, in a state of extreme weakness, so that he tottered, when he triedCIRCUMSTANCES INFLUENCING CONVALESCENCE OF PATIENTS. 103 to stand without support; he was also extremely pale, and some- what emaciated. The siglit of both eyes was so completely gone that he could only partially distinguish light from dark, without any power of distinguishing the position of the strong light, or the windows of the wai-d. The eyes presented nothing unusual, except an abnost motionless condition of the pupils, v'hicli were midway between dilatation and contraction. The conjunctiva of one eye was ecchymosed from a recent blow on the forehead, but the most troublesome symptom of tliis patient was incessant vomiting, wliich induced him to apply for relief. The food and nourishment taken by him were rejected unaltered witliin a few minutes; there was frequent vomiting duiing the day, ivith nausea, and a tendency to vomit when the thoughts of food occurred to his mmd. He stated that seven months since he was out of work, and went about the country to obtain some ; he walked over various parts of England, in want of food and clothes, as well as almost every necessary of life, being utterly unable to find work for four months. At the end of this period, three months since, he found liis sight to be dim, and therefore applied to a medical man, by whom he was bled from the arm, amongst other things, and ultimately by some accident salivated. Under these chcumstances his sight completely failed; he was sahvated, and had a severe diarrhoea; the substance voided consisting (according to liis sister’s account) chiefly of blood. About tliis period he first began to vomit, which he has continued to do ever since, during a period of about ten weeks, the matter vomited being occasionally mixed with blood, the vomiting occurring frequently each day, especially after taking food. The remedies tried in the hospital consisted of opium, calomel, prussic acid, blister to the occiput, and an em- brocation of olive oil and croton oil over the stomach: these, to a certain degree only, diminished the vomiting, but he died within about a fortnight from admission. On dissection, the head presented nothing unusual, except a most decided paleness of the cortical substance of the brnin, as well as of the vascular fringes of the ventricles. Tlie lungs were emphysematous here and there in jiatches on their surface, whilst in the cellular tissue of the chest., between the lung and jmhnonarv104 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERV. jjleuraj numerous small eccli}unoses of blood existed, wliich in some places were almost confluent. A few tubercles existed in tlie apex of the lungs, which also presented one or two distinct spots of effused blood. The liver, spleen, and pancreas, were quite healthy; the left ventricle of the heart was large and its walls were tliickened. The kidneys were granular and lobulated ; the cortical sub- stance pale, diminished in size. Arm, and speclded with red and yellow dots. The cesophagus presented several deep vertical fissures of its lining membrane, near the cardiac orifice. The stomach presented a firm entire mucous membrane, of a general dark colour, with black veins, whilst the mucous membrane itself was in parts apparently ecchymosed. The lower .part of the small intestines, as well as the whole com’se of the large intestine, pre- sented streaks of bloody mucus, on the membrane, which in the caecum, and first part of the colon, was marked with numerous small idcers of a round form, and separate. The whole mucous membrane of the large intestines, and lower part of the small intestines, presented numerous ecchymoses, in some parts so great as to render' the mucous membrane quite sodden with blood. We next come to Delirium Ti’emens.. The most severe cases of dehrium tremens occur in hale, stout persons, habitual drinkers, but not necessarily often intoxicated, and after large losses of blood. In these persons the attack some- times commences at once, and is attended vdth the greatest violence, and the most frightful visions. The following case presents an example of the most severe form :—A muscular forgeman from the Welsh liiUs, coming up to London, fell asleep on a coach, tumbled off, and broke liis humerus liigh up, with enormous effusion of blood into the parts round. He was admitted luider Mr. Stanley’s care. Tliis man was reported to drink foui- gallons of beer daily, and Ids accident happened June 1. He was rather long in the descriptions of his misfortunes, but not particularly so, and remained going on well till 11 P.M., on June 3rd, At tlds time he suddenly woke up, pimped out of bed, and tlu’eatened to hit a patient, believing him to be a fiend, and supposing himself to be surrounded by evil spirits on ah sides. He was quieted, and remained so, describing the horrors of hell, which had been before him. This lasted onlyCIRCUMSTANCES INFLUENCING CONVALESCENCE OF PATIENTS. 105 till 1 in the morning; liis visions of torture then again returned, he broke his straps, and Moke the patients in the different wards with liis screams. He took some laudanum, but not in any large quantity, and part was rejected by vomiting. At 5 in the morning he fancied liimself drowning, and in the midst of his slirieks was seized with shaking in every inch of his body, and died within eight hours of the time when he had been sound asleep, apparently doing well. There was some little old opacity in the araclmoid, but except liis recent injury, he had the organs of a sound and healthy man. Cases have been described in which patients apparently re- covering from delirium tremens have suddenly failed and died. These cases make a great impression on the friends, and are often sources of anxiety to others : they may be, and probably are, un- avoidable in many cases, yet still when large quantities of opium and spirits have been given, sudden death, with cerebral symptoms, is a most unpleasant occurrence. 1. A stout working man was admitted under the care of Mr. Law- rence, with a broken leg : delirium tremens of the most violent nature ensued in the evening of the second day : during this night, the tliird day, and the following night, he took very large quantities of laudanum. He closed his mouth so firmly that it was given as an enema; this producing no effect, a pipe was in- troduced through the nose into the stomach. On the morning of the 4th day liis ravings had ceased; he was sensible, and thankful for what had been done. He now took some solid food, meat with potatoes, wliich he seemed to relish. Soon afterwards he had a fit, and died rapidly. No examination was allowed. The following case resembles tliis in some particulars, and an examination was allowed ;— 2. A woman, about 48, was admitted under Mr. Stanley, with a cut head, wliich was followed by delirium tremens. She took large quantities of gin and porter, with small quantities of laudanum. On the 9th day, whilst rambling and moving about, she became suddenly motionless, and aiiparently dead. Lrom this condition she however soon recovered, again to rave and move about. She again became suddenly quiet, and died rapidly.106 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. Dissection shewed old disease in many orgaus^ with four ounces of recently effused blood on tlie upper surface and base of the brain^ as well as a small quantity of effused blood on the upper part of the left posterior lobe. 3. In another case of severe delirium tremens^ the man had a sudden rigor, and then rapidly died. Dissection shewed nothing in the head, except some old opacity of the arachnoid. Amongst the patients with injuries of the head, wlio ultimately get well, are some ivho have previously had some peculiarity of mind, sufficient to make them considered odd, but not regularly insane. Many of these persons recover very slowly, and then.' symptoms are often so unfavourable for a long tune, that serious injury is suspected. The peculiarity of mind is at times remark- able during their recovery; they often appear heavy and duU, but are remarkably quick on certain subjects, and often in the midst of their apparently careless notice of surrounding objects and per- sons, are found to be taking accui'ate notice of every thing, and seem even to feel without displeasure that they are supposed to be very duU. Cases of tliis land have occurred at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, in which, from the slow progress, and impairment of faculties, the skull was supposed to be injured, but ultimately these persons recovered: this recovery, liowever, seemed incomplete to a certain degree; for, even long after, these persons appeared shaken, and still affected to a certain degree, by the shock wliicli their brain had received. These cases resemble very closely another class, of wliich the following is related as a remarkable instance, in which an injury of the head is accompanied with ordinary symptoms, but where these symptoms fail to yield, either at the ordinary period, or to common means : the employment, however, of the accustomed stimulus of sjiirits immediately pro- duces a marked change. It is not clear that this peculiarity does not occur at times, even in young boys, when at markets and other places they have begun to drink very early in life :— Thomas Baker, a3t. 35, admitted February 15th, 1843, under Mr. Stanley. A man of rather unhealthy appearance, quite un- able to give any account of himself, and not fuUy conscious of the nature of surrounding objects. There is nothing unnatm-al aboutCIRCUMSTANCES INFLUENCING CONVALESCENCE OF PATIENTS. 107 In's skin, pulse, or any external part, which appear unaffected, and not in an unhealthy condition, the skin being moist, and the pulse not very different from the standard of health. He lies in a comfortable position on his back, sleeps at times, passes his water and motions regularly, but only notices surrounding objects by a stare of the eyes without saying any thing, but resisting attempts to move liis limbs, and more partieularly to open his mouth. He is a brieklayer, and of intemperate habits, but was always well till tliree days before admission, when he fell out of a cart, cut the side of his head, and was brought home insensible, in which condition he remained tiU admission, and from that period imtil about Eebruary 17th. He passed his motions once under liim, answered all remarks by ‘'‘'yes'’^ or “no,” without any ap- parent idea of their meaning, but managed to make his wants just inteUigible to the nurse; beyond this condition he did not however advance. About the 17 th the sister of the ward gave him a little gin, and he brightened up in so marked a manner, that it was re- solved to treat hhn vith some form of beer or spirits. Previously to this he had been treated with nutritious food, aperient medi- cine, and two blisters at the nape of the neck. On the 17 th he was ordered to take a pint of porter daily, which he continued till his discharge, on the 10 th of March. During this period he gradually improved, except for one or two •days when the porter was omitted. His gradual recovery may be thus described, beginning at the 17 th of Pebruary. He seemed at first to be eonscious of surrounding objects and persons, but not able to recognise their distinctive characters, nearly all seeming much alike. Questions put to liim attracted lus attention, but did not elicit any other answer than “ yes” or “ no.” In a few more days he began to attempt to give answers, which indicated comprehension of the question, as well as power of reasoning; these answers began correctly, and continued for two or three words, but then terminated abruptly. Though he seemed to have arrived at the just conclusion when he began to speak, his mind appeared to be incapable of continuing its action to the end of the comparatively long period required for the ex-108 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. pressioii of liis ideas, whilst his recent thoughts seemed not to recur again to liim. He was able to wallc a moderate distance, not however without shaking, or liability to fall on getting back into his bed. His consciousness, powers of exertion, and reasoning, gradually improved from this imperfect condition, and he had on his discharge, March 10th, 1812, nearly regained liis usual con- dition of health. On March 10th, the note says, “he is up most of the day, and has the use of all his senses quite perfectly, with the exception of some slight dimness of sight. He can answer questions quite well, and states that he remembers nothing from falling out of the cart, till he found himseK in the Hospital in bed.^^ The following circumstances illustrative of the co-existence of phthisis with fistula in ano and disease of the spine have been noticed. The frequent occurrence of fistula in ano, at the same time as tubercles in the lungs, appears to be free from all question, what- ever connection there may be between the two affections. A certain number of patients apply for relief for fistula, iii whom phthisis is so xuidoubted, that any operation is refused. The following sixteen notes were taken indifferently of patients with fistula in ano admitted at different periods, in whom the chest was carefully examined. In six, probably seven, phthisis appeared to exist; these cases, perhaps, do not show an absolute connection, that is, they do not show that the fistula was a tuberculous ulcer originally; but the circumstances attending the fistula in the cases of phthisis were remarkably similar. These six patients, with one exception, were young : the fistula came apparently of itself, udthout cause. Cough, or hectic fever, or hemoptysis, or emaciation, were mentioned where a history was obtained. The physical signs of tubercle were present, and, with one exception, tubercles only, not cavities. In tliis one case a cavity existed; the fistula had been divided, and the cough had commenced two months afterwards. In two cases the fistula oc- curred after fever; in one of these the patient had suffered from h£cmo])tysis, and the chest was in a doubtful condition.CIRCUMSTANCES INFLUENCING CONVALESCENCE OP PATIENTS. 109 No. Sex. Affe. Alleged Cause Condition of Patient Condition of Lungs. 1 Male 29 Spontaneous Getting thin, cough, sweats, htemopty- sis In apex of right lung aii- ad- mitted imperfectly,breath- ing loud and coarse 2 Male 27 Not stated Died of disease of spinal cord and brain Crude tubercles in apices of both lungs 3 Male 51 Not stated Healthy; hasmopty- sis for 34 years Heart’s soimds good, some diduess of left apex, expi- ration loud on both sides 4 Male 34 Not stated Cough, hajmoptysis Not examined 5 Male 30 Spontaneous Thin, vHth cough In upper third of left apex diminished respiration with some didness 6 Male 18 Spontaneous Cough, sweats, and loss of flesh Eight lung — inspiration feeble, expiration loud; apex—dull in front; sub- clavian region—^flat, mth an occasional click 7 Female 24 Spontaneous Thin, cough for three weeks; fis- tula divided thi-ee mouths since Physical signs of cavity in right apex 8 Female 25-30 Not stated Healthy Healthy 9 Male 47 Not stated Healthy Healthy 10 Male 52 Spontaneous Healthy Healthy 11 Male 58 Piles Healthy Some bronchitis and em- physema 12 Male 40 Piles Healthy; “ burst a blood-vessel some years since” Some bronchitis and em- physema 13 Female 28 Blow Healthy Healthy 14 Female 23 Blow Healthy Healthy 15 Female 22 After fever Fat, hysterical; had acute rheumatism, cough, and occa- sional hffimoptysis Healthy (doubtfully) 16 Female 21 After fever Pale Healthy The presence or absence of ulcerative disease of the rectum in connection with scrofulous changes in the lungs^ is a matter of interest, as bearing on the question of the coexistence of fistula in ano and phthisis. The following table contains the condition of the bovvels, and an especial note of the rectum, in thfitcen cases of phthisis: —no CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. No. Sex. Agre. Lungs. Small Intestines. Caecum and Colon. Rectum. 1 Male 19 Cavities Ulcerated Ulc. to desc. col. No ulcer 2 Male 19 Cavities No ulcer No ulcer No ulcer 3 Male 54 Cavities Ulcerated Ulc. to sigm. flex. No ulcer 4 Female — Cavities Ulcerated Ulcerated No ulcer 5 Male 25 Cavities Ulcerated Caecum ulcerated Ulcerated 6 Female 45 Tubercles No ulcer Trausv. col. ulc. Almost healthy 7 Male 25 Cavities No ulcer No ulcer One ulcer, i in. from anus 8 Female — Cavities No ulcer Ulcerated No ulcer 9 Male 30 Cavities Ulcerated Caecum ulcerated No ulcer 10 Male 24 Cavities Ulcerated No ulcer No ulcer 11 Male 25 Cavities No ulcer No ulcer No ulcer 12 Female 38 Tubercles No ulcer No ulcer No rdeer 13 Male 43 Cavities Ulcerated Ulcerated Ulcerated Wliat is tlie result here shewn ? In three cases the intestiues were entirely healthy, wliilst in two they were ulcerated throughout. In four cases the small intestines and colon were ulcerated, in one the small intestines- only, in two the colon only, and in one the rectum only, but in that case the ulcer was just in the situation of fistula. Let us now turn to diseases of the spine:— In twenty-four patients with supposed disease of some part of the spine, or lumbar abscess, or both, the chest was carefully exa- mined. Of these twenty-four, the chest appeared to he sound in eighteen; in the remaining six the following signs of thoracic disease were found :— One had the physical signs of a cavity in the apex of the left lung. In tliree, crude tubercles were found in both lungs after death. Two had suffered from haemoptysis; and in these two cases the apex of the left Imig admitted less air than the right. The resemblance between the cases of fistula and the disease of the spine, in reference to the thoracic affection, is remarkable. In both tubercular disease occurred occasionaUj^, and then of a chronic form, and in both the fistula and disease of the spine ap- peared to commence whilst the tubercles were crude.Ill AT’FEOTIONS OF JOINTS. CHAPTER VIII. AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. / Occasional severity of pain in inflammation of the synovial membrane. Disease lin- gering in one joint after rheiunatism, its destructive action and occasional want of marked symptoms. Sudden acute disease of joints in healthy persons, terminat- ing in anchylosis without suppuration. Disease affecting the fibrous structm'e of a joini alone. Disease of the hip in a child, suddenly followed by dislocation, apparently without ulceration of the joint. Disease of the hip suddenly fatal, with cerebral symptoms. Anchylosis of the hip. Distension of the Icnee joint with fluid. Case of loose cartilage. Lumbar abscess, containing an unusual quantity of matter. Affection of the spine, in which the symptoms resembled partly those arising from injmy, as well as partly those arising from disease. Dissections of a contracted finger, of a case of talipes varus, and of contracted toes. It is remarkable how accurately the exact period at wliich ulceration commences in a joint may often he determined^ and how seldom the pecuhar signs of ulceration of cartilage are connected with any other change in a joint; yet sometimes acute inflamma- tion of the synovial membrane, and that in cases connected with rheumatism, or after exposure to cold, is accompanied with symp- toms of so severe a nature, as to resemble in many respects ulcera- tion of cartilage. In these cases there is severe pain on moving the joint, or press- ing its articular surfaces on each other; the patient is hable to sudden attacks of pain, and finds no rehef from letting the joint hang sus- pended. If these conditions were present in a joint which had been diseased for many months, where matters had been slowly getting worse and worse, and where destruction of the joint might be looked upon as likely, it might justly be considered that ulceration of cartilage was occurring; but in these cases of disproportionate suffering here alluded to, combined with simple inflammation of112 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. synovial membrane^ the accompanying fever is greater than that commonly accompanying ulceration of cartilage, when occurring as a sequence of long standing disease of the joint; and there is not the awful agony of acute disorganization of a large joint eom- mencing as sueh. The relief attending the administration of in- ternal medicines, and the local abstraction of blood, give a degree of relief in these cases which cannot be obtained from these means in disorganizing ulceration of a joint. So marked, indeed, is sometimes the relief from proper means, and the restoration of the healthy condition of the joint, that these cases of apparently severe disease get weU before cases of common synovial inflammation, which have been destitute of severe symptoms of any kind. An attack of chronic rheumatism generally leaves the joints some- what stiff, swelled, and painful; from which condition they slowly but ultimately recover, uifless another or more attacks supervene, and by small and suecessive additions so materially affect the joint that eomplete recovery occurs mth difficulty. It occasionally, how- ever, happens that one joint remains hot and painful after the affec- tion of all the other joints has subsided, and when this occurs, tliis single joint is with great difficulty restored to its healthy condition, and is extremely Liable to become more or less seriously disorga- nized in a very short space of time. Thus a single phalangeal joint of a finger remaining swelled and hot after all the affection in the other joints has subsided, has been found almost on the first serious examination of the part deprived of cartilage; or in a patient lying quietly in bed, and complaining of an acliing, and an aching only, in one hip, the head of the femur has been found lying on the dorsum of the ilium. In short, however slight the lagging inflammatory symptoms may be, or however trifling the dull aching may be in a single joint, after the removal of an attack of rheumatism, so as these signs do exist, they shoidd be a source of the greatest anxiety. When all the joints are restored to an apparent condition of health after an attack of acute rheumatism, and the person per- forms all the duties and acts of life as well as he ever did, he may, perhaps, be considered well; but the simple fact of the joints having once been attacked, is alone an unfavourable circumstance, and appears to render them more liable, even at a comparatively113 AFFECTIOT^S OF JOINTS. distant period, to disease. After a complete recovery for tliree years, disease in the hip may occur, in an otlierwise healthy person, so entirely unconnected with any recently acting cause, that it can only be considered as the lighting up of an old rheumatic affection. Cases are occasionally met with of disease commencing suddenly in a joint without any evident cause, and terminating rapidly in firm anchylosis. In these cases pain occurs suddenly, without any evident cause, in one of the joints of a person in good health; this is rapidly followed by swelling of the joint, or of the wdiole hmb, with general fever. Trom the first there is the most acute pain on moving the joint, but no very severe pain at other times, except in occasional paroxysms during sleep. At the end of tlnee or four months, the inflammatory part of the affection is removed under treatment, leaving the hmb in its natural condi- tion, except that the affected joint is firmly anchylosed. The cases related below are instances of this affection in the elbow joint of women: looking to the result, it would seem, from the very shght degree of motion observed ultimately in these two cases, that the union was not then formed by bone, whilst the short period in which the disease ran its course, the sohdity of the joint resulting from it, and the want of any indica- tion of suppuration, pointed to the probability of the disease con- sisting in the effusion of lymph into the joint, or the union of the two articular surfaces by granulations. 1. A girl, aged 19, was admitted into the hospital. May 10, 1842, under Mr. Stanley; she was pale, but moderately healthy, menstruating naturally, labouring under slight general fever, with a small but hard pulse, sufferiug chiefly from an affection of the arm. The right arm, from the fingers to about the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, is swelled, with some firmness, but without any redness of the skin. The elbow is slightly flexed, and free from any severe pain, except on motion, which produces the greatest agony. Previous to the 2nd of May she was quite weU. On this day she was cutting some bread, when she M^as suddenly seized with so severe a pain in the elbow that she dropped the knife, and has been quite unable since to use the elbow or arm for any pm*])ose. She has been chiefly confined to her bed, the pain not being gene- I114 CIJNTCAL C’OLLECTIOKS AND OBSKllVATTONS IN SUROERY. rally severe^ but occurring in occasional paroxysms and disturbing her rest. June 1st.—Since admission, she has taken some occasional doses of antimony and purgative medicines; the cliief treatment has, how- ever, consisted in keeping the arm quite quiet, and applying leeches frequently. The elbow, fore arm, and hand, are still quite oedema- tous, and the joint quite as painful on any attempt at motion. July 6th.—The occasional employment of leeches to the joint has been continued. The swelhng of the arm is nearly all re- moved ; the arm has become somewhat more straight since admis- sion, but is just as painful on any attempt at motion. This girl went out in the autumn. The sweUing and pain had subsided; the elbow had been bent forcibly, so that it was nearly at a right angle, but it was apparently nearly fixed in this position. In November, 1843, I saw her well in health. The arm was bent, muscular, and of its natural size, but apparently quite firmly anchylosed, not the least motion being performed by the elbow in any way. 2. A respectable woman applied to Mr. Stanley at the hospital, in February, 1843, on account of stiffness of the elbow joint, being otherwise quite well and hi good health. The left elbow was free from any pain, heat, or sweUing, but bent at an obtuse angle, and thus incapable of being weU raised to the head. The fore arm was supinated, and the elbow only admitted of the slightest degree of flexion and rotation ; this shght motion was, however, unaccom- panied with pain. She knew no cause whatever to which she could attribute the affection. Five months since, she had an acliing pain in the left shoulder, which did not by its severity confine her to bed, but after lasting for two or three days, was followed by a sudden pain in the left elbow, which was very severe, succeeded by swelhng of the joint in a short time, and obhged her to lay up in bed. She also stated, that the pain in the shoulder gradually subsided, whilst the pain and swelhng of the elbow increased rapidly, and was accompanied with fever. Under the employment of general means, and leeches to the joint, the acute affection sub- sided in about fourteen weeks, and her arm was placed in its pre- sent condition, which it lias maintained during the seven weeks which have elapsed since.115 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. Disease is seen to aflect the synovial or cartilaginous tissue of a joint separately^ and often to limit itself for a considerable period to one of these structui-es. In the following case the fibrous sheaths and hgaments of the knee-joint were almost exclusively affected, and that to such a degree as to lame the man almost completely:— A stout healthy man, about forty years of age, was admitted in January 1843, labouring under relaxation of the right knee-joint, Avith a sHght -affection of the left. He was not liable to rheuma- tism. Tlie right knee was sprained four years since; he worked for some weeks, and then lay up in bed more or less till September 1842, since which he lay up altogether. This knee is not swelled or painful, but the sheaths of the tendons on the outer and inner side of the knee crackle under the hand when pressed, wlulst the tibia shdes forwards and backwards on the femur in flexion and extension, the sartorius at the same time slipping over the edge of the femoral condyle, so that from the crackling of the sheaths, the slipping of the tendon, and the sliding of the bones, the joint has completely lost the firm gradual motion of a healthy knee; the inner condyle is also distinctly enlarged, swelled, and rough. He can hardly walk up stairs, and only walks comfortably with liis knees quite straight, and to strengthen them ties a handkerchief just below the knee over the tendons iu that situation. He states that the left knee was hurt eighteen years since, but is sound and good; this joint, however, crackles considerably mider the fingers in the sheaths of the tendons on the inner side, but otherwise appears sound. This man remained in the hospital a short time, and then went out as on admission. Cases have been recorded of disease of a rheumatic form occm- ring in joints, accompanied vlth such changes in the fibrous capsules as allowed dislocation to occur. The following case resembles -these in its results, but it differs from them in a most marked manner in one respect, inasmuch as it presented itself as one of ordi- nary diseased hip in a child, and was probably of the strumous kind; but the symptoms of any active disease were absent, the head of the bone remained entire, and the mildness of the symp- toms, with the seriousness of the result, could only be explainedIIG CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURO'ERY. on the supposition of the lengthened capsule allowing the head of the femur to be separated from the acetabulum by fluid, in the same manner as it may be by air in the dead body, and being sub- sequently drawn from its new position upon the dorsum ilii by the action of the muscles :— A girl, aged six years, was admitted May 4, 1843, under Mr. Stanley, of delicate appearance, not very tliiii or mdiealthy in form or other respects, but labouring under lameness of the right hip. The child is slightly lame, and unwilhng to move the right limb, the hip-joint of wliich is painful when moved. The pelvis is drawn up, and renders the limb apparently short; but nothing like decided shortening or dislocation can be seen. It appears tliat one month since the child feU down and hm-t her liip. Two weeks since she complained of pain, which has increased since to such a degree as to require her admission into the hospital. She was ordered to be kept quiet in bed, and a poultice was applied round the joint. . She lay in bed for six weeks, when the hip was again examined. There appeared to be no cause for anxiety in this particular case, as the child appeared to be going on well. The following was, however, the condition of the joint. The distance between the knee and anterior superior spine is shortened one inch and a half, the Hmb very shghtly inverted, the head of the bone carried right upwards and backwards, espe- cially in the latter direction, on the dorsum ilii. The parts are to be freely felt in their new situation, where they are flxed, nearly free from pain, and vdthout surrounding thickening in any marked degree. This girl went out in October, tolerably well in health, the hmb remaining in the same condition. The thickening round the head of the femur was not great, and the head of the femur appeared to be entire. Such was the result in a case wliich, on admission, did not pre- sent one single feature to distinguish it from a class in which the changes are genendly slow, and in which a dislocation of the joint unattended by destructive changes either in the acetabulmn or femur would not be thought probable. It seemed that in this case the bones were probably entire, and that the case may be117 AFFECTION OF JOINTS. classed with those described by Dr. Heine,* in which dislocation took place from disease of the hip in young persons, and in some of which the femur was artificially and permanently reduced to its natural situation at a subsequent period. Unusual results ensuing in ordinary cases strike one^s atten- tion so forcibly, that even without a satisfactory knowledge of the real cause of the peculiarity of such cases, the case itself assumes an extraordinary interest. The following case of disease of the hip presented nothing unusual on admission, but within a month the ehild was dying of symptoms resembling those of acute affection of the brain, wlulst the symptoms of the diseased hip were now in such utter abeyance, that the child in its deliiium assumed the very position which is least in accordance with disease of the hip- joint :— A dehcate girl, six years old, was admitted, under Mr. Stanley, in moderately good health, with pain in the liip, lameness, pain on motion, and vith a shght bending of the knee. There were no marks of acute disease, no abscess, nor any pecuharity to distinguish it from common chi’onic disease of the hip. The disease was said to have arisen about two months previously, but not to have been accompanied with any severe symptoms. The father and mother were healthy, but had lost one child, about eight years old, from convulsions. She was kept quiet in bed; six leeches were apphed to the joint on the second day, and four on the fourteenth day. A plaster of strong mercurial ointment was apj)lied around the joint. On the twenty-fourth day, the pai-ts being tolerably quiet and much the same as on admission, a caustic issue was made behind the joint. On the two- or three days after the apphcation of the issue the child was feverish and hot, lying gathered up in a lump in the bed, and not noticing tilings going on around it. On the twenty-ninth and thirtieth days, the child was very sick, and took hardly any food; was hot, with a frequent and not very feeble pulse. She now sat quite ujiright on her liips in bed, * Uebcr spontanc und congenitale Luxationcn, von J. Heine,—Stuttgart, 1842.— A very eoniplete abstraet of tliis essay is contained in the British and Foreign McdiciU Review, vol, xvi. p. 486. The original paper and tlic plates arc, liowever, most, instriietivc.118 CLINICAL COLLliCTIONS ANH OBSLEVATIONS IN SURGERY. regardless of her diseased joints staring wildly, and unconscious of the presence of her mother, but noticing objects and the light occasionally. The issue remained unseparated and dry. On the thirty-first day she was pale and quite unconscious, Avliilst her neck and head Avere stretched forcibly backivards. She died on this day. No examination was allowed. Sometimes, after disease of the hip joint, the patient's hip becomes firmly anchylosed in a straight position, without any alteration in length, andAAuth the foot but slightly inverted or everted; the head of the bone, in short, remaining entire, but firmly fixed into the acetabulum :— In the spring of 1843, there was under the care of Mr. Law- rence a boy, Avho had recovered some time previously from a diseased liip. In this boy the two lower limbs were equally muscular, and of the same length, the left limb being someivliat everted, and quite extended. The hip joint was quite fixed and immoveable. Mlien a patient has disease of the liip at an early period of life, and the recovery takes place even after the formation of abscesses, the limb frequently is stiU very useful. The foUoAving is an in- stance of a useful hmb, even though dislocated on the dorsum ilii:— In the summer of 1840, a man, mt. 35, apphed at the hospital for some other adment. He had been treated with a seton for disease of the left hip, accompanied Avith abscesses, twenty years previously, by Sir W. Blizard. He was now conductor of an om- nibus, and Avas able to run and even jump over a chair; the tAvo legs could not, hoAvever, be separated sufficiently to enable him to ride. The pelvic joints were very moveable; the limb was short- ened about tAVO inches, and tliinner than the opposite: from the shortening of the limb the heel was raised considerably, and the toe duected in such a manner doAimwards and forwards as to constitute talipes equinus. These tivo cases are examples of limbs anchylosed in the straight position, Avith and Avithout shortening, and Avith the foot neither much inverted nor everted : the limb, under such circum- stances, tliough much inferior to that in the healthy condition, is very useful, and the patient can Avalk moderately well. 'When the femur is drawn u]i on the dorsum ilii, and the liead of the bone is destroyed, the femur is not generally very much inverted, but only119 AFFECTION OF JOINTS. flexed on the pelvis. When, however, the head of the bone is entire, the limb is generally much inverted, as well as considerably flexed. The greatest distance up the thigh to wluch the fuhiess of the synovial membrane has reached, has been six inches above the upper edge of the patella, the circumference of the joint measur- ing in tins instance nineteen inches and a half. These measure- ments were taken from the knee of an elderly man, under Mr. Lawrence^s care, who was labouring under rheumatic inflamma- tion of the joint; the synovial membrane appeared to be hardly tliickened, but to be simply distended, and great diminution of the sweUing took place under the employment of tartar emetic ointment. The possible height to which tliis membrane may reach is a matter of the greatest importance hi relation to the opening of abscesses, and to the removal of growths from the femur- It seems also that the synovial membrane, after behig much distended, recovers its natural relations slowly; and that the synovial membrane of the knee may still remain lying on the femur above its natural position, after the subsidence of its dis- tension might seem to indicate that it had recovered its natural position. The tliigh bone, though smTounded on the front and sides by the extensor muscles of the knee, affords but little origin for their fibres, the crureus and the small muscle of the knee-joint only arising from it in tliis part. This is most important in relation to the knee-joint; for it is hi this large space, extending from the tip of one side of the liiiea aspera round to the other, and separated into two divisions by the criueus, that abscesses of the largest size may accumulate. It is in this large bed of cellular tissue that a tumor, apparently only covered by the fascia lata, may lie; and here an abscess may form, which, although opened in the thigh, may, from the muscles binding it down, burst by two open- ings into the cavity of the knee-joint. The example of growths beneatl) the abdominal muscles, and the occasional difficulty of ascertaining their situation, afford parallel instances to the thigh, of the obscurity wliicli often attends an attempt at ascertaining whether a part may or may not be covered by muscle; but it re- quires an especial examination of tlie size of this deep-and free space beneath the vasti muscles, to form a correct idea of the mass120 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. of cellular tissue here ready for the bed of tumors, or for the collection of matter bound down by the most powerful muscles, and lying in absolute contact with the tliin synovial membrane of the knee-joint. Sir Everard Home, in a paper on loose cartilages in joints, alludes to the opinion of Mr. Hunter respecting these substances, and states that the cartilages found ui the knee-joint appeared to him to originate from a deposit of coagulated blood upon the end of one of the bones, wliich had acquired the nature of cartilage, and had afterwards been separated. How far this opinion is borne out by later observations may be doubtful, but the follow- ing case is interesting in relation to the opinion of Mr. Hunter :— A man, about 19 years of age, was admitted luider Mr. Law^- rence, in October, 1840, with great swelling of the synovial mem- brane of one knee-joint, from a fall, in which three men fell together upon his knee. The sw^elhng gradually subsided, and the man went out in about tliree weeks. Tliis man was again admitted under Mr. Lawrence, in the summer of 1841, labouring imder sudden attacks of pain and lameness in the same knee, from a loose cartilage in the joint; these signs having commenced about six weeks previously. An incision was made on the outer side of the knee, and the cartilage removed. This cartilage was flat, of the size of a small broad bean, and had a small process of synovnal membrane attached to one side. The man did quite well. The following cases of lumbar abscess and diseased spine seem to find their most convenient place in connection with diseases of the joints :— Thomas Smith, set. 37, admitted April 25, 1842, under the care of Mr. Lawrence, labouring under a large abscess in the upper part of the right thigh, and a smaller on left side. No curvature of the spine; no impairment of motion from paralysis in a marked degree. He is a foot soldier in the Grenadier Guards, healthy, according to his own account, but has had spitting of blood one year since, and the apex of the left lung admits air imperfectly. Three yeai's since he first felt pain in his back, at times of a very severe na- ture. The right abscess appeared six months since, and the left twelve months since. In May, 1840, the pain in the back wasAl'TECTIONS OF JOINTS. ni SO severe as to confine him to bed for tliree weeks. The lame- ness Avas considerable just previous to the appearance of the ab- scesses on the upper part of the thighs. June 18th.—The right abscess was opened, and one hundred and ninety fluid ounces of healthy pus evacuated. The man felt reheved by the puncture. June 30th.—The man^s health remains mialtered; the opening closed by the fii’st intention; no fever has ensued. The tumor is again filhng. Tliis man went out, the wound discharging a little, and the left side unaltered; he could walk well, and was relieved. The following case presented itself as one of disease of the spine. It is, however, questionable whether it may not be more properly considered as one of hijury to the vertebrae, followed by disease, or as one of fractui’e occurring in a diseased part. The dependence of the paralysis on pressure, the sudden access of the symptoms, and the want of any reflex power, all favour the opi- nion of its accidental origin; yet one vertebra was wanting, and the soft union resembled the product of disease : — Stephen Staines, aet. 17, admitted April 22d, 1842, under the care of Mr. Stanley, a feeble, wretched boy, with pallid skin and lips, labouring under profuse night sweats. There is an angular curvature about the upper dorsal vertebrae, to a considerable de- gi-ee, complete loss of motion and sensation in the lower limbs, inability to empty the bladder and to retain the faeces. The lower hmbs are generally bent, not at all hable to spasms, and quite destitute of any reflex motion when the skin is pinched. The upper limbs are quite natural. The cmwature was first perceived two years since, and had been attended with no marked symptoms, except some pain round the loins, tiU two months before admis- sion, Avhen he lost the power of motion, sensation, the capability of emptying the bladder and retaining the faeces,—till in tivo days, without evident cause. It was also reported indirectly, that two years before admission he loll out of a cart, and subsequently was so weak as to fall down frequently when he was walking. This boy gradually died, having become more and more weak, and sloughs having formed on the back and legs. Iluring the last few days of his life he122 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. complained of pain in the pelvis and perineum, of cedema of the penis, and constant inclination to make water, vdth fever. Examination of the abdomen shewed acute peritonitis, espe- cially in the pelvis, with abscess in the tissue round the bladder. The spinal cord was quite healthy, except just opposite the cm-ve, where it was much diminished in diameter, healthy on its surface, but soft in consistence. The dorsal vertebrae were quite healthy, except about the situation of the fourth; here one vertebral body was almost entirely wanting, and the two neighbouring bones were also somewhat diminished in size. The chief destruction of the vertebrae was on their anterior surface, their posterior part being hardly affected. Shght suppuration had taken place round the vertebrae, wliich were partially united in the situation of the disease by soft substance. The part pressing on the spinal cord was the posterior edge of the vertebrae, which were placed in this position in consequence of the great destruction of the anterior compared with the posterior part. The following dissections of contracted joints are inserted in reference to the division of tendons, as well as on account of the few opportunities which occur of examining these parts;— A man had acute inflammation of the left annular finger, which terminated in suppuration; the pus was evacuated by puncture, and the part healed kindly without any separation of the tendon. During the few following months the finger gradually contracted, and became bent on the palm, so as to be quite useless. The finger was quite firm and rigid, not yielding the least between the metacarpal bone and distal phalanx, but was not much thickened. The flexor tendon was divided by Mr. Stanley by subcutaneous incision, without producing the least effect. The finger was afterwards amputated between the phalanx and metacarpal bone. The finger was examined. The skin and subcutaneous tissue, bones and joints, were quite healthy. The external surface of the sheath of the finger was sliining, and but little altered from its natural appearance. The sheath formed a triangular bridle, filling the angle made by the flexure of the second phalanx upon the first, having its basis, which formed a shai-p edge, situated under the skin. This sheath was somewhat thickened, and formed one123 Al''l‘’JiCTIONS OF JOINTS. substance the two flexor tendons, wliicli were thin, and had lost their sliining appearance. On division of the baud thus formed, near the lower part of the first phalanx, the finger readily assumed the straight position. Division in the same place during life would have enabled the finger to become quite straight; this division must, however, have included the whole part between the skin and bone. As the ten- dons were adherent to the inside of the sheath, over the first and second phalanx, the power of flexion would probably never have been gained, and thus the man would only have gained a stifl‘ straight, instead of a stiff bent finger. The following are dissections of a case of varus in the right leg of an adult, and of two cases of contracted toes in old persons :— 1. The posterior tibial artery ran do\m the hmb, lying about a quarter to half an inch from the inner edge of the tibia, from a point six inches above the malleolus down to it. The sheath of the tibialis posticus extended about two inches above the malleolus, up the back of the tibia; the muscular fibres ran down to an inch and .a half above the malleolus. The sheaths of the flexor digitorum and tibialis posticus were quite separate. The sheath of the flexor digitorum communis extended about an inch and tliree-quarters above the malleolus, wliilst the mus- cular fibres ran down to an inch and a quarter above the same point. The peroneo-cutaneous nerve was large, and swelled for some distance on the outer side of the foot. The vein on the tibial side of the artery was large and fidl, so as to be much more plain than the vein on the fibular side. The muscles on the front and back of the leg were somewhat pale, but not greasy in any way. The heel was elevated, the foot somewhat inverted, and the arch of the foot ihuch shortened from before backwards. Division of the tendo Achilhs brought down the heel considera- bly. The tendon of the jfiantaris was more separate than usual, and the cellular structure under the tendon was considerably thickened} division of this structure made very httle did'erencc. Division of the tibialis posticus made very little difierence.1 24 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY, Division of tlie flexor poUicis longus liad no effect. The flexor digitormn coinmunis, extensor digitorum communis, tibialis anticus, and peronasi, were quite lax. Large deep inci- sions were made through the substance of the abductor pollicis, flexor brevis digitorum, and abductor minimi digiti, which relieved the tension of the foot to a certain degree, but did not restore the foot completely to its right position, a considerable portion of the arching being caused by the hgaments. Tliis dissection quite accords with what occui’s during life in division of the tendons connected with a long standing varus. Division of the tibialis posticus and plantar fascia produces very little immediate result, but allows the change in the foot to be gradually and completely effected from that time. The mea- surements were carefully made, and shew the small distance at which the artery was situated from the inner side of the leg, as well as the relative size of the two veins accompanying it. The point at wliich the muscular fibres ceqsed to be inserted into the tendon of the tibialis posticus was half an inch within the sheath of the tendon, and only an inch and a half above the malleolus. 2, An old woman was brought for dissection in whom the right foot was distorted, the great toe being inchned outwards and forwards from its metatarsal bone, and carried beneath the toes near it, wdiich latter were thus lifted up and bent very much on each other. The metatarsal and tarsal bones were natural in form and direction, except a small depression on the upper surface of the distal extremity of the second metatarsal bone, and a small deposit of bone on the inner side of the distal extremity of the first metatarsal bone. The two phalanges of the great toe were some- what twisted on their axes, as well as directed obliquely outwards towards the second and thnd toes, so as to pass beneath them. The second toe was thus lifted up so much that its first phalanx rested by its proximal extremity almost at a right angle on the upper sm-face of the distal extremity of its metatarsal bone, where an old depression with bony edges was formed for it; the third toe was also lifted up. The distal extremity of the first meta- tarsal bone was thickened by small granular deposits on its surface^ cliiefly on its inner side; its metatarso-phalangeal joint was nearly natural as regiuds its caidilage, having, however, the internalAFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 11J5 lateral ligament elongated from the oblique position of the phalanges. The two sesamoid bones were twisted, so that the internal sesamoid bone lay on the outer part of the under surface of the first metatarsal bone, whilst the external sesamoid bone was drarni up between the two first metatarsal bones. AH the muscles of the foot were fiabby and weak, but none particularly so. The left foot presented the same peculiarity as the right, but in a less degree, the neck of the left thigh-bone being also broken. The chief point of interest, as nothing probably would have remedied such an advanced case as tliis, is to ascertain what was the cause of the distortion of the toes. As regards the first toe especially, it is important to notice the change in situation of the outer sesamoid bone, which shding up between the first and second toes pressed the distal extremity of the first metatai’sal bone inwards, wliilst the flexor tendon shding outwards pulled the phalanges of the great toe in that direction, and caused an angle at the junction of the phalanx and metatarsal bone. Tlie displacement of the 2d, 3d, 4th, and 5th toes appears to take place in the following manner, The first phalanx is elevated and extended on the extremity of its metatarsal bone, so that it forms a more or less obtuse angle with it, whilst the second phalanx is bent on the first, and the third on the second. In this manner a more or less acute angle is formed on the dorsal surface of the toe at the junction of the first and second phalanx, on which a corn frequently grows, whilst the extreme phalanx, if bent upon the second, touches the ground with its point or even with its nad. On examining a toe in this condition the extensor tendon is sometimes so tight as to make a prominent line under the skin, and to feel painful to the patient himself. In advanced cases the flexor tendons also become tense under the toe, but in the early period of this distortion such is not generally the case. The joints of the toe are in general quite natural in structure; but where the distortion from neglect has not been attended to, the proximal end of the first phalanx of the toe is carried up on the upper surface of the metatarsal bone, so as to be placed firmly on it almost at a right angle, and to be seated in a depression of the bone itself. The second toe is generally placed so that its distal extremity12G CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. is ill a line or rather in front of the great toe^ and being so situated is exposed to any pressure applied to the foot from before backwards. The common tight shoe is tight in two ways; by being too short from before backwards and by being too narrow at the junction of the middle and anterior thirds^ thus pressing the foot laterally and longitudinally. If the great toe is pressed laterally, it may press up the toes next to it, or if pressure is made from the front on the points of the toes, the second and other toes may be pressed up, wliilst the great toe is pressed outwardly. The joints between the first and second, and second and tliird phalanges, admit readily of flexion, but the joints between the metatarsal bones and first phalanges allow extension much more readily than flexion; consequently any shortening of the shoe extends or bends these different joints respectively. The extension of the first phalanx on the metatarsal bone precedes the bending of the second and third phalanges so clearly, that the former alteration may occur alone with only a slight degree of the latter affection; but when the phalanx is thus displaced on its long axis, it is generally carried by the lateral pressure of the shoe either above or below the other toes. This distortion, though arising generally from the pressure of the shoe, is soon rendered more marked by the action of the muscles, and indeed it is not clear that the toes may not be displaced even in bare-footed persons. The extensor tendons elevating the first phalanx, by their action on the base of the second phalanx, are incapable of extending the second on the first phalanx, from the downward pressure of the shoe, as well as from the action of the flexor tendons, which, stretched by the angle on the under surface of the metatarso-phalangeal articulation, add to the deformity by rendering the angle on the back of the toe more marked. The following is a more severe instance of the same deformity as found in a subject brought for dissection:— 3. The second, third, fourth, and fifth toes were all extended on the metatarsal bones to a very considerable angle, whilst the second phalanges were bent to nearly a right angle on the first, the third phalanges being nearly straight in relation to the second. TheAFFECTIONS OP JOINTS. 127 proximal ends of the phalanges of the second, third, fourth, and fifth toes rested on the upper surface of the metatarsal bones a little above the metatarso-phalangeal joints, so that the distal ends of the metatai'sal bones projected out beneath the toes, their extremities being tliin, partially bifurcated, and destitute of cartilage. So changed indeed were they, that even if the bones had been restored to their position, they could not have rested there. The extensor tendons were tense, the flexors ran round the outside of the second, tlurd, and fourth metatarsal bones to the sides of the phalanges, not running over the back of the metatarso-phalangeal joints at all, whilst the flexor tendon of the fifth toe ran on the inside of the joint.128 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. CHAPTER IX. ON AMPUTATIONS. Amputation of fingers. Dissection of an old stump, where the end of the metacarpal bone was left. Efiects of pressure on the fingers. Amputation at the wist and just above it. Flap and circular amputations of thigh. Division of vessels. Difference of degree of retraction of the vessels. Retraction of integuments spontaneously subsiding. Peculiarity of the stumps of the femur. lujimy to vessels of the leg. Mobility of the fibula. Cicatrix on tibia after flap amputa- tion. Calcareous arteries often unite well, and produce little inconvenience in some cases. Occurrence of jihlehitis, and cerebral affection after amputation. Division of tarsns. Removal of metatarsal hone. Dissection of three ulcerated stumps, from amputation, fr'om fi’ost-bite, and from injury. In amputating tlie fingers, the head of the metatarsal bone is often removed, and a very neat hand made, the space left by the missing finger contracting so closely that the vacancy, especially where the index finger has been removed, is very shght indeed. Some objection has been made to this operation, on account of the M^eakening of the hand thus produced, in consequence of the division of the strong palmar ligament, which binds the ends of the metacarpal bones together, and it has been therefore recom- mended in cases of labouring men, and in all persons who have to use the hand for duties requiring much strength, to forego the improved appearance for the sake of the power wliich is gained by leaving the head of the bone. It might be said that the little and index fingers, placed at the end of this ligament, and connected with it only by one side, are the least benefited by it; but then the removal of the ends of the metacai’pal bone belonging to these fingers places the fingers next to them in the same cir- cumstances in this respect in which ’ the index and little finger previously were placed.ON AMPUTATfONS. 1:29 In the body of a man brought for dissection, one of the middle fingers had been removed some time before death, the metacarpal bone being left: on dissection, the chief change in the parts was the remarkable thickening of the transverse palmar ligament, near the end of the metacarpal bone of the amputated finger:— One of the two middle fingers of one hand had been removed at the junction of the first phalanx and metacarpal bone, at some distant period, so that the stump was firmly and completely cica- trized. The cicatrix was firm, drawn to a centre, and firmly adherent to the subjacent portion of bone. The end of the metacarpal bone was quite perfect, and destitute of cartilage, but covered with a dense fibrous substance, closely incorporated with the skin and tendons. The extensor tendon was continued into this dehse mass, wliilst the two flexor tendons, forming together one common fibrous cord, passed to the palmar surface of the same mass. The lumbricalis and interossei muscles were small, but were distinct, and connected slightly with the end of the bone. The transverse ligament of the palm was remarkably strong and tliick, and closely united with the end of the bone and the fibrous cord common to the two flexor tendons. The two nerves formed large round bulbs, adherent to the cicatrix, not being a gradual enlarge- ment of the nerve, but presenting the appearance of tM'o small globes added to nerves of usual measurement. The two arteries \\'ere so small as to be hardly visible. It is remarkable how little the bones of the fingers in children seem to sufter in some cases, when the hand has passed between rollers of macliinery, placed at so small a distance as to compress a thick sheet of paper. In these cases the muscles and • skin mav be torn to an extreme degree, and the nerves dissected out, whilst the bones appear round, and of their natural form, as if they had recovered their natural form, although necessai-ily the pressure to wliich they have been subjected must have been extreme, as is shewn by the condition of the muscles and nerves. Amputation of the fore-arm low down near the wrist can seldom be done very rapidly, as the tendons do not divide readily, like muscles, under the knife. The stump does not generally heal by the first intention, but suppurates, and a very long peiaod often elapses before complete cicatrization takes place. This difficulty K180 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEIIVATTONS IN SUIIGEIIY. of healing appears to depend to a certain degree on the nature of the exposed tissues^ which are almost entirely deficient in cellular structure or muscle^ and consist of tendons, synovial sheaths, bones, and skin. Amputation at the wrist-joint need not include the opening of the joint between the radius and ulna, and even when the quantity of parts left to cover the exposed joint is not very considerable, the stump sometimes granulates freely, and heals rapidly. The exposed ends of the bones granulate either with removal of the cartilage, or on the cartilaginous surface, and by their luxuriance present a remarkable contrast to the raw sm-face often seen on the surface of a stump, when amputation has been performed just above the wrist, through the radius and ulna. In amputating at the wrist-joint it is not always easy to get a good flap at the palmar side. After the lateral connexions of the joint are divided, and the joint opened from the dorsal surface, the long edge of the knife turns with difficulty in the joint, and the blade may even pass between the os pisilorme and os cuneiforme. The prominent head of the trapezium, and the projection of the os pisiforme, pre- vent the carrying forwards of the edge of the knife on the under surface of the wrist, whilst the space between the articular surfaces of the first row of cai'pal bones, and the ends of the radius and ulna, is too narrow to allow the ready turning of the blade. The effect of these two obstacles, unless care be taken, may be to reduce the palmar flap to a very small size. The chief mode of avoiding the difficulty is to divide the lateral parts of the joint very freely indeed, and thus to be able to turn the upper surface of the carpus right backwards, instead of in a direction only upwards and backwards. The number of amputations of the leg and tliigh performed annually in a large London hospital is very considerable, and suffi- cient for a student to form a very good idea of the relative chances of a good stump from the circular or flap operations respectively. There can be no doubt that a hospital surgeon, who is frequently required to amputate, may obtain a stump of the most perfect kind in either way, and specimens of stumps might be shewn without a single fault, from either form of amputation. But a student has to begin, and his hand cannot be practised at first, and he must131 ON AMPUTATIONS. look not to what may be pi-oclueed by one who is always in prac- tice, but to wliat gives the best general result, when every thing goes on well, as well as when matters do not proceed altogether favourably. In the thigh and leg, after amputation, it not uncommonly happens that every tiling looks well for a few days, but that then some matter forms, or the hmb jerks, or is hot, or the skin gets just a little tight at one part over the hone. In these cases the flap operation succeeds better than the circular, for it rarely happens that the skin of the chcular operation can be got well forward again after it has once begun to retract, or become tight, whilst the mass of muscle and soft parts of a flap can often be brought down again after they have retracted very considerably. In the thigh, puncture of the artery, above its division, is readily avoided in the flap operation, and cannot well be done in the circidar. In the leg, the artery may readily be punctured in passing the knife beliind the limb, and wounded above its divi- sion ; still this is no real objection to the flap operation below the knee, as the same accident may happen from the use of the cathn. The rapidity of the flap operation, as compared with the chcular, is some advantage, but the whole operation is not necessarily shorter, for the number of arteries to be tied in the former case is generally greater than in the latter. During the few last years the double flap operation has been performed on a large number of patients at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, by Mr. Stanley, and with the best result. In many of these cases, at their termination, the full soft condition of the face of the stump, the complete depression of the bone in the line of union of the flaps, or beneath the front flap of the thigh, have been most marked, whilst the effects of inflammation, in rendering the stump tense, have been very much less than where the same accidents occurred after a circular operation. Two limbs were removed above the knee by the circidar opera- tion, the deep muscles being divided higher up than the super- ficial, and separately from them; the stumps were good, but not better than those from the double flap, and not equal to the very best from that operation. The operation itself was long. Only thi-ee vessels required ligature in one of these cases.132 CTJNICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEUVATIONS IN SUllCERY. When tlie patients are discharged from a hospital^ one looks at the round full stumps and considers every degree of roundness, and of the soft parts perceptible in it, as a great gain; but yet when old soldiers, and men who have had their thighs cut off many years ago, come for some other ailments to the hospital, and one looks at their stumps, which have been madeby great surgeons, which have done well, and served these patients capitally, their stumps are not always round and full. Indeed, the stump of the thigh- bone generally becomes prominent after some time, but so as the skin and soft parts are lax and free, and not adherent, the patient bears well on it, although the soft parts slope off from it. This looseness of parts, and especially this freedom from any adhesion to the bone of the cicatrix of the stump, seems to be one of the great advantages of the double flap operation on the thigh, in- asmuch as the skin, during the healing of the parts, is well separated from the bone, and even if the flaps do subsequently shrink, the cellular substance and skin of the flap still remain loose and free to a certain degree. The choice of the circular or flap operation can generally, but not always, be made. Mortification of the lower extremity, from injury to the main vessel of the limb, or the existence of malignant disease in the lower part of the femur, may prevent the parts being left low down, and thus render the circular operation preferable to that by double flaps. The femoral artery is generally divided entirely in the back flap, and does not lie at the angle of junction of the front and back flaps. The division of the artery need not be oblique in any great degree, although the edges of the flap are sloped; and when the flaps are finished, not by an oblique cut, but by carrpng the knife directly outwards, the division of the large vessels may be as transverse as in the cirerdar operation :—A limb was removed by Mr. Staidey above the knee, for disease of the joint, by the double- flap operation, the oblique cut being finished by cutting directly outwards. The man died in fourteen days from inflammation of the veins. In examining the stum]), the artery, nerve, and vein, were found to be divided quite transversely. When suppuration occurs in a stump, the artery and vein may be separated considerably from each other; and if from bleeding.13.‘3 ON AMPUTATIONS. or otlier cause, it is necessary to look for a vessel, the discovery of the situation of the vein may be no guide to the artery A limb was removed above the knee for disease of the tibia; some bleeding occurred afterwards; but the man died on the eighteenth day, chiefly from suppuration of the stump and chronic disease of tlie Iniigs. An abscess extended from the stump up the thigh; the end of the vein lay close to the face of the stump, but the end of the artery was retracted an inch and a half higher up even than the end of the bone. It is remarkable to how great a degree the soft parts may be cbawn up from the stump, and yet gradually descend, so as ulti- mately to make a good stump :—A man’s leg w^as removed by Mr. Stanley above the knee by the double flap operation. During the ten days after the operation the man had fever and considerable swelling o' the thigh; the stump was exposed, and the bone pro- minent, whilst the skin was retracted and apparently fixed by solid oedema. The case seemed to promise very ill indeed, but as the inflammation lessened the skin gradually drew itself clomi over the face of the stump, and ultimately the parts healed, the bone being adherent to the centre of the stump in the hollow between the flaps, whilst the surrounding parts were becoming more full, and gradually forming a softer cusliion over the part. In looking at the ends of the femur wliich have been removed from the dead bodies of persons many years after amputation, bony spicula of a remarkable character are sometimes found. The shaft of the bone in these cases has evidently borne weight well, for it is full and round right down to its termination, whilst one spiculum of firm bone may be seen growing from the linea aspera, or one from each side of the outer and back part of the bone. These spicula are regular processes, and quite distinct from that irregular deposit wliich comes on some stumps, and extends at times to the interosseous ligament. The following may, perhaps, be the just exj)lanation of their growth. When the femur is divided high up by amputation, the psoas-ihacus musele carries the lower end of the upper portion of the bone forwards and upwards, causing an oblique position of the bone, which is most unfavourable for walking. Thi.s action of the psoas-iliacus can only be overcome134 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEKVATIONS IN SURGERY. by the muscles at the back of the limb, namely, by the biceps, semitendinosus, and semimembranosus; and the addition of these small processes, these levers, as it were, is just the means which would increase the power of these muscles, and render the vertical position of the remaining portion of bone possible. It would, in short, enable these muscles to give that erect and soHd position to the femur, which enables a man, with an amputated thigh supported on a wooden leg, to walk readily, and which is so strikingly contrasted with the condition of the limb of the patient shortly after amputation, or on the occurrence of a fracture in the upper third of the bone. In the double flap amputation of the tliigli above, and of the leg below the knee, the success of the operation appears to depend very much on procuring a good front flap. In the thigh, when every thing goes on quietly, the bone generally hes beneath the front flap; but when the stump inflames, or the parts retract, the end of the bone generally rests on the cicatrix between the two flaps. The bent knee, the tense condition of the extensor muscles, and the proximity of the knee-joint, aU tend to limit the front flap in the tliigh, but as a rule it seems desirable that this should be four inches long, and as broad and thick as it can be procured, for a difficulty will oftener arise in procuring it of sufficient size, than any inconvenience from its excess in that particular. The interosseous ligament between the tibia and fibula requiring a separate division, exposes the arteries to the risk of a puncture, even in the lower tlurd of the leg; the same accident may happen from the knife piercing the vessel in maldng the back flap, and the vessel so injured not bleeding at the time, may, by repeated haemorrhage, assist in destroying the patient. The fibula sometimes becomes loose after amputation:—A man was in the hospital for some ailment, his leg having been ampu- tated a long time previously. The stump of the fibula was quite loose, and moved almost as if in a ball-and-socket joint. The patient with an amputated leg, not resting on the face of the stump as in the thigh, is less sensible of any inconvenience on the face of the stump. It is, however, necessary that the hne of union should not come forwards, or be in such a part as to lieON AlUPUTATlONS. 135 between the bone and the part of the wooden leg on which he rests. Thus in the flap amputation the simple fact of the back flap coming very far forwards ihay bring the union on the front edge of the tibia, and subject the patient to a sore on this part, of such severity, as to irrduce him to request a second amputation. The condition of an artery divided irr amputation appears to be less important than when the same vessel is tied in the substance of the limb on account of aneurism. Arteries with very con- siderable calcareous deposit in their coats often retain sufficient power to heal, although these same vessels might perhaps be hardly able to go tlu’ough those alterations in diameter in relation to the circulation, which are required after the main vessel of the limb has been tied. The two following cases are instances of arteries so diseased occurring in the amputation of limbs of persons who were neither young nor of favourable habits for operation, yet both patients ultimately did quite well:— 1. In the summer of 1841, a man was under the care of Mr. Law- rence, with an ulcerated stump below the knee requiring amputa- tion, and originally occurring from frost-bite, in North America. He was an old man; the arteries were very calcareous, and broke short off under the ligature; the stump, however, did well, though the restorative processes were slow. 2. A man, aged 58, was under the care of Mr. Lavuence, with acute inflammation of part of the foot and leg, with spots of mor- tification. His condition was very low, and for some time he might be described as bring cliiefly on gin, with porter, spirits, and beef-tea. The man was sinking, and in the hope of saving his life the leg was removed. The arteries were so calcareous that portions of them broke away under the ligature; they were, however, tied by enclosing some of the surrounding substance. The man got quite well: the ligatures separated at the usual time, and the stump slowly healed, witli very bttle suppm-ation or in- flammation. Considering the severity of the operation, and extent of the in- jury done to an individual by the removal of a limb above the knee, the success of the amputations there is very great. The patients are often placed under bad circumstances for operation, and thcii’136 CLINICAL COl.LECTlONS AND OBSEllVATlONS IN SUllGERY, health very much reduced, yet death from failui’e, after tlie removal of a limb for disease, is very rare indeed. There do not seem to be any appearances about a patient, or particulai’ circumstances of health, which can suggest the greater or less probability of phlebitis occurring after amputation. The foUovdng circumstance was, however, noted as bearing on this point. In two cases of diseased joints, very considerable suppuration had occm'red in the parts around the joints, in addition to tlie disease in its cavity; and in one of these cases the medulla, at the time of operation, was observed to be mmsually vascular. In both these cases plilebitis occurred; and it might be a matter of consideration, how far the tendency to suppuration before operation, and to inflammation of the veins afterwards, might be dependent on one and the same cause. Amongst the cases of diseased joints, one'patient is mentioned in whom cerebral symptoms arose suddenly, to the complete relief, for the time, of the diseased joint*. The following case presents many similar features, and though actively treated, and that at an early period, terminated fatally : — A boy, aged 15 years, was admitted, under Mr. Stanley, on Aug. 31, 1842, labouring under disease of the left ankle, accom- panied with abscesses, and the general signs of ulceration of the joints. He was feeble, but not failing. Auscultation detected no affection of the chest, and he seemed to be only ill from the disease in the ankle, which appeai-edto have commencedfive months previously, after injury, and to have progressed regularly since. The leg was removed on November 17. The ends of the tibia and fibula, as well as the upper surface of the astragalus, had lost their cartilage. The synovial membrane was soft and pulpy, and ulceration had removed half the diameter of the fibula at a point a little above the epiphysis. Except some secondary haemorrhage, the boy went on well for three or four weeks, and the stump granulated with a very copious discharge of thick healthy pus. It was found, however, necessary to keep him on a milk diet, for even broth ])roduced some fever. Page 117.137 ON AMPUTATIONS. About the middle of December^ when the stump was cicatrizingj he began to complain of pain in his head, and fever. An issue was made in the arm, and he was ordered to take small quantities of mercury, by which his mouth was gradually made sore. Leeches were appbed from time to time to the head, and other means were used, in reference to liis general fever. These means had little effect: as the stump cicatrized the cerebral symptoms increased; the pain in the head became so severe as to make liim call out; his memory failed, and deliriiun occurred occasionally at night. He became gradually insensible, and died December 30 th. The dui-a mater appeared distended. The arachnoid covering the infeiior part of the cerebellum, pons, and medulla oblongata, was thickened and opaque, Avhilst its veins were large and full. There was a considerable quantity of fluid at the base, and some turbid fluid in the pia mater. The brain was firm, and each ventricle contained about an ounce of fluid. Works on surgical anatomy describe many modes of cutting out portions of the foot, but it is remarkable how rarely these opera- tions seem to be required. In the cases of disease of the bones of the foot, and injuries where partial amputations might perhaps be performed, there is often just doubt enough, as to the sound con- dition of the tarsus, to prevent that certainty of success which the patient wishes to be assured of before any operation, and which the surgeon always desires, but most especially in any operation of an unusual character. Amputation between the tarsal bones I haveneverseen performed. There is a east in the Museum of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, made from a man, aged 22, in whom the tarsus had been acciden- tally cut off about eleven years previously by accident, apparently just in front of the os naviculare. The tendons of the tibialis anticus, and peronteus tertius, appeared to be inserted into the cicatrix, and the foot was pretty level, the point not being de- pressed. He could walk tolerably well, but the muscles of the leg were much wasted. Die removal of the great foe and its metatarsal bone is not a slight operation, even on a dead body; and when I he ])arts are thickened and inllamed this ojieration is very long, and attended with great ]iain : tlic pai ls to be divided are very deeji, require very138 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. free exposure, and the turning out of the metatarsal from the cuneiform bone is attended with extreme suffering. The amputation of the leg low down, just above the ankle, gives the advantage of a long straight limb, and seems to be attended with much less risk of a bad stump, than the partial amputation of the foot:— In the spring of 1844, a man was in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, under the care of Mr. Stanley, mth a diseased foot, the extent of which was so very doubtful, that the question was rather where to amputate the leg, than how much to remove from the foot itself. In the consultation as to the propriety of the measures to be adopted in this case, Mr. LavTence mentioned the success which had attended a case where he had performed amputation low down near the ankle, for a severe injury of the foot, the remaining part of the leg being most useful, making a good stump, and enabling his patient to lead an active life, in which he constantly used liis limb. Mr. Stanley amputated the limb, by a double flap operation, about four inclies above the ankle-joint. The note at the end of the case is in the following words :—“ The stump is good, soft, and bears weight well upon a short wooden leg, with wliich lie walks so well that one could hardly tell that he was lame.’^ Ulceration occurring in a stump, which is formed by the separa- tion of dead parts by ulceration after injury or amputation, is an evil of a very serious kind, not only on account of the extreme difficulty of healing the part, but because the part after heahng is liable to become a sore on slight occasions. In the healthy skin the line of demarcation between the cutis and the subjacent tissue, however minutely the skin may be hollowed out by long processes of fattv tissue on its under surface, is clear and well marked. Every thing is distinct, and each part is free and loose, but m a sore stump the appearances are different, though generally of one kind, from whatever cause the stump may have been produced. The bones, muscles, nerves, and vessels, are generally free from fault; the skin over the bone is the seat of mischief. It is tight, adherent to the hone beneath; the surface is shining, or marked with small cicatrices, and on cutting it through, the thickness of cutis is very slight, and a dense tissue is reached before passing through any depth of skin. This tissue is not separated from139 ON AMPUTATIONS. the diseased cutis by auy very defined line, but it adheres closely to the surrounding parts, may even penetrate between the mus- cles, and instead of being an extensile, delicate structure, resembles that tough tissue which unites the tunica vaginalis to the bottom of the scrotum, or that diseased cellular- texture often found lying mider a carcinomatous breast. Here are three cases:— A man applied rvitli an ulcerated stump belorv the knee. The leg had been amputated three years previously, on account of a sore on the back and front part, the stump being formed almost entirely by a long posterior flap. The pai-ts healed, but have been breaking out more or less ever since, and have completely disabled him from foUorving his regular employment. The stump was now removed by Mr. Stanley above the knee, and examined. Tire tibia and fibula were not diminished in size, even at the lower extremity; they were both somewhat thickened, and the interosseous hgament slightly ossified. The stump was very short, the tibia being cut just below the attachment of the ligamentum patellae; the tibialis anticus and extensor digitorum formed no part of the stump; the entire edge of the tibia adhered to the integuments, which were ulcerated in this hne: the ulcer was only superficial, and did not go tlrrough the skin, being fixed on a fii-m tissue which extended be- tween the muscles. The gastrocnemii were doubled over, and formed a thick layer, covering the back of the leg and stump up to this adherent hire. Tlris layer v-as two and a quarter inches thick over the ends of the bone, was rrot cellirlar, and consisted of yellow greasy muscle, the only red muscle being that which had its two attachments left, the pophteus. The posterior tibia! nerve was well covered by nruscle, slightly thickened, adhererrt to the cut surface of tibia, aird carried forwards with the muscle. The end of the femur, tire patella, and especially the tibia and fibula, were light and rather sporrgy. There was no ossification of the interosseous ligament, rro bony spicula existed, but a ridge of spongy bone was found under the ulcerated line of uirion. The fibula and tibia had not remained parallel to each other, but the former had separated from the latter at its lower part. Over the tibia the bone was thiidy covered, and a dense cicatrix of diseased tissue had formed, which healed with difficulty, and vdcerated on the slightest injury. The same effect occurred in the following case, though from a differenf cause: -140 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEllVATTONS IN SURGERY. 2. A limb had been lost by frost-bite, just below the knee, and re- quired amputation on aeeount of ulceration repeatedly occm'ring. On examining the stump, the ulcerated part was close over the bone, and was connected ivith the nerves and remains of the im- pervious vessels. The posterior and anterior tibial nerves were quite different in appearance; one was quite thin and wasted, the other was irregular, enlarged, and somewhat bulbous. In the following case the same diseased mass of tissue formed the irritable part of a stump remaining after injury to the foot. It diflered, however, in one marked respect, from the stump of the leg ndiich had been previously amputated. In that case the gi’easy mnscles, and the porous bone, shewed the little nse Avhich the ailing part had been to the patient, and the gradual absorption and change of structure wliich had been going on. In the follow- ing case the bone had stiU been used to support weight, and its enlargement illustrated the chronic inflammatory change wliich had extended from the stump to it:— 3. A mail was admitted, labouring nnder a painful sore on the end of the metatarsal bone of the great toe, wliich had existed unhealed during the two previons years, and had originally been caused by a waggon bruising the part. The sore was so inconvenient, that the foot was removed by Mr. Staidey, above the ankle, it not being clear that the tarsus was sound. The metatarsal bone of the great toe was covered on its distal extremity with a tongh substance forming the sore; this substance being closely united to the end of the bone. The extreme end of the metatarsal bone of the great toe was so much enlarged, and surronnded by such a quantity of thickened tissue, that it formed a ronnd mass as large as a walnut, pressing closely on the next toe. The rest of the toes and metatarsus were found, on close examina- tion, to be healthy.AKKECTIONS AND IN.TUUIES OF AUTERIES AND VEINS, 141 CHAPTER X. AFFECTIONS AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES AND A'^EINS. Dilatation of the common carotid aiiery. Rupture of the femoral arteiy, fi’om a blow, unaccompanied by other injury. Aneimsra of the femoral artery, from a wound, with peculiar auscultatoiy signs. Injuries of brachial, radial, idnar, and posterior tibial arteries. Ecchymosis occurring spontaneously, also recmTing without apparent cause. Coui’se of the obtm-atrix ai-tery, and point of origin of the arteria profunda femoris. The two following cases of dilatation of the carotid artery are related on account of their somewhat close resemblance to aneurism, which they sufficiently resembled to render them a matter of anxiety, but from winch they differed in so marked a degree as to render any immediate operative proceeding uncalled for. The dilatation occurred where some dilatation is generally found in old age, but in these cases it was chiefly on one side, and though occurring almost in the regular situation of dilatation, it occurred also in the common situation of aneurism :— A thin delicate girl, aged 25, was admitted under Mr. Lawrence, labouring under a round swelling on the common carotid artery of the right side, at its point of division, of the size of a kidney bean, but round, and with the long axis parallel to the vessel. This swelling pulsates with the artery, and can be completely emptied by pressure, but fills immediately on the jiressure being removed. It is doubtful whether any murmur is audible in it; there may perhaps be a very slight one indeed. Tlie correspond- ing point of the left common carotid is also somewhat full. Menstruation, and all the functions, are performed naturally. There is a murmur terminating the first sound of the heart, loudest towards the apex, and not very audible in the course of142 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS ANU OBSERVATIONS IN SUROERY. tlie aorta. She is liable to pain in the head at times,, and states that occasional attacks of dyspnoea^ M'ith violent palpitations in the tumor^ occur, which alarm her considerably. The swelhng is said to have begun eighteen months since, and to have gradually increased up to the present time : no particular treatment appears to have been adopted. The swelling remained unaltered, and she went home in about a month. In the following case a very similar swelling occurred near the same situation, but in a patient much more advanced in life ;— A woman, aged 63, was admitted under Mr. Lawrence, into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, labouring under a shght enlargement of the right lobe of the thyroid gland, by which the right common carotid artery was pushed out of its course, whilst at the same time it appeared to be dilated at a point situated a short distance below its division. This enlargement appeared to be a dilatation of the vessel, but was destitute of any pecuharity detectible by auscultation. The auscultatory signs indicated some unnatural eidargement of the heart; there was however no unnatural mur- mur. This disease or affection appeared to have been observed about two years previously, and to have gradually increased since. In the dissecting room, the common carotid artery, after injec- tion, often bulges in old people at this spot, but is not an incon- venience, or even a subject of attention to the patient during Ufe. In these cases the artery is simply dilated. In the following case, dilatation of the subclavian artery existed, of a kind very similar to that of the carotid in the above cases, but dissection showed hardly any change after death :— A woman, of about 50, was admitted into the hospital, with an aneurism of the abdominal aorta, and an enlargement of the right subclavian artery. There was a distinct murmur in the abdominal aneurism, but so little in the subclavian dilatation, that tdl did not agree about its existence. The woman died from rup- ture of the abdominal aneurism. The subclavian artery, on being cut open, was hardly dilated or diseased in any marked degree.* * It is perhaps nglit to add, that the artery was not suhnutted to a process of artificial dilatation.At'FKCTlONS AND INJUllIKS OF ARTKllIES AND VEINS. 145 The tough texture and elastic property of tire arteries enables them to resist very severe shocks, so that they generally escape in iiijimes and fractures, unless pierced by the bone or lacerated with a lai'ge quantity of soft parts. The following case presents an instance of a severe injury to the Hmb of a boy, un- attended by fracture, but accompanied by such marked symptoms of sudden failure, and such peculiar local changes in the limb, that there seemed to be little doubt that the femoral or popliteal artery had given way :— A boy, five year’s old, was admitted under Mr. Skey, for an in- jury of his thigh. The pale anxious look, and utter prostration of strength, at once indicated that some most serious injury beyond fracture had occurred. The following was the condition of the hmb. The right thigh is considerably swelled, and of a dark pm’ple colour at its lower paid; this begins just above the knee, (not in- cluding tliis joint) and extends about two inches up the hmb. The hmb below this swelhng is much colder than the opposite one, and of a paler colour. The pulsation of the popliteal, an- terior and posterior tibia! arteries, is imperceptible in this hmb, but quite perceptible in the left hmb; the pulsation in the right femoral artery stopping in the middle of the tlhgh. No bone is broken. About twelve or fifteen minutes since the boy was riding behind an omnibus in Gracechurch Street, the wheel came off, and the omnibus upset; the boy was tlirown forward, and fell on his side, the body of the omnibus falling on the lower part of his thigh. He was pulled out and carried to a medical man imme- diately. The boy was even then very faint, and the sw^ehmg had already begun to form. • In a few minutes after admission the boy became so feeble and faint that he was obhged to take wine. In two hours the boy became extremely faint; the swelling now extended down to the knee, and upper part of the leg, especially into the popliteal space; it also extended higher up the thigh. In five hoiirs, the whole tliigh, from the upper third to the knee, and the leg from the knee to the ankle, became much swelled, and below the knee the limb was quite cold. The boy was now so faint as to be in immediate danger, and sometimes appeared to be already dying.144< CLINICAT, COLLECTIONS AND ODSEUVATIONS IN SITUOKRY. * I)r. Turnbull: Edinburgh iMcd. .nnd Surp:. .Tournnl, vol. xxxii. p. 114. 2nd dny. Limb as last niglit in size and teni])erature. Boy quiet and very faint. Pulse 130^ and very feeble. 11 P.M.—Knee slightly warm. 4tli day.—Delirious last nigliL but quiet and apparently more comfortable this morning. Pulse 130. Knee, leg, and ankle, warm. Poot very cold and blue. No pulse even now below the knee, and only perceptible to the middle of thigh. 6th day. Toes and foot still quite cold; the ankle is hot, swelled, and painful. 12th day.—The toes, foot, ankle, and leg, are now quite warm; the ends of the toes rather blue. No pulsation in the vessels even now below the middle of the thigh. The skin of the leg is less tense; the swelling above the knee is also much less in size. 20th day.—The leg and foot are now quite warm; no pulsa- tion below tbe middle of thigh. The thigh is much less in size; an opening has formed in the popliteal space, through which several ounces of pus are discharged daily. The boy sleeps moderately well, and takes his food. 4th month. —The boy stiU remains in bed, feeble and thin. The limb is bent at the knee, and fixed; the thigh and leg are thin; the opening on the popliteal space is open, but discharges very little. No pulsation can be detected in any vessel, below the situation of the blow. The end of the great toe remains dark and dead, but adherent; the ends of the little and fourth toe, so far as the pulp and skin are concerned, are separated. The boy, although feeble and thin, does not seem to fail, and though very ill does not appear to be in danger. The boy went home in the fifth month, and has often been at the hospital since. The limb remained bent at the knee, ivasted in the leg, and quite useless, some suppuration occurring at times from the popliteal space. The preceding case is illustrated somewhat by the following extract.* In this case, however, there was, fracture with an external wound. A man, 44 years of age, was knocked down by a waggon, the wheel of which went over his thigh, near the knee, and broke hisAFFECTIONS AND INJOUIES OF ARTERIES AND VEINS. 145 femur, just above the condyles, making two small wounds on the inner and outer sides of the knee, which bled freely. On the 2nd day when he was seen, the limb was cold, the man restless and feverish. On the 3rd day, the limb was cold and insensible, the foot and leg blue. Vesications formed on the limb, and he died on the 5th day after the injury. The femoral artery and vein were found completely divided at the seat of the fracture. The following case of wound of the femoral artery is related on account of the place in Avhich the ligatui’e was apphed. The space between Poupart^s hgament and the aneurism was very small, but yet a ligature was apphed successfully, so far as the cure of the aneui-ism was concerned. There are other circum- stances of interest in this case, connected with the mortification of the hmb, and the pecuhar auscultatory sounds ;— Thomas Norris, aged 35, admitted under Mr. Lawrence, June 24, 1841, labom-ing under a sweUing over the right femoral artery, rather to its outer side, of the size of a fives-ball, situated a very short distance below the crural arch, accompanied with a bruit audible to the ear, and a tluill perceptible to the touch. * The bruit is loud, but not very rough, constituting a continuous murmur, vdth increased loudness at each pulse of the artery; it is audible tlirough the paiietes of the abdomen, in the course of the external iliac artery, and dovniwards in the limb, as far as the knee. In the opposite ihac no bruit is audible; and over the aortic valves a slight bruit only is audible, smooth and very shght, accompany- ing the first sound. Pulse 80, full, soft. The pulsatile thrill is felt over the vein, aneurism, and parts round; it is synclironous with the bruit in the aneurism, not separable from it, and felt as plainly over the sartorius, just on the outer side of the sac, as over the vein. Tliere is no impediment to the venous circulation, no swelling of the veins, no perceptible enlargement of the artery above, and no difference in the pulsation of the vessels of the feet in the two limbs. Thirteen weeks since, whilst carrying a knife in his pocket, he stooped, and caused the point to enter his thigh, just on the outer side of the femoral artery, the knife entering about half an inch: this was followed liy immediateha!inorrliage to syncope: on L146 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. recovery from fainting the bleeding was less, and was checked by t}dng a handkerchief very forcibly round the limb : this was left on for two days, and when it was removed no swelling existed : the wound was also healed. During these two days he was kept quiet. He returned to Ins work in fourteen days, the limb apparently well, and free from swelling. The swelluig was first perceived a fortnight or three weeks before his admission, of its present size. The appearance of the patient was healthy. dime 26th. The artery was tied just below Poupart^s ligament; the tumor almost completely subsided immediately, and became destitute of pulsation. The limb became cold, but recovered its warmth in a few hours, when covered with a blanket. 29th.—The swelluig exists in a less degree than before the operation, but stdl with a slight thrill. July 3d.—The patient is hot and feverish, with loss of sleep. Pulse 120—130, free from hardness, and feeble. On the front surface of the right leg, midway between the knee and ankle, a dark red and inflamed portion of skin, as large as a liaLf-croivn, and painful to the touch, has formed. The leg does not maintain its warmth without the use of hot water and a blanket. Prom July 13th tiU July 26th, the patch on the leg extended, so as to be three or four inches long, black, and not defined by a very marked line; the leg was dusky and cold; a slough formed on the great toe, and between two of the other toes. The pulsa- tion in the tibia! artery was extremely feeble, and less than after the operation, in a few days after wliich it returned. The patient also became less feverish, but was extremely and increasmgly feeble. In this condition of the patient, the clear state of the case was set before him—that a fair chance of life was afforded him by amputation, and probable death without; he cheerfully consented to undergo amputation, wluch was performed immediately, July 26. The patient neither moved nor spoke dm-ing the operation; the muscles were dark, and almost dry; the femoral artery only threw out a little blood, and tlie operation was hardly hke tlie ampu- tation of a living limb. The limb was removed by the circular operation above the knee. The stump remained quiet for about two or three days, no union taking place; it then began to discharge a thin, bloody, foetidAFFECTIONS AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES AND VEINS. 147 fluid, and to slough, more especially in the skin. During the fortnight succeeding the operation this slougliing extended gradually, so as to expose about half an ineh of bone, as also a considerable portion of the muscles; after tliis the parts gradually separated, and a healthy granulating surface was exposed. The patient^s condition during this period was so low, that his life was quite despaired of. By about the 10 th of August the wound might be said to pre- sent a healthy appearance, and the patient was improving con- siderably. The ligature of the operation on the artery remained fixed, and the swelling still presented the same pulsation and tliriU, vdth a bruit as before the operation, only in a considerably less degree. During the whole of this illness no symptoms of any affection of the veins existed;. the fever chd not appear to be accompanied by any severe rigors, but was characterised more by extreme irri- tability and weakness than any thing else. At one time he was so low and desponding, that he attempted to commit suicide by hanging liimself. The ligature did not separate for at least six weeks after the operation; tliis appeared to depend on the small- ness of the aperture in the skin, which healed over the artery, not allowing the ligature to pass out, although it was separated from the artery. He remained in the hospital till December 7th. Dur- ing tliis period he completely recovered his health and strength. The protrading portion of bone was removed on the 30th of Octo- ber, after which the stump healed well. The sweUing in the aneu- rism still remained to a slight degree, being perceptible by slight fulness in that part, with the same peculiar tlndl. July 19, 1842, (one year after the operation): the man came to the hospital this day in good health. The stump is in good con- dition, quite healed, and useful. The aneurism is now completely removed, but the thrill, on applying the finger, is still very consi- derable, extending from one inch above Poupart’s ligament to about two inches and a half below, being perceptible over the vein, artery, and all tlie solid parts immediately around. This thrill exactly resembles in cliaractev that produced lu dilated veins, but is much more intense.148 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEUVATIONS IN SURGEEY. A loud blowing sound is audible near the situation of the old aneurism, increased on each pulsation of the artery; this murmur, though increased at those periods, is also continuous and uninter- rupted, indistinctly audible down to near the apex of the stump, but very loud up to near the umbilicus in the course of the iliac vessels. There are some circumstances of the greatest interest in tliis most obscure and difficult case. The aneurism was so high up, that a very small portion of the artery lay between it and Poupart^s ligament, yet the vessel was reached and effectually tied. The aneurism was com- pletely removed, and when he returned at the end of a year no traces of it remained. Another point of interest in this case was the mortification of the limb, and its cause. So far as general ap- pearances went, this man was a most favourable subject for the operation. He was only thirty-five years of age, the aneurism was from a wound, and not from disease; and the man's powers must have been good, for he survived a wounded femoral artery, an operation for aneurism, a mortification of the limb, and an ampu- tation. It is probable that the cause of all this consisted in some origi- nal injury to the vein, as well as to the artery, and that although the operation completely answered its object in curing the aneu- rism, that the injury to the vein not only induced the mortification by affecting the circulation, but also gave rise to the peculiarities of the swelling in the thigh, which remained even after the aneurism was completely removed. The knife entered on the outside of the artery, and passed inwards an inch and a half: this might have reached the vein after wounding the artery. The peculiar tin-ill, and the continuity of the murmur, both seemed to refer to a venous swelling, whilst the indistinct descent of the murmur and its distinct ascent up as far as the umbilicus, shewed that the murmur was in the vein, and propagated in the dii-ection of its current. It was, however, stiU increased at the contraction of the heart, and therefore ivas connected in some way with the artery. Taking all the circumstances of this case together, it lA-ouldAFFECTIONS AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES AND VEINS. 149 appear most probable^ that an anemism was formed on the artery, and also a communication between the artery and vein by the original wound, and that wliilst the former was removed by the operation, the latter still remained. TMien the end of a metacarpal bone is removed in cutting off a finger, or when the thumb is amputated, there is a deep angle of tlie wound, which is often made with the point of the knife in turning it round. The vessel here sometimes stops bleeding soon after the operation, but it is very liable to burst out again, or it may continue to ooze, and put the patient’s life in danger. The difficulty of t}ung the vessel some time after the operation is at times very great indeed. Even the radial artery sometimes soon stops bleeding, but it is hardly safe to leave it, without a ligature or very careful bandaging:— A boy, about six years old, was cut on his hand by a knife being drawn between his thumb and forefinger. The wound went on well till fourteen days afterwards, when it suddenly burst out to such an extent, that the child was nearly dead when brought to the hospital. On admission the wound was compressed, and kept bandaged more or less for about a fortnight, when the boy was discharged with the part nearly healed. In the following case an opening was accidentally made in the brachial artery in bleeding. Although the case did well for a cer- tain time, yet an aneurism ultimately formed:— Witham Wdliams, aged 20, admitted March 12, 1842, under Mr. Stanley, having received a puncture of the left bracliial artery just before, in an attempt to bleed from the vena mediana basihca. The puncture was large and deep, the blood issued from it imme- diately very fast, and in two streams; one bright, the other darker. The hsemorrhage was stopped by bandaging the arm, winch bandage was continued for about seven days. The opening, however, inflamed, and the bandage was on this account discon- tinued. On the 28th of March, a swelling formed in the wound, with pulsation, which slowly increased. On April 1, this swelling bled very freely on the patient moving about; the brachial artery was therefore exposed by incision just above its division, and close to the puncture. The puncture was15U CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEIIVATTONS IN SUKQEllY. oblique^ and included about one-third of the circumference of the artery. The pulse had not varied much up to the period of the operation. Two ligatures were placed above, and one below the wound. In ten days aU the tliree ligatures had separated. May 15.—There is considerably less powder in the pulsation of the left radial artery as compared with the right; the left forearm is weaker, and the skin is less sensible than the right. The wound is nearly healed; the brachial artery pulsates down to the seat of the ligature. The two following cases are instances of wounds of the arteries of the arm followed by effusion of blood : these patients presented themselves several weeks after the injury. In the first case the wounded vessel was cut down upon, wliilst in the second the vessel was tied above the sweUing; the second case appearing to be a simple aneurism, but the first to be effusion of blood without the formation of a distinct sac ;— 1. A man, about thirty, was admitted with a tense swelling of the middle of the forearm, situated over the ulnar artery, pulsating, apparently circumscribed, and having a distinct continuous mur- mui- increased with the hearths pulsation. The man stated that he had pierced liis arm with a knife about three weeks previous, and that the wound bled freely, but stopped, and soon healed. Ou returning, however, to liis work, the sweUing gradually formed, and had increased up to the present time. AVlien viewed externally the swelling appeared to be veiy cir- cmnscribed, and to resemble in most of its characters a true aneurism; so close, indeed, was this resemblance, that the propriety of tying the artery on the cardiac side of the swelling was sug- gested. Mr. Lawrence, however, considered that the circum- sciibed apjiearance was not dependent on any sac, but that the swelling should be rather regarded as a deep-seated effusion of blood, and that the only proper mode of treatment was to lay the swelling freely open, and tie the artery above and below the wound. This opinion was acted on. The fascia and skin were divided, a lump of coagulum fell out, and the artery jetted out of the opening. A small cut, not completely dividing the vessel.AFFECTIONS AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES AND VEINS, 151 existed; the artery was tied above and below this cut^ and the wound allowed to suppurate. No distinct cavity or anem-ism was found. In about tlu’ee weeks the patient was well. 2. A person was admitted labouring under a small aneurism of the radial artery, from a wound with a pair of scissars made six weeks previously. The womid had been plastered up, and the aneurism began to form one month since. It was now about as large as a kidney bean, and situated just where the pulse is felt. A ligature was applied above the aneurism. On the sixth day the swelling was fii-m, without fluetuation or pulsation; the radial artery, between the thumb and forefinger, had also ceased to pid- sate. On the ninth day the aneiu’ism became firm and solid. In the extremities, when two large vessels run side by side, the commiuiications are large and frequent. These communications are important in many ways, but they are to be particularly remembered in those cases where ligatm’es are applied for wounds, as it may happen that a branch may enter between the wound and the ligature, if the ligature is not applied close to the wound :— A boy, let at. 10 years, was admitted, imder Mr. Stanley, into Pitcairn’s ward, in the summer of 1838, labouring under a woimd of the posterior tibial artery, from a bit of glass entering it near the ankle-joint. The artery was cut down upon and exposed; a small womid was found in it, but in addition, for a short distance above, the artery was found to be separated from the surrounding tissues; the ligature above was therefore applied, not close to the wound, but on that part of the artery which was connected to the surrounding tissues; one ligature being thus placed above, and another below the wound. When the tourniquet was removed, some little, but not material, oozing took place : the boy was then put to bed. In half an hour, however, the wound bled freely, and was opened. The blood flowed from the old orifice as freely as before the apphcation of the ligatm-e: a strong hgatm-e was now placed close to the wound, on the bare part of the ai’tery : the bleeding stopped, the boy got well gradually, and in a few weeks was discharged. The points of interest here are, the situation of the ligature and152 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. tlie hcTemorrliage. The distance between the wound and the part of the artery not separated from the surrounding tissues was not so great as to render the chance of haemorrhage probable, if the artery was tied at the juncture of the separated and adherent por- tions, whilst the condition of the artery close to the wound was such as to render it unsuitable for the application of the ligature. The haemorrhage evidently depended on a communication of a more free nature than usual existing between the peroneal and the pos- terior tibial arteries, in the situation of the partially separated por- tion, and thus between the w^ound and the upper ligature. Ecchymoses do not often happen spontaneously; they may, how- ever, sometimes:— A working man was admitted, under Mr. Vincent, who stated that as he was walking along, quite well, about a week before admis- sion, he felt a shght pain on the inner side of Ins left elbow, arising without any cause or blowL On going home, he found the left arm ecchymosed very considerably on the back of the elbow, and along the back of the fore-arm. Under the emplojonent of rest, this was considerably removed, and in about a month the sweUiiig had subsided. There is often great difficulty in getting rid of effused blood, but still wdien it is decidedly removed it seldom recurs. In the following case the ecchymosis recurred in so marked a manner, aud at one spot, that it appeared to depend on the rupture of a con- siderable vein:— A man, aged 35, was admitted, under Mr. Stanley, labouring under a swelling midw^ay between the elbow and shoulder-joints, immediately over the vessels. The sw^elling w^as nearly round, move- able on its base from side to side, but not from above dowmw^ards, soft and elastic, without distinct fluctuation, and in capacity equal to about half a pint. The skin was quite moveable upon it, and free from ecchymosis, but a distinct cord-hke hardness was perceptible below, and especially above the tumor, in the course of the vessels, but superficial to them. Ten days since, whilst at work, he briused his arm severely against a joist of wood, rubbing off flie skin at the same time. ThisAFFECTIONS AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES AND VEINS. 153 injury was confined nearly to the situation of the present swelling. The firm became extremely ecchymosed, and swelled gradually from the wrist to the shoulder. Tliis swelling, in about seven days, had subsided almost entirely: but about tliis time a swelling v'as perceived on the same spot, forming the present tumor, wliich has increased till admission, and thus reached its present size. In about a fortnight the swelling subsided. The following points in reference to the anatomy of arteries are mentioned here in eonnexion with injuries of those vessels. The femoral and the obturatrix arteries are perhaps more often connected with sm-gical proceedings than any other arteries, except those divided in amputations. To ascertain certain points con- nected with these vessels, accurate notes and measurements were made during the winter of 1843-4, in the dissecting room. The points desired to be ascertained were— 1. The exact point at which the sartorius reaches the femoral artery. 2. The point at which the arteria profunda fern oris is given ofl’. 3. The reasons wliich bring the obturatiix artery more or less in the Line of incision in the operation for femoral hernia, when tliis vessel is given off from the epigastric artery. The relations of the sartorius muscle to the femoral artery are important, not only on account of the difficulty which tliis muscle by its unusual size may add to the operation for aneurism, but also by the bad consequences wliich the opening of its sheath may lead to. In ten bodies the femoral artery was accurately examined, and the distance below the crural ring, at which the femoral artery began to be covered on its outer side by the upper edge of the sartorius muscles, was first examined, and then the point was found lower down, at wliich the lower edge of the muscle left the inner side of the artery. In tliis way the portion of the artery above the muscle, and the portion more or less covered by it, were ascertained. The following were the measurements :—154' CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. Sex. Age. Condition. Distance below Crural Arch at which Sarto- rius reached Artery. Portion of Artery covered by Sar- torius. M. 21 Thin Ij Inch 14 Inch. M. 18 Muscular 2 do. 24 do. M. 63 Muscular 2 do. 2 do. M. 23 Thin 2 do. 24 do. M. 23 Kobust 2i do. 14 do. M. — Muscular 24 do. 1 do. M. 54 Muscular 24- do. 1 do. M. 64 Tliin 3 do. ll do. M. — Thin 34 do. 1 do. T. 70 Thin 44 do. 14 do. This gives a distance varying from 1|- to 4|- inches, or an average of about 2|- inches, and allowing half an inch for the obli- quity of the sartorius, would give about tluee inches as the distance on the inner side of the artery, from the crural arch to the point at which the artery is completely covered by the muscle. The point at which the profunda is given off varies very much, even in the two limbs of the same body. To ascertain its exact point of separation, the distance from the crural arch at which this vessel was given off from the femoral artery was measured in nineteen bodies, or thirty-eight femoral arteries. The point varied in these from half an inch to nearly 3 inches, but gave an average of about 1-f- of an inch as the point of separation. In these thirty-eight cases the point of separation was between and 2 inches in twenty-two cases; at a distance exceeding tliis in nine cases, and at a distance less than this in seven cases. In this way the sartorius would reach the outer side of the femoral artery about an inch below the point at which the profunda is generally given off.affections and injuries of arteries and veins. 155 The following were the distanees at whieh the profunda was f^iveii off below the crural arch iu the cases just mentioned. SEX. age. RIGHT. LEFT. F. 76 1 & If F. 14 13- ■*^4 1 M. 66 1 2 1 2 F. 19 2|- 2 F. 16 l2^ 2 F. 42 If 2 M. 66 2 13- -'■4 M. >41 If F. 38 n 2 M. 20 2 2f M. 68 1 If F. 50 If M. 20? 21 M. 63 H 2 M. 28 If If M. 47 If If M. 23? 2'f 2f F. 70? 13- ■‘^4 If — — 3 1 2 . The obturatrix artery^ when not coming off from the internal iliac, arises generally from the epigastric, next in frequency from the external iliac, and least commonly from the femoral artery. The parts at the femoral ring are so near each other, and any change in position makes so great a difference, that a dry pre- })aration of the obturatrix artery, as shewing its relation to Gim- bemat^s ligament, is of little value. The mere act of drying may just spoil the whole point of the preparation, and malce an artery appear in great danger, which in a careful operation would pro- bably not have been injured. In looking at the obturatrix artery, wlien arising from the epigastric in the recently dead body, three15 G CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. conditions of it are found; one, the most common, when the obturatrix artery lies on the inner side of the vein; a second con- dition, the most rare, when the vessel lies quite behind Gimbernat’s ligament; and a third condition, not very uncommon, when the artery lies about midway between the outer edge of the hgaraeiit and the inner side of the vein. The variety of the obturatrix artery arising from the epigastric M^as measured in fourteen arteries, in reference to these points: 1. The point at wliicli the epigastric came off from the external iliac artery. 2. The point at which the obturatrix artery came off from the epigastric. 3. The relation of the obturatrix artery, in each of these cases to the femoral vein and Gimbernat’s hgament: in fact to the crural opening. The following are the results:— 1. Epigastric arose from Ext. Iliac half an inch above crtu’al ai'ch Obturatrix Ai’tery arose from Epigastric after half an inch of its com’se The Obturatrix Artery ran over the inside of the External Ihac Vein. 2. Ditto Ditto The Obturatrix Artery ran close on the vein. 3. Ditto Ditto The Obturatrix Aiiery moderately close to the vein. 4. Epigastric arose from Ext. Iliac one half to tlirce quai'ters of an inch above crural arch Obturatrix ai'ose from Epi- gastric after quarter of an inch of its course The Obturatrix Artery ran just over the vein. In these four cases the obturatrix artery did not arise from the epigastric till this was half an inch long, yet the former vessel ran down close on the inside of the external iliac vein; for the origin of the epigastric artery being about half an inch above the crural arch, the epigastric artery ran down tliis half inch to reach it, and gave off the obturatrix not half an inch higher up on the walls of the abdomen than the external ihac artery, but almost in contact with it. In the ten following cases the epigastric artery arose on a line parallel to the crural arch.AFFECTIONS AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES AND VEINS. 157 1. Epigastric Ai'tery arising at the line of Crural Arch 2. Ditto 3. Ditto 4. Ditto 5. Ditto fi. Ditto 7. Ditto 8. Ditto 9. Ditto 10. Ditto Obturatm Artery ai-ising from Epigastric, after a quarter of an inch of its course Ditto after three-eighths of an inch of its course Ditto ditto Ditto ditto Ditto after half an inch of its course Ditto ditto Ditto ditto Ditto ditto Ditto after three-quarters of an inch of its com’se Ditto after one inch and one-tenth of an inch of its course Ohturatrix Artery pass- ing half way between the inner edge of the vein and outer edge of G. Ligament. Ditto passing close to vein. Ditto ditto Ditto ditto Ditto passing not very close to vein. Ditto passing moderately near to vein. Ditto passing midway be- tween the vein and G. Ligament. Ditto ditto Ditto passing close to the vein (tortuous). Ditto _ passing on the inner side of thecrnral opening. In these cases^ the epigastric artery, where the ohturatrix artery arose from it, was much less in contact with the external iliac artery and vein than in the preceding cases, and had ascended a short way upwards on the abdominal muscles, and on the whole the ohturatrix artery lay less close to the vein and more mesiaUy than in the preceding cases. In only four cases was the ohturatrix artery close to the vein, and in two moderately near it. In three cases the ohturatrix artery lay between the vein and the ligament, and in one on the inner side of the crural opening.158 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. CHAPTER XL AEFECTIONS OE THE URINARY AND GENITAL ORGANS. Hycli'ocele; emplojTiient of wine, iodine, and sulphate of zinc, for its cure. Cure from incision and simple puncture. Hydi’oceles cured by injection, but recur- ring in two, six, and seven yeai’s. Hscmatocele apparently commencing as sucli. The fluid of hscmatocele. Hscmatocele cm’ed by cold applications. Soiuxe of the blood in hscmatocele. Retention of mane in women, after fracture, and from retained menstrual secretion. Case of hsematuria of an obscure nature. Bladder suddenly recovering its power in paraplegia. Urethra ulcerating dmang con- valescence from fever. Malignant disease of the testis fatal in a few months in one case, and progressing slowly for seven years in another. Danger of incisions in the middle of the perineimi. Unusual course of the artery of the bulb. Calculi lodged in the urethra. Stone drawn out of the bladder by a sound. Hydroceles are injected, at St. BartholomeVs Hospital, vdth port wine, pure or dilute; a solution of sulphate of zinc, in the propor- tion of about 5j. to a pint of water, and tinct. of iodine, diluted with water, in the proportion of 5j. to 3vj. Of all these methods the wine is most generally used; the cases in which it fails are very few, and the pain succeeding the operation is very slight. The pain wliich follows the use of the sulphate of zinc and iodine is occasionally very severe, lasts for some hours, and is hardly to be relieved by any means. When the tincture of iodine is employed, one draclun or more of the solution is left in the hydrocele. Where the diluted wine and iodine both fad, the sulphate of zinc has succeeded. A simple incision with a lancet is sometimes successful:—A man had a hydrocele, wliich was injected with port wine. The fluid collected again; a free opening with a lancet was made by Mr. Lawrence, and the fluid evacuated. The wound gradually closed, and the fluid did not again collect, whilst the man was under observation.AFFECTIONS OF THE UEINAUY AND GENITAL OEGANS. 159 A simple puncture is at times sufficient to cure a liydrocele :—• An old man was admitted with a hydrocele, and stated that the present hydrocele had begun to collect nine weeks previously ; he also mentioned that he had suffered from this hydrocele nine years previously, and that after it had been tapped then, he remained free from it for nine years, till its present recurrence. Simple tapping was successful in another case in the hospital, but sup- puration occuri’ed in the cavity of the hydrocele; the man had gonorrhoeal discharge from the uretlma, and perhaps this may have rendered the parts more irritable. Pree exposure of the cavity of a liydrocele is not however always attended with mild inflammation:— Eemoval of a small portion of the scrotum had been practised for an out-patient, for the cure of hydrocele in a young unhealthy man. The scrotum inflamed considerably, and he was admitted under Mr. Vincent into the hospital. The suppuration was very extensive, and appeared to implicate the testicle. He however recovered his health, and went out, the testicle becoming reduced to its natm-al size, and the opening nearly healed. Amongst the number of patients in whom hydroceles are in- jected and completely removed, very few return with a relapse of the complaint, whilst a cm’e from simple evacuation of the fluid appears to be very rare indeed. It does not seem to be very accurately made out in what the change produced by the injection of hydroceles consists; whether the influence of the injection on the lining of the hydrocele is such as to arrest the future secretion of the fluid, or whether the sides of tlie cavity generally become adherent. The following cases are instances of relapses at distant periods, after injection, and tluow some light on the mode of cure :— 1. In the spring of 1842, a young man was admitted under Mr. Stanley, with hydrocele; this hydrocele had been injected four years previously, and after remaining cured for two years, again formed. 2. About the same time (1842), a man was admitted under Mr. Stanley, with hydi’ocele, which had been injected with wine in 1829, in 1835 with wine and water, and now again required injection. General adhesion undoubtedly did not take place here, and as the swellings were smooth, it seemed most probable that even partial160 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. union of the cavity of the hydrocele had not occurred. It would seem that in these cases the fluid was not again secreted, in con- sequence of a change effected on the membrane by the injection into the cavity of the hydrocele, in the same manner as the removal of the fluid is procured, and its recurrence prevented, in the hydro- celes of cliildren, by external stimulating applications to the skin. Cases of haematocele engrafted on hydrocele are common, but it does not appear that hsematocele has been observed to commence as such. The following case commenced as a simple hsematocele, if the man gave a true account. He appeared to have no peculiar motive for deceit, and would probably have noticed a hydrocele if it had existed:—A man, aged 71, was admitted under Mr. Law- rence, for a sweUing of the scrotum on the right side, red, painful, tense, opaque, fluctuating, and apparently pointing; the left side of the scrotum and left testicle were natural. He gave the following history :—Three weeks since he was well in every respect, especially about his private parts. One day, after passing his motions, he perceived a swelling on the right side of the scrotum, wliich was free from pain, and appeared to liim to have come of itself. In two days the swelling increased rapidly, nearly to its present size, and its subsequent increase has taken place gradually. The swelling was opened, and thirty ounces of a bloody fluid, with coagula, were discharged. The right testicle appeai’ed to be of the natural size, when examined before the man went out. After remaining about six weeks in the hospital, he left, weU. The bloody fluid of hsematocele varies much; it may be coffee- coloured, Muth an oily fluid floating on the top, or a bloody fluid mixed with clots, or blood, or a substance hke treacle. It does not appear that the nature of the fluid in these cases has much influence on the chance of its removal, or that a coagulating fluid will be absorbed sooner than one wdiich remains fluid, or vice versa, and even a fluid which remains as such, in the tunica vaginalis, may not have lost its coagidating property when let out. In the following case, a hsematocele, which probably contained fluid blood, was rapidly absorbed: — A man, under Mr. Lawrence^s care, had a hydrocele, which after tapping filled with blood; this blood was let out in nine days, in a fluid form, with a trocar.APFECTIONS OF THE UHIXARY AND GF.MTAT, ORGANS. 1(51 Tlie hydrocele filled again. Cold lotions were applied, and iri three weeks the scrotum was nearly of its natural size. In the common forms of hsematocele there arc some circum- stances wliich seem to indicate that the cutaneous veins of the scrotum are not the source of the blood whicli distends the tunica vaginalis. When a man \aoleutly squeezes his thighs together, or a great weight strikes the scrotum, the whole cellular tissue of the part may fiU with blood, and a hydi'ocele be converted into a haematocele. In such a case the cutaneous veins are probably in- jured, but in the gi'eat majoiity of htematoceles, whether caused by blows, or by puncture for the cure of a hydrocele, the ecchy- mosis is very slight indeed. Although the ecchymosis is slight, the effusion of blood is most rapid, and a large hydrocele vnll sometimes fill with blood in a few hours. This want of ecchjano- sis, combined with rapid effusion, throws some doubt on the cuta- neous veins being the cause of the effusion; and if we look at their size, and relations to the surrounding parts, the doubt is in- creased. Even in an inflamed scrotum these veins will not always bleed freely, and if they did bleed subcutaneously, the thin skin of the scrotum could not hide an ecchymosis, which forms here as readily as in the eyelids. If, however, these veins could bleed, woidd the blood run through the cellular tissue into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis tlirough the opening made by the trocar ? It is very doubtful if it would. When the tunica vaginalis slips off the canula, the wine, even with all the force of the syringe, runs chiefly into the cellular tissue, and hardly in any quantity into the tunica vaginalis; so that with aU the danger of the sloughing of the scrotum, the patient may remain uncured of his hydrocele. This is not a mere matter of curiosity. In addition to the im- portance of knowing the right cause of the bleeding, there is an opinion sometimes held, which is very questionable, and may bring blame on one by n^hom no fault has really been committed. It is said, “ before tapping a- hydrocele, let the surgeon be careful to find the veins of the scrotum, and not by puncturing them convert a hydrocele into a haematocele.^’ Tliis is right advice a.s lar as it goes, but there is no doid)t that the most careful man does sometimes convert a hydrocele into a haematocele, even with iM162 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SUHGERY. all precaution, and apparently without puncturing the cutaneous veins. Where does the blood really flow from in these cases ? It - flows rapidly, without ecchyinosis of the scrotum, and often flows again and again, if it is repeatedly evacuated by the trocar. Three sets of vessels may pour out blood under these circumstances. The vascular lining of the tunica vaginalis has appeared on dis- section to have been the source of the effused blood,* in addi- tion to which the plexus of veins on the cord might readily pour out blood, as in the case of the spontaneous hsematocele abeady related. In addition to these vessels inside the sac, there is another set of vessels, distant from the skin, large in size, close on the tunica vaginabs, quite out of sight, and more or less closely connected with the spermatic plexus of veins, which is very sparingly supplied with valves. If, in the dead body of a person labouring under hydrocele, an incision be made over the ring, and the hydrocele be pulled out of the scrotum, the cutaneous veins and skin are left, and the cord with the hydrocele is lifted up. But the hydrocele is not bare, but running on its surface, and ahnost in its coats, may often be seen veins of considerable size, not passing to the peri- neal veins and the cutaneous veins of the thigh, but connected more or less with the large veins of the cord itself. Here is a possible source of blood, which the eye would not detect, and which might pour out blood under those very circumstances, wliich are not clearly explained, if the blood be supposed to come from the cutaneous vessels of the scrotum alone. The number of cases of retention of urine occurring in a large hospital in the course of the year is large, and some of these are very important. Cases of retention of urine, from mere nervous feehngs, and those from real disease, resemble each other at times very closely :—A young M-oman was in the hospital under Mr. Lawrence's care, with obscure symptoms relating to the brain : she went out, but returned again. This second time her symptoms increased, and she died. Even on her second admis- sion her real ailments were not very clear, and loss of power in voiding the water came on in such a manner as to appear hardly * Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Joiu-uul, vol. xxxm. p. 325.AFFECTIONS OF THE HUTNARY AND GENITAL ORGANS. 1 to be the effect of real disease; yet she died of paralysis. Reten- tion of urine sometimes occurs after fractures of the lower extre- mity, n-ithout any injury to the bladder, though not perhaps suffi- ciently often to be common. Retention under these circumstances is more common in men than women, yet it has been seen to occur in an old woman to such an extreme amount, within a few' days after fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, as to destroy life by the inflammation of the bladder and kidneys produced by it. The following case of retention of urine is remarkable in many respects, but especially for the unusual cause which gaire rise to it:— A healthy unmarried girl, aged seventeen, was sent up from the country to the hospital for inability to empty her bladder, and was admitted under Mr. Lawrence. Till the la.st few days she had fol- lowed her employment as a servant, and, till the present difficulty of passing her water occurred, she had considered herself as well. A catheter was introduced by the house-surgeon into the bladder with great difficulty. The size wns only a No. 2 gnm catheter, and it seemed to pass vertically upwards, close behind the os pubis, tlirougli a urethra four or five inches long. Tlie chief impediment seemed to be the narrowing of tlie urethra by firm pressure from behind forwnrds. About one pint or more of high-coloured lunne was tlnis drawn off', with great relief to tlie patient. The immediate lugency of her ailments was thus relieved. The following circumstances wnre made out then and afterwards. The vagina was closed by a membrane at a point situated rather behind the orifice of the urethra, near the situation of the hymen.. A firm, apparently solid tumor filled the hollow of the sacrum, and pressed the rectum .so much backwards, that the finger could, only be passed behind it wdth difficulty. She had never men- struated, but had never been troubled w'ith much pain in the loins, or bearing down pains, and only occasionally .suffered from headache. She applied on the Friday: at seven o'clock on tlie following moming the nurse called the house-surgeon, to say the patient was flooding. Tlie bed contaiued a (|uantity of blood, smelling like putrid fish. The blootl was still ninning from the vagina.164 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEUVATION 3 IN SURGERY. but the patient was quite calm and comfortable, and shewed no signs of loss of blood. The tumor pressing on the rectum was now gone, the septum had burst, and the finger could be passed through it to a considerable distance without feeling the os uteri. She got quite well, and menstruated in one month dating from her admission into the hospital. The first suggestion arising to the reader will probably be: Here was a plain case of collection of the menses, and it might have been tapped at once, and the bladder relieved. The fact is this; the woman came late in the day; the prominent symptoms were relieved, no danger existed, and the patient remained in the house for the surgical visit next day. The history of cases often comes from the patient little by little, and until the membrane burst, the house-surgeon, which was myself, had no very clear idea what the absolute cause of the retention was. It is perhaps not quite clear how the retention was caused. Could blood accumulate between the membrane and os uteri to such an amount, and press on the surrounding parts with such force, as to close the uretlura, elongate it, and also compress the rectum firmly against the sacrum ? This may have been the case> but the firm tumor of the sacrum, the sudden attack of the retention, the elongation and alteration of direction in the urethra, are quite consonant with the supposition of the blood passing partly into the cavity of the uterus, and this organ becoming retroverted into the hollow of the sacrum, as in the early period of preg- nancy. It is remarkable, how rarely a case of pure hsematuria, that is, one in wliich the only perceptible adment is the existence of blood in the urine, occurs. The existence of a stone, or some affection of the bladder or kidneys, is generally made out, and the mere passage of blood becomes a symptom, instead of the disease. The cii'cumstances of the following case w'ere peculiar and of interest. No renal or other ailment could be clearly made out, although some gi’owth from the bladder was suspected, and the case resolved itself into one of simple hiematuria. No means suc- ceeded in arresting the flow of blood, until a stjqitic was employed, and that gave immediate relief, and in so marked a manner, that its efficacy in this case could pot well be doubted:—AFFECTIONS OF THE URINARY AND GENITAL ORGANS. 165 A man, aged seventy-two, was admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, under the care of Mr. Lawrence. A flabby, feeble man, with a completely blanched and somewhat yeUow skin; labouring under pain in making water, with desire to pass it every one or two hours. There is no difficulty in making water, no retention at any time, no pain in the loins, no gravel, no piles, and no stoppage in emptying his bowels. The urine is sp. gr. 1022, slightly acid, of a red colour, increased in quantity, containing a little mucus, forming a slight deposit, with some blood and salts; it is loaded with albumen. The blood separates but very slightly from the urine on standing. After the albumen has been separated by heat, the urine appears of its healthy colour. He has been sounded, but no stone was felt, no bleeding was produced, neither was the introduction of the catheter attended with much pain. He describes himself as generally healthy, and a printer by trade. He first began to pass blood in his water about two years since: the blood continued to flow for one week, accompanied with the present symptoms. Under medical treatment the haemorrhage subsided, but occurred again eighteen months since, for a week, as before. During the last three months it has flowed in the present manner, except for six weeks. The bleeding has never been traced to any evident cause : the urine has sometimes been clear, and unmixed with blood, till just at the end of the evacuation of his bladder. There has never been any pain in the loins, neither has calculous matter of any kind been visible. Various remedies were tried one after another: gaUic acid, alum, acetate of lead, sulphate of zinc, ergot of rye, and turpentine, produced hardly any decided change; but, on the whole, the man became more weak, whilst the urine remained as full of blood. The man’s diet was good, being meat with some wine, but his appetite was bad. He was admitted April the 9th, it was now May the 7th, and he was ordered Euspinfls styptic. The man gives the foUoAving account of its action :— On the 7th he took three doses at 3, 6, and 9 p.m. respectively. On the 8th, at 9 a.m,, his urine was bloody, but he mentioned toJiiti CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. the sister that he thought that he saw some change: at 12 noon, his urine was quite clear. On May the 9th, the urine is sp. gr. 1015, acid, with alkaline mucus; becomes just cloudy on heat, without precipitate, and is free from blood. He still passes his water as often as before. He went out May 31, quite well as regarded the bleeding, although the styptic was not again employed. Patients labouring under loss of sensation and motion in the lower extremities, sutler most from the two accompanpng mis- lortunes,—sloughing of the integuments, and loss of power in the bladder. It is remarkable, however, in some of these cases, how suddenly the patient is sometimes relieved of one of these evils, the bladder recovering its power before the other symptoms improve in any marked manner; that improvement being accom- panied by a sudden and marked change in the character of the urine :— In the winter of 1841, an old man was admitted with partial paraplegia, and some dulness of mind. The house-surgeon drew off from his bladder, one morning, seventy ounces of mine at once. For some time liis urine was drawn off twice daily; at last his urine became mixed with a copious white deposit, and puriform secretion, to a very considerable amoiuit; aU this taking place in a few days. At the same time the bladder so rapidly regained its jiower, and that in a rate quite disproportionate to liis general improvement, that the use of the catheter was no longer necessary. In two other patients a similai- improvement took place under similar circumstances; the bladder suddenly recovering its expellent power. It would appear that examination of the prostate gland by the rectum may at times give a very deceptive result. In the follow- ing case it seemed that the distended bladder, pressing on the rectum, concealed the outline of the edge of the prostate, and prevented an accurate idea being formed how much of the swelling was owing to the bladder or prostate gland respectively :— An old man, under the care of l\Ir. Lawrence, had sevei'e retention of urine, for which his bladder was tapped above Ihe os pubis. Whilst his bladder was distended, the prostate did not appear to project much into the rectum, neither ivas thisAFFECTIOXS OF THE UlllNAKY AND GENITAL OKGANS, Ifi? gland felt to be much enlarged. Tliis man died two months after- wards. The prostate was found to be enlarged laterally, so, as to form towards the rectum an even broad mass, as large as a small apple, whilst a conical mass connected with the two lobes pro- jected into the bladder. Again, a prostate may appear to be enlarged, and that enlarge- ment may depend but partially on enlargement of the gland itself:— A middle-aged man was admitted under Mr. Stanley, with urinary fistula, and stricture of the urethra. On examination by the rectum, a swelhng was found, which appeared to be enlargement of the prostate gland. This man died. On examining the prostate, an abscess of moderate size was found in the tissue round it, and the gland was only slightly enlarged. In addition to this, the bladder presented a very remarkable appearance. The bladder was firm and somewhat thickened. On its back part a cavity existed, capable of holding one and a half ounce; this cavity was formed in front by the muscular fibres of the bladder, and behind, by peritoneum; the front of this cavity communicating freely with the cavity of the bladder, between the muscular fibres, fonning a trellis-work in front. This cavity was lined by a shreddy membrane, like an abscess, forming a remarkable contrast to the smooth membrane of the bladder, the musculai- fibres separating this cavity from the bladder being lined by the smooth mucous membrane in front, and by tliis foul membrane behind. It was evident that tliis abscess, on or in the walls of the bladder, had caused the swelling supposed to be an enlargement of the prostate. The urethra sometimes gives way after fever in a very remark- able manner. The following cases occurred at distant periods, but presented these peculiar features in common :— Two men had been ill of low fever, in 1887 and 1844 respec- tively, but were recovering, when they were seized with swelling of the private parts, and evident effusion of urine. They both died. In one of these cases the urethra was examined, but no stricture was visible; there was an opening in the membranous part of the urethra, with ragged dark margins, which might possibly have included it. Again, in the autumn of 1846, a man was still remaining con-IbS CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. vulcsccTit in tlic liospital Rfter efftisioii of urines vvliicli hsicl occurred after fcver^ and had not been preceded by any severe stricture. In- cisions had been freely made, and this man then was nearly well. Malignant disease of the testicle may commence with very deceptive symptoms, and run a most rapid course. The particulars of the following case are related at length : they are those of a boy in whom the testicle swelled slowly after gonorrhoea, and induced him to apply for relief, after some time, at the hospital. The testicle was removed soon after admission, but the boy died within nine months of the commencement of his illness :— A pale, thin, and slightly sallow boy, eighteen years of age, admitted July 23, 1843, under Mr. Lawrence, labouring under a BweUing of the left side of the scrotmn, wLich forms a long oval swelhng, terminating roundly just outside the external inguinal ring, enlarging slowly as it descends, and of a somewdiat square form. The sw^eUing is quite opaque in aU parts, about eight inches vertical by tlu-ee and a liaK inches horizontal measurement at its lowest part, tense, with distinct fluctuation in the upper half, and indistinct fluctuation in the middle and front part of the sw'elhng. The back part of the swelling is firm and hard, this fidness extending to the upper part of the swelling; the cord does not feel hard nor large, but the tumor passes so close to the ring that slight fulness might exist there wdtliout being very plain. He complains of heavy pain on the right side of the loins; no tumor can, how^ever, be felt there. Seven months since a gonoiThceal discharge from the urethra gradually ceased; and thus he w^as quite free from any affection of the genital organs. One month afterwards, that is, six months since, the scrotmn began to swell, which swelling increased till five w^eeks since, wdien it reached its present size; this swelling commencing with some pain and heat, but at the lower part of the scrotum. Five weeks since he got medical advice, and w'as directed to lie in bed, and apply iodine to the part. Under this treatment the sw^efiing is said by him to have diminished some little. During the last three weeks he has experienced pain in the loins, on the right side. Aug. 1.—A trocar w'as passed into the swelling this day, when there escaped from the swelling about Jj. of a moderately clearAl'FECTIONS OF THE URINAllY AND GENITAL ORGANS. 169 fluid, and about 5ij. of blood, in a stream, which soon stopped. This blood coagulated, leaving a reddish fluid, which presented nothing peculiai' to the eye. The swelling thus was hardly altered in size. On the following day the testicle was removed. The tunica vaginahs contained a little bloody fluid, and some coagula. The swelling was one firm mass, occupying the whole ca\dty of the tunica vaginahs, and tliis, after the removal of the fiuid on the 1st, formed the entire tumor, passing close up to the ring. Tlie swelhng was found to consist of a pink, very vasculai- mass, marked in one or two places with bits of yellow matter. These substances were elastic, not breaking down, or allowing any soft substance to separate, when scraped, but nearly as fii-m as a healthy testicle. On the hack of the swelhng a part of the tubular substance of the testicle was visible, covered with the tunica albuginea, and forming a part of the swelhng from which the other bulged. Aug. 12.—The boy is pale and sallow and still hable to odd feehngs in his legs. The wound is not yet healed ui its whole extent. He complains of pain in the left hip; the w^ound is healing favom-ably, the lower part completely cicatrized. In a few days he complained of pain in the liip and chest, which continued more or less tiU death. He died September 5th, having been dehrious for a few^ days, passing blood in liis motions; the skin also having given way over the sacrum. On examination, the following appearances were found:— Second rib, right side, broken close to the cartilage; w'alls thin, its interior filled for about haK an inch with substance resembling jelly, of a brownish-red colom-, without traces of cancelh. Some other ribs on the right side, and all on the left near the cartilages, were easily cut through, and bent without breaking, the gelatinous matter in them being here and there tinged with blood. The lumbar vertebrae were soft, with gelatinous deposits of the size of a pea here and there through the cancelli. The body of the fifth lumbar vertebra, with the exception of two thin plates of bone cor- responding to its articulating surfaces, was completely destroyed, some soft jelly occupying its place. The sacrum, and upper part of the interior of both ossa innominata, were extensively softened ;170 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. their spaces being occupied by gelatinous matter. Both the sacro-iliac joints were destroyed. The left liip-joint was filled with a dirty yelloiv-brown fluid, the cartilage entire, the head of the femur separating from the neck, which was soft, yielding under the finger; the trochanter firm and healthy. The head of the bone coidd be scooped out with the finger, leaving only the carti- lage. The neck of the right femur was entire, but the posterior part soft, giving way on pressure with the finger. The lumbar glands wnre enlarged, forming a large mass as big as two fists in front of the spine, and in structure resembling the diseased testicle. Some lumps, of the size of horse-beans, accompanied the spermatic vessels, resembling enlarged absorbent glands; the vas deferens was natural; the thoracic and abdominal viscera healthy. In the preceding case the whole disease apparently ran its course in nine months, the man considering liimself well at the commencement of that period. Such, however, does not appear to be the common course of the disease, a longer period elapsing be- fore the disease terminates fatally, although that period is not so Tong as in the following case, where disease had been gradually coming on for seven years. There were some suspicious circum- stances about it, but none of a very decided character. The disease, however, was decided fungus hsematodes :— A man, aged 45, was admitted, mider Mr. Stanley, labouring under a swelling of the left testicle to about twice its natural size, of an oval form, wdth an uneven surface, heavy feel, and hardly tender. It jdelded, but did not fluctuate, and was soft at one part. The glands of the groin were healthy to the touch. Tliis man had laboured under the venereal disease two or tliree times. The disease of the testicle began seven years previously without cause, and had increased slowly since. Mercury produced no effect in any way on the swelling. The testicle was removed, and w'^as found to consist of two distinct substances; an upper, foiining a mass of true fungus hsematodes, and a lower, of a brown, ochry-coloured, putty-like substance. The long deep incisions of the perineum for the relief of effusion of urine are not generally attended with any considerable bleed- ing, the divided parts being often dead, and the quantity of blood contained in them small. The effusion is generally so situated thatAFt'KCTlONS OK THE UlUNAKY AND GENITAL ORGANS. 171 the incisions ai’e made to one side of the mesial line, and the ure- thra is readied, not from the surface, but deep down and far back from one of the latend incisions. When the ui'ethra is attempted t o be reached directly and at once in the mesial line, and that from the skin rather than from the incisions ah'eady made, the danger of bleeding is just as great as where a deep mesial incision is made in the first stage of the operation for stone. It is not only the danger of wounding a regular or unusual branch of the artery of the bulb that is to be feared; the mere wound through the bulb itself dividing several small vessels may be attended in an old jierson with bleeding fatal in a few hours; and the attempts to reach the lu’ethra in the mesial line are attended as a rule Avith much more bleeding than those from the side. So far as the mere contraction of the ui’etlna is concerned, cases of effusion of urine are not generally attended \Adth so much diffi- culty as to make an attempt to divide the stricture in the incisions for rehef to the effusion, a matter of extreme consequence. After the sloughs have separated, the stricture is often very manageable, and much more so than many other cases which appear to be less severe. The diffierdt cases of stricture are not as a rule those with effusion of urine, but they chiefly occur in men of sallow appearance, past the middle period of hfe, who have laboured for years under the disease, and have always been having a httle done by one person after another, but have never made up their minds to consider themselves ill, and to make it their great object to get regidai'ly well. Bad as an effusion of urine may be, and dangerous to life as it often is, it may be a much less serious ailment than a urinary fistula, Avhich merely dribbles a few drops, but may still gradually destroy the patient^s life. The artery of the bulb may lie in such a position that it could not well escape in lithotomy, and may be of such a size as to bleed nearly as much as the pudic :—In a body brought for dissection, the pudic artery of each side divided opposite the tuber ischii into two branches—the continued trunk, and the artery of the bulb. 1 he artery ot the bulb ran forwards and inwards, and after passing near the outer edge of the trout half of the sphincter ani, entered the back and outer part of the bulb. After the operation tor lithotrity, as well as from small calculi172 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. passing spontaneously into the urethra^ this canal is not un- frequently blocked up. The removal of these substances from the urethra is often performed by passing instruments down the canal; but sometimes an incision is required. However small the calculus may be, it always seems tightly fixed; the wound appears to be much deeper than a simple incision into the urethra might be ex- pected to be, the tissue of the corpus spongiosum bleeds most freely, and by its elasticity keeps the wound closed during the operation, and prevents any good view of the bottom of the incision being obtained. The following is an instance of retention of urine from a calculus concealed by a pilimosis, the retention of urine being consider- able :—A little boy came to the hospital with retention of urine. He had a phimosis, and the catheter would not enter the urethra. The phimosis was divided, and a calculus was found to be stuck ill the orifice of the urethra, blocking' it up. This was removed, but still the boy could hardly make water. The house-surgeon introduced a catheter, and the water was drawn off, which the boy had not been able to void on account of the distended condition of the bladder, even when the stone was removed. There are amongst surgical instrmnents, sounds with little bulbs at the end, wliich are rarely used, and perhaps justly. The following occurrence well illustrates the accidents to which they may give’ rise;—A little boy came one morning to the hospital with symp- toms of stone, and was sounded by the house-surgeon with a bulbed sound. On withdrawing the sound, it came about as far as the scrotum, and then stopped. The bulb of the sound had hooked out the calculus in front of it. Mr. Stanley at his visit made an incision into the urethra, and the calculus was removed.173 AVKKCTIONS OV MOl’TH AND TOACHKA. CHAPTER XII. AFFECTIONS OF MOUTH AND TRACHEA. Salivaiy calculus. Removal of tonsils. Abscess behind the phaiynx. Cut throat. Nourishment by enemata after wounds of the throat. Cases of difBculty con- nected with the healing of the wound. Suffocation of adults and children from vomiting and foreign bodies in the trachea. Space between the cricoid cartilage and thyroid isthmus. Enlarged subclavian artery and bronchocele. Peculiar distribution of supra-scapular veins. A WOMAN, about 30 years of age, applied at the hospital, under Mr. Stanley, with a large swelling under the tongue, which had been increasing for thirteen years. One tooth had been drawn to make room for it. It was a calctilus in the submaxillary duct, and was extracted by Mr. Stanley. The length was about an inch and a half; it consisted of phosphate with carbonate of lime, and weighed forty-tlrree grains. In removing the tonsils every person may avoid wounding the carotid artery, and perhaps the tonsilhtic; but stiU the annals of surgery shew that those arteries have been wounded, and the operation of removing the tonsils with the hook and knife is an inconvenient and imperfect proceeding. The guillo- tine of Dr. Warren, of Boston, is often used at St. BartholomeM''s Hospital, and with the most perfect success. With care it is conveniently applied, and, whilst it does not cut the parts wdiicli are to be avoided, it has the great advantage of cutting off the parts projecting beyond the pillars of the fauces smoothly and completely. Abscesses behind the pharynx are not very common. The fol-174 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGEI?Y. lowing is an instance of tliis aflection; it was accompanied with great inconvenience, and its external characters were rather those of an obscure tumor than an abscess. A deep puncture ivith a sheathed knife removed all doubt, and relieved the patient. The folloudng are the notes of the case :— A boy, 14 years of age, admitted under the care of Mr. LavTence, well in all respects except an aflection of the throat, with difficult respiration. The breathing is loud and stertorous, especially at night, when it is accompanied vdth spasms of the glottis threatening suffocation. The voice is weak and stridulous. Air enters both sides of the chest well and freely, and no tender- ness exists on pressure of the larynx. A round finn elastic swell- ing exists in the pharynx, on the front of the spine, not extending quite up to the base of the skull, but reaching downwards beyond the bne of sight; its measurement appears to be about an inch and a half across at the base, and its projection from the base to its apex about an inch, the most prominent part being opposite the opening of the glottis. The tongue, tonsils, and parts around, are apparently healthy. The cavity of the nose is free from any unnatural growth. After remaining in four days, the tumor was punctured twice deeply, when about an ounce and a half of pus escaped with im- mediate relief. The opening healed in one or two days, and the boy went out well in about one week from admission. This boy stated that the difficulty of breathing had existed during the last six weeks, and that it had increased grajjually. His friends stated that about ten days before admission he had swallowed a pin; of the truth of which statement, as well as every thing connected with it, the boy was quite ignorant. Of the great number of persons who attempt to destroy life by cutting the tln*oat, very few comparatively die immediately, al- though a large number never ultimately recover. The wounds in some consist of a mere cut in the skin over the larynx, or in a long cutaneous incision from one mastoid muscle to the other ; but in many the larynx or trachea are opened. The larynx in the neighbourhood of the glottis, and even the pharynx, are opened more commonly than the trachea low down, the incisions being directedAFFECTIONS OF MOUTH AND TKACHEA. 175 generally towards the thyroid cartilage. Wounds of the pharynx sound much more serious than wounds of the larynx; but when we remember that any incision of moderate depth above the upper chord* vocales necessarily enters the pharynx, ivithout implicating the larynx, it is plain that incisions of the larjmx or pharynx depend much more on the situation than on the depth of the wound. The real danger of a wound of tlie pharynx consists in the exposure and consequent inflammation of, with effusion of fluid into, the parts around the larynx, and tlie difficulty in feeding tlie patient. Many patients with cut throat die in a few hours exhausted; others die in a day or two, from the fluid collecting in the air tubes, or from failure of their powers without any very marked local disease; and others live many iveeks, and at last die from some pecuharity in the healing of the wound. A. very little local disease will destroy a patient reduced by the loss of blood and his own unhappy mental condition. Mdien a person attempts to destroy liimself, he may divide the jugular vein, but he very rarely wounds the carotid artery; when he tries to murder another person, the carotid artery may be readily wounded. Even in the common position of parts, tlie carotids are backwards, and deep in the neck; but with the chin elevated and the head thrown back, the carotid arteries are very backward :—In the summer of 1840, a man cut liis wife's throat, and then his own: in the woman's neck one carotid artery was divided, but in his own the jugular vein alone suffered. The ca- rotid often escapes very narrowly :—A man cut his tluoat very severely; the carotid was not opened, but its coats were just jagged in one spot, so that blood might be seen oozing from the notch when it was accurately sponged. The blood came only from the coats of the vessel. When a person cuts his tliroat, bleeding may be immediately fatal by suffocation: —A man was brought in dead, with a cut throat. The jugular vein was found divided, and a clot, by falling into the laiynx, had choked him. Soon afterwards another man was admitted, with a very, severe cut throat. Wliilst the house-surgeon was clearing the coagula and tying the vessels, the man gasped, coughed, and seemed suffocated. The per.son assisting stuck his fingei’s im-176 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SUROERV. mediately into the glottis, and pulled out a large coagulum which had tumbled into it. This relieved the man, and he lived for a day or two. There is a class of cases of suicide of the most awful descrip- tion, where the patient studies beforehand the nature of the parts, and arranges his plan of self-destruction. The following is one of these, and ])resents some remarkable points :— The house-surgeon was called up to see a man with a cut throat. He found a man seated on a bench in the ward, looking moderately easy and comfortable, with a little wound on the side of the neck, about half an inch long, and apparently through the skin. Suddenly the man seemed suffocated, fell, and died. Tins man had passed in a pen-knife, M’hich had pierced a large vessel in the neck, and then run on into the trachea. The blood had suddenly flowed into the trachea, and then he died suffocated. Wlien the pharynx is opened, nourishment by enemata is not always attended with any good result. The following case, how- ever, well illustrates the benefit at times attending their use ;— A man of about twenty years of age, was admitted under the care of Mr. LawTcnce, with liis pharynx opened and the glottis exposed. He was unable to articulate, and vomited frequently through the wound, for an hour and a half, fluid mixed wnth blood. On the second day he had an enema of milk. From the 2d to the 41st day he took daily, in tluee enemata collectively, two pints of broth made from rather more than one pomid of beef. Plis hunger was always appeased by the enemata. When his bowels were confined some salt was added, which was sufficient to open them. Once some wine was added to the injection. On the 41st day the injections were omitted, and food was given by the bowels. On the 51st day the wound was nearly healed, and the mn-n looked well, and in tolerably good condition; he could, however, only speak in a whisper. The wound in cases of cut throat generally unites well, without sutures or any particular means being employed. Such, however, is not always the case. At times the skin above the wound unites by an irregular membrane, over the cut edge of cartilage, with the mucous membrane of the larynx, whilst the most promi-177 AFFECTIONS OF MOUTH AND TRACHEA. nent part of the pomum Adami pushes the lower flap of skin down, so that a thick fold of skin lies across the cricoid cartilage, and the wound remains open. There is great difficulty in closing the wound in these cases. The parts bleed freely, and the blood runs into the larynx, whilst the space is at times hmited very much in thin old people by the superior thyroid arteries, which run just below the wound, and are very near the skin. When the wound implicates the trachea, tliis tube by its con- traction may complicate the case very seriously :—An old woman di\dded the trachea in about two-tliirds of its diameter, just below the cricoid cartilage, and was admitted under Mr. Stanley's care. In about six weeks the wound had nearly healed, but was still to a certain degree open; the opening now remaining was about the size of a fourpenny-piece, and allowed the air to pass in and out, but imperfectly. She was also troubled with a severe attack of bronchitis, wliich was accompanied with the expectoration of a very great quantity of watery fluid; this fluid clogged up the opening very much, and also passed up in large quantities from the mouth by cougliing. After about a weeFs duration of the bronchitis, she died rather suddenly. The parts were examined. The wound of the trachea was just below the cricoid cartilage. Tlie part below the division was diminished to the diameter of a third or half an inch, by thickening of the mucous membrane lining the trachea, and by diminution of the cahbre of the tube. This diminution of the diameter of the tube itself was rendered more serious by the contraction of the skin round the open- ing, wliich by overlapping it to a certain degree rendered it valvular. Of all risks there are few more awful than those from foreign bodies in the trachea: many persons may live and recover, but some have one struggle and are dead :— One evening a nurse ran in from the opposite ward across the passage, and called out that somebody was HI. The house-surgeon went directly, but the patient was dead immediately. A man with delirium tremens, and requiring restraint, had suddenly vomited, and not being able to move readily, the substance from the stomach had gone into the trachea. The same accident may occur in another way;—A person has N178 CLINICAI- COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. both thighs broken, and is to a certain degree fixed, by the feet being fastened to the ends of the splints or bottom of the bed. If the patient suddenly wishes to vomit, he cannot turn, is taken unawares, and is at times suffocated directly. This accident has also happened when one leg only is confined. Tliese cases of suffocation from persons being confined by splints or straps are not very uncommon, if inquiry is made, not in books, but by what one hears from time to time, and certainly happen sufficiently often to induce every precaution being taken to guard against them, though they cannot perhaps always be avoided. They seem to happen in the foUovdng way: the patient is suddenly taken with the desire to vomit, and immediately attempts to raise himseK up to eject the substance from his mouth. In the hurry of moving, and during the exertions to raise liimself up, the patient takes an inspiration from necessity, and is immediately choked by the substance with wliich liis mouth is stiU. filled. It does not appear that the contents of the stomach pass direct, ndth- out any struggle, into the trachea, but that the accident occurs during the struggle. Children are often suffocated by foreign bodies passing into the trachea, and suffer very differently in different cases, according as the substance is fluid or sohd, and also according to the part where the substance sticks. If the substance be a fluid, the cliild often dies directly; if it be solid, and pass into the trachea, the child may either have every sign, general and auscultatory, of a foreign .body in the ah’ passages, or it may be little more than ailing and breathing heavily, and die slowly. If the foreign body sticks m the ventricle of the larynx, the child has no rest, tiU it dies, or till the substance passes either into the trachea or mouth. It is sometimes discussed, what is to be done in these cases, and what is the probability of the foreign body being coughed up • but it is rarely clearly understood by the student, tiU he sees a case, what the risk is of waiting tUl this may happen. When the foreign body excites irritation, the risk is most fearful; the coughing child is strugghng between life and death, and one of three things happens: first, the cough ceases but returns again,— this is most common; secondly, the child dies,—this is not un-AFFECTIONS OP MOUTH AND TRACHEA. 179 common ; thirdly, the foreign body comes up at once, and this is but rare. Dissection shows what a cough it is, for but a few minutes or hours are sufficient to produce extensive emphysema of both lungs. A pill has been known to catch in the ventricle of the larynx, and the child to struggle for a few minutes and die; or, whilst taking some liquid food, to hiccup and die, or, to give a catch in its breath, and, cougliing from time to time, to die in twenty hours. In the first case dissection has shoAvn the pill to be in the larynx; in the second, some pap, and in the third, a bone to have passed into the trachea. The following case is given at length from its interest, as well as on account of the complete evidence of the stone existing: — A robust httle girl, four years of age, was admitted under Mr. Stanley’s care, labouring under violent fits of cough, accompanied with great blueness of the skin, but no expectoration, except occa- sionally a few drops of blood. The fits of cough were so violent as to produce faintness, and one wliicli occurred whilst she was wait- ing in the ward seemed to threaten hfe whilst it lasted. The child was quite free from fever, or any general uneasiness. Her mother stated, that three days since, wliilst playing in a field, she was seized vfith a cough so violent as to attract the attention of the person walking with her. The cliild stated that she had swal- lowed a stone, and described it as a round “ vinegar stone.” The cough had recurred every day since in very severe paroxysms. Auscultation: Left lung admits air every where without any unnatural sound, but the breathing is so loud as to indicate by itself a probabihty of stoppage to respiration in some other part. The right lung admits air only in a small part of the upper lobe; not the least air can be detected moving in the right lung beyond the first division of the bronchus, close to the bifurcation of the trachea. In the right bronchial tube a loud rhonchus is audible, loudest close to the trachea, in which situation a sound similar to that produced by the motion of some solid body was once heard immediately before a cough. Percussion elicits a good and equal sound from both sides of the chest.180 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. 4th day from accident. —The coiigli occurred less frequently, but still retained its peculiar character. 6th day.—The cough is very frequent. The rhonchus is now audible on both sides, but loudest on the right side and lower down. The quantity of air admitted into the right lung is now much increased. The child was now taken home by the parent, and brought to be looked at occasionally. No particular change took place till about the 9th day, when the cliild was seized vdth an attack of acute bronchitis and inflammatory fever. A loud rhonchus was audible equally on the two sides in the large tubes, the air entering the vesicular structure of both lungs equally, but vdth general sibilus. The chest was every where resonant on percussion. The peculiar cough and occasional paroxysms still continued. No remedies except some leeches to the chest were employed, in consequence of the obstinacy of the parent. The cliild became gradually more and more feeble, lost its sleep at night in consequence of the frequency of the cough, and sunk on the 19th day, apparently in a fit of cougliiug. The chest was examined the follovdng morniug. The heart on its right side was distended with dark blood, as well as the large vessels connected with it. The left lung was emphysematous over a considerable portion of its external surface, from general dilatation of the cells. The lower lobe of the right lung was solidified, with small depositions of pus in its substance; the remaining portion of the right lung was rather oedematous. The trachea and large bronchi were full of puriform mucus, and their mucous membrane was also considera- bly reddened. On cutting open the bifurcation of the trachea, a pebble, white and rounded, of an oblong shape, larger at its upper end, and of the size of a kidney bean, was found loose, and easily extracted. The thyroid gland was of considerable size, but the isthmus connecting the two lobes lay one or two rings below the cricoid cartilage; the thymus gland, however, touched the lower edge of the thyroid gland with its cornua, leaving oidy a very small space in the mesial line of the anterior surface of the trachea exposed. The veins ramifying on the thymus and thyroid glands were also of181 AWi’ECTIONS OF MOUTH AND TliAClIEA. very considerable size, and communicated freely with the large trunks aroimd. The large veins wmre in close approximation with the sides of the thyroid and thymus glands. In this case auscultation shewed that the foreign body was at first situated in some place where the iugress of air into every part of the right Imig, except just the apex, was prevented : this could only occiu in the right bronchus, just below where the bronchus lo the right lung is given olf: (it was also in this situation - that the stone was once heard to move.) The statement of the child was, that it was a round stone : tins was rendered more probable by the examination of the chest: if the stone had been small or rough, if it had been a piece of wire or similar foreign body, one cannot conceive how a round tube like the bronchus could be so completely stopped up ; for as the body wmuld then not have corresponded in form with the cavity of the tube, a cer- tain quantity of air would have passed by its sides into all pai’ts of the lung, and respiration would have been audible to a certain degree in the middle and lower lobes. The mobility of the stone is also extremely important. On the third day auscultation shewed it to be situated in the right bronchus, but on the sixth air was admitted into both Imigs equally, and the rhonchus pro- duced was equally audible on both sides: these circumstances could only occm' where the two bronclii were free. The stone was evidently not now in the right bronchus, but was moved from its previous situation, and could only be in the trachea, the calibre of which it did not fit tightly, as the quantity of an admitted into both lungs was considerable. The following notes relating to the anatomy of the trachea, thyroid gland, and vessels of the neck, are placed here, on ac- count of their connection with the subject of the preceding pages. Tlie space between the lower edge of the cricoid cartilage and the upper edge of the isthmus of the thyroid gland, measures in general about a quarter of an inch,. very rarely equals half au inch, and occasionally no free space at all is found. In some few cases an artery of small size runs along the lower edge of the cricoid cartilage, but one of considerable size, and which would bleed freely if divided, generally lies along the upper edge of the18ii CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGEIIY. isthmus. This vessel is a branch of the superior thyroid arteryj and commonly anastomoses freely with the corresponding branch of the opposite side. The isthmus of the thyroid gland is not so firmly adherent to the trachea on its upper and lower edges as to prevent its being scraped either upwards or domiwards for a short distance with the handle of the knife. There is thus a portion of the trachea above the thyroid gland sufficiently large in some cases to allow of that tube being o]iened without injury to any impor- tant part, attention being had to the vessels wliich run above and below tlus small space. In some cases, in the adult, the trachea might well be opened here, and an operation performed, nearly as easy as laryngotomy, and without some of the difficidties of tracheotomy. Such a proceeding could not, however, be undertaken with certainty in all cases; the space, by its small size, miglit prevent it in some cases, whilst in others the presence of vessels, and a portion of the thyroid gland, render this operation just as difficult as tracheotomy. In one case out of every eight or ten the transverse portion of the thyi’oid gland hes across the trachea so high up that no space exists. When the space does exist, it is occasionally much reduced in size by a process of the thyroid gland extending upwards over the thyroid cartilage, accompanied by one or two veins, and an artery of moderate size. It is not very unusual to find a large branch of the superior thyroid artery running down vertically from the crico-thyroid membrane, over the cricoid cartilage, to the transverse portion of the gland, re- sembling somewhat the middle thyroid artery from below; wliilst at other times the inferior thyroid veins ascend over the transverse portion of the thyroid gland, the crico-thyroid membrane, and even over part of the thyroid cartilage, to anastomose with the laryngeal and superior thyroid veins. The follovdng were the measurements of the sjiace between the upper edge of the thyroid isthmus and the lower edge of the cricoid cartilage, in the bodies of seventeen persons, of ages vary- ing from fourteen to seventy ; —183 AFi’ECTIONS OF MOUTH AND TKACHEA. No. Sex. Age. Size of Space. 1 F. 14 i iuch. Ai-tei7 on upper edge of istlinius. 2 M. 20 ^ to i iuch. Arterj' on upper edge of isthmus. 3 M. 20 i inch. 4 F. 22 None. Ascending isthmus of gland and levator mu.scle. 5 F. 38 ^ to i inch. Arteiy on upper edge of isthmus. 6 M. 40 t inch. 7 M. 41 i inch. Artery on upper edge of isthmus. 8 M. 42 None. Au-tery on upper edge of istlimus and lower edge of cricoid cartilage. 9 M. 42 f inch. 10 M. 50 None. 11 M. 60 g ineh. Large artery on erico-thyroid membrane, sending a central branch vertically down to the thyroid isthmus. 12 M. 63 i inch. 13 M. 66 J inch. Artery on upper edge of isthmus. 14 M. 66 J inch. Artery on upper edge of isthmus; ascending isthmus on right side. 13 M. 68 i inch. 16 M. 70 f inch. 17 M. f inch. The ascending isthmus of the thyroid gland, with large veins, covered the space. Tlie subclavian ai’tery has been found much larger on the side^ corresponding to an enlarged lobe of the thyroid gland, this en- largement ceasing after the inferior thyroid artery was given off:— An old woman had a solid enlargement of the right lobe of the thyroid gland to about three times its natural size. The superior thyroid arteries on both sides were large and tortnous; the right inferior thyroid was, however, especially large, long, and tortuous. Tlie arteria innoramata was rather long, and perhaps of large size; the two subclavian arteries presented, however, a remarkable dif- ference in size. The right subclavian artery, before giving off the inferior thyroid artery, was very considerably enlarged in diameter; this enlargement stopping abruptly, however, at the point of separation of the inferior thyroid, beyond which the riglit subcla- vian artery was of the same size as the left in the same iinrt; the previous part of the latter being also of the natural size.184 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. The sterno-mastoid muscles are not often divided : when such an operation is required^ the following peculiarity of veins de- serves attention, as a wound of these veins, large in themselves, and communicating with large venous trunks, might give rise to considerable bleeding:—In dissecting a body at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, the right and left supra-scapular veins were found to run close behind the clavicle, and each sent a large branch into the internal jugular vein whilst passing over it; the two veins then continued their course forwards behind the sterno-mastoid muscles to the mesial line, where they united above the upper piece of the sternum, being joined at the same tune by a large branch from the anterior jugular vein.ABSCESSES OF THE ABDOMEN, HAND, ETC. 185 CHAPTER XIll. ABSCESSES OF THE ABDOMEN, HAND, ETC. Abscesses a])pearing on the walls of the abdomen and chest, and tumors which may be mistaken for them. Cases.—Sujjpuration on abdominal parietes after partmition. Case of abscess in iliac fossa, and recovery. Case of abscess, connected with the csecum, dissecting out the cellular tissue of the loins. Case of abscess in the abdominal walls, communicating with both the digestive and minary organs; patient surviving for seven months. Suppuration in the hand. Degree of danger to life in some forms of inflamed hand at times great. Probability of affection of the joints or tendons. Peculiar fluctuation found in the arm. Dehrium from matter amongst the muscles. Cases of inflammatory oedema of hand. Two cases of rapid mortification of the hand, occurring in persons labouring under gout, or obscure rheumatic pains. Mortification of the skin of the groin. Abscesses with ulcerated legs. Car- brmcle running its own coirrse. Poisoning with mercurial precipitate. Abscesses on the walls of the abdomen are not very rare, and are at tunes attended tvith great difficulty of diagnosis, even after the swelling has been opened and tlie matter evacuated. In a healtliy person, and even in a dead bodj'^, it is at times very difficult to say, whether a swelling on the abdomen or chest is protruded from beneath the muscles, or situated entirely outside them; but when the parts are thickened and painful, the difficulty is still greater. Tlie following cases illustrate this difficulty:—A man, mtat. 25, was admitted under Mr. Staidey, labouring under a fluctuating tumor over the upper part of the right rectus abdominis muscle.186 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. ol considerable size, and apparently situated in tlie parietes of the abdomen. An incision was made into the skin and cellular tex- ture, with the evacuation of some pus, but in very small quantity as compared with the swelling. The wound remained open for foui’teen days, when a globular hydatid of large size presented itself at the opening, ivliich burst on being handled, and gave exit to a quantity of yellow fluid. The opening continued to discharge a yellow bilious fluid; there was no derangement of the health, or local atfection of the abdomen, and the man went home cured of the tumor, and with the opening well cicatrized. Tliis man had never been regularly ill or confined to bed, but had a yel- low look, like a forgeman or gas-worker, so as to lead one to ask his occupation. The tumor had existed not less than nine months. 2. A man, aged 35, admitted under Mr. Lawrence, May 18, 1843, labouring under an abscess opening below PouparTs liga- ment on the right side, unattended by any pain on pressure of the back, nor accompanied by much discharge. He is tliiii and pale, but free from any jaundice. A schoolmaster by profession : has resided for a few years on the Continent, and is said to have been very dissolute in liis mode of living. The abscess formed eight mouths since, and burst about three weeks before admission. Whilst in the hospital, and within about three days of admission, a swelling of the size of a walnut formed between the two recti muscles, just below the xiphoid cartilage, which increased to the size of a twenty-ounce bowl before death. This swelling fluc- tuated, had a ^dsible pulsation nuthout tlnill or unnatural sound, was duU on percussion, and was accompanied with great jiain on pressure. There was a loud murmur with the first sound at the base of the heart, which, however, did not extend to the tumor. This man died gradually, rather from general failure than hectic fever, on June the 8th: the abscess in the groin had discharged very little till a few days before his death. J’une 8th, p. m.—An abscess was found on the recti muscles under the skin of the epigastiium, containing about thirty ounces of yellow pus; at the back of this abscess, close to the xiphoid cartilage, a fislulous passage went into an abscess, which, from a fleflciency of a small pari of the diaphragm, was formed jiartly byABSCESSES OE THE ABDOMEN, HAND, ETC. 187 the anterior mediastinum as M^ell as by tire tissue round the liver; this abscess entered the right lobe of the liver, which by old wliite adhesions was united to the neighbouring parts. The abscess in the liver was formed by a mass of dark green or black slu-eddy tissue, soaked with pus, destitute of blood or any organized appear- ance ; this mass being of tbe size of a fist, surrounded by a well- defined line, and by tissue of the liver hardly differing from the characters of health. The part exactly resembled a black rotten sponge full of pus. On remo\dng the liver pus ran out from its under and back part near the psoas muscle, into wliich muscle the abscess in the gi’oin passed, covered by the colon, which bowel was adherent to the surrounding parts, and to the parts round the kidney, near which organ the abscess ceased to be traceable, and close to wliich the pus ran out. Tlus abscess contained liardly any quantity of matter, was separated by healthy tissue from a healthy spine, and was surrounded by an unusual degree of tliick- emug of the parts, differing in all these respects from a lumbar abscess of the common kind, whilst small granules of lymph were found in great quantity, both in the abscess in the parietes of the abdomen as well as that in the loins. The veins cut across in the abdomen appeared to be healthy. In the lungs, here and there, detached spots of inflammation, confined to particular lobides, were observable, in some of winch infiltration of serum, whilst in others distinct purulent infiltration, had taken place. The abdo- minal viscera, on external examination, and the kidneys on sec- tion, appeared to be healthy, the parts on the whole appearing rather pale than otherwise. 3. A man applied one morning at the singery with a small fluctu- ating swelling between the sixth and seventh ribs of the right side. It looked like a common abscess. The dresser opened it, and a considerable quantity of matter flowed, and also came in a jet, when the man coughed. Tlie man had a diseased rib, and an abscess in his pleura, without any affection of the lung, except a diminished quantity of air in it: the opening reraaiiied fistulous, discharging a small quantity of matter and bone. 4. A pale feeble man was admitted with a tumor, partly fluctuat- ing, and partly elastic, betw een the cartilages of the fifth and sixth right ribs. 1 < looked and felt very like an abscess; but the man had188 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. only one leg, and on examination stated that his knee had been removed for fungus hsematodes four years previously. The tumor ^vas left, of wliich this was part; the man had mahgnant disease of the lung, of wliich he died. ^ omen present themselves from time to time labouring under abscesses on the walls of the abdomen, occurring soon after par- tui-ition, and preceded by rigors and fever. Although these patients are very weak, and the parts much thickened, yet they generally do very well, and the abscess slowly heals, the disease being en- tirely external to the abdominal muscles; the matter evacuated from tliese abscesses being at times of a dark brown colour, and attended with a faecal odour; yet there may not be any com- munication with the bowel. Tlie two following cases of suppuration connected with the abdominal cavity ai’e related as examples the one of the success occasionally attending an early opening of an abscess in the iliac ibssa, the other as shewing the great extent to which suppuration witliin the abdominal muscles, and attended with obscure symp- toms, may spread and affect surrounding parts. In the first case snppuration occurred in the iliac fossa, apparently unconnected with any injury or internal disease; the matter was let out, and the man gradually recovered :— 1. A man, aged 47 years, of a pale, unhealthy appearance, was admitted, under the care of Mr. Lawence, for a large painful swelling in the right inguinal region, accompanied with heat, some tliinning of the skin, and considerable surrounding in- duration. Pressure above Poupart’s ligament produced severe pain, and in the swelling itself there was indistinct deep fluc- tuation. The man was unable to sleep from pain, sweated profusely at night, and had a feeble frequent pidse. He had been an out- })aticnt for some irregularity of the bowels, without any marked symptoms, till seven weeks previously, when he had a very severe shivering fit, since vliich time tlie swelling gradually formed. Mr. Lawrence made an opening in the most prominent part of the swelling, from which twelve ounces of healthy pus were dis- charged. The man was much relieved by the opening made. The, discharge of pus gradually ceased, and a thin watery fluid unmixed189 ABSCESSES OF THE ABDOMEN, HAND, ETC. with pus flowed, until the umiiid closed at the end of about a month. The man was discharged in about six weeks from admis- sion, improved in health, and able to walk about well, using both legs equally. The following case illustrates the course which suppuration witliin the abdominal muscles may take, and the extent to which it may spread; dissecting, in fact, the peritoneum off from the lateral, back, and front parts of the abdomen, as clearly as has been found to be the case after rupture of the ureter. It would seem that the suppuration was originally connected with ailments in the bowel; but from the character of the openings into the caecum it appeared that these openings had formed from without inwards, from the abscess situated outside the caecmn opening into the bowel, as well as tlirough the skin. The parts were examined most minutely, and for the description I am indebted to the kind- ness of Mr. Paget:— 2. A man was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, labom’- ing under a certain degree of fever and great weakness, with occa- sional nausea, and a small frequent pulse. His bowels were open daily, the faeces solid, but mixed with more or less blood. The skin of the right groin was thin, red, swollen, and tender to the touch. The man stated that for several months he had experienced small discharges of blood from the intestines, but no material dis- turbance of their action. Tln-ee weeks before admission he fii’st felt a pain in the right groin, wliich prevented his moving about, and was followed by sweDing in that situation. He gradually became worse, and' a gmgling sensation could be felt in the groin. His scrotum became red, swelled, and hard, and on an opening being made into it, a quantity of pus, mixed with air, and smcUing strongly of fseces, escaped. Pseces and pus were afterwards discharged from the opening in the scrotum, which also began to slough. The man rapidly sank, and died. On ex- amination, the whole scrotum was found in a state of gangrene, On its right side was the opened cavity, full of foetid pus, which was contiiiucd by a long slougliing passage beneath the skin in front of the inguinal canal, until it reached a point just above tlie internal ring, where it ])assed through the abdominal muscles into the main cavity of the abscess. This abscess was situated between190 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SUllOERY. the fascia transversalis and peritoneum, extending from the middle line along the whole length of the rectus round the right side of the abdomen to the outer edge of the kidney, thus dissecting the surfaces of the rectus and transversalis muscles. The inner wall of the abscess formed by peritoneum, and raised from its attacliments, was slightly adherent to the omentum and the mass of small in- testines, which were entirely shut out from it by the peritoneum. In the bottom of this cavity, which was filled by a mixture of pus and faecal fluid, the caecum and first fom- inches of the colon were situated. In these portions of bowel were four large apertures, with flocculent edges, capable of admitting the forefinger. The adjacent mucous membrane was quite healthy, except in some small round spots, where it was very thin, as if a perforation would take place here also from without inwards; the muscular and cellular coats at these parts being completely destroyed. In the case just related, the disease, though limited in one direc- tion, extended far and wide in another, and destroyed life prin- cipally by the extensive suppuration which occmi-ed. The follow- ing case illustrates the extent to which disease of the parts in the abdomen may proceed without destroying life at an early period, and how both the urinary and digestive apparatus may in the same person have a common external opening without fatal eflusion occurring:— A man, only 25 years of age, who had been at one time a medical student, was carried into the ward, under Mr. Lawrence^s care, in a state of low fever. His features were hollow and slrrunk, his tongue nearly dry, his pulse between 120 and 130, and his whole frame emaciated. The lower part of the abdomen, and especially the parts about the right ihac fossa, were very painfid. The urine was voided naturally, and the bowels had been slightly open on the morning of admission. A large abscess was situated be- tween the umbilicus and os pubis, marked on its most ])rominent part by two sloughs. At one of these sloughs the abscess burst soon after admission, giving exit to tliree pints of a yellow fluid, of an intensely foetid, as well as fcEcal odour, but not containing any sohd matter. The following was his history. Pour weeks since he was jerked off an omnibus upon the back of a dray-horse, and believes that he 1ABSCESSES OE THE ABDOMEN, HAND, ETC. 191 fell on Ills back. He went home, and remained quiet for a day, when he took a moderate dose of calomel and colocynth, followed by an ounce of Epsom salts. Erom this he was most violently purged, and bent double with pain. This purging ceased to a certain degree, but not entirely, till a week since. Three weeks since (one week from the accident) the abscess first began to form a swelling on the abdomen. During the few days after admission this man lay in the lowest possible condition, and each day seemed to be his last; stiU he hved on, hardly sleeping at aU, and vomiting nearly every thing which was given him. On the evening of the fifth day he was suddenly seized with intense pain in the abdomen, increased on pressm’e, and at times so severe that he thought himseK to be dying. Some laudanum, and the application of twenty leeches to his abdomen, reheved him. On the following day (sixth) he took a drop of Croton oil, and had some copious evacuations, by which he was relieved, and vomited less frequently. On the eighth he took another drop, and now vomited less frequently, and took a small quantity of food. On the ninth day he was much easier, and in making water felt something give way in the wound. On lifting up the poultice he found faecal matter issuing from the abscess, wliich on cougliing ran out so freely that it covered the bed. He went on gaining strength, more or less faecal matter being, however, discharged from the wound. Ever since about the tenth day from admission a urinous fluid had been dis- charged from the abscess together with the faeces. It was not clear how far tins was real urine or not, till about the twentieth day, when the foUoAving circumstances removed the doubt: — 20th day.—His bladder had been irritable for some time, the urine being turbid, occasionally bloody, and containing at times so much solid matter as to constitute masses. On tlris day complete retention of urine occurred, which was relieved by the copious evacuation of urine through the wound into the bed, hardly any being discharged from the m-ethra. The fluids discharged from the wound and urethra had both the same smell, both were equally alkaline, and both contained large quantities of adhesive matter. This man remained in the hospital till April (four months).19:2 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. when he was removed to lodghigs. He was now able to walk about, but still suffered from the discharge of faeces and urine from the abscess; the former once or twice a week, and the latter more or less daily. He remained much the same till the middle of June, when he died at liis lodgings rapidly in about six hours, having laboured under fever, with vomiting, and more or less retention of urine, for the few last days of his life: living thus about seven months from the original injury. No examination was made, his death being only accidentally known. Of the great number of eases of severe inflammation of the hand, occurring in the working classes, and arising generally from injury, very few instances are met with in which suppuration does not occur. Although venesection and active general treatment, employed at an early period, seem to render the inflammation less severe, to limit the suppuration, as well as to render it manifest at a more early period, yet they very rarely entirely prevent it. The occurrence of severe inflammation of the parts near the tendons of the hand of a working man, at whatever period it is flrst seen, or in whatever way it is treated, will generally recpiire the use of the knife. Although the inflammation of the arm, and the accompanying fever, are very great in many of these cases, yet there is little to fear from its severity. At times, however, the inflammation of the hand consists, not in inflammation passing rapidly into deep suppuration, but in thickening of the cellular tissue beneath the skin with hardly any increase of blood, so that on an incision being made into it nothing but a greenish yellow firm texture is found, from which a small quantity of pus oozes. This altered tissue dies in mass, and the patient's fever is at all times of so low a character that life appears to be in constant danger. The great point of interest in cases of inflamed hand is to save the joints and tendons, and some idea of the probable njury to these parts may generally be formed at an early period. It is remarkable how rarely in these cases the pus affects the wrist-joint, matter, even in great quantity, flowing freely under the annular ligament, without doing any harm to that part. The193 ABSCESSES OP THE ABDOMEN, HAND, ETC. joints between the phalanges suffer much more commonly than those between the metacarpus and phalanges, and of the two, that between the first and second phalanx more often than that between the second and thu*d. Suppuration in the sheaths of the flexor tendons of the thumb and little Anger is much more commonly followed by separation of the entire tendon, and matter running up the arm, than when of the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th fingers. Wlien the abscess is opened at once, the tendons generally escape, but when the matter is not evacuated till late, and most especially if the stress of the disease has been in one finger, or accompanied from the first by an open wound, the tendon dies more or less. The tendons on the back of the hand are at times, by loss of the skin and cellular tissue, cleanly dissected out, and yet do not die, the parts slowly granulating, and a useful though somewhat stiif hand remaining. When the matter forms in the hand, it frequently runs up the fore arm, and is let out in that part. At times, however, an oedematous condition of the arm, with fluctuation of so decided a character, is found, that an incision is made for matter in the fore- arm, even into the muscles, without the escape of any matter; the effused serum causes this fluctuation, and although no matter escapes from the arm, yet some of the blood from the woimd of the arm will at times run down, and come out at the openiugs in the hand, immediately after the opening has been made. Wlien matter forms among the muscles of the ai’m, disturbance of the nervous system, resembling the maniacal form of delirium tremens, may occur:—A middle-aged man, under Mr. Lawrence’s care, in bad health, had an abscess among the muscles of the fore-arm, wliich was opened; the man seemed to be very nervous and frightened at the time. On the second even- ing after this he became very violent, walked about the ward raving, and saying that his arm was quite weU. Some wdne was given him on the following day; the arm was more swelled and inflamed, and afterwards suppurated deeply and freely. No re- currence of these symptoms took place, and he went out well. In the cold weather of December and January, 1840-41, two men, aged nineteen and twenty respectively, were admitted under Mr. Laivrence’s care, for swelling of the integuments, and subjacent 0194 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. cellular tissue of one hand each, extending in one case only up to the wrist, and in the other to a certain degree up the fore-arm. In one case a small opening existed on the back of the hand, leading towards the wrist, but not decidedly into the joint. No very distinct cause could be foimd in either case to show clearly the nature of the affection. In one case the swelling had existed for four months, and had succeeded an attack of inflammation of the hand, for which an incision had been made. In one case leeches were frequently applied to the part, and in the other small doses of hydr. c. creta, with occasional doses of aperient medicine, were given. The patients remained in the hospital about five weeks, but did not appear better. The health of one was not very good on admission, but the other appeared to be pretty well. A young dehcate woman was in St. Bartholomew's Hospital soon afterwards, with a similar affection, but more con- fined to the wrist, which joint, however, appeared to be perfectly sound. Notliing seemed to do any decided good. She went out, and lived for some time in the suburbs of London, and was reported to have gradually got quite well, without any particular medicine or means being employed. Mortification of the hand, except as a consequence of local injury, is an extremely rare affection; the feet and lower extremi- ties mortify from fever, disease of the vessels, or other causes, but any loss of portions of the upper extremities by mortification is very rare indeed. The two following cases are related at length, not only on account of the rarity of the affection, but also as examples of a disease commencing in a mild and common manner, but terminating in the loss of the most useful part of the most important limb. In both cases imld rheumatism or gout preceded the affection, unmarked however by any severe symptom. In one case cold was applied, and in the other some liniment, to which the affection might perhaps have been attributed, but it is not clear that these appHcations had much to do in causing the affec- tion, though perhaps they may have aided its progress:— 1. A man, aged 37, was admitted under Mr. Lawrence. He was of a pale, unhealthy appearance, and not very sober habits: had been liable to gout in the hands and feet for some years. These attacks came and went, without any particular event, till April 19,ABSCESSES OF THE ABDOJtEN, HAND, ETC. 195 1841, wlien the knee, ankle, and foot of the right leg, the left foot and left hand, became red, swelled, and painful. In the space of a week the extreme phalanx of the middle finger turned blue, and as the pain of the swelhug became intense, he applied cold water continually, dm’ing a whole night, with relief to the pain. In the morning the blueness had extended to such a degree that he was afraid to continue the application of cold water. In a few days the palmar surface of the fingers became red, the pain completely ceased, and a fiuid began to ooze from around the nails. On the 19th of May (one month from the commencement of his illness), he was admitted into the hospital, ■ndth the four fingers of his left hand dead up to the metacarpus, and the two phalanges of the thumb in a similar condition; a line of separation having formed between the dead and living parts, especially on the dorsal aspect. The man was placed on a nomishing diet, with tonic medicine. The phalanges of the finger and thumb, and the distal ends of the metacarpal bones, separated, and the man left the hospital about July 30th, with the wound healed, but his hand consisting only of a pahn with a Httle bit of thumb. He has often been seen since, remaining in much the same condition, but has had another attack of mild gout in the feet, which however yielded to col- chicum. 2. A healthy, but perhaps shghtly feeble girl, of nineteen years of age, was admitted under Mr .Vincent. About the 1st of April, 1844, she felt a degree of pain and numbness in one foot, one knee, and one wrist, resembling rheumatism, for which adments she was a patient at a charitable institution in her neighboui’hood, and bought a bottle of liniment at a shop. Tliis liniment she rabbed on her arm and hand. The hand she describes as being wliite and pale when she commenced to rub it, but that it gradually in three days became black and dead, and that the liniment rapidly made the hand raw. On April 19th she apphed at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, with the thumb and fingers of the left hand dead up to the middle of the proximal phalanges, with a well-marked line of separation 'forming between the dead and living parts. The aim was warm and quite natural in every respect, but the radial and ulnar arteries, as well as the brachial artery, below its middle196 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEKVATIONS IN SURGERY. could not be felt: the brachial artery was indistinct even in its upper part. There was no affection of the heart. Menstruation was quite regidar, and the hand did not mortify at a menstrual period. There was notliing particular about the appearance of the lini- ment, and the parts near the mortified part presented no marked unnatural appearance beyond staining of the skin. At the end of two months and a half (June 11) from the com- mencement of her illness, the following note was made:—The dead ends of the fingers have been removed now for some time, and the parts are nearly healed. She has lately had considerable pain up the arm, unattended, however, by any redness or pain in the wound, or of the arm. The brachial artery cannot be felt; there is not, however, any distinct cord in its place. The following case of severe mortification of the thigh was not clearly explicable, and the characters of the disease were quite distinct from those of ordinary sloughing phagedsena. The man ultimately recovered, but his life was at one time in danger:— Isaac Erie, set. was admitted January 30, 1843, under Mr. Stanley, from Deptford, labouring under gonorrhoea prse- putii, with a band of redness about two inches in breadth running along the upper part of the left thigh, accompanied with swelling of the femoral glands a short way above this swelled and in- flamed part. The penis is swelled, mth discharge from the orifice of the prepuce, which is affected with phimosis : the part on which the end of the prepuce rests is exactly the spot where the disease began. The orifice of the prepuce presents a foul superficial yellow' ulcer. He is hot and feverish; the swelling of the thigh is very painful, and is said to have commenced four days since. Some punctures were made with a lancet in the j)art, and after- wards fomented. On the evening of the 21st a small vesicle was perceived on the inner and upper part of the thigh, which was surrounded by inflamed skin, and accompanied by consider- able swelhng of the upper part of the thigh. On the following day, (22d) this vesicle had burst, and the cuticle lay broken and dry over a space about the size of a shilling; the junction of the cuticle to the cutis being marked by a blue line, resembhngABSCESSES OF THE ABDOMEN, HAND, ETC. 197 ecchyinosis, but evidently consisting of cutis altered in colour. During the 23d, the skin on tliis spot, as well as around the part, was converted into a yellow mass, quite dead, and connected to the surrounding integuments by a bluish-black hne, which was continuous almost all round with the dead skin, but broken here and there between the blueish Hne and dead skin by an excavated Hne : tliis dead portion was about tliree inches long and two broad, lying parallel to the crural arch, but about two and a half inches lower down in the thigh. The tliigh was sweUed to nearly twice its diameter around the sore, red, hot, and full of a burning pain. On the 26th, the tlugh, from the hip to the lower tliird, was swelled, hot, and extremely painful j the skin over a space of six inches long, and three broad, was dead, yellow, and surrounded by an irregular groove, winch on its outer side was marked, with brown spots of disorganized skin, and with a general black Hne extending into the surrounding skin; this Hne of demarcation giving exit to thin pus, not forming in any part a line of separa- tion between sound and dead parts, but rather a broken Hne, on one side of which the parts are dead, and on the other dying. The absorbent glands did not appear in any evident manner to share in the disease. Since admission the man has been hot and restless, with very little sleep; his pulse has been frequent, and variable in number, decidedly firm, but not hard iu any positive manner in both arms, but only in one (left), on the 22d. His manner is that of a man under great nervous excitement from the first, vdth a broken, feeble voice, and tremulous motions of the Hmbs. These con- ditions are now extreme; his strength has completely failed, his pulse decidedly feeble, his tongue dry, brown and black, and liis mamier more hurried in aU respects. At first some leeches were applied, and he took saHne and aperient medicine; he now takes quinine, and wine and laudanum at times. Jan. 27.—He is more easy, less haggard, less feverish, and refreshed by more sleep last night. The space formed by the slough is not larger, but has the appearance of being broader from the formation of a deep groove round the slough on the upper edge of the sore, and at its two extremities; the lower edge of the slough presents, however, a less defined Hne, and is still198 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEllVATIONS IN SURGERY. extending slightly, the integuments being continuous with the slough here and there by a black line. The thigh is shghtly less swelled, but much less red in extent and degree. Jan. 28, 29, 30.—The man has a general better appearance, and sleeps more at night. His skin has become cooler, tongue cleaner, and more moist, and Ms pulse less frequent. The redness of the tlugli has diminished, the slough has not extended, and has separated partially, shewdng red granulations beneath. No suppiu’ation has occuixed, except in and near the hne of separation. Feb. 10.—The man has now assumed a healthy appearance, and has recovered a healthy condition of skin and circulation. Tlie slough has separated, leaving a foul surface, with irregular healthy patches of granulations, and a few small sloughs round the sore. These spots, as weU as the sore, have however assumed a healthy appearance, and the upper front tMrd of the thigh is one gTanulating healthy sore, with the muscles and absorbent glands exposed. The chief treatment has consisted in the adminis- tration of noiu’ishment, with wine and brandy, to which quinine has been added, in two-grain doses, two or three times in the day, and laudanmn at night. The man retains an unusual fretful and uTitable manner, but otherwise does not appear ill. Feb. 14.—The man is less nervous and irritable. The sore has a healthy appearance, and is granulating. The brandy and opium axe still continued in small quantities, with nutritious diet. Feb. 28.—The sore has partially healed, and is quite healthy. The man is much less irritable, and now takes good diet, with some wine. April 13.—The sore still remains partially unhealed, but is healthy. The maii'’s health is very good. He now takes simply nourisliing food. May 24.—Gone home. He is fat, and the part is cicatrized, except in an extremely small hne. The reason of abscesses occurring in a particular spot is not always clear:— Tliree men were admitted about the same lime with ulcers or abscesses of the leg and toe, of mild and common characters. There was no clear affection of veins or absorbent glands, yet abscesses occurred in all these three cases, all about the sameABSCESSES OF THE ABDOMEN, HAND, ETC. 199 spot, and all containing dark grumons naatter, collected in the cellular tissue beneath the skin. All these abscesses were quite distant from any absorbent gland. In No. 1, Abscesses occurred over the inner condyle, and in the middle of the thigh, as well as on the calf. The original disease was over the great toe. In No. 2, Abscesses occurred over the tendons on the inside of the knee, and in the lower third of the thigh. The original dis- ease was ulceration of the leg. In No. 3, Abscesses occurred just below the tendons on the inside of the knee, and over the inner as well as the outer vastus. The original disease was an ulcer of leg. No suppuration occurred in any of the absorbent glands. Carbuncles are so much relieved by division that it is not common to see the progress of one left to itself. The cavity left after the division of a carbuncle is considerable, but it is nothing compared with the dissection of the surrounding parts, which occurs when no division is practised:— An old infirm Iiishman was admitted under Mr. Lawrence, with two large cai’buncles, one on the right side of the chest, and the other on the side of his neck. The carbuncle on the side was divided freely, and a moderate quantity of blood escaped, but the man became so feeble that it did not seem safe to divide the carbuncle in the neck. He was ordered six ounces of brandy daily, and three grains of quinine tloree times in the day. Under this plan the man got quite well. The carbuncle in the neck sloughed, both in the cellular tissue and skin, exposing the sterno- mastoid, trapezius, omo-hyoideus, and levator anguli scapulae; whilst on the side the parts did httle more than suppurate very freely, and no loss of skin occurred. Cases of poisoning with mercurial precipitate are so rare, that the following case is recorded for that reason, although uncon- nected with the preceding cases :— A woman, aged 19, took on Dec. 1st, 1840, three-halfpence worth of red precipitate, and three halfpence-worth of wliite pre- cipitate, two hours before admission, mixed in rum and water. She felt no pain at the time: in twenty minutes she felt cold and^00 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. faint, so as to be unable to stand, and vomited; she felt now considerable pain in the stomach, and being found lying -down, feeble and in pain, was brought to the hospital. The stomach- pump was used, and brought up an opaque fluid, with a few drops of blood. The stomach was well washed out till the water brought up was clear. On the following day there was consider- able vomiting, pain in the stomach, and feeble pulse; these symptoms were relieved by leeches to the epigastrium, and saline medicines, with opium. She was convalescent Dec. 6th. Another case of poisoning with mercurial precipitate was ad- mitted soon afterwards; the patient, a female, recovered, but was severely salivated.201 OF MALIGNANT DISEASE. CHAPTER XIV. MALIGNANT DISEASE. Cj'sts in the breast, with cancerous base. Cancer of the axillary glands. Malignant tumors in the neck, commencing like enlarged glands. Carcinoma at the inner angle of the orbit. Unusual changes in the tongue. A DECIDED cyst containing fluids in the breast of a woman at the middle period of life, is a most suspicious tiling. It may be a mere harmless inconvenience, or it may be a most incurable cancer:— 1. A woman,''aged47, was admitted, under Mr.Lawrence, with a round fluctuating swelling of one breast, unaccompanied by much pain, or any disease in the axilla, which had been growing for four or five years, and had commenced spontaneously. The breast was removed, and the disease was found to consist of a cyst containing a clear fluid, the sac being hned by a smooth membrane, and a few round granules. Beneath this, and adherent to the pectorahs major, was a distinct mass of carcinomatous matter. The disease returned in the cicatrix, as well as in foui- or five spots near it. 2. A woman, aged 45, was admitted June 15, 1843, under Mr. Vincent, with a swelling of the breast, about five inches hori- zontal by two and a half vertical measurement, and one inch and a lialf deep, firm, but not hard, with a general round surface mai’ked with sulci and round elevations. Not painful on moderate pres-202 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEEVATTONS IN SUEGEEY. sure^ but occasionally tlie seat of severe pain originating there. The nipple was not depressed; the parts around were neither thickened nor wasted. The tumor was not more adherent to the neighbour- ing parts than any two parts under the skin usually are. No decided alteration in the axilla in any respect. She was a widow, had two cliildren, and had been hable tiU two years ago to “ a falling down of the womb.” Two years since she first felt a small lump, which has increased and become pain- ful, chiefly during the last year. She ceased to menstruate one year since. No decided treatment has been adopted. The breast was removed June 28th, and found to consist of a large cavity, containing six ounces of an opaque wliite fluid, with a mass below of a decidedly cancerous nature. In some parts of the hard portion a yellow stringy substance was visible, mixed however with decided masses of carcinomatous matter, here and there rather soft and reddened. The parts beneath were firm and thickened, and did not appear to be free from disease. After the operation there was some bleeding; and during the few days after the operation the woman was in rather a low condition, which however passed off. She died in the following October, her tliigh having broken spontaneously about one week before death; the disease having also returned in the cicatrix. Cancerous disease of the left femur in its upper tliird, of the sternum and lungs, was found after death. Carcinoma occurs at. times in the axillary glands, in so marked a manner, as compared with the disease in the breast, that it would seem to have been the original disease:— A woman, about 30 years of age, was admitted, under Mr. Stanley, in 1843-44, labouring under a deep excavated ulcer in the axilla passing up beliind the vessels, surrounded by very great thickening and hard everted edges; the mammary gland itself being ‘ only affected partially at its lowest part. Trom the appearance of the parts, and especially from the deep excavation, it appeared most probable that the cancerous disease had commenced in the axilla, and had implicated the breast secondarily. The woman was dehcate, but otherwise healthy. She graduallyMALIGNAJTT DISEASE. 203 saukj lier deatli beiug mucli hastened by copious arterial bleed- ing which occurred from the part. On examination, thickeniug of the parts was found to extend up along the subclavian artery, so that it could be found with diffi- culty, and probably could not have been tied, if that operation had been required. The axillary artery and vein were also much pressed upon by the diseased glands. Several branches of the axillary aidery were included in the indurated part, but no open mouth of any paxticidar vessel coidd be seen. The mammary gland was affected with carcinoma on the side next the axilla; a very considerable part of the gland, however, being healthy. Mahgnant growths form at times in the neck in a slow and quiet manner, hke scrofulous enlai'gements of the glands, and resemble them so closely at an early period, that it is difficult to pronounce on the exact nature of a sweUing so formed. These swellings are single, slow in progress, deeply seated, and quite loose for a long time, presenting characters wliich might thus belong either to an enlarged scrofulous gland, or to a malignant tumor:— 1. A man, about 25, apphed at the hospital with a tumor like an enlarged gland, low down on one side of the neck. It was single, had come of itself, and the man appeared well, but notliing did it any good. He went into the country and returned, and was seen some time afterwards, dying. The swelling had grown to a large size, impheating the surrounding structures, and was evi- dently a malignant growth. The following case was even more slow in progress, and appa- rently had suppurated partially, yet examination shewed it to be real encephaloid disease:— 2. A man, aged 38, admitted May 9, 1842, under Mr. Law- rence, with a firm growth, as large as a fist, round, hard, situated between the base of the skull and fifth cervical vertebra, and reaching from the right side of the spine to the side of the right stemo-thyroid muscle. The skin is quite adherent to it, wliilst at its deeper part the tumor appears to be connected with the spine and oesophagis. The sterno-mastoid is either implicated in the tumor or wasted. No difficulty of swallowing or breathing exists. No disease of the glands on the opposite side of the neck in the204 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. least degree. An opening exists in the tmnor, which has been made with a laneet, and through wliicli a foul fleshy mass protrudes. For three years he has had a small lump on the right side of the neek; about Clu’istmas, 1841, the present swelling flrst began to form, and was doubtfully connected with the tumor. Tliis was opened, and gave issue to some blood and matter of a yellow colour, and in considerable quantity. Dec. 23rd.—The man died. The tumor was found to be soft and brainlike, implicating the spine. A few similar deposits were found in the lung. The following cases are inserted to shew how long cancerous affection of the skin at the inner angle of the orbit may last without destroying hfe, as well as to shew the liability of the dis- ease to return after removal:— 1. A man applied to Mr. Lawrence in June, 1844, labouring under carcinomatous ulceration of the skin, of the two eyelids of the left eye, and of the cheek, extending also into the cellular tissue of the orbit, and leaving the ball of the eye in the middle of the orbit rather shrmik, ndth an opaque cornea, but entire. This ulcer had existed for fourteen years, and though destroying the parts so extensively had not interfered much with the patient’s health, for he was able to walk eight or ten miles daily when he chose, had a capital appetite, and seemed in no immediate danger. He appeared to be about sixty years of age. He had not found any particular application agree with it. . 2. An old man was admitted into the hospital, labouring under carcinomatous ulceration of the inner canthus of the eye and neighbouring parts. The disease had commenced two years ago, and had been removed eighteen months previously with caustic in the country. The surgeon removing it was an emi- nent and well-known man, so that the removal was probably complete. The following case illustrates the occurrence of malignant dis- ease in a neighbouring part, after removal of the eye for an incur- able growth of not very deflned character, but having some of the characters of carcinoma: — 3. John Goodwyn, aged 60, admitted Jan. 5, 1843, under Mr. Vincent, now labouring under a large tumor over the right parotidMALIGNANT DISEASE. 205 gland and cheek, elastic, threatening to bui'st at one part, desti- tute of fluctuation, and only soft and inflamed in one spot, com- mencing one year since. Two years since this man^s eye was removed by Mr. Wormald for a small growth from the conjunc- tival and sclerotic coats at the inner angle of the orbit. The growth appeared to have begun in the conjunctiva, and had the appear- ance of carcinoma. The parts in the orbit are now collapsed, and free from disease. The man appears worn, and is hemiplegic as weU as dull in intellect. He died about Jan. 15th. The mass of disease in the cheek consisted of a red brainlike substance, including the skin and tissues beneath, the bone not being affected. The optic nerve was healthy, and spread out into the fat of the orbit. The brain wasted on one side, with great thickening of the membranes on the same side beneath an old injury to the skull, with fracture of the outer table. The heart contained in its walls a mass of the same morbid structure as was found in the cheek. In the cases of cancer of the tongue this organ has been found affected, on one side, nearer the base than the apex, except in one instance, where the disease began with a sore in- flamed spot on the left side of the frBenum, and occupied one of the folds of the membrane between it and the sublingual gland. Tliis was, however, decided carcinoma. There is seldom much difficulty in distinguishing between the venereal affections of the tongue, and those produced by mercury, or the venereal disease; yet occasionally patients present them- selves with a condition of tongue which is so unlike that com- monly occurring in connection with the venereal disease, or that resulting occasionally from mercury, that it is a hard matter at first to say what the exact cause of it may be:— A healthy-looking woman was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, labouring under an affection of the tongue, wliich she attributed to the employment of medicine for an attack of jaundice, which had occurred five weeks previously. The tongue was very painful and greatly swelled, the mouth being also partially filled by a constant flow of saliva; the tongue was ulcerated on nearly the whole of its upper surface, and was marked by the ulcerated im- pressions of the teeth of the upper and lowei’ jaws along its sides.206 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. The flow of saliva and ulceration of the tongue were the only two affections of the mouth, for the gums and cheeks presented the appearance of health. Under the employment of strong astringents this affection gradually yielded, but so slowly, that even after two months of treatment she could only articulate feebly, and was stiU obliged to sit with a spitting-pot before her during the day. From what could be made out of her history after leaving the hospital, the tongue became small, but did not heal; the woman dying in about three months from her first illness. In the following case there was difficulty in saying what the real disease was :— James Emblin, aged 61, was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, under Mr. Lawrence, feeble, and liable to astluna, which is said to have ceased since the tongue has become severely affected. The left side of the tongue, except a small part near the apex, is covered with a mass which rises out of its substance to the height of about one quarter of an inch, with round smooth edges, a superficially ulcerated sm’face, and some hardness, but not of an extreme character. There are a few small shghtly ulce- rated spots here and there on the tongue; the discharge does not appear to be copious or foetid. There is no disease of any kind below the angle of the jaws. Hatter by trade. For the last eighteen years he has been liable to slight soreness of the tongue. The tongue was never, however, sore in any severe degree till five months since, when the present lump began to grow, and has continued to do so till now, but more especially during the last nine weeks, in which period blood and matter have on one or two occasions been pressed out of the tongue, producing great diminution in the swelhng. He went out much in the same state.MERCURY IN SIMPLE AND INDURATED PRIMARY ULCERS. 207 CHAPTER XV. SYPHILIS. THE EMPLOYMENT OF MERCURY IN SIMPLE AND INDURATED PRIMARY ULCERS. In the following pages, to avoid difficulty from the use of parti- cular terms, the words “ syphilitic ” and “ venereal” are em- ployed as these terms are used in common conversation in the wards, and thus, under the name of venereal affections, are included all those forms of disease which common consent has attributed to impure intercourse, and which are placed without hesitation in separate wards. These are divided into primary and secondary affections; the former including all the varieties of ulceration resulting from direct contagion, together with the affections of the absorbent glands and skin, caused by the local affection exclusively, whilst the latter includes aU the affections arising in any part, or at any tune, from that general unhealthy condition which is pro- duced by primary disease. This arrangement includes gonorrhoeal affections; these are, however, omitted altogether, cliiefly for the reason that mercury and iodine are not the remedies by which these affections are generally treated. Primary ulcers are divisible into three principal classes:— 1. Excoriations and simple ulcers, unattended by any peculiar characters. 2. Ulcers, accompanied by more or less defined sun’ounding induration. 3. Ulcers, spreading rapidly, and attended with rapid destruc- tion of ])arts, including both that form in which the ulcerative process is most marked, as well as that in which the parts are removed by a more or less complete sloughing process, con-208 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. stituting the two forms of phagedaenic ulceration and sloughing phagedsena respectively. Amongst the patients admitted into the syphilitic wards of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, the most common forms of disease are superficial ulcers and excoriations, and that form of sore in which the ulceration is of a more extensive and more serious nature than simple excoriation, but is unaccompanied by any decided hardness. Amongst these patients certain parts are more frequently affected than others. Amongst the men, the integuments, the inner surface of the prepuce, the corona glandis, and the orifice of the prepuce, more especially when the latter is at all contracted, are the common seat of these affections; wliilst in women, the hning membrane of the labia and nymphae, as weU as the commissure at the edge of the orifice of the vulva, are most commonly affected. In one case, where the patient died after considerable discharge of blood from the vagina, ulcers of this kind were found to extend high up the vagina towards the os uteri. These forms of ulcera- tion are mentioned without including those ulcers and excoriations which arise from acrid discharge, and similar sources, respect being had to those forms of disease alone in wMch the ulceration is the essential disease. The patients apply, almost always, whilst the disease is in the ulcerating stage; occasionally, however, other ulcers of the same character are commencing, in the form of pustules, near the original disease. The employment of medical means is directed to the ulcerated sore, including more or less in the same treatment that which is commencing. The general appearance of these sores is that of an ulcer, with an uneven spongy surface, of a brownish colour, surrounded by a sharp edge, and unaccompanied by any marked degree of hardness: there are, however, some peculiarities of appearance, which are connected with the locality of superficial sores. Thus, sores on the mucous membrane of the nymphse are gene- rally small and superficial; at the upper angle of the nymphse and clitoris they are often distinguished by a remarkably foul surface; on the corona glandis, the number, circular form, and depth of the sores, are remarkable, and at the junction of the mucous membrane of the labium with the integument the sores are generally placedMERCUllY IN SIMPLE AND INDURATED PRIMARY ULCERS. ^^1)9 on a liai-cl button of skin, and are often matched by similar sores on corresponding parts of tlie edge of tlie opposite labium. It is also worthy of note, that a sore of' a simple nature occui'riiig at the lower end of one of the nymphse, occasionally burrows very deep, and so completely loses all superficial characters as to form a regular well of pus, and to resemble the result of a sloughing sore in that pai't. The influence of mercmial treatment on these sores has been regularly and thorouglily tried, both by the internal and external employment of that medicine. The disease has also been left to ciue itself, as well as treated according to the ordiuaiy modes of common practice. There can be no doubt that under the employment of simple medicines, and also by doing notliing at all, many of these sores heal well and completely; but such is by no means the invariable rule, and so frequently do superficial sores, cai’elessly treated or entirely neglected, last for an unusually long time, as compared with the period required for their cure under careful treatment, that some direct treatment is often beneficial, and sometimes absolutely necessary. The next question is is the employment of mercury in these cases attended with any advantage which does not follow a simple but regular plan of treatment ? Superficial ulcers are often treated by the application of mild lotions of nitrate of silver or sulphate of zinc, great care being taken to keep the parts very clean, and to vary the local applica- tion according to the rapid or slow healing of the part. At the same time the general health of the patient is particularly attended to, and the diet increased or lowered in quality or quantity. The success of this plan is often complete, the cicatrization of the parts rapid, and the cure perfect; but yet this plan will not cure every superficial sore in a reasonably short time, and these obstinate cases are generally improved in a decided manner by the employ- ment of mercury. The use of merciu-y being attended in some cases with a degree of benefit which does not follow the employment of simple means, it is important to ascertain how the cases benefited by the simple ])lan of treatment proceed when mercury is employed instead of the simple ])lan. The point is, in fact, to ascertain whether, in a p210 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SUUGEUY. certain number of superficial sores, to one lialf of which the mercurial treatment is employed, and to the other haK the simple or non-mercurial plan, the cure y'ill be most certain, most rapid, and most complete, where mercmy is given, or where it is with- held ? The answer to this question may be stated thus. Wliere the ulceration or excoriation is extremely slight, and often getting well of itself, the simplest of aU means, namely cleanliness, is often all that is necessary; when the ulceration is decided, and so extensive as to form a distinct sore, the emplojunent of mild mercurial applications to the part, with the exhibition of Plummer^s piU, or blue pill, in small doses, is attended with the same success as the simple treatment, and with tliis great additional advantage, that fewer cases will be found to get into a slow languid condition, and to remain on hand ; in fact, that the mercurial treatment cures a set of cases which the simple treatment hardly touches, or affects but slowly. The employment of mercury in tliis mild manner, namely the local application of the black wash, and the administration of blue pill once or twice a day, and continued for some time, is generally sufficient for the mere healing of the sore. There are, however, a class of cases winch require a more decided plan of treatment, which, though not regular indurated sores, are benefited by the treat- ment required for that form of disease. These cases are not very numerous, but occur from time to time, the indication for the employment of mercury not being clear from any pecidiar appear- ance of the sore, but the propriety of such treatment being sug- gested by the slow progress and continuance of the unliealthy appearance of the part, under other plans of treatment. These cases require to be treated in the same manner as the indurated sore next to be noticed, under wliich head the employment of mercury in primary disease is more particularly described. The form of ulceration just described includes the great mass of primary syphilitic ulcers; the iudm’ated ulcer, however, is far from being rare, and although a week or a fortnight sometimes passes by vdthout a fresh case of tliis kind being admitted, yet tliis form of sore may be seen sufficiently often to be very well known. These sores are met with in both sexes, and occasionally exist at the same time as simple sores.MERCURY IN SIMPLE AND INDURATED PRIMARY ULCERS. 2il Pi'imaiy indurated ulcers are generally in the spreading stage on application being made for relief. At other times the hard cicatrix is the only remains of the primary afTection, and amongst the working classes these seem to be the only two forms com- monly seeUj as any induration preceding ulceration is eithei not noticed by them, or not considered sufficiently important to require relief. Primary indurated ulcers are often, but not necessarily, single; the accompanying pain is not generally severe, and the surround- ing inflammation is but shght. The ulcer is more or less round, seated on and surrounded by a bed of hard lymph, wliich terminates at its circumference by a more or less abrupt step into the sur- rounding tissues; the edges of the sore are sharp, whilst the surface of the sore may be pale, or browm, or spotted with blood, or it may present a whitish pasty appearance, with shades of a brownish or green tint. The induration remaining after cicatrization of the sore is met with in patients when the sores have recently healed, or have been cicatrized for some months, and differs in size according to the original induration. There are, however, certain appearances dependent on the tissue in which the induration is seated: thus on the skin about the perinseum, we find a firm hard mass, in- cluding the skin and subjacent cellular tissue : on those parts where the skin is thinner the induration is generally more flat and broad, whilst under the thin covering of the prepuce and nymphm, tlie mass of lymph forms a round tubercle, like a flattened pea or bean, Avhich, when the membrane is rolled over between the finger and thumb, shews its white colour through the tightened surface of the thin adherent skin or mucous membrane. In appreciating the effects of mercury or iodine, it is necessary to consider the changes wliich the indurated sore undergoes, if left to itself, or treated on a simple plan. The following appears to be the most common result under these circumstances. The indurations, whicli commence as such, sooner or later, from some cause, generally ulcerate, and are placed in the same condition as primary indurated ulcers ; these undoubtedly will hc-fd of themselves, but that process is tedious and slow, and when it does take place, is generally merely a partial cure, as the cicatrix212 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEIIVATIONS IN SUEGEUY. remains hard and indurated. Thus sores of this kind lightly treated will sometimes last for weeks and months in an ulcerated state, whilst the period from the first appearance of the sore to the removal of the induration is very long indeed. The indura- tion, or hard cicatrix, remaining after the imperfect healing of the sore, is truly and essentially the same disease as the open ulcer, only in a less irksome form; its presence is inconvenient and painful, and from the slightest accidents it may become again ulcerated; its simple existence exposes the patient, not only to the risk, but also to the probable occurrence of syphilitic disease in a severe constitutional form. In short, from observation of the patients themselves, from the instructions of those whose opinion is most valuable, and from the evidence of the writers of the largest experience, there can be no doubt that the primary indurated ulcer, treated without mercury, heals very slowly aud imperfectly, and that the patient is by such treatment exposed to the chance of renewed ulceration in the same place, as well as to the probability of the occurrence of con- stitutional disease, not unfrequently even before the primary sore is healed. The treatment best suited for this affection is the general and local employment of mercury, which will be here described; con- sidering first its local, aud then its general use. It is important to consider, first, an objection which has been raised to the local application of mercury in the ulcerative stage of indurated sores; for if mercurial local applications are only attended with benefit after the ulcerative process has begun to decline, and their employment in the spreading stage is attended with an increase of ulceration, the benefit of their use is but small j for to stop a spreading disease is a point of great importance, but to assist ill the cure of one which is spontaneously declining is no very great gain. The frequency with which local mercurial appli- cations are made to primary indurated venereal sores, however, affords an opportunity of accurately estimating the value of local mercurial applications. ^^Tien much surrounding inflammation exists, and the sore is surrounded by a considerable portion ot inflamed skin, the general condition of the patient, as well as the condition of the part, indicate the propriety of the employment ofHEllCUllY IN SIMPLE ANE INEUKATED PHIMAHY ULCEUS. 213 local bleeding by leeches, or the other means commonly applied to an inflamed part before the employment of local mercunal appli- cations. AVhen, ag;un, the ulcer has existed for a long time, and is almost in a chronic state, the internal administration of mer- cui'y is generally necessary to place the sore in a healing condi- tion ; the local application of mercury, although beneficial, hardly appearing to be sufficient to alter the condition of the sore. But Avhen the ulcer is running its usual coui’se, is stiU unhealthy on its surface, and presents all the signs of progressive disease, the local appHcation of mercury in certain forms is generally attended with the best results. So frequently, and with such decided benefit, has it been apphed whilst the sore was still spreading, that it has appeared to be one of the most powerful means in correcting the unhealthy condition of the primary venereal ulcer with indu- ration, and converting it into a healthy granulating sore; and not- withstanding the descrqjtions of the bad effects of local mercurial apphcutions to ulcerating sores, opportunities occur from time to time in which one may observe the greatest benefit not unfire- quently following their appHcation. Tire curative nifiuence of mercury is sometimes put to the test in the following manner. Cases occur from time to time where doubtful venereal ulcers are treated vidth various local and general means, without any direct imjrrovement: at last mercury is apphed locally, when a foul yellow sore, with considerable accompanying pain, is soon converted into a healthy granulating suiTace, without any pain, and with every sign of heahng. In some cases of primary sores, lotions of alum, sulphate of zinc, or simple water, are frequently applied, whilst mercury is administered internally during the entire heahng of the sore. In the majority of cases, however, when these simple forms are used, some cliange requires to be made in the local appHcation, or in its strength, as the surface of the sore is- liable to become pale, and the restorative processes slow. Bor these reasons, as well as on account of the benefit resulting from the a])plication of the black wash, and the long |>eriod which it may be used without any change being required, black wash is a local aj)plication fre- quently and usefully employed. Jhe apjdication of mercury in a fluid forjii to indurated idcerat-21.4 CLIJ^ICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEllVATIONS IN SURGERY. ing sores, appears to act more beneficially than when mercury is employed in the form of ointment; it is applied more easily and eciuably, and only needs occasional renewing. The black and yellow wash are both thus employed : whilst, however, the latter is generally applied to ulcerations of the integuments in secon- dary syphihtic affections, the former is generally applied to piimary ulcerations of the genital organs and parts round. Tor these reasons the application of mercury to the primary sore, in the ulcerated stage, is best performed by employing that substance in solution, as in that form it comes into accurate contact with the diseased surface. '\\Tien, however, the ulceration has healed, the employ- ment of mercurial lotions is not attended with such decided benefit, on account of the entire condition of the skin over the indurated part. The existence of an indurated cicatrix after the healing of a primary sore must always be a source of anxiety as long as it remains, inasmuch as it is as really a part of the disease as the ulcer was, and is also very liable to be followed by secondary syonptoms. These symptoms are not always of the same kind, sometimes consisting of large semicircular ulcers on the trunk and limbs, whilst at other times the scaly eruption, with ulcera- tion of the comers of the mouth and tonsils, as well as excoriation of the umbilicus, are met with. Ou these accounts it is advisable to remove the induration of a sore as completely and as soon as possible. To indurations on the mucous membrane or integuments of the genital organs, after all important inflammation has subsided, the strong mercui’ial ointment may be applied with the greatest ad- vantage. If a portion of the ointment be occasionally rubbed on the hard part, and a piece of leather covered with it be con- stantly applied, a decided diminution is sometimes observed to occur in the size of the part. When, however, the skin is thick, and the indm’ation old, the assistance derived from the application of mercury in this manner is often very shght indeed, and without the internal use of mercury no change is effected in the pai-t. The friction of the ointment sometimes causes iuflammation and consequent suppuration in these indurations, which, though in- conveniencing the patient for the time, assists materially in theMERCUEY IN SIMPLE AND INDURATED PRIMARY ULCERS. ^15 removal of the mass. The hard button remaining after the cica- trization of the sore, though generally reducible by the aiiplica- tion of mercurial ointment to the part itseK, at the same time that mercury is employed internally, is at times only completely re- moved after the lapse of a long period of time, and by the changes in the part itself exclusive of any medical means. With regard to the internal employment of mercury, although the manner of its employment and the degree of effect to be produced on the system vary in the different cases, yet a marked influence on the constitution, as indicated most readily by the affection of the mucous membrane of the gums, is that effect wliich is desired to be produced. Tliis inflammation of the gums and increased flow of saliva is most conveniently produced m from six to seven days, and by the internal employment of blue pdl, Avhen once established, is maintaiued at the same degree, or in- creased according as is necessary. To diminish it, however, below that degree to which it arrives in about two days from its com- mencement, is difficult, without removing it altogether. In the great majority of cases, the soreness of the mouth, with slight mercurial foetor of the breath, and a coppery taste of tlie mouth, hidicates the state of system generally accompanied with the heal- ing of this kind of sore, and should be maintained until cicatriza- tion has taken place. With regard to the employment of mercury after cicatrization has occurred, the following seems to be the best rule. If on the healing of the sore the entire hardness is removed, the cicatrix perfect, the part restored to its natural condition exclusive of the mere scar, and the mercury has been attended with distinct signs of affecting the system, mercury appears to have done its duty, and to be no longer necessary. Such complete cure on the cicatrization of the ulcer is not the most common case, more or less induration generally stiU re- maining. If the induration is becoming soft, and is being re- moved, the employment of small quantities of mercury is stdl the best course of proceeding. If, however, the induration be still hard and large, it is best to get rid of it quickly, as it will be removed with much greater difficulty when it has existed for some time, and as the safety of the patient is endangered by its216 CLINICAL OOLLKCTIONS AND OB.SLRVATfONS IN SURGERY. existence. If one set of patients liad to be named, in whom a more complete course of secondary symptoms had occurred than any other, those in wliom indurations have been left unattended to, after cicatrization of the primary sore, might M^ell be pointed out. I^or the relief of those cases no means can be compared with mercury, and mercury employed internally and locally acts in the most beneficial manner. Under its use the recent indurations are often completely absorbed, and a healthy cicatrix established. The long period that these ulcerations sometimes last, as well as the frequency with which secondary symptoms occur after the ulceration has long remained healed, suggest the propriety of examining whether the quantity of mercury should not be in- creased in proportion to the age of the disease. If such is the case it is an unfortunate circumstance, as the patient, by the long period and quairtity of disease, and sometimes by the treat- ment also, is reduced to a condition in which large quantities of mercury are far from advisable. However, neither the length of the disease nor its extent are any indications for the em- ployment of large quantities of mercury, but they in general indicate the necessity of great attention to the general health whilst mercury is being employed. If proper precautions be taken, the effect produced by moderate quantities of mercury, provided an effect is really produced, is as beneficial as if large quantities had been used. In cases of old standing, where the primary and secondary symptoms exist together, where the disease is of long standing, and the patient’s health bad, the great point appears to be, to employ mercury mildly for a considerable time, and to avoid any rapid and sudden use of it. Some of the best marked cases of the benefit of mercury which I have seen, have been cases of syphilitic disease, under the care of Mr. Lawence, in wUich the most marked changes have been produced by the employmejit of small quantities of Hydrargyrum cum Greta, con- tinued for a long period. The convenience of blue })ill is one of its great recommenda- tions, and is in many cases the reason for its use being preferred to frictions. The employment of the corrosive sublimate is chiefly confined to secondary affections; the same may also be said of Plummer’s pill.MEKCUKY IN SIMPLE AND INDURATED PRIMARY ULCERS. 21 I 111 six syphilitic ivarcls ot St. Bartholumeiv s Hospital, the mercury is chiefly given in blue pill, ivhilst in the other three ivards frictions are used to a considerable extent. The influence of both is marked, and each has its advantages and incon- veniences. The pill is simple, is not offensive, and does its duty wdthout any assistance; the frictions require some trust being placed in the nurse to do them properly, are inconvenient, and, where many in the same ward are using them, make the room foetid and un- healthy. Trictions, however, bring the patient under the in- fluence of mercury in the most decided manner, and where such an effect is desu’able are certainly the best means; they are also nnattended by the coho and diarrhoea which occasionally accom- pany the internal exliibition of mercury. AU tilings being borne in mind in favour of one method and the other, there seems to be no doubt that, when the decided influence of mercury is particularly required, the employment of frictions is most advis- able, but that in the great majority of cases the convenience of the blue pill ivill always ensure it a very general use. Such are the means used for the internal administration of mercury to produce a gradual action on the system, and wliich in the great majority of cases are sufficient. There are some cases, however, which, from the nature of the disease as well as the resist- ance of the patient to the influence of mercury, need an increase of the common dose, or require to be treated by the combination of one or tw'o forms—as the blue pill, as well as by the apphcation of frictions. When, however, a very rapid effect is deshed, calomel with opium is generally used. The cases of the indurated sore, however, where tliis is required, are not very frequent; tliis form of medicine being chiefly used in the kuid of primaiy ulcer next to be described.218 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. CHAPTER XVI. SYPHILIS. EMPLOYMENT OP MERCURY IN PHAGEDASNIC SORES; OP IODINE IN PRIMARY ULCERATION; AND OP MERCURY AND IODINE IN APFEC- TIONS OP THE GLANDS, WARTS, AND CONDYLOMATA. In the phagedsenic ulcer the surrounding parts are inflamed to a considerable degree, udth effusion of fluid into the subcutaneous tissue, producing in the penis paraphymosis. The degree of pain existing in the sore is geuerally intense, but in some hospital patients this pain passes umioticed, and the part is said to be easy. The sore presents an irregular ragged everted edge in some parts, when the disease is spreading by ulceration, Vhilst in otlier parts the edge is not so distinctly marked, being continued into the adhesive substance covering the sore itself. The suilace of the sore is covered with a fu’m layer of a wliite ash-colom’ed or dirty white substance. This substance is firmly adherent to the sui’face of the sore, cannot be vdped off hke matter, and appears to be a secretion of the sore itself, mixed with the dead tissues resulting from the superficial mortification of the part. The rapidity with which tliis form of disease destroys the parts attacked by it is very great, and lienee when patients present themselves with only slight loss of texture in the parts after disease of some weeks, it is pro- bable in such cases that this form of disease has not existed during all that period, but that from neglect or other cause the sore has assumed this condition. This opinion, which is often rendered probable from the history, is shewn to be the fact at other times, where a sore previously marked by the characters of common219 MERCUllY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. ulceration is seen to assume from various causes tliis unhealthy state. The majority of patients presenting this form of sore have laboured under some form of venereal ulceration from two to five weeks in a mild form; but the pain accompanjdng the com- mencement of this more serious form soon induces them to apply for relief. When much infiammation exists^ leeches have been employed in the first instance to the inflamed part^ but the chief reliance has been placed on the employment of mercury. In some cases, where the disease was not very well marked, opium and other lotions have been employed before the administration of mercury, with slight relief in general to the pain, but vdthout any marked influence on the progress of the disease. Under these circumstances the emplo3ment of mercury is attended with more advantage than any other plan of treatment. The employment of some form winch produces its effects rapidly being desired, calomel is most commonly used in doses of two grains, with a tliird of a grain of opium, every six or eight houi’S, until some degree of sahvation has been produced.* In some of these cases the employment of blue pill, with the local application of mercury, is attended with some beneficial re- sult; the effect produced by the direct application of mercury being well marked, and attended with immediate advantage. The mercmial effect oji the constitution is not, however, produced so rapidly in these cases as under the employment of calomel; the employment of blue pill being more suited to those cases in wliich the disease runs a less rapid course. The change in the appearance of the ulcer manifests itself at the same time as the mercury begins to affect the mouth; the pain then begins to cease, the white and unhealthy appearance of the sore not to extend, and in different parts of the sore, here and there, generally near the edge, red granidations appear, whilst a more puriform secretion takes the place of the Mutery foetid fluid. This is followed in some cases by the separation of a well- marked slough, but more commonly by the gradual removal or * In thc! Medical Gazette, vol. x.xi. p. 010, Mr. Lnwrenee lias described the im- portance of tliis plan of treatment. Cases of a similar kind, and l)cnefited hy the employment of mercury, have also been described by W. Darraeh, jSl.D., riiiladcl- phia, in the North American Medical and Surgical .loiu-nal, 1829, vol. vii. p. 274.220 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEIIVATTONS IN SUUGEllY. solution of the foul white surface, and tlie gradual conversion of the part into a healthy ulcer. The improvement of this form of phagedsenic ulceration under the influence of mercury, in some of the cases under the care of Mr. Lawrence, has been as-marked and decided as the improvement in acute s}^)hilitic iritis under a similar employment of mercury; whilst under the employment of other means the sore had presented an extremely unfavourable appearance. In the acute stage of this affection, whilst the ulcer is gradually 5[)reading and destroying the parts, this plan of treatment has appeared to succeed better than any other; and the success of it in this form of disease has also been very frequently put to the test. When, however, the sore is reduced to a simple granulating sui'face, the continued employment of this active treatment is not necessai-y, the sore in general healing up under the mild employ- ment of mercury. When the mercmial influence is produced, from some peculiarity of the patient, very rapidly, the influence of mercury is beneficial, but does not appear to be attended vith that full benefit which accompanies its more gradual action. Although in the great majority of cases the employment of this plan is at- tended with such great success, yet cases occur from time to time in wliich, after the disease has yielded at first and got partially well, the subsequent progress becomes slow, or even ceases. The condition of the patients in whom this occurs is generally bad and unhealthy. Now although the disease in the worst cases may sometimes not advance, yet it does not recede so far as to assume the serious appearance which it presented when it first derived the advantage from the employment of mercury. In those cases where the disease subsequently becomes stationary, more benefit is derived from the hydriodate of potash, with sarsaparilla, and a nutri- tious diet, after the patient has been removed altogetlier from the mercurial atmosphere, and under the employment of these means the ulcers gradually heal up and cicatrize. Under tliis plan of treatment this form of ulceration has appeared to heal sooner than any other. In some cases other plans have been tried before admission without success, whilst the disease has gone on from bad to worse. Tlirs, much time has been i^pent in useless attempts to arrest the disca.se, which has221 JIKUCmiY A>iD IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. jiclcled readily to mercmy at last. The permanent success of tliis j)laii has appeared equal to that of the other modes of treatment of primary disease, and the cases have not returned again on liand for a recuiTence of the primary disease. The simply foul phagedfenic ulcer is generally situated near the corona glandis, or root of the prepuce, and is often accompanied by a tight inflamed phimosis. The edges of the sore are in gene- ral free from swelling or oedema, but surrounded by considerable redness, whilst tlie surface of the sore at the bottom of these ver- tical sides is of a yellovdsh white or tawny colour. This form of sore resembles the ulcer last described to a certain degree, but the degree of acute inflammation accompanying it is greater, and often depends on some obvious cause, whilst the destruction of parts by sloughing of the glands is often much more rapid. This sore occurs in two classes of patients: the first is that where the sore is accompanied by considerable surrounding in- flammation, and with general fever; the head is painful, the pidse fuU and firm, the skin hot, and the tongue covered with a thick white fur. In such cases the condition of the sore appears to be connected with the general inflammatory fever, and to pomt to the rehef of that condition as the indication for its appropriate treat- ment ; and such, in fact, is the treatment attended with most benefit. In such cases application of leeches round the inflamed sore, and (if it exists) the removal of the paraphimosis by opera- tion, exert a most favomable effect on the sore, whilst the ex- hibition of a free purgative to evacuate the bowels, followed up by small doses of a saline aperient, at frequent inteiwals, to continue a free discharge from the bowels, is attended vith great benefit. General bleeding is not mentioned, and for the reason that it has very seldom been employed in these cases, and in the subsequent progress of the cases such appearances have not been seen as to indi- cate that its omission was to be at all regretted, the free abstraction of blood from the part sufficing, with the other treatment, to re- duce the inflammatory condition, without any general abstraction of blood. The employment of purgatives in a sufficient dose to completely empty the alimentary canal, and the subsequent fluid discharges from the bowels, reduce the patient considerably; in addition to which, the application of leeches in considerable quan-222 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. tity to these naturally vascular, and now highly inflamed parts, as well as the bleeding which occasionally occurs from the part itself, are, though in fact local abstraction of blood, not destitute of very considerable effect on the general constitution, nor far different from general bleeding. With regard to the second form, the characters of the ulcers are very similar; the degree of sur- rounding inflammation is, however, less, and the general character of the patient^s condition is very different. The patient appears worn and haggard; the pulse, though inclined to be hard, is feeble; the degree of languor is great, and not unfrequently accompanied vdth a general feeling of aching or uneasiness in the hmbs. The stress of the disease, in fact, is on the nervous, and not on the vascular system. Under these circumstances, although the local application of leeches may be attended with benefit, yet the main' point of treatment consists in the employment of opium and wine. The emplojmient of the pil. saponis c. opio, in five or ten grain doses at night, with more or less wine, and some nutritious food, with the local application of a solution of opium under a poultice, or with water-dressing to the sore, are attended with the most benefit to the general condition of the patient, as well as to the local disease. Such appear to be the best modes of treatment dming the acute stage of the ulcer: these temporary conditions are, however, remedied sooner or later, and the sore assumes those conditions in wliich it presents either the characters of a simple sore, or may even present some indiuation. The sore then comes under the treatment as above described for such cases, and ultimately heals. Destruction of parts of the genital organs by slougliing is not very uncommon, and generally appears in the well-known form of sloughing phagedaena. Cases occasionally, however, occur, in which a spot of the vagina, or the mucous hning of the glans or prepuce, even in persons of tolerable health, but labouring under the venereal disease, dies without any very evident cause. Tliis spot separating like the core of a large boil, leaves a healthy granu- lating surface beneath. This rc([uires no particular treatment. In the well-marked cases of sloughing phagedaena the local application of nitric acid gives a degree of relief, and arrests tlieMEttCUR\ AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. E23 V disease in a more rapid and complete manner than any known means; and after the sepai'ation of the slough, the surface generally granulates well, and heals rapidly. Now and then the restorative processes are tardy after the sore has granulated for a few days; and although matters do not go back they are very slow in going forwai-d. T\T.ien the sore becomes tardy, the same treatment is required as in similar venereal sores which have been unaccompanied by any sloughing process. Although no explanation of this fact can be w'ell given in some of these cases, yet occasionally there appears to be a sufficient ex- planation of the benefit arising from the application of the nitric acid, as well as of the subsequent want of progress. Slougiiing phagedsena, though commonly a clear and unmixed process, at times commences in a part already ulcerated, and the part presents a mixture of foul ulceration and slougiiing, rather than simple sloughing phagedaena. In the mass of filth wliicli covers a slough- ing phagedfEnic sore, minute distinctions cannot readily be made, but ulceration immediately before the occurrence of the sloughing will sometimes be found to have occurred in those cases where the parts heal slowly after the separation of the slough, and where the disease, though brought within ordinary bounds by the application of nitric acid, requires for its complete cure the ordinary treatment of venereal disease. The treatment of the vaiious forms of primary disease with mer- cury and simple means is generally quite sufficient, and requires the introduction of no new medifcine ; the disease, in short, going through a regular course, and being relieved by the means em- ployed, in the same manner, and iti an equal degree, to that which is seen in other ulcerative aifections. The progress of primary disease in the wards of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, where the treatment just described is practised, is attended with less in- terruption, and with fewer accidental occurrences, than the pro- gress of any other equally important affection. It is true there are occasional accidents in this, as in every other affection, but tliey are ceilainly not cammon. The (lucstions now remaining to be answered are these ;—Are the results of the employment of iodine in primary disease equal to those of mercury ? and, secondly, is iodine beneficial in any of those forms of |)rimary disease where mercury is injurious ?224) CLINICAL COLLKCTIOXS AND OIJSEIIVATIONS IN SUllGEKY. In sloughing phagedtena iodine does not seem to have been em- ployed ; this affection being much too serious a subject for experi- mentj and yielding in a most complete and rapid manner to a well known remedy. In a few simple sores^ and in one case of in- durated ulceration^ the efficacy of hydriodate of j)otash has_, liow- ever, been tried. When the patient was strong and healthy, the hydriodate of potash, employed in a case of ulceration of the groin remaining after a bubo, did no harm, but was unattended with the least benefit. In two cases of foul superficial ulcers of the pre- puce a marked improvement took place under the use of this me- dicine, but in a third case it did no good. One case of indurated primary sore was treated with hyilriodate of potash after mercury had been discontinued : the improvement still continued, and the patient got quite well. These few cases in which iodine has been tried, together with the general result of its employment in a few more, are not enough to allow any very decided opinion being given from experience as to its use in primary disease. Some ojiinion may, however, be form- ed :—1. The employment of iodine has not been omitted altogether, and the little use which has been made of it has not afforded such favourable results as to induce a continuance of its employment. The effect, in fact, seemed to be none—it did neither good nor harm, but by its use it prevented other medicmes being employed. In two cases of foul superficial ulceration improvement certainly took place, but in a thud case the result was not so good, and rendered the cause of the previous improvement doubtful. 2. The patients in whom primary disease has fingered on, and gradually been attended with secondary symptoms, as well as those in whom primary and secondary disease occur together, without any very clear account being to be had as to their connection, are often very much re- duced, and ill suited to any very active treatment. The general condition of these patients resembles closely those labouring under the phagedsenic form of secondary disease, and their ailments are relieved by the same plan of treatment. The addition of small doses of hydriodate of potash to the sarsaparilla, with improved diet, is certainly beneficial to these patients, and assists in raising them up from their exhausted state to a moderate condition of health, in which the more direct measures suited to their local disease may be employed with more safety and greater advantage.MEllCURV AND IODINE IN VENBIIEAL DISEASES. 225 Ajiioiigst the venereal patients admitted into St. Bartholomew s Hospital^ affections of the glands of the groin are very common, and of the most varying kind; they are more common amongst the male than the female patients, but some of tlie most serious kind occasionally are found amongst the latter. In some of these cases mercury is emploj'^ed in reference to the glandular affection alone, hut in the greater number the treatment is chiefly directed to the primary ulceration on which it depends. The employment of iodine in these cases has been tried occasionally, but not often, and in these cases its effect on the whole has not been very decided, and not at all comparable to that of mercury, wliicli in some cases is attended ndth the most beneficial results, wdiilst in others its employment is unnecessary, and even disadvantageous. Before describing the mode hi which mercury may be bene- ficially employed in the treatment of affections of the absorbent glands, some allusion requu’es to be made in reference to the treatment of a very large number of persons, who are always found amongst venereal patients, namely those who labour under primary ulcers of a mild nature accompanied with suppurating or ulcerated buboes, wliich are also destitute of any particularly severe character. In these cases the primary ulcer is made the chief object of treatment, and is often covered with a mercurial lotion, whilst mercury is administered internally; the affection of the groin being treated with simple means. This plan of treatment is not accompanied with any bad effects, neither does the heahng of the ulcer in the groin appeal’ to be delayed by it; on the con- trary, the heahng of the sore and of the abscess generally proceed simultaneously, and with the gi-eatest regularity, the one plan of treatment being beneficial to both. In examining the effects of mercury on the affections of the glands of the groin in the venereal disease, some arrangement is necessary, and as the presence or abseiicc of acute inflammation exercises on the whole the most important influence in modifying the treatment, the affections of the glands may conveniently be divided into two classes : 1st. Ihose in which acute inflammafion ofthe glands or surrounding cellular texture exists; and 2dly, tliose Ctusesiii which the glands alone are gradually enlarged, or iii winch, with the affection of the glands, considerable thickeiiiiig of the Q226 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIOJSS IN SUB.GERY. surroiiiidmg parts gradually takes place at the same time. In these two classes mercury exercises a marked, but very different in- fluence, and that difference appears to depend in a very considerable degree on the amount of accompanying inflammation, although the existence and nature of the glandular affection are sometimes connected very materially with the character of the primary ulcer. Thus the most severe primary sores, as the phagedsenic ulcerating sore, and even sloughing phagedsena, are very much less frequently accompanied with bubo than the small ulcers of the glans and frseuum prieputii, whilst the circular sore, with well-defined indu- ■ration, seems to occupy a middle place between the others, and to be accompanied only occasionally with a glandular affection of any importance. Where acute inflammation of the glands of the groin, with much swelling and redness of the skin, and accompanied ndth any considerable degree of fever, occurs in connexion vuth a small primary ulcer of a simple kind, the employment of mercury by frictions near.the part appears to be rarely attended with any benefit. The part in general suppurates, and on bm-sting exliibits a condition of parts which appears to depend in many cases much mere on the affection of the cellular tissue than of the glands, the latter often appearing simply swelled and exposed in the middle of the abscess. So rarely is the employment of mercurial frictions in the early stage of these cases attended with benefit, whilst so frequently do common means give rehef and lessen the extent of the mischief in the groin, that the employment of the latter is to be cliiefly relied on. It is not uncommon to find the glands of the groin with their adjacent cellular tissue converted into a painful hard mass, covered by tense red skin, and marked by a fold of the skin which crosses it in the line of the crural arch. Tills form of bubo frequently remains hard and paiiifid for ten days or a fortnight, without undergoing any change, except a slight softening; tliis, however, not being accompanied by any suppuration, but having only a small quantity of fluid effused here aiul there through it. Although this form of bubo is more suited to the employment of mercury than that just mentioned, yet the cflect of simple means is on the whole more marked, the swelling often subsiding under their use, but still jiassing ou to sujipuration occasionally in spite of all means.227 iriiKCURY AND IODINE IN VENEIIEAL DISEASES. The iiiflaiQinatory nature of these two forms of bubo, in wbich rapid suppuration or extensive effusion of lymph into the cellular tissue surrounding the glands rapidly takes place, readily accounts for the want of influence winch generally attends the employment of mercury in these cases, and explains tlie benefit wliich results from the employment of common means. Iodine applied locally in these cases does not seem to exercise any curative iuflueuce> wlulst occasionally the application of the tincture of iodine to an inflamed bubo is attended with very serious results. The applica- tion of the tincture of iodine to an inflamed bubo of large size in a young healthy person has been known to produce a large foul slough of the integuments and subjacent parts, extending by a sloughing process so rapidly into the smTOunding textures, that lai’ge doses of opium were required to reheve the pain, wliilst the pm’e nitric acid was apphed to prevent the extension of the sore. Tlie iodine ointment has been tried as a local application to reduce the hard swelling of the parts in the grom which accompanies the formation of bubo, and remains after suppuration in some persons. The effect of it is not, however, very marked, and not attended uuth such benefit as to briug it into comparison with the employment of blisters and the other ordinary means used in such cases. In the cases just considered the affection of the glands was accompanied with considerable inflammation, and often attended with very much more disease of the surrounding cellular tissue than of the glands themselves. The other class consists of cases in which the glands alone are gradually enlarged, or in which, with the affection of the glands, considerable thickening of the surrounding parts gradually takes place; the disease, in fact, being attended here with more affection of the glands, and less of the cclhdar tissue, than in the jireccding cases. It is in this class of cases that the employment of mercuiy is often attended vith great benefit. Tlie glands of the gi'oin sometimes enlarge to a very considera- ble degree, without afl'cetion of the surrounding cellular tissue lo any extent, and witliout any very marked degree of inflamma- tion, the chief inconvenience lieing lhat of a swelling in tlie thigh, with dull aching pain. 7\t other times Ihe ('idargement22-8 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. of the glands is attended with extensive tliickening of the sur- rounding parts, so that a considerable mass of hard tissue and glands, collected together, is found in the upper part of the thigh. In both these classes of cases the inflammation is often but slight, whilst the changes whicli take place in the part are not rapid or very marked. A bubo sometimes remains for a considerable time as a hard mass, without undergoing any particular change, until at last it either becomes soft over a very small space, tliis soft part being sm-rounded and placed on a large bed of indm’ation, or at other times tins hard mass acquires rather a softer feel on the whole, nuthout pointing at any particular part. These different appearances are met with in different stages of venereal bubo, and aU present some featmus in common. The affection of the surrounding cellular tissue is not acute, and is accompanied with considerable induration; there is a decided en- largement of the glands ; the quantity of effused fluid is small, or it may be wanting, and this fluid bears but a small proportion to the soHd parts of the swelling. It is in these cases that the effects of mercury appear to be the most marked, and in many cases to reduce the swelling without the occm’rence of any suppu- ration ; and when a fluid already exists in small quantity, in some cases to effect its removal. The employment of mercurial frictions to the tliigh below the enlarged glands, at the same time that it is one of the most gentle modes of bringing the patient under the influence of mer- cury, affords whatever additional advantage there may be arising from the passage of the mercury through the glands themselves. Frictions of mercury on the glands themselves irritate and inflame the part, and do not seem to be attended with any particulai’ benefit; the constant apphcation of strong mercunal ointment, spread on a piece of strong wash leather, to the swelling, certainly in many cases is beneficial, probably by acting as a firm compress at the same time that the mercury is placed on the part. In many cases, under tlve emplojoncnt of mercury in tins way, the swelling slowly subsides; but such is not invariably tlic case. Even in apparently favourable cases the mercury appears some- times to do harm, the swelling siqipurating at once and mostMERCURY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. 229 copiously. AAnieii freely opened, the abscesses do not appear to be delayed in healing by the previous careful employment of mer- cury, but heal well and rapidly. The glandular sweUings in ivomen and thin persons more fre- quently yield to this plan of treatment than in fat and heavy persons. In fat, coarse people, advanced in life, the employment of mercurial frictions is sometimes followed by fever, accompanied with very severe constitutional disturbance, and the formation of a large abscess in the groin, filled with dark foetid pus mixed with blood. Ill the majority of cases the gums are more or less affected by the employment of mercury, at the same time that the swelhug is diminished; yet such is not invariably the case. In some in- stances the employment of meremial frictions appears to increase the pain and swelling of the part. On the omission of these, the increased redness will often be found to subside, and a rapid im- provement to take place in the part, without any particular treat- ment being adopted. Amongst the poor of lai'ge toinis, who cannot spare time for the cure of then slighter ailments, one disease sometimes begins before they have quite got rid of the remains of another. Thus at large hospitals patients are met' with from time to time labouring under the constitutional symptoms of the venereal disease, and still having in their groins the unhealed fissures and sinuses of primary disease. AVhere the constitutional symptoms are of such a kind as to require the use of iodine, the remains of the old disease are equally benefited by it. A form of bubo ocem's occasionally of so serious a description as to threaten hfe, depending in some cases on the peculiarity of the individual or of the disease, and in others on the nature of the treatment. AVhere mercury has been employed in large quan- tities, and for a considerable period, without any improvement in the disease, with rapid failure in health and exposure to bad air, there can be no doubt that many jiersons are likely to die, and often have done so; but such indiscriminate employment of a useful means forms not the least objection to its use under proper regulations, nor does it show that the sevei’e form of bubo which residts from such treatment is produced by mercury alone. This230 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. form of bubo is cliaracterized by great redness of the integuments of the groin and upper part of the thigh^ surrounding a foul ex- cavated ulcer^ wlucli is covered with a white and grey adlierent layer of matter and dead tissue, sm-rounded by a sharp edge of undermined dusky skin, and covered by a thin foetid secretion. The pain of tlus sore is extreme, and the patients are so reduced in strength by the low fever under which they suffer as to be in great danger. Within the last few years six well-marked cases of this affection have occurred in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, of so severe a nature that life seemed to be in absolute danger; one, however, only died. In none of these was the quantity of mer- cury employed large, and in some very small indeed; the only common influence under which the patients laboured was that they were all in the venereal wards, and all subject to the venereal dis- ease, other patients staying at the same time in the same wards, and under similar conditions, and with one exception unaffected. In this exceptional case the patient in the next bed to one labour- ing under this affection became similarly diseased, and in a very severe degree. Of these six patients three were prostitutes, but young and apparently healthy; one a Prenchman, one a country- man, and the other a boy bving in London. Two cases happened together, of whom one died; the others were separate, and at dif- ferent periods. During the severe part of this affection there was no indication for mercury in any way, but the greatest need of wine, and means to support the strength of the patient. W'hen the disease was rapidly spreading by sloughing, the nitric acid was apphed with suc- cess in one case, whilst in another opium lotion was applied with great benefit. The balsam of Peru and charcoal poultice were, however, most beneficial in restoring the parts to health, and perhaps, on the whole, these were the means attended with the most decided and rapid improvement. The healing of the parts, after the sores had assmned a healthy appearance, was very rapid, and did not require any particular local or general means. The form of bubo just described is terrible from its severity; 1 he next is equally alarming, but from a difierent cause. In the Icngtli of time which it lasts, and in its resistance to one meansMEIICITHY ANl) IODINE IN VENEEEAL DISEASES. 231 after another, it exceeds every form of primary, and most of the varieties of secondar}^ disease. The following are some of the pecuharities which a case of this kind presents. A man (for women are rarely affected "with this form of disease) presents liimself with the appearance of moderately good health, and without any particular fever or constitutional distm’bance, hut complaining of a sore in the groin. On examination a line of ulcers parallel to Pouparffs hgament, and sometimes extending down along the perineum towards the anus, is discovered. This may be found on one or both sides, and the ulcers may form a chain all along the above-mentioned space, or they may be only three or four in number. These ulcers are partly cicatrized and partly spreading, the spreading part being generally the upper edge. The edges of the sore are ragged, undermined, and accom- panied with considerable inflammation of the smTounding skin, whilst the sm’face of the sore is of a dh’ty-brown colour, and covered only with a tliin secretion. The age of a sore of this kind is not always reckoned by weeks or months, but by years, and it is the especially incurable form of primary disease. One means after another sometimes fails in completely removing this affection, and the treatment, which consists in common attention, and guarding against all accidental impediments to the healing of the part, seems sometimes to be the best plan, and that wliich is most calculated for the cure of the part, by allowing it to run its own course. Iodine seems to exercise no influence in these cases. The em- ployment of mercury has been very strongly recommended in their treatment; tliis remedy being administered in very small quan- tities, so as to aflect the system very slowly, and to keep it under its influence for some time. The employment of mercury in this manner has been tried at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, and with decided improvement in the part, the improvement being slow, but greater than that derived from the use of any other means. Amongst venereal patients growths from the skin about the genital organs, and occasiontdly about other parts, are frequently met with. Warts of the largest and smallest size ' are very common, and though tedious in their treatment at times, yet at last arc removed. Tlie preparations of iodine and mercury do232 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGEIiY. not appear to exert any very decided influence on these grovflhs; it is true that tliey disappear occasionally duiing the employment of these means, but the clean condition in which the parts are kept is apparently the cause. Under the employment of cleanli- ness, and a constant removal of all moisture from the part, these structures generally cease to grow, and after they have got into a quiet state, the apphcation of ordijiary caustics in mild cases, and the removal with the knife in the more severe, are the easiest and most certain modes of completely removing the growths. In addition to warts there is also frequently met with another growth from the skin, or more commonly an elevation of the substance of the cutis, with swelling and some degree of inflam- mation, accompanied with a white sodden condition of the cuticle and some excoriation, from wliich a tliin acrid fluid at times exudes. To tliis the general term Condyloma is applied. These appearances present themselves under several circmn- stances, of which the following are the most common :— 1. On the scrotum in the male, and along the line of junction of the mucous membrane with the skin of the labia majora in the female, slight ulcers occur in numerous places during or im- mediately after primary disease. These growths are rare, where the patients liave been treated for the primary disease in the hospital, and are chiefly met with in persons who are neglectful of themselves in health, and have paid little attention to their disease, and appear to be the diseased remains of a shght primary sore. In men these lumps generally are rapidly removed by small doses of mercury; in women, however, they are much more intractable, but are reheved by the same plan of treatment. 2. Children labouring under the venereal disease, existing at bhth or commencing a few weeks after delivery, frequently present small growths of this kind on the skin in the neighbourhood of the anus : in general, blotches of the skin, or scaly eruption, with fissures at the angles of the mouth, are found at the same time. The same mercurial treatment which is beneficial to the general symptoms also assists in the removal of these growths. 3. This aflection occurs in patients who are suflering from scaly and tubercular syphilitic eruptions. On tlie parts exposed to moisture, as about the perineum and genital organs, patches of233 MEUCUUY AND IODINE IN VENEUEAL DISEASES. the eruption seem gradually to shade into these groMdlis^ which appear to be simply spots of ernption modified by the situation and moisture of the part, and yield to the same plan of treatment as the eruption, assisted by removal of the moisture, by which they ai-e particularly affected. This form of growth is accurately described by Mr. Hunter. After speaking of the sypliibtic eruptions of the skin, he adds : “ Sncli appearances are peculiar to that part of the common skin of the body which is usually exposed, but when the skiu is opposed by another sldn, which keeps it in some degree more moist, as between the nates, about the anus, or between the scrotum and the thigh, or in the angle between the two thighs, or upon the prolabinm of the mouth, and in the arm-pits, the eruptions never acquii’e the above described ajipearances, and instead of scurfs and scabs we have the skin elevated, or, as it were, tumefied by the extravasated lymph into a wlnte, soft, moist, flat surface, wliich discharges a white matter. This may perhaps arise from there being more warmth, more perspiration, and less evaporation, as well as from the skin being thinner ui such places.^^* In the cases already described the condylomata or flat growths from the skin have been either comiected with the remains of imperfectly cured primary disease, or with the secondary affection of the skin in children and adults, and yield to the same plan of treatment as the affection with which they are connected, provided means be taken to place them in the same condition by removal of the moisture of the part. It is not uncommon, however, to meet with cases of condylo- mata which cannot be classed under these heads, which in fact arc not connected particularly with any cutaneous affection, and are less amenable to any plan of general treatment. Amongst the patients of a large hospital there are a certain number who laboui- under repeated attacks of gonorrhoea and sypluhs, both primary and secondary, who are part of the lowest class of the po])ulation, and add to their sufferings from want, by intem- perance, unclcanliticss, and neglect of all kinds. Amongst these patients some are met with, from time to time, in whom the ♦ lluuter’a Works, by Pnlnier, vol. ii. p. 408.234 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEUVATIONS IN SURGEllY. perineum and parts in the neighbourhood of the genital organs are covered with elevated patches of hard^ sodden skin^ with foul acrid discharge, wliich cannot be distinguished from other condy- lomata. In the production of these, dirt and discharge seem to have a considerable share, and to explain their presence, and any classification of them with regidar constitutional cutaneous diseases, appears forced and unnecessary. The influence of iodine and of mercury are beneficial if they remove the ulceration or primary disease under which the patient labours; the cMef benefit, however, to the grovdhs themselves is from other means. Cleanliness, cure of the discharge from the uretlu’a and vagina, and keeping the parts accm’ately dry, are the most certain means of removing these growths, wlulst the applica- tion of the nitrate of silver freely to their sm-face diminishes their size rapidly, and materially hastens their removal. The application of calomel in powder to the parts after they have been well washed with chloride of soda, and then accurately di'ied, has been recommended. In some cases under Mr. Staide/s care this plan was tried at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, and with a very good result. It was not, however, clear that the calomel acted otherwise than as a dry powder in removing these growths, wdiilst its application exposed the patient to the risk of salivation, which took place to a considerable degree in one instance. To obviate tliis risk the following treatment was tried, winch appeai-ed to be attended with aU the benefit and none of the inconvenience of the ajipHcation of calomel:— A woman was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, under Mr. Stanley, suffering from two long strips of condylo- matous growths running along each side of the perineum, and ulcerated in some parts. She at fii-st employed opium lotion, and a solution of alum to the parts for about a week after ad- mission, with some rehef. The following treatment was then practised : the parts were first carefully washed vdtli the lotio sodsc chlorinatse, then dried and dusted with the oxide of zinc. Tliis was done twice daily, and was followed by the most marked benefit, the ulceration healing, and the growths subsiding so as to become level with tlie surrounding skin.aiEKCURY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. 235 CHAPTER XVII. SYPHILIS. EMPLOYMENT OP MERCURY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL APPECTIONS OF THE SKIN. The number of patients admitted annually^ labouring under syphilitic affections of the skin, is very considerable, and exceeds that of persons labouring under affections of the tlu’oat: the affections of these two parts frequently are found together; but disease of the skin is more frequently found existing alone, than affection of the throat. Tliese patients have, in some cases, allowed the affection of the skin to go on for many months, are reduced in health, and still labour under primary disease, whilst in other cases the affection is recent, or even commences in the hospital, the patient somietimes remaining in the hospital in excel- lent health. The papular and scaly eruptions, with the irregular mottled eruption of the skin, are the most common; next to these the most common are the tubercular and pustular eruptions; and last in order of frequency comes the phagedmnic pustular disease, to which the term rupia is given. The vesicular eruption is not here enumerated, as it appears to liave occurred very rai’ely in any person’s experience, and some cases of it already described are not very well marked. In the summer of 1841, a case of vesicular eruption, resembling those which have been described as vesicular syj)hilitic disease, occurred at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, under the care of Mr. Lawrence, but so close was its resemblance to varicella, and so deficient were any distinctive characters toCLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. separate it from this affection, that it might perhaps be consi- dered as varicella, occurring in a patient labouring under the venereal disease. Under the employment of common means this case did well, neither iodine nor mercury being required for its rehef. Although in the great majority of cases these eruptions are decided and well marked, yet at certain periods, and even from the first in some instances, they present a mixed character. Thus the simple mottling of the skin in its late stage approaches very closely to the mild cases of scaly eruption, whilst some of the cases of scaly eruption present such an elevation of the skin as to border very closely on the tubercular disease. Again, the conical crusts of rupia, though well marked in many cases, sometimes border very closely on the pustular eruption, to which they seem still more closely allied by their early pustular character, and the almost constant absence of any vesicular appearance in the early stage. The papular eruption differs much in the degree of accompanying con- stitutional disturbance, being, in some cases, during its early stage, accompanied with a very considerable degree of inflammatory fever, whilst at other times the whole progress of the affection is not attended with any considerable disturbance of the patient^s health. The gi’eater number of cases present themselves for treat- ment after the early stage of the eruption has gone by, and when some of the papules are beginning to desquamate; the eruption having, however, in many lasted for several months, and having been treated by a variety of means. Under the employment of proper means the cases of papular eruption generally do very well, even though they may be of considerable standing; the obstacles to the complete cure being its complication with inflammation of the external tunics of the eye, the successive eruption of fresh crops of papules, and the forma- tion of deep copper-coloured or dark pm-ple stains after the removal of the papules. Whilst this affection is coming on, in proportion as it is accom- panied with fever, the more prominent the papules are, and the smaller the a])pearance of any desquamation of the cuticle, so much tlie more beneficial is a general antiphlogistic treatment, and so much less tlie chance of any advantage from mercury or iodine.MEIICUKY A>’B IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. 237 Under the employment of a low diet and mild aperients the erup- tion often passes tlmough its early stages rapidly^ and leaves a condition of the skin which is often removed by the employment of mercury^ and winch occasionally assumes of itself the condition of health. It is when the eruption has ceased to be accompanied with any degree of fever^ when the papules begin to descj^uamate, and the eruption to appear only in a few fresh places^ that the employment of mild doses of mercury, so as to keep the gums just shghtly sore, is so beneficial, and attended with more advantage than any other mode of treatment. Under this plan, the eruption, although of many months duration, gra- dually subsides, and often leaves the skin in a perfectly healthy condition. Cases however occur, from time to time, in wliich tliis form of disease yields as httle to treatment as any sypliihtic eruption; suc- cessive crops of papules appearing as fast as one set is removed. So long as no new papules appear, the old papules sooner or later yield, but where new crops come, these cases are occasionally most techous. No plan, on the whole, however, succeeds so well as the nuld employment of mercury, conjoined vdth the warm bath and a generous diet, to which may be advantageously joined in some cases the administration of quinine. Wlien the blotches are simply copper-coloured they gradually fade with the dechne of the eruption, and though remaining for some time after the desquamation of the cuticle, yet are generally removed imder the employment of the same plan of treatment, continued for rather a longer space of time. When the blotches are of a deep purple tint, or even sometimes of the colour of venous blood, though reduced by treatment to a certain degree, they arc removed with difficulty. No plan of treatment, in some cases, seems to have the power of rapidly removing these stains, which yield more to time than any thing else, and which fortunately present the deepest tint in parts which are covered. Hydriodate of ])otash exercises a certain degree of influence in those stages of the papular cru])f ion in which mercury is emploved with bencfii, but ils influence is ccriainly very much less; and occa-238 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. sionally cases in which iodine has been attended with but slight advantage are cured rapidly by the employment of mercury. It may be said that the papular eruption yields to iodine, where the acute stage of the affection has gone by, or where no fever exists from the first; but its efficacy in these cases is not very much greater than common means, and in the really obstinate cases of papular sypliiHtic eruption the efficacy of iodine does not appear to be at all comparable to that of mercury. In the summer of 1844, two well-marked cases of papular eruption, accompanied in one case with stains of a very deep copper colour, were admitted together into St. Bailholomew's Hospital, under Mr. Stanley. The eruption had existed for some time, and was unattended by any febrile disturbance. Under the employment of hydriodate of potash the patients improved, and went out better, but the amend- ment was so gradual that no very decided benefit appeared to be derived from the employment of iodine. The scaly syphilitic eruption is common, and often exists for many months without undergoing any great change, being one of the most intractable forms of disease with improper treatment, but yielduig most certainly and rapidly to the employment of suitable means. Tliis eruption generally appears under the form of psoriasis guttata, that form to wliich the term diffusa has been apphed being less common, wlulst psoriasis gyrata is so rare that even amongst the mass of syphilitic patients admitted annually into St. Bartho- lomew’s Hospital not one case is met with hi each year. The most common accompaniment of this affection is ulceration of the throat, but iritis, affection of the auditory meatus, and ulcerations of the integuments, occur occasionally at the same time, wlulst the extension of the affection of the skin to particular parts produces falling off of the hair, ulceration of the corners of the mouth, psoriasis palmaria, condylomata, and rhagades digitorum. The scaly syphihtic eruption is generally clearly marked, but such is not invariably the case j the patches ofskin being at tunes so much elevated, before any separation of the cuticle takes place, that the term tuberculo-squamous might well be employed. The oidy other source of confusion arises from the scaly appearance assumed at times by the papular eruption in its decline, which, however, may with care be generally dislinguished. Whatever difficulty, however.239 MBUCUUY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. arises in distingiiisliing either the tnberculo-squamoiis or later stage of the papular eruption from the scaly disease, is not of extreme importance, as the same means produce good effects more or less in these tliree forms of disease. In no form of disease is the efficacy of medicine more marked than in the treatment of the scaly syphilitic eruption by mercury. Under the internal administration of mereury to such a degree that the gums are kept slightly sore, this eruption gradually fades and clears off, leaving a healthy skin below. In many cases no stain of any kind remains; but such is not invariably the case, as at times the pale copper-coloured blotch remains for some weeks, disappearing gradually, and certainly being relieved by the continued employment of mercmy in small quantities for a considerable time. The scaly eruption disappears so much more easily under the employment of mercury than by any other means, that tliis remedy deserves to be employed in the fii’st instance in almost aU cases, and in doubtful cases, where the scaly eruption exists with other secondary symptoms, these symp- toms being capable of relief by either mercury or iodine, the existence of the scaly eruption is sufficient to justify the employ- ment of mercury in preference to any tiling else. In some cases of mixed secondary symptoms the existence of the scaly eruption enables the surgeon to decide as to the employment of a particular remedy: there is, however, another set of cases in wliich the employment of mercury serves a double purpose, for the existence of a hard mass after the partial cure of an indurated primary sore is not unfrcquently followed by the appearance of a scaly eruption, ivith other secondary symptoms, winch yield to the employment of mercury, the same means relieving at once the secondary and the remains of the primary disease. Mercury exerts so gi’eat an influence in the cm’e of tlie scaly eruption, that iodine is rarely tried: the use of this latter medi- cine is not, liowever, always unattended with benefit. Wlierc tlic afl'cetion of the skin is considerable, the effects of iodine arc neither rapid nor very well marked; the eruption becomes paler, and in some parts is nearly removed, but the cure is imperfect, and very slow in its progress. Wliere tlie affection of tlie skin is slight, and the jiatient olqects to tlie use of mercury, the admi- nistration ol liydi'iodatc oC jiotasli lias beim known to have been240 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEIIVATIONS IN SUIIOEIIY. followed by the coinjilete subsidence of the squamous eruption, and similar benefit has been seen to attend the employment of iodine after the employment of mercury; but on the whole the advantages attending the use of iodine in the squamous eruption are not at all to be compared with those which attend the admi- nistration of mercury. Tubercular sypliilitic eruption, in the purely tubercular stage, is much less common than the scaly and papular diseases, as the eruption generally assumes a scaly appearance, or terminates in ulceration after a certain period. Amongst venereal patients, a certain number of cases, however, are met with who sufier from simple tubercular eruption of the skin, more especially of the face, the spots being scattered more or less closely to each other, but forming distinct elevations of a light coppery colour, and accom- panied with other secondary symptoms. When the patient^s health is good, and has not been reduced by any particular cause, the employment of mercury in small quantities is attended with gi’eat benefit; this eruption, in favourable cases, yielding quite as readily as the scaly eruption to the influence of that medicine, and often requiring even a smaller quantity. The tubercular eruption occa- sionally assumes a very mild form, which lasts for a few weeks, and ultimately terminates by resolution, the skin hardly undergo- ing any alteration, a simple light-coloured stain without any sepa- ration of the cuticle being the only change wliich ocem-s. The employment of hydriodate of potash in such cases is attended with benefit, and seems to act as well as mercury, to which it is preferable in cases where the general condition of the patient, or the nature of the accompanying s}Tnptoms, render the employ- ment of mercury unadvisable. The pustular eruption of the skin occurs occasionally as a secon- dary symptom in strong healthy persons, but most commonly the patients labouring under this form of disease are reduced in health, and have been more or less invalids for a considerable period. Where the health is not weak, where the eruption does not run readily into ulcers, and especially those of the semicir- cular form, but dries and scabs off, leaving a small moderately healthv sore, the enqdoymcnt of mercury in the same manner as in tlm scaly eruption, but witli close watching, is generally theMERCURY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. 241 best plan of treatment. In some cases the general fumigation of the body is employed^ but on the whole the internal administra- tion of mercury is attended with less risk of a sudden violent sahvatioUj wliicli is, in the pustular form of eruption, to be cai’e- fully avoided. In the forms of eruption already described the employment of mercury is attended with eonsiderable benefit, the eruption in some or aU of its stages yielding rapidly to that medicine. The majority of these patients labour under a disease unattended with any particular severity, and the disease passes tlirough a regu- lar course, in which the employment of the same means under the same circumstances produces a most favourable and even result. The remaining class of skin affections includes a great number of patients, especially among the poor, whose ailments, in general, yield to treatment; but stiU they are often cured with the greatest difficulty, and in some few cases the patients die. These patients labour under ulcers of the skin of every variety, and are in the most varied state of health, though it is far more common to find an extreme deficiency than an excess of strength amongst them. These cases of severe secondary ulceration of the skin arise from many causes; of which the following are the most common. The eruptions of long standing, especially the pustular and tubercular, terminate in ulceration, not unfrequently as a part of their regular progress, and often from neglect; ulcers also of the scalp and ex- tremities commence hke ulcerations in other parts, occurring in great number, scattered here and there, or in a small quantity, but of a very severe form. The eruption which forms the conical crust of rupia is followed by a most obstinate form of ulceration, and occasionally small hard masses form under the skin, soften and burst by a small opening surrounded by thin blue skin, this opening leading into a round cavity with hard sides, and secreting an unhealthy pus. Such are the most common forms of the severe secondary ulcers of syphilis, dependent on a few principal causes. The prostitutes of the lowest class, and men in the most utter poverty, who are admitted time after time into hospitals, laboiu’ing under one attack of syphilitic disease after another, and who seem R242 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEKVATIONS IN SURGERY. only to apply for the cure of their disease when the pain of it is no longer to be endured^ or the mere inconvenience of it too greatj exhibit the most severe forms of secondary ulceration of the skin. Tliis class seem to labour under such severity of disease from their neglect and other incidental circum- stances. There are, however, some whose sufferings are nearly as great as these, in whom no such mifavourable circumstances exist, and whose health, until they are reduced by the disease, is not bad: the disease itself in these cases is of a particu- lai’ly severe form, or the constitution of the patient is naturally of such a kind that these persons suffer in an unusually severe manner. It is amongst persons labouring under these forms of cutaneous disease, with other secondary symptoms, that the evil effects of mercury have been described as occurring. These severe ulce- rations have been often attributed to mercury in so bold and decided a manner, that every case of this kind has been sup- posed to depend on this cause. The wards of a large hospital are especially suited for settling a question of this kind, inas- much as patients are received from all quarters, and after every variety of treatment, and the same patients treated in that hos- pital and elsewhere are admitted at many different and distant periods. The employment of mercury, necessary for the cure of sjqiliihtic disease, with attention to the health at the same time, does not appear to have any influence in the production of these severe forms of ulceration, and the occurrence of them is not frequent in persons so treated. The patients admitted under this form of dis- ease are not by any means those in whom mercury has been cau-. tiously employed for the primary disease, and completely cured, but are generally those in whom some of the above-mentioned causes exist. In fact, no evidence really can be found that the cautious use of mercury has any thing to do with the production of these ulcerations, but rather that the complete cure of the pri- mary disease by such means is one of the most certain means of preventing their occurrence. The cautious use of mercmy seems to have been undeseiwedly243 5IERCURY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. blamed iu many cases, and the medicine thus brought into dis- repute ; but the abuse of mercury in some cases seems to be one of the causes productive of this form of disease. Mercury employed in large quantities for primary disease, without producing any efiPect either on the disease or the mouth, seems to be at times almost as detrimental to the health as a violent salivation kept up for an unusually long time. Neglect of even common care dur- ing a mercurial course exercises a most prejudicial influence, delaying the cure of the primary disease, and at the same time reducmg the patient^s health, but amongst the lower classes the emplojTnent of mercury does not prevent them exposing themselves to wet and cold of the severest kind, and it would be unfair to illustrate the bad effects of mercury by persons who have not paid even common attention to those precautions which are necessary during the most ordinary medical treat- ment. The secondary ulcerations of the skin which are most com- monly met with are these: — 1. Numerous ulcers scattered here and there over the body, face, head, and limbs. 2. Large semicircular phagedsenic ulcers, occuning cliiefly at the junc- tion of the extremities with the trunk. 3, Bound deeply ex- cavated ulcers occurring in small numbers, or even sometimes singly. 1. Patients who have laboured under primary disease in a com- mon form, are liable, at no very distant period, to the occurrence of numerous separate ulcers, situated especially about the legs, head, and chest, of a small size, a round form, and covered with a foul ycHow surface. These persons are rarely iu good health, but ’ are not very weak; they generally labour under other secondary symptoms, of which ulceration of the tonsil, and scaly eruption, are the most common. These ulcers may arise in consequence of the pustidar or tubercular eruptions, or from the occurrence of small suppurations immediately under the skin. These ulcers most commonly, however, commence by a red spot on the skin, which becomes thin, and ulcerating allows a little matter to escape, and at the same time gradually forms an ulcer. The ulcers resulting from the tubercular and pustular eruptions gene-244 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. rally occur in persons of weak liabit of body, and in character and appropriate treatment belong as often to the next class of ulcera- tions as to that which is here described. This class of ulcers is generally benefited by the employment of mercuiy, assisted by the local application of the yellow wash. The patient’s health in general offers no objection to the employ- ment of mercury, wliilst tliis medicine is sometimes more forcibly indicated by the existence of the scaly eruption, and the excavated ulcer of the tonsil. When the ulcers have no tendency to the semicircular form, and mercury has not been employed in a decided manner, the benefit resulting from the cautious admi- nistration of it in these cases is sufficient to justify its use as the means most likely to bring about a complete and perma- nent cm-e. 2. The large phagedaenic ulcers of the skin form a well marked class by their visible characters, as well as by the treatment which they require. These ulcers are not deep, and do not generally go through the entire substance of the skin; they are generally of an oval or semicircular form, and spread on one side, wliilst heal- ing on the other, so that a peninsula of cicatrix extends into the concavity of the sore. These sores are remarkable for the size to which they sometimes extend, especially when situated over one of the joints; the largest sores of tliis class being also very liable to occur on corresponding parts of the two sides of the body. In no cases is the hydriodate of potash more beneficial than in the treatment of this class of sores. The administration of twelve or fifteen grains of this substance daily vdth sarsaparilla produces the most marked change in the sore, and in the general condition of the patient’s health. The degree of benefit thus pro- duced is greater than that which follows the use of any other means, and though occasionally even this medicine fails, the result of its employment is on the whole so good that a confident hope of cure may be entertained from its use. 3. It is not very uncommon to meet with patients whose chief venereal disease consists in a few deeply excavated ulcers of the skin, or whose sole complaint is a single ulcer, which, though oc-MEECUUY AND IODINE IN VENEUEAL DISEASES. 245 curring alonej makes up for this peculiarity by its extreme severity. Tliis ulcer is extremely painful, and extends deeply, so that a part appears to be gouged out. It is sometimes so deep that a portion of the tibia is exposed and lies dead at the bottom of the ulcer. The ulcer is of a round or oval form, of the size of a half-crown, surroimded by a sharp margin which separates it from the surrounding shining and inflamed integument. The sui'face of the sore is covered with a thick layer of matter, mixed with a firm substance of a brown or black colour. Tliis ulcer is generally accompanied with pains in the bones and scalp, and occasionally with swelling of one testicle, or a few blotches from the cicatrices of a pustular eruption. Tliis sore occurs generally late, sometimes at the distance of nine or even twelve years from the cure of the primary disease, and commences as a hard patch of skin or a vesicle, which continues for some time in a tolerably quiet state, but at last, from being opened, or from some irregularity in treatment or on the part of the patient, becomes converted into a foul sore. It is not unusual for these patients to mention that the original primary disease was of a severe kind, or that they employed mercury very largely for a rmld sore, and were profusely salivated. These patients are generally reduced; quite unable, from their pain, to get a good night^s rest, and utterly unfit for any active treatment. The administration of a grain-dose of opium at night, with good nutritious diet, even sometimes with wine, does much for the cure of these patients ; but a good deal more may still be done. The employment of hydriodate of potash is attended with the most marked benefit in relieving the pain and improving the condition of the sore, so that a foul ulcer of a month^s duration may thus often be converted into a healing sore in a week. The only doubt about the employment of mercury in these cases is in reference to its local application, its internal use not being at all equal to that of the preparations of iodine. The application of black wash to the sore, even in its ulcerated stage, often produces a marked change for the better, whilst the same benefit in an equal degree occasionally also attends the employment, of the balsam of Peru.246 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEllVATIONS IN SDUGEIIY, Notwitlistanding all care in the employment of mercury and iodine in the treatment of venereal ulcers of the skiuj they are sometimes very hard to cure, and one medicine fails after another, till the case appears quite desperate. When ordinary means fail, and remedies begin to be tried because they occasionally do good, no medicine is more deserving of trial than corrosive subhmate in the proportion of one-twelfth of a grain tlnree times a day continued for some weeks. After the employment of iodine and mercury according to the common rules, and their failure, this medicine sometimes produces a most marked effect, and the remains of the partially cured disease are gradually removed. This rehef is not only obtained in cases of ulceration of the skin, but in some obstinate cases of the papular eruption. Some few opportunities have occun-ed of examining persons who have died with the remains of sypluhtic ulceration, and hi whom the obstinacy of the disease was partially accounted for:— 1. A yomig prostitute was admitted time after time into St. Bartholomew's Hospital with foul phagedasnic sores, and disease of the throat. She used to get better, and then return to her old habits, until her disease agaui obliged her to apply again for rehef. At last she gradually failed, and died with ulceration of the skin and tlu’oat. On dissection there was no evident internal change to account for her death, and she seemed to have gradually died from the exhaustion produced by her repeated ailments. 2.3. Two women were in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital with large foul ulcers of the genital organs, accompanied vdth very consider- able oedema of the suiTounding parts. No medicines were suffi- cient to cure them, and they left only relieved. In one there was a cavity in the apex of the lung; in the other there was occasional haemoptysis, with evident disease of the heart, and less certain disease of the lungs. 4. A young woman was in St. Bartholomews Hospital for the space of more than a year labouring under phagedaenic ulcers of the legs and arms. She took one medicine after another, but nothing was sufficient to cure her : at last she became dropsical, and died. The kidneys, lungs, and heart, presented nothingMERCURY AMD IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. 247 uiuiatui-al in any decided manner. The liver was covered by thickened ^leritoneum^ and was hard, granular, and contracted. 5. A middle-aged woman was brought for dissection labouring under ascites. The skin ivas marked ivith the cicatrices of numerous phagedaeuic sores ; the septum of the nose had also been destroyed. The internal organs were tolerably sound, except the liver, which was large, and covered with a thick layer of old lymph.248 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEIWATIONS IN SUllQERY. CHAPTER XVIII. SYPHILIS. EMPLOYMENT OP MERCUEY AND IODINE IN AFPECTIONS OP THE THROAT, LARYNX, TONGUE, AND TESTICLE. Venereal affections of the mucous membrane of the fauces and adjacent structures are very common, and are generally accompa- nied with other secondary symptoms. These structures are affected in persons of every variety of health, and with varying degrees of severity, the disease at times being so mild as hardly to deserve notice or treatment, whilst at other times the destruc- tive processes are rapid, and, from their proximity to the upper part of the larynx, extremely dangerous. The milder forms of venereal diseases of the throat affect the membrane covering the palate, cheeks, surface of the tonsil and tongue, with superficial ulceration; that next in severity is the excavated nicer of the tonsil; whilst the most destructive form of disease of the throat is rapid sloughing or ulceration of the pharynx. These forms of disease often shade more or less into each other, and are variously modified; but still the great mass are included under one or other of the above-mentioned heads, by their external characters as well as by the treatment which they require. The superficial inflam- mation of the fauces often terminates without any ulceration, and gradually subsides; at other times it is accompanied with the eruption of vesicles closely collected together, or with the forma- tion of ulcerated patches of elevated mucous membrane, to wliich the term condylomata has been apphed. Such are the mild forms in which superficial inflammation of the fauces terminates, instead of proceeding to the common form of superficial idceration; butMERCURY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. 24*9 at other times its variations are not of so mild a character, and from common inflammation of these parts foul ragged ulcers of a tolerable depth occasionally occur. The excavated ulcer of the tonsil, with its sharp weU-defined margin and buff-coloured sur- face, is less modified than the other forms of ulceration of the tliroat, the real characters being generally well marked, and not commonly accompanied with disease of the neighbouring parts. Ulceration of the pharynx is sometimes confined to a simple ulce- rative -process, but such is not always the case; at times, and especially in severe cases, there is more or less degree of slough- ing of the parts, and the ulcerated surface of the pharynx is covered by a foul yellow substance of a firm adhesive nature, which appears to be the discharge of the sore mixed with some slough. Patients laboming under mild secondary disease, as the papular eruption, and but sHghtly reduced in strength, are liable to super- ficial inflammation of the mucous membrane of the fauces, accom- panied with a slight degree of fever. The tonsils are swelled and inflamed, whilst the uvula and soft palate present an oedematous appearance, the pharynx having at the same time a dry glazed appearance. Although this form of disease occurs in general with mild symptoms, yet such is not invariably the case, as pa- tients labouring under ulcerations of the skin and scalp, with pains of the bones, occasionally present also an erysipelatous affection of the mouth and fauces closely resembling this. There is an inflammatory affection of the mucous membrane of the fauces which occurs occasionally, and deserves mention; tliis affection consists in redness of the uvula, soft palate, and posterior wall of the pharynx, accompanied with numerous elevations of an opaque white colour, minute size, and closely aggregated together. In some parts of the soft palate these vesicles are so closely set as almost to cover the entire surface. On the posterior wall of the pharynx they are less closely placed, and are of a lai’ger size. This condition of parts has been seen in connection with a similai’ affection of the lining membrane of the eyehds, as well as with ulcerations of the integument and scalp. Simple inflammation of the fauces, if not subsiding gradually, terminates generally in excoriation or superficial ulceration; at250 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY, other times elevated patches of ulcerated mucous membrane appear on the palate, pillars of the fauces, and gums, varying from the size of a pea to that of a bean, or even of a half-crown. These spots are of an irregularly circular form, elevated and covered with a soft pulpy substance, of a white colour, resembling sodden cuticle. ' The excavated ulcer of the tonsil, with sharp edges and a deep hollow cavity, covered on its surface with a firm substance of a dirty white colour, and surrounded with very little inflammation, is the most common form of ulcer, next to those arising from superficial inflammation. It is generally accompanied with affec- tion of the skin, and is most commonly confined to the tonsils themselves. The pharynx is liable to the same sypluhtic affections as the anterior part of the mouth, but is also affected at times separately, and ill a different manner. The most severe cases of ulceration and slougliing are generally confined to the back part of the fauces, and are unconnected with disease of the anterior parts of the tongue and palate. In the forms of disease already described as occurring in the fauces and tonsils, the health is not necessarily much reduced, and occasionally very little suffering is produced by even severe disease. In the affections of the pharynx, how- ever, such unaltered health is rarely met with, and some degree of emaciation, considerable suffering, and a generally reduced con- dition of health, are commonly found to be present, more espe- cially if the disease is accompanied vdth a foul sloughy condition of parts, instead of simple ulceration. The syphilitic affections of the pharynx, exclusive of those forms of disease which are common to it with the surrounding parts, are severe but simple ulceration, and foul ulceration with sloughing. The foul sloughing ulcerations are large in extent, especially in the vertical direction, in which they sometimes lie beyond sight; they occupy more or less of the posterior wail of the pharynx, pillars of the fauces, and edges of the palate. The surface of the sore is covered with a foul yellow substance soaked with pus, whilst the surrounding membrane presents a red erysi- pelatous appearance. This form of ulcer is accompanied some- times with great difficulty of swallowing and breathing, as well asMEECURY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. 251 with occasional attacks of dyspnoea of such severity as to tlireateu suffocation. The eruption accompanying this^ ulcer is commonly of the pustular or tubercular form, with nodes and pains in the Limbs of long standing. The severe cases of sloughy ulceration of the pharynX’ are accompanied by these symptoms in varying degrees, the severity of the disease being sometimes greater, but generally less, than that Just described. Tlie ulcerative disease of the pharynx is characterized by a simple but deep sore, presenting a raw surface and sharp angular edges, not covered by any quantity of secretion, nor* surrounded by any great redness of the mucous membrane. This form of ulceration often lasts for a very long period, and is accompanied •with great pain and some alteration in the voice, on account of its proximity to the larynx. The syphilitic affections of the throat are generally very amenable to treatment, and affected in their different forms by mercury and iodine in a decided manner. Wlien the disease does not pass into ulceration, but remains simply irritable and inflamed, the employment of common means is in general sufflcient, and it is chiefly when ulceration occurs that specific means are required. Ulceration, however, occurs in most cases; and although common means are often sufficient to bring about a cure, yet such a cure may not only be hastened, but also rendered more complete, by the employment of the two remedies now under consideration. AYhen the inflammation of the mucous membrane of the fauces is followed by the eruption of a number of vesicles, or by the for- mation of elevated patches of ulcerated mucous membrane re- sembling condylomata on the surface of the palate, the effects of mercury are not very well marked; the disease, in fact, seems to run its course \vithout being much acted upon by it. The rai’e occurrence of the vesicular eruption prevents any very decided opinion being given against the use of any particular means; but, so far as it has been observed, the disease has seemed to decline of itself in about a fortnight after admission, under a simple plan of general treatment, without any particular reference to the affection of the mucous membrane of the mouth. It would be a great gain if any plan of treatment could be found to act rapidly on the condylomatous thickening and idcera-252 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBEUVATIONS IN SUUGEUY. • tion of the mucous membrane of the fauces and palate. The appearance of the disease, with its swelled mucous membrane and utter absence of any acute character, suggests at first sight the probability of any improvement being slow; and experience fully confirms these expectations. Mercm’y has been sufficiently tried, and does not seem to have any decided effect. Two very well marked cases have occurred at different times in St. Bartholo- mew’s Hospital, which have been benefited chiefly by the repeated application of the nitrate of silver to the part, and the employment of quinine. Wliere the quinine was employed, there were general indications for its use; yet such was the benefit from its employ- ment, that unless some objection on account of the condition of the patient exists, the trial of it is certainly advisable. These elevated patches of membrane sometimes resemble very closely the rhagades digitorum, on wliich the nitrate of silver acts so benefi- cially, and apparently in a very considerable degree from keeping the parts dry. It would be hard to keep the mouth dry; but the nitrate of silver, at the same time that it arrests the growth of these structures, acts on their surface, and covers them with a thin layer of hardened substance instead of the tliick wliite substance wliich they commonly present. The cases of superficial ulceration of the fauces require much the same treatment as the papular eruption; that is, they very often cease under common care, and the absence of any errors in habits or diet, which may render them unyielding. In some cases, however, as in the papular eruption, the simple means only help the cure on a certain way, and a part still remains um-elieved. In removing these remains mercury is more useful and certain than any other means; and even in cases of very long standing its use is often attended Avith the greatest benefit. The mild employment of mercury in the greater nmnber of cases of ulcerated tliroats connected udth syphilis, is on the whole attended vith success, and more rarely followed by disappoint- ment than any other plan of treatment. In the excavated ulcer of the fauces and tonsils, the employment of mercury is attended Avith the greatest benefit. Under its influence ulcers of a very considerable size assume a healthy surface, and rapidly cicatrize ; thdr cicatrization under these circumstances being more complete253 MERCUUY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. and certain than that which occurs in some of the other forms of ulceration, wlnlst relapses after cure are also less frequently met with. iVlthough the mercurial effects on the constitution are chiefly to be deshed in tliis form of ulcer, yet the local applica- tion of the fumigation is not to be neglected in all cases. Taken alone, the efficacy of cinnabar fumigation is much less than that of mercury administered internally, but it is a great assistance in hastening the cm’e, and at times relieves the pain of the part in a very marked degree. The effect of fumigation is sometimes marked before any mercurial affection of the gums occurs, and even after a single application a sore sometimes assumes a healthy and healing surface. The hydriodate of potash may be employed with success in cases of the excavated ulcer of the tonsil; but the convalescence of the patient is more slow than when mercury has been employed, and is not always accompanied with the complete removal of the accompanying symptoms of syphilis, as generally occurs where mercury is employed. On the whole, the employment of hydrio- date of potash in this form of disease is not attended with that rapid or decided benefit which generally follows the employment of mercury. There are many patients labouring under syphilitic ulcers of the throat, wliich are foul and also ulcerated j presenting, in fact, a form of disease which combines many of the appearances of the excavated ulcers of the fauces and sloughy ulceration of the pha- rynx. Whether the disease is mixed or not is a matter of com- paratively trifling importance, compared with the fact that these ulcers are very amenable to a mixed plan of treatment. Under the administration of the hydriodate of potash internally, and the employment of cinnabar fumigation to the thi-oat, these cases do remarkably well, and give very little trouble. Patients labouring under the foul sloughy ulcer of the fauces are generally feeble, and very rarely present that condition of health which could be benefited by general bleeding, or active anti- phlogistic treatment. Their appearance is sickly, and they have often laboured on at their work with the disease hanging about them, until its severity has rendered them at last unable to work, and obliged them to apply for relief. To the greater number of these254 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEUVATIONS IN SURGERY, persons^ wine and porter, with a nutritious diet, are given, whether mercury or iodine be employed. The employment of hydriodate of potash is followed in these cases by the best results, and generally gives relief in three or four days to the difficulty of swallowing, as well as diminishes the pain. Within a week from the commencement of the use of the medicine the ulcer assumes a healthy appearance, the general condition and appearance of the patient undergoing at the same time a marked change for the better. When this decided improvement has once taken place in the sore, and the patient’s health at the same time improves, the rapidity of convalescence is often remarkable, and the loss of parts much less than might at first have been anticipated from the serious and rapid disorganization of the part which was taking place. The dose of hydriodate of potash employed at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital is four or five grains three times in the day, given in half an ounce of the essence of sarsaparilla, or in an ounce and a half of water, or the compound decoction of sarsaparilla, for each dose. In many cases the addition of opium or morphia is made. This addition in severe and painful cases is often attended with great benefit; but such is not always the case, as the patient is some- times rendered restless and uneasy by it, and does better with the hydriodate of potash only. Since the hydriodate of potash has come into such general use, it is remarkable how rarely cinnabar fumigation has been employed as a remedy for foul sloughy ulceration of the fauces. There can, Iwwever, be no doubt that fumigation has been used with the greatest benefit in these cases, and the general result of the re- corded experience on this subject appears to be to the following effect. In some instances, where this affection of the throat has presented the most unfavourable appearances, cinnabar fumigations have produced a complete and sudden arrest of the destructive processes, converting a sloughy into a healthy granulating surface, though occasionally at the expense of a severe ptyalism. When the nature of the disease is such as to require immediate arrest, where the previous medical treatment has proved insufficient, more especially if the patient should chance to be strong, and have not ah’eady employed mercury, the probability of success from the employment of cinnabar fumigation is such as to recommend itsMERCUKY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. 255 use. Great caution appears to be necessary in the employment of the medicine^ for not only is the low condition of the patient, which generally exists in these cases, very much aggravated by salivation, but patients labouring under these lai'ge ulcers are salivated very rapidly, and with great severity. Wliere sypliihs continues for many years, progressing from bad to worse, and gradually reducing the patient, disease of the larynx is not uncommon. This affection is, however, rarely seated in the larynx so exclusively as where inflammation occurs under common circumstances in the same part, but generally forms a part of extensive ulcerative disease, which includes the pharynx, epiglottis, and neighbouring parts. Acute laryngitis, however, does occasion- ally occur in syphilitic patients; but the more common affection is a chronic destructive ulceration of the pharynx, larynx, and epiglottis. A case of apparently simple acute laryngitis occurred in a female in the syphihtic wards of St. Bartholomew^s Hospital, which, though severe, yielded to the ordinary means, and chiefly to the local abstraction of blood. In this case no opportunity occurred of ascertaining the exact condition of the parts, in reference to the existence of ulceration, and the specific nature of the disease remains necessarily a matter of doubt; there might have been even here an ulcer of these parts beyond the reach of sight, but the general features of the case resembled those of common laryngitis. The most common appearances presented in syphilitic disease of the larynx are a mixture of extensive cicatrization with ragged ulceration. The parts destroyed previous to death may include the epiglottis, the arytsenoid cartilages, and a very considerable part of the soft tissues situated above the chordae vocales; or the destruction may be less extensive, and more remarkable for the deformity arising from the thickening and irregularity dependent on the unnatural union of the cicatrized parts.* The firmness of the cicatrices of the diseased parts, the extensive destruction which has taken place, and the history of the case, indicate the length of time which this ulcerative disease of * A very complete scries of preparations of these changes is cited hy Mr. Houston in the Catalogue of the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons iu Ireland. C. a. 27, 3(5, 40, 41, and *C. a. G3, 05.)i56 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. the lai’ynx may have lasted, as well as the degree to which it may proceed without destroying life. The degree of immediate risk to life appears to be proportionate to the oedematous sweUing of the part, whilst the degree of ulceration, though attended in this form of laryngitis with less immediate danger, is a form of disease terminating not uncommonly in death, and winch occurs chiefly in that stage of syphihs wliich so closely resembles the hectic fever of tubercular phtliisis. Great advantage may be derived in tliis disease from the employment of mercury and iodine. The constitutional employ- ment of mercury does not appear to be attended with decided advantage, or with that degree of benefit wliich occasionally attends its local application. In the cases wliich recover, the chief signs of the affection of the larjnix are hoarseness, pain in the tliroat, and evident disease in the neighbouring parts. Under the employment of mild mercurial fumigation the portion of the ulcer wliich is visible in the pharynx may be seen to heal, whilst the distressing pain and hoarseness diminish, until the patient by this and other means is restored to comparative health. The employment of fumigation requires great caution, as sahvation is in itself an evil in these cases from the sweUing and inflammation of the parts about the mouth. The great gain, however, which we now possess in the hydriodate of potash, as compared with a few years since, is exemplified in these cases. The administration of this medicine in moderate doses, with a nutritious diet, is often attended with the most marked benefit, and may be conjomed with the application of mercurial fumigation to the part. The improve- ment in swallowing, the conversion of a foul ulcer into a healthy surface, the relief to the acliing pains, which so frequently accom- pany this form of disease, are sooner, more completely, and more certainly produced by the employment of iodine than by any other means. The disease is generally accompanied with the appearance and habit of body pecuhar to phagedamic disease; it also occurs not unfrequently where very large quantities of mercury have been used without discretion, This condition of body resulting from a bad disease and a questionable mode of treatment, is especially benefited by the employment of hydriodate of potash, and by its use the various local symptoms are remarkably relieved. It isMEECUUY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES, 257 notj however, in all these cases that the means at present known will restore the patient to health, and death will, in spite of all our best efforts, sometimes take place; for tins affection may be reckoned as one of the forms of syphilitic disease which terminates the lives of those wretched women who have devoted their youth to prostitution, notwithstanding repeated and severe attacks of syphilis in its most aggravated form. Superficial ulceration of the tongue occurs either in the form of patches or fissures, the former being most commonly found on the siuface, and the latter near the edges of the organ, but also frequently on its surface. These ulcerated patches of the tongue occur chiefiy nearer the root than the apex, and are generally more on one side of the mesial line than the other; they present an irre- gular, wliitish, bald surface, wliich appears to be more smooth than the surrounding parts, in consequence of the loss of the papillae. These spots vary in size from that of a bean to that of a shilling, are of a roundish form, and are sometimes surrounded by a depressed line, marking their separation from the healthy part of the tongue. Tliese ulcers sometimes appear raised, on account of the subjacent thickening of the tongue, and thus resemble to a certain degree con- dylomata of the external organs; they are occasionally accompanied with inflammation of spots of the tonsil, and mucous membrane near those parts, resembling somewhat the spots of the tongue. The other form of superficial ulceration consists in fissures, which occur very commonly along the edges of the tongue, at other times in one or two spots on its surface, whilst occasionally the edges and whole upper surface of the organ are thickly covered with fissures, the surface of the tongue between these cracks presenting a raw and thickened appearance. These affections of the tongue rarely occur singly, and are generally accompanied with other symptoms of syjfiiilitic disease. The patches of ulceration are much more cui-able than the fissures, and in general yield to the same plan of treatment which IS employed for the removal of the accompanying disease. Tlie accompanying symptoms are generally such as are benefited by the em])loyment of mercury, being commonly fissures of the lij)s and scaly eruption of the skin: when, hoivever, no other s258 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. symptoms of syphilitic disease exist besides this affection of the tongue, the employment of mercury in small quantities, with attention to the health, appears to be the best plan of treatment. The tongue at times presents along the part of the edge near the apex, and in more severe cases along the entire edge on both sides, a series of ulcers, so that this part appears alternately indented and raised, presenting what might be called a castellated appearance. These ulcers present a foul, unhealthy appearance, are destitute of hardness, and are generally accompanied with ulceration of the same character on the inside of the cheek; the pressure of the teeth seeming to act in both cases, and to cause, to a certain degree, the ulceration. The accurate resemblance of these ulcers to those which occur after salivation is very great; they are, however, met with where no mercurial affection exists, when there is neither soreness nor fulness of the gums, and appear as a regular secondary symptom. The employment of hydriodate of potash is followed by rapid benefit in these cases, and is prefer- able to the use of mercury, wliich, though attended with benefit, acts more slowly and with less certainty. The ulcerated fissures of the tongue very commonly heal readily; at other times they heal at first, but recur again several times at distant periods; and in some few cases, where the tongue is raw, swelled, and deeply fissured, all means seem quite insufficient to restore the tongue to a healthy condition. The chance of curing the fissured tongue depends not only on the severity of the disease itself, but also on the other secondary sjunptoms, which accompany it; so true is this, that a badly fissured tongue, aecompanied vdth mild secondary symptoms, is a much less serious matter than a less severely affeeted tongue with rupia or phagedaenic sores. The fissured tongue, considered alone, is benefited more by the mild employment of mercury in small doses for a considerable period, than by any other means. The nature of the accom- panying symptoms will suggest the propriety, in many cases, of preference being given to preparations of iodine or mereury, but where any doubt exists as to the remedy to be employed, the mild employment of mercury appears to be the best and most certain mode of treating this affection. The upper surface of the tongue is occasionally the scat of aMERCURY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. 259 well-marked excavated ulcer, occurring as a secondary symptom of the venereal disease. Tliis ulcer is situated near the root of the organ, nearer to the mesial line than the edges, and is often of the size of a shilling or sixpence before it attracts the particular attention of the patient. The surface of the ulcer is deeply ex- cavated, and covered with a firm yellow substance soaked with matter, whilst it is surrounded by thin sharp edges, wliich are not elevated above the surrounding surface of the tongue, but lying on the same level ai-e again surrounded by a somewhat inflamed portion of tongue, which is often more or less deprived of papillse, and thus rendered qrdte smooth. Tliis ulcer is not very painful, nor very rapid in its progress, appearing to gain the size of a shiUing ia about six weeks from its commencement. Of three patients in St. Bartholomew's Hospital labouring under tliis affection of the tongue, one had recently suffered from a scaly eruption; the other two, however, had no secondary symptom; one, indeed, was stiU labouring under primary disease. The employment of iodine in tliis affection of the tongue is attended with very little benefit: some improvement, indeed, does take place, but it is slight, and very slow. Merctuy, however, given internally in small doses, so as to produce a slight affection of the gums, exercises a most marked influence over this kind of ulcer, and converts an unhealthy sore of some weeks’ standing into a healthy one, which is sometimes healed witliin a month. All the three cases above alluded to recovered completely under the nuld internal administration of mercury. In one, hydriodate of potash was given for a fortnight, with hardly any benefit, and was then discontinued for the employment of mercuiy, by wliich so marked an influence on the ulcer was produced that the patient was discharged well in another fortnight. There is an affection of the tongue connected with the venereal disease which is very rare. One instance of it occurred in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, under the care of Mr. Lawrence, from which the following account is drawn. The similarity of this affection to the excavated ulcer in some respects, and especially in its mode of cure, has led to placing it here:— A middle-aged man was admitted, labouring under a scaly eruption, having previously had primary disease; he was also sillier-260 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. ing under a swelling of the tongue, nearly equal to a walnut in size, of extreme hardness, situated near the base of the organ, of an irregular round form, and underlying a portion, the surface of which was nearly destitute of papillae. The swelling was so large and so inconveniently situated as to impede deglutition and to a certain degree articulation. Tliis sweUing had commenced about two years previously without any particular cause, and at the end of a year had reached the size of an almond-shell: from tliis period it had continued to grow to its present size, being un- influenced by a short treatment to which he had been subjected for erysipelas of the head. In this case the employment of mercury was attended with the very best effect. Under its influence the swelHng diminished and lost its peculiarly hard character, so that when the patient left the hospital the swelling was reduced to one-third of its previous size. The patient was also seen after leaving the hospital, and was found to be still improving. The treatment of hernia humoralis is generally of so simple a nature that some apology may perhaps seem to be required for introducing it here. Mercury is, however, frequently used at St. Bai-tholomew^s Hospital in this affection, and ivith a very beneflcial effect. When the acute part of the complaint has been treated actively for one or two days, and the progress of the disease is decidedly checked, the exliibition of mercmy is commenced. This medicine is given in small quantities in a mild form, and continued for some time. The hydrargyrum cum creta, in doses of two grains and a haK tluee times a day, is generally employed, and appears to exercise a decided influence on the effusion of lymph; so that the thickening of the cord and induration of the epididymis appear to be much less where this jflan of treatment has been steadily followed. The exhibition of mercmy in this mild manner is com- menced after the ordinary antiphlogistic treatment has been em- ployed, without which, the employment of mercury, even in the form of calomel and opium, and that used freely, is comparatively inefficacious. This affection in recent cases jields so well to common means.MEUCUUY AND IODINE IN VENEHEAL DISEASES. 261 and the mild employment of mercury, that iodine has not been tried to any great extent. An account of the efficacy of iodine in the treatment of the hardness remaioing after epididymitis has, however, been pubhshed by M. Eusebe de Salle.* After the employment of leeches and antiplilogistic treatment in the acute stage of the affection, hydi-iodate of potash was applied to the scrotum, and small doses of iodine were administered internally. Under tliis plan a marked diminution took place in the swelling, so that the testicle in two or tlu’ee weeks gradually assumed its natural condition; some small gi-anular bodies, however, remaining in the paif. The venereal swelling of the testicle is not very uncommon, but is stiU one of the rarer forms of syphilitic disease. The course of this complaint rarely varies, and the period at which it occurs is generally the same. This complaint occurs in two classes of patients : in one, the patients are weak, and have laboured under several symptoms of syphilis for a considerable period; so that this affection may be classed in the same order as the affections of the bones, both from the period at which it occurs as well as from the low condition of the patients them- selves. In the other class the patients are in tolerably good health, and labour under this symptom alone. The testicle in this disease is generally enlarged, but retains in a very con- siderable degree its natural form, marked here and there with a few nodules, firm, somewhat’ elastic, and accompanied with a slight fulness of the cord, without enlargement of the vas deferens. The scrotum is not affected; it may, however, be doubted whether such is always the case;—A man was admitted under Mr. Lawrence, into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, with an obscure enlargement of the testes, accompanied with numerous firm nodules on their surface; numerous hard cutaneous tubercles of the skin were found on the scrotum. The disease approached more nearly in its characters to syphilis than to any other aflection, although such a cause was denied. The man was relieved chiefly by the em- ployment of hydriodatc of potash. The records of surgeiy illustrate the difficulty of cm-ing this * Journal Complomcntairo du Dictioimairc dcs Sciences Mcdicalcs, Vol. xk. p. 193.263 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATONS IN SURGERY. affection by common meanSj and the readiness with wliich it yields to the employment of mercury, inasmuch as the testicle of one side has been removed for enlargement connected with syphOitic disease, wliich recurring in the same form in the opposite gland has been cured with mercury.* This affection yields to mercury hi as complete and certain a maimer as syphihtic hitis does; iodine also exerts a certain influence on tins affection, but not in an equal degree to mercury. In the great majority of cases the employment of mercury internally and by friction is attended with the cure of this disease; the action of mercury being maintained for a considerable period, and accompanied with decided soreness of the mouth. There is, however, no doubt that although many cases yield to the employ- ment of mercury in tins manner, yet that if a mild course of mercury alone be practised, some cases capable of rehef even by mercury w’^ould remain uncured. Before it can be confidently pronounced that an enlarged testicle is incapable of rehef by mercury, it is necessary that the patient shoidd remam at home, that mercury should be decidedly but slowly employed, and that a decided effect on the mouth should be produced. The ordinary modes of employing mercury are sufficient for this, but no plan has appeared to answer so well as the constant apphcation of either the strong mercurial ointment or liniment to the skin of the scrotum,—a plan which has been attended with the most marked benefit in the cases under the care of Mr. Lawrence and Mr. Stanley, at St. Bartholomew's Hospital. * Dupuytren, Le9ons Orales, t. i., p. 48, Bimelles, 1836; also, Ph. Boyer, Gazette Medicate, No. 48, 1840.MEllCUEX AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. 263 CHAPTER XIX. SYPHILIS. EMPLOYMENT OE MERCURY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL AFFECTIONS OF THE PERIOSTEUM, JOINTS, EYE, EAR, AND NAIL. The affections of the bones, joints, and periosteum, most com- monly met with in connection with the venereal disease, are— 1. Simple, general pains. 2. Soft or hard swellings of the bones or periosteum. 3. Eheumatism. 1. Simple general pains. In no form of disease is the employ- ment of hydriodate of potash attended with greater benefit than in cases of dull aching pains in the long bones. In some cases marked relief is felt after a few doses of the medicine have been taken. In the majority some improvement takes place in a few days, and the cases are very rare in which more or less benefit does not arise from it. In the more severe cases of tliis affection the patients are haggai’d and weary from pain and loss of rest j they rarely have any marked degree of fever, but often labour at the same time under affections of the tlmoat and skin. The pains imder which they labour are dull and constant, with occasionally attacks of severity, especially at night and on the occurrence of any damp weather. The painful parts present rather a degree of fulness than sweUing, being covered by a tliin layer of firm oedema; so that the naturally flat surfaces of the bones feel somewhat con- vex, and their sharp edges are blunted. This affection may be accompanied with hard and soft nodes, but often occurs without any affection of that kind. It sometimes happens, that mercury, opium, hyoscyamus, and264 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. other means, successively fail in affording any decided relief to this affection, and the patient suffers severely until iodine is em- ployed. The hydriodate of potash, in doses of from five to eight grains administered three times in the day, acts often like a charm, and gives a greater degree of relief than any other means. This relief generally continues until the pains are more or less completely removed, and an increase of the dose beyond twelve or fifteen grains of the hydriodate of potash in the twenty-four hours is rarely required. When iodine fails to afford some earnest of future benefit soon after the commencement of its employment, it is not commonly found that any very great benefit follows its ex- hibition, either in large doses, or after a long continuance of its use. Since hydriodate of potash has come into general use, venereal affections of the bones and periosteum have been more certainly as well as more rapidly cured, and cases in wliich the periosteum requires division are now comparatively rare. Yet painful affec- tions of these parts will not always yield to iodine, and there are still a few cases where incisions are necessary, a few more where mercury is beneficial; and every now and then a case occurs in which there are no indications for the employment of incisions, and where neither mercury nor iodine do any good. This last class of cases are very obstinate, and deserve especial notice. There do not seem to be any very marked indications by which a case of severe pains in the limbs, curable by mercury better than by any other means, can be known, and these cases generally come to be treated by mercury because they have not yielded in any way to the employment of iodine. There are, however, a certain num- ber of cases, and these occurring chiefly in persons of moderately robust health, where all means fail in affording decided relief, until mercury is employed so as to affect the mouth, when the pains rapidly diminish in severity. The best case for the employment of hydriodate of potash, and that in wliich its benefits are most marked, is that of a haggard, worn-out, wretched looking man, who has suffered for weeks from dull aching pains in all the long bones of his body, but cannot pick out any one bone as being worse than another. The cases, where iodine is attended with least benefit ai’c often just the coji-mercuuy and iodine in venereal diseases. 265 verse of these, and are met with in persons of good health, who labour under an acutely painful affection of the distal half of a single long bone, accompanied with considerable sweUing of the neighbouring parts, with redness of the skin. The progress of these latter cases may be thus described :—A patient in moderately good health, and sometimes very soon after the cure of the primary disease, complains of pain commencing in the distal extremity of a long bone, accompanied with considerable sweUing and redness of the part. There is a considerable degree of fever, with acute pain in the ajBfected part, but no formation of matter. After a short time this affection of the bone and pe- riosteum leaves the part first affected, and creeps higher up, thus gradually advancing along the entire bone, attacking each portion successively with great severity, and causing extreme suffering for ten days or a fortnight. In these cases the hydriodate of potash is not attended with any decided benefit, the application of leeches frequently, and in considerable numbers, being the means chiefly to be rehed on, and being followed by slow but complete beneflt. 2. Tluid nodes, and soft swellings of the bones, are frequently met with amongst venereal patients, but are much less common than the simple pains just described. The soft nodes occur chiefly as elastic fluctuating sweUings on the frontal and parietal bones, covered with a thin and somewhat inflamed skin. This affection may present itself either in this form, or it may be met with, after the bursting or incision of the part, as a foul ulcer, with an exposed scale of dead bone at the bottom. The common nodes which appear on the tibia and ulna are generally of a firm nature, and approach much neai’er to a solid than a fluid swelling; so hard, indeed, are some of these swellings,' that a careful exa- mination is sometimes necessary, even in tolerably recent cases, before the existence of bone in them can be positively denied. Tluid nodes on the flat bones, and recent nodes on any bones, admit of complete cure; wliilst the pains in old hard bony nodes of many years^ standing can generally be much relieved, althougli the removal of nodes after they are become regularly bony appears to be very rare indeed. Some of the fluid nodes, by their extreme softness and thinness, seem to be on the eve of bursting, and almost invite a punctui’c.266 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. So bad, however, is the ulcer resulting from the opening of these swelhngs, and so complete the cure by milder means, that an exposure of their contents is to be avoided in every way. In cases of nodes unaccompanied by any acute inflammation (and such an accompaniment is very rare indeed), the employ- ment of hydriodate of potash is attended with the greatest benefit, and deserves trial before any other means are used. The general condition of the patient is frequently improved by its use, whilst the local benefit in the relief to the pain and in the diminution of the swelling is of the most marked kind. Although the employ- ment of iodine is so beneficial when administered internally, yet additional benefit is often derived from the local application of mercury to the affected part. Wlien the node is soft, the apph- cation of the strong mercurial ointment on a piece of soft leather, firmly apphed to the part, assists materially in diminishing the swelling, and even when the skin is extremely tliin the application of the pressure and ointment is not attended with any irritation or ulceration of the part. 3. Eheumatism. Patients much reduced in health, and labour- ing under phagedsenic disease, are very Hable to swellings of the knee and elbow joints in connexion with affections of the periosteum. Tins form of disease is sometimes very severe and accompanied with considerable pain, but yields to the same plan of treatment as the affection of the periosteum. Eheumatism connected with gonorrhoea is a much more painful and severe malady, and in extreme cases presents the characters of the most aggravated articular rheiunatism. Eheumatism occurring in con- nexion with gonorrhoea is, however, free from one great danger. Inflammation of the pericardium has not been described as occuring with it, and affection of the hning membrane of the heart rarely, if ever, occurs with it. Amongst the cases of pure gonorrhoeal rheumatism admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, affections of the heart and its membranes have not been found to occur in so marked a manner as to attract attention, when not especially looked for, and in a doubtful manner in one case only when attention was directed to tliis point. In one case of mild rheumatism in a venereal patient a slight affection of the soundsMERCUUY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. 267 of the heart, with pain, was observed; but it was not clear that tliis affection had not previously existed. Gonorrhoeal may occur under the same circumstances as com- mon rheumatism, and be undistinguishable from it, except by the liistory rendering it probable that the disease depends on a specific cause. In general this affection is preceded by less con- stitutional disturbance, and is accompanied with less fever and a much slighter degree of perspiration, than common rheumatism. In these respects tliis affection is less severe, but in intensity of pain, and especially in difficulty of cure, gonorrhoeal rheumatism equals and often exceeds any acute inflammatory affection of the joints, unaccompanied by ulceration or the formation of matter. Wlien the attack of gonorrhoeal rheumatism is acute, and resembles ordinary acute rheumatism, the employment of mercury or colchicum, as in common treatment, especially the latter, gives the greatest relief. The hydriodate of potash is very useful in tliis affection, but its benefit is greatest after subsidence of the general constitutional distiubance in the acute cases; wliilst in the eases accompanied by less constitutional disturbance, and in which pain is the prominent symptom, the hydriodate of potash may be employed from the flrst. Patients with gonorrhoeal rheumatism often get so far weU that they are prevented more by pain than anything else from moving about, and continue in tliis condition for some time. The hydriodate of potash is most valuable in these cases; it just relieves the patient in the particular weak point, and enables him to use that strength wliich pain alone prevented him putting to the test. The acute form of this disease may thus be reduced to a milder degree, and this latter condition reduced to that of a mere incon- venience : but the complete removal of gonorrhoeal rheumatism is often a very difficult matter. Unfortunately the remaining portion is not a latent disease, but it reminds the patient of its presence on every exposure and error, and seems just at last rather to wear itself out than to cease from the employment of any particular means. Amongst the patients at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital two instances have occurred of a weakened condition of one arm, which appeared to depend on a slow inflammatory affection of the peufs round the joint, connected with syphilitic affection268 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. of the periosteum. These patients had some symptoms of syplii- litic disease, and were reheved of their complaints, and of the pain in the joint to a certain degree, by the hydriodate of potash: the condition of the arm remained, however, the same. The principal points of these two cases were the following:—1. In the winter of 1840-41, a man was admitted under Mr. Lawrence, labouring under an affection of the scalp, with a soft node of con- siderable size on the forehead, ulcers of the tonsils, and a partially impaired condition of the left upper arm. The arm was partially useless, wliilst the motion in the shoulder-joint was impaired and painful. The humerus and parts round it were swelled, the bone itself being painful; the muscles of the arm were smaller than natural. No very clear history of the ailments could be obtained from this man, and the probable cause of the weakness of the arm appeared to be the pain of the upper part of the arm, and neglected use of the limb in consequence. 2. In the summer of 1841, a woman was admitted under Mr. Lawrence labouring under an affection of one arm in a similar manner, and nearly in the same degree, ac- companied with some doubtful symptoms of syphilitic disease. No very clear history could be obtained in tliis case. The woman went out much in the same condition, her arm still remaining useless. She was readmitted in the summer of 1844, in nearly the same condition. Amongst the patients labouring under syphilitic eruptions, severe ulcers of the eyelids sometimes are met with, which, from the situation in which they occur, require to be cured as rapidly as possible. Tliis form of disease was described by M. Lrawrence in 1830, in the Treatise on the Venereal Affections of the Eye, and from cases recently occurring under Mr. Lawrence^s care the following description is taken. The eyelids are swelled so as partially to close the eye, wlulst the conjunctiva is considerably inflamed, not only on that portion which lines the lids, but also on that covering the eyeball. The surface' of the conjunctiva is also spotted at times with small yellow dots or vesicles of an opaque wliite colom’, which bursting, form small ulcers with a yellow surface, sharp edge, and smrounded by considerable inflanunation. Near the edge of the lid, at theEMPLOYMENT OF MERCURY IN VENEREAL DISEASES. 269 junction of the cutaneous and mucous membranes^ an ulcer forms, not unfrequently arising from one of these pustules. This by its enlargement forms a considerable sore, ivith a foul unhealthy surface, situated sometimes on a hardened base, surrounded by irregular sharp edges, and occasionally accompanied with consider- able oedema : the ulcer may be single, of a large size, and with a foul surface, or, instead of a single large sore, two or three similar ulcers may exist along the edge of the lid. The employment of hydiiodate of potash is beneficial in these cases, and these ulcers heal under its employment; yet the ulti- mate healing is not very complete, nor is the influence of hydrio- date of potash sufficiently great to prevent the occurrence of fresh ulcers whilst the oiiginal sores are healing. The employment of mercury appears to exert more influence on this form of disease than that of any other medicine; and under its use, so as to produce soreness of the mouth, the ulcer assumes a healthy appear- ance, and heals completely, no renewed ulceration taking place either in the parts themselves or in those adjacent to them. In ulcers of considerable size cicatrization is sometimes complete at the end of a month, leaving a much smaller cicatrix, and less de- struction of parts, than might at first have been anticipated. The following case illustrates so well the benefit of both reme- dies, but the more certain advantage arising from the employment of mercury, that it is inserted here:— A man, 24 years of age, was admitted under the care of Mr. Lawrence, on December 17 th, 1840, labouring under ulcerations of the tarsal edges of the right upper and left lower lids, of small size, of a yellow colour, and accompanied with considerable sur- rounding redness. There was a circular ulcer on one arm, and the face was marked with pustular eruption. The fauces, velum, and pharynx, were ulcerated: there was also a slight ulcer of the scalp. The man took the Pil. Saponis c. Opio, to wliich was added on the 7th day Potass. lodidi, gr. vj. in Sarzse Decoct. Co. tliree times in the day. Jan. 26th.—He has continued the same plan of treatment up to the present time, and is now leaving the hospital. His ap- pearance is better, and he has much improved in health. The270 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEEVATIONS IN SURGERY. ulcers of the conjunctiva are healed, their situation being marked by red patches of membrane; a small ulcer has, however, formed on the inside of the lower hd, similar to tliat existing on ad- mission. The tliroat, arm, and face, are nearly well. On Eeb. 12th, 1841, this man was again admitted. The left lower eyehd is swelled, so as partially to close the eye. On the conjunctival surface of the Hd, near the inferior punctum, and partially implicating the tarsal edge, is an ulcer of the size of a fourpenny piece, with irregular sharp edges, considerable sur- rounding redness, and a hard basis, which gives to the sore an elevated appearance. The surface of the sore is covered with an adherent matter of a greenish yellow colour. There is also some affection of the throat and face, with an ulcer of the scalp. Pil. Sap. c. Opio, gr. v. every night. Decoct. Sarzae Co. three times daily. Hydr. c. Greta gr. ijss. three times daily. Peb. 26th.—The ulcer on the lower Hd is partly cicatrized, and presents a healthy surface. No pustules are visible on the inner surface of the lower Hd. The pustules of the face are very few in niunber, and the throat is quite weU. The gums are slightly affected. To continue the decoction of sarsapariHa, and to continne the yeUow wash to the head, which lotion was begun on the 20th. To continue the Hydr. c. Greta tliree times daily, tlus medicine having lately been taken four times in the day. March 9th.—Made an out-patient. The ulcer of the lower Hd is healed; the lower punctum lachrymale is just on the inner side of the ulcer, and appears to be somewhat less pervious than natu- ral. No deformity of the Hd exists, except a sHght loss of sub- stance, which renders more of the anterior part of the eye visible than natural. The ulcer of the head is quite healed. The papular eruption of the skin sometimes extends to the con- junctiva of the Hds, when it causes great annoyance and pain. The patient under these circumstances complains of pain in the eye, increased by exposure to the light, and accompanied by a profuse flow of tears on the Hds being widely separated. The conjunctiva of the globe of the eye is red and very vascular, whilst a slight purple zone is also visible in the sclerotic round the margin of the cornea. The Hds are swelled, and on eversion areJ[ERCURY AND IODINE IN ^TiNEllEAL DISEASES. 271 found to present here and there a few papular elevations^ which very soon form small yellow pustules or rdcers, these being situated most commonly on the inside of the lower hd. These papules are a continuation of those of the skin^ and in addition to the incon- venience arising from the inflammation of the part, cause great annoyance by their mechanical irritation; occasionally, however, the conjunctiva is simply inflamed, and does not present any dis- tinct ulceration, or small yellow heads. The inconvenience even in this latter case is considerable, but not at all equal to that accompanying the existence of distinct papules. This affection causes great annoyance, but is not attended with danger to the eye. The papules form small ulcers, wliich do not become large, but heal leaving no scar or mark of any kind. One set of papules often succeeds another, and thus the inflamed and pauiful affection of the eye is kept up for some time. The affection of the conjunctiva generally occurs at or soon after the fii’st appearance of the papular eruption, and not in its later stage. It is also more or less likely to occur ac- cording as the skin of the face is affected or not. In addition to the treatment of the eruption, of which this forms a part, the apphcation of leeches to the lower hds is attended with the most decided rehef to the pain, as well as to the constant rubbing sensation wliich the papules cause in the eye. A few leeches generally afford more comfort than any local application. Iodine and mercury have no particular influence on tliis affec- tion of the conjunctiva distinct from their general action on the eruption of the skin. Although these means have no decided in- fluence for good on this affection, yet they certainly do no harm, and may be employed if necessary during its existence, for other symptoms of syphihs existing at the same time. These cases of affection of the conjunctiva generally do well ; but such is not always the case. At times they are very tedious, and difficult to cure. After the pustules of the conjunctiva have subsided, and the papular eruption of the skin has become pale and very slight in degree, the eyes remain painful, and extremely irritable; so painful, indeed, on exposure to the light, as to re- semble in this peculiarity the extreme irritability of strumous ophthalmia. The whole conjunctiva at the same time is very vas-272 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. cular and swelled, but marked with very few papules, if any. In those obstinate cases, and fortunately they are not common, the patience of both parties is put to a hard trial, for this extreme irritability exists after the subsidence of the acute part of the affection of the conjunctiva, and causes extreme annoyance. The employment of tartar emetic ointment on the nape of the neck sometimes gives more relief than any other means, although the relief from this may be only partial. Iritis is common amongst the syphilitic patients admitted into St. Bartholomews Hospital, and is seen in all its stages. The description of the affection is not here introduced, but only a general summary of the effects of mercury, as observed on a con- siderable number of persons labouring under tliis affection. The greater number of patients affected with syphilitic iritis labour under rather an acute attack; occasionally, however, a much milder form is met with, resembling rheumatic iritis, and requir- ing less active treatment. In these cases the patient complains of simple dimness of vision, with watering of the eye, which, on examination, presents a few vessels running towards the cornea on the sclerotic coat, to form a ring of a very pale rose colour round the corneal margin. The motions of the iris are rather sluggish, and the lustre of this structure is less bright than natural. Tliis loss of colour sometimes seems to depend partially on the opacity of the anterior chamber. The degree of fever and constitutional disturbance is so sbght as to be hardly perceptible. In this state the eye will continue for two or three days, the disease not advancing at aU, or very slowly. The patients in whom it occurred have been weak feeble persons, and not able to bear ivell any very active treatment. The employment of a moderate cupping, or a few leeches on the temple, were sufficient in some cases to remove the disease, more especially conjoined with the employment of a blister behind the ear. In some, how- ever, the administration of calomel and opium was required to arrest the progress of this affection, after the other means liad proved ineffectual. Cases of chronic iritis, and iritis lingering in a sbght degree after the acute part of the attack has subsided, are admitted occa- sionally. In some of these cases the disease has gone on slowly.IIJOKCURY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. 273 until the colour of the iris is completely changed, and the edge of the contracted pupil is formed into a flocculent ring, with effusion of l}Tnpli to such an extent that useful vision is completely lost. Amongst the women who devote themselves to prostitution, and men of the lowest class, it is often hard to say wliich of nu- merous sores has been connected with the subsequent occurrence of iritis ; neither, if they described the supposed cause, are their accounts always correct, on account of the frequency of deceit, and their careless mode of obseridng even then.' own ailments. It appears, however, to be a certain fact, that sores with and with- out hardness are followed by uitis. The patients labouring under iritis are sometimes full and plethoric, whilst at other times they are feeble, and occasionally almost unable to stand. The greater number have only one eye affected, others have first one and then the other, wliilst occasionally patients present themselves with iritis of both eyes at once, but not affected fii’st at exactly the same time. The number of relapses after complete cure are few. The greater number have not been treated before admission, al- though this is not always the case; but the disease has very com- monly advanced to the effusion of lymph on admission. In all forms and degrees of syphilitic iritis mercury appears to be attended with greater benefit than any other medicine, the quantity employed being modified according to the general condi- tion of the patient. With the employment of mercury, cupping from the temples has been employed in many cases, and bleeding from the arm in some few. When the patient was in good health, and the pulse has been full and hard, general bleeding to fainting, employed early, has in some cases been attended with the best results, in reducing the inflammation of the eye, and hastening the action of mercury. The employment of mercury does not render an absolutely thin diet necessary. In some cases meat and even wine are necessary. Now and then, old people, and chiefly women, are admitted with well-marked syphilitic iritis, who ai’e much more advanced in life than in yeats, and are much reduced by poverty and bad habits. In some of these patients the Ijnnph seems hardly to undergo any change from day to day, until their whole condition is improved by appropriate treatment and a nu- tritious diet. Under these circumstances the lymph is slowly re- T274 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. moved, and tlie sight restored, but with shght obscurity to vision remaining in some cases. In the greater number of cases the disease has presented an acute character, and calomel with opium, as producing in the most convenient and certain manner a rapid effect, has been em- ployed. This effect has generally commenced on the evening of the second, or morning of the tliird day. When the mercurial action has been estabhshed before admission, the Hydrargyrum cum Greta has been employed to contmue it. When the disease has been neglected, and has termuiated in a greater or less degree of bhndness, or when the acute stage of the disease has passed by, but the affection is still advancing in a chronic form,—even under these unfavourable circumstances, the exliibition of mercury has been attended with the greatest benefit. The employment, for a considerable time, of small quantities of hydrargyrum cum creta in cases of chronic inflammation, and that lingering form wliich occasionally follows acute disease, lias appeared to be attended with the best effects. Amongst the patients in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital under the care of Mr. Lawrence, numerous examples of this have occurred, and some of the most marked have been amongst patients labouring under old iritis, even when the disease from its extent appeared hopeless. The effect of the employment of mercury in syphihtic iritis may be thus described. When the disease has been presented for treatment at an eaidy stage, and before any effusion of lymph has occurred, the iris only having suffered change, and no distmct effusion of masses having occurred, the influence of mercury, ac- companied sometimes with blood-letting, has been most marked, and the patient has recovered with a perfect eye. Such is also the general result, if the disease is treated early, even when con- siderable effusion of lymph has occurred. The age of the effused lymph appears to be much more important than the quantity. The existence of distinct vessels on the lymph, the presence of a streak of a semi-fluid opaque substance in the bottom of the anterior chamber, the relapse of the disease after pai'tial cure, the occurrence of disease in one eye after the cure of the other eye, do not necessarily prevent a cure, and a just expectation may be- held out of such cases doing well; the effects of mercury being so275 MERCURY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASE. great and so very much more active than those of any other medicine with ivlueh we are acquainted. The value of an eye prevents any experimental proceedings being made as to the efficacy of a doubtful means^ where a certain one is already known. On tliis account iodine has not yet been tried in this affection to any extent. The benefits of hydriodate of potash after the employment of mercury have been mentioned by ]\Ir. Lawrence in the following paragraph in liis Treatise on Diseases of the Eye. “ In some cases, where mercury has dis- agreed, or where, after a fair trial, the affection of the eye has not either improved or got worse, I have lately employed, with excellent effect, the iodide of potassium, giving tliree or four grains in two or three ounces of the compound decoction of sarsaparilla three times a day. The beneficial operation of the change seems analogous to what we observe from the same succession of remedies in certain cases of venereal disease.'’'’ In the following case the employment of hydriodate of potash was attended with benefit in diminishing the sweUing winch resulted from the giving way of the tunics of the eye after long- standing and very obstinate syphihtic iritis. A middle-aged man had completely lost the sight of one eye from long-standing syphilitic iritis, which terminated at last in the protrusion of a mass of lymph through the sclerotic at the margin of the cornea, forming a painful fungus projecting between the hds. This mass was so inconvenient and painful that the removal of it with the knife was considered proper, but previous to adopting tliis means hydriodate of potash was given at Mr. Lawrence’s suggestion, in five-grain doses, tlnee times in the day. Under this plan the parts rapidly decreased in size, and rendered the removal of the sweUing uimecessary. Inflammation of the auditory meatus, with puriform discharge, has been pointed out from time to time by Mr. Lawrence in tJie wards of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. The same disease has also been mentioned by Mr. Welbank"^ as occumng with other secondary symptoms; it is also alluded to by Benjamin Bell.! In * Mcdico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xjii. p. 390. t A Treatise on Gonorrhoea Virulcnta, by B. BcU, 1797, vol. ii. p. 145.270 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY, these cases the meatus becomes hot and painful^ the external ear also participating in the redness in a less degree, and having a puffy cedematous appearance. The inflammation of the meatus is gradually succeeded by a copious pmiform discharge from its lining, wliich presents an excoriated appearance. This affection occurs in both sexes, and more especially in connexion with the scaly eruption. In Mr. Welbank^s case this affection occurred in a jierson who had contracted a sore which healed under the use of blue-stone, but left some induration. In about four weeks he had severe nocturnal pains, soon followed by slight sore throat and inflammation of the ear. This latter symptom was succeeded by discharge from the meatus of a reddish sordes, and deafness. This affection was cured by the use of mercury. The plan of treatment adopted in these cases has consisted in the frecpient injection of warm water into the meatus to remove the discharge, whilst mild mercurial treatment has been adopted. Under this plan tliis affection has gradually subsided along with the other symptoms, and tlie sense of hearing has gradually re- turned, It does not appear that iodine has been tried in this affection. Tliis affection is entirely distinct from any severe ulcerative disease which may affect the internal parts of the ear, and wliich has been described by some writers. Benjamin Bell* alludes to such cases, as well as Itard,t and Mr. Hunter^sJ remarks appear to relate to the same point. This severe affection is stated as occurring in connexion with syphilitic disease, but from the extreme rarity of any such disease it is very doubtful whether these cases do not rather belong to the more common affection of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, occurring especially in strumous persons. There is an ulcerative affection of the parts round the nail and ends of the fingers, which occurs occasionally in connexion vdth secondary symptoms, and which is quite distinct from those * Treatise on Gonorrhcca Virulent a. t Traite des Maladies de I’Oreille et dc I’Audition, par J. M. G. Itard. 1821, t. i. p. 283. t Hunter’s Works, by Palmer, vol. ii. p. 420.MERCUllY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASE. 277 irritable ulcers about the side of the nail, wliicli occur from common accidents and injuries. This affection commences by pain and swelling of the smooth skin at the side of the nail, this being followed shortly by the formation of a small quantity of matter. This secretion of matter is soon succeeded by ulceration of the skin adjacent to it, im- plicating the end of the finger, and that portion of the cutis which is connected with the formation and groMdh of the nail. The part fii'st affected gradually heals, whilst the disease extends in a ring of superficial ulceration over the fii’st and second phalanges, at which part it not unfrequently stops under proper treatment. The skin remains red, and presents a tense shining appearance, whilst the finger-joint over which the disease has passed is more or less fixed by the tension of the superficial parts, the junction of the sound and diseased parts being marked at the same time by an accmate line of demarcation. The nail itself is generally more or less affected; in some cases it separates, leaving a foul irritable ulcer; at other times the nail is simply distorted, becoming more flat on its surface, and having its edges turned up. Occasionally the ulceration extends, healing up in the part fii-st affected, wlulst at other times it spreads less in extent, but passing more deeply forms an ulcer in the part first affected, and in those immediately adjacent to it. Tliis affection of the nail is separate and distinct in its progress from the primary ulcers which occur from chrect contagion; it may be accompanied by pustular erup- tion, simple inflammation of the fauces, or foul ulceration of the throat. Two cases of this affection occurred about the same time in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. In one mercury was employed, and the case did well, wliilst the other, in which the hquor potasses arseiiitis was used, healed partially, and then again relapsed. There are tlu’ee well-marked cases of this disease described by Itoyer-CoUard*, and Lelutt, with other secondary disease, as oc- * Repertoire Geiierale d’Anatomie, par Dr. Dresehul, tome ii. pm'tio i. p. 131; and tome iv. partie i. p. 136-137. t Ibid.278 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY, cuiTing at tlie Hotel-Dieu and at the Venereal Hospital of Paris. In these the disease afi'ected both the toes and fingers^ eonunenced spontaneously^ destroyed the nail more or less extensively, and was accompanied with foul ulceration. In one the result of the case is not mentioned, in the other two the disease appears to have gradually ceased under the use of various means, amongst which the local application of calomel and the internal exhibition of the liquor Van Swieten are mentioned.279 SUMMARY OF THE RESULTS OR MERCURY AND IODINE. CHAPTER XX. SYPHILIS. GENERAL SUMMARY OF THE RESULTS DERIVED FROM THE EMPLOY- MENT OF MERCURY AND IODINE IN THE TREATMENT OF VENEREAL DISEASES. The patients admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital present primary and secondary venereal disease in aU its forms, from the mildest to the most severe, aggravated in many cases by in- temperance, bad diet, and a natmally unhealthy situation. The great mass of these patients are not submitted to any previous plan of treatment, such as bleeding, or a course of purging, unless some particular indication exists; in fact, even if bleeding were considered as a necessary preliminary, it would often require omis- sion, on account of the unhealthy condition of the patients. Wliere mercury is employed for the cm-e of venereal disease, the object had in view is to produce a shght degi-ee of soreness of the gums, with a coppery taste in the mouth, and also a somewhat increased flow of saliva for a certain period. This soreness of the gums is carried to a decided and somewhat painful degree in those cases wLere it is desirable to produce a well-marked mercurial influence on the system, but in the great majority of cases a yellow hne round the roots of the teeth, with redness of the gums, is thought to be quite sufficient. Tliis effect on the mouth generally com- mences in about five days, where mercurial frictions are employed every night, and in about seven or eight days where the blue pill is given in five-grain closes every morning and evening. Ptyalism, when once established, can generally be kept within bounds, the chief risk existing in arriving at the desired point. Hie existence of salivation, where much mercury is employed, is380 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEUVATIONS IN SUllGERY. attended often with less risk than where this effect does not occur. The greater number of the recorded cases of persons in whom fatal effects of mercury on the nervous system have occurred^ have been quite free from affection of the gums and sahvary glands. Extreme salivation, however, is a most inconvenient ailment, and reduces the strongest person in a rapid manner. Its effects also do not seem to be always confined to the mere reduction of health, but to contribute their share sometimes in rendering the secondary symptoms more severe. Amopgst tlie patients labouring under the deep phagedEenic ulcer of the skm, the primary disease, in addition to having been itself severe, will often be stated to have been accompanied with profuse salivation from exposure to wet and cold after the employment of large quantities of mercury. There -is no guide by which a patients susceptibihty to mercury can be known, unless it has been previously employed. Wliere salivation occurs rapidly and unexpectedly, the most decided benefit is often produced, though at a severe cost, the ulcers of the tlu’oat being seen to assume a healthy appearance, whilst the membrane of the gums becomes suddenly inflamed and ulcerated. Even when salivation occurs from the apphcation of a small quantity of black ivasli, the most marked improvement has been seen to occur in the sore to which the wash has been appHed. Susceptibility to the influence of mercury is met with much more commonly than resistance to its effect. Those cases, how- ever, in wliich mercury does not produce any decided action on the mouth are not very uncommon, and unfortunately occur at times in the very cases where the influence of mercury is desired. Tins disposition to resist the action of mercury, though certainly possessed by some persons, and shewn on each occasion when this medicine is employed, depends occasionally on some mere accidental circumstance. Thus some degree of fever may exist, or diarrhoea may, as it were, carry off the medicine, and prevent its due action. Eor each case of resistance to mercury many cases of unexpected salivation occur, and the remedies for the latter are much more frequently a subject of inqnh’y than the causes of the former peculiarity. Patients labouring under old organic disease of the lungs or kidneys, or those who have been weakened by floodings or pro-SUMMARY OF THE RESULTS OF MERCURY AND IODINE. 281 fuse tnenstruatioiij bear salivation very ill. Severe salivation is also to be avoided sedulously in many cases of syplulitic ulceration of the larynXj as the swelling of the inside of the mouth materially augments the previous difficulty of breathing. The state of constitution usually denominated strumous is by no means a positive contraindication to the cautious employment of mercury; if such were the case the frequency of this condition of constitution amongst the lower orders would often prevent mer- curial treatment. In patients whose constitution is weakj and presents the common general signs of scrofula, the employment of mercury is sometimes attended with very great benefit, the patients gaining a degree of flesh and strength under its use which they had not previously enjoyed. It is not meant here to include that degree of fatness wliich is said occasionally to foUow a mer- curial course, (tliis may be looked upon as a morbid symptom, and is quite contrary to a sign of health), but that degree of health and strength is meant which renders the patient able to work hard and feel weU, as well as enables the important organs of the body to discharge their functions in a healthy and natural manner. Amongst the patients who bear the employment of mercury veiy iU, large flabby fat people may be reckoned, in whom mercm-y has been administered for primary disease accompanied with bubo. In these cases the mouth has not become much affected, but con- siderable fever, of a low kind, accompanied with extreme weakness and wakefulness, has occurred, during which the enlarged glands have suppurated freely, and sometimes with the formation of dark grumous matter in large quantity and widely diffused. The simple abstinence from mercmy, and the employment of nutritious food with tonic treatment, have not been sufficient to restore these patients readily to health, and the means wliich have appeared to be most beneficial have been free exposure to a better air, and a better mode of hfe. ^Mien mercury is given in the treatment of venereal disease to produce a constitutional effect, it is always desirable that some affection of the gums should be produced, inasmuch as the benefit then derived is greatest, and an accurate estimate may be formed of the action of the mercury. The effect of mercury thus employed is certainly greatest where the aflection of the mouth is produced.382 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. but the presence of soreness of the gums is not absolutely necessaiy. When a considerable effect—as in the indurated sore, and acute syphihtic u-itis—is desired, the employment of mercury, without the production of ptyalism, generally does very httle good, but in the common employment of mercury in mild cases considerable benefit is at times derived even without any morbid soreness of the mouth. The benefit of mercury is dependent not only on its effect, but also on the manner in wliicli that effect is produced. Thus although the same effect, namely, mild ptyalism, may be desired in a case of clironic indurated sore, and in a case of acute iritis, yet if the same rapid exhibition of mercury be employed in the former as is attended with such advantage in the latter case, but httle benefit will occasionally be derived. When the processes of disease are acute and severe, the part affected valuable both as regards its form and use, and the nature of the disease such as yields readily to mercury, that medicine should in general be employed boldly, and with the object of producing its effect quickly; when, however, the disease is of some standing, accompanied with but little inflammation, and presents rather the results than the present actions of disease, the slow and gradual exliibition of mercury will generally be found to be the best. A graduated scale might be made, in which cases requiring the rapid exliibition of mercury might be placed at the top, and those benefited chiefly by the slow employment of mer- cury at the bottom. Acute sypliihtic iritis would be very near the top, and chronic iritis would be very near the bottom; but the great mass of disease would come nearer the upper than the lower part of the scale, wliicli would have the simple primary ulcer as its central point. The primary indurated, and the rapidly spreading phagedsenic ulcers, the indurated cicatrices of old sores, and the glandular swell- ings accompanied with induration, but with very httle surrounding inflammation, are benefited so much more by meremy than by any other means, that the use of mercury is in these cases, if not necessary, at least most advisable. The same remedy, though less beneficial in the chronic form of bubo and ulcer, wdiich lasts for months, and sometimes for years, is attended at times with suc- cess, and affords more chance of relief than any other means. TheSUMMARY OR THE RESULTS OF MERCURY AND IODINE. 283 cautious employment of mercmy in tlie treatment of a great mass of superficitd sores and simple glandular swellings, whether sup- purating or not, is attended with no danger, and leads to a good general result by curing a certain number of cases which simple means hai-dly touch. In acute inflammation of the glands, in acutely inflamed irritable ulcers and sloughing phagedaena, the employment of mercury is unattended with benefit, may do harm, and by taking the place of appropriate treatment is to be avoided. In the treatment of warts and condylomata the employment of mer- cury only needs consideration so far as the disease, of which they may form a part, is benefited or not by that means. With regard to the benefit derived from mercury in secondary affections the following appears to be the general rule. The scaly eruption, the excavated ulcer of the tonsil, the syphilitic sweUing of the testicle, the excavated ulcer of the tongue, the acute ulcers of the edges of the eyehds, iritis, the purulent discharge from the external auditory meatus, and some cases of pains in the limbs, require the employment of mercury in a decided manner. The same remedy may generally be employed in smaller quantity with the greatest benefit in cases of papular eruption unaccompanied with fever, in those forms of the tubercular and pustular eruption winch have a tendency to desquamate rather than to suppurate and form ulcers, and also in those cases where numerous small secondary ulcers occur on the body of persons not much reduced in health. The fissured tongue, and the sypliihtic ulceration round the nail, are benefited at times by mercury, but not always. The employment of mercurial fumigation in cases of pustular eruption, phagedaenic ulcers of the skin, and foul sloughy ulceration of the pharynx, is attended occasionally with the greatest benefit; but it is a hazai-dous means, and requires the closest watching. Such is the benefit derived from mercury when employed for the cure of existing symptoms; but another question of equal im- portance remains yet to be considered. The failui-e of health, and the occurrence of constitutional symptoms after well-marked primary disease, the occurrence of symptoms of syphihs in manied women, and the birth of unhealthy cliildren from women who, themselves well, had married persons supposed to have been thorougldy cured of their disease,—tliese circumstances ])oint to2’84.' CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEllVATIONS IN SUKGERY. some great effect produced on tlie body by primary disease. Whatever this effect isj experience has shewn that it most com- monly succeeds particular forms of primary disease, but that it may succeed to any kind of primary ulcer. However mild may have been the primary disease, or however long a period may have elapsed from its occurrence, there appears to be no doubt that an indi^ddual in whom primary disease has once occurred in a clear and decided manner cannot feel sure that at any period of his Hfe symptoms of sj^hilitic disease may not occur. After a certain period, and after their apparently complete cure, it is most im- probable that they will occur, but every now and then sypliilitic symptoms have arisen at a very late period when security against them had apparently been gained, if not by medicme, at least by lapse of years. A small sypliilitic sore may have just as inexph- cable and great effect on the body as the simple vaccine pustule has, and though the effects may be diminished in a few years in the former, and more slowly in the latter case, yet the effects of either one or the other may be continued through a whole hfe : when such is the case, there can be no need to account for the labour with which the influence of any medicine, in preventing the occurrence of secondary symptoms, has been studied j or to wonder that the influence of mercmy in curing primary disease has attracted less attention than its power in preventing the occm’- rence of secondary symptoms. Although secondary symptoms may follow any sore, yet certain sores have been found to be followed by them more commonly than others. The hard primary ulcer, surrounded and preceded by induration, seems to have been universally described as the sore most commonly followed by secondary disease. Next in order may be reckoned the simple and foul phagedmnic ulcer, whilst the simple sloughing sores and sloughing phagedsena are more raiely followed by secondary disease than any other ulcers. In the description of each sore the result of the emplojunent of mercury, so far as the cure of the existing disease is concerned, has been detailed; the propriety of employing mercury as a preventive means still, however, remains to be here considered. The complete cure of the primary disease, even to its remains, and the maintenance of the general health, are the two mostSUMMARY OP THE RESULTS OP MERCURY AND IODINE. 285 important means in preventing secondary disease, but tlie longer tlie primary disease lasts, and the more the health is re- duced, the more certain also are secondary symptoms, and the worse will often be their character. On considering the vai'ious forms of sj'pliilitic disease which are met with at St. Bar- tholomew’s Hospital, it certainly appears that the mercurial treat- ment adopted in the case of indurated and some forms of super- ficial primary ulcers exercises a decided influence in lessening the chance, as weU as the severity, of secondary disease, but that mercury has very little influence in preventing the occurrence of phagedsenic disease when tliere is a natural or accidental disposition to it. Although merem’y in the phagedeenic disease appears to exer- cise so little influence in preventing secondary disease, yet cases are admitted from time to time in which the employment of very large quantities of meremy for the primary affection has seemed to render the secondary phagedsenic disease more severe. That secondary symptoms wfll never occur when mercury has been employed for primary disease in a complete and proper manner, does not appear to have been ever stated by those who have treated large numbers of patients for many years. The fact evidently is, that, with every precaution, secondary symptoms will sometimes occur, and cannot be always prevented. The disease will some- times run its own course, and no means will do more than relieve the symptoms as they arise. The great mass of patients treated for primary disease by the careful employment of mercury, at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, do not return again for secondary disease, neither are the greater num- ber of patients with secondary affections those who have been treated carefully with mercury for primary disease; the cautious em- ployment of mercury certainly not causing or aggravating the secondary disease, but on the general view seeming to prevent it to a certain degree. The general result of the employment of mercury in fact being, that a great mass of primary disease is thus most leadily cured, that secondary disease is to a certain degree less common, and that when a patient labours under forms of secondary disease to be treated with mercury, that the employment of mercury in such case cures the existing secondary disease, and286 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. reduces the probability of its recurrence in a great degreCj as com- pared with the result of any other treatment. Another question may still be asked. Is there any condition of body produced by primary disease, wliich, though not manifested by apparent sjanptoms, is yet hable to display itself suddenly from accidental failure of health, or other causes ? In fact,— May a person who has laboured mider primary disease carry about in himself the seeds of disease, which may be latent for years, but break out at any period ? Such, undoubtedly, may be the case. It can be shewn to be the case with women, and mercury has been tried in such cases with the greatest benefit. The following table exlubits a list of cases in which the morbid condition of the womaAs health was shown by the birth of unhealthy cliildren, the mother^s health in some cases being good, and in other instances slight symptoms, or none at aU, of present syphilitic disease existing. Yet in all, that morbid con- dition of health, whether symptoms of disease existed or not, was relieved in the most marked degree by mercury; and after its employment, women to whom a healthy or live child was unknown, have produced living and healthy infants. Some of the cases are here related:—SUMMARY OF THE RESULTS OP MERCURY AND IODINE. 287 ;§ CD o C3 g o 3 o d d O g pd a d a rSl o o o a Q O CO § •g 3 I c; r£3 CO d o H H <D ra ^ i 1- 3 s s '13 & 0) CO a? pi P-j O) o > ^ Si-^ CJ o M g ^ *S cS to p- g ^ o3 'g ^ H3 ^ g § 'o S'i'S a I 2 _ rP -4-S I* .1 a CO _o ^ CO 'TS 1 § w m ^ s s CO ^ -s 5 - ' 4) '133, >-3 a S=3 o O vS ^ S.2 O ^ C3 :S^ •■d ^ C3 « S "xs <u d pO o .*t3 .B ^ •rt CD CO ^ . h s S.2 <y >» ^ Ph « C3 & ^ CO P d cO oa a O) .2 ^ ^ 0> LM O ^ g'^ cO o rd cc § g 03 rd c3 C/3 rcJ cO rd W P » d d -*1 1^ §' 31 « o r2 ' nd o S-< rrt ll O pd g rd' a; -4^ ^ g 3 S 'f pd o -*J ^co O) S a) _ pP) pP »Td rt co . pd s-l cu ? be « •I i 3i| .a nd >3 g § -g B 2 “is -d pd r, .fcp § >■ -4-3 » 9 H3 a 3'® 2 o -d -a is " ■sg 3 “3 ^|l 'T3 tS O hi tJC a> t2« ** ^ of [5= #* 'cjT Iz; 5?i * Transactions of Association of Tellows and Licentiates of King and Queen’s College of Physicians in Ireland.—Letter from Dr. Beatty, vol. iv. p. 31.'a ^ pd f "S rj c/3 >pH ' H f-‘ ^ s o o 1a « i-d o 'S o o P ^ O 03 03 > S3 S' rl g 42 "ca c( ® ' 03 W H P H •1 g 388 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. a o <J "S 'S: E-< o P3 P 0^ d 3 O w 2 8 d C3 ^ IS pd ° £ ” o rH c/3 > d> -d G3 V|3 3 ■“ O -S '5 & « g g J Hufcland’s Journal, Bd. 20, Stiick 3, p. 31. 1805. d ns I'Si g d 03 g p^ 03 03 O IH t- 03 «S -4-» •s p g '=> d d 3'S^ 'S " 3 to d 'g t> .d pd 03 d o rg ^ 03 a .d g -•— QJ S ^.gj§ o CO d W CO o * Medico-Chir. Transactions.—Paper by Mr. Hey, of Leeds, vol. vii. p. 545. t Mauriceau, Traite des Maladies des Femmes, vol. i. p. 184. 1721. cn • o I O P P ^0:3 03 dJ pd §•2'll l=a P p »—( O 03 rd H 03 1 d d H o .a 2 d d e <u 'H CO .“g -£s so “ »R «3 O 03 a i o a ns O O d H g .g > a .O & s-S s “ .g fin $ S « t£ g cS <8 . 52. cfl ^ 2“ S > l>» S3 O s.s a d c8 CD pd c8 ^ O S *C ^3 p II ^ 03 g o d3 03 g S§'^'5 d o rd ^»—I CJ “ o OJ d C3 pd Eh .d o -*J d ^ o d O C3 H <J P !z; « i: hJ du 03 I i S2 .S3 « 3 ^ Ph 'g.s I 'g '■ •PI d CO E- HJ C3 o» 00 s g p-i 00 CO 0 CO g Ph 03 CO )z; dSUMMARY OP THE RESULTS OP MERCURY AND IODINE. 289 o o a o o a a a o o s p t/3 Pi s i tA-g .a § ■3 g CO >> E g „ 2 “:S ^1 a a p 03 03 Sl-a a! -a .« > J.g s. e1^ 0 32 1 3 g S r3 'S §11 'i's “ a=i g lif III f§ O I cl •a .2 3 °i .a ui '2'i- s O; .a u'g o « CO 4^ S3 J QJ d O ^„>-a 3 p.a a ” a I s: § g ■ 1 a a. A » i fel ^ £ CO ■S-a 0^ OJ Ph S3 V 0) > Eh sp3 g 2 >M 3 Q> ^ P- S p K « '=”.3' a § a 0-3'^ g -H» pd o 3 2 4J d «* S P ^ ® ns S ^ P3 ns p p ;a ■ P ^ V CO CO .S^ ^ *d &4 o rrf 3 I "33 § H3 S fl „ g V c5 o g P ^ a U'^ 03 —■ a £p => ®3 P 4J I'd P ^ o S ■a ^ bD-w cl i=! ^ 2 CS P3 P i o Eh P 2^' S'^ S -5 p S tA s'« 1 P Ih ^ P o ^ S 03 S2 -P Jd P 03 03 03 o^M a „ ^ s ^ ^ ^ o «s 03 03 5: 22 a 03 *cO fP Eh P o > H P P* H -< P Z. » *41 £3 ^ 2 p <S '-P «'S's 1, o S ^ F3 ^ g - f-l 03 03 % 03 - .s o § S ,H I -w 3 g s gnssja g p rp S 03 4J I ” -a -1 I -- ?s^&1p-§ e ■'® « ^ 2'“i §1 = f:§f ■'SS 3?“ > o S' « M> •gJS g-S-g la a fe 2 " «§ "g .« cT .a 3 '3 >, g S « -S •§ ,-S ~ a •a .g S 'O £ .g-g g^ 3 S cT 'S.a g P T3 03 ■■§ -< p= '?r, 1^ U t Guenier, Journal de Medecine de la Loire Inferieure. Onzieme Volume. 1835, p. 91. J Pelletan, Clinique Chirurgicale. Tome premier, p. 249.390 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SUROERY. The only preparation of iodine for internal use which I have had the opportunity of seeing employed on a large scale is the hydriodate of potash: the iodides of iron and mercury have been employed in some few cases of sypliilitic disease at St. Bartholo- mew’s Hospital, but the result of these cases has not been remarkable for such a degree of benefit, as compared with the other means, as to induce the employment of these preparations on a large scale. The ordinary dose employed is four or five grains given three times in the day, this quantity being increased occasionally by a few grains, but rarely by any considerable addi- tion. Although hydriodate of potash is generally employed without giving rise to any bad symptoms or annoyance, yet such is not invariably the case, and the employment of a moderate dose at first, reduces the probability of the occurrence of any accidents, at the same time that it is generally sufficient to answer the desired purpose. The effects of iodine are generally manifested soon after the commencement of its use, and an early earnest of benefit will occur in most cases, where the advantage is gained by the employment of iodine. It is remarkable how rarely any bad effects are produced at the present day by the employment of iodine, as compared with the employment of the same medicine on its first introduction. In addition to the better knowledge of the action of this remedy gained by experience, and to the estabhsh- ment of a more uniform preparation by its introduction into the Pharmacopoeia, the liydriodate of potash has become the standard form, instead of the tinctures and preparations of the pure sub- stance. The employment of hydriodate of potash, into the composition of wliich a considerable quantity of alkali enters, seems to produce the full effects of iodine without any practical risk, provided a moderate dose, and a pure preparation, be employed, at the same time that the patient is carefully watched during the employment of the medicine. There does not appear to be at present any very clear proof of the efficacy of iodine in primary disease. This medicine, it is true, has been only partially tried; but the want of any repetition of these trials is a strong argument against the good result derived from its slight use. The greatest* advantage derived from iodine in primary disease is seen in the treatment of patients, who fromSUMMARY OF THE RESULTS OF MERCURY AND IODINE. 291 large quantities of mercury, or long standing piiniaiy disease, to which secondary symptoms may even be added, are reduced in health. To such the employment of iodine is certainly beneficial, and aids in restoring them to moderate health. The foul condi- tion of some superficial sores is at times relieved by the employ- ment of iodine, but the local application of the tincture to parts in wliich considerable swelling and inflammation exist, is some- times attended with serious injury. This small benefit derived from the use of iodine in primary dis- ease is, however, quite compensated for by the advantage gained from its employment in secondary affections. The painful affec- tions and sweUing of the bones and periosteum, gonorrhoeal rheuma- tism unaccompanied by much fever, single foul phagedsenic sores, and large phagedsenic sores scattered over the body, are relieved by iodine in a more rapid and certain manner than by any other means. Ulcers of the skin, from p:^evious venereal eruptions of any kind, occurring in patients of reduced health, but more espe- cially those following the tubercular and pustular forms, and the conical crusts of rupia, are healed by the internal administrati(fe of iodine. The same means have also been found useful after the employment of mercury in the treatment of iritis, as well as in the removal of the protrusion of lymph, which in some cases of iritis perforates the sclerotic at the margin of the cornea. In the papular and scaly eruptions sufficient benefit has followed the employment of iodine to recommend its use, where mercury is ob- jected to, but not enough to render its adoption advisable in preference to that remedy. Such are the principal individual symptoms which are relieved by iodine; but the bare enumeration of them conveys but a faint idea of the value of this remedy. These symptoms are some of the most obstinate and serious which occur in syphilitic disease, and which arc relieved but httle by mercury; these, in fact, are the affections for the cure of which the most varied remedies have been introduced at various periods, aU of which have enjoyed more or less reputation. The employment of iodine has, however, been attended ivith greater and more uniform success than any other remedy, except mercury, which has ever been introduced for the treatment of venereal diseases. Those aflections which yield293 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SUIIGEIIY. the least to mercury, aud that condition of health which succeeds to long standing disease and to the employment of very large quantities of mercury, yield to iodine in the most marked and decided manner. So great, indeed, is the improvement from the employment of iodine in some of the cases where large cjuantities of mercury have been used, that the fact of mercury having been employed to excess may sometimes be considered in itself as a recommendation for the administration of iodine. In the great majority of cases some distinct indication may generally be found for the employment of any particular medicine, and any administration of a medicine vathout a particular reason can be avoided. Such, however, is not always the case, and amongst the means which are effectual in restoring persons to health who have laboured under the venereal disease, and who still carry about with them just enough ailment to make them invalids, but not sufficient to render them ill, iodine is sometimes employed from want of any thing more likely to do good. In such cases its employment is often followed by gradual improvement. It cannot perhaps be said that they are cured by iodine; but, what is equally satisfactory to the patient, they take iodine and get well. When iodine agrees and does good, tlie patient feels better and stronger, the appetite is often much increased, and there is a considerable increase, after its employment has been continued for some time, in the flow of urine. Wlien this medicine dis- agrees, chills not amounting to rigors are felt during the day, with occasional flushings, and the formation of pustules here and there on the face and body. In some persons a small quantity of the hydriodate of potash acts violently on the mucous membrane, the patient, in fact, being affected all at once with a violent cold, accompanied with watering of the eyes, running at the nose, and a giddy sensation in the head. This peculiar effect is sometimes seen in cases where the fuU benefit of iodine is produced. Diarr- hoea is occasionally produced by the use of hydriodate of potash, but does not assume any severe character. Salivation is described as occurring occasionally in consequence of the use of iodine. The employment of mercm-y previously, of aperient pills containing mercury, of black wash, or the pre- sence of mercurial fumes iu the same ward, render many casesSUMMAKY OF THE EESULTS OF MERCUllY AND IODINE. 293 very doubtful, especially when the facihty with which some patients are affected by mercury is borne in mind. If such cases of sahvation from iodine are only considered as proved, when these precautions are taken, theii’ number is very materially dimi- nished ; yet there are stiU a certain number of cases in wliich the salivation appears to have depended on the employment of iodine, and not to have been distinctly connected with other causes; the most marked mstances of tliis are related by Dr. Clendinning *, Dr. Buchananf of Glasgow, Mr. Dorbes Winslow |, Mr. Wallace § of Dublin, who has observed it in a child only four years old, and Sir F. Smith II. This form of salivation appears to consist more in a simple flow of saliva, and less in an affection of the mouth, than where salivation takes place from mercmy. In the two cases recited by Sh- F. Smith the salivation is described as bemg destitute of the pecuhar foetor usually accompanying mercu- curial salivation; the mouth free from any ulceration, and the ptyalism appai’ently consisting in a simply increased secretion of the salivary glands. Although iodine produces salivation, it has been used in Ger- many as a powerful remedial means in removing mercurial saliva- tion ; the results of this plan of treatment have been accurately described by Kluge of Yienna, and Knod of Aschaffenburg ^: the iodine is said not only to benefit the ulceration of the mouth, and lessen the flow of saliva, but also to reheve rapidly the pain in the mouth. Dr. Knod at first administered this remedy in the quantity of two grains daily, and subsequently increased it. Latterly, how'ever, he employed it in larger doses, and employed four, six, or even eight grains daily from the first. Amongst the various affections resulting from the employment of hydriodate of potash. Dr. Laurie, of Glasgow, has described * Med. Gazette, vol. xv. j). 869. t Med. Gazette, vol. xviii. p. 522. f Med. Gazette, vol. xvii. p. 400. { Lancet, 1835-36, vol. ii. p. 9. II Dublin .Journal of Med. Science, No. 54, vol. xviii. p. 453. 5f Miscellen. Prakt. lulialts. Hufeland’s .Toiu’iial, v. d. Pract. Heilkunde, v. Ixxiv. part 5, p. 29. Also Med. Zeitung des Vereins fiu- Heilkunde in Preussen. 2ter Jahr. N. 5.294 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. acute attacks of pain in the head, papular eruption of the skin, sudden collapse terminating fatally, and acute suppuration of the parts round the trachea. The dose of hydriodate of potash em- ■ ployed in those cases was small, and produced its effects after the medicine had been employed only for a short period*. Hemi- plegia with an oseiUating motion of the eyes, which slowly sub- sided, and purpura, have also been mentioned by Mr. Wallace as arising from the employment of the same medicinet- Dr. Budd J, of Bristol, has also mentioned a red erythematous eruption occur- ring symmetrically on the body and hmbs, commencing about the fourth day of the employment of hydriodate cf potash, and ceasing on the omission of that medicine. * Med. Gazette, vol. xxvi. p. 588. t Lancet, 1835-36, vol. ii. p. 9, t Medico-Chirui-gical Transactions. Second Series, vol. vii. 1842.INDEX. Abscess round fractured ribs ] PAGE 30 — over hernial sac 8 — connected with bladder • • • • 167 — after parturition • • 188 — of brain • • • • 70 — behind pharynx 173 — in iliac fossa * • • • 188 — connected with urinary and digestive organs • • 190 — near the knee-joint • • k • 198 — diagnosis of, from hydatid • • 186 — pulsating tumor ' • • • 186 — a collection of matter connected with empyema 187 — malignant tumor • • 188 Absorbent glands, venereal affections of ., 225 -231 Air, escape of, into pleura, with pleuritis • • • • 28 — without pleuritis • • 29 Amputation of fingers • • 128 — wrist • • 130 — fore-arm • • • • 129 — great toe 137 — leg just above the ankle • • » • 138 — leg and thigh .. 130- -132 through calcareous arteries • • ■ • 135 adhesion of parts after 132 fulness of stump after » • • • 132INDEX. 296 PAGE Amputation, circumstances limiting the choice of situation of 132 division of vessels in retraction of vessels after retraction of skin after importance of front flap in fibula loose after fatal, with cerebral symptoms Anastomosis of post. tib. and peroneal arteries Aneurism of femoral artery Anchylosis of joints — hip-joint Apoplectic effusion in delirium tremens with fracture of the skull Appearance of drinkers Appearances (post-mortem) after erysipelas Arm, oedematous condition of Arteria profunda femoris, origin of — ohturatrix, origin of Artery crossing hernial sac — divided in hernial operation — rupture of — of bulb, unusually placed — wounded in its coats Arteiies, enlarged, accompanying a bronchocele — dilatation of — injured in cut-throat — wounded in amputation — of hand, wounded in amputation Auscultation of broken ribs Axilla, carcinoma of .. 132 133 ' .. 133 134 .. 134 137 .. 151 145 .. 113 118 .. 106 81 97 99 193^ .. 155’ 155 8 8-9 .. 143 171 .. 175 183 .. 141 175 131, 134 149 24 202 Bladder, abscess connected with .. .. .. .. 167 — suddenly recovering its power in paraplegia .. 166 Blood from ear after injury of head .. .. .. 72 — effused into pleura ? .. .. .. .. .. 31 —- falling into the larynx .. .. .. .. 175 Bowel, mortification of, in hemia .. .. .. .. 12 Brain, abscess of, from injury . . .. ,. .. 70 Breast, carcinoma of . . , . , . . . . . 201INDEX. Bronchitis after fracture of the ribs 297 PAGE 25 Bronchus ruptured in a child . . 28 Bronchocele, with enlarged arteries . . 183 Bulb, artery of . . 171 Bulbed sounds, inconvenience of . . • . 172 Bursal tumors, treatment of 89 — suppuration of • • • • 90 — removal of • « • • • • 91 — form of t • • • 91 — on flexor tendons • • • • • • 91 — on extensor tendons 91 [, 92 — on head of humerus • • • • • • 92 — on end of radius • • • • 92 — containing solid bodies • • • • • • 93 — under the tendon of the semi-membranosus 94 muscle 94 Calculus, salivary 173 — in urethra • • • • 172 — removed accidentally * * • • • • 172 Calomel applied to condylomata » • • • 234 Carbuncle, sloughing of • • • > t » 199 Carcinoma, with cyst in the breast • • • • 201 — in tongue • » • • • 205 — in axilla • • * • 202 — in angle of orbit * • • • , , 204 Cancer in neck • • • • 202 Carotid artery, dilatation of • • • • , • 141 — wounded in its coats • • • • 175 Cartilage in knee-joint • « • , 120 Chest, simple compression of • • « • . 27 Children suflbcated readily 178 Clavicle, fracture of • • • • 62 — displacement of • • • • • 62 — treatment of fractured • • t • — 62 Compound fracture, result of cases of, when amputation is doubtful the propriety of • • • t 68 — of elbow 68 Compound dislocation of humerus • t • < t 61 Condition of hospital patients 97298 INDEX. PACK Confinement of patients, danger of .. .. .. .. 177 Condylomata, venereal .. .. ,, .. ., 232-234 Contracted joint, dissection of .. .. .. .. 122 Corrosive sublimate beneficially employed .. .. 246 Cricoid cartilage, space below .. .. .. .. 181 Cut throat .. .. ,. .. ,. .. 174 — varieties of .. .. .. .. .. 175 — danger to life of .. .. .. ... 175 — suicidal and murderous .. .. .. 175 — followed by suffocatjorr .. .. .. 175 — remaining unhealed .. .. ,. .. 176 — with narrow wound ,. .. .. .. 176 — with valvular opening .. .. .. .. 177 — employment of nutritive enemata in cases of .. 176 Delirium tremens, fatal in eight hours .. .. .. 105 — morbid appearances after .. .. 105 — want of morbid appearance in .. ,. 105 — fatal by apoplexy .. .. .. 106 Defonirities consequent on fracture .. .. .. .. 55 Dilatation of carotid artery .. .. .. 141 — subclavian artery .. ,. .. ,. 142 Dislocation of thumb .. .. .. .. .. 65 — humerus, with altered length .. .. 58 reduced with difficulty .. .. 59 — compound .. .. .. .. 61 — knee .. .. .. .. .. 48 — unreduced .. .. w. 49, 50 — hip .. .. .. .. .. 40 — from disease .. .. .. .. 115 — spine ? .. .. .. .. .. 82 — in same person, drunk and sober respectively 61 Distension of synovial membrane of knee Dissection of stumps — a contracted finger — varus pedis — contracted toes — a dislocated humerus patella — a fractured neck of the femur .. 119 139, 140 .. 122 123 124-127 59, 60 .. 60 44299 INDEX. PAGE Dissection of the bursa under the semi-membranosus muscle 94 — an amputated finger .. .. .. .. 128 — the space below cricoid cartilage . . •, 181 — under the muscles of the knee .. 119 — arteria ohturatrix .. .. .. .. 155 — arteria profunda femoris .. .. 154 — sartorius muscle .. .. .. 153 — a fractured leg .. .. .. .. 52 — an old case of pleurisy .. .. ,. 33 Doubtful fractures, result of .. .. .. ,. 43 Drunken trades of London .. ., .. ,, 97 Drunkards, vaidable appearance of .. .. .. 97 — diseases of .. .. .. ,. 98 — remarkable recoveries of .. .. .. 98 Ear, discharge of blood from, after injury — venereal affection of Ecchymosis occurring spontaneously — recurring spontaenously Elbow-joint opened — compomid fracture of Erysipelas rapidly fatal Eye, venereal affections of Experiment on dislocation of thumb 72 275 .. 152 152 67 68 99 268-275 66 Fatality of accidents and operations in certain patients .. 99 — of erysipelas 99 Faecal odour in heiiual operation .. .. .. 12 Fauces, venereal affections of 248-252 Femur, dislocation of, sometimes easily reduced ,, 40 — in children ., 40 — irreducible .. .. .. 40 — recurring .. .. ,. .. 42 — changes in stump of .. ., .. .. 133 Femoral artery ruptured .. .. ,. .. .. 143 — aneurism of .. .. ]45 Fever in patients surgically ill ,. .. ,. .. 100 Fibula loose after amputation ,. .. ., I34 Fibrous structures, venereal affections of ,. .. 263-267 linger, dissection of a contracted .. ]22 — amputation of 128300 INDEX. Finger, compression of, by machinery Fistula in ano in phthisical persons Flap amputations Fluid from ear after injury of the head — in lumbar abscess, quantity of — in pleura evacuated through bronchi ? — in heraial sac, quantity, absence, position, and import- ance of — characters of, bloody, opaque, or brown — with faecal odour — running from ring after operation Foot cut through, appearance of Foreign bodies in the trachea Fracture, diagnosis of — pain and cedema accompanying — consequences of — self-adjustment observed after — retention of urine after — occasional difficulty of detecting — severe cases of compound — of skull, patients surviving for various periods — including portio dura — with transient symptoms — in a child — with apoplectic effusion — of lower jaw, with affection of the gums — without laceration of the gum — with suppuration — in the mesial line — followed by amaurosis — of ribs, auscultation of — consequence of — in old people — rare in children — without injury to the pleura or the lung — with abscess — followed by hsemorrhage — with laceration of the lung — with haemorrhage into the pleura — of pelvis — with lacerated perineum PAGE 129 108 131 72 120 33 10 10 12 12 137 177 53 53 54 53 163 43 68 77 78 78 79 80 35 35 35 35 36 24 24 26 27 30 30 30 31 31 39 39301 INDEX. PAGE Fracture of elbow, compound - . 68 — clavicle .. .. .. .. . . 62 — displacement of . . 62 — treatment of • . 62 — of femur, treatment of • • 45 — in the middle • « 45 — in the lower third , • 45 — with dislocation of the patella .. . • 46 — in children 46 — into the knee-joint • . 47 — of the neck of the femur • • 43 ^ unaccompanied by eversion 44 — destitute of marked signs 44 — of leg, power of walking with • • 50 — low down, detection of • • 51 — position for •. 51 — irregular union of • • 52 — of head of tibia, detection of • • 51 — of fibula • • 51 Growth arising over an old fracture • • 55 Haematuria of obscure origin 165 — treated with Ruspini’s styptic • • 165 Hsematocele, arising as such ,, 160 — fluid of , * 160 — from puncture 160 — rapidly absorbed 160 — source of blood in 161 Haemorrhage into pleura ? 31 — after fracture of rib 30 Hand, oedema of 193 — mortification of 194 — inflammation of 192 — suppuration of 192 — adhesive inflammation of 192 Head, injuries of, with discharge of blood or fluid from ear ., 72 — modified by disease of the mind 106 — ' drunken habits 106 Hernia, cases simulating 2302 INDEX. Hernia, complications of — chance of reduction of — permanent cure of, by wearing truss .. — strangulated, with the truss off .. — femoral, appearance of sac in — cysts in Hernial patients refusing to be operated on — operated on twice — without hemia, but with hernial symptoms — cases, late period of admission of — bad condition of, on admission — variable characters of — suited to the taxis ., — not admitting of delay ,! — sac, absence of fluid in — excess of fluid in — fluid between the layers of .. — abscess over — artery crossing — varicose veins over — operation, artery divided in — propriety of, finely balanced Hip joint, dislocated from disease — disease of, suddenly fatal .. .. — anchylosis of — anchylosed, sometimes very useful Hospital patients, condition of — history of, often difficult to obtain Humerus, dislocation of .. Hydrocele, substances used for injection of — puncture of — removal of a portion of scrotum for cure of — recurring after cure PAGE 2 1 3 4 9 8 6 2 14 4 5 2 5 5 9 9 9 8 8 9 8, 9 15 115 117 118 118 97 96 59 158 159 159 159 Ice, application of, in hernia . . . . . . . . 6 Iliac fossa, abscess in .. .. . . .. .. 188 Incisions in centre of perineum .. . . .. .. 171 Inflammation of hand .. .. .. .. .. 192 Iodine, employment of, in primary ulcerations 220, 223, 224, 290 — in affections of llie glands of the groin 227INDEX. 303 Iodine, employment of, in papular eruption — scaly eruption — tuberculai’ eruption — phagedsenic ulcers of the skin — deep ulcers of the skin — excavated ulcer of the tonsil — affections of the pharynx — ulceration of the larynx — • affections of the tongue — hernia humoralis .. — pains of the bones — nodes — rheumatic affections — ulcers of the eyelids — iritis w. — primary venereal disease — secondary venereal disease. — and primary venereal dis ease coexisting — after the employment of mercury — dose generally used — if beneficial, accompanied with an early earnest — producing pytalism — curing pytalism .. — producing diaiThoea — erythema — papules of the skin — pustules of the skin — suppuration round the trachaea .. — catarrh — hemiplegia — oscillation of the eyes Jaw, lower, fracture of the Joints, acute disease of, terminating in anchylosis — disease of fibrous structures of .. Kidney, influence of diseased Knee-joint, dislocation of, forwards — outwards PAGE 237 239 240 244 245 252 254 256 258 261 263 266 267 269 275 290 291 291 292 290 290 292 293 292 294 293 292 294 292 294 294 35 113 115 99 48 49INDEX. 304 PAGE Knee-joint, dislocation of, unreduced .. .. 49, 50 — extent of synovial membrane of .. .. 119 — subsidence of distended synovial membrane of 119 — space under the muscles above .. 119 — cartilage fonned in .. .. .,120 63 .. 47 39 .. 175 255,256 51 130-138 .. 186 186 .. 102 120 99 Malignant disease of testis .. .. .. 168 — breast .. .. ..201 — angle of orbit .. .. 204 — tongue .. .. .. .. 205 — neck .. .. .. 202 — axilla .. ., .. .. 202 Measurement of dislocated humerus .. .. 58 Menses, retention of .. .. ,. .. 163 Mercury, employment of, in superficial primary ulcers .. 209, 210 — indurated primary ulcers .. 213-217 — phagedaenic primary ulcers .. 219 — affections of the glands .. 226 — in thin and fat persons .. 229 condylpmata . . .. 233, 234 papular eruption .. . . 237 scaly eruption .. .. 239 tubercular eruption . . . . 240 pustular eruption .. 240 secondary ulcers scattered over the body Laceration of thumb — ligamentum patellae — perineum .. Larynx, blood falling into — venereal affections of Leg, fracture of — amputation of Liver, hydatids of .. Loins, abscess of Low condition terminating fatally Lumbar abscess unusually large Lungs, influence of diseased .. 244INDEX. 305 PAGE Mercury, employment of, in secondary ulcers occun’ing singly — obstinate affections of the skin ., — vesicular affections of the fauces — thickening of the fauces — excavated ulcer of the tonsil — affections of the pharynx . — ulceration of the larynx — affections of the tongue — hernia humoralis — enlarged testicle — pains in the bones — nodes — - ulcers in the eyelids . . — iritis 245 246 251 251 . . 252 253, 254 . . 256 258, 259 .. 260 261, 262 264 266 . . 268 273 syphilitic affection of the meatus auditorius externus . . 276 — syphilitic affections of the nail . . 277 Mercury, effect of .. . . .. . . 279 — a visible effect of, desirable .. . . .. 281 — mode of producing its effects .. .. 215,282 — producing ptyalism .. 279 — susceptibility to effects of . . .. 280 — resistance to effects of .. . . .. 280 — patients unsuited to employment of . . 280 — in primary venereal disease .. .. . . 282 — in secondary venereal disease .. .. 283 — in preventing secondary disease . . 284 — as producing a constitutional influence . . 286 Mercui-ial fumigations in affections of the pharynx . . 253, 254 — in ulcerations of the larynx .. 256 — with the use of iodine at the same time 253 Mercurial frictions in primary venereal ulcers 217 — affections of the absorbent glands . . 226-229 Mercurial local applications to primary venereal ulcers . . 213 — condylomata .. . . 234 Mercurial precipitate, poisoning with . . .. 200 Mortification of hand .. .. .. j P4 — bowel . . . .. . _ ] 2 Nutrition by enemata Nail, venereal affection of X 176 277306 INDEX. Odour, faecal, uncertain importance of .. CEdema accompanying fracture — of arm — hand Olecranon cut through ^ * * " * * Omentum, condition of, on second operation — adhesion of — enlarged and indurated . . — strangulating the bowels — treatment of . . — accidents caused by Operations, preparations of patients for — influenced by patients’ condition Opium, danger of, with injury to the ribs Orbit, carcinoma of angle of Organs, abscess connected with urinary and digestive Origin of arteria profunda femoris — arteria obturatrix PAGE 12 53 193 193 67 3 13 13 17 22 22 95 96 25 204 190 154 155 Pain accompanying fracture .. . . .. .. 53 Paralysis of parts from blows .. .. .. 42 — relieved by local loss of blood .. .. 42 — from spinal disease .. .. 121 — of bladder .. .. .. 163 — suddenly subsiding . . . . 166 Parturition, abscess after .. .. .. I88 Patellae ligamentum, laceration of .. .. .. 47 Patients’ histories .. .. .. .. 96 Pelvis, strength of .. .. .. .. 38 — fracture of .. .. .. .. 39 Perineum, laceration of .. .. .. .. 39 — incision in centre of .. .. 171 Period of death in complicated cases .. . . .. 101 Peronei, action of, in fractured leg .. .. 52 Pharynx, abscess behind .. .. .. .,173 — venereal affections of .. .. .. 250-254 Phthisis, coexisting with fistula in ano .. .. 108 — disease of the spine .. .. 110 — ulcer of the rectum .. 109 Pleurisy and pneumonia after fractured ribs .. .. 27 — from disease of a rib .. .. .. 187 — dissection of an old case of .. .. 33INDEX. 307 Pleurisy from escape of air into the pleura PAGE 28 — absence of, after escape of air into the pleura 29 Pleura, haemorrhage into ? 31 Prejjaration for operations 96 Posterior tibial artery wounded 151 Prostate gland, enlargement of, indistinct .. 166 — case resembling 167 Purgatives, employment of, in hernia 7 Purgative enemata, inconvenience of, in cases of hernia .. 7 Quinine in some affections of the fauces .. 252 Radial artery, wound of the 149, 151 Rectum, ulcer of, in phthisical persons .. .. 109 Removal of tonsils 173 Retention of urine .. 162 — menses 163 Rheumatic disease lingering irr one part .. 112 — rapidly destructive, with mild symptoms .. 112 Rib, fracture of 24 Rupture of femoral artery .. .. .. 143 Ruspini’s styptic .. 165 Sac, hernial, fluid of 10 Salivary calculus 173 Sartorius muscle, relations of . . 153 Skin, venereal affections of 235-246 Skull, fracture of .. 77 — indentation of .. 77 Spine, injury of, at junction of dorsal and lumbar regions 82-87 Spinal disease, coexisting with phthisis .. 110 Spirit-drinkers 97 Strangulation of the bowelsj^y the omentum 17 Stumps, changes in 133 — dissection of .. 139 — adhesion of skin in 132 Subclavian artery, dilatation of .. 142 — enlarged 183 Suppuration in hand .. 192 Synovial inflammation, unusually severe 111308 INDEX. PAGE Taxis, employment of . . ,. .. .. f; Testis, malignant disease of .. .. .. 168 — venereal affections of .. .. .. 260-262 Thigh, amputation of .. .. ,. .. 130 — fracture of .. .. .. .. 45 — bone, fracture of the neck of .. .. . . 43 Thumb, laceration of . . . . . . . . 63 — dislocation of . . . . . . . . 64 — difficulty of reduction of dislocated .. .. 65 — dislocation of, influenced by flex. long, pollicis .. 66 — illustrated by experiment .. 66 Tibia, fracture of .. . . .. .. 51 Tobacco enemata, employment of .. .. ,. 6 Toe, amjsutation of gieat .. .. .. 137 Toes, contraction of .. .. 124-127 Tongue, growth from .. .. .. .. 206 — carcinoma of .. .. .. .. 205 — venereal affections of .. .. .. 257-259 Tonsils, removal of .. .. .. .. .. J73 Tracheotomy, space for .. .. .. .. 181 Trachea, foreign bodies in .. .. ,.. ..177 — matters vomited, entering .. .. 177 Truss, risk of removing . . . . .. ., 4 Tumors, malignant .. .. .. .. 188 — bursal ., .. .. . . .. 89 Ulcers, primary venereal .. .. ., 207-222 — secondary venereal .. .. .. 241-246 Ulnar artery wounded .. .. ;. .. 150 Union of fractures iiTegularly .. .. .. 52 — cut throat, failure of .. .. .. 176 Urethra, calculi impacted in .. .. .. ..172 — ulcerating in fever .. .. .. 167 Urine, retention of .. .. .. .. 162, 163 Variable period of death .. .. .. .. 101 Varus pedis, dissection of .. .. .. ..123 Veins near mastoid muscle .. .. .. 184 — over hernial sac .. .. ,, .. 9 Venereal ])iimary ulcers, classification of .. .. 207309 INDEX. PAGE Venereal primary ulcers treated with iodine 223 — superficial ulcers, appearance of 208 — situation of . . 208 — treated by common means 209 — mildly with mercury 209 — requiring active mercurial treatment 210 — indurated ulcers, appeai’ance of, on admission 211 characters of ., induration remaining on 211 healing of 211 — induration of, treated simply 212 — risk of 212 — local application of mercury to .. .. 213 — length of period for mercu- rial treatment of 215 — mercurial frictions to 217 — phagedaenic ulcei s, characters of .. 218 — common means em^iloyed in 219 — mercury employed in 219 tardy of healing cases resembling, with phy- 220 mosis 221 — in persons of bad health 222 — treatment of 222 — affections of absorbent glands co-existing with ulcers 225 — — accompanied with acute inflammation 225 — — with simple enlargement 225 — — with thickening of cellu- lar tissue 224 — — employment of mercury in 226 — — iodine in 227 — — in thin and fat persons 229 — — ofunusually severe character 229 — — of chronic nature 231 — condyloinata, characters of 232 Venereal condylomala, employment of mercury in 233310 INDEX. PAGE Venereal condolyinata, calomel applied to .. .. .. 234 — affections of the skin, condition on admission .. 235 — mixed character of .. .. 236 — papular eruption, character of .. .. 236 — treated antiphlogistically at early period 236 — with mercury .. .. 237 — iodine .. .. 237 — scaly eruption, characters of ,. .. .. 238 — treated with mercury .. 239 — iodine .. .. 239 — tubercular eruption, characters of .. .. 240 — treated with mercury or iodine 240 — pustular eruption, employment of mercury in .. 240 — ulcers of the skin, characters of .. .. .. 241 — — influence of mercury in causing, considered .. .. 243 — — scattered over body, treated with mercury .. .. .. 244 — — phagedaenic, treated with iodine 244 — — single or in small quantity, treated with mercury and iodine .. 245 — — terminating fatally .. .. 246 — — treated with corrosive sublimate 246 — affections of the fauces, characters of ,. 248 — — with papular eruption .. 249 — — ulcers of the scalp 249 — — superficial inflammmation and ulcers .. 249 — vesicles .. .. 249 — treated with mercury 251 — thickened patches of mem- brane .. .. 251 — treated with mercury 251 — excavated ulcer of the tonsil 250 — treated with mer- cury or iodine 252 the pharynx, with simple ulceration 250,251 foul ulceration .. 250 treated with iodine .. 254 mercurial fumi- gations 253, 254311 INDEX. PAGE Venereal affections of the larynx, characters of .. 255 — — incurability of some cases of .. 257 — — employment of mercurial fumiga- tions in . . .. 256 — — iodine in . . . . .. 256 — — tongue, with ulcerated patches 257 — — fissures .. 257,258 — — foul ulcerated edge 258 — — excavated ulcer .. 258 — — peculiar form of .. 259 — — employment of iodine and mercury in .. 258, 259 — — testicle, (hernia humoralis,) employ- ment of mercury in .. .. 260 — — employment of iodine in 261 — — (enlargement of gland,) treated with mercury .. 261, 262 — pains in the hones, characters of .. . . 263 — — treated with iodine .. 263 — — sometimes not benefited by iodine or mercmy .. .. 264 — nodes, characters of .. .. .. 265 — treated with mercury and iodine .. .. 266 — rheumatic affections, characters of .. .. 266 — — weakness of limb following .. 267 — — treated with iodine .. 267 — affections of eye and eye-lids ., ,. 268 — ulcers of eye-lids .. .. .. 268 — treated with mercury or iodine .. 269 — papular affection of conjunctiva .. .. 271 — — treated with various means .. 271 — iritis .. .. .. .. 272 — mild form of .. .. .. .. 272 — chronic .. .. .. 262 — treated with mercmy .. .. .. 273 — benefited by iodine .. .. 275 — affections of the auditory meatus, characters of ., 275 -r- — treated with mercury 276 — the nail, characters of .. .. 277 — treated with mercury .. .. 277312 INDEX. • PAGE Venesection after fracture of the ribs .. .. ., 26 — after injuries of the head .. 81 — in strangulated hernia .. .. .. 7 — artery wounded in .. ,. .. 149 Vessels, division of, in amputation .. .. .. 132 — retraction of ... .. .. 133 Walking, power of, with a broken leg .. .. .. 60 Wound of arteries of hand .. ' .. 149 — radial artery .. .. .. 149, 161 — brachial artery .. .. .. 149 — ulnar artery .. .. .. .. 160 — post, tibial artery .. .. .. 161 — femoral artery .. .. .. ..146 — coats of carotid artery .. .. .. 176 Wrist-joint, amputation at .. .. .. .. 130 THE END. Wilson and Ooilvy, 57, Skinner Street, Snowliill, London.{Corrected to April 1846.) A CATALOGUE OF WORKS IN ALL branches OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY, INCLUDING THE Collateral ^n'enceeJ, PUBLISHED BY LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, AND LONGMANS, 39, Paternoster Row, Iiondon. CLASSIFIED INDEX. ANATOMY. PAGES Cooper’s (Sir A.) Anatomy of the Breast .. 6 Lefevre’s (Sir G.) Apology for the Nerves.. 9 Owen On Comparative Anatomy 11 Swan’s New Method of Making Dried Ana- tomical Preparations ll^ Illustrations of the Nervous System 14 Demonstration of the Nerves 14 Wagner’s Comparative Anatomy 15 Wilson’s Practical Anatomy 16 BOTANY. Henslow’sDescriptive&PhysiologicalBotany 7 Hooker’s British Flora 8 Compendium of the English Flora 8 Lindley’s (Dr.) Synopsis of the British Flora 10 Introduction to Botany 10 Flora Medica 10 Loudon’s Encyclopaedia of Plants 10 Smith’s (Sir J. E.) Introduction to Botany.. 13 English Flora 14 CHEMISTRY & GENERAL SCIENCE. Acton’s Modern Cookery 4 Balmain’s Lessons on Chemistry 4 Braude’s Diet, of Science, Literature, & Art 4 Donovan’s Treatise on Chemistry 7 Hunt’s Researches on Light 8 Kane’s (Dr.) Elements of Chemistry 8 Lardner’s Cabinet Cyclopaedia 9 and Walker’s Electricity g Lectures on Polarized Light 9 Rees On the Analysisofthc Blood and Urine 12 the Analysis of Inorganic Bodies.. 12 Reid (Dr. D. B.) on Ventilation 13 Sandby on Mesmerism 13 Ure’s (Dr.) Dictionary of Arts, Manufac- tures, and Mines IG MATERIA MEDICA, PHARMACY, AND TOXICOLOGY. PAGES Ainslie’s (Sir W.) Materia Indica 4 Christison’s (Dr.) Treatise on Poisons .... 6 Pereira’s (Dr.) Elements of Materia Medica and Therapeutics 12 Thomson’s (Dr. A. T.) Conspectus 15 Materia Medica 14 -LondonDispensatory 15 MEDICINE-GENERAL. Aldis’s (Dr) Introduction to Hospital Practice 4 Minutes of Evidence 4 Bright and Addison’s (Drs.) Elements of Medicine 5 Copland’s (Dr.) Dictionary of Medicine 7 Holland’s (Dr. H.) Medical Notes and Reflections 8 Hooper’s (Dr.) Medical Dictionai-y 8 Latham’s (Dr. P. M.) Lectures on Clinical Medicine 9 M'Cormac’s Methodus Medendi 11 Neligan’s Medicines, their Uses and Mode of Administration 11 MEDICINE-POPULAR. BuU’s (Dr.) Hints to Mothers 5 On the Maternal Management of Children 5 Graham On the Graefenberg Water-Cure.. 7 Moore (Dr.) On the Power of the Soul over the Body n Pereira’s (Dr.) Treatise on Food and Diet.. 12 Philip (Dr.) On Protracted Indigestion .... 12 those Diseases which precede Change of Structure 12 Reece’s (Dr.) Medical Guide 13 Thomson’s (Dr. A. T.) Domestic Manage- ment of the Sick Room 15 MEDICINE-FORENSIC. Beck’s (Drs. T. K. and J. R.) Medical .luris- prudence 4CLASSIFIED INDEX. MEDICAL LITERATURE. ‘ PAGES Lefcvrc’s Apology for the Nerves 9 Life (The) of a Travelling Physician 9 Marx and Willis on the Decrease of Dis- ease by Civilization 11 Medical Gazette 3 Moore (Dr.) On the Power of the Soul over the Body 11 Transactions of the Medical and Chirurgical Society 15 Wigan (Dr.) On the Duality of the Mind .. 16 MIDWIFERY, ETC. Burns’s (Dr.) Principles of Midwifery 5 Churchill’s (Dr.) Observations on Pregnancy 6 Outlines of the Principal Diseases of Females 6 Researches on Operative Midwifery 6 Conquest’s (Dr.) Outlines of Midwifery 6 Clarke (Sir C. M.) on the Diseases of Females 6 Lee’s (Dr.) Lectures on the Theory and Practice of Midwifery 9 Maunsell’s Dublin Practice of Midwifery .. 11 and Evanson on the Management and Diseases of Children 11 NEUROLOGY. Brodie (Sir Benjamin) on Nervous Affections 5 Laycock (Dr.) On N ervou s Diseases of Women 9 Lefevre’s (Sir George) Apology for the Nerves 9 Travers On Constitutional Irritation 15 ’s Further Inquiry on ditto 15 Swan On Diseases, &c. of the Nerves I4 OPHTHALMOLOGY. Mackenzie (Dr.) On Diseases of the Eye 10 ’s — Physiology of Vision 10 Middlemore On Diseases of the Eye 11 Walker’s Oculist’s Vade-Mecum 16 PATHOLOGY. Alison (Dr.) On Organic Alterations of the Heart 4 Annesley (Dr.) On the Diseases of Warm Climates 4 Bateman (Dr.) On Cutaneous Diseases 4 Bright’s Reports of Medical Cases 5 Brodie (Sir Benjamin) On Diseases of the Urinary Organs 5 Diseases of the Joints 5 Lectures illustra- tive of various Subjects in Pathology and Surgery 5 Briggs (Mr. J.) On Strictures of the Urethra 5 Carmichael’s Lectures on Venereal Diseases 6 Coulson On the Hip-Joint 7 Bladder, &c 6 Curling On the Diseases of the Testis, &c.. 7 Graves’s System of Clinical Medicine 7 Hughes’s (Dr. H. M.) Clinical Introduction to Auscultation 8 Kramer (Dr. W.) On Diseases of the Ear .. 8 PATHOLOGY—Continued. PAGES Latham (Dr ) On Diseases of the Heart.... 8 Lever (Dr.) On Organic Diseases of the Uterus g Little (Dr.) On Ankylosis, or Stiff-Joint 10 On Club-Foot 10 Macleod (Dr.) On Rheumatism 10 M'Connac On Continued Fever 11 Ramadge’s (Dr.) Consumption Curable.... 12 Ricord (Dr.) On Venereal Diseases 13 Seymour (Dr.) On Diseases of the Ovaria.. 13 the Treatment of Dropsy 13 Treatment of Insanity 13 Sheppard On the Cause of Insanity 13 Skey On New Treatment of Ulcers, &c 13 Smith (Dr. Southwood) On Fever 14 (Dr. T.) On Hydrocephalus 13 Thomson’s (Dr. A. T.) Atlas of Cutaneous Eruptions 14 Teale’s (Mr. T. P.) Treatise on Abdominal Hernia I4 Travers On Intestinal Injuries 15 Venereal Affections.. 15 Walne’s Cases of Dropsical Ovaria 16 Willis On Mental Derangement 16 PHYSIOLOGY. Elliotson’s (Dr.) Human Physiology 7 Richerand’s Elements of Physiology 13 STRUCTURAL DEFORMITY X FRACTURES. Little on Club-Foot 10 Skey On New Operation for Lateral Cm’va- ture of the Spine 13 Stafford On Diseases of the Spine 14 Tamplin’s (Mr. R. W.) Lectures on De- formities 14 SURGERY. Amesbury On Fractures 4 Brodie’s (Sir B. C.) Lectures illustrative of various Subjects in Pathology and Surgery 5 Cooper’s (S.) Dictionary of Surgery 6 First Lines of the Theory and Practice of Surgery 6 Liston’s Elements of Surgery 10 VETERINARY ART. Field’s Extracts from the Veterinary Records of John Field 7 Knowlson’s Cattle Doctor and Farmer .... 8 Morton’s To.\icologicalChart 11 Manual of Veterinary Pharmacy 11 Miles (W. Esq.) On the Horse’s Foot 11 Percivall’s Anatomy of the Horse 11 Hippopathology 12 Spooner On the Foot and Leg of the Horse 14 Turner On the Foot of the Horse 15 White’s Compendium of the Veterinary Art 16 Cattle Medicine.. 16 ’ The Veterinarian - The Veterinary Record 16THE i LONDON MEDICAL GAZETTE; I OR, SJountal of piartical iHetJirme. A NEW SERIES, UNDER NEW EDITORS. In M’eekly Numbers, demy 8vo. printed in double columns, 8d.; or 9d. stamped for transmission by post; also in Monthly I’arts, 2s. 8d. or 3s. id. each. \_PublisUed every Friday Morning. I 1 I From the “Britannia” “Twenty-two yearsago themedical profession in this country bad no hebdomadal publication, its journals beinp eitliere.xclusively quarterly or monthly. At the present time, however, there are no less than four weekly medical periodicals published in Enarland, of which three are Metropolitan, and one Provincial. “ Among; these the ‘ London Medical Gazette’ has ever held a deservedly distin- g;uished position. Its hig-h character for re- spectability was originally gained for it by the elevated and gentlemanly tone of feeling which pervaded and characterised its opinions—a tone which was in unison with the feelings of the most respectable members of the profes- sion, and which was to be expected from the well-known high professional and moral cha- racter of those who originally projected and were connected with the journal; for though their names have never been publicly stated, yet they have long been well known to the profession. “ But another circumstance has contributed to the distinguished character which the ‘ iMedical Gazette’ has so long enjoyed: we refer now to the number and intrinsic value of its original contributions, among the authors of which are to be found those occupying the highest position in the profession, and de- servedly enjoying the most distinguished re- putation both at home and abroad. These gentlemen have found in this periodical a speedy means of laying before their profes- sional brethrenandthepublic their opinions and their experience, without incurringthe possible charge of sanctioning, by their support, e.x- treme political opinions. “In the thirty-five volumes of the ‘ Medical Gazette’ which are now before the public, will be found a vast mass of sound and valuable medical and surgical information, which cannot fail to be of the greatest service to all members of the profession, to assist in extend- ing the benefits and enlarging the resources of medical science, and of thus proving of vital advantage to the public. “A considerable number of the essays, lec- tures, &c. which have been published in this work, unlike much of the matter which appears in weekly periodicals, possess a permanent interest and value; and in consequence many of them have been collected and reprinted in a separate form, ft would be tedious to enu- 7iicrate the whole of these; but we may spe- cially mention that Sir B. Brodie’s ‘ Lectures on Diseases of the Urinary Organs,’ Dr. Wat- son’s ‘ lectures on the I rinciples and Practice of Physic,’ Dr. Pereira’s ‘ Elements of Ma- teria .Medica,’ Dr. Robert Lee’s ‘ Lectures on the Theory ;ind Practice of Midwifery,’ Ur. Graves’s ‘Clinical Medicine,’ Dr. Latham’s f Sejitemher 27, 1845. ‘Lectures on Subjects connected with Clinical Medicine,’ and a host of other standard works on medicine, surgery, materia medica, and midwifery, originally apiteared in the form of lectures in the ‘ London Medical Gazette.’ “ In May last the proprietors commenced a new, enlarged, and otherwise greatly improved series of tliis periodical, of which nineteen numbers have now appeared. The form and size of the journal remain unchanged ; but the number of its pages has been augmented from thirty-two to forty-eight. At the same time great efforts have been made to render every department of the work more elfective; and, in order to accommodate country renders, a stamped edition is now published for trans- mission by post. “One important novel feature introduced into the new series relates to the Microscope. The editors have very wisely, as we conceive, resolved to bestow augmented attention and space on the results of microscopical investi- gations ; and have commenced a series of very valuable papers on microscopic pathology, taken principally from Vogel’s leones ‘ Histo- logiae Pathologica;,’ and most richly illustrated by woodcuts. At the present time, when so much attention is being devoted to the mi- croscopic study of healthy and morbid tissues, this series bids fair to be of exceedingly great interest and value; and we hope by and by to see it collected and republished in a separate form. “ In all the different departments of the journal the improvements effected by tlie presenr editors are very manifest. The ori- ginal communications, while they retain their usual high character and interest, are more numerous than formerly ; and the reports furnished by some of the leading hospital physicians and surgeons are peculiarly valuable from their authenticity. Additional attention is also paid to the important subject of vital statistics, as well as to that of forensic medi- cine, - a topic alike interesting to the medical and legal professions and to the public. “ We congratulate the projirietors on the greatly improved condition of their journal, which is to be recommended to the notice of alt persons interested in the progress of the medical sciences; and we congratulate also the profession on having a periodical to which they can confidently look for the latest disco- very in medicine, surgery, materia medica, and chemistrj;; for the soundest opinions of the most eminent and thoughtful practitioners, and for copious and authentic information on all subjects connected with the medical sci- ences,—which, from their importance, must always be of paramount and solid interest.” Subscription to the Stamped Edition, £l. 19s. per anmnn, or 9s. 9d. per tpiurter, payable in advance. Orders for the Stamped Bditlon received by all.Newsveuders.ACTON (ELIZA).-MODERN COOKERY, In nil its Hranclics, reduced to a System of Kasy Ppractice. For the use of Private Families In a Series of Receipts, all of which have been strictly tested, and are driven with the most minute exactness. By Eliza Acton. Dedicated to the Youn^ Housekeepers of Enirland New Edition, improved. Fcp. 8vo. illustrated by woodcuts, 7s. 6d. cloth. “The whole of Miss Acton’s recipes, ‘with a few trifling exceptions, which are scrupulouslv specified, are confined to such as may be perfectly depended on from having been proved be- neath our own roof, and under our own personal inspection.’ AVe add, moreover that the recipes are all reasonable, and never in any instance extravagant. They do not bid us sacrifice ten pounds of excellent meat, that we may get a couple of quarts of gravy from it; nor do they deal with butter and eggs as if they cost nothing. Miss Acton’s bonk is a good book in every way; there is right-mindedness in every page of it, as well as thorough knowled>>-e and ex- perience of the subjects she handles.”—Medical Gazette. “ ijflctufal anil ^uitjiral AINSLIE.-MATERIA INDICA: An Account of those Articles which are employed by the Hindoos, and other Eastern Nations, in their Medicine, Arts, and Agriculture, &c. &c. By Sir Whitelaw Ainslie, M.D. M.R.A.S. 2 vols. 8vo. £‘i,. boards. AMIS (DR. )-AN INTRODUCTION TO HOSPITAL PRACTICE, IN VARIOUS COMPLAINTS; with Remarks on their Pathology and Treatment. By C. J. B. Alois, M.A. M.D. Cantab. &c. 8vo. 5s. fid. boards. ALISON.-SOME OBSERVATIONS ON ORGANIC ALTERA- RATIONS of the HEART; and particularly on the beneficial Employment of Iron in the Treatment of such Cases. By S. Scott Alison, M.D. Member of the Royal College of Phy- sicians, London ; Physician to the Northern Dispensary, &c. &c. Fcp. 8vo. 2s. fid. cloth. AMESBURY-PRACTICAL REMARKS ON THE NATURE and TREATMENT of FRACTURES of the TRUNK and EXTREMITIES: with Plates, "Woodcuts, and Cases. By Joseph Amesbuuy. 2 vols. 8vo. 25s. boards. ANNESLEY.-RESEARCIIES INTO THE CAUSES, NATURE, and TREATMENT of the more prevalent DISEASES of INDIA, and of M’ARM CLIMATES generally. By J. Annesley, F.R.S. F.S.A. late President of the Medical Board, Madras. 2d Edition, 8vo. 12s. cloth. The object of the author has been to revise, correct, and condense the former edition, so as to present to the render a Practical Manual, founded on personal experience, of the diseases of warm climates, and more particularly of India. A few copies of the First Edition are left. 2 thick vols. imperial 4to. with numerous splendid coloured Plates of Morbid Structures, ^6'14.14s. boards. BALMAIN-LESSONS ON CHEMISTRY, For the use of Pupils in Schools, Junior Students in Universities, and Readers who wish to learn the fundamental Principles and leading Facts: with Questions for Examination, a Glossary of Chemical Terms and Chemical Symbols, and an Index. By William H. Balmain. Fcp. 8vo. with numerous Woodcuts, illustrative of the Decompositions, 6s. cloth. BATEMAN.-A PRACTICAL SYNOPSIS OP CUTANEOUS DISEASES, according to the arrangementof Dr. Willan; exhibiting a concise \ iew of the Diagnostic Symptoms and the Method of Treatment. By T. Bateman, M.D. 8th Edit, edited by Dr. A. T. Thomson. 8vo. 15s. BECK, T. R. & J. R.-ELEMENTS OP MEDICAL JURISPRU- DENCE. By Dr. T. R. Beck, and Dr. J. R. Beck, of New York. 7th Edition, brought down by the authors to the present Time, with the Notes of Dr. Dunlop and Dr. Darwall, 8vo. 21s. cloth. The present edition is reprinted from the latest (sixth) issued in America, with various MS additions communicated directly to the Publishers by the Authors. BRANDE.-A DICTIONARY OP SCIENCE, LITERATURE,I MEDICAL AND SURGICAL WORKS PRINTED EOR LONGMAN AND CO. 5 BRIGGS (JAMES, ESa.)-ON THE TREATMENT OE STRIC- TUR15S of the URETHRA by MECHANICAL DILATATION, ami other Diseases attendant on them : with some Anatomical Observations on the Natural Form and Dimensions of the Urethra, with a view to the more precise adaptation and use of the Ins^uments employed m their Relief. By James Bhiggs, Surj^eon to the Lock Hospital, and Consulting Surgeon to the Public Dispensary. 8vo. 3s. sewed. BRIGHT AND ADDISON—ELEMENTS OE THE PRACTICE of MEDICINE. By Rich. Bright, M.D. F.R.S., and Thomas Addison, M.D. Lecturers at Guy’s Hospital. Parts 1 to 3, forming the Vol. I. 8vo. 16s. 6d. cloth. Tliis volume includes the whole necessary to be said on Fever and the Phlbomasij! : it may be considered as forming in itself nearly a complete work. BRIGHT-REPORTS OE MEDICAL CASES : Selected with a view of illustrating the Symptoms and Cure of Diseases by a reference to Morbid Am^omy. By Richard Bright, M.D. F.R.S. Physician Extraordinary to Her Majesty, &c. 4to- Vol. I. Dropsy, Inflammation of the Lungs, Phthisis, and Fever, with 16 coloured Plates, jf4. 4s. boards. Vol. II. Of the Brain and Nervous System; 38 coloured Plates, £9. 9s. BRODIE (SIR BENJAMIN C.)-LECTURES ILLUSTRATIVE of various subjects in PATHOLOGY and SURGERY. By Sir Benjamin C. Brodie, Bart. F.R.S. Seijeant-Surgeon to the Queen, Surgeon to H.R.H. Prince Albert, Foreign Correspon- dent of the Institute of France. 8vo. 12s. cloth. Contents On the Studies required for the Medical Profession—On the Duties and Conduct of Medical Students and Practitioners—On the Effects of Strangulation—On Death from Drowning—Oil the Mode in which Death is produced liy a Stroke of Lightning—On some Cases of Cysts containing Watery Fluid, apparently connected with the Liver—(3n Ununited Fractures—On Sero-cystic Tumors of the Female Breast—On Varicose Veins and Ulcers of the Legs (2 Lectures)—On the Cases of Scirrhous Tumors of the Breast which require an Operation —On Corns and Bunions—On the Administration of Mercury in Cases of Syphilis—On Tic Douloureux, or Facial Neuralgia—On Fatty or Adipose Tumors—On Mortification from various causes and in various forms (6 Lectures)—On Chronic Abscess of the Tibia. BRODIE.-LECTURES ON THE DISEASES OE THE URINARY ORGANS. By Sir Benjamin C. Brodie, Bart. F.R.S. Serjeaut-Surgeon to the Queen. 3d Edition, with alterations and additions. 8vo. 12s. cloth. The work has throughout been entirely revised, some of the Authors views have been modified, and a considerable proportion of new matter (among which is a Lecture on the Operation of Lithotrity) has been added. BRODIE.-LECTURES ILLUSTRATIVE OE CERTAIN LOCAL NERVOUS AFFECTIONS. By Sir B. C. Brodie. 8vo. 4s.boards. BRODIE.-PATIIOLOGICAL & SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS on DISEASES of the JOINTS. By Sir Benjamin C. Brodie, Bart. F.R.S. Serjeant- Surgeon to Her Majesty. 4th Edition, with alterations and additions, 8vo. 10s. 6d. cloth. BULL.-HINTS TO MOTHERS, For the MANAGEMENT of HEALTH during the period of PREGNANCY and in the LYING-IN ROOM; with an Exposure of Popular Errors in connection with those subjects By Thomas Bull, M.D., Physician-Accoucheur to the Finsbury Midwifery Institution &c. &c. 4th Edition, revised and considerably enlarged. Fcp. 8vo. 7s. cloth. BULL.-THE MATERNAL MANAGEMENT OE CHILDREN In HEALTH and D1SEASJ5. By T. Bull, M.D. Member of the Royal College of Physicians’, yiysician-Accoucheur to the Finsbury Midwifery Institution, Author of “ Hints to Mothers for the Management of Uieir Health during Pregnancy and in the Lying-in Room.” 2d Edit revised and enlarged. Fcp. 8vo. 7s. cloth. ^ ’ “ Excellent guides, and deserve to be generally known.” Johnson’s Medico-Chirurgical Review. BURNS.-PRINCIPLES OE MIDWIEERY: Including the Diseases of Women and Children. By John Burns, M.D. Regius Professor of Surgery, Glasgow. 10th Edition, revised and enlarged, 8vo. 16s. boards. ^ mutter addc^il"^** Edition has been carefully revised, in some parts re-written, and new' MEDICAL AND SURGICAL WORKS, CARMICIIAEL.-CLINICAL LECTURES ON VENEREAL Is. Gd. cloth. 8vo. CHRISTISON (DR.)-A TREATISE ON POISONS, In relation to Medical Jurisprudence, Physioloffy, and the Practice of Physic. By Robert Christi^son,^I.D. F.R.S.Il. ^I’rofessor of Materia Medica in the University of Edinburgh, Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, &c. &c. &c 8vo. 20s. cloth 4th Edition, enlarged and improved^ We cannot but hail with satisfaction a new edition of this standard classical book. Its merits are too well acknowledged for it to be necessary to say anything further in its behalf Wherever toxicology is known as a science. Professor Christison’s treatise is received as an authority of the greatest weight. Dr. Christison has himself revised the present edition • and having taken advantage, he states, of the numerous investigations which have been carried on during the last eight years in the several departments of toxicology in theleading countries of Europe, he has found it necessary materially to change the size of the work. He has not however, been obliged, he adds, in order to embody recent additions to our knowledge, to alter in any important degree, either the general principles formerly laid down in previous editions, or what he had previously stated as well ascertained general facts.”—Lancet. CHURCHILL-OBSERVATIONS ON THE DISEASES INCI- DENT TO PREGNANCY AND CHILDBED. By F. Churchill, M.D. 8vo. I2s. cloth. CHURCHILL-ON THE PRINCIPAL DISEASES OF Fe- males. By Fleetwood Churchill, M.D.,M.R.I.A., Licentiate of the King and Queen’s College of Physicians in Ireland; Lecturer on Midwifery, with Diseases on Women and Children, and Physician-Accoucheur to the Western Lying-In Hospital, and to the Adelaide Hospital, Dublin, &c. 2d Edition, fcp. 8vo. with Engravings, 8s. 6d. cloth. with Plates. By F. Churchill, M.D. 8vo. 14s. cloth. CLARKE-OBSERYATIONS ON THE DISEASES OF FEMALES. Illustrated by Plates. By Sir C. M. Clarke, Bart. M.D. F.R.S. 3d Edition, 2 vols. royal 8vo. 36s. boards. CONQUEST-OUTLINES OF MIDWIFERY; Developing its Principles and Practice. Intended as a Text-Book for Students, and a Book of Reference for Junior Practitioners. By J. T. Conquest, M.D. F.L.S. 6th Edition, revised. 12mo. with plates, 7s. 6d. cloth. COOPER-A DICTIONARY OF PRACTICAL SURGERY; With all the most interesting Improvements down to the present period; an Account of the Instruments and Remedies employed in Surgery; the Etymology and Signification of the principal Terms ; and numerous References to Ancient and Modern Works, forming a Cata- logue of Surgical Literature, arranged according to subjects. By Samuel Cooper, Senior Surgeon to University College Hospital, &c. 7th Edit, revised and enlarged, 8vo. 30s. cloth. COOPER.-THE FIRST LINES OF THE THEORY AND PRACTIC R of SURGERY; explaining and illiistratina: the Doctrines relative to the Princi- ples, Practice, and Operations of Surgery. By S. Cooper. 7th Edition, corrected and augmented, 8vo. 18s. boards. ’This Edition has received numerous corrections, so as to adapt it to the present state of Surgery, and to the wants of the Student and Young Practitioner. It also serves as a text-book for the Lectures annually delivered by Mr. Cooper to his Surgical Class. COOPER, SIRA.P.-ON THE ANATOMY OF THE BREAST. By Sir A. P. Cooper, Bart. F.R.S., &c. 4to. with 27 Plates, several coloured, 63s. cloth. COULSON.-ON DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOINT: With Observations on Aflections of the Joints in the Puerperal State. By William Coulson, Surgeon to the Magdalen Hospital, &c. 2d Edition, with Additions and Alterations, 8vo. Plates, 7s. boards. COULSON.-ON DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND THE PROSTATE GLAND. 3d Edit, much enlarged, with Plates, 8vo. 7s. cloth. This Edition has been carefully revised in all its parts, and much valuable matter has been added to the chajiters on Urine, on Stone, and on the Aifections of the Prostate Gland. I7 rRINTED FOR LONGMAN, BROWN, AND CO. COPLAND.—DICTIONARY OF PRACTICAL MEDICINE; Library of PathoIo"\-, and a Digest of uredical Literature. Comprisinar—General Patlioloey; a Cla.ssitication of Diseases according to Pathnlogrical Principles; a Diblioirraphy, with lle- ferences ; an Appendix of Formula;; a Pathological Classification of Diseases, &c. Jly J-VMBs Copland, M.D. F.R.S., Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, &c. &c. Vols. 1 and 2, 8vo. 30s. each, cloth. Parts 1 to 10—Abdomen to Pestilence (H.EMAQAsnic). Parts 1 to 4, 9s. eacli; Parts 5 to 10, 4s. 6d. each. *,* Part XL will shortly be published.—To be completed in One more Volume. The Preface, with a Pathological Classification of Diseases, &c. forming a Key to the Systematic Study of Practical Medicine, as well as an arranged Table of the Contents of the ■\Vork, will accompany the last Part. An Indb.x of the Individual Topics comprised under the various Chapters and Sections’of each article will also be given in the last Part. “We feel it a great duty to record our opinion—that, as there is no medical practitioner in this country, old or young, high or low, who will not derive great pleasure and gi’eat profit by consulting Dr. Coplaud’s Dictionary, so we think there is no one who should not add the work to his library. The information amassed in these volumes is literally enormous, and contemplated simply as an accumulation, it must excite astonishment as the production of an individual; but when it is further considered, that the whole of the materials have been most carefully selected from all existing sources, most patiently studied, valued, winnowed, digested, elaborated, and arranged into compact and simple forms, easily accessible, and readily available in practice, it is not easy to point out, in the whole range of medical literature, any work by a single hand so much calculated to excite admiration of the industry and talents of the author. On every article contained in the volumes, the reader cannot fail to be stnick with the writer’s most extensive learning, which has enabled him to collect knowledge from all authorities, ancient and modern, foreign and domestic ; and he will, at the same time, be no less surprised than gratified at the singular power which has arranged the whole so lucidly and in such systematic order.”—British and Foreign Medical Review. CURLING.-A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE DISEASES of the TESTIS, and of the Spermatic Cord and Scrotum. By T. B. Curling, Lecturer on Surgery, and Assistant-Surgeon to the London Hospital, Surgeon to the Jews’ Hospital, &c. Author of “ A Treatise on Tetanus.” 8vo. with Illustrations oy Bagg, 18s. cloth. “ Tlie author has not only been happy in the selection of his subject, as a treatise embracing within a moderate compass all the diseases of the testis, and of the scrotum, was very much wanting, but he has executed his undertaking with praiseworthy industry and zeal, aided by a sound practical judgment. In his book lie has moreover thrown much new light on the nature and treatment of the disorders of the testicle, and produced a work on those diseases, not only superior to any yet published, but which, we imagine, is not likely to be soon super- seded by a better. The volume is elegantly printed, and the woodcuts, by Bagg, are beautiful.”-British and F’oreign Medical Review. ! DONOVAN.-A TREATISE ON CHEMISTRY. i By Michael Donovan, M.R.I.A. 4th Edition, fcp. 8vo. Vignette Title, 6s. cloth. i ELLIOTSON.-HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY. 1 AVith which is incorporatedmuchofthe elementary part ofthelNSTiTUTioNEsPHYSioLOGic.E I of J. F. Bluinenbach, Professor in the University of Gottingen. By John Elliotson, M.D. Cantab. F.R.S. Fifth Edition. 8vo. with numerous Woodcuts, £1. 2s. cloth. Separately, in Three Parts, as follows:— Part 1, General Physiology, and the Organic Functions. 5th Edition, 10s. 6d. “ 2, The Animal Functions. 5th Edition, 14s. “ 3, Human Generation; the Growth, Decay, and Varieties of Mankind: with an Appendix on Mesmerism. I7s. FIELD.-POSTHUMOUS EXTRACTS FROM THE YETERI- NARy RECORDS of the lute JOHN FIELD. Edited by his Brother, William Field Veterinary Surgeon, London. ,8vo. 8s. boards. ’ GRAHAM.-GRAEFENRERG; OR, A TRUE REPORT OF the WATER-CURE (as practised at Graefenberg): with itn Account of its Antiquity. Bv 1 Robert Hay Graham, .M.D. 8vo. 6s. cloth. GRAYES.-A NEW SYSTEM OF CLINICAL MEDICINE By Dubli Meinbii of the IBs. cloth. HENSLOW.-THE PRINCIPLES OF DESCRIPTIYE AND PHYSIOLOGICAL BOTANY. By .1. S. Hi nslow, M.A. F.L.S. &c. 1 vol. fcp. 8vo. with dcuts, 6s. cloth. I'll I.-51UJ.UU1UAL BUIA.NY. By. Vignette Title, and nearly 70 WoodciMEDICAL AND SUKGICAL WORKS, nOLLAND.-MEDICAL NOTES AND llEELECTIONS. Contents.—On Hereditary Disease—On Hleedine: in Affections of the Brain-On the Abuse of Purgatives—<Jn points where a Patient may judge for himself—On Gout, and the use of Colcliicum—On the Epidemic Inlluenza—On Insanity, Intoxication, &c.-On Mercurial MPflintlPS—( in thp MPflw*nl TrnntTVionf nirl \ n-A nj«4- .....1 i\: 1 ..r . Medicines—On the Medical Treatment of Old Age- Influence of Weather in relation to Disease, &c. ■On Diet, and Disorders of Digestion—'1 he IIOOPER.-LEXICON MEDICUM: A MEDICAL DICTIONARY Anatomy, Botany, Chemistry, containing an Explanation of the Terms in Materia Medica, Midwifery, Pharmacy, Physiology, Practice of Physic, Surgery, And the various branches of Natural Philosophy connected with Medicine: compiled from the best Authors. By the late Dr. Hooper. 7th Edition, revised and enlarged, by Klein Grant, M.D. &c. Lecturer on Therapeutics. 1 vol. 8vo. 30s. cloth. IIOOKER-THE BRITISH ELORA, In Two Vols. Vol. 1; comprising Phienogamous or Flowering Plants, and the Ferns. By Sir William Jackson Hooker, K.H. LL.D. F.R.A. and L.S. &c. &c. &c. 5th Edition, with Additions and Corrections, and 173 Figures illustrative of the Umbelliferous Plants, the Composite Plants, the Grasses, and the Ferns. 8vo. with 12 plates. Us. plain,; with the plates coloured, 4s, cloth. Vol. 2, in Two Parts, comprising the Cryptogamia and Fungi completing the British Flora, and forming Vol. 5, Parts 1 and 2, of Smith’s English Flora, jfc'l. 4s. boards. HOOKER-COMPENDIUM OE THE ENGLISH ELORA. 2d Edition, with Additions and Corrections. By Sir W. J. Hooker. l2mo. 7s. 6d. cloth. THE SAME IN LATIN. 6th Edition, 12iuo. 7s. 6d. boards. HUGHES (DR. H. M.)-A CLINICAL INTRODUCTION TO THE PRACTICE OF AUSCULTATION, and other Modes of Physical Diagnosis; intended to simplify the Study of the Diseases of the Lungs and Heart. By H. M. Hughes, M.D. Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, Assistant-Physician to Guy’s Hospital, &c. Fcp. 8vo. 6s. cloth. “ Dr. Hughes has given in this volume the most complete and practical exposition with which we are acquainted of the means of diagnosis derivable from auscultation and percussion. His aim was to present to the student a concise, intelligible, and coirect account of the various means by which the several forms of thoracic disease are at present diagnosticated. And this design we conceive Dr. Hughes has carried out with great success; his descriptions are conveyed in plain, forcible, and intelligible language, and the characters and modifications of all the thoracic sounds usually encountered in practice are faithfully expressed. We therefore confidently recommend Dr. Hughes’s work to the student as an inseparable com- panion to the stethoscope, throughout the whole period of his hospital studies.” Medico-Chirurgical Review. “ A very excellent work, which cannot fail to be of great use to the attentive student. In it he will find every information requisite to direct his proceedings in the clinical study of auscultation. Every page shows that the author has learnt what he teaches from the book of nature as well as from the writings of his predecessors.” British and Foreign Medical Review. “That a really practical manual of auscultation for students has been long required cannot be doubted. Dr. Hughes has, we conceive, been perfectly successful in supplying the desideratum. We recommend this volume to the student as an inseparable companion to the stethoscope throughout the whole period of his hospital studies.”—Medical Gazette. HUNT.-RESEARCHES ON LIGHT: An Examination of all the known Phenomena connected with the Chemical Influence of the Solar Rays ; embracing all the published Photographic Processes, and many new Discoveries in the Art, &c. By R. Hunt, Keeper of Mining Records, Museum of Economic Geology. 8vo. with Plate and Woodcuts, 10s. 6d. cloth. KNOWLSON.-THE YORKSHIRE CATTLE DOCTOR AND FARRIER : a Treatise on the Diseasesof Horned Cattle, Calves, and Horses, written in plain language, which those who can read may easily understand. The whole being the resuit of 70 years’ extensivd practice of the Author, John C. Knowlson. New Edition, revised, cor- rected, and enlarged. Many of the Recipes in this book are worth 10 guineas each, and the whole are new to the world. 8vo. boards, 7s. KRAMER.-NATDRE AND TREATMENT OF THE DISEASES of the EAR. By Dr. William Kramer. Translated from the German, with the latest im- provements of the author since the last German edition, by J. R, Bennett, M.D. &c. 8vo. with plates, 10s. 6d. boards.9 PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, BROWN, AND CO. LAllDNER’S CABINET CYCLOPAEDIA; Comprisin'' ii Series of Urii;iniil Works on History, Diosraphy, Literature, the Sciences, Arts, aud Munufactureii. Conducted and edited by Dr. LAUuNiiii. The Series, complete, in One Hundred and Thirty-three Volumes, i6’39.18s. The works, separate, 6s. per volume. LARDNER & WxVLKER —A TREATISE ON ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, and METEOROLOGY. Ey D. Lardnek, LL.D. E.R.S., and 0. V. Walker, Secretary of the Electrical Society. 2 vols. fcp. 8vo. 12s. cloth. LATHAM-ON DISEASES OE THE HEART. Lectures on Subjects connected with Clinical Medicine; comprisinp; Diseases of the Heart. Ey P. M. Latham, M.D. Physician Extraordinary to the Queen; and late Physician to St. Eartholomew’s Hospital. In Two Volumes. Vol. 1,12mo. 8s. cloth. “ A book pointedly designed and admirably suited to popularise the study of Diseases of the Heart; and, as it is one of no ordinary merit, both as to matter and style, we have great pleasure in reviewing it, chapter by chapter, from beginning to end. As appears, indeed, from what has been stated concerning the author’s own estimate of his labours. Dr. Latham’s work may be looked upon as a Cardiac Pathologn made Easy. But it is much more than this. It is a deeply reflective volume, replete with results indicative of close observation, and abounding with hints and directions which cannot fail to give a strong and beneficial impulse to the study of cardiac disease.”—British and Foreign Medical Review. LAYCOCK.-A TREATISE ON THE NERVOUS DISEASES OE WOMEN; comprising an Inquiry into the Nature, Causes, and Treatment of Spinal and Hysterical Disorders. By Thomas Laycock, M. D. Member of the Royal College of Surgeons in London. 8vo. 10s. 6d. cloth. LECTURES ON POLARISED LIGHT, Delivered before the Pharmaceutical Society, and in the Medical School of the London Hos- pital. 8vo. illustrated by above 50 Woodcuts, os. 6d. cloth. LEEEVRE.-AN APOLOGY EOR THE NERVES; Or, their Importance and Influence in Health andDisease. Bythelate Sir George Lefevre, M.D. Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, &c. &c. &c.; Atithor of “ The Life of a Travelling Physician,” “Thermal Comfort,” &c. Post 8vo. 9s. cloth. “ Sir George Lefevre’s ‘ Apology’ is one of those at once learned, gossiping, and clever works, which the profession, and many out of it, especially those who have lived long enough to sympathise with and enjoy the author’s peculiarities, will delight to peruse, without de- riving from it habits of superficial examination or dogmatical dictation.”—Literary Gaz. LEE.-LECTURES ON THE THEORY AND PRACTICE OE MIDWIFERY, delivered in the Theatre of St. George’s Hosp. By Robert Lee, M.D. F.R.S. Fellow of the Royal Coll, of Physicians, Physician to the Brit. Lying-in Hosp., and Lecturer on Midwifery at St. George’s Hosp. 8vo. with nearly 70 Illustrations on Wood, 15s. cloth. “ A truly practical work, containing not only the author’s opinions on the different sub- jects connected with midwifery, but the results of his experience, founded on an accurate knowledge of medical science, great industry and perseverance, and extensive opportunities of practice in the art of delivery at the British Lying-in Hospital. It forms a most excellent book of instructions, and will be found useful for the student, and also for the general prac- titioner, who will obtain from it the best kind of information on the various and indeed all points of material difficulty and of less frequent occurrence.”—Lancet. LEVER-PRACTICAL TREATISE ON ORGANIC DISEASES of the UTERUS: being the Prize Essay to which the Medical Society of London awarded the Fothergillian Gold Medal for 1843. By John C. W. Lever, M.D. Member of the Royal College of Physicians, London, Assistant-Accoucheur at Guy’s Hospital, &c. 8vo. 9s. cloth. “ Dr. Lever is one of those physicians who have a right to address the medical public. He has not written before he has seen, but, on the contrary, he has seen before he has written. The result is a sound, practical work ; not an analysis of other people’s opinions, but founded on the author’s own personal experience ; and, ns such, well deseiwing our serious considera- tion. We may safely pronounce his treatise one of the most practical and useful that have yet been published in our country; one which will undoubtedly tend to promote the study of uterine pathology.”—Lancet. LIEE (THE) OE A TRAVELLING PHYSICIAN, From his first Introduction to Practice; comprising Twenty Years’ Wanderings through the peater part of Europe: with Notes of Events, Descriplions of Scenery, and Sketches of Character. By the fate Sir George Lefevre, M.D. 3 vols. post 8vo. with 3 coloured Plates, i61. 11s. 6d. cloth. “The present work is written in a lively, often facetious, style—interspersed with deep reflection and acute observation. We return our best thanks to the unknown, or at least anonymous, author for the entertainment and information we have derived from Ids amusing life, which we hope will be prolonged so that he may be able, twenty years hence, to give us three more volumes of professional travels through modern Babylon.” Johnson’s Medico-Chiruroical Review.10 . MEDICAL AND SURGICAL WORKS, LINDLEY.-A SYNOPSIS OF THE BRITISH ELORA, Arraiij'-ed according to the Natural Orders; containing Vasculares, or Flowering Plants 3d Edition, with numerous Additions, Corrections, and Improvements. By John Bindley Ph.L). F.R.S., &c. Fcp. 8vo. 10s. 6d. cloth. ’ LINDLEY.-AN INTRODUCTION TO BOTANY. 3d Edition, with Corrections and considerable Additions. By Dr. Bindley. 1 large vol. 8vo with numerous Plates and Woodcuts, 18s. cloth. Tlie Author has followed very nearly the method recommended by De Candolle. lie has adopted four great divisions, under the respective heads of Organography, Vegetable Phy- siology, Glossology, and Phytography. The present edition has received a great accession of new matter, especially in what relates to Vegetable Anatomy and Physiology. BINDLEY-ELORA MEDICA: A Botanical Account of all the most remarkable Plants used in Medicine. By John Bindley, Ph. D. F.R.S. B.S. &c. Professor of Botany in the Bondon University College, &c. 8vo. ISs. cloth. Few persons engaged in teaching Medical Botany have not experienced great inconvenience from the want of some work in which correct systematical descriptions of medicinal plants might be found, and cheap enough to be used as a cla.ss-book. The necessity that Students should have access to a botanical account of this nature became so urgent as to induce the appearance of the above volume. LISTON-THE ELEMENTS OE SURGERY. By Robert Liston, Surgeon to the North London Hospital. New Edition, almost entirely re-written, in one very thick volume, 8vo. with upwards of 150 Woodcuts, and Three Copper- plates, 25s. cloth. The general principles which ought to guide the practitioner in the management of consti- tutional disturbance are here laid down. The descriptions of particular diseases have been faithfully sketched from nature. LITTLE.-ON ANKYLOSIS, OR STIEE-JOINT: A Practical Treatise on the Contractions and Deformities resulting from Diseases of Joints. By W. J. Little, M.D. Lecturer at, and Assistant-Physician to, the London Hospital; Phy- sician to the Orthopaidic Institution, the Infant-Orphan and the Merchant-Seaman’s Orphan Asylums, &c.; Author of “ a Treatise on Club-Foot.” 8vo. with Illustrations on Wood, 8s. 6d. cloth. LITTLE.-A TREATISE ON THE NATURE OE CLUB-EOOT and ANALOGOUS DISTORTIONS ; including their Treatment, both with and without Surgical Operation; illustrated by a series of Cases and numerous Practical Instructions. By W. J. Little, M.D. 8vo. with Forty-one Wood Engravings, 12s. cloth. Contents : Opinions of Authors, Varieties of Club-Foot, Anatomy, Pathology, Causes, Distortions from Teething, Contractions from Paralysis and Spasm, Hysterical Distortions. L0UD0N.-ENCYCL0PJ]DIA OE PLANTS; Comprising the Description, Specific Character, Culture, History, Application in the Arts, and every other desirable particular, respecting all the Plants Indigenous to. Cultivated in, or Introduced into, Britain. Edited by J. C. Loudon. F.L.S. H.S. &c. : the Specific Characters by Prof. Bindley; the Drawings by J. D. C. Sowerby, F.L S.; and the Engravings by R. Branston. New Edition, corrected, with nearly 10,000 Engravings on Wood, and with a Supplement. 8vo. 73s. 6d. cloth. I MACKENZIE.—PRACTICAL TREATISE ON DISEASES OE the EYE. By W. Mackenzie, M.D. Surgeon Oculist to the Queen for Scotland, &c. 3d Edition, corrected and enlarged, with an Introduction, explanatory of a Horizontal Section of the Eye, by T. Wharton Jones, Surgeon; and an Appendix on the Cure of Stra- bismus, by Surgical Operation (which may be had separately, is. sewed). 8vo. with above 100 Woodcuts, and Copperplate, 25s. cloth. “The methods of treatment are in every case judicious, and appear to be founded rather on practice than on theory—ratlier on his own experience than on the reports of others, necan mo.st strongly recommend the work.”—Lancet. \IACKENZIE.-THE PHYSIOLOGY OE VISION. By W. Mackenzie, M.D. &c. 8vo. 10s. 6d. cloth. yiACLEOD.-ON RHEUMATISM IN ITS VARIOUS PORMS, “ We have seldom read a work which has given us more unalloyed satisfaction. I t is full of sound practical observations, conveyed in language remarkably ireelroin technical phraseo- logy.”—Times.PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, BROWN, AND CO. 11 Af CORAIAC.-METIIODUS AIEDENDI; Or, the Description and Treatment of the principal I^'senses incident to the Human Fra^ llv H. M‘Corm.\c, M.D. Consulting I’hvsician to the Uelfast Hospital; and I rofessor of the Theory and I’ractice of Medicine in the Royal Belfast Institution. 8vo. IGs. boards. A1‘C0RAIAC.-EXP0SITI0N OP THE NATURE, TREATAIENT, and PRKVRNTION of CONTINUED FEVER. By H. M'Coumac, M.D. 8vo. Gs. boards AIARX AND AVILLIS-ON THE DECREASE OE DISEASE effected bv the Progress of Civilization. By C. F. H. Maux. M.D. Professor of Medicine in the University of Gottingen, &c. j and R. Willis, M.D. Member of the Royal College of Physicians, &c. Fcp. 8vo. 4s. ALVUNSELL-THE DUBLIN PRACTICE OE AIIDAVIEERY. By Professor Maunskll. 12mo. 5s. boards. AIAUNSELL & EVANSON.-PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE M.\NAGE.MENT and DISEASES of CHILDREN. By H. Maunsell, M.D. &c. and R. T. Ev.anson, Sl.D. 4th Edition, revised, 8vo. 12s. Gd. cloth. AIIDDLEAIORE-TREATISE ON DISEASES OE THE EYE, And its Appendages, By R. Miodlemore,M.R.C.S. of Birmingham. 2vols. 8vo. 35s. cloth. AIILES (AVILLIAAI, ESOJ-THE HORSE’S EOOT, AND HOAV TO KEEP IT SOUND. By W. Miles, Esq. Imp. 8vo. with Illustrations, 5s. cloth. “ Mr. Miles has treated his very important topic with great research and labour, and displays much natural sagacity, and that perfect mastery of details which only practical experience can teach. He has besides illustrated his lessons with a number of drawings on stone. To all who have the care of horses this volume will be a valuable acquisition, because it is a perfectly practical and intelligible informant.” Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal. AIOORE-THE POWER OE THE SOUL OVER THE BODY, Considered in relation to Health and Morals. By George Moore, M.D. Member of the Royal College of Physicians, London, &c. 2d Edition, post 8vo. 7s. Gd. cloth. “A most interesting work.”—Medical Gazette. “ Pleasing, earnest, eloquent.”—Lancet. “ A valuable work, and its literary merits are great.”—Critic. “ Read the book, and judge for yourself.”—Athen.®um. AIORTON-A VETERINARY TOXICOLOGICAL CHART; Containing those Agents which are known to cause Death in the Horse: with the Symptoms, Antidotes, Action on the Tissues, and Tests. By W. J. T. Morton, Lecturer on Veterinary Surgery, &c. 3s. Gd. sheet; Gs. case; 8s. Gd. rollers. MORTON.-A MANUAL OE PHARMACY EOR THE STUDENT of VETERINARY MEDICINE; Containing the Substances employed at the Royal Veterinary ' Coll., with an Attempt at their Classification, &c. By Mr. Morton. 3d Edit. 12mo. 10s. cloth. NELIGAN.-MEDICINES, Their Uses and Mode of Administration; including a Complete Conspectus of the Three British Pharmacoposias, an Account of all the New Remedies, and an Appendix of Formulae. By J. iMoorb Neligan, M.D.; Physician to the Jervis Street Hospital, Dublin; and Lec- turer on JIateria Medicaand Therapeutics in the Dublin School of Medicine. 8vo. 12s. Gd. cloth. “Dr. Neligan is fully competent to write ably on any medical subject to which he directs his attention; and is evidently a man of highly cultivated miud, of liberal and most enlightened views, and withal a sound practical physician. His work on medicines is a very valuable and accurate compilation.”—Medico-Chirurgical Review. OWEN-LECTURES ON THE COMPARATIVE ANATOMY and PHYSIOLOGY of the INVERTEBRATE ANIMALS, delivered at the Royal College of Surgeons in 1843. By Richard Owen, F.R.S. Hunterian Professor to the College. From Notes taken by William White Cooi'er, M.R.C.S. and revised by Professor Owen. With Glossary and index. 8vo. with nearly 140 Illustrations on Wood, 14s. cloth. *»* A Second and concluding Volume of the above, being the Lectures delivered during the present session, is preparing (by Prof. Owen) for the press. PERCIVALL.-THE ANATOMY OE THE HORSE; Embracing the Structure of the Foot. By William Percivall, M.R.C.S. Veterinary Surgeon 1st Life Guards. 8vo. 20s. cloth. In this volume the Veterinary Lectures of the Author have been freely referred to; but the old matter has undergone much revision and emendation, and lias been altogether fresh cast, and arranged in a systematic form.MEDICAL AND SURGICAL WORKS. 12 rERCIVALL.-IIIPPOPATHOLOGY. A Systematic Treatise on the Disorders and Lamenesses of the Horse, with their most approved methods of Cure. 8vo. Woodcuts, Vol. 1. 10s. 6d.; Vols. II. and 111. 14s. each, bds. This work consists of 3 Volumes, which, though connected as a whole, may be consulted as distinct treatises. Vol. I. External Diseases; Vol. 11. Internal; Vol. 111. Lameness. PEREIRA.-ELEMENTS OF MATERIA MEDICA AND THE- RAPEUTICS; comprehending the Natural History, Preparation, Properties, Composition, Eftects, and Uses of Medicines. By Jon. Pereira, M.D. F.R.S. Assistant Physician to the London Hospital, &c. Part I. contains the General Action and Classification of Medicines, and the Mineral Materia Medica. Part II.—The Vegetable and Animal Kingdoms, with a vast number of Woodcuts, including Diagrams explanatory ol the Pro- cesses of the Pharmacopoeias, a Tabular View of the History of the Materia Medica, from the earliest times to the present day, and a very copious Index. New Edition, thoroughly revised, with the Introduction of the Processes of the New Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia, and containing additional articles on Mental Remedies, Light, Heat, Cold, Electricity, Magnetism, Exercise, Dietetics, and Climate, with about a Hundred Additional Woodcuts illustrative of Phanna- ceutical Operations, Crystallography, Shape and Organization of the Feculas of Commerce, and the Natural History of the Materia Medica. 2 vols. 8vo. with nearly 400 Woodcuts, ^2.. 10s. cloth. PEREIRA-A TREATISE ON FOOD AND DIET, With Observations on the Dietetical Regimen suited for Disordered States of the Digestive Organs: and an Account of the Dietaries of some of the principal Metropolitan and other Establishments, for Paupers, Lunatics, Criminals, Children, the Sick, &c. By Jon. Pereira, M.D. F.R.S. & L.S. &c.; Author of “ Elements of Materia Medica.” 8vo. IGs. cloth. “ The work of Dr. Pereira is not only an excellent text-book to be placed in the hands of students, but one absolutely necessary for the use of every practitioner at the present moment, whether he has kept pace or not with organic chemistry in its recent rapid progression; it is calculated, by enabling the regular practitioner to found his directions for diet on a scientific basis, to prevent the abuse of the public mind by the empirical and frequently pernicious or ridiculous precepts of homoeopathists, hydropathists, and charlatans.” Brit, and For. Med. Review. PITILIP.-A TREATISE ON PROTRACTED INDIGESTION and its Consequences ; being the application to the Practical Department of Medicine of the Results of an Inquirv into the Laws of the Vital Functions: addressed by the Author, on the retirement from the Medical Profession, both to the Members of that Profession and to his well-educated Public, particularly Parents. By A. P. AV. Philip, M.D. F.R.S.L. and E. Fellow of the Royal Colleges of Physicians of London and Edinburgh, &c. 8vo. 10s. 6d. cloth. PHILIP-A TREATISE ON THE NATURE AN CURE OF THOSE DISEASES, either Acute or Chronic, which precede Change of Structure: with a View to the Preservation of Health, and particularly the Prevention of Organic Diseases. By A. P. Wilson Philip, M.D. F.R.S. L. & E. 8vo. 12s. boards. RAMADGE.-CONSUMPTION CURABLE, And the Manner in which Nature and Remedial Art operate in effecting a He.Tling Process in Cases of Consumption : illustrated by Cases; with a Mode of Treatment. By Dr. Ramadge. 3d Edition, 8vo. coloured Plates, 8s. boards. REES (DR. G. 0¥EN.)-0N THE ANALYSIS OF THE BLOOD AND URINE, AND ON THE TREATMEN T OF URINARY DISEASES. By G. Owen Rees, M.D. F.R.S. Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, Principal Medical Officer to the Pentonville Prison, and Assistant-Physician to Guy’s Hospital. 2d Edition, 8vo. 7s. 6d. cloth. “A precise and accurate treatise on the chemical history of the blood and the urine in health and disease, and an useful and judicious guide in explaining the best methods ot conducting the analysis of these two important fluids. The second edition is very greatly improved ; and the work, in its present form, may be regarded as a valuable text-book to the student of chemical pathology, whether beginning or advanced ; and as such we recommend it to the professional reader.”—Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal. “ We need hardly say that we strongly recommend Dr. Rees’s unpretending treatise as a most useful companion to the pathological chemist. It has the advantage, now-a-days somewhat rare, of being equally instrurtive to the student and practitioner ; and we know of no better manual on the chemical analysis of the blood and urine to place in the hands of those who are joining themselves as pupils to the newly-founded schools of practical chemistry in this metropolis.”—Medical Gazette. REES.-TIIE ANALYSIS OE INORGANIC BODIES. From J. J. Berzelius. BylG. O. Rees, M.D. 12mo. 5s. boards.PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, BROWN, AND CO. IIEECE.-TTIE MEDICAL GUIDE, For the use of tl\e ClerRV, Heads of Families, Seminaries, anti Junior Practitioners in Medi- cine ; com prisincT a complete Modern Dispensatory and a Practicallreatise on the Distinpruish- ins: Symptoms, Causes, Prevention, Cure, and Palliatiou, of the Diseases incident to toe Human Frame. By R. Rkeck, M.D. late Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons of Loudon, &c. 16th Edition, 8vo. 12s. boards. REID (DR.)-ILLUSTRATIONS OE THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE of WARMING and VENTILATING, with Preliminary Remarks on Health and Length of Life. By D. B. Reid, M.D. F.R.S.E. 8vo. With Diagrams, and 320 Engravings on wood, I6s. “ Dr. Reid has in this treatise most elaborately investigated the theory and practice of ventilation in all its bearings, and accumulated such a mass of information ns to render it hy far the most interesting and valuable work on the subject that has yet been published. We most cordially recommend it to our readers. They will derive both knowledge and entertain- ment from it i and, moreover, will learn how to protect themselves and their patients from one of the most powerful and most insidious causes of disease.”—Lancet. RICHERAND.-ELEMENTS OE PPIYSIOLOGY. By A. Richerand. 5th Edition. Translated from the latest French Edition, and supplied with Notes and an Appendix, by Dr. Copland. 2d Edition, 8vo. 18s. boaids. RICORD.-A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON VENEREAL DIS- EA.SES; or. Critical and Experimental Researches on Inoculation, applied to the study of these Affections, with a Therapeutical Summary and Special Formulary. By Pit. Ricord, M.D. Surgeon of the Venereal Hospital of Paris, Clinical Professor of Special Pathology, &c. &c. . Translated from the French, by Henry Pilkington Drummond, M.D. 8vo. 12s. cloth. SANDBY (REV. G.)-MESMERISM AND ITS OPPONENTS; AVith a Narrative of Cases. By the Rev. George Sandbv, Jun. Vicar of Fli.xton, and Rector of All Saints with St. Nicholas, South Elmham, Suffolk; Domestic Chaplain to the Right Hon. the Earl of Abergavenny. Fcp. 8vo. Gs. cloth. SEYMOUR.-ILLUSTRATIONS OE SOME OE THE PRINCI- PAL DISEASES of the OVARIA, their Treatment, &c. By E. J. Seymour, M.D. 8vo. with a folio Atlas of 14 Engravings, 21s. boards; India paper, 31s. 6d. SEYMOUR.-NATURE AND TREATMENT OE DROPSY, Considered especially in reference to the Diseases of the Internal Organs of the Body which most commonly produce it. Parts 1 and 2—Anasarca and Ascites. With an Appendix, and a Translation of the Italian Work of Dr. Geromini on Dropsy. By Edward J. Seymour, M.D. Physician to St. George’s Hospital. 6s. boards. SEYMOUR.-OBSERVATIONS ON THE MEDICAL TREAT- MENT of INSANITY. By Dr. Seymour. 8vo. 5s. boards. SHEPPARD.-OBSERVATIONS ON THE PROXIMATE CAUSE of INSANITY. By J. Sheppard. 12mo. 3s. 6d. cloth. SKEY.-NEW MODE OE TREATMENT EMPLOYED IN THE CURE of various forms of ULCERS and GRANULATING WOUNDS. By Frederic C. Skey, F.R.S. Assistant-Surgeon to St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, &c. 8vo. 5s. cloth. SKEY.-OBSERVATIONS ON A NEW OPERATION EOR LATERAL CURVATURE of the SPINE: in which an attempt is made to discriminate the class of Cases in which alone it is applicable, as a means of Cure. By Frederic C. Skey, F.R.S. Assistant Surgeon to St. Bartholomew's Hospital, &c. 2d Edition, 8vo. 2s. 6d. sewed. SMITH.-ON HYDROCEPHALUS. On the Nature, Causes, Prevention, and Treatment of Acute Hydrocephalus, or Water-Brain- Fever. By Tho.mas Smith, A.M. M.D. Senior Physician to the Leeds Publit Dispensary; Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians; Member of the Royal College of Surgeons, London; Graduate in Medicine, and Muster in Surgery, .of the University of Glasgow, &c. Post 8vo. with Plates, 5s. 6d. cloth. SMITII.-AN INTRODUCTION- TO THE STUDY OE BOTANY. By Sir .1. E. S.mitii, late President of the Liniucun Society. 7th Edition, corrected, in which “Grammar of Botany” is combined with that of the “ Introduction.” By Sir >\ . J. Hooker, K.H. LL.D. &c. 8vo. with 36 Steel Plates, I6s.; with coloured plates, jf2. 12s. Cd. cloth. ’14 MEDICAL AND SURGICAL WORKS SMITH-THE ENGLISH ELORA. Hy Sir J. E. Smith, M.U. F.R.S. late President of the Linna;an Society. 6 vols.Svo. 12s. boards. SMITH-SYSTEMATIC TREATISE ON EEVER. By SouTHWooD Smith, M.D. Physician to the London Fever Hospital. 8vo. 14s. boards. Wholly of a practical nature: its object is to ascertain the real phenomena, and the best treat- ment, of Fever. and DISEASES of the FOOT and LEG of the HORSE; comprehendina: the Comparative Anatomy of these parts in other Animals, embracing the subject of Shoeing and the proper Treatment of the Foot; with the Rationale and Effects of various Important Operations, and the best Methods of performing them. By W. C. Spooner, M.R.V.C. 12mo. 7s. 6d. cloth. STAEEORD.-TWO ESSAYS ON THE DISEASES OE THE SPINE. 1. On Angular Curvature of the Spine, and its Treatment. 2. On the Treatment of Lateral Curvature by Gravitation, Lateral Exercise, &c. By R. A. Stafford, F.R.C.S.E. Surgeon Extraordinary to H.R.H. the Duke of Cambridge, Senior Surgeon to the St. Maryle- bone Inlirmai’y, &c. &c. 8vo. 5s. cloth. SWAN-NEW METHOD OE MAKING DRIED ANATOMICAL PREPARATIONS. By Joseph Swan. 3d Edition, 8vo. much enlarged, 5s. boards. SWAN.-ILLDSTRATIONS OE THE COMPARATIVE ANATOMY of the NERVOUS SYSTEM. By Joseph Swan. In 4to. £2. 12s. 6d. cloth. SWAN-DEMONSTRATION OE THE NERVES OE THE HUMAN BODY. By J. Sw'an. Imp. folio, with 50 Engravings, half-bound russia, £\*. The whole of the foregoing work, on a reduced scale, on 25 Steel Plates, by Finden. Demy 4to. 31s. 6d. cloth. SWAN-TREATISE ON DISEASES AND INJURIES OE THE NERVES. By J. Swan. 8vo. with Plates, 14s. boards. TAMPLIN (MR. R. WO-LECTURES ON THE NATURE AND TREATMENT OF DEFORMITIES, delivered at the Royal Orthopaedic Hospital, Bl9orasbuiy Square. By R. W. Tamplin, F.R.C.S.E. Surgeon to the Hospital. Fcp. 8vo. with Mood Engravings, 7s. 6d. cloth. “ To those numerous members of the profession desirous of making then^elves acquaiiited with the most recent and approved principles of treating a class of diseases which have hitherto been considered to fall within the special domain of quackery, we cordially recommend Mi. Tamplin’s valuable lectures.”—Medical Gazette. TEALE (T. P. ESQ.) - A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON ABDOMINAL HERNIA. By Thomas Pridgin Teale, F L.S. Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons, and Surgeon to the Leeds General Infirmary. 8vo. with numerous lllustiations, 15s. cloth. THOMSON.-ATLAS OF DELINEATIONS OF CUTANEOUS ERUPTIONS; illustrative of the'Descriptions in Ur. Bateman’s Synopsis ot Cutaneous Diseases. By A. Todd Thomson, M.D. &c. Royal 8vo. with 128 graphic Illustrations, carefully coloured on 29 Plates, £'A. 3s. boards. THOMSON. - ELEMENTS OF MATERIA MEDICA AND THERAPEUTICS; including the Recent discoveries and Analysis of ' “LiPk AnthonV Todd Thomson, F.L.S. &c. &c, 3d Edit on enlarged and ;>«Provcff thick vol. 8vo. with upwards of 100 Wood Engravings, now hrst insei ted, ^ 1.1 Is. 6d. cioui. The author has collected, in one point of view, all irif chemistry has enriched Materia Medica, and those practical facts Mhich c^^ has furnished for elucidating the doctrine of Therapeutics. He has mailed hmiselt kbours"^^ chemists aud medical writers, as well as America. He has endeavoured to trace the nature and phenomena of Morbid action, ana to ascertain the influence exerted by Remedial agents in removing it.THOMSON-CONSPECTUS OE THE PHARMACOPGEIAS. 15th Eilitioii, thoroufflily revised and greatly improved, containing the alterations and additions of the last London Phannacopoeiu and the New French and American Uemedies. Uy Dr. A. T. Tho.mson. 18mo. 5s. Gd. cloth; roan tuck, as a pocket-book, gilt, Os. 6d. In this manual is compressed the most useful part of the information which is obtained from larger works; and by atlbrding a facility of re-e.\arnination, keeps in view remedies not constantly nor generally employed. THOMSON-THE LONDON DISPENSATORY; Containing Translations of the Pharmacopoeias of London, Edinburgh, and Dublin ; the Elements of Pharmacy; the Botanical Description, Natural History, and Analysis of the Substances of the Materia Medica, &c. &c.: with a copious Index of Synonyms. Forming a Practical Synopsis of iMateria Medica, Pharmacy, and Therapeutics: with Tables and Wood- cuts. ByANTiioNV Todd Thomson, M.D. F.L.S. Fellow of the Koyal College of Physicians, Professor of .Materia Medica, &c. in University College, London. 10th Edition, corrected throughout, and materially improved, 8vo. 21s. THOMSON.-THE DOMESTIC MANAGEMENT OF THE SICK ROO.M, necessary, in Aid of Medical Treatment, for the Cure of Diseases. By A. Todd Thomson, M.D. F.L.S. &c. 2d Edition. Post 8vo. 10s. 6d. cloth. “ There is no interference with the duties of the medical attendant, but sound, sensible, and clear advice what to do, and how to act, so as to meet unforeseen emergencies, and co-operate tvith professional skill.”—Literary Gazette. TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL MEDICAL AND CHIRUR- GICAL SOCIETY of LONDON; comprising many valuable and important Papers on Medi- cine and Surgery. Vol. X. of the New Series, 8vo. with G Engravings (3 coloured), 12s. bds. TRAYERS.-INQUIRY INTO THE PROCESS OF NATURE in repairing INJURIES of the INTESTINES, illustrating the Treatment of Penetrating Wounds and Strangulated Hernia. By Mr. Travers. 8vo. rvith Plates, 15s. boards. TRAYERS.-OBSERVATIONS ON THE PATHOLOGY OF VENEREAL AFFECTIONS. By Benjamin Travers, F.R.S. Surgeon Extraordinary to Her Majesty. 8vo. 3s. boards. TRAYERS.-INOUIRY CONCERNING THAT DISTURBED STATE of the VITAL F’UNCTIONS, usually denominated Constitutional Irritation. By B. Travers, F.R.S. Surg.-Extraordinary to Her Majesty. 2d Edition, revised, 8vo. 14s. boards. TRAYERS.-A FURTHER INOUIRY CONCERNING Con- stitutional IRRITATION, and the Pathology of the Nervous System. By B. Travers, F.R.S. &c. 8vo. 14s. boards. TURNER.-A TREATISE ON THE FOOT OF THE HORSE. And a New System of Shoeing, by one-sided nailing; and on the Nature, Origin, and Symp- toms of the Navicular Joint Lameness, with Preventive and Curative Treatment. By J.Turner, M.R.V.C. Royal 8vo. 7s. Gd. boards. « 1 'll 1 -.t- A XIJIUVA. , kJ. J. 11, « VJCl 111. liailU V . • ill 111. &c. &c. 3d Edition, corrected, 8vo. illustrated with 1240 Engravings on Wood, 50s. cloth. URE.—RECENT IMPROVEMENTS IN ARTS, MANUFAC- TURES, and MINES1 being the 2d Edition of a Supplement to the 3d Edition of his Dictionary. Hy Andrew Uke, M.D. I'.K.S. &c. 8vo. with numerous Wood Kiigravintjs, 14s. cloth. ^ WAGNER.-ELEMENTS OF COMPARATIVE ANATOMY Designed especially for the use of Students. By Rudolph Wagner M D Professor of Com qualifications, evinces a thorough knowledge of the sub>ct. As an elcmentaiT treatise it cannot lad to supersede the now obsolete iiiunual of the author’s predecessor. In short a/ter careful perusal, we have no hesitation in recommending it to every student of anatomy de- manv regarding a collateral deiiartment which has served to clear up many of the doubtful and uiicertaiii points in physiological science.”—Medical Gazette *¥AI,KER.-TliE OCTOIST’S VADE-MECUM : AVALKER.-A PRACTICAL CHART OF DISEASES OF THE SKIN ; ffivingr a succinct Description of these affections : their Diagrnosis and Treatment itv G. A. Walkkr, Surgeon, Author of “ Gatherings from Grave Yards,” “The Grave Yards of London,” “ Interment and Disinterment,” &c. &c. 8vo. as a hook, 3s. cloth; mounted on rollers, 3s. 6d.; varnished, 4s. 6d.; on a sheet of drawing-paper, is. 6d. WALNE.-CASES OE DROPSICAL OVARIA REMOVED BY the large Abdominal Section. By D. Henry Walne, Surgeon. 8vo. 3s. 6d. cloth. ‘^hese cases were well chosen, the arrangements admirably made, the operation was well performed, and the after-treatment most judicious; we have, therefore, to praise the iude- ment, boldness, dexterity, and professional skill of Mr. Walne.” ^ Dublin Journal of Medical Science WHITE-A COMPENDIUM OE THE VETERINARY ART* Containing plain and concise Observations on the Construction and Management of the Stable; a brief and popular Outline of the Structure and Economy of the Horse ; the Nature Symptoms, and Treatment of the Diseases and Accidents to which the Horse is liable • the’ Best Methods of performing various Important Operations; with Advice to the Purchasers of Horses; and a copious Materia Medica and Pharmacopoeia. By James White, late Vet. Surg. 1st Dragoons. 17th Edition, entirely reconstructed, with considerable Additions and Alterations, bringing the work up to the present State of Veterinary Science, by W. C. Spooner, Vet. Surgeon, &c. &c. 8vo. with coloured Plate, 16s. cloth. WHITE. - A COMPENDIUM OF CATTLE MEDICINE; Or, Practical Observations on the Disorders of Cattle and the other Domestic Animals, except the Horse. By the late J. White. 6th Edition, re-arranged, with copious Additions and Notes, by W. C. Spooner, Vet. Surgeon, Author of a “ Treatise on the Influenza,” and a “ Treatise on the Foot and Leg of the Horse,” &c. 8vo. 9s. cloth. WIGAN (DR. A. L.)-THE DUALITY OE THE MIND, Proved by the Structure, Functions, and Diseases of the Brain, and by the Phenomena of Mental Derangement; and shown to be essential to Moral Responsibility. With an Appendix: —1. On the Influence of Religion on Insanity; 2. Conjectures on the Nature of the Mental Operations; 3. On the Management of Lunatic Asylums. By A. L. Wigan, M.D. 8vo. 12s. cl. WILLIS.-A TREATISE ON MENTAL DERANGEMENT ; With Cases setting forth the necessity of Restraint in the Cure and Management of the Insane. By Francis Willis, Esq. of Shiliingthorpe House, near Greatford, Stamford, M.D. 2d Edition, revised. Post 8vo. 5s. cloth. WILSON.-PRACTICAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. By W. J. Erasmus Wilson, F.R.S. Teacher of Practical and Surgical Anatomy and Phy- siology. 1 vol. 12mo. with 50 Engravings on Wood by Bagg, 10s. 6d. cloth. v THE VETERINARIAN: A Monthly Journal of Veterinary Science- Edited by Messrs. Percivall and Youatt, assisted by Professor Dick and Mr. Karkeek. 8vo. Is. 6d. *»* A New Series commenced on the 1st of January, 1842. THE VETERINARY RECORD, And Transactions of the Veterinary Medical Association. EDITED BY Messrs. SPOONER, SIMONDS, and MORTON. Published Quarterly—in January, April, July, and October. 8vo. 2s. 6d. THE LONDON MEDICAL GAZETTE, Or Journal of Practical Medicine. Published in Weekly Numbers (which may’be had stamped for post), and in Monthly VAKis.—(Secpage 3). yvilson and Ogilvy, 67, Skinner Street, Snoivli II, London. , f r f • %iN bound by WrSTLEYS fe C.LARK. _ j'