5i Method.—Put butter and sugar in a bowl, beat 10 minutes ; add yolks of eggs, and beat io minutes. Beat whites to stiff froth; add flour mixed with Plasmon ; next add a little of egg and flour alternately, stirring gently all the time. Lastly, add baking powder ; pour mixture into buttered moulds (peach- shaped for preference); bake in moderate oven 15 minutes. Colour with carmine and sift sugar over. Garnish with vine leaves. 109. ALMOND CAKES.—Ingredients : 2 oz. flour ; 2 oz. castor sugar ; 2 oz. butter ; 1 legg; pinch salt; k teaspoonful vanilla ; 1 teaspoonful Plasmon. Method.—Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; beat the egg and add it alternately with the flour (the salt and Plasmon should be previously mixed with the flour); then add the vanilla. Beat the mixture well. Grease a shallow baking tin and line with paper, spread the mixture over evenly, and bake in a quick oven for 15 minutes. Just before it is done brush over with the white of 1 egg beaten up with 1 oz. sugar; then strew 2 oz. chopped almonds over and return to the oven, and bake till a fawn colour. Turn out and cut into triangle shapes. 110. PLASMON TEA BUNS.—Ingredients : 2 oz. butter ; 2 oz. sugar; 5 oz. flour; x large teaspoonfil Plasmon; 1 egg, divided and beaten separately; 2 oz. dried cherries; 1 oz. angelica, cut up thinly ; a few drops vanilla flavouring ; J tea- spoonful baking powder. Method.—Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; add yolk of egg, and beat well; then add flavouring; mix dry ingredients on plate and add them to the ingredients in the basin, and a little milk if required—it must not be mixed too stiffly. Lastly, add the white of egg, beaten to stiff froth ; put the mixture into small greased tins, and bake in hot oven for about 15 minutes; or it maybe baked in one large tin, when it will tak# about 1 hour to cook. 111. PLASMON CHEESE CAKES.—Ingredients: 1 pint milk ; 1 teaspoonful Plasmon; 1 oz. butler; 1 oz. sugar; 1 oz. flour ; 1 oz. almonds, blanched and chopped; a few drops essence of almonds ; 1 egg.