8 of the human system for the restoration of waste of muscle, nerve, bone, etc., etc., the importance of this substance will be at once recognised. As Plasmon possesses no flavour or scent, it can be safely added to any dish, with the surety that it will add enormously to its nourishing properties, and, moreover, assist in making it light and digestible. In practice it is found that Plasmon can be used in endless ways, and that, if properly handled, it adds to the lightness of cakes, bread, and sweets, and gives a rich, smooth character to savoury and vegetable dishes. As a mere enricher, it can be sprinkled over a dish like salt, but for cookery purposes it requires a little skilled preparation. The following recipes have been compiled to serve as a guide for the numerous ways in which Plasmon can, with profit and advantage, be used in cookery. These dishes, and the directions given to show the best way to prepare them, will amply prove all that is claimed for Plasmon. The hints given will be found useful. This, added to the know- ledge gained by experience, should help to make all dishes in which Plasmon is used—and there are but very few indeed where it cannot be employed—more nourishing, and there- fore more profitable. Variety in food often offers difficulties. There are not many varieties of meat, but few species of fish, and not too many vegetables. How, then, can one obtain variety ? This is answered by Plasmon, which will prove an excellent aid to bring about variety, by taking the following recipes as a basis for a number of other dishes by merely substituting the chief ingredient for another. Variety, it is often said, not only charms the palate, but frequently it is the means of creating an appetite in those to whom the mere thought of food has been distasteful. Good cooking does not always mean expensive cooking, and as a rule the best cooks are the most economical. The use of Plasmon spells interior economy, because when properly blended and treated upon correct culinary lines, food thus prepared fulfils that important mission of making it more wholesome, more varied, more pleasurable, and therefore more profitable in the end. We are indebted to the August and September (1903) numbers of “ Food and Cookery,” edited by Mr. C. Herman Senn, for a number of the recipes appearing in this book.