6o smoothly the arrowroot with cold milk to a paste. This sauce is excellent for asparagus, artichokes, young carrots and turnips, marrows, and various kinds of beans. 136. TOMATO SAUCE.—Ingredients : 3 doz. tomatoes ; i oz. garlic; i oz. eschalot; 2 oz. salt; 1 green capsicum ; h teaspoonful cayenne; 2 pickled gherkins; 6 pickled onions; 1 pint vinegar; 1 gill Plasmon stock; juice of 6 lemons. To each 1 lb. of tomato pulp allow 1 pint chilli vinegar. Method.—Choose the tomatoes when quite ripe and red; put them in a jar with a cover to it and bake them till quite tender ; skin them and rub through a hair sieve. Measure the pulp, and to each 1 lb. pulp add 1 pint vinegar, and then, having previously finely powdered or finely chopped, add all the other ingredients. Boil the whole together till everything is tender, then again rub through a sieve, and add the lemon juice. Now boil the whole again, adding the Plasmon stock till it becomes as thick as cream, and keep continually stirring (with a wooden spoon); bottle when quite cold. If the flavour of the garlic or eschalot is not liked, put very little; also very little chilli vinegar, unless a hot sauce is desired. 137. CHUTNEY SAUCE.—Ingredients: Equal parts of sweet chutney and hot chutney; add 4 tablespoonfuls, ivhen mixed, an equal measure of brown sauce ; 1 teaspoonful French mustard; 1 tablespoonful tomato pulp ; 1 gill Plasmon stock; 1 teaspoonful brown colouring; salt to taste. Method.—Boil together, mix well, and bottle. This sauce is nice with grills, broils, savouries, entrees, cold meat dishes, etc. If liked sweet, mix together more sweet chutney than hot, and vice versa. 138. SWEET SAUCE (for Puddings). —Ingredients : \ pint Plasmon stock; 1 oz. butter; \oz. flour; ig oz. sugar; grated lemon rind, or nutmegs or cinnamon, or a few bitter almonds. Method.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour (away from the gas or fire) till of a smooth consistency, then add the Plasmon stock gradually ; cook a few minutes ; stir in the sugar and grated lemon rind, nutmeg or cinnamon, and serve. If the flavour of bitter almonds is liked, the almonds must be left in the milk, to infuse, about 10 minutes before making this sauce.