59 133. FRENCH WHITE SAUCE (Bechamel).—Ingre- dients : 2 pints white Plasmon stock ; i pint cream ; i table- spoonful Plasmon arroivroot; r small bunch herbs; i small bunch parsley ; 2 cloves; half a bay-leaf ; a feiv mushrooms or a little grated cheese ; salt to favour ; a feiv peppercorns (not pepper, as that would spoil the white colour of this sauce). Method.—Put the sweet herbs, parsley, bay-leaf, cloves, and peppercorns (tied loosely in a piece of muslin) to boil in the Plasmon stock until the stock has extracted the flavour of the herbs, etc.; remove the muslin bag of herbs, and allow the stock to boil' till nearly half is reduced. Now mix the arrow- root smoothly with the cream, pour it to the reduced stock, simmer slowly for 10 minutes if the sauce be thick ; if too thin, stir briskly till it thickens. Always make it thick, as it may be thinned by adding milk, cream, or Plasmon stock. Add grated cheese to this stock, if liked, and serve over a cauliflower, turnips, etc. 134. BROWN SAUCE (Espagnole).—Ingredients : 2 slices lean ham; 1 lb. veal; i| pint Plasmon stock; 2 or 3 sprigs parsley ; half a b ay-leaf; 2 or 3 sprigs savoury herbs ; 6 small green onions; 3 eschalots ; 2 cloves; 1 blade mace ; 2 glasses sherry or madeira ; 2 oz. butter; 2 oz. flour; 1 or 2 tablespoonful sauce ; salt to sauce. Method.—Fry the veal and ham (cut into neat pieces) a good brown, till a nicely coloured glaze is produced in the pan, then add the remainder of the stock and all the herbs, etc., and allow it to simmer for 1 hour. Strain and skim off every particle of fat; fry the flour a nice brown, add the strained stock, cook a few minutes, then add the two sauces, salt, cayenne, and last of all the wine, and serve. 135. CREAM SAUCE (for Vegetables).—Ingredients: 1 oz. Plasmon arroivroot; 1 pint Plasmon stock ; | pint cream ; salt; any fresh vegetables—carrot, turnip, onion—and bunch sweet herbs. Method.—Put all the vegetables, nicely cut, into x pint water, and cook gently till the flavour of vegetables is extracted; strain the vegetables away from stock, and use equal parts of crearn and vegetable stock or Plasmon stock ; thicken with 1-2 oz. arrowroot to each pint ; season, and add a few drops of lemon juice, if liked. Previous to adding the stock blend