12 ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. same extent, are exhibited black; the pulmonary veins and arteries, to their tertiary ramifications in the lungs, are demon- strated in great numbers ; the former distinguished by their red, the latter by their black, colour ; the hepatic vein, the eaeliac axis, the renal and mesenteric vessels, as also the iliacs and profundae femoris, are all well exhibited: the origin of the thoracic duct in the lumbar region, its course along the pos- terior mediastinum, and its termination at the junction of the left subclavian and jugular veins, are also shown ; the duct may be known in the preparation by its white colour. B< c. Gl. A perfect preparation of the foetal circulation at birth, made by injection and drying ; and removed from the body. B. c. 62. Another of the same, showing the circulating organs in connexion with the body. B. c. 63. The heart and principal blood-vessels of an adult, shown in relation to the cavities of the chest and abdomen; the arteria innominata gives off four branches, viz. the right sub- clavian, the right and left carotids, and the middle thyroid; the pulmonary or right cavities of the heart, and the veins, are seen of a yellow, the systemic or left cavities, and the arteries, of a red colour. B. c. 64. A dried preparation in an adult, showing irregu- larity in the vessels arising from the arch of the aorta. The aorta is of a red colour, the oesophagus of a yellow colour, and the pneumo-gastric nerves appear white; the trachea is of its natural colour. This preparation shows the right subclavian artery taking its origin as the last branch from the arch of the aorta, and running thence behind the trachea and oesophagus to the right axilla. It shows also a fact, first noticed by Dr. Hart, that in this deviation from the regular course of the artery, the right inferior laryngeal or recurrent nerve does not, as usual, wind round the vessel. It shows the nerve, as de- scribed by him, arising from the pneumo-gastric about the mid-