Vll INTRODUCTION. In this collection are deposited the rare and valuable prepa- rations of hernia, and of diseases of the urinary and genital organs, selected from the practice of Mr. Wilmot and Mr. Cusack, and employed by these gentlemen for the illustration of their lectures and writings. A$ presentations from Sir Philip Crampton, Bart., here, also, are preserved many valuable specimens, particularly some in illustration of the effects of liga- tures on great arteries, and of experiments on the excision of diseased joints. In this Museum will be found several of the ori- ginal specimens of infantile diseases, deposited here by Dr. Evan- son and Dr. Maunsell, when engaged in writing their well-known treatise on the diseases of children. And here, too, in the de- partment of Midwifery, are to be seen many beautiful and unicjue preparations from Dr. Beatty, illustrative of able and learned memoirs added by him, from time to time, to the Medical Lite- rature of this City. By Doctor John Hill, the present talented and zealous Cura- tor, much of the information contained in this Catalogue has been furnished, especially in reference to the Pathological De- partment. The plan of arrangement is taken from the Catalogue of the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland. (See page ix. following.) It applies equally to the Anatomical and Pathological series—the preparations, themselves, being marked, in the former, with white letters, those in the latter, with red, for distinction sake. An abstract of Cuvier’s classification of animals, as being that followed in the arrangement of the preparations in the Anatomical Department, is also introduced, here, at p. x., from the same work. The notice of each object must neces- sarily, in such a catalogue as this, be very brief. But, never- theless, as references are frequently given to published accounts of many of them, and as others will be more fully explained when exhibited at lecture, it will be found by the diligent student to serve all the purposes he can require of it for instruc-