70 PATHOLOGICAL CATALOGUE. B. b. 15. Partial adhesion of the pericardium to the surface. B. b. 16. A single band of adhesion connecting the pericar- dium to the surface of the heart. B. b. 17. Pericardium in an adult, adhering to the heart throughout the greater part of its extent, and studded over with miliary tubercles. B. b. 18. Pericardium, thickened and cartilaginous, adhering to the surface of the heart Dr. Graves. B. b. 19. Pericardium, adhering partially to the surface of the heart, and ossified in patches. B. b. 20. Ossification of the pericardium, in an old man, to a remarkable extent. B. b. 21. Partial adhesion of the pericardium, with a white spot on the surface of the heart. There is thickening and ossifi- cation of the mitral valves, with hypertrophy of the left ventricle. B. b. 22. Wound of right auricle of heart, inflicted by the pointed extremity of a fractured rib. One of the wheels of a heavy waggon passed over the chest of a man aged 30. Great pain with difficulty of respiration succeeded, and continued for three hours, when he was taken to Steevens’ Hospital: he died suddenly, on admission. The fifth rib was found fractured near its sternal extremity. Its vertebral fragment, which terminated in a sharp point, was sticking through the pericardium, oppo- site the wound in the auricle here displayed, but not into the heart itself, and the sac of the pericardium was full of fluid blood: five other ribs on the right side were separated from their cartilages. It is rational to suppose that, in this case, life was prolonged during the time which elapsed between the re- ceipt of the injury and the death of the individual, by the point of the broken rib remaining in the wound it had made in the auricle ; and that the sudden manner in which death occurred, subsequently, was the consequence of the withdrawal of the end of the fragment, permitting, then for the first time, the blood to escape and pass into the pericardium.—Mr. Cusack. B. b. 23. Left ventricle of the heart, transfixed by a bayonet-