22101419407Med K8756Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b28098547grfjool jsoarti for Eontion. COOKERY BOOK AND GENERAL ASIOMS FOR Plain Cookery. FORMULATED BY MISS BRIGGS. Ciias. Straker and Sons, Printers to tlie Board, Bishopsgate Avenue, E.C. 8. B. 2315-14—15,000—31.12,90.7 S/C?S’/-6 4 * * WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. &T r ' aPEEFACE. A LTHOUGH COOKEKY, as a subject, bas made much, progress during tbe last decade, it is still, unfortunately, often placed on a different platform from almost any other subject; consequently the old mistaken ideas are yet extant, e.g., persons who think the exact measurements and fit of their garments indispensable, look upon cookery as a matter of instinct only, exact weights and measurements as superfluous, and old broken stoves, with a scarcity of utensils, a necessity ! The same class of people would most strenuously object to a house designed and built without proper regard to exactitude in measurements, &c., and to the furniture made without pro- per or with broken tools! Again, it is urged that the cookery curriculum should comprise little else but stews and potato cooking; but would this be teaching the subject of cookery? It is forgotten that the more a cook knows intelligently, the more thrifty and economical she can be (on the principle that the more a teacher knows of her subject the better she can simplify it); and that ignorance is the soul of waste, both as to time and material, would scarcely be disputed in any other branch. On the other hand, it is sometimes objected that the School Board course is too circumscribed, and not suggestive enough. These objections, it is hoped, are met in the present syllabus. The first course has been made as elementary and economical as possible, consistent with the necessity of making it sufficiently comprehensive and general. Various suggestive footnotes have been appended to many of the receipts to prevent a too narrow interpretation. Dishes slightly in advance of these are given for those pupils who are fortunate enough to remain at school, and go through a second course of cookery lessons. Nov., 1890. E. Briggs.CONTENTS :o: Flan of Teaching . . , . ; Syllabus to First Course .... Syllabus to Second Course Introduction to General Axioms for Plain General Axioms for Plain Cookery . . Notes on Boiling Potatoes . . Notes on Roasting Meat .... Index to Receipts ..... Index to Axioms . . 0 . . PAOJt 5 7 . . 57 Cookery 08 . . 90 . 107 . . 108. . . 11C? . . 114 1to Scfjool 9Soato for Eontton. SCHOOL MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT. INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY. THE PLAN OF TEACHING. 1. Each lesson opens with questions based on the “Axioms for Plain Cookery,” page 99 (which embrace the points or prin- ciples requiring special emphasis), given in the previous lesson. 2. The demonstration of the day’s lesson then follows for 1 hour, during which there is no dictation, so that the whole attention of the girls is given to the teacher, thus enabling her to give the reasons and explanations in a more connected form. This plan also affords more scope for the exercise of the teacher’s intelligence, and hence that of her pupils, which was interfered with by the more mechanical method of merely dictating receipts while preparing the dishes. 3. At the close of the demonstration the class is again questioned on the “Axioms” for the day’s lesson. 4. The class is then divided into two detachments, the first practising one hour, the second occupying the last half-hour in dishing up the dishes which are ready, making any sauces required (in which much practice is necessary), washing up, B6 cleaning knives, scrubbing, etc. This order is reversed each week to equalise the amount of practice. While the first 12 girls are practising, the second copy the day’s “Axioms” from the large sheets into an exercise book kept especially for this purpose; any spare time may be used in copying Receipts from the printed Book of Receipts,* into another exercise book,f which they may take home to enable them to practise, and in which they are encouraged as much as possible. N.B.—As there are always some Pupils who do not obtain prizes, the separate small copies of “ Axioms ” are given to these on leaving, but this is not necessary, where they do gain a prize, as the Axioms are incorporated with the Receipt Book, because they are frequently referred to in it, to save repetition. * The Receipt Book for this purpose is strongly bound, 12 copies of which are allowed for each Centre, but care is necessary, as the girls destroy and disfigure them very much sometimes. To obviate this diffi- culty and to help the teacher in finding out the culprits, the receipts have been arranged consecutively according to the syllabuses, so that the books can be strapped down with elastic bands on the pages for the lesson. f The “Axiom” exercises are corrected by the teachers; these corrections are necessarily few now they are copied and not dictated. As the receipt exercise books are allowed to be taken home, these are not corrected.7 SYLLABUS OF LESSONS FOR THE FIRST COURSE. N.B.—The numbers in brackets refer to the numbers of the rules in the General Axioms for Plain Cookery. (See page 99.) Lesson 1—First Rules for Cookery (1), Vegetable Soup (2). Egg Snow for Invalids. Eggs Cooked in Two Ways. ,, 2—Boiled and Steamed Potatoes (3.) Baked Bread Pudding. „ 3—Sbepberd’s Pie. Baking Powder. Boiled Suet Pudding (4). „ 4—Roast Meat, and Rules for Dry Roasting (5 and 6). Yorkshire Pudding. To Clarify Dripping. „ 5—Boiled Fisb and Sauce (7 and 8). Fisb Cakes. ,, 6—Pea Soup (9). Seed or Currant Cake. ,, 7—Minced Meat witb Masked Potatoes (10). Coffee (19). „ 8—Boiled Meat (12). Caper or Onion Sauce (8). Rice Pudding. „ 9—Leg of Beef Stew (27). Rock Cakes (13). ,, 10—(a) Meat Pie and Patties (Short Pastry) (14). Hunter Pudding. I (b) Fruit Pie for Practice. ,, 11—Fish Fried in Batter (15). Scones. „ 12—Potato Soup (23). Bread with Yeast (16). ,, 13—(a) Meat Pudding. Brown Bread or Baking Pow- der Bread (17). (b) Fruit Pudding for Practice. ,, 14—Baked Haddock. Beef Tea (18). Porridge (11.) ,, 15—(a) Toad in The Hole (20). Pancakes. Gruel. (b) Fruit Baked in Batter for Practice. ,, 16—Haricot Beans (either way) (21). Baked Pota- toes (22). Roly-Poly Pudding. „ 17—Irish Stew. Boiled Greens (24). Poached Eggs. ,, 18—Lentil Soup. Sausage Rolls (Flaky Pastry) (25). Fried Sausage. „ 19—(«) Liver and Bacon, or Tripe and Onions. Tapioca or Sago Pudding (26). ' (b) Bacon and Eggs for Practice. ,, 20—Broiled Chops or Steak (28). Baked Dumplings or Turnovers. Cocoa.Reserve Dishes. Stewed Beef and Bice Cornish Pasties Boiled Cauliflower Barley Water Lemonade Plum Pudding Mince Pies Orange Marmalade Pickled Cabbage Salads Jam Season Dishes. This Syllabus is based on the following Rules:— !• That the lessons graduate from the simplest dishes, just as the teaching of any other subject should proceed from the elementary to the more advanced. 2. That all new classes commence with the first lesson and proceed in l-pgular order, instead of beginning with the same lesson, as those who have passed through part of a course. 3. That all the “Cookery Axioms” already formulated be included in this syllabus. 4. That in the case of Season Dishes none be omitted that have these special axioms, unless they have been given in a previous lesson. 5. Dishes bracketed thus (“) indicate that the second (b) may be used for practice, because the general method is the same for both, and that the first dish (a)—which, however, must be demonstrated—is usually difficult to dispose of, especially in the afternoon. 6. That two dishes requiring the same method should not occur in one lesson: e.g., Shepherd’s Pie and Milk Pudding. As these would both necessitate the use of ovens and pie-dishes, confusion might be caused, especially with young teachers. 7. The dishes demonstrated must be practised, but if some of the lessons, though enough for demonstration, should not prove sufficient for practice, dishes may be added from former lessons. With this object in view cold meat dishes are arranged prior to roasting and boiling meat; and this also obviates the difficulty of disposing of the meat. N.B.—Lesson No. 1 is arranged with the idea of intro- ducing albumen in its simplest form, when an egg will be cooked under boiling point, and another will be cooked by9 the usual plan of boiling 3 k minutes, to illustrate the effect of a higher degree of heat upon the albumen. This illustra- tion will be the guiding principle in cooking meat and vege- tables. The Egg Snow is to be tasted by the girls, and is * intended to make the first lesson as popular and attractive as possible. Reserve Dishes are to be taken at the 21st and 22nd lessons, because the Syllabus only comprises twenty, and the course consists of twenty-two.10 RECEIPTS. VEGETABLE SOUP. Ingredients :—1 large carrot. 4 large potatoes (parboiled). 1 small turnip. 1 large onion (parboiled or scalded).* 1 oz. dripping. A few celery leaves, or strip of celery. 1 teaspoonful brown sugar (if liked). 1 teaspoonful of salt. Method:—Wash all the vegetables except the onion, and peel it and the potatoes before parboiling; peel the turnip also, and scrape the carrot and celery, then cut them all into very small pieces. Melt the dripping in a saucepan, add the vegetables and simmer them about 10 minutes, stirring occa- sionally to prevent burning; then add the water and salt, and simmer 1 hour or until quite soft. Skim off the fat, season to taste, and serve.—To parboil potatoes : Simmer them whole about 5 minutes. U.B.—(1) It is an improvement to strain this through a wire sieve or colander into a basin, and rub the vegetables through with a wooden spoon. Then pour the whole back into the saucepan ; just let it boil, stirring a few times, and serve with toasted bread. * (2) See “Axioms” (23) The observance of this rule makes soups, stews, and any dishes containing onions more digestible. Scalding them does not draw out quite so much of the oil, but if to be fried, they are easier to brown than when parboiled. (3) A parsnip or any vegetable in season can be added. h teaspoonful of pepper 3 pints boiling water.11 (4) It is better to add more pepper last thing, because it loses its aroma with long cooking. EGG SNOW FOR INVALIDS. Ingredients:—1 egg (fresh). 1 tablespoonful milk. 1 teaspoonful sugar, or to taste. Orange or lemon juice to taste. Method :—Separate the egg, put the yolk into a small basic and the white on to a plate, beat the latter to a stiff froth with a knife. Add the sugar, milk, and juice to the yolk and beat well, then stir the white in very lightlyr and serve it in a clean bright tumbler, or a small glass dish. N.B.—(1) This is a very palatable form of taking raw eggs, and the flavouring can be varied by any simple fruit syrup, or the juice pressed from any fresh fruit. (2) Always break eggs into a cup or basin before using them, to see if they are good. A LIGHT DIGESTIBLE METHOD FOR COOKING EGGS. Method:—Place the egg in a saucepan of boiling water, put the lid on ; then move it at once from the fire, and let it stand on the hearth for about 6 minutes. When a number are cooked, aloi g r time is required, because each additional egg lowers the degree of heat—thus for 6 eggs allow about 12 minutes. Quite new-laid eggs take a minute or two longer; but one of the advantages of this method is, that a few minutes longer does not make them harder, because the heat is decreasing all the time. N.B.—The object of this mode is to prevent the albumen being hardened by boiling heat, thus rendering it much easier of digestion, and very suitable for invalids, and is frequently recommended by medical men. The white will be deliciously12 soft and creamy, and another egg should be cooked by the asual method of 3h minutes’ boiling, to show the difference in die white to the class. BOILED AND STEAMED POTATOES. See “ Axioms ” (3), page 99, and special notes on potato cooking, page 107. BAKED BREAD PUDDING. Ingredients :—1 lb. any scraps bread. | lb. sugar. J lb. currants or sultanas. 1 oz. finely-chopped suet or clarified dripping. 1 6^7 or Nutmeg or any spice to taste. A little salt, and dripping to grease the dish. Method:—Cut the bread into small pieces, put them into a basin with sufficient cold water to cover, and soak until soft. Then press the water away, and beat the bread finely with a fork. Wash and dry the currants. Break the egg into a basin, beat it well, then add it to the bread with the currants, sugar, spiie, and salt. Mix well, put it in a well-greased pie dish or tin, and bake about 1 hour. Serve hot or cold, but if the latter, dripping is better than suet. N.B.—(1) A little finely-chopped orange rind or grated lemon, may be used instead of the currants for a change. (2) The rind of both fruits can be dried, grated and bottled, for flavouring; but whether used fresh or dried, the peel must be very thin, because the white pith produces a bitter flavour. (3) For a change this pudding is good steamed or boiled from two to three hours. When eggs are dear 1 gill of milk can be used instead.13 SHEPHERD’S PIE. Ingredients:—About \ lb. cold meat (any |craps will do). About 2 lbs. cooked potatoes. A little milk. A little flour. Salt and pepper to taste. Hot stock, gravy, or water. A little scalded onion or herbs to taste, if liked.. Method :—Chop the meat finely and dredge it well with flour, then sprinkle it lightly with salt and pepper. Mash the pota- toes finely, and beat them with a wooden spoon until very light, adding enough milk to make them moist, and a little salt. Line the bottom of a pie-dish or baking-tin with potato, put the meat in, pour a few tablespoonfuls of hot gravy over, and pile the remainder of the potato on the top as lightly as possible. Finish it with a fork, and bake in a hot oven about 20 minutes, browning it nicely. N.B.—(1) When the dish is lined with potato the heat can- not reach the meat as readily as if it were at the bottom, and so it is not hardened. See “ Axioms for Cold Meat Cookery ” (10). For the same reason the meat is dredged with flour to protect it before adding the salt, as the salt hardens it also. (2) If the potato is not browned in the 20 minutes, place it before the fire, as cold meat simply requires heating through. RONE STOCK OR GRAVY. Ingredients :—Bones, cooked or uncooked. 1 onion stuck with four cloves. 1 small carrot. Cold water. 1 teaspoonful salt ] „ 0 , 1 teaspoonful sugar J 0 f^s’ wa*'cr* Method :—Chop the bones a little (if uncooked, wash in a little warm water), then put them with the onion, carrot, sugar and salt, in a large saucepan, and just cover with cold water. Simmer for 5 or G hours, removing the scum as it rises. When the bones look dry and full of little holes, the14 goodness has all been extracted. Strain the stock into a basin, and when cold remove all the fat. It is then ready for use. N.B.—This will do for soups, stews, hashes, gravies, <fcc. BAKING POWDER. Ingredients :—| lb. rice-flour or corn-flour, 6 oz. bi-carbonate of soda, 4 „ tartaric acid. 4 „ cream of tartar. Method :—Mix the rice-flour and soda together well on a sheet of clean paper ; crush the lumps out with a rolling-pin, then add the tartaric acid and mix well again. Pass it through a hair or wire sieve, if there be one • if not, mix and roll well again. Then put it into a bottle or canisber, and keep it well corked. SUET PUDDING Ingredients:—10 oz. flour. 2 „ bread crumbs. 3 or 4 „ suet. 1 tablespoonful brown sugar. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. A pinch of salt. Cold water or sour milk. Method :—Have ready a saucepan of boiling water. Skin, shred and chop the suet finely. Put all the dry ingredients into a bowl, and mix into a rather moist paste with the water or sour milk. If it is to be boiled, dip the pudding cloth into the boiling water, wring, and sprinkle it with flour, turn the mixture into it, tie it tightly, leaving room for it to swell, put it into the saucepan, and boil from 2 to 4 hours. But if steamed, grease a basin or mould well, put the mixture in, cover it with greased kitchen-paper, and put it into a steamer, or into a saucepan with only sufficient boiling water to reach half-way up the basin. Have a kettle of boiling water to re- new it occasionally.15 N.B.—(1) If this is wanted with a savoury dish, the sugar must be omitted. (2) Sour milk makes very light puddings and cakes, and should not be wasted. (3) In hot weather the suet is better not chopped, but roll it with a little flour after shredding it, and rub it into the flour very lightly with the fingers. (4) The grated rind and juice of a lemon and a little more sugar makes this into a plain Lemon Pudding; or a little ginger may be used. (5) The exact quantity of water or milk is not given, because so much depends on the quality of the flour. This also applies to any farinaceous food. ROAST MEAT AND DRY ROASTING. See “Axioms” (5 and 6), page 100, and special notes, page 10S. GRAVY FOR ROAST MEAT. Method :—When the meat is cooked put it on a hot dish, and pour the dripping into a jar. Pour about a gill of hot stock or water into the dripping-pan, scraping the brown particles off, which adhere to the pan, and which colour the gravy. Strain and pour it round the meat, not over it, or it would not be crisp but sodden. Salt must not on any account be sprinkled on the meat to make gravy, for when the gravy is drawn from the meat the latter becomes dry and indigestible. N.B.—(1) The gravy will be a richer brown if, in making the stock, the skin is left on the onion. (2) A plain stock without vegetables can be made for plain roasts, if preferred.16 YORKSHIRE PUDDING. Ingredients :—J lb. of flour. 1 or 2 eggs. 1 pt. of milk. A pinch of salt. Dripping. Method:—Mix the flour and salt in a basin, and make a hole in the centre. Break the egg into another basin, and add it to the flour, then put half the milk to it very gradually, stirring until it is smooth, and beat well. Add the remainder of the milk in the same way, and let it stand an hour, if possible, before cooking. Just cover the bottom of the baking-tin with hot fat from the meat; pour the batter in, and bake about i-hour before the fire if roasting meat, or in a quick oven. N.B.—(1) Eggs should always be broken into separate basins, lest they be not good. (2) This receipt also makes a plain boiled Batter Pudding, and it can be turned into a Black Cap pudding by the addition of a J lb. of currants. Boil 1£ hours, or steam 2 hours. TO CLARIFY DRIPPING. Ingredients :—Dripping. Boiling water. Method:—Put the dripping into a saucepan, with sufficient water to cover it well; let it boil fast about 20 minutes : then pour the whole into a basin or jar; let it remain until it is cold and the dripping firm. Raise the cake of dripping with a knife, pour away the water, and scrape of! anj sediment. If the fat is burnt at all, a little soda should be added. N B. (1) If the dripping stands too long when it is cold and firm it will absorb the water, and mil then require to be put into a slow oven to allow the water to evaporate. (2) In hot weather, when it is difficult to get the dripping firm, it is a good plan to place the jar of dripping, when cool- ing, in a howl of cold water.17 (3) If clarified dripping be beaten to a cream, it is very good for short pastry and cakes. (4) Another mode of clarifying dripping is to pour the dripping when hot into cold water, but do not boil it; then treat it as for method 1. This mode, however, does not purify so well. TO CLARIFY FAT. Ingredients :—Any scraps of fat cooked or uncooked. % pint cold water. Method:—Any scraps of fat from beef, mutton, pork, or veal may be clarified together. Cut the fat into small pieces, and put it into a saucepan with the water, leave the lid off, and boil gently about 1 hour, or until the water has quite evaporated, when the fat will be clear and the skin be shrivelled and dry. N.B.—(1) The quantity of water given creates sufficient steam to clarify 2 or 3 lbs. of fat. (2) Beef fat is better for cakes and pastry; mutton is harder, and better for frying purposes. TO BOIL FISH. Ingredients: 2 or 3 lbs. of any kind of fish (either winte or oily fish can be boiled). 1 pint hot water. 1 tablespoonful vinegar (if liked). 1 small teaspoonful salt. 6 peppercorns. Method :—If it is fish with scales, scrape it, and if a whole one, take the eyes out, cut off the fins (wash and preserve them), remove the inside, wash it in cold water, and take it out at once. Put the pint of water into a fish-kettle or saucepan, add the vinegar, salt, peppercorns, and fins; when it is quite hot, lay the fish in, and cook very gently indeed. Try it with a skewer18 after a few minutes—if the skewer separates the flesh easily, it is done—and take it up carefully at once, as it will quickly fall to pieces and lose flavour if it is cooked too long. Serve it on a very hot dish. N.B.—(1) See that the fish is fresh (stale fish is most un- wholesome, and therefore not cheap at any price); test it by pressing the fingers on the flesh. If it is firm and elastic and springs back, it is good, but, if it is soft and an impression is made, it is stale. (2) No special time can be given for cooking fish, because more depends on the thickness and kind of fish than the exact weight. A long flat fish weighing the same, would require less cooking than a small thick piece. (3) As fish contains a large proportion of water, only just sufficient to create steam is required for cooking it. The flavour is lost to a great extent in a large quantity of water, nor is the fish so light and digestible. A further advantage of this mode is that the skin of the fish will not be cracked by putting it into boiling water, as it does not nearly cover the fish, and thus the goodness is retained; but the rule for gentle cooking must be carefully observed. (4) The dish should be very hot for serving it on, and, when an old tablecloth is done with, there is sometimes a small whole piece left, which will make into a napkin for serving it on. PLAIN SAUCE FOR BOILED FISH. Ingredients :—1 tablespoonful flour. i pint of the water the fish is cooked in. Method .-—Mix the flour quite smooth with a very little cold water, add the fish water (strained) gradually, stirring well, then put into a small saucepan, stir until it boils, and serve with the fish. If parsley is added, it should be washed and well dried before chopping, and should not be put into the sauce until it has boiled, or the acid of the vinegar will turn it brown.19 jqr 33 '1) Butter is not really required when the fish watei is used', especially when the fins have been used also, becaus there is a little jelly in them which helps to enrich the sauce. (2) Turbot is cooked with the fins on because they are so rich in this gelatinous substance. (3) If butter is used 1 oz. will be required, and then the sauce must be made according to the method for melted butter, see page 23. FISH CAKES. Ingredients: -1 lb. cooked fish (any scraps). 1 lb. mashed potatoes (warm). 1 tablespoonful milk, or 1 oz. butter. 2 eggs (not required if the mixture is baked). f teaspoonful salt 1 or to taste. | teaspoonful pepper J Parsley. Frying fat (clarified mutton fat, or suet, or lard). Bread crumbs. Method:—Put plenty of clarified dripping or lard into a saucepan (a low stewpan is the best) to heat gradually. Be move any skin or bones from the fish, and shred it finely with two forks. Put the potatoes, salt and pepper into a basin; add the milk (if butter is used, melt it before adding it) and one egg to bind it, and mix thoroughly ; but do not make it too moist. Stir the fish in lightly, divide the mixture into small portions, and shape it with a knife on a floured board into cakes about 1 inch thick. Put the bread crumbs on a sheet of clean paper. Beat the other egg on a plate, brush the cakes over with it, and dip them in the crumbs. Try the fat, and if hot enough, fry them about 5 minutes ; drain on kitchen paper, and cover with paper also, to absorb the fat. Arrange on a hot dish. N.B.—(1) Any dish containing cooked potatoes will be much lighter if they are warmed. An easy methed for -warm- ing them (if they are not just cooked) is to put them in a basin, and place it over a saucepan of boiling water. This20 prevents them getting dry, which they would be liable to in an oven. (2) Frying is a quick method of cooking, though not an economical one; but this mixture is very good baked Pile it m a greased dripping-pan, and bake about 20 minutes in the oven or before the fire. The egg, bread crumbs and frying fat would then be dispensed with. (3) Fat for frying should be as free from salt as possible, as the salt prevents browning, so that clarified mutton fat and clarified dripping are both very good for this purpose. PEA SOUP. Ingredients :—1 pint split peas. f Two pennyworth cooked or uncooked bones. ( 2 quarts cold water. or 2 quarts of bone stock. 1 oz. dripping. 2 onions (parboiled and chopped finely). 1 turnip. 1 carrot. A strip of celery, or a few celery leaves or seeds. 1 teaspoonful brown sugar. 1 „ salt. Pepper to taste. Mint and toast. Method:—Wash the peas and soak them overnight in 2 quarts of cold water. Put the peas into a saucepan with the water in which they have been soaked, the bones, and the salt, sugar and dripping (the latter helps to soften the peas), let it heat very slowly ; this will also make the peas soften more readily. Skim it well before it boils, because the action of boiling will carry the scum down, and the soup will not be so good. Prepare the vegetables, and cut them into small squares; add them when the soup boils and simmer very gently about 2 hours, or until the peas are reduced to a pulp. Then take the bones out, season to taste and serve with powdered mint and squares of toast.21 N.B.—(1) The soup is much improved bypassing it through a wire sieve, before the mint is added. (2) This will be a richer and better soup if the bone stock is made according to the receipt page 13. (3) The bones must not be put into boiling water, or soup, or the nourishment will not be extracted. (4) Sometimes the peas will do without soaking, if they are not too old. SEED CAKE (VERY PLAIN). Ingredients:—10 oz. flour. 2 oz. dripping (clarified). 2 oz. sugar. 1 egg- 2 teaspoonfuls caraway seeds. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. About 1 gill milk. A pinch of salt. Method:—Grease a cake-tin. Beat the egg and a little of the milk together. Beat the dripping in a basin to a cream with a wooden spoon and add the dry ingredients (except the baking powder) and the egg and milk by degrees, beating all the time. Make it a rather moist mixture, and add the baking- powder just before putting it into the tin, beating it again. Bake in a hot oven about hour. N.B.—(1) This receipt can be varied according to fancy; by putting \ lb. currants or sultanas and a little spice, or lb. treacle and ginger to taste, will make it a plain ginger cake. (2) If 2 ozs. more dripping can be afforded the cake will keep moist longer. (3) See that the flour is quite dry before using it for cakes, pastry or bread ; if it is damp they will be heavy. (4) When currants are used, and are cleansed by washing, they must be dried before adding them to the cake, or it will be heavy. c22 MINCED MEAT AND MASHED POTATOES. Ingredients :—15 lbs. cooked potatoes (hot). \ lb. cold meat (any scraps). 1 tablespoonful milk. 1 dessert-spoonful flour, oz. dripping. About 1 gill bone stock. Salt and pepper to taste. Method Chop the meat finely, melt the dripping in a small saucepan, add the flour, and stir until quite smooth and brown; add the stock, stir until it boils, and season to taste. Put the meat in and let it just get hot through, but do not let it boil, or the meat will be hard. Mash the potatoes, add the milk, season to taste, and beat them quite light with a wooden spoon ; then make a wall round the dish, and pour the meat and gravy into the centre. TO MAKE COFFEE. Ingredients:—1 oz. coffee, or to taste. 1 pint boiling water. Method :—Scald the coffee-pot, then put the coffee into che upper half, press it down and pour on it the boiling water. Let it stand in a warm place about 5 minutes or till the water has run through into the lower half of the pot. Serve with hot milk. See “ Axioms” 19, Pule VI. When hot milk is served for coffee, or as a basin of milk and bread, it should not be allowed to boil, because the great heat hardens the albumen, rendering it less digestible, and in some cases causing illness. It should also be stirred occasionally while heating, to prevent the albumen rising to the top, which is usually thrown away as scum. When, milk is heated in a saucepan, rinse it first with cold water to prevent burning. JST.-B.—Rules 2, 3 and 7 apply also to the making of tea, but it should not stand more than five minutes after infusion. Nor should tea be allowed to stand on the leaves, even when wanted to drink cold.23 TO BOIL MEAT. See “Axioms” (12), page 102, and special notes on Meat, page 108. PLAIN ONION OR CAPER SAUCE. Ingredients :—4 large cooked f 1 tablespoonful capers. onions, or \ 1 teaspoonful caper vinegar. 1 oz. flour. \ pint stock. Salt to taste. Method:—Mix the flour smooth with a very little cold water, add the half-pint of water in which the meat has been cooked, gradually, stirring well. Put it into a small saucepan,, and stir until it boils, adding salt to taste. If for Caper Sauce, cut the capers in two and add the vinegar. For Onion Sauce boil the onions in two waters until quite soft, then chop finely (they can be passed through a sieve, if wanted very fine), and stir them into the sauce. N.B.—If wanted richer, 1 oz. butter can be used, as for Melted Butter, see page 28, or half milk and half stock can be used. RICE PUDDING. Ingredients:—1 quart milk. 4 oz. rice. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, or to taste, f 1 oz. suet shredded, or \ A little butter or clarified dripping. Grated nutmeg to taste. A pinch of salt. Method:—Grease a pie-dish. Wash the rice, and put it in- to the dish with sugar, nutmeg, salt and milk, and bake as slowly as possible from 2 to 4 hours. The more slowly farina- ceous puddings are cooked the better; it also makes them rich and creamy. . * (24 N.B.—Eggs are not necessary for Rice or any Farinaceous Puddings, though they add to the nourishment. LEG OF BEEF STEW. Ingredients :—1 lb. of leg of beef. 2 carrots. 1 turnip. 2 onions (scalded). 1 oz. dripping. , 1 pint boding water. 1 tablespoonful flour. About 4- gill vinegar. Salt and pepper to taste. Method:—Cut the meat into neat pieces and lay them in 'the vinegar for a few minutes to soften the fibres. Fry the onions till brown, then drain them free from fat and put them into a stewpan with the meat, taking it out of the vinegar. Add the boiling water, cover closely, and simmer gently about 4 hours. Prepare the other vegetables, cutting them into small squares, and add them about 1 hour before the stew is finished. Just before serving it, mix the flour to a smooth paste, with a little cold water, add it to the stew, stir it until it boils, season to taste and serve on a hot dish. It should be stirred a few times while cooking. 1LB.—(1) Any tough meat, such as the leg or shin of beef, should not be fried, as it only makes it harder; and as salt has the same effect, it is not added until the last. (2) Stews can also be cooked in jars with close-fitting lids (or covered with greased paper tied closely) in a slow oven. In this case, after taking the onions from the fat, put the flour to it, stirring until it is brown, then add the water gradually, still stirring well, until it boils ; pour this over the meat.25 Short or flaky paste. ROCK CAKES. Ingredients :— 1 lb. flour. 3 oz. dripping (clarified). 2 oz. currants. 2 oz. sugar. 1 eSS- About a- gill milk. 1 oz. peel (mixed). A pinch salt. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. A little grated nutmeg (if liked). Method:—Grease a baking-tin. Wash the currants, and beat the egg with a little of the milk. Beat the dripping to a cream, add the dry ingredients, and the egg and milk gradually, beating all the time. Put just sufficient milk to make it a stiff paste, or the cakes will not be rocky in ap- pearance. Drop the mixture on to the tin in little rough heaps with two forks and bake in a quick oven about 15 minutes. N.B.—(1) If the oven is not quite hot, the cakes will spread quite flat. (2) Baking powder should be added last whenever possi- ble, as it loses power as soon as it comes in contact with any moisture. When the mixture is very stiff, the baking powder should be added to the last portion of milk. (3) Salt is not needed when butter or lard is used instead of dripping. (4) The exact quantity of milk cannot be given, because the flour varies in the amount it absorbs, according to its quality. Good flour absorbs more moisture than poor flour. MEAT PIE. Ingredients-.—About 10 oz. beef skirt or steak. 2 oz. bullock’s kidney. 1 tablespoonful flour \ ■i teaspoonful salt > Seasoning. I „ pepper ) Boiling water.26 Method:—Cut the meat into nice pieces, mix the seasoning on a plate, dip the meat in it, place it in a pie-dish, and half fill the dish with boiling water to close the pores. When the steam has escaped wet the edges of the dish, line with narrow strips of paste, wet them also, cover it with paste, press it lightly down, trim the edges neatly, and draw them up with the back of a knife. Make a hole in the centre for the steam and gas to escape, ornament as liked, and bake in a hot oven at first (about 20 min.) to make the pastry rise, then cook it more slowly, (about 1 hour) to make the meat tender. KB.—(1) If cold water is poured over the meat, the juices will be drawn out, and the meat is then apt to be hard and stringy. (2) If the meat appears hard or tough, or very fresh (as it must be in hot weather), dipping it into vinegar will help to make it tender. (3) If the meat can be cut in slices and rolled, and put up- right in the pie dish, it retains its own gravy, rendering it much more digestible. MEAT PATTIES. Ingredients :—b lb. beef steak. 1 teaspoonful flour j teaspoonful salt A little pepper Short or flaky paste. Hot gravy or water. Method:—Mix the flour, salt and pepper, chop the meat finely, and dip it into this seasoning. Line patty pans with paste, put a little of the meat into each pan, and a very little hot water or gravy; cover with paste, press the edges well, and finish according to fancy. Make a hole in the centre, brush them over with milk to glaze them, and bake in a hot oven about 20 minutes, then cook very slowly another 20 minutes, to thoroughly cook the meat. Serve hot or cold. N.B.—(1) Any cold scraps of meat can be used, instead of fresh meat, but they would then only require the first 20 minutes’ cooking, in harmony with the “ Rules for Cooking Cold Meat,” page 102. j- Mixed.27 (2) If the pies or patties are not moist enough, pour a little gravy in through the hole in the centre j a small funnel is useful for this. SHORT PASTRY. Ingredients: —1 lb flour. 6 oz. dripping (clarified). 1 teaspoonful baking powder. A pinch of salt. Sufficient cold water to make a stiff paste. Method:—Put the flour in a basin, and mix the salt and baking-powder with it. Beat the dripping on a flat dish or plate with a knife until it is quite creamy, then rub it as quickly and lightly as possible into the flour. Add the water very carefidly, and let the. paste be quite dry and crumbling, turn it on to a floured board, roll it once only before using it, and bake it in a hot oven at once. N.B.—(1) Pastry, or cakes containing baking powder, should be baked at once, or it will lose its power. (2) Beating the fat makes the paste very short, and when dripping is used, also purifies it entirely from any dripping flavour, by the introduction of air while beating it. (3) When the fat is rubbed into the flour very little rolling is required. (4) For sweet dishes, a tablespoonful of white sugar is an improvement. ROUGH FLAKY PASTRY. Ingredients :—f lb. flour. 6 ozs. lard or clarified dripping 5 teaspoonful baking powder. A pinch of salt. Cold water. Method :—Mix the flour, baking powder, and salt in a basin, then cut the lard or dripping into it in small pieces. Make it into a light paste with cold water (not too wet, or it will be tough), put it on a floured board, flour it and roll it out thinly. Fold it in three, turn it round and roll it out again ; repeat this twice more, and then roll it out thinly for use.2S HUNTER PUDDING. Ingredients :—10 oz. flour. 2 oz. bread crumbs, or 4 tablespoonfuls. \ lb. suet (finely shredded and chopped). 6 oz. raisins (valentia or sultana) or | lb. currants. 2 oz. brown sugar. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. A pinch of salt. Water or sour milk (sufficient to make it moist). Method:—Have a saucepan of boiling water ready. If large raisins are used, pick and stone them; if sultanas or currants are used, clean and pick them. Mix all the dry ingredients together, and make it a rather moist mixture with the water or sour milk. Put it into a well-greased basin ■cover with greased paper, and steam or boil from 2 to 4 hours. N.B.—Pudding-cloths must be carefully washed and dried : the flavour of puddings is frequently spoiled by a musty cloth. The danger of this is entirely avoided by steaming, and is much less trouble. Another advantage is that the pudding can rise or swell to its full extent, because the greased paper covering it rises with it. MELTED BUTTER. Ingredients:—1 oz. butter. From h to 1 oz. flour (according to the thickness required). ■§ pint cold water. A pinch of salt. Method :—Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the flour, and stir over the fire one minute to cook the flour, add the water by degrees, stirring all the time until its boils ; add salt to taste, and let it boil slowly about three minutes.. N B.—(1). When used for puddings, sugar to taste (about 1 tablespoonful) must be added.3y MELTED BUTTER (2). Ingredients :—1 oz. flour. 4 oz. butter, i pint hot water. Method:—Put the butter and flour into a small basin, and work them together with a wooden spoon until smooth ; then add the hot water gradually, stirring all the time. Put it into a small saucepan, and stir until it boils. N.B.—The advantage of this method is, that only half the quantity of butter is required, still making good sauce. FRUIT PIE. Ingredients:—About 1 lb. fruit for a pint pie dish. 2 oz. moist sugar, or to taste. Water. Short paste. Method :—The general method is the same as for meat pies., but observe the following rules:— 1. For fruit pies it is better to put the fruit and sugar in layers, to ensure uniform sweetness. 2. Do not, however, put sugar on the last layer of fruit, as this will come in contact with the pastry, and is apt to make it heavy. 3. The quantity of water must be regulated according to the juiciness of the fruit. 4. Make openings in the sides, under the rim of pastry, to let out the steam. Cook it about 20 minutes in a hot oven, and then very slowly, to finish cooking the fruit. 5. If liked, it can be brushed over very lightly with cold water, and sprinkled very lightly with castor sugar; but great care should be taken not to use too much of either, or the pastry will be heavy.30 FISH FRIED IN BATTER. Ingredients .’—About li lbs. fish. £ lb. flour. 1 gill water. £ teaspoonful salt. Frying fat, parsley. Method :—Put the fat to get hot slowly while preparing the tish and making the batter. (This saves waiting, and also pre- vents burning. If the heating of the fat is left until after- wards it is often not allowed to get hot enough, through impatience, and the articles fried wall be sodden, greasy and indigestible). Any white fish is nice for frying, because this class of fish is more free from oil. Cut the fish into nice sized pieces, wash and dry them well and rub over with a little flour. The Batter:—Put the flour into a basin, mix it gradually into a smooth stiff batter with the cold water, adding the salt; dip the fish into this, and then fry about five minutes, or until a skewer goes through the flesh easily, observing all the rules for frying. Arrange the fish on a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley if liked. To Fry Parsley:—Wash the parsley, shake it in a dry cloth, pick off the large stalks, fry it a few seconds only, as it very quickly bums, and drain it well before putting it on the fish. N.B.—(1) A very simple mode for frying fish is to dip it into milk and then into dry flour, instead of making a batter, but be careful to shake off any loose flour. (2) The batter is much improved by the addition of 1 oz. of clarified fat or butter melted, or 1 tablespoonful of salad oil (but the oil must be very good) and then the water used should be tepid. (3) The fish is best dipped in beaten egg and bread crumbs, hut it is more troublesome and expensive..31 SCONES. Ingredients :—1 lb. flour. 2 oz. castor sugar (if liked). 2 oz. butter, or clarified dripping, or lard, f | oz. cream of tartar. „ bi-carbonate of soda or 1 tablespoonful baking powder i pint milk (about) £ teaspoonful salt, or to taste. Method:—Mix the flour and salt together, rub the butter in; mix the sugar and cream of tartar on a plate, and add it to the flour. Dissolve the soda in the milk ; add it to the flour, making it into a rather moist paste, then form it into a round about 1 inch thick, flatten with the palm of the hand; cut slightly across each way with a knife, but not quite through. Place them on a greased baking-sheet, and bake about h hour. When nearly done, brush them over with sugar and milk beaten together. N.B.—The soda and cream of tartar must be quite fresh. POTATO SOUP. Ingredients :—2 lbs. potatoes (parboiled). 2 leeks or onions. 2 oz. butter or clarified dripping. 2 qts. water. 1 pint milk. 3 tablespoonfuls of semolina, or hominy, or sago. Salt and pepper to taste. Method .-—Put the water into a saucepan to boil. Cut the vegetables into very small pieces (if leeks are used, cut the green tops off, and peel, wash and slice them, but they do not need parboiling, as they are not so strong as the onions), and put them into the boding water with the butter, salt, and pepper, simmer gently about 1 hour, or until the vegetables are quite soft. Then rub the soup through a sieve or colander with a wooden spoon, pour it back into the saucepan, add the milk and thickening, and let it boil about 15 minutes, stirring frequently, and serve hot. °32 NH5.—(1) Semolina or hominy makes the soup much more nourishing than sago or tapioca. Oatmeal makes it still more so, and should be used frequently in vegetable soups. (2) A strip of celery or seeds greatly improves the flavour. BREAD WITH YEAST. Ingredients :—31 lbs. flour. If pints tepid water (i.e., -J- boiling § cold). 1 heaped teaspoonful salt, or to taste. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 1 oz. German yeast, or 2 tablespoonfuls of brewer’s yeast. Method :~Put 3 lbs. of flour into a basin, mix the salt with it, and make a well in the middle. Put the yeast and sugar into another basin and work with a spoon to a smooth paste, then add the water gradually, to prevent lumps. Pour this into the well, work the flour in gradually, making it into a light dough; then knead it with the hands until smooth. Cover the basin with a cloth, and set it in front of the fire to rise about 2 hours. Then turn the dough on to a floured board, and knead in so much flour that it no longer sticks to the fingers or to the board. Divide it into two or three, as wished (just to half fill the tins), knead lightly and put into floured or greased tins. Set them before the fire again for about £ horn’, and bake in a hot oven at first, then bake more slowly from 1 to 2 hours, according to size. Do not open the oven door for about 10 minutes. For cottage-loaves, divide each piece of dough into two, one smaller than the other (more flour will be required), work both into balls, place the smaller on the larger one; make a hole in the middle of the top, and put the finger quite through to press them together, and bake on floured this, rising and baking as above. N.B.—(1) If German or French yeast is used be sure that it is fresh. It will not keep long, especially in hot weather; and as thunder, or any rough usage in the carriage of it, will kill the little yeast plant, it is better to try it by letting it stand about five minutes when mixed with the sugar. It-33 feeds very quickly on sugar j so if it is dead it will not ferment or bubble up, and it would only be a waste of flour to use it. (2) If brewer’s yeast is used, care should be taken not to use too much, or the bread will be bitter. (3) When it is baked place the loaves sideways, or on a sieve, to let the steam escape, or it will be absorbed into the crust. Do not take them into a cooler atmosphere until they are quite cold—the cold air is heavier than the warm, light steam, and will force it back again, and the bread will not be so light. This applies also to cakes. MEAT PUDDING. Ingredients :—1 lb. beef steak or | lb. skirt, and £ lb. kidney, or leg of beef. 1 gill boiling water. 1 tablespoonful flour 1 small teaspoonful salt. V Seasoning. i „ „ pepper J Suet paste (quantity as given below). Method:—Cut the meat in squares, or in slices and rolled as for Meat Pie, and dip into the seasoning. Put it into a basin or pie dish, pour the boiling water over to close the pores, and set it aside to cool while making the paste. * Grease another basin (II pt. size), cut off I of the paste and form the larger piece into a ball, then roll it to twice the size of the top of the basin, line the b^sin with it, put the meat and water in. Form the smaller piece into a ball also, and roll it out to the size wanted for the top, wet the edge of the lining, cover it, press the edges together, and steam or boil from 2 to 4 hours. N.B.—(1) Leg of beef can be used, and is quite as nourish- ing and very much cheaper, but the pudding must then be cooked the full 4 hours to make the meat tender. (2)* If the boiling water were poured into the basin lined with paste, the paste would be heavy.34 SUET PASTRY. Ingredients :—10 oz. flour. 2 oz. bread crumbs. 3 or 4 oz. suet 1 small teaspoonful baking powder, lvr gills water (about), j teaspoonful salt. Method :—Skin, shred, and chop the suet finely, flouring it a little (do not cut it in pieces, or it will take much longer to chop), then mix all the dry ingredients together, adding suffi- cient water to make the paste stiff enough for rolling out. Suet puddings are always lighter and more digestible if cooked the full 4 hours—this does not depend so much on the size, but is on account of the suet being a heavier fat. If dripping were used, they would be done in half the time, see “Axioms” (4). FRUIT PUDDING. Ingredients :—1 lb. fruit. 2 oz. sugar, or to taste. Water. Suet pastry. Method:—The general method is the same as for Meat Pudding, but observe notes 1, 2 and 3 for Fruit Pies, page 29; and, in the case of the pudding, take care to keep the sugar away from the lining of paste, for the reason given in note (No 2). N.B.—(1) All boiled or steamed puddings should be allowed to cool a little before turning them out, especially those made in this way, that is, with a lining, and filled with meat or fruit, as they are liable to burst. (2) Both apple puddings and pies are much improved by making a syrup with the apple peelings (as given below) and then poui'ing a little in the pie before serving, and for the pudding serve separately as a sauce. Apple Syrup :—Wash the peelings and put them into a small saucepan, adding the pips also, as they improve the flavour; j ust cover with cold water, add a tablespoonful of„ 35 brown sugar, and simmer about 1 hour, or until it is a nice syrup. WHOLE MEAL BREAD. Ingredients -2 lbs. whole meal. 1 oz. German yeast or 2 tablespoonfuls of brewer’s yeast. 1 pint tepid water, or as required. 1 small teaspoonful sugar. 1 „ ,, salt or to taste. Method :—Proceed the same as for white bread, but do not knead it. Let it rise about 1 hour, and then make into loaves the size required, letting them rise \ hour, and bake in a hot oven. Time according tp size. N.B.—(2) More yeast is required than for white bread, because the whole meal is heavier, and it should be made more moist, because it swells more. (2) The sugar is not a necessity for bread, but is good as a test of the yeast. (3) Whole meal is the wheat with simply the outer bran removed, and is more digestible than the white flour mixed with bran, which is frequently sold as whole meal. The latter is more nourishing than white flour, as it contains more gluten and phosphates. BAKING POWDER BREAD. Ingredients:—1 lb. flour. 1 heaped dessertspoonful baking powder, g teaspoonful salt, or to taste. Sufficient cold water to mix it into a moist dough. Method:—Mix the flour, baking powder, and salt in a basin, add the water quickly, mixing with a Avooden spoon until it is a moist dough, then beat well until smooth. Divide the dough into 6 pieces, knead them as quickly as possible into small loaves. Bake on floured baking sheets 10 to 15 minutes, or in tins h hour in a very hot oven.36 —This kind of bread should be mixed as quickly, and handled as little as possible, and the dough made more moist than yeast bread. Some people can digest this kind more easily. BAKED HADDOCK. Ingredients :—1 fresh haddock. About 2 oz. stale bread. ,, 1 gill milk. 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 1 teaspoonful herbs (or to taste). Salt and pepper to taste. 2 oz. dripping. Method:—Wash and dry the fish, take the eyes out, and rub a little salt up the backbone, which makes the fish more savoury. Cut the bread into small pieces and soak in the milk until soft; then strain if too moist, and beat finely. Then add the parsley, herbs, salt, and pepper, and mix well. Put this forcemeat inside the fish and sew or skewer it up; then tie it in a nice shape, and dredge it with salt, pepper and flour. Melt the dripping in a baking tin, put the fish in, and bake ‘ -about 5 an hour in a hot oven, basting it frequently. When done, place it on a hot dish, draw out the string and skewers, and serve plain or with brown gravy. H.B.—(1) The haddock maybe boned, stuffed, and rolled up for a change. (2) An egg or a little butter (melted) may be added to the forcemeat if wanted richer. (3) A few bread crumbs sprinkled on the top of the fish is an improvement, or browned bread crumbs or raspings. BROWN GRAVY FOR HADDOCK. Method:—Pour the fat from the tin; dredge a little flour into it; brown it in the oven, but take care that it does not burn. Then pour a little hot water in ; stir it well, and put it back into the oven to boil; strain, and serve with the fish.- 37 BROWNED BREAD CRUMBS OR RASPINGS. Method:—Put any scraps of dry bread and ci'usts on a baking-sheet or tin, and put them into the oven until they are evenly bi-owned. Then crush them on a board with a rolling- pin and shake them through a wire sieve, rolling again those that are not fine enough to pass through, and put them aside for use in a dredger. N.B.—(1) These crumbs are useful also for dredging boiled ham or bacon with, and can be used in puddings instead of the usual fresh bread crumbs. They are often used to make a plain Plum Pudding look rich. (2) Where there is not a wire sieve, the crumbs that will not pass through the dredger should be rolled again. BEEF TEA. No. 1. Ingredients:—\ lb. gravy beef or steak. £ pint cold water. A pinch of salt. Method:—Take away the skin and fat from the meat and shred it very finely ; put it into a jar or basin containing the cold water and salt, and let it stand 1 hour, or as long as possi- ble. Cover the jar closely (if there is not a lid tie a piece of greased paper over), and place it in a saucepan of cold water; let the water come very sloidy to boiling point, and simmer gently 1 hour or longer. Strain it through a rather coarse strainer, so as not to lose the little brown particles, and pass pieces of kitchen paper over the tea to absorb any fat there may be ; this is the only skimming the tea requires. Foods for invalids should never be greasy. N.B.—(1) If the shin of beef is not of the best, it is more economical to buy cheap steak. (2) If wanted stronger, use the half quantity of water. When it cannot be taken hot, about a teaspoonful of gelatine added will make it a jelly, and many invalids prefer it in this form.38 BEEF TEA, No. 2 (Quickly Made). Ingredients :—^ lb. gravy beef. \ pint cold water. A pinch of salt. Method.: Shred the beef as finely as possible, removing all the skin and fat. Put it into a basin with the water and salt, and let it stand about 1 hour to draw out the juices. Pour the whole into a small saucepan, and let it be quite twenty minutes in getting hot; the more gradually it is heated, the better the tea will be. Do not let it boil, or the albumen which has been drawn out will be hardened. N-B.—(1) In hot weather, only small quantities should be made at a time, as it will not keep long. (2) This is not so good as No. 1, and should only be used if really wanted in a hurry. -,V OATMEAL PORRIDGE. Ingredients:—About 2 oz. coarse oatmeal. 1 pint boiling water, j teaspoonful salt or to taste. Method:—Sprinkle the salt into the boiling water, then the ■oatmeal, and stir until it boils again. Simmer very gently 1 hour, stirring frequently. Pour it smoothly over a plate, 'taking care not to leave any droppings on the edge of the plate. Serve it with milk, or with milk and sugar, or treacle. N.B.—(1) When porridge is wanted for breakfast, the oat- meal can be put into a jar with the water and allowed to stand in the oven (which is usually warm) overnight to swell, and then boil up for about £ hour next morning ; but it is not quite so nice. (2) Many people can digest oatmeal porridge when it has been cooked very slowly for 1 hour, who otherwise are obliged to avoid it. (3) In hot weather, when oatmeal may be found too heat- ing, whole meal or hominy can be used instead. The former needs only about twenty minutes’ cooking.- 39 (4) More water may be required, according to the quality of the meal. TOAD-IN-THE-HOLE. Ingredients :—8 oz. flour. 1 egg. 1 pint milk. 1 lb. beef or mutton. £ teaspoonful salt, or to taste. Dripping. Method:—Mix the flour and salt together in a basin, and make a well in the centre. Break the egg into another basin, and if good, put it into the centre of the flour ; stir in enough milk to make the mixture a smooth batter, beat it well, then add the rest of the milk, and set it aside to swell. Cut the meat into nice pieces. Melt some dripping in a baking-tin or pie-dish; pour the batter in, and then put in the meat, and bake in a quick oven at first, and then more gradually, to cook the meat, for about 1 hour. More fat can be added while cooking, if it appears dry. N.B.—(1) The meat retains its juices better if left whole. (2) Batter is lighter when the tin and fat have been made hot before putting it in. (3) Too much salt has the same effect on batter as it has on pastry, bread and cakes, making it heavy. EBUIT BAKED IN BATTER. A pound of any fresh fruit (not too acid, or it will curdle the batter) can be used instead of the meat, or figs, currants, raisins, or dates. PANCAKES. Ingredients :—4 oz. flour. 1 egg- \ pint milk. A pinch of salt. Lard, castor sugar and a lemon or orange. d 240 Method :—Make the batter in the usual way, and set it aside as long as possible. Melt a piece of lard (about the size of a small nut) in a small frying-pan, and pour about lialf-a-teacup of batter in, raising the pan a little, or the cake will not be of equal thickness. Cook it over a moderate fire, and when browned on one side turn it carefully with a knife, or by tos- sing, and brown the other side also. Turn it on to kitchen paper, and roll it up. Repeat this until the batter is finished, and serve nicely on a hot dish with sugar and lemon, or orange juice to taste. They should be eaten at once. N.B.—(1) Lard or clarified fat is better than butter for frying pancakes with ; they are liable to stick with the latter. (2) They are sometimes preferred crisp, and served flat, not rolled ; more lard is then required, a hotter fire, and less batter for each cake. GRUEL. Ingredients:—1 flat tablespoonful coarse oatmeal. 1 pint boiling water. A pinch of salt. Method:—Have the boiling water ready in a small saucepan, add the salt and sprinkle in the oatmeal. Stir until it boils again, and simmer very gently about one hour, stirring occasion- ally ; then strain and serve with sugar or more salt, according to taste, and a little butter if allowed. It is almost a jelly when cooked in this way, and most nourishing. If patent groats or fine oatmeal is used it will not require so long cooking. N.B.—A thin piece of orange or lemon rind improves the flavour very much, and when acids can be taken, a little of the juice makes it much more palatable. HARICOT BEANS. Ingredients :—1 pint haricot beans. 1 oz. butter. £ teaspoonful salt. 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 3 pints boiling water. A little dripping. Salt and pepper to taste.41 Method:—Soak the beans overnight in cold water, and then strain them, and let them stand for a day or two, if possible. Put them into a saucepan with the boiling water and dripping, and I teaspoonful salt, and simmer gently two hours, or until quite soft. Drain the beans in a colander, return them to the saucepan with the butter, paisley, salt and pepper. Stir them over the fire five minutes, and serve in a hot vegetable dish. N.B.—(1) When the beans are to be served as a vegetable, putting them into boiling water will help to keep them whole,, and the dripping will prevent the skins breaking. (2) If the beans are allowed to stand after soaking, the starch will commence to change into sugar, making them much more palatable. (3) The beans vary very much in the time they take to soften. If they have been kept for a long time they are very- difficult to get soft. HARICOT BEAN STEW. Ingredients:—1 pint haricot beans. l| pints boiling water. A little dripping. 1 pint brown gravy. Method:—Prepare the beans as for a vegetable. Then put them into a saucepan with the water and dripping, and cook gently H hours, or until quite soft. Strain them, but do not . throw the water away, using it for the Brown Gravy instead of stock or plain water. Pour the gravy without straining, over the beans, and serve very hot. N.B.—(1) A little vinegar is an improvement, and it can be varied by the addition of other vegetables as liked, or more onions can be added in making the gravy. It is also very good served with rashers of bacon. (2) The water in which peas, beans, and lentils have been cooked should not be wasted, but used for soups stews or gravies; indeed, a good, nourishing stock can be made from haricot beans.42 . (3) In this receipt the water will be reduced to about the right quantity for the gravy, so that none of the goodness is lost. (4) This stew is quite as nourishing and savoury as any meat stew, and the outside cost only 4d. BROWN GRAVY. Ingredients :—1 small onion (scalded). | oz. dripping or butter. 1 tablespoonful of flour. 1 pint hot water or stock. Salt and pepper. Method:—Peel the onion and cut it into rings. Heat the dripping or butter in a saucepan and fry the onion in it until quite brown, but not burnt. Add the flour, stirring well, and then the water or stock gradually, still stirring until it boils, seasoning to taste and straining it. N.B.—This is a useful receipt for any stew, but if the onion is not liked it can be omitted. Great care must be taken in browning the flour with the fat, not to let it burn, or it will be indigestible. BAKED POTATOES. Ingredients :—Potatoes of equal size. Method :—Wash the potatoes very well and dry them with a cloth. Bake them in a hot oven, from one to two hours, ac- cording to size, or until quite done. Turn them occasionally, and they will be improved by pricking them just before finish- ing, to allow the steam to escape. N.B.—(1) This is the most wholesome method of cooking potatoes, partly because the water is evaporated by the dry heat of the oven, the degree of heat being twice that of boiling water, and partly due to the change which the starch under- goes by the influence of the greater heat. (2) New potatoes are not usually baked or steamed. Their skin is not fully grown, and is not of the cork-like nature of.43 the older potatoes, which prevents the escape of their own moisture; and so the new potato is apt to be shrivelled and tough when baked, the sap having escaped. For this same reason, new potatoes, fresh from the earth, are much better in flavour than those that have been kept. This applies also to nearly all vegetables. ROLY-POLY PUDDING. Ingredients:—Suet paste (see receipt, page 34). About b lb. jam. Method:—Put the paste (which must not be too moist) on a floured board, and roll it to a long thin piece. Spread the jam over it, within half an inch of the edge; then wet the edges, roll it up, and press the ends together. Flour the pudding and put it with the join downwards in a dry pudding cloth; roll the cloth round it, leaving room for it to swell, and tie it at each end with string. Cook it according to the rules for boiled suet puddings, from 2 to 4 hours. When taking it up, let it stand a little, or pour a little cold water over quickly, and it will turn out of the cloth more easily. Serve on a hot dish, plain or with melted butter. N.B.—(1) This is very good for a change, spread with treacle, then a layer of bread crumbs and a sprinkling of ginger, instead of the jam. At Christmas a layer of mincemeat can be used for another change; or a layer of chopped apples, raisins, and sugar make it into Eve’s Pudding. (2) Many people prefer the paste made with dripping beaten . up as for short pastry, instead of the suet. It would then only require lg hours’ boiling, or it is very good baked about 1 hour. IRISH STEW. Ingredients:—1 lb. neck, or any pieces of mutton. 2 lbs. potatoes. h lb. onions, or to taste (parboiled). tt pint boiling water. teaspoonfuls salt i „ pepper } or to taste.44 Method .---Cut the meat into nice sized pieces, and cut the onions in rings or chop them, and put them both into a sauce- pan, with the water, and simmer this very gently 1 hour, skim- ming well. Slice the potatoes (after parboiling them), or leave them whole, as preferred, put them on the top of the meat, adding salt and pepper, and stew A hour longer, or until tender. Stir a few minutes to prevent burning, and when done season to taste, put the potatoes round a hot dish, with the meat, onions and gravy in the middle TO BOIL GREEN VEGETABLES. Ingredients:—Greens. Plenty of boiling water. 1 tablespoonful salt 1 , , ~ „ 1 dessertspoonful sugar /to eadl 2 ^ of W£lter* Method:—Remove the withered leaves from the greens and cut the stalk twice across; it will then be cooked in time with the leaves. (Sometimes, in the case of young cabbages, when they are not close and firm, it is better to cut them quite in two and then tie the upper part together again with string.) Pour boiling water over them, which draws the insects out more readily than by putting them into salt and water, as the salt makes the insects sluggish; if not quite fresh, leave them in cold water a little while before cooking. Then put them into a large saucepan, containing plenty of boiling water, and the salt and sugar to keep the colour. It is safer not to use soda, because it is very strong and powerful, and often spoils the flavour. All vegetables are better cooked gently after they come to boiling point. The slow heat has the same effect upon the fibres of vegetables as upon meat, and makes them more tender and digestible. Keep the water well skimmed, try them with a skewer, when tender strain them at once (for as soon as they are soft they absorb the water again, and become unwholesome), and press them dry in a colander. The time for cooking depends more on age than size. Young fresh vegetables require much less cooking than older ones, and vary from 2.0 to 40 minutes. K.B.—(1) (See “Axioms,” 24.) These rules apply generally45 Salt and pepper to taste. to cabbages, savoys, Brussels sprouts, cauliflowers, peas and French beans. (2) Brussels sprouts, peas and beans are returned to the saucepan, with a little butter, and shaken- over the tire to dry them. (3) In all cases much depends on their freshness. If they must be kept at all, put the cut ends into water and change the water frequently. TO POACH EGGS. Ingredients :—1 egg. 1 pint boiling water. 1 teaspoonful salt. A few drops of vinegar or lemon juice. Method:—Have the 'water ready boiling, in a very clean Frying-pan, and put in the salt and vinegar. Break the egg carefully into a cup, draw the pan aside, slip the egg in very gently, and simmer until the white is set. Lift it out care- fully with an egg slice, and serve on dry or buttered toast. N.B.—(1) The following method is more digestible, and more suitable for invalids. Butter a cup or a very small basin, break the egg into it, then place the cup in a saucepan of boiling water, and simmer gently until set. Slip a knife around the edges, and it will easily leave the cup. Another advantage of this method is that the edges are smooth and shapely, and need no trimming, which is wasteful. (2) Quite new-laid eggs are difficult to poach, they are so creamy; but they must be fresh. LENTIL SOIJP. Ingredients:—1 pint lentils. 1 carrot. 1 onion (parboiled). Celery strips, leaves or seeds to taste. 1 oz. butter, dripping, or clarified fat. 3 pints cold water.46 Method:—Wash the lentils in several waters; if whole lentils are used, which make a richer soup, soak them over- night, according to “ Axioms ” (21). Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, cut up the onion and celery, and put them with the lentils into the saucepan, simmer over the fire five minutes with the cover on, stirring sometimes to prevent burn- ing ; add the water, stir well, and simmer from 1 to 2 hours, or until quite soft. Pour the soup through a wire sieve, rubbing the vegetables through with a wooden spoon, return the soup to the saucepan, season to taste, and let it boil up before serving. N.B.—(1) This soup is very good without passing it through a sieve, if cooked long enough. (2) The water in which meat has been boiled is good for this soup. SAUSAGE POLLS. Ingredients:—1 lb. sausages or cold meat, chopped and seasoned. Flaky or short paste. A little milk. Method :—Boil the sausages for five minutes, let them cool and take off the skins, then cut them in halves. Cut the paste in pieces about five inches square, put half a sausage (or seasoned meat) on each piece, wet the edge and fold the paste over, bringing the join at the top, and mark with the back of a knife. Brush them over with milk and bake in a hot oven about half hour. Serve hot or cold. FRIED SAUSAGES. Ingredients :—J lb. sausages. About 1 oz. dripping. Method:—Prick the sausages to prevent them bursting. Just melt the dripping in a frying-pan (do not let it get hot, or they will be more liable to break), and lay the sausages in. Let them get hot slowly, turning them until they are brown all over, cooking them about 10 minutes, but if pork allow 15 minutes.47 N.B.—(1) If the sausages are fresh, and all meat, and are heated very slowly, they will not burst, and need not be pucked, and so all the gravy will be retained; but if they contain bread, as they often do, they must be pricked, as the bread swells, and causes them to burst. They can be served on toast or mashed potatoes, or on pieces of bread fried in the same fat, and if liked Brown Grai y served with them. (See receipt, page 42). (2) If the sausage meat is preferred, make it into round cakes on a floured board, just using enough flour to prevent them sticking, and fry in the same way. I LIVER AND BACON. Ingredients :—1 lb. sheep’s or calf’s liver. | lb. bacon. 1 tablespoonful flour. Salt and pepper. 1 gill water or bone stock. 1 onion (if liked). Method :—Cj.it the bacon into thin slices and take off the rind. Wash and dry the liver (but do not let it soak), and cut into slices about one-third of an inch thick, not thinner. Mix the flour with a little salt and pepper on a plate; dip each piece of liver into it, covering it well to protect it, and prevent it being hard, yet shaking off any loose flour, which will burn. Put the bacon into a frying-pan, fry about 4 minutes, turning it once, and put it round a hot dish. Then fry the liver (one piece must not be on the top of the other) about 15 minutes and turn it occasionally. It must be well cooked, as it is a very close meat, and must not be red when cut. Arrange it in the middle of the dish and keep it hot. Put the remainder of the flour into the frying-pan, stir it well until brown, add the stock ; stir it again until it boils, and pour it over the liver. N.B.—If an onion is liked, slice it, and fry with or after the liver, and put it on the top.48 <c STEWED TRIPE WITPI ONIONS. Ingredients :—1 lb. tripe. 4 onions (parboiled or scalded). pint milk. | oz. butter. 1 dessert-spoonful flour. Salt and pepper. Method:—To blanch the tripe, put it into a saucepan, cover it with cold water, let it boil up, strain away the water, and cut it into pieces about two inches square. Put the tripe back into the saucepan, with the onions cut finely; just cover with hot water, and simmer about one hour or until quite tender, then put it on a hot dish. Mix the butter and flour in a basin with a wooden spoon ; add by degrees a teacupful of the water in which the tripe has been cooked (pouring the rest away), keeping it smooth, then add the milk, stir it until it boils, season to taste, and pour over the tripe. N.B.—(1) The time for cooking tripe depends on the previous dressing it has had at the tripe shops, and the cheaper parts usually require a longer time. (2) Tripe is nourishing and easily digested. (3) The fat from tripe is usually sold very cheaply, and is very useful, as it does not taste of meat at all, and can be used without clarifying. TO FRY EGGS AND BACON. Ingredients:—Eggs. Bacon; Toast (if liked). Method :—Cut the bacon into thin slices of equal thickness, cut off the rind, and fry them a nice brown in a clean frying-pan, moving and turning them to prevent them burning, then put them on a hot dish. Break the eggs, one at a time, in a cup, pour them carefully into the hot fat, and fry about two minutes. Take them carefully out with a slice or spoon, put them with the bacon, and pour the fat round. The toast can be49 "i put under the bacon and eggs, or round the dish, as preferred. Sometimes the eggs are trimmed, but this is wasteful. A cup put over each egg, just at first, will shape them and prevent the need of the trimming. 3ST.B.—(1) Bacon is often preferred broiled in a Dutch-oven in front of the tire or toasted on a fork. If it is wanted curled and crisp, the slices should not be more than two inches long, then rolled up and a skewer run through ; but if it is preferred mellow and soft, it can be soaked in hot water about 15 minutes, then dried in a cloth before broiling. This is especially good for ham, and if either are too salt, it draws it out. (2) Cold rashers of bacon, either boiled, broiled or fried, dipped in brea,d raspings, and just heated through, are good, the raspings preventing them getting hard. (3) Eggs are very difficult to digest when fried, and should never be given to invalids. The fat is twice as hot as boiling water, and therefore hardens the white or albumen of the egg much more. TAPIOCA OR SAGO PUDDING. Ingredients :—2 oz. tapioca or sago. 1 pint milk. 1 oz. sugar, or to taste. Nutmeg to taste. . A scrap of clarified dx-ipping or butter. A small pinch of salt. Method,:—Put the tapioca or sago into the milk, and let it ■ soak about h hour. Simmer it slowly, until it is clear, stirring well, then sweeten to taste, and add the salt. Grease a pie dish with the dripping or butter, pour it in, grate the nutmeg on the top, and bake about b hour, or until nicely set. N.B.—When an egg can be afforded it is an improvement. BROILED CHOPS OR STEAKS. Ingredients:—Chops or steaks. Salt and pepper.50 Method:—The fire must be clear and bright, then heat the gridiron, which must be very clean, and grease the bars. Place the meat on it, and broil in front of or over the fire, putting it close to the fire for a minute to seal up the juices; then turn it on the other side for the same reason. Finish cooking it more slowly to make it tender, allowing from ten to twenty minutes, according to the thickness. It will be much more tender and full of gravy if turned very frequently. Put it on a hot plate and season to taste. N.B.—(1) This is a good method for invalids, but it is not an economical one for family dinners. (2) As the bars of the gridiron keep away as much heat as their breadth covers, it is very necessary to make it hot first. •(3) If the gridiron has a well to it, the gravy, of course, is saved; but all meat is much more easily digested when it retains its juices; so that it is better, both in broiling and frying, to turn the meat very often. The frying pan should also be made hot. (4) A fork should not be used, as it would make holes and let the gravy out. BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. Ingredients:— 6 or 8 apples. Sugar and cloves to taste. About 1 lb. short paste. Method .-—Peel the apples and core them without quartering them. Divide the paste into 6 or 8 pieces as required, form them into small rounds, put the apples on, fill the centres with sugar and two cloves ; then work the paste smoothly over, wet it and press well together. Place them, with the join down- wards, on a greased tin ; and bake in a hot oven about \ hour, or according to size. U.B. (1) When cloves are not liked, a little candied lemon, or raisins, or figs can be chopped and used instead. (2) These are very good steamed in a steamer when heating an oven is a difficulty.51 For Turnovers :—Quarter, core and cut up the apples, roll and cut the paste in squares or rounds, as liked; put the apples and a little sugar on one half, turn the other half over, wet and press the edges together, finishing them neatly. Jam or marmalade can be used for a change. COCOA. Ingredients:—Cocoa. Boiling water. Milk and sugar (if liked). Method:—For a breakfast cup, put in a teaspoonful and fill it up with boiling water, and add sugar and milk to taste. N.B.—(1) All cocoa is smoother and pleasanter to drink if boiled in a saucepan after the boiling water is poured on. The full value is obtained also, as there is nothing remaining at the bottom of the cup. This is doubtless due to the presence of starch in the cocoa beans, and the actual boiling a minute or two will burst the starch grains more thoroughly. (2) If the cocoa is mixed with cold milk first, and only the boiling water poured on to it, it is not really submitted to boiling heat, as the cold liquid in the cup and the cold cup will lower the degree of heat. STEWED BEEF AND BICE. ■ Ingredients:—b lb. leg of beef. 2 oz. rice. 1 large onion (scalded or parboiled). 1 pint hot water. 1 teaspoonful mixed herbs, or to taste. Salt and pepper. Vinegar. Method:—Cut the meat into nice pieces and dip them in vinegar, and lay them in a stewpan or jar, with the onion sliced and the herbs. Pour the water over, cover it closely, and stew from 2 to 4 hours, or until it is quite tender. Wash52 the rice and add it the last hour. Stir it often to prevent burning, and season to taste just before serving. N.B.—If the stew is wanted brown, the onion can be fried in \ oz. of dripping, but leg of beef, or any tough pieces of meat, should never be fried. CORNISH PASTIES. Ingredients :—j lb. buttock steak. 3 lb. parboiled potatoes. 1 small onion. 1 ' Salt and pepper. Short paste—half quantity (receipt page 27). Method :—Peel and boil the onion until tender, and chop it 'finely. Chop the meat and potatoes into small pieces. Roll the paste out about j inch thick, and cut it into rounds. Put a little of the meat, onion and potato on each round and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Wet the edges of the paste, press them together, making a frill on the top, and just insert a knife beneath the frill for the steam to escape. Bake on a greased tin in a hot oven about h hour. N.B.—(1) The onion can be left out if not liked, but in 'Cornwall all sorts of vegetables (cooked) are put in, and some- times pork and apples are used ; fish, with chopped parsley and potato, is very good. BOILED CAULIFLOWER. See receipt, page 44, and “Axioms” (24), page 105, for boiling Green Vegetables. Method:—The Cauliflower must not be cut except twice across the stalk j cook it flower downwards, and keep the water well skimmed. It should be served as whole as possible, and must not be over cooked / allow from about 15 to 20 minutes. Serve plain or with melted butter.53 BARLEY WATER. Ingredients:—1 oz. pearl barley. 1 qt. cold water. Lemon or orange rind and sugar to taste. Method:—Just cover the barley with cold water, let it boil up and strain it away. Then add the quart of water and lemon or orange rind, simmer one hour, and strain and sweeten to taste. N.B.—This makes quite a nourishing drink when allowed to simmer the full hour ; and if acids can be taken, the lemon or orange juice is an improvement, and is sometimes much liked by working men as a summer drink. Lemonade. Ingredients:—1 large lemon. 1 pint boiling water. 1 tablespoonful sugar, or to taste. Method:—Peel the lemon very thinly, remove all the white pith, and slice it and take away the pips. Put the rind and slices into a jug, add the boiling water and sugar, cover, and let it stand several hours, or all night is not too long. More sugar may be added if required, and if liked it may be strained. VEGETABLE PLUM PUDDING. Ingredients:—6 oz. mashed potatoes. 6 oz. grated carrots. 2 oz. flour. \ lb. brown sugar, or to taste. 6 oz. currants. 6 oz. raisins. 2 eggs. 1 oz. candied peel. Grated lemon rind and juice to taste. i About 1 gill milk. A pinch of salt.54 Method .-—Prepare the raisins, currants, and peel as usual, and mix all the dry ingredients very thoroughly, beat the ?§§s any curdle the milk with the lemon juice, and stir them lnaking it a little moist. Grease a basin or mould, put the mixture in, and steam or boil from 4 to 6 hours. Plum puddings are very much nicer steamed. (1) Browned bread crumbs or raspings are sometimes added. (2) If preferred, h lb. suet can be added, but it is more digestible without. MINCE MEAT. Ingredients:—1 lb. apples. h lb. grapes (the cheap ones will do), r lb. raisins. ^ lb. currants. i lb. brown sugar, or to taste. 5 lb. mixed peel. Grated lemon or orange rind and juice to taste. 5 teaspoonful cinnamon, or to taste. A pinch of salt. Method :—Peel, core, and slice the apples, stone the raisins, wash and dry the currants, cut the peel finely, and chop these together until very fine, adding the sugar, which makes them easier to chop. Skin and stone the grapes, putting the pulp into a basin, and press well with a tvooden spoon, then add all the ingredients and mix very thoroughly. Put it into a jar, and tie it closely down at once. N.B.—(1) If wanted richer, a smaller quantity of apples can be used, and it is often preferred without the candied peel. (2) The grapes are instead of suet; they make the mince- meat more luscious and yet more digestible, because the suet is only cooked about twenty minutes or i hour when the pies are baking, thus making them very trying to digest. If wanted to be eaten cold, they are also much nicer without the suet.55 ORANGE MARMALADE. Ingredients :—1 lb. of Seville oranges (after cutting up). 2 lbs. loaf sugar. 1 pint water. Method :—Brush and wash rhe oranges well, then boil them until the rind can be easily pierced with the head of a pin. Put the sugar and water to soak in a preserving pan, boil it gently about -i- an hour or until it becomes a syrup, skimming very well, let it get nearly cold, or the chips will harden. Quarter the oranges, take out the pips and centre skin; put the pulp on a dish, then cut the rind into the finest possible shreds, and then weigh them. Put the shreds with the pulp and add it to the syrup when nearly cold, or they will harden, boil it gently 1 hour; stir constantly; try a little on a saucer—it jellies when done. Pour it into clean, dry, warm pots ; cover with vegetable parchment sold for the purpose; label it, and keep it in a cool, dry place. N.B.—(1) Both orange and lemon marmalade are clearer with the white pith scraped out, but it is not so economical. (2) Preserves keep better if they are covered directly after pouring into the pots. TO PICKLE RED CABBAGE. Ingredients:—1 cabbage. 1 quart best vinegar. 3 pieces whole ginger (sliced). I oz. whole allspice. £ oz. whole pepper. 1-2 cloves. Salt. Method :—Remove the outer leaves; quarter and cut out the thick stalk ; with a sharp knife cut it thinly across into long strips. Reverse a plate in a large basin; on this put the shredded cabbage in layers, with a very light sprinkling of salt between each ; cover with another plate, and on this put a weight to assist in pressing out the moisture. Let it remain thus for 24 hours; then squeeze it (without crushing it) in a E 256 thick cloth 5 and put it into jars or bottles. Boil the spices in 5 pint vinegar for 15 minutes (an enamelled or preserving pan should be used); add the remainder of the vinegar, and pour it, when quite cold, on to the cabbage, enclosing the spices in a piece of muslin. Tie firmly over with thick paper, doubled, and it will be ready for use in about ten days or a fortnight. N.B.—When the vinegar is allowed to cool the pickles will become crisp ; but anything green, such as gherkins or French beans, require the vinegar boiling when poured over, to keep the colour. PLAIN LETTUCE SALAD. Ingredients :—1 large lettuce. 1 tablespoonful vinegar. 2 tablespoonfuls salad oil. ^ teaspoonful moist sugar. Salt and pepper. Method :—Wash the lettuce carefully, then dry it well by shaking it in a clean cloth. See that all the leaves are quite dry, and break them into small pieces with the hands, but do not cut them with a knife. Mix the vinegar, oil, sugar, and a little salt and pepper together, stirring until the two latter are dissolved, and pour this over the lettuce; mix all well and lightly together, and serve at once. Salad should be mixed just before it is wanted. N.B.—If the oil is not liked, liquid bacon fat may be used. TO MAKE JAM. Ingredients :—1 lb. of fruit. £ lb. of loaf sugar. Method:—Prepare the fruit and put it into a clean dry Btewpan or saucepan over the fire. Keep stirring with a wooden spoon until the juice begins to flow, then take itofithe fire, and add the sugar, when dissolved, boil about of an hour, stir often, and take off the scum as it rises. When a little will set on a cold plate it is done, then finish as for mar- malade. N.B.—(1) If rhubarb is used, ginger and lemon rind improves it very much.57 SYLLABUS OF LESSONS FOR SECOND COURSE. N.B.—The numbers between brackets refer to the numbers of the rules in the “ General Axioms for Plain Cookery.” (See page 99.) :o: Lesson 1—Invalid Cookery.—Steamed Fish. Invalids’ Jelly. Cup of Arrowroot or Rice Water. (1.) „ 2 Stewed Rabbit. Gingerbread. (23.) „ 3 Savoury Cod. Bread and Butter Pudding. (7-8.) ,, 4 Stewed Lentils. Cornflour Cake. (9.) „ 5 Meat Cake. Rice Snowballs. Orange or Lemon Sauce. (12.) „ 6 Haricot Mutton. Fried Potatoes (Cooked and Uncooked). (15.) „ 7 Yeal Pie (Flaky Pastry). Gingerbread Pudding. (25.) , „ 8 Stuffed Mackerel or Herrings. Fig or Sultana Pudding. (4.) „ 9 Good Vegetable Soup. Macaroni Pudding. (2.) „ 10 Potato Lesson..—Sausage Potatoes. Supper Pota- toes. Potato Pastry. (3.) „ 11 School of Cookery Hash. Yorkshire Tea Cakes. (10.) „ 12 Haricot Soup. Treacle Tart. Salad. (14-21.) „ 13 Curried Meat—Boiled Rice. Oatmeal Buns. (11.) „ 14 Savoury Batter. Hominy or Semolina Blanc- Mange. Stewed Fruit. (20.) „ 15 Savoury Hominy or Macaroni. Soda Buns. (13.) „ 16 Exeter Stew. Swiss Pudding. (27.) „ 17 Fried Chops or Steaks. Apple Sauce. Steamed Semolina Pudding. Jam or Marmalade Sauce. (28.) „ 18 Fish Pie. Dr. Johnson’s Pudding. Cornflour Custard. (26.) „ 19 * Roast Veal. Bread Sauce. Rice Buns. (5.) „ 20 Invalid Cookery. — Invalids’ Pudding. Teacup Pudding. Invalids’ Cake or Diet Bread. Hominy or Semolina Porridge. (17.) * When a fowl or rabbit can be disposed of, they can be substituted for veal, and the trussing in either case would be a useful lesson.58 Reserve Dishes. Seaso7i Dishes. 1. Savoury Pudding 2. Vegetable Marrow or 1. SteamedVegetable Marrow 2. Stuffed and Baked do. do. 3. Stewed Tomatoes 4. Pickled Onions 5. Preserve 6. Good Plum Pudding Carrot Soup 3. Beef Olives 4. Stewed Steak 5. Fruit Cake 6. Bran Tea 7. Toast Water 1. The Syllabus for the second course of lessons is composed of entirely different dishes from the first; they illustrate the same principles, but are somewhat of a more advanced character. 2. The “Axioms ” being formulated specially for Course I., do not apply so directly in every case. 3. The plan of teaching is exactly the same as for Course I., which has been proved to be more interesting and advantageous than the old plan of no demonstration, and the some dishes as or the first course repeated. \RECEIPTS. STEAMED EISH FOR AN INVALID. Ingredients :—1 whiting, plaice, or sole. A little butter. Salt to taste. Saucepan of boiling water. Lemon juice (if liked). Method:—Butter two plates well, fillet the fish, and lay it on one of them, sprinkle a little salt over it and cover with the other plate. Then steam it over the saucepan of boiling water from 15 to 20 minutes, according to the thickness of the fillets. N.B.—(1) A sprinkling of lemon juice is a great improve- ment, when the invalid can take it. (2) Any white fish can be done in this way. INVALIDS’ JELLY. Ingredients:—j oz. gelatine. 3 oz. lump sugar (or to taste). 1 egg. pint- cold water. i „ orange juice, or lemon juice (to taste). Method:—Soak the gelatine in the water about 20 minutes. Rub the sugar on the oranges or lemons to extract the colour and flavour, taking care not to rub to the white pith, or the jelly will be bitter. Put the sugar, gelatine and water into a very clean saucepan, and stir it over a slow heat until quite dissolved. Then add the juice (strained), let it just get hot, remove it from the fire, have the egg ready beaten in a basin, pour the jelly over it graduady, stirring well. Let it cool, stirring a few times to mix it thoroughly with the egg ■ pour it60 into a wet mould, and when quite set turn it out, or serve it piled roughly in a glass dish. N.B.—As the £ pint of lemon juice is too strong, and there must be the full \ pint of liquid, the quantity of water must be increased accordingly. TO MAKE A CUP OF ARROWROOT OR CORNFLOUR. Ingredients :—1 teaspoonful of arrowroot or cornflour. a pint boiling water or milk (about a breakfast- cupful). Sugar to taste. A very small pinch of salt. Method:—Mix the arrowroot smoothly with a little cold water, then pour the boiling water or milk over it, and stir it well. Add the salt, sweeten to taste, and boil about 3 minutes. U.B.—Lump sugar rubbed on an orange or lemon is a great improvement. RICE WATER. Ingredients :—1 or 2 oz. rice. 1 qt. water. A pinch of salt. Method :—Wash the rice, put itintoastew-jaror pie-dish with the water and salt; cover it closely and stew slowly in a cool oven for 3 or 4 hours. Strain and flavour it as liked, and if acids are allowed to the patient, add orange or lemon juice, and sugar to taste. Some invalids like it stewed until it is a pulp, and not strained. STEWED RABBIT. Ingredients:—1 rabbit. 1 lb. of bacon or pork (if liked). 4 small onions (sliced and scalded). 2 oz. dripping. 1 „ flour. Boiling water. Salt and pepper to taste.61 Method :—Cut the rabbit in joints, wash them in warm water, dry them and dredge with flour. Heat the dripping in the stew-pan and fry the rabbit and onions until lightly browned. Dram off the dripping, add sufficient water to cover the rabbit, and bacon or pork cut in strips, and cover closely. Remove the scum before it boils, and simmer 1-t hours, or until tender, then put the rabbit on a hot dish. Mix the flour to a smooth paste, stir it in the gravy, letting it boil a few minutes, season to taste, and pour it over the rabbit. N.B.—(1) The stew is much less greasy if the bacon is not cooked with it. It is very nice cut in slices, the rind cut ofi', rolled, slipped on to a skewer and cooked in the oven or before the fire. Arrange them round the edge of the dish. If pork is used, it can be kept whole and boiled separately. (2) One onion, kept whole and stuck with 3 or 4 cloves, is an improvement. GINGERBREAD. Ingredients :—1 lb. flour. 1 lb. treacle or golden syrup. -I lb. butter. 2 oz. sugar. 1 oz. lemon peel. 1 oz. grated ginger, or to taste. 1 teaspoonful bi-carbonate of soda. 1 small teacup of milk. 2 eggs. Method :—Put the treacle, butter and sugar into a saucepan over the fire to dissolve. Beat the eggs, and cut the peel finely. Mix the flour, ginger, and peel in a basin, then stir the eggs and treacle in, and beat well; dissolve the soda in the milk, add it, and beat well again j it should be moist enough to easily pour into a greased shallow tin, and bake in a moderate oven about § of an hour. When done, let it cool a few minutes, and where there is not a sieve, let it lean to allow the steam to escape. N.B.^-(l) A cake containing treacle does not require a very hot oven, as it is liable to burn. (2) Half white flour and half whole-meal makes gingerbread very wholesome. Whole ginger is better, as it cannot'’be adul- terated.62 SAVOURY COD. Ingredients :—1 or more lbs. fresh cod. •77 pint hot water. 1 tablespoonful vinegar. 1 dessertspoonful flour. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, or to taste. \ oz. butter. 1 egg- \ teaspoonful salt. 3 or 4 peppercorns. Method :—Wash and dry the fish and cut it into nice pieces, not too small; put it into a saucepan with the water, vinegar, salt and peppercorns, and simmer very gently from 10 to 15 minutes, or until quite done; then take it up and keep it hot. For the sauce mix the flour and butter to a smooth paste, add the fish-water gradually, taking out the peppercorns; boil it 3 minutes, stirring all the time, and let it slightly cool; beat the egg, stir it carefully in, add the parsley and pour it over the fish. KB.—(1) For a change, the egg Way be boiled hard and chopped finely before adding it to the sauce. (2) Any kind of white fish can be cooked in this way; also the oily fish, but butter is not necessary for the latter, and the flour can be mixed smooth with a little cold water. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. Ingredients :—Thin slices of bread and butter. 1 pint milk. 2 oz. sultanas or currants. 1 oz. sugar. 1 egg. A pinch of salt. Method Grease a H pint pie-dish and sprinkle afewsultanas or currants at the bottom, then add a layer of bread. Repeat this until the dish is three-quarters full, finishing with bread. Warm the milk, and beat it well with the eggs and sugar; pour this custard over the pudding, let it stand at least one63 hour before cooking, and bake about one hour. Allow it to cool about five minutes before tur ning it on to a hot dish. N.B.—This pudding can be varied according to taste. Mar- malade, or preserve, or grated lemon rind, used instead of fruit, is very good; and at Christmas, when mincemeat is at hand a thin layer or two makes a pleasant change. STEWED LENTILS. Ingredients :—1 lb. lentils. 1 lb. onions (parboiled or scalded whole). 3 or 4 medium-sized carrots. 2 or 3 „ „ turnips. 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley or mint. 1 quart cold water or stock. A little dripping. Vinegar, salt and pepper to taste. Method:—Prepare the lehtils as for soup (see page 45), then put them into a stewpan with the water and dripping, and simmer 1-L hours or until soft. Cook the onions with the lentils from -}j hour to 1 hour, according to size. Cut the carrots and turnips into strips 2 inches long and ^ inch thick, and cook them separately in a little boiling water with salt in. For serving, take the onions out and place them in the centre of a dish, then stir the parsley and seasoning into the stew, let it boil a few minutes and add the vinegar; pour it round the onion, and pile the carrots and turnips on the top. (• N.B.—(1) The carrots and turnips can be cooked in the stew if liked, but they cannot then be piled on the top, and it will not look so tempting. (2) The stew must not boil after the vinegar is added, or the parsley will turn brown. •64 CORNFLOUR CAKE. Ingredients :—i lb. cornflour. 1 tablespoonful flour. 2 oz. castor sugar, or to taste. 2 oz. butter. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 2 eggs, or 1 egg and a little milk. Method:—Beat the butter and sugar to a cream with a wooden spoon, then beat the eggs and add them with the flour and cornflour by degrees, and beatin<r well, adding the baking- powder at the last. Pour the mixture in a greased cake-tin (do not let it be more than half full), put it immediately into a hot oven and bake about -!• hour. If liked, the mixture can be baked in small patty-pans, and will then take only fromlO to 15 minutes to bake. MEAT CAKE. Ingredients :—1 lb. scraps of any cold meat (fat and lean), lb. cooked potatoes. i lb. bread crumbs or soaked pieces. 1 dessert-spoonful parsley (chopped). 1 teaspoonful mixed herbs. 1 egg or a little milk. Grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste. Browned bread crumbs. Method:—Chop the meat finely, mash and beat the potatoes until light, then mix all the ingredients together. Grease a cake-tin, sprinkle it with brown crumbs, put the mixture in, or pile it in a flat baking-tin, and bake in a quick oven from 20 minutes to 4 hour. When nicely browned, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve with brown gravy round it. N.B.—An onion, boiled and chopped, may be used instead of the parsley. This is easier and more economical than rissoles.65 RICE SNOWBALLS WITH LEMON OR ORANGE SAUCE. Ingredients:—2 tablespoonfuls rice. 1 pint milk. 1 tablespoonful sugar, or to taste. A very small pinch of salt. Method:—Wash the rice, and put it into a clean saucepan •with the milk and salt. Stir until it boils, then simmer very gently about 1 hour, or until the rice is quite soft and has absorbed the milk. Then sweeten it, and pour into very small wet moulds. When quite cold, turn them out on to a dish, -and pour the sauce over. N.B.—Teacups or very small basins, half-full, will do instead of moulds. LEMON OR ORANGE SAUCE. Ingredients :— 1 lemon or orange. 1 tablespoonful brown sugar, or to taste. 1 teacupful cold water. Method .-—Peel the fruit very thinly indeed, and shred it very finely; put it into a clean saucepan, strain the juice and add it with the water and sugar, and simmer very slowly one hour, or until the rind is clear and curling. N.B.—(1) This sauce is very good with plain suet pudding or blancmanges. (2) Apples of equal size, peeled and cored, dipped into cold water, rolled in castor sugar, and baked in a tin containing half a gill of water until soft, are very wholesome served with the rice balls. (3) It is easier to put the rice into one large mould, but it does not look so nice.66 HARICOT MUTTON. Ingredients :—1 lb. neck or pieces of mutton. i pint hot water. 1 oz. dripping. 1 oz. flour or 1 level tablespoonful flour. 2 onions (scalded). 1 carrot. £ or 1 small turnip. 5 teaspoonful salt, i » pepper, Method ;—Wipe the meat with a damp cloth if necessary, and divide it into chops, or if pieces are used, trim them nicely. Heat the dripping in a stew-pan and fry the meat lightly on both sides; cut the onions in rings and fry with the meat. Prepare the vegetables, cutting them into small squares, slices, or fillets, as liked. Pour the dripping from the meat, put the vegetables, flour, salt and pepper with it, and stir well, then add the water by degrees ; stir until it boils, and simmer from 1 to I5 hours, or until the meat is tender. Stir it often to prevent it burning. or to taste. FRIED POTATOES. Ingredients :—1 lb. old potatoes. Frying fat. Method After washing and peeling, pare the potatoes thinly round and round like an apple, or cut them in slices 01 oblong pieces; do not wash them again, but rub them well on a cloth, and fry a few at a. time in a saucepan of hot fat. When nicely browned drain them on paper as usual, but do not sprinkle salt on them or they will be soft. KB.—(1) New potatoes can be left whole, and fried about 20 minutes, or until well browned. When properly cooked the inside of the potato should be dry and floury. (2) Either old or new potatoes are sometimes parboiled before frying, but are then not so crisp. To fry cold Potatoes.—Melt just sufficient fat to cover the frying-pan. If the potatoes are whole, slice and fry them a67 nice brown on both sides j or they can be mashed, then press them flat in the pan with a plate, and when browned slip the cake on t'o the plate, put it back into the pan and brown the other side. VEAL PIE. Ingredients:—It lbs. neck of veal. a lb. bacon or pork. 1 teaspoonful salt. A little pepper. 1 teaspoonful sweet herbs. 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley. b rind of lemon, chopped finely. Flaky paste. Method :—Out the meat in neat-sized pieces, and the bacon in strips of about 2 inches wide, having first removed the rind and rough pieces. Put the salt, pepper, parsley, lemon, and sweet herbs on a plate, mix them, and dip each piece of meat in it. Put a layer of meat in the pie dish, then one of bacon, more meat, and so on till all is in the dish. Half fill the dish with boiling water, let it cool, then cover with paste in the usual way, and bake in a quick oven from It to 2 hours. If it is wanted glazed, brush it over with beaten egg. FLAKY PASTRY. Ingredients:—1 lb. flour. | lb. clarified dripping or lard. A pinch of salt. About | pint water. Method :—Mix the flour and salt in a basin and rub in one- third of the fat. Add the water gradually, making the paste a little more moist than for short pastry, turn it on to a floured board and roll it to a long strip. Divide the rest of the fat in two, and put one portion on the paste in small pieces with the point of a knife, dredge lightly with flour, fold it evenly in three, turn it round and roll it out, fold and roll again in the same way. Repeat this process with the other portions of68 fat,, and then before using it roll it about inch thick, or as desired. —The paste is greatly improved by putting it in a cool place from 10 to 20 minutes after each piece of fat has been rolled in. GINGERBREAD PUDDING. Ingredients:—A lb treacle. 5 lb. flour. lb. bread crumbs. £ lb. suet. 1 oz. mixed peel. 1 gill milk, or as required. 1 egg. 1 teaspoonful grated ginger. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Method :—Mix the flour, bread crumbs, ginger, and baking powder in a basin, add the suet, finely chopped, and the peel cut into small pieces. Mix the treacle, egg, and milk together, pour this on the dry ingredients, and mix well, making it rather moist. Boil or steam from 2 to 4 hours, or bake 1 hour. If liked, the egg need not be used. BAKED MACKEREL OR HERRINGS. Ingredients:—2 good-sized mackerel or about 6 herrings. 6 tablespconfuls bread crumbs or 3 oz. 2 ,, chopped parsley. 1 teaspoonful herbs, or to taste. 2 tablespoonfuls dripping. Flour, salt, pepper, raspings. Method :—Cut the heads and fins of the fish, wash and dry them, and take the backbones out. Put the head, fins, and bones to stew for gravy. Sprinkle the fish lightly with pepper, salt, and flour, and lay it in a baking-tin containing the drip- ping melted. Mix the crumbs, parsley, and herbs, adding a little salt and pepper, and spread this over the mackerel in the tin, cover with the other, dredge again with pepper, salt and69 flour, finishing with raspings. Bake in a hot oven about 4 hour, basting it a few times. N.B.—(1) Where an oven is a difficulty, a dutch oven will do for nearly all baked dishes of this kind. (2) This is intended especially for the oily class of fish, the bread crumbs absorbing the oil. So if white fish be cooked in this way, the forcemeat will require milk or fat. FIG PUDDING. Ingredients :—-t lb. figs (cut finely). I lb. bread crumbs. •1- lb. suet (chopped). -t lb. sugar. -t lb. flour. 1 gill milk, or more. 1 egg- A little salt. •i- teaspoonful baking powder. Method:—Grease a basin or mould. Mix all the dry ingre- dients together, beat the egg and milk, pour it in, and mix very well. It should be a rather moist mixture. Put it into the mould, and cover with greased paper for steaming. If boiled, tie a pudding-cloth over, and cook from 3 to 4 hours. When done, remove the paper or cloth, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve plain, or with lemon sauce. SULTANA AND CRUMB PUDDING. Ingredients :—lb. bread crumbs. 3 oz. suet. 5 lb. flour. -t lb. sultanas. 2 oz. sugar. A pinch of salt. L pint milk. 1 egg- ~ teaspoonful baking powder. A grating of nutmeg if liked.70 Method: The method and time of cooking is the same a» for Fig Pudding. GOOD VEGETABLE SOUP. Ingredients:—3 onions (scalded). 1 turnip. 2 carrots. 4 potatoes (parboiled). 2 oz. butter. 1 tablespoonful parsley (chopped). 1 „ sago. 3 pints boiling water. A- pint milk. \ teaspoonful sugar. Salt and pepper to taste. Bread, dripping. Method:—Prepare the vegetables, and cut them in small squares. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the vegetables and sugar, and simmer 10 minutes, stirring them about. Add the water, simmer about 1) hours, or until the vegetables are tender, stirring often to prevent burning. Strain the soup through a wire sieve or colander into a basin, rub the vege- tables through with a wooden spoon, then pour it back into the saucepan. Add the milk and sago, stir and simmer | hour, then add the parsley, and season to taste. Serve with squares of bread fried in dripping, or toast. MACARONI PUDDING. Ingredients :—3 oz. macaroni. 2 oz. sugar. 1 pint milk. A little grated nutmeg. A pinch of salt. Method .-—Break the macaroni into small pieces, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, simmer uncovered for 20 minutes, pour off the water, add the milk and salt, and simmer very71 slowly about 15 minutes, or until the macaroni is tender. Add the sugar, pour it into a greased pie-dish, and grate a little nutmeg over the top. Bake about hour. SAUSAGE POTATOES. Ingredients:—b lb. sausages. 2 lbs. cooked potatoes. £ pint milk (about). Salt, and pepper. A few sprigs parsley. Dripping. Method:—Prick the sausages, and steam or simmer them in i pint of boiling water about 20 minutes, then skin and cut them in two. Mash the potatoes (which are better warm), and beat with a wooden spoon until very light, adding enough milk to moisten them. Take a spoonful of the potato, lay a piece of sausage on it, cover with potato, leaving it quite rough; put in a greased baking tin, and bake about 20 minutes. They should be nicely browned, then put a sprig of parsley in each one. SUPPER POTATOES. Ingredients:—1 lb. cooked potatoes (warm). 1 tablespoonful milk. 1 „ chopped parsley. 1 egg- Salt and pepper. Dripping. Method:—Separate the egg, and beat the white to a stifl froth. Mash the potatoes, then add the yolk of egg, milk, and parsley, and beat until quite light, seasoning to taste. Then stir the white of egg in very gently. Pile the mixture quite high in a greased baking tin, and bake about 15 minutes in a hot oven. It should be nicely browned, and garnished with anything green. ^•B.—This dish can be varied by adding grated cheese, and72 is most useful for using up any scraps of cold ham or meat. The egg need not then be used. POTATO PASTRY. Ingredients :—lb. cold boiled potatoes. 1 lb. flour. 2 oz. lard or dripping. A little salt. I lb- jam. A little water. Method :—Mix the flour and salt in a basin, beat the fat, and then rub it in lightly with the fingers. Mash the potatoes very finely, add them to the flour, &c.; work them in very lightly with a fork; then make the whole into a paste with the water, of which very little is required, as the potatoes are moist. Put it on a floured paste-board, roll it out thinly, line some tart-tins with it, and bake in a quick oven about | hour. When done put in some jam, and serve hot or cold. The potato pastry can also be used for a meat pie. N.B.—(1) The pastry will be lighter if the potatoes are passed through a sieve. (2) A few pricks after the paste is in the tins will prevent it puffing in the centre. SCHOOL OF COOKERY HASH. Ingredients :—About 6 slices cold meat. 3 medium-sized onions (scalded). 1 oz. dripping. 1 oz. flour, or more. 1 pint stock or water. Salt and pepper. Method:—Roll the meat in flour and put it between two plates, and just heat it through in the oven or over boiling water; it must not be allowed to frizzle in the least. Slice the onions and fry them brown in the hot dripping, add the flour, stir until brown, then pour the stock ingradually, stir until it boils and season to taste. Put tlie meat into this gravy and simmer very gently five minutes. KB.—(1) It can be garnished with a wall of mashed potatoes or sippets of toast. (2) The gravy is easier to mix smoothly with cold stock or water than with hot. YORKSHIRE TEA CAKES. Ingredients:—2 lbs. flour. 4- lb. lard or butter. J1 oz. German yeast. 1 pint tepid milk, or as required. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 1 „ baking powder. i „ ' salt. Method :—Mix the flour and salt, then rub the lard into it. Dissolve the yeast with the sugar, add to it f- pint of the warm milk, pour it into the centre of the flour, mix it slightly, sprinkle a little dry flour over the top, and let it stand in a warm place for 1 hour to rise. Then knead it well, adding the rest of the warm milk, with the baking powder, and set it to rise another hour. Then divide into 10 portions, roll each into a round cake, put them on warm floured tins before the fire for hour to rise. Bake in a quick oven from ^ to i hour. HARICOT SOUP. Ingredients:—1 pint beans. 2 large onions (scalded or parboiled). 1 large carrot. 1 small turnip. 2 quarts water. \ oz. dripping. Salt and pepper to taste. \ pint milk (if liked). Method:—Soak and drain the beans according to “ Axioms,” 21,74 then put them into a saucepan with the cold water and dripping. Cut the vegetables into very small pieces; when the soup boils put them in, and simmer from 2 to 4 hours, or until quite soft. Then strain the soup through a wire sieve or colander into a bowl, and rub the vegetables through with a wooden bowl. Season to taste, pour it back into the pan to get hot, and serve with squares of toast. If the milk is used it should be added with the seasoning. TREACLE TART. Ingredients:—Short or flaky paste. lb. treacle or 2 tablespoonfuls (warm). 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs, teaspoonful ginger, or to taste. Method :—Cover a tartlet tin or old plate with paste, spread the treacle over the centre, mix the crumbs and ginger toge- ther, and cover the treacle with them. Trim the edges, and bake in a hot oven about twenty minutes. N.B.—(1) This can be made more substantial by putting on a covering of paste. (2) When the centre of paste is covered with any mixture it is much lighter baked on tin than ware. WINTER SALAD. Ingredients :—1 medium-sized beet-root or carrot (cooked and sliced). 3 strips celery. 3 small potatoes (cooked and sliced or passed through a sieve). 1 bunch water-cress when obtainable. 1 tablespoonful onion or parsley, chopped finely. 1 hard-boiled egg. 2 tablespoonfuls pure olive oil. 1 tablespoonful tarragon or plain vinegar. \ teaspoonful made mustard, i „ sugar. \ „ salt. A little pepper.75 Method:—Peel tlie beet-root after cooking (care should be taken not to pierce the skin before cooking, or it will lose its colour). Wash, dry, and slice the celery. Wash and dry the cress lightly; separate it into sprigs, cutting oil the thick stalks. Mis carefully all the vegetables (except the onion and parsley) in the centre of a dish or bowl. Sauce :—Separate the white from the yolk of the egg and chop the white finely. Rub the yolk, sugar, salt, pepper and mustard smoothly together with a wooden spoon, stir in the oil and vinegar gradually, and add the onion or parsley. Pour this over the salad and sprinkle the chopped white of egg on the top. Almost any vegetable may be used in a winter salad. A CURRY OF COLD MEAT. Ingredients :—1 lb. pieces cold meat. | pint stock or water. 1 tablespoonful flour. 1 dessert-spoonful curry powder. 1 small sour apple or green gooseberries, rhubarb. 1 small onion (scalded). 2 oz. dripping. Salt. Method :—Slice and mince the onion finely, and fry it in the hot dripping until quite brown. Mince the apple and fry it also. Then mix the curry powder and flour smooth with the stock or water, using an iron spoon ; pour it into a saucepan and stir until it boils, adding salt to taste. Lay the meat in, and let it just heat through. N.B.—Any fresh meat, tripe, fish, rice, macaroni and haricot beans can be curried for a change. BOILED RICE. Ingredientsl lb. rice (Patna is the best). 1 gallon boiling water. 2 tablespoonfuls salt. 1 quart cold water.76 Method . Have a saucepan ready with the boiling wo tor j add the salt to increase the heat, and have it boiling rapidly. Wash the rice well and throw it in, and boil very quickly about 13 minutes. Then put the cold water in and strain it through a wire sieve or colander; put it into the oven or in front of the fire until it is dry, and stir it with a fork occa- sionally to keep the grains separate. N.B.—The water may be used for starching aprons. OATMEAL BUNS. Ingredients :—3 oz. flour. -j lb. medium oatmeal. 4 oz. sugar, or to taste. 3 oz. clarified dripping, lard, or butter.' 1 egg- 1 teaspoonful baking powder. About \ pint milk, or as required. Method:—Put the fat into a basin, and beat it to a cream with a wooden spoon. Beat the egg and part of the milk to- gether, then add it with the other ingredients (except the baking powder) by degrees to the fat, making a rather moist mixture. Beat well all the time, and set it aside for as long as possible, for the oatmeal to swell. Then add the baking powder, and more milk if necessary; it should now be a stiff mixture. Put it into greased patty pans, and bake in a quick oven about 15 minutes. N.B.—(1) If the mixture is baked without giving time for the oatmeal to swell, the buns will not be so light and diges- tible. (2) Fine oatmeal does not require so much swelling, but it often imparts a bitter flavour, and is not so suitable for buns. The very coarse is not so suitable either for cakes. (3) Candied peel may be added if liked, or a few sultanas.77 SAVOURY BATTER. Ingredients :—6 oz. flour. 1 pint milk. 1 egg. 2 tablespoonfuls chopped parsley. 1 teaspoonful thyme and majoram (mixed). About £ lb. scraps of cold meat. 1 oz. dripping, or scraps of fat. Salt and pepper. A pinch of baking powder. Method :—Make a batter with the flour, milk, and egg, and set it aside to swell. Chop the meat finely, taking away any fat, skin, or gristle, dredge it with flour, and mix with it the parsley, herbs, salt, and pepper. Put it into the batter, add- ing the baking powder, and beat the whole well. Melt the fat in a pie dish, pour the mixture in, and bake about £ hour, or until the batter is cooked, in a hot oven at first to raise the batter, and then more slowly lest the meat should get hard. When done, slip a knife round it, and turn it on to a hot dish. If liked, serve it with Brown Gravy. N.B.—(1) Almost any scraps of meat can be mixed together for this dish. If, however, pork is used, sage and onions should be added instead of the parsley and thyme. (2) Any scraps of fat taken from the meat should be melted and used instead of the dripping. (3) If liked more solid, 2 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs can be added, and sometimes a tablespoonful of medium oatmeal is liked. HOMINY OR SEMOLINA BLANCMANGE. Ingredients :—2 oz. hominy or semolina. 1 oz. lump sugar, or to taste. 1 pint milk. A pinch of salt. Method .-—Rinse a very clean saucepan with cold water, then poui’ in the milk, and sprinkle the hominy or semolina with the salt into it. Stir until it boils, draw it aside and cook very gently about one hour, or until it is quite soft and78 has absorbed tbe milk. Sweeten to taste, pour it into a wet mould, and when cold turn it out, and serve with Stewed Fruit. N.B.—(1) If the hominy be soaked over night in just sufficient hot water to cover, it will not require so long cooking, but it is not quite so nice. (2) When the blancmange is served plain, without the stewed fruit, the lump sugar rubbed on an orange or lemon is a great improvement, or any flavouring liked can be added. (3) When the sugar is added at the last, the blancmange is not so liable to burn. STEWED FRUIT. Ingredients:—1 lb. fresh fruit. pint water. 2 oz. lump sugar, or to taste. Method :—Boil the water and sugar for 10 minutes, taking- off the scum, then add the fruit and simmer slowly until it is quite soft but not broken. Stir frequently, taking great care to keep the fruit whole; when done, lift it out carefully, place it on a dish, let the syrup boil up, then pour it over the fruit. N.B.—(1) More sugar may be required according to the kind of fruit. A little thin lemon rind is an improvement to nearly all fruits. (2) Pears with this syrup poured over and stewed 5 or 6 hours in a very slow oven, will be a very pretty colour. SAVOURY MACARONI. Ingredients :—3 to 4 oz. Naples macaroni or hominy. 1 pint milk. 2 oz. grated cheese, or to taste. I oz. butter. 1 tablespoonful bread crumbs. Salt and pepper to taste.79 Method :—Put the macaroni into a pan with plenty of hoilinq water and a pinch of salt. Let it simmer about hour, strain it, then add the milk and simmer 1 hour or until quite cooked and the milk is absorbed. Put this on to a greased meat dish, mix with it half of the cheese and season to taste. Sprinkle the remainder of the cheese and bread crumbs on the top, put the butter in small pieces here and there, and place it in the oven or before the fire for a few minutes to brown. If hominy is used, wash and soak it, and cook it in the water in which it has been soaked, but for macaroni the water must be boiling, or it will lose its round form and look and taste disagreeble. SODA BUNS. Ingredients :—1 lb. flour. 1 lb. butter or clarified dripping. J- lb. castor sugar, or to taste. 2 oz. mixed peel. 2 eggs. _ 1 gill milk or more. I teaspoonful baking powder. ■1 ,, carbonate soda. A pinch of salt. Method:—Beat the butter or dripping to a cream, dissolve the soda in the milk, separate the eggs, beat the yolks, add . them to the milk, and shred the peel. Then add these ingre- dients and the sugar gradually to the fat, beating well. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly last thing; also the baking powder. Shape the buns roughly with two forks, put them on a greased baking sheet, sprinkle with castor sugar, decorate with a little peel, and bake in a quick oven about £ hour.80 PLAIN SODA CAKE. Ingredients :—1 lb. flour. 4 lb. butter or clarified dripping, i lb. sugar. T lb. currants or sultanas. 1 teaspoonful carbonate soda. H gills milk, or more. Sliced candied peel to taste. Method:—The same as for the buns, but baked in a cake tin, about 2 hours, or until a skewer comes out quite clean. EXETER STEW. Ingredients :—1 lb. shin of beef. 3 or 4 good-sized carrots. 2 or 3 good-sized turnips. 1 pint brown gravy. About -I, gill of vinegar. Salt and pepper. A few sprigs of parsley. Method:—Cut the meat into nice pieces, and lay them in the vinegar. Make the Brown Gravy (page 42), add more onions, but do not strain it, take the meat out of the vinegar and lay it in a stew-pan or jar, pour the hot gravy over, and stew very gently from 2 to 4 hours, as the meat needs it. Prepare the carrots and turnips, and cut them into strips about 2 inches long and \ inch thick, steam or boil gently in salt and water (just sufficient to cover them) | hour, or until quite soft. For serving, put the meat and gravy on to a hot dish, and pile the vegetables as high as possible on the top, putting a sprig of parsley here and there. N.B.—(1) This makes a very tempting-looking stew, and tough steak is nice done in the same manner, but would not require so long cooking. (2) Parsnips could be used instead of turnips for a change, and these vegetables are all delicious steamed, and then none of the good properties are lost. (3) If the meat is from the lower part of the shin, which is often very tough, it is better to leave it in the vinegar a few minutes.SI SWISS PUDDING. Ingredients :—1 lb. apples. About 6 oz. bread crumbs. 1 egg- 1 oz. moist sugar, or to taste. 1 oz. butter. 1 or 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water. Method :—Peel, core and cut up the apples, put them into a small saucepan with the sugar and water, and stew to a soft pulp. Separate the egg, add the yolk to the apples, stirring well, beat the white to a stiff froth, and stir it in lightly. Butter a pie-dish well (H pint size), line it with crumbs (1 inch thick at the bottom and as many as will adhere to the sides), put the mixture in, cover with crumbs, and put what butter is left on the top in small pieces. Bake in a quick oven about 20 minutes—the crumbs should be nicely browned —turn it out carefully on to a hot dish and dredge with white sugar. Serve it with Apple Syrup. N.B.—(1) Invalids usually enjoy this pudding very much,' and it is nice for anyone who cannot take pastry. (2) The egg can be omitted and lump sugar rubbed on an orange or lemon, or any other flavouring can be added. FEIED CHOPS OE STEAKS. Method:—Trim the chops and put a little of the fat into a frying-pan ; when quite hot put the meat in, let it remain one , minute to seal up the juices, then turn it with a knife and spoon (not a fork), and seal up the juices on the other side in the same way. Then cook it as slowly as possible from 10 to 20 minutes, according to the thickness. The more slowly it is cooked after the first two minutes and the more frequently it is turned, the more tender it will be. If there is no fat with the steak use a small piece of nice dripping, just to moisten the pan. If pork chops, serve with Apple Sauce.82 APPLE SAUCE. Ingredients :—6 apples. - Sugar to taste. About 2 tablespoonfuls water. Method:—Peel, core, and quarter the apples, put them in a saucepan with the cold water and sugar, and simmer until quite soft; beat well, pour into a tureen, and serve hot. The flavour and the colour of the apples is much better when they are cooked in a covered jar or basin in the oven. STEAMED SEMOLINA PUDDING. Ingredients :—3 oz. semolina. 1 pint milk. 1 or 2 eggs. 1 oz. sugar, or to taste. Grated lemon rind or any flavouring to taste. A pinch of salt. Method:—Grease a mould or basin and a piece of kitchen paper. Heat the milk in a saucepan, sprinkle the semolina into it, stir until it boils, add the sugar, flavouring, and salt, and simmer until it thickens a little. Separate the eggs, allow the semolina to cool a little, then beat the yolks in ; beat the whites to a stiff froth, stir lightly in, pour it into the mould, cover with the paper and steam 1 hour. Turn it out and serve with Jam or Marmalade Sauce. JAM OR MARMALADE SAUCE. Ingredients:—1 tablespoonful jam or marmalade. 1 gill water. 1 oz. white sugar. Method Put the preserve, water and sugar into a small saucepan, and simmer gently rather thick syrup pudding. N.Ib- is used. uncovered until it becomes a Then strain it and pour round the -A few drops of cochineal improves the colour if jam83 FISH PIE. Ingredients:—2 lbs. of any fresh fish. 2 tablespoonfuls browned bread crumbs or raspings. 2 tablespoonfuls chopped parsley. Salt and pepper. Short or flaky paste. Method :—Wash, dry, and cut the fish into nice pieces, and stew the fins in a little cold water and salt for gravy. Put the fish in a pie-dish in layers, sprinkling each layer with salt, pepper, parsley, and the browned crumbs. Pour in the gravy, let it cool, then cover with paste in the usual way and bake in a hot oven about J hour. N.B.—When white fish is used, an egg beaten up with the gravy is liked, though it is not necessary. Oily fish is quite rich enough without. DR., JOHNSON’S PUDDING. Ingredients'.—Stale bread (that can be sliced). 1 lb. rhubarb, or any juicy fruit. 1 pint cold water. J lb. sugar, or to taste. Method:—Wipe and cut up the rhubarb, or pick the fruit used, and stew it with the water and sugar until it is quite soft. Slice the bread very thinly, pare off the crust from a feiu pieces to line a mould or basin, putting it on a large plate or dish, then fill up the mould with layers of bread and fruit (while hot), using up the crusts which have been cut off and all pieces and crumbs. Put a plate on the top and press it well down, leaving it until cold with a hea^y weight upon it; remove the plate a few times to pour the syrup in which has been pressed from it. When quite cold, turn it out and serve with milk or custard. N.B.—(1) This is a very cheap wholesome pudding, and is very useful in hot weather (as it can be made the day before) and good for those who cannot take pastry. (2) When rhubarb is used, a little whole ginger stewed81 Avitli it, and then taken out, is an improvement ; or a little thin lemon or orange rind can be used. A dark-coloured fruit makes the prettiest pudding, but a few drops of cochineal improve the colour of the rhubarb, or the custard can be poured over it if it looks insipid. (3) Fresh bread or the slices cut thickly will quite spoil it. (4) In winter apples and prunes can be used, but the Apple Syrup (page 34) should be made. BOILED CORNFLOUR CUSTARD. Ingredients:—1 teaspoonful cornflour. s Jr pint milk. 1 oz. lump sugar. Method:—Mix the cornflour to a smooth paste with a little cold milk, put the rest of the milk into a very dean saucepan, when it boils stir in the cornflour, add the sugar and boil a few minutes. Beat the egg in a basin, and pom1 the cornflour gradually on to it, stirring well all the time. Then leave it to cool, stirring occasionally to prevent a skin forming on the top. N.B.—(1) If wanted thicker, the quantity of cornflour should be increased, and if a little flavouring is wanted, rub the sugar on an orange or lemon, or a small piece of cinnamon can be boiled with it, and afterwards taken out, or a little nut- meg may be grated on the top when it is ready for serving. (2) One egg will do very nicely for a pint of custard when it is wanted for a family. (3) The hot cornflour poured on to the egg cooks it quite enough. ROAST YEAL. Ingredients:—Breast of veal. Forcemeat. Method:—Bone the meat, spread a layer of forcemeat over (page 89), roll and tie it with a fine string, and bake or roast according to “ Axioms ” 5. Make a stock with the bones for the gravy. This is very good served with Bread Sauce.85 BREAD SAUCE. Ingredients:—j lb. stale bread. 1 pint milk. 1 large onion. 4 cloves. 6 peppercorns. Pepper and salt to taste. A little nutmeg. Method:—Cut the bread in thin slices, take cd the crusts and put it in a basin. Put the milk in a saucepan, with the onion stuck with cloves and the peppercorns; when it boils, pour it, over the bread in the basin, cover with a plate, put it by the- side of the fire to keep quite hot for about one hour. Then, take out the onions and peppercorns, beat the bread until quite smooth, add pepper and salt to taste, and a very little grated nutmeg. N.B.—If liked, 1 oz. of butter can be added, and it is a great improvement. Ingredients RICE BUNS. -uI :—-I lb. ground rice. , , , 5 lb. fiour. S ozs. castor sugar, or to taste. 1 lb. butter, or 6 oz. if preferred. 2 large eggs or 3 small ones. 1 small teaspoonful baking powder. A few drops of essence of lemon, or grated lemon rind to taste. A little milk, if required. ( 1 Method .-—Cream the butter and sugar, beat the eggs and add them with the other ingredients (except the baking pow- der and flavouring) by degrees, beating all the time. Be car efu1 in adding the flavouring, put the baking powder in last thin-, beat well again, and then half fill greased patty pans with the mixture, and bake in a hot oven about £ hour. i86 TEA-CUP PUDDING. Ingredients:—1 heaped dessert-spoonful cornflour. 1 teaspoonful sugar. A few grains of salt. | pint milk. 1 egg. A little butter. Method:—Mix the cornflour smooth with a little of the milk, add the rest of the milk, sugar and salt, put this into a saucepan and stir it over the fire about 5 minutes. Beat the egg, add it to the mixture, and mix well; pour it into a greased cup, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly J hour. Let it stand 5 minutes before turning it out. INVALIDS’ CAKE. Ingredients3 large or 4 small eggs. The weight of three in castor sugar and flour. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Method:—Line a cake tin with buttered paper. Beat the '■eggs and sugar until thick and nearly white, then stir the flour in very lightly; add the baking powder last, put it at • once into the tin, and bake about £ hour. N.B.—(1) If any flavouring is wished for, grated lemon rind is the most wholesome. (2) This is called Invalids’ Cake because there is no fat in it except the oil in the eggs. It is therefore very light and digestible if properly made. If the beating is done with a whisk, it will be lighter. INVALIDS’ PUDDING. Ingredients:—3 stale 1 d. sponge-cakes. I pint milk. Sugar to taste. Preserve or any fresh soft fruit.87 Method:—Slice the cake crossways, and if fresh fruit is used, crush it with a little sugar; then put layers of cake and fruit or preserve in a small pie-dish, finishing with cake. Pour the milk over (taking care to soak the top layer of cake, or it will be dry) and bake about 20 minutes in a moderate oven. N.B.—A little grated lemon or orange rind, sprinkled on the cake instead of preserve or fruit, is sometimes preferred. SEMOLINA OR HOMINY PORRIDGE. Ingredients:—1 tablespoonful semolina or hominy. 1 gill milk. 1 gill boiling water. A pinch of salt. Method:—Sprinkle the semolina into the water, add the salt, stir until it boils, and leave it to simmer about 20 minutes, then stir the milk in, and leave it by the side of the fire about ten minutes, but do not let it boil. Serve it poured neatly over a plate, with the edges quite free from droppings, and sprinkle it with castor or grated lump sugar. Hominy Porridge is made in the same way, though it is better soaked as for Hominy Blancmange (page 77). SAVOURY PUDDING. Ingredients:—4 oz. fine oatmeal or flour. 4 oz. stale bread (scraps). 1 large or two small onions. 1 dessertspoonful sage. 1 teaspoonful sweet herbs (if liked). 1 oz. dripping or suet, or marrow. 1 egg- 1 pint milk. Salt and pepper to taste. A little nutmeg. MethodCut the bread in slices, take off the crust, put the bread m a basin, pour the milk over it, let it soak until quite soft then beat out all the lumps. Shred and chop the' 3uet veiy fine!}, add it to the bread, with the flour or oatmeal'88 and tlie onions boiled and chopped, sage, herbs, nutmeg, pepper and salt, then the egg well beaten. Melt a little fat in a baking tin (sufficient to cover the bottom), pour the mixture in, and bake about 1 hour in a hot oven. When done cut it in squares and serve like Yorkshire Pudding with pork, duck, or goose. VEGETABLE MARROW SOIJP. Ingredients:—2 lbs. vegetable marrow. 1 large onion (sliced and scalded) 1 oz. butter. 2 oz. flour. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 1 pint milk. 1A pints boiling water. Salt and pepper to taste. Method:—Peel and cut the marrow in squares, put them into a saucepan, add the onion, sugar, butter, and a little salt and pepper; put the lid on, and simmer about 10 minutes; then add the water, stew slowly 20 minutes, or until the vege- tables pulp. Mix the flour to a smooth paste with a little milk, add the rest of the milk and stir it into the soup, con- tinue stirring until it boils, season to taste, and serve with small squares of toast. bf.B.—(1) Pumpkin or carrots maybe used instead of the marrow, but the carrots would require longer cooking before the thickening be added. It is an improvement to rub the soup through a sieve before it is thickened. BEEF OLIVES. Ingredients :—lj lbs. beef steak. 1 pint boiling stock or water. 1 dessertspoonful flour. Forcemeat. Method :—Cut the meat into slices about \ inch thick and 4 inches long, beat them flat with a chopper or rolling pin dipped in water, and if there are any trimmings from the meat89 chop them finely, and mix them with the forcemeat. Put a little piece of forcemeat on the end of each slice of beef, roll them up and tie each one with cotton. Place them upiight in a stewpan, pour the boiling gravy over, cover closely, and sim- mer gently 1 hour, or until quite tender j then take the olives out, remove the cotton, and arrange them on a hot dish j thicken the gravy with the flour, stir until it boils, let it boil 3 or 4 minutes, season to taste, colour with a little browning, and strain it over them. N.B.—Slices of cold meat may be used, but cook h hour only. FORCEMEAT. Ingredients:—3 oz. bread crumbs or scraps of stale bread. 1 oz. dripping or beef marrow, or butter. 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. £ teaspoonful mixed herbs. A little milk. A very little nutmeg. Salt and pepper. Method:—If scraps of bread are used, soak them in milk until soft, drain away any liquid that is not absorbed, and beat it finely with a fork. Mix the bread, parsley, and herbs very well, just melt the fat, stir it in, and season to taste. N.B.—(1) A little grated lemon rind is an improvement, but all seasonings should be added most carefully; merely a suspicion of them is required, not a strong flavour. (2) This makes a light, crumbling forcemeat, and is more digestible than a close one. It will also do for fowls, veal, rabbits, or forcemeat balls; but an egg would be required for the latter to bind them, the addition of which would make it closer. BROWNING FOR GRAVIES. Ingredients:—£ lb. sugar. \ pint hot water.90 Method:—Put the sugar in a small saucepan, and stir it with an iron spoon until it is almost black, then pour the hot water over, stir it until it boils, let it cool, and bottle it. N.B.—If not well burnt, it will be sweet. STEWED STEAK. Method:—This can be done as for Haricot Mutton or Exeter Stew. CHRISTMAS CAKE. Ingredients:—1 lb. flour. J lb. butter. 2 oz. brown sugar. i lb. treacle. 6 oz. raisins (either kind). 6 oz. currants. 3 eggs. 1 teaspoonful carbonate soda. Method:—Put the butter and treacle into a bowl, just melt it, then add the soda and work or stir it about 5 minutes, or until it ferments like yeast. Then add the other ingredients, mix well, put it into a cake-tin lined with greased paper, and bake about 3 hours in a rather slow oven, or until a skewer comes out quite clean. Candied peel can be added as liked. N.B.—Margarine can be used for all cakes instead of butter. It is much cheaper and very good. BRAN TEA. Ingredients :—3 tablespoonfuls medium bran. Sugar or honey to taste. 1 quart of boiling water. Method :—Pour 1 quart of boiling water on the bran. Let it stand £ hour, sweeten with sugar or honey, and strain it before serving. Lemon rind improves it.91 TOAST AND WATER. Ingredients:—A piece of bread crust 1 quart cold water. Method:—Take a piece of bread crust and toast it brown, on all sides. Put it into a jug with the water. Let it stand with a cloth over it for half-an-hour, then strain it. The crumb of bread should not be used, as it would turn sour. STEAMED VEGETABLE MARROW. Do not peel the marrow, but put it into a steamer quite whole and cook from 20 minutes to 1 hour, or until tender, according to the age and size; then peel it (holding it in a clean cloth), divide it lengthways, take the seeds out, and cut it into nice pieces. It can be served plain or with melted butter, or mashed like turnips with a little milk. N.B.— (1) This is a very watery vegetable, and this mode of cooking it preserves the flavour and makes it much more digestible, as no foreign water can get into it. (2) If there be not a steamer, cook it in a large saucepan with very little water, just sufficient to create steam. (3) If preferred, the marrow can be peeled (not cut) before cooking, especially if it is steamed in a steamer. STUEEED VEGETABLE MARROW. Ingredients :—1 medium-sized marrow. Scraps of cold meat of any kind. Scraps of stale bread. Sage and onions, or parsley and thyme,"as liked. 2 oz. dripping. Flour, salt, and pepper. Method :—Peel the marrow, divide it lengthways, and take the seeds out. Chop the meat, soak and beat the bread finely, boil and chop the onions, and rub the sage, then mix all together, seasoning to taste. Fill each half of the marrow with this forcemeat, tie them together, dredge with flour, salt,92 and pepper. Melt the dripping in a baking tin, put the marrow in and bake it about 1 hour, basting a few times. Serve with Brown Gravy. N.B.—(1) When marrows are large and cheap, this is an economical way of using up scraps of meat. Sometimes the meat is omitted and an egg used with the forcemeat instead. (2) It can be steamed if liked ; the dripping and flour will then not be required. STEWED TOMATOES. Ingredients :—1 lb. fresh tomatoes. ~ gill of hot stock or water. k teaspoonful of sugar, or to taste. A small piece of butter. Salt and pepper to taste. Method:—Wipe the tomatoes and put them into a stewpan with the stock or water, sugar, butter, and seasoning; cover closely, and stew about 15 minutes, or until quite tender. The tinned tomatoes are very good and much cheaper, but do not need the addition of the stock, as there is usually plenty of liquid with them. N.B.—(1) Tomatoes are much more wholesome with cold meats than the highly-seasoned sauces are. (2) They are very good stewed in a covered jar or pie-dish in the oven, omitting the stock or water. PICKLED ONIONS. Ingredients :—2 quarts onions. 1 quart vinegar. -1- oz. peppercorns. - 1 oz. whole ginger. Salt and water. Method :—Peel the onions, boil some strong salt and water, pour it over them, let them stand in this 24 hours, keep the vessel closely covered to retain the steam, after that time wipe the onions quite dry. Boil the vinegar, peppercorns, and/ 93 ginger together, and pour it over the onions ; the vinegar must entirely cover them. Cover them over tightly, and keep for , several weeks, when they will be ready for use. STRAWBERRY JAM. (Simple.) Ingredients :—To each pound of fruit allow— ■| lb. loaf sugar. Method:—Pick the strawberries, put them into the preserv- ing pan with the sugar. Take off the scum as it rises, let it boil very quickly for 1 hour, or as required. Try it in the usual way by putting a little on a plate, and if it sets quickly it is done. Cover as for Marmalade (page 55). N.B.—(1) Small hard strawberries are best for preserving, as they keep whole more easily. (2) This preserve requires almost constant skimming, or it will not be clear. (3) Do not stir it or the fruit Avill break, but simply put a spoon in gently to see that it is not burning. STRAWBERRY JAM. Ingredients:—To every pound of fruit allow— l-|r lbs. loaf sugar. 1 pint red currant juice. Method :—Choose the strawberries not too ripe and of good colour. Pick off the stalks, lay the strawberries in a dish, and sprinkle over them half the quantity of sugar, which must be pounded. Shake the dish gently that the sugar may be equally distributed, and let it remain for one day. Currant Juice :—Put the currants into a jar, place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, let it simmer until the juice is drawn from the currants, then pour it off and put 1 pint into a saucepan or stewpan, boil it with the remainder of the sugar until it forms a thin syrup, and in this simmer the straw- berries until the whole is sufficiently jellied. Great care must be taken in stirring, as the fruit should bo preserved as whole as possible. H94 CHRISTMAS PUDDING. Ingredients:—1 lb. raisins (stoned). 1 lb. currants (washed and picked). 1 lb. sugar. 1 lb. sultanas (cleaned and picked). \ lb. mixed peel (shredded). t lb. almonds, if liked (blanched and shredded), lb. flour. 4- lb. bread crumbsv. ■f lb. beef suet (chopped finely). 6 eggs. Milk (according to size of eggs). Rind of 1 lemon (grated). \ teaspoonful of salt. Ginger, cloves I , , „ . . , Nutmeg, cinnamon } 1 teasPOonful, or to taste* Method:—Mix the whole of the ingredients very thoroughly —much depends on this ; beat the eggs and milk, add them and stir it very well again. Put it into well-greased moulds or basins, cover with greased paper, tie the cloths over them, and boil from 6 to 10 hours, according to size. When tho puddings are turned out the appearance is improved by dredging them with castor sugar. If they are not wanted at once, keep them in a cool, dry place. To Blanch Almonds.—Put them into boiling water and let them remain until the skins will come off easily; then throw them into cold water to whiten them, and leave them moist, not wiping them. LEMON MARMALADE. Ingredients:—1 lb. chips and pulp of lemons. 2 lb sugar. 1 pint of the last water in which they are cooked. Method :—Scrub and wash the lemons ; put them into a saucepan, cover them with cold water, boil hour, or until the lemons are tender; change the water twice, each time re- placing it with boiling water. Then take out the lemons, pour the water into a basin. Cut the lemons into quarters,95 take out the centre pith and pips, remove all the white pith from the rind, and cut it into the finest possible chips. Weigh the pulp and chips, and allow to every pound 1 pint of the water in the basin and 2 lbs. loaf sugar. Put the sugar and water in the preserving pan, let it boil about 15 minutes, stirring all the time, and removing carefully all the scum. Then allow the syrup to cool a little before adding the pulp and chips; boil gently for \ an hour, or until it jellies. Pour into warm dry jars and cover at once. N.B.—Five ordinary lemons weigh about 1 pound. MINT SAUCE. Ingredients :—2 tablespoonfuls chopped mint. 2 tablespoonfuls moist sugar, or to taste. 1 gill of vinegar. Method:—Put the sugar and vinegar into a tureen and let the sugar dissolve. Wash the mint, pick the leaves off the stalks and dry them, chop them up finely, add them to the sugar and vinegar, and stir until the sugar is dissolved. This sauce is better for being made 2 or 3 hours before wanted.GENESALi AXIOMS FOR PLAIN COOKERY. FORMULATED BY MISS BRIGGS. All rights reserved. Entered at Stationers' Hall.INTRODUCTION. SUMMARY of general principles having been felt to be a desideratum amongst teachers of Cookery, these axioms were formulated in the hope that they would supply this want. They have been found to ensure emphasis being laid, on the most important points of each subject they comprise, and. also prove that a rule with an intelligent reason for it is remembered, when receipts (which are difficult to retain) will ahnost entirety fade from the memory. Cookery is a subject which perhaps more than others demands a help of this kind, because it is somewhat monotonous, because the heat required for its operation tries the concentrative power of the teacher, and because the constant thought required for the practical part of the work interferes, necessarily, with the even tenour of theoretical lessons only. It is of great importance that a mere parrot-like repetition of the “ Axioms ” should be avoided; therefore, when a child has repeated them, she should be questioned thoroughly as to their why and wherefore. E. Biuggs. Nov., 1889.99 GENERAL AXIOMS FOR PLAIN COOKERY. 1. General Rnles. I. Get everything in readiness before commencing to cook. II. Keep everything very clean. III. Make every dish look as nice as possible. 2. Rules for Vegetable Soups. I. Put the vegetables into boiling water to keep the colour. II. Boil gently to preserve the flavour of the vegetables. III. Keep it well skimmed. IV. Do not allow it to cool in the saucepan, but pour it into an earthenware bowl. 3. Rules for Boiling Potatoes. I. Choose potatoes of equal size. If large and small are together, cook the larger ones a few minutes before the smaller ones are put in. II. Peel them very thinly to preserve the gluten. III. They must never be cut, because the starch within the gluten absorbs the water so readily. IV. Put them into boiling water to keep the gluten firm, and leave plenty of room for them to swell. V. Boil them gently and evenly, to prevent them breaking. VI. Try them with a skewer, and if done, strain and shake them. VII. Put the pan near the fire about 10 minutes, leaving a dean Boft cloth on the top to absorb the steam,100 4. Eulesfor Boiled Suet Pudding-. I. Chop the suet very finely. It should be fine enough to mix with the flour like any other fat. II. Put it into boiling water, or it will not be light. III. Keep it boiling all the time, and if more water is added, it must be boiling. If the heat is lowered, it will not be light. IY. Keep the lid on closely, or the steam will escape, and the pudding require longer time for cooking. Y. Suet pudding requires from 3 to 4 hours boiling, because suet is a heavy fat. YI. Mix bread-crumbs with the flour to make it lighter. VII. Half an hour longer must be allowed if it is steamed, which is a much lighter mode of cooking it. 5. Eules for Boasting or Baking Meat. I. Have a clear fire or a hot oven ready. II. Spread the lean part with dripping, and dredge it with flour to form a coating to keep the gravy in. III. Give it great heat for the first 10 minutes to close the pores, IY. Then ccok it veryslowly to make it tender. Y. Allow 15 minutes to each lb., and 15 minutes over. Pork and veal require about 20 minutes to each lb., and 20 minutes over. YI. Baste it very often. 6. Eules for Dry Boasting or Baking Meat. I. Dc not spread it with dripping or dredge it with flour. II. Give it great heat for the first 20 minutes, then cook it very slowly indeed, allowing quite 20 minutes to each lb., and 20 minutes over. III. Do not baste it at all. This method is much easier than the usual one, and makes the meat brown crisp, tender, and full of gravy.101 7. Rules for Boiling Fish. I. The fish must not be left in the water after washing, or it will lose its flavour and firmness. II. Cook it in a small quantity of water—one pint for 2 or 3lbs. III. To each pint add a teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of vinegar, and 6 peppercorns. The fins of the fish should also be added. IY. Put it into hot (not quite boiling) water to keep it firm. V. If there is no fish kettle, tie it in muslin, so that it can be lifted out whole. VI. Simmer very gently, to prevent it breaking. Boiling fast spoils the flavour. VII. After 10 minutes try it with a skewer. If the flesh move readily from the bone it is done. VIII. Take it out of the water as soon as it is done, to prevent it breaking. IX. Use the water for the sauce. 8. Rules for Melted Butter. I. All sauces containing flour must boil, to burst the starch grains. II. If this sauce is left boiling too long it will become too thin. 9. Rules for Soups with Meat or Boues. I. Chop the bones a little, or cut up the meat, to allow the nutriment to be the more easily extracted. II- Put them into cold water and add salt and brown ugar to extract the nutriment. III. Skim it just before it reaches boiling point, to prevent the scum being carried down into the stock or soup. IV. Simmer gently, and keep the lid on closely to prevent the steam and flavour escaping.102 10. Rules for Cold Meat Dishes. I. To warm up cooked meat, by whatever method, a medium heal should be used just long enough to heat it through. Great heat hardens the meat. II. The other extreme must also be avoided, because a[cold liquid, or a too low degree of heat will extract the juices, and render the fibres of the meat dry and indigestible. III. If the meat is protected, as it is in some cases, by batter or potatoes, then a high degree of heat will not affect it so much. 11. Rules for Cooking Coarse Oatmeal. I. When oatmeal is used for gruel or porridge, put it into boiling water, with a little salt in. II. Stir it well for the first five minutes, but when it is cooking just stir it a. few times. III. Cook it very slowly for quite one hour. IY. "When oatmeal is used for buns or cakes, the mixture must stand for half an hour or longer, to allow the oatmeal to swell. Y. The baking powder must not be added until just before baking, and then more milk will be necessary. 112. Rules for Boiling Meat. I. Put it into boiling water to close the pores, and let it boil about 5 minutes. II. Then add a cup of cold water to reduce the heat. III. Cook it as gently as possible to make it tender. IY. Allow 20 minutes to each lb., and 20 minutes over. V. Keep the lid on to prevent the steam and flavour escaping. 13. Rules for Making Plain Cakes. T. Beat the fat to a cream II. Add the other ingredients "by degrees, beating it well all the tine. . . • III. Put it intc a hot oven, and finish cooking it gradually.103 14. Rules for Short Pastry. I. Keep everything about it very cool. II. Mix it as dry as possible. III. Roll it once only before using it. IV. Handle it as little as possible. V. Bake it in a good hot oven. V. Do not take it into a colder room until it is cool, or it will be heavy. This rule applies also to bread and cakes. 15. Rules for Frying. I. Enough fat to cover must be used. This is not wasteful, as it can be used over and over again if it is not burnt. II. Heat the fat slowly, to allow the water to escape. III. Make the fat quite hot before using it. IY. To test it, put a small piece of bread in; if it brown at once, the fat is ready. • Y. Only two or three things should be fried at once, or the heat will be lowered too much. VI. Soft paper should be on the dish, and the things fried should be covered with paper to absorb the fat. VII. Strain the fat when it is cool into a little cold water, to clarify it. 16. Rules for Making Bread with. Yeast. I. Mix the yeast with luke-warm water—boiling water will destroy its power. Cold water (unless in very hot weather) will prevent its action. II. Knead the dough well at first, but very little when forming it into loaves. III. Put it into a hot oven to kill the yeast plant. If put into a cool oven, it will rise too much. IV. Finish baking more slowly. 17. Rules for Baking-Powder Bread. I. This kind of bread must not be put to rise like yeast bread, because the baking powder would lose its power. - II. Do not knead it with the hands, but beat it with a wooden spoon instead, and keep it cool like pastry. III. Put it into a hot oven at first to make it rise well, then cook it. more slowly.104 18. Rules for Beer lea I. Shred the beef very finely to extract the juices. II. Let it stand in cold water as long as possible before cooking. III. Add a little salt to extract the juices. IY. Beef tea should never boil. 19. Rules for Making Coffee. I. When there is not a proper coffee-pot, tie the coffee in a small muslin bag. IL Scald the coffee-pot before putting in the coffee. III. The water must be boiling when it is poured on to the coffee. IY. Have each cup one-third full of hot milk (not boiling) be- fore pouring in the coffee. Y. The milk must be heated slowly; this makes it rich and creamy. Put the milk into a jug, and then place it in a pan of boiling water, YI. If the milk is heated in a saucepan, it should not be allowed to boil. VII. Coffee and tea-pots should be put away clean and dry every time they are used, and should not be allowed to stand with the tea leaves or coffee grounds in. 20, Rules for Batter. I. Beat it well to get the air in. II. Let it stand an hour or longer, for the starch grains to swell. This makes it lighter. III. Cook it in a hot oven. 21. Rules for Dried Beans, Peas and Lentils. I. Soak the beans, &c., in cold water over night. II. Then strain them, spread them on a dish, and leave them for a day, or tiuo if possible. III. Cook them very gently. IV. Keep the lid on closely, to prevent the steam escaping. Y. Put about half an ounce of dripping hi the water they are cooked in, to help to soften them. VI. Por soups, put them into cold water to cook; but if they are to be served as a vegetable, put them into boiliny water.105 22. Eules for Baking Potatoes. I. Scrub them quite clean. II. Djy them well. III. Have a hot oven ready to bake them in, or they will not be crisp. IY. When they are nearly done, prick them to alio w the steam to escape. 23. Eules for Potato Soups or Stews. I. Par-boil the potatoes before adding them to soups or stews. II. Par-boil the onions also, to extract a little of the strong oil. 24. Eules for Eoiling Greens. I. Eemove the outside leaves and cut the stalk twice across. II. Pour boiling water over to get the insects out. III. Wash it several times in cold water, and if not quite fresh, leave it in the last water about 20 minutes before cooking. IY. Cook it in a large pan with plenty of boiling water. Y. To about 2 quarts of water, put a tablespoonful of salt, and about a dessertspoonful of sugar. VI. Take the lid off when it bods, and ccok it gently. VTI. Strain it as soon as it is done. 25. Eules for Flaky Pastry. I. Bub one-third of the fat into the flour. II. It must not be mixed too wet, or it will be tough. III. Fold and roll it evenly. IV. Bake it in a very hot oven. 26. Eules for Eice and other Farinaceous Puddings. I. Not more than two tablespoonfuls to a pint of milk must be used, otherwise the starch grains will not have room to swell. II. Cook it slowly to give the starch grains time to swell, and to preserve the flavour. III. A pinch of carbonate of soda must be used in hot weather to prevent the milk curdling. IV. If an egg be used, allow the pudding to cool a little before adding it.106 27. Rules for Stewing Coarse or Tough Meat. I. Dip the meat into vinegar to make it tender. II. Pour boiling gravy over the meat to close the pores. III. Stew as gently as possible to make it tender. IV. Keep the lid on closely to prevent the steam and flavour escaping. V. —Do not draw the gravy from the meat by putting it into cold water, but make a separate gravy to cook it in. VI. —Coarse or tough meat should never he fried. 28. Rules for Broiling Chops and Steaks. I. Have a clear fire. II. Heat the gridiron well before putting the meat on. III. Salt must not be put on, as it extracts the nutriment. IV. Put it close to the fire at first, to close the pores. Do this on both sides, then cook more slowly. V. Turn it with a knife and spoon every minute, to keep the gravy in and make it tender. VI. A fork must not be used for turning it. VII. Allow from 8 to 30 minutes according to thickness.107 NOTES ON BOILING POTATOES. Potato Boiling.—As the “Axioms” (3), page C9, for boil- ing potatoes involve one or two disputed points in the cookery world, a few words of explanation are necessary for their definite formulation. If a whole slice of potato be examined, even to the naked eye there will be seen distinctly, an opaque rim around it, which is quite different in appearance from the semi- transparency of the inner portion, in which starch grains or cells are easily discerned. Experiment and continued experi- ence have proved to a large number that boiling water has the effect of making this outer rim firm, which prevents the potatoes breaking. The importance of keeping them whole is recognised when it is remembered that starch readily absorbs water, and most tenaciously retains it; and thus the great object should be to prevent the entrance or absorption of any foreign water, if they are to be served dry and floury. This theory is supported both by steaming and baking potatoes. No one thinks of putting them over cold water for the former process, and for the latter, those put into a cold or merely warm oven are very inferior to those baked in a good brisk oven. It is again supported by the fact that medical men generally agree that baked potatoes are much more wholesome and digestible than those cooked otherwise—dub, first, to the fact that they are not deprived of their cork-like natural covering, thus ^pre- venting the escape of their properties ; secondly, that they are cooked by a dry heat, so that no additional water is absorbed; and thirdly, because the degree of heat is great enough to dry up much of their natural moisture. Apart, however, from the science of the matter, attentive, careful practice of the rules referred to, which are applicable to every kind of potato, both old and new, usually results, happily, in breaking down the strongest wall, even of British prejudice. That old potatoes should have been put into cold water for so long, and all other vegetables into boiling water, is just one of those unaccountable contradictions which exist in English cookery. It is one of the signs of advancement that the importance of steaming, as a mode of cooking, is more generally recog- nised, and all vegetables (except those where the colour would be affected) are rendered much more tender and digestible by it: apart from the fact that the salts in vegetables—which largely constitute their value—cannot be lost to the same extent as by boiling.108 NOTES ON ROASTING MEAT. Ihe Dry Roasting or Baking of Meat :—On a superficial reading, “Axioms ” (5 and 6), page 100 appear slightly contra- dictory. In reality, however, this is not the case. In the former method, dripping and flour are put on the meat, and in the latter the.rule is not to do so; but then in the former the sealing up of the juices is accomplished in 10 minutes, aided by the covering of fat and flour; while in the latter 20 minutes (just double the time) is allowed for this purpose. Soyer is the authority for this non-basting theory, and these “ Axioms ” were formulated to adapt it as nearly as possible to the smaller and similar apparatus of small houses. His plan is to draw the meat 3 or 4 feet from the fire, which must be large—this, of course, would be too great a distance from a small range ; but the idea is, very sloio cooking—so slow that basting is not required to keep it moist, and the degree of heat not great enough to dry up too much of its own moisture. Even for poultry and game, his rule is to rub the breast only with a little butter after the skin becomes set. Tie points out as one of the evils of basting, that by continually pouring hot fat over, the beautiful light fat attached to the joint becomes heavy, and the gravy, which invariably falls from the joint with the fat, remains upon it ancTHburns, and causes it to be very heavy and indigestible. At the same time he apologises for attempting to improve the English method of roasting. Where Soyer’s method can be carried out, it is most advantageous in the saving of time and trouble. The idea of slow cooking has been proved to be the best in every mode of cooking meat— in boiling, stewing, grilling, and even in dry frying (which is the quickest method, and supposed only to take 5 or 6 minutes), as well as roasting or baking—-and it is inculcated throughout this little work, and certainly cannot be too much emphasised, It is, perhaps, necessary to add that in frosty weather the meat should be brought into a warmer atmosphere some little time before cooking it, or a longer time allowed for the cooking. These notes would be incomplete, perhaps, without a word or two on the cooking of salt meat, which is not introduced into the syllabuses, because the ordinary salting process deprives it of so much nutriment; though where a fresh joint is salted by the pumping-in process merely for its savoury advantages, and not for the sake of keeping it, of course it is not deprived of its juices, nor is it so hardened as when it lies in the pickle109 for some time, so that it would only require boiling in the ordinary way. The sloio cooking theory is a decided advantage for these meats. Tongues, hams, and fish require soaking several hours, or overnight, according to the length of time they have been in pickle; then cover the meat with boiling water, and leave it by the side of the fire until done, scarcely allowing it to simmer. Let it remain in the water about half an hour, or until the water is almost cold, when the meat will be mellow and moist.110 INDEX TO Apple Dumplings .. PAGE 50 Apple Sauce.. 82 Arrowroot, To make a cup of 60 Bacon and Eggs, To fry .. 48 Bacon and Liver 47 Baked Haddock 36 Baked Herrings 68 Baked Mackerel 68 Baked Potatoes 42 Baking Powder 14 Baking Powder Bread 35 Barley Water 53 Batter, Fruit Baked in 39 Batter, Savoury 77 Beans, Haricot 40 Bean Stew, Haricct 41 Beef and Bice, Stewed 51 Beef Olives 88 Beef Stew, Leg of .. 24 Beef Tea 37 Beef Tea, No. 2 38 Blancmange, Hominy 77 Blancmange, Semolina 77 Boiled Cauliflower .. 52 Boiled1 Fish, Sauce (plain) for .. 18 Boiled Meat 23 Boiled Poratoes 12 Boiled Bice .. 75 Boil Eggs, To 11 Boil Fish, To 17 Boil Green Vegetables, To 44 Bone Stock .. 13 Bran Tea •JO Bread and Butter Pudding 62 Bread Pudding 12 Bread Sauce 85 Bread, Baking Powder 35 RECEIPTS. \ PAGE Bread with. Yeast .. .. 32 Bread, Whole Meal .. 35 Bread Crumbs, Browned .. 37 Broiled Chops or Steaks ., 49 Broun Bread Crumbs .. 37 Brown Gravy .. .. 42 Brown Gravy for Haddocks 36 Browning for Gravies .. 89 Buns, Oatmeal .. .. 76 Buns, Bice ., ,. .. 85 Buns, Soda .. .. .. 79 Hutter, Melted .. .. 28 Butter, Melted, No. 2 .. 29 Cabbage, To Pickle Bed .. 55 Cake, Christmas .. .. 90 Cake, Cornflour .. .. 64 Cakes, Fish .. .. .. 19 Cake, Invalids .. .. 86 Cake, Meat .. .. .. 64 Cake, Bock .. .. .. 25 Cake, Seed .. .. .. 21 Cake, Soda (plain) .. .. 80 Cake, Yorkshire Tea .. • 73 Caper Sauce.. .. .. 23 Cauliflower, Boiled.. .. 52 Chops or Steaks, Broiled .. 49 (Ihops or Steaks, Fried .. 81 Christmas Cake .. .. 90 Christmas Pudding.. .. 94 Clarify Dripping, To .. 16 Clarify Fat, To .. .. 17 Cocoa .. .. .. 51 Cod, Savoury ,. .. 62 Coffee .. .. .. 22 Cold Meat, A Curry of .. 75 Cornflour Cake .. .. 64 Cornflour Custard .. .. S4 Cornflour, To make a cap of 60Ill Cornish Pasties Crumb and Sultana Pudding Curry of Cold Meat, A Custard, Cornflour Dripping, To clarify Dr. Johnson’s Pudding .. Dumplings, Apple Eggs and Bacon, To fry .. Egg, Snow Eggs, To boil Eggs, To poach Exeter Stew Pat, To clarify Pig Pudding Pish Cakes .. Pish Pried in Batter Pish Pie Fish Sauce Pish Steamed Pish, To boil Flaky Pastry Flaky Pastry, Rough Forcemeat .. Fried Chops or Steaks Pried Potatoes Fruit Baked in Batter Fruit Pie Fruit Pudding Fruit Stewed Pry Eggs and Bacon, To .. Pry Sausages Gingerbread Gingerbread Pudding Good Vegetable Soup Gravies, Browning for Gravy, Brown Gravy, Brown, for Haddocks Gravy for Roast Meat Green Vegetables, To boil.. Gruel Haddock, Baked ., Haddocks, Brown Gravy for Haricot Beans Haricot Bean Stew.. Haricot Mutton Haricot Soup Hash, School of Cookery Herrings, Baked .. ’’ Hominy Blancmange Hominy Porridge .. PAGE Hunter Pudding .. .. 28 Invalid’s Cake .. .. 88 Invalid’s Jelly .. .. 59 Invalid’s Pudding .. .. 86 Irish Stew .. .. .. 43 Jam Sauce ., .. .. 82 Jam, Strawberry .. .. 93 Jam, Strawberry (simple) |.. 93 Jam, To make ,. .. 56 Jelly, Invalids ., ,. 59 Leg of Beef Stew .. .. 24 Lemonade .. .. .. 53 Lemon Marmalade .. .. 94 Lemon Sauce .. .. 65 Lentil Soup .. .. .. 45 Lentils, Stewed ., .. 63 Lettuce Salad .. .. 56 Liver and Bacon „. .. 47 Macaroni Pudding .. .. 70 Macaroni, Savoury.. .. 78 Mackerel, Baked .. .. 68 Marmalade, Lemon .. 94 Marmalade, Orange .. 55 Marmalade Sauce .. 82 Marrow, V egetable(steamed) 91 Marrow, Vegetable (stuffed and baked) .. .. 91 Mashed Potatoes and Minced Meat 22 Meat Cake .. .. .. 64 Meat, Cold, A curry of 75 Meat Patties .. .. 26 Meat Pie .. .. it 25 Meat Pudding ., ti 33 Meat, Gravy for Roast .. 15 Meat, To Boil .. tt 23 Meat, To Roast * ’ 15 Melted Butter .. ,, 28' Melted Butter, Ho. 2 .. 29 Minced Meat and Mashed Potatoes .. .. M 22 Mincemeat .. .. ., 54 Mint Sauce .. .. ,, 95 Mutton, Haricot ., ’ ’ yy Oatmeal Buns ., f. 75 Oatmeal Porridge .. ” 33 Olives, Beef.. ’ ’ gg Onion Sauce.. ., ” 23 Onions, To Pickle ” 92 Onions with Tripe (stewed) 48 'page 52 69 75 84 16 83 50 48 11 11 45 80 17 69 19 30 83 18 59 1-7 67 27 89 81 66 39 29 34 78 48 46 61 68 70 89 42 36 15 44 40 36 36 4U 41 66 73 72 68 77 87112 Orange Marmalade.. PAGE 55 Orange Sauce 65 Pancakes 39 Pasties, Cornish 52 Pastry, Flaky 67 Pastry, Potato 72 Pastry, Rough Flaky 27 Pastry, Short 27 Pastry, Suet.. 34 Fatties, Meat 26 Pea Soup 20 Pickled Onions 92 Pickled Red Cabbage 55 Pie, Fish 83 Pie, Fruit 29 Pie, Meat 25 Pie, Shepherds’ 13 Pie, Veal 67 Plain Sauce for Boiled Fish 18 Poached Eggs 45 Porridge, Hominy .. 87 Porridge, Oatmeal .. 38 Porridge, Semolina.. 87 Potatoes, Baked 42 Potatoes, Boiled 12 Potatoes, Fried 66 Potatoes, Sausage .. 71 Potatoes, Steamed .. 12 Potatoes, Supper .. 71 Potato Pastry 72 Potato Soup 31 Pudding, Bread 12 Pudding, Bread and Butter 62 Pudding, Christmas 94 Pudding, Dr. Johnson’s 83 Pudding, Fig 69 Pudding, Fruit 34 Pudding, Gingerbread 68 Pudding, Hunter .. 28 Pudding, Invalid’s.. 6 Pudding, Macaroni. 70 Pudding, Meat 33 Pudding, Rice 23 Pudding, Roly Poly 43 Pudding, Sago; 49 Pudding, Savoury .. 87 Pudding, Semolina (tteamed) 82 Pudding, Suet . . 14 Pudding, Sultana and Ciumb 69 Pudding, Swiss c. 9 • 81 PAGE Pudding, Tapioca .. .. 49 Pudding, Tea Cup .. .. SG Pudding, Vegetable Plum.. 53 Pudding, Yorkshire .. 16 Rabbit, Stewed .. .. 60 Red Cabbasre, To piclde .. 55 Rice, Boiled.. .. .. 75 Rice Buns .. .. .. 85 Rice Pudding .. .. 23 ' Rice Snowballs .. .. 65 Rice Water .. .. .. 60 Roast Meat .. .. .. 15 Roast Meat, Gravy for .. 15 Roast Veal ., .. .. 84 Rock Cakes .. .. .. 25 Rolls, Sausage .. .. 46 Roly Poly Pudding .. 43 Rough Flaky Pastry .. 27 Sago Pudding .. .. 49 Salad, Lettuce .. .. 56 Salad, Winter .. .. 74 Sauce, Apple ., .. 82 Sauce, Bread .. .. 85 Sauce, Caper .. .. 23 Sauce, Jam .. ,. ., 82 Sauce, Lemon .. .. 65 Sauce, Marmalade .. .. 82 Sauce, Mint.. .. .. 95 Sauce, Onion .. , . 23 Sauce, Orange .. .. 65 Sauce (plain) for Boiled histi 18 Sausage Potatoes .. .. 71 Sausage Rolls .. .. 46 Sausages, To Fry .. .. 46 Savoury Batter .. .. 77 Savoury Cod .. .. 62 Savoury Macaroni .. ... 7S Savoury Pudding .. .. 87 School of Cookery Hash .. 72 Senes .. .. .. 31 Seed Cake .. .. .. 21 Semolina Blancmange .. 77 Sfemolina Porridge .. .. 87 Semolina Pudding (steamed) 82 Shepherds’Pie .. 13 Short Pastry .. .. 27 Snowballs, Rice .. .. 65 Snow, Egg ,. .. .. 11 Soda Buns .. .. .. 79 Soda Cake (plain) 80113 Soup, Haricot PAGE 73 Soup, Lentil .. .. 45 Soup, Pea .. .. .. 20 Soup, Potato 31 Soup, Vegetable 10 Soup, Vegetable (good) .. 70 Soup, Vegetable Marrow .. 88 Steaks or Chops, Broiled .. 49 Steaks or Chops, Fried 81 Steak, Stewed 90 Steamed Fish 59 Steamed Potatoes .. 12 Steamed Vegetable Marrow 91 Stewed Beef and Rice 51 Stewed Fruit 78 Stewed Lentils 63 Stewed Rabbit 60 Stewed Steak 90 Stewed Tomatoes .. 92 Stewed Tripe with Onions.. 48 Stew, Exeter 80 Stew, Haricot Bean 41 Stew, Irish .. 43 Stew, Leg of Beef .. 24 Stock, Bone .. 13 Strawberry Jam 93 Strawberry Jam (simple) .. 93 Stuffed and Baked Vege- table Marrow 91 Suet Pastry .. 34 Suet Pudding 14 Sultana and Crumb Pudding 69 Supper Potatoes PAGE 71 Swiss Pudding 81 Tapioca Pudding .. 49 Tart, Treacle 74 Tea, Beef 37 Tea, Beef, No. 2 .. 38 Tea, Bran 90 Tea Cup Pudding .. 86 Toad-in-the-Hole .. 39 Toast and Water .. 91 Tomatoes, Stewed .. 92 Treacle Tart 71 Tripe with Onions, Stewed 48 Veal Pie 67 Veal, To Roast 84 Vegetables (green), To Boil 44 Vegetable Marrow, Steamed 91 Vegetable Marrow, Stuffed and Baked 91 Vegetable Plum Pudding .. 53 Vegetable Soup 10 Vegetable Soup (good) 70 Vegetable Marrow Soup .. 88 Water, Barley 53 Water, Rice.. 60 Water, Toast and .. 91 Whole Meal Bread .. 35 Winter Salad 74 Yeast Bread.. 32 Yorkshire Tea Cakes 73 Yorkshire Pudding.. 16114 INDEX TO AXIOMS. PAGE PAGE Baking Meat 100 Meat, Dry Boasting 100 Baking Meat (Dry ) 100 Meat, Boasting 100 Baking Powder Bread 103 Meat, Ste (ving coarse or tough 106 Baking Potatoes 105 Melted Butter 101 Batter 104 Oatmeal (coarse), Cooking.. 102 Beans, Peas, Lentils (Dried) 104 Pastry, Flaky 105 Beef Tea 104 Pastry, Short 103 Boiling Fish 101 Potatoes, Baking .. 105 Boiling Greens 105 Potatoes, Boiling .. 99 Boiling Meat 102 Potatoes Soup or Stews .. 105 Boiling Potatoes 99 Puddings, Farinaceous 105 Bread, Baking Powder 103 Pudding, Bice 105 Bread with Yeast .. 103 Pudding, Suet 100 Broiling Chops or Steaks 106 Bice and other Farinaceous Cakes (plain) Making 102 Puddings .. 105 Chops or Steaks, Broiling 106 Boasting Meat 100 Coffee .. 104 Boasting Meati (Dry) 100 Cold Meat Dishes .. 102 Short Pastry 103 Farinaceous Puddings 105 Soup, Potato 105 Fish, Boiling .. 101 Soup, Vegetable 99 Flaky Pastry .. 105 Soup with Meat or Bones.. 101 Frying 103 Steaks or Chops, Broiled .. 106 General Buies 99 Stewing Coarse or Tough Greens, Boiling 105 Meat 106 Meat, Baking 100 Stews 106 Meat, Boiling 102 Suet Pudding 100 Meat, Dry Baking .. 100 Vegetable Soup 99 1 ( LIBRARY J