90 ON ULCERS. ciple is this; the matter forms at first under the nail, bnt, t<e- ing unable to force its way through that horny substance, bui- rows under it, thus producing excessive pain and irritation. Fungous excrescences often arise in the.se cases, which induce the surgeon to apply caustic ; this practice is worse than use- less. You should, after fomenting or poulticing the part, re- move the loose portion of nail; this permits the matter to es- cape, and instantaneous relief is the result. The next ulcer that I shall describe is the menstrual; I mean by this, a sore which is once in three weeks or a month covered with blood. This complaint is connected with ame- norrhoea. In going round the hospitals, you all must have ob- served that females will one day have their sores covered with pus, and probably on the next day covered with blood. In fact, the menstrual ulcer is of very common occurrence. You must wash these sores with liq. calcis and calomel, give to the patient the mist. ferr. c. myrrh, and pil. hydr. submur. comp., one ounce and a half of the former twice or three times a-dav ; and five grains of the latter every night at bed-time. 'J'hese medicines will generally succeed in improving the state of the constitution, by restoring the defective secretions. The next ulcers that I shall describe are those which ari.se from varicose veins; and here I shall detain vou for a few moments, as the subject is one of some importance, 'fhe veins in different parts of the body often become varicose, but those of the lower extremities by far the most frequently so. This condition of the vessels may arise from a varietv of causes ; but the more immediate one ap|)ears to he either a thickeninc of the valves, so that they are incapable of approximatine, or a rupture of the valves : in either case the effects will be the same—the blood pi'essing in one uninterrupted cidumn—the veins become distended and serpentine, and the valves widely separated from each other—their arteries, by their |X)werful at- tempts to return the blood to the part, soon excites inflamma- tion ; and ulceration quickly supervenes. IVhat are the com- mon effects produced here by the first desquamation of the cu- ticle ? Why the whole surface covering tlie diseased veins is formed into a crust, under which a qiiautitv*)f serum is se- creted. The first thing to be attended to in these c.x'cs is the recumbent posture: in fact this position is indispensable; vou can do nothing without it. Lint ivetted bv the mercurial wash should be laid on the ulcers—oiled silk over these, and then the limb .should be well and rceularly bandaged, beginn- ing at the foot. The bandage allows tbe valves to recover their lost action, and consequently will be found to be highly useful. y\nothcr great benefit is derived in these cases from opening