ON PUNCTURING THE BLADDER. 375 is some difficulty in it, if a man is not quite clear as to the si- tuation of the different parts of the urethra; but this is what everv surgeon ought to be perfecttly acquainted with. Suppose 1 wished to cut into the membranous portion of the urethra, where should 1 make the incision so as to be quite sure of cut- ting at once into it, even without the introduction of a staff? —directly under the symphysis pubis. A few days ago 1 had occasion to perform the operation which 1 am now describing. In going round the wards I was told that there was a man with a very bad stricture ; I desired that he might be carried into the theatre. I found it impossible to introduce an instru- ment into his bladder; I consequently made an incision on the stricture. This incision led to the discovery of some very solid bodies, which i)roved to be two calculi directly behind the stricture. 1 first introduced a probe, and then a director, which I passed into the bladder. In order to overcome the stricture, 1 did not divide it with the knife, hut passing a ca- theter down to the stricture, I forced the stricture with the catheter, carried the instrument on through the wound into the bladder, and left it there. Now was this man’s life en- dangered by this operation ? Was he less likely to recover? .See him gentlemen, and judge for yourselves ; he was com- pletely relieved by the operation, and he is now doing ex- tremely well. It may be supposed that this operation is a little bantling of my own, and that I am therefore desirous that others should favour it. No, gentlemen these are not my sentiments. I am anxious only that you should adopt that operation which is best calculated for the patient’s ssfety, and your own reputation. If you can relieve a patient from an accumulated load of urine, by an operation which leaves his bladder in a sound state, I certainly think you should prefer that operation. Some, at least, of the surgeons of these hos- pitals concur with me in this opinion. Mr. Green and Mr. Key have performed this operation repeatedly. The other day, indeed, when the man was placed on the table, and I hesitated whether I should puncture the bladder above the pubes for I think it right occasionally to vary our operations, for the benefit of the students, where it can be done with safety to the patient, Mr. Key interposed, and said to me, “ Oh, no I do not quit your operation, of opening the urethra.” This is certainly the operation which I advise you to |)erform ; and if you feel any difficulty in performing it, go, gentlemen, to the dissecting room, and study till you have surmounted that difficulty. The learned professor concluded, by showing on the dead subject, the mode of extracting small stones from the bladder.