ON SCROFULA. 515 luent, secondary symptoms will appear, unless mercury be employed, it is right to withhold that remedy from those who are afflicted with the venereal disease ? Recollect, gentlemen, who Mr. Rose’s patients were ; they were soldiers under or- ders, at the command of their officers ; and, whatever reason- able thing they were ordered to do, they were obliged to com- ply with. You cannot expect your patients to be so circum- stanced, nor will you find them subordinate. Considering all the circumstances, I strenuously and conscientiously advise you to adopt that plan which 1 have so often felt it my duty to point out to you in the course of this lecture. I have only one more observation to make, vvhicli is, that syphilis should be cured by a slight, and not by a violent, mercurial action ; continue to give it for the periods 1 have already mentioned ; but do not produce what is commonly termed salivatiov ; it would rather prove injurious than beneficial. [At the conclusion of this lecture there was loud and con • tinned cheering.] ^ ^ LECTURE lxVT./<^ Gentlemen, this appellation, at present used l;y surgeons, is a miserable title for the diseases which it is intended to re- present; it is given to a class of diseases springing from de- bility. If asked what scrofula is, I should say that, in its character and origin, it is debility; that the disease, as it proceeds, becomes inflammatory ; but that it is connected with original weakness, and derives a peculiar character on account of its arising from this source. You will find that scrofulous di.seases are inflammatory, that they undergo all the different processes of inflammation, the adhesive and sup- purative processes, ulceration and gangrene ; but gangrene less frequently than any of the others. 'I'liese four processes are thus the effect of scrofulous diseases, but you find them all imperfectly performed. The adhesive matter secreted in scrofulous affections, instead of being firm, consists of a curd- like matter, easily broken, and very .soft; and this is owing to the blood-vessels not entering it. The suppuration is not of the common kind ; it contains curd-like matter, and is not truly purulent; ulceration is slow in its progress; granula- tions are unequal and slow in forming. These processes are the effect of inflammation, but are also connected with debi- lity ; each is imperfectly performed. But how do scrofulous and common chronic inflammation differIn common N N