ON HUMOURS OF THE EYE. 278 applied, in the form of extract, around the e^ e, momin? and evening. Amaurosis. By amaurosis, I mean partial or total loss of vision arising from paralysis of the optic nerve or retina ; and this is pro- duced by a congestion of the vessels of the part, or minute alteration of its structure. '1 he symptoms distingui.«hing this complaint are few, and therefore require to be well known. The pupil is generally dilated, and motionless; the iris is nearly immoveable, acts very' little, and vision is completely destroyed. There is also slight strabismus. In amaurosis, there is frequently the sensation as if a cloud were before the eye, which is termed caligo, and there is often a greenish ap- pearance of the humours, which is named glaucoma. TTiis de- pends on an alteration of the lens, or an alteration in the structure of the vitreous humour. The persons subjected to this complaint are those who have been in the habit ofviewing minute objects, or exposing the eyes to strong light. Persons affected with amaurosis are frequently troubled with false ap- pearances—as flashes of light, or balls of fire before their eyes. I shall divide the causes of amaurosis into three parts :—1st, Those which affect the retina or optic nerve. 2d, 'fhose af- fecting the brain, or that part of it from which the optic nerves arise, the thalamia nervorum opticorum. And, 3dly, Those affecting the body at large, or some particular organ, and thus sympathetically affecting the eye. LECTURE XXXV. On Humours of the Eye. In the preceding lectures, gentlemen, I hare described the affections of the coats of the eye ; this evening 1 shall proceed to treat of those of the humours of the eye. Very little, how- ever, can be said of the aqueous and vitreous humours, as most of the diseases to which the humours are subject, attack the crystalline lens, or its capsule ; therefore, I shall chiefly di- rect your attention to them. Hvdkophthalmia. The aqueous humour is sometimes the subject of an accumu- lation which is known by the name of hpdrophthalmia, or dropsy of the eye ; and consists in an inert ased secretion of this humour. The symptoms of this complaint arc—that the eye becomes more distended than natural; the cornea widen- ed ; the sclerotic coat attached to the cornea has a blue tint or