370 ON PUNCTURING THE BLADDER. the highest degree dangerous. Cases have occurred, in which the peritoneum has been punctured, and yet the patient ha^ survived ; but such a circura.stance could only ari.se from the unskilfulness of the surgeon. The operation of puncturing the bladder above the pubes is one of the most simple and easy; it requires very little anatomical knowledge, and very little adroitness on the part of the surgeon who performs it. All that is required is this—make your incision through the integuments to the extent of an inch above the pubes. It is be.st to open the integuments in the first instance, because the trocar will afterwards enter the bladder with more ea.«e, tnd because, if there should be any extravasation of urine by the side of the instrument, it will more rapidly escape. The in- cision should extend as far as the linea alba ; with respect to the direction in which the trocar is to be passed, you must not, on any account, direct the point of the trocar downwards towards the anus, but obliquely from the penis to the back of the pelvis, just towards the basis of the sacrum. The trocar and canula being introduced, the water passes through the canula ; an elastic gum catheter should be introduced through the canula, and left in the bladder. It is better not to leave a silver canula in the bladder for any length of time, because it is liable to ulcerate the posterior part of the bladder. Sharpte objected to the operation above the pubes on that ground ; but this objection is removed by the substitution of an elastic gum catheter. There was another objection taken by Sharpe to this operation. He found that the urine was extravasated between the bladder and the posterior surface of the abdo- minal muscles, and accumulating in the cellular tissue, pro- duced large abscesses, occasioning a high degree of irritation, and often destruction of life. This danger may be prevented by using an elastic gum catheter with a plug, by which the urine maybe occasionally withdrawm, or a bladder attached to its extremity, into which the urine may distil. The catheter may be left in the bladder for a great length of time without producing any injurious consequences. A man was tapped in the bladder in a situation which is not usual, the linea semilunaris; and a female catheter was introduced into it, and worn upwards of twelve months. The operation was iierformcd by Mr. Hare, a surgeon in Essex. 1 saw this patient twelve mouths after the operation had been performed; he had then the female catheter in his bladder. I removed this catheter, and succeeded in introducing a com- mon one into the bladder: through the urethra, with much dilUculty, for he had a very bad stricture. In a .short time he passed his t'.rinc freely by the natural course. 1 have ser;-