ON GANGRENE. 100 duces. Whatever, in siiort, weakens the constitution much, disposes it to the production of gangrene; for the body, when thus debilitated, cannot bear any exce,ss of action. When the application of cold is the cause of gangrene, the effect.s are I produced very much in the same way. The powers of the part to which tl^e cold is applied are diminished, and this di- minution of power leads to the destruction of the part, under the first excess of action. There are some parts of the body naturally constituted fee- bly; as for example, tendons. When inflammation attacks a tendinous structure, it runs very readily into a state of gan- grene. Hence the danger of making incisions into a tendi- nous structure, which frequently affect the nervous system with the highe.st degree of irritability, and produce tetanic symp- toms. It is not the injury to the nerves which produces teta- nus, but the sympathy of the nerves with the injury to the tendon. It may he stated, as a general principle, that inflammation is the cause of gangrene ; gangrene very rarely happens without inflammation ; but as there are some exceptions to this gene- ral principle, I will mention them. I have seen, in a case of hydrothorax, a small spot in the legs become at once black, without any appearance of inflammation, and extend itself un- til it occupied a very large surface. Here the total absence of circulation, and not an increased degree of it, occasioned the destruction of life in the part. So we now and then see aneurism producing gangrene. In the case of popliteal aneu- rism, to which I before adverted, the gangrene is produced, not by the bursting of the aneurismal bag, but by the pressure of the bag on the vessels, occasioning the destruction of life in the limb below. I saw a gentleman a few months ago, who was upon the point of death from the pressure of an aneurism. His foot afterwards became gangrenous. He did not die, however; for a separation of the foot, and part of the leg, took place, and he ultimately recovered. So much for impeded circulation without inflammation, .as a cause which sometimes produces gangrene. The division of a considerable blood-vessel will sometimes ]iroduce the same eflect, I believe 1 have already mentioned in the lecttires, the case of a gentleman who was stiihbed in the groin by a fo- reigner, with a diik or sharp knife. He was stabbed just in the femoral artery ; considerable iieiuorrhage took place, which was stopped by a ligature on the artery ; but the lec afterwards became gangrenous, and it was necessary to per- form the operation of amptitation. Since I commenced these lectures, I have seen a most melancholy instance of a geiitle-