o22 INSTRUMENTS USED IN LITHOTOMY. generally brought the result to the amount I mentioned, viz., that two out oififteen die 1 should say, when it is stated that one in twelve only died formerly, what operator now is more successful than this with the greatest care, even with a selec- tion of his cases, and with very extensive experience? Patients should not be sent away from the hospitals before they are quite well, for if they are, and they die, then the death of the patient is attributed to the operation. Instruments used in Lithotomy. What you require for the operation is a table, about two feet six inches high, and bandages to fasten the hands to the feet, and to draw the knees towards the body ; yon should give the patient an injection the day before the operation, and the rectum should be completely emptied, otherwise it ^tII be ill danger of being opened in the operation. The first instrument that it will be necessary to consider is the sound ; this should be of a large size. The sound, how- ever, should be fitted to the size of the urethra ; for if a small sound be used in a large urethra, or a large sound in a small one, the stone will very often escape being felt. 1 on should sound the bladder, both when it is full and rvhen empty. When a person comes to me with symptoms of stone, I order him to lie on some ehairs, and sound him ; but if I cannot discover a stone, 1 then ask him how long it is since he bad made water ; if he says an hour or two, I direct him to void his urine ; and it has frequently happened that I have felt a stone as the water was discharging, when I had not b«n able to do it before. In these cases 1 use a catheter, putting my finger over the orifice, and moving the instrument acros> the bladder ; if the stone is not to be felt, I take away my finger, and then it frequently happens that, as the urine escapes, the stone strikes against it. Now, gentlemen, if a person says that a stone may be readily felt when it is in the bladder, I would ask any surgeon, who has had the least ex- perience, to confess honestly whether he has not sounded a patient for stone, and has been unable to find one, nhen an- other surgeon has detected it in a moment. It happened to myself—it happens to all. A patient came to me who had been sounded twice by as good a mechanical surgeon as an) I know in London (though, by the by, a mechanical surgeon is onlv half a surgeon), and the stone had escaped his observa- tion, yet, on introducing the sound, 1 immediately felt it. If there is an enlargement of the prostate, the point oi the sound frequently strikes against it, or passes over it, and in those cases the stone comonly escapes being felt. The next instrument required is the staff, and this should be