ON RETENTION OF URINE. .368 opening the bladder. In the female, the most frequent cauw: of retention of urine is, retroversion of tlie uterus. I hare also seen a cancerous disease in the vagina, closing the meatus uriuarius, and thus rendering it nece.'sary to puncture the bladder. Before I speak more particularly of the means which surgeons recommend for relieving retention of urine by the knife, I will fii'st shew you the method of introducing the catheter into the bladder. No man should think of perform- ing any operation by puncturing the bladder, or in any other way, without first endeavouring to relieve the patient by the introduction of the catheter. The form and size of the catheter are subject to some variation ; that which is used for stricture iu the urethra differs materially from that which is required in cases of enlargement of the prostate gland. The prostate cathe- ter, if I may so call it, should be two inches longer than the com- mon catheter ; and the curve is considerably greater than that of the catheter for strictures iu the urethra. 'The latter is, indeed, generally too much curved ; the curve should be, as nearly as possible, like the natural curve of the urethra. The catheter is not only used for the purpose of drawing off the water, but it is often employed as a bougie ; indeed, I com- monly use the common catheter, as I shall hereafter have oc- casion to state to you, for the purpose of dilating strictures in the urethra, and, consequently, rendering any other operation unnecessary. When you are called upon to introduce a cathe- ter, place yourself upon the right side of the patient, pass it down under the arch of the pubes perpendicularly, until you reach the membranous part of the urethra; and then do not continue to pass the instrument in that direction, for if you do, you will push it towards the rectum instead of enterine the bladder; but having reached the membranous part of the urethra, you have only to move your hand thus (shov\-inc the motion), and the instrument will immediately enter the bladder. This is the whole secret of passing a catheter ; you have only to bear in mind the two motions which are neces- sary to effect j'our purpose, for if you continue to press the catheter onwards, when you have reached the membranous portion of the urethra, you will press the point of the instru- ment upon the rectum instead of introducing it into the blad- der. In cases of enlargement of the prostate gland, there will be some difference in the mode of passiuir the catheter; and it is a difference which it is somewhat difficult to explain. When the prostate is enlarged, the urethra is pushed forward so as to be doubled on the point of the instrument. Vou must, in this case, pass the catheter down to the apex of the prostate gland, then carry the instrument towards the abdo-