ON INFLAMMATION OF THE IRIS. 277 of the globe of the eye. In this complaint the sclerotic ap- pears reddened—the coi uea is dull, and the capsule of the lens itself becomes opaque—all these participate in the, inflamma- tion. 'I’here is deposition of lymph on the edges of the iris, and there are also adhesions of it in some places to the crys- taUiue lens. 'I'he sclerotic coat, however, is particularly in- flamed; the vessels may be seen carrying the blood in a straight course, while those of the conjunctiva are tortuous. There is pain in the eye, intolerance of light; also these symptoms, together with a turbid state of the humours, are sufficient to inform one of the presence of inflammation of the sclerotic coat; the patient also labours at the same time under great febrile e.xcitemeut. 'I'his inflammation is often attended by a disorganization of the organ. The l esult of this severe form of inflammation, if it be not checked, is effusion of lymph or matter into the anterior chamber of the eye, producing what is technically called hypopium. In these cases the matter may be easily observed, and sometimes there is so much as to con- ceal the edges of the pupil and the iris. Treatment. - Of course the first part of the treatment will be, to relieve the irritation of the part by blood letting, both general and local; and, in fact, all the steps of depletion must be adopted as in other inflammations of the eye. But there is one remedy above all others in this complaint on which you are to rely, and that is mercury ; it must be given so as to af- fect the con.Htitution, till the gums and mouth are sore, or the saliva begins to flow, which will be the signs of it. In iritis, this medicine must be given, let whatever quantities may have been taken before. The best form in which it can be exhibited is that of calomel; let it be given internally after the bleeding, in the dose of two or three grains combined with about a third or a quarter of a grain of opium, so as to prevent its acting on the bowels. In order that the calomel may affect the system, it must be given every fourth or sixth hour, till the mouth is sore ; in more chronic forms of this complaint it may be given less frequently. As soon as the system has become affected, you will see the zone of vessels disappearing, the lymph ab- sorbed, the aqueous humour becoming clear, and the cornea losing its hazy appearance. Other remedies have been recom- mended, but there is not one on which you can rely but the exhibition of mercury. The belladonna will be found a very useful adjunct in this complaint; by dilating the pupils, the adhesions are often prevented from forming between the iris and capsule of the crystalline lens, and when they are formed, it tends to elongate the adhesions. The belladonna should be