ON SYPHILIS AND THE USE OF MERCURY. 537 should sav is this—one constitution, upon receiving the vene- real poison, will have in it a considerable degree of inflam- matory action excited, quickly leading to the destruction of life, whilst another constitution will scarcely be influenced by the reception of the venereal poison. The next question I ask myself is, fVhether there is any Constitutional Affection produced in Syphilitic Disease ? I am again compelled to say, that that great authority, Mr. Hunter, is also wrong here ; for he has stated that the disea.se is merely local. What, gentle- men, should I say if one of you were to come to me to-morrow, stating that you had a chancre about eight, nine, or ten weeks ago, and that you had felt yourself exceedingly indisposed, having evening exacerbations, fever and sore throat, and that at length your body had become covered with a copper-coloured eruption ; hovv can we say that there is no constitutional affec- tion here Do not the evening’s exacerbations, which com- mence about five o’clock, and do not terminate till two, or later, in the morning, plainly shew that the disease, when so far advanced, is constitutional ? Most certainly it is so, and can scarcely beany longer a matter of dispute. It is not necessary that you should study much, for the pur- pose of being enabled to understand this constitutional in- fluence ; go to-morrow into the foul wards of these hospitals, find any man there having venereal sore throat; you will ask him but very few questions before you are convinced that the constitutional influence has been produced. The next question I have put down is, IVhether the Matter of secondary Vene- real Ulcer be infectious or not ?—Mr. Hunter said, that it was not so ; however, for my own part, from what I have both .seen and heard, I should hesitate a considerable time before I could join in this assertion. A physician of my acquaintance witnessed the following case ;— A gentleman carne from the country in an exceedingly anxious state of mind, and evidently vei'y much agitated, for the purpose of consulting him respecting an eruption which existed on the body of his lady ; accordingly the doctor visit- ed the lady, and found the eruption to be venereal. The doc- tor asked the gentleman how long he had been married, and he replied, six months : he added, that four months before marriage he had a sore on the penis, which was healed by local applications : three months after marriage both his wife and himself had had sore throats, which were soon cured by taking mercury. During this time, and during the existence of the venereal eruptions, not knowing the nature of the complaint, the connubial intercourse had been continued. Now, if any dependence can be placed upon the report of thii