380 ON ASCITES, OR PERITONEAL DROPSY. sound state of body. .Should the drop.«y have arisen from Ujc irritation caused by ardent spirits, these must be reliucjuished, or the complaint will not disa|)pear. 'ITiere are other medi- cines which are powerful in producing an absorption of effused water, and carrying it off by'the kidneys and by stool; the inott active of these is elateriuui; it is, indeed, so active, so severe in its effects, so destructive, that you must never give it Ut |>er- sons of advanced years, nor to those wdio labour under great debility. In di-opsy, however, which occurs in the middle of life, where thei'e is strength to bear its operation, this nredi- cine will be found a most valuable remedv. Much caution must be e-Kercised when you ai'e giving it, for it is so violently drastic, that a large dose given at once may prove destructive to life ; you should, therefore, as it were, feel your way with it, by giving at first small doses, and carefully ascertaining what (juantity the patient’s constitution will bear. In the hands of a judicious practitioner, this medicine will be found truly valuable ; it must, however, be exhibited to those only who have strength, and itr no instance to the aged and infirm, unless in exceedingly small doses. An operation, called para- centesis, or tapping, is occasionally performed for the purpose of relieving ascites, and this operation every now and then succeeds in removing the disease ; this happy result can only occur in such cases w'here the disease has been the effect of debility, arising from some kind of fever, or from the abnse of mercury. If the operation should not cure, it will tend materially to diminish the sufferings of the patients; by re- lieving the load under which they labour, and by removing, in great measure, the difficulty of breathing, caused by the water accumulating to such an extent as to press upon the lower surface of the diaphragm ; the removal of the water un- der these circumstances will likewise afford a better oppor- tunity for the trial of medicines ; this operation has also pro- duced a permanent cure, when such a result was totally unex- pected on the part of the medical practitioner. 1 recollect the case of a young man at Guy’s, who had recovered from tv - ]duis, but who had afterwards an accumulation of water in the abdomen, on which account I was requested to sec him by the late Dr. Marcet. He had anasarca as well as ascites; I tapped his abdomen for the ascites, and punctured the lower part of the abdomen and insides of the thighs, for the ana- sarca. This young man was in an exceedingly weak state, and I did not imagine he would have recovered. 1 met Dr. Marcet three weeks afterwards, who asked me w hat I thought had become of the patient whom I had tapped ? 1 replied that I did not know; probably, 1 said, he has died. “ Xo,” said