ON POISONS. 45it the pulse gradually sinks, until it is hardly perceptible ; after an hour, the pulse is reduced to from 20° to 30° below the ordinary pulsation, which in a dog is from 110 to 130. Tln- aiiiiual becomes sleepy at the same time that its pulse is re- duced. With respect to the treatment of persons who ha\e taken considerable quantities of opium, active emetics should be immediately administered, if you have an opportunity of doing so; such as the sulphate of zinc or the sulphate of copper. But it will often happen that yon have not these .substances at hand : you must endeavour in that case to excite as much irritation as possible in the throat, with a view of producing vomiting. I certainly think, however, after the experiment which you had an opportunity of witnessine in this theatre, and that which was made on the dog in the other hospital, that the instrument for evacuating the stomach af- fords the best means of saving persons, who would other- wise perish under the influence of opium. I mentioned to you on a lornier occasion the case of a voung ladv who had taken opium, in which every means which I could employ for the purpose of producing vomiting proved completely una- vailing. When the oesophagus has lost its functions, which it soon does from the influence of opium, no stimulating sub- ■stances will produce the least effect upon it. I sat hour after hour by the side of this young lady, watching her progress to dissolution, without being in the least able to prevent it. If, how'ever, I had been acquainted with the instrument which has been since invented, I should have used it with the pro- bability of success. This instrument enables us not merely to remove the poison from the stomach, but also to throw in water in considerable quantities, and to introduce stimulating remedies after the opium is removed, for the purpose of re- storing the functions of the nervous system ; and this in cases w'here emetics cannot be even swallowed. I certainlv do ex- pect the happiest results in such cases from the invention of this instrument. The man who first suggested such an idea deserves well of his country, and they who oppose it until the instrument has been fairly tried and found useless, must be destitute of understanding. Persons who object to a pro- position merely beeause it is new, or who endeavour to de- tract from the merit of the man who ifirst gives efficacy to a new idea by demonstrating its usefulness and applicabilitv, arc foolish, unmanly, envious and illiberal objectors ; they are unworthy of the designation either of professional men or of gentlemen. I will take this opportunity of mentioning to yon, that the new medicine—iodine, which is now much employed in en-