ADHESIVE INFLAiMMATION—APPEARANCES. 41 iutestines, is a seroils surface, often atfeeted by the adhesive iullaiuniation, which occasions the two surfaces of this mein- hraue to he lirnily glued together. Hut the part of all others the most subject to this kind of inflammation is the pleura, and we scarcely ever open a body without finding upon its surface many unnatural adhesions. The heart, in like manner, is often glued to the pericardium, so that the space usually found between the tw'o portions of membrane is obliterated. Thus, then, it will be seen that the serous membranes readily take on the adhesive inflammation, by which they be- come permanently attached to each other, or to the adjacent parts ; this is a most beautiful and wise provision of nature, for if the membranes of cavities, such as the pleura and peri- toneum, instead of the adhesive, were to receive and support the suppurative inflammation, effusion and death would be the inevitable consequences. The mucous membranes, as the urethra, for example, are affected by the suppurative inflammation. This is another of nature’s benevolent and wise ordinances ; for, had they been subject to the adhesive, the outlets of our bodies would have become closed, and life destroyed. Sometimes where inflam- mation of a mucous membrane is exceedingly violent, it passes into the adhesive inflammation, glues the parts together, and, unless relieved by an operation, would end in the destruction ot life. I can relate to you an example of this : there was brought to me from Exeter ’Change a kangaroo for dissec- tion. His bed of straw had caught fire, but it was very soon extingui.«hed ; and the proprietor, knowing that he had not been severely burned, was at a loss to account for his death. L pon examination, his bladder was filled with urine, which was retained in consequence of the closure of the urethra by the adhesive inflammation ; the petiis having been severely injured by the fire, the inflammation which followed was violent, and passed at once into the adhesive form. Thus you may perceive that common gonorrhrea would destroy life, if it were not so arranged by nature that mucous membranes are iiKjre readily influenced by the suiipurative than by adhesive inflammation. LECTURE VIE Apif.arancf.s under Adiif.sivf. Inflammation. Whf.n an incision is made into a part affected witli adhesive inflanimation —into the cellular membrane, for instance—a quantity of serum is found effused round the part, and in the