ON ULCERS. 87 soon .oothes the system into peace. With this view, its aid, combined witli other remedies, may he . f So mncli for irritable ulcers. Hefore 1 contliide this pait the .subject, however, 1 will mention a case which jnst occurs to me I allude to that of iMr. Lucas, the surgeon ofthe othei hosnital. 'I'hat neutlemaii, in conseiiuence ot having prickca hl^^ fiLer, had a very irritable sore, which obliged him o go into the country, where he remained for a con-sideiable tunc. The remedy which he found mo.st cflicacious tor bringing the sore into a healing state, was the application of a solution of nitric acid, very much diluted, and theconipoiind decoction of sarsaparilla. From the latter he thought he derived consider- able benefit, lly these means, and by attention to his geneia health, he edVeted a cure ; but his life was in considerab e danger, from the irritable sore produced by this apparently trivial accident. , • i „ „,„n Sinuous Ulceration.—\t is necessary to explain heie well what 1 mean. Whenever, therefore, a sore extends to any considerable depth, so that the discharge has to travel tin ongh a channel before it arrives at the surface, such an ulceration is called sinuous. There are two reasons why these ulcera- tions are difficult to heal: first, from matter torniing at the bottom, I’orcinir its Avay the and thereby (hs- tiirbing the healing process, by breaking down w'hatever ad- hesions or granulations form on its sides ; and. Secondly, the saiueinterruptions occur from the actionsof the muscles, when these ulcerations happen in muscular parts, lints, if the heal- ing process has commenced in fistula in ano, when the sides of the fistula are at rest, the first time that the person has a motion, the sphincter ani, by its action, will destroy all the newly-formed adhesions and granulations; consequently, if the s|ihincter he divided, and the jiarts have rest, grannlatioiis will form, remain undisturbed, and a cuie be the result : this clearly shows that the motions of the sphincter occasioned a continuance of the evil. .Sometiiiics in tliese cases, for the purpose of exciting the adhesive inllaniination, injections are used. Now, which is the best.’ In my opinion, tinctura lyttaj ; it readily produces inlhimmation ; adhesive matter is thrown out; you take care, to keep the sides of the sinus in contact; and by these means the parts will permanently coalesce. Sinuses of the rectum, however, are seldom cured without an operation ; indeed, I have met with but two such cases : one was that of a gentlenian who came from the north^ of England ; he had been annoyed by a fistula on each side ol the anus, one of which was o|)erated upon by the late cele- brated Mr. Hey, of Leeds. He was cured on that side by the