ON HERNIA. 336 the hernial sac assumes. You are to introducea small director into the orifice, and divide the stricture by making a slit up- wards with a probe-pointed bistoury. LECTURE XXX. Of Inguinal Hernia in the Female. This disease is ofless frequent occurrence in the female than in the male, in consequence of the smallness of the parts through which the ligamentuin rotundiim descends. Tho abdominal ring is small, the pa.‘;sage of the ligamentum rotundiim from the abdomen much less than in the male, and the inguinal canal, upon the whole, less. Hernia in the female is therefore comparatively rare. When it occurs, the course which it takes is similar to that of inguinal hernia in the male, comparing the ligamentum rotiindum in the former case to the spermatic cord in the latter. It begins midway between the spine of the ilium and the svmphysis pubis; its origin being situated on the external side of the epigastric artery. It then enters the inguinal caual, passes along the canal, under the internal oblique and transver- salis muscles, till it reaches the abdominal rinir, where it emerges. Hernia in the female is commonly small, especially in the labia ; the sac is mucli more considerable above the ab- dominal ring than below it. On this account there is consi- derable difficulty in the performance of an operation for this hernia. When you dissect a hernia in the female, you will find, immediately helow the labia, a fascia covering the hernia •similar to that in the male ; the abdominal ring gives oil' a fascia, which descends into the labia. When the hernia is re- ducible, it requires a truss similar to that used for the male ; as it is generally small, it will give way to pressure after about a twelvemonth’s use, but it will be right to continue the truss for two years longer. Inguinal hernia is more commonly rc- ducihle in the female than in the male ; in fact, I hare never seen an instance of irreducible hernia in the female. If you should meet with one which contained omentum, you should endeavour so to apply the truss as to ))romote absorption of the omentum, and pi oduee an adhesion between it and the in- ternal part of the sac. When, from the gurgling noise, you ascertain that intestine has descended, it will be desirable that a truss should be eoustructed with a hollow in the pad, so as to embrace the hernia, and prevent the increase of its bulk, while at the same time it does not make such a degree of pres- sure as to give any interruption to the passage of the faeces