321 OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. hut between sixty and sixty-three more cases recover than at any other period ; at least this is what I have seen. If a pa- tient is loaded with fat, there is always danger from peritoneal intlamniation. As to advanced age, Mr. Cline, sen., has ope- rated on a patient eighty-two years of age ; Mr. Attenbnrrow, ot N’ottingham, has operated on a person of eighty-six. I have operated on a patient of seventy-six, but never on one older; this patient lived twelve years afterwards, and died at the age of eighty-eight; therefore, old age is not an objection to the operation, unless there is an enlargement of the prostate, when yon must not operate. With respect to the very young, they are in considerable danger from the operation. I mean children before they are four years old. After four they ac- quire strength, and the irritability of the constitution is much lessened ; under this age convulsions frequently come on after the operation ; and in three days the children often die, more especially if they have lost much blood at the time of tiie operation. I have operated on a child of one year ami nine months, and it has recovered ; but very often indeed do con- vulsions come on after tlie operation for stone in the very young, which in most cases terminate existence. With re- gard to the success of the stone operation, it is quite certain, it the accounts published be correct, that the success lately has not been so great as it used to be. Of Chcselden’s ope- rations, if I recollect aright, only four in fifty-six failed. Mr. -Martineau, of Norwich, lias operated for stone with most ex- traordinary success. He has published a paper in the Med'tcn- Chirurgical Transactiom, which is well deserving your at- tention ; no surgeon in London, 1 am certain, can boast of similar success. The degree of success which Is considered the nujst correct, is that taken from the result of the cases at the Noriolk and Norwich hospital. When 1 was there, there were between two and three hundred cases registered ; all the calculi were preserved, together with an account of the dif- ferent operations performed for the removal of each, and 1 then took an ojiportunity of ascertaining what was the residt of these ca.ses. Since that time a more detailed account has been given by thelate Dr. Marcet, in his work on calculi, from which it appears that two in fifteen died. Well, gentlemen, this is the result of the practice at the Norwich and Norfolk hosjiital. Although I stated to you just now the result of the practice of two individuals (Cheselden and Mr. Martineau), take care how you draw any deduction from |iarticiilar case-.'. I, and many others also, have, for a length of time, met with extraordinary success in operating for the stone, when four or five unsuccessful cases in succession have come, which Imi e