6S ACUTE AND CHRONIC ABSCESS, for never till after the abscesses have broken, is tlie patient attacked with it. Certainly, the formalion of matter will be attended with a slight fever, but not of the hectic kind the tongue will be clean, the pulse very little affected, and the per- son very slightly deranged ; but after an opening is made into the part, constitutional irritation sometimes comeS on, and life is then endangered. 2. The degree of liectic fever is not at all proportionate to the size of the surface on which the matter is formed. Look, for instance, at a large wound on the leg : the person will be going about with it, and feel little or no inconvenience; whilst a sore on the lungs of the size of ,a crowTi produces hectic fe- ver of the most violent kind. On one part, it is very consi- derable ; on another, it is very slight. 3. Hectic fever comes on when no matter has formed. A woman, who had her leg amputated, came into the hospital for a ])ain in the knee on the same side ; the symptoms of con- stitutional irritation were so severe, that in consequence Mr. Chandler held a consultation. The knee-joint wa.s a little en- larged, and violent pain in the part, with great constitutional disturbance existed. Amputation w'as now performed above the joint, and after the operation 1 had an opportunity of ex- amining the limb. There was no formation of matter in the knee; in the condyles, however, of the thigh hone the ulcera- tive |)rocess had commenced, and the hectic fever was the ef- fect, in this case, not of a disease of the knee-joint, but of the cancellated structure of the thigh-bone. In those ca^es also where matter has been absorbed, no hectic fever has come on. Some years ago, my old friend, IMr Cline thought that psoas abscesses might be cured by causing the absorption of the mat- ter. From the case of Dr. Saunders, which occurred at that time, he tried the effect of digitalis on a boy ot sixteen years old, who had a psoas abscess ; the size of the tumour dimi- nished, the skin became flaccid ; but as soon as the digitalis was left off, the matter returned again, and during the trial of the medicines, the pulse w as lessened, and the boy a little w’eakened—symptoms which, ns you well know, are produced by digitalis. But during this time, no hectic fever came on ; therefore, the belief of the absorption of matter being the cause of hectic fever is unfounded. The last circumstance that 1 shall mention, is the influence which the admission of air into cavities has in producing local irritation. Now', from what 1 stated concerning the absorp- tion of matter into the constitution, 1 think you will have agreed with me ; whether you have or not 1 do not care ; it is my duty to state to you my opinion—you must think for your-