108 TREATMENT OF GANGRENE. limlil'InVf accords extremely well with fri t .nr - g^ng'-V"''’ "'’en the dead are separating; oin the hung parts; it is a very useful application then in sloughing process, the nitric acid is the gancrene stops. res. of demarcation is drawn, and the slouchine pro- nmnL^n‘”TfiT“f’ ‘°>'*y be employed In the ^ond Pff P'"‘ I have'seen verv good effects from an application composed of vineear and uphoi mixture, about four ounces of the vineear to twelve ounces of the camphor mixture ; I have seen this of service V len no other application had been used, as in the case of a gentleman at Peckham, whom 1 attended with Mr A The«e are the different modes of treatment for the prevention of ean- giene, and the arresting of the sloughing process. On the proi rietv of Amputation in Gangrene. ' s to t le piopiiety of amputation—there is no occasion in general lor amputation in cases of gangrene when the sloueh- uig process is going on, as you have an opportunity of seeiiie m tlie man at the other hospital, where nature has'perfnrmed the operation herself, without any asistance ; ifthesureeon "* content to wait a short time, and the patient is dis- posed also, you will find that the parts will separate as well without as with an operation. Now the old surgeons, who ob- seive natiiie well, adopted the very same plan in their am- putations as nature pursues in these cases ; the skin seiiarates the longest, the muscles next, and then the tendons, tocether with the bones, which are left considerably shorter than the rest, as you may observe from the specimen on the table. When bones ulcerate, the tendon soon separates, and the bones lecoine cohered in by skin and muscle; the limb, however, beloie me, w'as amputated. 'I'he cases in which vou are called on to perform the operation of amputation arc when the pa- tient will not be able to sustain the shock to the constitution ; then, gentlemen, if gangrene be going on in any |>art, or thiough the middle of the leg, by which the power of the con- stitution will be nearly destroyed, you may have recourse to an operation ; but even here there w ill not always be occa,sion for it. You iiave an opportunity of seeing in the other hos- pital at present, in a case to which 1 have so often alluded, separation taking jilace above the centre of the leg; there is no necessity to amputate always under such circumstances, and you can give the patient a eliaitcc of his life, without re- sorting to it, if he dread the knife. I say, gentlemen, t/i comtitutional gansr<’nc, never amputate till the sloughing process has coniincnced, and healthy granu- lations arc to be seen on the sore; for if ati oiicratioii be per-