TREATMENT OF GANGRENE. 109 formed, the |)arts will assume exactly the same appearance after as before it. It is curious to see how the loss of a slight quantity of blood will destroy life in these cases. When I was a dre.sser at these hospitals, during my apprenticeship, a case of sloughing opposite to the calf was brought in : Mr. Cline, my old master, on going round the wards, said to the dresser, that the |)rojecting ends of the bone had better be removed. There were some granulations between the hones, which, in sawing them off, the dresser did not observe, and therefore cut through them ; little hemorrhage ensued ; no ligature was applied ; yet, on the same night, the patient died. There was a case under the care of Mr. Forster, in the otherhos[)ital, on which he performed the operation of amputation : there was gangrene on one foot, a slight gangrene on the nose, and the other foot. 'The leg was amputated; but the infection spread in the nose and foot, which, before the operation, w'ere slightly gangrenous -. then, gentlemen, it is proper to consider that amputation should never be performed till tlie constitution is in a sound state, and healthy granulations have appeared. But with respect to gangrene from defective action, or ac- cident— When called to a person labouring under gangrene, arising from accident or pressure on some important vessel, am- putation may be performed without the least hesitation. A girl was brought to this hospital, who, in endeavouring to reach something from the chimney-piece, trod on the fender, which turned over on its edge, and she fell backwards ; there was a compound dislocation of the el bow-joint, together with a wound of the brachial artery ; this vessel was tied by the dre.sser, hemorrhage was arrested, gangrene soon after- wards appeared in the finger, when, nine days from the acci- dent, the operation of amputation was performed above the elbow-joint, and the patient did extremely well. A man was brought to Guy’s from Woolwich with po|)liteal aneurism; the aneurism had acquired a great .size; there was a gangren- ous state of the limb below, so that it was thought there was no chance of saving his life by tying the artery; therefore amputation was performed. Before tlie o|)eration the pulse was from 120 to I.'IO. In the eveuing, after the removal of the limb, I sent Mr. Callaway, who was niv apprentice at that time, to .see how the patient was doing;'he found that the pul.se had fallen to *10 ; and no slump that ever ctime under my care turned out more favoural)ly. Tims, iusiead of in- creasing the irritability of tbe con.stitution, tlie source of the iiritation being removed, the health of the iiatieut became improved.