ON POISONS. 417 nearly approach, yet in the two diseases there is a very j;reat ditTereiiee. On the dissection of those who have died of hydrophobia, there has been found inflaimnation of the inteniai surface of tile pharynx ; tlie mucous and muscular coats of the stomach similarly inflamed, aud the muscular fibres of the latter in a state of violent contraction, the contents of the stomach not digested. Now, these appearances are not sufficient to ac- count for the symptoms, and the cause certainly resides in the nervous system. He who supposes, therefore, that the disease depends upon inflammation, and treats it by bleeding, does not entertain correct views of the disease; he is quite mis- taken in its character. Two nr three cases were treated by copious venesection some years ago in the East Indies ; the symptoms, however, were not those of hydrophobia, but of inflammation of the oesophagus. A man, some years ago, in the other hospital, had symptoms resembling hvdrophobia ; he never had received a bite; and, upon examination after deatli, the oesophagus situated behind the heart was found to tie greatly inflamed ; the symptoms were not those of hydro- phobia, but of inflammation of the (jcsophagus. 1 advise you, gentlemen, to read the paper which 1 before alluded to, published by Dr. Babingtoii, in which a complete history of the disease was given ; and you will there see that the loss of blood does not tend, in the slightest degree, to re- lieve the malady. The two first cases that I saw were treated by bleeding ; the loss of blood reduced the strength, hut did not mitigate the symptoms ; on the contrary, 1 think the irritability was increased from the weakness which the venesection occa- sioned. .\ rabid animal will at first lap fluids, hut cannot take solids ; will throw his meat among the straw, and bite at every thing near him ; his master will take his food to him, who will be treated by the animal at first in the customary manner; as the disease advances, however, the respect and attachment to the master becomes lost, and the animal will bite him likewise. After lapping a little water, the dog will take hold of the vessel between its teeth, and then dash it to the itround ; thus it will be observed that the natural character ol the animal remains for a long time unchanged. A gentle- man living in a village had a pointer with this disease : he behaved as well as usual in the field ; would stand, back, and bring the game ; but, after the sporting was over, he would bite any animal that came near him, and at length ran en- tirely away. I pou examining dogs that died of this disease,