325 OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. direction for the purpose of preventing the dreadful accident of the gorget slipping and passing between the bladder and rectum, instead of its entering the former viscus : I shall say more of this unfortunate occurrence jiresently, and will now proceed to describe the gorget and knife. Gorget.—']'he gorget, which was lirst employed in the ope- ration of lithotomy, had no cutting edge, (here the learned professor e.xhibited it to tlie students, as he likewise did every instrument wliich he described in tlie course of the lecture,) as you perceive, and this instrument has one very great advan- tage over the cutting gorget, viz., its use does not endanger the life of the patient from liemorrhage, which, certainly, is a ntost important consideration ; for no man who has practised much can say, if he speak honestly and truly, that persons do not sometimes die of bleeding after the operation of lithotomy. When the cutting gorget, as it sometimes does, divides the in- terna! pudendal artery, if that misfortune be not attended to, the life of the patient becomes endangered from the chance of excessive hemorrhage. The blunt gorget had, however, a counteracting disadvantage of so much consetpience that its employment has been long since relinquished ; it was the im- ])Ossibility of making an opening sufficiently large for the removal of a stone of even incotisiderable magnitude. Che- selden, whose success was so great, was in the habit of cutting into the bladder with a knife. In consequence of the very great reputation which Mr. Martineau, of Norwich, has ac- quired for his lithotomy operations, 1 wrote to him, and re- quested the favour of a description of his instruments; in the account however, which he was so kind as to send me, it did not appear that they differed from those in common practice. Depend upon it, gentlemen, that little deviation.? in instru- ments are over-rated and over-valued. The success of sur- gical operations arises rather from the manner in which the operations are conducted, than from any insignificant pecu- liarity, wliich the instrument may possess. Those surgeons who are ever constructing new instruments and altering old ones, you may rely upon it, are deficient here (the learned lecturer touched his foreheadj — [a laugh] ; such individuals appear rather to he surgical instrument-makers—than scientific surgeons; and in their ridiculous inventions betray a littleness of mind, which proves them to be totally incapable of achiev- ing any thing that is important—any thing that can add to our store of useful knowledge. 'I’he less complicated your instru- ments are, and the fewer you employ, so much the better; your operations will be executed with greater ease and e.xpert- ness, and will prove much more successful in their issue.