ON FUNGUS FFEMATODES OF THE EYE. S97 Symptoms of Fungus Hsmatodes of the Eye. Thu first circtiiustance which attracts the notice of the ])a- tieiit is tlie vision becoming impaired. On looking into tlie eye at the commencement of this complaint, you see opposite to ihe pupil, and deeply seated, an appearance like a mirror, resembling an opacity of the lens, from which it is difficult to distinguish it. If yon watch the progress of this disease, yon will see that this appearance enlarges into a prominence, pro- ceeding from the bottom of the eye towards the cornea, and as it reaches the lens, you must be the more on your guard that you do not mistake it for cataract. There is one apitearance, iiowever, at this stage by which you can distinguish the one from the other upon the opaque substance, or the retina, of which its covering consists, branches of the arteria centralis retina: may be seen ramifying. The other symptoms are loss of vision, and the iris remaining immoveable. As the pro- minence enlarges, the iris becomes protruded, and the cornea distended. The conjunctiva becomes inflamed, the eye-lids vascular, and in a diseased state ; and in process of time the cornea slouahs, an opening is formed, and a discharge of a ropy mucus first takes place. The fungus does not always protrude through the cornea, hut sometimes through the sclerotic, and then it has a purple, livid hue, and is covered by the conjunctiva. When the fungus increases in size, it as.sumes a dark red colour, its surface is unequal, and irregular; it bleeds at the slightest touch ; the parts slough, and then there is a fetid, sanious discharge. During the progress of the complaint, the health becomes affected, the countenance puts on a sallow hue, and the patient wastes in flesh. This disease is accompanied, and generally preceded, by disorder of the digestive organs ; the appetite is impaired ; and there are present all the other marks of de- rangement of the general health. When the strength and health are broken up, the disease very soon comes to a ter- mination. 'I'he close of the disease is preceded by hectic fever; as is that of most complaints from which the general health has suffered much during their progress. In fungus of the eye, the rest is completely destroyed, there is an affection of the nervous system ; and in children, convulsions come on, which terminate their existence. In all stages of the disease, there is a tendency to them, and they generally prove destruc- tive to life. If,you examine the appearances of the eye, you will find little difference in them from those of fungus in any other part. There is a grumous appearance on the surface, and the fnngu.s bears a striking resemblance to the medullary matter of the