TREATMENT OF GANGRENE. 107 as once every four hours. This plan will generally prevent the extension of gangrene. Bark was formerly extolled, a.s possessing great virtue in cases of gangrene ; but it is doubtful whether it does not do as much harm as good. For the first two or three days the patient feels comfortable, and his health is improved by'its exhibition ; but after a short time his sto- mach becomes loaded and oppressed. It first makes him costive, and then purges ; and after a little time we are obliged to suspend its use. I am much disposed to try in these cases the new form of this medicine, which agrees so well with the stomach ; 1 allude to the sulphate of quinine. It is my intention to give it a full trial in the first case of gangrene which I meet with ; and 1 recommend you to try it yourselves ill the cases of gangrene which may come under your obser- vation. An excelletit medicine used in the other hospital is a bolus of five grains of the carbonate of ammonia, with ten grains of musk, given every four hours. 1 have seen this me- dicine produce the best effects in sloughing sores in the foul wards, and in gangrenous sores, where the gangrene was much dis[)0.sed to spread. The musk has the effect of keeping up the stimulus of tlie ammonia, which is apt to subside after a few hours, when the ammonia is exhibited alone. A port wine poultice is an admirable application in these cases. I men- tioned to you, a few days ago, the case of a girl in the other hospital, who had a gangrenous sore in the pudendum, where a great variety of applications had been tried without any beneficial result. At last a port wine poultice was applied, and with such immediate good effects, that, .though I had be- fore despaired of her life, the last time I saw her the sore was brought into such a healthy state, that there are great hopes of her recovery. Applications of turpentine are often of use in these cases, for the purpose of stimulating the [larts. After great want of circulation in any part, from the course of the blood having been arrested, sloughing sores are very apt to occur. Thus, after the operation of tying the femoral artery, if the limb he suffered to rest in the same jiosition for a con- siderable time, a small gangrenous spot freipiently appears. In such cases the spirit of turpentine is the best application. Yeast is often applied with the same view. A lotion much used in the other hospital, for this purpose, is the formula which used to he called the epithema lytliargyri acetatis, but now called the epithema jilumbi suhacetatis. 'I'he following is the mode of ])reparing it;— IjL Confect. Bos. Med. Bosac. 'I'iuct. Opii. Liq. I’lumhi Subacct. }3 5jj. M.