184 ON HYDROCELE. There are great varieties with regard to the state of the tunica vaginalis ; and it is found murli thicker in those per- sons who have for a long time resided in hot climates such as the coast of Africa, or West Indies, than in sucli a climate as our own. When, therefore, you find a tumour about the tes- ticle, apparently solid, but of little weight, you are to be very cautious in your diagnosis ; you are somewhat called upon to e.yplore the swelling with a lancet; that is, puncture it lightly where there is the most appearance of fluctuation- and often, when least expected, the testicle will be found in a healthy state. After the water has been discharged, it frequently happens that the tunica vaginalis, in consequence of its extreme thick- ness, will remain in large folds. The tunica vaginalis has, in a few instances, been found ossified. Mr. Warner, formerly surgeon at Guv’s, met with an example of this. There is a similar preparation in the museum at the other hospital, which any of you might see by apphing to Mr. Stocker, hlr. Beaver, formerly a student here, acci- dentally di.scovered a case of it in our dissecting-room. 'I’heu, with regard to the contents of hydrocele, it is usually yellow serum. But sometimes small cartilaginous bodies are found in the fluid ; when these are seen, they prove that the hydrocele had existed for a very long time, and are alwavs proof of its age. There is another variety which I ought to mention here ; it has been called the congenital hydrocele, in consequence of a communication having from birth existed between the tunica vaginalis and cavity of the abdomen. When the parrs are natural and perfect, there is no opening leading from one to the other, as you know; but occasionally the natural closure does not take place, and then a fluid may descend from the abdomen, and collect in the tunica vaginalis. In this manner, sometimes from ascites, the scrotum will become greatlv dis- tended; and here, in such cases, is the best siluation for tap- ping. The hydrocele of which I am now speaking may be readily discovered from any other, in consequence of your being enabled, with ease, to return the water into the c.ivitv of the abdomen ; this you can effect by placing the pei-son upon his back, and then elevating the scrotum. The first case of this variety of hydrocele that 1 saw was .sent to me by Mr. Dobson, of Harrow. The patient being a very vounc person, I was apprehensive of pcritone.al inflammation, if I injected ; it occurred to me that I might succeed in shutting up the communication with the abdomen by means of a com- mon truss, when I might afterwards safely tap and inject for the radical cure. A truss was accordingiy applied over the