ACUTE AND CHRONIC ABSCESS. 66 certainly'; make an incision half an inch in length, and squeeze out all the matter you can. Having done thi.s, anplv a roller making the turns all over the thigh, with the exception of the opening; the result of this is, in many instances, that adhesive mfiammation is excited, and thus the sides of the cavities are often readily united ; always take care, in the application of the pressure, to leave the mouth of the wound uncovered The same directions are to be attended to in collections of matter, when met with under the tendinous expan.'^ion which covers the muscles of the leg and fore-arm ; the object is to endea- vour to produce the adhesive inflammation, ju.st as in the rase of abscess in tbe liver, that I stated to you on the la,st evening, fiotii which the matter was evacuated by the puncture of a lancet, and afterwards hy means of pressure; the adhesive in- flammation took place, and the recovery of the patient was the consequence. T'his, then, is to be vour practice, to endea- vour to procure a union of the sides of the cavities bv the ad- hesive process. Another reason for the early discharge of matter is the pre- vention of scars, particularly in exposed parts of the body. I his may appear to you of little consequence, but I tell vou it is not so: scars, from abscesses in the neck of females, excite in the minds of most of our sex a reluctance to associate with them ; and thus many a fine young girl may, from these blotches and scars, be doomed to perpetual celibacy. No part of the practice of surgery has been so bad as the manner in which wounds on the neck have been treated. I have seen on one side of the neck large scars from old wounds that had been badly managed, whilst, on the other side, where the treatment had been more skillul, scarcely any vestige of a wound was to be .seen. 1 haie, from very early in life (and subsequent ex- perience has proved to me its use), been exceedingly careful in the management of these cases. Aperients, with calomel and rhubarb, should be given ; evaporating lotions should be used. \oil must be strict as to diet and regimen ; for thouch the patient be debilitated, he must be made still weaker. The best mode to adopt iu these cases, is to open the tumours be- lore the skin is much afl^ected, and before a blush has appear- ed, and scars will in general be prevented. It is desirable, in opening the tumours, to use a very line knife, for two reasons : —1. A small opening is made ; 2. It does not alarm the per- son. The knife [always use is the one contained in the eve- case, for cutting up tbe cataract, tbe blade one-eighth of an inch wide, and it appears to tbe patient as a needle. A\ hen you press the sides of the wound, take care to squeeze out all the solid flakes ol matter to be met with in scrofulous tumours.