DISLOCATIONS OP THE LOWER JAW. 595 Viuantity, in consequence of in-itation of the parotid glands, and it dribbles over the mouth. A blow upon the chin, when the month is widely opened, will cause this accident. Yawn- ing very deeply will also sometimes produce the same effect. The jaw has also been dislocated in the attempts made to draw teeth, by a sudden action of the hand vvhen the mouth has been too widely opened. In the partial dislocation of the jaw, the mouth is not so widely opened as in the complete dislocation, but the patient cannot close it, from the condy- loid process on one side being advanced under the zygoma. This accident is easily distinguished, by the chin being thrown to the opposite side of the dislocation, the incisor teeth are advanced upon the upper jaw, but are no longer in a line with the axis of the face. When you are first called to this accident, the patient presents a very ludicrous appear- ance, from the twdst which is given to the face ; it is, on the whole, however, a serio-comic spectacle. These dislocations are generally reduced, by wrapping a handkerchief around the thumbs ; placing them on the coronoid processe.s, and depressing the jaw, you force it backwards as well as down- wards, and the bone suddenly slips into its place. In a recent dislocation, this mode will succeed very well, but not so easily as the modes which I shall presently describe to you. I should advise you to place some body that will not injure the gums, behind the n)olar teeth on each side of the month, and for this purpose 1 know no better material than two corks, and then raise the chin over them. This practice is very effectual in reducing the dislocation, and is less likely to injure the bone or the soft parts. 1 have also used two forks for the same purpose. Having wiai)ped a towel or handkerchief round their points, I carried their handles into the mouth on each side behind the molar teeth ; they were then held by an assistant; and, drawing the chin towards the upper jaw, the bone was easily and quickly reduced. Mr. Fox, the late dentist, has used a lever of wood, about a foot long; he placed the end of it on the molar tooth on one side, then supported the outer part of the piece of wood with one hand, and depressed the end on the tooth wdth the other, and witli the force thus nscrl, he succeeded in reducing the jaw; he then did the same on the other side, and thus lompletely replaci^d the bone. 'I'his moile is best adapted, I think, for the cases in partial dislociition ; but I gencrallv jirefer the corks, the recumbent posture, and the elevation of the chin. An imperfect dislocation of the jaw .sometimes hap])cns from a relaxation of the ligaments, something in the same Q Q 2