306 ON CALCULI IN THE KIDNEY. examination of his body, after death, a stone was found in the kidney. When a calculus is situated in the kidney, it is often accom- panied by a numbness of the intestinal tube leading from the kidney to the navel. There will likewise he felt great pain when in the act of stooping, with frequent inclination to make water. The urine is frequently of a dark colour, from beine mixed with blood ; when this appearance is present, coupled with excruciating pain round the loin.s, it will generally hap- pen that the stone is then in the act of descending, and in a few days aftervvards you will probably find that it ha.s entered the bladder. VVhen a calculus is in the kidney, the stomach is usually very much affected, and frequent vomiting is the consequence. The nrinary bladder is often, from the samv causc, rendered exceedingly irritable; and all means that could be devised have been known to fail in procuring relic: from this troublesome symptom. An example of this kind occurned when 1 lived iii tlie city; a surgeon called, and re- quested me to see a boy, a patient of his, who had an ex- tremely irritable bladder; he stated that he bad tried every medicine he could think of, and yet could not produce the slightest mitigation of the boy’s sufferings. I saw the child, and prescribed for him ; but with as little effect, and he ulti- mately died. I met the practitioner a short time after, who ■told me that, upon a post-mortem examination, the pelvic, ab- dominal, and thoracic viscera were all healthy, with the ex- ception of one kidney, in which was found a calculus. I have known a stone in the kidney cause severe pain at the antenur superior spinous process of the ilium. Incases of calculi in the kidney, nature generally make> attempts to discharse them through abscesses formed in the loins. I had three calculi in my possession, whicli were dis- charged in this manner, and as they came directly from the kidney, I was auxious to learn the nature of their composi- tion. 1 therefore sent them to the late Dr. Marcet, who, upon analyzing them, found that eacli was composed of the triple oi ammoniaco-niagnesian phosphate. Calculi in the kidney sometimes produce such a derange- ment of the constitution, as to occasion the destruction ol Iiie : and, upon dissecting person.s who have been thus destmyeo, the calculi have been met with iii various parts of the kidney, in the tubuli uriniferi. infundibula, and in its pelvis. Some- times calculi in tlie kidiiev are modelicd to the internal torm of tliat gland. It happens tluis-wlien the .none has hecome of sufficient hulk to fill tlie pelvis, proiections branch off fi'om