320 OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. stone, on vegetable food, a sliort time beforehand; it is not right that he should be on full, or animal diet. It is aU/> im- proper to operate on a [)atient as soon as he is admitted into the hospital ; the surgeon should wait, and have the patient prepared by giving him vegetable food, and also sounding him frequently; the introduction of the sound accusujms the blad- der to irritation, and when it has been done pretty often before the operation is performed, the patient bears it infinitely better than when he has been operated on without it. Vou'should also inquire whether there is any local disea.se of any organ ; the kidneys sometimes become altered, when there is stone fti the bladder. A man came to Guy’s hospital having a stone in his bladder. I sounded him, but there was matter on the sound when I withdrew it; I said to the gentlemen present, that the man would not bear the operation, and on that ac-' count postponed it. In three weeks after, this man died, and on e.xamining the body, the two kidneys were found in oppo- site states ; one was one-third or one-fourth smaller than natural, and the other was double its original size ; they are both preserved in the museum over the way. The patient would have died, if I had performed the operation on him, from the disease of the kidneys, and then I should have had the discredit of killing him. If the bladder is ulcerated do not perform the operation on any account, for it will not be successful. But especially never submit a patient to the ope- ration for stone, if there be the slightest affection of the chest —the least difficulty of breathing—any signs of asthma, or any irregularity of circulation. No person who has any regard for the safety of his patient, or his own reputation as a surgeon, will ever operate for stone, unless the chest be free from all complaint. You hear of one surgeon being exceedingly suc- cessful in the operation for stone, and of another less so. The cause of it is this, the oue is careful to select his cases : he puts aside all those who have any other affection, and tells them to wait, and only submits those to the operation who are free from any other disease. This is judgment, and it is right: unless the patient is suffering e.xceedingly from the stone, you should not operate until he is free from every other complaint. As to the age at which the operation may be performed.— Some say, when a man advanced in years lias a stone, that he is too old to undergo an operation, and the patient himself often says that he is too old ; but this is not the case, and ace is not an objection to its being performed. The time of iife which is best fitted for this ojieration is about sixty-one or sixty-two, and at this period a great number of cases occur. After the age of twenty the danger of the operation increases,