ACUTE AND CHRONIC ABSCESS. (31. :i quaDtity of matter. Thus a chronic ab.scess had existed in this part for a coii.siderable time. Very lately, while goine round Guy’s Hospital, one of the young gentlemen, or I believe, Mr. Key, brought me a woman who had a chronic tumour of the breast. On examining it, I perceived a slight fluctuation, and stated that most prol)ably it contained matter, but was told, in reply to this observation, tliat it had existed for four or five months ; 1 said, however, it did not signify— asked for a lancet—made a (mncture into it, which let out a quantity of matter; and went away smiling. 1 merely mention to you these cases to put you on jour guard : for 1 have seen breasts removed, which were only chronic ab.sces.ses ; and thus, from an ignorance of this circumstance, you might put your patient to a cruel operation, where a small incision would have done. In the treatment of acute abscesses, the best medicine you can give is the liquor ammonia; acetatis, sulphate of magnesia, and opium ; six oz. of the first, one oz. of the second, and a drachm of the tincture of opium, of which the dose is three or four tdble-s])iionfuls three times a-day. By this medicine you lessen irritation, and e.x|>edite the suppurative and ulcerative processes : no medicine that 1 have observed, under such cir- cumstances, gives so much relief. The sulphate of magnesia prevents any costiveness from the opium, and the opium tran- quillizes the nervous system, and lessens pain. The local treatment consists in the application of fomentations and poultices : and why, you may ask, use both these remedies To promote heat and moisture, a greater quantity of blood is sent to the part, and a relaxation of the vessels takes place ; this expedites the sup|)urative process, and that being done, the ulcerative process takes place with more ease. The kind of poultice to be applied to the part is of little importance ; linseed-meal and water, bread and water, Arc. No stimulating application would do ; the object is to preserve the heat and moisture of the part, and to prevent evaporation : let the part be enveloped in oil-silk, for, by its assistance, the heat of a part is preserved, and evaporation preventid. It is desirable in the suppurative proeess to ijrevent evaporation ; oil-silk is what is generally \ised then in private praeticc; it is clean, agreeable to the patient, and most conducive to his comfort. Before proceeding to the consideration ol chronic absccsse.s, 1 will say a few words on the opening of abscesses. If an acute abscess seems disposed to go through its diflerent stages without any interruption, the best practice is to leave it undis- turbed. Acute abscesses, beginning under aponeurotic fasciae, ought t() be opened as early as possible; the earlier the better.