359 ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. nibercle, yet it differs from it in very many and essential par- ticulars ; one of which is, that it attacks persons of all ages after puberty : whereas the scirrhous tubercle, as I explained to you in my last lecture, does not attack the very young, as we rarely see it under the age of twenty-seven. It occurs more frequently then in early lite than scirrhous tubercle, and uot so frequently in advanced years. It is very uncommon to obsene scirrhus before the age of twenty-seven ; but by no means uncommon to see fungus bainiatodes at a much eailiei period. This di.sease, in its earlier stages, by no means feels so hard as the true scirrhus. When you press upon it with the finger, the spot readily receives an indentation; but upon le- moving the finger, the hollow which it had produced becomes instantly filled again. _ . • In the earlier stages, likewise, there is little pain, which is another strong discriminating mark by which yon are enabled to distinguish it from scirrhous tubercle. Practitioners who, for the first time see this disease, and who happen to be unac- quainted with its nature ; unacquainted with the positive and negative diagnostic signs by which it is known, are astonished at the trifling degree of pain which patients feel when these tu- mours are pressed upon, or indeed when they are even roughly examined. This want of tenderness, then, want of hardness, and want of pain, are the discriminating characteristics which direct your judgment towards forming a correct conclusion as to its time nature; and at the same time will clearly pourtray to you the difference between it and the genuine scirrhus. In addition to these marks, the tinnoiir which constitutes fungus hairaatodes is not so clearly defined as scirrhous tu- bercle ; it is difficult to say where the diseased structure ter- minate«, and where the healthy structure commences; the base of the tumour is, therefore, diffused among the healthy cellular inenibraiie, or other parts where it shall happen to be situated; and in this respect differs most decidedly from scirrhous tu- bercle, as I explained to you in the last lecture. There is still, gentleraeu, another diagnostic sign in fungus haimatodes of the breast, which is, that the disease may ad- vatice even to suppuration atid ulceration, without the glands of the axilla becoming at .all affected. When this disease exists, and is removed by the knife, it will rather shew itself, should it again appear, in some distant part of the body than in the glatids of the axilla. The disease i.s much quicker in its progress than scirrhous tubercle ; it grows much faster, the morbid action appears to be much more active, consequently, in six or eight months it will h.ave acquired very considerable magnitude ; whereas in true scir-