ON HERNIA. 247 to be next dissected off, and reflected, so as to allow of greater room. By tliis incision you expose the superficial fascia, which you next divide, and the liernial hag, called by some fascia propria, is brouglit into view. This is next cut through, and the hernial sac, or peritoneal covering makes its appear- ance. I will relate to you a case which shows what happens when a person is unacquainted with the structure of the parts. Many years ago a patient had symptoms of strangulated feino- ral hernia, which required operation ; I met with the medical man, the next day, who operated, and asked him how he had succeeded ; he stated that he had had great difficulty. The fact was, that he had not been aware of the existence of the crural sheath, which he had mistaken for the peritoneal covering, and that the hernia vvas returned into the abdomen, together with its sac. The femoral vein was wounded in the operation, which also greatly confused the parts. The symptoms remained the same, and on the following day the patient died. On exa- mination, it was found that the hernia had been returned into the abdomen without the hernial sac ever being cut through ; and this arose in consequence of the surgeon not being aware of the existence of the crural sheath. The next point is to make an incision into the hernial sac, with the greatest possible care, and then introduce a director to ascertain the seat of stricture. Now, gentlemen, having opened the hernial sac, and exposed the intestine, the circum- stance to be determined is, in what direction are you to divide the stricture : there is only one mode that I would advise you to adopt in practice, and that is, divide the stricture directly upwards and inwards a little inclined towai"ds the umbilicus. I will first show you how the stricture is to be divided, and then point out the objections to the plan. After introducing the director, a bistoury, blunted at the point, is to be put on it, and placed against the stricture ; in this way there is no danger of wounding the intestine. 'I’he bistoury is to be gently raised, and with a slight touch of the instrument, the fibres will give way, and the intestine readily return into the abdomen. But it has been recommended to cut in the direction of Gimbernat’s ligament, towards the symphysis pubis; there will be no ne- cessity for this, as the stricture is not situated at Gimbernat’s ligament; it is never ktiown to be there. The seat of stricture, in femoral hernia, is at the crural arch, just where the intestine leaves the abdomen ; and when this is slightly divided, the stricture gives vvay, and by a little pressure the parts are easily returned. I have known Gimberuat's ligament divided, under the supposition that it was the seat of stricture, whilst the etricture itself has remained undivided, and the patient died.