ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 360 rhus, at the expiration of even two years the dihtase often vyill not have reached any remarkable size. I have »een tl e skin covering fungus haimatodes of a livid colour as earlv as the thiitcenth week from the commencement of the dwea^e and in five months I have known it destroy life; therefore 1 am fully justified in saying that it is much more rapid in its juogiess than scirrhous tubercle ; for we find that it becomes in the course of a few months, of considerable bulk, havine a hvid surface, and a fluctuating feel; this sense of fluctuation does in reality arise from a fluid ; and which fluid, when dis- cliaiged, has the appearance of coffee. It is composed of se- lum, the red pai'ticles of the blood, and bile; that it is true serum IS knomi by a portion of it coagulating on its admixture tvitli the alkalis, muriatic and nitricacids, and from the appli- cation of heat; that there is bile in it is known by the vellow tint which It gives to white paper. I have at this time, in a bottle, some paper which was written upon with this fluid some years since, and the yellowness is perfectly distinct up to the present period. Although the fluid contained in the erst of ningus hffimatodes Ls of so dark a colour, yet it is not of a malignant nature; it sometimes is perfectly transparent, being much more clear than the serum of hvdrocele, having in it less albumen, and more water; but most frequently the fluid is of a dark colour, resembling coffee, as I before sttited to vou, and composed of the red particles of the blood, serum, and bile. ^ Well, as the diseased action goes on, inflammation is ex- cited, and at length the cyst bursts; nature attempts to relieve, by exciting, in the parietes of the cyst, the adhesive process ; hut failing in this attempt, owing to a peculiarity of constitu- tion, a fungus sprouts forth. Here (holding up a preparation' you see it shooting out in the manner described ; the edges of the cyst being everted, or turned away from the fungus. In a short time it becomes of a considerable size, and the dis- charge from it really enormous ; so great, indeed, that it will as completely wet a handkerchief, in the space of half an hour, as if it had been dipped in water; and the smell of tlie dis- charge is often so disagreeable, that the surgeon who has seen much of this disease will be acquainted with its character the moment he enters the jiatient’s room. Now, gentlemen, this disease has a continued disposition to slough, and from which circumstance it occasionally receives a natural cure; for in- .'^tances have been known, where the entire tumour has sloughed, and the wound healed kindly, to the permanent relief of the patient. Mr. Cline had a patient in this ho.'pital whose funeus separated in the manner I have just described to you. She was discharged cured from the hospital, but