371 ON PUNCTURING THE BLADDER. some cases in which tlie bladder has been punctured above the pubes, where the patient has drawn off his water at plea- sure, by turning a little silver cock. A professor at Edinburgh, who underwent this operation, wore a tube in his bladder for some years after, by which he drew off his water at pleasure. A few days ago, I saw Mr. Copeland Hutchison perform the operation of puncturing the bladder above the symphysis pubis, for an accumulation of blood in the bladder, which prevented the urine from passing by the urethra. The ope- ration is very easily performed ; it is not liable to the objec- tions which were formerly made to it, and it is in general safe. In the female, it is absolutely necessary that this ope- ration should be performed in cases of retention of urine, from retroversio uteri, and from a cancerous disease affecting the meatus urinarius. Opening the bladder by the vagina is a very unsafe and disastrous operation in its consequences ; as the urine distils into the vagina, occasioning the highest de- gree of excoriation, attended with dreadful suffering and con- stitutional irritation. It is an operation which ought never to be performed. 'ITie next operation which I shall describe to you is that of Puncturing the Bladder bv the Rectum. I must recall to your minds a little of the anatomy of the parts; you remember that the prostate gland bounds the blad- der at the under part, that directly behind it the vasa de- ferentia meet, and pass down at an acute angle, the sides so nearly approaching where they first touch the prostate gland, >liat there is no room for the introduction of an instrument without injuring either one or the other of these tubes. The vesiculae seminales which are situated on the outer side of the vasa deferentia are not in danger from the operation. There is a triangular space behind the prostate gland, which affords room lor the instrument; and how is this space bounded.’ In the fore part it is bounded by the meeting of the vasa de- ferentia, which forms the apex of the triangle; the sides of the triangle are formed by the vasa deferentia, which diverge from each other, passing from the prostate gland backwards; the basis of the triangle is formed by the peritoneum, which 18 reflected from the posterior part of the bladder to the upper part of the rectum. Taking advantage of this space of the bladder which is not covered by iieritoneum, you pass the in- strument which yon employ for Ihe purpose of relieving the bladder, about three-quarters of an inch behind the ju ostate gland, into the back of the bladder. You must not pass it directly behind the prostate, for if you do, you will castrate the patient, either on one side or on the other, as the vasa de- B B 2