ON SYPHILITIC BUBO. 520 cet whenever the matter is formed; it is no use to Jet it ac- cumulate, for absorption of the surrounding parts will take place, and a laige sore be formed. If the gland be opened a> eaily as you can detect fluctuation, the surrounding swelling will be. lessened, the inflammation diminished, absorption rapidly produced, and then you can return to the mercury for eflecting the cure. It sometimes happens that the bubo is exceedingly irritable : wheievei you find it so under the use of mercury, immediate- ly discontinue its use, for the more mercury you give, the worse the swelling becomes : abandon the mercury, and hare recourse to other means; it is right in these cases to give opium, and the compound decoction of sarsaparilla; that is the plan you will find the best in irritable buboes. When the state of the swelling will allow, you can return to the use of meicury to complete the cure. It is only by the injudicious use of mercury that the very severe symptoms which occur after syphilis are produced. I do not believe that a syphilis Itself ever produces them ; no, gentlemen, thev arise either from a defect in the constitution of the patient, or from the fault of the medical man. I do not believe that nodes arise from the syphilitic virus alone, but principally from the in- judicious treatment of syphilis, where mercury has been in- cautiously administered, thereby increasing the irritability of the patient, and leading to worse consequences than the dis- ease.for which it was originally given. In order to subdue this irritable state of constitution, give opium and the com- pound^ decoction of sarsaparilla, which will have the power of lessening the irritability of the system, and relieving the pa- tient. As to sarsaparilla being a specific for the cure of sy- philis, you will find that it is no such thing; it has the power of suspending the symptoms of syphilis for a short time, but not that of curing them ; and the surgeon who thinks that he has, grossly deceives himself and those who are the dupes of his ignorance. If he fancies that the pa- tient is cured, because the symptoms disappear, and the pa- tient does not return, he equally deceives himself; for, if he does not return to the same surgeon (which he .seldom does w’hen he has once been deceived by himl, he goes to another, and so on, till at last it is dldicult to ascertain whe- ther his disease is from syphilis or from tJie various remedies which he has tried. What I should say is, that the improper use of mercury leaves a disposition in the constitution for the disease to return; and whoever has seen much practice knows, that secondary symptoms are gcuerally the result of a mistaken treatment of the syphilitic disease. Well, then.