582 DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. to attempt it. The scapular end is more frequently dislocated than the sternal. It may be detected by putting the finger on the spine of the scapula, and tracing it forwards towaid.s the acromion, where the finger will be stopped bv the prniectiue portion ot the clavicle. The shoulder will be depressed, and dravyu inwards towards the sternum, and from the projection or the clavicle it will appear flattened, something like the dislocation into the axilla. Thi.s happens from the scapula having lost its support, it being the office of the clavicle to separate the shoulder widely from the sternum, to allow of inoie extensive motion. In the reduction of this dislocation, you may use the mode that w’as employed in the dislocation at the sternal end. Let the knee be put between the pa- tient s shoulders, and draw them backwards and upwards, and the clavicle immediately is brought into its place. Then put a thick cushion into each axilla, to keep the scapula from the side, to raise it, and to prevent the axilla from being in- jured by the bandages. ^I’hen the clavicular bandage is to he applied, and its straps should be broad enough to press upon the clavicle and scapula. The arm should be supported in a short sling, so as to keep the scapula well up. These acci- dents, with the best treatment, will generally leave some de- formity ; and it is better, therefore, when first called to the accident, to state this to the patient, as he may otherwise suppose that it has arisen from your negligence or ignorance. Vou may, at the same time, iuform him, that a very good use of the limb will be restored, although a slight alteration of the natural form of the parts may remain, such as a little ])rojcction on the sternum, or on the sternal extremitv of the clavicle. I'untci'iis is liable to be dislocated in four directions. 1 he first and most common of these is downwards and in- tvards into the axilla; the bone here rests on the inner side of the inferior costa of the scapula. It may be known bv the Ijrojection of the acromion, by the natural rotundity of the shoulder being lost, 1)}' the deltoid being flattened and dragged down with the head of the bone. The arm is rather longer than the other, and the elbow is carried from the side. Al- though the arm is longer than natural in a recent di.slocation. yet, if the accident has been of some duration, the head of the bone becomes imbedded in the soft parts, and the limb is then shortened. 'The elbow is with difficulty brought to the side, from the head of the bone being, in this attempt, pressed upon the axillary plexus of nerves, and the patient will gene- rally come to you supporting the arm with the other hand, to pi eveut its weight pressing upon these nerves. If the elbow