ON ABSCESSES IN THE URETHRA. 476 LECTURE LVII. The first subject of this eveuing’s lecture will be Abscesses in the Laclnje of the Ukethra. After the violence of the gonorrhoeal inflammation has sub- sided, you frequently feel along the under surface of the ure- thra a number of small knotty tumours; these, in the course of a short time, successively discharge themselves into ti e urethra, and the swellings then subside. Sometimes these little abscesses break externally to the urethra, thus forminz a double swelling; but the most frequent situation of ab- scesses of the urethra from gonorrhoea, is in the lacuna magna, opposite to the freenum. These abscesses likewise .form"be- tween the lacunas and scrotum. When you feel an absces.« moving about in the scrotum, and that abscess occurring "after the inflammation attending gonorrhoea, you may be pretty sure that it has been formed in the lacunae, opposite the scrotum, and will prove troublesome to the practitioner, and dangerous to the patient; for, in this situation, abscess will frequently form, until the patient sinks under the long continuance and •severity of the disease. The next situation in which we find abscesses that are pro- duced by the same cause is in the periuaeum, giving rise to swellings there of considerable magnitude : the inflammation passes down the urethra, giving rise to great pain in making water, and still greater paiu after having passed it. If the in - ' flammation be not checked in its progress, it will give birth to these abscesses, which, if permitted to remain, will, at length, break tliropgh the integuments, and matter and urine will be discharged through the opening. The passage leading from the external wound to the internal is exceedingly tortuous, so that upon introducing a probe, that probe will not directly enter the urethra; indeed, you will find some diflicnlty in getting it there, from the winding and irregular course of the canal which the matter has formed : the nature of the wound will at once shew you that the urine may easily become ex- travasated into the cellular membrane of the neighbouring parts. Abscesses of this description will sometimes give rise to retention of urine ; a man thus circumstanced was brought into the other hospital: upon passing the catheter, I feft a .something unusual while introducing it, which led me to ex- amine the perinmum ; I there found one of these absctnises, and, opening it with a lancet, gave the patient immediate re- lief. This, then, will prove one source of retention of urine.