164 OPERATION FOR POPLITEAL ANEURISM. aneurismal needle under the artery, taking care to disturb the parts as little as possible. Separate the cellular membrane to the extent of about an inch ; and take care not to include the saphenus nerve, which is a small branch of the anterior crural nerve, in the ligature. If the saphenus nerve should be taken up, you will ascertain it by the irritability which is immediately excited. Having brought the ligature under the vessel with the aneurismal needle, all that remains is, to tie it with what is called a surgeon's knot, which does not slip. In this consists the whole operation. If you should have sepa- rated the artery from the sheath to any considerable extent, two ligatures will be necessary, which must be applied close to the part where the vessel is connected by the cellular tis^ue to the sheath ; but if you should not have disturbed the artery, one ligature will be sufficient. LECTURE XXL Operation for Popliteal Aneurism. As the time of last evening was occupied in performing the operation for popliteal aneurism, I left one or two points un- noticed which it w'ill be important to bear in mind, therefore I will state them now. In the first place, it has been conceived that considerable relief might be afforded in case.s of aneurism, by medical treatment. It is natural to expect that if by any means the action of the heart and arteries be diminished, the result would be that the aneurismal bag would yield less, and consequently be reduced ; experience does not, however, justi- fy this conclusion. I will tell you a case which exemplifies the truth of what I state. A gentleman came to town, and was operated on for popliteal aneurism ; he recovered in the usual time, no untoward circumstance occurring durinc his reco- very ; in twelve months afterwards, he became afflicted with aneurism of the aorta, just at its curvature. He came to l>on- don, and having been under my care before, he applied to me again. On examination I discovered the aneurism. A con- sultation was held on this patient in .Inly, when it was agreed that he should be kept low, be occasionally bled, and be al- lowed small quantities only of animal food, as it was hoped that by this means the action of the heart and arteries would be coiisiderablv lessened. IVcll this regimen was prescribed in July; the patient adhered very rigidly to it ; but the Fe- bruary following be dicil, from the bursting of the artery into the chest, having lived a shorter period than usual iu these cases. Novv it is probablc that he would have survived longer.