123 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. aud if not, no good can possibly result from it. Now for the proofs : first, that it does no good. Gentlemen, I never lec- ture to you but from the recollection of some case that has occurred to me. I was very intimate with a Mr. T. of Yar- mouth, where I used to spend a good deal of time when a boy; after ray apprenticeship was finished, I went down to this place, and 1 found Mr. T. labouring under the effects of concussion ; his mind was not in the least affected; he had received a blow on the forehead from a bludgeon, and he was afterwards frequently seized with sickness at the stomach. I called on him : and when I went into the room, I said, I come to ask you how yon are : in approaching me he was obliged to put his handkerchief to the mouth to prevent the contents of his stomach going over me. In his walks he had frequent vomitings : a relation vvho was at Yarmouth, twelve months after this, said to him, that he had better have the trephine applied, and the portion of bone removed ; to which he readily consented. After tlie operation his symptoms were not relieved ; he remained just the same ; or I should rather say that he was not relieved, for he did not continue long in the same state ; he soon got worse and worse ; his bowels became costive, the powers of the mind affected, and he died in consequence of the operation, thougli lie had lived two years after the injury, before it was performed. Mr. B., now In Yarmouth, was living with him at the time, and he could tell more of the particulars than myself; but this 1 know, that he was not benefited by the 0|)eration, but injured by it. But for a more direct proof that it is dangerous : Dr. Earre told me that he knew a person who was subject to epileptic fits after concussion of the brain, and that he was extremely anxious to be trephined. Tlie operation of trephining was performed, and he died soon afterwards. Do not think, gentlemen, that 1 mention this as an uncommon case ; but this used to be the plan adopted with almost all the patients admitted into these hospitals during ray apprenticeship ; they were all submitted to the operation ; inliammation of the tuembranes of the brain supervened, and nearly all died ; recovery being very rare. But do our patients now die from the effects of concussion No; by bleeding and depletion we rarely lose a patient; perhaps we have fallen into ^le con- trary extreme. After the expiration of my apprenticeship at these hospitals, I went over to Baris to see the practice of Desault, at the H6tel-Dien ; and there I found that never, under any circumstance whatever, did he trephine ; and that he was more succe.ssfiil than those who were constantly doing it here. Trephining in concussion is now so completely aban-