DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. .583 be carried outwards, nearly at right angles with the trunk, the head of the bone can be distinctly felt in the axilla ; but tins cannot be done if the elbow be allowed to remain close to the side. The raising the elbow throws the head of the bone downwards, and more into the axilla, and therefore can be more easily felt in the axilla. The motion of the joint up- wards and outwards is in a great measure lost, and therefore the patient cannot raise his hand to his head. This question is generally asked, “ Can you raise your hand to your head ? The answer invariably is, that he cannot; arid you imme- diately make up your mind that it is a dislocation. The pa- tient can swing his arm a little forvvards and backwards as it hangs by his side. The central axis of the limb may also be observed to run into the axilla. There is usually a numb- ness in the fingers, from the pressure of the head ot the bone on the axillary plexus. Well, then, the principal marks ot the accident will be, the falling of the shoulder, the presence of the head of the bone in the axilla, and the loss of the na- tural motions of the joint. But in a short time these appear- ances are less decisive, from the extravasation and tension which follow. The common causes of a dislocation of the humerus into the axilla, are,—falls upon the hand while the arm is much raised ; or by a fall upon the elbow when the arm is raised from the side, by which the head of the bone is thrown downwards. But the most frequent cause of this accident is a fall directly on the shoulder on some project- ing body, by which the head of the bone is suddenly driven downwards. Dislocations are very apt to recur from very slight causes. If the muscular power he considerable, or it the accident has occurred a few days, the reduction is usually accomplished in the following way ; place the patient in a chair, let the sca- pula be well secured by a bandage passed over it, with a slit in it to receive the arm, and buckled over the acromion : this keeps the bandage close up in the axilla, and more completely fixes the scapula; or it may be done by a towel fedded round the scapula, and tied close above the acromion. Pass a wet- ted roller round the arm, just above the elbow, to protect the skin, and upon this a strong worsted tape is to he fast- ened with what the sailors call the clove-hitch ; the arm should be raised at right angles with the body, or a little above it, to relax the deltoid and super-spinatus. T wo per- sons should now make extension from the bandage lastened to the arm, and two from the scapular bandage, with a steady and equal force. After the extension has l)cen made a few minutes, the surgeon should place his knee in the axilla,