490 DISEASE OF THE BLADDER. Hiience of acute inflammation. I can state to vou that irri- table liladder is sometime.s the result of goiiorfhwal inflam- mation ; at others is caused by retaining tlie urine t<jo long Now then, as to the Treatment—Yo\xr first object should be to keep the blad- der in a state of rest; nothing can be done without it. (Jj)ium should be given in doses of from one to two grain.«, with a vievv of allaying the pain and. irritation, and with the same object five or six grains should be introduced into the lectiini, in the form of suppositories. You may also admini.s- ter opium in conjunction with the liquor, poiassas; as the former, liowever, occasions costiveness, you had better com- bine the latter with some hitter tincture. ’ A confined state of the bowehs is to be obviated by the exhibition of castor oil. After shaving off the hair, a bli.'ter should be applied over the region of the pubes ; the counter irritation thus produced will prove of infinite service. There is a fooli.sli prejudice against the use of blisters in complaints of the bladder, from a belief that the cantharides become absorbed—this is a false theory. To keep the bladder in a state of rest, a short catheter should be kept introduced ; the instrument should onlv inst enter the bladder ; you know that the length of the urethra scarcely ever varies from nine inches ; consequently vou have tio difficulty in knowing the length of the instrument that vou ought to pass : a flexible catheter is the one that you are to employ, and after sufficient has been introduced, the remain- der may be cut off; it should be tied to a bandage carried be- tween the thighs and round the loins. The iustrument thus used will afford great ease, and keep the bladder at rest, bv allowing the I'.rine to escape as fast as it streams from the ure- ters ; thus keeping the bladder continually eraptv. If the blad- der should be ulcerated, it ought not to prevent this method of treatment; on the contrary, it is the best that can be adop- ted ; for, by kee])ing the bladder at rest, you afford tbe sores an opportunity of healing; this, then, is the treatment for irri- table and ulcerated bladder. Of Mucous Disease of the Huadoer, _ Or, it might be denominated, catarrh of the bladder. This disease is known by the discharge from the urethra, of an enormous quantity of ropy mucus ; it is so thick, that it will hang to the sides of the vessel, and is of a yellow eolour. It is produced from the internal surface of the kidnevs. ureters, and bladder. I this morning saw a gentleman, haring this coiuplaint, and it had existed for two years. The Treatment is as follows ;—Introduce a short catheter, as in the last case : let your medical treatment consist in the exhi-