ON SYPHILIS AND THE USE OF MERCURY. 535 aiake a boast of having kept every description of female so- ciety, and yet having always escaped from any attacks of the venereal disease, gonorrhcea as well as chancre. The time at which the secondary symptoms usually appear, is from eight to sixteen weeks generally, sometimes between those two periods ; eight weeks may be taken as the. earliest period, and sixteen as the most remote; but, in both respects, there is a large number of exceptions, for the secondary symp- toms are continually appearing at an earlier date than the eighth week, and at a much later one than the sixteenth. As a general remark, 1 may observe, that the tenth week is the most usual time at which they appear ; sometimes the ap- pearance of the secondary symptoms is protracted, in conse- quence of the system labouring or suffering under the irrita- tion of another disease, as diarrhoea for example. In my notes I have written down a uumher of questions, and which questions I used to be in the habit of putting to myself; you shall now hear what they are; and first, Is a child liable to he affected by syphilis when in utero?—Mr. Hunter said, that a child in utero could not be affected by this disease; now, -Mr. Hunter was, unquestionably, a man who possessed so much judgment in his profession, that his opinions are en- titled to the greatest respect and attention ; he is an autho- rity to which we are all inclined to bow with deference and submission. We must not, however, think too highly of his opinion in opposition to facts, which we have ourselves ob- served ; and, if 1 know any thing of my profession, 1 have seen syphilis in a child immediately after birth ; therefore, in this particular instance, Mr. Hunter was mistaken.— Within twenty-four hours after their entrance into the world, such children have the palms of their hands, the soles of their feet, and the nates, covered with copper-coloured erup- tions, and the nails, at the same time, generally beginning to peel off; and unless something be. done for the little sufferers, they will be quickly carried off from the violence of the disease; indeed, many children die from it, in consequence of the true nature of the complaint not being understood by the medical practitioner. In these cases you give the mother a quantity of mercury, the influence of which is communicated to the child, through the medium of the milk, and it becomes cured of the syphilitic disease. A most curious circumstance connected with this subject is, that a woman, when pregnant, cannot be cured of syphilis ; you give mercury, and cause the disappearance of the primary symptoms ; but, after delivery, the secondary effects are very ioon manifested in different parts of the body ; tlie primary