118 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. be for a time suspended. Thus, when a person is said to l.e stinuied, tliere is a sudden alteration of ilie circulation in the hrain, and a corresponding loss of sensibility ; but v.hen the circulation is restored by the means wliich I .sljall pre.sently point out to you, the powers of the mind return with tliose of the body. When the concussion is very violent, a le.'-ion of the hrain takes place; but when it is slight, no ajipearances can be discovered on dissection which indicate any alteration of structure. A person may die from another injury, accom- panied with concussion ; and on examination after death, not the least alteration may be found in the brain. 'I his is not the case, however, where the concussion is violent. 1 have before me a great number of preparations, from the brains of j)atients who have died of concussion, in most of which that ortan was considerably lacerated, and some extra^asation of blood is ob- servable w'iihin the brain. (Several beautiful specimens of lacerated brain, accompanied with extravasation of blood, were exhibited to the class.) These specimens show the effects pro- duced by severe concussion. 1 remember a case of a gentle- man, an intimate friend of the late Lord Nelson, who fell from his horse at the corner of St. Thomas’s-street, in the Boroueh. He was immediately taken to Guy’s Hospital, where he wa.' found to hare all the symptoms of concussion, and he was treated in the usual manner. On examination of the body after detith (for he died eight days after the accident , the brain was found to be laceiated in seveial places, and consi- derable extravasation of blood had taken place. In general, therefore, w’hen the concussion is slight, there will be only an alteration of circulation in the brain ; but when it is severe, there will be laceration, accompanied with extravasation of blood, and the symptoms will be found to run into those of compression. The first case in which 1 ever saw the brain lacerated from concussion, was one which occurred at the other hospital, in the first year of my apprentice.-hip, when i was a dresser to Mr. Chandler. -As this was the fir>t cascol the kind 1 had seen, I preserved a portion of the hrain. '1 he patient had lost the power of s])eech from a blow on the head ; but there w'as no appearance of any wound or injury to the skull. Mr. Chandler attributed the loss of speech to concus- sion. On examination of the body after death, it was found that the anterior lobe of the cerebrum w as torn, the first effect of which injury was the loss of the power of utterance, or rather a paraly.sis of the mu.sclcs, w hich deprived him of the power of speech, and subsequently compression and inflamma- tion, of which he died. When you are asked, then, as to the effects of concussion, as they may be collected from the ap-