IRRITABLE STATE OF THE URETHRA. 481 rxpel the contents of his bladder, recommended his patient to jump into a cistern of cold water that was standing in the yard of his house. He did so, and the experiment completely succeeded ; there was perfect retention before the immersion, but after it the urine was expelled with the utmost facility. There are some very anomalous cases of spasmodic stric- ture. iVIr. Western, a surgeon, was in a chemist’s shop, into which a man came, and asked for half a pint of lime water ; this he immediately drank. Upon being questioned as to what he took it for, he said that it was to relieve a retention of urine produced by stricture. The lime-water relieved him, for, immediately after taking it, he passed his urine. Owing To constitutional peculiarities, medicines that will be success- ful with one patient, will fail in another. You must, there- fore, have recourse to all, until the object be gained. Inflammatory Stricture. This is equally quick in its approach with the common spas- modic, but unlike it in being accompanied with excessive pain. A man will consult you with this complaint, and will tell you he has the most inordinate desire to make water, but cannot. •After having prescribed for him, and he has left your house, he will return again in a few minutes, and say that he is in the most excruciating pain, and cannot bear it any longer ; this kind of stricture is generally produced by the inflammation of gonorrhoea, but there is another mode by which it is caused, and that is the introduction of a bougie ; for the passing of these, although done with care, will sometimes give rise to a violent inflammation of the urethra. Treatment.—When a person comes to you having retention of urine, with dreadful pain in the urethra, you should imme- diately take blood from the arm, in such quantity as to pro- duce syncope, administer purgatives, apply leeches to the pe- rinaeum, and put the patient into a warm bath ; you will also, in this complaint, find antimony and opium in a state of com- bination particularly serviceable. It is highly improper to in- troduce either a bougie or catheter, while the urethra is in the inflamed .state just described; if used with judgment and decision, the means I have stated will be sufficient to procure relief. There sometimes exists an Irritable, State of the Urethra. If attended with inflammation, it is of the chronic kind. Persons having this complaint have a frequent desire to make water. This disorder may be cured by giving, three times a-day, an eighth part of a grain of the oxymuriate of mercury, and a drachm of the nitrous spirit of mthcr; these may be