ON HERNIA. 229 portiinity of seeing this kind of hernia operated on, by Mr. Key • the patient did extremely well. I have never operated on a rase of this kind myself, but have dissected it, and I always found the intestine adhering to the back of the scrotum, the sanie as when the bladder is in an inguinal hernia. When the bladder protrudes in a hernia, it is covered anteriorly by peri- toneum, but posteriorly it is confined by cellular membrane, thesame as the coecum. When the ccecum is included in a her- nia. It will be known by the appendix cceci vermiformis. of, of the Omentum.—W\t\\ regard to the omentum ^ter the operation for strangulated hernia, it is more easy to treat than intestine. ’ If the quantity of omentum be small, and little changed in cbaracter, j ou must return it to the mouth of the hernial sac, so as to seal up the opening ; if the omentum is only returned to this part, it glues the sides of the mouth together, and nre- vents the ready descent of hernia in future. This then is the plan }ou are to pursue with the omentum, when it is small, aud Its character little changed. But it often happens that a considerable portion of the oineii- um descends. When this is the case, the omentum is not thin and fine as in its natural state, but the different layers unite fbpm s|)ecimens (exhibiting d r portions of omentum had descended. Ihe plan that you aretoadoptiinderthe.se circiiin- Steiices, IS to remove a large part of the omentum by the knife, and return the remainder to the mouth of the sac to plug up away the omentum, mimerous ves- Tn ;iT V •’leed ; these should be drawn out with a S r, larerated ; the laceration of the vessels I r'r’"'®;- fbleed, ^aturcs .should he applied; care should be taken that the li- Wmd" I y '’Ut on the vessels, and that no omentum is ncluded. I he ligatures must be let to hang out of the hernial ompr, separate. When the sEhlP ‘ I® internal part of the hernial sac, con- 1 w^nb be used in destroying the adhesions ; but iTt in f' , ‘‘’u ‘broiigh those ornen,?.m? " I'lsproad the liberated fine ^ ‘*'‘■'’"8'' the adhesions which con- apDlied r!h"‘r r bgatiires must be thrmieV ami*;!, adhesions are torn M men b nnH ‘''0 oinciitum must be returned amUham ^ above : take care that all the vessels are secured lum^, ""‘■‘. '‘"u" bas entirely ceased ; else when the omen- - eturni'cl, the warmth will bring on tlie bleeding.