OF HERNIA. 210 suspeusory bag, which, by its pressure on the scrotum, will not only prevent the hernia from increasing, but will diminish it* size by absorption. In this manner a bulky hernia may Ise rendered much less inconvenient to the patient. This, gentle- men, i.s all 1 have to communicate to you on the .subject of ineducible hernia. With respect to wearing a truss in this state of hernia, if the patient should feel any pain, it will not be advisable. If a truss be worn in ineducible hernia, the spring should be very slight, so as to occasion no pain ; otherwise there will be danger of strangulation. Strangulated Hernia. I shall now proceed to consider the symptoms and treatment of strangulated hernia. A hernia is said to be strangulated, when it is not only con- fined within the parts into which it has descended, but when it is so much coinpressed by the narrow part through which it has passed, that the circuiatiou in the intestine or omentum which has descended is in a great degree stopped Some por- tion of blood is still capable of being carried to the part by the arteries, but it cannot be returned by the veins. It is a mis'- takc to suppose that the hernia is merely incarcerated; it is not only incarcerated, but it is so cotistringed by the narrow orifice through which it has passed, that the circulation in the intestine or omentum is in a great degree impeded. With respect to the symptoms which accompany strangu- lated hernia, the iiatient first complains of pain about the region of the diaphragm. He will describe the sensation to be as"if he felt a cord bound tightly round the upper part of the stomach. The next svtnptom is constant eructation, owing to the great quantity of air rising from the intestines to the sto- mach. The patient is next troubled with vomiting, accom- panied with costiveness. He has a great disposition to have motions, but cannot succeed in his attempts to expel the taeces. There is some jiain in the swelling, and a good deal at the part where the stricture is situated. These symptoms attend the first da\vn of stranculation. nie abdomen afterwards iH cotucs considerahly distended with air, not at first from iiiflaminatiou, but in consequence of the accumulation of flatus in the intestines. This is evident, be- canse the patient docs not at first complain of pain on pressure of the abdomen. , , The vomiting becomes more frequent, and feculent matter is rejected from the stomach ; I am aware it lias been said that'this is impossible; but really, geiitlcnieii, one can hardly hear this fart denied, and preserve one’s patience. 'ITic contents of tlie intestines thrown tip from the stomach