540 ON SYPHILIS AND THE USE OF MERCURY. time, go to the sea-side, use the warm bath, and then retaru to me again Some time after he did return to me so^nc^ ^ ^ fot he was looking florid and had grown quite lusty. He told me that he had rome back perfectly recovered, without having taken a single grain ofmer- those iSs^ ‘ ^ •"yPhihs, and which disease re,sembles particularly cautious in forming yonr of m? and take care not to submit your patient to a coor«e sanrtimes’w n'r /ender his condition a thon- vo„ fi administer a course of mermry reouted“ unequivocal endence of its bei^g [hn«P A ' as to the nature of those diseases which resemble syphilis, your best plan will be mni nocte, et gviij. decoct, sarsaparil. compos, two or three fo^fh medicines will be found the best I^re^onl'^ ”P“ principle of restoring the Syphilis always progressivt wifh- tt K Mercury S’—The answer will be found in the reply to the following question: Is Chancre curable without the use of Mercury ?-To this I reply, that mercury is by no means necessary to procure the healing of the chancre, at least not always. Some chancres certainly will not heal with- out mercury, and this is more especially the case when they are deep seated, or of long standing; but, on the other hand, when the sore IS slight, superficial, and recent, a wash com- posed of brandy and water, or wine and water, will often cause them to heal without any other application ; therefore mercury IS by no means always necessary to procure the heal- ing of chancres; but chancre, as described bv Mr. Hunter, according to his account, will not heal without it; it is now, however, well known that the position taken by Mr. Hunter is untenable, and that mercury is not in every instance necessary to accomplish the healing of chancres. On the Influence of Mercury on the Human Body.—The modus operandi of mercury has been supposed to be,'that of e.xciting in the system a general fever, which overcomes and .^ibdue.s the syphilitic action. This may or may not be true. God only knows. We are well acquainted with the fact, that many medicines have a specific influence over certain dis- eases ; but we know nothing of the peculiar mode of action on the pait of the medicine by which it overpowers and destroy.^ the di.sease. Would not a man be laughed at, who attempted to point out the manner in which bark cures ague, or colchinim