132 ON FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. niy week is up.” This dresser ought to have a cut made in his own head; he should have been cut for the simple*. (A laugh) This was putting his patient to considerable ha- zard ; for the simple fracture would, by the incision, be ren- dered a compound fracture. In simple fracture, then, when it is attended with symptoms of injury to the brain, deplete be- fore you trephine; and when it is unattended with such symp- toms, though there may be depression, deplete merely, and never divide, the scalp. If the fracture be compound, the treatment must be very different, because a compound fracture is followed very gene- rally by inflammation of the brain, and it will be of no use to trephine, when inflammation is once formed. It might be thought that it would be time enough to perform this opera- tion when inflammation had appeared; but this is not the case, for if inflammation comes on, the patient will die whe- ther you trephine or not, and you will be so far from arresting its fatal progress by trephining, that the operation will add to the danger of the inflammation. When inflammation of the dura mater and membranes of the braiu has been excited by the depression of the bone, you cannot retard the progress to death by performing the operation. These principles may be illustrated by many cases. During the first year of my appren- ticeship in these hospitals, 1 saw two instaiyces : one, in a pa- tient of Mr. Cline’s and another in a patient of IMr. Birch’s, blr. Cline’s patient was a man who came from Walworth, 'with compound fracture, from a blow on the head. A portion of bone had been forced into the cavity in the skull. Mr. Cline advised him to submit to the operation of trephining. The man said, “ You may do what you like ; I am no judge, but you are, so do what you please with me.” .Accordingly, he walked into the operating theatre to be trephined ; the portion of bone was removed ; he walked back again to bed, and never had a bad symptom. A short time after, a patient under Mr. Birch, with fracture and depression, was told that he was in similar danger, and advised to undergo the same operation. He w’as, however, self-willed, and obstinately re- fused to submit to it. Eleven days after the accident, he was seized with pain in the head, and symptoms of inflamma- tion in the brain, and when he became insensible, the opera- tion of trephining was performed : but it did not arrest the symptoms, and he died of the inflamnation. In the other hos])ital two boys were admitted under very similar cirnim- stances. The os frontis liad, in one case, been biriken by a kick from a horse, and in the other by a fall on the forehead. In the former case the portion of bone was raised, aud the