ON PURULENT OPHTHALMIA. 261 cus; ill the course of twenty-four hours it assumes the ap- pearance of pus. It is thick, yellow, sometimes green, and poured out in considerable quantity. The appearance of the tunica conjunctiva has been not inaptly compared to the foetal stomach, when injected. It has the appearance of a villous membrane highly injected with red blood, and certainly veiy nearly resembles the internal surface of the foetal stomach when highly injected. If you examine it w'itli a glass, you will see drops of pus oozing on the surface, and collecting there in considerable quantities. The acute stage of purulent ophthal- mia i.s of very short duration ; it has a tendency to pass rapidly into the atonic stage, in whicli there is action without power, and congestion of the vessels of the part. At this time the violence of the acute symptoms is mitigated, but the patient labours under considerable prostration of strength. Purulent ophthalmia has a great tendency also to terminate in sloughing. 'Phe cause of this tendency it is perhajis not very easy completely to explain ; Mr. Travers thinks that it is produced by a constriction of the small vessels distributed to the part of the cornea, in the same w'ay as sloughing of the glans is produced in paraphymosis by the cutting off of such vessels. .Sometimes the sloughing commences in a small por- tion, and gradually lamella after lamella is destroyed, until the a()erture assumes a funnel-like shape; at other times a slough forms in a considerable portion of the cornea at once, and opens into the anterior chamber. The commencement of the -sloughing proces.s may be recognized by a haziness of the cornea, which soon amounts to considerable opacity. When you observe a dark appearance beyond the ulcerating parts running from the deposit of lymph so as to form a surface from which the chasm is to he filled up, you may regard this as a favourable sign that the sloughing has here found its limit. The case is not to be regarded as hopeless when sloughing of the cornea has commenced, for if the opening he only small, the common effect is that the aipieous humour will escape; the iris will become prolapsed into the aperture of the cornea, but the patient may afterwards recover, and though the shape of the pupil will be altered, he may still retain a considerable degree of vision. When the opening is large, the iris will not only he prolapsed, but protruded ; not only the aqueous, but the crystalline, and the vitreous humours will escape, and the sight of the patient will he irretrievably lo.st. 'I’he causes of purulent ophthalmia are various ; it is often occasioned by the violent degree oi inflammation produced by some highly irri- tating substance, such as caustic lime. It occurs occasionally in new-born children ; in this case it is doubtful whether it