ON GRANULATION. I O thp prcsput surgeon of Giiy*s, and where tlie application of opium to the stump gave more immediate relief than I ever remember to have witnessed. It relieved thespasm.s, and, as I believe, saved the child. If opium, ajiplied to the surface ot sores, be absorbed into the system, it |)roduce.s excessive cos- tiveuess, extreme pain in the head, and torpor of the system, which is only to be removed by the frequent administration of active purgatives. The effects on the constitution, when ab- sorbed from the surface of sores, are very much the same as when it is introduced into the stomach. Granulations possess nerves as well as arteries, veins, and absorbent vessels. Granulations are sometimes extremely sensitive ; but this is far from being the case in all granula- tions. We shudder at seeing a person handle a sore roughly, supposing that it must give the patient extreme pain. Gra- nulations which spring from parts endued with great sensibi- lity, such as muscles, are indeed e.xtremely sensitive ; but many granulations, such, for instance, as arise from bones, have no sensibility whatever. Ifulceratipn be produced to a considerable extent in an exposed bone of the head, a probe may be put into it, while the patient is quite insensible of your touching his head. If you do this in the granulations arising from bones, and ask the patient whether you have touched him, he will say, “ No but if you apply the probe to the edge, or near the edge of the wound, he will feel it. Grauulatious, therefore, springing from bone in an uninflamed state of the bone, are not sensitive. Granulations, however, which spring Irom the cancellated structure of the bone, are, sometimes, extremely sensitive. 1 have, at present a patient who had a compound fracture of the leg : the fracture was attended with abscess, and a small exfoliation of the bone took place. In this case, when a probe was put down into the cavity, the granulations from the cancellated structure of the bone were extremely sensitive. When the inflammation pa.sses away, the sensibiilty of the part is diminished. The same thing happens with respect to granulations springing from tendons, (as the tendo achillis, for instance,) which are entirely insensible. .So granulations arising from fascia, and the aponeurosis of muscles are endued with little sensibility. In general, therefore, although granulations springing from |)arts of great sensibility are sometimes exquisitely sensitive, those arising from |)arts in a great degree insensible, or en- tirely .so, as tendons, are not sensitive ; a circumstance which you cannot at any time go round a large hospital without having an opportunity of witnessing. Granulations are very readily united to each other. The