235 ON HERNIA. the pleasure of healing the gurgling noise, which every surgeon acquainted with tliis subject knows to he the token of the contents of the intestine passing into the abdomen ; a portion of the intestines was returned into the cavity of the abdomen, but all the force I could venture to use could not return the whole. By dividing the stricture, however, the man was relieved from the symptoms under which he had pre- viously laboured. On the following morning, when 1 visited the patient, I found that he had a very bad cough, in conse- quence of which the contents of the abdomen had been thrown again into the sac, and the hernia was as large as when I per- formed the operation. There were no symptoms of strangu- lation, however ; the portion of intestine was easily returned into the abdomen by pressure ; and 1 had ultimately the satis- faction of seeing this man discharged from the hospital per- fectly cured. 1 have performed this operation three times : in two cases successfully ; in one of them the patient after- wards died of peritoneal inflammation. All you have to do is, to bring the edges of the wound together, and let the hernia, if large, remain. 'Phe patient whose case I just mentioned wears a bag-truss, and is in the habit of coming to Launday’s to get a new tru.ss, which is made to lace so as to reduce the size of the hernia. If I had a large hernia strangulated, this is the operation which I would have performed. Hernia in the Inguinal Canal. 'Iliere is a small hernia that occurs above the abdominal ring, and does not emerge through it at all, which is equally as dan- gerous as a hernia of twenty times its magnitude. This is a case which it is difficult to ascertain in the living subject. A patient will come to you with symptoms of strangulated hernia, and you find a fulness on one side above the abdomi- nal ring, which is not observable on the other ; tenderness upon pressure of the part where the fulness is, and a great disposition to vomit. 'Phe operation which it will be necessary to perform in this case is, to make au incision along the course of the inguinal canal, a little obliquely above the abdominal ring, so as to avoid making the ojiening large. 'Phe incision through the integuments lays bare the tendon of the external oblique; having laid bare this tendon, and made an incision through it, the hernia immediately appears jirojecting through the edges of the wound. 'Phe hernial bag is covered by a ten- dinous process, which passes from the upper aperture, from which the hernia proceeds. As soon as the hernial sac is laid bare, a little fluid escapes; you will find the stricture at the orifice. Here is a beautiful preparation ('exhibiting it to the class) in which you see the stricture, and the appearances which