546 ON DISEASES OF THE BaEABT. Of the ScinBHOus Breast. 'Jliis is ail extremely frequent disease, and its sympVims are as follow : The first symptom of scirrhous breast is the dis- covery (as the patient says, by accident) of a hard and moveable swelling; now and then a little blood is discharged from the nipple, which stains the shift; this is produced by the infiam- niation extending along one of the lactiferous tubes, and thus blood is discharged. The swelling is attended with little pain. At first it is moveable, free from pain, and circumscribed. In this last respect there are varieties ; it sometimes happens that the inflammation extends, and the disease is lost in the sur- rounding parts, yet it generally happens that you can mark out the exact situation of the tumour. In this case it continues a long time, for weeks and months gradually increasing, and at last the second set of symptoms come on. A violent darting pain is felt in the breast; the patient says it is like a knife or lancet being pushed into it; there is also a burning sensation in the part, and the patient feels worse a little before menstrua- tion—about four days before that period ; indeed if you trace the disease, you vvill see that for the first fortnight after the periodical discharge the symptoms arc less severe, but that for the last fortnight, and a little beforthe show of the menses, the pain is excessive ; it is not a continued pain, but comes at times, and is so severe as to make the patient start from the chair. I should say that the increase of the size of the breast is not equal, and tliat it does not follow any regular progres- sion ; it increases by starts; prior to menstruation it pains in size; after the menses have appeared, it again loses. The next circumstance is, that tlie glands in the axilla begin to enlarge, or those between the axilla and breast. The skin around the nipple has a puckered appearance ; it is drawn iu at the centre, aud is elevated on the sides. This gives the part an appearance resembling that produced by ulceration and cicatrization ; the skin is drawn in, and thus it presents the appearance of cicatri- zation without the reality. In the progress of the complaint a number of small black spots will be seen on the breast, and these increase as the breast enlarges. Jn the second stage, iuflammation on the skin and nipple comes on, and the cellular membrane partakes of the character of the disease. I hare seen scirrhous of the skin as well marked as that of any other part. The third set of symptoms arises from suppuration going on in the part, for the breast uudergoes the same piocess as any other part alfectcd with cancerous disi-ase. It is not tme that pus is in general secreted, but after the adhesive process has been set up, there is an attcmj)t at the formation of pus, which if it forms, is not general, being only in some parts, and not in