ON PARACENTESIS ABDOMINIS. 389 twenty, and another in a boy, who had an enlargement of the nieseuteric glands, followed by ascites. The ovarium some- times suppuratp alter the operation, and this suppuration {>roves destructive to life ; the quantity of matter secreted in these cases is enormous. On the other hand, I have known ovarian dropsy spontaneously cured. The wife of a veterinary .surgeon had a dropsy of tiie ovaries spontaneously cured by the adhesion of the ovaries to the umbilicus. Ulceration was produced, and the fluid contained in the cyst gradually dis- charged. I have known the ovarium glued to one of the intes- tines, and fluid discharged in a similar manner. In one of the cases to which I allude, there is still some discharge of fluid; though for a length of time the symptoms of dropsy entirely ceased. A patient, after undergoing the operation for this dis- ease, will ask you whether she should drink very little. I.n general we answer, that the patient should drink as little as possible ; but it is doubtful whether the disposition to a re- tuiu of the disease is much altered by abstinence from drink. I once recommended the wife of a coachman, after the opera- tion for encysted dropsy, to drink as little as possible, and to allay her thirst by sucking the juice of oranges. She followed this plan, but was, very soon after, again the subject of the operation for ovarian dropsy. I then recommended her to drink as she pleased ; she returned to her favourite beveraee, porter, and the cyst did not fill nearly so fast as before. "^I'liis may be m some degree accounted for, as she made very little mine while she sucked oranges, but passed a great deal when she returned to her ordinary beverage. It would appear that the quantity of fluid taken makes no dift'erenceas to the return ot the disease, as it passes off by the kidneys : I do not mean, however, to build any theory upon a single case. Accumulation of Fluid in the Chest. An operation is occasionally, but very rarely, performed for this disease. I will state to you all I have been able to learn on this sub- ject. In the fir.st jilace I have never known a case in which water had collected in the cavity of the chest, in which the o|ieration of paracentesis of the thorax has been performed where the patients have not died. 'I’his is not surprising, be- cause hydrothorax is the result of the di.sea.se of the thoracic viscera, msea.se of the lungs or heart, and the cause remains though the effect is removed. Faracentesis of the thorax, however, is not unsuccessful, when matter has accmimlated in the chest. .Matter is sometimes confined in the cbe.st bv ad- hesion, producing spuriou.s empyema, and sometimes it is dif- fused through the whole cavity of the pleura on one side, '('he