192 ON THE CURE OF HYDROCELE. Here is a specimen (exhibiting one) where deatli ensued after the operation I have jnst described ; a surgeon to one of these hospitals, who has been long since dead, introduced a bit of lint, dipped in oil, into an incision which he had made into the scrotum ; the result was great constitutional irritation, and death ; therefore there is danger of this operation in old persons, from the irritation which is likely to arise. I shall now proceed to describe to you the operation which has superseded all others, namely, the cure of hydrocele by injection. At the time I was attending Mr. Hunter’s lectures, the town was divided in opiniou as to the best mode of per- forming the operation for hydrocele. So great was the dif- ference of opinion among the students of the different hos- pitals, that it was quite ridiculous to observe their warmth on this subject, when there arose a plain, simple, effec^ ope- ration, which every body has since adopted. For this we are indebted to Sir James Earle, who, in thinking upon this sub- ject, conceived that injection of the tunica vaginalis was likely to be the best means of producing adhesion, and preventing the further formation of disease. 'I'hus he proposed at once a most ingenious, but simple, mode of curing a disease, about which there had been so many disputes. I cannot help feeling delight, when I find a brother in the profession rendering himself useful to mankind by an iiwention of this kind. M hen we see so much trash issuing from the press, which is called surgery, it is gratifying to find, in a work like Sir James Earle’s a simple and effectual plan of curing a disease pro- posed, and at once adopted by the whole profession. I do not think Sir J. Earle has received the due meed of merit to which he is entitled for this improvement. 1 have, myself, always spoken of him in the same terms as this evening, and 1 sliall ever continue to do so. The. instruments required for this operation are an elastic bottle, with a stop-cock, a trocar, and caiiula. The elastic bottle should be of moderate size, and only half the quantity of fiuid contained in it should thrown in at a time, lest the action of the cremaster should torce a part of it into the cellular tissue. If this happens, inflamma- tioii and sloiigbinc: may take place around the part at winch the camila is^introduced. The trocar shoiiid be two inches long and tlie caniila should he hut small. I lie trocar and caiiu’la should be ]mt scjiaratcly into the box, for if you are obliged to put the trocar in the caiiula, it will soon contract, rust, and be unfit for use. Tiie fiuid used for the injection slioiihl he of a stlimilating kind. If yon use port wine, the proportion of wine and water slioiild lie hall and hal If it he old port wine, you may mix me paits of wine with three