124 ON COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. donee], that in the last four years I do not know that I )iave performed it once : whilst thirty five years ago I should have performed it five or six times a-year. But I believe that I have omitted one circumstance; and that is, to tell you to pay strict attention to the mind ; excessive anxietv must be pre- vented ; for if you suffer the mind to be disturbed, you do little or nothing towards the recovery'. I was very’ much struck, about twelve months ago, with an instance of this: a. hoy was brought to me from the north of England who had lost a portion of the skull just above the eve-brow ; and I was asked (for it was for this purpose that I w’as consulted) what protection should he given to the denuded biain ? On examining the brain, 1 distinctly perceived the pulsation was regular and slow; but at this time he was agitated by some means or other ; directly, the blood was sent with increased force to the brain the pulsation became more violent; there- fore,' if you omit to keep the mind free from agitation, your other means will be unavailing. Lastly, the treatment of children. As you cannot ahvays bleed them from the arm, you must give the suhmurias hy- drargyri (calomel) with mild drink, so as to purge thefn ; leeches must be applied to the temples ; you must open the jugular vein. For the symptoms after concussion, as pain in the head, or sickness at the stomach, you must make an inci- sion through the scalp ; put issues in ; wash the head with spirits of wine and water, for tliis is better than any thing else I know ; and use the shower-bath two or three times. These are the best means for giving power to the nervous sys- tem, and bringing the action of the brain into a healthy state. LECTURE XVn. On CoiMPKESSION OF THE BR.4IN. We have to consider the causes which give rise to it, its symp- toms, and the treatment which it requires. When a person is labouring under compression of the brain, it is known by the breathing being stertorous, the pulse slow, Jind the pupils dilated; to which may be added the symptoms of concussion ; when you then find a patient with the apoplec- tic stertor, slow pulse, dilated pupils, it will generally happen that the brain is compressed. The causes which produce com- pression are three ; 1. Extravasation of blood; 2. Fracture with depression ; 3. Formaiion of matter within the skull ; these are the three causes which give rise to compression : we shall first consider compression when produced by extravasa-