OVARIAN OR ENCYSTED DROPSY. o85 man who told me the stor)', ‘ we thought he had done her up.’ ” A question has often been started by medical men, whe- ther the operation should be performed early or late, and in reply, I say, never early; at tliis time the cyst does not ad- here to the pei itoneum ; consequently, instead of your draw- ing the water off, it will escape into the cavity of the abdomen. I knew an instance where a young woman was operated upon, in whom the cyst was very small ; while the water was pass- ing off, it suddenly stopped, upon which the surgeon intro- duced a probe; and upon withdrawing tht probe, something came away with it, which, upon examination, was found to be omentum. After the operation, peritoneal inflammation came on, and the young woman died. Never operate then, until the tumour has become fixed, and which fact you can ascertain by carefully watching it in different positions of the body. But there is another reason why the operation should not be performed in the commencement of the disease, which is, the cyst at that period consists of different compartments, divided by septa; as the disease advances, and as the cyst be- comes larger, these septa are broken, and the whole of the interior forms one cavity. Now, if you were to operate before this had been effected, the end of the canula communicating only with one part of the cyst, would merely draw the water from thence, without abstracting it from other parts, and, consequently, the relief to the patient would be exceedingly l)artial. _ It has been proposed, after evacuating the water from ova- rian cysts, to inject them in the same manner as we do the tunica vaginalis for the radical cure of hydrocele. The expe- riment was tried more than a hundred years since by a prac- titioner in Cornwall • in the first case it completely succeeded, but, with a candour which did him infinite credit, he acknow- ledged that :n two subsequent instances, it proved unsuccess- ful. Probably it has not been sufficiently tried, and, for my own part, I think the subject is really deserving considera- tion. 'I'he stimulant employed should be mild, and must not approach the strength of the injections used for hydrocele, <-ompo.sed as they are of a drachm of sulphate of zinc to a )iint of water, or equal parts of wine and water. It is an operation which should rather be iierformed at the solicitation ol the patient than at your own recomineiidation. It lias been proposed to take away the cyst, and this I really think may bo accomplKshed at least small cysts ; but large cysts, I feel con- tident, cannot be thu.s removed. A gentleman, whom vou all rc.'pcct very much, tried the experiment; after having made c c