529 SYPHILITIC ERUPTIONS. thick inci'ustations. They are attended with very little pain; an itching, rather than a painful sensation, is felt in the part, which increases a little in the evening. There is a great variety in the character of venereal erup- tions, with respect to size; in fact, you very rarely see the eruptions in one patient exactly like those which occur in another. Go round the syphilitic wards to-morrow, and ex- amine the appearances of the eruptions in the different pa- tients who have that symptom ; you will scarcely find them exactly alike in any two patients, in point of colour or of size. In some, you will find the eruptions of considerable magni- tude, appearing as if a portion of copper skin was laid down upon the surface, but unattended with ulceration. In others, you will observe deep ulceration, with a very ragged edge; in others, there will be scaly eruptions, covering very large surfaces in various parts of the body. There is greater va- riety in the character of venereal eruptions than in any other symptom of the disease. You may satisfy yourselves of this fact by going round the hospitals, and at the same time ap- preciate the pretensions of those persons who ascribe one uniform character to this symptom of the disease. With re- spect to the parts in which venereal eruptions most frequently appear in the first instance, they are the head, face, and roots of the hair. Incrustations form about the hair of the head, and scabs appear on the forehead, breast, the palms of the bauds, and sometimes the soles of the feet. The palms of the hands are more frequently attacked with venereal eruptions than other parts of the body, because there is more vigour of circulation in these parts; the parts where the circulation is more feeble, are less liable to be attacked. The treatment of venereal eruptions is of the most simple kind. You will pur- sue the same constitutional treatment that I have already ad- vised ; give ten grains of the blue pill united with opium, at night, and five in the morning; or five grains at night, and five in the morning. The pilula subniuriatis hydrargyri com- posita, or Plummer’s pill, combined with the decoction of sarsaparilla, is sometimes employed for the cure^of this vene- real symptom. Five grains of Plummer’s pill may be given at nigbt, and half a pint of the decoction drunk daily. The compound decoction of sarsajiarilla will remove this symptom for a time, but the disease will re-appear, and you are never sure that the patient will not return with syphilitic symjjtoms. Even Plummer’s pill, united with tlie compound decoction of sar.«aparilla, unless it be continued for a very considerable time, cannot be depended upon. It should be given from six weeks at least to two mouths, to prevent a return of the die- M .M