ON CALCULI IN THE BLADDER. 311 niakins; water, as the rectum obeys the motion of tlie bladder. In some cases the abdominal muscles are affected with violent spasms. Fir.st, persons are affected with violent spasms of these muscles—then have disease of the mucous membrane of the bladder-and frequent shiverings. 'Phis is so common a symptom occurring with stone in the bladder, and is so well known, that it will be unnecessary to dwell on it. One curious circumstance, generally observed when there is stone in the bladder, is an elongation of the prepuce, particularly in boys. This is singular, and not easily ex'plained, unless it is produced by pressure on it when the pain at the extremity of the penis comes on ; for as the pain in this part is an exceedingly dis- tressing symptom, and pressure on the nerve deadens it, it is made, and the prepuce thus becomes elongated by it. Having thus gone over the symptoms of stone, we shall now say a few words on the size, number, form, &c., of stones found in the bladder. Calculi are formed in the bladder around some extraneous body, which gets into it, and which is the nucleus, or about clots of blood ; or the stones pass from the kidneys through the ureters, and enter the bladder. Some stones are composed of concentric lamellte, whilst others are not; in those which are, layer after layer is deposited and adheres, but the lamellae are composed of much firmer materials than the bond of adhesion which unites tliem. The nuclei, around which stones form, are various ; here is one (exhibiting it to the class), as you see, composed of a needle; you will say, no doubt, that this must have been swallowed, and that passing through the intestines, it entered the bladder through the rec- tum. I will tell you how it got there. A nurse, who had the care of a child, put it to sit on a mat upon its naked bottom ; and it immecUately began to cry ; when the nurse, out of humanity, I suppose, took it up, and danced it well in her arms ; the more the child screamed, the more the nurse danced it. A few mouths after this it had symptoms of stone, and it was ascertained that there was one in the bladder. I cut the child, and took from it this calculus, with a nucleus formed of a needle. The needle must have penetrated the perineum, or the nates, and by this means reached the bladder. Here, gentlemen, is a slate-pencil forming a nucleus. 1 will give you the history of the case. A man came to me, whilst 1 wa.s living ill the city, and said that he had a slate-pencil in his bladder; considering him to be mad, or wishing to impose, or that it was for the purpose of a ipiiz, I said very well, and prescribed something for him, ami sent him away. About a fortnight afterwards this man came again to my house, ami said that he had a slate-pencil in the bladder, and if I thought