16 ON INFLAMMATION, face of the body, an alteration sometimes of several degrees takes place ; as on the inside of the thigh, where a blister was applied, the thermometer rose to 90° ; while on the inside of the opposite thigh it only reached 83°. , Fourth. Swelling. 'I’his is owing in part to an increased determination of blood to the part, and al.«o depends on efFn- sion of the fibrin of the blood, which, in coagulating, deposits serum in the surrounding cellular tissue. Inflammation has four terminations. First. Adhesion. This arises from the fibrin of the blood being effused into the cellular membrane, by which the parts become glued together. Second. Suppuration, or secretion of pus. This is composed of particles nearly similar to those of the blood, only differing in colour, swimming in a fluid resembling serum, and coagu- lating, as serum does, when exposed to the influence of heat. Third. Absorption or ulceration. This arises from an in- creased action of the absorbents, produced by pressure united with inflammation, by which the parts are ab.sorbed. Fourth. Gangrene, which consists in the destruction of the life of an inflamed part. The arteries, enfeebled by e.\ce.ssire action, are deprived of their vitality, the blood coagulates in them, and gangrene is produced. These are the constitutional effects; the local ones are simi- lar to those of irritation, which I mentioned to you in the last lecture. Inflammation produces different results in different parts. When seated in the skin, it usually becomes extensive, be- cause the surface is unbroken. Its colour is verj- florid ; it separates the cuticle in the form of vesications, which usually contain serum, but also in some cases fibrin ; a serous effusion is also produced by it into the subjacent cellular tissue. In some iiistances it is preceded by fever, in others followed by it. In the cellular membrane,'inflammation produces an ef- fusion which obliterates or fills its cells ; if it proceed, it oc- casions suppuration, and produces an ab.-^cess, the content? of which arc frequently discharged by the i)roccss oi ulceration. In debilitated irritable constitutions inflammation destro}-? the cellular tissue, and produces carbuncle, which is a rionghy abscess in the cellular tissue. When chronic, it occasion? tu- mours of various kinds, as the steatomatous or adipose ; or, under peculiar circumstances, those of a malignant nature, as the scirrhous, fungous, &C. Inflammation of fascim is generally extensn-c, from the large surfaces they present; they arc often seen inflamed in compound fracture, producing redness of the skin to a consi-