616 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. Fractures of the Condyles of the Femur, extending into the joint, which are known by the great ywelliug that takei* place uito the joint, by the crepitus and the deformity, you should place the limb on a pillow in the extended position, for then the head of the tibia keeps the extremities of the bone in their places. You should apply evaporating lotions, and leeches, if necessary, to subdue the inflammation, and then mould a piece of stout pasteboard, moistened, round the knee, and bind it on with a roller. This, when drv, adapts Itself equally to the different surfaces, and forms a most ex- cellent splint to retain the fractured extremities of the bones- After five weeks you should commence passive motion, or othei wise anchylosis will take place. The same obsenations apply to fractures of the head of the tibia. Of the Dislocations of the Ankle Joint. ^ This articulation is well protected by numerous strong ligaments ; the union of the fibula particularly is so firm to the tibia and the tarsal bones, that it generally happen? that the bone will rather break than the ligaments give way. I have seen the tibia dislocated in three directions—in- wards, forwards, and outwards; aud a fourth, backwards, IS sometimes said to occur. The dislocation inwards is most frequent. The foot is thrown outwards, and its inner edge rests upon the ground : the internal malleolus projects so much against the integuments as to threaten their lacera- tion. ^ The foot easily rotates on its axis : there is also a de- pression above the malleolus externus, attended with great pain; and about three inches above the lower end of the fibula a crepitus may be felt. This accident generally hap- pens from a person jumping from a considerable height, or from running violently with the toe turned outwards, the foot being suddenly checked in its motion whilst the body is car- ried forwards on the foot, aud the ligaments on the inner side of the ankle give way. By grasping the leg about three inches above the ankle, and freely rotating the ^t, a crepi- tus of the fibula will be perceived. To reduce the disloca- tion, place the patient on a mattress on his injured side, and bend the leg at right angles with the thigh, so as to relax the gastrocnemii; let an assistant grasp the foot, and gradually draw it in a line with the leg. You should, at the same time, fix the thigh aud press the tibia downwards, to force it on the articulating surface of the astragalus. After the reduc- tion, let the limb remain on its outer side in the bent posi- tion, with the foot well sujiported : a many-taiU'd bandage should be applied, and kept wet with the spirit wash. The patient may leave his bed and walk on crutches at the end of