14 TREATMENT OF IRRITATrOK. of bone were found, wliich kept up the irritation. 'Hie patient soon recovered from the operation. Constitutional irritation mu.st not be too suddelv subdued nor destroyed, as a certain degree of irritation shows that na- ture is endeavouring to accomplish the restorative process; keep it within bounds, carefully watch its proeress, and, if ne- cessary, check its violence, but do not entirely destroy it. There are two means of reducing irritation.’ First, by restoring to the different organs their various se- cretions, by which the outlets become opened, and fever les- sened. A man who has his skin hot and dry, and his body al- together hot, will feel well and be relieved, if you can produce on the surface a free perspiration. To produce the secretions from the intestinal canal, you must give aperients ; but when the irritation is very severe indeed, you must not limit your medicine to any particular part, hut endeavour to restore all the secretions. This will be best accomplished by administer- ing mercurials to act upon the liver, saline medicines upon the intestines and kidneys, and antimouials on the skin. The second method of relieving irritation is to allay the ex- citement of the nervous system ; this may be done by giving opium and antimony combined, or calomel, antimony, and opium, to act on the skin and liver as well as the nervous sys- tem. The dose for an adult is two grains of calomel, two of antimonial powder, and one grain of opium. To this you may add saline medicines, if you like, as they are given as much to assist the medical man as his patient! It must not be con- sidered, however, that such medicines are entirely useless : the liquor ammonia: acetatis, with tincture opii, is a good me- dicine. The alkalies, judiciously given, lessen the irritability of some organs, as the bladder, when in an irritable state. In cases of irritation, bleeding must be resorted to with care, for if it be carried to a great extent, the powers of the consti- tution will be unequal to the reparation of the injury. A man was brought into Guy’s Hospital with concussion oi the brain ; the dresser who admitted him was a great admirer of venesection, and bled the patient three times a-day; in ten days he died. I'jion examining the head after de<ath, a very sliglit laceration of the brain was found, but no signs of any attempt at restoration. The continued abstraction of blood had robbed nature of her restorative powers. In compound fractures it is likewise exiremcly dangerous to bleed largely. When there is chroi ic irritati’on, no medicine will he found equal to the I’lummer’s pill, five grains night and morning; it increases the secretions of the liver, intestines, kidneys, and skin. If the blue pill be git en, or calomel, it should be fol-