8 ON IRRITATION. Irritation is either local or general, and its effects are com- municated from one part to another, through the medium of the nervous system, so that the heart, brain, and stomach almost immediately after an injury has been sustained, even in the remotest parts of the body, will have their functions moie or less disturbed in proportion to the extent of the in- jury and importance of the part injured. All the actions of the body are excited and sustained by internal and external impressions, which are called stimulant.^; the blood, for in- stance, being the stimulus to the blood-vessels; the bile, to the intestines ; and caloric, in a certain degree, a stimulus to the wliole system. Between all the different parts of the hu- man flame there exist intimate relations, which corre.*‘pond with each other, and carry on a reciprocal intercourse of ac- tion. The beautiful harmony produced by these concurrent phenomena is called sympathy. Thus, impressions not only produce effects on the part to which they are directly applied’; but in consequence of the freedom of communication between the nervous system, parts of the body situated at a distance from tho.se in which the original mischief exists become af- fected by it: the real nature of sympathy is yet unknown, but we are acquainted with many of its effects. Thus numerous examples of .sympathetic actions may be adduced; the com- munication which exists between the uterus and breasts is a striking instance of it. Sneezing is a sympathetic action between the nose, velum palati, and the abdominal muscles ; coughing, also breathing, and the expulsion of the fasces, are a few among the numerous examples which might be enume- rated. But sympathetic action is also the result of injurv and dis- ease, becoming the cause of restoration on the one hand, or of destruction on the other, and this state of the body 1 call irritation. Irritation, geiitlemeu, may be defined to be an altered action, excited in the system by an unnatural impres- sion. Thus sympatlietic pain is experienced iu the knee and foot from diseased hip, and at the e.xtreraitv of the penis when there is stone in the bladder. The passage of au uri- nary calculus through the ureter occasions retraction of the testicles and pain in the thigh ; disease of the prostate cau.ses pain on the inside of one or both thighs. A disease of the liver occasions pain in the shoulder; a diseased testicle, pain in the loins ; irritation of the intestines, an itching of tlie nose. 'These sympathetic effects, which we have just been de- scribing, do not consist of morbid actions in the parts thus affected, but of disordered sensations. But morbid actions