465 ON VIRULENT GONORRHCEA. he has been so unpardonably subjected, and it will soon after be necessary to cure him by injections or otlier means. When so infamous a practice prevails, I cannot satisfy iny own feel- ings by resorting to milk-and-water language ; every man of eonimou feeling and honesty is bound to speak out on such an occasion. It is wholly unnecessary to give mercury in any form for this disease. When a patient applies to yon for a first clap, it seldom happens that he can be cured by the same means which may be successfully employed in subsequent claps. The first clap is generally much more difficult to cure than those which subsequently occur. 1 shall proceed to state to you the result of the e.xperience which I have had in the cure of this disease, for thirty-three or thirty-four years. If 1 have not yet learnt the best mode of treating it, I have no hope that I can know any thing more on the subject. I will state to you the plan which I have found to answer better than any other; without meaning, however, to say, tliat this -plan is better than those vvhich may be adopted by others. When the patient applies to yon for his first clap, there will be generally a great deal of inflammation, and I advise you to give the sulphate of magnesia with the infusion of senna. An ounce of the sulphate of magnesia may be mixed with si.x ounces of the infusion of senna, and three table spoonfuls given two or three times a-day, so as to purge the patient very actively. Vou may afterwards give the siibmurias bydrar- gyri with extract of colocynth, but merely as a purge; for if it were to act as a mercurial, I would not give it at all. There is no necessity for giving calomel, unless you wish it to act on the liver, as W'ell as on the intestinal canal. Having purged the patient very freely, you will direct him to take diluting drinks, of which he can hardly take too much. Two drachms of the carbonate of potash, or the subcarbonate of soda, should be taken in a quart of some diluting drink in the course of a day ; capillaire, or tea, will answer this puritose very well; some advise the gum of acacia, but whether it does any good or not, 1 do not know. I have found the liquor, cal- <is a very c.xcellent diluent in this disease. .Soda water is often useful, but it must be ascertained whether it produces irritability of the bladder ; for, in some persons, it increases, instead of diminishing, irritability. If it increases very much the inclination to make water, it should not be persisted in ; if it does not produce this effect, it is a very excellent diluent. The penis should be suffered to hang for a considerable time in warm water, which will relieve the inflammation, and [rro- duce nearly rdl the good of a warm bath. When the ardor uriatE and pain from chordee is very severe, twenty drop.? of II II