509 ON PHYMOSIS. is that, at present, a person is scarcely ever properly cured. Day after day we see persons with pains in their limbs, sores on their body, and affections of the throat, and do not know whether they are syphilitic or not. You ask the patient if he has had chancres ; he says “ No.” “ Have you had no sore or excoriation ?” you then intiuire ; when he will often tell you, “ Ve.s, I had several excoriations;” and tbu.s, you do not know whether the eruption is syphilitic or not; but more of this when .>;peakiug of the use and abuse of mercury. 'I'he local application 1 make use of, is the liquor calcis with calo- mel, and 1 will tell you why I always make use of local means, 'fhe local application lessens the irritation of the sore, and prevents its attacking the neighbouring parts. If any of you had chancre, in addition to the local means, yon would, if the sore healed, continue taking medicine; do not think, becau.se the sore is healed, that you would stop the mercury ; no, it must be continued during the time I have mentioned before, to prevent the recurrence of secondary symptoms; it will be proper to heal the sore as (piickly as you can, but you must protect the constitution against the effects of the venereal virus, by mercurial treatment: this is the best possible treat- ment, and which you will pursue if you deal honestly with ytmr patient. If you wish to sec the effect of any new pro- ject, or try any experiment, this is all well, but you .should trv them on yourselves. If patients, hotvever, come to you for advice, they place themselves under your care, and confide in your skill ; theretore, it is the duty of every surgeon to adopt the most certain and effectual means for their relief. With respect to local applications, I think the sulphate of copper b)0 irritating ; submuriate of mercury sprinkled on the sore, is sometimes beneficial, but it is geneiaily too irritating also'. 'I'he uiiguentum hydrargyri nitrico-oxydo, I have seen of con- siderable u.se after a time ; but it should not be applied at the beginning of the complaint. The unguentum hydrargyri is a bad application ; it is too irritating. Sometimes it appears that the chancre goes into an indolent state, then it will be advisable to use the nitrate of silver, not with a view to de- stroy the part, but for the purpose of cleaning the surface and thickening the edges of the wound ; the skin surrounding the part is thin, and by the application of the nitrate of .silver you thicken it, and thu.s enable it to carry a greater number of vessels to produce cicatrization. Fhy.wosis- It not unfrequently happens, that phymosis is the result of chancre. It is hardly necessary for me to say what phymosis :s ; It sometimes arisc.s from slight inflammation of the cellu-