ON THE DIFFERENT AMPUTATIONS. 417 posterior tibial. The French, in performing the operation of amputation at the shoulder joint, make a flap before and be- hind the joint; we do not do this, but I do not mean to say that their mode is not quite as good as ours. There is no ne- cessity for the tourniquet in this operation ; a finger may be put on tlie artery wliile you are making the flap, but even this is unnecessary, for all that is required is to divide the artery last, and put your finger upon it at the moment of dividing it. Place the patient in a chair; slit up the deltoid muscle, and introducing the knife, make a flap from the head of the os hu- meri ; it is better not to make the other incision through the integuments, until you have dislocated llie head of the bone from the socket. The next thing you have to do is to cut in- to the joiirt, dividing the capsular ligament; the head of the bone is easily dislocated from the socket. Carry the knife in a circular direction, and put your finger upon the artery while you are turning the head of the bone from the socket. Tlie axillary artery is the only one which requires to be secured ; I have never known a patient die from the operation of am- putation at the shoulder joint; but 1 have heard of cases in which the patient ha.s died from hemorrhage caused by slough • ing of the arteiy some days after the amputation. Amputation at the Hip Joi.nt. This operation has been several times performed, and in -everal instances with success. I recollect the time when this operation was a little criticised by surgeons, and I remember the following story being told of Mr. Bromfield, who per- formed it. .Mr. Bromfield was attending a nobleman, who observed that his hands were a little bloody ; this led to some conversation about our profession, and Mr. Bromfield said he had just been amputating a man’s thigh at the hip joint. Good God'. .Mr. Bromfield (exclaimed the nobleman), how canyon talk ot such horrible things.’” Three or four days after, the iioblemau irnjuired about the patient who had un- dergone this operation, and .Mr. Bromfield replied, that he had lived forty hours after it. “ And was that all (said the nobleman), after putting the man to such dreadful agony 'I'he amputation at the hip-joint, however, gentlemen, has been so often iierformcd with success, that it may now be'eon- >idered as one of the established operations of surgery. Mr. Brownley, a militaiy surgeon, first performed it during the late war; he did it without putting any ligature on the artery in the first instance; it was only compressed. Mr. (iuthrie also performed this operation with success dnrini; the late war. He al.so performed the amputation tlirougl»#lie trochan- ter major without securing the artery in the first instance; 1