ON CALCULI IN THE URETER. 307 its body into the infundibula, acquiring the character which you here observe (lioiding up a preparation). It is not uncommon for a calculus to occasion an absorption of the glandular substance of the kidney, and a stone lodged upon the beginning of the ureter has been known to have pro- duced so complete an absorption of the glandular structure, that no more than a thin membrane has rernained. When both kidneys are affected at tlie same period, or if they successively become destroyed, in either case death must ensue. Treatiment of Calculi in the Kidney. Hut little can be accomplished by the medical man in these affections ; when the stone, however, is composed of uric acid, the e.Nhibition of potass or soda is, 1 believe, attended with considerable advantage ; not that either of these medicines will dissolve a stone when once formed, but I am inclined to believe that they jirevent the further deposition of uric acid ; they most decidedly lessen the irritability of the urinary organs —and by covering the surface of the stone with a sort of mor- tar, it becomes much less annoying to the patient, and much less irritating to the part in which it is contained. Beyond these effects 1 think lithontriptics have no power. .Surgical writers have proposed that stones in the kidney should be removed by the knife. 1 am not aware, however, that such operations have been performed. Mr. Cline, sen., ouce informed me that he bad a patient under his care, in whose kidney he could distinctly feel a calculus. This person was remarkably thin, owing to which circumstance the stone wa.s discoverable by means of an external examination ; an in- dividual so situated, if his con.stitution were in a healthy con- dition, miglit .successfully undergo the operation, otherwise if would be too much for his system to hear. Nature, as I be- fore observed to you, will often effect a cure by the foimation of absce-sses—the calculi being permitted to escape through tlie sinuses which they create, 'i'hrough the.se ojieiiings, by means of a probe, you may readily feel tlie calculus ; and to prevent the closure of the sinus by granulations, you should introduce a sponge tent. In order to facilitate the discliarge oftlic stone, you may dilate the sinus by nieuns of a histoiirv ; there will he no danger in doing this, for the emulgent arter\ ■nd vein are situated behind the calculus. Well, this i.s afl that I have to say respecting stone in the kidney, and 1 .sli;.ll proceed to the con.sidei atioii of Calculi in the riiUTER. When I lie .stone has descended into the uretci', there will be felt great pain at tlic spine of tlie ilium, at the anterior superior