ON THE TYING OF ARTERIES. 175 danger is not from gangrene when the ligature is applied on the aorta, nor is any thing to be apprehended as far as regards the carrying on of the circulation, hut the danger consists in including the nerves, as i will presently show you. Here is a specimen of a dog (pointing to one on the table), in which the aorta has been tied, and the circulation was car- ried on by the lumbar arteries ; it is a very easy operation on the dog, and any one may perform it. I will tell you how yon should do it; you must make an incision on the side of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, cut through the muscles and peritoneum, and then you may easily carry the aneurismal needle under the vessel, and bring it out ot the wound, in order that you may see that you have not included the aortic plexus ; if this be secured in the ligature, a paralytic affection of the lower extremities will be produced -. now 1 wash particularly to state this, as 1 believe it to be entirely new, and that nothing new has been said on this subject in books. In the first two animals on which I performed this operation, 1 thought the paralysis was owing to the interrup- tion of the circulation, but on repeating the experiment, I found it was produced by including the aortic plexus. Iftlie aorta be well cleaned, and a ligature applied, and the vessel be returned to the abdomen, the dog runs about as if nothing had been done to it; and in five minutes after, it will eat bread out of your hands, if it has been previously accustomed to it. The operation, 1 repeat, is exceedingly easy, and ahoy may perform it. Well, after you have done this, wait a short time, kill the animal, and inject the arteries, you will find that the lumbar vessels on the inner .side of the abdomen, and fore part of the spine, had carried on the circulation. The reason of the paralysis in the case I have just alluded to was, that the aortic plexus was included, and the result was the destruction of life. Unfortunately, however, in the human subject you cannot make your incision near the spine, but must do it on the fore part of the abdomen to get at the aorta. If a case were to offer itself, similar to that I have told you,of, I would immediately perform the operation again ; and my own con- viction is, that it can be done, and with success. At the time I tied the aorta, the |)atient appeared dying ; after the opera- tion had been performed, I was pleased in a remarkable man- ner to see him in the evening sitting up in bed adjusting his clothes ; if the vessel had not been secured when it was, he would not have lived an hour. On the following morning, signs of constitutional irritation came on, in tlic evening he became mucb worse, and in forty hours from the time of the operation he died. Here is the specimen, (the learned pro-