INFLAMMATION OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. 483 is twice as long, when engaged in this ])roeess, as a young one ; and tliis is the first tiling that attracts the patient’s at- tention. Well, the next thing noticed is, that the urine has a particularly powerful smell, which arises from its being ain- inoniated, in consequence of some urine remaining in the bladder after each discharge. Remember, tU*>refore, that in this complaint the wliole of the water, each time it is at- tempted to be expelled, does not pass away. The next symp- toms observable, are pain and numbness in the glans penis ; the prepuce not possessing its usual sensibility, sense of weight and uneasiness in the perinseum, relieved by pressure with the finger; pain in the back of one or both thighs, in the loins, and at the origin of the sciatic neiwe, and course of the ureters ; the faices are flattened, the reason of which is, that pressure has been made upon the rectum by the svvoln stiand. Persons having enlarged prostate for any length of time, generally have likewise prolapsus ani, and hemorrhoids: when the enlargement of the gland is considerable, the pa- tient will kneel, resting upon his hands, with his knees widely distended, and thus continue for a tedious time, passing only a few drops of urine, after the most persevering efforts, and with the most excruciating pain. Besides what I have al- ready stated, the ammoniacal smell of the urine, as the dis- ea.se advances, becomes highly ofi'ensive, and at length the urine itself becomes white or milky; this appearance shews that the inflammation has extended to the mucous membrane of the bladder. If the urine be much retained, it has the ap- pearance of coffee, occasioned by an admixture of blood with it; this leads many practitioners to su|)|)ose, for the moment, that the case is one of stone ; but, if you question the patient your doubts on this point will be very satisfactorily removed. If you desire him to stand up, and jump firmly on the flooi', he will do so ; if you ask him whether he can ride over a rough road without much pain, he will tell yon that he can ; such doings and replies as these you would not obtain from a patient having stone. .At length the enlargement of the prostate, in many cases, will proceed until it occasions complete retention of urine ; this, however, may be the effect of retaining more urine in the bladder, and for a longer period, than it ought; or it may have been the result of checked perspiration, either from c(dd weather, or from having imprudently laid aside some flannel l overing; when the retention has been brought about by either of these latter mentioned causes, in conjnnclion with an enlarged (uostate. Exciting on such [)erso]is a copious jicrspiration, will often afford relief.' I I 2