574 ON DISLOCATIONS. always ruptured ; frequently a piece of the cartilage is sepa- rated with it, and sometimes even portions of the hone. li. dislocations of the os humeri, the tendon of the biceps re- mains uninjured, in the cases which 1 have hitherto .^een ; bnt the muscles and tendons connected to the joint are very much injured, especially the subscapularis. Whenever the thigh-bone is dislocated into the foramen ovale, the fibres of the pectinalis are torn, and those of the adductor are very much injured. There is generally great extravasation, and sometimes matter forms in four or five days. But the most curious cases are those in which the nature of the accident has not been detected. The head of the bone becomes much altered in figure, and this alteration is very much influenced by the structure on which it pres.<es, whether on the bone or on muscles. Changes likewise take place in the soft parts, new capsular ligaments of condensed cellular tissue are formed by the jiressure; the tendons of the muscles, which were torn through, become united, and the muscles accommodate themselves to their new axes, and the limb is thus newly, yet permanently, established. Thi.< account shows the folly of attempting to reduce a dislocation, after a long time has elapsed. Even in one case, where the dislocation of the humerus had only exi.sted six weeks, the tibres and tendons of the subscapularis and teres minor were torn through in attempting to reduce it, and caused tlie death of the patient. Although dislocations generally arise from violence, and are accompanied by laceration of the ligaments of the joint, yet they sometimes happen from relaxation of the ligaments only. This is esjtecially likely to occur where there has been an abundance of synovia secreted, which unist have the effect of distending the capsule, thereby weakening the articulation. The patella is sometimes dislocated from this cause. It muscles are ])ut and kept long upon the stretch, their power of contraction is in a great measure lost; or, if from paralysis, they lose their action, a bone may be easily dislocated and red'iced as quickly. A person had liis arm kept powerfully upon the stretch for an hour, by way of punisliinent, whilst on board a ship in the East Indies, ami he could luxate and reduce his shoulder at pleasure. Dislocations frequently arise from ulcerations of the joints, by whieh the ligaments are detached, and the bones become altered in their relation to each other —this frequently happens in the hip. There i> a preparation in the museum, of the knee dislocated by ul- ceration, and anchylosed at right angles t'ith the lemur. Di.'locations are sometimes accompanied with fracture. -Vi