oOt SUPPURATION OF THE LACHRYMAL SAC. the obstruction is coiuplete, the disteiisioii couhidtrablcj the attacks of iiiflaminatiou frequent, and suppuration lia> couinienced, another kind of treatment must be ado^Aed ; in this stage the object of yonr treatment will be to elfect a natural passage for the flow of the tears, that is, through the nasal duct, instead of their flowing over the face. Anel it the first who attempted to procure a passage for the matter and tears into the sac,’when the natural one was obstructed -, and this he did by introducing a vei7 fine probe through one of the puncta and the lachrymal sac to the duclns ud naium, and thu‘ dilated the stricture; but the instrument wa.s so flexible and tbin, that it was ill calculated to overcome the obstruction. My friend, Mr. Travers, wlio has had most extensive.opportu- nities of watching the progress and trying the effect of differ- ent treatments iu this disease, recommends the use of an in- strument of this kind ; it is, however, somewhat different; it is more nail-headed, and not of the same exceeding fineness, being more effectual for removing the obstruction. Anel like- wise constructed a small syringe, the mouth of which was to he introduced into oue of the puucta, tepid water was then to be injected through the puuctum and sac to the nasal duct; but the injection of fluid was found inadequate to overcome the obstruction. It is a useful instrument in gleety discharges from the sac or duct, but beyond this it is quite inefficient. Mr. Watheu recommended that a hollow metallic tube should be introduced into the ductus ad nasum ; the object of its being hollow was to allow the passage of tears through it, but it was found inadequate; it soon became filled with mu- cus. M. Dupuytren is in the habit of using a gold tube in this way, and it is said that most of his cases are cured; tbi.- I should doubt, and in one case I know it did not succeed. Mr. Pott also advised the use of bougies for removing tlie ob- siruction. The plan laid down by Mr. Ware is the one now generally adopted; it consists of introducing a nail-headed style into the ductus ad nasum, and letting it remain tbeiv. 'I'he style should be just large enough to allow of the flou' oi the tears by the side of it. If no opening has been made Irom the repeated inflammation, the mode you will adopt to make oue is as follows ; you direct the jiatient to be seated, and then standing behind him, you |iass your hand round the pa- tient’s head, open the lachrymal sac, and then cairy a blunt pointed bistoury inwards and downwards and divide the ob- struction; the instrument with which you make the e.vtcnial opening is a phymosis knife. Having done this, you ascertain W'hether the passage is free, and then introduce a nail-hoaded Style about an inch and three-eighths long ; the head of the