496 ON SYMPATHETIC BUBO AND GLEET. inflammation extends from the penis to the glands of the groin, these become inflamed also, and enlarged ; and it is not at all surprising for a swelling, after a gonorrhoea, to come on in the groin ; a patient under such circumstances is afraid of a bubo, and alarm is excited in his mind of its being syphi- litic ; you may however, calm his fears, and tell him that it is a common concomitant of gonorrlima, and that he need not be uneasy. The distinction between a sympathetic bubo, and one from syphilis, consists in this circumstance ;—in general, one gland only is enlarged in syphilis ; but in a sympathetic bubo you most frequently find a chain of glands affected. In the groin there are two sets of glands ; one just above Poupart’s liga- ment, and the other about two inches or an inch and a half below it ; the lower tier is seldom enlarged from sympathy, the upper frequently. Whether the gland will suppurate or not, depends greatly on the mode of treatment: if mercury be given, it will be hurried into a suppurative process, there- fore it should not be used so as to produce a mercurial action in the system ; connected with aperients, it is proper. 'ITie plan of treatment in sympathetic bubo is the same as that for inflammation in any other part of the body ; you purge the patient, apply leeches and an evaporating lotion, and advise him to diminish his quantity of exercise. By this plan it soon gives vvay, and it is his own fault if it suppurates. The glans penis is covered with a plexus of absorbents, and, by making a small puncture in the skin of the dead subject, and introducing some quicksilver under it, those oi the dorsum receive the mercury, and by this means you in- ject the glands of the groin. Irritation by sympathy, or from the venereal virus, extends in this direction. The plexus on the glans becomes inflamed, the absorbents on the dorsum irritated, and then the glands of the groin enlarged ; they are enlarged by a continued sympathy, rather than the sympathy by which one part becomes affected by another at a distance from it; it is by a continuation of the inflammation, which commences at the mouth of the absorbents, and terminates in the gland. Gleet. The disease of which I shall now proceed to sjreak is pro- tracted, and difficult to cure ; but first I have a few words to say on the nature of gleet. Gleet is said to be that stage of gonorrhoea when the discharge ceases to be infectious. I doubt whether there is such a complaint as gleet, according to this definition, for I cannot help believing that a gonorrhtra aever ceases to be infectious. Gonorrhcca, when neglected