254 ON INFLAMMATION OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. sons who have gone out of a warm room to look at fire-works have been attacked with it. The change of tein{)erature, to- gether with the brilliant light to which the eye is exposed, seem to produce it. Persons sitting in a hot room, or a theatre where there is much light, and exposed at the .same time to a draft of cold air, have often had infiammation of the conjunctiva. So particular states of the atmosphere will be- come in some degree excitants of this inflammation, and it has been observed to be more frequent during the prevalence of easterly winds. There seems to be some ground for this opinion. Other causes of this inflammation may exist, bnt it is not necessary to enumerate them more at large. 'Fhe prin- cipal causes are, the admission of any extraneous body and variations of temperature, especially if accompanied by intense heat and light, or partial exposure to drafts of cold air. 1 have said that this inflammation is either acute or chronic let us consider in what the chronic stage of it consists. The term chronic is not, as its etymology would lead you to sup- pose, applied merely with reference to duration of time; it is not only applied to signify that state of congestion and debility of vascular action produced by the acute stage, but it is also applied to that state of inflammation which from the com- mencement has a character of atony and debility. -As this is the more frequent form in which you will find this inflamma- tion, whether primary or following the acute stage, it is ne- cessary to attend particularly to the symptoms by which it is distinguished, as the mode of treatment is very diflFerent from that which is required in acute inflammation. 'Hie symptoms of chronic differ from those of acute inflammation of the conjunctiva rather in degree than in kind ; so that after they have existed for some time in the acute stage, you find the disease gradually passing into the chronic stage. The redness will be less intense, the pain which accompanied it less acute, the intolerance of light will be less, the chemosis and swell- ing will be diminished, the effusion of tears less considerable, the constitutional irritation will in a great degree have sub- sided, and in short, all the acute symptoms will be much mi- tigated. Theie will still, however, remain a considerable de- gree of irritability in the eye, on exposure to light; some arti- ficial defence to exclude the light will be necessary, and the person will still be incapable of applying the organ to the ordi- nary purposes of vision. The cause of chronic inflammation, both exciting and piedisposing, are very similar to those of acute inflammation, and indeed 1 have already said that one form very commonly passes into the other; but at the same time it is to be remembered that there are many causes which