ON HYDROCELE. 185 ring, and ordered to be worn for two years ; at the end of one year iMr. Dobson wrote to me to say tliat the lad was quite cured. Now tliis I did not e.xpect. What had hap- pened was tins : the pressure of the truss had succeeded in de- stroying the communication between the tunica vaginalis and abdomen, and then the water had become absorbed. I advise you, should you ever meet with such a case, to pursue a similar practice ; for, as you see in this case, the opening which exists may be closed, and if the person’s health be good, the water may be absorbed, thereby rendering an ope- ration unnecessary. The result of that case gratified me exceedingly. Diagnosis.—Now then as to the best mode of distinguishing hydrocele; When a patient comes to you with a fluctuating swelling in the scrotum, in which the testicle is enclosed, you order a candle to be brought; then squeezing the tumour at the i)osterior part, you distend the front so as as to make it tense; apply the skin of the little finger, and that covering its metacarpal bone at the outer side, to the surface of the tumour, and then cause the candle to be held as close as pos- sible opposite to where the two skins meet. In this way you will never fail to di.scover the transparency of hydroceles which are formed in this climate ; and it is only the clumsy, awkward mode in which the experiment is made, that occa- sions any person to be unsuccessful in it, wliich, if conducted differently, would lead to a satisfactory result. I have seen in- dividuals, however, from Sierra Leone and the West Indies, in whom the tunica vaginalis had become so much thickened as to render the hydrocele perfectly opaque. Diseased testicle may be easily distinguished from hydro- cele by its weight and flatness, and the pain and sickness which it occa.sions ; and often by the discoloration of the skin covering it, and by the semi-transparency and lightness of one tumour and the heaviness of the other. 'fhere is one disease somewhat difficult to distinguish from hydrocele, viz., hccmatocele : this is a collection of blood in the tunica vaginalis testis, and |)roduces in form an exactly similar tumour to hydrocele ; but the history of the case is quite different, and your best guide. If you ask how it hap- pened? the answer i.s—“ Why I was riding, when the horse, became restive, began to plunge, and threw me forward on the pommel of the saddle; I soon afterwards discovered this swelling.” 'nien, if you incjuire whether there were any marks or bruises in the skin of the scrotum, the answer will be, “ ()h, yes; it was black and blue.” VVhenever you find a swelling thus suddenly formed after a blow, having the