188 ON THE CURE OF HYDROCELE. LECTURE XXIV. On teie Cure of Hydrocele. Hydrocele is not cured by the accidental bursting of the sac- when h,s takes place, it i, followed by a teuEpor^n Ve'S of the hydrocele, which either returns again, or is Succeeded by hematocele. A gentleman who had bfen subject to hvdro- celt foi many years went to the continent, and whil.ct riding Sd”le-’°for''^s'*‘'’'’ f r’'" tlie pommel of thi saddle, foi sereral hours afterwards the swelling became considerable; diffused instead of circumscribed ; absorption however soon took pl^ace; the swelling gradually ikssened^and he gentleman thought that his hydrocele was cured, infect he congratufeted himself on it. Not long after this the swX ing l etuined, and when he came to England, he called on me, and I performed the operation for hydrocele; which presented nothing iieciiliar. Another case of the bursting of a hvdro- cele occurred in the person of Dr. Saunders, of the other hos- pital, a person well known in the profession. ^^Tiihst stand- ing on a chair to reach a book, he slipped his foot, bv which means he receded a blow on the scrotum, which tvas enlareed from a collection of water in it. I\Ir. Lucas, late sureeok of Guy s who had been in the habit of tapping him for this complaint was sent for immediately after the accident, to perform the operation again ; the swelling was verv large, and Mr. Lucas, not at all suspecting that the character of the complaint was changed, put a trocar into the scrotum, but no water came which alarmed the doctor considerably.' A con- sultation was held, at which many of the nio.st cm'iuent pro- fessional men of this town were present; the scrotum was s\Aollen and harder than natural, blood was extrava^ated into the tunica vaginalis; it was determined to attempt to relieve the swelliiig and ecchymosis by stimulant lotioms, but these failing, an incision was then made into the scrotum, when tliere was found some coagulable blood, which had been sub- stituted for the water. Thii.s then a blow on a scrotum af- fected with hydrocele will change that disease into haimato- cele, which can be afterwards cured bv an incision. The cure of hydrocele is effected in three wavs ; 1st, bv absorption; 2dly, adhesion; 3dly, granulation. Now 1 ob- served to you in the last lectui-c that when hydrocele is pro- duced in the common way, medicine or local .-ipplications have hardly any iiifiueiice on it; when it arises from a relaxed state of the vcs.sels, stimulating medicines and blisters have no cf-