422 ON THE TREATxMENT OF INTERNAL PILES. practice ; these reverses I feci it my dutv most candidly at>d openly to declare to you. A gentleman from the East Indies placed himself under my care with internal piles, which i re- moved with the scissors. A very few days after he complained of pain by the side of the rectum ; an abscess formetl under the gluteus muscle, which discharged abundantly; his consti- tution was already broken, and he died in consequence of the discharge. Considering this to be merely a case of bad con- stitution, which might not apply to any considerable number of cases, I did not give up a practice which I had hitherto found successful, in consequence of a circumstance which I regarded as accidental. Five years ago a nobleman applied to me with internal piles. I was upon my guard in this case, and said I did not like to remove the piles without a consultation. A consultation was held, and the removal by excision was agreed to; I accord- ingly removed them, and he was well in a very few davs. Two years after, he sent for me again, and said that he had some more of these piles with prolapsus ani, and that he wished me to cut them off again ; I did so, and as 1 advised the recumt)ent |)ostnre he went immediately to bed. As I was anxious about this patient, I did not immediately quit the room, but stood chatting with him for a short time, when he said, I believe you must quit the room, for 1 must have a motion. 1 went out of the room, and upon returning shortly after 1 found him trying to get into bed, and upon looking into the vessel 1 per- ceived a considerable quantity of blood in it. In a few mi- nutes after, he said he must have another motion, got out of bed, and again discharged a considerable quantity of blood. This he did four different times ; one of the hemorrhoidal arteries in the centre of one of the piles which had been re- moved was divided, and as I w^as determined he should not die of hemorrhage 1 said I must secure the vessel which bled, and vvith a speculum ani I opened the rectum sufficiently to see the blood vessel, took it up with a tenaculum, and put a ligature round it. On the following day 1 found the |>atient, who was much advanced in years, extremely weak; he had had a severe rigor, he grew gradually worse, and in ibur days after he died. On examination of the body there appeared to be some slight disease of the intestines, but not sufficient to account for death ; he was seventy-four years of age. A per- son from Jersey or Guernsey w.as attended by Mr. for piles ; Mr. removed them with a pair scissors, but did not see him on the following day. I was informed that he was e.xceedingly ill, and the next morning when I went to sec him, he told me, as well as he could, that he was almost dead; and