ON FUNGOID DISEASE OF THE TESTICLE. 401 ef the testicle very rarely requires an operation, if treated in the way 1 have now stated. When I commenced my profes- sion, 1 had no more idea but that the testicle required removal than any other surgeon at that time. I have seen a great number of them removed, and 1 confess that 1 have removed many myself: but if I were to do so now, I should be guilty of a great crime, for it is a disease which readily yields to the medical means which 1 have pointed out. There are several preparations on the table of testicles, taken from persons under this disease, before the efficacy of this treatment was ascer- tained; one of them, 1 am sorry to say, by myself. There is a species of chronic enlargeraetit of the testicle, however, which requires the operation, as large abscesses are sometimes produced by it, which occasion great pain, so that the patient himself becomes anxious for the removal of the testicle. Fun- gous granulations spring from the surface of these abscesses ; they are not of the true malignant fungoid kind, but they re- semble the granulations which spring through the dura mater, in consequence of injury to the brain. Even in this case, however, the granulations may be cut off from the surface, and the integuments brought together, so as frequently to render the removal of the testicle unnecessary. Mr. Travers has cured a case or two of this kind by the pressure of adhesive plaster. 1 have seen cases cured by sprinkling powdered sulphate of copper, or nitrate of silver, on the part. The irritable testicle is a very formidable disease, and, as far as I know, has not been described in surgical books. 'I'his complaint generally resists all the means which may be employed to subdue it; aud 1 have, in three instances, been under the necessity of removing the testicle. T'he part is so exceedingly tender, that the patient cannot bear to w'alk, as pressure of the testicle gives him excruciating pain. The moment you touch the part, the patient shrinks from you, and complains of dreadful pain, which will last for hours after. 'ITie [tain passes up the spermatic cord to the loins, entering along the nerves of the thigh. It may be relieved for the mo- ment by medical means, as by giving the blue pill with hyos- cyamus, but it generally returns, and will continue for months, and even years. The patient lies on his sofa from morning to night, and is wholly unable to [tursue any occupation. 1 mice asked a medical man who waslabouritig under this complaint, whether he found it absolutely impossible to exert himself, and he told me he should have been extremely glad to join the regiment to which he was surgeon, but he found it utterly impossible. In three cases, as before stated, I have been under the necessity of removing the testicle for this disease, 'i’he n ii