459 ON VIRULENT GONORRHCEA. shall insert a small particle, I know not what fraction of a grain, into the cellular tissue of a rabbit, and you will see that, in the space of three or four minutes, the animal will die, without appearing to suffer the least pain. It will pro- bably continue to eat the parsley on the table till it dies. [The lirst rabbit on which the learned professor performed the experiment, walked about the table, and partook of his parslev, but declined dying at the end of four minutes. Whe- ther the poison were not effectually introduced within the cellular tissue, or whether this rabbit was blessed with an idiosyncrasy which rendered him insensible to its effects, we will not decide ; certain it is, »hat he continued to eat his pars- ley with a provoking vivaciousness up to the moment we left the theatre. The learned ])rofessor introduced a minute por- tion of the poison within the cellular tissue of a second rab- bit, on which it soon produced the usual deadly effects. It appeared to suffer no pain, but at the expiration of three mi- nutes, its hinder extremities were paralysed ; in three minutes and a half it appeared to be insensible, and at the end of four minutes it rolled on its back, and died.] LECTURE LV. The subject of this evening’s lecture will be the V’enekeal Disease. There are two poisons communicated by venereal inter- course ; one the poison of gonorrhoea, which, falling upon a mucous surface, produces from that surface a discharge of matter which is infectious ; the other, the poison of syphilis, being applied to the surface of the skin, or, as far as is known at present, to any surface, produces inflammation and ulce- ration, forming a sore which is called chancre ; the discharge from this, being received into the absorbent glands, occasions bubo, and, being conveyed into the circulation, produces in- flammation and ulceration in the throat, on the skin, the pe- riosteum, and the bones. Ok \’lRt'LENT GoNORRHtEA. When gonorrhceal matter is applied to the urethra, the fol- lowing symptoms generally arise in three or four days after its application:—The patient first experiences a sense of titil- lation in the urethra, as if a drop of urine were contained in it. 'This directs his attention to the part; and he finds that the lips of the urethra are red, and that there is a slight mu- cou.s discharge. 'I'he next circumstances which take place are these : the urethra begins to be afl'ected with considerable