20 ON INFLAMMATION. of the urethra, hut afterwards to excite it by the balhani of copaiba, and slightly stimulating injections. Common, or Specii ic Infla.mmatio.n. Infianiniation is of two kinds, either conimon or sjR-cific. The first, with its terminations, has been already d'scribed, and is called healthy inflammation. But the .second, or s;>e- cific, is of a peculiar kind, and is called unhealtliy. In this inflammation, the vessels have an entirely different anion to what happens in the healthy state, and thus the fluids and solids they secrete have a decidedly opposite character. There are two descriptions of specific inflammation ; the first is produced by a peculiar condition of the constitution ; and the second, by the application of a poison. Gout is an example of the first kind. If a man for a lenrth of time yield to every injurious excess, loading his stomach with food and wine, so as to weaken the digestive powers, he probably excites in his system what is called the gouty dis- position ; he experiences dreadful pain in one or more of h'- toes, &c., and severe inflammation ensues, which frequently teruiinate.s in the secretion of a matter that speedily becomes solid, usually called chalk-stone; this name, however, is in- correct, as it has been proved by the analysis of Dr. Wodas- ton to consist of uric acid and soda, consequently is now vciy properly named urate or lithate of soda. The formation ofscirrhus or cancer is another example of specific inflammation, arising from a [leculinr state of cnr,.-ti- tution. Let us suppose that two women receive tach a blow on the breast; one woman with a constitution in a healthy, vigorous state, and the other with a system pn-disuosed to the formation of cancer ; in the first individual the inflamma- tion will be strictly healthy, going thnmch its different stacci until acme is accomplished ; in the other person, owing to a constitutional peculiarity, the same extent of injury will ;.ro- duce cancerous disease, a malady over w hich medicine has no influence, and extirpation is only an uncertain remedy. Per- sons afflicted with cancerous or fungous coni])laints are ol ex- ceedingly anxious minds (at least nine times in ten' ; tl.is anxiety occasions a sort of irritable fever, which invariably nioves’detrimental. . . But the best example of specific luflammation is .'crofiila. Persons attacked bv this di.scase have generally light hair, f^ir complexion, delicate appearance; when Inflammatmn occurs, it is slow in its progress, although easily excited ; and at last, ulceration toking place, the discharge consists of curdy matter, or a thin serous fluid, not at all resembling the pus which is formed In healthy inflaimnations.