ON THE CURE OF ANEURISM. 162 As the spoiitaneons cure of this disease, however, cannot be so far depended upon as to prevent us from performing the operation in all situations where the artery is accessible, I shall proceed to describe to you the mode of performing the operation in the different parts of the body, confining myself, in this evening’s lecture, to the operation on the femoral artery. As we are occasionally under the necessity of per- forming the operation as it used to be done thirty-five or forty years ago, I shall, in the first place, say a few words on the old operation. The operation for popliteal aneurism used to be performed in the following manner’—A tourniquet was placed on the limb, and the patient laid on his face. An inci- sion was then made in the ham, to the extent of the aneurism, and the adhesive matter and coagulated blood removed from the excavation thus made. The aneurismal bag was then wiped out with a sponge, and the tourniquet was slightly loosened, in order to mark the orifice of the artery. Tlie surgeon stood ready with a probe in his hand, and as soon Bf he saw the blood issue from the upper orifice, he passed it into the artery, and then separating that portion of the artery from the remaining parts, put a ligature upon it. \Mien he had done this, he again loosened the tourniquet, and as soon as he saw what appeared to be venous blood spring from the lower portion of the artery (for the hlood from the upper portion of the artery is florid, as arterial blood usually is, hut in the lower portion it has the jappearance of venous blood), he introduced the probe into tbe orifice, and put a ligature on the artery as before. An operation like this, which exposed a very considerable surface, where the artery ill the vicinity of the aneurism was diseased, and by which the bones w'ere frequently injured, from the ulcerative process taking place, necessarily led very frequently to fatal results ; so frequently, indeed, that it was a disputed point among the profession whether it was better to amputate in cases of pop- liteal aneurism, or to perform this o|ieration. A man vyho had recovered after the old operation lor popliteal aneurism could, formerly, get money by showing himselt at the hospi- tals ; at present it would not be worth a man s while to beg in this way. It is to Mr. .lohu Hunter that we are indebted for the great improvement which has taken place in this branch of surgery. But for Mr. .Tohn Hunter, we might .rtill have the same diHiculties to encounter, and patients labounuc under this disease might still have been exposed to the same danger. , . Mr. Hunter being an excellent physiologist, and an admir- able anatomist, applied the powers of his active and inquiring