394< ON DISEASE OF THE TESTICLE. should not change the lint for several days, but apnlv ponl- tices, and merely introduce a probe from day to day, to -e<- that there is no improper adhesion. If you were to put fresh lint immediately, it would excite inflammation, and produce fre.sh abscesses in the surrounding cellular tissue. On the- fourth or fifth day you may insert a small quantity of fresh lint; healthy granulations will arise in about a fortnight, under the treatment which I have already pointed out to von - you may then apply lint dipped in a solution of the sulphate of copper. The sore will often assume an indolent state, when yon think it is on the point of healing. Injections are sometime.^ successfully employed for the purpose of healing fistula: in ano. A gentleman came to me with a very deep fistula in ano; he had been operated upon before, when a verv alarm- ing hemorrhage followed the division of the sphincter ; the sinus was so deep, that it completely absorbed the probe ; under these circumstances, [ was unwilling to perform the operation, e.xcept by gradually dividing the fistula an inch or two at a time. However, I told him that injections now and then succeeded, and I recommended him, therefore, to trv the effect of an injection of port wine and water. A few'days after, he injected port wine alone into the sinus, and the result was, that there was no further suppuration, but adhe- sion took place, as in the case of hydrocele. His cure was thus completed without an operation. F'istulm are sometimes cured by the introduction of a ligatiue, whidi gradually cuts through the part. A thread is passed through the sinus, brought out by the rectum, and tied very' tightly. Many persons will not submit to the operation of being cut for fistula, but prefer enduring pain much greater than any occasioned hy the ope- ration. In such cases the introduction of a ligature will some- times prove successful. LECTURE XLVIII. In this evening’s lecture I shall show you the operation of castration, first describing to you the diseases of the testicle which occasionally render such an operation necessary. The first disease of the testicle which I shall describe to von, is that in which hydatids or cysts are formed within it. 'Phis is a disease of no very unfrequetit occurrence, and it affects the young rather than those who are advanced in years. It begins at the extremity of the cpidydimis where it joins the testicle : there is an enlargement of the part which extends through the