88 ON ULCERS. operatiou ; but as it was attended with great loss of blood the town'flrm to be cut agai.,, and came to -T I'im. and fmdine that there was considerable space between the anus and fistula, 1 adrised submit to the operation, and said that I would try til- ‘ injected first port wine and water • tins di^d not answer—It was not sufficiently powerful. I there- tore threw m port wine alone, and succeeded in obliterating le canal. I was fortunate in this instance ; for 1 can assure you that fistula in ano is seldom, very seldom, completely cured without an operation. When you do not succeed bv injection, you may employ the caustic bougie. Still pressure will be necessary ; and it is quite impossible that vou can .succeed without It. When the fistula is very deep, it may be divided into two ; or a setou nray be introduced, and kept in toi a fiirtnight or three weeks, with a view of stimulating the parts for the purpose of filling the cavity with granulations. LECTURE XIII. The Subject of TTcers Continued. I.v this evening s lecture, I sliall continue the subject of nice- ration. Ulcers are frequently formed for the purpose of al- lowing the discharge of extraneous bodies; when such sub- stances become lodged, therefore, in any part of the human frame, innainiiiation is excited—pus becomes secreted, which pressing towards tlie surface, ulceration takes place, aud the extiaiieous substance is thus afforded an opportunity of escaping. Ulcers frequently occasion, to a very considerable extent, exfoliation of bone : liere you can assist nature bv ap- plications which act chemically on thepaits; apply, for this purpose, a lotion composed of muriatic acid and water, or iiitiic acid and water; this wash will dissolve the filiosphate of lime, or earthly matter of the bone; and by removing this inanimate siibstaut'e, the power of tlie absorbents will be in- cieased, and a quicker sejiaratioii of tlic diseased from the healtliy parts be the consequence. The acids, however, have not so great an influence in these cases as vou migiit he led to expect from what chemical writers liave stated ; still, how- ever, you will find them to be of use, aud they s’hould’there- fore be employed. Ulcers which occasionally form on the fiiigeis and toes are sometimes e.xceedingly difficult to heal, from an irritation caused by ])ortions of the nails. Vou may think this too trifling a subject to require a moiiieiit’s consideration ; but 1 can as-