ON HERNIA. 228 fssces, I proceeded, opened the hernial sac, and turned it aside to expose the intestine, and divided the stricture; the cut appeared almost in too bad a state to return. It then struck me, that I could relieve this patient, and I made an inci.sion an inch long on the front of the intestine, allowed the faeces to escape, and returned the intestine to the abdomen. The ope- ration was performed on a Friday; feculent matter continued to discharge through the wound, and not by the recular canal, till the Wednesday following. Two days after this, a week from the operation, she had several stools per annm, of a greenish colour ; and the patient recovered. Some time after, Mr. Brown, of Rotherhithe, a very respectable surgeon, called on me, and said that 1 should be surpri.sed to hear that the patient I had operated on in this hospital, at such a time, had been delivered of a full-grown child. A curious circumstance attending this is, that she was with child at the time of the operation and did not miscarry. The operation was performed in March, and the woman was brought to bed in August, at which time there was no appearance of any thing to be seen. The learned professor now went through the different steps of the operation for strangulated hernia on the dead subject, precisely in the way recommended in another part of the lecture. LECTURE XXIX. The subject of Herni.a continued. 1 MENTIONED to yoli, gentlemen, in the last lecture the mode in which the intestines are to be treated under the different cir- cumstances of adhesion, gangrene, or strangulation. But there is one point I omitted on that occasion. There is a peculiar sort of hernia which contains the coecum ; this cut sometimes de- .scends into an inguinal hernia of the right side, and on dissec- tion you find that it adheres to the posterior surface of the scro- tum. 'I'his cfficum is not enclosed in the hernial sac, but tbe her- nial sac is before it. Those who have studied the anatomy of the viscera know that the coecum is confined posteriorly by cellu- lar membrane, and that the peritoneum passes over it anteriorly. On the posterior surface of the ccerum there is no peritoneum, unlike, in this respect, to the other intestines, with thee.xcep- tion of the dnodemim and colon. When the coecum, therefore, descends it brings down the peritoneum in front; but behind theie is merely cellular membrane, by which means it is con- fined to the scrotum so securely, that it is impossible, in many rases to return it; then the stricture must be divided, and the in- testine allowed to remain. Last summer uiany of you had an op-