19 ON inflammation. person may die of hemorrliage. Indaniniation, without any obvious cause, is generally of the uuhealtliy kind, and arises from irritability of the constitution, and an enfeebled state of the alfected part. LECTURE m. Acute and Chronic Inflammation. Inflammation is of two kinds. Acute and Chronic. The first usually goes through its variou.s stages with great rapid- ity, wliile the latter is exceedingly slow in its progress, and is either the result of acute inflammation, or owing to a peculiar state of constitution, occurring in persons who have lived inteinperately, or who have been exposed to excessive and laborious exertion, or who are the victims of anxiety and disappointment. Acute Inflammation.—One of the best examples of acute inflammation is seen in the breast after delivery. The adhe- •sive stage i.s marked by hardness and pain ; the suppurative, by irritative fever, fluctuation, and throbbing or pulsation; ulceration usually succeeds in a short space of time, and the matter is soon discharged. Chronic Inflammation.—A good example of acute inflam- mation, terminating in chronic, is observable in ophthalmia. Mheii consulted in cases of this description, during the acute stage of inflammation, you must bleed both locally and gene- rally. This may be done either by opening a vein in the arm, by the application of leeches to the temples and palpebra, or by opening the temporal artery, which sometimes relieves from its free anastomoses with the ocular arteries. ^ ou .should use such applications as will soothe and allay the local irrita- tion, and these should consist of narcotic and emollient fo- mentations. W hen by these means the acute inflammation ends, tlie chronic frequently begins. In the first, our object IS to diminish |)owcr ; in the second, it is nece.s«ary to stimu- late the ve.ssel.s, to contract their diameters, to lessen the quantity of blood which has accumulated in them, and thn.s re.store them to their natural state. Tliis is best eflected bv astringent and stimulating lotions, as the solutions of alum', .sulphate of zinc, nitrate of silver ; and as the system of depic- tion required during the acute stage may liave'produced debi- lity, the use of tonics must not be forgotten. An instance of chronic inflammation succeeding tlic acuti may be seen in gonorrlnea. During the first stages of thi- complaint, Ave are obliged to check the action of the ves'^els