INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 9 are requisite on the part of the surgeon. The first of which is, neatness in the application of his remedies ; awkwardness in this respect will frequently injure his professional pro- spects—the patient and his friends often judge of a man’s skill hy his manner of bleeding, or from the application of a bandage; and it sometimes happens that “ the hand spoils the head.” The next requisite is, gentleness of manner ; patients har- ing a natural dislike to operations, feel still more uneasy if they discover any thing in their practitioner’s behaviour which makes them apprehend rough treatment. Violence is in all cases bad, and is sometimes followed by fatal consequences. I was invited by a surgeon, some years since, to see a patient who had a compound dislocation of the ankle joint: there existed a considerable degree of pain and inflammation ; the surgeon at once suddenly introdueed a probe, raised some of the parts by it, and, his Latin being as bad as his surgery, said with the utmost coolness, Dedenda est Carthago .’ “Car- thage must fall!” Thereby implying that amputation must be performed; indeed, from the rough manner in which he treated his patient, there seemed no other chance for the poor fellow’s recovery. In this case gentleness might have pre- vented the necessity for amputation. But the quality which is considered of the highest order in surgical operations is self-possession; the head must always direct the hand, otlierwise the operator is unfit to discover an effectual remedy for the unforseen accidents which may occur in his practice. Without this quality a man may do well enough in ordinary cases, hut can do little on sudden emergencies; it inspires confidence, and almost insures the success of the operation. These qualities forward the interests of professional men, whilst they diminish the sufferings of hu- man nature. Patients generaily form an opinion of a sur- geon’s ability hy his manner; if he be ot a dry, morose turn, he is apt to alarm not only the patient, but his whole taniih ; whereas, he who speaks kindly to them, and asks for paiticu- lar information, is supposed to have more knowledge, and re- ceives more respect. . In all cases it is the duty of the surgeon, never to advise an operation, unless there is a probability tliat it will be attended with success: he should here, as in every instance, “do to others as he would have others do unto him.” Let it be alway.s renicnibercd, that operations cannot be under- taken by anv man, unless he possess a thorough knowledge ol anatomy, this is the real groundwork of all surgical science;