ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 119 pearances on dissection, you will answer, that when the con- cussion is slight, it is merely an agitation of the brain, by which tbe circulation is altered; but wben it is severe, tbe brain itself suffers laceration, whicb laceration is accompanied with extravasation of blood. By the knowledge of these facts we are led, without difficulty, to the principles of treatment. Treatment of Concussion.—great danger which we have to guard against, in the treatment of concussion, is inflamma- tion of the brain. This principle must direct our practice ; and in order to prevent inflammation, we must take away a very considerable quantity of blood. By bleeding largely at first, we not only remove existing inflammation, but we pre- vent that which would otherwise occur. This prac.iice, how- ever, may be carried to exce.ss. There are some persons who sav you cannot bleed too much in these cases ; but such an assertion only proves their want of understanding. You must regulate your conduct by the symptoms ; observe whether tliere be any hardness in yotir patient’s pulse, and whether he complains of pain in the head, if he have still the power of complaining; watch your patient with the greatest possible anxiety; visit bim at least three times a-day, and if you find any hardness of the pulse supervening, after the first copious bleeding, take away a tea cupful of blood ; but do not go on bleeding him largely, for you would by this means reduce the strength of your patient too much, and prevent the reparative process of nature. It is necessary that there should be a slight degree of inflammation, for without this, the reiiarative ]irocess cannot go on, and the patient cannot recover ; but it will be your duty to keep this inflammation within due bounds. I shall mention a case in which fatal consequences ensued from the error committed by the surgeon in bleeding his patient to such excess, that the slight degree of inflammation necessary to the process of adhesion was removed, and the reparative process of nature consequently prevented. In these lectures, gentlemen, 1 feel it to be my duty to describe to you surgery as it Ls—and not in the. glowing co- lours in which it is painted to you in books. Y'ou must be content to practise surgeiy as it is—not as is sometimes falla- ciously represented to you. I am most anxious that yon should omit nothing which may contribute to increase your profe.ssional skill, and enable you to afford the greatest pos- sible sum of relief to the sufferings of your patients ; but they who blazon forth our profession as one w’hich is attended with undeviating success, are only deceiving you. Y on must hear the untoward cases of your [irofession, as well as those of which the issue is favourable, in order to form a correct