91 ON ULCERS. the veins ; indeed, they are so distended, that they may more properly be termed lakes than rivulets. If you do not open the vessels, you will lind considerable ditliculty in the pro- gress of cure. 'I'he best plan that you can adopt is to punc- ture them by means of a lancet, twice in the course of every week as long as you think they require it ; let the bandage be afterwards applied, and the ]>arts kept wet by means of eva- poratiijg lotion. No tlaiigt'r whatever attends tlie opening of these veins, and very great relief will be afforded by it. It the punctures, however, at any time should not unite, but fret into ulcers, you must apply to them the liq. calcis and calomel. It often happens that persons, who, for any length of time, hate had the veins of their lower extremities in a varicose state, will find at night a great quantity of blood in their shoes ; the crust before alluded to, coming oft, is the cause of the hemor- rhage. Upon being called to a patient so situated, you put him in the recumbent posture, a|iply a bandage, wet the part constantly, either with the spirit wash or cold water, and in all probability you will soon get rid ot the disease altogether. Pregnancy is a frequent cause of varicose veins ; so also is obesity. It was formerly the practice, when the veins were in a vari- cose state, to tie and divide them. This plan is still pursued by many surgeons ; but it is one, gentlemen, that 1 have de- precated in my lectures in this theatre for the last eight or nine years : it is bad treatment, very injudicious, and fraught with great danger; therefore, let me e.xhort you never to sanc- tion it. 1 have seen this operation prove fatal in two instances in these hospitals ; therefore I was induced to say that it did not succeed, and have for years spoken against it. A gentle- man of Nottingham informed me, that he had tied the vena saphena, for a varicose state of the veins of the leg in a young farmer, in other respects healthy, and the operation proved fatal. The same lamentable catastrophe occurred to a most respectable practitioner at llrentford; and both these gentle- men told me, that they would not again perform the operation for the world. If I were to tell you all the cases in which I have known it terminate fatally, 1 should recount at least a dozen. Another overwhHmmi’ objection to the (j[)eration is, that when it does not prove fatal, its ultimate effects are per- fectly nugatory. If I were asked vvhich of the following ope- rations I would rather have performed upon myself, viz., the saphena major vein, or the femoral artery tied, 1 certainly should choose the latter. When an artery is tied, the inllam- mation \9, above the ligature, but in a vein it is below ; in this case, the vessel becomes terribly distended, the inllamiuation