ON VIRULENT GONORRHCEA. 471 considerable quantity of pus. When the urine is bloody, it is a proof that the ulcerative process has commenced ; and, if there be no blood, it is a proof that there are no ulcers. In that state of stricture, when the urine is loaded vvith pus, the patient has frequent and severe rigors, or, even below that state of inflammation, the person will have frequent shivering fits ; and upon going into his room, you would suppose that he had an intermittent, and would order him bark. In these cases, however, this medicine has no eftect, and you will find opium the remedy. I mention this that you may be upon your guard in those cases, as they are manifest rigors succeeded by severe heat, although they do not come on with that regularity that they do in intermittents, nor at the same time of the day. In addition to these symptoms, piles will be sometimes pro- duced, and occasionally direct inguinal hernia ; this last com- plaint is the consequence of the extreme force that is employed to evacuate the urine. Upon the dissection of those who die of stricture, (and I think persons not unfrequently die of this complaint, though not so many now as formerly), the following circumstances are observed ;—The seat of the stricture anterior to the bulb, just where it joins the corpus spongiosum—this part is natu- rally contracted and small, and it is here that you will be ob- structed, if you attempt to pass a straight bougie. The next situation in which w'e find stricture, is in the membranous portion of the urethra, or that part between the bulb and prostate gland: the next situation is in the prostate gland itself. There is no part of the urethra which is not liable to stricture, but most frequently it is found in the three situa- tions I have described to you. First, just at the beeinning of the bulb ; second, at the membranous (or as it ought more properly speaking to be called, the mnscnlar) part; and, third- ly, in the prostate gland itself. Well, upon proceeding on our dissection, what we find to result from stricture of the urethra is extraordinary dilatation of the urethra itself behind the stricture. Here (holding up a preparation) you have an opportunity of seeing this fact. The stricture, you observe, one inch from the extremity of the penis and the urethra, has become so much enlarged, that it will receive the finger between the bulb and seat of stricture. 'I’he next circumstance we observe, upon dissection, is an enormous thickening of the coats of the bladder ; this arises from the increased action which the muscular fibres have to undergo ; for, the urine being frequently discharged, the mus- cular fibres contract to produce the expulsion, and thus in- crease in size, in consequence of their increased action. Thus,