275 ON STAPHYLOMA. regulai' by mild aperients. During the progress of the ulcers, it will be necessary to watch them very closely, and examine them frequently, but in doing it great caution must he used lest the eye lids become everted. When the ulcers heal, it is by cicatrization, as in any other part of the body, and after- wards specks are left which are nothing more than rounded spots of coagulahle lymph, and are denominated leucutna or albugo ; and in these cases the rays of light are not prevented entering the eye, except when the spots are on the axis of vision, and then they are interrupted. The next disease to which the cornea is subject is Staphyloma. In this disease the cornea becomes opaque, considerably elevated, and altered in te.vture. The eye-lids are prevented from being closed ; there is perpetual irritation kept up by the friction of the palpebrae on the ball. This disease frequently comes on after sraall-pox, and is one of the sequel® belonging to that formidable complaint. By the separation of the lids extraneous bodies often enter the eye ; irritation is produced by the friction of the lids and eye-la.shes —and thus a consider- able degree of inconvenience is produced to the patient, and the eye kept in a state of chronic ophthalmy ; and the sound eye becomes sympathetically affected. In this disease the iris often protrudes ; the vitreous humour is altered in texture ; and the crystalline lens is projected for- wards. In this complaint nothing can be done for the re- .storation of sight; and the only plan of treatment will he to remove the staphylomatous part, so as to return the eye within the orbit, and permit the use of an artificial eye. The ope- ration is exceedingly simple; the surgeon first passes a needle with a ligature through the staphylomatous part, in order to steady the eye, and then with the other hand, takes the cor- nea knife, and removes as much of the projecting part as may be necessary ; the o|)eratiou gives little pain; it generally happens that the iris adheres to the cornea, and that por- tion of it is removed. 'riie crystalline lens escapes, together with a portion of vitreous humour, and the eye collapses, so that when the part is healed, an artificial eye may be worn. 1 hese are now made so much to rtsemble the natural eye, that they may be worn without the deception being detected. I his is the only treatment that can be adopted with any relief to the patient. 'J'he cornea sometimes becomes conical, or of a conoid shape; in these ca.ses the cornea loses its natural lustre—-the sight becomes inipaired. Gla.sses aH'ord no relief to the sight in this altered shape of the cornea ; nor is there any remedy with which I am acquainted that does. I hay# T ^