220 ON HERNIA. the tobacco enema, and, on the application of theliand, it waj! easily returned, though it had previously resisted the tavi>. The effect of the tobacco enema in hernia depends rnnch upon whether the hernia is situated near muscle or tendon ; if it is surrounded by the former the effect will be considerable and instantaneous. In femoral hernia, which is covered before by a strong fas- cia, and where there is a strong bone resting aeainst it poste- riorly, the tobacco has not the same effect as in umbilical cr inguinal hernia; in umbilical heruia its adtion is most consi- derable : in inguinal next. What I would do if I had strangulated hernia would be this ; [ would have the taxis emplo)‘ed steadily for ten or fifteen minutes ; if this did not succeed, I would be bled to syncope, and then have the reduction by the band attempted again ; if this also proved unsuccessful, I would have the tobacco injection, and wait a short time; and then, if neces- sary, have the operation performed ; it is the most eeregious ignorance possible to delay the operation so Ions as is often done, thereby wasting those precious moments which, if pro- perly used, might have been spent in saving the life of the patient; ask those about our hospitals, who are the persons who die from strangulated hernia-? and they will tell yon those who have the operation delayed three or four days, and are not brought to the hospital till three days after the hernia has been strangulated, and then, if operated on, they often die : the delay is the cause of the danger, and not the operation. I have'had a little personal experience of this compiaint, and have devoted no small share of my attention to it, and I would not wait more than twelve hours, if the tobacco enema and other means had been employed. Now let me allude to the case of a late illustrious noble- man—I am almost afraid now to mention names — who died ot this disease; he was in the country, and during his stay there, had strangulated hernia; he was attended by a person of strong mind, and who had studied his profession witli indus- try ; he offered to ]ierform the operation, but it was delayed, on tbe ground th.at London skill and advice should be ob- tained ; but before this could be had, the noblemau died : 1 do not mean to under-value London skill, but it certainly is great folly to delay in this complaint. 1 would propose the operation, and perform it readily if it w.as aerwd to; but if not, 1 would wash my hands of the affair, and be freed from tbe consequences.