388 ON PARACENTESIS ABDOMINIS. ingaiid spasms which often arise, when tiie stomadi and dia- phragm suddenly lose the support of the water. You should direct the patient to turn his body over in the bed, and you maythra perform the ojieration with the greatest possible ease. There is no necessity for a bandage on the upper part of tlie abdomen ; jnessure on the sides will be sufficient for the pur- pose of evacuating the water. If you open the skin a little with a lancet, the trocar will enter with more ease; vou inight, indeed, divide the linea alba with the lancet, but thi.-- is not neces.sary. The usual mode of performing the opera- tion, is to place the patient in a high chair, with a pail or tub between his knees, the .surgeon sitting in a higher chair. A sheet is crossed round the abdomen, the ends of which are held by an assistant, who presses the sheet tightly on the ab- domen. The surgeon makes a small incision with the lancet and introduces the trocar tlirough the linea alba, into the part of the cyst or peritoneum only, according as it is ascites or dropsy. The water should be completely evacuated; if any portion is suffered to remain, it will form the nidus, if I mav be allowed the expression, fora future accumulatiou of water. It has been recommended by a respectable surgeon of Chiche.>^- ter, to leave the canula in the wound, for the purpose of ex- citing such a degree of irritation in the peritoneum as mav pre- vent the future accumulation of water. Experience will not at pi'cscnt ju.stify me in advising you to adopt this practice; it has been tried by a person in this tow'u, and such irritation (iroduced by it as led to severeiuflanimatiou of the peritoneum ; and, subsequently, destruction of life. I should observe, how- ever, that in cases where this disease has not been re-produced, marks of inflammation in the abdomen have been felt by the l>atient, for ivvo or three days after the operation. In general the water re-accumulates very shortly after the operation. Persons are said to have undergone the operation for encysted dropsy of the abdomen more than one hundred times : 1 have never met with such a case in my own practice, but there is a tomb-stone in a church-yard at Dartford, in Kent, on wh.icl. it is stated that the lady buried under it underwent tlic opera- tion more than one hundred times. It sometimes happens that ovarian dropsy ceases to be reproduced, after the opera- tion has been rciicatedly performed. This happened in a lady who had undergone the operation two or three times in tlu year, for upwards of twenty years. In general, the disea.'C returns after the o|)eration ; tlicre arc very few examples to the contrary. 1 have known but three cases of encysted drojisy of the abdomen, in which the disease has not returned ; oiu in a young lady of seventeen, another in a medical man, under