ON HARE-LIP. iSi way between the angles of the wound, at the lower part, and the fissure at the upper. As your object should be to cause the edges of the wound to unite as soon as possible, any thing calculated to retard that effect should be studiou.sly avoided ; and, as wax is known to have a tendency to induce suppura- tion and ulceration, it should not be rubbed over the liga- tures. Again the ligatures should not be too delicate, thar is, not too thin ; if they are, the lip might be cut through by them. In performing the operation for hare-lip, there will some- times be considerable bleeding from the superior labial artery. There will not be any necessity for applying a distinct liga- ture to the vessel, because you can easily tie the ligature at the angles of the lip in such a manner as shall compress the ar- tery, and stop the bleeding. It is very improper to put a li- gature on the vessel, as it interferes with union by adhesion : from its producing suppuration, the pus, of course, would form between the edges of the wound. On the fourth day after the operation, the middle ligature may be removed, and on the fifth or sixth, the other. In this respect, I am merelv speaking of what generally may be done ; as regards the time of removal, you must be governed by the state in which you find the parts : if adhesion had not taken place, it would not be proper to take away the ligatures on the fourth or fifth day, and you should wait a short time longer. Instead of silk ligatures, silver pins used to be employed for holding toge- ther the edges of the lip ; these, most properly, have been re- linquished : it is true they answered very well, as far as keep- inir the edges of the integuments in apposition was concerned ; but the great objection to them was, that wdien on the fourth or fifth day you endeavoured to take them out, the difficult) of withdrawing them often occasioned the adhesions which had been formed to be completely torn througli, and your opera- tion so far defeated ; the pain which the e.xtraction of the pins produces is considerable, and the adhesions are frequently broken from the lesistance, struggles, and cries of the ehild. Now, as regards the silk ligatures, you have merely to divide them by a pair of scissors, and the ends can be dis|)laced w ith- out n.siiig the slightest force. When the edges of the lip have been brought together, and the sutures applied, no after-treatment will be necessary, ex- cepting what 1 have already communicated to you ; you must not apply poultices, as they would give rise to the suppurative process instead of the adhesive. Your best plan will be to let the blood remain over tlie wound ; let it clot there, ai'.d not sponge it oft’. This tvill be the best bond of union,