207 ON HERNIA. not agree in this opiaioii. Unless a constant pressure be kept up on the inguinal canal, adhesion of the sides of the sac nill not be produced. Besides, if the person cough in the night, or get out of bed to make water, the hernia is liable to descend, and if this should liappen, though he may have worn the truss steadily for twelve months before, he. must begin to date his cure from the last time at which tlie hernia descends. For tliis reason I recommended tlie contrivance of a tru.ss of this kind, which might be worn equally well night and day, and Air. Ody, the successor of Mr. Salmon, has invented a truss of this description. (The learned lecturer exhibited one of Mr. Ody’s trusses to the class.) This tru.ss answers extremely well in all cases, except one. It sometimes happens that you meet with a hernia which you find it exceedingly difficult to support, and in which none of the varieties of spring trusses will succeed. .Some years ago, when 1 lived in the city, an elderly gentle- man came to me with a hernia which could not be supported by any ot the tru.sses commonly employed. It struck me that a inan named Goldfinch had taken out a patent for a truss, which, as you see, i the learned professor e.xhibited one of the tru.<,ses) is a simple leathern belt, with springs of twisted wire. I setit for one of these trusses, and it succeeded com- pletely in keeping in the abdomen a hernia for which every other truss had been tried unsuccessfully. -V person in Kent, who had himself taken out a patent for a truss, was the subject of hernia. He tried a great variety ot trusses, but could not succeed in keeping his hernia in the' abdomen. .Mr. Edwards sent this per.son to me, and 1 ad- vised him to try one of these trusses, which proved successful. The contrivance and the mode of applying the truss are ex- tremely simple. You place the pad on the hernia, pass the band round the abdomen, and fasten it on the |)ad ; another pad goes round the inside of the thigh, and is fastened on the same pad. By this simple contrivance, the worst hernia, if reducible, may be suppoi ted. \oii will be asked by the patient when you have applied the truss, how long he is to wear it; tell him to wear it at least two years. He will then ask you whether he is likely to be cured at the end of that time ; your answer must be, that this "''111 depend upon his age. A young per.son is generally cured at the end of two year.s, ut It will be advisable that he should continue to wear the rus.'j for three year.s. If tlic person be not youu^y tliere is not much ho[»e of effecting the cure of hernia hy wearing a trus.s.