FRACTURES OF THE NECK OF THIGH-BONE. 609 Langstaflr’s in which the hone is fractured within and with- out the capsular ligament; that without is united by bone, and that within the capsule is united by ligament. I have often seen that appearance in the necks of the thigh bones of old people, supposed to represent the union of a fracture through the cervix by bone. But the truth is, that it is occa- sioned by the absorption of the neck of the bone, in the way f have before described, allowing of the descent of the head of the bone just opposite the root of the trochanter major. Here, gentlemen, is the thigh bone of an aged female (hold- ing it up to the class), in which this change has taken place ; now, where is the neck of this thigh bone ? Can you see it ? No, I am sure you cannot, for it has gone to the tomb of all the Capulets. I must defer speaking of the treatment of these accidents until the next lecture. LECTURE LXXIII. On Fractures of the Neck of the Thigh Bone. Gentlemen, 1 shall now speak of the treatment of fractures of the neck of the thigh bone, within the capsular ligament. Numerous measures have been adopted for the purpose of producing an ossific union of this fracture, both by myself and others, but all to no purpose. Disappointed in the attempt and finding the patient^s health suffer from the necessary con- tinement, what I now direct to be done, is, that a pillow be placed under the limb, throughout the whole length, and an- other be put under the knee, and the limb be in this way extended for ten days or a fortnight, until the inflammation has subsided. Then let the patient get out of bed, and sit on a high chair, to prevent the limb being too much bent, after- wards walk with crutches, bearing gently at first on the foot then increase the pressure more and more, until the ligament iiecomes thickened, and the power of the muscles increased Next, let him u.se a shoe with a high heel, which would very much diminish his lameness. The patients treated in this way, as you have an opportunity of observing, walk after a lew days with crutches, then with a stick, and in a few months require no additional support. But in all cases in which the slightest doubt may be entertained, whether the fracture be within or without the capsule, it is much better to treat them .Ls if they were external to the capsule, and which fractures will unite by bone. Of I' ractures ext(rml lo the Capsule, and when the neck of R R