166 OPERATION FOR POPLITEAL ANEUniSM. whom this experiment had been tried, showed that the artere was quite obliterated.] 'J'he ligature remained on till the adhe- sive process had begun; but before ulceration had taken place, the wmind suppurated, and ultimately closed. The patient died some time after of an affection of the lungs ; and on exa- mination of the body, the artery was found as just de.'^cribed ; but on repeating this mode of operation, it was soon ascer- tained that it produced more irritation than the other. Here is an example (pointing to a specimen), in which the artery ulcerated a short time after the broad ligature had been ap- plied ; it led to great irritation, and the process of ulceration was rendered more speedy ; therefore the operation cannot be performed ; and Mr. Cline, with all the candour for which he is so remarkable, gave it up, as an operation, however feasible, yet one that wms attended with considerable risk. Well, then, it has been proposed, and very ingeniously, by Mr Abernethy, that two ligatures should be applied, and the artery divid^ between them. Now this idea arose from the circumstance, that where the ligatures are applied to arteries after limbs have been removed, no hemorrhage comes on ; but the two cases essentially differ; in the one, where amputation has been per- formed, retraction of the artery, before the application of the ligature, has taken place ; it is already drawn into the cellular tissue, and there is no danger of after hemorrhage from its retracting any more : but in the other, where ligatures are applied on arteries for the cure of aneurisms, as soon as the process of ulceration commences, hemorrhage often ensues from the retraction of the vessel, which had not taken place before. 1 had a case in the other hospital, which was going on well to the fifteenth day, when, as he was Ijingoii the bed, a sudden rush of blood occurred, and had there not been a dresser in the room at the time, he must have died ; ligatures were applied a second time. If an artery is whole when the ligatures are applied, separate it from the cellular membrane sullicieutly to allow of retraction : but if Ihe artery is divided, as after amputation, there will be no occasion, as the vessel has already retracted before the ligature is applied, and this is the reason that there is less danger from hemorrhage when one ligature only is applied, than when there are two. But this operation led to another dangerous consequence—there was the danger of the slipping of tlie knot. Mr. Cline, senior, in the o]ieratinn for popliteal aneurism, put ou two ligatures, and whilst the dresser was sifting by the patient, hemorrhage came on ; the tourniquet was instantly applied, and Mr. Cline sent for : when he came, on looking into the wound, he saw one of the ligatures loose, and floating in the blood. On