ON OPERATION FOR STONE IN THE FEMALE. 339 ing me to make an incision in perinaeo; but he was a timid man, and would not consent to the operation. He lived for .some years after, was occasionally the subject of retention of urine, and died miserably from the eH'ects of the disease on his kidney. He foolishly chose to die a ])ainfiil death, when he might have been easily relieved by a slight operation. I recently had an elderly gentleman under my care who had an enormous number of calculi in his prostate gland. 1 do not know how many I removed from him, and if I did, 1 should scarcely venture to say liow many. A bottle full of calculi taken from this gentleman has been preserved. They were not of course of a large size. 1 did not open the bladder in this case, but having introduced a staffinto the bladder, 1 made an incision in the periuaeum towards the prostate gland, and put- ting my finger into one lobe of it, I found a quarry of calculi. I removed some of them with my finger, and some with a small pair of dressing forceps. I then opened the other lobe, and e.\tracted a number of stones which were imbedded in it. 1 have since had occasion to see this gentleman, and again re- moved a number of calculi from the prostate gland. It may be said that there is a little difliculty in the operation of open- ing the prostate gland, but a man who is acquainted with the anatomy of the parts, and who has studied his profession, will never talk of difficulty ; and if he is not well acquainted with the anatomy of the parts, he ought not to touch the human body as a surgeon. I have heard it observed, that to make an opening into the urethra is a difficult operation—llidiculous 1 A man who has studied his profession, and di.ssected the hu- man body, ought to be flogged if he cannot open the urethra with the greatest ease. 1 shall now proceed to tlie OPF.IiATION FOR StONF. IN THE FeMALE. .And I here am a little afraid of my friend, for 1 shall have occasion to mention some odd stories. (.A laugh.) Calculi form as readily in the female as in the male ; but the female is much less frequently the subject of the operation of lithotomy, in consequence of the shortness of the meatus urinarius, aiid the case with which stones pass away from it. I think the symptoms of stone in the female are more urgent than those in the male. It is horrible to witness the suffering which a woman experiences in consequence of this disease. .‘>!he has a dreadful pain at the extremity of the meatus urinarius, and ill addition to this there is a forcing down of all the lower parts of the pelvis, as if they were about to jiroirude ; a fre- quent disposition to make water ; and all the pains suffered during delivery. There is generally a prolapsus uteri, and a discharge of bloody urine. In addition to these symptoms', z 2