552 ON SCROFULA. have no ear; while their health is neglected, and their con- stitutions are ruined, by the confinement to which they are subjected. The mischiefs thus arising from the false system of education at present pursued in this country, so frequently come before my notice, that I wish what I have said to be generally known, in order that future misery may be pre- vented, and the physical education of our youth be better di- rected. Exercise should not be taken so as to fatigue the body; when children feel themselves wearv, they should rest a little till they recover. When the state of the weather pre- vents them from taking exercise in the open air, they should play in a large airy chamber, and be allowed to dance in the evenings, taking care that the perspiration excited should not be checked by any improper means, as is too often done with thoughtless and giddy children; and, by this means, they will ^^ought up with constitutions invigorated, so as to ward off the attacks of a disease to which they were predisposed. I do not exaggerate when I say, that within this last year 1 have seen five hundred cases of scrofulous aflhetions ; never a day passes over my head without ray seeing a case, and fre- quently three or four. This very day J have seen more ; and, if asked how many were boys among them, I should answer, not one. What is the reason of it ? Why, boys will take exercise, and thus are less liable to the complaint; whilst girls are not allowed, and, if predisposed to it, are almost always attacked by it. The third circumstance to be attended to is air; without good air all other means are of no use. Moist and cold wea- ther is the worst. Tliose who live in marshy climates are subject to the worst form of scrofulous complaints. The state of the atmosphere you should choose is that in which the air is dry and warm ; a very bleak wind is not desirable. The sea air is generally preferred; and when the children are near the sea-side, they should be allowed to play on the beach the greater part of the day. It is a mistake to suppose that the air of the coast in the wet and cold seasons is of any advan- tage to scrofulous children; it is only in warm and dry wea- ther that any benefit wdll be obtained. Extreme cold sup- presses the progress of scrofulous complaints; but, in moist weather, the symptoms return. Unfortunately, I hare expe- rienced in my own family the dreadful ravages of this com- plaint ; although no one would say that 1 was a scrofulous subject (a laugh), I have lost five near relatives of the com- plaint from which I have been spared. Whilst at Brighton once, on a professional visit, I inquired if the number ofscro- fulous children were as great there as in other parts, and 1