ON VIRULENT GONORRHCEA. 46G tlie liquor, potass®, with from three to five grains of the ex- tract of conium, in the mistura camphorata, may be given wnth considerable advantage. This is the plan -which you should pursue during the first week. You may then apply lint dipped in the liquor, plumbi subacetatis dilutus, to the part. Do not use an injection in the first instance, but pur- sue the plan I have pointed out to yon during the first ten nays. At the end of this time, when the inflammation has in a great degree subsided, you may begin by giving the patient the bal- saraum copaib®. An ounce of the balsam may be mixed •with an ounce of the mucilage of acacia, and four ounces of the mistura caniphorata, and a table-spoonful given morning and evening. Having given this mixture for two days, the discharge will be very considerably diminished, and you may- then order an injection of the liquor, plumbi subacetatis dilu- tus. This is the mode, gentlemen, in which gonorrhoea, as far as I know, is to be cured in the safest and most expedi- tious manner. In the third week 1 continue to give the balsa- mum copaib® ; and the best injection which can then be em- ployed, is the liquor, plumbi subacetatis dilutus, with the sul- phate of zinc. ]^. Sulphatis zinei, gr.vj. Liq. plumbi subaeet. diluti, giv. By this plan you will generally succeed in curing a gonor- rhoea safely and expeditiously. If, instead of using an injec- tion, you sufier the discharge to run on, week after week, you will be almost sure to lay the foundation of stricture. If a patient apply to you for a second or third clap, you will not proceed in this way, but give him the balsam of capivi immediately, which will, in general, put a speedy stop to the discharge. The inflammation of a second dap is com- paratively slight, and, in general, it will only be neces^- to give the balsam copaib® for a week, and then begin with tlie injection of the liquor, plumbi subacetatis dilutus, and the sulphate of zinc. In a first clap it is better to begin w ith the liquor, plumbi subacetatis dilutus in the first insumcc, because this is less irritating, and afterwards to use it in combina- tion with the sulphate of zinc. The treatment which is ne- cessary to subdue inflammation in a first clap is, in general, entirely unnecessary in subsequent claps. Various otlier in- jections arc employed in the treatment of gonorrhota ; half a grain of the sulphate of copper in an ounce of rose water is a powerful injection ; a solution of the oxymuriate of mercury makes a very irritating injection, if of any strength, and should not be resorted to in the first instance. It is used in the proportion of one grain to twelve ounces of distilled wa-