DISLOCATIONS OF THE THIGH BONE. 601 to the physiologist and to the surgeon to observe the efforts set up by nature for the restoration of lost or injured parts j and in no instance is this more conspicuous than in disloca- tions of the thigh bone, which have remained long unre- duced. Here, gentlemen, are some beautiful specimens (re- feiTing to what were on the table), in which you may see the accommodation of the head of the bone to the surface with which it has been brought into contact; here are new capsu- lar ligaments, produced from condensations of cellular tissue ; here are new acetahula, formed by the pressure of the head of the bones, causing a partial absorption of the bones on which they rest, assisted also by the deposit of matter in the surrounding parts, resembling cartilage. In this preparation, particularly, which is a dislocation into the foramen ovale, you see the obturator e.\ternus completely absorbed, as well as the ligament of the foramen ovale, and its place occupied by a deposit of ossific matter. Bone is also deposited around the foramen, so as to form a deep socket, in which the head of the thigh bone is enclosed, and surrounding its neck so closely, that you could not remove the bone without breaking the edges of its. new socket; this is extremely smooth on its inner surface, and allows of very extensive motion of the jomt, which appeared to be limited only by the action of the muscles. The cartilage on the head of the bone remained, and the shape of the head itself very little altered ; whilst the original acetabulum was nearly half filled by bone, so that it could not have received the head of the thigh bone, even if it had been attempted to be returned into its former situation. These preparations show the extreme folly of attempting to reduce a dislocation of the thigh after a certain time has been allowed to elapse ; and they also show that it is better to leave such cases to the degree of reparation which nature will ulti- mately produce. I shall now speak of the dislocation backwards, or into the ischialic notch. The situation of this notch, with respect to the acetabu- lum in the natural position of the pelvis, you should accu- rately hear in mind, recollecting that it is placed behind the acetabulum, but, at the same time, above its level. And it strikes me, that it is the want of attention to this circum- siance that has led some surgeons to describe this dislocation is having occurred downwards and backwards; they have done this from viewing the os innominatum detached from the trunk, and not considered its oblicjuity when connected with It. When the head of the bone, therefore, is thrown into this space, it is placed backwards and upwards with re-