ON CARBUNCLE. II toes—(a laugh); for life be ng almost out, very little will prove a eomplete extinguisher. A poultice, composed of port wine and linseed meal, will generally be found the best local application : and your iu- ternal remedy should consist of opium combined with am- monia. You must not expect tliat these cases will always recover. 1 have known, however, a single toe, a whole set, and even the entire foot, to slougli, and yet the patient do well. In these cases you must never amputate—whether tliere be healthy granulations or not, do not amputate ; for as surely as you do, mortitication of the stump will supervene. 'I'he next subject of which 1 shall speak is Carbuncle. Of this I shall have but little to say, as many of the fore- going observations are equally applicable here. When carbuncle is about to take place in any part, it is gene- rally preceded by pain, and at first a swelling of considerable hardness ; this is occasioned by the adhesive inflammation ; the surface of the tumour then assumes a livid redness and a spongy soft feel; little ulcers now form in the skin, which, from their number, give it a sieve-like appearance, so nume- rous are the orifices : from these a white discharge passes— this fluid resembles water and flour mixed together : and a man who has seen much of carbuncle, knows the nature of the disease instantly upon seeing the discharge. When the little openings are all formed into one, the dead cellular mem- brane begins to escape, for it previously cannot do so, from the smallness of the apertures. In gangrene of the extremities there is not this mechanical obstruction to the sloughing of the dead part. And though gangrene is generally dilficult to cure, yet carbuncle usually does well, except when situated on the head or neck. Though persons will recover from carbuncles (T an enormous size upon the hack, yet very small ones on the head or neck will often destroy life ; indeed I never saw a patient who recovered from carbuncle upon the head; in these cases there is effusion between the tunica arachnoides and pia mater. The inliammaiion which attends fistula in ano will sometiines destroy the cellular membrane of the neighbouring parts, thereby occasioning an enormous quantity of the nates to slough, and yet the patient shall do well. Treatment.peculiar treatment of carbuncle consists in h'aking upon the surface of the swelling, at an early period of the di.sease, a large crucial incision, for the pnriiose of attoidingthe deadened jmrts an opportunity of escaping ; then apply the port wine poultice, and give the patient such sliniu- ants as will tend to incrca.se the vigour of bis constitution.