430 ON NASAL POLYPI. therefore to give opium in'such quantities as shall have the effect of lessening the dreadful pain; by this means you smooth the path to death, and 1 lament being compelled to state, that if you succeed in this, you will achieve all that medicine can* accomplish. The fourth and la.st species 1 have to describe to you is the Fungoid Nasal Polypus. There is a case of this kind at present iu the other hospital. The first case of this description that I saw was iu a youns gentleman seventeen years of age ; the particulars I will briefly mention to you. The father of this youth called at my house with him, for the purpose of inquiring what was to be done. At the time I saw him, there was a bleeding from the part, and this I understood from the father frequently happen- ed. The parent asked me if 1 would remove the tumour, and I told him yes. This I did by ligature, but much sooner than 1 expected ; for as soon as it was applied, the tumour dropped into my hand, the silk having completely cut it through. There was slight hemorrhage afterwards, which was easilv subdued by plugging the nostril with lint. Shortly after the operation he left London for Portsmouth. The disease soon re- turned, and was again lemoved by Mr. Copland Hutchin- son. Subsequently to this it re-appeared, and ultimatelv the patient was destroyed. After his death, the body was exa- mined by Dr. Mac Arthur, and he found that the tumour had very extensive attachments; that its base was extremely broad and diffused. Now I had previously thought that the’di.«ease had been confined to a single spot, or 1 certainly should not have attempted its removal. I therefore recommend you not to extract these polypi by the forceps : excise them with scis- sors, or destroy them by ligature ; their extensive adhesions will, in either case, render the operation unavailing and in- effectual ; and what is still worse, will do injury by exciting irritation, whereby the disease will become aggrarated. In such cases I shall in future try what effect will be produced by the muriate of antimony. But the disease may extend so tar up the nares as to affect some other part of .‘<till greater im- portance than the place where it originated—thus the cribri- form plate of the ethmoid bone may become destroyed, and afterwards the brain itself partake of its malignant influence. Well, though there can be no hope of the disea.scd jierson ever getting cured in such ca,ses as these, yet it may happen that by judicious treatment, the inconvenience of the malady, to gctiier with the deformity it occasions, may be materialiy di- minished ; but to produce a cure under such untoward cir- cumstances. would be impossible.