ON HERNIA, 199 first ? Whv, the fascia transversalis, wliicli suiTomicls the sper- matic cord just as it passes from the abdomen ; and as the cord takes its course throuah the inguinal canal, a covering is given off which descends on the cord itself. The inguinal canal begins at the point where the spermatic cord leaves the abdo- ineii, and terminates at the lower abdominal ring ; it is about two inches in length, and contains the cord ; it is hounded anteriorly by the tendon of the external oblique, fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, and posteriorly by the fascia transversalis. The spermatic cord descends then ob- liquely through this canal, and, just as it passes through the lower abdominal ring, it receives a covering from the edge of the external ohlicine, called the fascia of the cord. Camper has published some excellent plates showing this fascia, and how much it is thickened in hernia ; well, gentle- men, the spermatic cord will not make any dili'erence to you in this hernia ; now let me just remind you that oblique ingui- nal hernia begins to protrude half way between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the symphisis pubis ; in the spot directly anterior to the iliac artery, about an inch and a half from the lower abdominal ring, opposite to the ten- dons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, where it will be important to bear in mind that stricture most fre- quently occurs : and not at the abdominal ring, as some sur- geons have .said ; it is rare for it to be in this last place : in old hernia the seat of the stricture may be at this part; but ask all those who have operated much for hernia, where the seat of hernia is usually situated, and they wall tell you, not at the abdominal ring, but where 1 have just mentioned, and that before you can reach the stricture you have to [uit your finaer deep down, an inch or more. Now, when the hernia has protruded through the fascia transversalis, how are the spermatic and epigastric arteries si- tuated with respect to it? The epigastric artery is always on the inner side ot the hernial sac; liere is a specimen (pointing to one on the table;, in which its course is distinctly shown ; in the operation, then, there would be no danger of wounding this vessel, unless you cut itiwards. Divide the stricture di- rectly itpw/irrh', ov upwards and outwards, and you will be quite safe from the epigastric artery. How is the spermatic artery .situated at the origin of the hernial sac ? The hernia is above, and this vessel could only be wounded by cutting downwards ; there is no danger, in operating lor hernia, of wounding the spermatic artery, thei’c- fore banish it frmn your minds; the epigastric is the only one in danger, and that only if you ctit inwards. After the hernia