ON ULCERS. 81 tJge is whitisli in colour, and adapts itself to the surface. In tills manner the granulations springing from the surrounding skin are very nicely adapted to the circumference of the sore, '^o that the granulations of the edge unite with those on the surface. When, therefore, you see the surface of an ulcer red, the granulations equal, the surface rising a little above the edge, the discharge of matter healthy, and the edge of the sore nicely adapted to the surface, you will say that this ulcer is in a healthy state. In order to produce this state of the sore, the best practice which you can generally pursue is to apply poultices and plasters. When you open an abscess, or when a wound is produced which cannot be healed by the adhesive process, the best ap- plication is a poultice, tor the purpose of c.xciting the growth ot granulations. This poultice must not be too warm ; it should be pntly stimulating, so as not to repress the growth of granulations, but to form a suit bed to which they may spring, rile effect of the poultice is, by its warmth and moisture, to encourage such a degree of action as may pro- mote the rising ot the granulations. When the granulations have risen to the edge of the sore, then the practice must be altered ; and the object is to adapt the granulations of the edge to those ot the surface. For this purpose adhesive jilaster or unctuous substances are employed, with a view of pressing down the granulations of the edge of the sore on those of the suiface, so as to make them unite. These are the principles of treatment in the cure of ulcers. We tirst encourage the growth ot granulations by the application of the gentle stimulus of poultices, and when the granulations have risen to the edge of the surrounding skin, we press down the granulations of the edge on those of the surlace, either by the application of ad- he.>ive plasters, or of unctuous substances. The more unctu- ous such substances arc tbe bettei-; for the vessels will have a creater facility in .shooting towards the centre, and thegraiiu- latioii.s embedded in this unctuous matter will more readily extend along the surface of the sore. ’ .Snell are the principles of treatment applicable to ulcers in ttic hea.fhy state; we .shall now proceed to consider the im- pediments to the healing process which frequently occur, and which i-er.dera ditferent mode of treatment necessary. 1 he first cireiinistance which renders the cure of ulcers ditli- cult, IS the too prominent state of the granulations producing what IS vulgarly called proud tlesli. In this state, the graiiu- latioris ri.<ing considerably above the edge of the surrounding skin, are iiecc.'sarily [ireveiited from uniting with those of the surlace. In order to luevent the contimiaiice of this state of o