ON HERNIA. 213 llitle—if it be intestinal hernia, then a considerable portion will be present. The omentum undergoes a considerable change in its colour, being much darker than natural, owing to its vessels being filled by coagulated blood—it will likewise have an offensive smell, and if gangrenous, the smell will be highly putrefactive—its texture also be- comes very much altered, not being so solid as before death, having a crackling feel, as if it contained water or air, and easily breaking by the employment of tlie slightest force. Behind the omentum will be seen the intestine (if both are in thesacj, having upon its surface a peel of adhesive matter; therefore, before you touch the intestine, you come to a layer of adhesive matter, with the nature of which you must all of you by this time be well acquainted—this adhesive matter; glues together such portions of the intestine as happen to be in contact. The intestine will be found of a very dark colour, if it be not gangrenous, for that is not the character of gan- grene, and when you are operating for strangulated hernia, if you should find the intestine as dark as red wdne, still you would be justified in returning it into the abdomen, for wlien it is gangrenous, its appeartmce is very different, having upon its surface a number of green spots—not green at every part, but green spots interspersed here and there over the whole surface. Persons, therefore, acquainted with the diagnosis of this disease look for small green spots, which readily yield and give way to pressure by the finger. The very dark intestine is not in a gangrenous state, but in a different condition. In common inflammation of an intestine, then, its appearjince is florid— but not .so in inflammation of a strangulated intestine contained in a hernial sac ; here it is rendered exceedingly dark, owing to the interruption of the return of blood occasioned by the stricture. The general character of parts in a gangrenous state is, their being inelastic, and readily yielding to pressure. Well, then, continuing the examination—as soon as you cut into the cavity of the abdomen there will burst forth a considerable quantity ot ga.s, and the intestines within the abdomen, wher- ever they are found in contact, will be seen having upon them a red line, which red line will only be perceptible in those si- tuations where the different convolutions touch each other; such, then, are the appearances discovered upon dissection of those who (lie of strangulated hernia. The next circumstance to look for is the seat of stricture ; this is sometimes found at the abdominal ring, but not generally, except in old hernia;. ^ It IS (|uite an eii(..neoHS o|)inion to suppose that the stricture IS usually situated ;it the ring ; even the ai)prentices of these