ON COMPOUND FRACTURES. 627 Hill be the consequeuce, it is attended with much less incon- venience in this position than in any other. If the bones be. very much comminuted and the wound large, all the detached portions of bone should be removed; but in old people, when much injury is done, there is often not sufficient strength to support tiie suppur:itive process, and amputation should be recommended. The edges of the wound should be kept together by placing a piece of lint dipped in blood over them, and a bandage lightly applied, wetted with spirits of wine and water. Even if it should suppurate, it will not be neces- sarv to amputate, unless any thing particular should after- wards happen. A compound fracture extending into the wrist joint is a very serious accident when the radius is much comminuted, but it is an injury which does very well wlien the radius is broken without being much shattered. 1 saw a case of this injury in a patient in the country, where the man met vvith the accident by falling upon the back of his hand, and the ulna protruded an inch and a half through the integuments ; the bone was immediately reduced and bandaged lightly; the wound healed by the adhesive process, and the man recovered the perfect use of his limb. I recollect another case of the same kind, which came under the care of Mr. Chandler, in the other hospital; I now forget in what manner the accident happened, but the ulna projected through the integuments at the back of the carpus, and a compound fracture of the ra- dius, with great comminution of the bone, was produced. The ulna was first replaced, but immediately resumed its dis- located position on the back of the wrist, although it did not again protrude through the skin. The hand and fore-arm were placed in a poultice, and were ordered to be fomented twice in the day. A copious suppuration ensued, attended with violent constitutional irritation ; and Mr. Chandler, in order to save the patient’s life, after a lapse of several weeks, ampu- tated the limb. In a similar case, it would be proper, when torn pieces of hone can be felt at the extreniitie.s of the radius, that the wound should be enlarged for their removal; and instead of fomentations and poultices being used, that the wrist should be surrounded by lint dipped in the blood, and a roller loosely applied. The arm should be supported on a splint, so as to keep it perfectly free from motion ; evaporating lotions should be applied ; and the lin)b should not be disturbed unless the jjatient has symptoms of a suppurative process, when a small opening should be made in the bandage, to iillow of the e.scape of pus, but still the bandages should be suffered to