129 ON FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. you must not trephine, neither in compound fracture ; but you must, by the application of adhesive plaster, endea- vour to lieal the wound in the scalp as quickly as possible. Let your constitutional treatment be that of depletion, by means of blood-letting and purgatives. This plan often re- moves symptoms of concussion, and even extravasation, which accompany these fractures ; and often a few hours will show you that the application of the trephine, which you at first might have thought indispensable, is wholly unnecessary. It is wrong, therefore, to be too much in a hurry in these ac- cidents ; for irreparable mischief might arise from your con- verting a fracture, which was simple, into one that is com- pound Wait, then, gentlemen, for a while, before you ope- rate in such cases, for the purpose of seeing what effects may be produced by bleeding and purgatives. It not unfreqnently happens in these hospitals, upon persons being brought in who have received injuries of the head, that the dresser in at- tendance will bleed them immediately after their admission, and at the same time send off for the surgeon ; before whose arrival, however, the good effects of loss of blood are appa- rent, and the symptoms of concussion, and even of extrava- sation, have often disappeared. This shows how necessary it is that you should not be too precipitate. If you act pru- dently, therefore, in these accidents, you will try bleeding and purgatives before you operate ; and whether you do or not, the depletion will prove of the greatest possible advan- tage in preventing inflammation, and from which, if not kept within bounds, arises the principal danger. The next subject to which 1 shall direct your attention is Fracture of the Skull with Depression. I will tell you what you ought to do in such cases, and then leave you to act for yourselves. In order to ascertain whether the symptoms arising from depression would come on imme- diately after the accident, I tried the following experiment;— A gentleman having brought me a large dog, I applied the trephine to his cranium, and took out a portion of tlie bone. I then, with the handle of a knife, separated the dura mater from the hone; for I found that I could make no im|)ression on the brain until I had done so, and then pressed upon it with my finger. At first the animal did not seem to feel it; but upon pressing more dee[)ly, it produced pain and irritation, and he endeavoured to avoid us. Upon still increasing the [iressurc, he became comatose, and fell. I kept him in that state for five or six minutes, when, upon removing my finger, he got up, turned round two or three times from giddinesss, and walked away, apparently little worse for the operation. A' K