ON INFLAMMATION. lO lowed by an aperient in the morning, else its action will be confined to the liver. Inflammation. The next subject is inflammation. Inflammation is the means by which local injuries are repaired, and it may be therefore considered as the restorative principle. There are four signs that commonly attend it, viz. redness, pain, in- creased heat, and swelling. First. Redness. This arises from an increase of the red particles of blood in the part, and may be distinctly seen when the inflammation is superficial, as in inflammation of the con- junctiva of the eye. Second. Increased Sensibility, which is owing to distention of the nerves by the greater quantity of blood determined to them. Parts naturally little sensihle are ([iiite the reverse when in a state of inflammation. 1 was called a short time since to a case where it was requisite to saw off a small piece of the tibia. During the operation I opened a cavity, in which was a small piece of bone embedded in granulations ; the lat- ter were extremely sensitive ; extract of belladonna was ap- plied, which gave instant ease. Bones, though nearly desti- tute of sensation in their healthy state, are sometimes ex- tremely sensitive when inflamed. Third. Increased Ileal. Mr. Hunter denied that this ex- isted. He made an incision two inches deep into the gluteal muscles of an ass, and into the wound he introduced a tin canula, one inch and a half long, so that there was half an inch of wound below the canula; he then passed a plug of wood through the canula, to the bottom of the wound, and confined it there, in order to prevent an union of the muscles. Thi.s was on a Wednesday. Immediately after the wound was made, a thermometer was introduced into it, and the mercury rose to lOO'", e.xactly as another did at the same time which had been jiasscd into the vagina. On the next morning the plug was taken out, and the ball of the thermometer intro- duced to the bottom of the wound ; the mercury rose to 100° ■ the plug was then again returned, and secured as before. In the evening the experiment was repeated with the .same result. On Friday morning the thermometer, when introduced, rose to 99° only ; and in the evening it rose to 101°. On Satur- day morning, when introduced again, the mercury reached 99°; in the evening 100°. .Mr. Hunter al.so introduced a thermometer into the opening made during the iqiertition for hydrocele, and it rose to 101° ; alter twenty-four hours it was no more than 100 . 1 hough no incretise of heat is mani- fested in internal inflammation, yet when it occur.s on thcsui -