ON SYPHILIS AND THE USE OF MERCURY. 543 gcon at the west end of the town, about eight or ten years ago, very laudably tried numerous interesting experiments for the purpose of attempting to cure the venereal disease ; also with a view to ascertain what number of persons would be affected by secondary symptoms if the mercury was not employed. Air. Rose found that the primary symptoms of syphilis could be readily cured without the aid of mercury; and that out of every three patients so treated, one was afflicted with syphi- litic secondary symptoms. Now, gentlemen, 1 saw Mr. Rose upon the subject; he is a very sensible candid man, and upon whose experiments the utmost reliance may be placed ; another surgeon says, that two out of every nine have secondary symptoms, making one out of every four and a half. 1 rely, however, upon the statement made by Mr. Rose. If secondary symptoms did present themselves, they were treated without raercurv, and would disappear, would come again, and again disappear.' Still, not being satisfied with this, I said to Mr. Rose, “ Now, sir, if a gentleman were to come under your care, what w'ould you do—would you give him mercury or not ?” Mr. Rose is not like some men, so wedded to his system as to have his mind fettered by prejudice, and he with much sense replied, that he should certainly give the patient mercury ; and, gen- tlemen, 1 advise you to do the same. I will not say that those persons are dishonest who recommend contrary prac- tice ; but, if they had seen what I have, I am sure they would still place their reliance in the use of mercury. Some men are so prejudiced in favour of particular remedies, that the strongest possible facts which can be brought forward in opposition to their opinions, are not capable of producing the slightest alteration, or even a transient impression of their error. Now for a case in point : A gentleman went to a sur- geon in the month of January, showed him a sore upon his penis, and asked him what it was ; “ Why, chancre,” said the surgeon, “ you must take sarsaparilla.” He w'ent to him again in February, telling him that it appeared again, and, oti asking the surgeon what he was to do, the surgeon replied, “ You must take .sarsaparilla.” He repeated his visit in ■March, stating that, although his sore had vanished for a time, yet it it had again appeared in the same situation. “ VV'ell,” said the surgeon, “ you must take sarsaparilla.” In June the patient repeated his visit, having, at the time, a ve- nereal sore throat, together with a copper-coloured eruption OH the skin, and he said to the doctor, “ What am 1 to do now “ Take sarsaparilla the use of which caused the disappearance of the secondary symptoms ; but, in the fol-