ON CALCULI IN THE URETHRA. 337 sw as to reach the anterior extremity of tlie stone ; yon should then tie the bougie to the penis, so that the urine may not escape by the side, and let it remain for a considerable time in the urethra. 'The patient will have an urgent desire to make water, but you must desire him not to attempt to pass his urine until you give him permission to do so. When the urgency to make water is so extreme, that the patient can no longer endure it, untie the bougie from the ])enis ; and as soon as it is withdrawn the urine accumulated behind the stone will gush forward, and the stone will generally ]>ass into the vessel into which the patient discharges his urine. In this way you will generally succeed in getting rid of exti aneous bodies from that part of the urethra. I have known a bougie remain four hours in the, urethra, before the distress arising from the ac- cumulation of urine was suflicient to justify the propriety of withdrawing it. 'Tlie second situation in which stones are found in the urethra is opjiosite the scrotum. In this situation they sometimes prove fatal. 'There is a preparation on the table taken fr{]iu a child, which died from this cause : the scro- tum in this case was extremely enlarged and reddened : the perineum was also intlamcd, and gangrene took ])lace, which led to the destruction of life. When tlie stone is lodged oppo- ■site the scrotum, there is danger of the urethra giving way, and the urine escaping into the cellular tissue. When yoii have ascertained by the probe that the stone is in this situation, you must endeavour to push it about an inch behind the scrotum, where you should make your incision. It is wrong to make the incision through the scrotum it.self, if you can avoid it; but if you are obliged to do so, in consequence of your being unable to push back the stone, make the opening as large as possible, "O that the water may pass with great freedom through the cellular tissue, and escape externally. The third situation in which stones are lodged in the urethia is opposite the framum, where it will be necessary to adopt a ditl'erent plan. I Inivr Told you that you can very rarely succeed in extracting them with the forceps ; what you must do is to curve the end of ;i lu-ohe as much as possible; pass it down the urethra beyond the stone ; and then withdiawing it, yon will generally succeed in extracting the stone. 'The reason why you cannot extract it with the forceps is, that when you try to bring the forceps for- ward , you pull the urethra back on the stone, and, conse(|uently, you do not move the stone itself. I once had a ptiir of foi ceps constructed similar to those used in midwifery, of which H e two blades were separately introduced inUr the urethra, and atterwards locked externally. 'The probe, however, is most easily introduced ; if there siiould begicat resistance, you may