ON FISTULA IN ANO. 392 patient has excruciatinc: pain in the evacuation of liis faece», flreadful tenesmus, and very often retention of urine, the pressure of the matter preventing the passage of the urine through the urethra. The causes of this disea.=e are various; it sometimes arises from a costive state of body ; frequently trom the pre.ssure of hardened faeces pas.siug' through the intestines. It sometimes arises from absolutely op[KJsite causes ; thus, fistula in ano is frequently the consequence of long-continued diarrhoea, producing irritation in the mucous membrane, which extends to the cellular tissue. It is often the result of some distant complaint; as disease of the liver, or derangement of the alimentary canal, producing an accu- mulation of blood in the mesenteric vessels, and a congestion which is determined to the anus. Persons who lead a seden- tary life, take little exercise, and feed highly, are particularlv subject to this disease. It is often the result of disease of the chest, and veiy commonly occurs at the close of phthisis pul- monalis. It is necessary, therefore, to inquire, whether the patient labours under cough, dyspnoea, and whether his con- stitution is greatly impaired. No operation will avail without attention to the state of distant parts, and this is the reason why surgeons have so often lost their reputation bv performing an operation for this complaint at an improper time. You may divide the sinus, but if the fistula depends on a disordered state of distant parts, the fistula will never heal without at- tention to the constitution of the patient. There is consider- able variety in the size and complication of fistulm ; here is a preparation in which the sinus is confined to one side of the gut; there is another in which the gut is half surrounded, and another in which the disease completely encircles the in- testine. When there, is an opening on each side, it is best to perform the operation first on one side, and then on the other. Here is a preparation taken from a patient who died of this dis- ease, which very rarely happens; the intestines and bladder are surrounded by the fistula; the rectum also is surrounded by sinuses, very high up. The fistula passed to the groin, and there discharged itself; this is the most complicated case of fistula I have ever seen. The fistula sometimes e.xtends to the nates, and burrows to a great distance behind the glutei mus- cles. Fistula; are called blind when the matter has made its way into the rectum, without making an opening exteniallv; they are extremely difficult to treat. The medical treatment of fistulae in ano, will depend on their cause ; if they arise from costivencss, 1 need not point out to you the remedies to which you should have recourse ; if from disease of the liver, give calomel and saline purges ; if they arise from di.scase of