ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 114 The nerves are freely distributed to eveiypart of thehunia* frame, and are the means by which all voluntary and involun- tary motions are maintained. It is imjxi.ssible that a mere de- scription of the nervous system, iti this place, however minute it miftht be, could make you sufficiently acquainted with it« anatomy ; for this can only be obtained by the most cartful and attentive c.xaraination of the dead body; It i.s neces.'ary, however, for you, at this moment, to bear in mind, that an immediate communication exists between the stomach and brain, by means of the eighth pair of nerves, or par vagum ,- for unless YOU do this it is probable that an important symp- tom, which I shall presently mention, attendant on injuries of the brain, w’ill be but imperfectly understood. 'Ihere is also another circumstance connected with the brain, to which I wish particularly to direct your attention, viz., its being the veliicle of the mind ; or, rather, I might say, the medium through which the mind is communicated. The influence ot the brain on the mind, and vice versd, will be amply demon- strated to you as I proceed. Now, when the brain receives an injury, the symptoms stated to he the resuit of that injury are, general loss of sense and volition, if the injury be considerable ; but if not so severe, some portion of sense and volition will remain ; for example, when you are called to the bed-side of a person thus situated, YOU find him to be what is termed comatose. If you speak 'sharply to him, he becomes roused for the moment, mumbles some brief answer to you, again lays down, and relapses into his former sleepy state : thus you observe partial mental tacul- ties and volition still remain. This state you should minutelv note as it will greatly assist you in your after diagnosis ; and you must be upon your guard that you are not deceived here ; for a man in this condition verv much resembles one in a state of intoxication ; and this similitude often proves exceedingly harassing to the surgeon. He is probably sent for to a person who, it is stated, has received a severe injury ot the head. He finds him with a very severe laceration of the scalp, together with stupor, and sometimes even stertorous breathing. Not knowing that the individual was intoxicated at the time ot re- ceiving the injury, the surgeon attiibute.s the above symptoms to concussion or compressioa, when, alter a tew hours, the person recovcr.s from his drunken lit, and it becomes ap- parent tliat he received no other mischief than a wound in ^**'in addition to loss.of sense and motion, the faeces iiivolim- tarilv nass olT, from the si.hineter ani losing its retentive power through the sympathetic influence of the great sympa-