ON HERNIA. known to occur occasionally. I cannot state exactly the pro- portion of cases of oblique to those of direct inguinal hernia. There is at this time, in the other hospital, a patient with fracture of the thigh-bone, who has also direct inguinal hernia. Vou will be asked liovv you distinguish direct from oblique inguinal hernia ; your answer should be, that they are dis- tinguished by the two following circumstances ;—In the first place, tracing the spermatic cord, you will find that in direct inguinal hernia, the hernia is behind the spermatic cord, whereas in oblique inguinal hernia the spermatic cord is be- hind the hernia. Secondli/, when you trace the mouth of the hernial sac, in oblique hernia, you find it above the abdomi- nal ring, tow’ards the spine of the ilium ; whereas in direct hernia there is rather an inclination inwards, towards the umbilicus, so that it passes in a direction from without to- wards the pubes ; from above downwards, with a slight obli- quitj' outwards. These are two points wliich can only be dis- tinguished by those who have frequently ob.served the disease in the living subject, and who have also had frequent opportu- nities of examining, in the disseeting-rootn, the bodies of those who have died under the disease. Hearing these point# in your minds, you will be able to form correct general princi- ples by which you may be guided in performing the operation for strangulated inguinal hernia. The cause of direct inguinal hernia is generally some great exertion of the lower part of the abdominal muscles. It hap- pens most frequently in patients vvho are the subjects of stric- ture. The greatest number of herniae I have ever seen in one patient amounted to five. This man, who had a very bad stricture, had three herniae on one side, and two on the other; one on the inner side of the epigastric artery, one on the inner side of the umbilical, two on the op|)osite side of the epigas- tric, and another on the opposite side of the umbilical artery. Ihis species of hernia arises more frequently from the efforts made to expel the urine in cases of stricture, than from any other cause. Direct hernia may be truly called a rupture ; whenever a tear of the parts takes place, direct, and not ob- lique inguinal hernia is produced : 1 have never seen an oblique hernia produced by a blow on the abdomen. When the direct hernia is reducilile, you should apply the truss not soa.s to press upon the pubes, for this will give pain, but n|)on the parts a little above the abdominal ring. Yon sbonld not pre.ss upon the whole of the inguinal canal, as in the case of obln|ue hernia ; but the truss should be so applied as lo make ^ picssnre bear towards the centre of the abdominal ring. When a direct inguinal hernia is strangulated, the patient is