450 ON POISONS. A quantity of moist tobacco is placed between two rollers and very strongly pressed, so that the juice exudes; and, in this vvay, an extract of tobacco is produced of the very strong- est kind.’ It is used for the purpose of de.stroying insects, and it is also employed in eruptive complaints of sheep and other animals. The woman put this preparation on the head of the bov, at one o’clock in the afternoon : very soon after he became pale, and exceedingly sick. Feeling that purging was coming on, be went to a necessary at the back of the house, where he staid so long that his mother went to look after him, and found him with his clothes unbuttoned, sitting in an almost insensible state, with his head resting on his .shoulder. He had had a copious evacuation into his clothes; he was carried up stairs, put to bed, and, at four in the afternoon he died. A surgeon in the neighbourhood hearing of these circumstan- ces, communicated them to me. I attended for the purpose of examining the body, and did not find any appearance of disease. There was a little effusion of fluid between the .scalp and the bone, but tione in the membranes or ventricles of the brain. If tobacco be introduced in any quantity into the sto- mach of auimals, it kills them very quickly, by putting a stop to the action of the heart. The oil produced from tobacco, by burning it, is highly jioisonous ; it destroys if administered in very small quantities. Witli respect to its introduction by smoking, I have never known an instance of death being pro^ duced by it in this way. Ojiiuin, administered in considerable quantities, destrovs life by producing apoplectic symptoms. The first case of the destruction of life by opium, which I had an opportunity of witnessing, was one in which the person was suspected of having committed a murder. He was seen at a great distance from the spot where ihe murder was committed, veiy shortly after the crime was perpetrated, but it appeared he had ridden with extraordinary speed ; his horse was excessively heated. It was proved that he had passed through a particular gate, soon after the murder, and other strong circumstances of sus- picion concurred so as to leave little doubt of liis guilt. Find- ing that he was likely to be brought to trial on this ch.arce, he determined to destroy himself, and for that purjtose he took a quantity of solid opium. 'I'he quantity which he took w'as not exactly ascertained. .'M twelve o’clock in the day hi had apoplectic stertor; on putting a candle to his eye, the pupil did not contract, and he was in a state of insensiliiiity. Attetnpts were made to produce vomitit)g without .-ncccss. and at nitie o’clock on the following morning he did. <'r.