0^^ COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. 125 tion. Xow, gentlemen, when the brain is compressed by estravasated blood, the symptoms do not directly occur ; the person at the time of the injury is often stunned ; recovers himself, and a short time after falls into a comatose state, and then the apoplectic stertor begins. 1 vvill relate to you a case to illustrate this : A child was playing on a table, from which it fell on a stone floor, and received a severe blow on the head, which caused compression of the brain ; the child ap- peared to recover at four in the afternoon, the time at which the accident occurred being one ; pain still continued in the head, the child cried considerably ; it went to bed about two hours before its usual time; during the night, the servant was awoke by the apoplectic stertor of the child, which prevented her from sleeping; when she moved it, the child was not roused ; she discovered that it was ill, alarmed the family, and at eight in the morning it died : it was found after death, that a considerable quantity of blood was extravasated in the brain. The son of a most respectable merchant of the city was driving to his country house at ashort distance from town, in a one-horse chaise, when he was thrown out, and ])itche(l with his head to the ground ; he was stunned by the fall; he recovered a little, but looked very pale ; he said that he was much hurt; a friend who was w’ith him drove him home ; in the evening he felt very heavy, laying the head on his hand ; symptoms of compression of tlie brain came on ; ten p.m., the family was alarmed ; medical assistance called, but at two the following morning he died, all efforts to save him being un- availing. Extravasation with concussion renders the case of a different nature; then the symptoms of concussion, such as I described to you on a former evening, come on first, and the apoplectic .stertors and other symptoms of compression succeed. Now for a case ; A gentleman was at a party with some friends. He drank freely of wine, and became inebriated. His home was some di.stauce from the place at which he was spending the evening ; and his friends seeing that he would he c.xposed to great risk, wished him to stop, hut he could not be pre- vailed on. He mounted his horse ; and on the way was thrown off. He returned home ; fell into a comatose state ; symptoms of concussion first came on, loss of voluntary mo- tion, at first no a|)pearance of e.xtravasation of blood was pre- sent ; two, the following morning, a|)oplectic stertor came on, and at eleven he died. In this case, symptoms of concussion came on first, and those of compression afterwards. Blood was found extravasated in the braiti, as might be expected. It