INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 6 Reading will be found extremely useful, when it is select; but I would not recommend works to young students which lay down systems for their guidance ; such a plan of reading is bad. It is better to read the detached works on particular diseases, lo the pupils generally, but more particularly to those who are allowed to pass in this metropolis but one" or two seasons in attending the different hospitals, I strongly re- commend punctuality in their attendance at lectures, and at the dissections and hospital practice. In St. Thomas’s Hos- pital alone, you have an opportunity of seeing above 800 in- door, and a vast number of out-door patients, whose ca.ses are equally useful as interesting to students. 1 caution the pupils from speaking unguardedly before the patients : it can do no good to let them know what is intended for their cure, which it very often prevents. Some time ago a man came into Guv’s Hospital, having a disease that required an operation, and "by no means a dangerous one. A pupil, when conversing with him, asked him where he came from: the man replied, “ From Cornwall.'’ “ O, did you ?” said the pupil; “ Well, I can tell you, you will never see Cornwall again.” The pa- tient became alarmed, and immediately left the hospital. I recommend to you, also, the practice of taking notes, bnt not hasty ones, as they do more harm than service, bv causing one term to be mistaken for another. I am happy to bear witness to the great improvement which has taken place, of late years, in the education of those who are coming forward in the various classes of medical pupils : this 1 consider a most essential advantage, as it tends, more than any other circumstance, to raise the character of the profession to its proper station. To the Company of Apothe- caries, society is much indebted, as to them we owe the Act which makes a certain course of education indispensable to medical students. In the metropolis, surgeons, of course, are highly respected, but not equally so in the country, for there the practitioner is obliged to inspect the preparation of his medicines, and, necessarily, must be often in his shop. Rut general education, so essential to our ])rofession in particular, is making rapid and desirable advances, whilst ignorance dies fast before it. 1 particularly request the young ])upils, whose friends have at great expense prepared tiiem for an honotiwble and lucra- tive profe.ssion, not to lose their precious time in idle and vain amusements ; and while they have those oirportunities which our hospitals afford, to keep their attention steadily fixed on the various branches of science which are essential to a know- ledge of surgery, and not suffer themselves to be led away