181 ON HYDROCELE. course means comparatively) ; when you lift it, you will be astonished at its lightness, which will at once convince you that it is not a solid substance. The next thing you notice is, if the part be not very much distended, that the swelling will be moveable, i. e., if you firmly grasp it at its base, the fluid tvill ascend, and the tumour increase at its upper part; there- fore, its lightness, mobility, form, freeuess from pain, and the history of the case, constitute its distinguishing characters from other diseases. But there are two other marks by which the disease may be known, one of them decisive, and the other nearly so : these are, first, its sense of fluctuation ; and, second, its transparency. I have just told you, that if you press upon the lower part of the swelling, it would decrease there and increase at the upper part; fluctuation at this time becomes evident to those who are accustomed to such ex- aminations. Its transparency, or rather its serai-transparency, may be discovered in the manner I shall presently explain to yon. This characteristic feature has been denied ; I liave cer- tainly seen the tunica vaginalis so much thickened in very old cases of hydrocele, and in persons who had long resided iii hot climates, that the examination required nicety and caution ; but still a little art, as I shall presently e.xplaiii to you, will enable the surgeon to form a correct diagnosis. Well, then, such are the common marks by which you dis- tinguish hydrocele; but there are other vai'ieties, and these 1 will mention to you : first, the water of hydrocele sometimes forms two swellings. 1 have before told you that the shape of the tumour is usually pyriform, and that the water gradually rises till it arrives at the abdominal ring ; now, in this variety of two_ swellings, a portion of the water collects above the t't'S) S''’’ng rise to a tumour there ; thus a swelling is formed above and below', the narrowest part being at the ring. A surgeon unacquainted w'ith this circumstance, upon looking at such a case would .say, “ Oh ! this is not hydrocele, but hernia,” and he would be strengthened in that opinion by .seeing the upper part dilate upon coughing, in consequence of the impulse that it would receive from the contraction of the abdominal muscles. It.s transimrency and lightness,howevei', would readily enable him to distinguish this complaint from '■‘-'’■y ‘lay, a gentleman eamc to me under lie tollowmg circumstances : when he came into my room, he informed ine that he had been twice tapped, and that he did not tliink the operations had been well [lerformed ; I looked at the swelling, and found that it extended to the abdominal ring; I examined the part very carefully, and recpiested him cough ; the moment he did so, the swelling was evidently