DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP JOINT. 597 which hf had described.] Another dislocation has been de- scribed by some surgeons, namely, downwards and back- wards. No such accident has occurred in Guy’s, or at St. Thomas's Hospital, within the last thirty years, neither have I met with a case of the kind in my private practice. I will not deny the possibility of its happening, but I very much doubt it; and 1 think there must have been some mistake in the description. First, of the dislocation upwards, or on the dorsum of the ilium ; this happens more frequently than any other disloca- tion of the hip joint, and it may be known by the following signs;—The toe rests against the tarsus of the opposite foot; the knee and foot are turned inwards, and the knee is a little advanced upon the other; the limb is about one inch and a half, or two inches and a half, shorter than the other, and this may easily be detected, by comparing the malleoli interni when the foot is bent at right angles with the leg. If you try to separate the leg from the other, you find you cannot do it, as the abduction of the limb is completely prevented, but you may bend the thigh a little across the other. The tro- chanter is less prominent than on the opposite side, from the neck of the bone and the trochanter lying in a line with the surface of the ileum ; the rouudness of that side will, there- fore, have disappeared. When called to this accident, you must expect to find great extravasation, which will conceal, in some degree, the situation of the parts ; but by rotation of the knee inwards, the head of the thigh bone may be felt, and the trochanter major approaches the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. Well, then, when you are called to this accident, what you must expect to find will be a differ- ence in the length of the limb, a change of position inwards, a diminution of motion, and a fiattening of that side by the alter- ed situation of the trochanter major. This accident may be distinguished from fracture of the neck of the thigh bone, within the capsular ligament, with which it is most likely to be confounded, by symptoms which are sufficiently distinct to a person who is commonly atten- tive. In the fracture of the neck, the knee and foot are turned outwards, the trochanter is drawn upwards and back- wards, resting on the dorsum ilii; you may bend the thigh towards the abdomen, although it gives some pain. 15ut one of the principal marks of the accident is, that although the limb may be shortened one or two incjies, according to the duration of the accident, yet, by extension, yon may restore the natural length of the limb, but the limb is again shortened immediately on your removing the extending force. If, when