ENLARGEMENT OF THE TONSILS. 432 I order a tea-spoonful to be taken in a little white wine, twice or three times a-day, according to the age or peculiar state of the patient. Having already on several occasions explain- ed to yon the manner in which .small dose.s of mercury act on (he system in chronic inflammation, by restoring the secre- tions, it cannot be necessary for me to again dilate upon that subject. By uniting the mercury, as above, with bark and rhubarb, you will improve the appetite, strengthen the sto- mach and bowels, and gradually restore the vigour of the con- stitution. It is not of any great consequence what particular tonic you employ, should there be any objection to those 1 have just mentioned. Indeed, in very delicate children yon will tind it prudent to often vary the medicine; and a v’erv- beneficial one may be found composed of two grains of rhubarb and five grains of carbonate of iron. Vour own judgment will direct you in what manner the medicines should be regulated. Local Treatment of enlarged Tonsil Glands. The application of the nitrate of silver will often succeed in getting rid of these tumours; you are to press down the tongue with one finger, then holding the nitrate of silver in its ivory case, between the finger and thumb of the other hand, geutlv apply it to the surface of the swelling ; the application may be repeated, if necessary : where the caustic is applied, the part will soon become white, and scale off. A succession of these, produced by a succession of applications, will often effect a cure. The sulphate of copper is sometimes used instead of the nitrate of silver, and succeeds very well. Alum is likewise a good application, but it requires to be apjilied a greater num- bei- of times than the lunar caustic ; where, therefore, no in- convenience would arise to the patient or practitioner from distant residence, or other circumstances, it maybe used with advantage; and, as an internal remedy, a medicine fonned of the e.Ntracts of stramonium and conium ; but 1 have never known it prove effectual, at least not entirely so. Well, then, when they are too large to admit of cure, by the plans already described to you, or when they resist the proposed methods, von are to remove them by ligature; it is easily applied, and may be done Ity first passing it through the eye of a probe, then carrying it over the tonsil, and bringing it out below ; tie it in front of the diseased uland ; you must ot course |)reviously give to your ]>robe the requisite curve : if your finger should not be sufficiently long to make the knot, you should then use what is called the tonsil iron, an instru- ment well adapted for the pttrpose, and would do much bett: i for |)erforming the operation altogether than cithet the piv!,