ON CALCULI IN THE BLADDER. 316 and requested liiniself that the operation might be again per- formed. I performed the operation, and removed a quautitv of triple phosphate mixed with a large portion of coagulated blood. He recovered also from this operation, but before he left town to return to Liverpool the same material formed again in his bladder: I introduced a pair of forceps for the extraction of small calculi, and extracted eight portions of triple phosphate from his bladder. Whenever you observe the symptoms of triple phosphate calculus, be upon your guard against performing the operation, until you have corrected the disposition to its reproduction in the manner which I shall point out to you when I come to speak of the medical treat- ment applicable to calculous affections. The mulberry cal- culus, which consists of oxalate of lime, is, to a certain degree, soluble in the acids ; it will be proper, therefore, to give in these cases muriatic or sulphuric acid ; the muriatic acid is generally preferred. The cystic oxide has the appearance of brown sugar in a state of crystallization ; it is not composed of concentric lamellte. A stone from the kidneys has been analyzed by Dr. Marcet, and found to be of this species, but the opinion once entertained, that it is formed in the bladder itself, is not correct. IMr. Brande has analyzed 150 calculi, in order to ascertain the relative portion of materials in each species. The result of this analysis, as far as my memory bears me out, was as follows:—of the 150 calculi, sixteen were uric acid. This led me to remark, that uric acid were not the most common ; they occur in the proportion of sixteen in 150. Forty-five, were composed of uric acid in consider- able quantity, with triple phosphate in a smaller proportion ; uric acid plus, and triple phosphate tninus. Sixty-three were composed of triple phosphate in a larger, and uric acid in a smaller proportion ; triple phosphate plus, and uric acid miruis. Twelve were, entirely triple phosphates; five were composed of uric acid with a nucleus of the phosphate of lime, and six were mulberry calculi. 'File analysis stands thus : — Of 150 calculi 16 ... . were uric acid 45 ... . uric acid triple pho.sphate wiiniA* . . . . triple phosphate plus, uric acid minus 12 ... . triple phosphate 5 . . . . uric acid with a nucleus of phosphate of lime 6 . . . . mulberry calculi 150