ON GRANULATION 73 1 found the stomach in the )iighest degree inflamed, and exhi- biting the peculiar appearance which is pi'oduced by and not by poisons generally. I believe, therefore tha his person died from the application of the arsenical sol^ Quacks are in the habit of destroying tumours of the breast bv the use of arsenic. Women are sometimes, though leiy rarely, foolish ; and they will undergo any torture which is not inflicted by a knife, rather than submit to an ope^on that would not give them a tenth part ot the pain which they suffer from such applications. They go to a person who tells them of the number of cures he has performed by means of a specific used for the purpose of destroying scirrhous affections ; and, indeed, these quacks very frequently destroy the scirrhous part, and the patient too. Mr. Pollard, a surgeon told me, the other day, of a person in town, who applied an arsenical preparation for a scirrhous affection of the breast, iii quence of which the patient died in less than a week. 1 had myself occasion lately to perform an operation for a .scirrhous breast, to which arsenic had been applied. I asked the w’oman which gave her most pain, the application of the arsenical preparation or the operation. She replied, that the pain or the operation was not so great as that of the application, and that the arsenic had been applied ten or eleven times. J he consequence of these applications is, that they become ab- sorbed into the system, and produce derangement of the sto- mach, the intestinal canal, and the nervous system, and some- times paralysis. While I am on this subject, I will mention a case to you which occurred in this town, and which I should have scarcely believed, if it had not come within my own know- ledge. A person in this metropolis happened to have bow shins. It was a part of his duties to teach ladies to draw and paint, and in the prosecution of this branch of his pro- fession, he found his bow shins, as he himself declared to me, a very great evil. He felt that his merits were less fairly ap- preciated, and his instructions less kindly received, by rea.son of the convexity of his shins ; he was persuaded, in short, that his bow shins stood between him and his preferment. Under this impression, he went to a very noted person in this town, ami showing him his bone, said to him, “ Pray, Sir, do you think you can make my legs straight ?” “ Sir,’ said the doctor, “ I think I can ; if you will take a lodging in my neighbourhood, 1 think 1 can scrape down your shins, and make them as straight as any man’s.” A lodging was taken ; the father of the patient assisted in the operation, and all three of them—the father, the son, and the doctor—took