ON SUPPURATION. appears to be composed of the constitutent parts of tlie blood, slightly changed in their character by inflammation. Healthy pus, 1 say, does not irritate parts; but surgeons formerly thought othenvise, and therefore used to cover the surfaces of wounds with sponge, for the |)urpose of sucking up the matter as tast as it was generated. When, however, pus is unhealthy, haviug mixed with it too large a portion of serum, or when bloody, then in passing over the skin it will irritate and occa- sion e.xcoriation. This matter does not appear prone to putrefaction in the healthy constitution, but in some persons it will, in a very short time, become inconceivably putrid and fetid. Case.—.'V butcher, when getting out of a hay-loft, missed his footing, and in trying to save himself from a fall, had the misfortune to hitch his hand upon a hook, upon which tiie poor fellow hung like one of his own sheep. Eight days after the accident, he was brought to Guy’s Hospital ; the next day his hand was opened, and the inatcer discharged was most horribly otfensive ; on the following day he died. Whenever the matter of an abscess becomes otfensive, you .should regard it as a bad symptom ; —such cases are troublesome, and often terminate fatally. When matter of a poisonous kind, the result of a specific inflammation, is applied to the surface of the body, it irritates, occasions inflammation and suppuration, and this newly- formed matter is of exactly the same description as that which produced it; at least the poisonous (piality is retained uudi- minished in virulence. This is illustrated by the discharge of gouorrha-a, chancre, small-po.x, &c. To enumerate all the instances would fatigue you. Hut these instances must be considered as additional argu- ments in favour of pus being a secretion. •Suppuration is not without its advantages ; in two points of view it is very important. 1st. Hy forming a covering to granulating surfaces, thereby yireventing the granulations from becoming dry through the influence of the air ; for, if they were not ke[)t moist they could not push forward. 2dly. The suppurative process is the means resorted to hy nature for effecting the escape of extraneous bodies : thus a ball, by its pressure, gives rise to suppuration, and ultimately is discharged, excepting in such Ciises as we have before described, where it remains encased by adhesive matter. .Some wounds are very troublc.'ome, and, do what we will, we catmot get them to heal. Now and then it happens, if you discontinue your dressings to such sores, and let their sur-