419 ON PILES. the round head of the bone, and, cutting through the muscles along the trochanter major, bring it out at the back of the thieh. (The learned professor performed the amputation at the hip- joint, and the other amputations described in this Lecture, on the dead subject.) LECTURE LI. In adverting to the subject of complaints in the anus, I have already mentioned fistula in ano; I shall, in this evening’s lecture proceed to the subject of Piles. Piles, which are complaints of very common occurrence, are, in the first instances, an enlargement of the hemorrhoidal veins ; they are either external or internal, and the treatment will be somewhat different, according to the situation of the disease. \Vhen a person applies to you with external piles, he com- plains of pain in passing his motions, and tenesmus after the discharge. On examination of the anus, you discover a pro- jection of a livid appearance, which, in two or three days, becomes so_ solid as not to yield to pressure. 'J'he blood is coagulated in the hemorrhoidal veins ; after a time, the veins become inflamed, the patient feels uneasiness in going to stool, and obsenes that his faeces are tinged with blood. In a short time the pressure of the faeces on the internal part of the rectum brings down the pile, so that it becomes exter- nal. 'I’he gut is brought down in this way every time the pa- tient has a motion, and he is under the necessity of pressing upon the part for some time, in order to return the rectum into its original situation. This is a great tax on his time, as well as a cause of considerable suffering; the bleeding is at this time very considerable, and the discharge is attended with great irritability of the rectum. At length inflammation takes place, which adds greatly to the patient’s suffering, and he is often unable to return the rectum when it has descended. A person is thus exposed to considerable iticonvenicnce and suffering from this complaint and he is very anxious, after a time, to have it removed. Prolapsus ani is to be considered as the effect of internal piles. I knew a person, who held a situation which reipiired ms attendance in the early part of the day, who was under the necessity of rising at a very early hour, in order that he might have his evacuation, and have siiflicient time to return the rectum. A piece of lint, dipped in oil, should be applied,