266 ON STRUMOUS OPHTHALMIA. terative mercurial medicines sliould then be given, and if ne- cessary they should be combined with rhubarb and magnesia but not so as to produce watery stools. ’ \Vhen the fever becomes diminished, the bowels perform Uieir natural functions, the tongue looks clean, and the skin assuine.s its healthy feel, you may begin with tonic remedies. Aroniatic bitters, combined with alkalies, will be found useful leniedies. But at the same time you must amend the state of the constitution by attention to regimen and diet. The food should be light and nutritious, clothing warm. E.xercise should likewise be taken ; not to such an e.xtent as to produce lebnle e.xcitements, but to invigorate the health. Sea-bathing will be of advantage ; and when the constitution is not in that state to bear the cold-bath, the warm should be used ; and if the patient is in a situation where sea-bathing cannot be re- sorted to, he should sponge himself with tepid water, gradually accustimiing himself to the use of cold j by this means the general health will be much improved. As for the treatment of the part affected, it will be right to employ depletion at the onset, as far as the application of leeches. It will be proper also to apply blisters behind the ears, or to the nape of the neck ; and blisters in this complaint are no ordinary remedy. \ou will be surprised to find, after the application of a blister, how' soon the intolerance of light wall vanish, even in chil- dren ; their disposition will rapidly alter, and the inflammation be so slight, that you can actually open their eyes without any trouble. IVarm and moist applications are beneficial; the steam of water containing opium allowed to goon the eves will be good. About a drachm of opium dissolved in a pint of hot yvatcr, and the .steam of it directed over the eye, will relieve, to a considerable degree, the irritation. But if any of these applications be used at the onset, they must not be long con- tinued before recourse is had to mild astringent collvria. 'nieir strength must be regulated by the feelings of the patient; not so strong as to irritate, but to be followed by relief to the part affected. The vinum opii is a remedy particularly adapted to this complaint at an advanced stage : it tends considerably to lessen the irritability of the part, and to increase the strength of the relaxed vessels. At the onset, however, a more active Ilian of treatment must be adopted : relief must be sought bv the applicationof leeches and blisters, more especially bv the last. It will be necessary sometimes to give mercury so as slightly to affect the mouth, reineuibering the state of the con- stitution in scrofulous persons, and taking great care that it is not pushed so far as to affect the general health. Another form of inflammation of the eyes, nearly allied to