560 SCROFULOUS DISEASES OF JOINTS. child of a strumous habit has walked a considerable diitancc, that it complains of pains in the joints, which is accompranied with stiffness of the joint, and inability to move it. T"he pa- tient takes alarm; and I may say that this disease can never be too early attended to. The complaint may generally be re- moved if it be attacked early : but, if six weeks or two months elapse before the person applies, he will never re- cover. A great deal, therefore, depends, in this complaint, on early treatment. To prevent mischief is infinitely better than to effect a cure, and in these complaints a cure is not so easily effected. There is little tenderness at first, and the swelling is very slight. If the synovial membrane be inflam- ed, there will be a gritting between the bones under the pa- tella on each side, and so in different parts, according to the joints affected. The joint will remain in this state for some time, possess the same appearance as in health, and the con- stitution suffer little. But where it has existed a long time, the suppurative process will at last be set up, and the joints will assume the character common to inflammation of all joints. When the suppurative process commeuces, a great quantity of pus is secreted, if there be much constitutional irritation. Indeed, there may be at first a copious secretion and slight constitutional derangement; for the suppurative process is not attended with the same constitutional effects as in other parts of the body. \Vhen the abscess breaks (which is a long time from the commencement of the disease), the ulceration is often at a little distance from the joint, and there are generally sinuses extending from the point of ulceration, for two or three inches up to the joint; and thus, in scro- fulous enlargements of the knee, the abscess generally breaks above or below the patella. We generally let these ab- scesses open by themselves, as there is little con.stitutioual irritation at first, and the opening cannot be delayed too long. The abscesses generally opens in more parts than one and the suppurative process takes place at a distance from tlie joint; the ulcerative process is slow, and excites little con- stitutional irritation. Wlien you dissect a joint affected with scrofulous disease, you find, after having cut through the in- teguments ; that there is a great deal of adeps between the ligaments and interstices of the skin. Next you will see thi capsular ligament thickened, and that the thickening has taken place on it.s interior surface. The synovial membrane will be also found higlily vascular. You now examine the cartilages, when you will find that they have undergone more or less ulceration, and are covered by processes of adhesive matter ; and, lastly, the bones themselves will now and then