ON SYPHILIS AFFECTING THE NOSE. 527 syphilis in the nose, is similar to the treatment of it in otlier *he body. The constitutional treatment is precisely the same, but, in addition to the constitutional treatment, local applications .should be employed. Fumigating the part IS attended with some advantage; injecting lotions are also sometimes found to be beneficial. Lotions of diluted nitric, or muriatic acid may be used with a view of healing the sores, and assisting the process of exfoliation. Fumigations are used in clearing the nose of the accumulated incrustations, steaming the nose with hot water, assists in separating the incrustations, and affords considerable relief to the patient, auch IS the treatment under ordinary circumstances. If the bones of the nose have not become affected, there will be no great difficulty in conducting the cure, but there are cases in which very considerable difficulties will be encountered, and in which the most horrible deformities will frequently be the resu.t. In general, you are to consider these deformities, as the result, not of syphilis, but of the improper treatment of that disease. 1 will tell you what very often happens in cases ot syphilitic disease in the nose. The patient undergoes a mercurial treatment, and the sores appear to be cured • but when the mercury has been left off for a time, and the person has returned to his ordinary emplovments, he finds the dis- charge again appearing in the nose, and, as it becomes offen- sive, applies to a medical man. Under such circumstances, it IS frequently supposed that, though he has undergone a treat- ment which is usually sufficient for the cure of syphilis, the disease is not yet completely .subdued, and he is put under a ."ecoiid course of mercury. This, gentlemen, is not only iiii- nece.ssary, but extremely injurious to the patient. The dis- ease of the nose is not the result of syphilis, but it ari.ses from the process of exfoliation in an exposed portion of bone Uuring tbe time the mercury is given, the sores heal, and the bone become.s dry. There is no discharge at this period, but altera time the process of exfoliation produces irritation and ulceration ot the raucous membrane of the nose, which is ge- nerally, but erroneously supposed to be syphilitic. If the patient, time after time, be subjected to fresh courses of mer- cury, the.se add to the mischief, and the mo.st horrible deform- ities often ensile. 'The mercury, instead of assisting the ex- foliation which is going on, adds to the inflammation, and produces other and most extensive exfoliations. Under pro- PC'haps, ever lost his nose from ■ yphdi.s, but the instances are very numerous in which this loss has arisen from the abuse of mercury. To prevent the gieat deformity which will arise in such cases, if an opening