34 LOCAL TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. man, for instance, with a pulse at 75, poes into water heateil to 100 degrees, his pulse soon rises to 100, presently he per- spires freely, his pulse becomes less frequent, yet suit ; treat relaxation follows, and if he were not removed, he would ab- solutely die, so extensive is the exhaustion that it occasions. Here, then, is direct proof of what heat and moisture can do, when they are applied generally; and, when used locally, their action on the part is precisely the same. Fomentations are ordered precisely with the same view, viz., to restore the secretions of the part, by which the ten- sion of the vessels is removed, and the pain much abated. Fomentations occasionally are medicated, being composed of camomile flowers, poppy-heads, &c., but I do not consider that these possess any advantage over mere w’ater, at least where the surface of the skin is unbroken. Poultices are likewise used upon the same principle ; the kind of poultice is of little consequence, provided, as in the jtreceding case, the skin be entire. The next method of relieving inflammation is by the appli- cation of leeches, which relieve upon the same principle as poultices and fomentations, viz., by abstracting from the part a portion of its fluids, and consequently lessening the pain and tension : after the leeches drop off, the bleeding must be encouraged ; this may be done by bathing the part with waim water, and wiping it frequently with a warm .sponge. To some persons, and in some situations, however, the ap- plication of leeches is attended with very great inconvenience; as occasionally, for example, in inflammation of the testicles. We do not find this an inconvenience in the hospitals; but frequently, in private practice, w'e see persons in whom it is of the greatest consequence that a bleeding from these parts should be concealed. Now, as there is niueh mes.s, troubie, and consequent exposure, from an application of leeclies, w hat we do in such cases is this : we request the peison to stand l)efore us, and, with a lancet, puncture some of the small veins on the front of the scrotum ; in this manner, and w ith a little warm water, you abstract any portion of blood rou wish ; and what is of very great consequence, you stop it when’you please ; for, by piacing the patient in a recumbent posture, atid by applying some cold water to the punctures, the blood will immediately cease to flow. In tliis way, then, you may take blood from the scrotum, when the tisticles are inflatned, with very little trouble, and without any ex- postire. ., , rThe learned Lectitrcr here .said, at the same time puttine his hand upon one of the recently amputated stumps lying upon