168 OPERATION FOR POPLITEAL ANEURISM. evidently arterial. I said that this wa.s exceedinplv curion*. 1 went up, and found that it was the case ; a tourniquet was applied ; the hemorrhage did not return, and the patient did extremely well. If the ligature, after being on for serenty- two hours, does not produce adhesion, the usele.'snesa of tem- porary ligatures does not admit of a doubt—/Aey ought to be ahandoned. In the aneurism of the radial artery, I removed the ligature twenty-four hours after it had been applied, but the pulsation returned ; I made an incision on the tumour, and applied a ligature above and below, and the aneurism was cured. It would be an extremely desirable thing if anv person in- vented a ligature composed of materials which would admit of solution : he would, by such an invention, greatly serve his profession. It has been .said, that ligatures formed out of the untanned skins of kids will answer such a purpose ; that they will become absorbed ; but they do not, I understand, suc- ceed. I thought that a ligature made of catgut would admit of solution, and I tried it on a man of eighty years of age, on whom I performed the operation for popliteal aneurism : the catgut ligature was cut close to the vessel; the wound healed over, and no bad symptom followed. The experiment suc- ceeded, it is true, in this case ; but I have used the catgut liga- ture in three other cases since, and did not find it at all supe- rior to the common ligature ; in each of the three cases it came away by suppuration and ulceration, as in common cases ; it did not therefore succeed. In tlie old person there was less tendency to inflammation, and that wa.s the reason of it suc- ceeding. I made some experiments on dogs, with a view to ascertain the solubility of catgut. 1 tied the carotid of a dog, and used the catgut ligature ; in a fortnight after 1 killed the animal, and found that the ligature had not been dissolved, but that it had cut through the artery, and was situated in a cyst, like that which is formed round’ a ball, between the di- vided ends of the vessel, in a quiescent state ; therefore this substance does not admit of solubility, but will remain some- times without producing irritation. On the whole, catgut ligatures are not at all stiperior to the common ones. Some animal matter of the form of gluten, made into ligature, might do; blit this is mere conjecture. At present there is no ligature known which is capable of being dissolved and re- moved by the absorbents. Well, gentlemen, I have made all the observations respect- ing the improvements in the operation for popliteal aneurism that I inteniled, with the exception of the plan of cutting the ligature close to the knot, and then leaving it to its fate, and