12 ON IRRITATION. dangerous consequences, might not, in another, disturb the Junctions of any important organ ; this greatly depende on tne state of the system at the time of the injury ; tlius, manv gentlemen present would probably in autumn overcome a dis- ease, that in the spring would overcome them ; that is, if they have been paying proper attention to their professional studies, by demoting their time to anatomical pursuits. The following cases are important, and place in a strong light the dreadful constitutional effects which occasionally result fiom very slight local causes. A man, who had lived intemperately, was bled by the late Ml. Saunders on a Tuesday; on Thursday (haring indulged in the interim in the pleasures of the table) the wound in the arm was inflamed; on the Saturday the iuflanimation had considerably increased ; on the Sunday gangrene commenced ; and on the Jlonday I was asked to see him. 1 found him with delirium, hiccough, and siibsultus tendinum ; and on the fol- lowing day he died. On dissection, the skin, to a great extent round the wound, was found mortified ; the cellular mem- brane had inflamed and suppurated, but the vein which had been opened was not inflamed. _Dr. Ludlovv, of Caine, whilst shooting, pricked his hand with a thorn in getting over a hedge; the part soon became inflamed, and though he procured the best surgical assistance, yet he died of tetanus within a week after the accident. Another remarkable case was that of a brewer’s servant, who, in removing some casks on a Saturday, had a small splinter of wood forced under the thumb nail ; 'at the moment he did not regard it, but in the same night he awoke in dread- ful pain, and requested his wife to get up and make a poultice ; this he applied, but it did not afford him any relief. On Sun- day he became worse : Tuesday the pain had extended up the arm, and his baud was cousiderably swollen. Ou Thursday I was requested to see him, and, on e.xamination, found that matter was formed in the hand ; 1 made an opening with a lancet near the part where the splinter had entered, when a large quantity of pus was discharged. The man appeared greatly relieved, and 1 thought lie would do well; but ujxm hearing a noise as I was about to quit the room, I looked round : lie had, by a convulsive eftbrt, raised himself iu bed, but immediately fell back, and e.xpired. Case.—An instance of a totally different nature from those just mentioned, which shows that a great degree of injury may be incurred, and the person yet do well, occurred in another brewer’s man who was run o\er by a dray, 'riicre was com- pound fracture of the elbow joint, extensive laceration of the