281 ON FIRM OR HARD CATARACT. kinds of cataracts it will be proper to mention : tliat is, it is not at all common for one form to go into another—for the soft to go into the hard, for instance, is exceedingly rare. I allude to an opinion which used to prevail, that a soft cataract became hard, and then it was said to be ripe. This ifiea is now given up, and experience proves it to be incorrect. Let us now consider the different symptoms attending the different kinds of cataract. Fir.m ou Hard Cataract. In this kind of cataract the lens acquires a greater degree of density or tirmness than natural ; and in undergoing this change, it becomes smaller and thinner, and more concen- trated. If you look at the cataract, you will see that it has not the natural whiteness of that complaint; it has a yellow or brownish appearance, the colour of amber. 'J’he next par- ticular you observe is the interspace between the iris and front part of the lens, on account of the lens becoming thinner. The motions of the iris are free, there being no adhesions. There is generally some degree of vision, and the patient can often discern large and bright objects, and even differences of colour, and sometimes the shadow of minute objects. When the light is faint, the patient can see more distinctly than when it is strong. This kind of cataract generally occurs at an advanced period of life. By these symptoms, then, you will distinguish this kind of cataract:—by its colour and size: the interspace between the front part of the lens and the iris : the vision being more or less distinct; and, lastly, by its oc- curring at an advanced period of life. Fluid Cataract. This kind of cataract is always more or less fluid, and is called milky, from its white colour. The fluid cataract is not of equal density throughout. If you examine the eye of a pa- tient with attention, you will see that it has a flocculent ap- pearance, from sjiecks or streaks consisting of solid particles of the lens, and these will move up and down in the various positions and motions of the head, and be removed out of sight; but on the head becoming steady, they again appear. This arises from their gravity; on motion, they sink to the bottom, and of course disappear. There will not be any diffi- culty in recognising this form of cataract. Besides these symptoms, the lens becomes enlarged and globular ; and the increase of size is such, that the lens reaches to the iris, so that there is no posterior chamber at all. If you look at the eye in profile, you will see that the iris is protruded forwards; from this pre.ssure the motions of the iris are sluggish, and in some cases prevented altogether. The size aud shape of the