ON FRACTURES OF THE VERTEBRA. 147 -excite counter-irritation by the application of blisters. I men- tion these ca.«es to you as worth knowing, that you may make your own observations on them when they occur, rather than as ca.ses about the treatment of which much is understood in the present state of our knowledge. 'I'hey are of too rare occurrence to enable us to lay down any positive principles as to the mode in which they are to be treated. On Fractures of hie \'F.RTEBRiE. Fractures with displacement of the spine are by no means unfrequent; they have been improperly called dislocations ; but dislocations of the spine are e-xtremely rare, and only occur in the cervical vertebras. What are called dislocation.s are, in fact, fractures with displacement. It is not that one vertebra is sejiarated from another, for this very rarely hap- pen.s, and only in the cervical ; but that the vertebra is broken through. When fracture with disjdacement of the spine oc- curs, paralysis takes place in the parts of the body situated below the injury. If it occur in the loins, paralysis of the lower e.stremities follows ; the power of retaining the fatces, and of e.xpeHing the urine, is lost. When the injury occurs in the dorsal vertebrae, there is paralysis of the lower extre- mities ; the same loss of power in retaining the feces and ex- nelling the urine, with this addition, that it is accompanied ^vith considerable inflation of the abdomen. This inflation might lead the surgeon at first to suppose that there was some rupture of the intestines ; but after a few hours, when tlie patient has had free evacuations, this inflated state of the inte.stine.s disappears. The inflation is |)roduced by the great secretion of air into the intestines, in consequence of the di- minished powers of the part. When the injury occurs iu the lower part of the cervical vertebra:, paralysis takes place in the upper as well as the lower extremities, though notin the same degree. There is a numbness of the upper extremities, hut seldom such a degree of paralysis as to deprive the patient of all power, when the injury occurs below the fourth cervical. The time in which the person dies from these injuries varies according to the seat of the accident. If it occur in the loins, the patient will generally die in from five to six weeks; if the displacement he very considerable, he may die in three weeks : on ihe otl.ei- hand, when tlie displacement is slielit, the patient may live many weeks, and even months. 1 have known a person live I wo years after an injury which was supposed to be a case of fracture, with displacement of the lumbar verubne. .As there wa.s no examination t)f the body, after death, iu the case to which J allude, some doubt must necessarily exist as to the