OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. 329 the contrary, the external wound will be of considerable size, which may be accounted for from the obvious fact, that the force is greater near to Ihe hand than at the point of the in- strument, which is much faitherfrom the moving power; you will consequently find, when you are performing the operation of lithotomy with the knife in old persons having diseased prostate and rigid bladder, that you will not be enabled to make an opening sufficient to adnnt of the calculus being ex- tracted with that freedom which every scientific surgeon knows to be prudent. The danger in the operation consists in bruis- ing the parts, and not in cutting them. Again, in deep perinei, when operating with the knife, you often think that the in- strument has completely entered the bladder, when, probably, its point has scarcely reached the veruinontanum : you are at a loss—are quite at sea—and cannot tell whether it has enter- ed the bladder or not. Well, gentlemen, the result of my experience has convinced me that, in old persons, the knife is not so good an instrument as either the gorget or the bistourie cachee; but in young people it may be used with perfect safety. I speak from what I have observed, and therefore speak confidently. 1 relinquished the use of the knife in the adult and old persons, because it did not succeed ; and I feel perfectly satisfied, if at the commence- ment of your career you should indiscriminately employ it, that iu the end, like me, you will discontinue its use in grown pel sous, and adopt it only in operations for children. Difficulties in the Ofekation. large calculus is a most serious obstacle to both the per- formance and success of lithotomy; it is a difficulty of a hor- rible nature ; and iu consequence of the bruise which the neck of the bladder receives from the force necessary to be em- ployed in its removal, generally proves mortal. 'J'here is no comparison in the danger arising from a number of small stones, compared with one large one ; the small stones, if you are careful, can all be removed without doing any violence to the parts; but with a large one this is impossible. Large stone.s, when connected w’ilh enlarged prostates, present difficulties much greater than when the gland is in a healthy condition. Here (handing the specimen to a student) is a preparation in which you have an opportunity of seeing the state of the parts under these circumstances. Operations on such patients are dangerous to the last degree; it is scarcely possible that they can recover from them ; and the surgeon often falls into disrepute, most uiide.servedly, who happens to have the misfortune to meet with such cases. Some practi- tioners tell you that these cases would be successful if they were