117 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. concussion. The fiist story of this kind that I ever heard was from -Mr. Cline. A man was taken to Guy’s, in a state of in- sensibility, in whicli condition he remained for some time, lint at leugtli recovered ; and when lie did so, no person in the liospital could understand liis language; a milk-woman liap- pening to go into tlie ward one day, heard him, and discovered that he wa.s speaking Welch : he told her that he knew Eng- lish well before the accident, but after it all knowledge of that language was obliterated from his mind. It had been recently acquired ; the impression was less strong, and consequently the more easily effaced. I witnessed a similar circumstance in the case of a German, who was a sugar-baker in this town, and who had compres- sion of the brain, arising not from any injury by violence, but from pressure in consequence of the formation of matter. This man could speak English extremely well before the compres- sion ; but as the compression increased from the accumulaiioti of matter, he lost his English entirely, and I could only com- municate with him through the medium of an interpreter. At last he lost the power of speaking even in his native language, and he died in consequence of the accumulation of matter. It is curious to observe the gradual change which takes place in the intellectual faculties, as alterations occur in the brain ; and the gradual diminution of ideas which have been more re- cently acquired, until at length they become totally obliterated. Old persons are observed to be fond of relating anecdotes of their youth, forgetting incidents of more recent occurrence; and the change which takes place in the intellect from injuries of the brain is very similar to the effects of age. T’he |)atient becomes, as it were, suddenly old, loses impressions of a recent date, and is sensible only of those which he has received in hts earlier years. .Such is the state of mind very frequently produced by compression of the brain. With respect to the state of the brain under concussion, when the concussion is not extremely violent, there is merelv a change in the circulation of the brain. A sodden shock will so far disturb the circulation of thi.s organ, as to produce diminution of the powers of the mind, as well as to impair the functions of the body. I shall have oc- casion to inention to you a most extraordinary case, in which the functions of the mind were suspended from an interru|)tion ot circulation in the brain, for upwards of thirteen moiitli.s ; the patient having, as it were, drunk of the cup of Lethe during a I that period. Any change of the circulation in the brain alters, in .some degree, the powers of mind and body ; but if the agitation be very considerable, the powers of the mind will