283 ON CAUSES OF CATARACT. flaramation, or sharp-pointed bodies wounding the capsule of the lens, or the lens itself, and consequently, producing opacity of these parts. The opacity arising from this cause often be- comes absorbed, and the case undergoes the natural process of cure without requiring an operation. It is produced too by inflammation of the globe of the eye ; but then the cataract is capsular, and not lenticular. Cataract, however, arising from these causes, is exceedingly rare ; and by far the greater num- ber of cases are produced, as it is called, spontaneously, or under circumstances which are too subtle for our cognizance. It has been said that where the eye has been tried a good deal and subject to much exercise and strong light, as in black- smiths, glass-blowers, &c., that cataract is produced : this is exceediugly doubtful; and if it is so, there are many cases in which no such cause can be assigned. It is also not unfre- quently congenital, and of course produced from none of the causes mentioned. It also runs through families, and appears to be hereditary. It has been shown that it may be produced by external causes which are obvious, yet it more frequently comes on without any assignable cause. Prognosis.—Of course, by this I mean a prognosis as to the issue of the case by no other means than an operation ; that is, before performiug the operation, ascertaining whether ser- vice can or cannot be afforded by the operation : whether the changes which the eye may have undergone from inflamniation during the progress of the complaitil, or the symptoms, are such as to preclude the chance of success if an operation were performed, and destroy all hopes of vision ever being regained. Now there are certain symptoms accompanying this affection, by which you are enabled to form a pretty accurate opinion as to the issue. There are some e.xtrcmely valuable observations on this part of the subject to be found in Scarpa’s work on the diseases of the eye. The first circumstance which leads you to determine as to the success of the operation is, whether the loss of vision has been gradually supervening, and has always been in proportion to the opacity of the lens; second, whether the cataract has been accompanied by chronic oph- thalmia, or any changes have been produced in the eye by it ; if the cataract has been attended by a penetrating pain in any part of the eye, or orbit, or back of the head, which it will be. iieces-sary to inquire about; third, whether the motions of the iris are duly performed, in the different variatit)iis of the light; if not, fear may he entertained of the eye being amau- rotic ; fourth, if there is the power of distinguishing between light and dark, or the colour or forms of ihitigs, or the shade of passing objects. These circumstances should be particularly