18 ON INFLAMMATION. Case.—Tliewife of a medical gentleman was obliged to have the posterior tibial neiTC divided, for a painful tumour on the nerve, which I did in the presence of Mr. White, surgeon to the Westminster Hospital; although the operation was dread- fully painful, and the pain extended through the brain, spinal marrow, and the nerves proceeding from it, yet it did not affect the nerves of the great sympathetic, directly or indi- rectly. 1 have also had occasion twice to remove portions of the sciatic nerve, when but little constitutional irritatiou fol- lowed. Severe pain takes place sometimes in the course of the nerves, but whether it be from inflammation or not, 1 have not been able to ascertain by dissection. When the pain is e.xcessive, it is called tic doloureux. Ligaments, like tendons, are not very prone to inflammation in healthy constitutions ; but the sjTiovial membrane which lines them is highly so, aud the inflammation has a tendency to go on to the suppurative process. In scrofulous persons, the synovial surface becomes inflamed, and the ligament covering it thickened, so as to produce great enlargement of the joints. Cartilage in joints ulcerates from inflammation, and often becomes entirely destroyed. The bones, like other parts of the body', are subject to in- flammation; and when fractured, it is by this process that their union is effected. Suppuration, ulceration, and morti- fication, or tlie death of the bone, also attack thi.s structure ; thus you see that, like other parts of the body, it is subject to the different processes of inflammation. Serous membranes, wdien inflamed, are remarkably disposed to pass into tlie adhesive inflammation ; whilst mucous mem- branes, on the contrary, generally go into the suppurative state. Mr. Hunter made several experiment.? to confirm these facts, which have been verified by later physiologists. Inflammation may be of the healthy or unhealthy kind. No wound can be restored without the former; even the small puncture made in bleeding would inevitably destroy liie, were it not for this salutary principle ; a slight inflammatory action throws out upon the edges of the wound adhesive lymph, by which they become permanently united. When a ligature is put upon a large artery, unless inflammation supervened, no good effect would be produced. The first thing nature does in this case is, to form a clot of blood at that part of the ves- sel where it has been tied ; inflammation supervenes, adhesive matter i.s thrown out, by which the internal coats ol the artery become firmlv glued together, and hemorrhage prevented. If the constituVitm be in an nnhe.althy condition, this process will not be effected; so that when tlie ligature comes off, the