547 ON SCROFULA. a scrofulous affection, and we occasionally see a scrofulous tumour in the breast. The secreting glands, however, are verv rarely subject to tills complaint. Scrofula differs in dif- ferent coiistilutions ; it may be of an indolent or irritable kind, but more frequently of the first than the second. Of this circumstance you may not yet be aware, but in the course of practice, you will find that an absorbent gland will enlarge, and continue so for weeks, and often for months, before it suppurates ; and, on the contrary, that an enlarged gland will be in a most irritable stale, and rapidly proceed to a state of suppuration. This last is by far the worst disease of the two ; for joint after Joint, and various parts of the body become in- damed, whilst, in indolent habits, the complaint is sometimes confined to a particular class of parts, and the rest are ex- cluded. This, however, is a variety. Influence of CUmale and Season on Scrofula.—You will find .scrofula considerably influenced by climate, particularly those climates in which the ciiange from cold to heat, and heat to moi.sture, are most frequent; and, on this account, our own i.sland is favourable to the production of scrofulous disease. The vicissitudes of temperature are so frequent, that a man is never clothed so as to meet them, and the body is conse- quently exposed to these sudden and various changes. We find cold and moist climates giving rise to the difference of scrofulous affections, although it is found that those who live in countries wliere they are exposed to the extremes of heat or cold, are not the subjects of scrofula. But this disease is arrested by cold and heat, uncombined with a moist state of the atmosphere, although it previously existed ; and persons predisposed to scrofula may prevent it from occurring, by a change to a warm and dry climate. But people from the Hast or West Indies, who come over to this country, not iin- frequently fall a prey to scrofulous disease. Many children, horn in the Bast and West Indies, are sent to this country to be educated, and therefore we have an opportunity of seeing the effect of climate on their constitutions; and 1 can a-sure you, that it freipiently requires the greatest possible care to save them from the danger of scrofulous disease of the joints and absorbent glands ; and very often, with all your care and attention, they will die of scrofulous disease- Those from the West Indies less frequently die of scrofula than persons from the Bast Indies; but 1 have .seen some from the .South Sea Islands, and most of them have died from scrofulous complaints. From this statement, then, gentlemen, you sec that children born in warm climates, and subsequently brought to this N N 2