152 ON ANEURISM. sac; it is not in aneurism of the extremities only that death thus takes place, hut in aneurisms that occur internally; in the chest, lor instance, the same circumstances happen as I have just mentioned. Aneurisms, if not operated on, are not alvvays destructive of life. I have seen grangrene of the foot and leg, as far as the knee, from aueuri.sn), take place, with- out destroying life. I saw a case where the foot and lower part of the leg became gangrenous in a man labouring under popliteal aneurism ; tliey sloughed off; amputation was per- formed just above the ankle, and the patient recovered. De- struction of life, then, takes place in aneurism from repeated hemorrhage and gangrene. Gangrene of a small part of the limb in aneurism may occur, and still be remedied by mean.' of surgical aid. The history of iiilernala.we\x\\sm is different from that of the external. 1 will describe it to you in a few word^, though the subject is by far too ample to be projieily treated of at present. I mentioned to you just now, in the definition that I gave you of aneurism, that there was an e.xception to it, and that was the heart itself, when the subject of aneurism. Here is an aneurism (pointing to one on the table) of the heart ; this and two others are all that I have ever seen ; for what are often called aneurisms of the heart are not really so—thev are a simple dilatation of the ventricles. An aneurism of the heail consists of a bag formed out of the parietes of that organ, and in this bag an opening is formed, as in the aneurisms which take place in arteries. In this s])ecimen there is a bag formed of the parietes of the left ventricle, considerably larger than an orange, together with an opening which communicates with it. The other instances which I have seen of aneurism of the heart are the following : A soldier of the guards had com- mitted some offence, for which he was severely flogged ; being a deterinined fellow, he resolved not to cry, and whilst he was receiving the punishment he held his breath ; a short time after this he was seized with violent pain in the chest; Mr. Palmer, surgeon to the guards, was sent for, and he found him dying, as he thought, of ascites and o’dema of the lower extremities. He soon died, and on examination it was found that there was an aneurism of the left ventricle, which had burst, as the pericardium wa.svery much distended with blood. iUr. I’, of Chichester, surgeon to the milititi, was sent for, to see a man who had symptoms of diseased heart, and intermit- ting pulsation ; he had also ascites and mdema of the lowei extremities. 'This man died, and there was found an ani-u- rism of the left auricle. .A ctirious circumstance in this case was, that the blood had insinuated itself into the coats of the