ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 361 whether the disease ever after returned I am unable to iziform you. The dissections of those who die of fungus liasmatodes show' that it generally exists in different parts of the body at the same period ; and the cellular membrane, together with many of the glands wall be found studded vvith tubercles ; for the disposition of the constitution to produce the di.sease in one situation naturally operates towards producing it in anothei', and thus it will be present in many parts at the same time, although its severity in one particular spot will be the imme- diate cause of death. (The learned lecturer here exhibited to the class several preparations, illustrative and confirmatory of the foregoing remarks.) The liver and lungs are very commonly attacked with these tubercles, the liver so much so, that you are often unable to make the least section of it without some of them being ob- servable, .shewing that every part of this gland is equally filled with them. The uterus is not unfrequently diseased from fungus haema- todes ; likewise the ovaria ; the cellular tissue; the brain and medulla spinalis, but of all the parts of the body most fre- quently attacked there are none so much so as tendinous struc- tures. And so desirous, as it were, does this disease appear to be to attack these parts, that, we find when it is situated in the breast, it not only grows externally, but penetrates deeply through the pectoral and intercostal muscles, regularly fol- lowing the course of the tendons and tendinous e.xpansions. Causes of Fungus H/ematodes. When many important parts are affected at the same time, it is evident that the cause must be constitutional; in fact, it ever owes its origin to a peculiarity of constitution. Although it may thus arise in almost every important organ at the same time, and be thus generally diffused throughout the system, yet it appears that it may possess merely a local occupation of a part, and tlie neighbouring structures be entirely free from any morbid or diseased action ; for upon removing fungoid tumours, we find that the wounds thus produced heal as kindly as any other wounds caused by the extirpation of any other tumours. In making this observation, I wish it to be understood niost distinctly, that your incisions are to be made be)ond the discoloured or inflamed ])arts, for if you cut into the skin which has become reddened, it will, of course, have taken on its peculiar morbid action, and the di.sease wall most unquestionably still continue to grow in that situation, riierefore I particularly caution you never to introduce your knife into the integuments which surround funiroid tumours,