296 oy FUNGUS HiEMAXODES OF THE EVE, uhich, by tlie elasticity of its fibres, separates the edpe«, and tiiakes a passage for the rays of light. Cheselden was the first surgeon who performed this. There are three modes of per- foiming the operation ;—1st, hy a simple incision of the iris, technically called corotomia; 2dty, where a portion of the iris IS cut away, tvhich operation is called corectomia; .^ly, tvhere the iiis is turned away from its attachment to the cihary ligament, vyhich is called coredialym. The simple in- cision of the iris is seldom resorted to ; the operation of ex - cision of a part of the iris was recommended by Mr. Gibson, and is certainly the best when the case admitted of it. Mr. Gibson s mode of performing it is to make an incision with a knife, as near as possible to the iris, and then making gentle Itressure on the globe of the eye, so as to protrude the iris, to snip off a portion of it with a pair of scissors. If the iris was adheient, so that it could not he jirotruded, he hooked it for- vyard with a little hook, and then snipped awav a portion wth the scissors. The operation of separating a part of the iris from its attachment to the ciliary ligament mav be performed with Scarpa’s needle. The needle should be introduced on the outer side through the cornea, at the distance of two lines from its junction with the sclerotica, and carried across the anterior chamber parallel to the plane of the iris. The point is then to be directed through the iris, towards the inner side, and then carrying it backwards and outwards, the iris is to be detached from the ciliary ligament. 'J’he excision of a portion of the iris is the preferable operation, but where the case does not admit of it, the detachment of the iris from the ciliaiw ligament is the next best operation. It is impos.sible to lav down general rules for these operations in a lecture, for the cases are so infinitely varied that much must, after all, be left to the discretion of the surgeon, who should adapt the nature of the operation to the circumstances of each particular case. LECTURE XXXVII. On Fungus H^siatodes of the Eve. The first disease to which I shall call your attention is the fungus hsematodes of the eye, malignant fungus, or, as it is called by some, medullary sarcoma, a disease which soon proves fatal unless an operation be early performed, and even then the chance of success is extremely doiibtfnl. No age apjiears exempt from tins complaint, but it more frequently attacks the young ; and a large proportion of the cases occurs before twelve years of age.