ON ANEURISM OF THE AORTA. lot LECTURE XX. Aneurism of the Ascending Aorta. When an aDeiirisin takes place between the heart and curva- ture of the aorta, you find, after a time, from the pressure of tlie aneuvisinal baff, the cartilages of the ribs become ab- sorbed, as in the specimen before me (pointing to one on the table), where the cartilages of three of the libs, and a portion of the sternum, have been absorbed ; when the aneurism presses on the lungs, dyspnoea comes on, together with cough, and the complaint is obscure, but at last the fulness on the right side, and the pulsation to be felt by the pressure of the hand on the intercostal spaces, will enable you to distinguish tliis disease ; then the ribs become absorbed, the aneurism presses against the pectoral muscle, absorption reaches the skin, and the sac bursts by the inflammation of the skin, the destruction of the life of the part, and the separation of the eschar. I will mention to you a case which shows how life may be prolonged sometimes by the formation of an artificial sac : a female in the other hospital had an aneurism of the ascending aorta ; the skin had become inflamed, the eschar was separating, and a small quantity of blood was discharged ; a clot of blood plugged up the orifice of the opening ; pieces of lint were applied, over which was put some adhesive plas- ter, and lastly a bandage. She lived twenty-seven days after- wards ; the opening of the wound, however, gradually in- creased, and she died in consequence of inflammation of the interior of the aneurismal bag and aorta. W’hen, therefore, you are called to a person with an aneu- rism in this part, and when hemorrhage has come on, yon can protract life by coating the wound with lint, and endea- Touring to form an artificial sac ; and by this means you give your patient two or three days, or weeks, to live, allowinc him that time for making any preparation he may wish. These cases are, however, quite hopeless, and 1 have never known one spontaneously cured. Aneurissis of the Curvature of the Aorta. These aneurisms are very frequent, and are to be seen ju.st above the stei num. You will find that termination of exist- ence takes place in different modes in these ancnrism.s. In the specimen before me (exhibiting one on the table), death W'as produced by the bursting of the artery into the trachea ; it was given me by Mr. Davis, and was taken from a man, the subject of aneurism of long existence; rising from his bed