ON PARACENTESIS ABDOMINIS. 3S7 Tlie operatiorf-of paracentesis used to be performed mid- way between the ninbilicus and the spinous process of the ilium, but this practice has been abandoned for a number of years ; the surgeon who first made the alteration was Mr. Cline, senior. He was performing the operation for para- centesis in this hospital during the time I was an apprentice ; when he had introduced the trocar and canula at this part, he found that a <|uautity of blood, which appeared to be ar- terial, issued witli the first water. The water became more and more discoloured, and towards the conclusion of the operation little else but arterial blood flowed. Mr. Cline shut up the wound without concluding the operation, in tlie hope that pressure on the abdomen would put a stop to the bleeding. Out the man became extremely faint, and died in a few hours after the operation. On examining the body after death, it R~as found that the trocar had passed through the epigastric .•ii tery, thatartery being exposed, in conseipieiice of the rectus being thrown very much on one side in dropsy by the pressure nf the abdominal muscles. It occurred to Mr. Cline tliatmany persons had died of hemorrhage after the operation for para- centesis, and Dr. Carmichael Smith made at that time a cal- • Illation of the number of cases of this kind which had proved fatal. Mr. Cline, consequently, ever after, in his lectures, ad- vised the opening to be made an inch helow the umbilicus, where there is no vessel of any size, and no danger in perforni- jiig the operation. It is right that the bladder should be emp tied before the operation ; you should direct the patient to make water, or if there should be any difficulty, draw it off by a catheter. -Mr. Cline was called to a lady for a complaint which was thought to be dropsy of the abdomen, and wliich iie at first conceived to be so liimself. On examination, how- ever, he observed that the upper part of the abdomen wa-: more free from fluctuation than the lower, and it occurred to him that there might be some deception in the appearances, on account of the distended state of the bladder. He asked the lady whether she made water freely ; she replied in the ailirniative. He was not satisfied, however, and upon intro- ducing a catheter, he drew off an enormous ipiantity of water, which had occasioned the appearance of a dropsy of tlie ab- domen. ,‘\ surgeon less cautious and intelligent tlian .Mr. Cline might, under such circumstances, have tapped the belly at a part where there might have been considerable danger of wounding some of the abdominal viscera. 'I'he patient may either be placed in a chair during the operation, or may remain ill tlic recumbent posture in bed, while the water is drawn off. 'J'he latter jiosition is preferable, because it prevents the faint-