418 ON THE DIFFERENT AMPUTATIONS. compressed the artery myself in that case. The amputation at the hip joint has been perfonned in the same way succest- fully byM.Larrey, and many other surgeons; bnt’notwith- standing the great respect 1 entertain for these authorities, I am disposed to think that the operation cannot be safely per- formed without securing the artery in the first instance. When you do not secure the artery in the first instance, what is likely to happen is this : when you have to divide the femoral artery as near to Poupart’s ligament as possible, and put a ligature upon it, the man becomes so faint under the operation that he will be unable to support it. 1 have, in such a case, been obliged to suspend it, to give the patient wine, and chat with him, in order to rouse the vigour both of his body and mind. The operation will certainly be most safely performed by tying, in the first instance, the femoral artery, under Poupart’s ligament, above the origin of the arte- ria profunda. A question in the first place arises whether we should perform the operation of amputation at the hip-joint, when it can be done through the trochanter major. 1 say, no. Unless the disease of the thigh-bone extends quite up to the joint, as in the case in which 1 recently performed the opera- tion, it is undoubtedly better to saw through the trochanter major than to cut the bone from the acetabulum. IWien the acetabulum is laid open, great constitutional irritation is pro- duced by the suppurative process—abscess after abscess arises, and the life of the patient is put into imminent danger. Though this operation has been occasionally performed with success, I feel it my duty to impress upon your minds most strongly the danger to which it exposes the patient; it occa- sions the most violent constitutional irritation, and reduces him to the lowest possible state, so that he can with difficulrt recover; whereas, the operation of amputation through the trochanter major is attended with very little risk. -After the femoral artery is tied, there is no difficulty in the future steps of the operation ; a doubt may arise whether the femoral ar- tery is laid hare above or below Poupart’s ligament; and to ascertain this, slit up the artery a little, to see whetlier the orifice of the profunda is above or below. As you cannot form a very large flap on the outer side, the principal flap must be made from the inner side. Pass your knife above the tro- chanter major, along the muscles; and, having made your two flaps, the next point is to dislocate the head of the bom, which snaps as soon as the ligament is divided. The French operate with a very long knife, nc.arly as long as a sword |»they pass it down directly into the capsular liga- ment, until it touches the head of the bone, carry it through