094 ON DISLOCATIONS OF THE LOWER JAW, most pel-severing efforts, you will sometimes fail in redocinr this dislocation where it has been neglected, and much time allowed to intervene between the occurrence of the accident and youi attempts at reduction. Although this should be the case, no division of the parts should be made, as the patient will have, after a time, a very useful thumb. In compound dislocations of the first phalanx, if the wound be larce, and much difficulty is experienced iu the reducticn, I would'advise you rather to saw off the extremity of the bone, than injure the paits further by the pressure which would be necessary. Lint dipped in blood should be applied to the wound, a roller lightly passed round, and evaporating lotions to be used for several days until the wound be healed. If passive motion be begun early, a very useful joint will be formed. A Distocolion of the Second Phalanx, when simple, will be best reduced by grasping firmly the back of the first phalanx with your fingers, and placing the thumb oti the fore part of the dislocated phalanx, then bending it on the fii-st as mnrh as you can. In this way you may lift the second over tlie lower part of the first phalanx, by making your thumb the fulcrum. Vyhen there is a compound dislocation of this joint, in addition to the sawing off the ends of the bone, vou should pare the ends of the tendon smoothly with the knife, and if you then bring them together they will unite. Pas- sive motion should be begun at the end of a fortnight or three weeks. Of Dislocations of the Lower Jaw. The lower jaw is subject to two species of dislocation, the complete and partial. When the jaw is completely dislocated, both its condyles are advanced into the space between the surface of the temporal bone and zygomatic arch. When it is partial, one condyloid process only advances, whilst the other remains in the articular cavity of the temporal bone. The jaw is known to be completely dislocated hy the niouih being open, and tlie patient not being able to sliiit it by anv pre.ssure which yon may make on the cliin. Tlie lower teeth will he found in a line anterior to the upper. \'on niav de- press the jaw a little, hut to a very inconsiderable extent. The appearance is just tliat of a person when yawning. Tliere is a depicssion just before tlie meatus aiiditorius, from the ab- •seuce of tlie condyloid process from its cavity, and there is a projection of the cheeks, from the coronoid processes heinc advanced towards the buccinators. The pain, although severe, is not attended with any dangerous consequences; a con- siderable degree of motion is recovered hy time, ami the jaws nearly approximated. 'J'he saliva is very much increased in