144- ON WOUNDS OF THE SCALP. moved from its place. [Here the operation was completed.] Some people say that this is a trifling operation, not difficult to perform, nor dangerou.s; but they deceive you ; it is one of the most dangerous operations in surgery ; whilst per- forming it there is but a single step, a small net-work, between your patient and eternity ; saw through this, and destruction of life will generally be the consequence. Mr. Hunter made an assertion, that when the dura mater was wounded, the per- son never recovered ; which, though not exactly borne out by the cases which have occurred since, shows the impression made on the mind of a man who was such an observer of na- ture. Before his death, Mr. Hunter saw a case of a wound of the dura mater recover, it is certain that there is less danger when the dura mater and pia mater are both injured; the danger is more when the dura mater is injured without the pia mater. I will give you the reason ; in the former case, where both the dura mater and pia mater are wounded, a fungus im- mediately projects, and dlls up the cavity. If, however, there is only a small opening in the dura mater, and 1 were to put some quicksilver into it, where would it go?—into the lower part of the spine between the tunica arachnoides and dura matral covering; inflammation of the dura mater would spre^ over the whole, cavity of the canal, as erysipelas does over the surface of the body; whereas, in the first kind of injui^-, fungus will project through the opening, which would easily close by the process of adhesion that would take place. I have seen many instances where the dura mater and pia mater have been wounded, but few where the dura mater only After trephining, the elevator should be introduced to raise the depressed bone, and in this way return it to its namral situation. You see that there is no necessity to operate where there is anv risk, because an operation in a part where there is no risk can be as well performed, the object being only to raise the bone. LECTURE XIX. On Wounds of the Scalp. On this subject I have but few obsenations to make. Wounds of the scalp are not devoid of danger, and 1 have known se- vcii instances in which ap])arently slight wounds of that nu t have destroyed life. They are more especially dangerous if accompanied ’with coiitiision. If a person receives a blow f onfall instrument capable of lacerating the part, and coijsi- derable inflammation follows, tlic wound will sometimes dc-