ON VERTEBRAL DISEASES, j66 tebral substance has been accurately described by Mr. Pott, and I recommend you to consult his pamphlet, which con- tains a very admirable history of this disease. It is mani- fested in the following manner :—The child complains of a fi.\ed paio in the spine; the pain, however, is not confined to the spine, but it extends down on each side, in the direction of the nerves, arising from the spinal marrow. There are weakness and pain in the back ; pain on the sides, more on one side than on the other ; and the nerves arising from the spinal marrow are inflamed In consequence of the pressure on the membrane of the spinal marrow. After a little time, ■ there is a projection of the spine backwards, one, two, or three, of the spinous processes projecting more than the others. It usually happens, that the lower extremities be- come affected; sensibility is diminished, and the muscles lose a portion of their voluntary power. Thus, a child affected with this disease, is in the constant habit of falling, in con- sequence of a vvaut of due power in the muscles. There i> this difference between paralysis and the effect on the lower extremities from this disease, that, in the former case, all ac- tion of the muscles is suspended; in the latter, there is di- minished power and spasmodic contraction of the muscles. The patient sits with his legs drawn under him, and his heels towards the nates ; and there are, besides, spasmodic twitch- ings of the limbs. If the lumbar or dorsal vertebrae, be af- fected, there will be difficulty in discharging the urine, and the faeces will at length pass off involuntarily. When the disease is in the neck, the head is the only part of the body, except the vital organs, which retains its power ; volition i? lost in all the parts of the body below the seat of the disease, and the patient is reduced to the most abject state of help- lessness. The disease of the spine is very apt to produce abscesses, in the form of psoas and lumbar abscesses. These abscesses frequently occasion a very considerable lo.ss of sub- stance, as you will have an opportunity of observiug in the preparations which I shall send round. On dissection, th< j vertebrai are found to be sometimes wholly, and .sometimes in part, absorbed ; occasionally, four, five, or more vertebra* are absorbed ; there is a specimen in the college, in which four veitebra) are wholly, and two are partially, absorbed. This absorption is the effect of piessure on the spinal canal. A curious change takes place, after a time, in the spinal ca- nal, which is, that, instead of being smaller, it is larger oppo- site the part in which the vertebrae have given way. In cases where a cure has been effected, the spinal canal is • larger opposite the part where the vertebral have been ab-