DISLOCATIONS OF THE FINGERS AND TOES. 591 additional support. Pumping cold water upon the hand, from a considerable height, is also very useful, and rubbing the parts afterwards with a coarse towel gives vigour to the circu- lation, and increases the strength of the joint. _ Sometimes ganglia are mistaken for dislocations of the car- pal bones ; but these are easily removed hy striking them stuartly with the flat surface of a book, and the supposed dis- location immediately disappears. A compound dislocation of the carpal bones frequently hap- pens ; it arises, generally, from the bursting of guns, or the hand being caught in machinery. In these cases, one or two of the carpal bones may be dissected away, and the patient recover, without losing his hand, and also preserve a consi- derable degree of motion in the part. If, however, greater in- jury be done, amputation is generally necesary. 1 have seldom seen the metacarpal bones dislocated, except as the result of e.xcessive violence. They are so firmly con- nected with the bones of the carpus, that great force is neces- sary to separate them, and so much injury is done to the parts that amputation is generally required. These cases usually happen from the bursting of "guns, or the passage of heavy bo- dies over the hand. If it should happen that the metacarpal bones of the middle and ring fingers require to be removed, you may bring the fore and little fingers so nicely together as to produce little deformity ; that is, if you can .succeed in procuring union by adhesion. Dislocations of the Fingers and Toes are rare ; for, in addition to their capsular and lateral llga- ment.s, their articulations are powerfully strengthened by the extcmsor and flexor tendons. When the accident does occur, it is more frequently found between the first and second pha- langes, than between the second and third. It can be readily ascertained, by the projection of the first phalanx backwards, while the head of the second can be felt on the fore part, al- though less distinctly. If it has not been dislocated many hours, you can easily reduce it; but, if it has been neglected at first, the reduction can only be accomplished by long con- tinued extension, and that very steadily applied. It should be recollected, to give the joint a slight inclination forwards, to relax the flexor muscles. I would never advise you to di- vide the ligament of the joint in order to facilitate its reduc- tion. No, I have seen too much evil attending it ever to ro- commend .such a |iracticc. The dislocations of the toes are rather more difficult to reduce than the fingers, as the pha- langes arc much shorter, and the jiarts less easily moved, from their being less stiff. A toe or linger is sometimes