564. DISEASES OF THE HIP JOINT. hip-joint exists or not, you should first place the patient on his back, and examine whether the sides of the pelvis are equal; the pelvis will be lower on the diseased side. Having placed the patient in the recumbent posture, you will then bend the knee towards the abdomen, which, if there be dis- ease of the hip joint, will occasion considerable pain. In ro- tating the joint also, much pain will be excited in conse- quence of its stiffened state. You will then turn the patient on his face, and observe whether the nates are lower on one side than on the other : there is generally a difference of an inch or more on the diseased side. These are the common characters of this disease. On dissection you find the follow- ing circumstances ;—In the first place, a quantity of adhesive matter is poured out about the joint; the ligaments are much thickened; the synovial surface is inflamed, and often slightly ulcerated ; the cartilages of the joint are ulcerated; and, lastly, the bone itself is sometimes absorbed—not only the head of the bone which enters the acetabulum, but the aceta- bulum itself. You will find examples of all these appearance.- in the preparations on the table ; there is one in which the head of the bone has been absorbed from ulceration, and another in which the cavity of the acetabulum has undergone a remarkable alteration, the upper part of it having been absorbed. Abscesses are frequently formed in diseases of the hip joint, which take different directions ; in general, their course is down the thigh, between the trochanters and the outer surface of the thigh, where they break. Sometimes they occur in the upper part of the thigh ; there is an example in the collection, in which an abscess occurred in the direction of the femoral artery; and, by its pressure, occasioned the absorption of a considerable portion of the vessel itself. Some- times the abscess breaks into the rectum ; there is an example of this in a preparation on the table, where you will perceive the rectum very considerably enlarged at the place into which the abscess has broken. Abscesses sometimes take their course into the vagina, from whence the matter is discharged ; an in- stance of this kind occurred recently in a child of eleven year.- of age. It will be right, therefore,' to mention to the friends of the patient, that there is great variety as to the course w hich abscesses take in this disease. The cause of this disease is, in genci-al, too much exertion ; too long a walk, for instance, for the .strength of the patient, which produces inflammation of the synovial surface. Treatment of Diseases of the Hip Joint.—With respect to the treatment of this disease, you will observe, during the inflammatorv stages, the same plan which I have reconi-