ON VERTEBRAL DISEASES. 565 mended to you in the treatment of scrofulous complaints. It may be obserred, generally, that if you do not cure a case of diseased hip-joint in a few weeks, from six to ten weeks, for instance, you will not succeed at all. In the first place, the recumbent posture, and as much rest as possible, should be strictly enjoined. If there is much pain, leeches should be applied ; evapor.ating lotions should also be employed in the first few days. If you do not find the inflammation yield in a few days, it will be right to put a large blister over the part, and to keep it open with the unguentum sabinae for a considerable length of time. The surface kept open with the sHvine ointment should not exceed the size of a crown piece, as you might otherwise produce too much irritation, and do more harm than good. Issues and setons are more applied here than in other diseases of the joints. It is better to re- gulate the degree of irritation in this way, than to endeavour to produce effects by violent means, which, by exciting fever, might only be adding fuel to the flame. With respect to the treatment of abscesses, it is right in all diseases of joints, and especially in diseases of the hip joint, to postpone the open- ing of them as long as you can ; unless the ab.scess is e.xcecd- ingly large, it is best not to open it at all. The reason of this i.s, that if you open the abscess early, you expose the cavity of the joint to irritation ; whereas, if you delay the opening of it, you suffer the abscess to make its passage to a consider- able distance from the joint, so that the opening of it will not be liable to excite much irritation in the cavity of the joint. The irritation will be very slight if you delay the opening, but, if you make it early, the effect will be just the .same as if you were to make an incision into the joint. Give time for nature to perform her task, and to fill the joint it- self with adhesive matter, as the abscess extends down the limb to 3 great distance from the joint. I have made up my mind most decidedly on this point, having again and again had an opportunity of contrasting both modes of practice. When the disease is protracted, it would be cruel and injuri- ous to the child to keep it in a state of perfect rest, and it should therefore be allowed to use a crutch. This will pre- vent the derangement of the general health, and the depres- sion of mind which arises from long confinement. If the disease has continued for any length of time, it is not to be expected but that some lameness will remain. Of Vertf.br.al Diseases. A disease, similar to the disease in the joints occasionally occurs in the spine, sometimes beginning in the vertebral sub- stance, sometimes in the bone itself. The disease of the ver-