ON THE CURE OF HYDROCELE. 194- suffered to remain from about four to five minutes. Whiie It remains in the tunica vaginalis, the patient will complain of a good deal of pain ; he will first feel as if the testicle were .squeezed ; he will then feel the pain running along the cour.se of the spermatic cord at the spinal process of the ilium, and at the loins where the spermatic plexus of nerves arises, and lastly, at the neck of the bladder, in the course of the vas de- rens. The pain will he greater or less in proportion as the patient is more or less irritable. It is to be obsened, how- ever, that the degree of subsequent inflammation is generally in the inverse ratio of the pain suffered at the time of the in- jection. If a man lids tranquilly on the table., and teUs you that be does not feel much pain, he will in general have a con- siderable degree of inflammation the next day. On the other band, where much pain is felt, it is generally the effect of ner- vous irritability, and little inflammation follows it. I have been under the necessity of bleeding and giving large quantities of opium to a patient in consequence of the severity of the pain ]>roduced by injection, and yet no inflammation was produced. You may say that this was in consequence of the bleeding; but this is not the case; the pain arises from irritation in the nervous, rather than the vascular system, and inflammation does not readily follow it. When you have suf- fered the fluid to remain five minutes, and withdrawn the in- strument, you need not apply anything to the part, but tell the patient to walk about as usual in the course of the day if he feels but little pain. If he shoidd feel much pain, tell him to lie down, take his dinner that day, and his glass of wine after it, if he has been in the habit of doing so. After a few hours have elapsed, inflammation will probably come on. Above all, tell your patient to come the next day, that you may see whether the inflammation, which is necessary for the cure of hydrocele, has been ])roduced ; if it has not, you must not despair of ])rodiicing it. Take the part in your hand, and touch it here and there until the patient feels a good deal of uneasiness. Then desire him to take a long walk, and to take an additional quantity of wine after dinner. In this way you will generally succeed in producing such a degree of in- flammation as will be sullicient to effect a cuie. It sometimes happens, liowever, in constitutions which have a great disposition to inflammation, that the injection will act so violently as to produce suppuration. M bin there is dancer of this, which you may ascertain by the great paiti and redness of the scrotum, make an incision with the lancet into the part, and discitarce the contents, and if the opcninc be not large, the cure w’ill be eftected by the adhesive process. Do not sup-