294 ON SOLUTION OF THE CATARACT. latter case there are two modes of operatint:, called the ante- rior and the posterior. In the former the needle is introduced at the distance of half a line from the junction of the cornea with the sclerotica, carried parallel to the iris, and turned inwards, so as to break up a portion of the capsule of the lens. In the posterior operation the needle is carried through the posterior chamber, a little behind the iris, and the texture of the capsule is broken up in the .same way, so as to admit the aqueous humour. If the cataract be fluid, it immediately mixes with the aqueous humour, and you will have no more trouble. As to the after-treatment, your object must be, as in the former cases, to prevent inflammatiou. It is better in this operation not to attempt to do too much at once; but i^ather to repeat it frequently, than to break up the texture too exten- sively at once. Having described these different operations, it may ^ ne- cessary to consider which of them it may be most expedient to adopt. It seems to me that in those cases which admit of the operation foi- solution, namely, fluid, soft, and most cases of membranous cataract, that operation is greatly preferable to any other. Soft, fluid, and membranous cataract cannot be depressed. It is true that the operation for extraction flight be performed, but it is to be considered that the operation for solution is much more easy, and that it does very little injurr to the eye. In firm cataracts, w'here it is a matter of indifierence whether the operation for depression or extraction should be performed, that for extraction, supposing it to be equally well performed, is undoubtedly preferable because the disease is entirely removed by it. It is not always, however, a matter of indifference, for there are many cases in which it would be extremely imprudent to attempt the operation for extraction, as, for instance, in cases of adhesion of the iris to the cornea, or where the cornea is very flat, and the anterior chamber necessarily small, or in cases of contraction of the pupil, myosis or arcus senilis. There are some cases in which the unsteadiness of the eye is so great, cither from spasmodic mo- tions to which the patient is subject, or, lastly, where there is such indocility in the patient, either from invincible fear or stupidity, that it will not be advisable to attempt the opera- tion. I am led to these remarks, in consequence of my having operated in this hospital on a woman who had cataract in both dyes. When the operation was proposed to her she immediately consented, and supposing that she would have sufficient resolu- tion to go through it, I sat down with perfect confidence to perform the operation for extraction. She no sooner, how- ever, felt the pain—pain it can scarcely be called the