615 FRACTURES OF THE KNEE-JOINT. from the foot to the knee, to prevent the swelling of the leg ; then rollers are applied above and below the joint, under which a piece of broad tape is passed on each side, which crosses the rollers at right angles, and, by tying these, the up- per portion is brought down towards the lower. But the plan which 1 like best is this Buckle a leather strap around the thigh, above the fractured portion, and from this another strap should be passed beneath the foot, the leg being kept extended, and the foot raised ; this strap is brought up on the other side of the knee, and buckled to the circular strap above the knee; a roller should also be applied on the leg. After keeping the limb in this position five weeks, you may begin to use slight passive motion, taking great care, how- ever, not to do too much, as you would separate the liga- mentous union which had been formed. You may increase this from day to day, until the limb can be bent perfectly, nie smallest distance at which I have known it to unite is half an inch, and the greatest distance seven inches ; a moderate distance is one or two inches. It sometimes happens that, from the degree of separation, the patient loses the com- mand over the motions of the leg ; and, in such cases, you must exercise the extensor muscles by letting the patient swing his legs over a table, in order to accommodate the muscles to their new line of action. Unless this be done, or passive motion be used, the patient can never recover the use of the limb. In the longitudinal fracture, the bone also unites by liga- ment. I have seen it unite by bone, but it was rather a fis- sure than a fracture. The treatment will be to apply leeches and evaporating lotions ; in a few days a roller should be ap- plied, and then a laced cap, with a strap to buckle above and below the knee, with a pad on each side of the patella, to bring the parts as nearly as possible into contact. Compound Fractures of the Patella are very dangerous ac- cidents, frequently proving fatal to life, from the violent de- gree of constitutional irritation which they occasion. They are generally recovered from by the following treatment:— Bring the integuments together by a small suture, apply ad- hesive straps round the knee, evaporating lotions on tlie fore- part, and the limb kept extended by a splint i)assed beneath. Whenever a joint is laid open, except by a valvular opening, that wound is difficult to heal from the flowing of the syno- via, and is, therefore, very difficult to treat; but, if the inte- guments be brought together by a sutiire, the parts beneath often heal by the adhesive process. The suture should not be kept in more than a week.