27 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. tioii and fever! To excite the intejtinal canal to action, therefore, sliould be one of our first objects. Ihis may be done by purgatives; and they afford relief in nearly the same manner as the abstraction of blood from the arm ; for a pint of serum will frequently pass oft with feculent inattei, ^ttei taking a cathartic. Purgatives have likewise another good effect, independently of restoring the secretions from the in- testinal tube, viz., that of carrying off whatever feculent mat- ter may be lodged in the intestines ; but I do not believe that much irritation is produced by the accumulation of feces in comparison with that which takes place from a stoppage or deficieucy of the secretions. I have met with several cases hi which a vast quantity of feces had collected, yet little consti- tutional irritation was produced ; similar cases frequently come under the observaiion of accoucheurs. In one instance, which I met with, the pressure from the feces was so violent that it produced ulceration into the vagina ; yet the amazing quantity of feculent matter excited but little constitutional irritation. Some fluid formed a passage by the condensed mass, and was daily discharged; this, in a great measure, ac- counts for the absence of irritative fever. That it is from the check to the secretions that irritative fever arises, is proved by what happens in children during dentition. They are sometimes put to bed quite well, but in the morning half of the body is paralysed from the irritation of a tooth, ''llie secretion from the intestines stops, fever is excited, which produces a hot and dry skin ; but restore these secretions, by the administration of purgatives and antimo- nials, and the irritative fever soon subsides, although the pa- ralysis will sometimes continue, with little alteration, for life. TTiere is another mode in which purgatives produce a bene- ficial effect in inflammation, that of irritating the intestines. Hlood is determined to them, and is therefore drawn from ^he part inflamed, upon the principle that two increased actions are with difficulty kept up in the body at the same time. It is of no use to act on the intestines in inflammation, without also exciting the liver ; therefore, give calomel with your saline medicines, but do not give salines alone ; the best plan is to give calomel at night, and a saline in the morning. An excellent aperient for adults is one grain of calomel, with four of cathartic extract; or two of blue pill, with three of ca- thartic extract. Castor oil may also be recommended; and, as another safe opening medicine, you may prescribe infusion of senna, with Epsom salts. In cliildren, calomel, with rhubarb, scammony, or antimony, may be ordered as aperients ; and in addition to these means, the use of injections, and the warm