84 ON ULCERS. the skin covering the wound. Fomentations, poultices, rest, and the recumbent posture, must be enjoined, and the ])atien: mu.st be purged. The best cathartic that you can administer is calomel and compound extract of colocynth, five grains of each at bed-time ; and a draught of the infusion of senna and sulphate of magnesia on the following morning. By this plan you will do more to subdue the inflammation than by any other I know. If the part in the neighbourhood be much inflamed, leeches had better be applied near the circumference of the ulcer; with this treatment, in a very few days granulations will spring up, pus will be secreted, and the surrounding edges will assume a healthy appearance. Without, however, attend- ing to the constitutional treatment, all your local applications will be of very little avail. Gangrenous Ulcers.—This kind of ulcer yon will very fre- quently see in a man who has been in poverty and distress for a long time, going up and down the streets of London, looking out for an asylum where he may rest his head; this person comes to the hospital, at last, in a reduced and emaciated state. When you see a wound of this description, you will know it by the surface being perfectly free from discharge; the surrounding edges of a livid appearance, with small vesicles or blistered spots on them ; and the patient suffering much from irritative fever. Seeing this state of the wound, then, you en- join the patient the recumbent posture, which is essentially necessary to promote the separation of the dead parts. The principle of treatment in these cases is to produce a very slight increased action in the part. Sometimes, when the action is excessive, you must, on the contrary^, soothe the part;—both will be sometimes good. When there is debility of the part, a slight stimulus should be employed ; but when there is excessive action, it is to be avoided. 'I'he best application that I know for producing a slight sti- mulus and checking gangrene of the part, is the nitric acid ; there is none equal to this ; fifty drops of it to a quart of dis- tilled water, will be found a most useful remedy. The acid may be increased to a drachm ; this may be done or not, just as it may give pain to the jiart; but, generally, the average quantity is fifty drops. I have seen, in a short time after this application, a quick separation of the ])urts from sloughing, to w hich there is always a tendency; and healthy granulations spring up, being, as the chemists would call them, oxyge- nated • that is to say, the carbon being thrown off from the arieria’l blood in the vessels with wliieh they arc supplied. Here the griiuulations are of a beautiful florid red : this, then, is a most useful remedy.