ON IRRITABLE CHANCRE. 512 tor under it, and with a sharp-pointed bistoury diride the stricture, which will allow the skin readily to be drawn oxer the penis. After the para|jhymosis has been reduced, jjoul- tices must be applied to the part. It is sometimes necessary to remove a portion of the prepuce by circumcision ; in ca.<ei< of phymosis, where the prepuce is naturally long, and only a small division of the skin is required to allow it being drawn back, this operation is preferable to the one which 1 before described. Having spoken of the common consequence.” of chancre, I shall now treat of the Irritable and Sloughing Chancre. Every now and then a chancre becomes irritable, from causes already pointed out. Directly you see a chancre as- sume an irritable character, desist from the u.«e of mercury. To know when to stop the mercury, is the great secret in the treatment of the venereal disease. It is in con.^equence of mercury being given in this .state to the patient, that it doe.« so much harm, producing those sloughing chancres that not unfrequently destroy life. Thus, when a sore become.s irri- table under the use of mercury, and the inflammation extends, lay it aside, and have recourse to simple applications, such as ])oppy fomentations and poultices, to lessen the irritation. After you have purged the patient, give opium combined with saline mixture ; as good a medicine as you can employ under these circumstances, is the liquor, ammoniae acetatis. In this way you will diminish the irritation ; and when the sur- rounding inflammation is cot rid of, return to the mercury, taking care to discontinue it if the irritability should return. Some advi.se the compound decoction of sarsaparilla, and I be- lieve that it has the power of diminishing, to a considerable degree, that irritability of constitution from which many per- sons suffer during an attack of syphilis ; with this view, give it by all means; but as to its curing syphilis, I do not be- lieve a word of it. You may stispend the syphilitic symptoms for a time, but they will soon re-appear, ; and a person who trusts to this alone wdll be a martyr to a disease which might have been easily cured. But more of this when making some general remarks on syphilis. If a person with irritable chancre is guilty of intemperance, addicts himself to any ex- cess, or is carcicss of his health, the .sore will slough, and often end in the destruction of the penis. Do not think that it is a rare occurrence for the penis to be destroyed by mer- cury : no ; a chancre that has remained weeks in a he.ilfhy state, shall become irritable, and, by maltreatment, by the in- judicious and improper use of mercury, .shall slough, and end