431 ENLARjGEMENT OF THE TONSILS. On Disease resembling Polypus, in Children. Before quitting this subject, gentlemen, there is another oc- currence connected with it, which I wish to mention to you, it is this—You will often have children brought to you by their parents on account of supposed polypi of the nose; when you examine the children, you will probably find in their nostrils, red projections, the appearance of which might have deceived you as well as the parents, had I not mentioned the matter to you. Be assured, when you observe these red pro- jections in' the nostrils of young children, that they are not polypi; the disease is merely an enlargement or thickening of the pituitary membrane, and if you try to remove or draw them away by means of the forceps, you will probably tear off a portion of the turbinated bone : the forceps must not be ap- plied in such cases; such a practice would be exceedingly im- proper. What you are to do is this ; Touch tliem by means of a small bougie, formed of nitrate of silver; from this ap- plication, they will in a short time turn white, and very soon di.sappear altogether. You may rely upon it, that this is the only treatment required iii such a&ctious, and there is no necessity for submitting these poor little delicate creatures to any other operation. The next subject for our consideration is Enlargement of the Tonsils. Children will be brought to you with swellings in their throats, and it will be stated that they have great difficulty of breathing, sleep with their mouths widely distended, the skin at the same time being covered by a profuse perspiration. Upon feeling the throat, looking into the raoiUh, or passing back the finger, it will readily be ascertained that one or both tonsil glands is enlarged. The complaint is generally the result of one of the diseases common to children, as the small- pox or measles, and the inflammation which produced it of the scrofulous kind. Sometimes the enlarged part is attached to the gland by a distant small peduncle ; at other times the base of the swelling is of considerable size. Constitutional'Treatment of Enlarged'Tonsil Glands. 'To jirevent the growth of these enlargements, and their formation altogether, the best medicine that can be given, for the accomplishment of these pur|)Oses, is the oxymuriate of mercury; and it will be found highly advantageous to com- bine it with the tinctures of bark and rhubarb. I usually pre ■ scribe it thus :— R. 0.xymur. Hydrarg. gr. j, 'Tinct. Cinchon. Bhei, aa. Jj. iM.