51 ON SUPPURATION. tlie synovial iiieuibiaiie lining joints is a nuicous membrane, ami, therefore, quickly passes into the suppurative inllamma- tion, which circumstance renders an injury done to these parts exceedingly difficult to cure ; besides, the internal surfaces of joints are much more extensive than you would imagine ; you would be astonished, if you saw the internal s^irface of the knee-joint spread out on this table. Joints are also composed of materials having in themselves very little restorative power, being formed of ligament, cartilage, and bone, parts that soon inflame, suppurate, and become absorbed. Whenever, there- fore, you are called to accidents of joints, and where openings have been made into them, these you should endeavour to close as speedily as possible. Likewise, when you have to re- move from these cavities extraneous bodies, you should draw tlie skin forcibly on one side, and then cut through it down upon the substance. If the operation be performed in this inauner, the skin being left to itself will return to its natuial situation ; consequently the cut in the integuments and that in the capsular ligament will not be opposite each other, and union by the first intention will be much more likely to ensue. In the treatment of wounds of the thecas as much caution is necessary as in those of the joints—tlieir structure, in fact, nearly resembles the capsular ligament and synovial mem- brane : au injury here causes, in a very short lime, great pain and inflammation, and much C(jnstitutioual irritation and fever. |t matter form, it becomes deposited, or locked up, as it were, in a tendinous bag; and so great is the irritation which it sometimes occasions, that it has been known to destroy life in sixty hours. C'a^e.—A young gentleman from tlie West Indies, of great professional merit, of the name of Alcock, informed me one .Monday night, after a surgical lecture, that he had, in the course of that day, punctured tlie theca in some part of hi.s band as he was living at the time in the house of the late Ur. Haighton, I advised him to show it to the Doctor (who was an e.xceedingly clever mpj ; he did .so ;-on the follow- ing day he .suffered greatly from constitutional irritation, and on the Wednesday morning died ; his system was certainly a very initahle one, and that accounts, in a great measure, for so speedy a di.ssolution. When, therefore, you suspect matter to haveformed inthe.se part.s, let the quantity lie ever so small, you ought to discharge it. It is surrounded by a structure through wliich, without a.ssistancc, it cannot jiass ; therefore natiiie requires your assistance. At the. commencement of inflammation in the.se injuries, your tieatment should he jirompt ajiply lecche.s and lotions, and gi\e tour jiatient i; ‘j