ON HTDROCELE. 179 be so easily tied if you possess the least anatomical know- ledge ; and if you do not know anatomy you had better never touch tlie body at all. Tying the Carotid Artery. When this vessel is to be secured, it is desirable to make the ■yicisiou as high as you can ; the upper boundary, therefore, will be the angle of the jaw, and belovv the omo-hyoideus ; make your incision first, then high up, on the inner side of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus ; upon drawing aside the edge of which you will distinctly see the omo-hyoideus obliquely- crossing the artery. (Sir Astley here exhibited it in the dead body.) I have laid bare the carotid, and will now show you what you must principally take care to avoid in this operation, viz., the par-vagum, which accompanies the artery; if you were to tie this nerve you would endanger life ; well then, when you are about to pass the ligature round the vessel, if you raise it a little, you can readily discover whether the nerve be in contact with it, and thus guard against an accident which might lead to a fatal result. I will now conclude the lecture by saying a few words on aneurisms from arteries of the scalp, d'he first case of this kind that I saw was sent to me by Mr. Toulmiu, of Hackney: in this instance I tied the artery proceeding to, and from, tire tumour. If the aneuri.smal bag be not very large, you may cut immediately across it; apply a piece of doubled lint, then ad- hesive plaster, and over the whole a roller. If the .swelling is small, that is, not larger than a walnut, adopl another mode, which is to make a circular incision completely down to the oCcipito-frontalis tendon. In this manner the connexion be- tween the blood-vessels and the aneurism is destroyed ; and, by applying a dossil of lint and strips of adliesive plaster, you speedily succeed in getting rid of the disease. I saw a case of aneurism of the posterior aural artery, and, for its cure, tied all the vessels which were leading to and from it. 1 should have done better, by making, round the tumour, the circular incision that I have Just dc.scribcd. J.ECJ'L JIE XXIIL On Hydrocele. Hydrocele is an accumulation of water in the tunica vagi- nali.s testis ; the anatomy, theielore, of those per.sons who say that the fluid is contained iretween the tunica idlniginca and the tunica vaginalis is exceedingly faulty. Such a description IS entirely false ; and 1 searcelv need tell gentlemen, that N 2