138 ON WOUNDS OF THE BRAIN, the parts about the wound have a slougJiy appearance • the tat with \ery great force; so much so, that if his shirt-colbr dLanee’/°“"rf"! o ibrsnffi -’“f ’• ‘^"■cu'nstance, of itself, would be quite sufficient to com ince you that there was a great deter- uiinationofblood to the brain. 'I'he next thing\vhich vou obseive IS, that the patient is seized with rigors, and these ^ quick succession ; hemiplegia likewise often attends, and is generally situated on that side of the body op- posite to the wound ; the patient remains in a comatose sUte, but, when roused, will give you (until towards the ten- last! lational answers to such questions as niav be put t6 him. inese, then, are the ordinary symptoms of inflammation of the brain, arising from wounds of that organ. 1 j ^ inflammation should terminate in suppuration, I have already shown you in a former lecture where the matter would be situated, viz., between the dura mater and skull (thisrarelv happens), pia mater and tunica arachuoides, pia mater and surface of the brain, and, lastly, in the substance of the brain itself. hmi pus is situated between the dura mater and skull, trephining for its removal would be attended with com- plete SUCCC.SS ; but the chances of finding it there are against )ou, as It is geneially situated between the pia mater and sur- face of the brain, for which an operation would prove worse than useless. Another situation in the head where matter has been found is, in the longitudinal sinus of the dura mater. This woman^ (holding up a preparation), seventeen months before she died, fell down stairs, and her head went in violent contact against a chest, by which she became stunned : for some time after the fall, matter was discharged from one of her ears ; this at length ceased, and, to all appearance, she was entirely well. The pain, however, again returned with evident symptoms of compression ; and sixteen months after the ac- cident she was admitted into this hospital. After some reme- dies had been fruitlessly tried, and she bad been here for a short time, it was tliought advi.sable to try the trephine; the operation w’as unsuccessful, and four days afterwards she died. Upon examination it was found that there was a small quantity of pus embedded in the longitudinal sinus, as vou here see it (exhibiting the prejiaration). This is the only example of the kind which 1 have witnessed. 'J'he next part in which matter is situated is between the tunica arachnoides and [lia mater, or between the pia mater and brain itself. ’I bis last is of most common occurrence, and in this case the matter is diffused over the hemispheres of