()Q4> FRACTURES OF THE THIGH BONE. time, pass a napkin under the upper part of the thigh, whilst an assistant, resting one hand on the pelvis, lifts the head of the bone over the pubes and edge of the acetabulum. From what I have had an opportunity of ob.serving on the ■subject of dislocations, 1 think that the relative proportion of cases will be as follows:—Now, if I take the number as twenty, there will be twelve on the dorsum ilii, five in the ischiatic notch, two in the foramen ovale, and one on the pubes. From the frequency of the occurrence of these acci- dents, it is astonishing that they should have escaped the ob- servation of surgeons of former times, and these, too, of some eminence in the profession. Is it not gratifying, on the other hand, to contrast the present state of information in the pro- fession with what it was about fifty years ago .’ What should we think of a surgeon in this metropolis, with all the oppor- tunities of seeing diseases in the large hospitals of this citv, who doubted the existence of a dislocation of the thigh, when we find that surgeons in the country are able immediately to detect these injuries, and generally succeed in reducing them Let us never forget, however, that it is to the knowledge of anatomy that we are indebted to this superiority, to the study of which we cannot devote too much attention, and to acquire an intimate knowledge of which we should consider no sa- crifice too great, if we wish to establish our reputation as surgeons, or humanely to discharge our duties to mankind.— (Repeated and loug continued applause.) Before I proceed to describe the other dislocations,, I shall speak of the Fractures which happen at the upper part of the Thigh Done. It is not only necessary, accurately, to distinsaiish these accidents from dislocations, with which they might be con- founded, but also from each other. Three distinct species of fracture, very different in their nature and result, have been described under the indiscriminate name of fracture through the neck of the thigh-bone. It is my wish to draw deduc- tions from facts ; differences of opinion avail nothing in the advancement of science, unless we can appeal to facts for their support. What I shall say to you on this point will be the result of my observations on persons who have been the subjects of these accidents, of numerous examinations of the dead body, and of my experiments on the lower order of ani- mals. These accidents are much more frequent than dislo- cations ; for whilst, on an average, we have only two disloca- tions in the year, our wards are seldom without an example of fracture of the upper part of the thigh-bone. These frac- tures arc three in number : First, where it happens through