290 ON EXTRACTIOiV OF THE CATARACT, hesitate to use the scissors, in order to make it large enoueh to admit the passage of the cataract. 'Hie second untoward circumstance to which I shall advert is, the premature escape of the aqueous humour, either from the unsteadiness of the operator, or from some defect in the knife. On the escape of the aqueous humour, the iris loses its support, and becomes prolapsed. When this happens, the way of preventing any mis- chief will be, not to continue the incision, but to rub the cor- nea with the point of your finger, by which the prolapsed iris will be stimulated to contract; and’on-this being removed out of the way, you may complete the incision- Tliis is the exp>e- dieut recommended by Wenzel and Ware, and it answers the purpose extremely tvell. The third unfortunate circumstance which sometimes occurs is the loss of a portion of the titreons humour, arising from some undue pressure on the globe of the eye by the operator or assistant, or from some spasm of the inuscies of the eye, though the last cause seldom happens. Another way in which this accident sometimes occurs, is when the needle is injudiciously used too near the circumference of the lens, and the capsule of the vitreous humour is tom through ; so that when you make pressure on the globe, in- stead of the cataract coming forward, a large portion of vitre- ous humour is protruded. In this case you should not attempt to force out the cataract; hut you should endeavour to en- tangle it as much as possible, so b to prevent the escape of the vitreous humour. The loss of the vitreous humour is .‘some- times occasioned by the use of the curette, in consequence of the instrument passing through the back layer of the capsule. The curette .should never be used when the pupil is at all ob- .scured; the field of the pupil should be perfectly distinct when you resort to that instniinent. The loss of a small por- tion of vitreous humour does not essentially interfere with the success of the operation; indeed, it has been said, and perhaps justly, that the loss of a small portion is rather bene- ficial than otherwise. It would be an extremely dangemus experiment, however, to endeavour to force out only a certain (luantity. The loss of a portion of this humour should not prevent vou from completing the operation in the best possible wav, by'removing all tbe loose fragments of the opaque lens, ami the different portions of opaque membrane or capsu.e. Anotber unfortunate circumstance which sometimes happens, is the introduction of the cornea knife between the lainellse of the cornea; the conseipience of which will be. that the .‘icetion of the cornea will be very small and impcrtcct. •'(/here are various otber circumstances which may intertere with the success of this operation, which I shall not detain