DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. 581 mistakeu for dislocation. This arises from constitutional weakness ; the arch of the rib is diminished, the sides flat- tened, and tlierefore the extremity of the ribs with the car- tilages thrust forward. It is generally the result of rickets. Very rarely a cartilage may be torn from its connexion with the sternal end of the rib, and projects over its surface. The same treatment would be necessary as in fracture of the ribs. Desire tlie patient to make a deep inspiration, then depress the projecting cartilage, put a wetted pasteboard splint upon tlie part, and apply a flannel roller over it. Of Dislocations of the Clavicle. Tlie sternal end of the clavicle is dislocated in two direc- tions, forwards and backwards ; most frequently forwards, when it is thrown upon the fore and upper part of the ster- num. This accident may be readily distinguished by the swell- ing seen on the upper part of the sternum ; and, if the fingers be carried upon the surface of the sternum upwards, this pro- jection stops them ; but, if there be any doubt about it, place your knee against the spine, draw the shoulders backwards, and the clavicle sinks into its natural situation ; but imme- diately you uncover the extension, the swelling again pro- trudes. If the shoulder be elevated the projection Tlescends, if the shoulder be drawn downwards the extremity of the clavicle passes upwards towards the neck. The motions of the clavicle are painful, and those of the shoulder performed with difficulty. In a thin person, you see immediately the nature of the accident; but in a stout person it is sometimes difficult. The reduction is easily effected in the way just pointed out ; apply the clavicular bandage. The arm does not require to be supported. The second dislocation is back- wards, behind the sternum : this is a very rare dislocation. 1 have never seen a case of if arising from injuiy, but it has happened from great deformity of the spine, which advanced the scapula, and did not leave sufficient room for the clayicle between the scapula and sternum, and it gradually glided be- hind the sternum ; and the pressure of the end of the bone was so great on the cesophagus as to require its removal. It dws not produce much difficulty of breathing, because the trachea is pushed to the other side; but the oesophagus is compre.ssed, and produces great difficulty of swallowing. When it arises from deformity of the spine, there is no mode of reducing it. In the case just mentioned, the clavicle was sawn through about one inch from the sternum, by Mr. Davis, late of Bungay, in .Suffolk, and very carefully dissected out. 'I his was a very bold operation, but it succeeded per- fectly. None but an excellent anatomist would have dared