ON SCROFULA. 553 found that it was. In the latter part of the spring and autumn, the sea coast is desirable, but in cold weather it is not. The bleakness of the air of the sea shore is unfavourable to the constitutions of children tainted with scrofulous complaints. Air, exercise and nourishment are the three great points to be kept in view in tlie treatment of scrofulous affections. But what—you will say—nothing about medicine ? Gentle- men, you may lay it down as an axiom, that there is no spe- cific for the cure of scrofula; and he who says that there is, attempts to gull mankind by the assertion of what is not true. Medicines, occasionally given with a view to improve the di- gestive powers, and regulate the secretions, are good, but attention to the three points I have just mentioned, are of primary importance. 1 will mention to you what are the best; once a week, or every ten days, two grains of calomel and eight of rhubarb, in order to restore the secretions. This relieves scrofulous inflammation, on the same principle as all other inflammations are relieved. A good medicine to be given daily, for a short time, is the rhubarb and steel; two grains of rhubarb, and from three to five of the carbonate of iron. This is a very good tonic. Another good tonic consists of two grains of rhubarb, and from four to six grains of dried sub- carbonate of soda, with ten grains of calumba, which may be taken mixed with sugar, a form that seldom disagrees with the patient. These means will greatly assist the powers of digestion. One of the remedies which we use in the other hospital (Guy’s) is infusion of camomile flowers, with a few grains of hydrargyrus cum creta, at bed time; or the oxy- murias hydrargyri, in the proportion of a grain to two ounces of the tincture of bark ; a tea spoonful of which should be taken twice a-day in a glass of the camomile infusion. If the bowels are costive, tincture of rhubarb should be substituted for the tincture of bark. The liquor potassse is a medicine also used. These different medicines medical men use in different ways ; those I employ are the steel, with rhubarb and calomel, or the subcarbonate of soda with rhubarb and calumba. A great deal of care should be taken of children originally formed weakly ; you should excite no feverish ac- tion on the one hand, nor do any thing to debilitate the con- stitution on the other. These are the Scylla and Charybdis which we must avoid ; that of exciting fever on the one hand, and debility on the other; and recollect, above all, the three principles of treatment which I have so often laid down. Children should be well clothed, and never exposed to changes of temperature. For this purpose they should wear flannel close to the skin ; and, in this case, it should be worn also