636 ON BURNS AND SCALDS. there is iu the cuticle to break. A little opium should hW, be given to allay the irritability. But when the second effect I have spoken of is produced, when the burn is severe enough to separate the cuticle from the surface of the body, the most violent symptoms arise ; a.s when a person falls into boiling water or’wort. The expo- sure of so large a quantity of cutis produces a great constitu- tional effort in the re-action that take.s place; but sometimes a person dies from the shock made on the nervous system, without any re-action having taken place. A child spilt some tea, which ran over his chest and abdomen, and he died in three days ; therefore, the desquamation of the cuticle is the worst form of injury, from leaving the cutis unprotected. 'I'he spirits of turpentine is the best application in this form of burn; as the object is to excite a speedy re-action ; and if you apply evaporating lotions, re-action can never take place. Lime-water and oil, and lime-water and milk, have been com- monly used; but the spirits of turpentine is the best appli- cation. Where the constitution is irritable, and it gives violent pain, dilute it with oil, or with the oil and lime-water, and I think it would then form a very good application. Give opium and loine as long as the chilly state continues ; but as soon as the heat is developed, and the pulse has recovered its power, do not continue it any longer, but employ other means to reduce the inflammation when necessarj-. Turpentine does not succeed where the scald is produced by hydrogen, or carbonated hydrogen gas, so well in London as in the country. The third state is where the life of the skin is destroyed to a great extent. There is no immediate danger, for the con- stitution does not suffer in the first instance. The danger is to be apprehended when the sphacelated part begins to sepa- rate. 'I'he absorbents act briskly, and a great discharge fol- lows ihe separation of the part. Fomentations and poultices are most useful iu these cases, as the turpentine cannot act on the dead surfaces. It is necessary to give wine and opium, as in the former case, during the chilly state. The treatment is just the same indeed, as in a case of common gangrene ; and toward the end, when the process of suppuration is com- mencing, you may give wine and opium, or ammonia, to support the constitution. 'fhese cases produce the most remarkable deformities. These are not unfrequcntly the result of the surgeon's treat- ment, as they occur in a great measure after the cicatriration has ben comi>lcted. They are owing to the natural tendency which there is iu the eicatrix to contract. 'I'he wounds often