FOLLOWED BY INFLAMMATION. 13D the brain, in tlie same manner, as I mentioned to you the other' evening, that blood is when extravasated on that organ. When the matter is between the pia mater and brain, it'will be of no use to operate, as very little will be discharged, there being no communication between one part and another; for the matter is contained within distinct cells, bet ween the ves- sels which come from the pia mater to the brain. The next situation in which matter is found is in the substance of the brain itself. Here are specimens (pointing to some on the table), in one of which matter was lodged in the anterior lobe of the cerebrum, the other in the cerebcllnin ; in fact, it is lodged in various parts, and the only cii cnmstance very'curious in this complaint is, that you would not suppose, from the symptoms, that matter was forming; they are those of com- pression rather than irritation. If the membranes of the brain be attacked with violent inflammation, symptoms of irritation will be present; but if the brain itself, they vvill be those of compression; atid the circumstance which surprises a person who examines the brain of an individnal in which matter has been formed is, that so little constitutional irritation existed during its formation : it is in inflammation of the membranes, and not of the brain itself, in which great irritation is present. Here is a curious specimen (pointing to one before him), taken from a child that 1 had under my care, and on whom I performed the operation of trephining ; 1 will give you the history of the case ; A young child was ])laying in a yard where there were some fowls, when it received a wound on the head from the beak of a cock. 'I’he mother, hearing the child shriek, ran to the spot, and found that there was a small wound of the scalj), and thinking that there was no injury to the brain, she bound it up ; but a week afterwards pain in the head came on, together with great constitutional irritation, and the child was brought to me. On examining the head, I found that a circular incision had been made in the bone, and that matter issued through the opening. I said to the mother. If the child is not better by to-morrow, bring it to me again, and 1 will allow a more free opening for the matter to dis- charge itself. The next day the child was brought to my hou.se, and I performed the operation of trephining, when 1 found there was an opening in the dura mater and |)ia mater, corresponding to that of the hone; the symptoms of irrita- tion were relieved by the operation, those of compression, how- ever,came on, and in three days from the time it was per- formed, the child died. On examining the part after death, 1 found that there was a circular incision in the dura mater,