ON CALCULI IN THE BLADDER. 314 tractcd if the high operation had been performed ; it weighed forty-four ounces, and a slight addition, how many grains or drachms f am not exactly sure. LECTURE XXXIX. In the last evening’s lecture, gentlemen, I began to describe to you the subject of the formation of calculi, the different species of calculi, and the symptoms which attend them. I shall now proceed with this subject, 'fhe pain which a pa- tient experiences from stone in the bladder is by no means in proportion to its bulk. It is not exactly in the inverse ratio to its magnitude, but still it approaches that inverse ratio. When a stone becomes excessively large, the patient generally loses the power of retaining his urine, and the distillation of urine from the bladder prevents that contraction of it which occasions so much pain to the patient in discharging the last drops of it. Doctor Fianklin, the celebrated American phi- losopher, who died of this disease, suffered excessively for a number of years from it, but at last, when the stone acquired considerable magnitude, he experienced but little pain. The pain does not so much depend on the form of the stone as on the general irritability of the patient, and especially on irri- tability of the bladder. Thus you will sometimes in perform- ing the operation find a stone excessively pointed, where the patient complains of hut trifling symptoms ; and, on the other hand, when the stone is perfectly smooth, the patient suffers extreme pain. The pain, therefore, depends more on the irri- tability of the bladder and the constitution of the patient, than on the form or surface of the stone; ccsteris paribus, how- ever, rough stones will give the greatest degree of pain. There are four different kinds of calculi, when chemically examined. A very nice examination may lead to further dis- coveries on this subject; but at present we are only acquainted with four species. The first is the uric acid, which is a com- mon, but not the most common form of calculus. The second is the triple phosphate, or ammoniaco-magnesian phosph.ate; the third species is tlie mulberry, or o.xalate of lime, an ex- cellent specimen of wbich occurred the other day in the boy at the other hospital. The other species was lately discovered by Dr. Wollaston, a most admirable chemist, and one of the first philosophers of the age, who developes every subject to whici) he applies his active and powerful mind, with ;in ex- traordinary degree of minuteness and accuracy. In c.xamin-