ON THE CURE OF ANEURISM. 163 mind to this subject. He said, “I have frequently tied the femoral artery iu animals, without injury ; why should not I put a ligature on the artery, in the same way, in tlie human subject ?” It is right, however, to observe, that Mr. Hunter was led to this train of thought by having under his care a case of popli- teal aneurism, of such extent as to have reached the tendon of the triceps, so that there was no room for the application of a ligature between the aneurismal sac and the tendon. He determined, therefore, to make the experiment of tying the femoral artery, rather than amputate the limb. The first ope- ration was not, as might be expected, performed in the very best manuer. He was not content with a single ligature, but applied several, which were left hanging out of the wound, aud which were afterwards discharged by a process of ulcera- tion. \'et under all these disadvantages, the jjatieut recovered, and lived rather more than twelve months after the operation. On dissection, it was found that the femoral artery was oblite- rated as far as tlie arteria profunda. Since Air. Hunter's time, several slight alterations have been made in the opera- tion for popliteal aneurism, as every surgeon has his vvliiin ; but the principle established by Mr. Hunter remains the same, and that great surgeon has the undoubted merit of having substituted a simple and beautiful operation for one of very considerable difficulty and danger. 1 shall proceed to point out to you the several steps of the operation for tying the femo- ral artery in cases of popliteal aneurism. Mr. Hunter used to make the incision in the middle of the thigh, but experience has shown that it is better to make it one-third of the space downwards from the ilium to the internal condyle of the 03 femoris, because the artery is more dee|)ly seated in tlie middle of the thigh than it is higher up; and there arc, be- sides many anastomosing vessels in the former situation. There are four .steps in tliis operation : first, an incision through the skin, which lays bare the .sartorius muscle ; secondly, the division is to be continued along the inner edge of the sarto- riu3, exposing the sheath of the femoral artery ; thirdly, the incision through the sheath ; and fourthly, the putting of the ligature round the vessel. I now make the incision, about four inches in length—[the learned professor proceeded to perform the operation on the dead subject]—which completely exposes the sartorius muscle; 1 then separate its inner edge fiom the [larts with which it is in contact ; this lays bare the sheath, and I now find the femoral artery and the vein ex- posed. 1 here is a little septum between the artery and the vein, which you should take care to observe. Introduce the