ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION—APPEARANCES. 47 tlier he thought it conta'.iieil the hall; to which he replietl, no : upon cutting on it, however, I foiiiul it was the ball by which he hail been woniuleil some years before. It had tra- velled beneath the zygoma to the middle of the cheek, on the surface of the parotid gland, from whence I removed it. Per- haps it was assisted in its course by the action of the temporal muscle. I saw a boy, who had been attending a target at which some volunteers had been firing ; he thought himself safe at a distance of thirteen yards ; he was mistaken, how- ever, for one of them shot him in the collar-bone. Some mouths after, he came to Guy’s Hospital, and I removed the ball from about the middle of the upper arm. Thus the ball, by its weight and pressure, had occasioned suppuration and ulceration, which had enabled it to travel to the situation from whence 1 e.xtracted it. Another very important use of adhesive infiammation is that of its dividing cavities into distinct parts, byjwhich means it fixes a boundary to the suppurative process ; thus it will divide the cavity of the abdomen into two, by throwing out adhesive matter on the surface of the colon, by wdiich it be- comes glued to the peritoneum. In abscesses, a cyst is formed by the adhesive process round the matter, which prevents its escape into the surrounding cellular tissue. The advantage of adhesive inflammation is admirably shown in wounds of the joints. Immediately on the knee joint being opened, the synovia escapes, the person feels faint, looks pale, and the constitution appears to have received a severe shock. The wound endangers the loss of the limb and tlie patient’s life, if bad treatment be adopted. If a poultice be applied to such a wound, or fomentations used, a suppurative inllamma- tion will take place on the synovial surlaces ; the cartilages become absorbed, and the bones ulcerated ; a profuse discharge ensues, the constitution becomes extremely irritated ; chills, succeeded by burning heat and profuse pers|)irations, fre- quently follow each other, and a person, just belore in good health, is precipitated into a state of extreme debility. Some- times the joint, after weeks, or even months have elajised, gradually heals by granulation, with its motion either entirely gone or greatly impeded. If, on the contrary, the practitioner brings the edges of the wound immediately together, and attempts union hy the first inteniioii, the patient generally escapes from local or consti- tutional irritation. 'I'he edges of the wound should be brought together hy a fine suture—a |dan, to whii h .-ome surgeons object; but when the wound is direct into the joint, it afloids an additional security to the patient, as the escape of the sy