counter-irritation in inflammation. o9 circulation of the part, and producing absorption by the fol- lowiuit methods ;— ... •<■.,11 Pressure has the power of exciting the action ot the ah- sorhents in an extraordinary degree ; and you may produce it either liy the use of roller.s or strapping.^ Electricity, too, is attended with .similar effects : it acts stronelv on the absorbent system. .Mercury, likewise, does the same ; and, speaking generally, more decidedly so than either of the other remedies I have mentioned. When a man dies in our foul wards, for example, m a state of salivation, we find that the alveolar processes which con- tained the teeth have been in a great measure absorbed. Friction has of late years, got into great repute, for the cure of indurated and stiffened joints, occasioned by inflam- mation ; it was first recommended by the late Mr. Grosvenor, of Oxford, a man of strong mind, and who possessed a great share of common sense. Tliis remedy was his hobby ; and, like all other hobbies, it occasionally carried its rider into the mire; for Mr. Grosvenor sometimes would recommend fric- tion before the acute inflamniation had terminated, conse- (luentlv it was productive of mischief rather than benefit; in many 'in.stances, however, where judiciously employed, the most beneficial results have been obtained. Case.—-A gentleman in the neighbourhood of Nottingham, when shooting, received a severe injury to his knee ; after the violence of the first intlainmatory symptoms had terminated, there remained considerable swelling, .stiffness, and indura- tion ; for these he was attended by Mr. Attenhoroimh, an eminent surgeon, of Nottingham ; as the gentleman did not get better, Mr. .Attenborough scnthim to town, and herehe for some time continued under my care and that of a physician ; still the joint remained in the .same state, and the means used were inadequate to afford relief. 1 advised him to go to Oxford, and consult Mr. Grosvenor. This he did; and as soon a,s .Mr. Grosvenor saw him, and heard that his limb had been kept quiet, he told him to walk to the bottom of Cbrist Church .Meadow, and then return and dine, which he really did. Friction was used in this case with the greatest success, for, within six weeks after he went to Oxford, he called upon jiie in town, (juite recovered, and thanked me for recommend- ing him to Mr. Grosvenor. Friction accelerates circulation and absorption ; and the way in which Mr. Grosvenor recommended it to be done was, by applying both hands to the joints, at the same time alter- nately moving them up and down.