484 INFLAMMATION OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. Wheu you introduce a catheter into the bladder of a patient having chronic enlargement of the prostate, you will find the urine of a very high colour, and of an exceedingly offensive smell. Well, then, such are the symptoms which accompany this kind of enlargement of the prostate gland ; at least, they are such as I Witness. Upon dissection of those who have died of this disease (and, without dissection, we know nothing at all of the matter), the prostate is found enlarged sometimes laterally, but most frequently the enlargement is in the }>os- terior part, situated in the middle, or third lobe. Well, a= the prostate enlarges, it is pushed forward; in consequence of which the urethra becomes curved immediately before the apex of the prostate; indeed, the coming forward of the prostate causes the urethra almost to double upon itself; the curve thus formed, is at the symphysis pubis ; and it is in this situation that the difficulty on passing the catheter in diseased prostate is found. Tracing on the course of the urethra, be- hind the curved part, that canal is seen much enlarged; the next thing we notice is, that the urethra itself is considerably elongated, that is, from an inch and a half to two inches'; which increase of length is behind the pubes, and it is owing to this circumstance that you are under the necessity of carry- ing on the catheter so great a distance after its point has passed the arch of the pubes. Well, then, as to the prostate itself, we find that it may increase to a most enormous size laterally, without giving rise to retention of urine. But that enlargement which occurs posteriorly in the third lobe (and which you have an opportunity of observing in the preparation now passing round the theatre), frequently occasions reten- tion of urine, for the enlargement is situated immediately be- hind the orifice of the urethra ; thus the urine collects behind the swelling, presses it upon the mouth of the urethra, and forms a complete barrier to its passage. It is of great import- ance for you to understand this ; indeed, a correct knowledge of the morbid anatomy of the parts is altogether of conse- quence, because, if you have not this information, you would find the greatest difficulty in the introduction of the catheter; whereas, if you possess it, there will be no difficulty at all. and tbe urine may be drawn off with tlic greatc.st facility. It was owing to the imperfect knowledge of the anatomy of these parts that retention of urine formerly proved so often fatal, which occurrence is now very, very rare ; the reason is, that within the last forty years frequent dissections hare causeii these diseases to be well understood, and an improved mode of treatment has been the result. Well, then, although th< enlargement of the middle lobe of the prostate will give ris ;