OVARIAN OR ENCYSTED DROPSY. 383 which will illustrate the influence, or rather the want of in- fluence, of mercury, in ovarian dropsy :—Dr. Baillie and my- self once met in consultation on the case of a lady who had for some time been afflicted with ovarian dropsy, and who had taken such quantities of mercury as to occasion a sloughing of the gums, the insides of the cheeks ; and to excite so great a degree of adhesive inflammation, as caused her lower jaw to become fixed, and she was under the necessity of sucking her nutriment between the teeth ; this proved what power mer- curj- had over the disease. At this consultation I mentioned to Dr. Baillie my astonishment, that after so many cases of a sirnilar description as the one we were then seeing, that prac- titionei s should persist in asserting that mercury would pro- duce an absorption of the water of ovarian dropsy. I asked Dr. Baillie if he had ever seen any benefit result irom the em- ployment of medicine in this complaint; and with that can- dour which is the strongest proof of an honourable mind, he answered, “ Not in my life-time.” 1 do not wish, gentlemen, to deter you from the trial of medicine ; but I am fully satisfied, after yon have done so, you will agree with me that it does not possess the least power of occasioning a diminution of the water of encysted dropsy, and the reason of its being thus powerless is the deficiencr of ab- sorbents attached to the cyst; if you were to see a cyst inject- ed for the purpose of exhibiting the absorbents, you would at once see the insuperable difficulty which is opposed to the suc- cessful medical treatment of this complaint. Now if the cyst should burst, aud the water escape into the cavity of the ab- domen, you know, in some instances, that in three days it has been absorbed, and passed away by urine and by the in- testines. .Again, in ascites, we know' that elaterium has, in a very short time, produced a complete ab.sorption of the water but in ovarian dropsy no such effect has ever been known’ Who would have supposed, upon looking at the peritoneum that It was a better absorbent surface than the ovarian cyst- and who would have imagined th.at squills, digitalis, or elate- nu^m, would have had a greater effect upon one than upon the other; yet the fact is well known, and the cause of it clearly Mcertamed by anatomical inquiry; on one are found absor- bents thmkiy distributed, while on the other they are scarcely perceptible. •’ When a person consults you, having ovarian drop.sy, you s ouM direct a belt to be applied tightly round the abdomen, t ir the purpose of producing such a degree of iiressure as will fflminish the tendency to enlargement; for if a person leads a dentary life, and does not employ pressure, you will soon