ON POISONS. 457 ed upon by certain medicines, to the exclusion of otlier parts. Thus, if ipecaciiaiiha be injected into the veins, it still acts by producing vomitius ; if arsenic be injected, it produces vo- miting and inflainuiation of the stomach ; introduced in this way, it destroys life in three or four hours, and if in large doses, it will sometimes prove fatal iu twenty minutes. It oxymuriate of mercury be injected into the veins, it produces the destruction of life hy inflaramation, not only of the sto- mach, but of the intestines ; when received into the stomach, it acts both on the stomach and intestine; and when injected into the veins, it acts equally on both. Arsenic produces_in- dammation of the stomach only, and not of the intestinal canal. Tartrite of antimony and ipecacuanha both produce vomiting, when injected into the veins. It appears, therefore, that you can only influence certain parts of tlie body, by par- ticular medicines, in w'hatever way those medicines may be introduced into the circulation. Certain substances have uni- formly specific effects on particular parts of the body; thus cantharides act on the neck of the bladder, aloes on the rec turn, and other medicines, which we are in the habit of using, have an influence on one part of the body, to the exclusion ot all the rest. This subject is well deserving of attention ; it has been but little investigated, and affords an ample field for research and useful discovery. The oxymuriate of mercury is often used for the purpose of destroying life; it produces vo- miting and purging, great depression of strength, coldness of the extremities, and death frequently ensues in the course of a few hours. With respect to the means which should be employed with a view of removing the oxymuriate of mer- cury from the stomach, 1 will tell you what I believe to be the best remedy to re.«ort to at the moment, for it will often hap- pen that you cannot obtain the best chemical preparations foi' that purpose. It is well known that the carbonate of potash or soda decomposes this substance. What I should advise you to do, therefore, would be to mix a quantity of soap with warm water, and, making it as thick a lather as you can, give it in large quantities to the patient. I have myself tried this remedy, and my patient recovered, whether post hoc or prop- ter hoc, I will tiot decide; but my belief is, that 1 could not have administered a better remedy than that which suggest- ed itself to me on the sudden, if I had been in Apothecaries’ Hall. The alkali of the soap immediately decomposes the oxymuriate of mercury, while the greasy matter sheaths the stomach, and checks the further influence of any portion of the substance which might remain. This, therefore, appears to be the best extemporaneous remedy you can employ in such