7 ON IRRITATION. from the true path to eminence by the idle and unthinking : for, I ask them, how tliey can, on their return home, look their friends in the face, if they hare neglected their duties ? Hut, on the other liand, should they conduct themselves with good sense, and apply with diligence to their studies, they will receive their just reward. I have probably known ten thousand members of the fa- culty in the course of my professional life, to v.'hose partiality I attribute ray successful progress, more than to any merit of my own : and I should be wanting in gratitude if I did not acknowledge it. I have observed that well directed assiduity will surmount all difficulties ; you should not be deterred in your efforts, even by poverty, for it is a greht stimulus to ex- ertion, and to regularity of life ; all, however, will not be equally studious, for some will be fluttering in the boxes of another theatre, or come here only to interrupt their more steady fellow-students. But I will not suffer it as long as I have the honour of lecturing in this establishment: no man shall interrupt another with impunity. Perhaps some who are fashionably dressed may think projjcr to look down with a feeling of contempt upon the students whose attire is |)lain and more modest; but should such a feeling exist, 1 would advise such persons to pause a while, and consider what it is that makes one man superior to another in this profession. When they commence their career of public life, the plain, industrious, intelligent young man goes slowly but steadily in the right track of his profession, and rises to respectability, perhaps even to a high rank ; on the other hand, the fashion- able lounger, who neglects to improve himself, finds his want of knowledge and his bad habits ecpially retard him ; instead of rising, he sinks lower ; his friends disappear, and at last he falls into obscurity, reduced to a pitiable state, blaming and abusing his more fortunate rival. In conclusion, let me say, that if any of you wish to ask ray advice or assistance in any way, I shall be most happy if you will call on me whenever you think proper. I do not say this from ostentation, but I always wish to show the junior niembeis of the profession that I do not forget the friendship I have experienced from their fathers. J.ECTURE J. IruinA'tioN. I'll IS being one of the most important topics in surgery re- (piires to be attentively studied, and its elfects carefully watched, before any one can practise in his |jrofession with credit to himself or advantage to others.