105 Treatment of Gangrene. In the last lecture we defiued gangrene as a partial death ; we described to you the symptoms which attended it, when it was the result of high and active inflammation, and when it was the result of a low degree of heat. , . , • We shall now proceed to consider the treatment which is usually employed to prevent gangrene, and to arrest the slonghiiig process. \ou must endeavour to soothe the paits by the application of leeches, with a view of checking the excess of action, ft generally happens, in cases of gangrene, that the body will not bear any considerable degree of deple- tion ; but local depletion, by means of leeches, may be safely resorted to. Thus, in compound fracture of the leg, for in- stance, gangrene may be prevented by the application of leeches, when it would not be equally safe to take blood trom the arm. Soothing applications, such as poppy fomentations and poppy poultices, should be employed to subdue the exces- sive action which threatens the destruction of the life of the part. It wilt be necessary, at the same time, to attend to the constitutional treatment of the patient. In this metropolis, it is seldom safe to take blood from the arm of patients to pre- vent gangrene. In the country a different practice may be pursued ; and it will frequently be necessary to take away blood in erysipelas, and other cases, in which we cannot and dare not deplete in town, where the constitution of patients is broken by intemperance, or enfeebled by deteriorated air. When you take away blood, however, to prevent gangrene, do not take more than eight or ten ounces, lest the vigour of the circulation, and consequently the nervous powers of the con- stitution, should be too much diminished. Two or three grains of calomel should be given at night, with a view of restoring the defective secretions of the intestinal canal and the liver ; and tlie liquor ammoniaj acetatis, with a few drops of the tincture of opium, should be given several times in the day. liy the calomel you restore the secretions ; and by the opium you tranquillize the system and diminish the irritability which leads to tlie destruction of the life of the parts. Do not begin by stimulating the constitution too much in cases of gangrene. The effect of o|)ium may, in some respects, be similar to that of taking a stimulus into the system, but it is by diminishing excessive action, at the same time that it in- creases the strength of the body, that opium becomes so va-