521 ON SLOUGHING BUBO. opiuna, and the compound decoction of sarsaparilla, will les- sen the irritability of the constitution ; and so far they are useful, but any further than this they ought not to be used. I say, that no surgeon who understood the nature of syphilis, and who had it in his own person, would trust to sarsaparilla for a cure. In fact, I would say, if he did (and you knovv that I use no milk and water expressions), that he was a block- head. So long as I have the honour of addressing you, will I openly state iny opinions to you. I am not come here to listen to the opinions of others, which I knovv to be wrong from the experience of forty years’ practice, nor to be taught by beard- less boys how to treat a disease, of which 1 have seen thou- sands and thousands of cases. The next subject which we shall consider is the Sloughing Bubo. If mercury he continued whilst the bubo is suppurating, as soon as ulceration takes place the sloughing process will fol- low, and extend over a considerable portion of the cellular tissue. Destruction of life in these cases is caused in two modes. Here are two specimens (exhibiting them to the class) taken from persons who died of sloughing bubo. In one, the femoral artery, vein, and sartorius muscle, are laid bare to a considerable extent. The one died from the irrita- tion produced by the sloughing process ; the other from he- morrhage, caused by ulceration of the femoral artery. Thus destruction takes place from two causes, from the extent of the sloughing process, and hemorrhage from the opening of the femoral artery. A person with sloughing bubo died in the hospital, about three years ago, from hemorrhage. In these cxses you generally see that there is something faulty in the constitution, or that the patient has been injudiciously treated -. as to the treatment of sloughing bubo, it is the same as in the sloughing chancre. Abandoment of mercury, ex- hibition of ammonia with opium, and a generous diet, so as to give vigour to tlie constitution, without e.xciting any fe- brile action; that is the constitutional plan of treatment which you should employ, and the local treatment paincipally consists in the application of the nitric acid wash, about fifty drops of the acid to a quart of water. It sometimes happens when the gland suppurates, and the sloughing process is go- ing on, that secondary symptoms appear ; it is not right to give mercury in con.sequence of their appearance, but you or- der the patient to take the compound decoction of sarsapa- rilla. When the sloughing process is stopped, and the wound is well, give mercury if the secondary symptoms remain ; then, and not till then, ought you to attempt the cure of the dis-