ON POISONS. 452 A student of this hospital, who made a number of experi- ments to ascertain the effects of opium, found tliat when Lt took it in considerable doses, his pulse rose from 75 to 8b, and then began to decline till it fell to 65. Opium, when taken in considerable quantities, after a time puts a stop to all the secretions ; the semen is secreted in very small quantities, and in some cases it is scarcely secreted at all. A married man, who took opium very freely, declared to me, that, though he slept very regularly vvith his wife, it was rather a matter of ceremony than of practical duty, for he never felt the slightest disposition to sexual intercourse. I knew a man who had during two years taken very large quantities of ojiium for pains in his bowels, who also declared to me, that he never had the least inclination for amatory indulgence. The nenes are rendered highly irritable by opium. A gentleman, who was in the habit of taking opium, came into my room, where the w'indow was not quite fastened, and the wind whistled a little behind it. After chatting for a .short time, he rose in a state of violent agitation, and rushing to the window, exclaimed, “I can bear it no longer; this d d iEolian harp will distract me.” This irritable state of the nerves, produced by opium, is relieved by a fresh dose; it becomes absolutely necessary to the patient, and the nenons- ness produced by the opium of yesterday is relieved by the opium of to-day. The largest quantity of opium 1 have ever known taken, was swallowed by a pupil in this hospital. He sent for half a pint of the tincture of opium, for which he wrote a prescription. The chemist had not quite half a pint, but he sent somewhat more than seven ounces. Of this qnan- lity the pupil took so much, that not more than a tea-spoonful was left in the phial : he must have taken, therefore, about six ounces and six drachms. As this young man was a dresser of mine, I felt particularly anxious about him; and, being informed, during lecture, that he had taken laudanum to destroy himself, I immediately went to the bouse of Mr. Phillips, the surgeon, in Union-street, where he wa.« lodging. They were very properly walking him to and fro, and a (jean- tity of the flour of mustard in water had been given to biro, with a view of producing vomiting, but without success. I ordered him a large dose of the sulphate of zinc; but this did not produce vomiting, though it occasioned irritation in the throat. I directed the sulphate of zinc to be repeated ; and on quitting the bouse 1 met Dr. iVIarcet, my colleague at Guv’s, to whom 1 communicated the circumstances. Dr. Marcct immcdi.'itely said, “ Pray give him fifteen grains of the sulphate of copper.” \Ve save him this qu.'intity of the