198 ox IIERXIA. guiahed from the next kind by its oblique course, wliich I 'l:all mention' to you. The second kind is the direct insuinal liemia ; in tliis case, the hernia docs not follow the cour.'^e of the inguinal canal, but comes out directly through the exter- nal abdominal ring, and pushes before it the fascia transver- •salis ; if there be any obliquity of the hernia, it will l>e towards the liiiea alba ; thus you readily distinguish the one from the other ; in the one case the hernia will be oblique, in the other directly forwards ; should it be slightly oblique, it will be in- clined towards the navel ; therefore, this kind of hernia is called direct Jnguinal hernia. Well, then, there is the hernia in which the intestine pro- trudes into ,the tunica vaginalis, called the congenital hernia ; the tunica vaginalis remains unclosed in some persons after birth, and then this hernia occurs ; now you must not think that this hernia is only to be found in children, 1 have met with it in a person thirty years of age ; I have known hernia of the tunica vaginalis take place only four days previous to an operation being performed for it, and this in a man of thirty years of age. Tliere is a hernia which is found in a cyst in the tunica vaginalis ; the encysted hernia ; the cyst is formed in a curi- ous way; here is a sjjecimen (pointing to one on the table of this kind of hernia. MTll, then, gentlemen, if asked what are the different kinds of inguinal hernia, you would answer—first, the oblique, tak- ing the course of the spermatic cord. Secondly, the direct, protruding directly out of the abdomen through the external abdominal ring. Thirdly, the congenital hernia, the hernia in contact with the testicle, or rather within the tunica vaci- nalis. Fourthly, the encysted hernia of the tunica vaginalis, funned w'ithin that coat. Of inguinal hernia, the ohli(iue is the most frequent and with respect to the others they are of less common occurrence. Oblique Inguin.al Hekma. As the hernia takes the course of the spermatic cord, it may not be amiss to recall to your minds the direction which the cord takes, though I trust there is not one present w ho is ignorant of it; if there should be, this kind of hernia will not be understood by him. The spermatic cord emerges, then, from the abdomen, midway between the spine of the ilium and pubes ; and in this ]iart it will be found just opposite to the iliac artery ; a hernia jtrolruding through the opening where the spermatic cord comes out, carries the peritoneum with it, and a covering of the fascia transvcrsalis, and when you dis- sect it, instead of finding peritoneum, what do you meet with