ON RACHITIS. 569 Ululated, but from the irritation produced by the attempts of nature to close the abscess, and till the cavity by the process ot adhesion. Four days after the abscess is opened, violent symptoms of constitutional irritation are apt to come on, such as great depression of strength, loss of appetite, and the pa- tient is soon reduced to the lowest extremity. It is extremely desirable to prevent the occurrence of these symptoms ; and the plan of Mr. Abernethy is the best that has ever been sug- gested by any surgeon, with a view of preventing them. You are to make the opening obliquely, apply a bandage, which is fastened round the abdomen, and endeavour to bring the sides of the abscess as close together as possible, in order to pro- mote the process of adhesion. If ulceration should take place, the matter will be in this way discharged, and all you can do is to support the efforts of nature. I have frequently seen patients recover from this disease. I advise you to use all the means which 1 recommended in the first lecture on Scrofula, for the purpose of improving the general health of the pa- tient. A considerable degree of rest should be enjoined ; all exercise is injurious in this disease. Blisters are sometimes placed on the spine, and issues opposite the seat of the disease, but I am not sure that external irritation is of any consider- able advantage. I have, however, seen benefit from injecting the abscess ; the injection usually employed is the sulphate of zinc, or aluraen. It promotes the adhesive process in the interior of the abscess, glues its sides together, and lessens the purulent secretion. Rachitis. I shall conclude this lecture with a few observations on the disea.se produced by debility of the vascular system, which is commonly called rickets. It first manifests itself in disease of the mesenteric glands ; the abdomen is increased in size, the head is considerably enlarged, and out of proportion to the rest of the body, so that the disease is often mistaken for hydrocephalus. This arises from the softened state of the bones, which are incapable of supporting tlie action of the arteries of the brain, and the head and forehead are conse- quently expanded. The chin is expanded, the sides of the jaw are brought together, and the vvhole of the features are altered, so that, in general, by merely looking at the face of a patient, you may infer from it the state of the spine, and other parts of the body. An alteration takes place in the form of the spine, which has a double curvature, above and below, like the italic .S'. Nature endeavours still to preserve the perpendicular line of the body, by producing a second curvature as soon as one begins, and the equilibrium is main-