ON POISONS. from a subject iu the dissecting-room ; this was exceedingly wrong, such matter ought not to be made use of; and I merely mention this fact to you for the purpose of shewing that the virus, under these circumstances, will produce the disease, and even in its mildest form, for the child of this gentleman did extremely vvell, and had the disease favourably. Now, as to the time when the intluence of vegetable and animal poisons begins to .show itself, there is likewise a very great difference ; the most powerful of the vegetable appear- ing, in many instances, almost immediately (however, in this respect, there is some variety) ; whereas the symptomsarising from morbid poisons are often protracted to very distant pe- riods. In natural sinall-pox the disease generally appears fourteen days after the infection has been received ; in inocu- lated small-pox, about the tenth day ; the cow-pox, the ninth or tenth ; in scarlatina, the seventh day, but 1 have known it show itself on the third day. I knew a lady whose family was exposed to the infection of scarlatina ; the disease appeared in one of her children at the end of three days, in another on the fourth, in another on the fifth, and, in herself, at the end of three weeks or a month. I knew another child in whom the di.sease did not appear until the expiration of seven- teen days. The measles usually appear from seven to fourteen days after infection, but generally about the eighth day ; it is quite right that you should be acquainted with the.se particulars, for parents will think little of you if you are incapable of answer- ing such questions. Well, then, natural small-pox about the fourteenth day; mea-sles from the seventh to the fourteenth ; and scarlatina about the end of a week. If children have imbibed the infection, it is wrong to pre- pare them for the consequences ; for where children are so treated, they are invariably worse. With respect to scarlatina, the less the fever is which attends the di.sease, the gretUer 1 consider the danger to be from the local consequences, after the specific malady has terminated. 1 will now say something of individual poisons. First, 1 must observe that there is a remarkable difference as to the time when the effects of morbid poisons begin to be mani- fested ; in some instances twelve months have been known to elapse after the insertion of the poison, before the symp- toms appeared. Dr. Babington published a case in the Medi- cal Researches, where he stated that the symptoms were not apparent until the three hundred and sixty-fourth day after the insertion of the poison. Even the effects of marsh mias- mata do not, in some instances, show themselves for some