ON FUNGOID DISEASE OF THE TESTICLE. 397 does not return after tlie removal of the scirrhous testicle. This may arise in some measure from the late period at whidi patients usually apply for relief. If the spermatic cord ha.s not become enlarged, you may, by giving the patient alterative medicines for a length of time, succeed sometimes in prevent- ing the return of the disease after the operation : it is, how- ever, au operation which is, in general, even less successful than that for scirrhous tubercles of the breast. I have never performed it after the spermatic cord has become enlarged, because I know that the disease will be sure to return. I Ws once going round the other hospital, when I pointed out a man who had scirrhus of the testicle, with an etilargement of the spermatic cord, and observed that this patient would pro- bably die from the operation if it were performed, and that if he did not, the disease would certainly return. There were some foolish young men pre.sent, however, who thought the man might be saved by the operation, and one more foolish than the rest took a lodging for the man at Pdackheatii, where he performed the operation, from which it is scarcely necessary to add, the man died. If it were not for the com- ])assion which one feels for a patient under such circum- stances, we might be induced to say, that such a result was a proper punishment for his presumption. Presumption geii- tlemeu, is the offspring of folly, the child of ignorance, and it commonly happens that a young n.an, who thinks himself an exceedingly clever fellow, is a particularly egregious block- head. It was observed by one of the greatest philosophers of antiquity, at the close of a life devoted to the acquisition of knowledge—that all he knew was, that he knew nothing - and if we consider the amount of individual acquirement, as com- pared with the knowledge which is either unattainable or which the human faculties have not yet reached, the observa- tion of the philosopher is strictly true. A man of real abilitv mstead of pluming himself on the extent of his acquisition'-^’ will, in proportion as he advances in life, lament that there is’ still so much of which he knows nothing. 'Fo return, how- ever, from this digression, what I advise, gentlemen, i’s that you should never perform the operation of castratio’n "’when you find the spermatic cord affected at the abdominal ri’ng FuNGom Dishase of iiie Tf.stici.e. This disease is much more common than the last: it hecins like the true .scirrhus, in the body of the testicle hut unlike that disease, it almost immediately affects the whole bodv of the te.sticle at its first commencement. In a very short time the epidydiinis becomes affected; next the spennatic cord ■ .ind, in the courte of a very lew weeks, a tumour forms in the