79 ON GRANULATION. to the abdomen, where the bridle may be divided, and tlic joint afterwards straightened ; but where the bridle is broad, as under the chin, no operation will avail. In the formation of cicatrices the original parts may all be reproduced, except two. In the first place, new skin, though differing somewhat in texture and smoothness, is still a sub- stance similar to the original skin. Skin may be defined to be a substance producing rete mucosum and cuticle. Are both produced by the newly-formed skin ? Undoubtedly. 'J’hc cuticle is produced very quickly, and with respect to the rete mucosum, or covering matter of the skin, a little time elapses before it is produced ; but it is produced, as the following fact will show :—The new skin of a Negro does not become white, as in that of Europeans, but is at first red, and after a little time turns blacker than the original skin. I was struek with this in the other hospital, in the case of a Negro, who had been a sailor in a privateer, and had received several wounds in different parts of his body. I observed that the cicatrices were everywhere blacker than the original skin. We may conclude, therefore, that the skin which is reproduced is true skin ; that the cuticle is very quickly reproduced, and the rete mucosum after a short period. The cellular membrane is also reproduced, though it has at first the appearance of a solid fibrous mass, which requires some time before it is drawn into the reticular texture, similar to the original membrane. Tendons are very easily reproduced. If the tendo achillis be divided in an animal, it will be reproduced in about a fortnight or three weeks ; but it will be somewhat larger than the origi- nal tendon. Tlie same thing takes place in the human sub- ject ; as you may see fro?n a specimen in our museum of a tendo achillis which had been reproduced, and which is larger than the original tendon. Every body knows that bones are reproduced ; not only the shell of the bone, but the cancel- lated structure; not only the salt or phosphate of lime, but the cartilaginous substance in which it is deposited, Nerves are also^ reproduced, but there is some little doubt whether they assist at all in the restoration of sensation by anastomois. Ur. Haightou made an ingenious experiment with respect to the union of nerves. He divided the par vagum, or eigthth pair of nerves, in a dog, on one side, and then let the animal live for some time ; he then divided the par vagum on the op- posite side, and after suffering both nerves to unite, he then divided them at the same moment, when the animal died. In tic doloureu.F, after the operation of dividing the nerve, even when the sensibility of the part to which the nerve was distributed is not entirely restored, and although numbness