FOLLOWED BY INFLAMMATION. 141 ypend a little time with some friends, who were anxious for him to come. We told him that he might, if he would pay attention to liimself, keep his bowels open, and regulate his diet. After the lapse of a week he became extremely ill, in- flammation of the brain came on, and he died. On inquiry, we found that he had neglected the directions given him, and allowed his bowels to get costive. It is always a very serious case when there is a depression on the forehead after an acci- dent, and 1 will mention to you an instance of this kind, which will show you the necessity of enjoining on a patient with this injuiy strict attention to his mode of living. A man who had received a wound in the forehead from a pistol-shot, came to this hospital: the wound healed kindly, but the de- pression remained. Whenever this man indulged in the use of spirituous liquors, he used to come back with violent pain in the head, which was always relieved by blood-letting. As to the treatment of inflammation of the brain, it is the same as for inflammation generally, with this exception only, that blood should be drawn from the temporal artery in adults, and the jugular vein in children. Whenever inflam- mation of the brain attacks a grown person, take blood from the temporal artery; and when young individuals, from the jugular vein ; by these means you abstract blood more readily from the part. Even in adults you may, after opening the temporal artery, if the symptoms be not relieved, bleed from the jugular vein. In addition to this treatment, you purge, produce perspiration, and apply blisters to the head. 1 have seen poultices, containing some stimulating application, of considerable use. It will now and then happen that trephining will be required ; and I will tell you the cases in which it will. 1. Where there is extravasation of blood between the dura mater and skull. 2. In single fractures, with depression and symptoms of compression continuing after depletion. 3. In compound fractures, with depression, unaccompanied with symptoms of compression. 4. It is required sometimes that an opening should be made in the cranium, when there is matter between the dura mater and skull. _ Now it generally happens in these last cases, where there IS matter between the dura mater and skull, that there is frac- ture, and this is an indication that s<>mc injury has been done to the brain, when it is also followed by rigors and other symptoms; still it will be right, in some cases where there is no fracture, and the other symptoms, rigors, &c., are present, to penetrate the bone, to see whether inalter be lodged between