OPERATION FOR POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 167 examination, he found that the ligature had escaped from tlie upper part of the artery, and that the lower one had nearly slipped. He immediately applied two fresh ligatures. There- fore there is the danger of the knot slipping where there are two ligatures used ; and on this account it has been recom- mended that a needle should be put through the artery, with a fine ligature in it, as by this means the danger from hemor- rhage would be prevented. It was found by Dr. Jones, who has written an e.xcellent work on the methods nature adopts in restraining hemorrhage, that if fine ligatures were applied on arteries, they would cut through the internal coat, and leave the external undivided; the elastic coat would remain whole. He tried experiments on animals, and from these he learnt that, when fine ligatures are applied, intlammation take.s place, and the adhesive process is, in a very short time, produced, by which means the canal becomes obstructed ; he therefore recommended, that in operation for aneurisms, fine ligatures should be applied, only for a few hours, and then removed. In consequence of this, I adopted the. plan in the case from which I took this specimen (pointing to one on the table), in order to see if it would succeed ; it has been tried in the fol- lowing cases, and is an operation that ought not to be per- formed. In the first place, a fine ligature was put on the fe- moral artery, tied tightly, and in a few hours removed ; the result of the operation was, that the pulsation was stopped for a short time, but in a few hours it returned, and the size of the aneurism began to increase. A consultation was held, and it was determined that a ligature should be applied in the usual way, and allowed to suppurate and ulcerate, and the pa- tient did extremely well. In two other persons I tried this plan ; one for, an aneurism on the popliteal artery, the other for an aneurism on the radial artery: in the first case I used a fine thin ligature, and tied it very tight; in thirty hours I loosened it. Now, when this man was on the table, I said to myself that the operation was not founded on a right princi- ple. I looked at the wound and saw that the adhesive pro- cess had commenced, and that in drawing the ligature out, 1 had destroyed all the adhesions which nature had set up : the pulsation had not ceased, and I pulled the ligature tight, and allowed it to remain forty-two hours longer, and then removed it; thus, after the lapse of seventy-two hours in the whole, it did not return. Thirteen days after this, as 1 was coining into the square of the other hospital, one of my dressers said that hemorrhage had come on from the man in Job’s ward, from whom the ligature had been removed, and that it was