ON HARE-LIP. 4v?5 ,mri tlie adhesions which take place under this seldom gi\ e «ay. Another point for our consideration, is the age wlieu the operation ought to be performed. Should it be attempted on very younu infants, or should we wait until a more advanced period ? To this question, an answer is easily given ; and I reply, never operate on very young infants, but defer it until the 'completion of dentition. In very early life, there is al- way.s great danger from operations ; and several infants, within my own knowledge, have died in convulsions, after the operation for hare-lip. Some years since, when I was at Yarmouth, I was told of a case that had terminated fatally : -convulsions carried off the infant a few days after the opera- tion. Not the slightest blame was attributable to the practi- tioner : e.vperience had not then established the propriety ot lielaying the operation till a more advanced age. 1 was once •i.sked, if I would operate on a very young infant, for hare-liji, whose parents resided in Fenchurch streetI replied. Yes ; and shortly after went, and did it. I promised to call on the fourth day, but received a message, saying that it was not ne- cessary for me to do so, as the child was dead. Some years aeo a gentleman from Suffolk brought his infant to town to undergo the operation ; it was performed ; pins were employ- ed. Two days after the operation diarrhoea came on ; on the day following it was so e.Kcessive that the pins were removed ; at the expiration of two other days the child wa.s carried off. .A woman once brought her infant to me on a Monday morn- ing for the purpose of having it operated on for hare-lip. I completed it, and directed her to bring the child again on the following Thu-i-sday ; she tame, and told me the infant had died. Now, if parents should urge you much to perform the ope- ration on very young infants, explain the danger which attends it in very early life. 'I’ell them of its fatal results ; when, should tiiey .still press it, the blame will be on them, and not you. Children when so very young are not competent to un- dergo operations, and yon ought not to perform them for hare- lip unless the children have reached the age of two years. .After that period they possess some degree of strength, and are much less di-posed to irritation and convulsions. I have still to mention the operation recpiired for dunhU- hnre-lip. It has been recommended to cut away that poniou of skin which sometimes exists between the two fi'-s oes. That, however, is not tlu; best plati ; indeed, it is a very barl one. Always allow that portion of skin to remain, yon will find it a great support, and of considerable utility in rendering F K 2