ON HERNIA. 250 Irreducible Umbilical Hernia. A hollowed truss, on the same principle as the one employed in irreducible femoral heraia, should be worn in this com- plaint. It should be buckled round the abdomen, and if omentum be contained in the hernial sac, it will be likelv to be diminished in size, and the danger of the sac bursting will also be prevented. In strangulated umbilical hernia, before the operation is resorted to, the tobacco clyster should be em- ployed, as it has a greater effect in rela.xing the muscles and taking away the cause of the stricture in this than any other kind of hernia. Suppose you were called to a strau^lated umbilical hernia, how would you endeavour to return it ? If it were small, by the hand alone; but if it were very large, you must take the bottom or flat surface of a wooden platter, lay it on the abdomen and press on it. (Here the learned professor showed the mode of doing it, which excited a smile through- out the class.) When the pressure has been kept up for some time, the orifice at the umbilicus becomes dilated, and the hernia returns. If the hernia is large, the means just men- tioned must be used ; if small, employ the taxis, as in ingui- nal hernia Operation for Umbilical Hernia. Of all operations for hernia, this is the most simple and most easily performed ; but it is not one of the most success- ful—there is the difficulty of obtaining a flap of skin to close the opening. The plan you are to adopt in operating is to make first an incision across the tumour, and then another at right angles, so that the whole is like the letter inverted. The integuments being thus divided, the corners of the inci- sion are turned to one side, by which means the hernial sac is brought into view. 'I'his being carefully opened, the finger is to be passed to the orifice of the sac, at the umbilicus, and a blunt-pointed bistoury introduced on it. The stricture is to be divided upwards, in the direction of the ensiform cartilage. Having returned the intestines, the parts are to be brought to- gether, and a flap formed from above to cover the opening. If adhesion of the sides of the wound can be effected, the danger of peritoneal inflammation will be lessened. Dossils of lint and adliesive plaster are to be applied over the wound. The after treatment is the same as for other heruise. Ventral Hernia. I do not know that there is any thing in this kind of hernia requiring a distinct notice. When it occurs low down, care must be taken, when operating, of the epigastric artery; but of this your anatomical knowledge will put you on your guard. The intestine generally protrudes either through the