402 ON THE OPERATION OF CASTRATION. first case was that of a gentleman who came from Charleston, in South Carolina, with this disease, to tr)- the effect of a change of climate. The part was so exce.ssively tender that he could not bear the slightest handling, and he even dreaded the slightest motion. He confined himself to his chamber for a considerable length of time ; 1 tried a great variety of means, until I grew tired of him, for I confess, gentlemen, that, when a disease does not yield readily, I am apt to take French leave. (A laugh.) He applied to Mr. Aberuethy, who attended him for a considerable time, and then to Mr. Pearson, who kept him also for a very great length of time. Being no better for the advice he had received, he came back to me again ; 1 ad- vised him to go to Margate, and try the use of the warm bath. His general health was improved by the sea-bathing, but he chose to come home in one of the Margate coaches, and the consequence was, that by the time he reached Blackheath, he was incapable of travelling any further. He was put to bed at an inn on Blackheath, w'here he remained a long time before he was able to proceed to London. He at length made up his mind to submit to the operation before returning to Charleston, and 1 removed the testicle. He soon recovered from the ope- ration, and 1 have had the pleasure of hearing, that since his return to Charleston he has taken to himself a wife, who has produced him several children. The second case was that of a gentleman who had been a long time the subject of the com- plaint, and who, after submitting to the operation, got per- fectly well. The third case was that of the surgeon to whom I just alluded, and who insisted on the operation being per- formed. The degree of suffering to which a patient is exposed from an irritable state of the testicle can scarcely be conceived; it is for the most part unmanageable by medical treatment, but will, after a great length of time, sometimes wear itself out. Mr. Wardrop, a surgeon of Liverpool, once observed to me, in consulting upon a patient’s case, that he had an idea of cut ting down on the spermatic cord, and dividing the nerves which went to the testicle. Whether he ever put his idea in practice, I know not; it tvas at any rate ingenious, and showed his knowledge of anatomy. I The Oi'ERATio.v of Castration. This is one of the most simple operations in surgery. You grasp the testicle in your left hand ; begin your incision at the upper part of the abdominal ring, and extend it to the lower extremity of the testicle. You must not leave any part of the scrotum undivided, because if you make the opening by which YOU draw out the testicle from the upper part of the scrotum, it bag of matter will form at the lower part, which will prevent