ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 365 The next tumour which I shall describe is very common in young people, and I hare called it The Irritable Tumour of the Breast. Like the simple chronic tumour, it generally occurs in per- sons from fifteen to twenty-five years of age. 'These young persons are of sanguineous temperament, and often of lovely aspect. 'The parents, in this case, like the former, show the greatest solicitude for their daughter’s welfare, and anxiously inquire of you if the disease be not cancerous ? You endea- vour to soothe their minds by representing to them its harm- less, inoffensive nature, at the same time telling them that cancer does not attack individuals so young or so healthy as their daughter. Upon the breast being bared, and upon ex- amining it, the moment you touch the tumour you will find that the patient will instantly shrink from you, and will be so alive to the most trifling pain, that she may be compared to a sensitive plant. If you examine the tumour otherwise than with gentleness, she will experience pain for hours, and even days afterwards, so exquisitely tender is this irritable swelling. Although it is painful in common, yet the tenderness and pain immediately before the period of menstruating are almost in- credible ; the pain extends from the breast to the arm on the affected side, and down to the fingers’ ends, and has even been known to affect the sight. 'There is no necessity for alarm in these cases ; the cause of the disease is easily ascer- tained : it merely arises from functional derangement. 'There is no visceral disorganization, and to afford relief, you have merely to adopt such measures as are calculated to restore to its proper quantity and condition the uterine secretion. It has happened that some practitioners have removed a great portion of the glandular part of the breast on account of these irritable swellings. Such operations are not only unne- cessary, but highly improper, as it is impossible that they can prove of any senice, for the irritable breast is sure to return unless the menstrual discharge be restored to its natural state ; to accomplish this, the best medicine you can administer is misturi ferri coraposita, an ounce and a half of it two or three times a day; or from two to five grains of the ferrum ammo- niatum, two or three times a day, and from this combination ot ammonia and steel 1 have seen the greatest possible benefit result to the patient. As the uterine discharge increases, tin- irritation in the breast lessens, and will soon completely dis- appear. Several surgeons are in the habit of applying leeches to Breasts thus affected ; whether they prove advantageous or not, 1 think, is exceedingly equivocal, for by diminishing the