376 ASCITES OR PERITONEAL DROPSY. without the use of cutting instruments. He exhibited to the class the forceps invented for this purpo.=e, at liis own sug- gestion, by Mr. Weiss, of the Strand, to whose intrenuitv and skill he paid a well merited tribute. With this instrnment. Sir Astley e.xtracted no fewer than eighty-four calculi from the bladder of the Rev. Mr. —, of Barnwell, in Cambridge- shire. He had since extracted thirty calculi from another per.soii. Some years since he performed the operation of li- thotomy on a young man at Wappiug. A few months aeo thi.> person called upon him, and said that he was sure he had a stone in his bladder. The learned professor .said that if it wa' a small one he could extract it from him without cutting, and he succeeded in immediately extracting a stone from the blad- der. 'nie same patient called again upon him shortly after, and said he was convinced there was another stone in hi< bladder. No stone could be found, but the forceps were ex- panded on being withdrawn, so as to stretch the passage. The patient was recommended to resist the inclination to make water for a considerable time; and the. first time he made water he passed three or four small calculi. Sir Astley observed, that by regulating the screw of this instrument, so as to increase its force, even large triple phosphates might be broken and removed from the bladder. t LECTURE XLII. On Dropsy of the Abdo.men. TitERE are two species of this Dropsy, viz.. Peritoneal or .-is- cites, aud the Encysted or Ovarian. The Peritoneal Dropsy is an accumulation of water in the cavity of the peritouenm, and the Ovarian Dropsy is a collection of water in the mem- brane which covers the ovarium : first, then, of Ascites, ort Peritoneal Dropsy. The first symptom which a person feels who is aflfected with ascites, is pain on the abdomen being jiressed ; every day this symptom becomes more and more severe, until even the clothes, if ever so loosely worn, will feel too tight on the body and the person tvill be desirous of having them removed. Well, the body goes on gradually enlarging, until, at leuctli, tlie person applies for medical advice. Upon examination, it will be found that the intestines are floating in a fluid, the ab- domen enlarged, in proportion, of course, to the quantity of fluid within,) and upon loosening the clothes, applying a hand to each side of the body, and gently using pre.ssure with one hand and slightly tapping the abdomen with the other, or giv-