ON IMPOTENCE. 634 and the animal propensities destroyed. Some men are so constituted that they may be said never to possess a venereal stimulus, and some of the other sex are equally frigid. I knew a person who remained unwarmed by the flame from the hy- meneal altar for seven years, and who was incapable of p>e*r- lorming the duties which devolved on him. Gentlemen, it is likely you may hereafter be consulted on these subjects ; but these are some of the arcana of the pro- fession into which you w’ill not readily be admitted. No, it is not until you have contended long with popular prejudices that you will he made acquainted with such important secrets. When forty years of practice, or perhaps more, shall have rolled over you, when you shall have the snow on the tops of the mountains, (here the esteemed professor, with great good humour, passed his hand through the white locks which grace a well-formed front), then it is, and not till then, that you W'ill be required to give your opinion on such weighty matters! (A laugh). When consulted by persons about to enter the marriage state, you should ask, if they have any de- velopment of sexual power in the morning, and if they have, depend on it they will not be deficient in energy in the after part of the day. But, if otherwise, advise them by no means to marry. Another cause which might produce the calamity we art now considering, an excessive irritability of the vesicula semi- nales, which produces a premature expulsion of the seminal fluid, and this is almost as bad as the former cause. Some- times it is the result of debauchery, but most frequently it oc- curs in irritable and delicate young men ; in such cases we have to support the constitution by a generous diet and bark, giving at the same time opium to allay the irritability. In addition to which let the person stand over a large pan of cold water, and dash it over the genitals two or three times in the day. Turpentine and rhubarb are sometimes given, but I am not sure that they do any good. Another cause of impotence is, the frequency of nocturnal emissions, and this is most commonly the case witli young people. It is frequently the effect of bad habits at school, and it occasions a great degree of anxiety. We must try to lessen this, by representing to the party, that it is an occurrence Wfliich frequently happens to persons in a state of health even- nine days or a fortnight; althoiigh in the patient's ca.se it may happen two or three times during the night. The treatment of this species will be very much as the preceding. Sometimes it arises from a wasting of the testicle, or from