ON SYPHILITIC BUBO. 519 {mratiou ; therefore, it is wrong when any inflammatory dis- position exists in the bubo to continue the mercury, for you will most probably induce suppuration, when you might have prevented it. Under these circumstances, it is right to em- ploy lotions and leeches, and purge the patient. The best purges you can give are the mercurial, the submuriate of mer- cury combined with jalap : by this plan of treatment you get rid of the disposition to inflammation, whereas, if you con- tinue the mercury, you will hurry the bubo into the suppu- rative process. VVheu the pain in the part is subdued, you must return to the first treatment, which will correct the ve- nereal action. It may be said in opposition to this, that you give mercury to prevent inflammation of the eye, as in irritis : this is true, but it is not desirable, even in that complaint, to affect the mouth to any degree ; it is not that of mercurial in- tlueuce which will cure the eye, for the mercury should be suspended when the mouth becomes affected; it is by increas- ing the secretion that the benign influence of the mercury is exercised. It sometimes happens that the bubo attains considerable magnitude. When this is the case you must give up the use of mercury : never continue it when the bubo is large; it will only hurry it into a suppurative process; therefore, sus- pend the use of mercury, and endeavour to lessen the size of the swelling and inflammation by lotions, leeches, and acting on the bowels, in order to promote the secretions, for this should be your grand object in all these cases : take care, at the .same time, to give that kind of nourishment which will best support the system, without producing an undue excite- ment. When a gland becomes of considerable size, it is usually the result of debility, and is very apt to become chro- nic ; you should by all means discontinue the mercury, apply leeches, and you may gently stimulate the gland, so as to promote absorption; for this purpose the application of mu- riate of ammonia will be of use, at the same time giving pur- gative medicines. But in this enlarged state of the gland, although it begins in syphilis, mercury greatly debilitates the constitution. When suppuration has commenced, and the mat- ter can be felt fluctuating, it is quite right to make an opening to let it out. The opening should be small, and ought to be made as soon as any pus can be felt, for absorption will be- gin, and the size of the gland will soon be diminished ; there- fore, make an opening to evacuate the matter as early as you can detect fluctuation. My own opinion is, that when the suppurative process has commenced, the best plan is to open the swelling, which 1 always do by puncturitig it with a Ian-