23 ON INFLAMMATION. reparation, which she effects by the process of inflammation, as bruises, warts, pressure, extraneous substances, &c. &c. The manner in which nature repairs these injuries will be more fully explained hereafter. Proximate Causes of Inflammation.—With regard to these there has been, and still is, much difference of opinion. Boerhaave’s opinion, of an obstruction in the smaller vessels, arising from the thickness of the blood, is false—for, instead of being thicker, it is absolutely thinner. Cullen’s theory, of spasm in the extreme vessels, is equally erroneous. These are the results of opinion not founded upon observation. We should observe first, and think afterwards. The true pro.ximate causes of inflammation appear to be an increase of action in the vessels of the part, and an increase in the size of the ves- sels themselves. These phenomena are well demonstrated by the following experiment; viz.. Stretch the web of a frog’s foot, and place it under a good microscope, and put on it the smallest drop of nitric acid, or prick a s|)Ot with a pin : you will soon perceive in the vicinity of the irritated part consider- able agitation, and presently a red particle of blood will make Its appearance in a vessel that had previously been the re- ceptacle of transparent serum only—each pulsation pushing it on farther and farther. This red particle distends the vessel, and is succeeded by others passing freely into the vein. All the vessels of the part then take on similar actions ; and thus you create under your eye, speaking figuratively, meandering rivulets of blood. 'The dilatation of the ves.sels in inflamma- tion is not, however, confined to the part itself, but is also ob- servable in the larger arteries leading to the scene of irrita- tion : thus, in persons who have died, having inflammation in a foot, the femoral artery on the afi'ected side has been found larger than the opposite. I before explained the manner in which nature throws a quantity of blood to a part for the pur- po.se of repairing an injury, or for the removal of irritation ; 1 will give another illustration of this, which, if you have not seen, most probably all of you have f.lt. It is this : when any offending mattergets under the eyelidsit produces irritation ;— nature immediately sends a quantity of blood to the lachrymal gland—this blood occasions a secretion of tears, and these are directed in streams over the eye, for the |)urpose of washing off the offending substance. [Sir Astley then stated, that he would show a beautiful spe- cimen of fungus hmmatodes. T'hc tumour was of very large size, and, when cut open, exhibited the usual characteristics of this malignant disease; viz., cysts filled by a transparent fluid, extravasated blood in clots, some of its [larts were