36 £OUNTER-IRKITATION IN INFLAMMATION. LECTURE VI. Counter Irritation in Inflammation. In the acute, as has already been explained to you, our ob- ject is to diiniiiish vascular action; but in the chronic we en- deavour to increase it. Thus, in long-continued discharges arising from relaxation, we employ stimulating lotions, for the purpose of restoring to the vessels their healthy power of contraction. Again, in sluggish, indolent ulcers, it is abso- lutely necessary to excite action; for which purpose we em- ploy washes, either composed of calomel and lime water, or the hydr. oxymur. aud lime water ; the cupri sulphas is also an admirable remedy in these indolent sores. Gonorrhoea, as I have already shown to you, gives us au excellent illustration of the dilTerence between acute inllammation and chronic, and the principles upon which your opposite treatment must be founded to insure a successful result. At first, you diminish strength and action, and then stimulate, for the purpose of restoring them. Whenever you apply stimulating lotions to indolent ulcers, you should always cover the parts with oiled silk, to prevent evaporation, by which cold would be produced, and the de- sign with which it was applied Irustrated. Your object here is to obtain heat and action ; as oiled silk obstructs evapora- tion, it very materially contributes to create these ; and, as the perspiration as well as the vapour from lotions condenses upon the inner surface of the oiled silk, it of course succeeds in keeping the part moist; and this is a very great advantage, as it enables you to remove your applications without disturb- ing the new skin. Now, where this covering is not u.^ed, the linen over the wound becomes dry, adheres to the newly- formed skin, and, conseciuently, when you take away one, the other mu.st come wiih it ; in this manner the re.stnrative efforts of nature for twenty-four hours will often be defeated in a single minute. The next method of treatment which we shall mention is that of counter-irritation. 'I'he ])Ower of this remedy is very great, and its advantages numerous ; but the chief benefit that results from its employ- ment arises from its drawing off the blood from the neich- bnuriug inflamed jiarts, nheieby it cheeks the course of dis- ease in important organs : thus, a blister at the nape of the neck, if early applied, will arrest au inflammation of the brain ; a blister at the pit of the stomach will frequently over-