ON THE OPERATION OF TREPHINING. 14o tliat we are seldom now called on to perform this operation, suppose, however, you were called to a ca.se requiring it where there wa.s a wound, together with depression of the parietal bone, you would put your finger into the wound, and if the portion of bone depressed were small, you would make a simple incision, and turn the integuments aside so a.s to reach the bone. If by this incision von found depression with fracture, you enlarge it in the course of the tracture ■ If the depression were large, you would make a crucial in- cision, and turn aside the portion of integument, so as to open a space for the ap(.lication of the trephine ; then with the back edge of the knife (which should be made a little stronger than usual,) you cut through the pericranium, and scrape it off. For this purpose the rougee was formerlv em- ployed. [Ihere was a subject on the table, on which Sir Astley pertonned the operation as he went on describing it 1 Now I put the pin on the skull, and the crown being adjusted I fix it, and begin the circle. Well, gentlemen, having made a circle, 1 remove the pin : in young persons it will be neces- sary to do this soon, because the bone is readily sawn through never myself saw a case in which the pin entered the brain •' but my nephew wa.s present when the operation of trephining was performed, and the/nn was forgotten, so that it entered the brain, and iiifiammation of the dura mater came on. i can conceive that a man in his first operation, anxious how he shall succeed, might forget it. When using the saw, let your bearing on it be as even as possible, else you whl be through one part of the skull before another. There is but one danger in performing the operation of trephining, and that IS, wounding the dura mater. When trephining on iivi, g subjects, you are informed of the progress you are making by blood issuing from the wound when you reach the diploe : anil when yon see the blood, you will know that you are half thiough : hut, recollect, in ycry young and old persons, (here 13 no diploe ; therefore, very few turns of the saw will do As you proceed with the sawing, you must introduce your probe, to see how nearly you are through : voii sound a.s'yoii go on. When 1 find that I have sawn through in one pint I introduce the elevator, and lift the portion of hone the ru ts not cut through being ea.-ily broken. I find by niv probe that ."■the part near the sagittal suture 1 have saVi'tl | jf,”™'“1 ”“'™.» fhr?iiet « r I'V ‘ ‘turn on the side through which have already sawn. The hone can he rai-'ed and loosened ; lam quite certain tliat the dura mater is not injured, and by introducing the elevator, the bone may be re-