632 ON SUPPURATION IN BONE. tuenty-four hours, it will not re-unite, the bone dies, and i» nJtimately separated. The dead portion appears at first white, ut It soon becomes black from the hepatized ammonia formed (luring the putrefactive process. 1 he separation of the dead from the living portion of the bone IS a tedious process, and is effected by the action of the absoi bents on the suifaces of the living bone removing that pait whicli is in absolute contact with the dead bone; a space IS thus formed into which granulatitms can rise. When th(?se gianulations reach the dead bone, they also act on it, and therefore you find the surface rougli and uneven which is in contact with them, whereas the external surface remains per- fectly smootli. The principles wliich are to guide you in the treatment are tliese : quicken the progress of the granulations a little, and act chemically on the parts by the acids, and that acid which 1 ha( e .before named is the best. The quickest exfoliation of tlie tibia which 1 have ever known was accomplished in three months. Most generally, however, twelve months are neces- sary for this purpose, and it will very often require two years. But this depends very much on the activity of the constitu- tion. ^ It is right, if we wish to diminish the size of the exfolia- tion, to hind it upon the granulations, which will absorb a part of it; according to experiments made bv Sir Wm. Blizard on this subject. Internal exfoliation is also a very singular process. man who is losing two-thirds of his tibia is walking about during the period in which it is separating. This process I have al- ready described to you when speaking of medullary abscess. In the treatment of this disease, I should say much might be done to assist the efforts of nature. As soon as the bones become loosened, which you may easily know by passing a probe into the wound, what I should advise you to do is this ; take away a portion of the new bone, so as to admit of your sawing the old bone into two portions, and then draw them out. After amputation in full health there is often necrosis taking place on the end of the bone forming the stump. It happens because the bone is exceedingly loaded with phos- phate of lime at the time of the operation ; but if a man be ])reviously reduced by disease, a thin shell of bone only re- mains, and the blood-vessels have a much more free action on the bone. Exostosis is of two kinds, cartilaginous and fungous. The cartilaginous contains only a vciy small quantity of the phos- phate of lime, and grows originally from the inner surface ot