ON POISONS. 441 iii'c most coiumouly taken, are arsenic, muriate of barytes, .Hid oxymuriate of mercury, and each of these produces vio- lent iuliammation. VV'ith regard to arsenic, it has a direct iurtuence on the nerves as well ; and all of you must have seen it produce the most powerful convulsions immediately after it has been taken. In those who have been destroyed by lead, no appearance of inflammation has been found in any part of the body, no such mark either in the stomach, or any portion of the intestinal canal ; the inner coat of the stomach in many of these cases appearing less vascular than usual, which evi- dently proves that death is not produced by inflammation in this part, but that it is the result of a direct influence of the poison upon the nerves. The action of morbid poisons are various, some being on the arteries, some on the nerves; in typhus fever, more com- monly called gaol fever (which arises from the number of persons crowded together rendering the air impure, and unfit to sustain the vigorous actions of life ;) the first effects mani- fest themselves in the nervous system, producing great de- pression of the mental and bodily powers, through which, ulti- mately, the persons are destroyed. It renders the patient, at an early period of the complaint, incapable of being roused, so great is the depressing influence ou the nerves. -Many of the morbid poisons act directly ou the arterial sys- tem ; as, for example, sraall-pox: here inflammation is first produced, which is succeeded by fever, the suppurative pro- cess, considerable local irritation, and the secretion of matter capable of propagating the disease ; other morbid poisons, as mea.sles, for example, first affect particular parts, and after- wards the entire system : in measles we first see the conjunc- tiva inflamed ; then the mucous membrane of the nose be- comes alfected, ])roducing an increased secretion of that part; then the trachea and bronchia become similarly influenced, and at length the lungs, giving rise to a troublesome cough, and about that time the fever occasioned by the disease be- comes general throughout the system. The affection of measles is so easily communicated, and the infectious matter .so subtle, that it readily floats in the air, and is of so infec- tious a nature, that it generally runs through entire towns and villages, where any portion of the children become affect- ed by it; the air is likewise capable of communicating the dis- ease to the inhabitants of distant parts. Hut the most infec- tious of all the diseases with which I am acquainted, is that called mumps. If this disease makes its appearance in a school, more than half the children will become affected by it. I was some years ago attending a patient at Hackney with