550 ON SCROFULA reach the extremities ; nor is this surprising, since it happens tliat the vessels often expand, and give way, and also that there is blood at the extremities of the arteries, owing to the great weakness of the vessels ; that they had not the power of propelling it into the veins as they usually do. 'I’he stomach and intestinal canal are thin and pellucid ; the absorbent glands are enlarged ; the secretory glands are flaccid, but not diseased; and the nervous system sometimes exhibits marks of irritation having existed in it. This is, as far as we are able to detail, the nature of the disease. We shall now pro- ceed to speak of its treatment. Treatment of Sm-ofula.—The principles on which the treat- ment of scrofula should be founded are three : 1st. To make better blood ; 2d. To strengthen the solids; 3d. To give vi- gorous action to the circulation. To one or all of these principles, eveiy mode of treatment should be referred. The action of the heart and arteries is naturally feeble, the serum of the blood jtreponderates, whilst the fibrous portion is deficient in quantity ; therefore, you must make better blood, strengthen the solids, or give a vi- gorous action to the system. The first object is to make better blood, and without this nothing else will be of avail. I cannot sufliciently deprecate the system of ordering vegetable food in scrofulous diseases, and proscribing animal food, which is most nutritious and easy of digestion. Vegetable food is more difficult of digestion than animal food, and many animals who live on it have more than one stomach to per- form the different processes of digestion ; some have only one, blit then they are abundantly supplied with gastric juice, vvhich is secreted in greater quantities than in men ; and na- ture adds to the digestive powers by setting up another pro- cess in the intestines below, when animals have only one stomach. Vegetable food should not be given to children labouring under scrofula, as it leads to an aggravation of the complaint; but meat should be allow'ed, prepared so that the stimulus of the gastric juice, which is weak, may be able to act on it. The stomach should never be overloaded, or the powers of digestion will be impaired. Meat should be taken in small quantities and often, rather than in large quantities and less frequently ; for, when the stomach is less loaded, digestion goes on much better. Therefore, I advise that they should breakfast between eight and nine, and take an egg or a little meat at this meal. They should have a sandwich about twelve or one o’clock, and meat with their dinner at three. It is right that they should drink with their dinner, although water is a bad beverage ; some good beer, or a glass