78 ON GRANULATION. jnedical man have been vvholiad the care of (his patient, for all these consequences might have been prevented ? If’vou said this, your censure would be culpable; you have no right to say so; for it is a case that may happen to any of vou. Deformities of this kind generally arise after the process of healing is completed; they are the effects of the contraction of the cicatrices, and not of the contraction of the skin at the time of the accident. Here the skin is contracted so as to pull clown the chin, and evert the lip, so that the .saliva runs over the surface of the breast, and is constantly excoriating it. .All these results proceed, not from the production of the new skin, but from the contraction of the cicatrices after the pro- duction. I say this from having seen, among many other cases of the kind, the case of a child who was a short time since admitted into Guy’s. In consequence of the contraction of the cicatrices, the upper arm adhered to the fore-arm, and the thumb was drawn back so as to be immoveably joined to the upper arm. Case.—I will mention another case of this kind. .Some time ago, a young gentleman, who was playing with fire- works, happened to be .slightly burnt in the 'forehead. His father, who was a very intelligent man, showed considerable anxiety, and expressed his apprehensions at the time, that some horrible deformity would arise from this accident; for he had witnessed instances in which the eye-brows had been drawn up, so that the patient had no power of closing his eyes, from a similar cause. Granulations, however, very "soon arose on the surface of the forehead ; the sore healed kindlv, and the father was delighted to see what he supposed to be the favourable termination of the case. Some time after this, how- ever, I saw this gentleman, and, upon inquiring after the child, he told me that he was very well, but that a horrible deformity had ensued from the accident ; the eye-brows were drawn up', the eye-lids elevated, and the forehead was quite wrinkled, 'riiis took place a few weeks after the he.alingof the sore, in consequence of the contraction of the cicatrix ; and unfortu- nately this u.as a defoi mity incapable of being remedied hv any means which art could suggest. 1 have never seen a case like that represented in the plaster bust on the table, where the chill is united to the breast, which was capable of being cured. You may, by putting a knife behind the bridle and di- viding it, separate the chin, to a considerable extent, from th^ breast; but whatever force you may use for keeping the head back, the contraction will ultimately he the same. There an- some parts of the body, however, in which deformities of this kind may be removed ; as in cases in nhich the thigh is united