INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 5 When you dissect, do not attack all the parts of the body at once. The best plan is, to take the portion that you are examining to your room, and keep it fresh by plunging it into alcohol. Inspect it with care, and note down your observa- tions. By these means, a head will occupy your time for five or six weeks very advantageously. Physiological knowledge is of the utmost importance to the profession of surgery : this gives you a knowledge of the healthy functions, and thus enables you better to understand the nature of diseased action. T'his was the rock on which Hunter stood, admired by the wise, and abused by the igno- rant ; indefatigable in his research, he omitted no opportunity of exploding false theories, and substituting true ones founded on facts established by experiments. But it is said that he was a man of great geuius; 1 do not think so; or, if he were, he owed it to his uncommon industry and assiduity. He was the last in the laboratory or study at night, and the first there in the morning, allowing himself very little time for repose. It was in this way he collected and arranged that Musenin which will endure as long as any thing of the kind—the admi- ration of foreigners, as well as of our own countrymen. But we are still more indebted to him for the true principles of our science, which he displayed to us with a masterly hand. In this free country, the same way is open to all who choose to take It, who prefer honourable and laborious exertion to idle habits, which insure ignorance, and, finally, disgrace. The study of medicine is important to the surgeon : he should be able to prescribe with certainty—should well under- stand the great influence of local disease on the constitution, as well as the origin of local disease from constitutional de- rangement. Without such knowledge, he knows but half his duty. On the other hand, a mere physician cannot he a good judge of surgical cases; and notwithstanding my respect for the physicians of Guy’s Hospital, I would not hold ray si- tuadon in that establishment, unless I had the right of pre- scril)ing for my surgical patients. 1 had, in one of these hos- pitals, a man under my care for a compound fracture, and had great hopes of saving the patient, as he was doing well ; but a physician, whilst going through the ward, visited him, and ordered a cathartic, which, acting ratlier violently, dis- turbed him so much, that fatal consequences ensued. That a physician should not interfere with patients of this description is therefore evident; but I do not mean to .say that one pro- fession is to be n[)held at the expense of the other; far from it; indeed they should mutually assist in the great duty of pre- sening human existence.