ON POISONS. 439 The test medical treatment of tic douloureux, with whicli 1 am acquainted, is the exhibition of the carbonate of iron. Mr. Hutchins, of Nottingham, has published a work on the disease now under consideration, in which he speaks strongly in favour of the above medicine ; it certainly is an admirable remedy—and the profession is much indebted to Mr. Hutchins for having recommended it. 1 may here remark, it is much to be regretted that country practitioners do not more fre- quently publish the result of their observations and experi- ence ; much valuable knowledge is lost to the world from their neglect of this important duty. In speaking of the carbonate of iron, and of medicine in general, when given for the cure of tic douloureux, it cannot, of course, succeed, should the disease be otherwise than fune- tioiial; if it should be caused, as in the case of Dr. Pember- ton, for example, (who suffered more, probably, than any other human being from this malady,) by a piece of bone pro- jecting into the brain, medicines will prove utterly unavail- ing, as regards cure; and temporary ease is all that ean he afforded. , Five minutes more, gentlemen, and I have done. On Aura Epileptica. A man was sent to me by a surgeon of Watford having this disease; he would be occasionally seized by a severe pain in the thumb, which gradually extended up the arm, in the courst; of the radial and brachial nerves, through the axilla to thi; neck ; his head would then become twisted, and in a moment he would drop on the floor in a fit; shortly afterwards he would get up, and appear as well as ever. 1 cut down upon the radial nerve by the side of the flexor carpi radialis longus tendon, exposed about an inch, and cut out five-eighths of it. .\fter this the pain entirely left him, and lie returned to Wat- ford, where he remained, completely cured. Gentlemen, I am very sorry for having detained you so long. {Applause.) LECTURE LIII. On Poisons. Poisons are those substances which, in small quantities, pro- duce deleterious effects on the human body. Though this is considered the best definition of poisons, yet there is no sub- stance considered as poisonous, which in very small doses is not capable of producing a beneficial effect. Several of the poisons, indeed, in minute and well regulated doses, pro-