ON PUNCTURING THE BLADDER. 369 men, as to push the urethra as much as you can towards the pcrinxum, and then having brought the urethra into a straight line again, depress the point of the instrument, and you will be enabled to pass it into the bladder. (The learned profes- sor proceeded to show the method of |)assing the catheter on the dead subject.) I certainly do hold that it is the fault of the surgeon, if the bladder is ever tapped for enlargement of the prostate gland : whenever such an operption Is performed for this disease, it arises entirely from the surgeon’s want of knowledge and adroitness ; for any man may readily pass an instrument into the bladder in these cases, if he understands the formation of the parts, and has been in the habit of intro- ducing instruments into the bladder. I have now for many years been engaged in the practice of these hospitals, and I have seen something of the private practice of London, and I can assure you that I have never yet seen a case of enlarged prostate, either in these hospitals or In my private practice, in which it was necessary to puncture the bladder. I know that it has been done repeatedly ; but if the surgeon is suf- ficiently adroit, it is never necessary. There are cases of stricture in the urethra, in which an operation for relieving the bladder of an accumulated load of urine is rendered ne- cessary. Let us consider the means which different surgeons have proposed for this purpose ; and first let me observe to you that the bladder has not unfrequently been punctured above the pubes. The Opehation of Pi!Nctuuing the Bladder above THE Pubes. This operation is founded on the following anatomical cir- cumstances ;—In the natural formation of the parts, the peri- toneum falls from the inner side of the rectus, ovei' the upper part of the bladder, and is reflected backward to the fundus, leaving a space filled with cellular tissue between the pubes and the reflected peritoneum. This is the space in which the surgeon performs the operation; hut when the bladder is ex- cessively distended with urine, it will sometimes happen, that it reaches as far as the navel, occupying a great part of the anterior portion of the abdomen. An instance of this may be seen in a cast taken by Mr. ■‘'olly, from a case which was brought a few days ago into the museum. ('I’he learned pro- fessor exhibited the cast to the class.) 'The jjeritoneum is not witliin the reach of the pubes, but is three inches removed trom it; consequently, it is reflected over the bladder, and a large space is left for the operation between the reflected peritoneum and the pubes, ^■our object in performing the operation is, to avoid wounding the peritoneum, which is in