I‘i2 ON THE OPERATION OF TREPHINING. it and the dura mater ; and this is the only case in which it is proper. On the Operation of Trephining. Tile operation of trephining used to be one of the most com- plicated kind, requiring several instruments, the learning of which was in itself quite a study; it is now quite simple, and few instruments only are wanted, which can very easily be put into a small case. Let us go over the instiumcnts formerly used in this operation ; but really, gentlemen, they were so numerous, I don’t know whether I can count them. They used then a scalpel, rougee, pin, perforator, crown, bru.-li, elevator, lenticular, and a pair of forceps ; now you may see (holding a case in his hand), these three instruments will be quite sufficient; a knife, with a double edge, in order to scrape off the pericranium, an elevator, and a trephine having a crow’ll, and a pin which will allow of being easily moved. Now, gentlemen, I will tell you in what parts the trephine should not be applied. First, you should never trephine in the line that extends from just above the nose along the top of the head to the tuberosity of the occiput; over the frontal sinuses it is obviously ini|)roper ; and at the summit of the head you w'ill meet the sagittal suture, where the dura mater adheres with extraordinary fii muess, and the longitudinal sinus might also be wounded ; and at the posterior part you have the su- perior portion of the perpendicular spine of the os occipitis ; therefore, in this line you ought not to trephine. I should mention this particularly to young persons, who very often disregard this rule, thinking they know much better than those who have preceded them ; if, however, they trephine in this part, the more fools they, and 1 will tell you why-, they are running, in operating in this part, an unnecessary risk, by cutting on a long hole covered over by a smooth membrane, when they might do it as well on either side; It would be the folly of presumption to trephine on this line. There are two other parts in which the operation of trephining should not be performed : first, over the anterior inferior angle of the parietid bone, jim above the zygoma ; secondly, behind the ears, on the posterior inferior angle of the same bone ; .and why, no doubt, most of you by this time know ; opposite to the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone is the creat artery of the dni a mater, and opposite to the posterior interior angle is the great lateral sinus. Fractured portions of these bones may be raised by the elevator ; and 1 may observe here, that this is the instrument ehielly used in cases where the fractures are running in the direction of ih.cse parts. .Mr. llev’s saw is a very useful iiivcniioii. It is gratifying to state