ON RACHITIS. 570 tained, though tlicre is a considerable variation in the form of the spine. 'The scapula is also considerably projected. A pa- rent will come to you and say, “ I am very uneasy about m\ child’s shoulder, it is growing out.” You will judge from this alteration in the shoulder, that there is some alteration in the form of the spine and ribs. Pressure on the shoulder, therefore, with a view of remedying this defect, is a most absurd and unscientific practice ; it may give pain, but can do no possible good. The spine, in these cases, has given way in two directions, and the ribs on one side are more cuired than on the other. 'I'his incurvation of the ribs occasions the alteration in the form of the scapula. The anterior part of the chest is e.xtremely projected ; the sternum is some- times sunk between the cartilages of the ribs, and sometimes advances so as to form what is called a chicken breast. The os humeri, the radius and ulna, the femur, and the tibia, all undergo an additional curvature. Absorption of some of the bones at length takes place, and nothing but the cartilage remains. When you feel the os humeri of a child under thi.' disease, it seems as if it had had a fall, and the hone bad been fractured ; the ossific matter is absorbed, and nothing but cartilage remains. The same a]ipearance is frequently ob- served in the femur and knee-joints of children in the low alleys of this town, who are deprived of healthy or proper nourishment, and get scarcely any thing, perhaps, hut a little gin, which their mothers give them by way of comfort, though they give them nothing to cat. These arc the mise- rable changes to which rickety patients are subject. The cause of all this is, a great deficiency in the powers of the circulation, in consequence of which the bones lose their phosphate of lime, and become spongy at the extremities, and the joints, therefore, are exceedingly enlarged. The ossific matter binds down the cartilages, so as to prevent their ex- pansion, hence arises a diminntion of the ossific deposit, which leads to the alteration in the form of the hones. AAYth respect to the treatment of these cases, you will observe the same general principles which 1 laid down in the first lecture on scrofula, and you will also resort to mechanical means. For the enlargement of the head it will be right to use some sort of pressure; a cap or a roller round the head maybe worn, for the purpose of preventing the growth of the head, by the pressure of the arteries of the brain. The next )H>int is to prevent the curvature of the spine, and, for that pur- pose, it has been the practice to keep children in the recum- bent posture fora great length of time. This is a plan which J by no means advise; exercise is absolutely necessary to the