ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST, 3i4 obscurity. On dissection, the following are the apnearance. of a ti ne hydatid breast :—It contains a globular hvdatid Uie •sanie as is met with in other parts of the body ; this produce^ a cyst, which becomes the parent of others, and when vou open It, yon see little ones growing from the internal rae'm- brane of the cyst. Many of yon recollect that 1 oriened an hydatid cyst in the thigh of a man at the other hospital a few months ago, and that a great number of small hydatid evst- were drawn off; 1 ordered some of them to be preserved - the internal lining of the first cyst is like an uterus to the other- - these grow from it in spots here and there, and at last become parricides, for they destroy the. parent; thus it is in the breast e,\-actly the same as in the liver. ’ When the swelling has ac(|uired a considerable magnitude the opm-ation is generally performed for its removal; the^ratiem IS anxious that it should be performed ; if she asks, is there any danger if left alone, you can assure her that there is none- yet as long as she feels the swelling, she is incapable of en- joying life—gives way to desponding feelings of every kind ■ insists on the operation being performed, and thus is the sur- geon obliged to do it on account of the patient’s solicitations. I tell you, assure her there i.s no danger to life, and still she persists in having it done. The operation is neither dangerous at the time, nor in the future, to the patient’s life. The largest breast with this affection that 1 ever removed, was done with- out the constitution suffering in the least degree. Thepatient’.- lile is not in danger from it, and as for the disease, vou never find it return in any other part of the bodv. If anv diseased part should be left on the gland, there will be a chance of the return of the disease. If so, other hydatids form in the same breast, but not in the other; therefore, the best plan is to take away the glandular structure of the breast, and all the diseased part being removed, the complaint will not return. Although the removal of the breast is the plan usually adopted, vet i will tell you a mode of treatment which I have emploved with success when there has been a single cyst. I will give you two examples, which will illustrate the nature of it betterthan any thing else. 1 do not know that it has been de.-cribed b\ authors, but 1 will not speak positively of this, for God forbid that I should be obliged to read one-half or ouc-fourlh of what is published now-a-day. Case I.—A young woman was sent by a respectable medical practitioner to Guy’s Hospital, with a swelling of the breast, and for the purpose of knowing whether an operation was ne- cessary for its cure. She was nineteen years of age, and when 1 examined the swelling it was moveable, and 1 was almost