ON THE CURE OF HYDROCELE. 195 pose tliat the openition for hyilrocele by injection, simple as it is, is altogether devoid of danger. There have been .some in- stances in which death has followed, and many in w'hich life has been endangered by it. Some gentlemen who now hear me have had opportunities of witnessing the practice of the hospitals for many years, and they must have seen many rases, in which e.xtcnsive sloughing has been jiroduced, in consequence of injury caused by throwing the injection into the cellular tissue. 1 will tell you a case which happened shortly after 1 became surgeon at the other hospital. I in- jected the tunica vaginalis of a patient for hydrocele, but did not succeed in curing him, for he came back two year.s after with his hydrocele as large as ever. He was naturally enotigh disappointed with me for my want of success, and he chose to put himself under the care of Mr. Forster. Hapjtening to cast luy eye on the man, as I passed through the wards, I asked him what was the matter with him, and he said, “ Why, sir, I have got hydrocele; the disea.se which you attempted to cure has returned.” Some time after 1 did not observe the man in the ward, and upon asking what had become of him, 1 was told that he had gone out of the hospital ; but as I was walk- ing home over the bridge, tJic man who told me so, accosted me and said, “.Sir, I beg your pardon for telling you a story, but the truth is, that man, about whom you asked, has, in- deed, gone out of the ho.spital, but I omitted to say, that he is dead.” The truth is, that one of the dressers, who was a very steady young man, performed the operation of injection, and that an accident happened to him, which, unless great care be taken, might have happened to any body. He did not attend sutRciently to keeping tiie canula within the tunica va- pnalis ; the conse<pience was, that a portion of the fluid went into the cellular tis.sue. The man experienced excruciating pain, and the dresser immediately withdrew the canula, but very little of the fluid came out. Violent inflammation of the scrotum ensued, which went on to gangrene, and the patient died. Dr. Farmer recently met with a similar case, in which sloughing was brought on from the fluid being injected into the cellular tis.sue, and the residt was destruction of life. Great care, therefore, should be taken to prevent the fluid from escaping by the side of the canula. I shall conclude thi.s lecture with a few observations on hy- drocele of the spermatic cord. 'I'his disease may be defined as a collection of water in the spermatic cord, hut it is neccs- sarv that yon should know the situation in which the water i.s Collected. Ihe part at which hydrocele of the spermatic cord takes place is in the tunica vaginalis, between the testicle and o 2