SUPPURATION OF THE LACHRYMAL SAC. 303 observe any tiling amiss with the eye, is, that on reading or exposing it to the wind, there is a watering of the eye ; in a short tirne, this becomes constant, and then a swelling appears at the inner corner of the eye, arising from distension of the lachrvmal sac, the tears collecting in it. These produce irri- tation ; mneus and purulent matter is secreted ; but when the sac protrudes, pressure made on it pushes the tears or mucus either through the puncta, over the face, or down the nose. The complaint sometimes remains in this stage for many years (pressure being occasionally made on the sac to empty it) with only little inconvenience. From the pressure of tlie dis- tended sac, and obstruction of the nasal duct continuing, or some accidental cause, irritation is excited, and the second stage produced. Inflammation and Suppuration of the Lachrymal Sac. This affection is attended by a puffiness of the inner corner of the eye, redness of the suiTounding skin, which becomes swollen and hard, from the effusion of lymph. Suppuration having commenced in the sac, ulceration comes on, and the matter effects an external opening, by which it is discharged. Now, obstruction, inflammation, and suppuration do not always take place in the course of the ductus ad nasum, from ordinary causes ; but the progress of the complaint, when arising from ordinary and from specific causes, will be different. An open- ing being thus made in the sac, it is rendered permanent, or kept open, by the flow of pus and tears out of the wound, over the cheek ; the disease then arrives at the third stage. Fistulous Opening from the Sac to the Cheek. In this stage of the complaint, the patient is distressed a stood deal by frequent returns of inflammation and suppuration of the sac. Treatment.—Although various means have been attempted in the cure of this complaint, no plan has been yet laid down that has proved successful ; or at least the benefit to be de- rived from the means and treatment recommended is iti mo.st cases very slight. In many cases little need be done but to evacuate the sac, for the purpose of preventing irritation in those cases where there is simple distension of the sac. One caiLse of this complaint is a vitiated state of the follicles of Meibomius ; w'hen matter is secreted, and the eye-lids are closed together, and irritation is thus produced in the lachry- mal sac—in these cases the lids should be washed with tepid water, and besmeared every night at bed-time, with a little of the nnguentum hydrargyri nitratis. Hy this means, and at- tending to the constitution, and removing irritation as it arisc.s, the patient may remain iti that state for years. When