620 ON COMPOUND FRACTURES. ing portions are removed by the absorbents, so that the pro- cess of union only goes on in those surfaces of bone which are lying in contact. Under the granulations arising from the cancellated struc- ture, cartilage is also found, and about the twelfth day in simple, and from the seventeenth to the twentieth dav in compound fracture, there are bony patches deposited in the cartilage ; it is by the accumulation of these patches that os- siflc union gradually takes place. A compound fracture is necessarily slower in its progress towards recovery, from the causes just e.xplained, than a simple fracture; and the union is frequently retarded by exfoliations of bone, which will often take up a tedious time to separate, and keep up considerable constitutional irritation. Three months may be considered a short time for the union of a compound fracture to take place ; sometimes the accident is not recovered from in nine months, and, occasionally, not even in twelve. I shall now proceed to speak of their treatment under com- mon circumstances. Reduce the bones as speedily as you can, and this may be very easily done by relaxing the muscles acting upon the limb. Bring them as nearly into apposition as possible, and if there be slight hemorrhage, do not be searching for a small vessel, but place a little lint over the wound, and by making gentle pressure on it you may easily suppress the hemorrhage. I shall have some further remarks to make on this subject, when speaking of the difficulties sometimes attending tliese accidents. Next bring the integuments as neatly over the parts as you can, and dip a dossil of lint in the blood, and put it on the surface of the wound, which irritates the least of any application I know of, and appears to approach the nearest of any other to the natural covering of the parts. In this way the wouud unites by the adhesive process, and the uniou of the bone goes on as in simple fracture, and is cured in one-fourth part of the time which would be required if the wound were allowed to be filled by granulations. This being the principal object, you should always aim at it, unless the fracture be accompanied with severe contusion of the soft parts, when you must apply a poultice in order to facilitate the discharge from the wound, and promote the sc|>aration of the parts to be removed. As, for example, a wound caused by a heavy body passing over the limb, the parts must slough, and therefore it would be useless to attempt to procure an union by adhesion. If the wound communicating with the fracture be caused by the ends of the bone or any sharp in- fitrument, you may generally succeed in procuring an adhe-