596 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. way as that in which the thigh bone is thrown from the *e- milunar cartilages. The jaw appears to quit the interarti- cular cartilage of the temporal cavity, slips before its edge, anti fixes the jaw, the mouth being at the same time siiehtlv opened. The natural efforts generally restore the situation of the parts, hut 1 have seen it continue a length of time; yet the motion of the jaw, and the power of closing the mouth, have returned. You must, in your attempt to return the jaw, press directly downwards; by which you separate the jaw’ from the temporal bone, and allow the cartilage to replace itself on the extremity of the condyloid process. A snap- ping is sometimes heard when the bone is returned to its socket. Young women are generally the subjects of this com- plaint, and I have frequently found the ammonia and steel, with the shower-bath, and a blister before the ear, remove the disposition to the re-appearance of the accident. These means accomplish this, of course, by giving a general tone to the system, and also to the relaxed parts. When the jaw has been once dislocated, it is easily displaced again from a slight cause, and therefore the motions of it should be limit- ed ; this will be best done by making a hole in the middle of a broad tape, to receive the chin, and split the ends into two parts, bring one over the top of the head, and the other over the occiput, and the tendency to subsequent luxation will be prevented. 1 shall now proceed to speak of Dislocations of the Hip-Joint. It perhaps may cause no little astonishment in some oi you, when I say, that there was a period in the history of surgery, and that not very remote, in which the dislocation of the thigh bone was considered an impossibility ; but, gen- tlemen, such is the general advancement of the science, and such are now the opportunities of acquiring iuforniaiion, and such the improvements of modern surgery, that pupils now know much more than their professors formerly did. As a proof of this I can tell you that the dressers of Guy’s Hospital a short time since, were not only able to disiingui.'h this dis- location, but they knew also how to reduce it, and actually accomplished it, without even having occasion to send for the surgeon. I have seen the thigh bone dislocated in four directions : — 1, U])wards, or upon the dorsum of the. ilium ; 2, downwards, or into the foramen ovale; 3, backwaids and upwards, or into the ischiatic notch; 4, forwards and upwards, or on the body of the pubis. ['I'he lecturer now mounted a chair, and imitated the position of the dislocated limb in the v.srittics