128 ON FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. t body after death, it was found that the scissors )iad penetrated through the orbitar process of tlie os frontis, and lacerated the dura mater; a considerable quantity of extravasated blood was found, and the anterior lobe of the cerebrum was punc- tui ed by the point of the scissors, from which it had receired the injury. It now and then happens that a blow receired upon the sum- mit of the head will produce a circular fracture of the entire cranium, commencing at the top of the head, passing down on each side through the temporal bone, and meeting at the basis. —Mr. Chandler, late surgeon of the hospital, had a case of this description ; there did not appear to be any extrava.'ation or concussion ; great irritation and violent inflammation suc- ceeded, which destroyed the patient; and after death, it was discovered that there existed a complete circular fracture of the skull, and that the anterior portion could be freely separa- ted from the posterior. 1 believe these cases always terminate fatally. There is a curious fracture of the skull which occasionally takes place over the fiontal sinuses. M hen the fracture is sim- ple, if the nose be blown, the air escapes through the opening in the bone, and getting into the cellular memhrane under the skin, renders the forehead emphysematous. If, on the other hand, the fracture is compound, upon blowing the nose, the air rushes through the wound ; so that, in either case, the na- ture of the accident may be easily ascertained. Fractures of the skull, if unaccompanied with concussion or compression, as readily unite as fractures of the bones in any part of the body Here is a curious case (exhibiting a skiill) where a circular, or rather oblong, piece of bone was, as you may perceive, completely separated from this part of the os parietale by the cut of a sabre ; Wd yet, from what you here see, it is evident that it became re-united. However I will send it round, that you may have au opimrtuuity of examining it tor y'ourseh'cs. kractnres of the cranium, there- fore, easily unite. Where, however, large holes are made through the sktdl, the apertures do not again become filled by ossifle matter, but by a tendinous structure formed fiom the bone and dura mater. The holes made in trephining arc sup- plied in this manner, and not by bone. Also, when in frac- tures of the skull, where the bones are separated to any dis- tance, the interspace will not become tilled by bony matter, but remain open as vou here sec it, (showing a skull which had been fractured, and flic broken part widely separate.' Treatment of Fractures of the Skull —M hen there is simple fracture, uniiccompanicd with symptoms of injured brain.