216 ON HERNIA, hernia you will readily understand how stranculation is produ- ced, because any portion of omentum which descends must occupy an additional space. Of tub Treatment of Strangulated Hernia. When a pensou has strangulated hernia he has no hope of safety, but in returning the intestine into the cavity of the ab- domen ; this, therefore, mu.st be your first object, except in one or two cases, which I sliall hereafter have occa.siou Ut inentiou. In order to effect this object of returning the hernia into the cavity of the abdomen, you are to employ what is called the taais. The taxis is a particular kind of pressure on tlie heniia, which is to be performed in the following manner:—Vou are to embrace the lower part of the liernia with your hand, ele- vate it gently, and push it towards tlie abdominal ring; having done this with one hand, you are to put the finger and thumb, of the other on the part just above tlie abdominal ring, and knead it gently by a successive motion of the finger and ihumb, until you at last obtain a passage for a small portion of intestine or omentum through the strictured part into Uie ab- domen. When, by this process, you have gradually insinuated a small portion of intestine into the ahdoinen, it generally happens that the rest will follow, and the hernia will consequently be returned. It is of no use to make pressure on the hernia, with a view of emptying the intestines of their contents. This is an erroneous principle, for the contents of the intes- tines are very rarely the cause of stricture. It does, indeed, now and then happen that an indigestible mass occupies the orifice by which the hernia descends ; but in general nothin* will be gaineil by pressure on the swelling, with a view of emptying the intestines of their contents. The time in which a hernia is returned by the process of the taxis is generally from ten to fifteen minutes. Do not attempt to perform it at once ; proceed gently and gradually, and never press with any considerable force ou the lower part of the swelling. Pressure at the orifice will not endanger the parts, but if you press with any force on the lower part of the swelling, you will run the risk of burtting the intestine. Sometimes, indeed, we find the jiarts in such a state as to ren- der the operation unavailing, as where the intestines have given way, and feculent matter has descended into the hernial sac. Be upon your guaid, therefore, not to employ so much force as to endanger the bursting of the intestine. It too often happens in our hospitals that patients are lost in consequeuw of gentlemen being sufl'ered to make repeated trials of the taxis.