408 ON THE DIFFERENT amputations. iincifornie bone, pass it through the joint, and then let it ter- minate upon the outside of the metacarpal bone, oppoMte the part where you commenced your first incision : a flap will thus formed of muscles and integuments, in the same wav a« the flap in the thumb operation ; straps of adhesive planter are to be employed for the purpose of keeping the edges of the wound in contact. The vessels required to be secured in the operations for the removal of the fingers, are the two digital arteries. Of Amputation of the Foot at the Tarsus. The operation for the removal of the toes is so siinilar to that of the faugers, that I do not consider it necessary to say much to you on that^ subject. One observation, however, I will make to you, which is, that a man who had been in the habit of removing fingers at the first joint, and who had never removed,a toe, or seen one removed, if he were to conduct the operation in the same manner, as for the removal of a finger, would feel himself very much puzzled ; that is, if he expected to find the first joint of the toes at the same distance from the web as in the fingers. You must, in the toe opera- tion, carry down your incision between the web for at least an inch and a half, before you will be opposite to the joint: the other steps of the operation are the same as for the removal of a finger. A new operation has of late years been proposed for the amputation of the, tarsus, by cutting through the joint, formed by the astragalus and os scaphoides, and the os calcis. With the os cuboides. Having desired your assistant to draw up the integuments, you make an incision from the bottom of the foot on one side over the dorsum down to the bottom on the other side, leaving the integuments of the sole of the foot undivided. Before you make your first incision, you of course feel for, and correctly ascertain, the precise situation of-the joint; after the first incision has been completed, you are to bend the fore part of the foot downwards, by which yon stretch the ligaments covering the joint, and a slight touch of the knife will then enable the instrument readily to pass betvyeen the articulating surfaces of the astragalus and os sca- phoides ; then, by cutting still further down«-ards, vou divide the ligaments connecting the os calcis and os cuboides. Vou are now to place the blade of your knife horizontallv, and cut along the bottom of the foot towards the toes, between the in- teguments and bones, until you have cut a proper distance for obtaining a sufficient quantity of integuments to form a flap for covering the end of the stump, winch is then to be adjusted neatly over the wound, and confined in that situation by straps of hdlicsive plaster. I have tried this operation, and do not