524 DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. up through the mouth and nose, fluids return throueh it and the voice becomes nasal. In this disastrous state the unhapnv patient IS unfitted for society ; with an aperture in the roof of theniouth, he has a discharge from it of a most offenEive smell, to which the smell of the dissecting room is not to be compared ; for I can assure you it is with difficulty that I can bear the breath of a person with disease of the mouth or nose • but independently of this, he is stamped by a na.sal voice’ and the fluids which he takes returns through the communi- cation set up between the mouth and nose. It is a state gentlemen, to which death is far preferable ; therefore, do not look on syphilis as a trifling disease. The tonsil glands become affected with sores, which have exactly the character of chancre, having rugged edges, a yellow surface, and a livid colour in the surrounding part. A sense of dryness is felt in the throat, which spreads up the eustachiaii tubes to the ear. But still worse effects of the disease are seen on the pharjmx, just opposite to the mouth ; it is not unfrequent that ulcera- tion proceeds through it and the cellular membrane behind to the vertebrae ; but the worst effect of all produced bv the syphilitic action, are found on the larynx, which require" im- mediate attention as soon as they shew themselves ; and in a short space of time, if not checked, destroy life. Attending this affection, there is always loss of the voice, so that you are obliged to put your ear to the patient’s mouth, he speaks in so low a whisper. ^ If he has no primary symptoms of sy- philis Oil him at the time, you are not led at first to suspect that it is syphilitic; although, whenever a penson comes to you with loss of voice, you should always ask, how long it is since he had any sore on his yard? What space of time has elapsed sinee he had syphilis?—’Phis effect of the syphilitic disease more frequently destroys life than any other. Here is a specimen (exhibiting it to the class) taken from a female vvho died of this complaint. She was admitted into the hos- pital with a bronchocele ; she had difficulty of breathing, and little power of utterance, which were attributed to the pre.«- sure of the tumour on the larynx. When she had been in the hospital a little time, syphilitic eruption madd its appear- ance, by which it was discovered she had not very long ago had syphilis. Mercury was given her, but the disease had proceeded too far, and she died a few davs after. On exa- mining the throat, chancres were found, one on each side of the upper part of the larynx ; there was no disease whatever of the lungs. The ulceration had proceeded to the larvmrcal .artery : this had given way, and part of the blood passed into the trachea. Portions of the thyroid cartilages are some-