286 ON THE OPERATION FOR DEPRESSION, &C, self to this instrument; a surgeon is not so likely to wound the ciliary ligaments or processes with it. 'Hie needle is the only instrument required ; some use a speculum, but exjcept- ing in children, this will not be of much use. Previous to the operation, very little preparation will be necessary ; of course, you ascertain whether the patient is in good health, see that the bowels are regular, and that all the functions are properly per- formed. We next come to the mode of performing the opera- tion. 'Jlie light, and the position of the patient and operator, are extremely important and all to be attended to. The light should be clear, distinct, and full, but not vivid, and it should not fall on the centre of the eye of the patient but laterally, else it would produce a dazzling, and unsteadiness of the organ. The patient should be,placed on a low seat with a high back, and the head resting against it, or the body of an assistant. The operator should be on a high stool, or at least of sufficient height to enable him to put one foot on it, and re.-t his elbow- on the knee opposite to the eye to be couched. Having thua prepared himself, the operator holds the instrument between the thumb and fore-finger, the assistant passing his fore-finger round the head of the patient, raises the upper lid by a fold of skin, and presses it gently against the superciliart- ridge. The patient is now' directed to look inwards towards the nose, and the operator resting his little finger on the upper part of the chin of the patient, penetrates the sclerotic coat about a line and a lialf from the junction of the trau.spareut with tlie opaque cornea, and a line below tlie transverse diameter of the eye. In the first place, the needle is introduced, here, just where the retina terminates, and the ciliary ligament com- mences, so that these shall be avoided; and, 2udly, For the purpose of not w'oiinding the ciliary artery, as it goes along the middle of the external convexity of the eye-ball, between the sclerotic and choroid coat. In using Beer’s needle, it is in- troduced with the edge laterally, and its surface upwards and (low'nwards, and directed towaids the middle of the globe of the eye. It must be moved slightly between the fingers ; a ])iece of ivory or brass at the handiC, showing ,tiie^ disposition of the cutting edges, and then the point rarried inward.s pa- rallel to the iris, and so a.s to cover the posterior chaml«r; the instrument will be now visible through the pupil. When this is the case, the operator must raise the needle upwards, and then depress it dowmwards, and backwards, and a little outw'ards, by which means the cry.staliinc lens becomes pushed into the vitreous humour. It the lens should ri.se from its situation, it must be again depre.-ised, and when it is safely lodged in the vitreous humour, the nec'dlc must be