505 ON CHANCRE. tiescribed attacking the other parts ; it generally happens that a chancre in this situation rapidly destroys the part, unless mercury be given early ; it is more irregular in its appearance than chancres in other parts, and does not assume a character similar to those seated on the glans. If it happens to be on the edge of the prepuce, a good deal of effusion into the cel- lular membrane takes place, and phymosis is produced ; when the sore is situated just where the skin doubles over the penis, it is exceedingly troublesoitie—there is considerable swelling, also a difficulty in drawing back the skin ; in this situation it seldom fails to produce phymosis, from what cause it is scarcely necessary to explain to you—the inflammation leads to an effusion into the cellular tissue, and the result is phy- niosis. If the chancre be on the corona glandis, or between it and the fraenum, you often find it extending deep, and pro ducing sloughing of the part, and even of the glans itself, which is not at all an uncommon result of deep-seated chancre at the corona glandis. The next circumstance which gives rise to a variety in the appearance, is when it ulcerates deeply into the cellular tissue ; a chancre on the surface of the skin is very slightly irritable; but, if it passes the skin, and extends into the cel- lular tissue, it assumes a disposition to ulcerate and slough. -A chancre on the skin heals under the use of medicines and external applications ; but, if once it enters beneath the skin, and inflames the cellular tissue, it becomes irritable, sloughs, and is attended with danger; the danger arising when the chancre e.xtends beneath the part on which it began. When the chancre is on the surface of the skin, and does not pro- duce deep ulceration, it is a disease slow in its progress, and easy of cure ; but if, on the other hand, it extends deeply into the part, it proceeds with rapidity, and those acquainted with the disease dread it, knowing the extent of sloughing which will be produced. But, gentlemen, of all the causes of va- rieties of chancre, one of the most common, is the habit and constitution of the patient. If each of you (which God for- bid !) had a chancre this evening, and you all used the same applications, in four or five days, scarcely two of you w'ould have the chancre of the same appearance. Go into the ad- mission rooms of these hospitals on taking-in days, and you will not see two men with chancres alike. The variety is not only produced by the previous mode of living, and the consti- tution of the patient, but any act of intemperance, excess of any kind, or any thing that hurries the circulatio!i, will alter ■the action of the part. So, if two patients be attacked with chancre, the one not of an irritable habit, and the other being