SCROFULOUS GLANDS OF THE NECK. 5.90 undergo the same changes as the adhesive matter thrown out in common chronic disease. In common chronic intlamma- tion, the adhesive matter effused may be injected, which shews that it is in some degree organized. Remember, then, that during the adhesive stage, the inflammation may be increased from change of season, climate, or any peculiarity of consti- tution, and proceed to the suppurative. This disease pro- duces little pus. These are the common symptoms of sup- puration, but in a much milder degree than are usually met with. 'J'he suppurative process is weak and languid, and it is a long time before matter forms. The suppuration is very imperfect; the jms has not the true character of pu- rulent secretion ; it is composed of a curd-like matter, and resembles pus mixed with serum. "These, then, are the ap- pearances of the suppurative stage. Suppuration proceeds very slowly. The skin, at first, has a blush of inflammation on it; then becomes of a livid or purple hue. It frequently happens that, when the skin is in this state, a long time elapses before it gives way. When the skin, however, breaks, it ge- nerally separates to a considerable extent. The reason why ..^cars in the neck are so large is, that the vitality of a large portion of the skin has been destroyed from the pressure of the pus; it then assumes a livid appearance, and, when it gives way, sloughs to a considerable extent. The ulcerative process proceeds slowly, compared with ulceration in other complaints. The interior of a suppurative gland very rarely sloughs ; but the matter that is etfused separates with the pus. Such is the history of an enlarged absorbent gland, affected with scrofulous disease, the various changes which it under- goes, and the appearances which those changes present in their different stages. Death is sometimes produced by the enlargement of the absorbent glands of the neck. I will relate to you three in- stances which more particularly strike my mind. In one ca.se, the glands covered the jugular vein. I attended the case with a respectable practitioner in the city. The jiatient had frequent rigors, and a great deal of constitutional irrita- tion ; at the time I saw him his life was evidently in immi- nent danger, and in a few days after he died. We found, on dissection, that the absorbent glands were adhering to the jugular vein, and that the matter had escaped into it, which was the cause of the great constitutional irritation under which he laboured a short time previous to his death. The .second way in which an enlargement of the gland.s of the neck- may give rise to death, is by [iressure on the veins producing apoplexy. I savv a case of this kind in a lad of sixteen or