LOCAL TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 33 Some years since, ulieii I was making a series of physiolo- gical expeiiiiieuts, I wished to ascertain what effects would be jjioduced upon the pulse by the sudden application of se- vere cold, for which purpose 1 plunged iny arm to the shoul- der into snow; at the time of the immersion my pulse was 80, but immediately rose to 120 ; this result was contrary to all that 1 had ever been taught on the subject—the pulse some- times did not rise so high as 120, not being more than 110, and was hard and wiry. The immersion in so great a degree of cold caused great pain, and consequently w’as a source of irritation. This experiment led me into an examination of the effects of the application of the cold bath ; I found, that when a person in health took a cold bath, who was unaccus- tomed to do so, that it produced irritation ; but on the con- trary, when a person in a state of irritation, or febrile beat, went into a cold bath, it tranquillized the nervous action, and exerted a beneficial influence. At one time, I had injured my health by being too much in the dissecting-room, and was in the habit of di.scharging from ray stomach a good deal of blood ; a considerable degree of sympathetic fever was the consequence ; in this condition I went into the country, for the benefit of a pure atmosphere, and there had freciuent opportunities of noticing the influence of cold upon an irritable pulse, in my owm person. Of an e'cning, when in the house, my pulse would be at 120, but upon going out into the cold air, it sunk in a very short time to 100, and by a long continuance in the cold, it became still less frequent. Thus, where there is great irritability of the nervous system, and where the heart is sending its blood through the different channels with accelerated motion, cold wid prove invigorating, by destroving the first of these affec- tions, and reducing the latter to the natural standard. In a woid, therefore, cold relieve.s inflammation when lo- cmly applied by abstracting heat—by lessening the diameter of the blood-ve.''.sels-—and by diminishing the action of the [lart, through lessening its nervous irritability. The next mode of relieving inflammation is by the appli- cation of heat and moisture : this looks like contradiction, but It 18 not so. It would be a contradiction to aiiiily heat alone, and its application would certainly do harm ; but the reverse is the result, when united with moisture ; for the two produce relaxation, open the pores, give rise to perspiration, thereby removing congestion, and occasioning all the benefi - cial effects that would arise from the ajqilication of leeches. le sedative effects of heat and moisture are well cxempli- netf by what haiipens when a person takes a warm bath : a D