ON HERNIA. 222 spermatic cord, and the other passes directly through the ab- dominal ring, from behind ; one is covered bv the fascia of the cord and the cremaster, the other has an additional cf>ver- ing, derived from the tendon of the trausversalis and its fascia. It may be said that I am entering very minutely into details of the structure of the parts; but in this disease, gc-n- tlemen, your knowledge of the anatomy of the parts cannot be too minute, and unless yoti are thoroughly acquainted with it, you had better never ktempt to operate in hernia at all. This is not a disease in which a man imperfectly acquaint^ with the anatomy of the |)arts will be able to operate; if his knowledge of their .structure be not most accurate and mi- nute, he will not be able to overcome the difficulties with which he may have to contend. Some gentlemen who now hear me may have witne.ssed the embarrassments of surgeons, who have come to the operation for strangulated hernia without a sufficient knowledge of anatomy. A surgeon unac- quainted with the facts to which I have just drawn your at- tention will make his incision upon the hernia, and as soon as he sees the fascia of the cord he will make a little cut, di- viding a few fibses, under which he will put a director, and proceed to make a slit upwards. Instead, however, of coming to the hernial sac, as he e.xpected, he will find somethiuc else to divide ; and in this state of einbarrassraent he will probably turn round for assistance, and ask what he should next do. Such a man, gentlemen, ought never to enter the operating theatre: no man should attempt to perform an operation, if he is obliged to apply to others for assistance. Well, he will divide this covering ; and still, not coming to the hernial sac, he will jirobably express his surprise at huding the hernia so completely buried. Gentlemen, if a surgeon is acquainted witli the anatomy of the parts, he knows that there are, oi neces- sity two layers to divide before he conies to the lieruial sac ; and'that in direct inguinal hernia there is, besides the cover- ings formed by the aponeurosis or fascia of the cord and the cremaster, a third covering, like the peritoneal bag, composed of the tendon of the trausversalis and its ia.-^cia. I here is a preparation on the table which will give yon an opportnmtv of ■^eehi'’' the ei)ii^astnc arterv close to the mouth ot theuux'ct m- guinal hernia," on the outer side. This species of hernia was iirst observed bviMr. Cline, senior, in the year 1,//, on open- ing the body of a person who had been a patient of .Mr. H iwkes of C'hel.sea. He was surprised to tind the hernia on the inner side of the epigastric artery, and he was in the habit of mentioning this case in his lectures. T hi> circuni>tance icd other,s to observe this species ol henna, ;ind it is now well