367 ON RETENTION OF URINE. effectiug a cure in the space of six months ; it should be oc- casionaJly changed or renewed—say about eveiy eight or ten days. At the same time that you are using the plaster, you should give to the patient the eighth or si.\'teenth of a grain of the oxymur. hydrarg. iii 5i. of tinct. cinchon. bis. die. Or if the bowels should be disordered, you may substitute for the tinct. cinchon. 51. of tinct. rhei. The plaster constantly used, and these medicines occasionally taken, you will generally lind, in the course of six months, that the complaint has been subdued. 1 have known it cured as early as the third month from the commencement of this treatment. Of the Lacteal Tumour. Women, shortly after their confinement, are frequently an- noyed by these tumours. A female will come to you with an immense swelling on the breast, and, upon examining it with your hand, you readily perceive a sense of fluctuation ; this leads you to believe that it is chronic abscess ; but you will find no sign of inflammation, nor any inconvenience fronr pain. With a lancet you open the sac, and there will be dis- charged a considerable quantity of milk ; the sac is filled by it only; and if the milk be put by for twenty-four hours its surface will be covered with cream. After the milk has been evacuated, you should introduce into the opening made by the lancet, a sponge or cotton tent; this, in a short time, will e.x- cite inflammation in the sides of the sac ; adhesive matter will be thrown out, which, gluing the parietes of the sac to each other, will be the means of gradually obliterating the cavity, and thus produce a permanent cure. This treatment is effec- tual in relieving such cases ; it is the best that 1 am acquainted with, and I have seen it most decidedly successful in at least a dozen instances. LECTURE XLV. On Retention of Urine. It is not my intention to enter at any length into the causes which produce retention of urine ; for this part of the subject I shall leave until 1 describe to you the venereal disease, which 1 shall shortly have occasion to do. I shall at present merelv state, that the most frequent causes of retention of urine, are strictures in the urethra, and enlargement of the prostate gland. There are several other causes, which give rise to this state ; an accumulation of blood in the bladder ; stones in the urethra, or the [iressnre of matter between th.e jirostate gland and the rectum, will sometimes occasion a necessity for