ox INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 12^ tents, as the accident generally happens to persons in a «tate of intoxication ; and also by propelling the blood to the brain, and thus restoring the powers of life. But the vomiting ex- cited by nature restores the patient to his senses for a short time. He is sometimes relieved, but without continuing so long; he looks about, and lapses into his former state of aberration of mind, from which he had received merely a temporary relief. When emetics are exhibited as a remedy in concussion, there is only one thing that I fear from their use ; when there is any extravasation of blood in the brain, or any tendency to apoplexy, then they should be employed with cau- tion ; and it is on that account that I wait for three or four hours after the accident before 1 order them. With respect to the exhibition of cathartics, the bowels should be kept open by calomel purges, followed by the infu- sion of senna and sulphate of magnesia. The calomel should be given about two hours after the accident; and it will be useful to give to the patient at the same time a quantity of mild fluids to drink, as by this means a disposition to purging is kept up, counter-irritation, is, as it were, produced, and the blood is drawn from the brain to the intestinal canal. Sub- luuriate of mercury, with lemon-juice squeezed in water, should be given. Perspiration on the surl'ace of the body is very desirable, and for this purpose antimonials are employed. The pulv. Ipec. Com. (Dover’s Powder) is not generally used to produce moisture of the skin, on accouut of the opium it contains, as it confounds the judgment, and prevents your seeing what are the effects of the opium, and what those of the disease ; for opium produces the same disturbance to the brain as takes place in concussion ; therefore it is not often employed. Counter-irritation is of use, but not until other means have been resorted to ; the object of blisters is to subdue the inflammation when other means have failed. I have known a patient, with pain in the head, sickness at the stomach, loss of strength, and throbbing of the carotids, who had been often relieved by blood-letting, for about two hours only after it was done. A person under such circumstances I have known benefited by tbe application of a blister ; on the princi|)le not of increasing but subduing action, from an ex- cess of which the ill consequences are to be feared. For the sym])toms after concussion, the trephine used to be employed; but it now becomes a question whether it ever ought'to be resorted to as a means of relief under those cir- cumstances To this I say, if you were to trephine, you ought to be trephined yourselves in turn. What will tre- phining do ? Probably great harm, by disturbing the brain ;