ON FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. 1.31 in, ami yet no vestige of fi'acture in the internal ; here is anotlier specimen, with greater depression ; and the third still more than either, yet the internal plate is sound. J am not acquainted with the histories of these specimens, hut it is evi- dent that the persons recovered by the re-union that has oc- curred between the parts which were broken. Suppose you are called to a patient who has had a severe blow on the head, and that, on examitiing the skull, you find a portion of bone considerably de|)ressed. You may still find this man capable of giving a history of the accident, and that liis mind is not at all affected. On the other hand, you may be called to a person who has fracture of the skull with de- pression, and who has lost the powers of mind. In such a case, if the fracture is simple, and there is no wound in the sca'|>, and no symptom of injury to the brain, it would be the w’Ofst practice in tlie world to make an incision into the part, and perform the operation of trephining ; for by making such an incision you add greatly to the danger of the patient, as yon make what was before a simple, a compound fracture, and consequently greatly increase tlie danger of inflammation. Inllammation rarely follows tVacture with dtpre.«sion, where the fracture is simple, hut very often follows a compound frac- ture, which is produced by making an incision in the scalp. Never make an incision, therefore, when you can avoid it, or merely hetause there is fracture with depression, if there be no symptom of injury to the brain. Even if there be symp- toms of injury to the brain, and the fracture be simple, do not immediately trepan. Take away blood, and purge your patient freely, and see how far the symptoms may be the result of concussion of the brain, and not of depression. If the symp- toms do not yield to depletion, then, and not till then, per- form the operation of trephining. I w'as called to a lady who had fallen again.'t a projection of a wall in walking across her |>arIour. 1 he os frnntis was driven in, but there was no symptoms of compres.sion of the brain. I bled her, and guarded cautiously against inflammation, hut there was no necessity for elevating a portion of the hone. This lady never liad any symptoms of injury to the brain, and she recovered by depletion alone. Ihe old practice used to be, the moment an injury to the brain was suspected, and the least depression of the bone appeared, to make an incision into the scalp. I have heard of a dresser in these hospitals, who, having had no accident during hi.s week, said, “ I will make a cut in the head of one ot my patients with fracture, for lie may |)crhaps have de- pression, and I sliall in this way have something to do before K 2