372 ON PUNCTURING THE BLADDER. ferentia aie situated dose at the basis of the prostate plaud. If you carry tlie instrument three-quarters of an inch, or even half an inch, behind the prostate gland, the vasa defereutia will escape. No man .should think of introducing the trocar directly behind the prostate gland, but at the distance of at least half an inch from it; the distance of three-quarters of an inch is better. ^Vheu you pass your finger into the rectum you will feel the bladder projecting into it. It is elastic, and yields with difficulty to the pressure of the finger; you will readily feel the fluctuation. This leads you to the spot where the trocar is to be introduced ; the triangular space is directly presented to the point of the instrument, 'fliis is a verc’ easy operation, and may be had recourse to by a surgeon who con- sults his own ease rather than the advantage of his patient, 1 will describe to you the steps of the operation, and then mention the objections which may be urged against it. 'ioi> introduce your finger about an inch behind the prostate gland, and then upon the upper part of the finger pass the trocar, which may be either curved or straight, to the posterior part of the bladder. When the point of the instrument rests upon the upper part of the rectum and the posterior part of the bladder, you pass the trocar into the bladder by a slight and sudden motion of the hand. As to the direction in which the trocar is to be carried, it is obliquely upwards and forward. If you were to push it through the fore part of the abdominal paiietes, it would pass midway between the pubes and the navel. The place at which the point of the instrument should penetrate, supposing it to be carried through the bladder, i.« half way between the umbilicus and the symphysis pubis. In this direction it will readily enter the bladder. The objec- tions to an operation which is so easily performed are these : Although you introduce an elastic gum catheter for the pur- pose of iillowing the urine to distil through it, some of it will trickle by the side of the iustrumeut into the rectum, and pro- duce a high degree ol irritation. This is not the case in ex cry instance; but I have .=een a great number of instances in which the rectum has been brought into a state of severe disease in consequence of this operation. Mr. C., a surgeon of Gloucester, had a patient under his care for more than two years, who sufTered from a high degree of irritation in the i ectum after this operation, a sinus having formed between the bladder and the rectum; he died from the consequences of this disease. This is an objection which may be urged .igainst puncturing the bladder in this way ; and though the operation sometimes succeeds, it is, upon the whole, one illicit ought not to be resorted to. I went down into the