ON HERNIA. 212 is, that in addition to the vomiting, which is not less frequent, hiccough supervenes. Hiccough was formerly considered to be a sign of the pre- sence of gangrene, but it is now known not to be so. Pati- ents have had hiccough for many hours, and have recovered after the operation for strangulated hernia. After the appear- ance of hiccough, you may prevent gangrene by bleeding, and using other means for reducing the patient. 'I’he hiccough will sometimes remain for several days after the operation, and, ill this case, bleeding will relieve the patient more than anv thing else. . When gangrene has actually taken place, the patient will tell you that he has got rid of all his pain, and that he feel* a great deal better ; but if you put your hand on his abdomen you will find it still tense and tender ; his pulse will be inter- mitting, small, and irregular, and the swelling will feel tense and somewhat emphysematous. In this state it sometimes happens that the hernia, by a little pressure may be returned into the abdomen, in consequence of the great relaxation of the surrounding parts from the eflFects of gangrene. Death, however, is dose at hand. 1 saw a man in this state at the other hospital, who de- clared that he was a great deal better, and begged to have a little small beer. I desired the sister to give him some, and while he was in the act of elevating himself in bed to drink it, he fell back and expired. Be upon your guard, therefore, against encouraging the friends of a patient under such cir- cumstances. Many a professional man has injured his repu- tation bv holding out hopes of recovery from these delusive appearances, when in fact death is on the very point of clos- ing the sufferings of the patient. LECTURE XXVH. Appearances on Dissection for Hernia. Upon dissecting a person who has died of strangulated hernia, you will find a considerable effusion nf lymph in the cellu- lar tissue in the neighbourhood of the herni.al sac; and if trangrene had taken place, the parts will be found emphyse- matous ; and wherever you press with the finger the impres- sion will remain, that is, that jiart will pit. W hen you the hernial sac, there will ininicdiately escape a considerable nuantitv of serum ; however, I ought to state, that the .;u.an- titv of this fluid depends upon the nature of the bciuia ; the principle is this if it be an omental hernia, there will be but