ON INiFLAMMATlON OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. 253 temples, partake of the pain; there will be a shooting pain to the maxillary bone, or more deeply seated in the head ; these pains are in some instances extremely violent. This train of symptoms is attended with a greater or less degree of consti- tutional irritation. The patient complains of great lassitude, prostration of strength, chilliness or rigor followed bv heats. His skin will often be hot and dry, and his pulse quick and hard ; his stomach will be affected, and nausea or vomiting produced; he will often complain of pain in the back, and iii short of all the symptoms which indicate a considerable fever of the sympathetic kind, arising from local irritation. The degree in which these symptoms occur will of course vary according to the constitution of the patient. In young and robust persons there will often be a high degree of local in- flammation, without much constitutional irritation ; while, on the other hand, in delicate and irritable patients, a much less, nay sometimes a very trifling degree of local inflamma- tion will be accompanied with violent symptoms of constitu- tional derangement. Accordingly, although, cesteris paribus, the degree of constitutional irritation will be proportional to the degree of local excitement, this principle will be so much modified by the particular constitution of the patient, that in cases where, from the violence of the inflammation, much constitutional derangement might be expected, very little will occur ; and vice versa, where, from the slight degree of local excitement, very little might be expected, it will sometimes happen that a great degree of constitutional irritation will at- tend it. So much for the symptoms of ophthalmia, as exist- ing in simple inflammation of the conjunctiva, without any particular modification. It will not be necessary to point out particularly the predisposing causes of this complaint, be- cause they do not differ from the predisposing causes of in- flammation in any other part of the body. I shall only men- tion, therefore, some of the causes which most frequently pro- duce irritation in the eye, and lead to inflammation of the conjunctiva. Any extraneous body lodging in the conjunctiva will produce this effect; and this is so frequently the cause of inflammation, that it will be right in all cases carefully to examine its surface, in order to ascertain whether there is any extraneou.s body in it, such as a particle of dust or sand, a piece of grit or lime, or any of the scorix which often fly off from iron while it is beaten on the anvil. Any extraneous body of this kind will readily produce irritation, and inflamma- tion of the conjunctiva. Variation of temperature, especially when accompanied with any sudden access of light, will pro- duce this inflammation. Thus it has often happened that per-