350 ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. confined to the breast, and that it is only the index of a dis- ordered constitution. ('I'he learned professor sent roniid the theatre the different specimens just alluded to, illustrative of the rases which were mentioned at the end of the last lecture, in order that each student might have an opportunity of exa- mining them for himself.) I shall now continue the sul^ect of diseases of the breast, and .shall st-tte to you some further particulars respecting the scirrhous brca.st. .SciRHiious Breast. Married women who hear no children, and single women, are more subject to this complaint than those who have larec families. It is very probable that the natural change which the breast undergoes in the secretion of milk has some power in preventing this diseased affection of the breast, which is cer- tainly less frequently met with in married persons who bear children, thati in married persons who do not, and those who j-emain in a state of celibacy ; hut it is no secarity against tliis complaint that a woman has borne children. I knew a woman with this disease who had been pregnant seventeen times ; >he had borne nine children, and had eieht miscarriages, so that in the whole she had been pregnant seventeen times : yet the dis- ease in this person was as large a scirrhus as I ever witnessed. Although the disease comes on more frequently in those who have had no children, in consequence of the breasts not hating undergone the natural ciiange in the secretion of the milk, yet this is no security against the complaint, though it lessens the tendency to it. It is generally believed that scirrhous tubercle of the breast is connected with the cessation of the menses. I believe that if a person has a tumour in the breast which is not malignant, and that it remains so till the change of life takes place, that then an undue action may be excited in the p.art, and the tumour becomes scirrhous just at the cessation of the menstniai discharge. But the disease generally occurs at an earlier period : the period at which scirrhous tubercle is nsually formed is from thirty-five to fifty years of age; more frequently under forty than above it, though I have met with a great num- ber of cases from forty-four to torty-five years ol age ; however, it is more frequently found under forty than above if. It is iii t a disease of young persons; it is rarely seen between twenty .and thirty. The youngest person that 1 ever saw with this disease was twenty-seven years old ; 1 have seen another case in a person of twenty- nine ; but excepting these two ca.^cs, I have never met with it under thirty. I know th.at there are many tumours met with at an early age, which are called .scir- rhous tumours, but they are not so, gentlemen ; and the me- lilical man who asserts that they are is deceived as to their