249 ON HERNIA. situation of the cord. Recollect the anatomy of the part, that there is an opening in the litiea alba and the peritoneum lines it internally. When a hernia takes place, this opening does not close; the peritoneum equally lines it with the other pari- etes of the .abdomen : when the hernia, therefore, protrudes, the peritoneum is always carried before it, whetlier in youth or advanced age. When the hernia has been very large, I have seen one or two cases without the sac ; not but there was a sac at the beginning, but the hernia having acquired a very large size, the sac became lacerated or partially absorbed, and the intestine has been thrown in close contact with the skin. I have seen an umbilical hernia descend as low down as the upper part of the thigh. This kind of hernia is covered with a superficial fascia, which, however, often becomes absorbed. Umbilical hernia is subject to little variety either in form or size. Occasionally there are two bags of intestine, separated by a septum. A female came to this hospital with strangul.ated umbilical hernia, was operated on, and recovered. Some years after she came again, with another hernia, a little below the spot where the first was, and was operated on again ; it was found that there was a complete septum between the two. The upper hernial tumour was strangulated at first, the lower one the last time. Treatment of Reducible Umbilical Hernia in Children. The treatment to be pursued in children, is to apply one-half of an ivory ball on the umbilicus, and over this adhesive plaster, and a belt; the belt, however, will be of no use unless sup- ported by straps which come round the lower part of the belly and the thighs. A little waistcoat fastened by two strings will be of use. Reducible Umbilical Hernia in Adults. In adults, at the beginning, the plan of treatment should be the same as in children ; but if by means of the ivory ball the hernia should not be returned within the opening of the umbi- licus, a pad, covered with black silk, and fastened by adhesive plaster, is to be placed over the part. VVhen the hernia is re- ducible, a truss should be vvorn. It will seldom effect a cure, and is often liable to shift its situation ; but a truss should be worn, as it affords a shield to the abdomen, where the hernia is pendulous, and there is much obesity. 1 he tniss that should be worn consists of two broad belts, which must come round aud buckle on the abdomen. But as this is continually liable to change ]ilace, a narrow belt joined to the broad one should also go under the pendulous part of the belly. '■