ON THE CUHE OF ANEURISM. 160 ii pulsating aneurismal swelling. I tried what could be done by pressure ; but as this did not succeed, 1 found it necessary to tie the radial artery at the part where we usually feel the pulse. In this case a bag of considerable size was formed by the cellular membrane, instead of the usual mode. A pointed body ititroduced into an artery will produce all the appear- ances of aneurism, and require the same treatment. In what- ever way, in short, aneurism is produced, the surgical treat- ment of it wilt be the same. A curious circumstance may be observed in dissecting an aneurism, after having turned back the aneurismal sac. You would suppose that when you had made an incision in the parts, you would immediately find the cavity in which the blood is contained ; but this is not the case. On the inner side of the aneurismal sac a wall of ad- hesive matter is deposited in layers so as to enclose the blood as completely as the aneurismal sac itself. Here is a prepa- ration in which the aneurismal sac has been taken away, and yet you find a bag remaining entirely formed of layers of ad- hesive matter on the outer side of the aneurism. The j>rocess l)y w'hich natiire throws up one layer of adhesive matter after another, until a complete bag is produced, is beautifully illus- trated in this preparation. You may distinguish aneurism from other diseases by the following marks:—^If the aneurism be recent, by pressing vour finger on the artery which leads to the aneurism, you will empty the aneurismal bag; but if the aneurism be of longer duration, and the pulsation be but slight, place yonrself by the side of the patient, observe carefully the size of the sw’elling, and, by pressing your finger on the artery above, you will see the aneurism sink down as yon make the pres- sure, though the sac will not entirely empty itself; and upon raising your hand suddenly, you will observe a jet of blood rush into the aneurismal sac, and raise it to its former height. In this manner an aneurism may be easily distinpiished from another tumour deriving its pulsation from an artery : in the former case the pulsation w'ill be felt over every part of the tumour, in the latter there will be no pulsation e.Kcept in the direction of the artery. I have hurried over some parts of this evening’s lecture, as it is my intention to show you the operation for popliteal aneurism, having a subject which will answer the pur|)ose extremely well. I shall postpone, there- fore, some remarks which 1 have to make upon the mctlical treatment of aneurism, and jtrocced at once to speak of the surgical operation for its cure. On Tiir. CiRF. OF Anei-uisms. Aneurisms sometimes undergo a spontaneous cure. This is