54 ON ULCERATION. faces remain exposed to the air, incrustations or scabs will foi ni; under these pus will be secreted, which, by kecpin? the granulations constantly moist, will often cause ulcers of thi'^ description to heal, when all artificial attempts have been com- pletely unsuccessful. When the constitution has been long accustomed to a dis- charge from an ulcer, some caution is requisite when healine it; for, if done too suddenly, hectic or apoplectic svmpfoms are very apt to supervene. Ancient surgeons observed these ; to obviate which they were in the habit of making issues in other parts of the body at the time of healing old sores. Quantities of matter, constantly discharging for a consider- able period, inevitably act on the constitution as sources of depletion; and which, if suddenly discontinued, we mav reasonably imagine w'ould produce the symptoms before stated". There is no necessity, however, for issues to prevent them, as jiurgative medicines w’ill answer much better, and speedilv carry from the system, by a natural channel, any increase of its fluids. Mr. Wilson, formerly a lecturer on anatomv in this town, in his younger days was for a long while aunoved by a spitting of blood, which threatened him with an attack of pulmonary consumption ; at length an ulcer formed upon his arm, and shortly after the bleeding from the lungs ceased. The sore w'as an e.xceediugly obstinate one, and resisted for a great length of time all attempts that were made to close it' at last, however, it was accomplished, upon which the bleeding from she lungs once more returned. A long-continued discharge from a blister has, upon being too suddenly checked, produced oppression of the brain. Suppuration is best promoted by the application of heat and moisture, LECTURE IX. On Ulceration. Ulceration is the absorption of any constituent part of the body. 1 have already endeavoured to explain to you, that under the increased action of the vessels which accompanies inflammation, an increased deposit takes place from the arte- ries ; also, that this deposit is according to the stage of the inflammation, and the part which the inflammation attacks; that the inflammation is eitlier adliesive or suppurative, and that it ends in the one state in the immediate production of the process of adhesion, and in the other in tlie effusion of a (juantity of purulent matter from the extremities of the vessels.