ON aVounds of the brain. ]35 circumstance of his having been pressed, and carried down to Plymouth or Falmouth ; but fioin that moment up to the time when the operation was performed (that is, for a period of thirteen months and some days) his mind remained in a state of perfect oblivion. He had drunk, as it were, the cup of Lethe; he had suffered a complete death, as far as regarded his mental and almost all liis bodily powers ; but by remov- ing a small portion of the bone with the saw, he was at once restored to all the functions of his mind, and almost all the powers of his body. It appears, therefore, that in cases of depression we should not be prevented from tre[ihining, however distant the period may be at which the accident occurred ; and tlie paticmt may, after any interval, be restored to the powers of body and miud. LECTURE XVIII. On Wounds of the Br.atn. Wounds of the brain will often happen, without producing any interruption to the operations of either body or mind. But should the wound be accompanied by either compression or concussion, then the particular symptoms wliich characte- rise those injuries will be present. If, however, the wound he a simple incision or laceration, it will often prove quite harm- less. Indeed, it frequently occurs that considerable portions of the brain are lost, and yet the mental and bodily functions continue unimpaired. Epileptic fits and hepiiplegia certainly sometimes follow as effects of .such injuries ; but on the other hand, brain to p great extent has been lost without hav- ing been succeeded by di.sturbance of either the mental or bodily functions ; numerous cases of this description are upon record; several have fallen under my own observation. A case similar to the following likewise came under the nolice of a surgeon at Brighton. A dresser of the late Mr. Chandler once came to me when I was in the other hospital, and said “ Look here. Sir,” at the same time showing me a portion of brain, with a piece of the pia mater attached to it. 1 went lo see this man, and found the representation of the dre.sser cor- rect; there was a large transverse opening in the os frontis, through which a considerable quantity of brain had been lost. His mind was not at all affected ; neither were the bodily powers in the least disturbed ; no bad symptoms of any kind followed the injury ; the wound healed most favourably, and he was soon discharged. Abomt a year aftei wards, while f was at the house of a lady in the city, whom I was attending, a man walked into the room, and said to me, “ How do you