ON IRRITATION. 11 irritation runs very high, and the heart, brain, and stomach are much affected. A person receives an injury to the leg, producing compound fracture of one or both hones ; constitu- tional irritation commences generally in twenty-four hours ; the patient coni])lains of pain in his loins, extending up the spinal cord, and pain in the head. He then becomes restless, aud his countenance anxious ; the tongue at first is dry, and covered with a whitish fur ; but, as the symptoms increase, it becomes yellow, and lastly coated with a thick brown fur. There is loss of appetite, the stomach becomes irritable, and nausea and vomiting supervene. The secretions are dimi- nished, and the stools are white. As the severity of the com- plaint increases, the pulse becomes quick, hard, irregular, and alternately intermittent. The respiration is hurried, intellect deranged ; all ini[]ressions on the senses are painful; subsul- tus tendinum, hiccough, vomiting, and tension of the abdo- men, come on ; the patient sinks into a low muttering de- lirium, and soon expires. Thus, in constitutional irritation, whether from injury or disease, every part of the system is affected by it, and this effect appears to be produced in the following manner.—When any part of the body receives an injury, the nerves convey to all the important organs of the body, spinal marrow, heart, stomach, &c., an impression of that injury. Nature immediately commences the restorative process, by stopping all the customary secretions ; the various outlets being thus closed, the blood collects in large quantities in the heart and great blood vessels, which propel the blood with increased force to the wounded part; tl)is gives rise to some form of inflammation, the one best suited to accomplish the desired effect. Hei e is an illustration of the manner in which nature contends for cure; during the battle, she oc- casionally requires to have her ardour checked, or calls for support in proportion to her want of power ; we must watch her proceedings with an eagle eye, and be exceedingly cau- tious in all our proceedings ; for if we should open the various sluices of the body, and ri!Store the secretions too soon, we may, by abstracting blood from the injured part, prevent the restorative process ; or by increasing the excitement, disturb nature’s operations. The degree of constitutional irritation, resulting from in- jury, depends on several causes ; these are the importance of the part injured; the extent and nature of the injury; the state of the constitution, age, and previous habits of the patient. Thus we see, that constitutional irritation is very different in some persons to what it is in others ; so that a wound, which in one man would be attended by the most