416 ON THE DIFFERENT AMPUTATIONS. rous or fungoid kind, for in that case it would have been use- less to amputate. It was neccs.«ary in this case to make a double flap, by taking out a portion of integument from the arm, as it was impossible to provide a sufficient covering for the glenoid cavity from the deltoid muscle. The second case in which I operated at the shoulder joint was a curious and a novel one. It was that of a boy residing at Worthing, who fell from a horse, and reeeived a compound fracture at the elbow joint, which rendered amputation necessary. It was an admirable stump, and the wound healed quickly. In a short time, however, the hoy began to complain of a great deal of pain at the extremity of the stump; a gradual alteration in its form took place, till it became conical, and at length the hone projected through it. The boy was brought to Guy’s Hospital, and, on examination, there was found, at the extre- mity of the stump, a swelling on the inner side, which was so excessively tender that he could not bear the slightest pres- sure. The least pressure produced the most violent spasmo- dic affections of the muscles; these symptoms increased, the hoy’s general health gave way, and it became necessary to amputate the limb at the shoulder joint, when we found the nerves forming the axillary plexus blended together, and forming a large substance like a common ganglion. This had produced the tumour on the inner side of the arm, and the spasmodic affections of the muscles. Some time after a boy came into the other hospital who had had his limb amputated below the knee. The operation had been well performed by Sir Charles Blicke ; a good stump was left, and the boy was discharged, as cured, from St. Bartholomew’s hospital. With- in a few months he came back, complaining of great irritation at the extremity of the stump, which had become conical; the extremity of the bone was sawed off, and he was discharged a second time, apparently doing well. Soon after, however, the bone became again conical, and extremely irritable; he was brought into the other hospital, where, believing that there might be a swelling at the extremity of the popliteal nerve, which produced effects similar to those in the former case, I made an incision into the ham, .sawed off the bone at the back part of the stump, and removed a portion of the nerve, which was swollen to the size of the extremity of the finger. Mr. H. Cline has since removed a similar ganglions sub- stance in a person whose stump became conical, and ex- tremely irritable. In all such Ciuses it will be right to saw off the bone so as to lay bare the extremity of the nerve, and re- move that portion which has become enlarged ; above the .knee the sciatic nerve will be affected; below the knee the