305 ON URINARY CALCULI. Style is to lay obliquely on the front of the cheek, and a piece of adhesive plaster spread on black silk to be put over it, which will prevent persons from suspecting that there is any thing wrong with the eye. The style requires to be removed once a- day, for the first week, and to be washed ; sometimes there is little irritation produced by its introduction ; but, in general, there is none, and the comfort the patient experiences is very great; the water ceases to flow ot-er the cheek—the sight be- comes stronger—the tendency to inflammation is obviated ; and, indeed, so much eoinfurt is experienced that the patient is loth to dispense with the use of the style. Although the relief obtained from this plan is great, yet it was in reference to it that I said just now that no plan of treatment had yet been decided on which generally proved successful; for this mode must be considered more in the light of a palliative tlian a cu- rative remedy ; the obstruction frequently returning when the Style is removed. It sometimes happens that from disease nboiit the bones of the nose, a fistulous opening from the sac to the nose is formed. If you should operate in such a case, you must introduce a sharp-pointed instnimeut, eithera probe or trocar, through the fore part of the os unguis into the nose, and the only point which remains is to keep open the perfora- tion by a sponge tent, or nail-headed style; but it becomes rarely necessary to perform this operation. 1 have now, gen- tlemen, concluded the subject of diseases of the eye. LECTURE XXXVIII. On Ukinary Calculi. These are found in four different situations in the urinary or- gans, viz., in the kidney, ureter, bladder, and urethra. The calculi which are discovered in the prostate gland are not, in general, of the same kind as those met with in the or- gans which I have just named. Calculi in the Kidney. When a calculus is situated in the kidney, there will be felt considerable pain in the loins, in the vicinity of this organ, and occasionally it will be so very acute, and the ]>art so ex- qui.sitely tender, that the afflicted person cannot allow even the slight jiressure of a clothes-brush over the loins. A physi- cian of my acquaintance informed me that he had witnessed a case of this description, in which the only symptom tliat served to illustrate the nature of the disease, was the extreme tender- ness felt in the loins, and it was so severe that the jiatient could not suffer his clothes to be brushed over the jiart; njiuu