44S ON POISONS, there has been a slight inflanimation observed upon the intt-r- nal surface of the stomach and pliarynx, a sortof efflorwcnce; and all human beings who have d'ied with this disease have been said to have had, more or less, a similar appearance few words on the Treatment of Hydrophobia.—ITie best mode that can be adopted is, immediately after the part has been bitten, to cut It out; you should first ascertain at what depth the teeth have entered, by means of a probe, and then take care to excise a sufficient quantity, and leave no part of the injured inteeu- nient, cellular membrane, or muscle, to remain. If person^ should object to the use of the knife—foolishly object to have tJic poisoned part cut away—I advise you in such cases to let sink into the wound a small piece of the potassa fusa • thi.- will readilv dissolve, and, becoming liquid, its cauterizing influence will be communicated to each part of the wound', and thus destroy the influence of the poison. The best plan decidedly is the immediate excision of the part, and, where it has been done directly after the injury, it ha.s, I believe, in every instance, been successful in preventing the disease; if this practice should be opposed, the next best plan is the em- ployineut of the potassa fusa: I am speaking of these means, you will observe, as preventives ; and, as for medical reme- dies, when the symptoms of hydrophobia have once appeared, I am not acquainted with any. Every medicine, I believe, has been tried over and over again, and all have been found alike iiieftectual; the only thing in the wav of medicine that I think calculated to do good, is that which has latciv been adopted in France, viz., the injection of warm water into the veins. To make the employment of the remedy safe, how- etei, and to prevent pressure of the brain, the same quantity of blood as the water to be injected should be previously ab- stracted. With this precaution, I think the remedy a very proper and feasible oue. I may here remark, that the blood need not be abstracted before the injection of the water, but may be let flow from one vein while the water is thrown in at another, and this probably would be the better plan. LECTURE LIV. Of Vegetable and Mineral Poisons. It remains that 1 should say a fciv words on the subject of vegetable and mineral poisons. One of the vegetable poisons is hemloch; I have not myself seen any instance of its proving destructive to life; the common effects which it produces arc