577 ON DISLOCATIONS. quickly as possible, the blood should Ije drawn from a large orifice, atid the patient kept in the erect position ; for by tJjis mode of depletion syncope is produced before so large a quan- tity of blood as might injure the patient is lost. Where the warm bath is thought preferable, it should be employed at the temperature of 100 to 110, and, as the object is to pro- duce fainting, lie should be kept in it till this is effected, then immediately wrapt in a blanket, and the mechanical power applied. It may also be accomplished by giving nau- «;eatiug doses of tartarized antimony, as a quarter or half of a grain every five minutes ; and a good proof of the effect of nausea is, the man's being unable to lift his hand on a level with his shoulder. As its action is rather uncertain, it is better to use it, with a view of keeping up the nausea first produced by the two preceding measures. Another mode of relaxing the muscular power is, by making the patient sup- port a weight with the dislocated arm. The reduction of the bone is to be attempted, after lessening the power of the muscles, by fixing one bone and drawing the other towards its socket. The force should be gradually applied, and it is in this way only that that state of the fatigue and relaxation is produced which is sure to follow continued extension, and not attempt at once to overpower the action of the muscles. Great attention should be paid to the fixing of that bone in which the socket is placed. If, for example, in attempting to reduce a dislocation of the shoulder, the scapula be held by one person, and two pull at the arm, the scapula is neces- sarily drawn with the humerus, and the extension is very im- perfectly made. The most effectual mode of tiring the mus- cular power is by the pullies, which have this advantage over extension made by assistants, that your force is gentle and continued, and may be gradually increased, whereas, the ex- ertions of assistants are sudden, violent, and often ill-di- rected, and such force is more likely to produce a tearing of the parts, than to restore the bone to its former situation. First pa.ss a wetted roller round the limb, and over this buckle on the leather with the rings to which the pnllie.s are to be fixed. Having fixed them on, draw the cord very gently, until you feel the muscles making some resistance, then rest two or three minutes, and extend again ; and so on, until you see the muscles beginning to quiver, and by a little further extension they will be overcome, and the bone easily slips into the socket. Sometimes the bone goes into the joint without producing any noise, therefore care should be taken that the extension be not kept up too long. It is not necessary, in recent dislocations, to use pullies, excepting