148 ON FRACTURES OF THE VERTEBRAE. exact nature of the injury; for morbid anatomy can alone teach you the real nature of disease. When fracture with dis- placement occurs in the dorsal vertebrae, the patient generally lives a much shorter time; though even in this case I hare known a person live nine months. A person of the city, named W., riding on Epsom Downs, at full speed, came to a road which led to a chalk or gravel-pit, and finding that he could not stop his horse, he put spurs to him to endeavour to clear the pit. He succeeded in doing this, but the horse, in consequence of the effort, fell on the opposite side, roller! over him, and broke his dorsal vertebrae. Paralysis of the lower extremities followed, but this gentleman lived four or five months after the injury. When fracture with displacement occurs between the fourth and seventh cenical vertebrs, the patient generally lives from four to five days. I have known a person die as early as forty-eight hours after the iujnn-. If the injury occur between the second and third, or between the third and fourth cervical vertebrae, the person dies on tlie instant. Those who have attended in the dis.secting room can readily explain how this happens, and would, perhaps, feel themselves insulted if I were to explain it to them. Those who have dis- sected less will excuse me for saying that instant death ensues in this case, because the injury occurs above the origin of the phrenic nerve, which is the only agent in .suppoiting respira- tion after pressure on the spinal marrow has occurred. The function of respiration, after pressure on the s])inal marrow, is supported by the diaphragm only, and when the fracture with displacement occurs above the origin of the phrenic nerve, the diaphragm loses its power, and instant dissolution is the result. But it sometimes happens that the cervical vertehrte are broken without displacement. When this occurs, some curi- ous circumstances take jilace. At the time 1 lived with Mr- Cline, the following case occurred : —A girl received a severe blow on the neck, after which it was fouud,that whenever she attempted to look at anything above her head, she was under the necessity of putting her hands behind it, and gradually elevating it to the obiect. M'hen she wanted to look at any thing beneath her head, she put her hands under her chin, and lowered her head to the object. If any other child in play ran against her and shook her i)ody, the concussion itioduccd un- easy sensations, and she would" run to a table, or any (dace on which she could rest her head, and support it with her hands under her chin until the agitation produced by the slnx-k had subsided. The child lived twelve mouths after the accident.