SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF THE BONES. 531 occurrence. The .symptoms by which this disease is charac- terized, are as follow ; —Some weeks after the chaucre has healed, the patient e.xperiences in the evening a sensation of pain in the bone, which is afterwards the seat of the node. 'I'his pain does not immediately produce a swelling; but, in the course of a few days, a swelling appears in the evening, which disappears again on the following morning. It is ex- cessively tender and painful in the evening; but, in the morn- ing. it is hardly perceptible ; there is scarcely any swelling or tenderness. At this time the periosteum only is affected; but, when the inflammation has continued for some time longer, the bone is affected and soon becomes enlarged. I shall send yon round two preparations, in which you may observe the rhickeuing of the periosteum, and the enlargement of the bones produced by syphilis. The first etfect is an inflammation of the periosteum ; but, in a short time, a deposit takes place between it’ and the surface of the bone; this deposit is, in the first instance, only a serous fluid, but a cartilaginous substance is soon secreted, which is gradually converted into bone. Though, in the first instance, therefore, there is only an inflammation of the periosteum, the fluid secreted in con- sequence of this inflammation is soon converted into an os.si- fic enlargement. The treatment of this disease is not differ- ent from that which is necessary for the other symptoms of syphilis. Give the blue pill united with opium ; the com- pound decoction of sarsaparilla is sometimes added, with a view of preventing any disposition to irritability in the dis- eased part. This, however, is not necessary ; the blue pill, with opium, will be sufficient to effect the cure. As to any local treatment, no other will be necessary, except the simple application of evaporating lotions, w'hich certainly assist in setting rid of inflammation. When the inflammation has ceased, if there is any enlargement of the bone, a stimulating plaster, as the emplastrum ammoniaci cum hydrargyro, should he employed. 'I'here is on the table a great variety of preparations, exhibiting specimens of nodes, which will be worth your examination after the lecture. The skeleton on the table affords a curious illustration of the effect produced by mercury ou the bones. 'I'hough the treatment of nodes, when attended to early, is very simple, cases sometimes oc- cur in which considerable difficulty arises. You will some- times find a considerable quantity of serous fluid fluctuating between the periosteum and bone. When this fluctuation is una('com(ianied with inflammation and redness of the skin, there will he no necessity to cut down upon the bone ; if you do so, you will run the risk of producing exfoliation. Such M M 2