ON GANGRENE. 103 found the femoral artery below the place to which the ligature had been applied was conveying blood. As it was impossible that the femoral artery could be pervious, the blood must have been conveyed by anastomosis. It does now and then happen, that a blood-vessel will arise from the artery just above the ligature, and pass into the artery immediately itelow the liga- ture ; by which means the circulation is produced. There is a beautiful specimen in the collection, where the brachial artery- had been tied, and blood was conveyed by a vessel not more than three, inches in length, from the part just above to the part just below the ligature. This now and then occurs after the operation for aneurism, anastomosis happening where it is not usually found, from a short vessel running from one por- tion of the artery to the other. The other subject, to which I mean to call your attention, is the experiment which 1 made on an animal last Friday, in the other hospital. This experiment, gentlemen, delighted me; 1 do not know that 1 have ever experienced greater plea- sure in my life than 1 felt in going home from the hospital on that day. With respect to antidotes against the effects of poi- son, it i.s well known that they are, in a great degree, useless. It is impossible, for instance, to get rid of arsenic from the stomach by any remedy that can be administered. It is doubt- ful whether any man ever recovered from the effects of that poison by means of an antidote. So with respect to opium ; when it is taken into the stomach in such large quantities that vomiting cannot be excited, the patient cannot be relieved by the exhibition of medicine; for where is the antidote against the effects of opium ? A few weeks ago, a nurse in this hos- pital died in consequence of having swallowed opium. No relief was exhibited to her; but can it he said, after what we saw on Friday, that no relief could have been administered to her.^ A short time since, a patient died in the other hos- pital, under similar circumstances; the quantity of opium taken bung so large, that vomiting could not be excited by any means which were employed. I was myself, on one oc- casion, called to a young lady who had taken two ounces of the tincture of opium. It was ten o’clock in the morning when I first saw her ; she was then comatose. I tried to ex- cite vomiting by the sulphate of copper, giving it in as large doses as I could venture to administer; which I have some- times known to succeed when all other means have proved in- effectual. It was however unavailing in this case, and I sat by thi.s young lady from ten o’clock in the morning, until eight in the evening, watching the regular process to death, without being able to administer to her the least relief. Let me ask