DISEASES OF THE HIP JOINT. 563 «f the knee-joint, the tibia is often dislocated forwards. Von saw a case lately over the way, of this description ; the de- formity will always remain, and the limb he of little use. Amputation of the lingers and wrist is occasionally performed ; tliat of the arm very rarely. LECTURE LXVIII. 1 SHALL now proceed to speak of diseases of the hip joint, psoas and lumbar abscess, and vertebral diseases. Diseases of the Hip .Ioint. Diseases of the hip joint are more liable to be mistaken than scrofulous diseases of any other part of tlie body; much error prevails with respect to them. The first circumstance which indicates disease of the hip joint, is some degree of lameness, and pain in the knee. The motions of the joint are impeded; extension is performed with difiiculty ; the child's knee is bent, and the heel on the diseased side scarcely rests upon the ground. Besides this incapacity for extension, great difficulty is experienced in the flexion of the joint. Thus, if you attempt to bend the knee towards the abdo- tnen, the child shrinks from the touch, and complains of pain. If you throw something on the floor, and desire the child to pick it up, you will observe that, in attempting to get pos- session of it, it beuds only the sound knee. If you say, “ Let me see you put your foot on the chair the child does this readily enough with the sound leg, hut is incapable of doing it with the other, in consequence of the confined state of the flexion of the joint. The rotation of the joint is also im- peded ; more especially the rotation inwards, which cannot be attempted without great pain and unea.siness. There is apparently a difference in the length of the limb ; the un- .«ound limb at first appears longer than the other. It is pos- sible that an effusion into the head of the joint may push down the limb a little, but I doubt whether this has any in- fluence in producing an elongated a|)pearance of the limb. The length of the limb is not really increased, but an appear- ance of eloncation is produced by the |iarietes Iteing depressed on the di.seascd side;'if you draw a line from the s|)inons process of the ilium from one .side to the other, yon will find »he difference of an inch. After a short time, indeed, a con- siderable reduction lakes place in the length of the limb, the reason for which you will immediately see. When you endeavour to ascertain whether disease of the o o 2