221 ON HERNIA. LECTURE XXVHL Direct Inguinal Hernia. Our pi-incipal object, in this evening's lecture, will be to de- scribe to yon the operation for strangulated inguinal hernia, and to show you, on the dead subject, the manner of perform- ing that operation. Before I state to you, however, the best method of performing this operation, I will say a few words on the subject of direct inguinal hernia, or that which pro- trudes directly out of the abdomen through the external ab- dominal ring. It was formerly supposed that this was always the course which inguinal hernia took ; it is scarcely neces- sary to tell you, that this opinion is quite erroneous; but it does occasionally happen that hernia takes place in the direc- tion in which it was formerly supposed constantly to occur. Direct inguinal hernia begins'on the inner side of the epigas- tric artery, between it and the pubes. Direct inguinal hernia does not take the course of the inguinal canal, but it passes through the lower part to the abdominal ring. The length of this hernia is not more than an inch at the utmost behind the abdominal ring ; in general, it is not more than three quarters of an inch behind it. It proceeds through the abdominal ring, and is received into the scrotum, where it has three coverings iustead of two, as in the case of oblique inguinal hernia. I have already stated to you, that in the latter it receives a covering from the external oblique, namely, the aponeurosis or fascia of the cord, and another covering from the cremas- ter, both of them of considerable density, and thicker than the hernial sac itself. Direct inguinal hernia passes on the inner side of the epigastric artery, and directly as it emerges from the ring is received under the fascia of the cord, which forms one covering; the cremaster passes over obliquely, so that the whole surface is not covered by it. Besides these co- verings, it has one of its own, which is properly the covering of the hernia, half of which is formed by the tendon of the transversalis, and the other half by the fascia transversalis. This forms a complete tendinous pouch, in which the hernia IS contained, as may be seen in a beautiful preparation on the table. If you are asked, tlierefore, in what respect direct inguinal hernia differs from oblique, you will answer, that the latter emerges from the abdomen, midway between the spine of the Ilium and the pubes, whereas the former emerges directly behind the abdominal ring. One takes the course of the