176 ON THE TYING OF ARTERIES. lessor exhibited the aorta, which he tied,] in which yoa see a coagulutn above and below the spot where the lu;ature was ap- plied, sealing the extremities of the artery. Now, gentlemen, if I should perform this operation again, the only difference that I would make, woidd be to cut the ligature close to the vessel, where it should take its chance, either to become en- cysted or absorbed. I commenced the incision in this opera- tion in the liiiea alba, two inches above the umbilicus, and carried it to the same distance below, taking care, in my de- scent, to avoid the umbilicus, by giving it a semilunar tarn or curve. I was astonished to find with what ease 1 could pass my finger down to the artery. However great the apparent difficulty of performing this operation, there was in reality none. The principal danger appeared to arise from the irrita- tion produced in the intestines by the ligature, and that is the reason why 1 should cut the ligature close to the ve.ssel. Time will show us whether this operation will be successful or not. I know, for my own part, that 1 would not hesitate to have my owu aorta tied, if it would save my life for only forty hours. Tying the Subclavian Artery. The middle of your incision should be opposite to the exter- nal jugular vein, and centre of the clavicle. Speaking ana- tomically, the view of the parts exposed in this operation may be thus described (Sir Astley exhibited them) ; here you see the omo-hyoideus muscle crossing obliquely above the clavicle, below the sterno-cleido-mastoideus upon the inner side, and the jugular vein passing immediately opposite to the centre of the opening. Mr. Key informs me that in the operation which he performed at the other hospital for securing this vessel, that it was much facilitated by a free division of the clavicular por- tion of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, and that after having done so, he was enabled, with a common aneurismal needle, to introduce the ligature under the vessel. Soon after com- mencing this operation, you meet with branches of nerves from the axillary plexus-^you must carefully avoid including these in the ligature ; for it would be a fatal error if you were to tie them. The scalenus anticus being the boundary of the artery on the inner side, you cut down for the purpo.se of find- ing its inner edge ; this you will find a useful guide. I have lately heard a ]ierson say, but do not know upon what authority, that the operation for tying the .subclavian artery has been .successful, hut upon one side only. The first person who succeeded in this operation was Dr. Post, of Phi- ladelphia ; he is no pout (a laugh'!, though his name is Post, but an exceedingly clever, industrious surgeon. Since this