239 ON HERNIA. diminished in size in the latter species of hernia, in conse- quence of the pressure on the sac ])reventing the free circula- tion of the blood-vessels in that part. In hernia of the tunica vaginalis, the spermatic cord is not unfrequently altered in its direction, the artery and vein being on one side, and the vas deferens situated posteriorly in the outer part. Here is a beautiful specimen (exhibiting it to the class) illustrating this case. It not unfrequently happens, in this species of hernia, that the testicle does not descend completely into the scrotum, and the peritoneal sac descends lower than the situation of the testicle. When the hernia is in a reducible state, and a child is brought to you whose testicle is situated above the abdominal ring, you should advise the parent on no account to apply a truss, but to let the hernia extend itself until it has gradually brought down the testicle into the scrotum, and then, and not till then, to apply a truss. Many years ago, a gentleman brought his child to me with hernia, whose testicle had not descended, and asked me what was to be done. 1 told him, if a truss were applied, it would press upon the testicle, waste’ and at length destroy it; but if the hernia were suffered to in- crea.se till the testicle was brought down into the scrotum, there was but little risk of its being strangulated in very young ■subjects, and when the testicle had descended, it would be the proper time to apply a truss. This gentleman brought his son to me when he was nineteen years o'fage; his testicle had then descended, and a truss was applied, which kept it below the abdominal ring. 1 am happy to say that this patient, who now holds a distinguished situation, has taken to himself a wife, and produced to himself a numerous progeny. When )ou are therefore consulted under such circumstances, this is the plan, gentlemen, which I recommend you to pursue. You will be consulted in cases of hernia congenita as to the time at which a truss should be worn : a truss with springs may be applied when the child is three months old. 'I’he reason why a tru.is has not been applied sooner is, that the parts are kept ID so wet a state that a truss is very speedily destroyed. How- ever, this reason no longer exists; for an ingenious truss has been cou.nnu ted by .Messrs. .Salmon anil Ody; whicli may be worn almost immediately—within a fortnight at lea.st-after t e birth of the child. '1 he pressure should be extremely light • in general, you should rcconiiuend the parent, at first, to have tiiiss niade in the form of the common spring-truss, without ny spring. A pad, rctiiiiicti hy a leathern strap, .‘^liould be placed upon the hernia, fastened round the abdomen of the cniKi ; and another strap should be passed between its thigh.s