ON ANEURISM OF THE AORTA. 15i> one dav, the artery must have burst into the air tube, cough came on with a sudden gush of blood, arid he died, partly from suffocation, and partly from loss of blood. An aneurism of this kind often causes, by its pressure, dyspnoea and sufto-- cation ; it also often presses behind on the oisophagus, instead of in front on the sternum ; it will be seen in the back, through the ribs, by the edge of the scapula, between its base and the spine. Now, gentlemen, I will tell you one or two practical points here, to put you on your guard, and induce you to take great care in these cases. Mr. Dyson, of the city, called on me one day, and said that he had a patient with aneurism of the neck, which he thought was an aneurism ot the carotid, and that he should like me to see it. 1 imme- diately went with him, and on examining, midway between the clavicle and lower jaw, there appeared to be a collection of fluid proceeding to behind the sternum. I told Mr. Dyson, that I was very doubtful of its being an aneurism of the ca- rotid. Some time after this, Mr. Dyson sent for me to go with him to examine the body of this person ; we found a small pouch, just behind the sternum, proceeding from the curvature of the aorta. It was of very great importance that a ligature had not been applied ; the sac would have been cut tliiough, and destruction of life taken place. The late Mr. Burns, ot Glasgow, who was an excellent anatomist, and who published a capital work on the anatomy of the head and neck, wrote to me to say that he had a case of aneurism above the clavicle, and entertained some thoughts of tying the subclavian artery for it, and asked me some question relative to it, to which I returned an answer, and said to him. Take care, do not de- ceive yourself, for what often appear to be aneurisms of the subclavian artery, are really aneurisms of the aorta. The operation was not performed. (It is mentioned in Mr. Burn’s work.) 'I'he jiatient afterwards died, and on examination it was found that it was an aneurism of the aorta ; therefore I mention this to put yon on your guard, for after what you have lately seen at Guy’s Hospital, don’t think the operation an easy one, and that it would add greatly to your credit to perform it. You might very easily mistake aneurism of the aorta for aneurism of the carotid or subclavian arteries. Aneurism of tiif. Artf;ria Innominaia. I'hese cases in general do not allow of an operation being performed; there is no room lor the ligature. Dr. Mott, of America, has put a ligature on this vessel ; and for a time the patient appeared to be doing well ; but he afterwards died. The operation did him much credit: few would have dared to perform it ; and those who might have dared, probably would