ON SCROFULA. 648 country to be educated, frequently perish. Although we hare proof of some climates predisposing to this complaint, and favouring its production more than others, yet the most striking effects are manifested by the changes of the seasons, after scrofula has occurred. 'ITius, for instance, if a child with scrofulous disease be examined in the spring, and it has a gland that is inflamed, the complaint will go on during the spring till the summer months, when it will be arrested, and the health of the child improved. In this state it will remain till October and November, and then the child will become worse. By the alteration of scrofulous complaints, from the changes of the seasons, a surgeon often loses credit, though he more frequently gains it. He will lose credit, if called to the child in winter, because then the state of the child’s health will be in an improved state, compared to what it has been, which state, however, continues only for a short time, as it becomes worse with the return of spring; the sur- geon will gain credit, if called to a child in the spring, be- cause, being at that time very unwell, it continues so only till summer, when it rapidly recovers. In summer the symptoms disappear, in autumn they return, and continue till the winter, when they again become suspended. 1 remember being once called on to subscribe to a charity instituted for the cure of scrofula, and I said that I had no objection to subscribe, if its benefits were to be extended throughout the year; be- cause, if its operations were to be extended all the year round, the eyes of the subscribers would be opened to the inefficacy of any charity of the kind. The way also to try the value of nostrums, blazoned forth as specifics for the cure of scrofula, is to watch their efi'ects during the whole year, for else you may be deceived ; they may occasionally afford bene- fit (which I do not mean to deny), but as to any specifics for the cure of the complaint, I need not tell you that such do not exist. Well, such are the effects of climate and the changes of the seasons, on persons horn with a debility of constitution, giving rise to inflammation of the scrofulous kind. The next point to be considered is—tVhether Scrofula is hereditary?—That scrofula is an hereditary disease, appears as clear to me as can be, and those who deny it, deny the evi- dence of their senses. When speaking of hereditary disease, 1 do not mean to say that children are born with an enlante- luent of an absorbent gland, or a disease of the joints; but vt hat 1 state is, that a cliild will be born with an hereditary dispo.sition to the complaint. Docs a child resemble its father or mother ? and do we not see parents predisposed to scrofu-