4'6 ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION—APPEARANCES. pendiug part of the wound, you will, if the limb be removed above the elbow or knee, apply a bandage, to prevent retrac- tion of the muHcle.s and extensive suppuration. 1 have seldom succeeded with my stumps above the knee when 1 have not used a roller; it is better to apply a roller in such case.s for the muscles will then be glued together, and form one conso- lidated mass. Having applied a roller, and brought the inte- guments together, 1 merely put three strips of adhesive plas- tei over the wound, and one round the stump, to keep the ends of the plaster in their place. It is curious to see the dif- lerence between the mode ot dressing stumps now, and that adopted a few years ago ; the old practice was, after the adhe- sive plaster liad been applied, to put some lint, then plaster again, after that tow, and, lastly', over ihe whole, a cap of flannel. If a surgeon were to do this now, he would be laughed out of the operating theatre, and very deservedly too, becau.se he would prevent the success of the adhesive proce.ss bv un- duly heating the limb. All that is necessary to do, is to apply three strips of adhesive plaster over the wound, and one cir- cular piece ; if the weather be hot, to apply the spirit of wine and water lotion, and if it be cool to keep the limb quiet. 'The object is to keep down the inflammation to the adhesive stage ; if it goes beyond this, suppuration will be the result. The last circumstance necessary to mention, is the impro- priety of dressing the stump too early ; a person anxious to see whether a union has taken place, 'removes the plasters in two^ or three days : he who does this overlooks the object in view, and must he shocked, when he looks at the stump, to see, that by the early removal of the plasters, he has de- stroyed all that nature had done. All you ought to do is, in four days after the operation, to remove one strip of plaster, for the purpose of letting out any matter which might have collected. In six or eight days after the operation, it" will be proper to dress the stiunp ; but to do it before would be ab- surd. The treatment which is applicable to stunqis is [troper .also for common wounds. 'The adhesive process is useful in the formation of cysts. Balls encysted have been known to remain in the body for many years. lAlorgagni, if I recollect aright, mentions a'c.asc where a Itall lodged in a cyst in the lungs for a considerable space of time. If the hall be not encysted, it tnivels, and ab- sorption of the parts through which it passes takes place. few diiys ago, a getitleman called on me, who had formerlv leceivcd a wound above the zygomatic arch from a ball ; he now had a swelling on the side of his face. 1 asked him whe-