ON INFLAMMATION OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. 255 tend to produce tliis inflammation, accompanied with atony and debility in the very outset, which distinguish it from acute ophthalmia. Chronic inflammation of the conjunctira is very apt to take place, where the patient has for a long time been labouring under disorder of the digestive organs. Pa- tients who have this form of the inflammation often complain of dyspeptic symptoms ; such as uneasiness about the scrobicu- lus cordis ; distention of the stomach after eating ; flatulence, disagi'eeable tastes in the mouth, bitter, sour or putrid ; furred tongue, and other symptoms indicating derangement of the digestive organs. Inflammation of this kind is very apt to arise from, or to be kept up by, e.'cposure to acrid fumes or smoke in particular trades. It is not unfrequently the conco- mitant of dentition, the measles, or small-pox; it sometimes accompanies rheumatism and gout. Frequent intoxication and various other causes may predispose to it, which it will be necessary to investigate carefully, because the mode of treatment will materially depend upon them, as I shall have occasion to show you in another part of the lecture. In general, inflammation of the conjunctiva is a very ma- nageable complaint. It passes into chronic inflammation after the acute stage has continued for a certain time, and it not unfrequently subsides of itself. A spontaneous cure, however, is by no means to be depended upon, and we ought on no account to neglect or rela.x in the proper mode of treatment, from any reliance upon such a cure ; because sim- ple inflammation of this membrane may lead to inflammation of the deeper-seated tunics of the globe of the eye; suppura- tion may be induced, the organ may at length become perma- nently disorganized, and the sight of the eye irretrievably- lost. The consequences of inflammation of this membrane are very similar to those of inflammation in other parts of the body. It sometimes terminates in effusion, the scrum or blood under the conjunctiva rising in a roll above the transpa- rent cornea. It sometimes produces the adhesive process; and when it terminates in this manner the adhesive matter is deposited under the conjunctiva, which covers the transjja- rent cornea, and is recognized by a hazy appearance at the pstt. The adhesion is various, both in its extent and quan- tity; it is sometimes so slight as only to pioduce a simple clouded appearance over a certain |iart of the cornea, which is technically calhtd nebula ; it is at other times more conside- rable in quantity, and produces an appearance of considerable opacity in the cornea, which is usually called albugo, or leu- coma. rite deposit of matter is sometimes confined to a sim- ple speck, and is sometimes spread more or less over the