478 ON ABSCESSES IN THE URETHRA. as will allow the matter to escape, to prevent its burrowin? the skin, and producing additional mischief: it will save the patient much pain, and will probably lead to the speedy cure of the disease, which might otherwise prove not only pro- tracted, but fatal. Remember, you are not only to open the abscess early, but keep introduced in the bladder an elastic gum catheter. An abscess of this description, very much ne- glected, has been known to break into the rectum, and the urine to be afterwards discharged through the unnatural course. In the treatment of abscesses of the lacunje of the urethra and perineum, it is of the utmost importance that you should attend to the state of the patient’s general health ; for these abscesses often form in broken constitutions, and it is impossible that you can cure them while the system is in a depraved and debilitated state; you should, therefore, pre- scribe alterative tonic medicines, nutritive diet, and cemutrv air ; attention to the state of the constitution will sometime? cure these abscesses, after every local remedy has failed. Abscesses of the perinasum are often produced from the un- skilful manner in which catheters and bougies are sometime.? introduced, and by using bougies of too large or too small a size. ^riiere are some cases of strictures so bad, so obstinate, that, use what instrument you will, and with all possible care, vet you will not succeed in overcoming the resistance. You must recollect the case lately in the other hospital, where I was under the necessity of cutting down upou a stricture, and im- mediately behind which was a urinary calculus ; upon search - • ing a little further I found a second, and theu the cathetet passed with ease into the bladder. Well, I mentioned to you, at another part of tlie lecture, that urinary fistula; in ano sometimes exist, and that the in- troduction of a catheter into the bladder is not sufficient U. cure them, as the urine will, notwithstanding, still continut to e.scape by the sinuous opening. Urinary fistula in ano is fistula in perinmo and fistula in ano blended. The first case of the kind that 1 ever saw, was in a gentleman from Kent; two surgeons attended him, one of whom was myself. The other surgeon injected the sinus; the patient was directed frequently to introduce a catheter : he came to town a short time afterwards, and told me that he continued to pass the catheter for six weeks, when, concluding that he was cured, he ceased to employ it. The urine, however, returned by its former course, and he again came to town for the purpose, if jmssihle, of getting the unpleasant disease cured. What 1 did, was to make the same incision in the perineum, as i.«