SPASMODIC AFFECTIONS. 479 made by the lateral stoue operation ; iny object was to divide the sinus into two; this succeeded in producing a complete cure. 'J’he next subject to which I shall direct your attention, is Extravasation of Urine from bursting ofthe Urethra. This can never happen without the grossest neglect on the jiart of either the medical man or the patient, unless, indeed, the patient be in a situation where he cannot obtain medical as- sistance; as individuals, for example, on board ships that do not carry surgeons. It is a very dangerous complaint, and one that is always to be dreaded, f wish there was some legisla- tive enactment to compel the cornmander of every vessel goiug a voyage of any distance, to take a surgeon with him. If such a law were in force, we should see very few cases of this description, for the subjects of them are generally unfor- tunate sailors, who have been so situated that they were in- capable of procuring medical advice. You may see these poor fellows often brought into the hospital in the most horrid condition from rupture of the urethra, and the escape of the urine into the cellular membrane of the surrounding parts ; the scrotum, in these cases, is of a purple colour, and] ex- tiemely distended. You probably make an incision in the scrotum, for the purpose of discharging the urine ; sometime.^ this will be successful; but, at others, the entire scrotum will slough, together with a considerable portion ofthe surround- ing parts : nor is this always the worst that happens, for it frequently terminates in death. All these calamities might have been prevented by proper treatment; and when you see a case of this description, you should immediately make into the scrotum an incision of at least two inches in length ; this incision should be in a direction upwards, and backward to- wards the nates ; this opening will permit the urine to escape, and the irritation and inflammation which commonly take place, would be, by this simple practice, completely obviated. 'I^is, then, is the method you are to adopt:—make a free in- cision, for the purpose of allowing the extravasated urine to flow out; attend to the stricture which was the cause of the accident, and your patient will .stand a fair chance of recovery. Where patients have surgical attendants, I again repeat, that this accident ought never to occur. 1 shall now say a few words to you respecting .Spasmodic and Inflammatory .Strictures. The spasmodic stricture is usually, I believe, more or less connected with permanent stricture; and I am of opinion that the spasms commonly attack the muscular part of the urethra. Spasmodic stricture may arise from various causes.