436 ON CANCER LABir. the operation perfect. Therefore you arc to pare the edge-!- of this portion of skin in the same manner as you were directed in the first operation. But you must not, when a hare-lip i> double, operate at both sides on the same day. You mint let one side get well, and then you may operate on the other. It now and then happens that the jaw'will project very much in these cases, and will sometimes even shoot forward, and 1-e attached to the tip of the nose, ^\^len the jaw does project, the deformity may be very tnuch diminished after the wound- have quite healed, by binding, ou the mo.st prominent part, a flat piece of lead, inclosed in lint; it may be readily confined to the situation by tape or black ribbon carried round the back of the head. When attached to the tip of the nose it should be separated from that part, and the operations then performed as before, that is, one deferred till the other i- well; and the deformity will be removed by adopting the me- thod just mentioned. We sometimes perform an operation on the under lip simi- lar to the one I have described to you for single hare-lip, in consequence of Cancer Labm. Which disease generally arises from the use of a pipe, and the manner in which it happens is this ;—the adhesive nature of the clay of which the pipe is made, causes it to adhere to the lip ; at length the cuticle becomes torn off, and the con- tinued irritation frets the sore into true cancerous disease. I am quite sure that it is produced in this way, for 1 never saw the disease in the upper lip more than once. That the disease is of a scirrhous nature, even at the beginning, any surgeon must be satisfied : it is hard, has a bleeding surface, everted edges ; and, as it proceeds in its destn-.ctive course, commu- nicates disease to the glands ; there is likewise felt in it, at particular periods, the most dreadful pain. I have seen in these cases all the foregoing real cancerous symptoms. An operation for the complete removal of the disease is the patient’s only real hope of succour. The oxyde of arsenic is said to have cured the disease—to have completely eradicated it. I can state, however, that this application (as well as others of a similar nature) has, by its irritative qualities, pro- duced a rapid disease of the glands, shortly after havinc been applied to the ulcer on the lip. In removing the disease with the knife, you should make an opening in the lip, similar to what has been advi.scd in sincir hare lip ; that is, it should be a tri.angnlar portion of the lip, including the disease entirely cut out; the integuments can