ON EXTRACTION OF THE CATARACT. 2S9 V fingers and thumb, resting his little finger upon the malar bone. 'I'he first thing which the operator then does is, to make what is called the punctuation of the cornea. He introduces the point of the iustrument at the distance of half a line from the anterior Junction of the cornea with the sclerotic coat, aud passp it in a direction nearly parallel to the iris, and be- fore it with a little obliquity, through the anterior chamber to tlie opposite or nasal side. In making the section of the cor- nea, the knife should be carried onwards, without any down- ward motion ; and as soon as the section is completed, the lid should be allowed to drop over the fore part of the eye, to prevent the escajie of a portion of vitreous humour, if there should be any spasm of the part, or any unsteady motion of the patient. The operator waits till the eye is quiet, aud then introduces the curved needle with a convexity under the flap of the cornea ; and turning the point towaids the fore part of the capsule, moves it upwards, aud downwards, and late- rally from side to side, making a sort of crucial incision He then squeezes out the cataract by making gentle pressure on the globe above and below, until the lens is lifted from its bed, and passes through the opening of the cornea upon the cheek of the patient. All that then remains to be done is to examine whether there are any opaque fragments of the lens left; if there are, they must be scooped out bv the curette ; if not, the upper lid is to be rubbed over the surface of the cor- nea. If there is auy portion of opaque membrane remaining It must be removed by the forceps, and in this way the operal tion will be completed. (The learned gentleman proefeeded to perform the operation exactly in the manner above describ- ed, on the sheep’s eye ; which, he observed, was better adapted for this purpose than the human eye, on account of its being larger and less flaccid.) Many untoward circumstances, however, frequently interfere with the success of this operation. In the first place the sec- tion of the cornea may be too small; in which ca.se, you will either be unable to dislodge the cataract, or so much force will be required for that purpose as is likely to produce serious in- llammation, and such a degree of disorganization as will de- stroy vision. The section through the cornea should be about nine-sixteenths of a line, or one-sixteenth more than half a line iroin Its junction with the .sclerotica ; the point of the in- st^rumeut is introduced a little below the transverse diameter of e eye, on one side, and should come out a little above it on the other. If you find, when you have completed the sectio.J ot the cornea,, that the opening is not sufficiently large, do not