400 ON FUNGOID DISEASE OF THE TESTICLE. received such answers, you may say to the party, “follow my advice implicitly, sir, and I promise you that this enlargement of the testicle shall be removed, and in the course of a few 'weeks you will be quite well.” He will he delighted at hearing this, or he may be disposed to doubt whether you will be able to succeed. You must, in the first place, strictly enjoin him to keep the recumbent posture : without a strict adherence to this, it will be impossible to effect his cure; it is absolutely essential to his recovery. You must apply leeches, and evapo- rating lotions to the part, and desire him to take three, or even five, grains of calomel with opium night and momine. If he does this the enlargement of the testicle will .subside in the course of a few weeks. This disease is of a simibr na- ture with that which attacks the eye, which has been call^ iritis, and requires the same mode of treatment. It occurs in constitutions which have been injured by intemperance and over-excitement; it will increase until the testicle is entirely destroyed, unless you prevent it by the means I have ju.'t pointed out to you. The patient will probably ask whether you mean to salivate him ; tell him he must have his mouth well affected, so as to produce a considerable discharge of sa- liva, shewing that the mercury has acted on the constitution. Apply leeches to the part occasionally, and evaporating lo- tions, as the liquor aminouiae acetatis, and spirits of wine. Do not on any account attempt to introduce a bougie, even though the irritability of the urethra should be the source of the enlargement. The introduction ofa bougie at first would only add to the irritability of the urethra ; wait till yon have altered the constitution by the means I have jminted out, and the swelling of the testicle is considerably reduced; and then, but not till then, you may resort to the use of the bougie with advantage. I will tell you a case which made a strong impres- sion on my mind. An officer in the Peninsula had a chronic swelling of the testicle, for which he consulted surgeons, and he was "at length told that there was no hope of a cure except by removal of the testicle. He submitted to the operation, at.d resumed his professional duties. Eight months after, the te- maining testicle became enlarged; he was exceedingly alarmed ; surrendered his situation, and came to this country for advice. He applied to myself and two other surgeons; we had a consultation on his case, and our opinion was, that there was no necessity for reinovimt the other testicle. -Ml he was advised to do was, to keep his sofa steadily, to take mercuty till his mouth became sore, and to apply stimulating lotions te the part. In five weeks the swelling subsided, and in six weeks this eentleman was perfectly well. This chronic enlargement