ON GANGRENE. 99 the necessity of taking away bones, when the process of sepa- ration is in other respects complete. I am anxious, whenever 1 have an opportunity in these lectures, to refer you to cases actually existing in the hospitals ; and you cannot have a bet- ter opportunity of observing the process of nature with respect to the separation of bones, than in the case of popliteal aneu • rism, to which 1 have before directed your attention. This man underwent the operation for aneurism in the other hospi- tal. Tiie aneurisinal bag had been loaded with tinid blood for a length of time ; the process of gangrene commenced at the ankle ; all the soft parts were absorbed, and there is nothing now remaining but a portion of bone, which will also sepa- rate, if we permit it to do so. The saw would (piicken the process, but it is unnecessary, for the bone will separate by the efforts of uature alone. 1 knew a person in tlie county from which 1 came (Norfolk), whose leg entirely separated by the process of gangrene alone. In the foot this very commonly takes place ; in the calf of the leg it is not common, but below the calf, it frequently occurs. I attended one of the king’s messengers, some time ago, who came from Germany, with a gangrene in the foot. The foot separated at the tarsus, and the whole process went on without any surgical operation, and with nothing but the aid of the simplest applications. Gangrene is frequently the effect of a debilitated state of the constitution. 'I'bus, if a man have been confined by long con- tinued fever, the nates are apt to slough and become gangrenous in consequence of the imperfect circulation, arising from the po- sition in which he has been forced to remain. Some fevers have a greater tendency than others to produce gangrene; as for ex- ample, scarlatina. In slight cases of scarlatina, tlie most horrible effects will sometimes arise from gangrene. The tonsils will slough to a great extent, parts of the Eustachian tube, and even the tympanum will separate, and large portions of bone exfoliate. The worst effects of thi.s kind are observed iu those cases of scarlatina where the fever is not the most violent. The mea.sles are very apt to be followed by sloughing, unless great care be taken not to irritate the skin of the ciiest too much. In this town it sometimes happens, that a large blister applied to the chest of a child labouring under measles occa- sions a high degree of infiammation, producing gangrene, and endangering the life of tlie patient. In constitutions of an untavourable kind, I have often seen the measles produce a slough forming a black aperture in the check of the child, through which its food was jmssed, and life soon destroyed. .Mercury, if used to excess, often excites sloughing, from the fever ami consequent debility of the constitution which it pro- II 2