274 ON ULCERATION OF THE CORNEA. pain ; there will also be a discharge of a good deal of acrid and irritating matter. In general there will be no dilBcnlty iu distinguishing ulcers of the cornea; all you have to do is u» put the eye iu profile, and take a side view of this organ, and you will seethe ulcer with the appearances I have described. The situation of the ulcers of the cornea varies; very fre- quently they are at the superior portion, and affecting only the external lamella®, in other cases spreading over the whole cornea, and penetrating into the anterior chamber, by which means the aqueous humour escapes, and the iris is often pro- truded ; sometimes even the opening becomes enlarged, and the crystalline lens and vitreous humour escape. The ulcers vary in their appearance, some being large and others small, and those which are of small size, on cicatrization, do not materially obstruct vision, whilst tho.se that are large, when healed, produce a nebulous appearance which destroys the power of sight. Treatment of Inflammation and Ulceration of the Correa.— The treatment required in intlammation of the cornea does not differ materially from that of inllammation of the conjunctiva, or any other part of the eye, and therefore it will not be ne- cessary to recapitulate the means necessary to be ado)>ted ; you must rely on the efflicacy of a strict antiphlogistic plan, and when the acute infiammatiou has been subdued, on the use of mild astringent collyria. When ulcers, however, form in any part of the cornea, it will be proper to use active means, if they be accompanied by acute inflammation ; but most fre- quently they are accompanied by chronic ophthalmia, and have a disposition to spread rather than heal. In these cases as- tringent lotions will be of great service ; but of all remedies in ulcers of the cornea, the nitrate of silver is the one on which you are to depend ; it is generally used in a state of solution, about two grains to an ounce of water, or it will be Itetter to begin with a grain to an ounce, regulating the strength in pro- portion to the degree of irritation it may pniduce. Scarpa gives the preference to the caustic itself in the treatment of the ulcers of the cornea ; the caustic is to be cut to a sharp point, and the ulcer to be touched with it. .An eschar forms, which in the course of two or three days falls off, and the symptoms of the disease return as before; the caustic is again to be ap- plied, and to be repeated a third time, if necessary. 'The ulcer, by this means, loses its ash coloured appearance, the edges become regular and even, and it rapidly heals. AVhfii ulcers of the coinea are attended by acute inflammation, it will he necessary to employ bleeding, by leeches, before the use of astringents, and at the same time to keep the boweU