ON VIRULENT GONORRHCEA. 467 ter. \ ou should feel your way iu the use of iiTitatlng injec- tions; if they produce much inflammation, you should suspend the use of them ; and if, on the other hand, they excite no pain at all, you may gradually increase their strength. Do not coutinue the use ofjthe same injection, if it does not an- swer the purpose very quickly; for you will otherwise be only laying the foundation of stricture. It is much better to vary pur injection, than to persist in the use of the same injection, if it does not very speedily put a stop to the discharge. It will <)tten happen that a patient will coutinue for a length of time under the hands of his surgeon without getting rid of the dis- charge. If a patient should come to you under these circum- stances, what I I'ecommend you to do, is to begin immediately the use of bougies with injections. The use of bougies will increase the discharge for a time ; but, being combined after- wards with the u.se of an injection of the sulphate of zinc, will generally succeed in effecting a cure. With respect to the number of times the patient should inject, three or four times a day will be quite sufficient. As to the strength of the injection, it should be increased so as to produce a .slight de- cree of irritation ; but it is better to vary the itijection, than to increase its strength in any great degree, 't'h'ere are other means of curing gonorrhoea, by producing a change in the action of the urethra, as, for instance, by the use of cubebs. 1 reniembp the time when this remedy was much ridiculed, hut there is now no surgeon of the least experience who does not acknowledge that it is a very powerful remedy in this disea.sc. The value of this remedy may be known by apply- ing to any merchant with respect to it. A short time ago 'it was introduced into this country in very small quantities; l>ut now, such is its acknowledged efficacy, that whole ship- load.s of it are annually brought into the port of London. 1 do not say that it would be advisable to employ this remedy at once for a first gonorrhoea, where the symptoms of inflam- mation run very high iu a young and irritable person ; it is better not to begiu with the use of it until a week or ten davs have elapsed, and the inflammation is considerably reduced I will tell you how 1 first learnt the value of this remedy; a gentleman from Java, who had lived for some time in Hatavia entereil my room, and, unbuttoning his clothes, immcdiatelv shewed me the part about which his mind was uneasy, and a.sked me whether I thought a sore upon it was venereal ? 1 •■‘aid, certamly not. He said he was glad to hear it, for, if it had been a chancre, he should have supposed that it had been produced by his curing a gonorrhnea very suddenly. He was I iinning away very hastily, when I requested him to tell me n It 2