498 ON SYMPATHETIC BUBO AND GLEET. which begins a gonorrhoea, and terminates in a gleet, never loses its power of producing infection. Women of the town, who frequently have a gleet on them, would not perhapt com- municate a gonorrhea to a debauchee ; but let a man fresh from the country have intercourse with a woman under 60ch circumstances, and he would immediately have a clap. 1 need not tell you what gleet is. TTie di.scharge is generally transparent at first, afterwards yellow, and, if there be moch excitement, green. If the excitement he very considerable, the discharge will be tinged with blood. Gleet is rendered purulent and bloody from excesses of different kinds. In this state, if you examine the urethra after death, you will find the following appearances: inflammation extending for two or three inches down the urethra, and if the urethra be laid open within twenty-four hours, it will be quite florid as far as the seat of the gleet, but pale in the other part. The dis- charge does not proceed from the vesiculaa seminales, or Cow- per’s gland, or the prostate, but from the lacunae ; and what you hear altout seminal weakness, is nothing hut folly and absurdity ; there is no truth at all in it. The discharge com- monly called gleet, proceeds from the lacun® of the urethra. A discharge now and then comes from the vesiculae seminales. through the urethra: when a person has a costive motion, a drop or two of mucus, or of a ropy fluid, proceeds from the vesiculffi seminales, and is quite a different case from that called gleet; both are different as to their seat and origin; one may say with certainty, from the nature of the dischai^e, when it proceeds from the vesicul® seminales. I was attend- ing a gentleman once, for obstinate stricture, on whom I fre- quently used the caustic bougies; one day I called on him, and he said to me, “ Well, sir, you have produced a consider- able discharge from the urethra, and I have communicated it to my wife ; she has considerable pain on making water, and, whilst voiding her urine, she is obliged, on account of the vi- olence of the pain, to grasp the bed-post. 1 wish you would speak to her.” I saw her ; she had a yellow discharge, and great pain on making water ; but a few doses of aperient medicine soon carried it off.—Now gentlemen, as to the treatment of gleet, I would observe this—that the medical treatment consists in the exhibition of sweet spirits of nitre, and the balsam of copaiba; from two to three drachms of the former, a drachm of the latter, in four ounces of camphor mixture, combined with an ounce of mucilage, will form the best mixture I know of; a large spoonful must l»e taken twice or three times a day.