ON INFLAMMATION OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. 259 The local applications should he of an entirely difterent cha- i*acier ; they ou^ht to be moderately astringent and stinuilut- ing, as your object now is to excite some degreee of action in the vessels, and to get rid of their relaxation and atony, care being taken at the same time not to stimulate the parts too much, \’arious collyria or eye-waters are used for this pur- pose ; all of them moderately astringent or stimulating; sucl) as the solution of alum in water, solutions of the sulphate of ziuc, or the sulphate of copper, or the liquor plumbi subaceta- tis. These solutions should at first be very much diluted; ten drops of the liquor plumbi subacetatis may be added to four or six ounces of water ; a grain of alum, or half a grain of the sulphate of zinc or copper, may be dissolved in an ounce of water. The solution should be gradually strengthened, in pro- portion to its action on the part and the degree of stimulus which may be required. To judge how far the stimulus may be carried, the criterion is exceedingly simple ; if you find that a certain degree of smarting and pain is produced, which soon subsides, and leaves the patient much more easy than before, you may be convinced that the collyrium is beneficial ; if, on the other hand, the |)atient experiences a great degree of pain, which does not subside speedily, and the vessels become turgid, you may be assured that the collyrium is doing harm, and that the quantity of stimulus ought to be diminished. T'he best mode of applying an eye-wash of this kind is to in • ject it by means of a silver or ivory syringe, introduced under the lids every two or three hours. In this way you may be certain that the solution is diffused over the whoie surface of the conjunctiva. An eye-cup will answer the purpose very well, if the patient, after immer.sing his eye in the cup, has the courace to open it. The syringe, however, is a more ma- nageable instrument. Mr. Ware recommended, in chronic ophthalmia, what in the old pharmacoposias used to be called tinctura thebaica. The vinum opii will answer the .same pur- pose, and seems to be one of the best stimuli which can be employed in chronic ophthalmia ; it acts as a mild astringent, and, at the same time, by its sootliing quality, sheathes the effect of the stimulus, so that no pain is produced. It may be right, in speaking of collyria, to .say that I have found |)aticnls able to bear them stronger when the chill is taken ofl' from them ; the warmth of the ajiplication seems to take away the pain, while the effect remains the same. T'lie vinum opii may be employed in the quantity of one drop, or even of two or three drops, two, three, or four times a-day. It will be best to drop it intr> the inner canthus of the eye, with a camel-liair pencil ; the patieiit .should then shut Ills t:ye, and move it