40G ON THE DIFFERENT AMPLTATIONS. you. Well, then, in amputation of the upper extremity the pad is placed at the imside of the bleeps, and in amputation of the lower extremity, if below the knee, near the middle of the thigh, and at the inner edge of the saitorius rau-^de. 'Ilit first amputations I shall show you will be those of the fingers; we now very rarely amputate at either the second or third joint of the finger, because we find that it is better to remove the entire finger, either at the first joint, or even at the me- tacarpal bone behind the first joint, than to leave a small portion of the finger before it, for the stump is found to be extremely inconvenient, and to interfere most unpleasantly with the motion of the remaining fingers; do not, therefore, amputate a finger at the second or third joint, unless you art particularly requested to do so by the patient himself; and as this request may be made, I will show you the mode of per- forming the operation. Amputation of the Finger at the Second op. Third Joint. Having felt for the joint, you make a circular incision a little below it, through the integuments ; this is the first step; you then make a cut through these at each side of the joints ; you then turn up and back the flaps thus produced, when, upon dividing the ligament with the scalpel at one side of the joint, you immediately open it, carry the knife through and divide the ligament on the opposite side; in this way the finger may- be removed ; the flaps you see are now laid over the bone, and form a good stump. The French perform this operation in a different mode, and in a way, I must say, not very anato- mical, for you know the construction of the phalanges is .'uch that the upper portion of the low'er bone projects over the articulating surface of the upper; this happens both inside and outside the joint, so that if you attempt to cut directly into the joint, you cannot do so in those parts, for the point of yonr kuife will rest upon the processes I hare just mentioned to you ; their mode is to bend the finger, and then make a cut • into the joint behind the process, and thus in a finger that is not diseased may be done; but, generally speaking, in diseased fingers, the joints cannot be bent; it likewi.'e often happens that the joints themselves are diseased, when, of cour.se, flexion would be exceedingly difficult, if not iin]K>s.<iblc. Of Amputation of the Finger at tiif. First Joint. Now, gentlemen, in this am|)utation, the finger is drami aside; you then make an incision obliquely through the web •situated between them, and carry your cut just beyond the knuckle ; the knife is then carried through tlic joint from side toside, leaving a flap of integument sufficient to cover the end