ON PHYMOSIS. 510 lar tissue, and effusion of serous matter into it. Here I will observe, that, .should you find, during a mercurial treatment, considerable inflammation produced round the chancre, lav aside the use of mercury. The great secret, in the treatment of this disease, is know- ing when to discontinue the use of mercury ; you should always suspend it when the inflammation is increased during its employment, for if you persevere in the use of mercurv-, you will only add to the irritation, which will end in the sloughing process, and destruction of the part, ff I were to give to a patient mercury for chancre on the Saturday, and on the Monday following I perceived swelling and inflammation round the sore, I should immediately lay aside the meremy, give active purges, order poppy fomentations, and the parts to be suspended. The black wash should be applied to the sore, injecting il under the skin, unless it should increase the irri- tability of the part. After the purges, administer opium in considerable quantities, and when you have reduced the in- flammation, have recourse to the mercury again ; but, if you had gone on with this medicine in the irritable state of the part, the result would be sloughing of the penis. When there is phymosis, together with sloughing of the penis, stop the mercury, order the patient the recumbent posture, and the part to be well supported ; use fomentations and poultices of a slightly stimulating kind ; you support a eently stimulating action in order to produce a sectretion sufficient to support the powers of the part; if you stimulate it too much, the part will be destroyed, and if you omit to do it in a slight degree, there will be no separation of the slough. The poultices we generally employ are made with stale beer-grounds; carrot poultices is stimulating to the part; this poultice stimulates rather too much, unless the carrots have been boiled for a long time. The medicines we give are musk and ammonia, five grains of the ammonia with ten of musk, two or three times a-day. The nitric acid lotion is a common application used in these hospitals, and we find none produce so much good ; the proportions are about forty drops of undiluted acid, to a quart of water. When phymosis remains after the in- flammatory state has pa.ssed away, it will be necessary to per- form an operation for its cure. The operation is exceedingly simple, it consists in introducing a director beneath the skin, along the glans, till it reaches the corona glandis; this is the extent to which it should be introduced, so that the point should rest against the inside of the prepuce ; this being done, a sharp-pointed bistoury is to be passed along the director to its extremity, then pushed through the skin opposite to the