158 ON THE FORMATION OF ANEURISM. fore, in popliteal aneurism, you expect to find the aorta and 'larger arteries healthy. ! 'I'he age at wliich aneuri.sra.s generally occur i.s from M tn i TiO ; at that age, exerci.se is considerable and strength les*. ^ In very old age thi.« complaint is not so common. I have seen a popliteal aneurism in a man of 80, four or five years aeo, at the other hospital; on this man I tied the femoral artery, and he did extremely well. On a man of 69 I have operated, and that case did well. I saw a hoy in this hospital eleven years old, with aneurism of the anterior tihial artery. The man of eighty is the oldest, and the hoy of eleven the youngest, that 1 have seen with anenri.'in. It is more commonly met with l>e- tween thirty and fifty, or rather between thirty and forty, than after that time. In cases of aneurism, the age is no objection to the operation. With respect to the sex in which aneurism cliicfly occurs the male is certainly much more frequently the .'iihject of it than the female. I should say that the proportion of males to females is about five to one; and if we take only cases <>f popliteal aneurism, the proportion of males would be consi- derably greater. M'hen aneurisms do occur in females, they are generally internal. Females are rarely the .‘i;bjt-cts of aneurism in the limbs ; the reason of which i.s, that they do not exert them so much as the other sex. In the course of my practice, taking hospital and private practice together, I have seen about eight cases of popliteal aneurisms in the fe- male. The number of popliteal aneurisms which 1 have seen ill the male is of course very considerable. On the Formation of Aneurisms. It is necessary that you should clearly understand the man- ner ill whirli aneurism is produced. The first circumstance that takes |ilace in an artery which is about to produce an aneurisnial swelling i.s, that it becomes opaque, and slightly inflamed. A small yellow spot appears in the jiart where the aneurism is afterwards formed, and there is a slight efflores- cence siirroiiiiding it. The proce.ss ol absorption aiicrwards takes jilace, and thins the coat of the artery so that the tex- ture hecomes like that of a fine web. At the same time that lliis takes place, nature begins to set up a process of defence, which is heantifiilly exemplified in a preparation (it was ex- hibited to the class] made from the first aneurism which I had an opportiniily of disserting. This was an incipient aneurism of the aorta ; yon iierccive that the coat of the artery has been absorbed, and ojiposite to the parts ahsorhed yon ohsirve a layer of adliesive matter, by means of wiiich a defence is set »ip for tlie coat of the artery, and the progress of the disea-e