298 CANCER OF THE EYE. brain ; not unlike cream to the sight. The appearances, how - ever, vary in different forms of the complaint. No one tex- ture of the eye i.s free from it. It frequently commences from the optic nerve, extends to the retina, sclerotic and choroid coats ; but, on examining a fungus of the eye, it would be difficult to say where it began, the disorganization is so com- plete ; the retina is destroyed—the humours are absorbed— the choroid protrudes, and very little of the natural texture is left. (Here the learned gentleman exhibited to the class spe- cimens, which showed the different appearance in the different forms of the disease.) In the case from which one specimen was taken, Mr. H.Cline extirpated the eye; the patient was a Portuguese. The greater part of the anterior chamber i.< tilled with a dark substance, like the pigmentum nigrum. In this man, however, the disease returned. In some instances, you will find the disease extending along the optic nerve, which enlarges, becomes altered in texture—of a brown colour —and reaches the brain, which will also be affected by the disease. The only remedy in this disease is the extirpation of the eye, and this in the early stage. In most cases, the ope- ration proves unsuccessful, in consequence of its not beine performed .sufficiently early, or before there is a disposition in the constitution to reproduce the disease There is another disease which requires extirpation of the eye; therefore, I shall speak of it first, and then describe the operation. Cancer of the Eye. By cancer of the eye is meant, not cancer of the globe of the eye, for it rarely or ever commences in it; but it begins in the appendages and conjunctiva, and then extends to the globe of the eye ; but I repeat that this deaease scarcely ever makes its appearance first in the globe; its common seat is in the con- junctiva. Cancer of the eye at the onset resembles a warty tumour with an ulcer on its surface, which has exactly the same appearances as ulcers in other parts of the body; there- fore it will not be necessary for me to describe them : it then extends not only to the globe of the eye, but to the palpebral lining, the lachrymal gland, the periosteum of the bones form- ing the orbit, and the antrum ; in fact, the globe, and its ap- pendages, become one entire mass of disease. No good can be expected in the treatment of this complaint unless the cancer be early removed by the knife. In the pro- gress of the disease the general health becomes broken up. 1 shall now proceed to show you the operation for the removal of the eye.