ON ULCERS. 80 still reiuains in the cheek, the painful sensation usually re- turns. Case.— An old gentleman, from Bury, in Suffolk, had un- dergone the operation of the division of'the nerve for tic do- loureux several times. When he came last to me, there was still a little numbness remaining in the lip, yet the pain of the tic doloureux was as great as ever. I divided the nen e, but the operation did not afford him the same relief as before. He came again some months after, and wished ihe nerve to be again divided. The pain in the part had returned to its former degree, although the numbness of the lip was much greater than before. The parts of the body which are not produced, are—first, muscles, in the case of a man who had a scar on the fore- arm, which appeared to have long existed, I found that, in- stead of muscular fibre under it, a teudinous structure had formed. A muscle, when divided, unites by tendon, and not by muscle. Secondly, the cartilages of the ribs unite by bone, and not by cartilage. (Sir Astley exhibited to the class a spe- cimen of cartilage of the human rib which had been divided, and in which ossific union had taken place.) This, however, will depend, in some measure, on the age of the person ; for in very young subjects cartilaginous union will be produced, but in subjects more advanced in years, the cartilages of the ribs invariably unite by bone. LECTURE XII. On Ulcers. In treating of this subject, I shall first describe the appear- ance of ulcers in wdiat may be termed their healthy state, I shall then detail the several circumstances which render their cure difficult, and proceed to point out to you the remedies which are found to be the most efficacious in practice. Au ulcer may be defined to he a granulating surface secreting matter. VVhen an ulcer is in a perfectly healthy state, the ap- pearances which it exhibits are its follows :—The granulations ar^ florid • their blood-ve.ssels possess a considerable quantity of arterial blood, and the freedom of circulation produces this florid appearance. 'I'lic granulations arc equal on the surface of the sore, rising a little above the edges ; for it is nece.ssan', in order that a sore should heal kindly, that the surface of the ulcer should be a little more elevated than the surrounding skin. The surface of the sore secretes matter which has a milky aijpearance, or rather the appearance of cream. The