515 ON WARTS. tack the external labia, not unfrequeiitly the inside of the uyiupha;, and the os externum vaginm. Sometimes a great Humber of these exist at the same time in one female, and are accompanied with but little irritation ; she scarcely knows that she has them, till she feels the urine smart as it touches the skin ; this engages her attention, when she perceives that she has several pimples, which soon ulcerate. If this occur in a bad constitution, and extend into the cellular tissue, in- flammation and sloughing of the part take place. Sometimes the labia and nyrapha; slough away, and in this way it is so many lose their lives. I visited one day the St. Giles’s work- house, and in a small ward belonging to the medical esta- blishment, I saw seven cases of sloughing chancre, and of these seven five died. It is almost impossible for them to re- cover, when there is such a destruction of parts. If you in- quire into the history of the case, you find that it first began by a few pimples; the unfortunate female will also tell you that she continued to walk the streets, night after night, ex- posed to vici.ssitudes of temperature; that she indulged in the use of spirituous liquors, in order to support her declining strength ; the disease thus occurring in a constitution de- stroyed by irregularity of habits, the patient has but a very slight chance of reco\ery. If one of these miserable- cases could he depicted from the pulpit, as an illustration of the evil effects of a vicious and intemperate course of life, it would, I think, strike the mind with more terror than all the preaching in the world, 'i'he irritable state of the patient in which the di.sease occurs, leads to the destruction of life,’ and thus it is that such a great number peri.sh. If I said that I saw twenty of these cases in a year, I should not exagge- rate. Neglected chancres and injured constitutions lead to this most frightful disease. The treatment is the same as for males. Warts. Warts were formerly considered as syphilitic, but you are to learn that they are nothing but a local disease, requiring nothing but local means for their cure. Yet, when I say local, I must obsenx* that they frequently secrete a matter which is able to produce a similar disea.se in others. 1 have known tivo instances of this. The one occurred in a Mr Guller, dres.ser to Mr. Chandler. Mr. Chandler removed some- warts, which were of a very large size, from a patient in this ho,spital, and as he was returning the knife, this gentleman put his hand forwards, and it entered just under the thumb nail. He left town for the south-western part of Kngland • HI a little time, he liad an irritation about the nail, and a L l2