614< Fractures of the knee-joint. cartilages. This accident is particularly liable to happen again, and the return of it is best prevented by a bandage made with a piece of linen having four straps attached to it, aud these are bound tightly above and below the patella. Of Compound Dislocalmis of the Knee Joint, 1 have only seen one example. This required an immediate amputation y and, it is probable, that in all the.se accidents, unless the wound is very small, so as to allow of its ready closure and adhesion, that a similar practice will be necessary. I shall next speak of ■ Fractures of the Knee-Joint; And, first, of Fractures of the Patella.—The patella is ge- nerally broken transversely, but sometimes longitudinally. In the first of these the upper part is drawn from the lower by the action of the muscles inserted into it, whilst the lower part remains fixed by its ligament. The degree of separation depends on the laceration of the ligament. The accident is at once known by the depression between the two portions of bone, into which you may put your fingers, and by the upper part of the bone moving readily on the lower and fore-part of the thigh. The power of extending the limb is also lost ; and the knee bends forwards from a loss of action of the ex- tensor muscles. Soon after the accident, extravasation takes place on the fore part of the joint, and produces a livid ap- pearance, but this is removed by absorption in a few days. There is afterwards considerable effusion from inflammation into the surrounding parts. It happens either from blows on the patella, or from the action of the muscles. The union^ of this fi-acture is generally by ligament, whether the separation of the bones lie great or little. But sSll the principle which should guide you in the treatment is, to make that ligament as short as possible. If the upper end of the bone be retract- ed by the muscles, the ligament connecting the bones is long, the patient walks very lame, and is liable to fall and break the other patella. When called to this accident, you should place the patient on a mattress, extend the limb on a well padded splint, which is placed behind the thigh aud leg. The patient should be raised as much as he can to the sitting posture, to relax the rectus ; an evaporating lotion of irhite trash should then be applied, and the heel should also be raised towards the trunk, to bring up the lower portion of the patella. If there should be much inflammation, existing for a day or two. leeches must he applied, and an evaporating lotion continued; and, when the tension has subsided, you may apply you' bandages. The mode generally adopted is, to pass a roller