ON COMPOUND FRACTURES. 626 able to support them, if they be judiciously managed ; I could mention to you several cases which would prove the success of the practice of effecting union by adhesion. A case now presents itself to ray recollection, of which I will give you an outline. 1 was called to this hospital, to see a brewer’s seirant, who had a compound fracture of the elbow joint, from the dray passing over his arm, which had considerably comminuted the bones. I could pass my finger readily into the joint, and feel the brachial artery pulsating on its fore part. Consider- ing the violence done to the joint, and the constitution of the patient-as men in such employment, you know, are in the habit of drinking largely of porter and spirits, and therefore render their constitutions exceedingly irritable—I told him that I feared there was scarcely any chance of his recovery, unless he consented to have the limb removed ; this be de- termined, however, not to submit to, and I therefore did all in my power to save both his life and his limb. The bones w'ere easily replaced, and the parts were brought carefully to- gether. The limb was laid upon a splint, a bandage was lightly applied, and the fore-arm was placed at right angles with the upper arm. The wound united without any unto- ward circumstance.s ; and the only thing that happened, which appeared in the least to retard his recovery, was the fonna- tion of an abscess in his shoulder, which was opened, and immediately healed. The joint was not even completely anchylosed, for he retained sufficient motion to allow him to resume his former occupation. , , . . i If a contrary practice be adopted, if poultices, for example, be applied, the adhesive process is prevented, and suppura- tion produced, which puts life in danger, or renders ampu- tation necessary. I will, whilst I think of it, give you the result of a case where this practice was followed. , , A woman, between fifty and sixty years of age, was admitted into Guv’s Hospital, with a wound of the elbow joint, and fracture of both the condyles of the os luinieri. A poultice was directed to be applied, and fomentations ordered nvice in the day. On the day following the accident she had a con- siderable degree of fever. On the third day the upper arm was cxceediiiglv swollen, attended with a co|uous sanionsdis- charge from the wound. On the fourth day her strength was cieatly reduced, and the wound had aliuosi ceased to dis- charge, but the arm was very much swollen, and on the hlth '*'^1 lira'll last’s of this accident, the arm should be kept in the bent position ; for as anchylosis, in a greater or less degree.