384' OVARIAN OR ENCYSTED DROPSY. find that the dropsy will so Increase as to require an oper-a- tion ; whereas if the belt be worn, tapping m:iy be put off al- most to an indefinite period. Wliether medicines are taken or not with a view of promot- ing the absorption of the water, I would advise you at least to attend to the fecal discharges. The operation of tapping has occasionally been performed with a view of merely relieving the load under which the pa- tient has suffered, when, to the surprise of the practitioner, it has ended in a perfect cure; but, generally speaking, the vessels more commonly have a disposition to renew the secretion of fluid, and the disease again forms. When about to perform the operation for ovarian dropsy, take care that you may not be misled, and perform your ope- ration on a person in a state of pregnancy. I have known several instances of this kind occur ; it is a very awkward accident, would injure your reputation, and you should al- ways, therefore, previously make yourself acquainted with the state of the parts, by an examination per vaginam. By ne- glecting this precaution, difBcullies and accidents connected with the operation often arise. A gentleman from my native county was dining with me one day, and, in the course of con- versation, asked me if 1 had ever performed the operation of dry tapping? “ Good God ! no (1 replied), and hope 1 never shall.” “ Well (said he), it is an operation that 1 have seen, at all events ; and I’ll relate to you the particulars. A prac- titioner in the town where 1 resided called upon the surgeon with whom 1 was a pupil, and told me and a fellow .'tudent that he was going to perform the operation of tapping for ova- rian dropsy, and if we chose we might go and see it; we thanked him, and attended. “ The woman was seated on a stool, with her abdomen e.x- jiosed, and the surgeon plunged in the trocar and canula, when, upon holding up a basin, and withdrawing the former, the doctor looked somewhat amazed at finding that no water escaped, and after crying ‘ hum,’ and deliberating for .a se- cond or two, he.withdrew the canula, rcft.xed the trocar in it, stepped back a pace or two, pointed it towards the abdo- men, and again charged it as with a bayonet. (Much laugh- ter.) The trocar was then withdrawn from the canula as before, but still no water ! At this he uttered ‘ oh instead of ‘ hum,’—paused, withdrew the canula—turned to the iiersons present, and said, ‘ Gentlemen, this is an operation tvhich you have probably never seen before—it is that ot dry tapping;' and then to the attend.aut, ‘ Nurse, you may do her up.’ {Excessive laughter.)—' Faith,' said the gentle-