ON HARE-LIP. 433 or fiuger. The operation occasions very little pain or incon- venience. 1 have had a child, seven years of age, come to my house, have a ligature thus applied, and afterwards walk back to I.slingtou. If the tumour is not of that form which will admit of a li- gature being put on in the way mentioned, you must then pass the ligature through the centre of the swelling, by means of a Jieedle, and tie it above and below ; in this case your ligature must, of necessily, be double ; in this way you will succeed, as effectually as with the other mode, in producing a separa- tion of the enlarged part. I shall now, gentlemen, describe to you the Operation tor Hare-Lip. ^ 1 he name of this disease originated from a supposition that It gives to the lip the same appearance as the lip of the ani- mal bearing that name. H-are-lip is sometimes single, that is, the fissure being onlv on one side ; sometimes double, a fissure being then on each .side, and occasionally attended with a want of teeth in the upper jaw; also a loss of the velum jiendulum palati and uvula. Sometimes in the double hare-lip the only thing be- tween the fissures is a small jirojection of cartilaginous sub- stance attached to the tip of the nose ; the soft palate, in these cases,^ is generally wanting, and the turbinated bone e.'cposed. The deformity in the.se instances is most nn- .•^ightly. In the operation for the removal of hare-lip, the simple principle is union by' adhesion or first intention. In single hare-lip you must perform the operation thus. [Here thelearn- ed lecturer shewed the operation on the dead subject, accord- ing to the description given.] Pare off the edge of the divided lip on each side by means of a small bistoury ; in executing thi.s^ step of the operation, take care that you cut off enough, for immediately at the margin the parts are hard and callous, and wdl not readily unite. Well, having pared off a sufficient fjuamity of both edges, all that remains to he done is to apply the ligatures, of which there are to be but two ; this number will be found quite adequate. Now it is of'great importance that you should be careful where the ligatures are applied, and I advise yon to be particular in your adoption of the rules which J give on this point. Weil, then, introduce one ligature immediately at the edge of the lip, that is, at the lowest part of the divided portions where the red part nr line ot the lip begins, and the other ligature is to be introduced exactly midway between the first and the extent of the wound towards the nose; thus the last ligature will be siinatcd half l K