240 ON HERNIA. WHiile the child is kept in tlie horizontal position iti the arms, the hernia will, in general, be prevented from desceudiue; and, at the end of thiee inonihs, a truss may be borne with ease. With respect to the congenital hernia, in the irreducible state, I do not know that any i)articular treatment can be adopted different from that which is practised in the common inguinal hernia. The oj)eration in strangulated hernia of the tunica vaginalis is more difficult than that in the common hernia, the, parts in the former being more concealed and in- volved in thicker parietes thau in the latter. When you make your incision on tlie sac, you should take care not to open the tunica vaginalis low down, for two very ob\ious reasons : first because you should always have sufficient tunica vaginalis to cover the testicle, to prevent any uuneces.«ary irritation ; and secondly, because the spermatic artery and vein are situated obliquely on the fore part, and you would be in danger of cut- ting through each of these, 'i'ou should therefore leave three inches of the tunica vaginalis undivided below. In general a considerable quantity of water is found with the intestine in the tunica vaginalis, a much greater quantity thau in the com- mon hernia ; because the tunica vaginalis is a more secreting surface than the peritoneum. In congenital hernia the stric- ture is generally about an inch and a half above the abdomi- nal ring. When the hernia is very large, the seat of stricture will descend to within half an inch or au inch of the abdomi- nal ring ; but this very rarely happens. I have already en- deavoured to expose to you the falsity of those .'•tatcuients which place the seat of stricture at the abdominal ring. Every surgeon, who has operated five times in inguinal heniia, and knows any thing of the anatomy of the human body aud of practical surgery, must be aware that the stricture is hardly ever to be found at the abdominal ring. In hernia congenita, it is even less frequently to be found in that situation than in common inguinal hernia. If, therefore, a surgeon is called ttpon to operate for strangulated hernia, aud expect.' to find the stricture at the abdominal ring, be is not fit to jicrform the operation at all; and if any of you were to state, in your exa- mination at the College, tliat the abdominal ring was the seat of stricture, such a man ought to be immediately turned back. It is contrary to tbc truth ; and every man, who has dissected the disease, and understands anatomy, nmst know it to be a ino.st abominable error. I call it a most abominable error; because it necessarily leads to the most dangerous consequences in the operation for strangulated hernia. .\ man. who thinks that by slitting up the abdominal ring he can push the intes-