160 ON VIRULKNT CONORRHCEA. heat, and lie experiences pain in di.schareing his urine ; thi- state IS called ardor urinaj. 'I'he pain increases till it be- comes m many cases, excessively severe ; there is an aprxar- ance m threads mixed with the urine, which arises from .the adhesire inflammation in the lacume of the urethra, 'nie iiext effect is a considerable diminution in the stream, the swollen state of the urethra contracting the size of the canal. Jhe urine is often discharged in two, three, or more streams m consequence of the contracted and irregular state of the urethra. Atflvst the discharge from the urethra is mucous, out alter a little time it assumes a purulent appearance. 'Hie matter becomes yellow, and, if the inflammation is ven- con- siderable, green ; and it is often intermi.xed with blood| so a- to give a saiiious appearance to the discharge. You are en- abled, therefore from the colour and appearance of the mat- ter, to judp of the degree of inflammation in the urethra. Inese are the circumstances which occur with respect to the appeaiance of the matter. I should obseiwe to von, that although the appearance of this fluid is purulent, it has not leally the character of common pus. If yon examine the dis- chaige by the aid of a magnifying power, j-ou will find that, though there may be some few globules of pus, the greater part of the discharge is mucus. The time this matte'r will continue to discharge is quite indefinite. It is said that go- iioiihosa tvill wear itself out, but it will sooner wear out the patience of the patient. I have known it continue for months, and 1 shall have occasion to mention a case in which It continued to be infectious during all that time. It some- times continues for so long a time notwithstanding all the means which may be employed for its cure, as to be an op- probrium to our art. Ill no case, however, ought vou to rely on the efforts of nature for its cui-e ; for, in general, you may verv much expedite the cure bv adopting a judicious method of treatment. Besides these external effects on the urethra, gonorrhoea takes also an internal course. It doe.« not confine itself, in its external effects, to the beginning of the uretlira, but often produces an eiysipelatous iiiflamma- tioii of the glands and fraeiHim, occasioning effii.sion into the prepuce and pliymosis. 'Plie absorbent vessels on the dorsum penis often become enlarged and hard, and produce little ab- scesses, which go on to suppuration. The glands of the groin are sympathetically affected, and in a first gonorrhrra, *^el- doui fail to become enlarged and painful. Where this effect takes place from gonorrhoea, several glands of the groin are affected at the Same time ; whereas, in the absorption of the poison of syphilis, a single gland only is enlarged on each