ON TIC DOULOUREUX. 437 then be easily approximated, and kept in their proper situation by as many ligatures as the size of the wound shall seem to require ; generally speaking, two will be found quite sufficient, in removing cancer of the under lip, you divide the inferior labial artery ; and you stop the hemorrhage by adopting the saTue method as was recommended in the hare-lip operation. Hefore we part, I must entreat your patience, while I describe to you, the disease called Tic Douloureux. It is a dreadfully painful affection of the nerves of the face, but of what nature is difficult to say ; the nerves in this disease are not in an inllamed state most certainly, for under the most horrid suffering they are found of a natural colour ; the nerves are not increased either in their usual size, but, on the con- trary, are found to be rather diminished. Mr. Thomas dis- sected a gentleman, in whom the sub-orbitar nerve had been affected, and the nerve on that side was found considerably less than the nerve of the opposite side. Again, I think the disea.se to be one of diminished action, rather than of in- creased ; and it has been found that stimulating, e.xciting medicines, are more beneficial than those of an opposite cha- racter. 'I’he pain experienced by those afflicted with tic doulou- reux, is, I believe, indescribable—it is of the most acute and distressing kind—I have seen it cause the tears to trickle down the cheeks of a fine old weather-beaten naval officer—a man, who had fearlessly faced the cannon’s mouth. After I had once divided the nerve for this complaint, 1 asked the lady who had been the subject of the operation, which gave her the most pain, the division of the nerve, or the disease ? “ Oh,” said she, “the operation is a bed of roses in comparison with the agony occasioned by the disease.” I was at one time visiting a patient afflicted with it, in company with Mr. Rovv, of Bur- ton Crescent, when the pain absolutely was so severe, that it caused the person to roll out of bed, and fall on the floor at the time of our being in the room. it is in general like the pain of electricity—patients will ex- claim, “ Oh ! 1 had a shock at that moment.” It produces a kind of flickering through the nerves; its motions are like summer lightning, and the pain cannot be compared to any thing more appropriate than to the horrid sensations created by electric shocks. ^ Treatment of Tic Douloureux.—'The principal relief has hitherto been derived from operations, and these operations have consisted in dividing some of the nerves of the face; the division of the diseased branch will, at least generally, succeed