ON GANGRENE. 104 you then, gentlemen, whether an experiment of this kind is not in tlie highest degree interesting, and whether we are not infinitely indebted to the man who first suggested the means of administering relief under such afiiicting circumstances? 1 am happy to tell you that the gentleman to whom we are in- debted lor this suggestion is now present; that he is ready to have the experiment made upon himself, and that so confident is he of the success with which it may be applied, that he would have no objection, if I could permit it, to take a large quantity ot the tincture of opium in your presence this evening. I suggested, however, that a little coloured water would an- swer all the purposes of illustrating the use of the instrument. The syringe, which was broimht to me the other dav bv a verv ingenious man, Mr. Reed, of Kent, is entirely a ngw invention, nor do 1 think the merit of that individual in the lea«t degree diminished by what I have since learned. The application of the syringe to the stomach, in cases of poisonine, is due to a gentleman whose name I shall presently mention. .Mr. Reed’s syringe is a new contrivance, which has been formed upon a principle in hydraulics (first applied, I believe, by Mr. Bramah j and which is capable of increasing the force of the instrument to the greatest possible degree. To give you an idea of its force : if I were to stand on a piece of wood, and the wood were surrounded by any thing w hich would prevent the escape of the water, the force of the syringe is capable of raising me from the ground. I do not wish to commit myself by any ob- servations on a subject with wdiich I do not pretend to be’par- ticularly conversant; but I believe, gentlemen, the principle is this : When a fluid contained in a vessel, having a large dia- meter, is thrown into one of very small diameter, the result is, an exceedingly great accumulation of force. Thus we see that piles which are driven into the beds of rivers, by the force of immense w'eights acting upon them, are raised by the admission of a very small quantity of water under them, upon the principle which 1 have just stated. Mr. Reed’s syringe is formed upon this principle, and the valves are besides dift’erent from any which had been pieviouslv em- ployed in similar instruments. With respect to the medical application of the syringe, however, for the purpose of re- moving poisons from the stomach, we are indebted for it to Mr. Jukes, a surgeon at Pimlico, who published an account of it in the Aledicul and I’/ii/sical Jottrna/ for November, lfl'22, p. 285 ; and a further account in the same Journal for June, 1823. Mr. Jukes originally employed a gum-elastic bottle to be applied to the tube : but the improvemetit of a syringe was suggested by Mr. Bush, of ITome.