ON HERNIA. 211 liave tlie cmiinion smell of fecces, and most of you are aware that the contents of the intestines do not acquire the smell peculiar to faeces until they have passed the valve of the ilium. The matter thrown up from the stomach has not only the soli- <lity of fa?ces, hut the smell peculiar to them ; and' any man who denies that it is feculent matter, must really resist the evidence of his senses. The fact is, that as soon as a hernia becomes stranuulated, itiversion of the peristaltic motion of the intestines begins. If any of you have not witnessed the peristaltic motion of the intestines, I advise you to get a rabbit, strike it on the back of the head, and immediately open its abdomen, in order to see the peristaltic motion of the intestines. No man ought to practise his profe.ssion without knowing accurately the nature of the peristaltic motion of the intestines. Well, gentlemen, as soon as any portion of the intestines is strangulated, the anti-peristaltic motion begins ; the valve ot the ilium is of no use, and the action of the intestines be- comes retrograde. Hence, the patient loses the power of dis- charging the ftcces, and they are thrown up in the action of vomiting. A clyster will sometimes bring away a portion of feculent maUer, but the quantity will be e.'ctremely small. During the time that the abdomen is in this tense state, but pnaccompanied with pain, and while there is frequent vomit- ing of the faices, the pulse is hard, frequent, and very distinct; but in the next stage of symptoms, when the abdomen is not only tense but painful to the touch, you will find the ])ulse ex- tremely small and fiequent; so small that it can scarcely be felt; so frequent that it can hardly be counted. The vomit- ing and eructations continue, and the patient is pale, and covered with a cold perspiration. The tumour becomes very tense, hard, and in general a little inllanied, on the surface of the skin. A person unaccu.stomed to observe the symptoms of stran- lated hernia, when he felt the pulse of the patient, and per- ceived symptinns of peritoneal inllainmation, in the tender- ness of the abdomen upon pressure, would say, that blood ought not to be taken in such a case, aud that if it were, the patient would be destroyed. Gentlemen, the reverse of this is the truth ; you must not be deterred by these symptoms from taking away blood in ■considerable quantities. The strength of the patient’s pulse will be increased instead of being diminished by this course, and in profiortion as he is young and athletic, a larger quan- tity of blood must be taken away. J he next change in the symptoms of strangulated hernia p 2