173 ON THE TYING OF ARTERIES. two ligatures, you will separate them from each other, draw- iug one upward, and the other downward, and leaving about thWe-quarters of an inch of the vessel exposed at the extre- mity of each ligature; for if this be not done, on dividing the artery, there will be danger of the ligature slipping off; the instrument with which the artery is usually divided is the probe-pointed bistoury; when it is done, retraction of the vessel immediately takes place; there will be no danger of including the nerve in the ligature, as the anterior crural does not accompany it; the vein and artery are included in the sheath, and the nerve is on the outer side. Now the edges of the wound are to be brought together, strips of adhesive plaster are to be applied, and the ligatures are to be allowed to come away by suppuration and ulceration. Here is a curious specimen (exhibiting a preparation), show- ing the mode in which the circulation is carried on after the external iliac has been tied ; the limb has been injected, and the anastomosing vessels are distinct ; you also see the part of the iliac artery where it was tied. If, then, you were asked what carries on the circulation after the external iliac has been tied, your answer would be—the gluteal principally; this passes out through the ischiatic notch, comes over the ilium to the groin, and enters the femoral artery, a little below Poupart’s ligament; the .second artery is the ischiatic, it arises from the termination of the internal iliac, passes out of the pelvis between the trochanter major and tuberosity of the ischium to the back of the thigh, and sends a few branches to the arteria profunda and external circumflex arteries ; the third artery is the obturator, it passes out through the obtu- rator foramen, and joins the internal circumflex artery ; also the external pubic communicates freely with the internal puhic; therefore, if asked by what vessels the circulation is carried on after the external iliac has been tied, you would say, princi- pally by the glutmal. On .Securing the Internal Iliac Artery. An operation of extraordinary difficulty; it has been per- formed by Mr. Stevenson, of the West Indies, and since by two other individuals, one of whom was Mr. Atkinson, of York, for the purpose of securing the internal iliac artery. None but a man endowed with the knowledge which Mr. Stevenson possessed would have dared to undertake such an operation; but Mr. Stevenson was educated by Mr. Unrns, of Glasgow, an enterprising man, and a most excellent anato- mist. He was brought ii|) in his dissecting-room, and this it wa.s^ that led Mr. .Stevenson to the idea of doing it. 'I’hc operation consists of making an incision on the inner side of