ON GONORRHOEA IN FEMALES. 500 matism in the joints. I do not say this from the cxpencnv of one gononlioea only, but from that of two, and on each occasion 1 w-as afflicted in this manner." 1 begged him to be careful to prevent any gonorrhoeal matter coming in contact with the eye, which he said he would. 'J'hree days after this I called on him, and he .said, “now you may obsene what i told you a day or two ago is true.” He had a greeu shade on, and there was ophthalmia in each eye. 1 desired him to keep in a dark room, to take active aperients, and apply leeches to the temples, in order to reduce the inflammation. In three days more he sent for me rather earlier than usual, for a pain in one of his knees (the left) ; it was stiff and inflamed. 1 ordered some applications, and soon after the right knee be- came affected in a similar manner. The ophthalmia was with great difficulty cured, and the rheumatism continued manv weeks afterwards. 'I'his case stiuck me very forcibly, and I asked Mr. Cline, with whom I was in the habit of frequently coming in contact, whether he had ever seen rheumatism pro- ceeding from gonorrhoea; and he replied, several times. The next case did not surprise me so much ; and now and then, ever since, 1 have met with similar ones. It is by no means an nnfrequent occurrence for gonorrhoea to produce a rheumatic and painful affection of the joints. Whether it is by absorption of the poison, or the constant irritation pro- duced by the inflammation of the urethra, 1 do not know ; but certain it is, that gonorrhoea produces ophthalmia aud rheumatism, and when not a single drop of matter has been applied to die eye. The inflammation generally attacks both eyes, and is of long duration. It requires the same remedies as are used in gonorrhoea; balsam of copaiba, or some form of turpentine, will be found the best, aud to these you add such local treatment as the state of the inflammation demands. Hut, with regard to gonorrhoeal rheumatism, some form of tuipentine must be exhibited ; eithei- the spirit of turpentine, the baksam copaiba, or olibamim. When you hare practised a little, you will find this to be true. 1 do not recollect to have met with a description of it in any surgical work ; bur whoever has practi.sed at all, roust have frequently met witl) it. GoNOiii;ii(EA IN Femai.f.s. Gonorrhoea in females is rather less violent than in males. Its seat is in Covvjrcr’s glands, oiv each side of the urethra, at the os externum. On each side of the os (xternum there arc two small ojtcuings, which will admit the head of a probe being introduced into them, and these are the seat of the go- norrha'a in females. There is a great degree of surroundine inflammation ; the orifice of the meatus urinarius and lacuna?