ON SYPHILITIC BUBO. 517 LECTURE LXIIL Gentlemen, we shall proceed to speak this evening of syphi- litic bubo, aud venereal sore throat. Syphilitic Bubo. The venereal poison is taken from the chancre on the penis, to the glands of the groin ; and, in its course, usually irritates one of them. Now and then the matter proceeds through them without producing any iri itation, hut more fre- quently it excites inflammation, and the common effects of inflammation, if it is not opposed ; that is, if a proper treat- ment be not pursued, the gland inflames and suppurates. It commonly happens that only one gland is affected in either groin in syphilis ; now and then the contrary takes place; hut, in general, when several glands are eularged, it is from irritation, and not from the absorption of the venereal poi- son. When there is only one gland enlarged, and it goes into a suppurating state, it is usually the consequence of the sti- mulus of the syphilitic virus. Therefore, you may conclude, if several glands be eularged, that it is not the effect of syphilis. The symptoms produced when a bubo goes into a state of suppuration, are the same as those which take place in com- mon abscess, with this exception, that there are evening exa- cerbations; and, in this respect, precisely the same effect is produced as when syphilis attacks any other part of the body, the exacerbations coming on in the afternoon, and generally lasting till two or three in the morning. The symptoms, then, are the same as those of common abscess, with the ex- ception of evening exacerbations. When you are consulted about a bubo, you are led to suspect that it is venereal, by the following circuiiLstances : —Yon ask the patient if he has a sore on the penis ; if there be none, and he has never had one, your opinion ought to be, that the bubo is not syphilitic. 'I'here is no example of venereal bubo ever having occurred without a sore. If there be no sore at the time you see the pa- tient, you inquire how long it is since he has had one ? If he answers, a week, a fortnight, or even three weeks ago, still the swelling may he syphilitic : it is not at all necessary for the sore to exist at the time the bubo appears, for the irritation of the gland may occur a fortnight or three weeks after the a[i- pearance of the sore. 'I'he swelling may be retarded from va- rious circumstances, if the patient has a diarrhma on him, or has taken opening medicine ; these, and many other causes, may delay its appearance. The next circumstance to which