ON POISONS. U6 absorption. With respect to the poison of rabid animal* pro- ducing the disease called //t/drop/iobia, and which disease is so different in its cha- racter, so opposed to those arising from any of the other poisons, so marked in its nature, so horrid in its effects, that upon seeing it you could not hesitate to form a correct opi- nion as to the nature of the malady. 'Fhe first sympUjm a person experiences who has been bitten by a rabid animal, i.- pain in the injured part; and this is usually felt from the third to the fifth week. The next symptom is a sense of chil- line.ss, succeeded by rigors and heat ; then a difficulty of swal- lowing is felt, not of liquids in particular, but of 'anv snb- .stauce : this arises from the constriction of the mu.scles’ of the pharynx ; and so violent are the spasms of the throat that, upon offering the patient any thing to swallow, you would think it would directly occasion suffocation ; he will desist ti om the attempt, and tell you he will try again by and bye; upon again applying the cup to his lips, he will be seized vvith the most horrid shuddering, turn away to avoid the sight of what he was about to take, and sit down in a state of exhaus- tion. It has been said, that persons having this disease hark like a dog; this is not true, as the noise is occasioned by vio- lent inspirations; whereas the barking of a dog is the effect of exfiiration. In hydrophobia there is generally e.\traordiuary irritability. I have seen two or three examples where the slightest touch of the bed clothes would produce a sudden impetuous passion ; and in two children whom I have seen, they would beatawav the bed-clothes, and could not suffer them to cover their bo- dies. If you direct a patient having hydrophobia to go into a warm bath, he does not object, but will tell you he will try; upon approaching the water, however, and putting in his foot, he will immediately jump, and tell you he cannot enter the bath. By persuasion, they have afterwards plunged in, when the violence of the convulsions were such, that, if not imme- diately removed, they would have been drwoued. When in the hath, even the slight Wiives striking against the neck give ri.se to the most dreadful spasms ; and in one rase, when the patient was in the bath, and the medical attendant dashed some of the water against his face, he exclaimed, in great agony, “ Ch, don’t; that i-s cruel—that is too bad : 1 cannot hear it.” I mention these circumstances for the purpose of showing you, that in hydrophobia there is a great excitement of the nervous system ; and it is quite erroneous to suppo.«e that all the symptoms of the disease arc produced by inflam- mation. In hydropbobia and tetauns the symptoms very