ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. S52 “ Thougli your coii)|)laint has arrived at that stage in wliitii an operation will be of no avail, and though it is of that na- ture which does not allow of cure by medical means, yet lean tell you of many instances in which it has been exceedincly slow' in its progress, and if you have your life prolonged ten or seventeen years you will be perhaps content.” 'J'his e.xcites a beam of sunshine in the breast, and a gleam of joy on the countenance ; “ Death,” she then say.s, “ is not so near as I expected,” and her anxiety of mind is removed by the hope which she has of the fatal event being procrastinated. It is right, gentlemen, in humanity, to mention these cases to pa- tients labouring under this most distressing disease. It sometimes happens that two or three in the same family are affected with scirrhous tubercle. 1 have known it occur in three sisters, who were related to a medical man. The tir.'-t would not undergo an operation, and she died of the di.<-ease. The second did undergo the operation of having the scirrhous tubercle removed from the breast, but she died of a return of the disease. The third sister is still alive, and the disease in her has not yet proceeded to a fatal termination. It sometimes happens that members of the same family will he attacked with this complaint, but this is not invariably the case; but I do state that it is right when yon observe the disease in one sister, to direct your attention immediately to preveut, as far as you can, its affecting the others. Now', gentlemen, as to the causes of this disease : it is very frequently attributed to accident, but this is rarely a cause; now and thet; it is the result of a blow, or pressure on the part, or injury to it in some shape or other, but this is not often the case. Although the disease ojterates on some ]iarticular part of the body, yet it is always preceded by a state of constitution which has excited it. He who looks at this disease in the light of a local affection only, takes a narrow view of it. A blow or a bruise inflicted on a liealthy person would be followed by common inflammation only, which would lead to the removal of the matter effused. Biit if a blow were received on the breast when the constitution was in a state disposed to the formation of scirrhous tubercle, it would be the cause ot a par- ticular action being excited in the part injured, and micht lay the foundation of tliis com]ilaint : therctore you see that no blow', no pressure on the part, nor any accidental circumstance whatever will produce scirrhus if the constitution be sound. There must be some predisposing cause in the coustittttiou. else it will not occur, f et tlie formation of scirrhous tubercle does not entirely depend on constitutional derangement; there