OPERATIOX OF LITHOTOMY. 330 properly treated. These men are either fools or impostors, and ^he sooner they are kicked out of tlie profession the better. Such men pretend to uniform success, which claim, which pretension, to practitioners of experience and to men of ho- nour, is only an e.xitosure of their want of candour, and utter disregard of truth. I can assure you, gentlemen, that vou will be sometimes successful, and sometimes not; onlv take care to study your profession with assiduity—to discharge its duties with fidelity—the taunts of your enemies will not then annov you, and your minds will be free from self-reproach. That which I teach you I know to be really true ; I am no speculator; my arguments are the superstructure of facts ; my deductions are from cases and occurrences which I have my.self observed. In the faithful discharge of my duty in this theatre 1 am com- pelled to mention unfortunate as well as fortunate cases. I sometimes praise and sometimes censure ; but in neither do 1 ever e.xceed that boundary which would be incompatible with my own honour or your improvement. In detailing to you the errors into which surgeons have fallen, I execute a verv- un- pleasant task—a task much more disagreeable now, from the publicity which my lectures receive, than at any former period ; but, as your pilot, it is my imperative obligation to warn you against those shoals and rocks which have foundered but too many of your predecessors. He who publishes the lectures, however, cannot be too particular in his discretion \vith regard to publishing names, when those names are blended, as they sometimes are, with unfortunate cases. 1 shall now proceed to show you the lateral operation, as performed with the gorget and knife, and will also show yon the high operation above the pubes, as lately performed at St. George’s Hospital. {A subject was now brought forward, and the legs having been placed in the proper position, the learned lecturer said,) Now then for the lateral mode ; 1 will perform it first with the knife, and then with the gorget. iThe lecturer now went through both operations according to the detail given in the course of this lecture; he demonstrated most carefully each part to the students as he proceeded, and thus addressed them.) The staff now resting on the stone, I begin by makinc ail incision in the left side of the perinteum, commencing at the symphysis pubis, and carrying it downwards and outwards to midway between the anus and tuberosity of the ischium, the termination of the incision bciiie, as you observe, opposite to the centre of the anus ; this cut, liaving passed throiigli the skin and fat, ha.s exposed the accelerator uriiite. I now divide that muscle between the. bulb of the [leiiis and left ems ; and then with my fingers press the bulb under the right ramus of the