ON RACHITIS. 571 health of children, and I am glad to find that a respectable neutleinan at the west end of the town, and a gentleman at Bath, have adopted more rational principles in the treatment of this disease. T'he cause of this disease is debility, and de- ficiency in the circulation ; how is it possible then to give vigour to the circulation, if the child is kept in a confined atniospliere, and prevented from taking exercise, and partici- pating in those amusements which are so essential to health ? Exercise should be freely allowed, taking care only that it be not protracted so as to occasion fatigue. How, it vnay be asked, can you allow exercise, and at the same time bring the spine into a straight position ? By giving artificial support to the spine, d'his may be etlected by two springs ot steel added to stays, one on each side of the spine, which may be worn by the patient in any position. Callow’s back is a good me- chanical contrivance ; it fits to the back of the patient, and is passed round the pelvis without pressing on the sides-—the pressure is on the crista of the ilium, and not on the sides, lu the use of mechanical means, the great object should be, not to force the child into a constrained position, but merely to prevent inclination on one side or the other. I have known children laid down fora length of time, to the great injury ot their general health, without producing any effect on the dis- tortion. A lady, of great talent and great resolution, lay for twelve moitths in the recumbent posture, and rose with her spine in the same state, but with an additional disease in the bladder. The urine was loaded with an immense quantity ot mucus, her natural delicacy having restrained her from making water as often as she had occasion. This was followed by a disease of the womb, which proved fatal. I have read a book lately with great pleasure, or, rather, 1 have looked thiongh it, for 1 cannot say that I very often read a book, in which the author recommends a particular mode of exercise, with a view of bringing certain muscles of the body into action, so as to oppose resistance where there is any deviation from the natural form. The plan is founded on sound and rational principles, and is well calculated to have the effect of opening the chest, keeping the shoulders well back, and bringing the spine into its natural position. In rickety affections of the knees, horse exercise is of great advantage; if the patient is very young he may be allowed to ride the rocking-horse as long as he likes. The positioji on horseback throws the knees outwards, while the exercise is beneficial to the general hualtlv of the patient. I shall detain you, gentlemen, a few moments longer on my own affairs, and those of my colleagues. Their feelings