DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. 525 times ossified in this disease, and coughed up. One of the cornua of thyroid cartilage was coughed up by a patient of Mr. Forster’s, at the other hospital; it was converted into bone ; the patient did very well. The treatment required in syphilitic sore throat is as fol- lows :—It will be necessary to make use of mercury if the part is not too irritable, and the sore has no other character than in a healthy person, and does not affect the mouth more than is generally done when the syphilis appears in any other part. Here you must endeavour to prevent the disease making those dreadful ravages, which I have described, on the soft palate and upper ma.xillary bone, producing an aperture, which re- quires artificial means to close it. Mercurial fumigations are found the most efficient local means for sores of the palate; but if the roof of the mouth itself becomes affected, a little diluted muriatic or nitric acid will assist exfoliation, and prevent the aperture from being large. When the sores are on the tonsils, local means are not necessary, for a consider- able portion of the tonsils may be lost, without any bad ef- fects being produced ; constitutional remedies alone are ge- nerally employed. But, with respect to myself, I am dis- posed to assist, by local means, the healing of syphilitic sores, wherever they occur. When an aperture has been pro- duced in the roof of the mouth, I put a piece of lint into the opening, and the consequence is, that the person does not speak through his nose so much, and is not exposed to the observations of his friends. As soon as the exfoliation has taken place, it will be right to introduce some extraneous substance to fill up the aperture ; and the best instrument I know is one contrived l>y Mr. Weiss, whom you all know to be an extremely ingenious man. A gentleman of rank and fortune, who had a fissure in the roof of the mouth, applied to Mr Weiss, to know whether he could make him .something which would fill up the opening, and remain there without producing inconvenience. Mr. Weiss immediately produced an instrument, which gave the gentleman great comfort and satisfaction, and answers much better than any other with which I am acquainted. ' When there is disease on the soft palate, nothing can be worn, because any instrument, unless kept near the bone, would excite inflammation. M. Koux, of La Charit6, at Paris, in a case of division of the soft palate, performed an operation for the purpose of closing the aperture, on the same principle as the operation for hare-lip. The operation was successful ; it is certainly a very ingenious one. 1 think a gentleman at the west end of the town has also performed