ON VIRULENT GONORRHCEA. 47i troduction, the curve of the catheter: with regard to tliu-tic gum bougies, they are not employed. Every surgeon, I believe, has a mode of practice peculiar u> himself; the bougie I use is made of silver ; it i.s of the form of the catheter, but at the point, and running back for some distance towards the handle, it is conical; and the way I use it is this : I first pass down, in the manner described to you, a wax bougie, for the purpose of ascertaining the form, size, and distance of the stricture. Having obtained a knowledge of these, I then introduce my conical silver bougie, the point of which having entered the stricture, the further it passes the greater is the dilatation produced, in consequence of the form of the instrument. This bougie I have found extremely service- able, and is the best with which I am acquainted ; when it is not at hand, I use a common silver catheter instead. As to cat-gut bougies, they are now very rarely employed, except when the stricture is particularly small, and then thev are .sometimes required. There is another kind of bougie, made of horse-skin, after it has been submitted to the action of lime, to prepare it for tanning. _ fashion, I am sorry to say, in surgery, as well as in medi- cine, frequently leads practitioners from the path of prudence. One remedy after another is blazoned forth to the world, to delude merely for a day, and then to sink with its predecessors into “ the tomb of all the Capulets.” Surgery, however, is much less liable to these deceptions than the medical branch of our profession, because surgery is a science requiring more solid information, and in which impositions are much more easy of detection. It often occurs that the exaggerated state- ments which accompany new remedies, lead surgeons to ex- pect more advantages from their employment than the expe- rience of the discoverer, if he had spoken truly, would have led them to anticipate. Now, in consequence of this, medi- cines often sink below that level where their intrinsic value would justly entitle them to remain. I make these remarks in reference to the use of caustic for the cure of stricture, ori- ginally adopted by Jlr. Hunter, afterwards improved upon by Sir Everard Home, and, subsequently, the mode of treatment vvas altered by another gentleman, now deceased ; and, since his time, it has been falling into disrepute. The use of caustic has certainly been very much abused, and, in many instances, has produced the very worst consequences, and I would say that it never ought to be employed, except where the stricture is accompanied with fistula in perina?o, and that fistula behind the stricture ; then there can be no apprehension of the caus- tic occasioning retention of urine, which it has done in many