62S ON COMPOUND FRACTURES. au iucision through the integuments, and turn them on one side sufficiently to reduce the bone, and afterwards try to unite the parts by the adhesive process. VMien you e.\perience any difficulty in the reduction of a fracture which is very oblique, do not divide the integuments, as the probabilities are that the periosteum has been injured on the e.N'posed bone, and that it would afterwards separate by a tedious process of exfoliation ; the vitality of the part is very low, and the wound necessary to be made to replace the bone would be a laige one. But what I advise you to do is, to saw off the sharp projections of bone at the extremities of the tractured portions, and then carefully replace the bone in its proper situation. The muscles will draw the ends of the bone together, even if it be shortened. Do not adopt this practice, however, where there are two bones, and one is not tractured, for if the broken or the sawn surfaces be not brought into contact, no ossilic union can take place. 1 know that some cases have been published by a very ingenious surgeon, in which it was supposed thatossific union had taken place be- tween the separated portions of the tibia ; but I think that thi.s union wa.s effected by a tough ligamento-caitilagiuous mate- rial, and not by bone. If the bone be very much shattered, and several pieces be de- tached and loose, remove them, but with the greatest degree of care, so as to avoid irritating the wound more than is aLo- lutely necessary. If these portions of bone be not removed, they will produce excessive iiritation, and will very much re- tard the healing of the wound by frequent exfoliations. But It the pieces be large, do not detach them, for if they be con- nected by periosteum they will again unite ; or if there be one large piece, and the periosteum on it is entire, let it remain Compound fractures are often attended with hemorrhage from larf’e arteries which have been wounded by the broken extremities ot the bone. It was foi meily the practice to am- putate in these accidents, whenever any vessel of importance was wounded, under the .supposition that the injury could not be repaired, and that gangrene would, in all probability, haii- pen. But I have seen .so many limbs saved, even when the principal artery going to the limb lias been torn, that I am induced by experience to adopt, a different plan. I will iust give you a table of some of these cases, and mention their re- sults. .Sometimes the anterior tibial artery is torn through Bi a case which I perfectly recollect, the vessel was taken up by a tenaculum and .secured, and the patient did very well. In one case, where the po.nerior tibial artery was wounded, it, was secured by ligature, and the patient also did well. But in