272 ON PTERYGIUM. cose and enlarged ressels. These may be aided by &eton«, issues, and blisters, and attention to the general health. ’ Encanthis. This consists in an alteration of the structure of the carun- cula lachrymalis, and neighbouring semilunar fold of the con- junctiva The caruncula is enlarged ; at the commencement it has a granulated appearance, which it loses as it increases, and then becomes similar to a hazel nut, being ash-colonred, and streaked with varico.se vessels. This enlargement or ex- crescence prevents the lids from closing, and allows extrane- ous matter to enter, which keeps up inflammation of the eye, and it also presses on the puncta-lachrymalia, and turns them cut of their place ; the tears, thus prevenled from getting into the lachi7mal sac, are effused on the cheek. The best treat- ment is to remove it altogether. It is a simple operation, and is thus performed : an assistant raising the lid, by taking up the tumour with a pair of forceps,removes it with a pair of curved scissors with convex edges. When this complaint ha- not assumed the malignant form, it is always remediable by excision. Never operate, however, when the encauthis has become of the malignant kind, and put on the cancerous ap- pearance. This will be knoum by the dull red colour of the excrescence, its excessive hardness, lancinating pains extend- ing to the eye-ball and forehead, particularly when tonched. foul ulcers, with irregular edges, having all the appearance of cancer in any other part of the body. The last affection of which I shall speak is Pterygium. 'Phis is always of the triangular shape, and may be divided into the membranous and fleshy. The first has the appearance of a thin film of minute vessels converging towards the cornea. T'he usual seat of this affection is towards the inner canthn.-, that is, with the base at the eanthiis and the apex against the cornea. It is always of a triangular shape, and the vessels proceed from the base to the apex. The fact is,, that pteryda do not long exist before they produce a nebulous state of the transparent imrt of the eye by dejtosits of lymph, and then of fluid. The conjunctiva and sclerotic coat become loaded with ressels, and if this affection is not remedied, vision becomes impaired, and is ultimately lost. I'he fleshy pterygia differ from the menibranous, and are more vasmlai. They first ap- pear of a yellowish colour. Then tlie vessels running through them become large, and they have a red appearance ; but al- ways retain their triangular shape. When the disease has pro- ceeded far on the transparent part of the eye, the only plan to adopt will be the removal of a pan of the pterygium. This