503 ON CHANCRE. doubtful whether the discljarge, as long as it continued, ever ceased to be infectious. The same observation applies to fe- males. The learned professor here related the experiment detailed by Mr. Hunter, iu his work on Syphilis, shewing the length of time the infection may be propagated by a female, after the appearance of the discharge. LECTURE LXI. Chancre. There are two poisons, as I mentioned to you before, com- municated by venereal intercourse •, one the poison of gonor- rhoea, which, falling on a mucous surface, produces from that surface a discharge of matter which is infectious ; the other, the poison of syphilis, which applied to the skin, or, as far as is known at present, to any surface, produces in- flammation and ulceration, forming a sore called chancre; which, being received into the glands of the groin, occasions bubo, and being conveyed into the system, circulates with the blood, produces ulceration on different parts of the body, on the mucous membrane of the throat, the skin, the periosteum and bones. The time at which the effect of the poi.son that produces chancre, makes its appearance, is uncertain; the chancre, however, generally appears three or four days after connexion, and from four to seven days is the average time. The poison first produces inflammation, then ulceration; the inflamma- tion is attended by a pimple arising from the surface affected, which is like a common pimple, excepting that it is of a deeper colour; instead of being quite florid, it is of a darker hue. The pimple is surrounded by a kind of erysipelatous inflammation; an ulcer forms in the centre, and then a pit forms in the body of the sore, which i.s often of considerable magnitude, and extends beneath the skin. The surrounding edges of the sore are hard and ragged, its surface is yellow, and the margin red ; and, if you were asked if a sore was a chancre or not, you would answ'er, I must feel it first, and not decide merely by looking at it. You would then lift up the part between your fingers ; and, if you found a hardness beneath, this would he a very good criterion of its being a syphilitic sore; for it is neither in the ulceration, nor in the yellowness of the surface, nor the raggedness of the edges, but in the colour and hardness of the sore, that the character- istic marks of the chancre manifest tliemselves ; from the fttesence of these, you form an opinion, and are enabled to