ON HEKMA. 237 When this lieniia is straugulated, tlie operation for it differs in some respects from that required for inguinal hernia in tlie male. When you have made your incision upon the hernia below the ring, you will find that the peritoneal bag does not contain cither intestine or omentum, and that nothing but a little water e.scapes. This leads yon to slit up the abdominal ring, and on [timing your finger within it, you will find some- thing contained witliin the sac, above the ring ; this is gene- rally intestine, but sometimes a portion of omentum descends with it. All the cases of inguinal hernia in the female which 1 have seen liave been inte.stinal. Having divided the tendon of the external oblique, you will find a convolution of intestine has descended, and you will then look for the stricture, which you will generally find about tw'o inches above the abdominal ring. In the male, the inguinal canal is considerably shortened by the approximation of the upper to tlie lower opening, but in the female the canal undergoes little alteration, and’ vou wdl in general therefore find the orifice of the hernial sac at the distance of at least two inches from the abdominal ring Having slit up the tendon of the external oblique from aii inch to an inch and a half, and directed your assistant to draiv it up, you will put a director within the sac, feel for the stric- ture, and dilate it upwards or outwards towards the spinous process of the ilium. The general rule is to divide it lui- wards, but it may he divided outwards with safety, as there is no danger in this case of cutting the epigastric artery which i.s on the inner side. 'I'hc last case of strangulated lie’rnia, in the female, which I saw at Guy’s, was one under the care of Mr. Forster, and it was a very embarassing one. When Mr. borster had made his incision below the abdominal ring he was surprised at observing a gush of water ; and finding no appearance of either intestine or omentum, he doubted at fir.st for a moment whether the disease was any thing more than a cy.st containing water; but on insinuating his finger into the abdominal ring, which he did with .some difficulty, he found a considerable bag above it. tipon slitting up the abdominal tendon of the external oblique townirds the spine ot the Ilium, he found a very small convolution of intestine embraced at the orifice of the heinial bag, which was thi- seat of the stricture. He introduced a director, dilated the stricture ; and this patient did extremely well. In this hernia. It IS to be recollecterl that the stricture is, in almost all cases at a very considerable distance above the alidominal ring. I .im not aware that I have any other observations to make on this di.sease, as it occurs in the female, and I sliull proceed therefore to the consideration of