338 ON CALCULI IN THE PROSTATE GLAND. enlarge the urethra a little with the knife at the frasnom. A curious case occurred the other day, in which I extracted two calculi from a man’s urethra. 1 did not know tliat I had such an operation to perform, and therefore I had no opportunityof giving you previous information of it. The man was suffering under retention of urine from stricture ; I did not know that I was to meet with calculi, hut the way in which I operated was this:—I passed a sound, or staff, into the urethra, down to the stricture, and instead of turning it towards the bladder, I turned the point of the instrument towards the perinaeuiu, so that the urethra was quite prominent towards me. I made a cut in the course of the urethra, a little below the instrument, and finding something very hard there, which I believed to be stone, I extended the cut and found a stone. I then divided the uie- thrato a considerable extent, and a stone larger than a three- ounce grape-shot passed through the opening. When 1 had removed this a smaller stone made its appearance. This stone was lodged in a cup in the upper part of the larger stone. The appearance of the stones, which were completely locked and fitted to each other, was extremely beautiful. The next step was to ptit the patient in a situation to have a catheter passed. I pushed the sound onward through the strictnred part; and having cut the part with a knife, I introduced my finger into the wound, and carried it into the bladder. A similar case occurred to me in a former period of my life ; the form of the stone was exactly the same, and the treatment 1 pursued very much the same as I have just described. Of Stones in the Prostate Gland. Stones in the prostate gland difter in composition from tho.'C in the bladder ; they consi.st of phosphate of lime. There are two .species of calculi in the prostate ; those which pass from the bladder in consequence of ulceration, and those which arc found in the evst formed in the prostate gland itself. There is a preparation on the table, in which three calculi are seen lodg- ed in the prostate, in consequence of ulceration opening l:om the bladder, and another in which there is a number of caica.i contained in a cyst formed in the prostate. Calculi in the pros- tate gland may be readily detected by introducing your fincer into the rectum. 1 was once sent for, by a Mr. \ aux. to a gen- tleman who was the subject of retention of urine. I introduced catheter to what was supposed to have been a stricture, but I felt the instrument pass over a calculus; I put my finger into the rectum, to ascertain where the stone was, and pnss.sinc uiion the prostate gland, 1 felt the stone just above it. It afrer- wanls appeared that there were three calculi in his prostatr gland. 1 told him he might be immediately relieved by suffer-