ON CHANCRE. 508 treatiiient you should pursue : as soon as a patient applies you for tins complaint, you should ask him if he wishes to be properly cured at once, by a simple mercurial treatment, or have the chancre cured without it, and run the risk ofhavine secondary symptoms occurring at a future period. His answer will be, for God’s sake, give me what is proper now formv cure, without submitting me to the chance of being laid up a second time with Ibis complaintand youthen order him U. take five grains of blue pill, and a quarter of grain of opium, night and morning; if you exceed this quantity, let him take an additional pill at bed-time. Now, gentlemen, this medi- cine, continued for three weeks, will be quite sufficient for the cure of the disease. It may be asked, why do you com- bine opium with the mercury If you were not to do it, the result would be, that the mercury by itself would irritate the chancre, but, if the mercury be combined with opium, it rarely produces this effect; the way, therefore, to prevent irritation and a sloughing state of the chancre, is to give the mercury in conjunction with opium. ’I'he patient wall ask jou how ne should live whilst he is undergoing this treat- ment .5 you may tell him that he may follow his business or occupation just the same as before, that he .<ihonld not take any species of food which is likely to disorder his bowel* as It IS desmable to prevent the mercury acting on the intestinal canal; but his mode of living should be as usual—he should avoid acids, because they would purge him, and for this rea- son he should not take vegetables, which contain much aces- cent matter ; there is no necessity for him to change his food. JVo or three glasses of wine a-day would not prevent the ac- tion of the mercury—takeu so as to hurry the circulation, will oppose it; but, if taken moderately, it w’ill do no harm. With respect to the quantity of mercury given, the treatment of the syphilitic disease is greatly improved, for all that yon want is just to keep up the mercurial action on the constitution for a short time, instead of making the patient spit at the month, for w'eeks and months, as used to be done. One point has also been ascertained, that cliancres for which no mercury has been taken, are not always followed by secondary svniptoins. With the exception that lesser quantities of niercu'iy are given, I should say that, wdthin the la.st twenty five vears, the treat- ment of tlie venereal disease has gone back rather than im- proved. Secondary symptoms now are more frequently met with than formerly, owing to the neglect of a mercurial treat- ment on the first appearance of tiie complaint. A person hardly knows now when he is cured : a half practice has been substituted for one that was perfectly efficient: and the result