ON ANEURISM OF THE AORTA. 15J left auricle; the aneurism was of the size of a walnut; its coats hail given way, and nature,' as it were, thus unloaded herself. These three cases of aneurism of the heart are the only ones that I have seen. Aneurism of the Aorta. Aneurism of the ascending aorta, just at its commencement, where it is covered by the pericardium, is not of uncommon occurrence. Here are two examples of aneurism in that situation (pointing to the specimens on the table) of the size of a walnut; they had burst into the pericardium, which, on examination, was found filled with blood. I will give you a singular case, in order to put you on your guard, as you must expect to meet with thorns as well as flowers in the profes- sion. A man was brought to the other hospital labouring under popliteal aneurism ; 1 told him he must submit to an operation. In order to have the principal artery of the thigh secured, he sat down on the table, and was placed in the usual position ; before I bad quite reached the sartorius muscle, 1 saw him stretch himself on his bach, and perceived urine coming from the peni.s. 1 immediately said. This is more than the expression of pain and the apprehensiou of danger. He got up, made a gasp ; 1 took out a lancet, opened a vein, but no blood came. I then tried to obtain some from the jugular, but in vain ; in three minutes he was quite dead. I said, gen- tlemen, as you have seen the death, you shall see the exami- nation. He was conveyed to the dead-house; and the next day I opened the chest, and found the pericardium distended wth blood, containing from a pint to a quart; and at the be- ginning of the aorta, just above the valves, there was an aneu- rism of the size of a walnut, which had burst. It is well that in tills ca.se the ligature was not applied, or the principal ves- sel divided, else the surgeon would probably have had the credit of killing the patient. 1 mention this case to put you on your guard, that you should never operate for aneurism till you have a.scerttiined whether there be one situated in any other part; for it frequently happens that aneurisms attack several parts at the same time. This I know, that a man came into this f.St. Thomas’s) hospital with popliteal aneu- rism : and the operation was about to be performed, when, on account of a pain in the abdomen, it was postponed. Hefore the next operating day he had died suddenly, and, on exa- mination, an aneurism was found between the two erniilgeiit arteries. Well, then, before you operate for aneurism, see whether there be pain and pulsation in any other part.