214 ON HERNIA. hospitals can tell you the contrary, and certainly it is not situated there in one case out of live, exceptint', as 1 before remarked, iu very large and old heruiae. lliose surgeons, there- fore, who believe that the stricture in strangulated hernia is situated at the abdominal ring are quite unequal in point of surgical knowledge to the performance of this operation. Far be it from me to ransack the graves of those who have been destroyed by surgeons, who suppose that the abdominal ring is the only situation at which stricture occurs. He, there- fore, who goes to the operation with a belief that he shall find the stricture at the ring, and that it is not to be found at any other situation, is most lamentably ignorant of the true nature of this disease. In large old herniae, the stricture certainly generally happens at the abdominal ring; but in recent her- nise, and those of a smaller size, it usually occurs above it, as I shall presently explain to you. Well, then, where is the stricture commonly situated in strangulated inguinal hernia? Why, I will tell you gentlemen, op|)osite the tendon of the transversalis mu.'cle, which circum- stance is often produced in consequence of the thickening of the hernial sac, from the pressure of a truss. Sometimes the stricture is an inch above the abdominal ring; at others, when the hernia is very large, at the ring. But when the hernia is very small, the stricture is often two inches above the ring. And it is owing to this circumstance, that the finger is often lost in oblique inguinal bernia before the stricture can be felt, so far above tbe ring is it situated. Sometimes the finger feels the stricture an inch above the ring, at others an inch and a lialf, or even two inches—and in each of these situations it is i-ery common. The third place in which the stricture is fonnd is at the neck of the hernial sac, iu consequence of a membra- nous band crossing it at that part. The following case will illustrate this most clearly; a man was admitted into this hospital having strangulated hernia ; after the ordinary means for reducing it had been used with- out success, it was determined to perform the operation ; the finger, after the first division of tbe supposed stricture, could be "freely admitted within the ring, yet the intestines could not be returned into tbe abdomen ; the opening was enlarged, and the finger again introduced, the intestine was again attempted to be returned, and the surgeon, after some difficulty, succeed- ed in forcing it out of sight; as it was no longer to be seen, he in all probability, thougiit it out of jeopardy, and the patient was sent to his bed. The following day, when the dresser went to see thi.s man, he found a portion of intestines protrud-