ON SUPPURATION. 50 angle of the eye, and which conveys the tears into the nose, is mucous, and, therefore, wlien inflamed, usually suppurates ; consequently is only obstructed for a short period ; and even this obstruction can be relieved at intervals, by pressing the finger upon the skin immediately undei the corner of the eye, by the side of the nose, by which means the collected matter vvill be forced out at the puncta situated in the under eye-lid. Should the inflammation, however, be of the adhesive kind, then an obstruction will be formed that can only be relieved by an operation. This complaint is named fistula lachnma- lis. The tears now pass over the cheek, and not into the nose, because adhesive matter has glued the sides of the tube toge- ther. 1'he operation for the cure of this is simple, and will be explained to you hereafter. The membrane covering the internal surface of the trachea is mucous, and, therefore, when inflamed, usually suppurates; but in croup large quantities of adhesive matter are thrown out, so as very frequently to occasion death. The coagulable matter adheres so firmly, that it cannot be disengaged by tlie ordinai7 efforts of expectoration ; at last, from its increase, it fills the trachea, and suffocation is of course the result. Na- ture has, as we before remarked, wisely ordained, that the various outlets of the body should commonly be liable to the suppurative inflammation ; and if this were not the case, life would be very much sliortened indeed. Arteries and veins, when inflamed, generally pass into the adhesive inflammation. It occasionally happens, however, that their inner coats suppurate : and I have more than once known persons die from the irritation thus excited. Case.—A man in Guy’s Hospital had a leg removed. In a day or two he became delirious, and shortly after died, ^^'hen examined, no particular disease in his body was found; but the suppurative process had been set up in the arteries, and this caused the fatal catastrophe. Similar events would lollow the operations for aneurism, if the adhesive inflammation did not supervene instead of the supptirative ; for matter would form above the ligature, and, mixing with the blood, would destroy life. Suppurative inflammation of the veins has often been known to come on after blcedinc.'and occasion death. Xj]ioii dissection, in these cases, matter has been found in tlic heart, mixed with the blood Wounds made into .ioints arc always d.angcrous ; this has been said to arise from the admission ot air. No name can be civen to .such a declaration but ignorant nonsense ; for air has no power whatever of producing inflammation in these ea- vitics, and he who says otherwise knows nothing about it;