172 ON THE TYING OF ARTERIES. aneurism of the femoral artery just below Poapart’s ligament, of which here is a specimen (pointing to one on the table;, exactly similar to the aneurisms which occur in the ham. Now, with respect to recurring to the operation iii this com- plaint, I have performed it in nine different in.'tances for aneurism of the femoral artery; one of those persons was a surgeon, who has since married, and is extremely well. 'H»e mode in which the operation is performed is as follows : — [There was a subject on the table during the whole of the lec- ture, on which the learned professor showed each operation.] I do not make a straight incision in the course of the artery, but one of a semilunar form. 1 begin the incL«ion a little above the abdominal ring, and extend it, in the shape of a crescent, to the edge of Poupart’s ligament, and then continue it to about an inch and a half from the inner side of the spine of the ilium, where it terminates. By this incision I lay hare the^ tendon of the external oblique muscle ; in the second 1 divide this tendon, and expose the internal oblique and trans- versalis muscles. Havingarrived at this step of the operation, there will be no occasion to make any further use of the knife. The next step will be to raise the internal oblique and transversalis muscles from Poupart’s ligament, by introducing the finger behind them. Well, having done this, you reach the passage of the spermatic cord, and you feel it distinctly ; and then behind this the pulsation of the iliac vessel. You now draw up the internal oblique and transversalis muscles with the finger, at the same time elevating the spermatic cord a little, and then carry the finger into the abdomen, behind the peritoneum, and you ascertain the heating of the iliac artery. Having found the artery, 1 put the aneurismal needle into the opening, and introduce it under the vessel. You will recollect that the artery is accompanied by a vein, and that the vein is on the inner side ; the artery on the iliac, the vein on the pubic side ; the operation may be performed without the least difficulty, and is as easy as tying the femoral artery ; there is only one circumstance that occasions the least danger ; and that is the epigastric artery passes up from the pubic side of the iliac vessel, and on the inner side of the incision ; but this, however, may be avoided. I will clean the artery a little from the surrounding parts, and take it it up ; it is very desir- able to ascertain that the vein is not secured, because the in- terruption to the return of blood would be very injurious ; if the artery should be exposed as much as it is on the subject before me (an inch and a half), two ligatures must be em- ployed, but if a small portion only of the vessel is laid bare, a single ligature will be all that is required. When you use