536 ON SYPHILIS AND THE USE OF MERCURY- symptoms, therefore, are relieved as qntckly a» usual, but it is evident that the poison is not eradicated from the roustita- tion, by disease breaking forth immediately after the birth of the child. I once saw a lady, six months advanced in preg- nancy, having an extensive syphilitic emption, for which mer- cury was administered, and the eruption disappeared • after this she went her full time, but when delivered, the nates of the child, together with the palms of the hands and the soles ot the feet, were covered by a genuine syphilitic eruption. I gave the child hydrarg. cum. cret.; under this treatment it manifested little improvement. A month afterwards I saw the mother; she had an ulcerat- ed sore throat and syphilis, altogether as well marked as in any case I ever witnessed ; mercury was again given to her, when both parent and child perfectly recovered. Since the occurrence of the above case, 1 have witnessed several similar ones, in each of which the secondary syraptom.s could not be completely cured during the pregnant state. I think, how- . *■ ^ ptegnant woman may be cured of the primarv syplnlitic symptoms, although not of the secondary. The next {question I have put down in my notes is this : Does much Injiammation usually attend Syphilis /—No direct answer can be given to this question, for the degree of inflam- mation which attends it is proportioned to the healthy or ir- ntable state of the patient. In a healthy person the venereal disease IS slow in its progress, and but little inflammation ac- companies it: on the other hand, in the irritable person it is lapid 111 its progress, and accompanied by considerable in- flammatory action ; therefore, the differences which charac- terise the syphilitic disease in various persons do not arise from any peculiarity of the poison itself, but from the pecu- liar condition of the person ou whom it falls : exactly similar to what often happens in small-pox: two men receiving the infection from the same individual shall have the disease, one particularly mild, while, in the other, it is of a malignant confluent kind; therefore, the degree of inflammation, or manifestations of violence, which mark the course of the dis- ease, are not to be attributed to any peculiarity existing in the poison, but solely from the particular condition of the infect- ed person. Although syphilis is not at first a malignant, yet It must always he considered a serious complaint, and should command the most decided attention. Though not at first ma- lignant, consisting merely of chancre or bubo, it sbon becomes so, and, unless its progress be checked, it will be marked by the secondaiy symptoms, which I have already described. Therefore, in answer to the question just liow put, wbat I