FRACTURES OF THE NECK OF THIGH-BONE. 611 should be then placed on the outer side of the thigh, fastened above with a strong strap around the pelvis, and secured be- low by another strap round the knee, so as to prevent the knee being moved from its position. This must be persevered in for several weeks, and the patient may then be allowed to rise from bis bed, if the attempt do not give much pain. He must still, however, wear the strap around the pelvis ; and he thus recovers, with a useful but shortened limb. Of Fractures through the Trochanter il/tfyor.—Fractures through the trochanter major are generally oblique, and they may happen without any injury being at the same time done to the neck of the bone. They happen at any period of life, and are marked by the following symptoms : the limb is very little, and sometimes not at all shortened ; there is a numbness in the foot; the patient cannot turn in bed with- out assistance, aud the attempt is productive of great pain. The trochanter is sometimes drawn forwards towards the ilium, sometimes it falls towards the tuberosity of the ischium but is generally widely separated from that portion of the bone remaining in connexion with the neck. The foot is greatly everted, and the patient cannot sit, as any attempt to do so produces very great pain. You can feel a crepitus with great difficulty, if the detached portion of the trochanter be either much fallen, or much drawn forwards. This fracture unites very firmly, and the patient recovers a good use of the limb. This accident then, it appears, may be easily known by the •separation of the bone at the fractured part, so that the finger may be placed between the fractured portions; by the crepitus felt by putting the fingers on the trodiaiiter when the knee is advanced ; by the upper portion of the trochanter not follow- ing the motions of the lower, and of the shaft of the bone - and when at the lower part of the trochanter, bv the great over-lapping and distention; it is followed by an excessive deposit of callus. 'I'he treatment of this accident is much the same as that of the former : you should jiass a wide bandage round the pelvis and keep the limb extended, and the patient in the horizontal position, in the way before pointed out. Sometimes the bone is fractured just beneath the trochanter, and the deformity produced by this accident is very great, which is caused by the upper end of the bone being drawn U|)wards by the action of the p.soas raagniis and iliacus internus. 'The proper way to treat it is by raising the thigh over an inclined plane, and ■elevating the trunk to about an angle of In this manner ^ou bring the ends of the bone in apposition, but you should ft It 2