ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 120 judgment in your minds of what your profession really is. It is for these reasons, gentlemen, that 1 shall never he^itate, coute qui coute, to detail to you, and perhaps to the public, those cases which have terminated unfavourably. I have a duty to perform, and I shall never shrink from the di.schart'e of it. It is by detailing to you the unfavourable a.s well a.s the favourable cases, that I can alone perform that duty ; for it is by such a course alone that I can point out to you the rocks which you are to avoid, as well as the havens in which you are to endeavour to anchor. The case to which 1 last alluded wa.- one of concussion, accompanied with slight laceration of the brain, which occurred in the other hospital. The gentleman nnder whose care the patient was, thought it right to bleed him, and that he could not bleed him too largely. He accord- ingly bled, not only from day to day, but twice a day. The consequence of this mode of treatment was, that the patient became perfectly pale, was in a state of considerable dejection, not of the mind, but of the powers of the body, and died without any symptoms of- inflammation, ten days after the injury. On examination of the body, it was found that there was a slight laceration of the brain, with some degree of ex- travasation of blood, but that not the slightest attempt had been made by nature to heal the wound. You are aware that the brain beals, like any other organ, by the proce.=s of adhe- sion ; but in this case, the (juantity of blood taken from the patient was so large, that the slight inflammation necessarj- to the adhesive process was removed , and the process of restor- ation consequently prevented. Still it is often necessary to take away blood, after the first large bleeding; but it must be taken in small quantities, and you must watch the patient with the greatest possible anxiety, for the symptoms can alone regulate your practice. Sometimes it is necessary to take away large quantities of blood. 1 was called to a gentleman who had fallen from his horse in ridine to London. I found him insensible on my arrival. IMr. Constable, who attended him, had already bled him, but 1 judged it nece.ssarv to bleed him again largely; and 1 took blood in .smaller quantities from him day after day, watching the pulse with the givatcst anxiety, and bleeding bini only so far as to reduce the hardness of the pulse without diminishing too much the powers of his body. The whole quantity of blood taken from this gentleman, by bleeding from the arm, opening the tem]>oral artery, and the application of leeches, as far as this could be estimated, amounted to about two hundred and eicht ounces of blood. One hundred and eighty ounces were taken from the arm ; yet such was the hardness of the pulse, that at the last bleed-