150 ON ANEURISM, subject, since the first experiments have been unsucce^sfuL If you could save one life in ten, ay, one in a hundred, by '■uch an operation, it is your duty to attempt it, notwitlistandiim any objections which some foolish persons may have urged against it. Suppose any one now present were in this state himself; suppose him put to bed with a paralysis of his lower extremities, and fully acquainted w'ith the inevitable result if nothing were done; would he not be glad to have any attempt made to save him ? \Vonld it not be foolish and un- manly to say, he would rather die than have such an attempt made ? The operation is not severe—it cannot add to his danger ; and as to the pain, no man who is a man would re- gard it. In the two cases in which the attempt was made, the operation did not shorten life ; on the contrary, there is rea- son to believe that it piolonged it. You will be justified, therefore, in making the attempt. Though I may not lire long enough to see the operation frequently performed, I have no doubt that it will be occasionally performed with succes.s. There is no reason why it should not ; and he who says that it ought not to be attempted is a blockhead. I shall now proceed to describe to you Aneurism. Aneurism is a pulsating tumour containing blood, and com- municating with the interior of an artery. There is one ex- ception to this definition, namely, where aneurism, as it some- times happens, takes place in the heart. Aneurisms are situated either externally or internally ; that is, they are either so situated on the limbs as that access may be had to them, and the nature of the disease clearly a.<-cer- taiiied ; or they are so placed in cavities of the body, such as the abdomen, chest, and cranium, as to render the natuie of the disease very often extremely doubtful. \\ ith respect to external aneurisms, the symptoms may be divided into threr stages. When you have an oi)portiinity of seeing aneurism in its early stage, you will find a small tnuioiir pulsating very strongly - much more strongly than in subscquctit stages ; for it maybe taken as a general rule that the force of the pulsa- tion is in the inverse proportion of the size of the aneurism. When an aneurism is first formed, it contains only tluid blood ; and if you apply yotir finger to the artery between the aneu- rism and the heart, yon will readily empty the anenrismal bag by the pressure. In this state theix’ is scarcely any pain, and no other alteration in the limb than some iri egnlarity of cir- culation producing spasm in the muscles; and when the pa- tient is going to rest, cramps in the legs, atid sudden twitch- itigs, whicli prevent him from sleeping. The next state in