ON IRRITABLE CHANCRE. 513 in the destructiou of the penis ; this is not a rare case, and is attributed to the venereal disease, but in reality is an effect of the injudicious use of mercury. This is a true history of the (.•ase. When you see a sore take on the sloughing appearance, the treatment must be changed, the employment of mercury suspended; what you do, is gently to stimulate the part by the nitric acid lotion ; there is no better application in this stage of the disease than this, and those who have attended to the practice of the hospital need not be told of this by me. From thirty to fifty drops of acid, in a quart of water, is the proportion in whicli you should use it; fomentations and poultices must sometimes be employed, but in general they are not good, as they soften and weaken the parts rather too much ; they are not sufficiently stimulating. Warm spirits of turpentine may sometimes be employed with benefit. You will be obliged to have recourse to a great number of applica- tions, and frequently to change them, before any relief can he obtained. Most of you recollect a girl over in the other hos- pital, in Lydia’s ward, who had sloughing of the pudendum ; seventeen or eighteen different applications were employed, but the same application seldom agreed with the sore for five days in succession—it was obliged to be changed, and some other used; the girl, however, ultimately recovered. When the patient is very irritable, opium and the compound decoc- tion of sarsaparilla should be exhibited ; in this way you di- minish the irritability of the part. When tlie sloughing ex- tends, the ammonia combined with opium will be found of considerable benefit; five grains of ammonia and one grain of opium, three times a-day. We are in the habit of giving in these hospitals ammonia and musk, ten grains of mu.sk and five of ammonia, three times a-day, in the form of a bolus; and, on the whole, we find that they exercise a considerable influence in sloughing chancre. At the same time you must support the patient’s strength by a nutritions diet, and give stimulants to assist the digestive powers, and the power of the circulation ; wine and porter must be allowed ; porter, if the patient i.s of an irritable constitution, and wine if he is not; they must be given so as to keep up a vigorous action, but not to excite a feverish heat. By these means you will generally ]>ut a stop to the slough- mg, and establish the patient’s health. If the chancre slough rally, you should not make use of mercury immediately after the healing process has taken place, but wait for the secona- ary symptoms. If the sloughing comes on early, the jiatient is often safe from future attacks, and 1 therefore generally wait to see the result. It occasionally happens that an open- I. L