71. ON GRANULATION. a turn in scraping down the convex shins. A great deal of ^spiug w'as required ; an inci.sion of very con.sid^rable extent was made in the shin, the iniegument ^Jas turned a^defSd an instrument which was at that time contained in the «ur- bone * ‘"when "’•* to scrape the shin- a lell Tmrt}, tned of rasping, the father took las/tlil’ fi?1i ’ 'u '■elieved his father. At last the shell of the bone became so thin, that the doctor said they must proceed no further with that leg. The other lee was then rasped in a similar manner, and thus large wound* nulated veiy kindly, and very little exfoliation of the bones took place; but, unluckily, the granulations would form bone so that up jumped the bones of the shin again. The doctor’ however, was not to be defeated, and accordingly put a laver of arsenic over the \vhole surface. It was in consequence of the effects of this application that I saw the patient. The arsenic was absorbed into the system, and he became paralytic in his arms and lower extremities. A great number of exfoliations took place in his legs ; and he showed me a large box, in which the exfoliated portions of bone were contained. I re- commended him to go into the country, and he went to Bath where he staid for some time, and got rid of his paralysis’, this case made a good deal of noise in town ; and there were some surgeons who expressed a strong wish to prosecute the doctor. I recommended them, however, not to take any steps until 1 had seen the patient himself; and when he next came to me, 1 asked him whether he thought his legs improved, and whether he would again undergo the same" operation,’at a Similar liazard of his life, to have his legs made a little straightei } He replied that he would ; and under these cir- cumstances I was of opinion that, as the young man was con- tent, It was a folly to think of prosecuting the doctor. Tfie patient, in this case, appeared to be as great a fool as the doctor whom he consulted, and deserved to be punished for his folly. I have no wish to injure individuals ; and 1 shall not, therefore, mention the name of the operator. .'Some time has elapsed since the case occurred, and the transaction is now almost buried in oblivion. One of the parties is since dead ; not the person, however, who underwent fheoperation, for he still lives, and is proud of his improved legs. Opium, when applied to the surfaces of .sores, is verv rea- dily absorbed into the system. I believe that it is often a very useful application to the surfaces of .sores. 1 mentioned, on another occasion, a case in which a tetanic affection was pro- duced ill a child, whose leg had been amputated by Mr. Lucas,