ON DISLOCATIONS. 57o lengthened, as in the dislocation of the femur into the fora- men ovale, and tlie dislocation of the humerus into the axilla. The axis of the limb is altered, and it becomes unnaturally fixed. In the first moments, however, of the dislocation, considerable motiou remains, and the position is not so de- terminately fixed as it afterwards becomes. The motion ol the joint is lost, fle.xion and extension are slightly allowed, hut rotation is completely prevented. There is a dull con- fused sensation in the part; but if the head of the humerus be thrown into the axilla, the pain is very severe, and sen- sation is lost in the fingers from the pressure on the axillary plexus. If the head of the femur be thrown into the ischiatic notch, the pressure of the bone on the nerves there occa- sions great pain and numbness of the lower extremity. 1'here is a slight crepitation when dislocations have only occurred for a day or two, which is owing to the escape of synovia from the joint into the surrounding cellular membrane ; this becomes thickened by the absorption of the more fluid part, and crackles under motion ; a circumstance which every practitioner should be aware of, as this is often mistaken for fracture; but it does not give that peculiar grating feel which the extremities of the fractured bones produce. 'Fhere is very great swelling produced by the extravasation of blood into the cellular tissue, but the tension arises secondly from in- flammation. In the early days of the accident these circum- stances render it difficult to decide on the absolute nature of the injury ; and the difficulty is increased exactly in propor- tion to the time that has been allowed to elapse after the ac- cident. When, therefore, the swelling has subsided, the muscles are wasted, and the motions of the limb impeded in a particular direction, and the head of the bone can be dis- tinctly felt : it would be both illiberal and unjust to throw our any insinuations tending to the prejudice of an individual who might have given a different opinion under circumstances so much more unfavourable for forming a correct conclusion. The blood-vessels sometimes .sustain great injury in disloca- tion. In a case, where the dislocation of the clavicle, at it.s sternal end, occurred backwards, the subclavian artery wa.^ so much injured that the pulsation at the wrist was stopped, and the circulation carried on by the anastomosing vessels. In another case also, the brachial artery suffered so much that it was necessary to tie the subclavian. On dissection of tliose who die from dislocations arising from violence, it is fomid that the capsular ligament is torn transversely to a great ex- tent, and the peculiar ligaments of the joint are ruptured. In dislocation of the hip, the ligamentum teres, 1 believe, i.s