113 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. is pursued, aud which,/«r London, is undoubtedly the best:— Vou at first give calomel, for the purpose of restoring the secretions of the liver and intestines ; then allow a generous diet, and administer the ordinary tonics; or, from what I ha\e^ witnessed, I would advise jmu to ti'y the sulphate of quinine ; it is a most powerful tonic, excites in the stomach a genial warmth, and will often remain in that organ when bark will not. Dr. iMarcet, now deceased, but late a physician of Guy’s endeavoured to ascertain whether the antiphlogistic or tonic mode of treatment was best for this disea.se ; therefore he put two persons, having erysipelas, into adjoining beds ; to one of whom were given tonics and a generous diet; to the other salines and low diet; blood likewise was ab.stracted from the latter ; they both recovered, the former rapidly, while the latter lingeied in a debilitated state for a very considerable penod. You will find, where erysipelas attacks the lower orders of this town, who weaken their constitutions by the excessive use of ardent spiiits, that gin maybe sometimes ad-, yantageously employed as a remedy, at once being the evil and it.s cure; the last two cases of this disease which I saw in the other hospital, prove the truth of what 1 amnowsavine- a man had erpipelas dreadfully severe; his head swollen to’an enormous size, and Ins recovery, by every person, thought im- po.s.sihle. It vvas discovered, one day, that his wife brought him some gin. He declared that he was better from having drank It, vvas consequently permitted its continuance, and, to the astonishment of all, he rapidly got well. Not six weeks after this, there was another man, similarly ciicumstanced, brought into the .same w'ard ; and having from T,',Tn r'° ""r'T "PillSorrf g" (a/auff/i), I directed the sister to give it here also ; and really this patient recovered as speedily as the former. ^ LECTURE XVI. On Injuries of the Head. Before I proceed to mention these, 1 will give vou a brief account of the nervous system ; a correct knowledge of which however can only be atqiiired by assiduity in the^dissccting’ room. Ihe nervous system is composed of tL fidbnvi.w parts, VIZ. brain iwhich is divided into cerebrum, ccrcbelluiir and medulla obloiigataj, mednlla spinalis, and Uvo sets of nerves-one set issuing from the brain, and the other froili tlm pathetic nerve, which may be said to form a .sy.steni in itself. I