5i2 ON SYPHILIS AND THE USE OF MERCURY. biuing it with some other medicine calculated to prevent it? disturbing the constitution, if the patient be too irritable to take mercury ; and, should you find this to be the case, cease for a while to administer it, improve the general health, and its employment may be again resumed. I may here observe to you, that, when a man is in health, mercury will gene- rally agree with him very well; but if feeble or irritable, it then often induces sloughing, and severe constitutional irritation. The best form in which mercury can be given is that of the blue pill, ten grains at night and ten in the morning; ten at night and ten in the morning is the utmost extent to which the dose should be carried ; in ordinary cases ten grains a: night and five in the morning will be found quite sufficient ; should the mercury produce diarrhoea, a quarter of a grain of opium should be added to every five grains of the blue pill. As the compound decoction of sarsaparilla assists the action of the mercury, half a pint of it may be taken two or three times in the course of every day, while under the mercurial influence. As to rubbing in the mercurial ointment, it is seldom done perfectly, and is not often adopted, except where the internal exhibition of the medicine occasions so much disorder of the stomach and bowels, that it cannot be intro- duced into the system any other way. About the time that I commenced practice (not hosjjital practice), a woman men tinned a curious circumstance to me, which was, that she had been taking mercury, and that it had occasioned the saliva- tion of her child, without having produced any obvious effect upon herself. Another curious circumstance is, that no mer- cury can he found in the blood or secretions of those who are in a state of salivation. I sent to Mr. Allen a pint of blood taken from a salivated person, I also sent him a quart of sa- liva ejected by a person in a similar state, and also a quart of urine, with a request that he would subject them to the most minute chemical analj'sis, for the purpose of discovering whe- ther any mercury could be detected in either, yet notan atom could he discovered ; now you all know tliat a thousandth part of a grain of the oxymuriateof mercury might be detected in water or in blood. The last circumstance, connected with this subject, to which I shall call your attention, is the most important of all, and which is this, viz.—Is any other Medicine but Mer- cury capable of curing Syphilis ?—Remedy after remedy has been sent forth to the world, as having the power to effect this; and now 1 will tell you all that j know respecting the matter. Mr. Rose, late of the Guards, now an eminent sur-