ON VIRULENT GONORRIKEA. 4GS how he had cured tliis Ronorrhnea so suddenly. “Why, hr said), by cubebs.” “ Cubebs! (said I), what is that?” for I had really at that time never heard of such a thinp. “ Why, (said he), it is a species of Java pepper, and, if you like, 1 ivi’ll send you a bottle of it.” I said I should be obliged to him. He accordingly sent me a small bottle of it, which 1 put int'^ my desk, where it remained, without my thinking any more of the circumstance. Two or three months after, he came t/» me again, and said that as he had had a severe gonorrhoea, he should be obliged to me, if 1 had any of the cubebs left, to let him have a little of it. This w'as on a 'J'hursday : I gave him the bottle, and after examining this gonorrhoea, which wa« very severe, I requested him to let me see him on the follow- ing Monday. He came to me on that day, and the discharge was quite gone. 'I'his excited my attention, and I began to think that it must be a medicine of great power. Very soon after, a gentleman came to me, and said that as he was going to give a very large dinner party, and should be obliged to drink a great deal of wine, he wished to be cured of a clap immediately. 1 told him I could not promise to do any such thing, but, if he liked, I would give him a remedy, which a gentleman from Java had used with great success; and 1 then related to him the circumstance which 1 have just mentioned. The gentleman said he wmuld try it, and he should prefer it to the balsam of capivi; of which the people in his house knew the smell, (y/ laugh). He began taking two drachms three times a-day on a Tuesday, and on Wednesday week after, the discharge not having entirely disappeared, he called on me to know whether he might take wine the next day, when he was to give his dinner-party. I told him 1 saw no objection to it. and the cfl'ect of the wine he drank on that day, added to the cubebs, completed his cure, for the discharge did not return afterwards. Cubebs appears to produce a specific infiamma-r tion of its own on the urethra, which has the effect of super- seding the gonorrhopal inflammation. They who have tried cubebs, and do not acknowledge its value, as a remedy for gonorrlioea, cannot have made any accurate ol'servations on the subject. It is a remedy of a most admirable and useful kind, and may be given with advantage even in the inflamma- tory stages of gonorrhcea, provided the infiainmation doe* not run e.xcessively high, it is a most useful remedy .also for the cure of gleet, as it is called, where gonorrhoea has continueil for a great length of time. In the t ery early stages of gouor- rheea, when the inflammation is just beginning, it often suc- ceeds in removing the di.scase in a very short space of time, have one more observation to make with respect to ■ ■-