ON IRRITATION. 10 Sonietinies it is local, affecting only particular parts; at others, attacking the whole system. A decayed tooth will pioduce an abscess, and the matter wall escape by forminc an opening through the cheek. 'I'his ulcer will be 'ver\- difficult to heal if the tooth remain ; but extract it, aud the disease will quickly disappear, the cause of irritation being removed. Many cases of this kind have fallen under my observation, and I will relate a few by way of illustration. Cases.—Some years since, two persons came to me from Wisbeach (without being aware of each other’s situation, or of what surgeon each had consulted), both having an exten- sive abscess near the alveolar process, which had produced an- openiugthrough the cheek. The disease in both had been of long standing, aud the pain extended to the surrounding plants of the jaw. I directed a diseased tooth near the ulcer, in each person, to be drawn, whicli being done, the patients rapidly recovered. A lady in Essex had, for a long period, been afflicted with a fungoid granulation, which protruded through an ulcer in the cheek, aud w'hich had resisted the use of everv means. E'pon stating one day that a tooth near the part was occasionally painful, she was recommended to get it drawn ; the tooth was extracted, and the fungus quickly disappeared. A gentleman of my acquaintance had, for many j-ears, been exceedingly annoyed by an ulcer on the chin ; every attempt to heal it having proved ineffectual, it wns considered incur- able. At length, one of fhe teeth opposite the wound be- coming painful, it was extracted, w'hen, to the delight and astonishment of the jiatient, his malady disappeared, 'lliese cases are mentioned, to show the importance of endeavouring to ascertain the causes of diseased sympathetic actions, as the removal of those effects wdll depend on the cure of their causes. If the causes be undiscovered, the effects are likely to con- tinue in spite of every means that you may employ. The constitutional or general effects of irritation are fre- quently produced by the most trivial local causes. per.'On, on having a bougie passed into the urethra for the first time, feels faint, becomes sick, looks pale, and, unlc.ss you prevent it, will fall on the ground. On placing him in the recumbent posture, he soon recovers his senses ; but constitution.al irri- tation frequently comes ou in the evening, which, however, soon ceases. From the irritation of the urethra you sec, gen- tlemen, that the stomach is influenced, the actions of the heart are suspended, and the powers of the mind gone, 'fhe symptoms of constilutional irritation following injuries are best exemplified in compound fractures. In these cases, the