502 or GLEETS IN FEMALES. tioned, and firmly denies it; but tlie child, owing to tJit mother’s threats, persists in what she has said. The man h brought into a Court of Justice; a surgeon, who is iguomut of the nature of the discharge I am now speaking about, gives his evidence, and the man suffers for that which be never com- mitted. The mother is persuaded, if there be a slight ulcera- tion ou the parts, that violence has been used, and a rape com- mitted; she immediately says, “What a horrid villain must he be for forcing a child to such an unnatural crime, and com- municating to her such a horrible disease ! I should be glad to see him hanged.’’ If I were to tell you how often 1 have met with such cases, I should say that I have met with thirty in the course of my life. 'The last case I saw was in the city : a gentleman came to me, and asked me to see a child with him, who had a gonorrhoea on her. I went, and found that she had a free discharge from the preputium clitoridis. 1 said that there was nothing so common as this. There was considerable iiiflammatiou, and it had even proceeded to ulceration, which I told him would soon give way to the use of the liquor calcis with calomel. “ Do you tell me so? (he replied) why, suspi- cion has fallen on one of the servants; but he will not confess. If he had appeared at the Old Bailey, I should have given my evidence against him ; for I was not aware of what yon have just now told me.” I told him that, if the man had been hanged by his evidence, he would have deserved to be hanged too. I am anxious that this complaint should be known by every one present, and that the remarks I have made should be cir- culated throughout the kingdom. When a child has this dis- charge, there is a heat of the parts, slight inflammation, and this sometimes increases, and goes on to ulceration. This disease sometimes occurs in children at the time of cnuing tlieir teeth. The treatment you adopt is the lime-water, with calomel, applied to the part; and give calomel and rhubarb, combined with jalap. As to the treatment of gonorrhoea in females, yon must di- rect the patient to take diluents : we possess no medicine which has a specific influence over the discharge in females ; you must depend on diluents, .and appease any local inflam- mation by tlie use of such lotions as the liquor, plumbi suha- cetatis, dilutus ; a sponge dipped in these should be intro- duced into tlie vagina, and be allowed to remain there : it should, however, be often removed and cleansed. It is neces- sary that the patient should take aperient medicines. Of Gleet in Females. 1 observed, when speaking of gleet in males, that it wa.s