ON THE DIFFERENT AMPUTATIONS. 415 putating at the wrist joint; this is true, but at the wrist joint they are so bound down by ligaroents that they do not suppu- rate after the operation ; there is skin enough to cover the extremity of the joint, which unites by the adliesive process. Such is tlie result of experience with respect to amputating in this part; if you are asked where you should amjnitate, you should answer at one-third of the length of the fore arni in tracing it downwards. In amputating the fore arm you may make a double flap ; one on the inside, and the otlier on the outer side ; and this mode of operating is often adopted. In sawing the bones, take care to saw both at the same time. .A very good stump is left in this operation : four arteries re- quire to be secured, the radial, the ulnar, and the anterior and posterior interrosseal. The amputation of the upper arm is similar to the opera- tion of amputation above the knee ; in the latter, however, it is necessary to make three incisions, as I explained to you in the last lecture ; in amputating above the elbow joint two circular incisions will be sufficient, one through the integu- ments, and a second through the muscles down to the bone : having well freed the bone from the muscle, you will pro- ceed to divide it by the saw. The reason for this difference in operating is, that above the knee you require a considerable portion of integument to cover the stump ; in the upper ex- tremity the muscles are more bound down to the bone. In amputating above the elbow, the principal artery which re- quires to be secured, is the brachial; in securing it, take care not to include the brachial nerve. Amputation at the Shoulder Joint. The amputation at the axilla is a very simple operation ; I may add too that it is safe, for I do not think that this opera- tion adds at all to the danger of the patient, when compared with the amputation of the upper extremity a little above the elbow. After amputation at the axilla, the joint lieals as well and as quickly as after amputation at the middle of the arm. The readine.ss with which it heals will depend upon the inte- guments being sufficient to cover the whole of the cartilaginous surface, and upon the constitution of the patient. If the con- stitution of the patient be not good, there will be danger of ■suppurative inflammation. 'The first case in which 1 (lerform- ed amputation of the shoulder joint was that of a woman in the other hospital, for e.xostosi.< of the os humeri. To ascer- tain whether the swelling was of an ossific character, 1 made a small incision through the integuments, put down a probe, and tclt the spiculae of the hone giving way. It was of great importance to ascertain that the disease tvas not of a .schir-