414 ON THE DIFFERENT AMPUTATIONS. the fingers or the thumb remain, it is better not to amputate the hand, as a single finger is often exceedingly useful after injuries of this kind. A boy in the other hospital recently lost his thumb and three of his fingers by an accident, but the fore finger j^emained uninjured : I amputated the other part of the hand, leaving the fore finger, and you would scarcely be- lieve hdw useful he found this finger. It is a curious circum- stance that it increased to a size very considerably larger than that which the finger of a boy usually acquires ; you will see, from the cast which has been taken of it, that it is quite as large as an adult’s. He used this remaining finger in grasping and lifting bodies with singular de.xterity. If the second and third fingers be injured, their removal will leave the patient a portion of the hand almost as useful as before. I was called to a man at Vauxhall, who, in shooting, had a portion of the middle and ring fingers carried away. I took out both the metacarpal bones, and the remaining part of his hand was ex- tremely useful to him. Be not in haste, therefore, in such cases, to remove the whole of the hand. Ill performing the operation at the wrist, yon are first to feel for the styloid process of the radius ; it is better to make a semi-circular incision on the back of the wrist, and a simi- lar incision on the under side, so as to reach the styloid proces.= of the radius, instead of making at once a circular incision. (It is of importance that sufficient integuments should be left to cover the joint completely ;) then depress the hand a little, and cut through the transverse ligament of the wrist. The operation is easily performed, and leaves a vei^y neat stump. The radial and ulnar arteries are the only ones which, in ge- neral, require to be secured, the interrosseal not being of suffi- cient magnitude to require securing. In tying the ulnar ar- tery, be upon your guard not to include the ulnar nerve, which is close to its side; the ulnar artery is close to the flexor carjii nlnaris, and the radial at the outer side of the flexor caqii radialis. Amputation of the Fore Arm. The amputation of the fore arm a little .above the wTist is a very dangerous operation ; 1 have known two instances, in which the fore arm was amput.ated three or four inches above the wrist, which terminated fatally. '1 he objection to this operation is, that you divide a great number of tendons situ- ated in the fore arm, which suppurate after the operation, and form extensive abscesses, which burrow .along the arm : ten- dons are exceedingly apt to slough, where matter h.as been produced, and in this way occasion the destruction of life. It ni.ay be said, that we also cut through some tendons in .am-