OVARIAN OR ENCYSTED DROPSY. SSI Dr. Marcet, “ he is perfectly cured, and if you like you can see him.” This, gentlemen, was a most fortunate case, but the greatest misfortune is, that such cures seldom occur. 'l lie next subject on which I shall speak is the Ovarian or Encysted Dropsy. One of the priucipal differences that exists between this and the former disease is, that the ovarian dropsy is entirely lo- cal : a person maybe attacked by it who is in perfecthealth ; indeed the health of the female may be as good when she has this disease as a man’s may be when he has hydrocele, and these diseases are somewhat similar, both having a local origin. After the encysted dropsy has existed for a short time, a small tumour will be perceived just above Poiipart’s iigament, lying upon the brim of the pelvis, in the hollow formed by the iliacus interuus muscle ; no ductuation can be perceived in it at first; as it increases, it gradually rises as high as the kid- ney of the affected side, it then crosses the abdomen, and fills the opposite side; it thus forms on one side, grovvs to a con- siderable size, then passes to the opposite side, and thus be- comes of very considerable magnitude. There is no pain in the progress of the complaint, and the principal inconvenience that arises from it, when the tumour is situated in the pelvis, is its pre.ssing upon the bladder, and interrupting the free flow of urine. It is necessary to have the abdomen very much distended, before fluctuation can be perceived ; it is not by any means so distinct herein itsearly stages as in a.scites, and requires con- siderable time before the fact can he correctly ascertained. 'I'here is about the same quantity of w'ater drawn out in ovarian dropsy as in ascites, viz., from twenty-five to thirty pints, and when the swelling occupies both sides of the abdo- men, you will not find much variation in these quantities. You may form .some idea of the size that they sometimes reach, by this enormous bag (here the professor shewed to the class an exceedingly large, dried membranous cyst) ; this is the cyst of an ovarian dropsy, and it contained ninety-seven [lints of water, being twelve gallons and a jiint, and is not the largest that has been known. 1 have heard of their containing above a hundred pints ; and in one case, from between a hundred and twenty to a liundred and thirty pints. 'I’he woman from whom this cyst was taken, would not jiermit the operation of paracentesis to be performed, and therefore, in all probability, lo.«t her life through her obstinacy; she grew, as you may imagine, a most unwieldy figure, and was obliged to be wheel- ed from place to place, not being capable of exercise.