276 ON INFLAMMATION OF THE IRIS. seen several cases of this kind, and have not known any good result from the treatment that has been adopted. Having con- sidered all the affections of the cornea, 1 shall proceed to those of the other parts of the eye. Infla:mmatio.v of the Ibis. Inflammation of the iris, or as it has been latterly called iritis, is a peculiar and specific inflammation of the eye. 'The symptoms attending this com|)laint are in some cases with great difficulty recognized In looking into the eye, you see the iris changed in colour, or having a brownish hue ; or rather a reddish brown colour (thi.<=, however, varies accord- ing to the natural colour of the iris), from the increa'-ed num- ber of vessels on its surface carrying red blood. The iris itself is altered in texture, being puckered and thickened. The.se appearances are soon removed, and deposits of yellow lymph, resembling yellow tubercles, will be seen on the iris ; the pupil becomes irregular, and altered iu shape, and the pu- pillary margin of the iris thickened, and tumed back towards the posterior chamber. These then are the principal symp- toms by which you recognise iritis; but besides the.se, the aqueous humour becomes turbid, and the ciliary vesselsou the surface of the sclerotic form a zone of vessels immediately surrounding the upper part of the cornea, which have a dif- ferent appearance from those in inflammation of the conjunc- tiva, the latter haring a tortuous course, whilst the others go in a straight direction. The conjunctiva partakes of the in- flammation, and assumes a red appearance. The pain in the eye is not acute, but the patient cannot bear the light. There is also cousiderable constitutional irritation or fever, which may be known by the .state of the pulse, and other symptoms. In- flammation of the iris often comes on from very slight causes ; it occasionally happens to those who have been under the in- fluence of mercury, and iu )iersons of a scrofulous diathesis, or when mercury has been pushed to an undue extent. Iritis has, in consequence of itsoccuiring so frequently alter syphilis, been classed as a secondary symptom of that com- plaint ; I have, I must say, cousiderable doubt on the subject, for [ have never met with itiii a person labouring at the same time under any other secondary symptoms of syphilis, with eruptions or nodes on the bones ; and also I have no’er met Avith a case of iritis after syphilis but when mercury had been previously given, and therefore I cannot say whether the in- flammation of the iris was the effect of the mercury, or of the original disease for which it was given. Iritis is not unfre- quently accompanied hy inflammation of the tunics of the eye, what may be called ophUinlmitis, or deep-seated inflammation