151 ON ANEURISM. which we find aneurism is, when the blood is beginning to coaKulate in the interior of the sac, the coats ot which are ven- considerably thickened. At this time, it you press on the artery, you may empty the sac in part; you will see the swelling re-produced when you take off the pressure. You cannot completely empty the hag by pressure, for a consider- able degree of swelling will still remain. There is some de- gree of pain in the limb below in this stage of the disease, in consequence of the size of the swelling and the pressure on the surrounding parts. 'I’he aneurism becomes a solid swelling, instead of a mere bag containing fluid blood, and the circulation is retarded by the pressure on the surround- ing parts. -Ill in the next stage the aneurism has acquired consulerablo magnitude, and the pulsation is in a great degree lost. Pulsa- tion may be observed in some one part opposite to the opening from the artery, but it is seldom perceived over the whole swelling. A small portion of the blood still continues in a fluid state, but the greater part of it is filled with coaguliim. Ill this state, if the aneurism be behind a joint, the motion of that joint becomes impeded. Popliteal aneurism is one of very common occurrence ; there is an enlargement behind the knee, just at the bend of the joint, with a pulsation ; the foot and leg of that side are swollen; the swelling gradually in- creases, and the aneurism becomes of a dark colour ; inflam- mation of the cuticle covering the sac ensues, vesication of the cutis to the size of half-a-crown takes jilace, and the skin in this part is quite insensible. In a few days an eschar is formed, the bag opens; bleedings, one after another, take place, and the destruction of life is the consequence. ^ What you read in books respecting the mode in which death is pro- duced in these coinplaiiits is, that the sac bursts, and the pa- tient is destroyed by the sudden gush of blood ; but, I tell you, gentlemen, it is no such thing ; it is not from the sudden bursting of the aneurismal bag that the person dies, but by repeated bleedings from the part. At first the bleeding is small, but as the eschar increases, and the separation of the parts takes place, it becomes more; the wound is produced by means of the sloughing process, like a slough in any other part, and an opening is formed which leads into the aneitris- nial bag. At the coniiiiencemeiit the wound is small, and blood issues from the part; lint is a|)plied to the wound, and the hemorrhage is stopped ; but as the eschar proceeds, and the size of the wound increases, the hemon iiage returns ; and thus, by repeated hemorrhage, destruction of life is pro- duced, and not by any sudden discharge of blood from the