ON IRRITABLE BLADDER. 488' (ier from stone, is this; attend to the state of the bladder when the patient is in pain, and when he enjoys a repose, if the case be one of irritable bladder, there will be no pain after the expulsion of the urine ; on the other hand, if the case be stone, after the expulsion of the water then pain will be felt. By attending to this you may readily distinguish one complaint from the other. In irritable bladder, therefore, the pain is felt when the bladder is full; in case of calculus, the pain tor- tures when nothing but the stone remains. Sometimes the dis- ease goes on to produce ulceration of the bladder; the urine will then be mixed with blood ; there will likewise be a dis- charge of bloody mucus, and the inclination to void the urine will be more frequent, and exceedingly urgent. Cancer of the uterus is probably a more painful complaint than any other ; but, with the exception of that disorder, I am not acquainted with a single one which tortures to such a degree as ulcerated bladder. Irritable bladder of itself is a dreadful disorder, the patient’s life is a burthen to him, he is obliged to keep from society, and linger away his tedious hours in solitude. This disease, formidable as it is, may be brought on by very slight causes ; even the retention of the urine, from motives of delicacy, beyond the period when there was a desire to dis- charge it, has beeu known to give birth to this horrible afflic- tion. A young gentleman, with a party of ladies, was about to leave them for the purpose of making water, at the moment when the latter called their carriage ; he thought at the mo- ment that it would be indelicate to withdraw, and accordingly- got into the carriage, having at the time a strong desire to pass his urine ; in the greatest agony he rode twelve miles with his bladder full, at which time, having arrived at the end of their journey, he endeavoured to make water, when, to his utter astonishment, he could not void a drop; a surgeon was sent for, who took away the urine by means of a cathe- ter ; this afforded relief; but irritable bladder followed, then the suppurative process, and at last the sufferer died from ex- haustion. Upon Dissection of those who die of irritable blad- der, the mucous membrane has been found in a state of ex- treme vascularity ; the quantity of blood in the ve.ssels rendering it as florid as red velvet. A respectable surgeon, of Finsbury- square, attended a patient for another disease, of which he died : the individual had, however, for a long period been the subject of irritable bladder, and, on examining the body, the disease had been so protracted, that ulcerated spots were seen in different parts, and the raucous membrane had nearly been removed ; that part which remained, was uncommonly vascu- lar, and resembled the tunica conjunctiva when under the in-