ON HERNIA. 197 Inguinal hernia, called sometimes spermatocele, takes the course of the spermatic cord ; it varies a little in different cases, but generally follows this course. Femoral hernia passes behind Poupart’s ligament, on the inside of the femoral artery and vein, between these vessels and the os pubis. Umbilical hernia takes the course of the umbilical cord, passing through the opening in the linea alba behind the um- bilicus ; tliis sometimes never closes, consequently, an open- ing remains through which the umbilical hernia protrudes. By ventral hernia, 1 wish you unclerstaud a protrusion of the intestines through the different lines of the abdomen, the linea alba (excepting at the umbilicus), lineae semilunares and transversae, which protrusion is called ventral, in contradis- tinction to the umbilical; but besides these four kinds of her- nia, several others occasionally occur. Sometimes there is a protrusion through the diaphragm, and tliis is called phrenic or diaphragmatic hernia; this hernia occurs in some cases between the oesophagus and aorta, now and then between the aorta and vena cava ; but these cannot be relieved by any surgical treatment, as they are not situated within view, and are not known to have existed till they are ascertained upon dissection. You will also find a hernia at times between the vagina and rectum in females, called peri- neal hernia, and in males between the rectum and bladder, having the same name. There is also a hernia situated in the vacina, called vaginal hernia; you ascertain the nature of this by putting the finger into the vagina ; when you feet a tumour, you desire the patient to lie dowm, and it is easily reduced; but it immediately returns when she resumes the erect position. Hernia sometimes takes place in the fora- men ovale, a fine instance, of which you have had an opportu- nity of seeing this season at the other hospital, where there were ulcerated sinuses, and the faeces discharged through them ; so you may see a hernia now and then in the ischiatic notch. These different species of hernia are very rare when compared to inguinal hernia, therefore we shall rest little on them Now, gentlemen, we shall show you the four different species of abdominal hernia, as they require different modes of operation, and therefore require to be correctly known. Inguinal Heiinia. We shall mention first, that kind of inguinal hernia which takes the course of the spermatic cord ; it begins with the cord just as it passes out of the abdomen, and follows tbe direction of the inguinal canal; its course is oblique, and on this ac- count is called oblique inguinal hernia ; it is readily distin-