TREATMENT OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. 29 In inflamination of old people you must bleed with great caution. I was requested to see an elderly lady in the country, having inflamed lungs ; I ordered her to be bled—the bleed- ing was repeated, when her legs began to swell; 1 therefore prescribed the digitalis and the spir. oeth. nitrici ; it reduced the pulse, caused the absorption of the etfused fluid in the legs, and she rapidly recovered. This medicine reduced the inflammation, and at the same time increased power. The means, therefore, which are employed to les.sen or re- move inflammation are those which restore the secretions, by opening the extremities of the arteries ; and thus the heart is' prevented from propelling a quantity of blood with violence to any particular part of the body. LECTURE V. Treat:uent of Chronic Inflammation. 'I'he remedies employed in this affection must have a .slow and gradual action on the .secretions, you cannot take this disease by storm ; and if your medicines are attended by violent actions, you will do harm instead of good. The principle on which this disease depends is the same as in acute inliamma- tion, viz. the arre.st of the secretions. Chronic inflammation is frequently produced through the influence of the mind ; thus, long-continued grief will completely stop the secretion of bile ; again, loss of appetite, from a deficient secretion of gastric juice, is often occasioned by anxiety of mind ; and eveu an ulcerated state of the stomach has been produced by a long continuance of the same cause. But let what will cause the stoppage of the .secretion, some enlargement will be the re.suIt; as swelling of the liver, of the testicles, or of the joints ; the formation of common tumours, as the fatty, or tho.'e of a specific kind, as the fungous. In diseases of a chronic kind, give calomel and opium ; and I cannot point out to you a better example of their good effects than is observable in chronic inflammation of the iris. A person conies into the hospital with iiilis; he has a zone of red ves.sels round the cornea, on the sclerotic coat, and there are red or yellow spots on the iris ; if the complaint has been violent, the spots are red, from their having become vasi-ular. Vou give this patient five grains of calomel, and one grain of opium, twice a-day for a fortnight, and he gene- rally gets well. Yet this disease was forniei ly considered in - curable. If the patient be a temale, or of a delicate constitu- tion, then two or three grains of calomel will be found sulli- cient; and when the mouth becomes decidedly alfeeted, you