420 ON PILES. when a considerable bleeding takes place from the pile or piles. There is sometimes a discharge of matter, and now and then the piles become ulcerated. With respect to the causes of this complaint, it sometimes arises from costiveness, and the pre.ssure of hardened faeces on the rectum ; and is very often a consequence of long conti- nued diarrhoea : so that, opposite causes occasionally produce the same effect. It very often arises from disease of the liver, and congestion of the veins in the intestinal canal. 'Ilie diffi- culty of transmitting the blood through the vena portae occa- sion's a congestion in the hemorrhoidal veins ; and obstructed secretions in the intestinal canal lead to the same effect. It is a very common conse()uence of phthisis pulmonalis ; the sub- jects of that disease are very commonly, sooner or later, the subjects of internal piles, with prolapsus ani. When piles have existed for a considerable length of time, excrescences are produced, in consequence of inflammation. There are three different states of the rectum under this disease; first, as it is affected by external piles ; secondly, by internal piles, accompanied by prolapsus ani; and, thirdly,by excrescences, which are the remnants of the piles, and which possess a high degree of vascularity. The mode in which these excrescences are produced is as follow ;—'Hie inflamma- tion of the pile glues the sides of tlie veins together : adhesive matter is poured out, which becomes organised, and a hard swelling, in which there is a number of vessels, is produced. These excrescences project from the surface a little n ay up the anus, which is chafed and rendered extremely irritable from this cause. Here are preparations in which you will have au opportunity of seeing them hanging in festoons several inclics from the extremity of the anus. With respect to the treatment of this disease, if you are con- sulted for external piles, and find a little livid projection at the anus, which has existed only for a short time, and yields readily to pressure ; you should give some active aperient, avoiding carefullv, however, any purgative which has a parti- cular influence on the rectum, as, for example, aloes. \ou should give castor oil, or sulphate of magnesia, with inttision of senna, so as to |uoduce a copious seeretton (rom the in- testines. Saliue purges ))roduce the greatest effect when you wish for a considerable secretion from the intestines ; where YOU wish for a secretion of bile from the liver, give the siib- imiriate of mercury, or the blue pill, with .saline purgatives. Ill this wav you relieve the veins ot the intestinal tube, and le- niove conge.stion. In addition to tJiis yon will ai>ply Icechc.s to the swollen part ; the best local application is the liquor