ON HERNIA, 217 It would be a good rule, and 1 wish it were adopted in our hospitals, if (he taxis were only to be used onee for a quarter of an hour, and not'repeated until other means were employ- ed. The repetition of the taxis is not only useless at the.lime, but often renders all other means for returning the ITernia, wliich may be subsequently employed, unavailing. It now and then happens, that a person is so extremely sensitive, and resists the employment of the taxis with so much violence, that it will be impossible to persevere, for a time at least, in its use. Mr. Croft, the surgeon, called upon me when I lived in the city, and requested me to see a patient of his with strangulated hernia. I went with him immediately, and while we were walking to the patient’s house, Mr. Croft said. “ I do not think you will be able to return this man’s hernia.” I smiled, and said, “Why not?” Mr. Croft stated, that the parts about the abdomen were so exquisitely tender, that he iiad found it impossible to use the taxis. In fact, when I arrived, I found the patient’s abdomen exceedingly tense, and he roar- ed out so violently, and resisted me so much when I attempt- ed to employ the taxis, that I found it impossible to perse- vere. Under these circumstances, I desired some ice to be ap- plied, with a view of diminishing tlie sensibility of the part and lacilitating the employment of the taxis. 1 called again in the evening, but was told that it was not necessary to go up .stairs, for the hernia had returned of itself. In cases, there- fore where the patient suffers excruciating pain, do not em- ploy the ta.xis immediately, but advise the application of ice, which will reduce the irritability of the part, and perhaps render its employment unnecessary. Mr. Newington had a patient with strangulated hernia, which returned by the appli- cation of cold water. ' If you are called to a case of strangulated hernia, and fitid that the taxis does not succeed in reducing it, I advise you di- rectly to take away blood. The quantity of blood must be pro- ptjrtioned to the age Of the patietit; if he be young and atb • letic, a considerable quantity should be taken away ; if he be extreinely old, you should hesitate in taking away much blood; but if he be of the middle age, and not infirm, you should bleed freely. This course is to he taken not merely with a view of reducing the hernia, but to prevent peritoneal inflam- mation after the operation, if the operation should be neces- sary. It is a most mistaken view of the nature of this disease to suppose that the patient is safe after the hernia is returned bv the operation ; on the contrary, he is in the greatest dangei-