ON EXTRACTION OF THE CATARACT 291 you by mentioning. Dexterity in performing it can only be acquired by practice. I do not agree with Wenzel, that you must poke out a hatful of eyes before you can hope to per- form tliis operation with success ; but, undoubtedly, consider- able practice is necessary to enable you to acquire dexterity in performing it. Whenever auy unfortunate circumstance happens, you should be perfectly calm, cool, and deliberate; close the eye-lid ; consider what is best to be done ; and having made up your mind on that point, proceed with firm- ness and decision in the operation. VVith respect to the after- treatment, your object will be, as far as possible, to prevent inflammation. A compress of fine linen or cambric, kept wet with cold water, should be applied to the eyes, or rather to the eye opposite that which has been operated upon ; it .should he fixed by means of a bandage, carried round from the occiput, crossed in front, and pinned on the sides of the nightcap. The patient should be carried to bed after the ope- ration ; placed in the recumbent posture, with his head a little elevated, and the room should be darkened. He should be allowed nothing but barley-water, tea, or water-gruel, for the first few days; and if there should be any symptoms of in- tlainmation, such as pain, a sensation as if there were some external body in the eye, accompanied with quickness of pulse, a quantity of blood should be immediately taken away from the arm. ft will be better not to disturb the bandage, or raise the lid to examine the eye, for at least three days, unless the patient should feel any considerable pain or irritation ; for in that case it would be advisable toa.scertain the cause by ex- amining the eye. The patient should be kept in bed in the recumbent posture for five days, and not even be suffered to rise for the evacuation of his faeces ; a bed- pan should be used for that purpose. At the end of that time he may get up to have his bed made. The best way of preventing irritation is carefully to avoid making any undue pressure on the globe of the eye. Great care must be taken, in adjusting the bandage, not to depress the lower lid, by which means the section of the cornea may be lirought over, and the adaptation of the cut i.-dges prevented. Loose eye-lashes are sometimes a source of irritation, and it will be right to examine whether there are any such before the operation ; if there should be auy tendency to inversion of the lid, you may prevent the lid from inbbing against the .surface of the globe by means of a bit of adhesive plaster fastened to the check. I have already stated that I do not advise you to operate if one eye is sound; nor do I think it right, if there should he a cataract in each eye, to operate on both at once, unless the patient should jiarticularly desire it. u 2