ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 354 breast, unless the patient has undergone a course of medicine. Another view with which medicine is to be given is this; if an operation has been performed, you should alter the state of the constitution by the exhibition of alterative medicines, such as Plummer’s pill, and the compound decoction of sar- saparilla ; or, what I prefer, infusion of gentian, with soda and rhubarb; by these means you will improve the constitu- tion, and lessen the chances of the disease returning. \on may alter the constitution, but I defy any man to disperse scirrhous tubercle when it has formed. No man of common honesty will pretend to do it. Thus, all we can do by medi- cine is to change the state of the constitution prior to an ope- ration, so as to prepare the patient for it; and when an ope- ration has been performed, we can give alteratives so as to lessen the chance of its returning. But medicine will not have any effect on scirrhous tubercle when it is formed ; not one tittle. You may take away the surrounding inflammation by local means, but you can remove no part whatev er of the scirrhous inflammation. I should have observed just now, when speaking of the causes of thiscomplaint, that one of the most frequent is grief, or auxiety of mind. It arrests the progress of the secretions, produces irritative fever, and be- comes the forerunner of scirrhous tubercle. How often have I seen, when a mother or a nurse has been watching, night after night, with anxious solicitude, the pangs and sufferings of a child, and iihe had the comfort and gratification of seeing its recovery, that in a short time after this she has come to me with an uneasiness of the breast, which, on examination, I discovered to be scirrhous tubercle. Full three-fourths ot these cases arise from grief and anxiety of mind. ^ It is the state of mind and body which predisposes to this disease. Tlie mind acts on the body; the secretions are arrested, and the result is, the formation of scirrhus. Look, then, in this complaint, not only at altering the state of constitution, but relieve the mind, and remove the anxiety, if possible, under which the patient labours. As to local treatment, we possess no specific local applica- tions. They can do nothing more than retard, in some slight degree, the progress of the disease. It is sometimes accom- panied bv common inflammation, and evaporating lotions arc occasionally used. 1 do not think you would act wisely in employing them ; they seem rather to^ do harm than gevod. Warm applications are also improper, if they be of consider- able heat. Under warm applications the disease grows, tor thev increase the determination of blood to the part. If poul- tices are used, they should not be above the natural heat; but