602 UISLOCATIONS OF THE THIGH BONE. sped to the acetalmlum; therefore, altliough I call it the dislocation backwards, you must remember that it is also placed a little upwards. 1 he head of the bone is placed on the pyriformis muscle, between the edge of the upper part of the notch and the sa- cro-sciatic ligaments. Of all the dislocations of the thich this is the most difficult to detedt, because the length of the limb differs but little, and its position is not so much changed as respects the knee and foot, as in the dislocation upwards. It is also the most difficult to reduce, because the head of the bone is placed behind the acetabulum, and requires to be lifted over its edges, as well as to be drawn towards it. This dislocation may be known by the following signs ;—'ITie limb is from half an inch to an inch shorter than the other, but usually not more than half an inch, and the toe rest.s against the ball of the great toe of the opposite foot. The natural prominence formed by the trochanter major is lost, but it still remains nearly at right angles with the dorsum, but it has a slight inclination towards the acetabulum. Ex- cept in very thin persons, you cannot feel the head of the bone, and then only by rolling it a little forwards. The knee and foot are turtied inwards, but less so thau in the dislocation upwards ; the knee is only very slightly bent, and, therefore, is not so much advanced as in that dislocation. The toe touches the ground when the patient is standing, but not so the heel. Fle.xion and rotation arc, in a great degree, pre- vented, from the limb being so firmly fi.xed. Here (shewing a preparation) is a very good specimen of this dislocation, which, from its appearance, must have been many years in its present situation. A new capsular ligament is formed, the original acetabulum is entirely filled up by a ligamentous substance ; but there is no attempt made to form a new bony socket for the head of the bone. This dislocation is produced by the knee being pressed in- wards, whilst bent at right angles with the abdomen, or whilst the trunk is bent forwards on the thigh. The reduc- tion is generally extremely difficult, but i,< best effected in the following way :—Let the patient he laid on a table, on his side, and a girt passed between the pudendum and inner part of the thigh, to fix the pelvis; tlien pass a wetted roller round the knee, and buckle the leather strap over it; let a napkin be carried under the upper part of tlie thigh ; next, bring the thigh over the middle of the opposite one, and then begin to make your extension with the pullics. Whilst the extension is making, an assistant should grasp firmly thi napkin at the upper part of the thigh with one hand; and.