242 ON HERNIA. tity of water in the cyst; the stricture was jast at the month of the adhesion in the tunica vaginalis. Of Femoral Hernia. Before I proceed to describe to you the operation for femo- ral hernia, 1 shall demonstrate to you on the dead subject the anatomy of the parts concenied in this species of hernia. The superficial fascia of the abdominal mu.scles is given off by the tendon of the external oblique, which descends upon the spermatic cord, and is united to the edge of the abdominal ring in its descent This structure, which is of considerable density, is continued to the thigh, and forms a covering of femoral hernia. The absorbent vessels and superficial veins are kept within their boundaries by this fascia. From Pou- part’s ligameut two portions of fascia pass upwards, the fascia trausversalis and the fascia iliaca. In cutting through the fascia lata a second portion of fascia will be found to be given off from the back part of Poupart’s ligameut, which forms the sheath of the femoral artery and vein, which are separated from each other by a septum. 'I'he anterior crural nerve has no connexion with the sheath, but form the boundary of the sheath on the outer side. It is into this sheath that femoral hernia descends. It begins to descend between the border oi Gimbernat’s ligament, which is the lower edge of Poupart’s ; the femoral artery being on the outer side, and the vein on the inner. The sheath becomes elongated when lemoral hernia is produced, and it is turned over Poupart’s ligament ; so that the lower part of the hernia is doubled on the upper part, and its mouth is just opposite the fundis or basis. LECTURE XXXI. Operation for Femoral Hernia. At the conclusion of the last lecture, I described to you the parts connected with femoral hernia, and the course m which, it descends ; I shall now resume femoral hernia, show the operation for it, and conclude the subject of hernia. _ Wlien tlie peritoneum which covers tlie lemoral hernia i«, protruded, it descends on the inside of the lemoral vein, and, is received on the inside of the crural sheath. Before the her- nia protrudes, it elongates the slieath, which foims a covenng^ for it. Wlien feiuoraf hernia protiudes, it desce .ds on the in- side (if the epigastric artery ; and there is only • :ic danger of wounding this'vessel, in the operation of eiittiiig upwards .and, outwards ; recollect, then, that the epigastric ar.ciy is to the,