ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 35o must be also a peculiar action excited in the part, and if there be no specific action, not any of the scirrhous kind, you will have no appearances of the disease. To show you that it is dependent on these two states, constitutional derangement and an altered action in the part, I will mention to you, that if you cut into a scirrhous tubercle, it will ulcerate, and all the horrors of cancer will very soon be the result of the injury ; but suppose you cut round the tumour, in the healthy parts, where the disease has not shown itself, the wound heals, and no ulcer- ation of the part follows; and again, after the removal of a scir- rhous breast, the wound usually heals very kindly. If there is a disposition in the con.stitution to the production of the disease in any part, some circumstance exciting a peculiar action in it must occur, aud then scirrhous inflammation is produced. Tlie disease is made up of a derangement in the constitution, and of a local peculiar action ; it is the effect of a .specific action in the part, preceded by a disposition in the constitution to its production. The scirrhous tubercle is said to be fibrous • here let me observe that the fibres do not belong to it. They are nothing more than the cellular tissue thickened ; if you were to macerate a scirrhous tumour, you might pick out from the cellular tissue the scirrhous substance, and it would then have the appearance of a honeycomb, from the circumstances of the cancerous matter being removed. This is deposited between the cellular tissue, in the same manner as the substance of the testicle IS between septa. Treatment of Scirrhous Tubercle. I now come to the treatment of scirrhous tubercle ; and first let me observe, that we possess no medicine which has any power over the disease—none which has any specific iiiflueiice on It; and those who say that they have in their posse.ssion a medicine which is a specific in this complaint are empirics, and men entirely lost to all sense of shame, honour, and honesty Our profession boasts of no such remedy, and the medical man has still to .seek it. We have no medicine that will cure This disease ; and it is our duty, as professional men, to say «o in order to prevent the baneful influence of those quacks who are a disgrace to the age in which they live, and who are constantly advertising nostrumt for the cure of cancer. Honestly thcn^ fart—we have no medicine that can cuie this disease; but I will tell you all that can be done by the administration of internal remedies in it. If a patient an- fTr(HsoVder?tlT'’‘‘^‘°"* her general health is in a disordered state, you may retard the progress of the dis- ease by giving alterative medicines, and thus prolong her days You should never perform an operation for the renioval o/ a