554 SCROFULOUS GLANDS OF THE NECK. (luring the night. If the weather be very warm ralim n,., be substituted for flannel. The great o^ect i7to me'trretl Hmf *0 produce perspire sea^baS'-^ thf *° recommend week atefevmHn about three times a should be at 94° tb! temperature of the bath tZlu ■ . •’ P«son should remain from sixteen to twent} minutes in it, and walk afterwards. Some children aie exceedingly frightened at the sight of the water at the spidSthe hod ^‘O'^ft.fases it will be advantaceous to spiinkK; the body over hrst with tepid salt water Thi« will LECTURE LX VIE smlfnia ^ description of at SldiT proceed to treat of the several parts ^ V® of absorbent eLds most commonly affected. Affection of the Glands of the Neck. Of the different absorbent glands, those of the neck are most frequently affected with scrofulous disease. Now, when find Zl Of 0 of this kind, the symptoms vou find are as follovv:-I^n the first place, you learn from the child s ™pther, that she at first observed, a swelling in the neck which was small, hard, not painful, nor in anv wav discoloured, but tender to the touch. Thus the inflamiator^- piocess does not go on to the rapid destruction of the part, for the swelling will frequently remain in this state of indo- lence during weeks, months, and sometimes years. Some- times, however, owing to accidental circumstances, or chances HI the weather, or the state of the child’s constitution, the complaint proceeds with greater rapidity. If the complaint occurs 111 a person of an irritable habit, it will advance with rapidity; if, on the contrary, the person be of an indolent balm. It will be slow in its progress. When you examine, bv dissection, the state of the parts affected with scrofulous dis- ease, you find extravasated into the gland a great quaulitv of blood, and the blood-vessels enlarged. The interior of the gland is composed of rather a firm substance, which is of a y(?llowish-white colour. If you inject the subject first, you ill see that the blood-vessels do not pass into the substance effused, in fact, that the adhesive matter is not organized. •As the vessels do not shoot into this substance, it does not