OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. nn 1 ool ischium, to prevent its being wounded. I now divide the transrersn.s periuaei, and feel with the left index finger for the groove of the staff. I now cut into the groove at the membran- ous part of the urethra, and bringing down the handle of the staff) I push the knife forward into the bladder, and then cut through the pro.state gland, and the neck of the urinary organ dowinvards and outwards, corresponding to the e.xternal wound. I again pass my finger into the wound, and feel for the groove of the staff; this instrument must now be with- drawn. I keep my finger in the bladder, and pass in the forceps with their flat side next to it; having with the forceps carefully felt for, and satisfied myself of, the situation of the calculus, I grasp it within the blade.s, and thus withdraw it. All the first part of the operation with the gorget is the same as that with the knife ; the staff being introduced, and the opening into the groove through the membranous part of the urethra having been completed, as you see it, 1 fix the beak of the gorget in ^the groove, and bringing the handle of the staff towards me 1 at the same moment push the gorget into the bladder with its point directed with a considerable inclination upwards ; the staff is then withdrawn, and the forceps being passed into the bladder, along the hollow of the gorget, you remove the latter instrument, and extract the stone as before. The High Operation, as used in France, and now oc- casionally ADOPTED IN St. George’s Hospital. The instruments employed in this operation are a probe-pointed bistoury, thesondfl a-dard, (a sound containing within it a dart or stilct,) and a pair of forceps similar to those I have just been using. Sir Everard Home has attached a net to one side of the forceps, as you here see it, so that when they are introduced into the bladder, you are to/ish for the stone. Well, 1 now pass into the bladder this sonde-a-dard, and by depres.singthe handle, endeavour to make its point project just above the symphysis pubis, in a line with it and the linea alba •—1 now force on the stilet, and in this situation it makes its appearance. An incision must now be made about two inches in length in the direction of the linea alba, through the integu- ments down to the bladder, which is supported against the part by the point of the sound ; and then, with the probe-point- ed bistoury, make an opening into the bladder of the same size as the external wound. I now with the point of my finger hold the bladder against the edge of the wound, withdraw the nonde, pa,ss down the forceps, and thus remove the stone. It is very easy, gentlemen ; but I have seen quite enough of this operation. A French surgeon, some time since, finding that a calculus