590 DISLOCATIONS OF THE CARPUS. and it does not appear immediately after the accident, but gradually increases m size. The reduction of this dislocation m either form, is not difficult. Grasp the patient's hand with your right, and support the fore-arm with your left hand, whilst an assistant places his hands firmly round the arm just above the elbow. Then let both extend, and the bones are soon replaced. The muscles Will direct the bones into the proper situation, as soon as the extension is sufficiently made. A roller should be applied round the wrist, wetted with an evaporating lotion, and a splint be placed before and behind the fore arm, reaching to the extremities of the meta- carpal bones. Ihe radius only, is sometimes thrown forwards upon the caipus; in this case,^ the outer side of the hand is thrown backwards, and the inner forwards. The extremity of the bone forms a protuberance on the fore part of the wrist. The extension necessary to reduce this dislocation, and the after treatment, are the same as when both bones are displaced. The ulna is sometimes separated from the radius by the rup- tui e of the sacriform ligament, and it usually projects back- wards. _ It is known by its projection above the level of the os cuueiforme, and by its being easily returned bv pressure to its former situation, and by its rising again when the pres- sure is removed. After you have put the head of the bone in- to its place, put a compress of leather on its extremities, to keep it in a line with the radius. Splints should be placed along the fore-arm, and a roller applied over the splints to confine them with firmness. LECTURE LXXI. Dislocations of the Bones of the Carpus. Gentlemen, a dislocation of a carpal bone is of very rare occurrence, and generally happens to a person, when fall- ing, receiving the weight of the body on the pait; and it is also sometimes attended with a fracture of the radius. It has happened also, from rela.xatioii of the ligaments of the car- pus. 1 have known the os magnum and the os ciineifornie. thrown out of their natural situation from this cause, and form a projection at the back part of the wrist on bendiiie the hand. 'I'his deprives the person of the power of using the hand, unless the wrist is at the .same time supported. In these cases, straps of adhesive plaster should be braced rather tightly about the wrist, to support and strengthen it ; and over these you should pass a bandage, which would afford it