FRACTURES OF THE THIGH BONE. 607 though it is only the descent of a few inches, the unexpected shock acting perpendicularly on the cervix, vvilli the advantage of a lever, produces a fracture. Tlie patient immediately falls, and the accident is very frequently improperly attributed to this circumstance. Even turning suddenly round has pro- duced it. The union of this fracture has been the cause of much dif- ference of opinion. It has been said that these fractures will unite like fractures in other parts of the body, by hone; hut I have taught for the last thirty years, in these lectures, that, as a general principle, fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone, of the patella, olecranon, coronoid process of the ulna and condyles of the os humeri, unite by ligament, and not by bone. In all the examinations which I have made of transverse fractures of the cervix femoris within the capsule, I have had my opinions contirmed, as 1 have not met with a single in- stance in which bony tinioii had taken place. I would not maintain its impossibility, hut what I wish to be understood to say is, that if it ever does happen, it is an extremely rare occurrence, and that I have never yet met with a single ex- •ample of it. Whilst, to support a contrary opinion, only a single instance has been produced, having the shadow of plau- sibility ; and in this case the same appearances w'ere found in both the thigh bones, and even these resembled what I have often observed in the dead body, arising from a softened stale of the bones. There are several reasons which may he assigned for the want of ossific union in the transverse fracture of the cervix within the ligament. The first is a want of the proper appo- silio/t of the fractured ends of the bone. It is scarcely pos- siljlc to preserve the parts in apposition even for a few hours, and the slightest change of position produces an instant con- traction of the large and powerful muscles passing from the pelvis to the thigh, so that the ends of the bone become im- mediately di.splaced. '1 his is also the case in fracture.s of the patella, where, notwithstanding all our efforts to prevent the retraction of the muscles, it very seldom happens that wc can succeed in supporting, a complete approximation of the bones. 'I’he srrrj/tf/ ix-dsoii for a w;int of bony union is, the imiU of pressure of one bone on the other. Even if the limb weie preserved at its |)i'oper length, and admitting the capsu- lar ricament not to be torn, this circutnstance would operate to prevent an ossitic union. 'I'here is a large quantity of sy- novial fluid secreted into the joint; this distends the iiga- nietu, and entirely prevetifs the contact of the bones. After a time this fluid becomes absorbed, but not until the inflam-