ON SCROFULA. 551 of wine, should be allowed. This will stimulate the secretion of the gastric juice, and digestion will be more completely per- formed than if no stimulus at all had been used. It is well known that in these complaints the stomach is not supplied with a sufficient quantity of juice to dissolve the food; there- fore vou must give some slight stimulus to excite the gastric juice. If you observe the animals around us, which live on animal and vegetable food, you find that after meals they lap some water, and rest. Rest appears to be conducive to the performance of the digestive process. An experiment has been made which confirms this opinion. Two pointers were fed, each with the same quantity of food ; the one was immediately put out to hunt, and the other conducted to the kennel, and ill two or three hours afterwards both were killed. The first had not digested the food he had taken, whilst the other had. Animal food should be given in larger quantities to persons w'ith scrofulous disease than to those in a state of health, al- though the latter do not require the same aid to assist diges- tion. In scrofulous children I do not like the stomach to be loaded with milk for breakfast, which considerably impairs the powers of digestion, and therefore I generally order a little meat or an egg as a substitute. Next in importance to nourishment is exercise. Children with scrofulous affections, or even those predisposed to them, should take a great deal of exercise, in the open air ; more, however, in the way of play than as a task; and here I must say, that I am anxious that those concerned in the education of youth particularly female instructors, should be acquainted with what I have said on this important subject. I wish them to know what food and exercise should be allowed to children with a scrofulous taint, and how much the future happiness of those intru.sted to their care is dependent on an attention to these particulars. .At schools, in general, too little exer- cise is taken by the scholars. Boys, however, will have it; but not so with the girls ; they are frequently compelled to sit from morning till night engaged in learning music, geo- graphy, French, Italian, and God knows what else, without paying the slightest attention to the preservation of their health, and thus impairing constitutions which might have been rendered strong and robust. It is not my wish to dis- courage the cultivation of the human mind in any degree, nor even to prevent the fairer sex from attaining those accom- plishments which so frequently render them the grace, life, and ornament of society ; but I think it the extreme of folly U> compel children to pass hours over pursuits for which they have no taste, such as making them learn music when they