398 ON FUNGOID DISEASE OF THE TESTICLE, loins. The disease is at first unattended with pain ; but, when the spermatic cord and the tumour in the loins become of great magnitude, the patient suffers considerably. In this respect it differs from true scirrhus, in which the swelling never attains any great size. The fungoid swelling of the tes- ticle sometimes increases to the weight of several pounds ; the appearance of the surface is somewhat livid ; the sperma- tic cord is loaded with blood, and in some parts you may feel a fluctuation as if there were a cyst within it; it becomes co- vered with tubercles of considerable size. The tumour has a soft, pulpy feel, readily yielding to pressure; and on the first examination you might suppose the disease to behydrorele.— I have known it frequently punctured on the supposition of a fluid being contained in it, when nothing but a little blood has followed the operation. It may be distinguished from hy- drocele in the following manner :—In the first place, it is flat- tened on the sides, aud round on the fore part, whereas in hydrocele it is pj-riform ; if you squeeze any part of the fun- goid tumour, the patient will complain of the pain arisine h'om the compression of the testicle, which he will not do in hydrocele, unless you squeeze the posterior part of it ; the fungoid tumour rather yields to the pressure of the finger, than fluctuates from one side to the other, as in hydrocele: and, lastly, the great weight of the swelling when you lift up the sides, and the livid appearance of the scrotum, mart; the malignant character of this disease. 'I'he disease often occurs in young people at about the age of tiuberty I have seen it, in one instance, in a child four years old ; 1 showed you the other evening the testicle of this child, w hich was loaded with tubercles. The period of lite at which it may be said usually to occur is between the age of seven- teen and thirty-five. The disease is not confined to the tes- ticle, but affects other i)arts of the body in a great variety ot situations. It differs from scirrlms chigfly in the swelling be- ing of a soft kind : indeed it has been termed soft cancer, tor it is in many respects, though not precisely, of the.<ame nature with scirrhus. If you take blood from a person under thts disease, you will find it so attenuated, that it will hard y coa- gulate; and if you have an opportunity of seeing the -adhcMve process, you will find the inflammation scarcely sniiporting blood-vessels ; what few vessels arc pu>bed through the lart ■issunie the appearance of fungus. If you inject a tiingmid tes- ticle you will find it in some jiarts vascular, while in others blood-vessels are not received. On dissecting it you will mid a iiortion occupied by blood not very firmly coagulated, and a portion by adhesive matter poured out by inflammation which