ON COMPOUND FRACTURES. 625 taken to procure adhesion of the wound, which is best effect- ed by applying lint dipped in blood to the lacerated integu- ments, and allowing it to remain there until it separates spontaneously. The many-tailed bandage should be applied, and kept wet with a spirituous lotion, composed of sps. vini, =j. aquae 5V. A splint should be applied on each side, pad- ded with cushions so as to preserve the great toe in a line with the patella, as I before mentioned to you, which is a point yon must attend to on these occasions. Place the leg on its side, in the semiSexed position, so as to relax the muscles, and render the patient’s position as easy as possible. The position, however, will require to be varied, according to the situation of the wound. But if the bone be comminut- ed, as well as broken into the joint, and if there be bleeding from any large vessel, it will be proper to amputate imme- diately ; more especially if the patient be obliged to work hard for his support, for after recovery from comminution, the limb will bear but a slight degree of exertion. But still, if the constitution be good, and the person be about the middle age, it is right to take away the small pieces of bone, heal the wound by adhesion, and produce anchy- losis. In one case suppuration even followed, and the patient did perfectly well. If a compound fracture extend into the knee joint, and the opening be large, it will be necessary to amputate, as the constitutional disturbance will be exceedingly great, and run the risk of destroying the patient. But if the opening be small, try to procure adhesion, and thus make it a simple wound. When the condyles of the femur are broken into the joint, the limb is to be placed on a pillow in the straight position, and evaporating lotions and leeches are to be used to subdue the inflammation and swelling which necessarily attend this accident. Supposing the external wound to have closed, you then apply pieces of jjasteboard, moistened by being soaked in warm water, about sixteen inches long, anil broad enough to reach under the joint, and have them con- fined by a roller. When these dry, you will find them exactly adapted to the shape of the joint, and afterwards retain their form, so as best to confine the bones. I prefer the straight position in these cases, because the tibia presses the extre- mity of the broken condyle into a line with that which is not injured. Compound fractures of the elbow joint generally happen through the internal condyles of the os humeri, and the frac- ture takes an oblique direction into the joint. In the most severe accidents ot this kind, the constitution is generally s s