ON' CALCULI IN THE BLADDER. 3IS reliance ; but the patient derived no benefit from the munt'.ic acid, and 1 therefore advised liimtotakea drachm of the sub- carbonate of soda four times a-day. A considerable time after, on goin^ to a consultation on the case of the Duke of Portland, at which Sir Everard Home, and Dr. Rcvnolds «Trt present. Dr. lieynolds .said to me, “ So you hare” cured .Ad- miral of his stone.” I smiled, and observed that I had removed a good many stones, but that 1 had never cured any body of that disease. “ Why,” said Dr. Reynolds, “ .Ad- miral tells tne, that since lie has taken a medicine vou recommended to him, he has been so well, that he has been able to go down to a Court Martial; ‘ and if,’ added the Admiral, ‘ you can find me a pretty girl. Doctor , whv, 1 could dance down five-and-twenty couple with her, fmucl; laughter). ‘ 1 have continued,’ said the Admiral, ‘ to take a drachm of subcarbonate of soda four times a-dav; thounh the stone falls over the neck of the bladder, I no longer it el any jiain, and if you were to ask me now to submit to the operation, 1 would snap my fingers at you.’ ” It apnear.^, therefore, that though medicines cannot dissolve the .'ton<. tliey may lessen the irritability of the bladder, and greatlv mitigate the sufferings of the jiatient. The soda diminishes tlie stimulating influence of the urine; it may also coat the surface of the stone ; if it do, so much the better. T'he following case affords a remarkable instance of the in- fluence of the acids in altering the chai-acter of calculi, bv acting on the surface, and diminishing irritability. A gentie- man from Birmingham consulted Dr. Baillie aiid myself, on account of his passing a large quantity of triple jihosphatc with his urine. He was recommended to take the muriatic acid, and three days after he had ttiken it, the triple phosjil'.ate had entirely disappeared, but the uric acid was substituted loi it, in as large quantities as the triple phosphate. As long he continued to take the muriatic acid, he made uric acid ; bur when he left it off, the triple phosphate was re-produced ; bur wliether he made triple jihosphatc or uric acid, there was no diminution of the secretion from the kidneys in jinint of quan- tity. 'fhe acids, therefore, will alter the character of the cal- culus, liy acting upon its surface, and diminishing irritabiiitv; but they liavc no power of dissolving the stone in tlie bladder. This gentleman was relieved from the calculous secretion iVem the kidney.s, by attention to his general health, and not bvary medicines given with a view to tlie calculus. The liqui-r potassat conjoined with opium has consideiablv effect in di- minishing irritability; and it should he given for some time before the operation for stone. This medicine ha^ a vciy be-