ON HERNIA. S32 by bleeding and purgatives; these may be aided by a littie opium. I will mention to you the most .striking e>;ample that now occurs to my mind of hiccough after the operation. I wa.>> .sent for to Maidstone, to operate on a patient for strangulated hernia. 'Ihe gentleman had a large intestinal hernia, and the symptoms were exceedingly severe. I performed the opera- tion, returned the intestine, and left the patient in what is termed a comfortable state. I was exceediugly gratified on the following day to hear that the patient was very easy ; but it was stated in the letter that the hiccough was as bad as when I operated. I wrote to say that this was not the result of gangrene. No, gentlemen, I assure you it is the re.'ult of peritoneal inflammation ; and take my word for it, no other means but the antiphlogistic treatment will do. The patient of whom I am .speaking was bled twice. Tlie operation was ])erformed on IMouday, and the hiccough did not leave him till the following Sunday ; during great part of the time there was tenderness of the abdomen on pressure. The hiccough then, I again repeat, is not the result of gangrene, but of inflamma- tion of the peritoneum, or intestine. The treatment you are to pursue is to deplete the patient, and procure copious eva- cuations from the intestines. 1 will tell you the circuinstauces to be attended to re- spectiiig the return of a hernia : The operation does not |)revent the future descent of the intestine ; but the applica- tion of a truss early prevents it from being so large. 'Fhe patient should he kept in bed for some time after the opera- tion, and good granulations be produced. Dossils of lint should be aj)])lied and a truss, so as to make pressure, and close the upper part of the sac. Never let the patient rise from bed without a truss to press on the sides of the sac. It has been pro|>osed to cut away the herui.al sac, in order to produce a more rapid cure. The hernial sac has been cut away ; and 1 will relate to you a case in which yott will have an opportunity of seeing the result of this treatment ; -Mr. Holt, an intelligent surgeon, sent for me to go with him to Tottenham, as he was going to perform the operation for strangulated hernia; 1 went; and .Mr. Holt operated: all the .Steps of the operation were well performed. When tiic stric- ture was divided and the parts returned, .Mr. Holt said, what shall we do with the hernial sac, for it ap|)c:irs quite detached and isolated ? I stated that I thought it would be a fine op- portunity for aseermining the result of cutting away the hernial sac. It was removed at the neck, and in three weeks from this, hearing that the woman was out of bed, 1 called on het ;