586 DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. the bone may be felt to rotate. The reduction is the tame as tliat for the dislocation forwards, but the shoulders should also be drawn backwards, to bring the head of the bone to the glenoid cavity. After the reduction, the shoulders must be secured by the clavicular bandage, or the bone will again slip forwards against the coracoid process. An injury of great violence may occasion the head of the hone to be forced through the integuments in the dislocation forwards. 'J'he reduction should be immediately effected, as was before re- commended in the dislocation forwards. A suture should be introduced, aud lint, dipped in blood, applied to the wound, and adhesive plaster, to retain the apposition of the wound ■’ the limb should be kept close to the side, by a roller including the arm, and thus the least motion prevented. By this treat- ment, the suppurative inflammation will be prevented, and the the patient’s life not endangered. Accidents about the shoulder joint, with which di.slocations are liable to be confounded, are, first, fracture of the acro- mion. Here tlie roundness of the shoulder is, in some mea- sure, lost, and the head of the bone drops towards the axilla. It may be readily distinguished by the shoulder regaining its proper shape on supporting the arm, and by its aeain sinking when that support is removed. If you trace the spine of the scapula forw'ards to the clavicle, on reaching that part the finger sinks into a depression ; then raise the arm, and place one hand firmly on the acromion, and rotate the elbow with the other, and you will distinctly perceive a crepitus. In the treatment of this accident, you are to make the head of the os humeri act as a splint, to support the detached portion of bone : with this view, then, you support the elbow in a short sling, and bend the fore-arm across the chest; put a thick pad between the elbow and the side, so as to separate it widely from it, in order to relax the deltoid. Let the motion of the arm be perfectly prevented, by binding it firmly to the chest by a roller ; the elbow should be carried a little back- wards. The arm should be kept firmly fixed for three weeks ; it will unite by bone, if motion be perfectly prevented ; but, as this is very difficult to accomplish, the union is generally ligamentous. The second accident is more likely to be mis- taken for dislocation than any other ; and this is the fracture through the neck of the scapula. It is im|)ossiblc, by mere inspection, to distinguish this from dislocation into the a.xilla. It is to be known by carrying the hand over the shoulder, and resting the finger on the coracoid process; then, by ro- tating the arm, a crepitus will be felt. Let the surgeon place his arm under the arm of the patient, and, by raising it it