ON VIRULENT GONORRHCEA. 463 nianner in which this disease is performed, I have heard some very curious and laughable disquisitions on this subject, by persons who prefer entering into such speculations to making observations for themselves. There can be no doubt that the disease is produced by the direct application of the poison to the lips of the urethra, for you will find that the first symptom which takes place is a pouting state of the lips of the urethra, arising from iufiammatioii. 'Phe lips are first attacked, and the inflammation gradually extends itself to the internal surface of the urethra ; the disease begins from without, and extends itself to the internal surface. So much for the manner in which the poison is received. We find that the discharge from gonorrheea is very much affected by constitutional causes. A man shall have an abundant discharge from the urethra, considerable pain, and even chordee; and if he should get a fever, the discharge disappears, the pain ceases and he will be entirely free from all symptoms of the disease fora period of from seventeen to tw'enty days. As soon, how- ver, as he begins to recover from his fever, the discharge of matter will he removed, the pain and chordee will return, and a long time may elapse before the disease can be re- moved. These constitutional causes suspend the action of go- norrhoea, but the syuiptoms will return as soon as the consti- tutional irritation ceases. ^ on will generally find the cure of gonorrhoea difficult in proportion as the constitution of the. patient is disposed to strumous affections. If a patient has pimples in his face, enlargement of the glands of the neck, a thin delicate skin attd irritable fibre, you may expect to have great difficulty in curing him of gonorrheea. I shall now pro- ceed to speak Of the Treatment of Gonorrhoea.—’We treatment of go- norrhaa is founded on two principles ; the disease may be either treated simply, by diminishing inflammation, or it may be treated bv producing a change in the action of the part, by which the disease is removed iti a short period. I'he.se are the two principles on which surgeons act in the treatment of gonorrhma. In the first place, gentlemen, let me observe to you, that no greater tolly, and iniiced eruclty, can be com- mitted, than that of giving mercury to patients, for the cure ot this disease. A man who gives mercurv in gonorrheea, really deserves to be flogged out of his profe.ssion, because he must be quite ignorant of the principles on which this dis- ease is to be cured. To give mercury to a young and irritable person, who is |)robably constantly e.xposetl to vicissitudes of temperature, lor a disease which does not require it, (thus exposing the health, and even the life of the patient t dan-