426 ON NASAL POLYPI. are composed of a ver\’ soft substance, resembling jellr, (hence their name), and are very slightiv vascular ; the se- cond kind is the Hydatid Polypi. These are formed by a collection of hydatids, and have the appearance of bags or bladders of water; with these there is generally a copious serous discharge; the third are the Carcinomatous Polypi. 'Jliese have similar symptoms and appearances to scirrhous tumours in other p^rts of the body, are painful at intervals, ulcerate, and, during this stage, occasionally bleed ; the fourth and last kind is the Fungoid Polypus. riiese are the four different species of polypi of the nose. Now, gentlemen, I shall first describe to you the Gelatinous Polypus'. It is yellow and semi-transparent, very thinly streaked with vessels which are never sufficient to give it a red appearance. It hangs from the schneiderean membrane bv a small peduncle, therefore loose in the nose, and if you stand opposite the patient, and he draws in and forces out his breath through the nostrils, you will then be enabled to see it advance, amfagain retreat to the posterior uares. The large size of the polypus, however, will often prevent this free motion. It generallv ha« its origin in the middle chamber of the'nose, between the su- perior and inferior turbinated bones. Here is a preparation (showing it to the class) in which you see it grooving from the side of the antrum. Polypi of the nose of this description often acquire a very considerable magnitude. When this is the case they extend into the posterior nares, and often hang over the edge of the velum pendulum palati, so that you can frequently see them at the back of the mouth ; and, if they are not quite so large as to allow of this, they may be distinctly felt on passing back the finger. Two of the largest of this kind of polypi that I ever saw were from Sudbury in Suffolk. Here is one of them : it is of a size which rendered its removal by the forceps im- possible ; here is another preparation in which you see it extends through the velum, and here are others of a smaller size belonging to the same species. It not unfrequently hap- pens, when their removal is attempted by the forceps, that they will become broken, and some little address is often requisite to prevent this difficulty; they are firmly attached to the pituitary membrane of the nose, and unless the points of the forceps are applied near their bases, you cannot c.xpect to he .successful in extracting every part of them ; consequently.