ON PSOAS AND LUMBAR ABSCESSES. 567 sorbed, than it is above or below the diseased part. The mode in which the disease becomes cored, is bj'the_upper portions of the vertebrte falling on the lower, and in this way anchylosing. 'I'his is not matter of conjecture ; there are three specipiens on the table, in which you will see the up- per part of the spine bent forwards, so as to meet the lower vertebra;, and in this way producing anchylosis. This must be your object in the treatment of this disease. You should keep the spine of the child as much as possible at rest; with this view the child should be kept as steadily as possible in the recumbent posture, so that the vertehrEE may be suftered to fall into contact, and by coalescing effett anchylosis. If you attempt to keep the spine straight, you will defeat the object of nature ; do not keep the patient in a directly straight line, but rather as.sist nature in producing the union of the vertebrae. Great attention should be paid to the general health of the child ; it should have the best of nourishment, taking care to avoid any thing which may produce feverish excite- ment ; likewise airings in a carriage, care being t;iken that the body should not be shaken. If the child cannot be kept at rest, if the parents are unable, or refuse to observe these instructions, the next best treatment will be be to apply one of Callow’s backs, which is worn upon the spine, and fixed round the pelvis and shoulders. As to avoiding deformity, that is out of the question ; in all these cases, deformity is inevitable; whatever you do, this cannot be prevented. The words which liotV fall from my lips you may recollect at some future period, when yon may be called to a case of this kind ; and I now fell you that 1 have never met with an e.xample in which the spine, under these circumstances, has been exactly restored to its natural state. All that you can do is to assist or rather not to oppose, the process of nature, in producing anchylosis. Blisters, setons and issues, are commonly cm- jiloycd, hut they frequently do more harm than good, by the irritation which they excite in the constitution ; the tneans on which you should chiefly rely, tire rest, and the recumbent posture. The part of the spine affected is of no importance with respect to the cure; whether it he the neck, hack, or loins, there will be no difference as to the treatment, except in the form of the mechanical means which may be employed, 'f'hc next diseases to which 1 shall call your attention are I’SOAS AND Ll’.MHAU AhsCF.SSES. With respect to these diseases, 1 shall point out to yon the nature of their treatment very shortly. Disease of the liga- ments of the spine commences between the ligaments, and the surface of the intervertebral substance. It is very often