558 AFFECTION OF THE MESENTERIC GLAND,-. make the puncture, and the direction in which it is to be made; and, .secondly, do not omit, in all the.se cases, u> •squeeze out all the solid matter that may be within the jtbind. If the wound be indolent afterwards, you had better injea in- to it a .solution of sulphate of zinc, containing about a scruple of the zinc to a pint of water. 'Phrow a small quantity of this into the wound; it will soon produce healthy granula- tions, and lessen the di.scharge if it be copious. .Such, then, gentlemen, is the treatment to be adopted after the elaud has proceeded to the suppurative state. What I advise yon to do is, to make an opening into the gland as soon as fluctuation can be detected, and before any discoloration of the skin takes ))lace, in order to prevent a scar hereafter. Thus, you see, bv a little attention, the cause of much unhappiness may be kept off. At this time you should give rhubarb and carbonate of iron, about two grains of the former, and five of the latter, twice a-day. The diet should be nutritious, but not in the slightest degree stimulating. With respect to the ulcerative process, there is nothing particular to remark : fomentations, poultices, and the ordinary means, must be had recourse to. lour object, however, should be to prevent ulceration by the mode of treatment I have laid down ; aud it is only when it cannot be prevented that the latter means are to be emploved. Affection of the Mesenteric Glands. The glands which are affected with scrofulous disease, nest in frequency to those of the neck, are the mesenteric glands. In young persons they are most commonly afi'ected at the age of six or eight mouths. This complaint is known by the belly being tumid, and from the tenderness on pres- sure ; attenuation of the skin, voraciousness of appetite ; the limbs of the child, at the same time, wasting. The intestines are equally irregular, being sometimes purged, at others cos- tive. In the motions are occasionally observed earthy mat- ter (a specimen of which I now send you round), compo.scd of carbonate of lime. The causes which produce enlargement of the mesenteric glands arise from disease of the secreting glands of the intestinal canal; such as irritating food, which irritates the mouths of the absorbent vessels of the intestines leading to the mesentery. With respect to the effect of mi - s.’titeric diseases, they consist, at first, in an intcrruiition uf the process of absorjition. The chyle travels tliiough the absorbents to the mesenteric elands, and, when some of these are enlarged, the chyle is interrupted in its course. Although the child geneially eats voraciously, is it wonderful that there should be such emaciation, independent of the irrita- tion produced by the system being deprived of uourishment}