532 SYPHILITIC DISEASE OF THE BONES. a fluctuation as this may be removed by adding a little to the influence of mercury. I have seen large accumulations of serum in the forehead aud shin-bone entirely absorbed by giving an additional quantity of mercury, and assisting ab- sorption by the application of a blister. When the fluctua- tion, however, is accompanied with an appearance of redness in the skin, aud much pain in the part, indicating the pre- sence of matter, it will be impossible to promote absorption by any means, and the sooner an incision down to the bone is made the better. The exfoliation which will afterwards take place, will be proportioned to the extent of surface laid bare; and if you delay making the opening till the extent of the surface affected is veiy considerable, you will only be add- ing to the evil. As soon, therefore, as you discover a fluc- tuation, accompanied with redness of the’skin, make an in- cision for the purpose of discharging the matter. Very ex- tensive exfoliations sometimes follow the opening of nodes, and the life of the patient will be in danger. Many persons die from this cause; there is in the college a very fine speci- men, taken from a person who died in consequence of the ex- foliations which followed the openings of nodes in both his tibiee. The flat bones are sometimes the subject of syphilitic symptoms ; that which is more commonly affected than any other, is the os frontis. The symptoms are the same as those of nodes on the shins. The patient has pain and swell- ing in the evening, which last till two or three o’clock in the morning, when they disappear. This continues, day after day, until an enlargement of the bone is produced. Nodes now and then occur in the parietal bones, very rarely in the os occipitis, aud never in the os temporis, that bone being mucli covered by muscles, and exposed to very little change of tem- perature. The os frontis, which is the most exposed of the bones of the head, is that in which the disease is most fre- quently seen. It sometimes happens, when this disease attacks the flat bones, that it is attended with a ven' considerable tumour and fluctuation No incision should be made under such circumstances. Now and then, indeed, the suppurative process takes place, and a most serious disease is the result. When the skin is inflamed, aud matter is formed beneath, it will be right to discharge it. It often happens, when mat- ter is formed on the surface of the bone, that the suppurative process also takes place between the dura mater and the in- ternal part of the skull. Death sometimes ensues from this cause ; but fatal consequences may often be prevented by tre- phining the patient. A patient in the other hospital had a node on the os frontis, which suppurated : the matter was