ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 355 patients generally complain of them as being uncomfortable, (t is better to employ the .soap cerate. If there be much pain with the di.sease, 1 order a drachm of extract of belladonna to be rubbed down with an ounce of the soap cerate ; this dimi- nishes the nervous irritability of the part, and the advantage of the soap cerate is, that it excites a gentle perspiration with- out any undue heat; it is the most useful ajjplication that I know of. If there be much inflammation you can apply leeches, though the mode of treatment which 1 like, is to alter the constitution, and the best for this ])urpose is the exhibition of five grains of Plummer’s pill (the pilula hydrargyri submnriatis composita of the pharmacopoeia) at bed-time, and on the fol- lowing day Infus. gentian, ^iss. Sodaa carb. 5ss. Tinct. columb. 3i. Ammon, carbon, gr.v. It is necessary, in this disease, for which no specific is known, to give those medicines which restore the constitution generally. You will restore the difterent secretions by Plum- mer’s pill, and diminish the irritability of the nervous sys- tem by the carbonate of ammonia ; this is the best plan, as far as I know, to keep the patient alive as long as you can. ■Some say you should pay attention to diet; so you should, but if you give a patient a vegetable diet, allow her nothing but water to drink, and keep her low, it will be the worst plan you can pursue, if her strength is alFected, you will, by this means, lower it still more, and soon bring her to the grave. I tell you what every man who has observed for him- self knows to be true—I mean those, at least, who have not spent their lives in the closet, but in watching disease. If a patient consults me how she is to live, I say to her, take those things which you find agree with your own feelings best, aud which do not derange the general health. If she asks, “ Should 1 take any wine.’” I say, “ No”—“ Or any spirits?” “Certainly not,” (God forbid that women ever should;) “ never hurry the circulation, nor take any thing so as to disorder the constitution, but support the strength by animal food. If you should ever take any wine, mix it witli water.” The patient sometimes .says, she has been told-to “ live on vegetable food only my reply is, that “ I should like to know why you have been told so ; for the man wlui has done it knows nothing of the nature of the complaint.” I assure you, gentlemen, that if you weaken the strength by low diet, you will immediately quicken tlie pulse: you will perceive it in a person with the pul.se at 80 increase in a shoi i A A 2