183 ON hydrocele; situation ? Why, that it would ])ass into the testicle. A gen ■ tleman of great importance in this town consulted his regi- mental surgeon for a swelling in the scrotum ; it was pro- nounced hydrocele. Tlie operation of tapping was resolved upon; but when the trocar was introduced, it passed only into a solid substance, and no water came away. The surgeon stared, and said, “ Sir, I am a little mistaken in this case; you have a diseased testicle here, instead of hydrocele, as I at first supposed, and it is necessary that the diseased part should be removed.” But the gentleman, being a young man, did not think it would add much to his enjoyment to lose a tes- ticle—(/oarf laughter)—-and thought that it required some he- sitation before he resolved upon such a measure; conse- quently he did hesitate, and the result was, that he consulted another surgeon. Upon examination, the testicle was found at the fore part of the swelling, and the fluid at the sides and bottom. Whilst taking off his clothes, some copper-coloured eruptions having been seen, he was asked if there was any enlargement of the bones ; when the right tibia was found considerably swollen. He was put under a course of mercury, for these secondary symptoms, which soon got well. The hydrocele still remained, and as the surgeon who first saw this case was right in his first opinion as to its nature, he was sent for to repeat the operation of tapping. He now intro- duced the trocar at the side of the swelling, instead of the fore part; the water was withdrawn, and the patient perfectly recovered. This case shows the necessity of extreme caution in determining the situation of the testicle before the intro- duction of the trocar. The testicle is sometimes found at the bottom of the swell- ing. Now (holding up a preparation), here is a curious thing. This hydrocele, you observe, was situated between the testicle and abdominal ring, the testicle being quite at the inferior ex- tremity of the tumour. Adhesive inflammation, in this in- stance, had completely united the middle to the outer coat; consequently, the descent of the water had been prevented. Here is another preparation, in which the water had Col- lected at the sides, adhesion having taken place both before and behind. Here is another [ireparation, in which it appears as though the hydrocelic sac had arisen from the tunica vaginalis, in the same manner as an aneurismal sac is occasionally formed from the coats of an artery. In hydrocele, it sometimes happens that the fluid is formed in a distinct bag or cyst, betw’een the tunica vaginalis and tunica albuginea; this complaint is usually combined with common hydrocele.