269 ON NEBULA. intlammatiori of the conjunctiva, and kept up or excited by attendant circumstances, are now to be spoken of. In the first place, we shall treat of Nebula. This complaint is so called from the nebulous or cloudy ap- pearance of the transparent part of the eye, which is produced hv deposits of lymph into the conjunctiva coverins the cornea. The membrane or layer stretched over the cornea will vary ac- cording to the more or less rela.xed state of the vessels of the conjunctiva, which will be seen carrying red blood to the part. The veins corresponding to the nebulous parts will become tur- gid and prominent. If there be considerable inflammation, it must be removed by active means ; and in these cases it will be proper to deplete. The inflammation, however, is generally of the chronic kind, and arises from a relaxed state of the vessels, which require stimulating applications, in order that they may recover their tone, and convey the blood uninterruptedly. If the vessels be stimulated, the blood will be likely to flow through the veins ; the absorbents will be excited, and remove the effused lymph. By stimulating applications, the cornea will frequently be restored to the same state of transparency as before the attack. Care must be taken that in the treatment no undue degree of stimulus be employed ; if there should be iiiflaimnation it will be increased, and the complaint be as bad or worse than ever. A collyrium that may be used, is one with the sulphate of zinc, containing about a grain to an ounce of water, gradually increasing it instiength. One which has been recommended, is that with the corrosive sublimate, with a grain to an ounce of water. Calomel or levigated sugar has been used in many cases with good effects. This is quite an old woman’s remedy, and has been recommended very indis- criminately. Unscientific persons—those who are not acquaint- ed with the nature of the disease in which it is useful—seeing it do good in one complaint, think it will in all others of a similar appearance, though essentially different in their charac- ter, and therefore employ it in cases where it does harm, using it alike in a cicatrix from ulceration as in nebula aiising fnmi a deposit of lymph. In the one, if it be employed, lossofsui)- stance will be the result—indamtnation will be excited, and fresh ulcers will form. In the other, that is, in nebula, it will often be of service, care being taken not to produce an over ficgree of stimulus in the part. Pustules. Pustules are generally setitcd at the junction of the transpa- rent with the ofiaque cornea ; fiutthcy may sometimes t,ycnrin the cornea itself, or the conjunctiva covering it or the ball.