ON COMPOUND FRACTURES. 621 sion. But do not apply adhesive plaster, as it frequently pro- duces erysipelas on the edge of the wound, and on this ac- count I have latterly put a bit of lint on the edges of the wound, after extirpating the female breast, and the adhesive plaster over it. Then apply the many-tailed bandage loosely, so that it may give way to the tension that follows; you should also apply some evaporating lotion, and the material of which the bandage is made is a very good thing for retaining the fluid for the purpose. Splints should afterw’ards be put on ; those made of wood are the best, and one should be put on each side of the limb. Do not apply the splints tightly at first, so as to cause pain, but see that they are well padded, and the hones nicely ad- justed. In a ;few days it often happens that inflammation arises, and a discharge of pus follows, when the lint which was at first applied should be partly removed, and the matter allowed to discharge. If the matter should be small in quan- tity after you hare let it out, replace the lint carefully, and do not apply a poultice, but continue the use of the cold wash. If, on the other hand, the discharge of matter be considerable, or if it be a contused wound, with a tendency to slough, then you should apply fomentations and poultices, and heal the wound by a granulating process. 'I he position of the limb may be just the same as in simple fracture ; with this exception, that if the suppurative process should be set up, the wound will require dressing, and there- fore it will be necessary to have the limb in a convenient po- sition for that purpose. If the leg be fractured, it .should be bent, and laid on its outer side, for if it rest on the heel, then the fractured part is without support, and it requires very great attention to pre- vent deformity of the limb. If, while the leg is lying on its side, you allow the toe to fall, the toot becomes everted, and the patient seldom recovers a useful limb. If the fracture is in the thigh, it should be placed over a double inclined plane, with a splint on each side; that on the outside should reach from the trochanter beyond the knee; and both in this and the former fi acture you should keep the ball of the great toe in a line with the inner side of the patella. I do not like the e.xtcnded position of the limb, because the muscles are put upon the stretch, and there is danger of a .shortening of the limb ensuing. This was the practice about fifty years ago. The lateral position of the hmb, as recommended by .Mr. Pott, I also object to, for two reasons ; the first is, that it is almost impossible to keep the toes Irom falling, the consequence is that the foot is turned