9 ON IRRITATION. are also, sometimes, excited in parts near to, or at a distance from, those originally affected. Inflammation of the testicle is frequently the consequence of irritation in the urethra ; and swellings of the breast, of a morbid action of the uterus : but there is no organ so much affected by irritation, or sympa- thetic influence as the stomach. For instance, if a blow is received on the head, causing injury to the brain, vomiting is one of the first and most constant symptoms, being imparted to the stomach through the eighth pair of nerves, and by this we are led to detect the injury. Vomiting is produced when the testicles are injured, or intestines burst, wounded, or strangulated, and from a gall-stone passing the biliary duct; indeed, an obtuse pain in any part of the body will occasion sickness. The consequences of irritation are so numerous and im- portant, gentlemen, that I shall relate to you the medium of its communication. Irritation is generally communicated through the medium of the nerves, of which there are two grand divisions in the body. The first composed of the hrain, spinal marrow and their nerves, which naturally convey sen- sation and volition ; the second consisting of the grand sym- pathetic nerve, the centre of which is behind the stomach, in the semilunar ganglion and solar ple.xus. The modes of sym- pathetic communication arc various. In some instances, the course of irritation is from the irritated part to the .sentient extremity of the nerve, as the pain experienced in the knee and foot from a disease of the hip. In other ca.ses the course of sympathy is from the affected part to the origin of the nerve, as in pain in the loins consequent on diseased testicles. Irri- tation on the nerves of the grand sympathetic is communicated to the stomach, probahly through the medium of the semiluiiiir ganglion, and all injuries to the stomach are attended with serious effects. 1 could relate to you several instances in which injury to this organ had proved fatal. A man walking through Fleet-street, one day, happened to quarrel with a woman, when another came up, aud gave him a blow in the region of the stomach, which caused almost instantaneous death. On dissection, no cause could he found to account for his sudden death. A man belonging to the India House was attempting to lift a weight, when another came up, and jocosely said, “ Here, stand on one side, and let an abler man attempt itand at the same in.stant gave him a slight blovv on the stomach, when the poor fellow dropped down and expired. His body, upon being opened, showed no marks of violence. Irritation is either local or constitutional.