396 ox SCIRRIIUS OF THE TESTICLE. attention is scirrhus, similar to that which attacks the breast. lue sen 1 has of the testicle is an extremely rare complaint and I am afraid many testciles have been removed under the supposition of their being scirrhous, which might have been saied I have seen but very few instances of true scirrhns. A truly scirrhous affection of the testicle begins in the 1kk3v of It, with an extremely hard swelling, which may immediately in form the surgeon of the nature of the disease. It feel« like a marble body lodged within the scrotum, and it is tnbercu- Jated on its surface. It sometimes begins in the centre of the testicle, and padually extends until the whole is involved in the disease. The epidydimis next becomes the seat of the dis- ease, that portion being first attacked which communicates With the vas deferens. The spermatic cord becomes enlarged, and tubercles of various sizes form upon it. .After the sper- matic cord has become enlarged, a hard tumour forms beneath le emulgent artery, which may be felt through the abdomi- nal pai letes. In true scirrhus, the testicle does not become en- iarged to any considerable size. After the swelling in the loins, the thigh becomes enlarged, and oederaatouson the side of the disease, which arises from the obstruction to absorption; and the pressure on the veins may also have influence in producing this effect. In the former disease which I noticed, I observed that the general health of the patient was not affected; but t ns IS not the case in scirrhus of the testicle. The countenance undergoes a remarkable change; it is vellow, and sunk, a fixed colour terminates abruptly in the cheek. iVhen you walk through the wards, and observe a patient greatlv emaci- ated with this fixed redness of the cheek, the rest of the face being extremely sallow, you may almost conclude, from these appearances, that he is labouring under some scirrhous or cancerous affection. This disease differs also verv much from the last, in being attended with exciuciating pain, which be- comes more intolerable as the disease advances. It is generally ti oin a 5'ear and a half to two years before the disease destroys the patient.—-When you cut into a swelling arisiiic from this cause, you will find it composed of a considerable number of lobes ; and cartilaginous substances, and earthy matter, are trequently deposited in the testicle. [The learned jirofessor exhibited a prepamtion illustrating these appearances.] Such is the character of true scirrhus ; it attacks persons at an ad - vanced period ; in general between sixty and seventy years of age, seldom under rifty-fiye years. There is a preparation in which the tiiberculated character of the disease is still more manifest than in the last. 'I’he operation for this disease is extremely unsuccessful, for it rarely happens that the disease