501 ON GONORRHCEA IN FEMALES. discharge matter. There is pain in making water, and in some severe cases it comtnonly hap|)eiis that there is consi- derable irritation of the bladder, of wliich the shortness of the urethra is the cause ; the inflammation at the orifice extends down the meatus urinarius, to the internal coat of the blad- der. In this complaint, the meatus nrinai liis, Cowper’s glands, and the extremity of the vagina, are red, and the carunculaj mytiformes swollen. I once had an opportunity of examining a woman from Magdalen ward of this hospital, who died of gonorrhoea ; it is the only female with this complaint 1 have ever opened. In addition to the circumstances I have just mentioned, I found the urethra very red, and red streaks pro- ceeding from the termination of the meatus urinarius to the bladder, and the bladder itself inflamed. There is a circumstance which I am exceedingly anxious to dwell on—I allude to a discharge from young females ; and 1 hope that there is not one here this evening but will be strongly impressed with the importance of the subject. Chil- dren from one year old, and even under, up to the age of puberty, are frequently the subject of a purulent discharge from the pudendum, chiefly originating beneath the preputiuni clitoridis ; the nymphte, orifice of the vagina, and the meatus urinarius, are in an inflamed state, and pour out a discharge. I he bed linen and rest of the clothes are marked by it. It now and then happens to a nervous woman, to he alarmed at such an appearance, and she suspects her child of having acted in an improper manner ; and ])erhaps, not quite clear herself, she is more ready to suspect others, and .says, dear me, (if she confesses), it is something like what I have had my- self. She goes to a medical man, who may unfortunately not be aware of the nature of the complaint 1 am speaking of, and he says, “Good God, your child has got the clap.” fa laui'h). A mi.stake of this kind, gentlemen, is no laughing matter ; and though I am glad to make you smile sometimes, and like to join you in your smiles, I cannot do it on the pre- sent occasion, for it is too serious a matter. I can assure you a multitude of persons have been hanged by such a mistake. I will tell you exactly what takes place in such cases • the mother goes home, and says to the child, “ Who is it that has been playing with you .> who has taken you on his knee late- I 'i innocently replies, “No one, mother: no- body has, I declare to you.” The mother then says, “Oh, don t tell me such stories ; I will flog you, if you do. And thus the child IS driven to confess what never haiipcned, in order to save herself trom being chastised. At last she says, huch a one has taken me on his lap.” 'The person is ques-