DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANKLE JOINT. 617 five weeks ; friction and passive motion should be used at the end of eight weeks, and twelve weeks will elapse before he has the perfect motion of the joint. Of the Dislocation forwards,—Here the foot appears much shortened and fixed, and the toes pointed to the ground. The lower end of the tibia forms a hard swelling on the middle of the tarsus. The heel appears lengthened, and there is a pro- jection before the tendo-achillis. On dissection, it is found that the tibia rests on the navicular and internal cuneiform bones, the fibula is broken, and carried forwards at the side of the tibia, and it is fractured about three inches above its malleolus, ft happens from the body falling backwards whilst the foot is confined, or from a person jumping from a carriage in rapid motion, with the toe pointed forwards. In reducing this dislocation you should lay the patient in bed on his back, an assistant should grasp the thigh at its lower part, and draw it towards the body, whilst another pulls the foot in a line^ from the leg, and you then push the tibia back, to bring it into its proper place; attending to the same rule of relaxation of the muscles and the after-treatment as in the former dislocation. The patient should afterwards rest the leg on the heel, apply splints on each side of the leg, with foot-pieces to support the foot at right angles with the leg. In five weeks you may allow the patient to get up, and use passive motion, as the fibula will, by that time, have united. In the partial dislocation forwards, the tibia rests half on the os naviculare and half on the astragalus ; the fibula is broken, and there is not any considerable projection of the heel. The toe is pointed downwards, and there is great difficulty in putting the foot fiat upon the ground. The heel is drawn uj», and the foot is, in a great degree, immoveable. The treatment is the same as in the complete dislocation forwards. Of the Dislocation outwards.—This is the most dangerous of the three, as it is produced by greater violence, and is at- tended with more laceration of ligament, and more contusion of the integuments. The foot is thrown inwards, and its outer edge rests upon the ground. The malleolus projects very much, and forms such a decided prominence that the nature of the injury cannot be mistaken. The toes and foot are pointed downwards. In this accident the malleolus in- ternus is obliquely fractured, and it happens from the wheel of a carriage passing over the leg, or by the foot being twist- ed in jumping or falling. 'I'o reduce this dislocation, you place the patient on his back, bend the thigh at right angles with the body, and the leg at right angles with the thigh ;