ON HERNIA. 218 after the operation unless he has been freely bled before it.— If you should be asked to what extent you would bleed io strangulated hernia, your answer sliould be, until it producai faintness, because it is in that state that the hernia is most likely'to be returned. If you carry the bleedinit short of this state of faintness, you may as well not’bleed at all. If, there- fore, the patient be strong, and in the middle period of life, you should make him stand up before you, and bleed him from a large orifice, until he complains that he shall be unable to stand unless you .support him. At this moment the taxis will be most likely to succeed in reducing the hernia: and perito- neal intiammatioii after the reduction will at the same time he prevented. If a surgeon, therefore, does not take away blood freely under such circumstances, his conduct wll be most unpardonable. The uext mode of treatment pursued in the hospitals, where it can be most conveniently employed, is to put the patient into a warm bath. The usual course is to put him into a bath heat- ed to from 90 to 100°, for a quarter of an hour, and after his body has been well washed and cleansed, it is supjwsed that his hernia will be more easily returned. But what is the use of such a plan of treatment ? by what principle are they who recommend it guided } It may soothe and tranquillize the patient for the moment, but no effectual benefit can result from puttingthe patient into a warm bath, unless you keephim in it until fainting is produced. lu this state you will support the patient by putting your hand behind his head ; and while the abdominal muscles are relaxed, you may employ the taxis with success. It will be better to do this while the patient is in the bath, or at all events, if he is taken out of the bath, you should take care to cover him with blankets, so that the faintness may not be removed ; you will hear persons say that this remedy is of no use ; it is of no use unless fainting be pro- duced, for without this eff'ect it ought not to be employed. But surgeons make use of opposite plans of treatment : cold, for instance, and with considerable success and advan- tage, not bv reducing the volume of air, as has bccu absurdly stated ; for first, it has not the eff'ect of doing this ; and se- condly, if it had, it would be of no service. The diminution of the volume ot air will do no good whilst the pressure remains the same ; cold operates beneficially in two ways ; 1st, by astringing the scrotum, and diminishine its bulk by which means it'prcsscs against the hernia, and faci- litates the rctuin. 2dly. It appears to have a sympathetic eff'ect in les.scning and retarding the intlainniation of the in- testines : soon after the cold is applied, there is a diminutiOR