ON CALCULI IN THE BLADDER. 301) expiration of three days she died. When we afterwards ex- amined tile body, the instant the surgeon cut into the abdo- men, there issued through the opening a strong urinous smell; on prosecuting the examination, we found a stone lodged in one of the ureters ; this obstructed calculus had given rise to an abscess, which had burst into the cavity of the abdomen, wlience arose the almost sudden dissolution. But it every now and then happens, that calculi of the ure- ters will escape without proving destructive to life. Mr. Stone, a surgeon in Sussex, had a carter in his neiglibourhood, to whom such a result happened—the man for a long while felt a severe pain in the direction of the ureter—at length an ab- scess formed upon the spine of the ilium, and when it broke there was discharged through tlie opening this calculus (shew- ing it to the class). From its figure it is evident that it was formed in the ureter ; the man ultimately did well. Now, gentlemen, of the Treatment of Calculi in the Ureter. During those violent paroxysms of suffering which I have detailed to you, the patient should be bled to syncope—you should give him opium ; potass may also be administered with advantage, for I do believe that it lessens the irritability of the urinary organs, and in this manner will afford considerable relief; the person should also be put into a warm bath, and when in that situation, the surgeon should sit by bis side, and rub the abdomen in the course of the ureter ; for the urine having collected above the stone, and its vis a tergo being in- sufficient to push the calculus onward, friction, properly di- rected, will prove of great service by its mechanical influence on the accumulated fluid, and it will be found agreeable to the patient rather than otherwise. Well, then, the plan tc> pursue is, to bleed, with a view of preventing inflammation; to give opium and potass, for the purpose of diminishing pain and irritability, and mechanically to assist the passage of the stone by rubbing the surface of the abdomen in the course of the ureter. Calculi in the Bladder. The next situation in which calculi are formed is in the bladder ; and as much can be done in this complaint by surgi- cal treatment, we shall dwell more at length on the circum- stances attending it, and describe to you the operation reipiired for removing a stone from the bladder. Directly a stone enters the bladder, the.symptoms change ; there will be a pain along the urethra, extending from the neck of the bladder forwards, though this is not always present ; but opposite to the froMium, about an inch from the extremity of the penis.