ON THE TYING OF ARTERIES. 174 the spine of the ilium, by which you cut through the abdominal muscles, aud reach the peritoneinn, which you turn tfi the op- posite side, in order that the artery may be reached. Now, in this operation there is considerable difficulty in separating the ureter from the artery, because it crosses just at the bifurca- tion of the iliac artery, aud if a man had not been vvell acquainted with the anatomy^ of the part, as Mr. .Stevenson tva.s-, he might include the ureter in the ligature, and thn.« cause destruction of life. I put the ligature round the artery (the learned professor continued showing the operation on the dead body), that you may see it is the internal iliac which I have secured; I would not, however, have ventured to perform this operation, if it had not been performed by another ; I should have doubted my own powers and skill. It is an operation highly creditable to any one who performs it, but particularly to him who first attempted it. In what case, then, would a surgeon be called on to perform this ope- ration ? Why, for an aneurism of the elutaral artery, just at its commencement, so that it cannot be reached under the gluteal muscle; the operation must be performed in the manner I have just shown you. Tying the Aorta. I was sent for one day to go to the other hospital to see a man with violent bleeding from ju.«t above the groin, in consequence of a rupture of the external iliac vessel high up; the man had long been a patient there; the integu- ments had sloughed, and the patient was exceedingly re- duced from loss of blood, lender these circumstances, 1 thought myself justified in performing the operation of tying the aorta ; for this step I have been greatly abused, but abuse, gentlemen, does no injury ; it shows a malicious and bad dis- position on the part of those from whom it proceeds, and on a man possessing the mens conscia recti it will have no effect, unless lie be destitute of common sense. I was situated as I have just described when I tied the aorta ; I knew that the aorta had been obliterated within the chest, and that the cir- culation had been carried on by the intercostal arteries going from above to just below the spot where the aorta was oblite- rated : tbe insides of the ribs are covered with numerous ves- sels. A gentleman of Dublin had a preparation, in which the aorta had been obliterated in the abdomen ; and in this case the circulation was carried on by the lumbar arteries going from above to below the part w here the vessel was obliterated ; I had not the least doubt but that if the aorta was obliterated, anastomosing vessels would carry on the circulation, on the same principle as in any other part of the body ; the greatest