S02 ON FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. tumours, wliicli are often to be met with on them, such as en- cysted tumours, and otliers. But as these require no particu- lar plan of treatment different from those in other parts of the body, I shall not detain you about them. In their remwal, you must bear one thing in mind, viz. the importance of the organ, in the neighbourhood of which they are situated, so that in removing them, you do not injure so delicate a part. "^I’lie last disease to which I shall call your attention is Fistula Lachry.malis. By this term is understood all obstructions of the lachrymal jiassage preventing the natural flow of the tears and mucus from the eyes to the nose. The most common cause of this complaint is a closure of one of the puncta, and then there is epiphora, or a watering of the eye, together with suffusion of the tears, and the surgeon consequently discovers that one of the puncta is closed. This must be jiunctured by a small sharp pin, made of gold or silver, which is to he pushed through it to the lachrymal sac ; the obstruction is removed, and the epiphora relieved. When the epiphora continues, the eye becomes irritable, a drooping of the lids comes on, and an altered state of the lachrymnl sac is produced. 'The most im- portant source of this complaint is obstruction of the ductus (td 7uisum. The original seat, then, is in the duct leading from the lachrymal sac to the nose, aud the tears, instead of finding their way to the nose, flow down the cheek ; this symptom mar, however, arise from a polypus in the nose, and then it will he relieved by the removal of the polypus. One of the symptoms of malignanl fungus of the nose is suffusion of tears from pressure in the nasal canal; this disease terminates fatally, aud if removed it returns ; in this complaint the flow of tears is a very unimportant symptom, compared with the original disease which gives rise to it. But sometimes there is inflammation of the bones of the nose, or periosteum cover- ing them, aud the membrane lining the duct, which is thick- ened, and then the duct becomes more or less oh-Hructed. It not unfrequcntly takes place in persons of a scrofulous habit, and those who are subject to affections of the covering of the hones. It is also sometimes a consequence of the abuse of mercui'}'. Fistula lachrymalis may he divided info three stages: — 1st, where there is only simple distension of the lachnmal sac. 2dly, where there are inflammation and sup]uirafion of the sac! And the third stace is that in whicli there is a nstulous opening leading from the sac to the clieek. Simple Distension of the LA^HR^ M\L Sac. 'Flic first symptom which leads the patient, in this stage, to