ON NASAL POLYPI. 429 Hydatid Polypi. These are generally found in young people. The first case of the kind that I ever saw, was in this hospital; the subject of it was a young girl about si-Yteen years of age ; when Mr. Cline attempted to remove it, it burst, and there escaped a small quantity of watery fluid ; upon pressure being then made .U the side of the nose, another burst, until at length bladder after bladder burst, and the whole were discharged. It was thought at the time that the complaint was cuied ; in a few weeks, however, it again returned, and again was discharged. Since that time I have seen several similar cases. The pe- duncle of the hydatid polypus resembles the cord formed from the placenta; it is composed of thin fibres or films, which form the covering of the polypn.s, and these converge to com- plete the peduncle. The best plan of treatment that can be pursued for the cure of hydatid polypi, is daily to touch them with the muriate of antimony; tliis can easily be done by means of a camel hair pencil; a very few times will be suf- ficient ; it acts chemically on the polypi, and quickly destroys them. It may be supposed that this strong application would hurt the nose : this, however, is not the case ; but care shoulil lie taken to confine its application to that part only where its use is required. 'I’lie third species that I shall mention, is the Carcinomatous Nasal Polypi. These are commonly met with in old people; they are usu- ally attended with severe pain across the forehead, in the situation of the frontal sinuses—the passage of the air through the nose becomes obstructed from the size of the swelling— the tumour also presses upon, and occasionally obliterates, the lachrvnial sac, preventing the natural course of the tears, thus giving rise to the inconvenience and symptoms o'! fistula luchry- malis. 1 have known the pain in the nose in these cases e.x- cessive ; the pain i.s not constant, but occasional---and then dreadfully severe ; at such times there is more or less hemor- rhage, and this ultimately affords the sufferer a temporary ces.sation of his misery. In these complaints, 1 am sorry to be obliged to say, that nothing can be done e.xccpt of a tran- quillising nature ; the belladonna and opium may be intro- duced ; also the coniiim, witli a view of affording ease; and, if the inflammation should be severe, you may apjdy leeches in the vicinity of the nose, together with evaporating lotions. .As regards internal rcmedie.s, theseare likewise to be merely of a palliative nature; opium is the principal medicine given with this view, and it answers the piiriio.ie well ; you are