ECTROPIUM. 301 the only means that can be relied on, is to pluck away the eye-lashes ; some benefit may be derived from applying a piece of adhesive plaster to the lid, which is to be fastened to the cheek, so that the eye-lashes may be kept bent outwards. The best forceps for removing the eye-lashes is this, (Mr. Green exhibited it to the class) one rather broad at the points. But when the lid itself is inverted you must do more, and, I be- lieve, nothing wilt be of any use except cutting away a piece of skin from the affected lid ; for when this is done, the edges of the wound are brought together by strips of adhesive plaster ; a cicatrix is formed, and the eye-lids are then drawn upwards, 'llie mode of performing the operation is very simple ; you must lift a portion of the skin of the affected lid with a pair of forceps that has towards the point transverse branches, and which are grooved as you here see (holding it up) ; with this you lay a firm hold of the j)ortion of the lid, and all you have to do is, to take a pair of curved scissors, and cut off the pro- jecting portion, as near to the edge of the lid as you can. (The operation was then performed before the class.) We next come to the opposite side of the lids. Ectropium. Ectropium, or eversion of the lids, happens from ulceration on their edges, an altered and vitiated secretion from the fol- licles of Meiboinius, which produce a redness and an altered state of the conjunctiva, and from cicatrices and contractions of the skin of the lids, which tend to evert them. 'J'his com- plaint is very distressing to the patient; the eye has not its natural covering; irritation, from extraneous bodies getting into it, is produced, and thus a constant state of chronic oph- thalmia is kept np. When the disease is brought on by a thickened state of the conjunctiva lining the lid, you rau-st remove that portion ; if from a cicatrix, it must be divided ; but it will be proper to state that this seldom answers ; the divided cicatrix recontracts, and the disease returns. The plan usually adopted consists in removing a triangular portion of the lid, just in the same way as the operation for cancer of the lip is performed ; by cutting through a piece of lid which is raised by a pair of forceps, so that the base shall he towards the edge of the lid, and the apex below, at the union of the two sides. A suture is applied through the incision, the edges of the wound are brought together ; these united, tend to keep the lid in the natural position ; and, in fact, the operation, in this way, is often successful. Now, gentlemen, 1 have gone through the various affections of the tunics of the eye, with those of the globe of the eye, and the lids, with the exception of a description of the small