191 ON THE CURE OF HYDROCELE, Operations at present used tor the cure of Hydrocele. There are but three operations J know of, which are occa- sionally had recourse to in the cure of hydrocele : 1st, setons; 2dly, incision ; 3dly, injection. Setons are very rarely used, but 1 tell yon, that they may now and then be, advantageously. The seton should be made in the following way : you should take a curved needle, and carry it into the Umica vaginalis and scrotum, just at the point where the trocar had been previous- ly introduced, and include two inches above the point where the needle enters, and bring it out sutliciently long ; the result is, inflammation generally ensues, water gradually escapes, and as this takes place, adhesion of the tunica vaginalis comes on; this operation for adults has been geuerallv abandoned, because better means have been employed ; it is in those young persons whose hydroceles do not give way to the absorbent plan before-mentioned ; then, if children about two or three years old have hydroceles, rather than inject, use the needle and thread : the thread should be allowed to remain for ten or fourteen days, till inflammation and the adhesive process be set up ; this plan is mucli better for children than that of in- jection, because there is no ditficulty in doing the former, and there is considerable in the latter : for the operation of putting a ligature through the scrotum and tunica vaginalis is effected before the child knows any thing about it; in fact, after it is done, the child may run about, the knot being allowed to re- main ; the water escapes by the side of the seton ; for children then, 1 believe this to be the best mode. ’ The second plan is by incision. There is a difference in per- forming this operation now to what was done by Mr. Hunter, who had recourse to it in preference to that by caustic or seton • Mr. Hunter used to put a little poultice into the part, after the opening had been made into the tunica vaginalis; a sur- geon, who was present when Mr. Hunter was perforniing the operation, had mistaken the plan which he adopted, for having lieard of the introduction ol a poultice into the wound, he had brought materials tor making one, flour, &c., and he began to mi.x it up in the man’s scrotum ; Mr. Hunter, always ready to catch an idea, sprinkled after this some meal or flour into the wntind, so as to prevent instantaneous adhesion, and promote granulations 'Phis operation gives you the means to prevent the return of hydrocele in many cases, yet it is an operation not perfectly une.xceptionable ; there arc cogent reasons against performing it, but if there be any suspicion of a dis- ea.se of the testicle, it may be done. In old persons it is not jnstinable, aiifi f vvfjiild advise you against U in tiuiii,.