ON COMPOUND FRACTURES. 629 d<?ionuity of the limb j it unfitted her for any of the active duties of life, and she therefore became desirous of having it removed. By some mismanagement or other the bone was fractured in the process of parturition, and although she is now about nineteen years of age, there has not been the least attempt made towards ossific union. 'J'he part where the fracture took place was as flexible as a joint, and 1 tlierefore wish to put you on your guard, so that you may be very care- ful to avoid so distressing an accident. I have met with other cases of a similar description, and therefore I am inclined to think that it is generally the result of fractures occuring at that period. The ordinary treatment of these cases is, to bandage the limb firmly, buckle on a case of firm leather over the limb, and adjust carefully a splint on each side of it, so that no la- teral motion may be allowed. If it should happen in the leg, let the patient walk as much as she can on crutches, and thus, by making pressure on the ends of the bone, bring on a sufti- cient degree of inflammation to throw out adhesive, and, after- wards, ossific matter. I believe non-union is sometimes the result of continuing cold applications for too long a period to the part, thus checking that degree of inflammatory action which is absolutely necessary to bring about a restoration of the parts. But if properly managed it is generally unneces- sary to amputate in this state of the parts. Mr. Amesbury’s splints will be found very useful in the treatment of such cases ; thev have been u.sed at the other hospitals frequently, and I believe have been successful in accomplishing the de- sired object. It has been recommended to amputate parts which have been injured by compound fracture when lelamts makes its appearance. But I advise you never to do so, as in the cases in which I have seen the practice tried, I have not observed it successful. What I advise you rather to do is, to ])ut some of the extract of opium, liquefied by the addition of a little water, into the wound ; I have known this succeed when large doses of musk and opium had been taken without pro- ducing any effect. tVhen is the most propir time to nmputntc in compound fractures, supposing the operation to be necessary 1 All the circumstances before mentioned being taken into account, if it will be necessary to amputate in a few days after the accident, then the sooner it is done the better. If you amputate at one hour after the accident, the patient will do better than if you leave it twelve hours. For this rea- son, if you amputate immediately, the constitution has but