ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 121 ing there was some degree of inflammation of tlie brain indi- cated. Von are to use bleeding as a means of preventing inflamma- tion : but you are not to resort to it as a matter of course, the moment you are called to a patient under concussion. A man falls from his horse, and the instant he is picked up from the ground, some surgeons think it necessary to take the lancet from their pocket. This conduct is quite irrational; for sup- pose the pulse could scarcely be felt at the wrist of the patient, and the surgeon were iu such a case asked why he proceeded to bleed; what would his answer be ? "I’he probability is, that he would have no answer at all ready ; or he would per- haps say, that he bled him because the accident had brought a great quantity of blood to the brain, as if the shaking of the head could have any effect in producing a determination of blood to the brain. It is not with this view that we bleed in concussion, but in order to prevent inflammation. I have seen many a patient who would have died if a large quantity of blood had been taken at the time of the accident. This was the case with the gentleman who was attempting to shave himself, whose symptoms I described to you this evening. When 1 first saw him, his pulse was scarcely perceptible. 1 took a little blood fiom the arm, and he was immediately seized with convulsions, like an epileptic fit, which 1 thought would have proved fatal. I closed the wound, and I would not upon any account have taken six ounces of blood from him at that moment. Some time ago I saw a man, at the other hospital, who had received a blow on the head. He was pale and dejected, and his pulse could scarcely be felt. I said to the dresser, you must not bleed this man at present ; there i.s rather too little action than too much ; wait till the pulse lises, and then bleed him. In the evening re-action took place ; the pulse rose, and the dresser then very properly bled him. Inflammation was by this means prevented, and the man did well. 'I’he principle upon which you should act, gentlemen, is never to do any thing in your profession without a good reason, which, whatever may be the result of the case, will leave your conscience clear. A surgeon who bleeds with- out being able to assign any other reason than that his patient has received a blow, is not fit to practi.se his profession. I he next remedy 1 come to is emetics. I must say that I have seen emetics of considerable use ; the vomiting produced by them does good. I have always consi- dered the efforts of nature to relieve herself after injuries salu- tary ; and thus the vomiting which is excited in cases of con- cussion, acts beneficially by relieving the stomach of its con-