DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. 587 little, he restores the natural appearance of the joint; but, by taking away that support, the shoulder again sinks. 'I he treatment of this fracture is, to place a thick pad in the axilla, to carry the humerus, and with it the glenoid cavity, out- wards : to support the humerus in a short sling, to preserve the parts in apposition. The clavicular bandage will assist in keeping the head of the bone outwards, and the motion of the arm may he pre- vented by confining it to the chest by a roller. It requires form ten to twelve weeks for its recovery, and continues weak for three weeks after. The third is the fracture through the neck of the humerus. This may be distinguished in the same w'ay as the accident just mentioned, and, by passing the hand over the shoulder- joint, and fixing the head of the humerus with the fingers, whilst, at the same time, having raised the elbow, and carried the upper part of the humerus a little outwards, you will feel a crepitus on rotating the elbow; but the head of the bone docs not follow the rotation of the arm. Y'ou are to apply a roller, from the elbow to the shoulder-joint, and put a splint on the inner and outer side of the arm, to be confined by another roller ; a thick pad is to be placed in the axilla, and the arm gently supported in a sling. 'I'he principal difficulty is to prevent the pectoral muscle drawing the body of the bone forwards : but, if the inner splint be properly applied, its influence will be counteracted. It requires from three to six' weeks to unite, according to the age of the patient. Of Dislocations of the Elbow. 'Fhe elbow may be dislocated in five directions ; and first, of the dislocation of both bones backwards. This accident is strongly marked by the alteration in the form of the joint, and by its great loss of motion. There is a considerable pro- jection formed posteriorly, by the ulna and radius. On each side of the olecranon there is a hollow ; a large hard swell- ing is felt at the part of the joint, immediately behind the tendon of the biceps, which is the extremity of the humerus. The hand and fore-arm are in a state of supination, and you cannot turn them prone. The cause of the accident is gene- rally this ; a person, when falling, puts out his hand to save himself; but the arm not being perfectly extended, the whole weight of the body is thrown upon the radius and ulna, and they are forced behind the axis of the humerus. The dislo- cation is to be reduced in this way: let the patient be seated on a chair; take hold of his wrist, and put ymir knee on the inner side of the elbow joint ; then bend the fore-arm, and at the same time press upon the radius and ulna with the