145 ON INJURIES OF THE SPINE. stroy life. There are two ways in whicli wounds on the scalp occasionally prove destructive of life ; first, by producing ery- •sipelas, and, secondly, by producing iuflainniatioii of the ten- don of the occipito-frontalis. A man came to the other hosjjital a short time ago with a wound of the head from a blow which a companion had given him. The dresser thought it too slight a case for admission into the ho.'=pital ; but a few days after the man returned witli violent pain in the head, a considerable swelling of the scalp, and cry’sipelatous indanunation extending over the whole face and neck. He was admitted into the hospital for the erysi- latous iuflammation, of which he afterwards died. Upon examining the body, there was found an effusion on the mem- branes of the brain between the tunica arachnoides and tlie pia mater. The other way in whicli wounds of the scalp de- stroy life is by producing inflammation of the tendon occipito- frontalis, which extends over the whole .surface of the head. 'Fhis iurtammatiou covers the scalp and face, and assumes an erysipelatous character, but it is not true erysipelas. It has not the vesicle.s or blisters filled with scrum, which com- monly attend erysipelas, but it has a tendency rather to su|)- puration ; aiid if the constitution has strength to produce this .suppuration, it takes plaoe between the tendon and the peri- cranium. In this way a very extensive abscess is often formed into which we are oblisred to make an incision, in order to discharge the matter, which capnot make its way through the tendon. Extensive disease is thus produced, and the inflam- mation attending it sometimes destroys life. I have already alluded to a case that occurred recentlv, in which a jiersoii died of erysipelas, which followed the removal of an encysted tumour. The tumour had been removed twice before,’ and to prevent its recurrence, an incision was made so deep as to lay bare the pericranium, and in this operation the tendon had been cut through. 'I'here is a great deal of danger in in- flammation arising from this cause, and it is on that account that I was anxious to point out to you, in a former lecture the impropriety of making incisions in the .scalp merely for the .'^akc of exploring the nature of the injury. An incision in the scalp is often attended vvitli considerable hazard, and should never be made unle.ss imperious necessity demands it. On Injui(ik,s of tiif .Sfinf,. Injjiries of the spine produce effects similar to those arisine from injuries of the head ; the spine being liable to concussion, extravasation, and fracture with depression. Cases of concussion of the spine are not very iinfreoiient. . icy occiii more commonly ill the lumbar region than in other