534 ON SYPHILIS AND THE USE OF MERCURY. ill the aflirniative. Such persons, gentlemen, we do not admi< into the hospitals : we only tell them to take care of them- selves, and to keep themselves as warm as possible, and that, after a time, the disease will disappear. T'he.se pains aie readily distinguishable from those which proceed from the syphilitic poison. Syphilitic pains commonly attack the shins, but they never put their hands to this part of the body. They complain of pains from the upper to the lower part of the arm; pains about the chest and about the hips. These art nieixurial, not venereal, pains. You have an opportunity of seeing an example of this disease in the skeleton on the table, in which the mercury has affected the ribs, the sternum, the tibia, and, in short, almost every bone in the body. A de- posit of earthy matter is formed between the periosteum and the bone, so as to case the surface of the bone. Patients suf- fer exceedingly from mercurial diseases of the bones, much more indeed than from syphilitic. You should direct them to pay strict attention to temperature, and give them the com- pound decoction of sarsaparilla. This plan of treatment will be sufficient for the cure of this disease. I shall, in the next evening’s lecture, close the subject of syphilis by some general remarks on that disease. LECTURE LXV. I shall, to-night, deviate from my usual custom, and give this evening’s Lecture from notes. The subjects of it will he, General Remarks on Syphilis, and on the Use of Mercury. The symptoms of syphilis are divided into primary aud fe- condary. Chancre and bubo come under the former deno- mination; and, under the latter, sore throat, eruptions, nodes, and diseases of the nose: these secondary symptoms are the consequences of the absorption of the venereal poison into the system, and its circulation through the blood. Some parts of the body are incapable of being acted upon by the venereal poison, as the brain, heart, and abdominal vis- cera; indeed, the venereal poison does not appear to be ca- pable of exercising its destructive influence on the vital or- gans, or those parts most c.ssential to the welfare .and con- tinuance of life; but the bones, muscles, tendons, and skin, readily partake of its malignant nature, As some parts of the body more readily take on the venereal action than others, so some individuals are much sooner than others infected by ihe venereal poison. Many men (to their shame be it siKiken'