248 ON HERNIA. Ills shows the folly of stating that Gimbernat’s ligament i, he seat of stricture. Whoever dissects a strangulated femorai hernia will have an opportunity of learning this for himself, ourgeons will find that the division of Ginibemat’s ligament liberate the stricture, that it wiU remain the same; and that the constriction is at the crural arch. 'I'here isadan- l^^'i'oi'iil hernia, where the intestines are doubled up on themselves. A case of this kind occurred once at one of these hospitals:—One of the gentlemen attending these institutions came up to me one day, and said that there had been an operation for femoral hernia, and that the intes- tine had been cut into; I inquired how this happened, and uas informed, that the mouth of the hernial sac being divided thepaits did not return; the division was made still farther, and the knife was introduced two or three times ; till at last, feculent matter came from the wound—the intestines having given way. I was aware that the opportunity for examiaine the part would soon arrive—one satisfaction at least that there is fiom a bad ca.se, by which we may learn our faults, and gathei iniormatiou to guide us in similar cases. On ex- aiiiiniug this patient, it was found that two convolutions of the intestines had been cut by the knife, just at the mouth of the heinial sac, and that Gimbernat’s ligament had been divided. 1 eisons, who think the stricture is at Gimbernat’s ligament are grossly ignorant of its real seat, and I can scarcely tell how to express my contempt for those who resist the evidence of then senses. I have my feelings on the .subject, other persons hai e theirs but it is my duty to state to you my views on this complaint; if I did not relate the result of my experience, of what use has been my lecturing here for thirty-two vears ? and 101 what purpose have I attended hospital practice during the space of forty years 1 It is only the opportunities which I have had of watching disease that makes it worth your while to hear me, and that affords me pleasure in teaching you. {^Apphtute.) I do not mention it to gain your approbation, but to enforce on your minds that nothing will avail in practice but the tact which is gained at the bed-side of the patient, and that any thing eise is of comparatively little importance. Uaibilical Hernia. Umbilical is ne.xt to inguinal hernia in frequcncv, if not before it; it very frequently occurs, but w'hether more or less so thau inguinal, 1 am not quite cert.ain. Umbilical hernia is veiy common in infants soon after birth, and to these cases you will be most frequently called. In adults, where there is great obesity, in pregiiaiit women and children, this complaint IS ofteu found. In infants it will soon be recognized by the