292 ON SOLUTION OF THE CATARACT. Of the Operation for Procuring Solution of the Cataract. The third operation is that for procuring solution of the ca- taract, which, as it is particularly adapted to the cataracts of children, leads me to make some obseirations in this place ou congenital cataract. Children are not unfrequently either bom with cataract, or with a disposition to cataract, which speedily makes its appearance. Indeed it is not common to find an ab- solute onacity of the lens, or of the capsule containing it, at the birth of the child ; the cataract usually makes its appear- ance within a few mouths, or at least within the first few years, from the birth of the child. In some instances there seems an hereditary predisposition to this disease, several chil- dren in the same family being affected with it.^ fhe nature of the cataract may he firm, soft, or fluid ; and it mat be lenti- cular or capsular, as in the adult. By far the most common form, however, according to Dr. Saunders, who has given par- ticular attention to cataract in children, is the capsular. In general, he found the lens itself more or less absorbed, the anterior and posterior layers of the capsule being opaque and adhering. The appearance of the cataract is somewhat differ- ent from that in the adult; there is an opaque nucleus either at the ceutre or some part of the circumference, and the rest has an unequal opacity, or streaked reticulated appei^uce. Another circumstance peculiar to congenital cataract is steadiness and constant motion of the eye, which it is not dif- ficult to explain. The eye has never been accustomed to have its vision fixed by objects, unless, perhaps, very imperfecth and consequently the will has never been in the habit ot influencing the muscles which give direction to the globe o. the eve Hence its unsteady and constant motion. It wa.- formerly deemed advisable to defer the operation for cararact in children, but Dr. Saunders has introduced a mode ot ope- rating in these cases which may be resorted to at ant age. This is certainly one of the greatest improvements "Inch h^ been made in this branch of surgery, not only because M.mn is extremely important for the purposes of education, cause, if the operation be delayed, a very considerable tinu will elapse before the patient can acquire a command oterthe Tve in consequence of the want of voluntary influence over the muscles. Another, and more forcible reason, why thisopera- Hon should not be delayed, is, that it is an universal law in the economy of nature, that all parts which are not cxei'cisi'fl lose more or less of power ; and, consequently, the retina, from not being accustomed to receive the impressions of ligh , £ rcoSdLbk portionof it. pow„. Dr. S.bndcr. lout.d