«0S ON HERNIA. Even in these cases, however, a gradual diminution, and sometimes a reduction, of the hernia is effected by the wearing of a truss. _ , j Mr. Gaitskell sent me an elderly patient with strangnlatea hernia, which was situated above the abdominal ring, and wa* e-Ktremely small. This patient told me that the hernia was formerly'so large that it was in his purse, meaning that it bad descended into the scrotum : but that he had worn a truss for a number of years, and that it had become gradually reduced ill size. 'I'his hernia was eventually reduced, though with great difficulty. In general, if the patient’s age exceed forty years, 1 do not promise a cure by the wearing of a tru>s. When a truss has been worn for some time, the effect upon the hernial sac is, that it falls into folds by the action of the cremaster, resembling the appearance of the .nomach after death, when it has undergone contraction. Here is a speci- men on the table, which will show you this effect of the truss unon the hernial sac. It sometimes happens, when a hernia is cured by the wearing of a truss, that water forms beneath the part at which adhesion takes place, producing hydroceie ef a particular kind. The fluid in this case is clear as water, and has not the coiunion character of serum. Of Irreducible Hernia. Hernia becomes irreducible from various causes ; the most common cause is, the adhesion of omentum or intestine to the interior of the hernial bag. . Here is a preparatioi), showing how completely a hernia is rendered irreducible by the adhesion of omentum to the in- terior of the sae. A second cause is the growth ol omentum or mesentery, without adhesion, from the accumulation of adeps which renders it impossible to retiini the hernia into the cavity of the abdomen. A third cause is the formation o a membranous band, produced by inflammation across the sac by which the omentum and intestine become entangled, and tlie return of the protruded parts is prevented. Of the Treat.ment of Irreducible Hernia. With re.spect to the treatment of irreducible scrotal hernia, you must advise the patient to wear a simple suspeiiso^ ban- dage without which he would be expo.'^ed to considerable danger from the possibility of the hernia bursting, n he should receive a blow on the part. Mr. Norris bad a patient whose hernia suddenly bur.st, in consequence of his striking his scrotum against a post, while he was walking m streets of Eomlon. The hernia was returned, but the patient soon died. I knew a man with irreducible hernia, who met with a similar accident, in consequence ot his tailing irom a