ooL) OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. on r ill which it happens is this : surgeons are generally gusious to allow the patient to retain a considerable ipiantity of urine in his bladder in order that the sudden gush of water, on the introduction of the gorget, may inform them that the instru- ment has reached the bladder. This practice is, however, ivrong ; because, when the patient is allowed to retain a con- siderable quantity of urine, the bladder suddenly contracts, when it is discharged, and so firmly embraces the stone, that when you introduce the forceps there is no space between the bladder and the stone, and the instrument constantly slips from the stone. In this way the patient is often exhausted by the repeated attempts at its extraction. I once saw a pa- tient of Mr. Travers under these circumstances, though he afterwards recovered from the operation. 1 have no doubt he well remembers the case to which I allude; immediately after the gush of urine, the bladder contracted at its fundus, and the forceps slipped repeatedly from the stone, in the manner which I have described. Soft stones require the use of the scoop ; a number of calculi will require either the frequent introduction of the forceps, or the use of the scoop. I do not recollect that there is any other circumstance wliich I need mention to you re.specting the lateral operation for stone. ^fter-Treatment.—With respect to the after-treatment, some surgeons inject the bladder, with a view of removiug every remaining fragment of stone. This is not the practice ill these hospitals, and I am by no means satisfied that it is of any use. It might have been necessary when dressings were applied to the wound, but this is never done now; the wound is left open, so that the urine may distil as freely as possible. In this way any remaining portion of calculous matter is car- ried away, and there is no danger of its accumulating in the bladder- The after-treatment consists in giving the patient opium as soon as the operation is over; indeed, in some cases where the patient is exceedingly irritable, I give opium two or three hours before the operation is performed. I do this with two views ; first, because the opium deadens the sensations of the patient, and he .suffers much less pain from the o])eration ; and secondly, because it renders him much less irritable after the operation. 'I’he patient often falls into a composed and tranquil sleep in consequence of the opium, instead of rolling about the bed in an irritable state. The opium, therefore, acts beneficially, by diminishing immediate and remote irri- tability, and I have never found it produce any improper effect. It will be proper to give diluents very freely to the patient; a small quantity of soda or potass should be put in his diluted drink ; gum may also be added, as it is believed to have the