62 ACUTE AND CHRONIC ABSCESS. iieives of the skin orcasions great constitutional irritation, and the patient dies, as if destroyed by a burn or a scald. Abscesses are also dangerous, from their being situated in vitally important parts, such as the brain, heart, or lungs; or when they are not seated in parts of vital importance,* from their pressure on essential organs. Cases.—A woman was admitted into thi.s hospital for a complaint in the throat, occasioned by swallowing a pointed boue. All she complained of, at first, was a soreness in the throat; hut she was .shortly after seized with difficulty of breathing, which increased greatly, and she died. On ex- amination after death, I found, upon making an incision into the pharynx, that between it and the fore part of the vertebne, a large abscess had formed, which, by pressing the phanTjx forward on the epiglottis and glottis, occasioned difficulty of breathing, and in the end destruction of life. Shortly after this. Dr. Babingtou came to this hospital with a friend of his, who was labouring under great difficulty of breathing. He requested me to examine his throat: having put my finger on the back of the pharynx, and felt fluctuation there, ! told him that this was a case of which I had seen an instance, where the patient had died from a collection of matter formed in the same situation. I immediately procured a seton needle, and including it in a canula, like a trocar, I put it down into the pharynx, let out a considerable quantity of matter, and the ])atient was relieved. Here was a case, which, but for this operation, would probably have terminated fatally, by the ]iressure of the matter on vitally important parts. In the same manner, abscesses in the perineum, or between the prostate gland and the rectum, will, by their pressure on the urethra, occasion ii ritation of that part, and sometimes com- jilete retention of urine. 'Thus, we find that abscesses, though situated in parts not of themselves vitally important, sometimes become dangerous by their pressure on more important parts. LECTURE X. Acl’Tf. and Chronic Abscess. ,\t the conclusion of our last lecture, gentlemen, we stated that the danger attending the formation of abscesses arose from their size, number, and pressure on important parts; and lastly, that when they formed in important parts them- ■selves, they generally proved destructive to life. - Another danger which we did not then mention-is, when