ON GANGRENE. 97 the life of any part is a white line, which nature forms for the separation of the dead from the living parts. For this white line we anxiously look, since it is the harrier which nature sets up between the dead and the living parts, and it hecome.s a criterion of the cessation of the gangrenous disj)o- sition. At this white line the cuticle is raised. This elevation of the cuticle is a vesication, which forms aline of circiun- vallation around the gangrene. When the cuticle becomes separated, as it will in two or three days, we find a cha.^ni beneath it, produced by the absorption of the living skin in contact with the dead. The living skin is taken up by the ab- sorhent vessels into the constitution, and in this manner the living parts are separated from the dead by a process of nature. If we were to reason d priori on this subject, it might be expected that the absorbent vessels would rather re- move the dead ])ortion of skin in contact with the living; but this is not the case. The absorbent ve.ssels act on the living part.s, but not on the dead ; nor is the dead skin absorbed after the time when granulations have formed, but it becomes loose, and ceases to attach to the surrounding parts ; the chasm formed by the absorbent vessels affording an opportu- nity for the separation. The next part which begins to separate is the cellular tissue immediately under the skin. Gangrene proceeds to much greater extent in the cellular tissue than in the surrounding skin, because the cellular membrane is a jiart of weaker living powers. It is tor this reason that a sloughing disposition in sores extending to the cellular membrane is so dangerous. A small chancre beginning in the pudendum of the female, and sometimes in the |)cuis, will frequently occasion destruction of life in the part. Some persons have iib.surdly supposed that these sloughing sores are not chancres, because tliey have not the common venereal character. But how does this hap- pen \ If a chancre forms in the pudendum of an irritable female, and has a sloughing disposition, it extends into the cellular tissue, inliames to a high degree, and |)ro(luces gan- grene. In this manner the character of the chancre becomes •lestroyed. ^ '1 here is at this time an unfortunate female in the other hospital, who has lost a considerable ]K)rtion of (he external organs of generation, in conscuiuence of a sloughing chancre. I he hospitals teem with sucii eases ; and indeed this dep orable result is always to he e.xpected when a ? Hmdi- ing chancre extends into the cellular tissue, a p.irt na urally weak, and rendered weaker in these persons from then' irrita- bility and mode of life. Ihc next part which .se])arates is muscle. Muscles separate II