492 ON BLEEDINGS OF THE URETHRA. blesome at night, when the patient is warm in bed ; and occ ingenious gentleman, with a view to keep the part* cool in- vented a tube to pass between the legs, under the clothes, to if co7d ah'! %h^ purpose of admitting a current Treatment consists in the application of poultices, fomenta- tions, and eeches. During the night the penis may be enve- loped with linen, wetted with the lotion plumb, subacet. Eva- porating lotions may also be employed ; the best medicine that you can give is thus formed : Liquor, potass, ra. x.\. Exir. conii. gr. iij. Mist camph. 5X. Ft. haust. It should be taken three times a-day, and will be attended with the best effects. Calomel and opium mav also be administered with much advantage. You may give a pill every night, composed of a grain of calomel, a grain of opium and two grains of camphor; this will be found mate- nally to abate the pain, and will be productive of much com- lort. lo get rid of the hardness which often remains after the painful erections have disappeared, you should mb the part with the ung. hydr. camphorat. and apply some of the same ointment spread on umbrella silk ; by pursuing this plan of treatment, the hardness will generally disappear. There is a Chronic Chordeb, Of which I wish to say a few words. It is of this kind : some- times after a person has had gonorrhoea very severelv, the dorsum of the penis will become so extremely’hard, as,'upon ossified. To remove this hardness, vou should direct the liiiimentum. hydrarg. to be mbbed on 'the part night and morning ; or you may order it to be kept co- vered by a plaster of the cerat. saponis ; this acts like a poul- tice, and when the complaint is recent, will answer very well; but, when of long standing, you must have recourse to the liniment, hydrarg. and even this will often fail, owing to the extremely thickened state of the tendinous sheath of the dor- sum. Of Bleedings fro.m the Urethra. We are sometimes called to persons having considerable haemorrhage from the urethra. It sometimes occurs from the rupture of a vessel during inflammation ; at other times, and more frequently so, it is caused by the introduction of a ca- theter or bougie. From whatever cause it proceed, the Treatment is v^ery simple : press the finger and thumb upon the urethra, deep in the perinasuni, and observe if vou command the bleeding; if you do not, bring your hand a