ON COMPOUND FRACTURES. 624 another case of the same kind the man died, but the hemor- rhage was stopped by pressing a piece of lint into the wound, and the artery was not tied. The introduction of extraneous bodies into the wound to suppress hemorrhage is wrong in compound fracture, as they produce too much irritation, and do not effectually answer the proposed object. It is better in some cases, in which yon hare great difficulty to secure the vessel at the wound, not to be twitching and pulling, and continually irritating the wound, and frequently to little purpose, but to cut down at once on the artery, in its course to the part. If, for example, the pos- terior tibial artery should be wounded just below the middle of the leg, where it is deeply covered by muscle, it should be cut down upon higher up, and secured. 5lr. Hey sawed through the fibula to get at the posterior tibial from the outer part of the leg; but I should recommend it to be secured from the inner side of the leg by making an incision between tbe gas- trocnemii and the tibia, and then cutting through the fascia covering the deep muscles. I have only known one instance of the femoral artery being divided in compound fracture, and I thought it right to am- putate immediately; the hemorrhage was but slight, but as the artery and vein were both torn through, I considered there was veiT little chance of saving the limb. In two cases of division of the brachial artery by fracture, amputation became necessary. In one of these cases I ampu- tated even whilst the gangrene, which had taken place in the lower part of the arm, was extending ; but as this arose only from local injury, the patient did perfectly well. I shall not have time to-day to go through the difficulties which yet remain to be described in the treatment of these accidents, and 1 shall therefore leave them until we next meet. LECTURE LXXV. Oentlemen, 1 shall now take the opportunity of concluding the subject of compound fractures ; and shall therefore next speak of these accidents when extending into the Joints. If a compound fracture should extend into the ankle Joint. that, of itself, would form no rc.ison why ampumtion should be performed ; but you should be guided principally by the nature of the injury, by the age, and also by the constitution of the patient. If the compound fr.acture e.xtcnding into tins joint be oblique, it will generally do well, provided care br