I2G ON COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN, is found, gentlemen, that the extravasated blood, producinf compression of the brain, is generally situated in three dif- ferent parts : — 1‘irst, between the dura mater and pia mater. Second, between the pia mater and brain ; aud, lastly, within the substance of the brain itself. In this case (Sir Astley point- ing to a specimen on the table before him) there was a consi- derable quantity (three ounces) the largest I ever saw effused beneath the dura mater. In this also (pointing to another, there was a large quantity extravasated opposite to the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone and meatus auditorius extemus ; and the dura mater itself was torn. Second, between the pia mater and brain : this is of more common occurrence; aud in this ca.«e a large portion of the brain will often be found covered over with blood, not that the quantity of blood extravasated is con- siderable, but a little is diffused over a large space. This por- tion of brain before me was taken from a man who fell, I believe,' from the yard-arm of a ship, and who was carried to the other hospital (Guy’s), he died four hours after his ad- mission ; and on examining, after death, the vessels going from the pia mater to the brain were completely tom through. Third, within the substance of the brain itself; this (alluding to a specimen on the table) was taken from a person in the city, who had extravasation within the brain, from an acci- dent; after the injury lie considerably recovered, though pain still continued in the head ; in three months afterwards he died, and on examiuation there was found in the anterior lobe of the cerebrum a coagtiluin of blood, no portion of which had been absorbed, as the surfaces close to the braiu were quite smooth. These are the three situations in which extravasated blood is principally formed. I do not find any difference of symptoms produced by the different situations of the blood ; the compression is produced by the pressure of the blood, and the quantity of blood effused will depend on the size of the vessel of the dura mater that is divided ; whatever is the situa- tion then of the blood, the symptoms of conifiression arc the same : if there should be any blood resting on the origin of a nerve, there will be partial paralysis of the part which that nerve supplies. In the treatment of these cases there is little to be done. If extravasation of blood occurs with fracture, trephining may be of use. Vou should deplete freely, for the pitrpose of preventing inflammation ; irritation is to be les- sened, the bowels are to be opened, and the |iatient kept very quiet. If there is a bruise near the fracture, indicating the spot where the effused blood is, you may trephine, that is, be- fore svmptoms of excitement come on : when they take place.