ON POISONS. in this patient had but imperfectly returned, after a lapse 01 '144 months after the infection has been received. A lady went into the country in August, having with her two children and two servants. The part of the conntry in which they resided during their absence was damp and bogey 5 she returned again the following Octobei ; at Christmas the voungest child wai? attacked with an intermittent fever, and a few davs afterwards the same disease appeared in the person of the eldest daugh- ter ; in succession the two servants, likewise, had it. Well, then, here w'as an example in which the seed of an intermit- tent bad been sown more than two months before the svmp- toms were apparent. Those [jersons who have had ague, and who are subsequently assailed by fevers, or even the slight fever attending a cold, will have it assume a typhoid character ; what I mean is, that fevers in those individuals who have had ague will eenerallv be of a typhoid nature. I will now speak more particularly of Animal Poisons. The JVusp and the Hornet.—The sting of the wasp and the hornet gives rise in many cases, to very great pain and severe inflammation. 'J’he best application to mitigate the effects of those stings, is composed of one drachm of opium rubbed down in an ounce of oil ; put some of this on lint, and lay it over the wound, occasionally changing it; at the same time you should keep the bowels open by aperient medicines. Tlie poison communicated by The Bite of the Viper not unfrequently proves destructive to life; it has both a nervous and arterial influence. A gen- tleman who was once in company with me on a shootine"ex- cursion, upon seeing a viper on the side of a bank, struck u with the butt-end of his gun, and supposing that he had kill^ it, put his hand towards it, for the purpose of taking it up ; the reptile, however, tvas not dead, but had merely'formed itself into a coil, and sprang upon the gentleman’s finger; he instantly sucked the wound, and shortly afterwards his tongue became paralyzed, and for a time the faculty of speech was entirely lost: this clearly shews that the poison of the viper has a direct influence upon the nerves, and that it affects the vascular system, is also equally evident, for, in the case of this gentleman, the inflammation of the finger was verv great, and extended up the arm even to the shoulder ; by taking ape- rient medicines, and the application of poultices, this gentle- man ultimately recovered. There was a man some time since admitted into this hos- pital in consequence of the bite of a viper; the |)Ower of speech