DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. 589 rated from its eonnexion with the coronoid process of the ulna, and is tlirowii forwards, into the hollow above the ex- ternal condyle of the os humeri, and upon the coronoid pro- cess of the ulna. The fore-anu is slightly bent, but cannot be brought to a right angle with the upper, nor can it be per- fectly extended ; when bent suddenly, the llexion is checked by the head of the radius striking against the fore part of the os humeri. The hand is between pronation and supination, but neither can he done perfectly, but it is nearer pronation. By carrying the thumb into the fore part of the elbow joint, and rotating at the same time the hand, the head of the radiu.s will be felt to rotate also; and this, with the sudden check to the bending of the fore-arm, are the best marks of the injury. This accident happens from a fall upon the hand when tire arm is extended, and the radius receives the weight of the body. In attempting to reduce this dislocation, the hand should be turned supine, the fore-arm should be bent, and extension made from the hand, without including the ulna. Nume- rous and powerful attempts have been made to reduce this dislocation, and frequeutly without success; but, by attend- ing to the circumstances I have just mentioned, I have sue ceeded in two or three cases ; and I have only seen six of these accidents, and one of these was a patient of Mr. Cline’s. Of the dislocation of the radius backwards, I have never seen a case in the living body ; but a subject was brought into our dissecting room with this accident: I have no doubt but that it might be easily reduced by bending the fore-arm ; a bandage should afterwards be worn. ’ The dislocations of the wrist joint are of three kinds.— First, of the dislocations of both bones. This is not of very frequent occurrence ; but the bones may be either thrown backwards or forwards, according to the direction of the force applied. If a person in falling receives his weight upon the palm, the carpal bones are thrown backwards, and the radius and ulna forwards. The marks of the accident are these : a swelling is prodneed by the radius and ulna on the. fore part of the wrist, and a similar swelling is seen on the back part, with a depression above it. '(’he 1iand is forcibly bent back. Ifaper.son fall on the back part of the hand, the carpus is forced under the flexor tendons, and the radius and ulna are thrown u|)On the back part of the hand. These two projections become the diagnostic marks of the acci- dent, and will di.stinguish it from a swelling on the fore ])ai t of the hand, about the flexor tendons, in consequence of it Violent sprain j a.s in this cast* there is only one swelling