ON HERNIA. 200 has protruded tlirougli the fascia transversalis, it is situated in the inguinal canal; the next place where it reaches is just under the arch formed ,by the tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles; and here it receives a covering from the cremaster; above the sac then are the internal oblique and transversalis, and beneath it the fascia transversalis ; well, after having passed through tlie inguinal canal, which may be two inches or from that to two and a half long, it reaches the lower abdominal ring ; and at this part the hernial sac will have two coverings, one from the cremaster, and another called the fascia spermatica; in this specimen (exbibitinc one to the class) you see a hernia with all its coverings ; with re- spect to'the spermatic cord, it is behind the hernia, and the testicle below it; the internal oblique and transversalis above it, and the fascia transversalis beneath it. Were you to dissect a hernia below the abdominal ring, you would find the fascia of the cord applied tightly over the hernial sac, which has the appearance of being the sac itself; there is a fibrous covering derived from the cremaster muscle; then cut through these and you see the hernial sac, having the character of peritoneum ; you pinch it up with your fingers and divide it, when water immediately escapes. 'I'he epigas- tric artery is situated very close to the hernia, hut a little to the pubic side. Well, it is generally thought that the hernial sac is an elongation of the peritoneum ; but in the oblique inguinal hernia it is not an elongation, but only a real growth of that part. When you look at the lower part, you will often see a dark-coloured spot, having a blue appearance in the dead body; and this point is sUidded with numerous vessels, and in it the ulcerative process has commenced. Some persons say, I mean speculative persons and those who have never observed, “ Return the hernial sac into the cavity of the abdomen;” but how is it to be returned.’ do those persons think that it has no attachments ? It is bound by firm adhesions, and cannot be returned except in an inci- pient state, unless by a painful and dangerous process of dis- section, which it would not be justifiable to perform. Hernia is subject to several varieties ; 1st, it is subject to a variety in size; this necessarily happens from the difierenceof its course in different persons; here is a s|>ecimen (exhibiting one to the class), so small that it has not emerged from the abdominal ring, yet is as perfect as if it had been immediately below it. Here is another specimen (pointing to one on the table) which reached to the knee. The largest hernia 1 ever saw was in the person of Mr. Gibbon the historian : combined with this was a large hydrocele, and in consequence of botli complaints he was obliged to wear a peculiar dress.