258 ON INFLAMMATION OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. blood from the eyes, and the access of air or light should aUo be prevented by keeping the room darkened. When 1 say that the access of air should be prevented, I do not mean that the room should uot be kept well ventilated, for this is a verv material point, hut only that the patient should not be exposed to variations of temperature. With respect to local applica- tions, 1 believe it will in general be found that moist warmth is most agreeable to the patient in acute inflammation of the conjunctiva. 'I’his may be applied in the way of fomentations, either by means of tepid water, or decoctions of marsh-mal- lows, poppy-heads, or camomile flowers. Where there is much irritability, steam will often be found useful, and espe- cially the steam of water in which opium has been iufused, from which the patient wiil e.xperience great relief. .Some persons recommend a sort of poultice, although from the tu- mefaction of the lids, this is an application which cannot be very conveniently used. Idle poultice, of course, is not of the ordinary description; it is generally made ofcamomile flowers, boiled so as to be rendered e.xtremely soft, and put into a gauze or muslin hag, which should be applied so as to make a very slight degree of pressure on the eye. If poultices are employed, they should be very frequently changed, for other- wise they are very apt to confine the secretions, and rather to keep up than diminish irritation. Fomentations, however, such as I before described, are greatly preferable. Many per- sons prefer cold to W'arm applications; if cold application> are employed, care must be taken that they do uot stimulate the part. The choice of cold or warm applications should de- pend entirely on the feelings of the patient; if he do not find relief from warm, you should then try the effect of cold ap- plications. 1 have found, how'ever, that in general moist warmth has a tendency to produce relaxation of the vessels, and to favour the passing of the acute into the chronic stage of inflammation. Warm applications, however, must not be continued when the chronic stage has commenced, for they would then do mischief instead of good. On this account, you should observe attentively the change of tire inflammation from the acute to the chronic stage, that yon may alter your plan of treatment as soon as the latter stage has commenced. In the chronic stage the evacuating plan may, to a considerable extent, be laid aside ; the diet, though still not stimulating, may be more generous; there will be no necessity for conti- nuing the diaplioretic medicines, as the skin will generally be suflicieutly moist, nor will it be necessary to evacuate the bowels so freely, though attention should be paid to their due action ; alterative medicines will often be found beneficial.