2‘24 ON HERNIA. often in great danger, though it appears to be reduced, as the intestine may still be strangulated within the hernia. Au out-patient at the otlier hospital came to the surgery with strangulated hernia, and a gentleman suppo.sed he had suc- ceeded in returning it, as he had pushed it through tlie abdo- minal ring. As the man, however, .still complained of pain, he was admitted into the hospital. 'I’lie symptoms were not relieved • no stools could be procured, and in three or four days he died. On examination of tlie body after death, it wa* found that the hernia had passed through the abdominal ring, but the stricture was still remaining upon it; so that the hernia was strangulated behind tlie abdominal nng. Operation for Strangulated Hernia. Before I describe to you the operation for .strangulated her- nia let me make one or two observations ; first, perform operation before there is any peritoneal tenderness: there will be always tension of the abdomen from inflation of the mtes- tines as I mentioned to yon before ; but tendernes.= from pen- toiieal inflammation, if present when the operation is j^r- formed, renders the issue doubtful ; becaup, though the divi- sion of the stricture liberates the jiarts which are pressed, yet it does not retard peritoneal inflammation ; therefore mate it a rule to operate before any symptom of it appears, becondly, YOU may wait a longer time in old persons before you perform the operation, than in the young or middle-aged. In a boy, foi instance, you should wait but a yery short time after you have used the other means ; m an older pei-son you ^.op longer, because the parts are generally more relaxed. Hav- in<^^used the means which I recommended to be adop^, wUliont success, you will then proceed to the operation. The patient should be placed on a table from two to three feet high, with the legs hanging over the end; the hair having been previously removed from tlie pubes, so as to prevent any setting into the wound, you should commence the incis.op from the upper part of tlie tumour, in whatever situation u may be, and carry it along its middle to the lower part; tliere will be no necessity to continue the ncis.on quite to t >e lower ua t if the hernia be large, as then it olten happens that there arc Vessels crossing in that part. By the hist incision you lav bare the fascia of the cord, and in doing this yon will di- vide a small arterv, the external pudendal, which crosses di- rectly opposite to ihe abdotninal ring; some will then say to ol iJf Vit “ Press on the arterv ttll the operation is oier ; Sh atid obscures the part which you are so anxious to .^e distin’ctlv. The better plan if, to take a tenaculum, and se-