256 ON INFLAMMATION OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. whole surface of the cornea, so as to interrupt or intercept vision altogether. The inflammation sometimes proceeds to the suppurative process; indeed the tunica coujunctira appears to be of a nature very analogous to the mucous membranes of the body, and like these, is exceedingly prone to the suppura- tive stage of inflammation. The suppuration generally pro- ceeds from the surface of the conjunctiva, as from the surface of any mucous membrane in a state of inflammation. In other instances, the formation of pus is circumscribed; a deposit of lymph takes place where the conjunctiva covers the cornea, or in its immediate vicinity, and a little abscess or pustule arises from the centre. Ulceration is also sometimes produced: this usually occurs in the cornea, in consequence of laying open this pustule, probably from the denudation or exposure of the cornea. Lastly, sloughing and mortification of the cor- nea is not an uncommon effect of a high degree of suppurative inflammation. The same consequences, therefore, occasion- ally arise from inflammation of the conjunctiva as from in- flammation in other parts of the body; namely, effusion, ad- hesion, suppuration, ulceration, and mortification. .As the most serious consequences, therefore, often follow from sim- ple inflammation of this membrane, let us consider the mode of treatment which we ought, under such circumstances, to pursue. Of the Treatment of Simple Inflammation of the Conjunctiva. It will be necessary to adopt at once, with vigour, the anti- phlogistic plan of treatment. As the best mode of diminish- ing the action of the heart and arteries, the use of the lancet should be freely resorted to, in the commencement of inflam- mation of the conjunctiva. You ought not to be satisfied with taking away a certain quantity of blood; as, for instance, eight, ten, or sixteen ounces; but you should in this, as in all other cases of acute inflammation, accompanied with hard- ness of the pulse, make a free orifice in a large vein, and take away a quantity of blood, until some manifest effect is pro- duced upon the action of the heart and arteries; keep your finger on the pulse of the patient, in order to ascertain how the heart is affected, and carry on the bleeding even to faint- ness. This may prevent the necessity of again h.avnig recourse to the lancet; or if it should be necessary to do so, blood maybe taken away in much smaller quantities. You will, of course, be guided by the state of the patient’s pulse, as the only certain criterion ; and when this is diminished, leeches may be afterwards conveniently applied. The application of leeches, in the first instance, except in