ON HERNIA. 251 openings in the liueae semilnnares, or line® transvers® of the abdomen, which become enlarged. [Sir Astley concluded by observing, that the diseases of the eye came nest in order, and that Mr. Green would deliver the lectures on those affections, forming a series of six, after which he should resume the course, on the subject of Urinary Calculi.] LECTURE XXXII. On the Diseases of the Eye. Gentlemen.—In speaking this evening of the diseases of the eye, I cannot but observe that there seems no good reason why the treatment of these diseases should be excluded from the general practice of surgery, for the treatment of these, as of all other diseases, depends on the same principles of cure ; and when diseases of the eye occupy exclusively the attention of persons calling themselves oculists, they are very apt to be treated in an empirical manner. It is desirable, therefore, that surgeons of good general education should direct their attention to this subject. It has been said, indeed, that they have hitherto paid too little attention to this part of their professional duties, but I think this reproach is fast wear- ing away. In the consideration of this subject 1 shall first speak of simple inflammation of the tunica conjunctiva ; then of its modifications, its consequences, and treatment. I shall next speak of simple inflammation of the deeper seated tunics, those of the globe of the eye ; the consequences of such in- flammation, and the treatment which it may be proper to adopt. Thirdly, I shall describe the diseases of the lens, and particularly that disease of the crystalline lens which termi- nates in cataract, and the operation which it is necessary to perform for that disease. Lastly, 1 shall speak of the diseases of the appendages of the eye, their treatment, and the opera- tions required for their cure. In this evening’s lecture I shall confine myself to Inflammation of the Tunica Conjunctiva. And first of simple inflammation of the conjunctiva. 'Phis, however, may be divided, like other inflammations, into acute and chronic. The symptoms of inflammation of the conjunctiva do not differ from tho.se of inflammation of other parts of the body, except in so far as they are modified by the stnicture of the part, and by the function of the organ. Indeed the change which takes place in inflammation of the conjunctiva may be regarded as a very beautiful instance and