ON THE TYING OF ARTERIES. ITI ing; on the eighth day it had come oif, and no hemorrhage ensued ; therefore, if early inflammation ensues, the separa tion will he rapid ; but if there lie a broad ligature, and the inflammation indolent, it will be from twenty-five to thirty days. Here let me give yon one or two practical hints. If the ligature conies aw'ay, and without any hemorrhage, you will think the patient safe : he is not so by any means. A man was pushing a knife through a cable, when it slipped, pierced the left thigh, and wounded the femoral artery ; a tourniquet was applied, the best that could be made, for the accident happened on board a vessel in the river ; he was brought to Guy’s Hospital, and I was sent for. On my ar- rival, I found the knife had perforated the artery, and there- fore applied a ligature above and below the vessel ; on the fourteenth day, they separated, about nine in the morning, I believe; about twelve he began to wash and clean himself, and soon after a jet of blood took place. I was sent for, ap- plied other ligatures, and he was obliged to keep his bed nearly as long as before, though I think the ligatures separated a day or two sooner. When they separate, therefore, be on your guard, and let the patient remain quiet two or three days afterwards. The operation which has been shown to you, gentlemen, for popliteal aneurism, is the one used for aneurisms of the ante- rior and posterior tibial arteries, situated at the upper part. 1 saw Mr. Lucas, the father of Mr. Lucas, the late surgeon at Guy’s, perform that operation for aneurism of the anterior tibi<al artery. But this operation is not to be performed when the aneurism in these arteries is near the foot; I have not seen an aneurism of the posterior tibial behind the inner malleolus, but I have of the anterior tibial on the front of the foot. I saw Mr. H. Cline, in an aneurism of the anterior tibial, cut down on the tumour, and apply a ligature just above it, but it did not succeed. In these aneurisms, you must make an incision on the sac, and apply a ligature both above and below it. LECTURE XXII. On the Tying of Arteries. We arc, this evening, gentlemen, to consider the subject of the taking up of the arteries in tlie different parts of the body, for aneurism. The Application of a liiGATUiiE on the Exiernal Iliac Artery. It is not at all an uncommon occurrence to meet with an