ON NASAL POLYPI. 427 they H'ill again form, and the operation be again required. IV'hen you happen to pull away, along with the polypi, portions of tlie bone and membrane, you destroy the sources whence they originate, and in such cases prevent their return. Now, gentlemen, the remedy for these polypi is extraction by means of forceps. Those generally employed are long, and have small points, the insides of which points or blades are made rough to prevent tlieir slipping from the peduncle, and thereby losing their hold ; the manner of using the forceps is this : I pass up a probe in a direction between the superior and inferior turbinated bones, and feel for, and ascertain the precise situation of the peduncle; I give the probe the'direc- tion which 1 have just stated to you, because I have invariably found these polypi springing from the middle chamber of the nose. I have never known one of them arise from the septum narium. Well, having satisfied myself of the situation of the peduncle, by means of the probe, then let it remain as a di- rector for the forceps, and having carried the points of the forceps to the peduncle, thus guided by the probe, seize the peduncle and tear it off by a sudden jerk of the forceps : by adopting this mode polypi maybe effectually removed. Always take care to lay hold of the peduncle, for, if you do not, and, on the contrary, grasp the body or end of the polypus, you will then break it off, and the introduction of the forceps will be again and again required. Using the probe as a director will be found a great assistance ; as the forceps are imme- diately conveyed by it to the peduncle. I just now said that the polypus should be torn off by a sudden jerk: this is of im- portance, and you should keep it in your recollection. If you remove the polypus by gradual efforts, that is, by gradually withdrawing the forceps, you vvill not accomplish that which ought to be your object, viz. preventing the return of the dis- ease ; by a sudden jerk you are often enabled to tear away a portion of the pituitary membrane, and even the bone itself to which the polypus may be attached. By this you succeed in destroying the source from whence it sprung, and effectually obviate a repetition of the complaint; always recollect there- fore to use a jerk, and not pull the forceps gradually. If the person should be very young, and the nose small, you may remove the polypus with a pair of forceps similar to such as are contained in our common pocket instrument cases; in- deed such are the forceps which I often employ for the ex- traction of nasal polypi; if, however, the polypi should grow far back, you then will succeed best with the forceps I first mentioned. Sometimes I take away polypi by merely using a pair of