343 ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. excepting when ulceration commences, and then it is slight, and not at all alarming to the patient’s mind. Tliis disease never requires removal on account of any thing malignant in its character, but it is generally done at the solicitation of the patient, in consequence of the inconvenience she experiences from the size and bulk of the breast. When it has acquired any considerable magnitude, a slight inflammation begins in one part, and then this ulcerates, which allows of the discharge of a serous fluid. This being discharged and the cyst empty, suppuralion, with partial adhe- sive inflammation, is set up, and the cyst becomes obliterated : another undergoes the same process, and so on, one after an- other. A sinus seems to form, which leads from that in a state of suppuration to another cyst, and thus it undergoes the same change as the one with which it communicates ; in other parts the cysts do not break in this way, as in the ovarium ; one cyst bursts, another remains unopened ; they are distinct —so in the breast, they are divided into different bags; but one or two ulcerate and suppurate, which communicate with the rest, and then the breast gradually wastes. I have never seen an instance of this affection cured by natural means; it remains for months and years, the cysts sometimes breaking oue after another, and thus the breast wasting, till little of it remains. It occurs at almost any period after puberty under twenty, and after fifty; between fifty and sixty, and I have seen one case of it in a person above sixty. In persons under twenty I have met with several instances, and you more fre- quently see it in the young than in advanced age ; from fifteen to twenty-five more so than after that age. It sometimes acquires a most extraordinary magnitude. I operated once on a lady from Northamptonshire for this com- plaint, and the breast weighed, I think, fourteen pounds. I am not quite sure as to the exact weight, but I know if was of an immense size. I operated lately on a lady not very far from my own house ; the removed breast weighed thirteen pounds, and consisted of an immense number of cysts. I was to have operated on a patient this very day for this complaint, but not having time I wa.s obliged to postpone the operation ; probably I shall do it to morrow ; I will bring the removed part down with me, in order that you may be masters of the appearances which are produced in the breast, under this state. A great many mistake this complaint for the malignant cyst; but he is extremely ignorant, gentlemen, who can mistake the one for the other ; for the two diseases are very different in their cha- racter. Of the causes of this complaint we know nothing, nor of the production of the cysts ; these are points involved in