ON GONORRHCEAL RHEUMATISM, &C. 499 Spirit. .(Ether. Nitric, jij. Balsam. Copaib. 3j. Mistur. Camph. giv. Mucil. G. Acac. 5.j. Fiat mistura cujus capiat cochleare magnum bis vel ter die. If this should not succeed, you must give cantharides, to- gether with the Chio turpentine, made into a pill, li,. L)tt. Piilv. gr. J. Terebinth. Chi. gr.v. Fiat pilula ter die sunienda. When the other fails, this is the medicine medical men usually employ. The local treatment consists of the use of bougies and injections : no treatment is so successful as this ; every other is inferior to it. A bougie should be passed every other day, according to the irritability of the patient, making \ise of injection at the same time ; tliere will be no danger of stricture from this, because the bougies will prevent it; this is the plan of treatment you will adopt. Some persons apply to the urethra the unguentum hydrargyri nitratis ; also the unguent, hydrarg. nitric, oxy., which should be diluted; a scruple to an ounce may be employed, and gradually increas- ed to a drachm. The best injection is that with the oxymu- riate of mercury—about a (luarter of a grain to three ounces of water vvill be quite sufficient to begin with ; it may be in- creased after a time, from half a grain to an ounce. If it should not, however, be productive of any good, in the pro- portion of half a grain to an ounce of water, do not use it any stronger, for it is likely to produce considerable irrita- tion ; in general it is an excellent injection. The sulphates of copper and zinc, and caprum ammoniatum, have been recom- mended ; each has had its advocates. The plan of treatment which I have laid down, is the one I have found the most effec- tual myself; it is generally certain in its effect, and always safe to employ. There are two diseases produced from gonorrhoea which may be called ’ GoN’ORKH(EALR[IP.U.VtATISM AND GONORRHO:AL OPHTHALMIA. The first of these affections is not an unfrequent disease! I will give you the history of the first case I ever met with • It made a strong impression on my mind. An American gen- tleman came to ine with a gonorrhtca ; and after he had fold his story, I smiled, and said to him—do so and .so-(par- ticularizing the treatment), and that he would soon be bet- ter; but the gentleman .stopjicd me, and said, “ not so fa.st »ir ; a gonorrhoea with me is not to he made so light of, it is no trine; for in a short time you will find me with intlamma- tion in the eyes, and, in a few days after, I shall have rheu- K K 2