308 ON CALCULI IN THE URETER. spinous process, in tlie course of the psoas muscle, and otct the surface of the abdomen ; as the calculus passes along the ureter, at the time it crosses the lumbar plexus, there will be experienced very, very great uneasiness in the groin, and in tlie course of the anterior crural nerve down the thigh ; when it goes over the spermatic plexus, the cremaster will be spas- modically contracted, and there will be felt severe pain in the testicle ; the stomach will likewise be particularly irritable, and continually eject its contents ; the skin covered with cold sweats, with a death-like paleness of the countenance; the pain is not constant, but comes on at intervals ; after continu- ing for some minutes, a complete remission occurs, and you therefore suspect that the stone has passed ; after a lapse, however, of ten or fifteen minutes, it returns wdth as much severity as before. 1 have known an instance in which the violence of the pain was so great from a calculus in the ureter, that the ]>atient absolutely laid down on the ground, and rolled about, so intense was the agony, and though not more than a quarter of a mile from his residence, he was under the neces- sity of being carried to his house by the servants. The stunp- toms which have been just mentioned teach you, most unequi- vocally, that a stone exists in the ureter. It not unfrequently happens that nature fails in her attempts to relieve ; the disease then necessarily terminates in the de- struction of life. One case of this kind has been witnessed by !Mr. Hallam ; matter and urine were for a considerable time discharged by stool, but from what cause could not be imagin- ed ; when tire individual died, upon an examination of his body, a stone was found impacted in the ureter ; the colon and ureter were united by means of the adhesive process, and an opening, about three quarters of an inch from the kidney, had been made from the latter into the former, which .satisfactorily explained the origin of the pus and urine evacuated from the intestines before death. Here is a preparation (shewing one to the Students^ which was taken from a boy who had been successfully operated upon for stone in this hospital, by Mr. Cline, sen. ; in a short time subsequent to the operation, the lad sutlered from severe pain in his loins; this was quickly followed by rigors, and lastly death ; when his body was examined, a stone was dis- covered in the ureter. A woman once came to my house, com- plaining of a most lancinating pain in the belly and loins, to- gether with excessive vomiting. 1 told her that she was much too ill to be absent from her house, and advised her instantly to return home and send for her medical attendant. In com- panv with this gentleman, I soon afterwards saw her; at tlie.