170 OPERATION FOR POPLITEAL ANEURISM. sioued by there being no lire in the room at a time when the weather was quite cold. I sat down by the bed-side of the patient, and kept rubbing his leg and foot with a warm flannel till heat was re.stored to the limb. Ever since that time I have wrapped the limb up in a piece of flannel or a stocking, and sometimes put jars filled with hot water to the feet, particu- larly if the weather is cold, then the part will be preserved gcmtly warm. I once saw a patient lost by the folly of a dresser at the other hospital. In the evening after the opera- tion, seeing the limb a little swollen, he said to the sister, “ Suppose you apply the white wash (liq. plumbi. super, and water) to this ?” On the following moraing gangrene came on, in consequence of the cold produced by the evaporation ; power of the circulation in the limb became destroyed, and the patient died. The means by which the circulation is carried on when the femoral artery is tied is by the arteria profunda ; from this anastomosing vessels are sent off, which communicate with branches from the anterior tibial. It sometimes happens tliat the aneurism will be reproduced by means of a vessel which comes ofl”above the part where the ligature is applied, and en- ters the artery just above tbe aneurismal sac, and thus repro- duce the aneurism. I scarcely should hare mentioned this to you, if I had not seen an instance of this a short time ago, in a man at Guy’s, who had been operated on by Mr. Key for popliteal aneurism, and who was discharged cured. This per- son came back to the hospital with another swelling in the ham, and a pulsation in it, in the same spot as the former aneurism : he had sulTercd ccHisiderable pain ; the integu- ments of the knee were very rigid, and the bone, from the long-continued pressure on it, had become in a disea.sed state. I amputated the limb, and found the aneurism reproduced of the original size, and an artery could be distinctly traced go- ing from a little above the tumour up the thigh. It therefore happens that aneurisms arc reproduced by means of arteries which proceed from above the spot where the ligature is ap- plied, to just above the aneurismal sac : these cases are, how- ever, e.xtremely rare. The time at w’hich the ligature se]>arates is generally from the twelfth to tbe fourteenth day ; the fourteenth day is gene- rally the e.xtreme; tbe twelfth day the minimum of separation ; but it is variable according to the different kinds of ligatures used. I have seen a ligature remain on as long as twenty-eight (lays, where a broad one had been used; I have known a ligature come off as early as the fifth day, but in this last rase it was put on the brachial artery for a puncture made in bleed-