424 ON THE TREATMENT OF INTERNAL PILES. he meets with disappointments similar to those of which I have enumerated four instances : he will then retrace hi* steo. and consider whether he has been pursuing a right >vstem— wiiether, upon tlie wliole, sonn; other plan mav uot 'be pre- terable and his experience will teach him that the ligature i^ decidedly the safer operation. But there are other circum- stances to be attended to in the treatment of this dii^ease - internal piles are accompanied with a hig,|i degree of fever • they are covered with adhesive matter surrounding the rectum’ and the sphincter ani is affected with spasmodic svmptom.s! Ought you, under such circumstances, to purge the patient veiyneely? Certainly not. Apply leeches, fomentations, and poultices to the part, and take blood from the arm ; forex- citing the intestines to action adds so much to the irritation, that if )'ou venture to purge the patient once, be will not be able to bear it a second time. You must endeavour to allav the irritation by local and general treatment; if the inflam- mation continues for a considerable time, you must give an aperient once in three or four days, but it must not be oftener 1 epeated. Sometimes internal piles undergo a natural cure. A celebrated literary character, to whose case 1 before alluded, who was under the necessity of rising at an earlv hour in the morning to perform his evacuation, became, at' an advanced age, the subject of inflammation of the rectum. 'The result w'as, a loss of power in the part; he was for a week in the greatest possible danger, but at the end of that time the piles separated by sloughing, and he got entirely rid of the disease. Nature teaches us the mode in which w*e should proceed in cases of excrescences, which, as they merely form portions of projecting skin, may be removed without'the least hazard. When you see at the anus portions of skin, which are the remnants of piles, exceedingly vascular and irritable, thevmay be removed by excision. 1 remember Dr. Fox had a patient who suffered exceedingly from this cause ; the part was ex- coriated ; he had constant tenesmus, and he had taken a great quantity of medicine without benefit. 1 snipped off the ex- crescences w’ith a pair of scissors, and the jwtient was imme- diately relieved. As the jirolapsus remains for sonic time after the removal of the piles, the best treatment is to inject astrin- gent lotions into the intestine, and to apply the ungiientum galla; to the part. If the prolapsus is obstinate, you mav make a little incision by the .side of the sphincter ani, with a view of producing the adhesive inflammation, so as to glue the rec- tum to the cellular tissue surrounding it. TTiis cannot, how- ever, be done without danger in certain constitutions.