ON THE TREATMENT OF INTERNAL PILES. 423 that he had an evacuation of such a quantity of blood as could scarcely be believed ; on the The last case witli which I shall terminate this sad catalogue, is that of the wife of a medical man in the country, who came to London witli three piles. They were accompanied with some irritation, and I only removed one of them. Fhere was no hemorrhage, but three days after she complained of a good deal of tenderness in the abdomen, and I was quite suie theie was peritoneal inflammation. The symptoms increased and on that day week she died. On examination I found the peritoneum much inflaiiied ; she had the appearance of one who had died of puerperal fever. 1 have telt it my duty to state to you the consequences of performing the operation ot e.\cision for internal piles, in order to impress on your minds that it is safer to treat such cases by a ligature than bj^pci- sion. The application of a ligature, however, is exceedingly painful, if it be drawn tightly ; it should only be applied so as to interrupt the circulation, and destroy the life of the part, without exciting much pain. Leave the ligature on the part, but if the pile be of considerable size; as the ligature is apt to slip, more especially if the peduncle be large, a straight need e, threaded with a double ligature, should be passed through the centre of the pile, and tied on each side. This will excite little pain and prevent the ligature from slipping off; the f'nie in which the ligature comes away is from five to six days. A patient will come to the hospital, have the ligature applied, and walk away after it is done; it is most prudent, howev^, to remain for some time in the recumbent posture after the operation. This very morning a gentleman had the ligature applied, and thought so little of the operation that he would not go home to lie on his sofa, as I advised him. It must not be concealed that even the application of a ligature has been known to destroy life. Mr. Cruikshanks applied a ligatiu'e to an elderly gentleman from the country : the ligature ])roduced ^jangrene, which extended beyond it into the rectum and of this gangrene the patient died. Even this simple operation is not unattended with danger, if the patient neglects himself. He should keep the recumbent posture, and remain as quiet as possible, so that the circulation may not be hurried. Both excision and the ligature, therefore, will occasionally destroy life : but 1 am quite satisfied from experience, that, upon the whole, the ligature is most .safe. This is the advantage, gen- tlemen, of having lived beyond the middle period of life. A young man may have been in the habit of removing piles by excision ; he may do this twenty times with success, and con- sequently believe that the operation is perfectly safe. At length