AMPUTATION'S. 412 ON THE DIFFERENT to obtain by keeping the stump in as cool a state as possible - no rollers ai^ applied to stumps by surgeons of the present dav’ no tow, no nsnucl caps, as there were fornierJv. * * • removing the dressings : On the sixth day you may take away one strap, for the purpose of permitting any pus that may have collected to escape : and on the eighth day you may remove the whole of the straps sub- stituting for each, as soon as taken olf, a fresh strap of the same kind of plaster : it would be the height of impropriety to take off at the same time the whole of the plaster at so early a period, as it would probably destroy the whole of the adhesions which had formed ; therefore, on the eighth dav when you remove each strap of plaster, put another in its place before you take off a second. Of Amputation of the Thigh. lo amputate above the knee requires but little art or anato- mical knowledge ; some degree of skill, however, must be practised in the operation, if the surgeon wishes to have a good stump after it; the whole art of the operation consists in making the incisions through the muscles in such a manner as to prevent the stump from becoming of a conical shape at a subsequent period. It is not always desirable to perform this operation very near the knee-joint; in fact, in many in- stances it is a great fault to do so, but more especiallv when tile knee is affected with fungoid or scrofulous disease: and I will tell you why. Under the tendon of the rectus muscle, for an inch and a half at least above the patella, are situate a quantity of burs® inucos®, and if these be cut into under any circumstances, when amputating, it is bad enouch, because, generally, most extensive suppuration will follow^ which will protract most materially the healing of the stump, and if you operate in consequence of a fungoid or scrofulous disease of the knee, and then should cut into burs®, the chances are. that the disease would again return in that part, and render another operation necessary'. In the operation above the knee, be careful not to make your circular incision through the integuments lower than an inch and a half above the patella. Well, gentlemen, after having made the incision throiich the integuments, and dissected them back as far as mav be thought necessary for the purpose of covering the stump, r-ou are then to cut through the superficial set of muscles. In di- viding these muscles is the grand circumstance to be attended to in this operation ; and which circumstance is to divide the muscles immediately surrounding the bone at least two inches higher up than the spot at which you commenced your inci-