313 SIZE OF CALCULI. again; all ihc calculi consists of uric acid, or at least those which have been analyzed do, and the others appear to be com- posed of the same. It was this case which led me to say just now, that the introduction of the forceps for removing a stone is not dangerous; for at the first operation I introduced the forceps seventy times, sometimes withdrawing them without a single calculus, at others with three: after the operation he suffered very little ; for the introduction of the forceps is not dangerous, but the danger arises from the bruise of the part, and ;rom the violence uscAl in extracting large calculi. Size of Calculi. The usual weight of calculi formed in the bladder is from half an ounce to two ounces ; most frequently under two ounces. 'I'he largest I ever extracted is the one I now show YOU ; its weight is si.xteen ounces. After I introduced a pair of forceps, I was obliged to send for a girablet, in order to bore it, but it was so firm that 1 coidd not. I succeeded, however, in extracting it by disengaging one blade of the forceps, using it as in midwifery, and then by bringing the stone under the pubes and above the os coccygis, I managed so as to remove it. Mr. Mayo, a surgeon at Winchester, extracted a stone fifteen ounces in weight, but that was broken. The largest stone that I ever saw extracted without its being broken, (at the same time the patient surviving,) is one that was taken from a per- son at the Norwich Hospital, it weighed eight ounces. But the weight and size of stones do not bear a relative proportion, for some stones of considerable magnitude do not weigh much, whilst others which are small weigh a good deal. A very large stone, that was found in a body after death, weighed twenty- five ounces. There is one at Trinity College, Cambridge, which weighs thirty ounces ; it is stated to weigh thirty-three ounces, but 1 believe thirty is the true weight. 'I'he stone of the greatest size and weight I ever heard of, was one taken from the body of a highly respectable individual, after death, by two eminent surgeons of this town. He had a paralysis of the lower extremities, and half of the body was insensible ; in this state he w'as operated on for stone ; but after various at- tempts at extracting it, the operation was postponed for a week, iu order that some instrument might he obtained in the mean while, by which the stone might be broken. At the cud of the week the operation was again repeated, but the stone was neither to be broken nor extracted, and the gentleman died from irritation. On examining the body after death, there was found a large stone in the bladder, which there was a difficulty of raising from its seat; it could not have been ex-