410 ON THE DIFFERENT AMPUTATIONS. sufficiently far, you are to make it cut its way out imuiediately at the back of the leg, and let the termination of the flap be of a semilunar shape; it will then correspond to the fom of the wound, to which it will afterwards be applied, viz., the upper part of the stump. A circular incision is now to be maHg over the leg, so as to meet the incisions where the catling first penetrated, and you remove the limb by sawing through the bones. In addition to the objections I have already mentioned, there are two others of very considerable importance : it does not heal near so well as the common amputation; from the constant re-action of the muscles of the calf, the flap becomes drawn from the surface of the bone which exposes it, and the stump usually ulcerates most extensively. We have never seen, in our hospitals, that this operation has succeeded so well as the one 1 shall presently mention to you, and, con- sequently, it has been abandoned. There is another objection that I will mention to you against its performance, which is, that if hemorrhage should occur when the ligatures come away, it will be almost impossible to get at the vessels so as to secure them ; and this arises from their becoming sodeeplv imbedded in the soft parts. Altogether, therefore, it is an operation which it will be prudent in you to avoid per- forming. Now, trentlemen, of Amputation of the Leg below the Knee. First let me mention a few rules for your guidance wheu you perform this operation. In amputations below the knee, if its condition wdll allow of it, the bone .should be sawed through four inches below the point of the patella ; when you cut through the integuments, your incision should be made with a view of saving two inches of these for the purpose of covering the stump ; the quantity, however, is to be regulated according to the size of the limb ; and, in accidents where the parts have not been reduced by previous disease, four inches frequently will not be found too large a portion. Your prin- cipal object, gentlemen, should be to save integuments, and not muscle : to preserve muscle for the purpose of covering the stump in these ainputatious is an exceedingly false and injurious surgical principle ; if you save muscle as w*ell as in- tegument, retraction will take place, and the stump, conse- quently, will not heal near so kindly as it would have done provided you had only preserved integument. Now, gentlemen, iu holding the amputating ki-.ifc, do not grasp it thus with the entire hand, but take it rather between the linger and tliiimb, so that tlie haft may freely play in the