279 ON GLAUCOMA. cast; the sight is affected ; the motions of the iris impaired ; and the disease, at last, terminates in amaurosis. On what this complaint depends, it would be difficult to say ; it is ge- nerally preceded by chronic ophthalmia. Treatment.—The remedies recommended for this complaint are various, of the most opposite kind, and have been tried generally without any good effect. Puncturing the cornea, at a short distance from the sclerotic, has been tried, and it is said with success. I have, however, seen several cases of this affection, and no benefit whatever was derived from any means that were employed. The vitreous humour is occasionally affected. There is sometimes a deficiency of this humour, arising from part of it being lost in the course of an operation ; and the quantity lost is often so considerable, that the part supported by the aqueous humour is not sufficiently firm to keep up the natural round- uess and plumpness of the eye. The medium of refracting the rays of light is destroyed, the sight becomes impaired, and glasses afford no relief. There is the tremulous iris after couching, arising from the same cause as the preceding affection. Another change which takes place in the vitreous humour is that known by the name of Glaucoma. lu this complaint the vitreous humour becomes altered in texture, more dense, and presents a sea-green hue, and the pupil is dilated. This disease has often been mistaken for ca- taract, and a person affected with it is frequently supposed to have a cataract in its incipient stage. On examining the eye minutely, this greenish appearance may be observed to be be- hind the crystalline lens, and posterior to the seat of the cata- ract; it may be, however, mistaken for many diseases, and has a greater resemblance to cataract than any other. Glaucoma remains without any change by which it may be distinguished from fungus of the eye, of which 1 shall speak to you in an- other lecture. The diagno.sis is not difficult. Having mentioned the affections of the aqueous and vitreous humours, I come next to consider the different species of cataract. Cataract. By cataract, is meant an o|)acity of the crystalline lens, or its capsule, the cataract depending on a morbid secretion of the liquor morgagtii being very rare : this is an exception, but the ordinary definition is the one I have just given. This com- plaint seems to have been understood by Hip|)ocrates ; but the notions of Galen and those who followed him, respecting ca- taract, were very confused ; and it was not till the end of the