345 ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. inclined to suppose that it was scirrhous ; but her constitution was sound, lier general health exceedingly good, and I said no operation ought to be performed. I kept her in the hospital some weeks to see the progress of the complaint; but the girl being tired of waiting any lunger, left the hospital. 1 lost sight of her for three years, at the expiiation of which time she came back to Guy’s with a considerable swelling of the breast, which on examination I found to be partly solid, and partly fluid. The gentlemen assembled in the theatre to see the ope- ration ; 1 ordered this patient into the room, and said that 1 should not romove the breast, but simply introduce a lancet into it, and open the swelling. Having done this, water, paler and less coloured than serum, escaped in abundance through the opening. 1 said, “ All that it will be necessary to do here, will be to produce the adhesive or suppurative inflammation. Do not close the opening till the adhesive process has com- menced, and glued the sides of the cyst.” This was done, the sides of the cyst were glued together, the opening was closed, and the patient was discharged quite cured. C.ASE il.— During last summer a lady came to me with a swelling of the breast, not very large, but hard. At first I was led to think it scirrhous, but did not decide on its character; and on looking at the constitution of the patient, 1 was pretty well assured that it was not scirrhous, nor of a malignant kind. I said that 1 would watch it; and told the patient that all it was necessary to do would be to attend to the state of her bowels. .She c.ame to me from time to time, and I perceived that in the centre some fluid was forming. After some time the fluid accumidated, and one day 1 put a lancet into the swel - ling, and discharged a quantity of serum. I put some lint into the wound so as to form a tent to preserve the opening : in a short time granulations arose from the bottom of the cyst, and the lady became perfectly cured, no disease having returned in the breast. It will be proper to put you on your guard against malignant disease.^ of the breast, which are not so numerous as is thought. A great number of the affections of the breast are capable of cure; and it requires attentive observation to distinguish one from the other ; therefore when you see dis- ea.ses of the breast, do not be in too great haste to put them under any clas.sification, for if you do, you will freuuentlv be liable to error. VV'e now come to the scirrhous Inmour of the breast. There are but two malignant disca.ses of the breast; this is one of them, and the other is the fungous tumour. The scirrhous tu- mour is the one which 1 shall describe in this evening’s lecture, of the other 1 shall speak at a future time.