538 ON SYPHILIS AND THE USE OF MERCURY. gentleman, the case is most decisive of the matter of second- ary ulcer being capable of propaeating the disease, for he had no primary symptoms by which the complaint could have been coinmunicated to his wife, as the chancre was healed four nioiiths previous to marriage. I do not know, but 1 be- lieve the disease may be communicated through the influence of the parent’s or the nurse’s milk. I believe that I have seen examples of this description.—/# the Matter of Bubo infec- tious Not so far as experiments have gone. The matter of bubo inserted iu the skin has produced no appearance of chancre ; for my own part, I think there is but very little difference between the matter of bubo and that of common abscess.—Gonorrhcea and Syphilis the same disease?— On this point there is no difficulty for any one to satisfy him- self, and he will soon be convinced that there are no two dis- eases in the world more decidedly different. Now, gentlemen, to prove this, let a man who has had a very bad gonorrhoea apply four or half a dozen of leeches near the glans penis, and then draw over the skin, so that the sores made by the leeches may be embedded in the gonorrhoeal matter; well', gentlemen, will chancres be the consequence I Will secondary symptoms ensue as consequences of the experiment ? No ; 'neither one nor the other will be seen, and one cannot well conceive a more conclusive fact than this. Mr. Thurston, in 1801, made the following experiment on a young Cantab, who had gonorrhcea in an excessive degree, with ardor urinas. Mr. Thurston took some of the discharce, and introduced it into the prepuce ; he inserted it in two places, thus making two sores; both wounds, however, healed kiudlv, without producing the slightest appearance of chancre, or the most trivial constitutional symptoms. After such experiments as these, it would be madness to say the two diseases were alike ; and those persons who think so, entertain wrong no- tions of the subject, or, unforlunately, their minds mav be governed by prejudice, and consequently are incapable of re- ceiving proper impressions. Let me urge you. therefore, not to continue to think that gonorrhoea and syphilis are the same disease. The next question is this : Mr 'e those parts of the Body, which are liable to Syphilis, subject to other Diseases similar in appearance to Syphilis ?—Yes, the glans penis, for e.xample, is subject to ulceration from various causes, and the ulcers, occasionally, very much resemble chancre : this last sore, however, often possesses a specific character, bv which its true nature can, with the utmost correctness, be ascertained. Although you are frequently enabled to deter- mine that a sore is really chaiicrous, and are thus capable ot