610 FRACTURES OF THE NECK OF THIGH-BONE, the bone is driven into the cancellated structure of the tro- chanter major ; this accideut is marked by the leg beine from half to three quarters of an inch shorter than the other. The foot and toe are everted, much pain is felt at the hip, and on the inner and upper part of the thigh, and the usual rotundity of the joint is lost. The first diagnostic mark of this fracture is, that it happens in the young, and in persons under fifty years of age ; although I have known it later. But, if the symptoms which I have before described, are seen at any age under fifty, it will generally be found to be a frac- ture external to the ligament, and is capable of union by ossific matter. Yet it must also be remembered, that this fracture may occur in more advanced age, and therefore re- quires care in the discrimination of the two. ^Tie second sign of this accident is, that it is usually the result of some very severe injury, as blows received on the part, from falling upon some projecting body, or from heavy carriages passing over the limb; whilst the fracture within the capsule occurs from any slight cause. It may be known, in the third place, by the crepitus, which is produced by a slight motion of the limb; and it is not necessary, in this accident, to draw the leg down to feel the crepitus, as the retraction is not so great as in the former accident. There is also usually great extra- vasation into the surrounding parts, and this swelling is quickly followed by great tenderness to the touch. There is also violent pain produced upon slight motion of the joint, followed by a high degree of constitutional irritation ; and many months elapse before the patient recovers a proper use of the limb. The principle to be attended to in the treatment of this fracture is, the approximation of the bones by pressing the trochanter towards the acetabulum ; at the .same time preserving the length of the limb, by applying a roller around the foot of the injured leg, and binding it firmly to the sound one; thus making the sound limb afford support, and act as a splint to the fractured one. A broad leather strap should be buckled around the pelvis, and include the trochanter major, so as to press the fractured portions of the bone firmly together; and the best position in which you can place the limb is in a straight line with the body. 1 have also known cases do very well where the patient has been laid on his back on a mattress, and the thigh brought over the double in- clined plane, which may be very easily made by three boards; one passing from the tuberosity of the ischium to the foot, and the two others having a joint in the middle, by which you can increase the elevation of the angle as may be requir- ed ; over these a pillow should be thrown, A long splint