ON INFLAMMATION OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. 257 large numbers, is seldom sufficient in acute inflammation ; three or four leeches will scarcely produce any effect upon it. Opening the temporal artery is another mode of bleeding, which is attended with very good effects in this inflammation. This practice has been decried by some persons, who suppose that by opening the temporal artery you force the blood to p.ass through the anastomosing branches, and in this way throw more blood into those vessels which are immediately distributed to the eye. Whether this be the case or not 1 am not prepared to determine, hut I have certainly seen good effects from opening the temporal artery in this inflammation, and I am therefore often inclined to adopt this practice. Some practitioners recommend the practice of dividing the vessels of the part by scarifying the conjunctiva. This is a practice, however, which 1 do not recommend ; the quantity of blood taken in this way is small; the irritation produced in performing the operation is considerable, and the clots of blood left after it often excite or keep up inflammation of the conjunctiva. Great benefit is derived from treatment directed more especially to the body at large ; such, for instance, as diaphoretic medicines. The tartrite of antimouv is a very use- ful medicine of this kind ; perhaps there is no medicine which, after blood-letting, tends so effectually to keep down the ac- tion of the heart and arteries. It should be given in such doses, and repeated at such intervals, as to keep up a .state of nausea. Purgative medicines are thought by some persons to be not at all necessary in this inflammation. Kichter, a very valuable writer on surgery, is of this opinion ; and 1 am quite surprised at it, for much benefit will undoubtedly arise from evacuating the bowels of any accumulation of feculent matter. Constitutional irritation will be materially abated by keeping up the secretions from the intestines, and, in many cases, by altering and rendering them more healthy. The bowels should therefore be freely acted upon by doses of calomel, combined with jalap, scammony, or cathartic .extract; and the effects of these medicines should be kept up by the exhibi- tion of neutral salts, so as to produce a considerable number of watery stools. At the same time the diet of the patient .should be low, and he should be kept in astute of perfect restand (luietude. When an impression has been made in this way on the .symptoms, it will then be projier to adopt other plans of treatment; for instance, where blood has been taken to a considerable e.xtent, the application of a blister to the nape of the neck will be attended with beneficial effe'-ts. 'I'he treatment of the part is also to he considered; the head should be kept raised, so as to favour a return of the