530 SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF THE BONES. ease. The eruptions will often yield in a verv short time, but, unless you continue the medicine till the syphilitic action is destroyed, the disease will return. Nothing can be more absurd—nothing can show a greater ignorance of the true principle of treatment which should be followed in this dis- ease, than to suspend the use of the medicine, a.s soon as the symptoms disappear. V’enereal eruptions sometimes shew an irritable disposition, as well as other symptoms of the disea.«e from which the parts will be in danger of sloughing. MTien- ever this irritable disposition appears, suspend the use of mercury, and give the compound decoction of sarsaparilla alone, in considerable quantities. It will be better not to combine the decoction with mercury in any form ; if you add any thing, let it be opium and nitric acid. The opium lessens irritability, aud the nitric acid has sometimes a specific action on sores of this kind. Irritable eruptions are very often im- proved by the exhibition of nitric acid, which not only has a specific effect on them, but restores the general health of the patient. If the opium disagrees with the stomach of the pa- tient it will defeat the object of restoring his general health, and in that case should not be combined with the nitric acid. With respect to local treatment, the best application is mer- curial ointment with opium ; au ounce of the ointment, with a drachm of the extract of opium. This, and the nitric acid lotion, diminish irritability better than any other application. The epithema, composed of the liquor, plumbi subacetatis with the mel rosse, and tinctura opii, is often found to be useful. Carrot poultices, the solution of the nitrate of silver, and a great variety of applications, are employed with the same view. I shall now proceed to describe to you the Syphilitic Diseases of the Periosteum, and Bones. The third effect of the syphilitic poison is on the periosteum, and on the bones. It first attacks the periosteum, and the bones subsequently become affected. The cylindrical bones, which arc most exposed to vicissitudes of teniperamre, are commonly first attacked; those which are much covered by muscle are rarely affected. The back part of the tibia, for in- stance, which is covered by muscles, is very rarely affected with nodes, though nothing is more common than to see venereal nodes on the shin bone, which is only covered with skin and periosteum. Sometimes they are seated on the outer side of the tibia, towards the fibula : if they are seated on the fibula, it is where it is only slightly covered ; and if on the ulna, it is where it is covered only by skin and periosteum. Nodes on the os humeri, except on the outer side, are of a very rare