DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. 588 knee, so as to separate them from the humeru. and so as to posterior lossa of the humerus, where it is lodged. Whilst thU nre«- sure is kept up by the knee, the arm is’is to be forcibly the pl^cL '‘“u '“to 'heir ‘ reduction, the arm should be kept flexed And a bandage applied, which should be kept wet^ with an evaporating lotion, and the arm supported in a sling The fore-aira should be bent at rather less than a right ang^le with the Za‘'wm"hPtl dislocated laterally, when dvle Wh^i «>‘her on the external or internal con- in thiown outwards, the projection is greater than sLd nf h'-°‘'"f'? ^^^hwards: as the Vouoid process, in SxXrnTcnn^l is thrown behind V. L a condyle, and the radius forms a protuberance be- a bn/lnw r humerus, so as to produce to movr Tht hand, the radius may be felt condvle’ h.fLe “ ®°'“®".“cs thrown upon the internal Ss nnH el P°ster>«'-ly, as in the dislocation out- fossa of the humerus. It may be knowm bv the great projec- tion of the external condyle of the humerus, and by tL hll- i™ ‘If on the inner and back pLt of the A be accomplished as in the former dislocation, by bending the arm over the knee, without tum- ^ outwards or inwards ; for, as soon as the radius and ulna are separated from the humerus by the pressure of the knee, the biceps and the brachialis internus, which have been before kept powerfully upon the stretch, give the bones the proper direction for reduction. The third dislocation is backwards. The ulna is some- times thrown_ backwards upon the humerus, whilst the ra- dius remains in its proper situation. The deformity of the limb is very great, by the fore-arm and hand being twisted in- wards, whilst the olecranon projects considerably backwards. 1 he tore-arm cannot be extended, nor can it be'bent to more than a right angle. It is rather more difficult to detect than the other dislocation of the elbow, but it may be known by the projection of the ulna, and the twisting'inwards of the tore-arm. It is more easily reduced than when both the hones are dislocated ; you may do it readily, by bending the arm oyer the knee, and drawing the fore-arui downwards, in addition to the action of the brachialis inteimus, the ra- dius, by resting on the external condyle, will act as a lever to the fore-arm, in pushing the os humeri backwards on the ulna, when the arm is bent. 'Flie radius is sometimes sepa-