98 ON GANGRENE. nearly opposite the edge of the skin. Wherever the skin -epv rates the muscle gives way; a line of separation is formed and the living portion of muscle is taken away from the dead ; these, like the cellnlar tis.ue, do not separate opposite the skin, but at a considerable distance from the part at which the sloughing takes place If a tendon is exposed in the palm of the hand, hv a sloughing nicer, It separates at the wrist, for it is incapable of resfsting the inflammation, in consequence of its weak living powers' and separates therefore at the part where it joins the muscle. J he neives separate, like muscles, opposite the skin. But the most extraordinary instance of the process of separation is that which takes place with respect to the larger blood- vessels. What would be the result, if vou were to separate with the kiiite the anterior and posterior tibial arteries with- out placing a tourniquet on the limb ? The person would die in a few nimutes. Yet nature cuts through these vessels, and frequently divides the arteries I have mentioned, without a drop of blood issuing from the limb. This happens in the following manner: The blood in the vessels of the dead part becomes coagulated ; the coagulum, however, does not con- line Itself to the dead part, but extends to the living vessels which join It, and is, in this manner, glued to the inner side ot the artery, so that the vessels are, as it were, hermeticallv sealed ; and not a drop of blood can escape by the side of the coagulum. Ihe same thing takes place in veins, the coagulum adhering to the inner side of the living vein, so that iio'blood can escape. It you amputate a limb at a considerable distance from the part at which gangrene has commenced, vou will still find the vessels sealed. The first amputation which 1 ever pet fui med, u as in the case of agentleman who had agangren- ous ulcer near the head of the tibia. In this rase it was ne- cessary to amputate above the knee, as sufficient skin would not have been left if the amputation had been perlormed be- low. When f loosened the tourniquet, I was surprised to find 010 femoral artery. On a clo.^er examination, 1 found that the inner side of the femoral artery was completely plugged up, and sealed by the coagulum, which had extended at least six inohes above the place at which the gangrene had occurred . It appears, therefore, that the artery is not only scalcHl at the place at which nature cuts through it, but at a considerable distance abov^e if, in order to provide against the dancer which w'ould arise from a separation of the coagulum. Bones, at last, become sejiarated ; but this process is very .slow, and it is a long time before they exfoliate, loaded as they are witii phosphate of lime. Hence we are often under