461 ON VIRULENT GONORRHCEA. side. Abscesses are very rarely occasioned by a sympathetic eulargeinent of the glands of the groin from gonorrhoea ; they may almost always be prevented by proper attention on the part of the smgeoii. When I say the glands of the groin are sympathetically aflected, I am aware that this is not a strictly proper term for this species of irritation, because the swelling undoubtedly arises in consequence of the go- norrhoeal iuflainiuatiou running along the course of the absorbent glands ; it is a continuation of the inflamma- tion along the course of the absorbent vessels. With re- •spect to the internal course of gttnorrboea, the effusion in the urethra often proceeds further than the original seat of the inflammation. Swelling and suppuration often take place in the mouths of the lacunm ; matter is very commonly accumu- lated in the lacun®, and especially in the lacuna inagna, which may he known by a swelling and fluctuation on the sides of the fracuum. Irritation and inflammation also take place in the corpora spongiosa, producing that painful state of the parts termed chordee, in which the penis feels as if it were bound down, so as to prevent a complete extension. The penis is sometimes curved, and sometimes turned consi- derably to one side. The next effect of gonorrhoea is the pro- duction of stricture, which is generally seated near the bulb of the urethra, and arises from the diminished diameter of the canal, in consequence of the thickening of the part from inflammation ; another effect is an inflammatory state of the muscles of the perineum, accompanied with great irritation, and violent spasmodic contractions. The inflammation sometimes extends itself to the spot where the vasa deferentia open at the verumontanum, produc- ing a swelling, which was absurdly called hernia humoralis. When it extends to the prostatic part of the urethra, there is great irritation at the neck of the bladder ; the patient is often under the necessity of pressing on the perineum when he makes water, and soon after inflammation of the testicle begins. Whenever an old fool gets a gononhoea, it is generally ac- companied with an enlarged state of the prostate gland, and he rarely escapes without experiencing the most excruciating suffering from this cause. It rarely hajipens that an old man gets this disease without having bitter reason to repent of his folly. The bladder becomes affected, in consequence of the gonorrhtt-al inflammation; it becomes highly irritable, and the patient experiences a constant inclination to make water. Thus gonorrh ea produces various effects, not only in its ex- ternal but in its internal course ; such as abscesses in the la-