526 ON SYPHILIS AFFECTING THE NOSE. this operation ; if any of you recollect his name, 1 shall he obliged if you will mention it; (here several students stated that it was Mr. Alcock.) Mr. Alcock, then, gentlemen, ha^ also performed this operation. Sir Astley then said, that he thought the union of a division of the soft palate had been attempted by some one else, when one of tbe pupils replied, “that it had been by Mr. Brodie.” I was not aware that Mr. Brodie had performed this operation—are von sure of it, sir? 'Phis being answered in the affirmative, the learned professor said that the operation similar to M. Rous’s, had been performed by Mr. Alcock, and (1 must, howe\'er, mention my friend Mr. Brodie’s name on authority, pointing to the student who first mentioned it) by Mr. Brodie. With respect to affections of the larjTis, you most act im- mediately on the system by mercury ; 1 use the oxvmnrias hydrargyri, because it is the "quickest in its operation! Jler- curial fumigations locally, and the oxymurias hydraryeri in- ternally, these are what I now employ. Some give the blue pill and opium, but I prefer the osymuriate, on account of its speedy effect. ’ LECTURE LXIV. The next subject to which I shall direct your attention, is the influence of Syphilis affecting the Nose. The mucous membrane of the nose is liable to be affected by this disease, as well as the mucous membrane of tbe throat. Ulceration in this part very speedily affects the bones, which afterwards exfoliate, and the patient will be in danger of losing a considerable portion of his nose. The following are the symptoms which indicate the existence of this disease; The first circumstance of which the patient complains, is an in- crustation forming on the nose. On this incrustation being removed by the hand, a quantity of blood mixed with puru- lent matter is discharged. lu two or three days, similar in- crustations are formed, and under these an ulceration takes place, which frequently lays bare the bone, and occasions the process of exfoliation. The bones very often separate by ex- foliation, long after the syphilitic action has ceased. The number of bones which separate in this way, is often very considerable ; there is a preparation on the table, in which you will have an o|)portunity of observing a number of bones, which separated from tlie nose by exfoliation, in the same in- dividual. Here is another example, in which the disease also made considerable progress in this part. The treatment of