ON VIRULENT GONORRHCEA. 462 ciiiiEe, stiicture, iiiflammation of the prostate gland, and irri- tability of the bladder. It is not so simple a disease, there fore, as you might at first be disposed to imaeine. '/"here i- no comparison as to the difficulty of getting rid of svphilis and gonorrhoea : syphilis is a disease which a child rnav gene- rally cure; gonorrhoea is a disease whicli very often ' baffle« the longest experience, and the greatest professional skill. Having described to you the symptoms of ponorrha'a, I shall make a few general observatious on the disease, before 1 proceed to speak of the treatment of it. In the fir.^t place, what is the time in which it appears after connexion The usual limit is from four to seven davs; it is seldom under tour, and very rarely exceeds seven days. I have known it, however, occur witliin twenty-four hours after connexion ; and sometimes a fortnight, or a longer time, will elapse Ire- fore it appears. I have known an instance in which it was delayed for fourteen weeks, in consequence, I believe, of the general indisposition of the patient. Ihe cause of conor- rhosa is undoubtedly inflammation of the lacunae of the urethrae, and particularly the lacuna magna. You will have an opportunity of seeing the state of the lacunae under this in- flammation, in the injected urethra, in two different prepara- tions. ^ Ihe inflammation is of the erysipelatous kind, but there is no appearance of ulceration. If ulceration were pro- duced, the membrane of the urethra would soon give way. It is merely a secretion Irotn the mouths of the vessels ; ulce- ration does occasionally take place in the lacunae, but not in the urethra itself. When the inflammation runs high, it ex- tends down to the bulb of the urethra. Many years ago, I had an opportunity of examining the urethral of a man who was executed, and who had gonorrhcea at the time of his execution. The inflammation had extended down to the bulb of the urethra ; for an inch or an inch and a half down, the urethra was exceedingly red, and there was some effusion of matter on the internal surface ; the urethra was red at the bulb, but not of so deep a colour. The inflam- mation, therefore, is not confined to an inch, or an inch and a half down the urethra, but often extends over the bulb of the urethra, and in this way produces strictures. In the case to which I allude, the gonorrluval inflammation had extended at least seven inches down the urethra. In general, on exa- mination ot a subject who has died under gonorrha’a. von will find a small quantity of purulent matter at the extremitv ot the penis, and inflammation extending about an inch and a half down the urethra, which if exposed to the air for twenty- four hours, assumes a florid redness. With respect to tin-