608 FRACTURES OF THE THIGH BONE. matory process has ceased, and ligamentous matter has been effused into the joint from the surface of the synovial mem- brane. That cause which so powerfully conduces Vj the nnion of other fractures is wanting here, viz. the pressure which the muscles produce on the broken extremities of bones; for, if two broken bones overlap each ether on that side on which they are pressed together, there will be an abundance ofossific matter deposited; but on the opposite side, on which there is no pressure exerted, scarcely any change will be observed. But the third and priucijral reason is, the almost entire absence of ossific union in the head of the bone when detached from its cervix. The principal sup- ply of blood to the head of the bone being derived from the ligamentum teres, which has only a few minute vessels rami- fying from it on the bone, the natural supply of blood for the neck and head of the bone is derived from the perios- teum; and when the neck is fractured, and the periosteum torn through, the means of ossific action are necessarily cut off. No deposit of cartilage or bone, as in other fractures, is produced, but there is a deposition of ligamentous matter covering the surface of the cancellated structure. On dissec- tion of these accidents you find that the cancelli are rendered firm and smooth by friction, as in other bones which rub on each other wlien their articular cartilages are absorbed. Portions of bone remain attached by ligament, or are loose and floating in the joint, covered by ligamentous matter; but these do not excite inflammation any more than similar por- tions which are found in the knee or in the elbow joints. The capsular ligament and the synovial membrane are very much thickened from the inflammation which they have un- dergone, and are therefore very much strengthened. This membrane is sometinies separated from the fractured por- tions, so as to form a thick band, jiassing from the fractured edges of the cervix to the head of the bone. Ligamentous matter passes also from the cancellated structure of the head to the neck, thus uniting, by a flexible material, the one broken portion of bone to another. It appears then, as a ge- neral principle, that ossific union is not produced. 1 have seen the two |ircparations of Mr. Stanley, at Bartholomew's, which were supposed to he specimens of that union, but these have the same appearances on each side : now it is very pro- bable that age or disease might produce similar effects in both hones, but it would be very dilllcult to suppose that accident,« would do .so. In experiments which 1 have made on ani- mals in perfect health, the union was always by lig.micnt. One of the best proofs, however, is a preparation of .'1;.