310 ON OPERATION FOR STONE IN THE FEMALE. there is almost constantly an incontinence of urine ; a great urgency to discharge it, and an incapacity to retain it. The constant e.scoriation of the parts from this cause keeps the j*- ticnt in a most offensive state. There is some variety as t// the situation in which .stones are found in the female; they are sometimes lodged in the urethra and vagina. A curious instance of this kind happened to my old friend, Mr. Cline, wlio took me, when I was an apprentice, to the first operation for stone in the female, w’hich I witnessed. In this case he felt a stone iust at the beginning of the meatus urinarius at the neck of the bladder, and on passing his finger into the vagina he found a portion of stone in that situation. He removed the portion of stone from the vagina, and then dilating the meatu.s urinarius with the gorget, he extracted the other portion of stone. 'Hie two portions formed a sort of chain-shot, a bar between the urethra and vagina communicating between them. ^ ou must be upon your guard, however, gentlemen, against imposition in the female; for extraneous bodies often find their vvay into the meatus urinarius of the female in a very extraordinary manner. Stones of very considerable size will pass by the meatus urinarius in the female, without the necessity of per- forming an operation. Here is a specimen of a large stone which passed from a patient of Mr. Giraud, a surgeon of great re- spectability. The jiatient had suffered for a length of time from this stone ; when one night, on getting out of bed and dis- chargiiio- her urine, she heard something fall luto tlie ve.'Scl, and on \ light being brought, this stone was found to have passed. Mr. Headington had a patient from whom a much larger stone had passed in the same way. Stones may be re- moved from the female either by dilating the meatus urinarius or by lithotomy. The extraction by dilatation is, however, greatly to be preferred, not only because there is much less danger in it, but because it does not leave behind the cliolv consequences of lithotomy in the female, I mean, the lo^5 of the retention of urine. A woman, who undergoes theojie- ration for stone, generally loses, for ever after, the i>owcr oi retaining her urine. Her condition, therefore, is iiio.st deplor- able • the constant discharge of tiriiic, and the coiijtant exco- riation of the parts, render her offensive to alt arotmd her ; her health is broken, and she is completely cut off from allsocicti. The learned professor proceeded to perform on the dead >ub- ifct the operation of dilating the meatus uriiiaritis, and extract- ing the stone frotii tlie hl.idder of the tcmale. Ihetoiccps ciiiuloved for this imrpnsc was ati iiistniuioiit constructed upon his own suggestion, by Mr. Weiss-a gent Oman, ohscncx^ the learned professor, whose ingenuity enables him to aiail