449 ON POISONS. giddiness, vomiting, and veiy severe pain in the head. Tlie effects of this poison are known rather from history than from any recent observations which have been made with respect to it. The Greeks were in the habit of putting to death, by tliis poison, persons who had forfeited their lives to their country ; and it was by tliis poison, as most of you are aware, that .Socrates was destroyed. It does not appear from the accounts which history has transmitted to us, that Socrates suffered much in liis last moments, since we are told that, during the time he was drinking the hemlock, he said a cock should be sacrificed to .“Eseulapius for the ease with which he departed life. Tobacco is a highly poisonous substance, though it is rarely given in such quantities as to prove de.structive to ex- istence. I have known it, however, destroy life, both when used as an injection and when applied externally. I will mention a circumstance which occurred to me, in order to put you upon your guard with respect to the use of tobacco eiiemata. I witnessed tin instance of this some years ago in the other hospital, in a young woman who had strangulated hernia. A drachm of tobacco in a pint of warm water was injected into the intestines to assist in diminishing the stran- gulation. There were no previous symptoms which led me to suppose that the patient was near her dissolution, but soon after the injection was administered she became exceedingly depres.sed, a deadly paleness oversjiread her body, she had a cold perspiration, vomiting increased to a great degree; soon after she became insensible, and in that state died. This was not more than three quarters of an hour after she had taken the tobacco enema. On this account I mentioned to you, when I was on the subject of hernia, that it was dangerous to use this substance without feeling your way in its employment. It is better not to inject at first more than half a drachm of tobacco in half a pint of water; if the patient should not be affected by this quantity, another half drachm may then be employed. I am aware that two drachms or more are some- times injected without any bad consequences, but this is in cases where the patient has considerable strength of constitu- tion. Where the constitution is delicate and weakly, even a drachm of tobacco u.sed in an injection will sometimes prove destructive to life. I shall now mention to you another circumstance respecting the external application of tobacco. 'I'he mother of a boy, \vho was the subject of tinea capitis, having beard tliat tobacct> was the best remedy for this complaint, went to a tobacco dealer, ami bought some tobacco juice, wbicli, as I aftcrward.s learnt, is prepared in the following way : r. G