546 ON SCROFULA. clironic inflammation there is debility, but it is the re-ult of intemperance, or change of constitution ; but, in scrofula, the weakness exists from birth ; it is congenital or original debility. The age at which scrofula manifests itself is during growth ; it is extremely rare for it to occur after. Hut common chronic inflammation, arising from a change of constitution, produced by intemperance, or any other cause, occurs after growth has stopped, and is much more easy of cure than scrofulous inflammation. Scrofulous disease depends on a state of constitution different to that which gives rise to com- mon chrouic inflammation. The one is original, the other is produced in after life. The character of a scrofulous child is as follows :—You will find the skin thin if you pinch it, which is quite different from the skin of children who are not scrofulous; in them the skin is solid and dense, and the fibres strong ; but in scrofulous children the skin is thin, and the vessels may be seen meandering under it; and it is on this account that persons with this disease frequently have a rosy colour, arising from the thinness of the skin which allows the vessels to be seen under it. The hair is also light- coloured. If you observe in a family of five or six children, one among them who has a delicate thin skin, light hair, and complexion, you will find that if they are all exposed to the same causes, they will escape from any scrofulous affection, w'ith the exception of the one stamped by nature, and that this, during its growth, will be affected by the disease. The hair is also extremely fine, the eye laslies long, the pupils dilated, and the fingers are what is called clubbed, similar to the fingers in phthisical persons; the fingers are extremely long and thin, but at the extremities are broad aud flat. The upper lip is of considerable thickness, and this is a mark of debility. Those who are the subjects of scrofulous diseases often have follicles on different parts of the body, iucrustated with inspissated matter. In scrofulous persons the absorbent glands and joints are most frequently attacked ; the absorbent glands, for a reason which 1 shall hereafter give ; and the joints, from the exercise producing inflammation in the sy- novial raemlirane. You know that the absorbent glands of the neck and mesentery are more liable to scrofula than any others. Various other parts of the body are also liable to it, the lungs, the brain not unfreqiicntly, the eyes now and then, the heart, 1 believe, never ; I have never seen an instance where it was. The secreting glands are rarely affected by scrofula, at least tiie liver and kidneys, for the testicle and breast are exceptions. I'he testicle is now and then liable to