ON HERNIA. 226 tiou of the knife will do it. But the stricture is seldom sito2ted at the abdominal ring. I recollect asking one of our appren- tices, last year, how many times he had seen the stricture at the abdominal ring, and he told me never. My experience does not e.xactly coincide with this; but I believe the stric- ture is never situated in that part but in old and large herniae; and if a man .sits down to the operation, under the supposition that it is there, he will be likely to destroy the life of the pa- tient : I will tell you what he would do, he would pa.ss the in- strument on the finger up to the abdoraiual ring, and divide it ; then he would endeavour to push the intestine into the abdomen, but it would return as often as the attempt was made ; and not conceiving the stricture at any other part, his attempts would be repeated, and the force employed would most probably rupture the intestine. No, geutlemen, the stricture is usually situated at the upper part of the hernia, just opposite to the tendou of the transversalis muscle, or else in the hernial sac itself; and what you have to do i.', to sht up the abdominal ring, to hook up the abdominal muscles, and draw them upwards towards the abdomen ; then to pull down the hernial sac; by this means you expose the stricture, and render the operation more safe to the patient. The plan that used to be adopted was, to introduce the finger high up into the hernial sac, with the knife on it, and thus divide the stricture ; but in this wav the danger is increased, as the parts are concealed from view. The probe-pointed bistouiw is blunt to the extent of a quarter of an inch, sharp tor hall M inch, and then blunt again, so that you introduce it on a di- rector or finger, and divide the stricture without fear or cut- ting too much. The stricture being divided, you next return the intestine; the intestine is to be returned belore the ottien- tum. You should always at this stage introduce a finger, to see whether the parts be freely returned or not, and are not compressed at the place where the stricture was situated ; another advice that I will give you is, if there be anv air in the intestines projecting above the stricture bring it do^n to the lower part, and by this means they will be more easily re- turned. The intestines should be returned piece-mcal to t^ cavity of the abdomen, and then the omentum should succeed it. But there is one i.oint that 1 have not spoken ol, on which I will say a few words : the directum in winch you arc to di- vide the stricture so as to avoid the epigastric artery ; it has been said that this artery has been made a frighten students, and that the danger ol wounding it bas| b^e.. magnified ; but, gentlemen, look at the specimen ,cx-