ON HERNIA. 227 hibiting oue to the class) contained in this glass ; see the ef- fects of dividing this artery ; 1 might say, here is murder— “ Out damn’d spot!” This specimen was sent me hy Mr. Lawrence, an excellent •surgeon, the bare mention of whose name will be sufficient to tawakeu feelings of respect in the minds of all for his character ;as a surgeon, an anatomist, and a man. Mr. Lawrence dis- isected it from a patient who had died after the operation for ;strangiilated hernia, and he found that the epigastric artery bad been divided ; thinking that it w'ould be a valuable addi- tion to the museum, he was kind enough to send it. One of •our gentlemen was so unfortunate as to divide the artery, be- icause he cut inwards instead of outwards, thinking that the ihernia was inclined a little in that direction ; therefore a per- :son who is an excellent anatomist may wound the epigastric jartery, if he divide the stricture in a lateral direction ; but Cnot so if he follow the rule that I have laid down, viz., to cut xdirectly upwards. You must divide the stricture in the centre, :and cut upwards, let the hernia be vvhere it may ; bear this jrule in mind, and you will be in no danger of wounding the ■epigastric artery. I will now tell you how you are to treat the ■omentum and intestine. There is some difficulty in ascertain- Eing whether the intestine be gangrenous or not; if there be i;any dark brown spots on it do not let that prevent you from Greturning it. Sometimes the intestine adheres to the sac; if 'the adhesions be slight, break them down w'ith the finger, or Ifdivide them very cautiously with the knife. If they are in Igeneral strong, the best |)lan will be completely to divide the •.stricture, so as to return the strangulation, and leave the in- ■testine in an irreducible state. An irreducible hernia is not • dangerous, provided there be no strangulation. You will ’ know whether the intestine be in a gangrenous state from the • appearance of thick green spots, which may be easily broken • down with the nail. VVhat would you do under such circum- • stances! I cannot do better than relate a case in w'hich you (■will have both precept and example; A woman was brought • to this hospital with strangulated hernia, under the care of f Mr. Chandler. The d re.iser came up to me (I was in one of 3 the sfpiares of the hospital at the time), and said that he was I going to sec for .Mr. Chandler, and that if he were not at home, • he would request me to operate. Mr. Chandler not being at f home, I was sent for to perform the operation. 'I'here was a Si blush on the parts, which, together with their soft state, led I. me to think that gangrene had commenced ; this opinion 1 soon I found to be correct. As .sooti as I made an incision through t the integument, there was a strong smell of putre.scence and g 2