568 ON PSOAS AND LUMBAR ABSCESSES. iiothing more than an abscess, from the disease which I hare just spoken of, having its origin in inflammation of the spine and the intervertebral substance. The matter sprearU tiU it reache.s the origin of the psoas muscle, which passes into ulceration, and forms a bag, surrounded by a complete ring. 1 he abscess proceeds as far as the tendon of the muscle, bv rmuparts ligament, and its further progress is restrained by the tendon ; when it passes under Poupart’s ligament, be- tween the femoral vein and the symphysis pubis, it has gene- rally attained considerable magnitude, and has the appear- aiice of femoral hernia. You may know this abscess, bv the fodowing marks ; in the first place, when you ask the piatieut whether he has for a long time had continued pains in the loins ; if he has psoas abscess, he will reply, “ Yes, four, fire or SIX months you will find that he has a difficulty in ex- tending the thigh; if he puts his legs together, he feels pain and tightness in the groin, and he has increased pain in at- tempting to exert the limb, in consequence of the psoas mus- cle being then on the stretch. An excellent case of psoas ab- scess, in which the symptoms were particularly well marked, occuiied in the other hospital a few days ago. This disease has the same seat as femoral hernia, and is, therefore, liable to be confounded with it; the marks which chiefly distin- guish it from femoral hernia, are the pain in the loins, and the very great constitutional disturbance which the patient suffers in the progress of the disease. If the abscess forms on the side of the vertebrte, instead of the fore part, it is termed lumbar abscess, instead of psoas. So much for the nature of psoas and lumbar abscess ; with respect to the treatment, you must allow the abscess to take its course; very little can be done in this disease, until it has acquired considerable magnitude. The use of issues is sometimes re- commended in these cases. Little can be done, however, to prevent its progress when it is once formed, and 1 do not know that any advantage is to be derived from counter-irri- tation. ^ Digitalis has been given, with a view of promoting absorption, but I have not known it in any instance succeed. Mr. Cline, senior, once gave it to a very considerable extent, to a boy fourteen or fifteen years old ; the abscess diminished for a little time, but w'hen the digitalis w’as given up, in con- sequence of its influence on the general health, the disease returned. Let the abscess proceed until you obseiTe a red- ness or blush of the skin, and then adopt Mr. Aberncthy’s plan of making a valvular opening into the part, so as to dis- charge the matter, and close the wound almost immediately, 'rhe danger does not arise from the quantity of matter accii-