ON THE TYING OF ARTERIES. 177 peiitleman, several others have performed it, and the results favourable—a geutleinan of the name of Liston is one—Mr. Bullen, of Lynn, in Norfolk, another—and you have lately seen a very successful one in tlie other hospital. Mr. Keate, seu., the uncle of the present Mr. Robert Keate, performed the operation below the clavicle, and the first time he did so it was completely successful; there may liappen cases of axillary aneurism when the operation below the cla- vicle would be the best and safest, but unquestionably in ordi- nary instances that which I first described, viz., the one above the clavicle, is by far the most preferable. If, gentlemen, you were asked what artery chiefly supported the circulation after the subclavian had been tied, your answer would be the su- j)erior .scapula. The late Mr. Taunton, lecturer on anatomy, liad in his possession an excellent specimen of natural oblite- ration of the subclavian artery, and in tliis example the supe- rior scapular had become very much enlarged. Tying the Brachial Artery. This artery very seldom requires to be secured in conse- quence of aneurism ; but it is often rendered necessary from other causes, such as wounds, and some of these wounds in- deed, as in bleeding, give rise to aneurism. When an aneu- rismal tumour at the bend of the arm has been thus formed, let me recommend you not to cut down upon it in order to secure the ve.ssel; rather tie the brachial artery at the middle of the arm, and not make an incision upon the swelling, at the middle of the elbow. To put a ligature upon the vessel here, amidst a mass of extravasated blood, is tedious, difficult, and dangerous. A young gentleman in the hospital Med a man, and in doing so penetrated the radial artery; thirty-seven ounces of blood were lost before he could succeed in stopping it; in three days the pressure caused so much ]iain that the man requested it to be lightened; this was done, and the bleeding returned ; at the end of the week one of tlie surgeons deemed it prudent to secure the vessel, and he did so at the part where the wound had been made ; the operation took an hour in performing, and it was excessively difficult to find the vessel. On the following day there were much irritatiofi and inliamraation, and on the tenth day from the accident he died. When I was with Mr. Cline, about forty years ago, one of my fellow-apprentices came uji to me in a great fright, and said, “ Lord '. Cooper, what do you think 1 have done ?” “ Some- thing very bad, surely,” replied I, “ or yon would not look so pale. ’ “ Why, I have just been bleeding a man, and in doing so have punctured hi.s radial artery.” “ Well,” 1 said, “ is he N