268 OK PSOROPIITHALMY. of this cotnplalut does not essentially differ from that ofthr striiinoiis • It IS an iiifiaramation without power, one of the atonic kind. Depletion must not be pursued to any extent. It villbe right when any symptoms of irritation are present U) remove them by the application of leeche.s, and opening the Dowels. Drastic purgatives must not be exhibited, a' thev do not answer the object which it is intended to effect; mild aperi- ents, combined with mercurial medicines, such as calomel, the hydrargynis cum creta, or the blue pill, and in quantities so as to give tone to the system. When any febrile excitement that may have existed is removed, begin with tonic remedies : that ^ skin has its natural feel, and the tongue is clean, and the secretions from the bowels are reeular in their quantitv and quality. The applications to the part should consist of mild stimulants, and the best form in which they can be exhibited IS that of ointment. The briny incrustations on the edges of the hd, and which are secreted from the meibomian follicles, couhne the lids so closely together, that in the morning when the patient ^awakes they have the appearance of being glued toffether. This leads to produce increased irritation on ihe edges of the palpebras. To prevent this the lids are to be be- "'ith some ointment. The one commonly used is that called the citrine ointment, the ungiientum hydrargyri iiitratis • but It cannot be well borne of the usual strength, and there- foie IS diluted with one-third, or one half, or perhaps more than this, of unguentuin cetacei, and this is applied with a camel-hair brush twice a day, the incrustations of matter being carefully washed off before its application, and then some of the ointment is to be besmeared along the edges. '^The un- guentuni hydrargyri nitrico-oxydi is used for the same pur- pose. In fact, an}' of the milder stimulating mercurial oint- ments will do. 'Ihe application will be required to be varied, and the degree of strength must be regulated by the effect on the eye. The use of the vinum opii will be attended with be- neficial results, and the application of blisters will have an universally good effect. In the use of blisters, however, in this complaint, as well as in strumous ophthalmia, no advantages will be derived from keeping them open ; for when this is done, they are apt to give rise to fresh irritation. Therefore, after the application of a blister, you should desire it to be healed; and, if necepary, direct a fresh one to be applied. 13y this means the irritation in the c}*es will be relieved, and their employment be attended with advantage. The consequences of inflammation of the eye requiring dis- tinct notice, and which are accompanied with equal or less