93 ON ULCEKS. I’here is an nicer often existing on the face, called me tangere, which name imports nothing more than that you must not touch it. This disease has never been correctly de- scribed ; the truth is, that it is an ulceration of the glands or follicles of the nose, tljose small cavities from which you can squeeze sebaceous matter ; the ulceration extending deeply, at least even the cartilages of the nose become destroyed ; the plan of treatment to be pursued here is as follows, you must get prepared an ointment according to the following prescrip, tion ;— Arsenic Oxyd. Sulphur Flor. aa 5j. Ungt. Cetacei M. fiat ungueutura. Vou must spread some of this ointment on lint, lay it on the ulcer, and leave it there for twenty-four hours; then re move it; a slough will come away ; you dress the ulcer with some simple ointment, and it will generally heal. If the ulcer is not deep, you may cure this complaint without using the arsenical preparation, by merely painting the surface of the sore with a solution of the nitrate of silver. You must be cautious, however, in your manner of using this application. A gentleman once came to me with an ulcer of the kind of which 1 am now speaking, and which I painted in the manner described to you with a camel-hair brush. In the course of the day, when at Lloyd’s, he was asked by some friends what ,was the matter with his nose ; for they told him it was quite black ; and, in point of fact, it was .so. 1 was not aware, at the time, that a solution of the nitrate of silver would have produced that effect j and I merely mention the circumstance, that you may be on your guard. Deep ulcers having a malig- nant a.spect, often lemain in the faces of old persons, without producing any ill consequences, though, from their appear- ance, they portend the most direful effects. 'I’o such sores, the best application is the lotion, composed of liquor calcis and calomel. Ulcers frequently form in joints, arising fr(,ni inflammation cau-scd by a deposition of the urate of soda. Persons wil. come to you with many joints open from this cause. A gen- tleman came to me from the country, thus circumstanced. .Several of his joints were quite exposed, and the cartilages of some of them absorbed. I found in each of these joints a lump of the urate of soda; therefore, when it is necessary, you increase the openings through the skin, remove the nrate of soda, that being the exciting cause of the disease. (Jccasionally, the thickci.cd state of the edges of ulcers inr