231 ON HERNIA. secondly, applying pressure by dossils of lint; thirdly, the use of the suspensory bandage. You order the patient to keep the horizontal posture, but above all, direct that he have his evacuations on foul linen, and not be allowed to get up. If strict orders be not given to this effect, the patient will get up to go stool, and great mischief will most probably be done by the exertion. Mr. Cline operated on a patient in this hospital for strangulated hernia, and the parts were returned to the abdomen ; but the patient got out of bed a short tiine after the operation, and when on the close-stool the intestine descended into the sac, and displaced the dressings. lUr. Cline was sent for, who found the hernia as large as before the operation ; he reduced it, and ordered that the patient should not quit his bed. I mention this case to point out to you the necessity of enjoining the horizontal posture. \ou will be gratified on the following day if the patient have a motion. In five or six hours after the operation give a little sulphate of magnesia or castor oil. 'I'he more motions a patient has after the operation for hernia the better; I never saw any injury done to persons from having too many, but have seen them die for want of a sufficient number. When a patient has two or three motions, the surgeon thinks he will do well, but the danger is not over, and it will be necessary to keep up a free discharge from the bowels by opening me- dicines, or the patient will die. The history of a case is ge- nerally this : in four or five hours after the operation the patient has a motion, and in the course of twenty-four hours, two or three, and he will be supposed to be doing well. On the following day there will be no motion ; the abdomen is tense and tender to the touch, and vomiting comes on. The patient,'gentlcmcn, at this time is in the greatest danger; you must bleed largely and purge him freely by medicines or in- jections. You do not find that the peritoneal inflammation usually comes on, if venesection has been resorted to before the operation. Calomel with opium should be given ; five, or even in some cases ten, grains of calomel, and from one to two grains of opium. It will be useless to give calomel with any other medicine than opium, for it will be rejected ; pur- gative clysters, together with cathartic extract, should also be administered. Were I to tell you how many 1 have known do well for three days, and then die after all, 1 should enumerate a long list; great danger is to be apprclicnded for some time afterwards, and even those who have two or three motions within the first twenty-four hours often die. 'I'hc patient will be sometimes affected with hiccough ; this is not the result *.f gangrene, but peritoneal inflammation, and must be treated