.92 ON ULCERS. “pp"*"'"' """i- UJceis are sometimes occurring in the cellular membrane, loi ming what we call chronic carbuncles. vheu the constitution is impaired, from whatever cause, it nequently happens that small swellings will form under the ! I purple ; and ultimately siougli. ihe ulcerative process is slow in those cases. A white substance will soon be perceived at the bottom of the sore, and as soon as this comes away, healthy granulations will lapidly form, aud the wound become healed. Constitu- tional treatment, however, in these cases, must not be for- gotten ; for unless you improve the general health, the ulcers will not get well. You should administer aperients, such as the infusion of senna, Epsom salts, &c., and give alteratives— the Plummer’s pill will be found the best. For females, where great general debility has given rise to the formation of tliese sores, no medicine can equal in power the carbonate of ammonia. I shall have frequent occasion to allude to this. 1 generally give it in the following form :— 5;. Ammon. Carb. 5ss. Aq. Meiith. Virid. g v ss. 1’inct. Cardam. Comp. ?ss. M. ft. mistura. If any one medicine improves the nervous svstem when de- langed more than another, it is this. I have often prescribed It for leniales when in a state of extreme weakness, and its ef- fects are truly astonishing; two table-spoonfnls of the niLxture may be taken two or three times a-day. If the poultices have not the effect of exciting the granulating process, you may wash the sores with the liq. calcis and calomel lotion, or gent- ly touch their surface with the nitrate of silver. It not unfi equently happens that the skin in various parts of the body gets into .a state of super/icial ulceration, and without any evident cause. ’I'lie best applications in these cases are the yellow wash : ungt. hydr. nit., or the ungt. zinci oxydi. 'Fhe internal use of the oxymuriate of mercury will likewise be found particularly beneficial and salutan'; give it in the formula mentioned to you in a previous lecture", viz., in conjunction with tincture of hark : a small quantitv of this mixture should be taken in a little white wine, once or twice daily, according to the :ige and symptoms. This nu'dicine nail be found a very valuable one, when the above-mentioned ul- cerations are connected with disease of the mesenteric glands.