ON NASAL POLYPI. 425 Op Polypi of the Rectum. Before I quit this subject 1 should observe that polypi sotne- tinies spriug from the rectum. Most mucous surfaces pro- duce polypi, and the rectum among others. There is a pre- paration’on the table exhibiting a polypu.s in the rectum; there is one in the college, exhibiting a polypus in the internal .surface of the bladder. These appearances may excite your surprise when you meet with them, and 1 think it right, there- fore, to describe them to you. They generally occur in chil- dren, and very rarely in adults. The most advanced age in which I have met with them is twenty-two. The child, whose case I described to you, who sat upon a needle which entered the bladder, and formed the nucleus of stone, had a polypus which extended for a considerable length up the rectum. Its mother found something red descending, which was found to be a polvpus, reaching three inches in length up the bowel. It was extremely vascular, of the same size throughout, and of a florid red colour, having nothing of the character of a pile. 1 found it hanging down from the centre of the anus, and on taking hold of it 1 drew down the rectum by it. This was the first case of the kind I had seen ; I had never before heard of the disease. The child was brought to my house, and on drawing down the rectum, I removed the polypus with a pair of scissors. While I was at lecture, a person came from an inn in the Borough, where the parents of the child were staying, and told me that the child was bleeding very much. 1 re- quested Mr. H. Cline to go to the inn, who found that the bleeding was inconsiderable, and the child did extremely well. The way in which I have since removed polypi has been by drawing them down so as to bring into view the part of the rectum from which they spring, and, when this part is brought into view, to put a ligature round them, and remove the part below the ligature with a pair of scissors. I have seen in the course of my life ten cases of this kind, most of which occurred in infancy; two of them occurred at the age of puberty. I .shall proceed with the subject of polypi in the ensuing lecture. 'J'liE first subject for our consideration this evening will be Polypi of the Nose. There are four different species of nasal polypi, the first and most common of which is the Gelatinous Polypus. Polypi of this description grow from a narrow peduncle,