•18G INFLAMMATION OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. muriate of mercury in very small quantities, for I iK-lieve f have seen it beneficial. But this is tlie treatment only for the enlargement of the gland. Well, but when retention'of urin<- takes place, what plan of treatment are you to adopt then When no urine whatever can be passed, and when there is great pain at the neck of the bladder.’ Why, you must take blood from the arm, apply leeches to the perinaeum, adminis- ter purgatives, and put the patient into a warm bath. If these means should succeed in procuring relief, the best medicine that can afterwards be given for the purpose of pre venting a return of the retention, and at the same time of lessening the inconvenience which sometimes attends the complaint, is composed of fifteen drops of the liquor, potassse, five drops of bals. cepaib. and an ounce and a half of mist, camphor. If you give fifteen or twenty drops of the balsam, it then produces a stimulating effect, and does harm; admi- nister it in the quantity that j have just mentioned to you, in conjunction with the other medicines, to which you may add 5ij. Alucilag. Gu. Acac.—I was attending with Dr. Key, a gentleman from the country having this disease, and in whom it proved a source of much annoyance : we at first gave him ten dro|)s of the balsam, with the other medicines ; this quan- tity, however, was found too stimulating, the dose was re- duced to seven drops, and ultimately to five ; after continuing it for a short time, we had the pleasure of sending this gen- tleman bark to the country very much relieved. This medi- cine is by far the best remedy for this complaint that I am ac- (juainted with. Other medicines, as the carbonates of .-oda and magnesia, the liquor, potassse, and opium, are occasion- ally given ; but, as the latter produces costiveness, it is de- cidedly impiopcr. 1 can assure you, with much confidence, that the first medicine 1 described to you will be found the best. It will afford considerable relief, which is all that you can expect, for you must not dream of making a cure. When you are called upon to relieve retention of urine, from enlarged prostate, by the introduction of a catheter, the instrument should be fourteen inches in len.etb, and a quarter of an inch in diameter. In con.sequencc of the |)ressurc within, a broad instrument will answer better than a narrow one, foi being bullions at the end, it will readily ride over the enlarge- ment. When introdncinc the catheter, yon will meet with no difficulty until you reach the curve, which the enlargement of the gland has produced in the urethra ; the handle of the in- strutnent is to be here slightly niiscd, for the purpose of in- sinuating the point through the curved part. Having passed this, you are then to depress the handle completely between tl»e