INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 4 present state, and therefore you had better be without it. I will take a lodging for you ; I will give you some money, and you shall be well attended.” The bov’s scruples were over- come ; he took the money, went to the lodging; all was fixed, and the operator began ; but finding a great discharee of blood, he cried out to his assistant—“Screw the tourni- quet tighter.” He obeyed, but in doing so the screw broke, and at this unforseeii accident the dresser lost all presence of mind ; he jumped about the room, then ran to the suf- ferer, and endeavoured to stop the effusion of blood by com- pressing the wound with his hand, but in vain ; his sleeve became filled with blood, and poor Abraham would have died in a very short time, had not a pupil accidentally called, who had the presence of mind to appdy the key of the door to the femoral artery, by compressing which he stopped the bleeding, and thus gained time for the application of another tourniquet. Some years ago, one of the dressers at Guy’s Hospital, in bleeding a man, punctured the artery that lay under the vein (a situation which he ought not to have bled), and before the blood could be stopped, the person lost thirtv'-seveu ounces. One of the surgeons cut down upon the artery at the elbow% and secured it. In doing this, he divided the prin- cipal veins ; inflammation and mortification came on, and death soon follow'ed. I bring forward these examples to impress upon your mind.- that an imperative necessity exists for making yourselves well acquainted with anatomical science ; without which yon can- not conscientiously discharge your duty to society ; and it is upon this you must lay the foundation for your future ad- vancement. The parts of the body most essential to be particularly studied, are, the brain, bones, arteries, veins, nen-es. and joints. To each of these you must pay particular attention, and make yourselves well acquainted with its form, situation, and functions; otherwise you will only be exposed to ridicule, and perhaps tvorse, if, in your practice, you should be igno- rant of the nature of these structures. You should know the nature of the human machine well, or how can you pretend to repair it ? If you have a watch injured, yon will not give it to a tinker to repair—you will get the best watchmaker you can to set it right. How then can it be supposed, that the finest and most perfect organization we know of, when out of order, should be consigned to the hands of unlearned persons ? Mistakes of this kind do, it is true, sometimes happen, hut autcli less often now than formerly.