134 ON FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. public mind tlian it appears to have done. A man was pre>*ed on board one of his Majesty’s ships, early in the late revolu- tionary war. While on board this vessel in the Mediterranean he received a fall from the yard-arm, and when he was picked up, he was found to be insensible. The vessel .soon after mak- ing Gibraltar, he was deposited in an hospital in that place, where he remained for some months, still insensible; and some time after he was brought from Gibraltar, on board the Dolphin frigate, to a depot for sailors at Deptford. While he was at Deptford, the surgeon under wliose care he was, was visited by Mr. Davy, who was then an apprentice at this hos- ])ital : the surgeon said to Mr. Davy, “ I have a case which 1 think you would like to see. Jt is a man who has been insen- sible for many months ; he lies on his back with very few signs of life; he breathes, indeed, has a pulse, and some mo- tion in his fingers ; but in all other respects he is ajtparently deprived of all powers of mind, volition, or sensation.” Mr. Davy went to see the case, and, on examining the patient, found that there was a slight depression on one part of the head. Being informed of the accident which had occasioned this depression, he recommended the man to be sent to St. Thomas’s Hospital. He was placed under the care of Mr. Cline ; and when he was first admitted into this hospital, I saw him lying on his back, breathing without any great diffi- culty ; his pulse regular, his arms extended, and his fingers moving to and fro to the motion of his heart ; so that you could count his pulse by this motion of his fingers. If he wanted food, he had the power of moving his lips and tongue; and this action of his mouth was the signal to liis attendants for supplying this want. Mr. Cline, on examining his head, found an obvious de- pression ; and thirteen months and a few days after the acci- dent, he was carried into the operating theatre, and there tre- phined. The depressed portion of bone was elevated from the skull. While he was lying on the table, the motion of his fingers went on during the operation, but no sooner was the portion of bone raised than it ceased. The operation was performed at one o’clock in the afternoon ; and at four o’clock, as 1 was walking through the wards, 1 went up to the man’s bed-side, and was surprised to see him sitting up in his bed. He had raised himself on bis pillow. I asked him if he felt any pain, and he immediately put his hand to his head. This showed that volition and sensation were re- turning Iti four days from that time the man was able to get out of'bed, and began to converse ; and in a few days more he was able to tell us where he came from. He recollected the