ON DISLOCATIONS. the ankle joint a dislocation seldom occurs without fracture of the fibula. 8ometiines the acetabulum is broken in dislo- catiotis of the hip-joint. When a bone is both fractured and dislocated, it is best to reduce the dislocation vvithout loss of time, takiii'^ care that the fractured part be strongly bandaged in splints, to |)revent any injury being done to the nin,scle.s ; for, if this be not done at first, it cannot afterwards, vvithout, in all probabiliiy, disnniting the fracture. Dislocations arc sometimes partial, at other times complete. 'I'he ankle is often partially dislocated, resting partly on the astragalus, and in part on the o.s naviculare. The os humeri is sometime.^ thrown forward against the coracoid process, resting on the edge of the glenoid cavity. Young persons, and persons ad- vanced ill life, have more freiiuently fractures than disloca- tions. I have known a dislocation of the hip-joint occur in a child nine years old ; but these accidents are very rare ; what are generally described as cases of dislocation arise usually from ulceration, as 1 e.xplained to you when speaking of disease in the hip-joint. A compound dislocation is that in which the articulating surfaces are not only displaced, but in which there is also a division of the integuments and capsular ligament, by which the cavity of the joint is laid open. It is generally attended with great danger from the inflammation of the lacerated ligament and synovial membrane, which speedily succeeds; this is soon followed by suppuration, and granulations arise from the surface of the secreting mem- brane. But I should say that it was a very serious injury, or otherwise according to the treatment which it receives. It was the practice formerly to poultice, but this is now laid aside, as it produced a train of bad symptoms, and seldom terminated favourably. After reducing the dislocation, bring the integument.s closely together by adhesive plasters, and let the joint remain undisturbed for several days, and it is pro- bable that adhesion will take place. If there should be great difficulty in reducing the dislocation, as, for exiim[ile, in the ankle, it is better to saw off the protruded portion of bone, especially when there is great spasmodic actit)n of the muscles ; the bone afterwards granulates, and, if |)assive motion be used in proper time, a very useful joint may be restored. The elbow is not likely to do so well in this case as the ankle ; but I ♦hall say mtvre on this subject when 1 am speaking of the pur- ticuUiT dislocations. 'I’he difficulty in reducing a dislocation is in proportion to the time which Inis been allowed to elapse after the accident, in recent ctises, it is easily effected, but if it has happened a few days, or at most a few weeks, it is reduced with great