ON SCROFULA. 549 lous disease, having children of constitutions, complexions, &c. as I have described to you, manifesting the signs of scro- fulous affections at some period of their life? and this is the consequence of a particular state of constitution, transmitted to them by their parents. Let two scrofulous persons marry, and see the consequence ; a great proportion of the children will be born with a scrofulous disposition ; with that debility of constitution which gives rise to the production of the dis- ease. I know that children may, with great care, be pre- served from attacks of the disease. A man of a gouty habit shall have many children, and 1 would not say that all should be affected with gout; but will any one say that the children of such a parent are not more likeiy to be'attacked with this complaint than the children of persons who never had the coniplaint ? Von may prevent scrofula by care, but that some children are originally predisposed to the disease there can- not be the least doubt; and in such cases the education and the habits of the youth should be so directed as to ward off a complaint the effects of which are so frequently fatal. A gentleman, whom I knew, and who was often the subject of gout, had three sons; the first child was attacked in early life with the gout; the second indulged in intemperate habits, and had the complaint to a severe degree; whilst the third, with extreme care and attention, escaped from it alto- gether. _ The predisposing cause of scrofula is congenital, or con- sists in an original fault of constitution. 'I'he e.xciting causes are whatever tend to produce, or rather increase, that debi- lity ; such as the fever from diseases of a specific kind, as measles, scarlet fever, and small-pox. Scrofulous affections, occurring after small-pox, used to be much more frequent before the introduction of vaccination than since ; and, if there were no other advantage attending it than this, it ought to be regarded as a boon to society. The reasons why small- pox disposes to the excitement of scrofulous inflammation, you must be acquainted with, without my entering into them at present. With respect to the state of body in scrofulous children, the blood is less firm, the crassaraentum loosely formed, and coagulating weakly; the quantity of serum abundant;’and the solids are feebly formed. When you dissect a scrofulous person, you find extreme attenuation of the muscles, owing to the hbres being delicately formed, the cellular tissue thin, the heart weak, not at all having the appearance of the healthy organ ; you find the arteries with loo.se coats, and, if you were to inject them, that the injection would scarcely