28 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. bath, arc the best rneans of restoring the secretions of the digestive organs. An old Scotch physician, for whom I had a great respect, and whom I frequently met in the city, used to say to me, as we were about to enter our patient’s room together, “ Weel 1 listei Cooper, we ha’ only twa things to keep in meend, and they II searve ils for here and hereafter; one is auways to ha* the fear o’ th’ Lord before our een, that ’II do for hereafter ; and the t other is to keep our booels auways open, and that ’ll do for here.” 1 he methods by which I preserve my owm health are, tem- perance, early rising, and sponging the bodv even- morning with cold water immediately after getting out of bed, a prac- tice which I have adopted for thirty years ; and though I go from the hot theatre into the squares of the hospital, in the severest winter nights, with merely silk stockings on tiiv legs, yet I scarcely ever have a cold. Should it happen that 1 fwl indisposed, my never-failing remedy is one grain of calomel combined with four of cathartic extract, which I take at night; with a basin of hot tea, about tn'o hours before I rise the following morning, in order to excite a free perspiration, and my indisposition soon subsides. ^ J he next secretion we should restore, for relieving irrita- tion and inflammation, is that of the skin, for it rarely hap- pens that a hard pulse continues with a free secretion from the surface of the body. The best mode of producing perspration is, by giving the antimoiiial powder with diluents, or Dover’s powder; as this powder, however, is apt to increase costiveiiess, the antimo- nials are the best, and these should be combined with mer- curials. The other secretion, namely th.at of the kidneys, may be re- stored by giving diluents, squills, or acetate of potash.’ Now, gentlemen, be assured it is not by restoring this or that secretion, which will relieve extensive inflammation; for it cannot be effected but by the complete restoration of tlieni all. There are some cases of inflammation where bleeding will not afford relief; this more frequently happens in inflamma- tion of the testicles than in any other part ; for these affec- tions you must administer Dover’s powder, combined with calomel. There is another mode of subduing inflammation, namely, provoking in the stomach a constant nausea, bv giring a solu- tion of emetic tartar. 1 h.ave seen this plan succcssfullv prac- tised on children in croup ; calomel should be also occasion- ally administered.