ON PUNCTURING THE BLADDER. 373 country, some years ago, to see an elderly gentleman, who was labouring under retention of urine. When I arrived, the surgeon told me that he had relieved liis patient by puncturing the bladder through the rectum ; I said I was happy to find that his patient was relieved, and wa- about to go back, when he requested me to see his patient. I went into the room, where I saw a very old gentleman, and upon asking him how he felt, he told me that he was greatly relieved by the opera- tion which had been performed. 1 asked the surgeon the cause of the retention of urine, for which he had punctured this gentleman’s bladder : and he replied, an enlargement of the prostate gland. Indeed, said I, let me see whether I can pass a catheter into this gentleman’s bladder. 1 took a large catheter from my pocket, which I passed with the greatest ease. It was this and a great number of similar cases, which induced me to .say that it is perfectly unnecessary to puncture the bladder by the rectum, or in any other way, for an en- largement of the prostate gland. You may rely upon it, that any surgeon who punctures the bladder, under such circum- stances, is a particularly clumsy fellow. {yl laugh). (The learned professor proceeded to show the operation of puncturing the bladder by the rectum on the dead subject. Of the Operation of Puncturing the Bladder THROUGH the PERINEUM. This is so much like the operation for stone that I need not dwell much upon it. It consists in puncturing the bladder by the side of the prostate gland ; there is no danger of injur- ing the peritoneum in this operation, because it does not reach the anterior part of the bladder. You make an incision in jierinaBO, as in the operation for stone, cutting down on the bulb of the penis, and drawing it to the patient’s right side. You then carry the knife within the branch of the ischium till it reaches the prostate gland, which you pu.sli to the patient’s right side. You then carry the instrument obliquely upwards into the bladder, your finger resting on the prostate gland. (.Sir Astley performed the operation on the dead subject.) 'I'here is no great difticulty in any of these operations, but let us now come to this que.stion, whether the bladder should be punctured at all.’ 'The last operation requires a greater .'hare of anatomical knowledge than the others ; this is of course no objection to it, for no man ought to operate on the human body who has not a perfect knowledge of anatomy. The objection to it is, that it generally ])roduces a great (leal of constitutional irritation, which w’e ought always, if possible, to avoid. I hold that we ought to avoid all these ojierations, and that puncturing the bladder at all for stricture in the