ON INFLAMMATION OF TFIE CORNEA. 273 consists simply in raising the membrane as near as you can to the cornea, and cutting it through wJiile suspended. When the pterygia are fleshv, more care must be taken in dividing them ; they must be divided near to the margin of the cornea, and turned back from the apex towards the base. 'I'here are a few otlier affections of the conjunctiva, but not of sufficient importance for me to detain you any longer this evening. /o ^ LECTURE XXXIV. j.jr’ On Inflammation of the Cornea, .At tlie outset, in iudamination attacking the transparent” cornea, there is a hazy appearance, the cornea loses its natural lustre, and in a short time there may be discovered on its sur- face, vessels carrying red blood, and then the symptoms will be the same as those of inflammation in general; the patient will complain of intolerance of light, and also have effusion of tears. When the inflammation of the cornea continues, matter very frequently forms between its lamellte, and the appearance which it then assumes is called onyx or unguis, from its re- semblance to a nail; the matter is to be very distinctly seen in the transparent part of the eye, and gradually extends till it occupies one-third or fourth of the cornea. If you place the eye in profile, you can generally observe yellowish spots, which are usually seated at the anterior part of the cornea, and if yon employ gentle pressure with a probe, the fluid may be felt fluctuating within, in the various positions of the head, the matter does not shift its situation, but remains in the same spot. By proper treatment the matter often becomes ab- sorbed, hut it not unfrequently makes its way externally, or an opening is formed internally, and the matter then is eft'used into the anterior chamber of the eye. 1 shall defer speaking of the treatment of this inflammation till I have considered the ue.xt subject— Ulceration of the Cornea. This di.sease is the common consequence of inflammation of the cornea; hut it is very frc<|uenlly produced by the contact of matter in purulent ophthalmia, and the irritation of lime, or by any sharp-pointed bodies which may be insinuated into the cornea; or, in fact, any irritating substance, mechanical or chemical, that may he introduced into the eye. The in- flammation produces the formation of |ius—this breaks, and an ulcer is formed. In ulcers of the cornea you will find the edges rugged, uneven, and elevated, the ulcer iuelf having an ash-coloured appearance, and the patient complaining of great