514 ON CHANCRES IN WOMEN. ing in the urethra is formed to a considerable extent - wLctj there is an opening there are three plans of treatment to be adopted1st. If the opening is small, a bougie should be passed till there is established a considerable diameter of the urethra, just anterior to the opening, to allow the water to pass freely, when the aperture will soon close. 2dly. If the opening is large, a caustic should be applied round the edge.s of the aperture, a little nitric acid will do, which produces a slough of the cuticle and cutis ; when the healing proces® commences, it should be continued once a-week till a cicatrix- forms, and draws the parts together, and entirely cores the patient. 3dly. The next mode adopted is, the Taliacotian operation : it consists in bringing a piece of the living skin over the aperture. Some pare the edges of the openitie, and apply the twisted suture, but it never succeeds, as the urine soon bursts it open ; but the other operation has been per- formed with success. I had a patient once with this com- plaint, in whom 1 separated a small piece of skin from the scrotum, and applied its raw surface to the edges of the wound; this I kept in its situation by three sutures. Adbe- siie plaster was put over the whole, and a gum elastic cathe- ter kept in the urethra. This case completely succeeded. Mr. Earle has since performed an operation on a similar prin- ciple, and with perfect success. I think it an operation which you ought to perform ; it may be done in anv part of the urethra. rhese^are the modes of treatment in the slouching urethra. If there is at the mouth of the urethra a cicatrix at all, or the orifice is small, you cannot cure such a stricture in the usual mode. You must cut off a piece of bougie, and regularly wear it in the urethra, withdrawing it twice or three times in the course of the day, to allow the urine to pass off. The object is to excite a supimrative inflammation, and thus remove the stricture ; for when the suppurative inflammation has been e.xcited, the urethra has not the same disposition to contract as before. Sometimes the extremity of the uretlira is closed ; after m,aking water in a stream about the size of a bristle, the opening snddenly closes, and the (latient cannot make a drop. If called to such a case, what you do is not to open the blad- der, but you put the point of a lancet into the clans, just at the commencement of the urethra, the urine gushes out by the side of the lancet, and then a bougie requires to be worn to keep the orifice open. Such is the treatment of obstruction of the urethra at its orifice. Chancres in Women. Chancres in women are often worse than in men ; they at-