ON PURULENT OPHTHALMIA. 260 about, so that the fluid may he difTuscd over the whole surface. _1 have seen this application used two or three times a day, and in the case of children, sometimes only once a-day, vvitli the most decided benefit. '^I'here is another circumstance which should be attended to in the treatment of chronic ophthalmia, namely, not to exclude the light so much as in acute ophthal- mia. If the patient can bear a moderate degree of light, it should be freely admitted. He should wear no bandages, and have no other protection than a shade. Continued darkne-s and heat are very apt to keep up a morbid state of sensibilifv and irritability in the eyes. Lastly, with respect to the treat- ment of chronic ophthalmia, I have already stated various causes which predispose to, in some instances excite, and in many keep up, this state of the complaint. ^ on must give, therefore, conjointly with tho.se remedies which 1 have just pointed out, others to act on the morbid state of the consti- tution which keeps up the local irritation, and your succe.'s in the treatment of this inflammation will very materially depend on the accuracy with which you investigate the causes to which I have adverted, and the judgment with which vou applv t!:e remedies. I shall now proceed to consider the suppurative form of in- flammation, producing. Purulent Ophthalmi.a. Suppurative inflammation of the conjunctiva is the most se- vere form ot inflammation in that membrane. It is exceed- ingly acute, very rapid in its progress, and often very destruc- tive in its ultimate effects. This form of the complaint re- quires very active treatment. The symptoms are so manifest that there can be no doubt of the nature of the complaint, its prominent character being the formation of a considerable quantity of purulent matter. In other resjtecLs the symptoms are not very different from those which characterize inflamma- tion generally. The patient at first feels an uneasy sensation about the eyes ; ne.xt some degree of pain on the admission of light, which increases to a considerable intolerance of light. Redness of the vessels is observed, and besides this a greater degree of stvelling than commonly attends simple inflammation. 'I’he eye-lids soon become much swollen, the conjunctii'a, where it covers the fore part of the globe of the eye, is tumid ; there is considerable chemosis, and often such turgcscenee of the upper lid as to prevent the patient from raising it. The lids are often so much tumefied as to become everted, so that a sort of roll of the lid is formed. These are the symptoms which precede the discharge of matti r. .\ fluid first appeal s which is not opaque, and has the character of tenacious mn-