ON HERNIA. 245 but I have never met with them, nor do I believe they are ever found. Now, gentlemen, we shall proceed to speak of the treatment of femoral hernia; and, first, the Treatment of Reducible Femoral Hernia. The truss required for this kind of hernia is different from that which will do in inguinal hernia. 'JTie pad should be at right angles to the spring, placed lower down than in inguinal hernia, so as to cover the crural sheath, and the space through which the hernia protrudes. The truss I mentioned in the last lecture is sometimes used, but it does not answer quite so well as the truss I have just alluded to, as it is likely to rise from its place. The truss that ought to be worn is a right-angled truss, i. e. with the pad at right angles to the spring. But I must .state to you, that femoral hernia is rarely cured by the application of a truss ; it is right that I should recommend this plan of treat- ment to your attention, and that it should, in some cases, be steadily persevered in ; but, generally speaking, it fails to ac- complish the object in view; and the reason is this, that Poupart’s ligament supports the pressure of the truss, and great strength is required, so that the truss shall bear on the hernia. I have seen a child of two years old have a truss ap- plied for femoral hernia ; it has been steadily worn till it was twelve years of age, when the heniia was in the same state as before the application of the tniss. A truss, however, should be worn, to prevent the farther descent of any of the parts, but the result is generally less successful than in inguinal hernia. Treatment of Irreducible Femoral Hernia. In this complaint, it will be right to wear a truss, as I men- tioned on the last evening, with a hollow in the pad, so as to receive the heniia, and confine it. A gentleman, with an ir- reducible femoral hernia, containing omentum, consulted me. 1 recommended a truss, with a depression in the pad, so that the hernia should be received into a cup, and the sides of the sac be gently pressed. Two years after this I saw my patient, and I inquired how his hernia was ; he told me that I should be surprised to hear that it was quite gone. This 1 doubted : he went home with me, and on examination 1 found that by pressure on the sides of the hernial sac, most of the omentum had been absorbed, and that little remained. In the treatment of irreducible femoral hernia, the truss is to be applied, and if the hernial sac contains omentum, there will be a chance of Its being absorbed. Preatment of Strangulated Femoral Hernia. The symptoms of this complaint are more urgent than those