ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 349 in a state so as to surprise any one. The bone had been ab- sorbed as far as the scirrhous liad formed, which was as dis- tinct as scirrhus of the breast. I operated on a patient at the other hospital for a scirrhous breast; the disease return- ed, aud she came back to the hospital to end her days ; she also had a disease of the spine, from vvliich she had suffered more than from that of the breast. On examination afterdeatli tubercles were found adhering to her spine; tlius much for the appearances found on dissection. I shall conclude by observ- ing, that what I have to say to you on the diseases of the breast and testis I wish particularly to impress on your minds; and I hope that I am not too arrogant in saying that the knowledge I possess of these diseases is to a considerable degree my own— that it is the result of an extensive observation on both the the dead and the living, aud that knowledge, to the best of my ability, shall be communicated to you. LECTURE XLIII. l WAS speaking, at the conclusion of the last lecture, of the dis- sections of the scirrhous tubercle, and I promised to bring some preparations shewing the effects of this disease on different parts i>{ the body. Here is a part of the thigh-bone, taken from the breast of the patient who broke her thigh on rising in bed. On examination, there were found scirrhous tubercles in the thigh- bone, which you have now an opportunity of seeing. Here is a specimen taken from the lady of Sussex, who had disease of the breast, aud fractured her thigh turning herself in bed ; she had excruciating pain in the thigh after the accident, but she lived a long time afterwards. On examining the part after death, we found it affected with scirrhous tubercles, which had commenced in the cancclli of the bone, and lastly the shell had given way. Vou will see the scirrhous tubercle exterior to the bone. I had a si)ecimen sent me by a practitioner in the coun- try, of the os linmeri, which had undergone :t similar change. In opening the body of one of the ladies whose case 1 have mentioned to you, 1 found the sternum affected with scirrhous tubercle. 1 stated to you the case that I attended with a re- specttible surgeon of the city, where the vertebrae were affected ; and here is a specimen taken from the patient at Guy’s, who had distorted spine, and a return of a scirrhous tumour in the breast, after an operation had been performed, 'riicre is :t de- posit of scirrhou.s matter on the vertebra;, 'rhesc different preparations shew that the formation of scirrhous matter isnot