528 ON SYPHILITIC ERUPTIONS. be formed through the skin in the upper part of the m>te, a probe should be introduced, to feel for the loose ossa nasi, which should he removed by a pair of forceps. The nose will be somewhat altered ; there will be some deformity, but not that horrible deformity which eusues, if the skin is allowed to give way in the upper part of the nose. Evaporating lotions should at the same time be employed, to prevent ulceration taking place tlirough tlie skin. I witnessed, very early in life, a most unfortunate case of disease of the nose, which was occasioned by maltreatment, and which ruined the happiness and prosperity of the individual in whom it occurred. This person had embarked in business with the greatest possible degree of success, and his prospects were of the most flatter- ing description. He retired, for a time, from his business, in consequence of a sore in his nose (accompanied with incrust- ations) which was ^believed by his surgeon to have been in the first instance syphilitic. A slight mercurial course was employed for his cure, and he got apparently well; but a short time after, the discharge from hLs nose returned. This led the surgeon to think that he had not been completely- cured, and he accordingly put him upon a second course of mercury. Extensive exfoliations took place, and the bridge of his nose was sunk. Under these circumstances, he wa's ashamed of appearing in business, and was under the neces- sity of consigning it to other hands. The disease of the nose was still not entirely subdued, and he \vas put under a third course of mercury. 'I'his led to the inflammation of the skin, the ossa nasi separated through it, and the most horrible de- formity was produced. The state of his breath, and the smell issuing from his nose, were most offensive ; he was obliged to seclude himself entirely from all society, his prospects in life were completely ruined, his business went to decay, and he died in poverty and wretchedness. As these circumstances occurred to a man in a higher state of society than that in which we usually meet with such deplorable cases, they made a strong impression on my mind. Be upon your guard, there- fore, against treating a renewed discharge from the nose a? syphilitic, on the supposition that the mercury previously em- ployed has not been sufficient to subdue tlie disease. The next subject of which I shall speak is that of Syphilitic Eruphons. Syphilitic eruptions are the mildest of the secondary symp- toms of the venereal disease, and, in general, admit of an easy cure. The common character of syphilitic eniption is, that they are of a copper colour, rising a little above the sur- face of the skin, and, if they go on to ulceration, form