374 ON PUNCTURING THE BLADDER, urethra, or enlargement of the prostate gland, is perfectly on- necessary. I will tell you why I hold this" opinion, gentlemen- for if I were to make this statement without assigning in* reasons for it, I should be doing you injustice. I am aware that what I now say is not merely addressed to you, but that it will go forth to the world, and I have no hesitation in de- claring my opinion, however widely that opinion may be disse- minated, that I consider the operation of puncturing the blad- der, with very few e.^ceptions, entirely unnecessary. 1 will explain to you the grounds on which I entertain this opinion. 1 was lecturing here one evening, when one of .Mr. Chandler’s diessers came to me, and requested me to see a man who was labouring under retention of urine in this hospital. I went im- mediately, and found that he was suffering under retention of urine, from the use of a caustic bougie. I desired him to try to make water, and while he was trying, I put my finger on the perinaeum, and distinctly felt the water rush against the stricture, which was just opposite the arch of the pubes, the urethra having become enlarged behind the stricture. I di- rected him to be carried into the operating theatre, and just making an incision under the symphysis pubis, I desired him to try to make water. While he was trying, the urethra beinc very much distended with urine, I opened it, and the urine flowed. He was put to bed without undergoing any other operation ; the inflammation produced by the caustic bougie subsided, and common bougies were afterwards used. 'JTie man was completely relieved by the operation, and this is all I have done since in cases of accumulation of urine in the bladder. I desire the patient to draw up his legs as if he was going to be operated upon for stone, and I tell him that I am just going to make a small incision, which will not expose him to any risk. If 1 find a difficulty, on account of the stric- ture being situated very near the apex of the prostate gland, on opening the urethra I introduce an instrument in the way in which many of you saw me perform the operation a few days ago. Instead of carrying the point of the instnmient to- wards the bladder, I direct it outwards, so as to bring the urethra into the pcrinacum, and making a cut behind the point of the instrument, I introduce a jirobe and carry it to the stric- ture. If the incision is not sufficient, I earn- the opening still further, introduce a director, and upon it a ktiife, with which I divide the membranous portion of the urethra. The result is, that the urine is passed by the perinxum, and the bladder is relieved from the accumulated load of urine without being iu the slightest degree injured. It is said that this is an operation attended with great difficulty. 1 will acknowledge that there