55 ON ULCERATION. But ‘mflaiumation has not only an influence on the arteries; it has also an elTect on the absorbent vessels, which are thrown into a state of inordinate action whenever any considerable (luaiititv of blood is thrown upon them. There is a natural balance' between the action of the arteries and the absot bent vessels In a state of health, and at the adult period of life, the'portioii of matter deposited by the arterie.s, and the portion taken into the system by the absorbent vessels, are, as iicaily as possible, balanced, 'in youth a greater quantity is poured out bv the arteries than the absorbents remove ; but in age a smaU’er quantity is deposited than absorption is taking away. You find, therefore, that the balance is destroyed in a different manner at difterent periods of life ; but when a considerable and inordinate absorption takes place of some part or the body, that absorption is denominated ulceration. It was formerly thought, that it was necessary to the ulcerative process, that matter should be formed ; but this is not the case, as ulceration often_ occurs without _ being- accompanied by any purulent secretion. The forimition of matter, therefore, is not necessary to the process ot iilceia- tion. The great cause of ulceration is injlammation united with pressure. If the inflammation be considerable, and the pressure but slight, ulceration will be produced and it the pressure be very considerable, and the inflammation but slieht, still there will be ulceration. As a proot, both that pressure is the cause of ulceratron, and that ulceration is not necessarily accompanied with the formation of matter, I will give you the example of aneurism. Here is a specimen on the table of a large aneurism of the aorta, just above ihc heart, into which you may pass your hand in the hole produced by the ulceration of jiart of the ribs and sternum ; those parts having been absorbed by the pressure of the aiieurismal sac, producing an increased action of the absorbent vessels. Here the pressure is exceetlingly great; but the degree ot inflam- mation is very slight. In the same manner we see an aneu- rism of the aorta on the fore jiart of the s|iine, |)ioducing ab- sorption of the vertebrte, by the pressure of the aiieurismal bag, though no matter is effused, the ulceration being pro- duced by the pressure arising from slight inflammation, unac- companied by anv secretion of matter. I'rom these lacts, we are led to conclude that the formation of matter is not neces- sary to the ulcerative process; and that it only happens on ex[)03e.d surfaces of the body, wbere it is necessary tor the protection of sores, by covering the granulations. The constitutional symptoms of ulceration are slight. In general, a degree of fever attends it, but it is very slight. The