OPERATION FOR ARTIFICIAL PUPIL. 295 nueasiuess, rather, arising from the application of the instiu- nient—than she could not keep her head at all steady, but threw herself into all sorts of postures. I .succeeded, with great difficulty, in making a very indifferent section of the cornea, and in extracting, the cataract from the eye. I know not what induced me to be so indiscreet, after the specimen 1 had had of this patient’s firmness, to attempt the operation on the other eye. I did so, however, and if the patient was un- steady during the first operation, she was ten times more so during the second. The consequence was, that though I com- pleted the section of the cornea in the second, I found 1 could not proceed without the risk of doing considerable injury to the part; and I thought it best to leave the cataract in its place. AVTiere there are no contra-indications to deter us from per- forming the operation for extraction, it is undoubtedly the mostefcctual operation, as it completely removes the disease; but then it requires much more skill and dexterity than the operation of 'depression ; and the want of sufficient skill is more likely to prove injurious to the patient. The operation for depression is extremely easy, but it has its disadvantage.s. Not unfrequently, the cataract rises again, and it will be ne- cessary to repeat the operation. If the cataract be depressed on the retina, the patient will experience constant pain, which sometimes terminates in amaurosis. It sometimes happens after the operation for couching, that the patient is seized with vomiting, accompanied with acute pain. This has been sup- posed to be the consequence of wounding the ciliary nerves. I know not whether this opinion is well founded, but it com- monly happens when the operation is followed by vomiting, that the cataract rises again. No judicious surgeon will, indiscriminately, prefer one mode of operation to another : his opinion must be decided by the nature of each particular case. In general, where the nature of the cataract admits of it, the operation for solution is preferable. In cases where the opera- tion for extraction is not contra-indicated it will be preferable to that of depression, if the surgeon has had sufficient oppor- tunities of acquiring dexterity; but if he has not been much in the habit of performing the operation, 1 should recommend as the .safer, though less effectual course, the operation for de- pression. 1 shall here describe the Operation for Artificial Pupil. Where, from some defect of the cornea or iris, or the parts connected with them, there is no )iassage for the rays of light, the operation for artificial pupil is required, which consists in making a section with a cutting needle, through the iris,