473 ON VIRULENT GONORRHCEA. caused by the child having received an injury when on horse- back ; but still I would say, that in ninety-nine cases out of every hundred, stricture is the result of neglected gonorrhoea, riding or drinking hard, or any excess when the patient is la- bouring under that complaint. Treatment of Permanent Stricture.—There are three prin- cipal objects to be attended to : the first of which is, to cure the complaint by dilatation ; the second, absorption ; and the third, to destroy it altogether. The first is effected by mecha- nical means ; the second, by the influence of medicines ; and the third, burning it away by means of caustic. The first, or cure by dilatation, is accomplished by means of bougies j these are of various sizes, and made of either wax, elastic gum, catgut, or silver ; catheters are also sometimes employed, and answer the purpose tolerably well. Now, with respect to wax bougies, before introducing them into the urethra, you should always warm them by the fire, for the purpose of rendering them soft, when, if they are in- tioducediuto the urethra, and pass through the stricture, you will ascertain the distance at which it is situated from the ori- fice, and the form and size of the stricture will be modelled on the bougie. You then pass another bougie, a little larger than the first; and, directly that is withdrawn, another size, still larger. On the following day you again introduce two bou- gies, that is, if there should be no existing inflammation to prevent it; the first bougie you then use, is to be of the same size as the one which you concluded on the previous day ; after this has been withdrawn, you again pass another, a size larger than the first; thus using on every occasion two bou- gies, always beginning with one of the same size as that with which you had concluded on each preceding occasion. By adopting this plan, strictures may be cured in a quarter of the time that they usually are, and the strictured part of the ure- thra speedily made to regain its natural size. Bougies have been numbered from one to sixteen, so that surgeons may on each occasion know the size they are using, and the size they last used ; number sixteen is large enough for a walking stick, and evidently too big to be safely passed into any urethra ; and number fourteen is of quite suflicient magnitude to esta- blish the natural pas.^age of any urethra. It is not necessary to leave in the bougie any length of time ; for, when the bou- gie has passed the stricture, the effect of dilatation has been produced. Never attempt to pass a bougie i)i its straight state ; for, if you do, it will be obstructed in its passctge, whether there be stricture or not; you should invariably give it, before its iu-