•182 INFLAMMATION OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. laken in any convenient vehicle, should be continued for a little time, and the coinjjlaint will disappear. LECTURE LVIIL The first subject on which I shall this evening eneage your attention is, enlargement of the prostate gland. 'ITiere are three species of disease, exclusive of the formation of calculi, hy which this gland is affected ; now the one which 1 shall first describe to you, is Acute Inflammation of the Prostate Gland. This complaint is not confined, like the chronic enlarge- ment, to late periods of life, but attacks persons of any age, and generally terminates in suppuration. The most promi- nent symptom which characterizes this complaint, is violent pain immediately after discharging the urine, and in this re- speet the disease resembles stone. As the inflammation ad- vances, an abscess in the prostate produces retention of urine ; this may be relieved by a common catheter, it will answer the purpose well, and for this disorder the prostatic catheter wrill not be necessary. You therefore pass a common catheter, and about the fourth day you will perceive that matter escapes through it, and at which time your patient will be greatly re- lieved. The Medical Treatment of Meute Inflammation of the Prostate Gland, consists in taking blood from the arm, and adminis- tering mild laxatives, together with antimonial medicines. Generally speaking, the disease is not so clearly manifested by the symptoms as to satisfy your mind of its true nature, until the matter escapes by the catheter : this, coujded with the other appearances, stamp its true character. Rigors do not attend the formation of this matter. The next kind of enlarged prostate that 1 shall describe to you, may be called The Chronic Inflammation. It is the consequence of age, and not of disease ; when this affection produces partial retention of urine, it should be con- sidered as a salutary process, for it prevents incontinence of urine, which, in old people, would almost constantly take place, were it not for this preventive. It makes the urine pass slower than natural; but this may be excused, when it is the means of preventing a continual wetting of the clothes. Well, then, the first circumstance by which you know that an old person has chronic enlargement of the prostate gland, is the length of time he reijuires for the purpose of voiding his urine. All of you must have observed that an old gentleman