ON THE CURE OF HYDROCELE. 193 of water; but if the wine be such as is commonly got at taverns and public-houses, in which there is a good deal of log-wood or sloe-juice to make it astringent, and a good deal of brandy to make it strong, a less proportion of wine must be used, as the injection would otherwise be too stimulating to the tunica vaginalis. Brandy, or spirits of wine, may also be employed; in the latter case, take one part of spirits of wine to fifteen parts of water. The injection which we generally use in the hospitals is the sulphate of zinc, in the proportion of one drachm to a pint of water. A gentleman, on being told that we employed the sulphate of zinc in hospitals, for injection in hydrocele, exclaimed, “ Oh, 1 suppose you do this to save your wine.” It is not to save our wine, however, gentlemen, that we prefer this solution, but because we are better enabled to judge precisely of the strength of the stimulus by the use of the sulphate of zinc, than by that of wine, which is sub- ject to so much adulteration. Water itself will produce a stimulating effect, it used eold. A gentleman, whose name does not immediately occur to me, has written a treatise, in which he produces several cases of the successful treatmeutof hydrocele, by an injection of cold water. You must not sup- pose, however, that one fluid '.vill answer the purpose as well as another; for I remember a case in which an injection of milk, which was used by the surgeon on the supposition of its being a bland fluid, produced most horrible inflammation. 1 he tunica vaginalis suppurated, and when an incision was made to discharge the matter, the milk came out in curds, and a great quantity of pus had been produced. Be upon your guard, therefore, against making experiments of this kind. \V hen you inject for hydrocele, you should place the patient in a recumbent posture, which will enable you to perform the operation more steadily. Before you introduce the trocar and canula, make it a rule to squeeze the scrotum and tunica vagi- nalis, so as to make the part where the lipid is most distinct very tense ; then introduce the trocar and canula obliquely, in the same manner as in the palliative mode of treatment. Havi[ig passcfl the trocar and canula into tlie tunica t'aginalis, withdraw the trocar, and push the canula alone carefully up- wards, so as to prevent any injury to the testicles or spermatic cord. 'Von should nip the tunica vaginalis round the canula, to guard against the instrument being diverted, and thus throw- ing a portion of the fluid into the cellular tissue. Having taken t.ns precaution, you are gradually to throw up the injec- tion, turn the stop-cock, so as to confine it in the tunica vagi- nalis, and move the scrotum from side to .side, so that the fluid may reach every part of the surface. 'I’lie fluid should be o