o I ri ON CALCULI IN THE BLADDER. oiO ing the different calculi, he discovered the species which I am now mentioning, to whicli he gave the name of the cystic oxide. With respect to the uric acid, it is distinguished by concentric lamellae, and when cut has the colour and appear- ance of wood. (The learned professor e.xhibited a specimen to the class.) It is soluble in alkalis, and alkaline medicines are therefore commonly recomraendsd for this kind of stone. The second S|)ecies is composed of triple phosphate, or ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate. It is of a greyish white colour, and not so distinctly laminated as the uric acid. It is not soluble in alkalis, but it is acted upon by the acids; on the application of the blow-pipe it becomes vitrified. It is acted upon by the acids, but not in any considerable degree. A (juautity of matter resembling mortar, which is, in lact, the ammouiaco-magnesian phosphate, is generally passed from the bladder, and the urine is highly offensive. I mention par- ticularly these appearances, because this stone is constantly liable to be reproduced after the operation is performed, which is not the case with the uric acid stone. I will mention a case, which made a strong impression on me in earlier life, showing the readiness with which the triple phosphate is re- produced. A gentleman came to me from Southampton with stone in his bladder. I operated upon him, and removed a triple phosphate calculus. He came to me again twelve months after, with symptoms of stone. I sounded him, and distinctly felt a stone ; a consultation was had upon his case, and it was deemed advisable that the operation should not be performed. He went back to Southampton, where, after suf- fering e.xtremely from the stone, he had it removed from the bladder, by Mr. Lightford, of Manchester. The stone was of such magnitude, that it was at first supposed that I had removed one stone, and left another in the bladder. A little time after the second operation, however, he began again to complain of symptoms of stone ; he died a few months after, and, upon examination after death, three calculi, as far as 1 re- collect, were found in his bladder. When I perceive the ap- pearances which 1 have de.scribed to you, namely the substance resembling mortar, which is in fact the amnioniaco-magnesian phosphate, I generally dissuade the patient from submitting to the operation. Another case, illustrating the rapid reproduc- tion of the triple phosphate, strikes my mind at this moment. 1 removed a stone of this kind from a gentleman who came to me from Liverpool. A short time after he began to complain of symptoms of stone, and upon sounding him 1 felt the in- strument moving in a quantity of calculous concretions. He suffered extremely from this second formation of calculus,