DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. 52% sore arises, then, from the cellular tissue, and it is difficult to give life to it, because it becomes considerably excavated, and the skin hangs loosely over it. The best treatment that you can employ, is a saturated solution of the nitrate of sil- ver : dossils of lint, wetted with this lotion, should be daily applied to the surface and edges of the wound, and the liquor calcis, with lime-water, should also be used. Oil-silk should be put over the wound, to prevent it getting dry; for, if it becomes dry, there is great danger of the gangrene spread- ing; therefore, the part should be kept wet, and this you do by covering it with the oil-silk, to prevent evaporation. This, then, is the treatment of a phagedenic ulcer. Mr. Welbank, a surgeon, in Chancery lane, has recommended the applica- tion of the. nitric acid in an undiluted state, with the view of forming a new surface. This gentleman has tried it with ad- vantage, at the same time preserving the constitution by re- storing the secretions, and supporting the patient by a most nutritious diet. Yon should give bark and ammonia, in combination with the opium ; and do all that you can to re- store the secretions, for this ought to be the first principle of your treatment. DrSEASES OF THE MoUTH AND THROAT. The venereal ])oison, when it passes the absorbent glands in the groin, goes into the system, but, in its course, affects no other glands but these ; it is carried through the thoracic duct to the blood, and, when in the blood, it appears to affect but three parts of the body; l.st. The mucous membi'ane of the throat and nose. 2d. 'I'he skin, or surface of the body. .'Id. The perio-steum and bones. These three are the only parts liable to the syphilitic action after the venereal virus has entered the blood ; and, with respect to the organs es- sential to life, these are not capable of having a syphilitic ac- tion excited in them ; only in those parts of the body subject- ed to the influence of external causes, is the syphilitic action observed; the internal organs are entirely free from it; the brain, the viscera of the chest, and abdomen, are never af- fected by it; even the mucous membrane of the interior of the body is not affected by it. 1 will now describe to you the appearance and consequences of the diseases of the throat. When the syphilitic action is set up in the mouth, either the mucous membrane of the floor of the nose, or the roof of the mouth, becomes red and inflamed, and a pimple forms on it; when this opens, the bony palate is exposed, which may be easily felt by applying a probe to the part ; this is the manner in which the disease first shews itself. The exposed bone exfoliates, a communication is set