ON HERNIA. PAS i/ific side of the hernia. In the male subject, the spermatic artery crosses on the fore part of the tumour, but at such a distauce from the place where tlie stricture is situated, that there is little danger of wounding it in the operation for fe- moral hernia. A man must he very badly acquainted with the nature of the parts, or the principle of the operation, to cari7 his iucision so high up; there is no necessity for it; a very slight touch of the stricture with the knife will be quite suffi- cient to allow of the return of the parts. Remember, however, that on the fore part of the tumour, above Poupart’s ligament, covered in the inguinal canal, is the spermatic artery, which ouglit never to be in danger of being wounded. On the inner side is situated Gimbernat’s ligament; on the outer side are the femoral vessels ; there is also situated near the mouth of the hernial sac, but to the outer side, the epigastric artery. The part through which femoral hernia protrudes is tile opening left in the/asciei lata, to give passage to the absorbent vessels, and the vena saphena. The femoral hernia is not behind this fascia, but protrudes through the opening, and is then situated on its fore jiart; the crural sheath is carried before it, becomes elongated, and always forms a bag for the hernia. The appearances of femoral hernia are such as to require considerable knowledge to discriminate them from those i)re- sented by other complaints : it has the situation of bubo; in some subjects it is small and very little moveable, and ])ro- jects veiy slightly. Femoral hernia may be confounded with other diseases, 1_ assure you ; therefore, all the circumstances connected with it should be particularly attended to. Now, gentlemen, if you dissect a femoral hernia to ascertain the ap- pearances that are to be found, you will see, first, after laying ; open the skin, a structure which I described to you in the last lecture, the superficial fascia, a few absorbent vessels will also : be seen : in consequence of the pressure of the hernia, the I fascia is distinctly observable to the eye, and is a structure of ^considerable density. .Secondly, when you have cut through sthis fascia, the sheath of the femoral vessels becomes exposed, \ffascm propria,) forming a complete bag, so as to close the I ”ernia, let its size be what it may. Here is a femoral hernia jexhibiting a specimen to the class) with a sheath covering It, and which may be easily separated from its surface, r thirty years ago 1 did not know of the existence of thissl^lc- ► Kfiitleman to whom I am indebted for a r ^at many opportunities for pursuing morbid anat«iny, sent or ine one day to examine a person who had died of slrangu- ed femoral hernia. After dissecting through the superfi-