ON ABSCESSES IN THE URETHRA. 477 and it is caused by the pressure which the abscess makes upon the urethra. The further extension of the inflammation will be the means of producing abscesses in the follicles of the prostate gland; these likewise will occasion retention of urine, and, upon introducing a catheter to relieve this, it occasionally' occurs that the catheter will enter an abscess, and a consider- able quantity of matter will pass through it before any urine makes it escape ; at lengtii, after the whole of the matter has been evacuated, the cause of the retention having been re- moved, the urine can then be freely expelled from the bladder. It now and then occurs that the two last varieties of abscess 1 have mentioned, by being neglected, have led to the forma- tion of fistula in ano ; the true character of the fistula will be learnt by observing that there run from it at different periods a few drops of urine; this will, of course, convince you it is connected with the bladder. Treatment.—Abscesses of the lacunas of the urethra arising from gonorrhoeal inflammation should be continually poul- ticed until the matter is discharged. After you are satisfied that it has once formed, it is not right to let the absce.^ses break of themselves. When, therefore, the hard knot that you feel in the urethra becomes converted into a fluctuating tumour connected with the skin covering it, the sooner you open it the better. When the abscesses are situated in the lacunae opposite to the .scrotum, the treatment must be ex- ceedingly prompt; for if it be not, you will endanger the life of the patient. Into these abscesses make early and free in- cisions ; let your incisions be of considerable size, and a great deal larger externally than internally. 1 generally make these incisions in the middle of the septum, at the anterior part of the scrotum. Now, when you are called to cases of abscesses in perinajo, it is neces.sary that you should be particularly de- cisive in your management of these complaints, for the pur- pose of guarding against that troublesome and dangerous dis- ease, fistula in perinajo ; for, owing to a variety of circum- .stances, it is extremely difficult to cure. When called to a case of abscess in perinaco, the best plan of treatment that yon can pursue, is immediately to introduce a. catheter, made of elastic gum, (which is much less likely to injure the pa- tient than a metallic one ;) thi.s will relieve the retention, and obviate much irritation ; apply leeches and evaporating lotions to the swelling, and keep the bowels open by cooling laxatives. Well, if these measures should not succeed in dis- pelling the tumour, the moment that you can distinctly feel fluctuation, you should make such an opening with the lancet