ON HERNIA, 205 to tlie production of the complaint, from the had state of the atmosphere, and the relaxation of body produced by it, the proportion of persons affected with hernia is about one in fifteen. Heat may be also considered as a cause of hernia, from its producing relaxation of the abdominal parietes. Thus per- sons in warm climates, who usemucli exertion, are very subject to it. The people of France are much more frequently the subjects of hernia than the English. When 1 first entered the H6tel-Dieu, at Paris, I saw a man carried up the staircase on a sort of bier which they use for the sick, witli strangulated hernia ; and I was afterwards informed that Desault had that day operated, at the H6tel-Dieu, on another case of strangulated hernia. This circumstance might have been accidental; but the fact is, that hernia is much more common in France than in ouronn country. This may arise from the great activity of that people, and, in some degree, from the warmth of the climate. Persons recovering from fevers, who are much reduced in strength, are extremely liable to hernia from any increased bodily exertion, such as riding on horseback. Certain positions of the body dispose to the production of this complaint; such as the stooping position in lifting heavy weights from the ground. If the person using such exertions is in a relaxed state of body, hernia is very often the result. On the Treat:ment of Reducible Hernia. With respect to the treatment of this complaint, gentlemen, it is only necessary to say, that a person vvlio has a hernia, and does not wear a truss, is never for a moment safe. The danger of the hernia is greater in proportion to the smallness of its size. If the hernia be large, it is more readily returned into the abdomen : it is rarely strangulated ; and if strangulated, it is more easily reducible. If the hernia be very small, the ring through which it passes being extremely narrow, the protruded parts are very tightly embraced, the hernia is very liable to strangulation, aud in this state is rarely reducible. The danger of hernia is, therefore, in the inverse ratio to its size ; and if a person should say to you, “ 1 have got a small hernia, but I do not think it of any consequence,” desire him to wear a truss ; and tell him that the smaller his hernia the more necessary it is that he should wear one. \ ariijus kinds of trusses, some of them very ingenious, have been invented at difl'erent periods ; they may all, however, be reduced lo four. The common truss is a very good one, and is, jicrhajis, a little too much despised because it is old. 'I'his truss, in general, answers the purpose extremely well; it does not reipiire aii understrap ; and it has this advantage, that it may be worn in