2G4 OK STRUMOUS OPHTHALMIA. not be bandaged, nor yhould the matter be allowed to collect; cleanliness is of great importance in the treatment ofthisfomi ot the disease. With respect to the treatment of the sloui'hing cornea, some nicety will be required. When you have ascer- tained that the sloughing process is commencing, from the hazy or opaque appearance of the cornea, the antiphlogistic must be changed for a gently stimulating and tonic plan of treatment. Weak astringent coHyria should be used to favour the throwing off of the sloughs. Obsen'e the process of the sloughing from time to time : if there is a firm laj'er beneath, the patient is going on well, but if the sloughing has a flocculent, soft, ash-coloured appearance, in addition to mild .>.timulants to the part, you should employ tonic remedies, such as bark. In the treatment of purulent ophthalmia, it is of great consequence to pay strict attention to the changes which take place in the symptoms, so that neither the depleting nor the tonic plan may be blindly continued. The treatment should be regulated by the violence of the symptoms, and by the changes which take place as the disease passes from the acute to the chronic form, 'rhe errors in the treatment of this complaint mav be comprised in two words ; they consist either in continuing the depleting plan too long, or in not resorting to it sufficiently early. If the antiphlogistic plan be not adopted at a very early stage of the disease, the tonic treatment will afterwards be of no service ; and on the other hand, if you continue the deplet- ing plan too long, you will check the restorative process, and the beneficial effects which nature would otherwise assist in producing. LECTURE XXXIII. On Strumous Ophthalmia. Strumous, or scrofulous ophthalmia, is so called, because it is met with in those persons who are of a scrofulous diatliesis -—it occurs it) children, and not unfrequently in adults. The inflammation is of the atonic character, that is, if I mav be al- lowed to use a solecism, it is chronic from the comnience- jnent, it is one of atony from the beginning ; and the reason why it is necessary to speak particularly of this complaint is, because there is one symptom invariably present—intolerance of light. The patient cannot bear the least access of light; there is great difficulty of opening the lids, the orbicularis pal- pebrarum appears spasmodically contracted, and so difficult is it for a patient to open the eyes, that he can seldom do it : an adult may have sufficient resolution, but it is necessary that the eyes should be opened. The only way in which this can