618 ON COMPOUND FRACTURES. let the foot be held firmly by one assistant, and the thigh grasped under the ham by another ; then extend the foot in a line with the leg, and press the tibia inwards towards the astragalus. The limb should be laid on its outer side, resting ou splints with foot-pieces, and a pad should be placed on the fibula, above the outer ankle, extending a little way up the bone, so as to support that part of the leg. The after-treat- ment will be the same as in the former cases. Passive mo- tion should be used in six weeks. Compaund Dislocations of the Ankle Joints may take place in the same direction as the simple, and the bones and liga- ments suffer in the .same w'ay. Great local inflammation and constitutional disturbance attend this accident; the cause of these is the wound which is made into the joint, and the great efforts required to repair it. The principle to be ob- served is this :—Close the wound as completely as possible, to assist nature in the adhesive process by which the wound is to be closed, thus rendering suppuration and granulation less necessary for the union of the opened joint, 'fhe reduc- tion is to be effected in the same manner as 1 have before de- scribed in simple dislocations. Apply a little lint, dipped in blood, to the wound, put on a many-tailed bandage, which is to be kept wet with spirits of wine and water, and the limb should rest on its outer side. But in the dislocation out- wards it is best to keep the foot on the heel, with a splint and foot-piece on the outer and inner side of the leg. The knee should be slightly bent, and care taken that the foot does not become pointed. LECTURE LXXIV. On Compound Fkactures. After some operations had been performed at the theatre of Guy’s Hospital, Sir Astley presented himself to the pupils, and said that he intended to take advantage of the present op- portunity of their being together, to make some remai ks on compound fractures, to describe the mode in which they be- come united, and to detail their treatment under common and under adverse circumstances. A Compound Fracture is that in which there is an external wound communicating with the broken extremities of the bone. Large wounds may occur at the same time with frac- tures, but unless these communicate with the bone, they arc not called compound fractures. The immediate result of the fracture is the escape of the extravasated blood, which, in