ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION APPEARANCES. 4o Thick ligatures also prevent the wounds from healing so ra- pidly as thin ones. After the vessels have been secured, the sponge should be applied, and all coagula of blood removed, as tliis is very essential to the union of the part; blood is not the means but the prevention of union in such cases, for un- less it be taken away, the adhesive inliiiinmation will not go on. There is one instance in which blood favours the process of adhesion, and that is in the application of a ligature on an artery ; with this exception only, the opinion of blood favour- ing the process of adhesion is to be banished from your minds, for there are but two modes by which union can he effected, viz. by adhesion, and by grtuiulation ; therefore remove all clots of blood, which will only act as extraneous bodies and keep up irritation. You are to cut olf one end of the ligature close to the vessel, and let the other hang out of the wound : it has been recommended to cut off both ends of the ligature close to the vessel ; this plan has, however, been already given up. This was determined by Mr. Hunter, in the first operation he performed for aneurism on the trunk of the artery above the tumour, instead of on the aneurism itself; for in that in- stance he cut the ligature close to the knot, and copious sup- puration afterwards took place. Ligatures can only be re- moved from tlie vessels by suppuration or absorption (in the latter case they must be first dissolved and then removed by the absorhetitsj ; and conceiving that if a ligature, composed of a substatice easily soluble, were applied to a vessel, and cut close to the knot, it might be dissolved, and tl'.en absorbed, 1 applied a catgut one to the femoral artery of an old matt, whom I operated oti for popliteal aneurism, and cut it close to the vessel; this case turned out well, for adhesion followed and suppuration did not ensue. Although successful here, 1 have tried it in several cases .since, and have failed in all, sii])- puration always coming on afterwards. I applied a silk liga- ture to the carotid of a dog on one side, and a catgut one to the carotid on the opposite side ; upon killing the dog some days afterwards, I found the second ligature (catgut) buried in a cyst, and that the first advanced by the process of ulcera- tion to the side of the larynx. Experiment and observation show, then, that it is- better to cut one end of the ligature off', and to leave the other hanging from the mouth of the wound, to be removed when the ulcerative process is completed, which i.s from ten to fourteen days. Dr. Veitch, I believe, first advised the nmioval of half the ligature. .After amputation, having disposed your ligalures in aline with each other, and leaving them to hangout at the most dc-