262 ON PURULENT OPHTHALMIA. arises from the first exposure of the eye to the light, or, as i* commonly supposed, from the application of the vaginal w- cretions to the eyes of the child on its passaee into the world. It generally takes place in the first week or month after the birth of the child, and seldom later than three months. Another, andoneoftlie most violent forms of punilent oph- thalmia, is that which is called gonorrhopal, from its being produced by the application of gonorrha-al matter to the con- junctiva. This of all others produces the most intense degree of inflammation. It may he readily traced to the cause I have just stated, in consequence of the person labouring under go- norrhena inadvertently using a towel, or any thing to which the gonorrhoeal matter has been applied, and thus conveying it to the part. I am aware that this inflammation has been stated, upon what may be considered good authority, to be a metas- tasis of the gonorrhoeal symptoms from the urethra to the con- junctiva. 1 have never, however, seen a case in which I could entertain the least suspicion that the complaint was produced in that way, and I do not think that there is sufficient evi- dence to establish such an opinion. There is another form of ophthalmia, which has been called the epidemic, orEs\-ptian; Epidemic, in consequence of its attacking a number of persons at the same time in particular districts ; and Egyptian, becau'e it resembles that form of ophthalmia with which our troops were attacked in Egypt in the year 1801. 'This disease was, however, well known in tliis and other countries long before our soldiers went to Eeypt, and it has taken place in districts where there could be no po.ssibility of communication with those soldiers. There can be no doubt that it arises sponta- neously, and often attacks epidemically a number of persons in the same district. How it arises it is difficult to .say ; it was supposed to be produced in Egypt by the combined effects of heat and dust; but it is doubtful whether it may not rather arise from some ))articular state of the atmosphere with which we are not perfectly acipiainted. I have only in conclusion to speak of the 1’reat.vient of Purelent Ophth.almi.a. If the lancet is to be used in any kind of ophthalmia, it is more especially to be used, not only boldly, but very early in this. Itmaybesaid, indeed, that unless some decided im- pression is made on the symptoms in the first twenty-four hours, we shall be unable afterwards to check the progress of the disease. It will be necessary, therefore, to push blood- letting to a very considerable extent, in an early state of this inflammation. 'Topical bleeding, by theapplic.ation of leeches, is quite out of the question in this complaint, except in the