ON GRANULATION. 72 vein accompanying each artery, and the fluid conveyed by the vessels is partly converted into pus on the surface of the ujeer and partly returned back to the heart. ’ Granulations are not good absorbent snrface.s in ulcer* re- cently formed ; but if the ulcers have e.\isted for any length of time, the absorbent vessels readily take into the system anv substance which may be applied 'to them. In this way we fiequently see persons salivated by the use of injections of the oxyiuuriate of mercuiy. It is not an uncommon practice to inject a solution of a grain or two grains of oxymuriate of mercury into sinuses, for the purpose of stimulating the ves- sels. If the sinus has existed for a considerable time, the oxymuriate of mercury is frequently absorbed, and the mouth becomes affected in the same manner as if the mercury had been absorbed into the system by rubbing it into the skin, or taking it into the stomach. This proves that old granulating surfaces have the power of taking in, by absorption, a fluid of this description. I have known what is commonly called the black wash, which is composed of the liquor calcis and the submuriate of mercury, when applied to the surface of ulcers, produce an effect upon the niouths of persons who are easily affected by mercury. 1 believe that the wa.sh of the liqnoi calcis and calomel often produces good effects in the cure of sores, by the mercurial action which it excites in the system, and not merely by its local effects on the sore to which it is applied. Ulcers, are, however, frequently the means of pro- ducing baneful effects upon the constitution, by the readiness with which they absorb any substances which are applied to them. Thus, arsenic applied to the surfaces of sores is verv frequently absorbed into the system ; and on this account, arsenic is to be regarded as a very dangerous external remedy. With respect to the use of arsenic as .an internal remedy, it ought never to be employed without e.xtreine caution, and un- less the patient is watched from day to day. Case.—1 remember a case in the other hospital, of a patient who was brought in with a fungus of the eye, and who was under the care of Mr. Lucas, a man of great skill in his pro- fession, and the father of the present surgeon of that name. Mr. Lucas ordered a solution of arsenic to be applied to the part. Alter it had been used for three days, the man com- plained of pain in the stomach, but this was not supposed to arise from the use of the solution. The application was con- tinued ; the pain in the stomach became exce.ssive ; convul- sive tremors of the muscles succeeded, and the ]wtient died. I was quite sure that he died from the influence of arsenic in the system; and, upon examination of the body after death,