511 ON PARAPHYMOSIS. corona glandis, and drawn out. But when you have done this, you will find that the internal part of the prepuce is not divided as much as the external, which you are obliiged to di- vide a second time. The next tiling you do, is to apply a piece of lint round the prepuce, which is to be supporttid on the penis by tape ; the roller should be applied, so as to make gentle pressure, for the purpose of preventing a secretion from tile blood-vessels. You let the patient remain as long as he can without making water, in order not to disturb the dress- ings. When you see him on the following day, you soak the penis in warm water, remove the lint, and draw the prepuce gently over the glaiis. 'I’his you should do daily, taking care that the edges of the divided surfaces do not unite. When the part is quite healed, a small aperture only is left in the upper part of the prepuce, which is of very trifling import- ance. LECTURE EXIT We spoke, gentlemen, at the conclusion of the last lecture, of phymo.sis ; we shall now proceed to paraphymosis.^ Paraphymosis Is not an uncommon consequence of chancre. When there is tightness of the prepuce from inflammation, it frequently'hap- pens, that after the skin has been pulled back, it cannot again be drawn over the the penis, on account of the skin forming a tight ligature round the penis, just behind the corona glandis, strangulating it in the same way as the intestine in hernia. 'Fhe object in your treatment should be to reduce the strangu- lated part a.s quickly as possible : all other means are impro- per ; the application of cold is absurd ; you merely lose time by employing it it is a vain and useless mode of procedure. The proper plan for you to pursue is this ; you see the penis greatly distended with blood; therefore, take hold of the glan.s between your fingers, and endeavour to empty the ves- sels by raeatis of gentle pressure. When you have done this for a fe(v minutes, you endeavour to reduce it by pushing the glans back, and, at the same time, taking hold of the skin of the penis, and drawing it forwards. By this plan you will generally succeed, if you see the case a short time after it has happened ; but if the paraphymosis has existed for some days. It vyill be wrong to attempt reduction by pressure on the glans. You should then divide the strictured part with a bis- toury. '1 his you do by separating the skin on each side as much as you can from the stricture; you then insert a direc-