ON ASCITES, OR PERITONEAL DROPSY. 379 Treatment.—Now, gentlemen, medical treatment, when judiciously pursued, is very often successful in the cure of ascites ; in the use of medicines, however, you mnst take care to direct their influence against the cause uf ascites ; therefore, if the liver is the defective organ, you sliould endeavour to re- store its healtliy functions, and in this attempt your efforts will frequently be crowned witl) success, unless the disease has existed so long a time as completely to have broken up the constitution. When the disease is occasioned by local irritation, arising, for example, from enlargement of the spleen, you will then find great difficulty in performing a cure ; but, gentlemen, it is not so in dropsy, arising from debility, independent of dis- organization. I again repeat to you, that ascites thus occa- sioned can be easily cured by medical means. Those who indulge in the use of ardent spirits are likewise often affected with dropsy of the abdomen ; the spirits heat and stimulate the stomach, liver, duodenum, and neighbour- ing parts, and act upon the same principle, and produce the same result, as the irritation arising from an enlarged spleen ; they occasion a great determination of blood to the parts, and an increased secretion of fluid. Upon the employment of me- dicine and an abandonment of the pernicious habit of spirit- drinking, this disease may readily be overcome, and in that respect it differs widely from ascites arising from enlargement of the viscera, occasioning local irritation. If the patient will but forego the use of spirits and live temperately, the disease may be cured ; and so may di opsy which is produced by de- bility, after fevers. When, however, the disease is a conse- quence of disorganization, your remedies may probably fall, for the malady is then caused by other complaints, over which medicines have no power. Medical Remedies to be employed in Ascites, or Dropsy OF THE Abdomen. 1 he medicine.s which experience has proved to be the most beneficial in dropsy of the abdomen, are calomel and squills ; one grain of calomel, and three of squills, in a pill, or two grains of blue pill combined with tliree grains of squills; one of these should be administered every night, or every other night, and in the day you should give a mixture, composed of from seven to ten grains of carbonate of ammonia, one drachm of spiritus aitheris nitrosi, twenty drops of tinctura digitalis, and an ounce and a half of rnistura camphorac. 'I'his medi- cine, given once or twice a-day, with one of the above pills at night, will often succeed in restoring a person to health, whose constitution may be considered so broken and faulty, bat It may be deemed impossible for him ever to regain a