42 .ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION APPEARANCES. part Itself a yellow and semitransparent substance, havinethe appearance of jelly, though widely different from it in coraiKi- siiion J he best opportunity that yon can have of witne^vine the adhesive inflammation is on the skin under the irritation ot a blister ; the blister produces the same effects as those pro- duced in the ojieration for hydrocele. Let a blister be atiplied for twenty-four hours, till the cuticle is raised; then make an incision into the vesicles, and a quantify of serum will escape. Here, perliaps, your observation mav terminate ; but examine tlie surface, and you will find on it a yellow substance, which vviil e.xist in a greater or less degree, according to the leneth of tune the blister ha.s been applied, on its severin', and on the iintability of the skin; but, generally speakiue, under the application of a blister, adhesive matter is thrown outa.s under adhesive inflammation. For those who are anxious to know the time required be- fore the adhesive inflammation commences, it mav be proper to state, that it is different according to the structure of the part and nature of the constitution. In the cavity of the ab- omen, the intestines will be glued together in nineteen hours after the adhesive inflammation has beeiin. Now I mention nineteen hours jiarticularly, because 1 have seen it produced after that time in cases of gun-shot wounds, it mav be in the recollection of soiiie of you, that a Mr. Blight was‘shot bv a mail called Patch, in the neighlK.urhood of Deptford : the ball traversed the abdomen. I was called to this case, and Mr. Blight died in nineteen hours after he had received the iniurv. Here I had an opportunity of seeing what I have just men- tioned ; the intestines were glued to each other, and to the peritoneum ; the peritoneal surface had quantities of adhesive niattei on it, and was firmly united to the surrounding intes- tines. On the surfaces of wounds the process of adhesion takt*s place rapidly; for it a piece of lint be applied to a newly- niade wound, in twelve hours it will be glued to its siiiface ; in a dog the adhesive process commences in six hours. ’ Adhesive matter, when effused on a thin membrane, coagu- lates into a net-work, assuming the character of cellular membrane. When adhesive matter has been formed, blood-vessels soon enter it, and within a short time it becomes organized ■ the vasa vasorum are elongated by the force of the" circulation ; they enter the newly-formed substance, :ind send throughout it minute rainificaiions. On cutting into adhesive matter within twenty-four hours after it has been deposited, small bloody spots may be seen, which mark the future situation of the vessels which nourish it; but it is not till ten days after it