312 ON CALCULI IN THE BLADDER. it a trick, I could examine him ; this I did ; f passed a sound, and found a stone. I then said, how came the pencil there.' “ Why, Sir,” he replied, “ I have had a.stricture for some time, and have used bougies a good deal; bnt one day, not being able to pass one, I thought that I would try something that would be strong enough, and therefore introduced a piece of slate- ])eucil, which broke in the passage, and part of it got info the bladder.” I told him that he must submit to an operation, in order to have it removed; and being a pauper, 1 advised him to go to a hospital, where proper care and attention would be taken of him. He came to Guy’s, where I operated on him, and took the pencil from the bladder.—The stone which had formed round it is the triple phosphate; this kind of .Mone usually forms where there has existed much irritation in the bladder. Here is a piece of metallic bougie, or catheter, round which a stone formed. 1 will mention here, as I may not have an opportunity again, that pewter catheters should not be allowed to remain in the urethra more than a week, as the urine acts on the materials of which they are composed, makes them brittle, and if left in the urethra beyond the time 1 have mentioned, are very apt to break, and then enter the bladder. Stones form roundthem, as in the case from which this specimen was taken. I have knowti several examples of this. Here is a curious specimen of a calculus formed round a piece of tobacco- pipe, which got into the bladder in rather a curious manner. It was sent to me by Mr. Godwin, surgeon to tbe Derbyshire Infirmary ; the section has fortunately been made through the centre; one-half Mr. G. kept for himself, and the other part he was kind enough to send me. You see that an extraneous body in the bladder forms a nu- cleus for a stone. The stone will be composed of the triple phosphate or of uric acid, according to the degree of irritation which has been kept up ; if it has been considerable, the stone will contain the triple phosphate. The next circumstance to which 1 shall advert, is the number of calculi found in the bladder. I do not think that the patient is in greater danger in an operation, from a larger number of stones being in the bladder, or even so much, as when there is only one large or moderate-sized stone.—The introduction of a pair of force])s into the bladder, for removing one or more stones, is not dangerous, but the great danger, gentlemen, is, if the parts are bruised, and cause of irritation produced.—Here arc nine calculi that were taken from one person ; but this is not a great number.—Here arc 3/. The largest number that 1 ever took from one person is 142 ; it was from a gentleman of ■\Yorcestcr ; he survived the operation, and I operated on him