<306 FRACTURES OF THE THIGH BONE. fwards. If you should have any doubt now remainine ai to the nature of the accident, let tlie patient stand by the side of his bed, supported by an assistant, and you will have all the appearances which I have before named present; and if he attempt to bear on the injured limb, it will produce much pain, which is occasioned by the psoas niagnus and iliacus intemus being put on the stretch, as well as by the pressure of the roughened surface of the bone, on the inner part of the capsular ligament. A crepitus is also discoverable, when the limb is drawn down, so as to be of the same length as the opposite one, and then rotated, but not so when the patient is lying on his back, with the limb shortened. It occurs more frequently in women than in men. This probablv mav be accounted for by the more horizontal position of the' neck of the bone, and the comparative feebleness of constitution in the former. It occurs in persons of advanced age, and it is a mistake to talk of its happening in young persons. Al- though I have been now thirty-nine yea'rs at Guv’s and St. riiornas’s Hospitals, and have bad more than rav share of the practice of the metropolis during that time, 1 have seen more than two hundred and twenty-five cases of fracture of the neck of the thigh bone, within the capsular ligament, yet I have only known two persons in whom this accident occurred under fifty years of age. This fracture, then, rarely happens under fifty years ot age, and dislocation seldom at a more advanced period. But the most common period at which frac- ture occurs is betvveen fifty and eighty. The reason why the bone breaks so much more readily in age, is, that there is a peculiar process taking place in age. which is producing an entire alteration in the structure of the head and neck ot the bone. The natural changes which thus take place in the bones, in different periods of life, are remark- able; they increase in bulk and weight in youth, they remain stationary during the adult period, and become lighter and -softer in the more advanced stages of life. You may cut the bones of old persons with a penknife, which you could not do at the adult jicriod. 'I'he neck of the bone undergoes an in- ter.stitial ab.sorptinn, by which it becomes shortened and altered in its relation with the shaft of the hone ; so that the head ot the bone, in.stead of being above the level of the trochanter, sinks almost to its root. Indeed, the bones of an old person may be readily distinguished in tlic skeleton, from those of a person at the middle period of life. The slightest causes often produce fractures in this state of the bone. 'I'be way in which they usually happen in Lon- don, is from the person slipping off the foot pavement, and.