ON SYMPATHETIC BUBO AND GLEET. 497 j;inks into a gleet, and is known by the cl)ange of the colour of the discharge, and the pain attending the inflammatory stage ceasing. In this state, is the discharge infectious or not.’ I doubt myself whether a gonorrhoea ever loses its power of causing infection as long as any discharge from the urethra remains ; and I will give you iny reasons for this opi- nion. A married gentleman went to Lislton from tliis country, and whilst at a distance from home, departed, as too many do, from the path of virtue, and went astray. The Portuguese lady with whom he cohabited, took care to give him a clap, that he might not forget her. He returned to England, and, at the expiration of five months and three days after first oh serving the gonorrhoea, he called on me, and asked whether he might return home with safety to his wife .’ he said that he had a little discharge, and wished to know if, after having had it five months and three days, it were possible for it to be infectious .’ 1 replied, “ Certainly not, you may go home, there is no danger of your giving it to your wife.” He went home and unfortunately gave his wife a severe clap. 1 at- tended both the parties afterwards, and was extremely sorry for what I had done; but 1 thought at the time I gave the advice, that a gleet was not infections. But I think diflerently now, and believe that, after a continuance of several months, the discharge is infectious. A gentleman from the north of England, and who had been recently married, came to me, and said that he had communicated a gonorrhoea to his wife. .Shocked at such an occurrence, I said, “ How could you think of acting in such a manner.’” “Why, sir, for fourteen months prior to my marriage, I had a gonorrhoea ; I made various attempts to get rid of it, and hatl a variety of advice about it, hut a yellow discharge always continued. I was told by every body that it was not infectious, and not till after such repeated assurances did 1 get married ; the consequence, how- ever, is, that my wife has a severe pain in making water, and a copious di.scharge. 1 visited her, and found her in this state; she was sometime under treatment before she recovered. Front what 1 have seen, 1 do hold that a medical man is not war- ranted in saying that a discharge of a gleety kind is not infec- tious. If the di.scharge is from a stricture, it docs not pro- duce infection. If the discharge is from an abscess iit one of the lacunte, it may be always knovvm by its being absent for a week or more, and then flowing profusely, but not so in go- norrhfca : the discharge is generally suspetided for some time, in an abscess of one of the lacuna;, and then returns, which is not the case in a clap ; and the matter from an ab- scess of the lacuna; is not infectious, while the discharge K If