140 ON WOUNDS OF THE BRAIN, the edges of which were hardened and thickened, as you sec here {pointing to the very part), a similar state of the pia niater and brain, in size corresponding to the external op«.‘n- ing, and an abscess between tbe pia mater and brain. At that time I had no idea that a wound of the description I hare just mentioned could be produced by a bird of this size ; but, since that period, I have seen an instance of a similar kind : a pheasant, not an English, but an Indian one, made a dart towards the eye of a person, and, instead of striking it, wounded the os malae ; the bird, by means of its beak, .'truck a hole into the superior maxillary bone, just below the zygo- matic arch. The time at which inflammation of the brain supervenes after the injury received, is generally about a week : rarelv under that time ; and this it was that led me to say, on an- other occasion, that inflammation of the brain was more slow in its occurrence than that of any other organ, in order to put you on your guard. It often happens that inflammation of the brain does not come on till a fortnight, or even three weeks, after the injury : therefore, every surgeon who has written on the subject puts you on your guard as to the distance of time this complaint comes on after the accident: he tells vou that the patient is not safe till two or three weeks afterwards. If you read the works of Mr. Pott on tbe injuries of the head, you will find the circumstance mentioned ; and in the work of Mr. Dease, of Dublin (who has published an excellent trea- tise on the subject), it is distinctly stated, that inflammation of the brain is occasionally postponed to three or four weeks after the accident occurs, and even then, the patient is not always safe. I will give you a case relating to this subject: Dr. Babington and myself were sent for to see a person, a clerk to the firm of Whitbread and Company, who, whilst riding on horseback, struck his head against the branch of a tree; he being a short-sighted man, and riding very fast at the time, struck himself violently against the bough of a tree which was oveihanging the road, and was brought to the ground by the force of the blow. He was taken to Croy- don, where Dr. Babington and myself visited him. We found that be had been struck on the os frontis, just above the fron- tal sinuses, where there was a depression ; and this was the first case in which I wit?iessed emphysema of the forehead pro- duced by blowing the nose. We took all ]wssible care of the case, bled him, regulated his diet, &c., till the inflammation had subsided. He eame to town three weeks after the acci- dent, when he asked whether he might go to Hochestcr, to