ox HERNIA. 23S Congenital Hernia. This, as you are aware, is usually hernia of the tunica vazi- nalis testis, but it does not always happen that hernia of the tunica vaginalis is congenital; it sometimes appears m the adult. The way in which it takes place may be thus ex- plained ;—The tunica vaginalis is open to the abdomen a little prior to birth, so that a portion of intestine is very readily ad- mitted into this part. It scarcely ever happens m the young subject that any thing but intestine is contained in hernia of the tunica vagiiialis, the omentum not reaching so low as the orifice. If the tunica vaginalis is not closed immediately after the birth of the chiid, a hernia will make its appearance. The appearance of this hernia is well knomi to nurses ; they make a distinction between what they call a watery and a windy rupture. Now what they call a watery rupture is hydrocele, which not uncommonly takes place in very young children; and what they term a windy rupture, is hernia congenita. The former is quite transparent, and, if not congenital, is ca- pable of being returned into the cavity sf the abdomen , the latter may be returned into the abdomen, and in so doing you will heai4 gurgling noise. It sometimes happens that ^e tu- nica vaginalis, though not closed, will not admit of the de- scent of a portion of intestine, because the orifice is extremelx small, and the person will arrive at the age of from twenty to thirty years before the hernia appears. The descent of a small convolution of intestine is then generally the effect either oi rcla.NUtion or of some sudden or dispropoi tioned exertion, q’here is a specimen in the collection of a tunica vaginalis open in the adult; the opening is sullicieni to admit a large boupe, but it does not appear that the person from whom it taken ever had hernia. When you meet with a c^e of hernna of the tunica vaginalis in the adult, and you ask him how long he h.^ had hernia, he will tell you for a very short time - trom a week or ten days to two or three mouths, but that he is pertcctl. um-H hp never had it when a child. ... , \vhcn intestine or omentum has descended into the tunica vacinali" reLhing to the lower part of the scrotum, the tp- ti'cle is involved in the swelling, so that it c.annot he distinctli felt This is a distinguishing mark between congemtal Ipi nia icit. up till lea vai'inalis, and connuon hernia; the f* much more concealed and buried in the surrounding formei ^ ^ove^^^^ of the hernia, namely, the fascia of ‘'V‘i,,i,.„t the peritoncuni, the parts arc not