o2 LOCAL TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. himself the first who became drowsy ; it was with theereatctt difficulty tliat liis companions could keep him in motion ; and it was only by the utmost perseverance that they succeeded in getting him back to the ship alive. When cold is applied to au inflamed part, it les.sens its ner- vou.s energy, and robs it of its heat; but cold must be severe indeed, if it bring the internal parts of the body below a tem- perature of 98°. In this country, in the winter, many of the external parts of the body vary in temperature from 20° to 30°; thus a thermometer ap|)lied to the toes when they are cold, will be found to indicate 20° of heat less than it would do, if a|)plied to the calf of the leg. Cold, applied in excess, de- stroys life, by abstracting heat, without which the vital ac- tions cannot be supported. On the living body you may apply cold to a part until it ac- tually becomes frozen. Mr. Cline and Mr. .Sharp were once attending a patient who had strangulated hernia ; to reduce which they applied ice enclosed in linen cloths, and this they continued for thirty-six hours ; now as the ice dissolved, the water formed by it ran down upon the man’s groin, and the inner side of his thigh, and the parts whereon this stream passed, became completely frozen ; proper applications re- stored them to life ; but inflammation and slight mortincation succeeded ; the hernia, however, was reduced, and the man eventually did well. In similar cases I advise you to apply ice in a bladder; and take care that you do not continue it too long. It frequently happens in this country, during severe winters, that the lobes of the ears and tips of the noses of those who are much exposed to the weather will become frozen ; they may be restored to life by rubbing them with snow. One of the best lotions that can be applied to an inflamed part is composed of one ounce of rectified spirits of wine, and five ounces of water. Goulard water is much extolled for ic- diicing inflammation and lessening pain ; but when too long applied, or too strong, it has been known to destroy nervous irritability in too great a decree. Mr. Foster, of Guy’s, .saw a person in whom the upper eyelid became completely paralysed from its improper a])plication. In applying the spirit-of-wine lotion, let your cloths be thin, so tliat the spirit may combine with the heat of the part, and carry it otf in the form of vapour ; in other words, evaporation is produced, and it is in that way it? good effects arc evinced. I do not recommend the application of ice to parts while in a state of inflammation ; it irritates, and is apt to produce gangrene.