OPERATION FOR POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 165 had he been treated otherwise; and I will ex])laiu to you how it is that keeping the patients so low does not agree with them ; by kee|)iiig them so low, the constitution is rendered irritable, and then wliatever is lost in the moinentmn of the circulating fluid, is gained in velocity. I have seen loss of blood in the treatment of aneurisms occasionally useful. When the chest is aftected, and breathing laborious, it will be right to take blood ; and the best state in which the body can be kept is a little below par; that is, a little under the natural state. Strict attention must be paid to regimen ; and it would be highly improper to give stimuli of any kind. The second point is the chance of obtaining a cure by the application of pressure on the artery or aneurisinal bag. Very many years ago, 1 had an iron ring made, with a pad on the outer side, and a screw on the opposite : this was put on the limb, pressure on the outside was made against the thigh, and on the inside against the artery; the use of this was worse than the operation. I applied it on a man at the other hos- pital, and I will tell you how long he kept it on—twenty-four hours only. In three hours from its first application he began to complain of pain ; in a few hours afterwards it became worse; and in less than twenty-four hours the man said that he would submit to any operation rather than suffer the pain : therefore it is impo.ssible to practise it. I have tried the same experiment on the upper extremity, but without its leading to any u.-^eful results. This plan of pressure on arteries does not succeed, and therefore ought to be abandoned. Well, gentlemen, 1 will describe the alterations which have taken place in the mode of performing the operation for popli- teal aneurism .since the time of Mr. J. Hunter. Mr. Hunter made the inci.sion in the middle of the thigh ; the spot where it is made at present is one third down, as in the middle of the thigh the artery is deeper situated ; well, therefore, one- third down the thigh is the place where you ought to operate. Now', .Mr. Cline (with whom I formerly lived] thought that it would be an improvement in the operation, if, instead of allowing the ligature to remain till the [irocess of ulceration had begun, he removed it before that period, that hemorrhage might be prevented, and the o])eration rendered simple; and in the first case of popliteal aneurism which he had after he thmight of this plan he tried the experiment, laid bare the artery, applied a broad ligature, and tied it firmly on the ar- tery ; but in order to prevent the knot slipping, he put between it and the vessel a small piece of cork. The first case on which he tried this succeeded perfectly well. [Here the learned profes.sor, pointing to a specimen taken from the man on