ON PARACENTESIS ABDOMINIS. 386 the opening through the muscles of the abdomen, upon intro- ducing his finger it was found that the sac so firmly adhered to the abdominal parietes, that it was impossible to carry the operation into effect- LECTURE XLVJI. On Paracentesis Abdominis. In the last lecture, gentlemen, 1 spoke of the operation for the relief of dropsy of the abdomen, whether ascites or en- cysted dropsy; and in doing so I recommended yon noi to attempt to perform the operation without distinctly ascer- taining a fluctuation, as you might otherwise endanger the abdominal viscera. TTie operation itself is veiy simple ; the instruments which you use for this purpose are either the trocar and canula, or the lancet and cunula. If it be ascites, the lancet and canula will answer equally well with the trocar and canula, as the fluctuation is very distinct, and there is but little to penetrate ; the lancet is indeed preferable in this case, as its use is attended with less risk to the abdominal viscera. The canula which you employ for this purpose should be about three inches long, and made at the extremity like a common catheter, rounded at the end, and having holes at iis sides, but quite straight. You make an incision of about hall an inch in length, and then thrusting the canula into the abdo- men, the water is removed without danger. On removing the water in ascites, the patient is sometimes seized with spasms in the diaphragm, towards the close of its evacuation, as the diaphragm loses the support of the water. A man who underwent the operation in this hospital had violent spasms towards the close of the evacuation of the water, and in three days after died. On examining the body after death, it was found that the sharp edge of the canula had lacerated the an- terior portion of the mesentery. On this account 1 now ti.se a canula rounded at the edge, instead of the shar[)-cdged ca- nula. The operation is extremely easy of performance ; 1 have not the instruments with me at present, but I will shew you the mode of performing it in the next lecture. The thick- ness of the cyst in encysted dropsy is sometimes so crv.w as to render it necessary to use a longer trocar tliau usual. .^ case of this kind occurred to me, in which, after liaving penetrated the abdomen, as 1 thought, on withdrawing the trocar no water followed. 1 thought at first that 1 myself had met witli a case of dry tapping, hut on employing a trocar considerably longer than the former, aliout three inches and a half in length, the water followed immediately.