38 counter-irritation in inflammation. cease; though when the body is thus placed, the power of the heait is greater than when iu the erect position. If, during the ensuing winter, I should lie called to anv of you having inflammation in the hand, arising from punctures inflicted while dissecting, 1 should inimediatelv direct vou to get an inclined plane made, upon which I should order vou Uj rest your hand as long as the inflammation was at all violent It IS equally necessary to attend to position in inflammation of the leg. I must give you an example ; I was .sent for to see a gentleman farmer in the neighbourhood of Rayleigh’ in Essex, who for a long time had been subject to a verj' severe inflammation in both his legs; they were exceedingly red and \ety much swollen, in a state threatening gangrene; the con- stitutional irritation was very great, and "the tongue covered with a brown fur. I found him with his legs in a tub of water ; 1 took out one of them, and it smoked excessiielv- I saw there was no time to be lost, had him immediately placed upon a sofa, and contrived to rest his legs upon the end of the sofa; consequently they were raised considerablv higher than his body; the vessels soon began to unload themselves, and the skin, in a short time, was evidently less red than when taken out of the tvater. I then applied' flannels wning out of warm water; these soon produced a very considerable perspiration, by which the cellular membrane became un- loaded, the swelling much less, and the pain materially abated. He gradually recovered, and in six weeks was en- abled to ride a considerable distance to market. The completest tyro in surgery ought to know, that it vyould be folly to attempt to cure extensive inflammation in a liinb, if it were allowed to continue in a depending po.-^ition. The next circumstance to be attended to iu the treatment of inflammation is rest; the necessity of which must be well known to you, as all of you must have observed that exercise increases the action of the heart, and, consequentlv, must be injurious in inflammation. ^I'o obtain rest for an inflamed joint is one of our grand principles in the treatment, and no good can be done without it; it is curious to observe how nature herself directs this ; for where a joint is disea.ved, the muscles which act upon that joint have lost their power ; thus, if a man has an inflammation of the wrist, and vou put your liand into his and desire him to squeeze it, you find that lie cannot do so, or that the attempt is exceedingly feeble. In inflammations of the joints of the lower extremities, the muscles of the part in like manner lose their vigour. Indurations frequently remain after inflammation has en- tirely ceased; tliese are to he got rid of by diminishing the