ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 364 tion, or geneial debility. The causes of these tumours are usually obscure; it is difficult to say what gives rise to them, but 1 believe a frequent cause mav be traced to the pressure produced by the whalebone and keel busks usually worn in stays. Treatment.—I do not find that medical treatment has any influence upon these tumours; you mav, however, for the purpose of correctingthe state of the constitution, should any thing amiss exist in it, givethe hydrargyrus cum creta,or Plum- mer’s pill, together with soda and rhubarb ; these medicines, whatever they may accomplish towards preventing the growth of the tumour, certainly will not disperse it when once form- ed; at ail events, if you do not try medicines, you cannot relieve by them : in the use of mercury, however, be particn- larly careful not to push it too far, for should you do so, the remedy will prove much more dangerous than the disease ; and it is likewise a hazardous experiment to administer mercury to young people who are exposed to the vicissitudes of our cli- mate. The worst that can happen is the removal of the tu- mour by the knife ; an operation which is not attended with the least danger, and always succeeds in affording permanent relief, for the disease does not returai. The vessels which supply these tumours are by no means large. 1 recollect on one occasion, however, when a surgeon was removing one of them from a woman’s breast in the other hospital, that upon separating the base of the tumonr from its attachment, so vio- lent a gush of blood took place, as for the moment completely to appal the surgeon, and induce him to believe the knife had penetrated the patient’s heart; subsequently it was discovered that one unusually large vessel, wiiich supplied the tumour, had been divided, and from thence the violent bleeding arose. Instead of the vessels being of great size wiiich feed these tu- mours, it is found, upon dissection, that they are merely small branches from the neighbouring cellular tissues ; this, then, is what I name the simple chronic tumour of the breast. It now and then occurs that the breast, as well as other parts of the body, is attacked hy Adipose Tumours, and some of them have been known to acquire enormous dimensions. 1 have myself removed one from the breast of a woman which weighed four- teen pounds ten ounces. This is the tumour (the professor here put his hand upon a preparation wiiich stood upon the table before him), and nltbough it may appear to you an ope- ration of a most formidable nature, yet it was not so ; there was no risk attending it, and tbe only peculiarity which ex- isted was, that the veins were much larger than in ordinary tumours of the breast.