ON HVDROCELE. 187 that the cannla is within the tunica vaginalis ; and once having the trocar in, take care to keep it there until tlie ope- ration be concluded ; and the most effectual way to do this is hv grasping the tumour at the posterior part, so as to keep it tense where the trocar entered. I generally use a trocar and canula of small size. Some persons recommend a lancet and probe to be employed ; it is mere nonsense ; if they had ever performed the operation, they would not do so. Such sug- gestions can only emanate from people who are destitute of experience and knowledge. If you wish to accomplish this operation bloodlessly, to prevent internal bleeding, and the lormation of hsematocele, keep the patient, at the time you are doing it, in the erect po- sition. There is no necessity for any after application ; on the following day the wound will be well. It requires repetition in proportion to the dropsical tendency existing in the person. In some it will be necessary once a month ; in others, once in three months ; but, generally speaking, the usual time is every six mouths. Insignificant as this operation appears, it has been known to cause the destruction of life. Two instances are within my own knowledge. One of the cases was operated upon by Mr. Green, who resides a few miles from town, and the other by myself. Mr. Green’s case was published in the journals, therefore I need not scruple to mention it; but jNlr. Green possesses too much manliness to regard a notice of an unsuc- cessful case, and it must be a mean despicable mind that would. The case is as follows :—An elderly man applied to Mr. Green with a hydrocele, which he a few days afterwards tapped. The following day the man’s business led him to walk to town ; on the ne.xt day his scrotum became inflamed ; the third there was a gangrenous spot; and, on the fifth day from the operation, he died. llie other case was the father of one of our dressers. I performed the operation on a Saturday ; the following day he walked to Pancras church ; on the Monday inflammation be- gan to show itself in the scrotum, when he sent for me; on the Thursday gangrene had taken place, and on the Saturday week after the the operation he died. Let me advise you then, whenever you perform this opera- tion in old persons, to make them keep their beds for a few days afterwards. Some individuals are destroyed by the slightest touch; while others, on the contrary, arc not killed, do what we will to them.