161 ON THE CURE OF ANEURISM. a circumstance whicli you should bear in mind, because in cases where they are so situated as not to admit of surgical relief, it is a consolation to the patient to know that these diseases now and then cure themselves. There are many ex- amples of such a spontaneous cure : 1 have myself seen some and many more are to be found in surgical and medical authors. There is a preparation before us, taken from a man in the other hospital, who had an aneurism, situated just below the groin, which underwent a spontaneous cure. He was sitting before the fire, in one of the wards of the hospital, when he felt something burst in the upper part of his thigh. On examination he found no blood had issued out, and, in fact, the aneurism had not yet reached the skin so as to be adherent to it. His thigh was, however, enormously swollen ; he was unable to use the limb, and was put to bed by the other patients. For three days after a imlsatiou was found in the aneurism ; it then ceased, and the size of the limb began to diminish. At the end of four months the aneurismal swelling liad considerably diminished, and he recovered the use of the limb. Six months after he first felt this .sensation, and when he had been discharged from the hospital, I met him as I was walking across the square of the other hospital, I said to him, “ Why, Powell, you seem low-spirited ; you ought to be cheerful, for you have had a veiy narrow escape.” “ Ves,” said the man, “ 1 am j)retty well, sir, except that 1 have some- thing alive in my belly.”—laugh)—“ 1 hope you have,” said I, “ for it would be rather awkward if you had not.” On putting ray hand on his abdomen, 1 felt a pulsating swell- ing there. This aneurism shortly afterwards burst into the abdomen, and the man died. On examination of the body, it was found that the aneurism in the thigh, just below Pou- part’s ligament, had burst under the fascia lata ; a great accu- mulation of blood took place, which pressed upon the vessel, and the femoral artery was obliterated. -Sir W. Blizard had a patiei/t at Walworth, with popliteal aneurism, which was cured spontaneously. Mr. Ford mentions several cases ; and Dr. Baillie met with two cases of carotid aneurism, which cured them.selves. .Mr. Crampton, the surgeon-general at Dublin, has given an account of a case in which the aneurism gradually wasted in the abdomen, and obliterated the aorta. An account of a similar ca.se has been given by Baron Bar- rey, tlie !■ rench surgeon. An Irish gentleman, whose name does not at this moment occur to me, in passing through this metropolis, on his way to Paris, showed me a preparation from a case of spontaneous cure of aneurism, in which the aorta wag obliterated at the loins. M