ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 358 across it to the tumour. I would observe, that the scirrhoii' tumour is not all the disease ; there are roots which extend to a considerable distance ; and those who gave this disease the name of cancer probably knew more of its nature thau we are disposed to give them credit for. It is supfiosed by some that this name was given on account of the appearance of the surrounding veins. I should rather say that it was from the appearances on dissection than from anything without, ^^'hell you dissect a scirrhous tumour, you see a number of root* proceeding to a considerable distance, and if you remove the tumour only, and not the roots, there will be little advantage from the operation; no glandular structure, nor any of the roots should be allowed to remain. Bear in mind what 1 said of giving medicines before and after the operation. Before the removal of a scirrhous tumour, put the patient under a course of alterative medicines, and afterwards do the same, else the operation will be of no use ; in a large proportion of operations the disease returns; I have found it difficult to state an average. If I were asked, “ in one half of the cases.'" I should say “ no “ if one fourth ?” “ no but the disease returns in the breast or other parts of the body, after an oj^ra- tion in a great number of cases—still I perform the operation ; and why ? because I feel it my duty to say to a patient with this complaint, that “ there is only one chance for you, and that is, an operation ; it sometimes prevents the return of the disease, and it may do it in your case.” “ If this is my only hope,” she says, “ I will submit to it immediately.” Another reason whv I perform it is, that now and then you see a pa- tient with this disease in a state of ulceration, worn out by fre- quent bleedings, foetid discharge, and most horrible pains; by removing it, hope is again revived, and she is again restored for months, and sometimes years, to a state of cyraparative ease. On these two accounts, although an operation may be unsuccessful in one case, and is sure to be so_ in the other, yet I perform it, for a surgeon is obliged to do it at the solicita- tion of his patient. LECTURE XLIV. Fungus Hs.matodes. Various names have been given to this disease; it was origi- nally called soft cancer, but having been found materially Jo differ from true cancerous disease, that name was relinquished, and the one given to it by the late .Mr. Hey, of Leeds, viz , Fungus H.-ematodes, is that which is now generally employed. .Mthoueh this affection has some resemblance to scirrhous