SPASMODIC AFFECTIONS. dSO .itid attacks individuals of all ages ; so recently as yesterdav, ) saw a little boy, of only four years of age, the subject of it. Common accidents, :is fracture and dislocation, will .some- times give rise to spasmodic stricture ; even an operation for aneurism will generate to such a degree of irritation as to pro- duce it. Spasmodic stricture is generally unattended with pain. I mention this the more particularly, because the inflammatorv stricture and the spasmodic have been confounded ; wherea.<, the one being unaccompanied with pain, and the other having it distressingly severe, is surely sufficient to mark the di.^ease.- as completely distinct: even an irritated state of mind, or a mind deeply engaged in study, will occasionally influence the nervous system to such a degree, as to produce spasmodic stricture of the urethra. This complaint usually tomes on of a sudden, is unmixed with pain, and the first' notice that a patient has of it is, that he experiences a difficulty in voidinK his urine. Treatment of Spasmodic Stricture.—You should introduce a bougie, letting it steal gently along the urinary passage; and, when it arrives at the strictured part, there let it rest for a short time ; after this, you should gradually push it forward, using only a very slight force, but continuing that force until you have succeeded in passing the stricture. Let the bougie rest for a minute or two in the strictured part, and then with- draw it; directly that you do so, the person will be enabled freely to |)ass his urine. If you have not a bougie at hand, you may employ a catheter, and it will answer equally well; you must take care, however, to use it gently, as I have just described. Other means are adopted, as the exhibition oi calomel and opium ; antimony has also been given with a view of producing sickness and general relaxation ; the warm hath has been also employed with the same view, as has she tobacco glyster. Mr. Cline employed the inuriated tincture oi iron with decided advasitage; he gave five or ten drops every two or three hours, and it succeeded, when every other means had been found unsuccessful. 1 have already mentioned to you that the warm bath is a remedy employed for this com- plaint. I now tell you, that the cold bath lias likewise been had recourse to, and with the most decided advantage ; at this apparent contradiction you probably are surprised ; luTsvever. such is the fact. Mr. Robert Few, when studyinc at these hospitals, was attending a gentleman in Bishopsgate-street, who had spasmodic stricture. Mr. Few (and 1 mention it to his credit, for it shewxd a reflecting mind'), recollcctine that an immersion of his body in cold water always caused hint t.<