60 O.V ABSCESSES. not give way to the processor ulceration, and the nervou- system becomes irritated by the pressure of confined matter" an early incision should be made to liberate the matter, and give rehet to the constitution, 'fhe same practice should be pursued m abscess ot the palm of the hand.* 'Ihe ulcerative process is useful to the animal econoniv in eniovirig extraneous bodies from the system. Thus a'hall edged 111 the body,, and a ligature round an arterv, are dis- eiigaged by the process of ulceration. It is useful ab-o in the wnn of l^one, in separating parts which Te nJi-f ^’’Obody, perhaps for the remain- exfoliated bone will be separated by the ulcerative process. oil wi 1 find a case of popliteal aneurism in the other ho.<- pita!, where the leg has sloughed a little below the calf. Al- luost the whole of the leg has separated, except the tibia and nouia^. ^ A very small portion still remains to separate. Bv my advice nothing has been done to the living solids, and the process of nature is left to take its course. You will soon =ee that the bones themselves will Separate by the process of ex- toliation, and thp nature will herself perform the operation ot amputation without loss of blood, or any danger to life. O.V Abscesses. I shall now proceed to the consideration of abscesses. _ An abscess is a collection of matter in a cyst, produced bv inflammation. What happens in the formation of abscess is a.s follows First there is an inflammation of the adhesive Kind III the cellular tissue, by which the different cells of the cellular iiieinbraiie become filled with adhesive matter. A slight ulcerative process takes place, the iuflammatiou still proceeding, and a little cavity is formed by the ulcerative pro- cess, a space being left for the effusion of pus, the result of the second .stage of iiitlamniation. A drop of matter is secreted into the cavity, and as soon as it is poured out, the pressure on, the side occasions an increase of the ulcerative iirocess, vyliich adds to the cavity previously formed. .More matter is then produced, and the suiToiiiiding solids having a tendenev to the ulcerative process, it is accumulated, so as to lead to absorption of the neighbouring parts. In the formation of abscess, the matter does not produce absorption of all the parts around ciiually, but it excavates chiefly on the side to- vvaids the skin, and very little in the opposite direction ■ a ciicumstance vyhich led to the reflection, that matter had'no powei ot eroding, as was formerly supposed, when it was thought that 111,atter acted chcmicallv on the solids like an acid, or caustic alkali. '