S2S OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. forceps, wliich act will dispel all doubt as to their not haiii- entered the bladder. ’ Forceps. I he ordinary lithotomy forceps hare their bend, or joint, two-thirds of their way forward. If the stone should break, you are then to use flat forceps. If it be a soft .stone, 01 a number of small ones, you may employ the scoop or ciotchet. Having passed in this la.st instrument, and carried us point a little beyond the stone, you then pass in vour finger to the farthest extremity of the instrument; the stone is then lodged between the point of the crotchet and your finger iu the same way as it would have been between the blades of the forceps, had they heen used. Well, so much for the operation of lithotomy, as performed with the gorget. Xow then for that by the knife. I do not like this instrument for the operation so well as I do the gorget, and I shall presently tell you why. Another instrument for dividing the prostate and bladder has of late been used with success, in the lateral operation of lithotomy, it is called the bisluurie cachee; it was invented bv Cosme, a French surgeon, about one hundred years since ; it consists of a knife, enclosed in a sheath, which, after being in- troduced into the bladder, and, turned with its edge down- wards and outwards, cuts its way out when withdrawn. I was myself for some years in the habit of using a straight scalpel, the same kind of instrument as you have lately seen Mr. Tyrrell operate with in this hospital. Mr. Thomas Blizard is said to have improved this instrument by making its blade longer and more narrow ; it may be an ’ alteration for the belter, for aught I know to the contrary, for 1 am never so wedded to any thing of my own as not to’ be fully aware that other people’s productions may be far superior. Now, that young people may be readily and successfully cut with a knife, I can fully testify ; for, without vanity, I may say that my experience in the operation has been considerable: I have myself cut twenty-four individuals for the stone in the course of one year, partly in private, and partly in hospital practice ; have used Imth the knife and gorget pretty exten- sively ; and I should hold m3’self exceedingly culpable if I did not fairly and candidly communicate to >’ou the unalloyed opi- nions wliich I now entertain. Well then, gentlemen, 1 can tell you that the knife may be advantageously employed in children —in fact, you may cut a child with any thing, but not so old persons, in whom the prostate and bladder are often diseased, and all the parts extremely rigid ; thus, upon such a prostate and bladder the knife makes scarcely any impre.ssion, and the opening through the prostate is exceedingly small; while, on