THE HIP JOINT. o98 DISLOCATIONS OF you hare drawn down the bone, you rotate it, yon can di- tine Iv fee a crepitus, but this ceases to be felt when the limb IS allowed to be ajjam shortened. Fractures of the neck witliin the ppsular ligament occur but rarely, exceot in ad- ranced periods of life, and are produced by slieht causes • this IS owm? to the iiiter.stitial ab.sorption which this part of the hone undergoes m age. Thus, then, you see that the in- cieased mobility of the parts, the easy extension of the limb ana its then producing a crepitus, will readily distinguish the one aendent from tlie other. No man who possesses a -rood knowledge of anatomy, or who has paid attention to his nro- te.^sion, could ever confound dislocations arising from violence with diseases of the hip joint. The gradual progress of the symptoms, the pain in the knee, the apparent donation at hist, and the real shortening afterward.s, the power of mo- tion remaining, yet that motion producing pain, especialir under the e.xtremes of rotation, are marks of difference which must strike the most careless observer. The consequences of a disease of this kind, when it has existed a great length of time, are such a change in the dtu- ation of the parts, from ulceration of the ligaments, head of the bone, and acefahulnm, as to make the limb appear like a dislocation. But tlie history of the case at once points out Its nature. ^ 1 he dislocation on the dorsum ilii is produced bv the pa- tient falling when the knee and foot arc turned inwards, or by a blow being received while the limb is in that position, rhe following plan is to be adopted in attempting to reduce this dislocation ;—Bleed the patient to twelve nr twenty ounces, or more, if he he a very strong man. Next place hull in a warm bath, at 100°, gradually increase it to 110°, until he begins to feel faint. Whilst he is in the bath, civc linn one grain of tartarized antimony, until he feels nausea ; then wrap liim in a blanket, and place him on a table, be- tween two strong posts, into which two staples have been fixed ; or, if you cannot find a convenient jilace fpr this, place him on the floor, and screw two rines, about the dis- tance I have mentioned, into the floor. Tlie plan 1 usuallv adopt is, to place liiui on a table covered with a blanket, on his back ; then a strong girt is jiasscd between his |uidendum and thigli, and this is li.\ed to one of the staples. .A wetted linen roller should be applied just above the knee, and on this a leather strap is to be buckled, having two straps with rings at right armies with the eircniar part. The knee .-hould be slightly bent, not quite at a right angle, and brought across the ojipositc thigh a little above the knee. The pullics are M