136 ON WOUNDS OF THE BRAIN. do? Not recollecting him, I looked at him with some sort of surprise, as you may suppose, when he informed me that he was the man whom 1 had seen about a year before in St. Thomas’s Hospital, with a wound in the head, and throneh which he had lost some of his brain. I replied that I could readily believe him. He stated that he had been quite well ever since—lie had what he called an opening where he re- ceived the wound ; was not subject to fits; and to .>^how you that his mind (notwithstanding his familiar “how do you do.'”j had not sustained .any damage from the accident, he was, at the time 1 saw him, conductor of an extensive business at the house where he was then living. It occasionally happens, when a portion of brain has been lost, that a piece of the cranium will, by being driven in, oc- cupy its place; and if, in these cases, no symptoms of com- pression manifest themselves, you must not elevate the de- pressed bone: for were you to do so, you would, in all proba- bility, give rise to extravasation, or increase the hazard of in- flammation. The late Mr. Chandler had a patient in this hos- pital, who, on receiving a blow from a boat-hook upon the parietal bone, had a portion of that bone driven into the brain, and at the same time a quantity of the brain was lost : at first there was hemiplegia ; this effect, however, soon dis- appeared. The depressed bone was permitted to remain, and the individual perfectly recovered. Such cases are not un- common, and I could relate a number of them to you. The danger attending injuries of the brain arises principally from two causes : viz., inflammation, and the formation of fungus. 1st. Inflammation, and 2nd, Fungus ; but I am happy to tell you, that both of these may be conquered by sci- entific and prompt treatment. When the brain receives a wound, you must commence your curative exertions by ab- stracting as large a quantity of blood from the svstem as the constitution of your patient will bear; not, however, to such an extent as to prevent the restorative operations of nature. Do not lower the system to such a degree as to prevent inflam- mation altogether, as was done by the dresser in the other hospital, whose partiality for bleeding 1 mentioned to you a few evenings since. Though you succeed in keeping down in- flammation, fungus will spring up ; and here {exhibiting a preparation) you have an opportunity of seeing an example of the disease to which 1 allude. Sometimes wounds of the brain extends even to the ventricles, and here (showing ano- ther |)reparation) you observe that one of the lateral ventri- cles was laid open. Now, gentlemen, some days after the brain has been wound-