ON POISONS. 455 lai’geiuents of the glands, in the form of hydriodate of potash, is a very active poison, and you should be very much on your guard in employing it. I witnessed very lately an instance of an over-dose of this substance producing the most violent con- vulsive symptoms. 'J'he quantity of iodine taken was less than that which is often given, but it was an over-dose to this patient. There were forty drops of the tincture in a mixture of si.x ouuces, and he was desired to take three table-spoon- fuls three times a day ; he had only taken three-fourths of the mixture, when he was seized witli the most violent con- vulsions ; his hands, legs, and feet, were kept in constant in- voluntary motion ; and he declared, that during the whole nieht he resembled a person in the act of fighting and wrest- ling Dr. Marcet mentioned to me the case of a lady, on the continent, who destroyed herself by taking this medicine ; she thought she could manage it herself; took it for several days, and increased the doses. She was seized with violent vomiting, purging, excessive pain in the stomach, and convul- sive symptoms, and in this state she died. It is a dangerous remedy when used internally, and 1 do not think its merits as an internal medicine are at all equal to those which it pos- •sesses as an e.xternal ap])lication. 1 shall proceed to say a few words on the mineral poisons. Arsenic is a poison very commonly taken for the purpose of committing suicide : very soon after this poison is swallowed, the most excruciating pain is felt in the stomach ; besides this effect on the stomach it produces excessive vomiting, violent spasmodic contractions of the muscles of the ab- domen, twitchings and convulsive motions of the hands. The pain is so horrible, that much as we may lament the want of firmness which leads to the commission of suicide, we de plore still more the suffering occasioned by a poison which produces such e.xcruciating torture as arsenic. A person who has a taken a sufficient quantity of arsenic to destroy life, dies about nine hours after having taken it. During that time he suffers the most excruciating agony until within two hours of his death, when his pain is somewhat mitigated ; he is then convulsed, his body is iierfectly pallid, and covered with a cold perspiration ; and his faeces jiass off involuntarily. On examination of the body after death, a very large quantity of mucus appears to be thrown out, in consequence of the irri- tation produced by the arsenic. 'I'his is a sort of defence set up by nature, a quantity of mucilaginous matter being pro- duced, which is for a time capable of supporting the oxide of arsenic, so as to keep it from the coats of the stomach. When the quantity is large, the poison penetrates through this mu