OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. 323 AS large as the patient can admit; let the groove be large and deep, which will lessen the danger of the knife or gorget slipping in its passage to the bladder : the larger the groove, the safer it will be. The staff'should be a little more curved than the sound, and it will then serve as a director for the knife ; for if it is not, you will be obliged to lower the in- strument you are going to introduce, in order that it may reach the bladder. When you are about to cut a patient for stone, let the staff rest on the stone, and 1 will tell you why ; 1 have seen too many instances where the gorget has not entered the bladder, and this has arisen from the staff not being in the bladder, but resting on the prostate, by which means the gor- get has slipped, and passed between the bladder and rectum. The staff should be held perpendicularly, and should rest on the stone; then, when the gorget is introduced into the groove, it goes to the stone, and the forceps may be passed directly to the spot where it is. I again repeat, never let the 'talf rest on the prostate gland, but on the stone. LECTURE XL. Operation of Lithotomv. 1 BEGAN, gentlemen, towards the conclusion of the last lec- ture, to describe to you the instruments required to perform the operation of lithotomy. I stated to you the manner in which the bladder should be sounded, both as regarded its full and empty state, and that a stone could often be detected in one of those conditions when not in the other. I told you not to use too large or too small a sound, and explained the rea- sons for such instruction. In alluding to the .staff, 1 particu- larly advised you to employ one having a deep groove, wherebv the danger of the knife or gorget slipping is materially guarded again.^t. Vou were likewise instructed, when performing the operation of lithotomy, to let the staff rest on the stone. I have .several times known where this maxim had not been at- tended to, that the gorget has not entered the bladder, and it arose from the circumstance of the staff having been permitted to rest on the prostate gland. When you sound a man for stone, I would advise you to be »n your guard as to any queries respecting what you have dis- covered. Let your answers be rather c(|uivocai and evasive than otherwise, for by a decisive answer either in theallii ina- tiye or negative, your reputation may receive unmerited injui'y. riie reason vyhy you should be thus cautious, after what I stated to you in my last, must be sufficiently obvious, viz., from