ON THE DIFFERENT AMPUTATIONS. 403 the healing of the wound. Lay bare the spermatic cord com- pletely at the abdominal ring ; and put a needle and ligature through it and the arteiy of the vas deferens. Some say this is a work of supererogation ; but it is not so, because, if you omit it, it often happens that when you divide the cord, it is drawn within the abdominal ring by the action of the cremas- ter, and you cannot get at it without slitting up the abdomen. This once happened during the operation of castration, at which Mr. Cline, senior, was present. The surgeon had re- moved the testicle, and when he came to secure the vessels, the spermatic cord could not be found. Mr. Cline brought the spermatic artery into view, by slitting up the abdominal ring. Having divided the cord, you draw it towards you, and detach the cellular membrane behind it: in this consists the whole of this very easy operation. The spermatic artery, and the artery of the vas deferens are all that require to be secured in the cord ; in the scrotum there are several which require to be secured. 1 shall in the next lecture proceed to the amputations. LECTURE XLIX. On the Diffekent Amputations. Operations are now much less frequently performed than they were in the days of our ancestors, owing to the great improvements which have taken place in surgical science. Many of the diseases which were formerly considered incurable can now be easily cured by modes of treatment corresponding with our increased pathological knowledge. Many accidents, for e.xaiuple, where the parts are much lacerated, and for which the ancients would have 0])erated, we leave to nature, by whose intlucuce the ditferent reparative processes will he set in action, and the injured limb restored to health and utility. VV'hen amputation is necessary, nature will occasion- ally even perform this operation unassisted by art; in mor- tification of the feet it often happens that the leg will be amputated by nature as elfectually as though it had been ac- complished by the knife. At Guy’s Hos|)ital there is at the present moment a case of this description. You have seen, in the case which I allude to, first, a division of the skin-—then the division of the muscles .shorter than the skin, and lastly, the division of the bones ; the fibula has already separated, and the exfoliation of the tibia is rapidly going on. Nature in this case if left to herself, would, without doubt, accom- plish the amputation of the leg ; but the safety of the .man 1) i) 2