391 ON FISTULA IN ANO. down by the pressure of matter from above, aud that pressure upwards upou the diapliragm assisted in emptying the chest. I did not empty the chest entirely on that day, but, putting a bit of adhesive plaster on it, I said I would empty it a little more the next, aud I proceeded in this way to discharge the matter gradually from day to day. This young lady is now in perfect health. In the last year, I saw a young lady who had a similar enlargement of the side, attended with similar symp- toms. I treated this case nearly the same, but 1 found a great advantage in fixing a girdle round the abdomen, which pre - vented the diaphragm from again descending by any accumu- lation of matter. With respect to spurious empyema, it is merely a common abscess, which must be opened, and treated in the ordinary way. I have only one observation to make with respect to spurious empyema. A boy, who had been a long time at sea, aud who was the subject of sea-scurvy, came to England with a swelling in his left side. I had no doubt, from its undulation during coughing, that there was matter contained in the cavity of the chest, and I was going to insert my lancet, when 1 observed that the boy appeared to be in very bad health. I inquired more particularly as to his symp- toms, aud it appeared that he had petechia;, and that his gums occasionally bled. I gave him bark with citric acid, and, as his health improved under this treatment, the matter was ab- sorbed, and the swelling entirely disappeared. The next subject of this evening’s lecture is one which some of you may think scarcely worth your attention, and with the treatment of which you may imagine that you are fully ac- quainted ; the complaint to which I aFiode is Fistula in Ano. This is a disease in which you will be called upon to ope- rate more frequently, perhaps, than in any other. J do not think it a disease which is very easy to treat; it very often baffles the skill of the best surgeons. A fistula in ano will hardly ever heal of itself, after the operation is performed, without the utmost attention on the part of the surgeon. The sphincter ani is the source of the difficulty in this complaint; every time the patient has an evacuation, the contraction of the .sphincter ani separates one side of the abscess from the other, and thus the process of adhesion and inosculation of the granulations is continually interrupted. Understanding this, you will sec that the principle of treatment consists in the division of the sphincter ani; if you do not divide the sphincter, you had better not attempt to treat the patient at all. fistula in ano is more painful than a common abscess ; the