DISLOCATIONS OF THE THIGH BONE. G03 resting the other hand on the pelvis, he should lilt the thigh as much as possible tovvards the acetabulum, so as to get the head of the bone over its edge. I have also directed a round towel to be used for this purpose ; this is passed beneath the upper part of the thigh, and then carried over the shoulders of an assistant, who then rested both hands on the pelvis, and, by raising his body gently, raised the thigh with it. It the assistant should be very short (said the Lecturer smiling- ly), why, he might rest one foot on a chair, and place the other on the pelvis of the patient, and might in this way, per- haps, raise the bone as effectually as a descendant of the race of the Titans —(« laugh).—This dislocation has been reduced by making e.xtension with the pullies in a right line with the body; and at the time this extension was made, the trochan- ter major was tlirust forwards with the hand. But the for- mer method is the most easy, and is that which I generally adopt. Of the Dislocation on the Pubes.—Tliis accident happens in the following manner :—If a person, whilst walking, puts his foot into some unexpected hole, he throws liis body suddenly backwards, to preserve his e(]uilibriuui, and the head of the bone starts forwards on the pubes. It is much more readily detected than any other dislocation of the thigh. The prin- cipal marks are these :—The limb is an inch shorter than the other, and the knee and foot are turned outward.s, and can- not be rotated inwards ; but the most striking mark of the dislocation is, that the head of the thigh may be felt upon the pubes, above the level of Poupart’s ligament, to the outer side of the femoral artery, and feels like a hard ball there, which will readily move on rotating or bending the knee. Easy as this dislocation is to detect, 1 have known three cases in which it has been overlooked until it was too late. This could only arise from great carelessness ; and that man really deserves the appellation of a blockhead, who, in the present day, would allow such an occurrence to take place. This accident need never to be mistaken for a fracture of the neck of the thigh bone, as the head of the bone on the pubes will point out, to the most superficial observer, the nature of the accident, 'i’o reduce this dislocation, you place the patient on a table, on his side ; then carry a girt between the pudendum and the inner part of the thigh, and fix it in a staple, a little before the line of the body. The roller is to be passed around the thigh, and the jtullies fixed as in the dislocation upwards, and the extension is to be made in a line behind the axis of the body, the thigh-bone being drawn backwards. After this extension has been continued some