518 ON SYPHILITIC BUBO. you direct your attention is, whether the enlarged gland r* situated at Poupart’s ligament, or below it; vou know that there are two orders or rows of absorbent glands in the groin. J he first row is in the line of Poupart’s ligament, extending nearly from the spinous process of the ilium to the pubi.‘ ; but below this is another tier, situated at the distance of an inch and a half, or two inches, from the first. If the swelling be in aline with Poupart’s ligament, you maj decide that it is a syphilitic bubo ; but you may determine that it is not sy- philitic if it be in the lower order. When you see a swellinc in the groin, about an inch and a half below Poupart’s liga- ment, you inquire if there be any sore on the foot or lee, or any irritation on the back or nates; for, in such cases, the glands are generally affected. I'he lower order of the glands are more frequently affected from any irritation on the thigh and leg than on the back of the nates, because the greater number of the absorbents from these last parts terminate in the upper row of absorbent glands. You determine that it is not syphilitic if the swelling be in the lower row of the glands. When you are called on to treat a syphilitic bubo, you order the patient to take five grains of blue pill, combiued with a quarter of a grain of opium, night and morning, with the same vievv as you give it in the chancre ; the opium sub- dues the disposition to an irritable action being set up in the constitution by the mercury ; and, when it is given in con- junction with the blue pill, you seldom have those dire efiects from the syphilitic disease as when the merenrv is given alone. Therefore, you will give the blue pill combined with opium. If you find the ]>ain in the evening not subdued, you may give ten grains of the blue pill at night, and five in the morning. But, at the same time that you employ consti- tutional remedies, local tneans should not be neglected ; eva- porating lotions should be applied to the part, a bandage should be put round the waist, and a linen, wetted with a lotion, composed of an ounce of spirits of wine, to five ounces of water, should be kept to the swelling, and fastened by tape to the bandage. But, gentlemen, it sometimes hap- pens, notwithstanding the means that you employ, the pain, swelling, and the disposition of the gland to suppurate, in- crease ; this will be known by sharp pains darting through the part, and a pulsating feel in it; for, when these occur, the suppurative ]>rocess has generally commenced ; you then apply evaporating lotion and leeches, give active purges, and omit the blue pill, or else you will make the bubo suppurate, hlercury, (as you kuow) has the effect of hastening common inflammation, when it occurs in any part of the body to sup*