333 OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. ail instiaiment, for the purpose of breaking large stones in the bladder by means of a perforating screw. I have not had an opportunity of making use of it; but it appears to me to be well constructed for that purpose, and very likely to succeed. It is undoubtedly a very desirable thing to break stones, in cases either of a deep perinaeum, or an enlarged prostate, and the invention of such an instrument cannot but be advanta- geous to the profession. When I say that cases of large stone, accompanied with enlargement of the prostate gland, generally terminate unfavourably, I do not mean to be understood that the enlarged prostate necessarily leads to the destruction of life, but the patient very rarely recovers his health perfectly .afterwards, so as to be free from the symptoms of the disease. Patients under these circumstances generally suffer very much from the enlargement of the prostate after the stone is re- moved. I remember a curious case of a French gentleman who was operated upon for stone by Mr.Cline, senior. Mr. Cline happened to take out his watch, and to make some in- different observation ; the patient, however, thought he said that it was dinner-time. He recovered from the operation, but as he still suffered occasionally from symptoms of stone, instead of being grateful for having been relieved by the ope- ration, he used constantly to say that Mr. Cline was in a hurry for his dinner, when he performed the oper.ation, and h.ad left a stone in his bladder. This gentleman died sometime after, and left five guineas to myself or any other surgeon, except Mr. Cline, to examine his bladder after death, for the purpose of ascertaining whether a stone had not been left there. I happened to be out of town at the time, but Mr. Ramsden, who was then surgeon at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, on ex- amining the body, found that the stone had been completely removed, but that the gorget on entering the bladder had nearly separated a small portion of the prostate gland, so that a littie valve was formed on the inner side of the bladder, which fell occasionallyover the beginning of the urethra, when the patient attempted to make water. When this happened, he was under the necessity of remitting the attempt to dis- charge his urine, and suffered great pain. I shall send round the preparation, in which yon will sec the portion of the pro- state nearly separated by the gorget. It not nnfreqiiently happens that a cyst is formed in tlie bladder, in which the stone is either partially or entirely con- tained. If the cyst includes the stone entirely, the symptoms of stone cease. It happened very fortunately for the person who obtained the reward from parliament, for discovering a medicine capable of dissolving stone in the bladder, that he