ON CHANCRE. 507 me remind you, that [ shall deliver no speculative opinions, nuthia;; but what yon may see every day exemplified in prac- tice. The first point to be considered respecting the cure ot chancre is, shall caustic be applied to it or not ? He who uses caustic to chancres pursues a line of practice liable to be productive of much mischief. 1st. Because the application irritates the part, and may, in consequence, produce bubo. 2d. If the action of the sore be altered by it, it will not pre- vent the constitution from being affected, because if there be any ulceration, the process of absorjttiou must have com- menced, and the poison applied to the part will be taken into the constitution. 1 would ask the person who uses caustic for the cure of chancres, how is chancre produced ? We know that there can be no sore without the ulcerative or ab- sorbent process; and the chancreous matter applied to a part causing a sore in that part, must be absorbed and taken into the .system. Caustic to chancres is a very objectionable ap- plication ; but it is the acme of folly to endeavour to cure a patient by means of it, without adopting a proper mercurial treatment, to counteract the constitutional effects that will otherw'ise be produced by the absorption of the venereal virus. A young person with whom I was intimate whilst I lived with my old master, got a chancre, which, to use his expression, he burned out by application of caustic: I laughed at him for being so foolish ; the caustic produced a slough, but cured the chancre, and I thought nothing more of the circumstance. Some time afterwards I visited him in the country, and I asked him how he was ? “ Very well now,” he replied, “ but 1 have been in a fine scrape ; 1 was engaged, when I left town, to a young lady, the nuptials were to have been soon celebrated, and the business of life commenced.” I involun- tarily smiled, but he said, “ Not quite so merry: when I got into the country, 1 had what I conceived at the time was only a huskiness of the throat, which I had caught from a cold. My throat becoming more painful, 1 looked into the gla.ss, and perceived that 1 had a large sore on the tonsils, decidedly syphilitic. You may conceive how I felt: I wrote to the lady that I was unwell, who, exceedingly hurt at such news, came and nursed me whilst 1 underwent a course of mercurial treatment (she being perfectly unconscious of the cause of my complaint), by which means 1 was quite restored, when the marriage ceremony was celebrated.” It was just a proper puni.shnieut for his folly. The application of canstic to a chancre does not render a person safe from its cflects, tor, if the sore be a chancre, the syphilitic virus must have been admitted into the constitution, i will tell you what