ON EXTRACTION OF THE CATARACT. 287 withdrawTi. Some continental surgeons perform the operation of reclination, which consists in turning the lens over, and pushing the upper edge backwards, and the lower forwards, and likewise in puncturing the cornea instead of the sclero- tic ; the best plan is that recommended by Scarpa. The after-treatmeut is very simple, and consists in a single fold of linen moistened in cold water being applied to the eye. The patient is also to be put in a dark apartment, and nar- rowly watched, in order to see if inflammation supervenes; very frequently none arises. LECTURE XXXVI. On Extraction of the Cataract. This operation was first performed towards the end of the seventeenth century ; it was not, however, generally known till somewhat later, when it was brought into repute by De- ville, who published the method of performing it. Consider- able improvements were subsequently made in the mode of pei-fonning it by Wenzel, who practised it with great dexte- ritv, and astonishing success. There seems to be no neces- sity for preparing a patient for this operation, beyond taking care that his bowels be duly evacuated, and that he has not used any unusually stimulating diet previous to the operation. It would be highly improper to perform it, if the patient was at the time labouring under any other complaint or morbid affection ; means should be taken to remove any complaint of this kind before the operation is attempted. Beyond these jnecautions, however, no preparatory treatment will be ne- te.ssary, though I am aware, that much stress was formerly- laid upon this point. Several instruments wall be required for the performance of this operation, which is a more compli- cated one than that to which 1 before directed your attention. In the first place, a cornea knife will be necessary ; the knife used by Wenzel, was something like a bleeding laiieet; the blade, however, was neither .so long nor so broad, and the edges were straight. Ware’s knife was an improvement on Wenzel’s ; it is much less spear-pointed ; the edges are straight as in Wenzel’s, hut while the lower edge is cutting, the supe- rior edge i.s only cutting towards the point. From the point towards the liandle there was a gradual increase in the size of the knife, a circumstance upon which Ware particularly in- sisted, in order tlmt the knife, on being carried onwards, might always follow up the opening, so as to prevent the escape of the aqueous humour. Wenzel’s knife, however, and Ware’s ini-