TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 24- whitish, while others were very dark, and the whole was of a spongy, elastic texture.] LECTURE IV. Tkeatment OF Inflammation. This is either constitutional, local, or both combined. When any important organ i.s injured, or its functions disturbed in consequence of the influence of the in jury on the constitution, the treatment must be invariably constitutional, let the local be whatever it may; for no vital organ can be disturbed in its functions without producing general derangement, which will be, more or less, in proportion to the importance of the part wounded, and the extent of the wound. Inflammation, how- ever, in many persons, requires constitutional treatment, whe- ther any important part be injured or not; as, in irritable habits, where veiy trivial local damage will speedily affect the entire system. The most powerful means of relieving inflammation is by the abstraction of blood. Its beneficial effects principally re- .sult from producing a diminution of nervous power; and that it does accomplish this is proved by thesyucope which it occa- sions. Thus, often the removal of a veiy small quantity of blood even causes a suspension of the mental facultie.s, as well as, of all the voluntary functions. Fainting, however, cannot be suddenly produced, unless the patient be in the erect posi- tion at the time the blood is drawn ; for it is the loss of this fluid by the vessels of the brain which is the immediate cause of fainting. 'I’o prove this, when you next bleed a man until he faints, place him in the recumbent posture, and let his head be situated a little lower than his body, to facilitate the return of blood to the brain ; in a very short time after being thus placed he will open his eyes, and all his faculties will resume their former abode. The second mode by which bleeding relieves is by lessening the quantity of blood ; for when there is much fulness of the vessels, the momentum will necessarily be great, and conse- quently the vital fluid will be thrown with greater power, not only to the inflamed, but to every other part of the body. The third mode by which bleeding proves serviceable, is by facilitating the re-establishment of the secreting functions. 'i'he indication for bleeding is a httni pulse. In this state of the jHilse the dianietey of the vessel is diminished, yet the ac- tion is exceedingly strong, and each pulsation of the artery feels like the vibration of a wire; whenever, therefore, yon