58 ON ULCERATION. part covered by a cicatrix proceeds rapidly to ulceration be- cause it is more weakly.coiistituted tban’tbose parts which have existed longer. 'I’he irritability of a part is proportional to Us weakness; and the parts which are weak and irritable fall most readily into the ulcerative process. To take a familiar illustration—when a child labours under symptom^ of constitutional derangement in cutting a tooth, whv do von lance its gums You cut the gums, not for tlie piirpo'e of making an immediate passage for the tooth, and procuring immediate relief to the child, but because, when the gum bv the adhesive process heals upon the divided part, a cicatrix i*s produced by this little operation which is very readily ab- sorbed; and the result is, that when the tooth rises, the child cuts it with much less pain and irritation than if would other- wise have done. If a man have inflammation in his leg. and this falls near a place where ulceration previously existed, the scar produced by the old ulcer gives way much more readily than the original skin. I have observed that if a patient'under gonorrhcEa has had an abscess in the urethra, which will now and then happen in consequence of suppuration of the lacunje, or if from the same cause he has had an abscess in the scro- tum, or on the side of the penis, if he should get a .second go- norrhffia, he will be sure to be attacked with a similar absr^. Pi oceed \yith as much care as you may—guard against inflam- mation with all possible caulion--and yet, if he has abscess in the first gonorrhffia, it will infallibly return in the same part if he get a second. ' * ’ One of the most remarkable instances of the readiness with which the process of absorption attacks newly-formed part', may be seen in Lord ylnsoji’s Voyage round the JVorld—k w'ork whicb, I doubt not, is generally known to you. It is a most able and entertaining publication ; and if any student has not read it, I can strongly recommend it to his’perusal ; for, while professional knowiedge should undonbtcdly be the first object of your pursuit, general literature sbould' not be neglected, and is so far from being incompatible with that priniai'y object, that it cannot fail to enlarge your views, and give efficacy to your professional researcbes.’ So intimate is the connexion between every olyect of useful and scientific inquiry, that there is hardly one branch of knowledge which does not in some measure throw light and illustrarion upon another. The circumstance which I am about to mention may illustrate this remark. Lord Anson’s book is one of the most valuable works which has appeared on nautical subjects ; nor is it w'ithout its use as illustratii'c of a principle in surgciT. Lord Anson’s expedition to the Pacific Ocean was undertaken