4o8 ON POISONS. cases Diluents should be given to a verv considerable extent as well as the alkali. ' It may appear that I am disposed to think too well of the instrument to which I before adverted, when I state that I believe that the syringe may also be successfully employed for the purpose of removing the o.xymuriate of nitVcun- from the stomach. I should certainly prefer it to anv other mean- • but instead of using simple water, I .should throw in aguaiil tity of soap and water; then withdraw it- I should repeat this operation until the stomach was entirely cleansed It has been suggested, that although this iustr'umcnt mav be used with success for the purpose of removiue the veeetable poisons from the stomach, yet it would not succeed in ca.'es ot poison by arsenic or corrosive sublimate. 'I bis 1 do not believe. With respect to arsenic, 1 am aware that, if it wen- taken in the solid form, and a considerable portion had fallen on the stomach, it would be impossible to remove it • but a.' It IS usually taken in powder, I think the instrument is verv capable of removing it, because it will be for a considerable tune, at least, kept in solution bv the mucus which is thrown out from the surface of the stomach, and in this state it mav be removed. At all events this deserves a trial. Thev who suppose that the arsenic adheres to the internal coats of the stomach so that it cannot be removed, have never made anv experiments with the oxide of arsenic ; it does not adhere to the coats, but it is lifted from them by mucus. With respect to the influence oflead, I have but little to ohsene. In colica Iiictonuin, where we haveaii opportunity of observineits effects, no inflammation appears to be produced in the stomach. This disease seems to be entirely spasmodic ; it will be riirht to ad- minister large quantities of castor oil, and emetics. I have known per.sons suddenly lose the use of one side from the effects of lead. I once observed that a boy, who was at work at my house, had paraplegia; and I asked him how he came to lose the use of his side. “Why, sir, (said heverv fool- ' ishlj I had some lead in my pocket, as I was going home to my master’s, and on the road 1 bought some gooseberries, and put them into my pocket. I found that the mixture of lead only made the fruit sweeter; so I finished my gooseber- ries, and on the following morning 1 lost the' use of mv side.” I shall conclude this lecture by shewing vou the effect of a liowerful poison called ticiinas, with which the Indians, in the hack settlements of Deiiierara, arm their arrows. 'I here is a very minute portion of the poison on a stick in this little Ihix. " liicli is siiflicient, however, to poison cverv one of vou. I