63 ACUTE AND CHRONIC ABSCESS. abscesses occur between bones and the covering of bones. Whenever bones form the boundary ot abscesses, sucn ab- ■scesses are exceedingly tedious, aud in most cases dangeious. Thus it is in psoas abscess ; in this disease the mattei begins to collect on the fore part of the vertebrae, and pioceeding tlirough the hollow of the psoas muscle (till it icaches the groin, where it makes its appearance just below Poupait s ligament; and from examination of these cases aftei death, the vertebra; are found ulcerated. It is not my intention this evening to enter into the consideration of psoas or liimbai abscesses, as they will be treated of on aiiothei occasion, but 1 just mention the complaint to show the danger of absces.ses between bones and their coverings ; and the reason of it is, that the process of exfoliation takes place, and they then be- come very long aud tedious in their jirogrcss. Abscesses are acute or chronic. The common course an acute abscess takes is three weeks. Ihe adliesive inflani- mation first begins ; this is succeeded by the suppurative : and, lastly, the ulcerative process comes on ; and it is gene- rally three weeks from its cominencemeiit before matter is discharged. But chronic abscesses are slower in their march; take, for instance, the psoas abscess, to which we have alluded ; it is often six months before matter makes its ap- pearance in that complaint. If a person conies to you with a psoas absce.ss, and you ask liow long he has had pain in his loins, he will tell you for four, five, or six months past; sel- dom less than four, and generally for the space of six months. There are varieties in the irritability of difl'erent constitutions, but if you sec a man with swelling in the groin, which, when he cough.s, rebounds under your hand, and has a fluctuating feel, and who has had for four or five months pain in his loins, vou will say that it is psoas abscess ; so these are the criteria by which you are to know it. Chronic abscesses sometimes occur in the female breast. Cases.—A lady was .sent to me from Sussex some years ago, to have her breast removed : knowing the surgeon who had recommended this person to me to be an intelligent man, 1 did not attentively examine the breast, but said to the lady, 1 will call on you soon, and perform the operation. 1 fixed the day, and was about to j)erform the operation, the patient l>eing seated in a chair before me, when I said to the gentle- man (Mr. Edwards) who was assisting me, 1 think that I feci a sense f>f fluctuation here, at least 1 will not proceed to re- move the breast till I have ascertained whether it be matter. I took a lancet, and made an opeuing into it, and out gushed