ON DISLOCATIONS. 572 have been hurt by the obsei-vations which I made on the abuse of mercury, iu the treatment of patients for gonorrhoea in these hospitals. Those observations having been made for many years in these lectures, are not applicable to them. Who are the men, gentlemen, against whom it has been sup- posed that these observations were directed Are they men whom I could possibly feel disposed to injure ? Mr. Travers was my apprentice, Mr. Green is my god.son, Mr. Tyrrell is my nephew, Mr. Key is my nephew, Mr. Morgan was my apprentice. I feel proud in having such men around me, and I believe at no former period has the surgical department of these hospitals been so well filled as it is by them. I do not wish to be understood as disparaging the abilities of former surgeons, but what I do say is, that there have never, at any one time, beeu so many persons officiating as surgeons to these hospitals who have been so properly educated to the profession. It is my wish to uphold the profession, and it is because I wish to uphold it that I wish its abuses to be cor- lected. I believe much good has already resulted from my observations on the abuse of mercury. It is not my inten- tion to retract my opinions ; and I am happy in being able to state that the present surgeons of St. Thomas’s and Guy’s have never pursued the system of treatment which I depre- cated in the lecture on gonorrhoea, and that the venereal wards of Guy’s are about to be opened within a week under new and improved regulations ! I have spoken to the gentle- man who rules over that hospital, and I have the satisfaction of stating, that making patients spit three half-pints a dav will no longer be a part of the system, but that the venereal wards will be within a week opened under new and improved auspices. I trust that harmony and unanimity will ever be preserved among the members of the profession, which are essential for their mutual advantage, and the advantage of the public; and it shall not be my fault if that harmony is ever disturbed. LECTURE LXIX. On Dislocations. Gentlemen, before considering the [larticular dislocations, I shall make some general remarks on the.se accidents. A dislocation is the removal of the articulating portion of a bone from that surface to which it is naturally connected. A limb, when dislocated, is generally rendered shorter than be- fore; but there are two dislocations in which the limb is