no TREATMENT OF GANGRENE. Of GANfJHENE IN Old Pehsons. VVe often fiiul old persons afflicted with gangrene, from very slight causes, and particularly those who are tall. 'Che laeart being naturally weakened by age, the circulation be- comes extremely languid in tbefeet; hence mortification of the toes ensues. The appearances which the part assumes are these :—at first it is red and painful ; the person, thinking little of the matter, puts upon the affected part a piece of linen; in a few days the cuticle comes off, and there issues from the surface a sanious discharge; red .streaks are now seen passing from different parts of the foot up the leg; and the glands in the groin often undergo con.siderable inflamma- tion and enlargement; all the absorbent vessels of the foot becoming inflamed, produce universal redness of the disea“;ed member. Soon after this the gangrene begins to extend, de- stroys the whole of the foot, and passes to the upper part of the leg, where it usually stops, as it seldom reaches the thigh ; the constitution beioines considerably influenced ; there is some degree of fever, and the cheeks are of a florid red co- lour. This gangrene will not commonly destroy life, if atten- tion be paid to the patient. It generally ari.'es from ossifi- cation of the arteries—not of the large vessels, but of the small. These losing their elasticity, combined with a debili- tated action of the heart, give rise to the disease of which 1 am now speaking. The earthy matter is sometimes deposited in great quantities in the large vessels ; and here {showing u preparation) is an example, in which the deposition of earthy substance has rendered the principal arteries of the leg, and even part of the femoral artery, impei-vious. 1 recollect some time ago a very intelligent surgeon telling me, that he thought a certain nobleman, whom he was at that time attending, had ossification of the arteries of the leg, and tliat it would some day give rise to gangrene—of which gan- grene his Lordship has since died. Where ossification of the blood-vessels e.vists, very slight causes will give rise to gangrene. .A gentleman of the city, in cutting a toe-nail, carried the knife too far, and cut the quick, as it is termed: the wound soon became gangrenous and black, and in the sequel he died. 1 attended a gentleman, an old surgeon, who, for the purpose of getting rid of a bunion, had (most foolishly) put a lancet into it; gangrene followed, and he died. 1 was lately sent for by .Mr. Holt, surgeon, of Tottenham, to see a gentleman, who, when cut- ting a corn, had carricil the incision a little too far, so as to produce bleeding: gangrene here likewise took place- tUd persons must, therefore, be cautious how they finger their