ON SYPHILIS AND THE USE OF MERCURY. 541 gout ? In the present state of our knowledge, it is impossible, satisfactorily, to account for these phenomena; sufficient ex- periments have not yet been made to guide our judgment, or direct our minds towards a correct and positive conclusion. To possess satisfactory information on this point may be de- sirable ; but I consider it of much more consequence to know how to effectually cure a disease, and prevent its return. I say, if once a surgeon permit the secondary symptoms of sy- philis to appear, that it is difficult to say where the danger- ous consequences will terminate—difficult to point out what may prove the sequel. Gentlemen, I can tell you that, twenty years ago, it was considered a great disgrace to a surgeon to permit secondary symptoms to appear : at that time the great object was to effectually cure the primary symptoms, so as altogether to prevent the occurrence of the secondary; un- fortunately, at the present time, secondary symptoms present themselves to our notice, and much more frequently than twenty years ago. I will tell you how it happens : practi- tioners, at that period, were in the habit of giving mercury in every case of venereal disease, whether primary or second- ary, and administered the remedy with a regularity and cau- tion which I wish were observed at the present day ; they used to exhibit the mercury not only whilst the disease lasted, but for some time after it had disappeared ; and their usual practice was to give it, three weeks for chancre, a month lor a chancre and bubo, and, if for secondary symptoms, the remedy was continued for a still longer period. Though the di.sea.se should disappear quickly after beginning the mer- cury, yet remember that it is not cured, and the medicine should be continued for the above-mentioned period. If the medicine be omitted for two or three day.s, you should con- sider this as so much lost time ; and it must not be forgotten in the aggregate account. Three weeks will be generally found a sufficient length of time for the cure of a chancre ; a month for a chancre and bubo ; and, in case of secondary symptoms, the patient will not be safe until the expiration of five or six weeks. Persons often go to medieal men with chancres, receive from practitioners a box or two of pills, and are then sent about their business. A man had better never vi.sit a^doctor at all than be submitted to such treatment as this : it is often calculated to throw him oft* his guard, mtiy lead him to suppose he i.s cured, when in reality he is not so, and may ultimately terminate in the complete destruction of his constitution. .Sometimes mercury disagrees with the patient; then, of course, you must either discontinue it, or temper it by coin-