ON THE TREATMENT OF INTERNAL PILES. 421 plnmbi subacetatis dilutus. In tliis way you will generally succeed in getting rid of the disease in this stage. If the pile has continued till it has become solid, you will then pursue a ditfereut plan. Put the point of your lancet into the pile, just puncturing the part, and squeezing it between your fingers, you will press out a clot of coagtilated blood. When the pile has become diminished, and the vein ceases to be swollen, the liquor plumbi subacetatis dilutus, with a purgative, will get rid of the disease. So much for the treatment of external piles in their commencement; the treatment of internal piles is more difficult. On the Treatment of Internal Piles. It requires a great deal of experience in many cases to en- able a surgeon to make up his mind as to the best treatment of particular diseases, and I will state to you the result of niy experience ou this subject. 1 am going to make some confes- sions, but 1 have not the slightest objection that they should be made known to the world, because they may prove useful to others. Internal piles commence by a sense of weight and pain in the sacrum ; you are seldom consulted, however, until the disease shows itself by prolapsus ani. As a prolapsus ani is entirely the effect of the piles, this effect will scarcely cease, unless the causes of it are removed. You may diminish it in some measure by astringent applications, and it is right to try to do so, but you will seldom ultimately succeed. With this view, when the part has de.scended, you may use a decoction of oak bark and alum, injecting into the rectum (with a com- mon gonorrhoea syringe) two grains, which may be increased to four grains of alum in an ounce of the decoction of the oak bark. But this treatment will seldom avail when the disease has advanced to any considerable extent; the only way ot ef- fecting a cure, in such cases, will be to remove the piles; and the question then arises, how they may be best removed, a question which experience can alone solve. 1 used to think the removal of the piles by excision the best mode, because 1 found the pain produced by it very trifling, as compared with the ligature, and the prolapsus very easily cured in this way. 1 remember a case of a major in the army, who had prolap- sus from internal piles, and who suffered so much when the piles were tied, that he could not submit to this operation ; but upon cutting them off with a pair of scissors, the pain was so trifling, that he thought nothing of it. If I had never met with any adverse circumstances, I should still recommend the removal by excision ; but 1 must now state the reverses wdiich have occurred to me in this mode of