ON GRANULATION. 71 these; their surfaces are uneven ; they are generally red in colour, and they secrete matter. I know not whether you have followed me or not, but this process may be easily ex- plained. Suppose we open an abscess ; the result is, that adhesive inflammation is produced in the internal surface of the cavity. A layer of adhesive matter is in this way thrown out, and if the sides of the abscess are brought together by passing a roller round it, we may often prevent the future for- mation of matter, as I have before had occasion to explain to you. But if the union by adhesion does not take place, then granulations are formed in the following mnnner ;—When fibrin is poured out, the vessels shoot up to its surface, ])er- meate the iiewly-formed substance, and terminate by open mouths on the surface of the layer. This layer becomes the means of filling up a portion of the cavity ; it is soon suc- ceeded by another ; the vessels become elongated, effuse matter on the surface, and shoot up, as before, to the second layer of fibrin. In this manner one layer after another is formed, until the cavity of the wound is entirely filled. The vessels shooting into granulations are very numerous; they are principally ar- teries. If you inject an ulcer of tlie leg, the great degree of vascularity in the granulating surfaces is accounted for by the number of vessels divided into radiated branches, which we see entering the granulations, and producing the arborescent appearance which is observed in them. In examining the structure of granulations, they appear to become vascular in the following manner ;—An artery enters at the base of the granulation, and is then divided into radiated branches; from these vessels |)us is secreted, and an incrustation is fonned, producing a layer of adhesive matter on the surface of the. eranulations. This is a little dilRcult to conceive ; it is a cir- cumstance which, I believe, has never been observed, and which 1 learned in the following manner;—I took a portion of injected ulcer from the arm, and threw it into alcohol, in order to observe its va.scularity. After it was thrown into the alcohol it was so opaque on the surface that no blood-vessels could be seen. It is the fibrous matter, therefore, covering the surface of the granulations which receives the blood-ves- sels.] In this view a granulation may be considered as a gland, and the surface of an ulcer merely as a glandular surface. .\ow a gland is a part of the body in which a secretion from the extremities of the arteries takes place, and the hlood which is not employed in the- secretion is returned to the heart by means of the veins which accompany the arteries. •So in granulations, the arteries throw a quantity of blood near the surface of the wound, and there secrete pus. There is a