592 DISLOCATIONS OF THE FINGERS AND TOES. thrown out of its natural situation by the flexor tendon and theca, or even the palmar fascia becoming contracted, as the effect of chronic inflammation, from excessive action of the parts, as in rowing or ploughing. When the theca are con- tracted, nothing should be attempted, as no operation will succeed ; but, when a thickened baud of fascia appears to be the cause of the contraction, it may easily be divided, bv a pointed bistoury introduced through a very small wound'in the integument. The finger should be then extended, and kept in this position by a splint. Dislocations of the Thumb.—On account of the numerous strong muscles inserted into the thumb, its dislocations are very difficult to reduce. These muscles necessarily offer great resistance when the attempt is made to restore the parts to their proper situations, and I consider, therefore, the disloca- tions of the thumb the most difficult to reduce, especially if any time be allowed to elapse after the accident before the'at- tempt at reduction be made. The metacarpal bone is sometimes dislocated from the tra- pezium. I have seen many cases of this accident, and in most of them I have found that it has been thrown inwards, between the trapezium and the root of the metacarpal bone of the tore finger. Considerable pain and swelling are produced by this accident, but it may be detected by the protuberance formed towards the palm of the hand, by the thumb being bent backwards, and not allowing of its being brought to- wards the little finger. Mdiat 1 have before said respecting the relaxation of muscles inserted into a dislocated j>aj t, i.- particularly necessary to be attended to here. You know that the fle.xor muscles are much stronger than the extensors, and you will, therefore, very much facilitate the reduction by giving the thumb a little inclination towards the palm of the hand ; in this manner the flexors may be relaxed, and their resistance diminished. The extension must be steadily con- tinued for a considerable time, as no sudden violence will effect the reduction. The mode of doing this, I .shall de- scribe presently. If the bone cannot be reduced by simple exten.sion, it is better to leave the case to the degice of reco- very which nature will in time produce, than run any risk of injuring the nerves and blood-vessels, by dividing the muscles or ligaments. A compound dislocation of this bone is some- times produced by the bursting of guns; but, in these cases, you can easily return it to its natunal situation : and, if the flexor tendon should have escaped unhurt, the person may recover useful motion of the part. You should bring the in teguments together as nicely as you can, confine them by a