ON GRANULATIONS OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. 27 1 tlie conjunctiva should be removed, which is a very easy ope- ration. An assistant holding the lid, you, by the means of a pair of forceps, raise the fold of the conjunctiva, and with a pair of curved scissors remove it. .As to the after treatment, you must keep down inHammatiou, should it appear, by the means already recommended. There is another affection more frequently met with than this, viz., Granul.atioss of the Conjunctiva. These are nothing more than loose irregularities of this membrane where it lines the lids. These projections continue to pour out a portion of morbid secretion, whicli stimulates and irritates the whole eye ; the palpebral conjunctiva becomes al- tered in its te.Nture, and its surface is covered with a fiesliy ele- vation, having the exact appearance of granulations. These granulations covering the surface of the conjunctiva lining tlie lids are constantly rubbed over the globe of the eye whenever it inqves, producing pain and irritation, and keeping up morbid secretion, and, in fact, giving rise to chronic ophthalmia. Thu.s easy access is afforded to extraneous bodies, nebulous opacities form on the cornea, vessels will be seen .shooting over it, and these will be quite in a varicose state, enlarged, and having a knotty appearance. The granulations, if not removed or re- medied, produce ultimate blindne.ss. Considerable advantage is said to be derived from the following plan of treatment : — Remove the granulating surface of the conjunctiva by the lancet, or by a pair of curved scissoi's. I am not able myself to say that I have seen any great good result from this mode of treat- ment. Touching the granulations with nitrate of silver or sul- phate of copper will tend materially to keep them down. One remedy in this complaint was first mentioned to me by my friend, .Mr. 'Tyrrell, who stated that he had tried it with ad- vantage : the liquor pliimbi subacetatis applied to the surface of the granulations. 'The result of my experience has been to confirm this .statement. If the vessels on the cornea be nu- merous, it will be proper to divide the trunks which supply them. 'This is a very simple operation. You must raise the lid and press on the globe, by which means you distend it and project it forwards ; you then carry a sharp curved instrument round the outside of the cornea, and divide the vessels, so that they shall not reunite. A bar of lymph is thrown out, which turns the vessels from off their course, excepting, perhaps, the small one.s, which often rtmnite. It will be necessary, perhaps, to repeat it. Cases of this complaint are difficult to cure. I he.se are remedies then to be used : removing the granula- tions, applyingcaustic applications, and the division of the vai i-