ON DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 146 parts of the spinal column. A violent blow on the loins pro- duces paralysis of the lower extrcniitie.s. 'I'he paralysi-s, how- ever, is not complete; the person is unable to support bi» body, but generally some power of moving his limbs remains. 'J'his paralytic state, arising from a blow on the loins, is in genei al ea.sily removed in the following manner :—You apply cupping-glasses to the part, aud take away blood from it several times with the scarificator. If, at the end of a week or ten days, the paralytic state still coiitimie.s, you must apply a blister to the loin.», and keep it dressed with equal parts of the uuguenluin lyttae, and unguentum sabinae. 'I'he lytta being in this way absorbed into the constitution, diminishes the disposition to paralysis, while the counter-irritation also produces good effects. Such is the plan of treatment to be pursued in cases of concussion of the spine. With respect to e.vtravasation on the spine, the examples are but few in which this has occurred. 'Fhe cases which are more particularly impressed upon my mind are, first, one which was examined in this hospital by Mr. Henry Cline. A person received a severe blow' near the cauda equina, by the last dorsal vertebra. He had paralysis of the lower extremities, and shortly after died. 'i’he second case was one under Mr. Heaviside, in which I 'and Dr. Bailiie were also consulted. A young gentleman was Kwingiiig with a party of boys, when one of his companions pushed him, that he might rise us high as possible, while two others ran in the opposite direction, and caught him in the neck with a rope, as he descended. He W'as thrown out of the swing, and when he was taken up, was found to be para- lytic in the lower extremities. He soon became paralytic in his upper extremities also, and a few weeks afterwards he was brought to town in this state. It was suspected that there was some disease of the spine, produced by the injury the neck received, when the rope suddenly caught it, but no deformity could be discovered. An issue in the neck was advised, with a view of producing counter-irritation ; but befoic this plan could be carried into effect, the bo)' died. On exautining the body, it was found that one of tlie vertebral artei ies had burst, and that extensive extravasation had taken place from the foramen magnum to the sixth cervical vertebra Tlie whole sheath of the spinal marrow was covered with blood. .Mr. Heaviside has a beautiful |)repai3tion made fr. m this sn.bject. These cases, probably, admit of no remedy w licrc the extrava- sation isron.siderable. I do not know what ran be done, rxecpi to bleed in the first instance, in order to prevent further extravasation ; and afterwards to promote absorption, ami