ON FRACTURES OF THE VERTEBRA. 149 <3n esaniiuiiig t]ie body after deatli, Mr. Cline found the atlas broken through ; there was a transver.se fi actnre of the atlas, but no displacement. When she endeavoured to raise her Iiead, the dentiform proce.ss quitted its natural situation, and carried back a portion of the atlas ; when lier head inclined forward, pressure was produced upon the spinal marrow, as it was likewise when the body was agitated. This is a curious instance of fracture occurring in the cervic.al vertebrae without displacement. With respect to the treatment of fracture, with displacement of the spine, nothing has hitherto been effectually done in surgery. Mr. Henry Cline was the first person who attempted to give relief in this accident. Being an e.xcelleut anatomist, and a most able surgeon, he saw no reason why cases of this kind should not be treated as cases of fractuie with depression of tlie skull. Accordingly he cut down upon the arch of the spinal marrow, where the compi ession was greatest, and, with a small trephine of his own invention, he sawed through the arch of the. spinous process, and took off the pressure on the spinal marrow, by raising the depressed jtortion of the areh. It is well known, that in cases of fracture where the displacement has been slight, union of the bone has been produced. There would be no difficulty in producing this union, supposing the jire.-isure on the spinal marrow to be removed. There is a pre- paration in .Mr. Brookes’s collection, from a case of fracture with depre.ssicm, where the person lived long enough for the fracture to be united ; and in the College of Surgeons there is a preparation j)iesenfed by Mr. Harold of Cheshunt, from a rase where union of the bone took place after fracture with displacement. 'Fhere is no danger, therefore, as to the restor- ation of the arch of the bone, if the pressure on the spinal marrow could be removed ; and it was with this view that -Mr. Cline sawed through the arch. It is right, however, to mention, that in many of these cases the spisial marrow is it- self torn through. In some cases of fracture with disj)lace- nient, it is completely torn ; in others |)artial!y ; and in some not at all. In cases where it has not been torn, there would be hope from such an operation ; and it is in these cases that the operation has been performed, Mr. 'ryrrell has attem|)tcd the operation sinceMr. Cline, but both cases have terminated un- favourabiy. Whether future ex|ieriments may be iittendcd \Mth better success it is impossible to say. '1 he proposal was plausible; the operation was easily |)crfornied ; :uid ;is to the result, if the spinal marrow were not torn, there seems no rea.son wdi) a person should not recover after such an opera- tion. We are obliged, however, to speak doiibtingly on this