83 ON ULCERS. ?nons a determination of blood to the part, and produces a florid redness in the granulations, instead of the senii-tiaiispa- reut appearance which they assume in the languid state of the sore. It produces, however, a white appearance in the edge of the sore, arising from the thickened state of the cttticle, w’hich prevents the growth of the granulations on the edge. This may lie corrected by the applicatioti of the unguentuin hydrargyri fortius to the edge of the sore. Lotions are fre- quently applied with the same view; such as the sulphate of zinc, in the proportion of two graitis to otie ounce of water : or the sulphate of copper, in the proportion of one grain to three ounces of water. The oxymuriate of mercury, and the liquor calcis, are also used for the .same purpose. In addition to the.se applications, it will be necessary to bind up the sore with a roller, and to allow the patient to take a great deal of exercise ; for, without exercise, a healing disposition will not be produced in the sore. It will he hiehly useful in these ca.ses to employ some stimu- lating plaster, such as the empalstrum galhani compositum, for the adiiesive plaster will not answer the purpo.se ; the sores are lau'iuid, and the object is to increase the action in the part; this will be greatly assi.sted by giving the patient a nu- tritious diet, allowing him at the same time to take exercise, and, in fact, by doing every thing to improve the constitution. W'eil, the next staee of ulcers we come to, is that to be met with in patients on their admission into the hospitals. When the surgeon goes round the hospitiil on the first day after the taking in, he will meet with a number of persons with infiained ulcers on their lees ; and what, 1 ask of you, is the character of these sores ? Vou know that there is a serous discharge from the.se wounds, a bloody ichor, composed of serum and the red particles of the blood—a disposition, in many cases, to slough —that the surface is covered with a brown incrustation, and the skin and surrounding ]>arts are highly inflamed. Weil, then, you will find that the same treatment which is applicable to inilaiumation in general, will be of service in these cases, where inflammation has been kept up for a long time to ahigli degree. Rest must be enjoined ; the patient must also keep in bed in the recutnbent posture. Fomentations and poultices iiiiist be employed : fomentations will tend to produce a secre- tion Irom the part; anti pmdticcs, by their soothing (piality, to ()romote the growth of granulation ; both will evacu.ite the matter troin the wounds. Then, with these applictitious, the »e.s.scls begin to torm, tin; sore assumc.s a better appearance, healthy secretions are thrown out, and granulations shoot u|), fibrous matter is depo.sited, and in ;i little time vou will have G 2