202 ON IIEIINIA. siderable difficult)' in knowint; whether tliere is omentura or ] intestine in the hernial sac. In operatint; heniia, alwav* 1 do it under thedinpression that intestine is contained in the < hernia, and not omentum, because you will he more on vour guarch; therefore make this an invariable rule. Diagnosis.—h\ distinguishing hernia from some other com-’ plaints there is considerable difficult)?.—1st, Hernia is some-' times likely to be confounded with hydrocele : an instance of j this kind I mentioned to you in another lecture ; in this case, ■ had I introduced a trocar, I should have wounded the intestine, and destruction of life would have been the consequence. .Aj gentleman very recently told me of a case where a hernia was ' mistaken for hydrocele, and the patient died in consequence,’* the intestine, being wounded by the trocar that was introduced.^ The surgeon who told me this had none of those malesolent i feelings which actuate too many of our profession ; it was stated in such a manner that it could be neither injurious to i the individual who did it, nor to any other person ; it is a cir- ■ cumstaiice that every one ought to deplore. Another reason why you should be on vour guard is. that both a hernia and hydrocele may be present at the same time ; the hydrocele on the fore j)art, and the hernia behind. Much to the credit of two surgeons who operated where both hv- drocele and hernia were present, they performed the operation safely ; the one case fell under the care of Mr. 'J homas Blizard, who is an excellent anatomist, but has lately relinquished his profession; of this I am exceedingly sorry, for I think that a man has two duties to perform, one to himself, and another to the public ; and if a man has opportunities of acquiring information he should avail himself of them for the benefit of himself and mankind. 1 do not mean to censure Mr. Blizard— but I say it to guide others; and I cannot help thinking that it is wrong for one who possesses so much substantial informa- tion as Mr. Blizard, to withdraw himself from that sphere in which he might be so useful ; he might lessen liis labours, and render them less severe, but not give them up altoecther. : There issomethinc in the experience which a surgeon acquires , at the bed-side of the sick that is worth every thing else ; you may be excellent anatomists and physiolocists, but if you have not watched disease in the wards of the hospital, or at the bed-side of the patient, you will not understand your pro- fession- 1 have been led into this digression in consequence of .'Mr. Blizard’s having withdrawn himself from the profes.sion, a circumstance which 1 sincerely lament. Well, Mr. Blizard made an incision on the fore part of the tumour, and water