ON WARTS. 516 wart grew out from the spot where the puncture had been made. Beiug in practice, this was a disagreeable circum- stance ; it was frequently destroyed, but at each time if grew again. Afterwards he came to tovvTi, when he called on me, and told me the circumstance. I advised him to put on a blister, for the purpose of bringing away the nail, and, then, that the wart might be removed. He applied a blister, and readily removed the nail, but it also brought away the wart, and it never grew again. The other case of warts generating themselves was told me by a gentleman in Su.«sex. He was called to attend a lady in labour; he felt something in the vagina, which appeared unintelligible, and, on examination, found it to be a crop of warts. He delivered her, but did not say any thing about the warts to the lady. In conversation with the husband, he told him that his lady bad a number of warts. The gentleman stated that at the time he was mar- ried he had a wart on the penis, and he had no doubt but that he communicated them to his wife. It is a common opinion that they are propagated by the blood ; but do not entertain this idea—it is by the secretion of matter : Simple local irri- tation will produce warts. The secretion from the glandulse odoriferas, if not eleansed, will give rise to them, or any dirt between the penis and glans. The treatment is different, as the warts may be hard or soft. Soft warts readily bleed, and maybe easily removed: the liquor, plumbi sub'acetatis di- lutus, applied to the surface of them, will remove the soft warts; the oxymurias hydrargyri will soon destroy them. I have used the tinctura ferri muriatis, and the black wash and calomel, with good effect. The unguentum hydrargyri will soon destroy them, by producing irritation, inflammation, and a sloughing of the w'arts. "^rhe hard warts are more diffi- cult to remove; they had better be poulticed first, and then touched with the unguentum arsenicale, which should contain a drachm of the oxyde of arsenic to an ounce of lard. A few of the warts should be touched with this application in the be- ginning, and afterwards the whole. It produces inflammation and sloughing of the warts. I scarcely ever use any thing else myself. Warts sometimes occur in females on the labia and nympha;, of a size you would scarcely credit.