362 ON DISEASES OF THE BRE.AST. should such integuments have become discoloured by the in- fluence of the disease. So, likewise, in amputations for fun- goid diseases ; if you do not operate at a sufficient distance from the seat of the malady, you will find that the eranula- tions which form npon the surface of medullary structures, will possess a fungoid character, and ultimately put on every appearance of the original disease. Very carefully, therefore, avoid cutting into parts in the vicinity of fungoid diseases; and if you do not, depend upon it that your operations will be rarely successful. It is necessary, for the purpose of promot- ing the favourable issue of your operations, that you should attend to the state of the patient’s constitution, both before and after the operation. With this view you should allow him a nutritious diet, pure air, and a reasonable proportion of exercise; you should likewise prescribe for him, in the way of medicine, either the hydrargyrus cum creta, or Plummer’s pill, together with some bitter infusion, and soda. Local means are of very little service in this disease; indeed, I be- lieve, unless they are assisted by constitutional remedies at the same time, that they will prove utterly useless. Some practitioners rest their hope entirely on local applications, but this is truly absurd, as it is next to imposible that a cure can be effected by then;. It has been attempted to cure fungus hmmatodes, by caus- ing it to slough, and it has been endeavoured to accomplish this by means of pressure, which destroys its circulation ; at the same time, however, that pressure is employed, you must carefully attend to the state of the patient’s general health ; for if you do not, your other efforts will be attended with dis- appointment. Much has been said respecting the largeness of the vessels in these tumours ; but if these vessels are large no danger ought to be apprehended from hemorrhage, as the bleeding can easily be stopped by means of pressure. The fact is, that blood-vessels, situated in fungoid tumours, have no contractile power ; consequently, when they are cut into, or divided, the bleeding from them will continue for a consi- derable period, unless pressure be employed. With regard to the success of the operation, it may be said, that it is more successful at the immediate part operated upon than is the case in scirrhous tubercle, hut it certainly returns more frequently in other parts of the body, and in which situa- tions it probably existed in an incipient state at the moment that the operation was performed ; it is altogether an un- manageable complaint, and one which is calculated to cast op- probrium upon the |iractice of surgery. Simple Chronic 'I'l moor of the Bre.sst. This disease is not of a malignant character, and by no