299 HORDEOLUM. Extirpation of the Eve. .-Uthough this operatiou appears formidable, and is so to the patient, as it is a most painful one, yet it is not difficnlt ot execution. The be.st mode of performing it is as follows The patient is to be placed in the sitting posture, or, at any rate, with the head elevated, and in order to steady the eye, or shift its position, if necessary, you are to pass a needle, armed with a ligature, through the fore part of the globe ot the eye, bv which means you can readily steady it, or move it from one side to the other. If the lids are contracted, or the eye-ball is exceedingly large, it will be necessary to divide the outer angle in order to facilitate the operation. An assistant raises the uppeiTid, and the operator then introduces a double- edged straight knife through the conjunctiva, and divides the cellular Hiembrane as extensively as he can. He next cmts through the oblique muscles; and having done this, he then divides the recti muscles and the optic nerve ; to complete this last step of the operation, a curved knife, adapted for the pur- pose, is used, and the globe of the eye is thus easily extracted. It seldom happens that any hemorrhage takes place which may not be stopped by dossils of lint. The lids are be brought in apposition, a compress of linen is to be applied over the eye; inflammation should be guarded against, and the patient should not be neglected ; for although inflamma- tion does not frequently supervene after the operation, yet it sometimes comes on, extends to the membranes of the brain, and proves fatal. Having now concluded the morbid affections of the globe of the eye, I shall proceed to speak of those of its appendages, and first of the eye-lids. Hordeolum. One of the most common affections of the eye-lids is that known by the name of stye, or hordeolum, from its resem- blance to a barley-corn, it consists of a small abscess in the lid, and is produced by an obstruction in the follicles of Meibomius: the secretion from the part is altered, becomes inspissated, lodges on the lid, excites irritation, inflammation, and the process of suppuration ; lastly, the small abscess breaks, and matter is discharged. In most instances the sup- puration is confined to a small space, but in others it puts on the character of a boil, and sloughing of the cellular mem- brane then takes place. Some persons are more prone to this disease than others ; it frequently appears in those who have been subject to disorder of the digestive organs, or in those of a scrofulous habit of body, and young persons. This morbid affection would be of little consequence in itself, but for the