382 OVARIAN OR ENCYSTED DROPSY. Now, gentlemen, it sometimes happens that the ovariei' (jt- eome diseased, and grow to tumours of an immense size; here is one which was given to me two or three days since by Mr. Callaway; you see of what immense magnitude it is; it weighs thirty-nine pounds some ounces ; it was removed after death from an elderly woman, hut the history of the case is unknown to me; it is not of a malignant character, and appears to be of the same nature as simple chronic tumour of the breast. The fluid contained in the cyst of ovarian dropsy diflTers con- siderably in different subjects : in some being serous, in others mucilaginous, and occasionally purulent. 'ITie fluid some- times is so thick when mucilaginous, that it will not escape through a common-sized cauula, and you are under the neces- sity of introducing one of laige diameter before you can suc- ceed in drawing it off. I tapped a woman, in company with a surgeon in the city, and the .sac in that instance contained a fluid like pus; the practitioner who was with me had found a similar discharge when he tapped her some months previously. This wo- man recovered j I have seen other cases of a similar de- scription. When you operate for ovarian dropsy, it is quite uncertain what kind of fluid you will find; sometimes the cyst is filled with a number of hydatids ; you must not therefore be alarm- ed when you perform the operation of paracentesis for the relief of this complaint, if a fluid should escape different from what you expected. Now, gentlemen, the cyst in which the water of ovarian dropsy is contained is of two species—one is formed of the membrane which covers the ovary, and the other from an hy- datid which lodges upon that membrane, the ovary itseli be- ing quite unaffected. Here, gentlemen (exhibiting the preparation to the class , is a specimen of dropsy of one of the fallopian tubes ; both ex- tremities having been closed, wafer collected between them, and thus the disease was produced. Treatment of the Ovarian Dropsv. I do not believe that medical treatment has any influence in this complaint; that is, 1 do not consider that medicines will produce any marked difference in the quantity of fluid contained in the cyst of the ovarian dropsy. Different practi- tioners, however, entertain different opinions on this subject; but, gentlemen, I feel it my duty to state, candidly and openly to you, the result of my own experience. You may, ifyou think proper, give digitalis and mercury ; they arc strongly l ecouimended,—1 will mention to you a case