196 ON HERNIA. the abdominal ring, sometimes extending above the ring, and on that account it is often mistaken for inguinal hernia. Bt pres.sing your finger along the parts until you have pa.«sed the abdominal ring, you may judge of the nature of the tumour by its blue and semi-transparent appearance, by its being entirely unattended with pain, and by its not running into the abdomen like inguinal hernia. The best mode of treating this disease is to make an incision in the tumour, for injection would, in this situation, be difficult and dangerous ; to introduce your finger into the sac, so as to ascertain that there is no commu- nication with the abdomen, and then introduce a small quan- tity of flour to promote a slight internal irritation. In this manner the cure of hydrocele of the spermatic cord may be readily effected. LECTURE XXV. On Hernia. We shall now proceed to the subject of hernia.—Hernia i.s a generic term, and is used to signify the protiusion of any vis- cus from a cavity, though surgeons generally confine it to pro- trusions of the viscera from the cavity of the abdomen. In children, who have a malformation of the bones of the head, you will sometimes see a projection of the brain through the skull, and this is termed hernia cerebri. I have also seen the lungs protruding between the ribs, through the intercostal spaces, though instances of this kind are very lare ; 1 have met with two only. But protrusions of the viscera of the abdomen are of the most frequent occurrence; and this arises trom the bulk of the parts contained in the abdomen, and the relaxa- tion of its parietes. If you were asked, then, what hernia is, you would say, a protrusion of arty visevs from its nataral cavity. Different kinds of Hernia. There are four species of hernia more frequently met with than others, and which it behoves you, therefore, particularly to attend to ; and here 1 may observe that hernia is, of all cases, the one that requires the most prompt treatment and skill. Aneurism and stone arc complaints which give time to the patient and his friends to consult those who have had greater opportunities than others of observing the diseases under which they labour ; but with respect to hernia—there is no time to get aid from distant places ; on your information and nerve will the safety of the patient depend, and if you be ignorant of this disease, his life will be lost.—'llie four species of abdominal hernia are—1st. inguinal; 2d. femoral; 3d. umbilical; 4th. ventral.