76 ON GRANULATION. mode m which union is effected, is, by bringing the edm of the tvvo granulating surfaces together, so as to produce the adhesive process. The surface of the granulations will be covered by adhe.sive matter, and you have onlv lo apply the two surfaces to each other to produce an union. The knowledge ot this principle is very often u,seful in the practice of surgery. A man has a considerable portion of the scalp raised from the skull and the pericranium throws out granulations, whilst the raised portion of scalp is also granulating. Instead of wait- ing for the tedious process of the union of both surfaces, bv granulations filling the cavity, you have onlv to place one r>or- tionj of the granulations upon the other, bind them well dov.m with adhesive plaster, and thev will be sure to inosculate. In this manner, a surface, which it would otherwise have taken a long time to close, will be healed in a few davs. 'I'lie cavity of the scrotum, after removal of the testicles, is often covered With a great uuruber of granuIatioDs, by bringing the surfaces of which together with adhesive plaster, a wound, which would otherwise require weeks in healing, will be healed in a very short time. It was upon this principle, namelv, that of bringing together the granulating surfaces, that .Air'. Bavnton proceeded with so much success in the treatment of ulcers; so that our hospitals are now much less filled than they for- merly were with those opprobria of our art. The next subject to which I shall direct your attention is the closing of sores by cicatrization. The formation of the new skin with which a sore is covered over is called cicatrization, which is produced iu the following manner : Ihe vessels at the edge of the skin form granula- tions, and these granulations unite with the granulations of the surface of the sore. 'I’he granulations produced from the edge proceed towards the centre, and those on the edire inos- culate with those on the surface of the sore, and are united by the adhesive process. The vessels become eloneated from the edge of the sore, and proceed in radii from the circum- ference to the centre. Day after day an addition is thus made to the cicatrix, until at last the vessels reach the centre from every part of the circumference; when the process of cica- trization is completed. It may be said by some persons, that this is not the only mode which Nature takes for the formation of new skiti, for that it often happens that the proce.ss of cica- trization commences from the centre of the sore. If these per- sons mean to say that insulated portions of the skin arc some- times seen in the centre of a sore, havinit no communication with its edges, there can be no doubt of the fact. But how docs this happen ? It is not that the centre of the sore has the