578 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SPINE. those of the thigh, in which they should always be used ; and they should be used also in dislocations of the shoulder, which have remained long unreduced. The best place to fix the pullies is on the bone to be reduced. 'I'he part from which the bone was dislocated must be well secured, as without the aid of bandages the bone will not remain in its situation until the muscles surrounding the joint recover their action. After the reduction, rest is necessary for some time, to allow the ruptured ligaments to unite, which would be prevented by exercise. Rest is the principal thing to be attended to; and guard against an excess of inflammatoiy action in the joint and neighbouring parts, by an evaporating lotion, as the white wash, and by the application of leeches, if necessary. Dislocatio.ns of the Spine, or accidents that are usually considered such. If dislocation of the spine do ever happen, it is a very rare accident, and I have never met with a ca.se of it. Still it is possible that dis- location of the cervical vertebra; might happen, as the articu- lating processes are more oblique in them than in the other vertebra;. Dislocations of the spine seldom occur without a fracture of the articulating processes, or of the arches of the vertebrm. Whenever fracture happens, displacement is gene- rally the immediate result, and the spinal marrow becomes C07iipressed by the arches of the vertebrse. When the cervical and dorsal vertebrae are fractured, the spinal marrow is ge- nerally torn, but in the lumbar vertebrae the medulla spinalis becomes firmer, and is not so easily lacerated. The symp- toms produced by pressure on the spinal marrow, are a loss of sensibility and of motion in the parts supplied from that portion of the medulla below the accident. The extent of the effects of the injury must therefore depeud on its approxima- tion to the brain. If the upper vertebra; be injured, sen.sa- tion is lost in the upper extremities; if the dorsal vertebrae, or upper lumbar, the lower extremities become insensible; and if the lumbar be injured, the faeces pass involuntarily, and the urine is retained ; these phenomena may be account- ed for in this way; the nerves of volition supph-ing the sphincter aui arc injured, and the power of retention is lost, whilst the involuntary peristaltic action of the intestines con- tinues ; the nerves supplying the acccleratores nrinm being in part derived from the cauda equina, have their functions destroyed ; the w ill has no influence on the bladder, and the evacuation of the urine is prevented, being opposed by the elasticity of the urethra. When the patient becomes very weak, and is almost dying, the urine passes away stillati- tiously from the elasticity of the urethra being diminished. Persons live sometimes three or four weeks after the accidci.t,