451 ON POISONS. examination of the body after death the stomach appeared lo be very much reddened, and a considerable quantity of solid opium was found in it. In all cases of violent death from opium, a reddened appearance of the stomach will be found’ I do not, however, believe that it is really inflammatory; in- flammation, and a mere error loci from determination of blood, are very ditferent states of parts. I do not believe that opium has the power of producing inflammation of the sto- mach, and I mention tliis tliat it may guide your judgment if you should be called upon to give evidence in a court of jus- tice, in a case of this kind. You should make up your minds never to give an opinion as to the deatli of an’ individual being produced by a vegetable poison, unless you find that vegetable poison in the stomach, or some other strong proof be given that it was administered. No appearances after death ought to induce you to take an oath that an individual has perished by a vegetable poison. I may here mention that Mr. Hunter himself used to lament that he had not taken tlie .same precaution on the occasion of a trial which agitated the public mind very much forty years ago. He regretted that he had not made more experiments on the subject of poisons before giving an opinion in a court of justice. He found him- self a good deal embarrassed on that occasion; the law'vers took advantage of his embarrassment; and he used to express his regret publicly in his lectures that he had not given more attention to the subject before he ventured to give an opinion in a court of justice. When o|)ium is taken in considerable doses for a length of time, the result is, that it renders the complexion of the person extremely sallow, it produces ob- stinate costiveness, and indeed arrests all the secretions. It also very much diminishes the virile power and the disposition to sexual intercourse. 1 have known several instances of its producing this last effect, when it has been taken for a length of time. We read, indeed, that the 'furks are in the habit of taking opium for the purpose of increasing the propensity to indulge in sexual intercourse; but, as far as 1 have had an opportunity of judging of this fact, opium produces quite an opposite effect. A gentleman, who had taken o[)ium verv freely in consequence of the exhilarating effects it at first pro- duced, told me that for a long time he had suffered no incon- venience from it, and that he always found his pulse increased in quickne.ss by its use. In general, the pulse is not increased in quickness ; persons who take opium have a (piiclc pulse, whicn becomes slow and full under each a<lditional dose, and at this time Hiey feci increa.«ed strength and exhihiration. In some cases, it is true, opium produces a quickness of pulse.