INFLAMMATION OF THE TESTICLE. 493 little nearer towards you: proceeding carefully in this way, you will at last learn the precise spot from whence the blood flows, which you will generally find to be from that part of the urethra opposite the symphysis pubis. If you continue to press with your finger and thumb for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, the bleeding will cease ; but as this would be tedious, and often inconvenient, a compress placed upon the part, and secured by a roller carried round the loins, and brought up between the thighs, will answer equally well, and perhaps better, as it may be worn for an hour or two if deemed necessary. I have gone into a room, and found a person soused all over with water, in consequence of a bleeding of this description ; such a practice is useless and absurd. You may give to the patient some aperient medicine; and, to lessen the disposition to hemorrhage, you may take blood from the arm. The nest subject to which I shall call your at- tention is. Inflammation of the Testicle and Epididymis. This complaint, from an error of pathology, used to be called hernia humoralis, in consequence of a belief that it arose from a fluxion of humours to the testicles. The inflam- mation of the testicles generally shews itself from within ten to fourteen days after the appearance of the gonorrhoeal dis- charge. The first symptom indicative of inflammation of the testicles, is a sensation of a drop of urine in the perinaeum ; at this time the inflammation is proceeding down the urethra, and, before it reaches the testicle, affects the prostate, veru- montanum, vasa deferentia, proceeds up the cord to the ab- dominal ring, then attacks the epididymis ; and finally, the testicle itself. IVhile the inflammation is confined to the epididymi.s, the patient feels little or no pain; but when it has passed to the body of the testicle, then there will be felt excessive pain in consequence of the unyielding nature of the tunica albuginea. The scrotum is sometimes reddened, aris- ing from the degree of violence which characterizes the in- flammation. The pain does not, generally speaking, cor- respond to the continued course of the inflammation just now described to you ; and, in fact, the inflammation itself often appears less regular in its progress. The introduction of a bougie is a common cause of this complaint; and let me tell you, that when it gives much pain, or excites inflammation, it should not be used for three or four days together; hut, ra- ther, at intervals of three or four days ; the Treatment \x) be pursued is, first, to order the patient a sus- pensory bandage, (indeed, if the gonorrhoea be at all violent, it is not right to attempt its cure without one ; it will often