ON POISONS. U2 Mr. roulinin, at a .school where there were more than fixtv scholars, some of whom at the time were afflicted with the mumps. At a subsequent period, 1 inquired of Mr. Toulmiu how many of tlie scholars had been attacked by it; and he in- formed me, thirty-.six or thirty-seven j so that it had attacked considerably more than half. Poisons diminish in effect by repetition; opium, therefore, it given for any considerable time, will lose its influence, if the quantity be not increased. Now morbid [roisons, by repe- tition, likewise lose their influence. It very rarely happen^ that any gentleman passes through his apprenticeship at the hospital without being affected with the hospital fever, and it not unfrequently happens that the first attack is fatal, and more particularly so to young men who are fresh from the country, who have been accustomed to a fine wholesome air ; it generally commences by headache, and which is .«ucceeded by fits of shivering. If the fever should attack the individual a second time, which it seldom does, it will be slight, and its effects insignificant, compared to those in the first in.«tance. 1 he same thing happens in scarlatina, the fever being much less the second time than the first; the inflammatory svrap- tonis in such cases are mitigated, and much less severe' In vegetable poisons, the effects upon the body are gcnerallv pro- portioned to the quantity of poison taken ; not so, however, with morbid poi.sons, for no particular influence is mani- fested, whether the quantity inserted he large or small, whe- ther the point of the knife be loaded with the poison, or whe- ther it be slightly touched with it; its effects depend upon the state of the constitution at the time the poison is intro- duced; its action is modified by the peculiar condition of the patient, and not upon the quantity of the poison. In op- position to this result. Dr. Fordyce believed that, if the poi- son were diluted, its influence would be much less severe ; accordingly he tried some experiments, attemptine to pnwe this, and exceedingly diluted the poison with water; the effects, however, were precisely similar to those excited by the poison in its concentrated state; he therefore relinquished the opinion as untenable; This, then, is a remarkable differ- ence between vegetable and morbid poisons ; the first pro- duces effects in proportion to the quantity taken, whereas, in the latter, the quantity of poison makes no difference in its particular specific action ; but this is regulated by the pecu- liar condition of the patient. Whether morbid poisotis be taken from the dead or the living, their influence appears to be the same; a medical man, whom you all respect very much, inoculated his child for small-pox with matter taken