89 ON ULCERS. sure you the truth is far otherwise. A nail, for example,'from pressure or some other cause, shoots into the skin beside it; a fungus springs up : the surgeon applies caustic and destroys it : in a short time it rises again; the caustic is repeated, and the fungus disappears ; it speedily, however, returns, and will continue to do so, notwithstanding all his effoi ts to the con- trary, unless he remove the irritating cause. Now this cause is the projecting portion of nail; as soon as that is got rid of, the fungus will cease to grow, and the ulcer immediately heal. The best methods to adopt for the pur|)ose of radically reliev- ing these troublesome affections aie as follow : Fare down the nail as thin as you can without producing bleeding, then raise it a little, and introduce between it and the sore a small piece of lint; in this way the irritating cause may generally be re- moved. It sometimes happens, however, that the sore is so exceedingly irritable, that even lint cannot be lodged on its surface without producing great increase of inflammation and pain ; in such cases, what I do is this ;—with a pair of scissors I slit up the nail on that side where the disease exists, and then with a pair of forceps turn back and completely remove the divided portion. 'I'his is a very painful operation certainly, but 1 have known persons get well by this treatment in ten days, where the complaint had for months resisted every other. 'I'he applications to be used after the operation are of little importance ; poultices are the best, and these will be recinired but for a very limited period ; for the irritating cause having been removed, the fungus will soon disappear. The next best plan to be adopted, for curing these cases, is the application of a blister; this brings away the cuticle, and often the nail along with it. The most lenient method is the one first mentioned, viz., the introduction of a piece of lint. Mr. Hunter, in al- luding to this disease, said that the pai ls were not in a state of harmony. This is very true, and a very proper expression; he also applied it to those cases where a disease in the gland pro- ducing the nail, causes the nail to turn black ; such attections are not uncommon, and are often thought to be syphilitic, and I have frequently known per.sons salivated in conseipience. This opinion, •liowever, is perfectly erroneous. You must wash the sore with liip calcis and calomel, and administer the pil. hydr. submur. comp, and decoct sarssc. .Sometimes, in the.se cases, we are obliged to dissect out the gland that produces the nail; and though the o|)eration is a most painful one for the patient, yet we are, for the purpose of affording permanent relief, compelled to iierform it. Whitlow, what is it ? VV'hy, an e.xcecdingly painful .svvell- ing, terminating in an absce.ss by the side of a nail. The prin-