ON BURNS AND SCALDS. 635 ail abscess of this gland piodncing absorption of its structure. The removal of one testicle does not destroy, neither does it seriously impair the generative power. The removal of both however, emasculates ; there is an opinion to the contrary, but it is an erroneous one; this loss of power does not happen at once, the secretion of the semen continues for a short time, and the inclination and the power remain ; but gradually the desire, and afterwards the power is extin- guished. Impotence sometimes arises from the testicles not having- descended. Mr. Hunter has said, that the testicles, when confined in the abdomen, do not exercise their functions. 'I’his is the case when the testicle is pressed upon a conge- nital hernia, when in the inguinal canal. But in the case of an apprentice of mine, who shot himself because his testicles had not descended, the secretory ducts were found full of semen. Impotence sometimes arises from the state of mind, generally from too great an impetuosity and eagerness to co- habit. A gentleman, for example, is recently married, and if not able to perform his wishes—in two or three days he is very full of anxiety, and the imbecility is considered by him to be permanent. When consulted by such a person you must not try to laugh him out of it, but tell him that it is not uncommon, but that it is necessary that he should promise you to abstain from the attempt for three or four days, or until he has taken all the pills which you will give him. These may be made of some harmless material, and that if he will observe what he has promised, he is sure to get tpiite well. He takes two or three pills, but the very promise he has made, and the impression made on his mind by the promise, induces him to do the very contrary, and it seldom happens that he can return with any complaint. On Burns and Scalds. Burns and scalds produce three different effects, vesication, desquamation, and gangrene. If called in when a. vesicalion only is produced, there is no danger, although the vesicles be numerous and extensive. The object is to preserve them from bursting, and therefore do not open them on any ac- count, but allow the serum to accumulate in them until a new cuticle is produced ; the scrum escapes, and there is no fur- ther mi.schief. But if you open them, there is a constitutional effort produced, which is followed by considerable inflamma- tion, and sometimes by suppuration, and the sufferings of the patient are vei7 great. All you have to do is to a[)ply eva- porating lotions, as the camphorated spirits of wine, or spirits of wine and the hlio alba, to prevent the disposition which