ON THE FORMATION OF ANEURISM. 159 for a time resisted. A covering is thus produced by tlie adlie- jive inflammation which sluits up the artery, so as to prevent the immediate escape of the blood. Phis preparation not only beautifully illu.strates this process, but, by holditig a can- dle on the opposite side of it, you will ahso observe the opacity which I have just described. As the coat of the artery be- comes absorbed, the cellular membrane is glued by tills matter to the outer surface of the artery. The iie.xt substance which comes absorbed, if it be an aneurism of the ascending aorta, is the pleura, which forms a portion of the aneurismal bag. Then the lungs become absorbed, and form a portion of the hag ; nest the intercostal muscles, with the cartilages of the ribs ; then the pectoral muscle; and at last the skin itself, forming the parietes of the aneurism, give way, and there is no longer any thing to prevent the escape of the blood. Every aneurism was formerly supposed to be produced by the dilatation of the coats of the artery ; but it has been found that this is not the case. It is generally produced, not by the dilatation, but by the absorption of the coats of the artery. For this knowledge we are indebted to Scarpa, who first ac- curately explained the mode in which aneurisms are produced. He thought they w'ere always produced in this way ; but they are sometimes, though rarely, formed in the way in which they were formerly supposed to be uniformly produced ; namely, by dilatation. Here is a specimen of an aneurism of the aorta, in which the pouch is formed by dilatation, the coats of the artery still remaining. -Aneurisms are now and then the effect of the bursting of an artery under some considerable exertion. I have known two instances of this kind. A gentleman who was out shooting jumped over a ditch, when on reaching the other side his foot .slipped, and he fell back into the ditch. At this nionient he felt something snap in his ham, and when he attempted to walk he found himself lame fi'om the accident. He was at- tended by Mr. Holt, a surgeon at 'rottenhani, and was after- wards brouHht to town, where he underwent an operation for popliteal aneurism. In this case the aneurism began to form within a very short time after the accident, and it was not more than from three to five weeks afterwtirds that the opera- tion was performed. The other case in which I have known ati aneurism produced by the bursting of an artery occurred a.s follows ;—A gciitleinan whom I was attending for another complaint, in attempting to raise himself in bed upon his hands, felt something snap in his right hand. When I ne.xt visited him, he told me the circumstance, and l•C()uested me to look at his hand. Upon putting iny finger upon it, 1 felj