ON SUPPURATION IN BONE, C30 one shock to sustain, and in general rallies much better than when the amputation is delayed. But if you leave it eight oi twelve hours, there is a great degree of irritation previously set up. The loss of blood is rather a favourable circumstance than otherwise, to precede the operation. The persons in whom these operations succeed the least are such as are load- ed with adipose matter ; if you leave the limb, the constitu- tional irritation runs so high that it generally destroys life, and if you amputate, they frequently die in twenty-four hours after the operation, from the constitution being unable to bear the shock which that operation produces. The cases of compound fracture admitted into these hospitals generally do well in the proportion of about three to four, which circum- stance, I think, alone would furnish an incontrovertible proof of the superiority of the treatment by adhesion to that which was formerly employed. LECTURE LXXVL On Suppuration in Bone. Gentlemen—Abscesses are sometimes found between the periosteum and surface of the bone, at other times within its cancellated structure, and, occasionally, but very rarely, be- tween the lamina forming the shell of the bone. When an abscess forms between the periosteum and sur- face of the bone, it possesses the common characters of the formation of matter ; there is severe pain extending along the surface of the bone ; this paiu, though severe, is of an obtuse kind ; it becomes worse at night, and produces au inequality on the surface of the bone. It is a long time, however, be- fore the periosteum ulcerates ; the skin presents a circum- scribed blush ; vou may even feel a fluctuation for a long pe- riod before the abscess breaks. The matter is to be evacuated as soon as the redness and fluctuation are distinct; then place the periosteum as closely on the bone as you can. leaving a small opening for the discharge of the matter, and apply at the same time straps of adhesive plaster round the opening, to keep the periosteum in contact with the bone, and the pro- bability is that the parts will unite by adhesion. But it the opening made by nature or by the surgeon be large, the bone is deprived of its supply of blood, the part exfoliates, and gra- nulations afterwards shoot out. The treatment to be further pursued is this : if the bone be much exposed and die, touch it with an acid that will de- compose the phosphate of lime, and the cartilaginous part