178 ON THE TYING OF ARTERIES, in the hospital ?”—“ Oh, no, I have taken care of that, I bound up his arm as tightly as 1 could, and sent him away.’' In two or three days this man came back, and showed his ana to the surgeon, who, very properly, upon seeing what was the matter, made light of it, told him that a trifling operation must be performed, and in a few days he would be quite well. The man, upon hearing that he was to be again cut, would not consent, and left the hospital. As he was walking up Holbom, he happened to see the shop of a barber-surgeon, and in he went; this learned gentleman, after having inspected the tn- mour, said that he would soon give him relief by letting out the matter with his lancet; well, he thrust in the instrument, and the moment he did so, out gushed a quantity of arterial blood ; this so frightened the barber, that he rushed oirt of his shop, and left the poor patient to manage for himself; for- tunately some person happened to be in the way, who bonnd up his arm, and brought him to the hospital ; one of the sur- geons put a ligature upon the artery, and the man ultimately did well. Ill tying the brachial artery', there is only one circumstance of any importance to bear in mind, and it is this : the ves.^el is accompanied by the median nerve; now, if you should in- clude this in the ligature, it would either destroy the patient’s life or cause paralysis of the limb. A\Ten you are about to secure the brachial artery, the direction for the incision is the inner edge of the bicep.s muscle, and this cut almost imme- diately lays bare the median nerve. Tying the Ulnar Artery. When this artery is required to be secured, what is the ana- tomical direction for the incision ? Why the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris : if you make your cut upon the inner side of this tendon, you will directly perceive the ulnar artery and ulnar nerve. This then is the part where the vessel may be most easily and safely tied. Tying the Radial .Artery. What is the anatomical direction here .’—the answer is, the tendon of the flexor carpiradialis—cut upon the radial side of the tendon, and you will immediately find the artery close to its edge. Instead of putting ligatures upon these vessels at the wrist for aneurism, or wounds of the palmar arch, it has been recommended to employ pressure, by means of cork folded in lint, and bonnd down by a bandage. This practice, when used, leads to great inflammation and irritation—and I would advise you against using pressure generally, and more especially as regards the ulnar and radial arteries, as thc\ can