612 DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE JOINT. not attempt to depress the upper end of the bone, as it onlj increases the patient’s suiferings to no purpose. I shall next speak of Dislocations of the Knee Joint; And, first, of Dislocations of the Patella. The patella maj be dislocated in three directions—outwards, inwards, and up- wards. The bone is most frequently thrown on the external con- dyle, and produces there a great projection; the patient is also unable to bend the knee, and these circumstances readily point out the nature of the injui7. It is most frequently pro- duced by a person falling with his knee turned inwards, and his foot at the same time turned outwards, and the action of the muscles in the attempt made to prevent the fall draws the patella over the external condyle of the femur. It generally happens in those persons who have naturally a little inclina- tion of the knee inwards. The dislocation on the internal condyle is less frequent, and happens from a blow on the outer side of the patella, received in a fall ou some projecting body. To reduce either of these dislocations, you are to place the patient in the recumbent posture, and let the leg be raised, by lifting it at the heel, by which you relax the extensor muscles of the thigh in the greatest possible degree ; you then press on that edge of the bone which is furthest from the arti- culation, and this raises the inner edge of the bone over the condyle of the femur, and it is directly drawn into its proper position by the action of the muscles. Evaporating lotions of spirit and water are to be employed, and afterwards, say in two or three days, bandages should be applied. In the dislocation of the patella upwards, the ligamentum patellae is torn through, and the patella is drawn on the upper and fore part of the thigh hone. The marks of tliis acci- dent are at once decisive; for, besides the easy motion of the patella from side to side, a depression is felt above the tu- bercle of the tibia, from the laceration of the ligament. The patient loses the power of bearing on the limb, and a consi- derable degree of inflammation usually succeeds. You should, in the treatment of this case, apply leeches, and afterwards evaporating lotions, from four to seven days ; then apply a roller round the foot and leg, and keep them completely ex- tended by a splint behind the knee ; then buckle a leather strap above the knee, and to this let another strap be fastened, w’hich is to be passed under the foot, and buckled to the op- posite side of the circular strap. The bone is in this way drawn down to the ruptured ligament, and a union consequently takes place. The patient should, at the same time, contintic