COUNTER-IRRITATION IN INFLAMMATION. 37 come ail iiiHammation of that viscus ; a stimalating irritating lotion ap|)lied to the scrotum will often cure an inflammation of the testicle. But counter-irritation, carried to excess, will do harm ; you must, therefore, be particularly cautious as to the maimer in which you use it. In parts that have no im- mediate connexion, it is really astonishing to observe its ef- fects. In inflammation of the lungs, a blister applied upon the chest (parts between vvhicli there is no direct communi- cation) will soon stop the disease, and be to the jiatient the principal cause of recovery. Blisters, likewise, applied to the front of the body, as on the abdomen, are extremely useful for the removal of inflammations of the liver, intestines, &c. Blisters are more generally used by surgeons for exciting counter-irritation than any other application. Issues and setons are also occasionally adopted. I again caution you against exciting such a degree of irritation as would affect the whole system : if you were to allow this to happen, you would aggravate the original disease ; it must therefore be limited, and kept within jiroper bounds. Sometimes, after the blister has been removed, it may be deemed prudent to keep the wound open ; this you can accomplish by removing the loose cuticle, and by dressing the sore with savine oiiit- meut. Another mode of producing counter-irritation is by the aj)- plication of tartarized antimony made into an ointment. This is a very excellent method, and is now very generally adopted. You must be careful, however, on what surfaces you apply it, if you intend to excite irritation in a great degree; as it is apt, permanently, to disfigure the skin. I saw a young lady who had used it on the arm for a chronic inflammation of the elbow joint. .She was offended with her medical attendants for having recommended its employment, as it left a scar near the elbow which has since obliged her to wear long sleeves. .Such a defect you would not like to see in your sister or friend ; therefore, it is nothing more than right that you should endeavour to obviate its occurrence ; and this you may always do by proper attention. The next circumstance to be attended to in the treatment of inflammation is position. Medical men do not consider the human body as an hydraulic machine; nor indeed is it so ; but still the fluid.s of the body are, in some measure, governed by the laws of gravity. I.ook at the operation that I spoke of in the la-t lecture, for relieving inflammation of the testicle. If you puncture the veins in front of the scrotum, and if the patient be in the erect position, blood will freely flow ; but put him in a recpimbent po.sition, the stream will immediately