69 ACUTE AND CHRONIC ABSCESS, selves ; only do not rest contented with thinking : make ob- servations and experiments ; tor without them your thinking will not be of much use. The circumstance, however, about the admission of air into abscesses when they are opened not producing local irritation, will be less readily understood. When au opening is made into an abscess, very little irritation supervenes till the third day; 1 say the third day, because it is not till then that constitutional disturbance takes place. It asked whether air has any influence in producing local irrita- tion, vou may answer, yes ; but I say that it is not the case. Old surgeons, in their opinion on this subject, maintained that it was the admission of air which produced the local irritation attending the opening of abscesses, and endeavoured to cure hydrocele by inflating it after the evacuation of the water. But what was the consequence ? when the air became ab- sorbed, the adhesive inflammation did not take place, and the hydrocele returned. Again, experiments have been made on animals: air has been blown into the cellular membrane of a dog ; nothing but a temporary stiffness from the distention of the skin takes place, aud when the air is absorbed, the crackling goes off without the adlie.sive inflammation. Dr. Haighton made an ingenious experiment some years ago: he inflated the abdo- men of a dog from au opening in the tunica vaginalis ; and this mode of doing it evinced his knowledge ; for in the dog and many other animals, there is a communication with the abdomen froum under the tunica vaginalis. The dog was let loose ; he was stiff for a few days, but when the air was ab- sorbed he became quite well. I know a curious circumstance which took place at the de- p6t at -Norwich; it was at the time when persons were drawn to servo in the army. A man, unwilling to become a soldier, came to the surgeon, aud said that he had a large rupture, which di.sabled him ; he showed it, and the surgeon sent him away. This man had made a puncture just above the pubis, and inflated it with a brass blow-pipe ; the man himself men- tioned it to a surgeon |at Yaruiouth as a joke. What takes place when air is admitted into the cavity of the chest.’ An air cell gives way, the wind goes into the cellular tissue, the face and body become bloated u|), but is afterwards removed by absorption, without producing any inflammation ; thus a persoti who holds that the admission of air into cavities pro- duces the irritation attending the opening of abscesses takes a narrow and partial view of the case. [After the lecture, the stomach of a dog which died of hy- drophobia was exhibited to the class. The (esophagus was inflamed, and the internal surface itself very red; there were