ox THE SIZE OF AMEUEISMS. 157 died, however, from the irritation of the aneurisnial sac. On examination, it was found that tlie swelling was from the aneurisnial tumour, the lancet had not penetrated into it, but wounded its coats. There is no pulsation to be felt in the loins from those tumours, nor was there any in the case I have just mentioned, and this is owing to the distance of the swell- ing from the aorta ; thus men that are well informed in their profession may commit mistakes in these obscure cases. Aneurisms form in the cavity of the pelvis, in the ischiatic notch, and under the gluteus maximus muscle; you will be on your guard, therefore, when you find tumours on the nates. A man was sent from Gainsborough to the other hospital with an aneurism or tumour on the nates ; I hesitated at first respect- ing its nature; hemorrhage came on from the bladder, when it was immediately tbought that the aneurism adhered to the bladder, and an opening into it had been formed, as was after- wards found to be the case on examination. 'I'his is all it will be necessary to say to you on the subject of internal aneurisms, as the symptoms will vary according to the seat in which the disea.se may be found ; the digestive organs will be in fault at one time, the urinary at another, according to the part on which tlie pressure of the aneurisinal sac may rest; from the variety of symptoms, the diagnosis will of course be found to be difficult. On the Size of Aneurisms. 'Fhe aneurism before me is the largest I ever saw (a beau- tiful .specimen was here exhibited) ; it begins in the aorta at the emulgent arteries, and extends into the cavity of the pelvi.s. It contained blood (and I am not exactly certain how much), but of an enormous weiglit. Here (showing another specimen) is a popliteal aneurism of considerable size. The greatest nujnbei of aneurisms that 1 ha^’e seen in one case is seven, and this speiraen on the table was taken from the man to whom I allude. He died of an aneurism at the bifurcation ; he also had one at the ojiposite ham, two above it, one in the groin, and two others. 'I’he iliac artery had been tied for femoral aneurism, and the patient did well for some time, but after- wards died. 'Hiis man was a bricklayer’s labourer; had been accustomed to mount ladders and carry weights up great heights; had been in the habit of exercising his lower extre- mities a good deal ,• he was not very mu.scnlar, and the fatigue of Ins occupation was more than he could bear. I may ob- sene here, that sorne aneurisms are local, and others general; when they ocenr in the ham they are freiiuently oniv local ; but when between the groin and ham, or in ilw middfc of the Uiigh, you very commonly find di.seasc of other arteries. '1 here-