OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. S32 was too large to be extracted by the lateral operation, immedi- ately performed the high operation ; he made a tolerably free incision, and tipon seeing something he did not expect, ex- claimed, “ Jtfofi Dieii voilii V intestin J” After some difficulty, llie intestines were returned, and the Frenchman very coolW asked an English surgeon, who was standing by him, how long he thought the patient would survive ? He receited for answer, “ Probably forty-eight hours.” “ 0/t, nonsaid the operator, “ vingt quatre au plus,” and truly the Frenchman was right, for at the end of twenty-four hours the patient was dead. It has lately been proposed to remove stones from the blad- der by performing the Operation of Lithotomy through the Rectum. It is recommended, gentlemen, because it is simple—because it can be easily done; but notwitfistanding this, I can tell you that it is a dangerous operation. 1 have knoun it performed hut in two instances, —one patient died from indammation of the rectum-and the other recovered, but with the dreadful misfortune of having a fistulous communication between the rectum and bladder. Be upon your guard respecting these prettv little—easy—simple operations ; do not be misled by adopting them. Always reflect upon the nature of the parts on which you are going to operate ; steadily keep your eye on the ulti- mate success of your cases—not upon the applause yon may derive from the neatness or facility with which your operations are accomplished ; and ever bear in mind, that upon the successful issue of your operations will your reputation depend. LECTURE XLI. Before 1 showed you the operation for stone in the last lec- ture, 1 was speaking of the difficulties which arise in the extraction of stones from various circumstances; as, for example, where the stone is exce.<sively large, or where the perintEum is very deep. A deep perinaeum is a great obstacle ; the distance of the bladder from the external parts throws great difficulties in the way of the operation. The force which it is nece.ssary to employ in such cases is often so great as to lead to the destruction of life. When a stone of considerable magnitude is accompanied with an enlargement of the pro- state gland, the patient rarely recovers from the operation. A number of small calculi in such cases is of less importance, but a large stone, accompanied with an enlarged prostate, ge- nerally leads to a fatal result. I\Ir. Henry Earle has constructed