156 ON ANEURISM Of THE AORTA. not have known liovv. Dr. Mott is an excellent anatomist, and an industrious man. Aneurism of the Descending Aorta. When the descending aorta is the subject of aneurism, in Its course through the posterior mediastinum, it verv often breaks into the oesophagus, as in the preparation before me (pointing to one on the table), and a similar instance of which may he seen in the museum of the other hospital; when an aneurism presses on the oesophagus, adhesion of the coat of be sac to the oesophagus takes place, and afterwards an open- ing between the aneiirismal bag and gullet is formed; the patent I omits a considerable quantity of blood, and soon dies. 1 have seen three instances of this kind of aneurism in peisoiis who have died of some other complaint. Aneurism of the Abdominal Aorta. When the aneurism is situated above the coeliac artery pulsation may be distinctly felt at the scrobienhis cordis; and a symptom which distinguishes this complaint is, that the pressure on the stomach caused by the aneurismal has pro- duces uausea and vomiting, and small quantities of food are immediately rejected. There was a case in this hospital of aneurism just above the coeliac artery, where the patient had frequent vomiting, constant nausea, and could not bear to take any food. When the aneurism is lower down in the cavitv of the abdomen, it often bursts into the intestine. Here is a specimen (holding it in his hand), where there is an opening in the jejunum and the fore part of the aneurismal tumour, of which^ the patient died. It was taken from a near relation of an eminent physician. Dr. S. brought him, in order that 1 might give my opinion of a pulsation in the abdomen ; he dined with me, we made as light of it as possible, and he was very cheerful at dinner ; three weeks afterwards 1 was sent for, to Henbury, to visit him ; he was seized with discharge of blood by^stool; he revived a little, and hopes of recovery were entertained by his friends ; the following morning, however, the discharge of blood returned, and he died suddenly. When the aneurismal tumour presses on the spine, absorp- tion of the vertebra takes place, as in this instance (exhibit- ing a specimen) ; you will also find a large swelling in the loins; hilt you must be on your guard respecting this swelling, lest it be mistaken for any other complaint. One of the sur- geons of this liosjii lal, but who is since dead, had a patient with a swelling in his loins ; this the surgeon took for lumbar abscess ; he took out his lancet, and introduced it obliquely, when some florid blood issued by the side of the instrument. Adhesive plaster was put to the wound, and it healed ; he