ON FUNGOID DISEASE OF THE TESTICLE. 399 resembles brain in a putrid state ; in a part of the swelling will be found cysts containing a serous fluid. ^ The scirrhous and fungoid tumours are the only malignant diseases to which the testicle is subject. The operation may be performed with a hope of success, if the patient be entirely free from other complainls, but in a great majority of the cases which I have seen, the disease has returned. Here is a pre- paration taken from a patient in whom the disease did not re- turn ; in thi.s case the disease was in the earliest stage in which I have seen it. 'J'here are, in general, tubercles of a fungoid character in other parts ot the body, which destroy, notwith- standing all that can be done by alterative medicines, after the operation. We may sometimes prevent the disposition to the formation of this disease by giving alterative medicines, but no medicine vvith which we are acquainted has any power over it when it is once formed. Do not, therefore, go over the same treatment which experience has shown to be ineffec- tual, but try, amidst the great variety of new powers witli which the discoveiies of modern chemists have furnished me- dicine, W’hether some ot these new substances may not havt- a specific effect in this disease. I do not mean to say, that by giving alterative medicines, so as to improve the general health, you may not prevent the disposition to the formation of the dLsease, but that scirrhous and fungoid diseases are spe- cific actions, which, when they are once engendered in the constitution, we know of no medicine to counteract. He whr) says we do, is au empiric, and at) impostor. Having mentioned these two diseases, which are, in a great degree, uncontiollable by our profession, 1 will now call your attention to a complaint which is often mistaken for them| but which is extremely easy of cure—I mean a complaint whicli may be called chronic enlargement of the testicle. You may say the other diseases are chronic ; ti ne, they are chronic, but then they ai-e specific diseases. 'I'he disease to which I now allude, I shall call simple chronic enlargement of the testicle. It often happens that a person consults a surgeon under the following circumstances : becomes to you with a considerable enlaigement of his testicle, which feels extremely hard, and which you might suppose at once to be scirrhous. Upon your inquiring whether he has any other complaint, he will tell'you that he has occasionally had symptoms of a syphilitic kind. U hether he has taken mercury } Oh, yes, he will say, a good deal, and probably that this disease began while he was taking n)ercury. Whether he has any disease in his urethi'a.’ he will perhaps say that he has some stricture, or he may say that he has no obstruction whatever. Having made these enquiries, and