288 ON EXTRACTION OF THE CATARACT. provement upon it, are greatly inferior to the knife contrived by Beer, the celebrated oculi>t of Vienna. 'rhi!> knife, at you will observe, is very different in shape (the learned gentleman exhibited the different instruments to the class) ; the upper edge is quite straight, while the lower edge is made straight and oblique; the whole of the lower edge is cutting ; the np[K-r edge is cutting tow'ards the point, and the size is accurately increased from the point towards the handle, so as to fill up the opening, and prevent the escape of the aqueous humour. Beer’s knife is preferable to either of the others, because there is a much greater extent of cutting surface, so that the section of the cornea is completed in a shorter time and in a safer manner; it is besides capable of being made with much greater accuracy. A speculum was sometimes used in thi' operation, but it is not at all necessary ; in fact, all specula are objectionable, as they are likely to produce undue pressure on the globe of the eye. The next instrument is a pair of curved scissors, in order to enlarge the opening made into the cornea, if it should not be of sufficient size to extract the ca- taract. A minute curved needle will be required, in order to scratch the capsule of the crystalline lens ; a curette, or scoop, to remove any opaque fragments of the lens, and a pair of mi- nute forceps, of which the best construction is that recom- mended by Beer, to extract any portions of opaque membrane from the capsule of the lens. These are the principal instru- ments required in this operation. Let us next consider the mode of performing it. The position of the patient should be nearly the same as that in the operation for couching ; he should be placed opposite a window, so as to admit a full, clear, but not too vivid light. It should not be a reflecting light, so that if the sun should happen to shine, a north win- dow should be chosen; the inner side of the eye towards the nose, where the point of the knife is to be carried through, should be well brightened. The patient should be seated in a low chair with a high back, his head resting against it, or tirnily supported against the chest of an assistant. 1 be ope- rator should place"himself behind the patient in a chair of sufficient height to enable him to plant his toot conveniently on a stool, and resting his elbow' on the knee opposite to the eye to be operated upon, brim; his hand towards it. The assistant should then place his hand behind the patient’s head, and with the extremity of his fore finger gently raise up the lid without making pressure on the globe. 'J'he operator then takes the knife in his right hand, if it be the left eye which i- to be operated upon, and in his left, if it he the right eye, in the same way as he would take a pencil between bis tore