282 ON SOFT, OR CASEOUS CATARACT. pupil is altered. The rays of light do not pass into the eye, and the patient can scarcely tell the difference between liirht and darkness. Soft or Caseous Cataract. This kind of cataract is of the consistence of firm jellv or cheese. Jt is uniformly opaque, and there is a milky white- ness, as in the fluid cataract; but the spots and streaks .«ome- tiraes obserrahle in this form never shift their position, as in the other; the lens also becomes increased in size. The pos- terior chamber is obliterated. There is no interspace between the fore part of the lens and iris. The motions of the iris are performed with difficulty, from the size of the lens, and the rays of light are prevented from entering. The patients some- times cannot distinguish between light an~d darkness; although they are seldom so blind as this. Membranous Cataract. This form of cataract is not connected with the lens, but the capsule itself. This opacity may exist either in the posterior or anterior layer of the capsule, or combined with that of the lens, and thus produce cataract. In this last case there is no distinct mark of diagnosis ; but when the capsule only is af- fected, you may offer an opinion. If the anterior layer of the capsule is opaque, it has the appearance of being superficial and close to the pupil, and appears rather nebulous. It does not quite lose its transparency, but becomes semi-transparent. When the posterior layer is affected, this appearance is deeper ; being at a considerable depth, and having more or less of a concave form. There are also strise pa.'siug in a radiated di- rection. If you observe, then, the opacity deep-seated, and the lens appearing concave, you may know that the posterior layer of the capsule is opaque ; but when this state is com- bined with opacity of the lens, the diagnosis will be difficult. Another species of membranous cataract is, when the cap- sule becomes opaque, and the lens at the same time absorbed, and a tough, dense, membranous substance is formed, as in congenital cataract. These are the different marks that I have to offer to you for detecting the different kinds of cataract; hut you see, from the nature of the observations, how difficult it is to distinguish them. But it is necessary, as far as is pos- sible, to be acquainted with the appearances each form of ca- taract presents, as the treatment or operation required must be adapted according to the kind of cataract. Causes of Cataract. I have not much to offer you on this head, as the causes of cataract are in general very obscure. Cataract, however, sometimes arises from obvious causes—injury, violence, in-