ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. Si2 have troublesome hemorrhage ; raise then the duct as much as you possibly can in performing this operation. VVe now come to the diseases of the breast. \oii find the breast subject to cancerous affection?, and others of a different character ; some that are not dangerous t<- lite, though they require an operation for their cure—other? that are not dangerous, and do not require an operation—and you find it also subject to some disease which, with an ope- ration or any other means that you may try, generally termi- nate unsuccessfully. W'e shall first speak of the Hydatid, or Encysted Swelling of the Breast. The breast is liable to the formation of a swelling, which is at first hard, and afterwards passes into the fluid state, called the hydatid, or encysted swelling of the breast; it consists of numerous cysts containing water, as in hydatids or cysts that are found in any other part of the body. There are but two species of this complaint—the one which contains a fluid, like serum in cells—the other a globular hydatid, such as is found in the liver aud other parts of the body ; in the breast this kind ot hydatid is occasionally found. The hydatid swelline at the beginning is of solid feel, aud I know of no mark which dis- tinguishes it in this state from that of chronic inflammation of the breast, or such as is produced by the retention of milk. Now and then, although it is e.Yceedingly rare, I have seen at the commencement a number of little swellings, resembling peas ill size, and containing water; however, in general, there is no diagnostic mark at the onset, between this affection and the state produced by common inflammation of the breast. There is no pain in the part, except just priorto menstruation, when it becomes painful ; at other times pain is absent. After the swelling has continued some little time, without any feeling of fluctuation in it, it may be divided into a solid and fluid part, and on putting the hand on it, you aie able to say, “ Here it is solid, there fluid,” but all this time it is wholly iin.tttcnded with pain. Another circumstance deserving attention is that the skin is quite free from discoloration, excepting a little prior to ulceration, when the part about to ulcerate changes colour. The complaint is entirely unaccompanied with constitutional derangement. At the time when ulceration commences, the constitution will be affected by irritable fever, the same as is always met with when the process of restoration is set up in any other part of the body. But the disease docs not affect the constitution in any serious degree. This swelling is first hard, —in the second place, fluid,—thirdly, unattended with juitn— and, fourthly, there is no particular constitutional irritation,