579 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SPINE. P.ud in a case or two that I can recollect, they lived between three and four months. One man, indeed, recovered so far, that he could change his place in bed, and dress himself, but he never recovered the use of his lower extremities. When the injury has been received on the dorsal vertebras, the in- testines are very much distended with air, and the functions of the abdominal viscera are very much disturbed. A person having a fracture of the dorsal vertebrae commonly lives about a fortnight or three weeks. One gentleman lived ra- ther more than nine months after the accident. But the time you may expect your patient to live vvill depend very much whether the injury is near or distant from the cervical ver tebrae—whether the displacement is slight or otherwise, and upon the degree of injury the spinal marrow has sustained. If the cerrica/vertebrae be broken, death soon follows. Pa- ralysis of the upper extremities is sure to be the result, and al.so of the lower parts of the body, but this paralysis is not complete. The fourth and fifth cervical are most commonly fractured; the intercostal muscles are paralysed, respiration is very dilficult, and wholly performed by the diaphragm, and the patient dies sometimes in about thirty hours, but gene- rally from three to seven days. The abdomen is also dis- tended from flatulency, as when the dorsal vertebra; have been injured, d'he other symptoms are the same as in frac- tures below the cervical, as regards the lower extremities, the bladder, and the sphincter ani. If any of the cervical verte- brae be broken above the fourth, death is immediately the result; the phrenic nerve is paralysed, and the action of the diaphragm consequently suspended, and respiration can be no longer performed. Fractures sometimes occur without dis- placement, and by admitting of unnatural positions of the spinal column, produce symptoms of irritation; and some- times, by allowing pressure, cause death. This fracture (shewing a preparation), without displacement, happened in a child who lived nearly twelve months after the accident; he was obliged to walk very carefully, and to support his head with his hand when he wanted to turn towards any |)articular object. On dissection, it was found that the atlas was broken through, and that the proce.ssus dentatns of the second cer- vical vertebra had so far lost its su])|)ort, that under the dif- ferent inclinations of the head, great care was liecessary to prevent its pressing on the S[)inal marrow. Sometimes, por- tion.s of the spinous processes arc broken off, hut these affect the spinal marrow in no other way than that the blow neces- sary to accomplish the one usually produces a concussion of the other. Extravasation sometimes takes jilace into the I' f 2