544 ON SYPHILIS AND THE USE OF MERCURY. lowing August, violent inflammation made its appearance io both eyes, so that the gentleman was obliged to be kept in a dark room, to be bled, purged, and kept on the lowest pos- sible diet; and, notwithstanding all these precautions, the vi- rulence of the inflammation endangered the loss of his sight; at length the inflammation of the eyes having been subdued, in the ensuing September, a venereal eruption again made its appearance in the skin ; there were also pains in the bones, and a sore throat. The gentleman again visited his doctor, and inquired once more what he must do to rid himself of his horrible complaints. “ Why,” says the doctor very gravely, “ you must take sarsaparilla!” and, replied the gentleman, “ I’ll be d d if I do {excessive laughter), but I will take advice,” and shortly afterwards he con- sulted me. At the time I saw him, he had severe pains in the limbs and joints, venereal eruptions on the skin, and an ulcerated throat. He asked me what was his dis- ease, and I at once told him, confirmed syphilis ; he then detailed to me the history I have just mentioned to you. “ Well, sir,” said I, “ adhere to the old Dutch motto, ‘ do right and never look back,’ and give yourself no uneasiness about the past, as what has happened cannot be prevented.” I prescribed for him ten grains of blue pill night and morning, and a quarter of a grain of opium to each pill. About ten or eleven weeks afterwards, he called upon me, and his appear- ance had undergone so great a change, that I had entirely- forgotten him; he soon, however, informed me who he was, and stated that he was completely restored to health. I men- tion this case to you, to show you both the. folly and tlie danger of treating the secondary' symptoms of syphilis with any other remedy than mercury ; and tilso to point out to you the dangerous consequences of being prejudiced in favour oi a remedy; which prejudice the repeated failure of the re- medy could not surmount. Now, if you should unfortunately neglect to give mercury for the removal of primary syphilitic symptoms, let me exhort you never to be guilty of a similar neglect as regards the secondary ; but, the moment thev are presented to your notice, that instant commence exhibiting mercury, if the state of the patient will permit. All secondary svmptoms, I am positive, may be prevented by a few grain' of blue ])ill, judiciously given. In saying this, do not let me refuse that tribute which is due to the ability .yid candour of Mr. Rose, whose experiments were conducted in a very judi- cious manner, and their results faithfully and honestly com- municated to the jirofession. If, then, under the most favour- able circumstances, and under the most judicious manage-