49 ON SUPPURATION. Whfn there is an attempt to [irodiice matter, tlicre is an un- usual sensation of uneasiness in the part, together with a blush on the skill, easily recognised, by those acquainted with the subject, as a sure indication that pus cither has, or is about to be formed. In the adhesive inflammation, the jiain is an acute thrilling one ; but here it ismoic dull, and is like- wise pulsatory or throbbing. As this continues, the tumour becomes soft in the middle, but remains hard at the side.s ; the centre of the swelling |ioints, as it is termed ; and, upon pressing the part at this period, fluctuation will he evident. 'I'he ne.Kt thing to be observed, is au effusion of serum beneath the cuticle, which separates it from the cutis ; it be- comes gradually distended, and then bursts, leaving the cutis e. xposed. Ulceration sometimes takes place on the surface of the skin, whilst the same process is going on internally, so as to facilitate the discharge of the matter ; generally speaking, however, the ulcerative process is continued entirely from within. T'hese are the common appearances produced by the process of suppurative inflammation. Pus is generally formed in from seven to fourteen days ; but the time rcquii'ed for thi.s process will very much depend on the constitution of the patient, and the structure of the part in vt Inch the inllam- niatiou is seated. Some parts more readily run into the adhesive, odiers into the su()pmative intlammutiou ; the pleura, pericardium, peri- toneum, &c., are suiqcct to the toriner ; while the urethra, vagina, lachrymal duct, trachea, bronchia, nasal passaaes, &c., arc liable to the latter: serous surfaces, therefore, “are affected by the adhesive inflammation, and mucous snrfaee.s by the suppmative. I he reason ^yhy the inflammation af- fecting the two structures produces different results appetirs to be this : the vessels of serous surfaces are too small to per- mit the transmission of the [jarticles \\'hieh [ms C(rnttiins : but when the iutlanunaiion becomes violent or long continued, then the ves-.eis dilate, and [mrulent matter is formed, even on .serous surfaces. .S(mie c.xperiments have been made, which mud to prove that this theory is correct; for it has been foun.l that injections which are sullieiently tine to pass f. eely into the ves>cls of mucous surfaces, will not penetrate in the sliuhtest degree into the vessels of .serous siirlaces. I >hajl prcM'iitly e.xplain this to you more iiarticularly. ^ In r.ne of the preceding lectures, it was mention 'd, that o.ingcoiis conse(|ucnccs sometimes arose froiii pa-sing bou- gie.- Ill 'cty ii ritabie iiabits ; the dangerin tiiesc eases depends upon the lorination of the adlie.sive inflammation, instead of I..C .',up[m;ujve. '1 he duct cr canal leading from the inner n