ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 36G Strength, it is possible they may prove highly injurious. Be particularly upon your guard against operating for the removal of these irritable swellings ; such operations will prove hurtful to your reputation. Rather attempt to cure the disease by restoring to its proper quantity the uterine secretion ; the irritable tumours of the breast are so common, that you will not have been in practice six months without having met with several such cases. Of Carcinoma in the Nipple of Man. The nipple of men is sometimes affected with cancerous ul- ceration, similar to the breasts of womeu ; it begins in the same way, in the form of the scirrhous tubercle; here, how- ever, it is generally in the immediate neighbourhood of the nipple. An incrustation forms on the surface of the nipple ; this drops off, another succeeds it, and another to that again, until an ulcer is produced, and ultimately the whole nipple is destroyed; then the glands in the axilla’, and likewise those above the clavicle, become diseased ; and men die from this complaint precisely in the same manner as women do from cancerous breasts. In this disease the chance of success from an operation depends upon its being performed before the axillary glands become disea.sed ; if those glands are disea.«ed, you should not then employ the knife ; the restdt of two cases, which I saw some years ago, fully convinced me of the propriety of what I am now telling you. In both those cases the glands in the axilla had partaken of the diseased action, and "the disease appeared there with as much violence as ever, after it had been removed from the breast. The medicines which are used for the carcinoma in the female may also be employed here. 'rumours occasionally exist around the areoia of children, from seven to twelve years of age. 1 do not know whether they have ever been described or named by authors, but I have always called them the .'ireola Tumour; they generally appear between the age of seven and nine; but 1 have seen them in children as far advanced as twelve years of age. I pen ex- amining the breast, you will tind a swelling as large as a half- crown, just round ’the areola; flattened towards the outer edge, but convex in the centre, that is, the nipple, which the swelling closely surrounds. Boys as well as girls are subject to thisdisea-e ; but I never saw either afflicted" with it after the age of puberty, nor ante- rior to the age of seven. The mode to adopt for their cure is to apply the empiast. ainmon. c. hydrarg., having a hole in its centre, for the re- ception of tlie nipple ; this plaster will generally succeed in