ON GANGRENE. 102 fact in physiology, that if a quantity of hlood he included in a livinc vessel between two ligatures, at the distance of two or three inches, this blood remains about three hours before it becomes coagulated. To ascertain whether, if blood were ad- mitted into a dead vessel, from which the air was entirely ex- cluded, it would coagulate as it would in a glass out of the body, I put a ligature on the jugular vein of an animal, and another ligature at the distance of two inches from the first; then cutting through the end of the vein, 1 brought it exter- nally to the skin, so that it hung out from the wound. Hav- ing ascer tained that the blood coagulates in three hours and a quarter in a living vessel, I took off the ligature from the pen- dulous dead vessel, and found that in ten minutes the blood had coagulated as firmly as it would irt a vessel into which a person had been bleeding. In a dead Irlood-ve.ssel, therefore, the blood becomes coagulated just as it would in a vessel out of the body. If you attempt to inject a part after gangrene tire injection will not enter the vessel. There is a specimen on the table (Sir Astley exhibited the specimen) of a gangren- ous limb, where you may perceive that the injection has en- tered only as far as the part at which gangrene has commenced. Suclr is the state of parts under gangrene. 'I heycau never be recovered, because living blood can never again circulate in them. The subject next in order is the treatment of gangrene ; but as I intend to occupy a little of your time this evening by a very curious experiment, I shall defer the consideration of that subject to the next lecture. I have something to say to you, also, gentlemen, on another subject. In the course of these lectuies I have always considered it my duty to direct your attention to what is going forward in the hospitals, and to illustrate every subject, as far as jiossible, by a reference to cases which are actually under your inspection. A short time ago, I amputated a limb in the other hospital, in a case of aneurism, which is extremely curious, and to which I am not sure that there ever has been a parallel. Some mouths ago, a man underwent the operation for aneurism ; the femoral artery was tied ; shortly after, the pulsation dis- appeared, and he was soon after supposed to be cured of the aneurism, and discharged. He returned to his work ; but soon after a swelling arose in the bam, without pul.satioii. 'I’he swelling subsided in consequence of rest: but a few weeks ago, while the man was at labour, the swellmc return- ed with great pain, which increased during the time he was in the hospital; and, as there was no prospect of his recovering a useful limb, amputation was resorted to. In this case 1