ON HERNIA. 244 cial fascia, I thought that I had come to the peritoneal tac. I cut through the structure, it was of considerable density ; but on examination I found it was not the peritoneum, but the crural sheath ; I then arrived at the peritoneal sac, after hav- ing first cut through the integuments, superficial fascia, and crural sheath ; and in this subject I first became acquainted with the existence of this covering to femoral hernia. After having cut through the superficial fascia, in operati^ for fe- moral hernia, you will find in some subjects a quantity of fat. In the last case, gentlemen, operated on at these hospitals, after the opening was made through the superficial fascia, the surgeon said, “ Here is omentum but, on examining more particularly, he found that he had not opened the hernial sac, and then discovered that the substance mistaken for omentum was fat. There are two sacs of the same form co- vering femoral hernia; the first consisting of the elongation of the crural sheath, the second of the peritoneal covering. Every case of femoral hernia will be found to have a bag or covering, formed of the crural sheath, except when the hernia has been so large that it has given way. Vear after year 1 have met with cases of femoral hernia, and never found one but had a distinct covering, formed by an elongation of the crural sheath. The peritoneal sac being exposed, an opening is to be made into it, and the finger introduced towards the cavity of the abdomen, to ascertain the seat of .stiicture. The finger sometimes cannot be got within the femoral ring, (at which point the stricture is situated,) and then a director merely must be used. Such is the difficulty in femoral hernia of getting any instrument beneath the stricture. Femoral hernia is subject to very little variety. I have seen a case where the hernia had acquired such a size that the sides of the sac had given way, and it protruded to a great distance from Poupart’s ligament. This only happens in those cases where the hernia is very large. Another variety is, when the obturator arterv arises from the epigastric, and surrounds the sac. Dr. Barclay, a gentleman of great respec- tability in his profession, and possessed ol extensive anatomi- cal knowledge, was so kind as to send me a specimen of fe- moral hernia, in which the obturator, arising from the epi- gastric, passed over the front of the sac. But although the obturator not uufrequently arises from tlie epigastric, it rarely passes over the front of the hernial sac, but goes behind it to the obturator foramen. Another case of this kind fell under the notice of Mr. Wardrop, whilst travelling on the conti- nent Excepting these varieties, I have met with no other ; the course is the same. Other varieties have been said to occur,