HIP JOINT. 599 DISLOCATIONS OF THE be hooked to the rii-.gs ou the circular strap, and fixed to the other staple. You should now tighten the pullies, till you see the bandage is on the stretch, and the patient begins to complain of pain ; then wait a little, with the degree of ex- tension yon have now made, to give the muscles tune to ta- tigne ; then draw again gently, and, when the patient com- plains much, stop aeaiii, until the muscles yield ; and so go on, until you find the head of the bone is brought just oppo- site the acetabulum. Let the same e.xtension be kept up, by another person taking the string of the pullies ; and then lo- tate the limb gently, and the bone will generally slip into its place. You must not expect to hear a snap when the bone is returned, as, by using the imllies, the muscles are so much rela.xed that they cannot act with sufficient violence ; and you can, therefore, only tell if it is reduced by loosening the bandages, and comparing the length of the limb. If theie should be any difficulty in bringing the head of the bone over the edge of the acetabulum, you may pass your hand or a napkin under it, and lift it over the edge of the socket. You .should take great care in removing a patient to Ids bed, as, from the relaxed state of the muscles, the dislocation would again happen, and that from a cause so trifling that you wijuld not suspect it to have occurred. I consider it the birthright of every man to think and act for himself. Gentlemen, do not let your opinions be shackled by prejudice—do not follow implicitly the dictates of any man; and, if, when you get into practice, you do not find the advice which 1 have given you on this, or any other subject, correct, then throw it aside, as totally unworthy of your confidence, and strike out a new path for yourselves. Much as 1 respect the talents of Mr. Hey, and there is no man who thinks more highly of his zeal and acquirements than 1 do, yet 1 cannot agree with him in recommending the mode which he practised. It is true, that in a very recent dislocation, betore the muscles have csta- bli.shed their fixed contraction, that extension will succeed in returning the bone, even although that extension be not made in the way most favourable for tlie purpose. What I have said in the.se lectures has been the l esult of considerable experi- ence, both in public and private practice, and in the greater number of cases the treatment has been successful, even in some, under circumstance.s the most unfavourable. Of the dislocation diiu-nwur(ln, or into the fornmi’n mialc- — The limb, in this case, is two inches longer than the other. By making pressure with the hand on the upper anti inner part of the thigh, you can, in thin persons, distinctly feel the head of the thigh bone. There is a llatteuiiig of the hip ou