ON ULCERATION. 57 the process of absorption is goin" on in the inner part of the sternum, an aperture is formed tlvough it, and the matter makes its way through tlie bone and integuments, rather than through the pleura and pericardium. The same circumstance takes place with respect to tlie peritoneum. If matter be formed in tlie abdominal muscles, the peritoneum is very rarely absorbeil to admit the matter into the cavity of the ab- domen : but the matter makes its way through the integu- ments, and finds an outlet on the surface of the body. .So in an abscess of the liver, the matter is discharged, not through the skin, which is a more remote surface, but into the cavity of the intestines, whence it is carried off by stool, or discharged into the stomach, from which it is thrown up by vomiting. These effects are |)roduced in the following man- ner ; the surface of the abscess becoming united with a por- tion of intestine or stomach by the adhesive process, the ulce- rative action commences, by which a communication is formed between these surfaces, and the matter is discharged in the manner before mentioned, without danger, or at least with little dansrer, to life. 'I'he same thing takes place in absorption of the bones. Thus, in ulceration of the tibia, the matter breaks through the skin, or that surface which is only covered by skin and periosteum. This is a law in part depending on the less vita- lity and greater irritability of those parts which are nearest the surface of the body. The external parts of the body are the most weakly with respect to circulation, and most readily absorbed. 1 do not mean to say that they are weakly with respect to quantity of blood, for they possess a considerable share of va.scularity ; but they are weakly with respect to the living powers. 'I'he external parts of^the body are more ini- table, and more subject to vicissitudes of action from corre- sponding changes of temperature than other parts of the body. They have less strength of circulation, and consequently, give way to ulceration more readily than those parts which are more deeply seated, and possess a greater strength of cir- culation. Another reason is, that the adhesive process goes on glueing the more internal parts, while the external, whi( h are thin and weak, become united to these |)arts, and in this way form a considerable solid. An instance of this is found in the adhesion of the [)lciira to a lung, so as to form one structure. It may be considered, then, as a law of the ani- mal economy, that the ulcerative process has a disposition to- wards the nearest external surface of the body. 'I'hose parts of the body which are newly formed arc more liable to be absorbed than those which have long existed. A