619 ON COMPOUND FRACTURES. simple fracture, becomes absorbed. The effect this injurj produces on the constitution is to set up a violent re-action, so as to bring about a restoration of the injured part. Tlie degree of this effort of the system will very mncb depend on the manner in which the .accident is treated ; and I should say, that it was an important injury, or otherw ise, according to the plan of treatment which is pursued. For if you are careful in the management of the case, you may procure .ad- hesion of the external wound, and thus reduce the accident to the state of a simple fracture. The mode of union is ulti- mately the same ; but in one kind of injury ossific matter is deposited in cartilage without a suppurative process, and in the other with it. If you do not procure an union by adhe- sion, it is brought about by granulation, and in the following way :—The blood, which is at first poured out inconsequence of the division of the vessels of the medullary membrane and the periosteum, instead of being confined in the surrounding structures, passes off by the external wound ; yet it must be remembered that this effused blood has no share in pro- ducing union of the ends of the bone, as it becomes, after a few days, entirely absorbed. Next, there is a fluid poured out between the periosteum and the bone, which separates the periosteum from the surface of the bone for about an inch or an inch and a half beyond the place where the bone is frac- tured. This fluid does not cause a laceration of the vessels of the periosteum, but rather an elongation of them. Now here is the difference between the simple and compound fracture ; for, in the former, the fluid, after accumulating for a day or two, becomes in a great measure taken up by the absorbents, and adhesive matter is poured out in its stead ; but in the latter, a suppurative process is established, and granulations arise from the broken surfaces. In these granulations carti- lage becomes deposited, and continues to be formed for some time ; the discharge of pus gradually diminishes, and in com- pound fracture cartilage continues to be formed until about the twentieth day. It is deposited between the internal sur- face of the periosteum and the external surface of the bone. At the place where bones are brought into contact, the peri- osteurn becomes absorbed, and cartilage is deposited between them, in which patches of bony matter are formed, and these, when completed, are covered by an extension of the original periosteum. The came of the non-union of fractures is the want of ap- proximation ; for if the fractured ends are not brought into contact, the periosteum is not raised, the cartilage that forma does not cover the extremities of the bones, and the protrud-