ON SCIRRHUS OF THE TESTICLE 395 cpidydiniis towards the vas deferens, and from the epidydimis to tlie body of the testicle. Tlie disease is never attended vvith pain, unless it acquires a very considerable magnitude. 'Ihe spermatic cord is a little varicose, but not hard ; the spermatic veins are larger than usual. There is very little inflaininatory tendency, and the patient can bear the part to be roughly handled without pain. At the tirst glance the disease bears very much the appearance of hydrocele. There is very little difference in the state of the spermatic cord, except that it is somewhat more vascular than usual. The disease is confined to the testicle and epidydimis, and there is no instance at it.s having extended to the spermatic cord or any other part of the body. It generally attacks young persons between the age of seventeen and thirty ; the most advanced period of life at which I have seen it is thirty-eight. It attacks ])ersons there- fore at that period of life at which they are most anxious that these parts should he perfectly free from disorder. The nature of this disease, as it appears on dissection, is strikingly illus- trated in a beautiful preparation on the table ; you will there see bags of various sizes formed in every part of the testicle ; the smallest not larger than a pin’s head, and the largest about the size of a marble. The cysts consist of cellular tissue, not of glandular structure; and the testicle is entirely obliterated, every portion of the seminiferous tubes being absorbed by pres- sure. A great number of hydatids contain water only ; some, water tinged with yellow serum ; and others, opaque mucus, which, when the cyst is opened, is found adhering to its inner side. The operation of castration is sometimes required for this disease on account of its magnitude ; the patient being unable to conceal the disease, is incapable of going into so- ciety, and will frequently intreat that the operation may be performed. It is not on account of the pain that he suffers or any apprehensions that the surgeon need entertain, but on account of the inconvenience to which a patient is exposed, that the operation is usually performed. The constitution of the patient is entirely unaffected by the complaint: indeed! have generally seen it in patients enjoying the most vigorous health. A man, in every other respect in perfect health, will come up from the country to have the operation performed, and return immediately after it to his accustomed avocations. I am not aware of any instance in which, after the operation, the disease has returned, either in the spermatic cord or in the other testicle. The disease is entirely local and unattend- ed with danger. .Scirrhus of tiif. Tksticlk. The next disease of the testicle to which I shall direct your