4SS ON IRRITABLE BLADDER. Sit/ , therefore, to make water, aorl the catheter : if the cafe be one of enlarged n t half a pint tl a ° K ^ Strong animoiiiacal smell. A gemle- 11 id nLS /• :-on inquin- as to whether iitmd/ “*=he had just done so : upon inip^ h the catheter, I drew from his bladder a pin^t imne, havin^g a highly offensive ammoniacal smell. You have diiltpatient who is thus circumstanced howto intro- duce the catheter for himself, and his danger will be at an end. X ne last circumstance connected w'itli the prostate which I have to mention to you, is that you wiU sometimes find Fungous Polypi growing from its base. Here is a preparation, in which von have an opportunity of seeing the nature of the disease, and here is_ another of the same description; this specimen was taken from a man who lived in the neighbourhood of the hos- pitals. A catheter was passed into the bladder of this man, in consequence of retention of urine. For neai-ly the whole of tlie day on vvhich the instrument was introduced, he expelled noth mg but blood ; other attacks succeeding this, at length he m! m ^"T now before you was taken from his ^ ^ni not aware of any plan of treatment that is likely to be successful for the removal of this disease ; it ap- pears to be entirely out of our reach. ^ LECTURE LIX. I HE first subject of which I shall speak, is _ Irritable Bladder. Duiing the latter stages of gonorrhoea, it often happens that the patient is annoyed by a frequent desire to void his urine • this symptom at length becomes so urgent, that the inclination to empty the bladder occurs as often as every ten minutes or quarter of an hour. The pain that the patient feels is in ex- act proportion to the quantity of urine contained in the blad- dei, the greater the quantity, the more severe will be the pain. Sometimes in this complaint the urine will be mixed with blood ; this appearance is calculated to deceive vou, and e.xcite a suspicion of the existence of stoue, and induce vou to pas.s a sound for the purpose of satisfying your doubts now in this disease the introduction of an instrument into die blad- der IS highly improper, as it would produce additional irri- tation. The mode by which you cau distinguish irritable blad-