OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. 337 the groove, and keep it there until you feel its situation oc- cupied by the beak of the gorget; be sure not to witlulraw your finger until you are satisfied of this fact. Well, placed the beak of the gorget in tlie groove, take hold ot the handle of the staff in your left hand, and bring it towards you ; at the same time depress the staff so as to keep it decidedly within the bladder ; when you bring forward and depress the handle of the staff, that is the moment for thrusting ni the gorget, and this should be done in a direction upwards. Hav- ing satisfied yourselves that the gorget is in the bladder, with- draw the staff, and then along the hollow of the gorget intro- duce the forceps ; be particularly cautious when you are intro- ducing the forceps not to let the gorget recede, and so get out of the bladder; this frequently happens, and I will presently tell in what manner ; it is a very awkward accident, and often leads to a great deal of difficulty in completing the latter pai t of the operation. I will now e.^plain the mode in which it takes place. When the gorget is in the bladder, and you at- tempt to pass the forceps along its concave surface, their point becomes opposed by the prostate gland, and in using a little requisite force to get them into the bladder, if you are not very careful, the gorget will be withdrawn ; the forceps, conse- quently, will not enter the bladder, and the stone, together with the bladder, will be embraced by the blades of the forceps in the distre.ssing manner just now explained to you. If, tipou introducing the gorget, considerable hemorrhage should arise, after the stone has been extracted, it may be checked, and entirely stopped, by keeping the patient cool, and by plugging the wound with sponge or lint; while there is any bleeding it would be highly impolitic to place the person in a warm bed, as the increak>d temperature w’ould necessarily augment the disposition to hemorrhage. Do not apply liga- tures to the vessels on account of these bleedings, as they often, under such circumstances, give rise to sloughings ; you should not quit the patient until the How of blood has ceased. If, therefore, you treat these bleedings properly in the manner now described to you, they will not be attended with danger to life from loss of blood, as the hemorrhage can be easily checked by keeping the body cool, and by introducing into the wound a (luantity of lint or sponge. Well, the gorget having been pushed into the bladder, the next step will he to pass in the forceps; in doing this remem- ber what I told you a few minutes since respecting the re- sistance of the prostate and the occasional escape of the gorget from the bladder before the forceps are in its cavity. Before withdrawing the gorget you should strike the stone with the