22 ON INFLAMMATION. alteration of size; if any difference, the affected one is il,c smallest. In three instances I have been obliged to remove testicles for this disease. The subject of one of these cases was a gentleman from South Carolina ; he came to England for advice, and went the whole round of medical men, without experiencing any alleviation of his sufferings. He then de- sired me to remove the torturing part; this was done, and the gentleman went back to his native country quite well. 1 heard, that soon after his return he got married, and, am happy to say, that his lady had a child. The bladder is also very commonly disordered by this irri- table inflammation, and the symptoms, in many re.'pects, re- semble those of stone—in both cases there is pain in making water, and the urine is frequently mixed with blood. The grand difference in the two cases is this ; the irritable bladder is most painful when the organ lifiill; the bladder that con- tains a stone, when it is empty. Upon dissection, the inner coat of an irritable bladder has been seen the colour of red velvet. I have known this irritable inflammation attack the rectum, and produce excessive suffering, which was relieved by large doses of soda. Soda, rhubarb, and the compound powder of ipecacuanha, are the best remedies. Inflammation sometimes arises from debility, and this state is frequently seen in the lower extremities of old persons, in whom the blood returns to the heart w ith difficulty. Jrom this weakened power, the arteries are called upon for unusual exertion, and inflammation of the skin succeeds, frequently attended with incrustations, a serous discharge, and sometimes with a watery secretion into the cellular tissue. Irritable persons are much more predisposed to inflamma- tion than others, and wdten it occurs to them it is of a more dangerous nature than in those who are not irritable. Thus in fevers, when the constitution has been much weakened, the parts on which the body has been resting become inflamed, and quickly mortify. But in fractures, where the system is healthy and strong, although the patient remain many weeks in bed, no such effects are produced. IMiere there is great irritation, inflammation is always dangerous ; and the appli- cation of a blister to the chest, tor the removal of a cough after measles, frequently, in this town, destroys it by bringing on mortification. Mercury, in like manner, by rendering the body irritable, disposes it to inflammation ; and it is wrong to openvte on a patient immediately after a mercurial course, on account of this inflammatory tendency. 'I’lie exciting causes of inflammation arc w hatever produces an unnatural state of the part, calling upon nature for its