SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF THE BONES. 533 discharged, but some time after the patient complained of vio- lent pain in the head, which was succeeded by coma, so that there was no doubt in the mind of the surgeon of the hospital that the patient was the subject of pressure on the brain. The surgeon determined to trephine him ; and, on raising a portion of exfoliating bone, a quantity of matter directly issued beneath. The old surgeons were in the habit of per- forating the bone, for the purpose of discharging the matter formed beneath. The best mode of saving the life of the pa- tient, however, is to apply the trephine ; and, by taking out a portion of the exfoliating bone, give immediate relief to the brain, by removing the pressure produced by the matter formed between the dura mater and the bone. There is .a specimen on the table, taken from a case in which the opera- tion was successful. 'I'he man died, many weeks after the operation, in a comatose state; and, upon examination after death, it appeared that matter had formed under the sagittal suture, which pressed upon the brain, and was the cause of death. He was relieved by the first operation, and he would probably have been relieved again by similar treatment, but there was not sufficient evidence of the existence of matter to justify a repetition of the operation. Whenever you are called to a case in which exfoliation of the bones of the skull is accompanied with symptoms of pressure on the brain, you may infer that matter has formed between the dura mater and the bone, and it will be right to apply the trephine. This observation applies not only to cases of syphilitic diseases, but to all cases of exfoliation of the bones of the skull, ac- companied with coma. Here is a skull (exhibiting it to the class), originally affected with syphilis; see, gentlemen, what a lantern it became. The subject of this disease died, as I believe, chiefly from the injudicious continuance of mercury. He was a man of bad constitution, and there was great difficulty iu curing the primary symptoms of the disease. He had, sub- sequently, a node on the forehead, which was followed by in- flammation and suppuration of other parts of the head, till the ulcerative process extended over the whole surface. He died ultimately of anasarca. It can scarcely have e.scaped your ob- servation, that patients applying for admission to the hospital frequently complain of having pains all over them. They will tell you that they have pains down their arms and legs, which become worse at night when they are warm in bed, and that they have formerly had some venereal complaint, for which mercury has been given till the mouth has been rendered .se- verely sore. If you ask them whether they were exposed to cold during the time they took the mercury, they will answer