204. ON HERNIA. LECTURE XXVI. Causes of Hernia. » There are three causes of inguinal hernia ; namely, unusual pressure of the abdominal viscera, pressure of the parietes of the abdomen, or relaxation of the parietes. Pre.=sure from within, in consequence of enlargement of the abdominal viscera, the oinentumand mesentery beingloaded with a fattj-substance, IS a very common cause of inguinal hernia. It is well known that animals that are much pampered, and enjoy a great deal of rest and excessive indulgence, become the subjects of hernia. Women, in a state of pregnancy, are liable to hernia, thoudi more frequently to umbilical than inguinal hernia. The in- testines are forced by the uterus as it ascends from the pelvis to the upper part of the abdomen into a very small space, and in this manner protrusion sometimes takes place. The hernia is .sometimes situated in the thigh, and sometimes in the groin ; but it may be said to arise less frequently from gesta- tion than from other causes. Hernia is very commonly pro- duced by the increased action of the abdominal muscles, in consequence of some effort disproportioned to the strength of the person using it. It is for tliis reason that we find heniia so much more frequently on the right than on the left .side, because we generally prefer the right side in making any extra- ordinary exertion, and the effort made by the muscles is conse- quently in that direction. The proportion of hernias on the right to those on the left side is about sixty-five to thirty-five. Another frequent cause of hernia is relaxation. Persons ad- vanced in years are often the subjects ofhernia, in consequence of relaxation of body. At the time I was endeavouring to learn as many facts as possible connected with this subject, 1 ex- amined most of the bodies brought to the dissecting-rooms in these hospitals, and found that a large proportion of old persons in this town, who were under the necessity of using bodily exertion, were subjects of heruia. It was in some cases necessary to e.xamine these subjects with cousider.able care before the hernia could be detected ; but, upon minute examination, in the course of the inguinal canal or thigh, I found that old per- sons were very generally the subjects of inguinal or femoial, and sometimes of umbilical hernia. Pcr,«ons who reside in the country, or who do not exert themselves in age, are much less subject to this complaint. It is said that in this town one person in nine is the subject of heniia ; 1 do not think the proportion 60 large; but I should say that in this town, which is favourable