ON DISLOCATIONS. 57G difficulty. Still, howler, difficulties arise from other causw. which I shall presently mention. If the muscular power l>c very great, the exertion necessary to reduce the dislocation must be very great also. In such a person the reduction of the humerus ought never to be attempted after three months ; but, if the patient be less muscular, four months should be the utmost limit. In the dislocation of the thigh, two months may be fixed on as the time, beyond which it would be wrong to make any attempt, except in a person of verv re- laxed fibre, when a little more time may be allowed. In those cases where it has been said the dislocations bare been reduced a long time after the accident, the patient has never been able to use the joint extensively. Difficulties likewise arise from the head of the bone catching against the articu- lating cavity, as in the dislocation of the thigh bone into the foramen ovale, and ischiatic notch, where it is necessarv to raise the head before it' can be returned, or where the head of the bone is larger than its cervix, as in di.slocations of the radius, it was thought that the opening in the capsular liga- ment was too small, and therefore impeded the return of the bone; but such persons must have forgotten that the liga- ments are inelastic, and as the opening in it was sufficiently large to allow the head of the bone to pass out, so it must also allow it to be returned through the same aperture. The peculiar ligaments of joints sometimes .prevent the reduction of dislocations, as in the knee, where the bone should be moved in such a direction as to relieve that ligament which remains entire. The ligaments of the ankle joint are of ex- traordinary strength, and the bones of this joint will often rather break than their ligaments give way. The mu.«cles form the principal obstacle to the reduction ; the rigid invo- luntary contraction of the muscles is immense, and this power is proportioned to the length of time which has elapsed after the injury ; it continues sometimes even after death. This power is to be overcome by general relaxation being ctfected by constitutional remedies, and by gentle but continued force. Hence the great advantage of considering the power and direction of the larger muscles previous to making any attempts at reduction. The most powerftil mechanical means would fail, unaided by constitutional remedie.s. The consti- tutional means to be employed for the purpose of reduction, are those whicli produce a tendency to syncope, and this ne- cessary state may be best induced by one or other of the fol- lowing means; by n.ausea, bleeding, or the warm bath. Of these 1 consider bleeding as the most powerful: but in recent cases it is not required. That the effect may lie produced as