■30 TREATMENT OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. ^vill perceive an alteration in the appearance of the iris, when you should lessen your dose; a profuse salivation is not ne- cessary, and, if long continued, would aggravate rather than relieve the local disease. The most common medicine, and probably as a general one the best that is administered in chronic iuflainraation, is Plummer’s pill; it acts at one and the same time on the secre- tions of the liver, intestines and skin, and if you can succeed in restoring these, the disease, if recent, rvill .soon disappear ; the absorbent vessels are roused into a state of increased activity, and the effects of the chronic inflammation are re- moved. Another excellent medicine for the cure of chronic com- plaints is the oxymuriate of mercury, combined with the comjjound decoction of sarsaparilla. In the hospitals we merely give it dissolred in rectified spirits of wine ; about one- eighth of a grain, in half a pint of the decoction, to be taken jn the course of a day; one-half in the morning, and the other in the evening; continue it as long as you think necessarv, taking care to watch its effects on the gums ; always keeping in mind, that mercury given to excess will tend to increase^ rather than destroy, constitutional irritation. As sarsaparilla seems to possess the power of lessening irritabilitv, we fre- quently give it with mercury, in the way I have just mentioned ; it is a medicine which has often a most extraordinary effect on opacities of the cornea, and may be prescribed, in even very- bad cases, with the greatest prospect of success. A girl from Sheerness was in Guy’s Hospital some time since, in whom the opacity was so great, that she was nearly blind ; quite so in one eye ; the usual remedies employed in similar cases were tried, without obtaining the least benefit; she was then recommended the compound decoction of sarsaparilla, with the oxymuriate of mercury, and in a short time she recovered her sight. The best alterative for the removal of chronic disorders in children, is one grain of the hydrarg. cum creta, and two or three grains of powdered rhubarb, mixed together, and given night and morning : this compound is exceedingly mild, and will have a particularly benign influence on the liver and in- testines. One grain of oxymuriate of mercury, dissolved in an ounce of tincture of bark, and from ten to fifteen drops, according to tlie age of the child, being given twiee a-day, will likewise be found a very valuable medicine. It is said, that the mercury is decom]iosed by the bark ; but. whether it he so or not, it is attended with so many good effects, that I '^hall continue to prescribe it; and especially in tbo-c cases