ON THE DIFFERENT AMPUTATIONS. 411 hollow of the hand, and at the same time pass between the fin- ger and thumb when the circular incision is made ; by adopt- ing this method, you may make your first cut in an easy and free manner, and obviate that stiffness which is sometimes observable even in experienced operators. 1 now hold the knife in the manner described, and thus divide the integu- ments ; they have two places of adhesion, viz., over the tibia, and over the fibula. Having separated these and likewise the connecting cellular membrane, the skin is now loosened to the extent of two inches, which quantity will be quite suffi- cient to cover the stump. In amputating, I generally use but one knife, so that 1 shall divide the muscles, interosseal liga- ment, and periosteum, with the same instrument; I therefore commonly use, in amputating the leg or arm, the catling only. Take care to divide the muscles extremely well, so as to prevent any of the fibres being torn by the teeth of the saw ; for they not only impede the action of the saw, but render the operation painful and clumsy. Much is saidtibout the attention and abi- lity of your assistant while amputating, and that it depends upon him whether the bone be splintered or not at the time it is sawn through, and likewise the hitching of the saw is attri- buted to his awkwardne.ss. Now, the fact is, so much does not depend upon the assistant as has been asserted; the as- sistant should merely allow the limb to rest upon his hand ; he should neither depress nor elevate, but quietly permit the position of the limb to be regulated by the operator, and care- fully keep it in that situation ; the hitching of the saw will then be prevented, and the operator himself may avoid splin- tering the bone by causing the oscillations of the saw to be short at the moment when the bone is nearly cut through. The vessels to be secured in this operation are the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, and sometimes the anterior and posterior interosseal; in tying the posterior tibial artery, take care not to include in the ligature the nerve which accompanies it. After having applied your ligatures, cut off one end of each, and let the remaining ends hang out together at the bottom of the stump; straps of adhesive plaster are then to be ap- plied over the iuteguraent.s, some longitudinally, and others [lerpendicularly, for the purpose of making it circular. T'hese longitudinal and perpendicular straps should be secured in their situation by a strap applied over them, and around the limb, .so as to retain the first straps that were applied in their proper situation. The cooler the stump is kept after the ope- ration the better ; there will be less danger from hemorrhage, and less chance of the suppurative inllammation taking place ; the adhesive is what we want, and this you will be most likely