ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION—ArPEARANCES. 43 has been formecl that adhesive matter becomes completely organized ; for you will find tliat a fine injection would not enter adhesive matter sooner than the tenth or eleventh day after its formation. When vessels elongate, they have not the character of arteries ; in general they take a serpentine or tortuous course. Some thought, at one time, and I believe Mr. Hunter was one of this opinion, that the vessels originated in the newly- formed substance; but they are formed by the elongation of the vasa vasorum of the surrounding arteries, w’hicli become dilated, lengthened, and serpentine : and the degree ot vascu- larity will be in proportion to that of the part subjected to the adhesive inflammation. In tendons, for instance, it will be much le.ss than in muscles. This process is of the greatest possible couseciuence in sur- gery. It ought, therefore, to command much of your atten- tion ; and it will be unfortunate for you if you do not tinder- stand it. Without this |u ocess no operation could be attended with success; its absence, even after bleeding, would destroy life. Bear this principle in mind, then, gentlemen—always endeavour to effect union by adhesion. Suppose you were called to a compound fracture, what would you do ? Endeavour, certainly, by bringing the parts together, to make it a siui])le one. Within these few days you have had an opportunity of witnessing the fatal conse- quences of hemorrhage in a case of compound fracture ; if the adhesive process had taken place, hemorrhage would have been prevented, constitutional irritation kept off, and recovery, in all probability, rendered sure. It is the same in formidable operation.s ; the Caesarean o|)eration, which consists in making an incision in the course of the linea alba, for the purpose of extracting a foetus from the womb, is not dangerous, if the adhesive process take place ; now and then, from hemoi rhage and exhaustion, it proves serious; hut in most cases, the danger is slight, if union by adhesion be procured. To ex- emplify this by the operation for cataract; in this operation a wound is made in the eye—more than half of the cornea is cut; ifIhe adhesive process take place within twelve hours, the flaps begin to adhere, and in twenty-four they are con- solidated. Suppose, on the contrary, they do not—violent in- flammation su|)ervenes, and the result is destruction to the eye of the patient; the success of the operation depends then, in this instance, on the adhesive proce.ss. In a |)crson who had been in ill health, the inflammation might he too weak, and in another case it might be too strong; suppuration would lie the consequence in both instances ; the same clfcet