FRACTURES OF THE THIGH BONE. 605 the neck of the bone entirely within the capsular ligament ^ secondly, through the neck, at its junction with the trochan- ter major, by which the trochanter is split, and the upper piece is driven into it; thirdly, a fracture through the tro- chanter major, beyond its junction with the cervix. 0/Fracture within the Ligament.—The leg becomes from one to two inches shorter than the other, for the connexion between the cervix and trochanter being destroyed, the tro- chanter is drawn up by the muscles, as far as the ligament will permit, and it rests on the edge of the acetabulum, and on the ilium. You can detect the dilference in length best, by desiring the patient to lie down on his back, when, by ob- serving the two malleoli, you will readily detect it. The heel generally rests in the hollow between the malleolus internus and tendo achillis of the opposite leg, although there is some variety in this respect. The retraction is at first easily re- moved, by drawing down the limb, and you may make it ap- pear of the same length as the other, but immediately on removing your extension, the muscles will draw it into its former position, and this will be the case as often as you like to repeat the experiment. This you can do until the muscles acquire a fixed contraction, which enables them to resi.st an extension that is not of a powerful kind. The next circum- stance which marks this injury is the eversion of the foot and knee ; this is caused by tlie power of the external rotatory muscles, which are inserted into the thigh-bone, and which are opposed but by feeble antagonists. On the first sight of a patient, then, there are two things that will particularly strike your attention—the shortening of the injured limb, with an eversion of the foot and knee, in the dislocation upwards, the head and neck of the bone prevent the trochanter from being drawn backwards, whil.'-t the neck of the bone, being shortened by the fracture, readily admits of it, and this is the reason why the limb is inverted ill the one, and everted in the other. The limb has been found inverted, but it is a very rare occurrence. Some hours must elapse before this eversion becomes decisive in its cha- racter, as the mu-scles require some time to contract firmly, and this is the reason why it has been mistaken for a dislo- cation upwards. In this fracture the patient suffers but little pain when at rest in the recumbent posture. But on rota- tion a pain is felt, from the rough end of the bone grating against the synovial membranes lining the capsular ligament. The thigh may be perfectly extended, but flexion is more dif- ficult, and attended with pain ; this is increased if the thigh be directed towards the pubes, and lessened if carried out-