348 ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. find hydiothorax on tlie side affected, and the absorbent vessels on the pleura, corresponding to tlie scirrhous brea«t, are in a diseased state, and small white spots, like pins’ heads, will also be seen. 1 ought to mention, that you should never ope- rate in this complaint when dyspnoea is present; for 1 have known patients who have come to our hospital, and have been o])erated on for tins disease when they have had this symptom, and who have died in two or three days after the operation ; on examination, water has been found in the chest, and tubercles on the pleura. Now and then you find on the pleura covering the lungs tubercles on the surface opposite to the diseased breast, and having the true scirrhous character. But the liver is most frequently diseased : on the right lobe there are in ge- neral tubercles ; the glands of the axilla being affected, the in- ternal thoracic absorbents carry the diseased matter to the liver, which becomes tuberculated, and assumes the tme scirrhous character. You rarely find the utenis free from disease ; it is affected with what are called polypi, but they are rarely scirrhi of that organ ; hence the pain in the loins, the result of the connexion between the nerves of the uterus and those of the loins. This is not all the history of what is met in this com- plaint, deplorable as it is. I was asked to see a lady who had fractured her thigh-bone ; I asked her how the accident hap- jiened ?—she stated, by simply turning her thigh over the edge of the bed. When I was e.xamining it, I saw that the left breast was in a state of scirrhous ulceration ; f said “ How long have you had this.^”—she replied, “ For a great number of years.” The thigh united ; but with so little firmness, that in going into bed one day she broke it again. I attended another lady, who broke her thigh below the trochanter major, by very little force ; and a gentleman, who was formerly my assistant, was called to a lady who broke her thigh by walking across the room—each with a scirrhous affection of the breast. I was sent for to Sussex once, to see a lady who fractured her thigh by merely turning in bed, and who had at the same time a scirrhous affection of the breast; and what you find on ex- amination of the bones of those affected nith scirrhous tumours, is absorption, not only of the cancellated structure, but also of the shell of the bone. 1 attended a lady, with -Mr. Young, a surgeon of the city (whose ill health the profession has deeply to deplore), who had a scirrhous aftection of the breast, accom- panied with agonizing pains of the back ; the disease pioceded, and the patient was at last worn out by irritation. Both .Mr. Young and myself were extremely anxious to ascertain the cause of the pain of the back, and on examination of the ver- tebra?, we found several affected with scirrhous tubercles, and