ON STRUMOUS OPHTHALMIA. 2G5 }>e done, is bv fixing the head of the patient, when it is a child, between your knees, with the fore-finger of the one hand to i-aise the upper lid, and that of the other to depress the lower, which will give you an opportunity of seeing the eye ; but^ in doing this, great caution will be required to prevent eversion of the under lid, or any undue violence to the part. When you examine the conjunctiva, you will be surprised to find how little it'is inflamed, though the child does not raise its head from the mother’s lap. I say that it will be necessary to e.x- amine the eye frequently din ing this slate. Disorganization of the different parts of this organ often take place ; the cor- nea, or rather conjunctiva covering it, becomes covered with an opaque capsule, with vessels shooting over the cornea, so as to give it an herpetic appearance; that is, there will he seen over the cornea yellow sjiots, which are deposits of lymph. These open into small ulcers, which are streaked with vessels carrying red blood. The eye becomes very painful, and ex- tremely irritable, and there is often, in this state, intense red- ness of the conjunctiva. Under these circumstances, similar ulcers form in different parts of the cornea. The formation ot these ulcers produces all the symptoms of acute inflammation of the eye, and the organ not unfrequcntly becomes slowly and gradually disorganized. So long, however, as the cornea continues bright, and of its natural colour, there will be no danger to be apprehended from the formation of ulcers. But it is of the greatest importance that the cornea should be nar- rowly watched, as, if the inflammation continues for a long time, ulcers are very apt to form on it. But the most distress- ing symptom, and the one about which the patient expres.se* the greatest uneasiness, is the intolerance of light. Tre/vtment of Strumous Ophthalmia. I have said that the inflammation is one of the atonic kind, yet there exists considerable irritation. Depletion must be had recourse to, but not to any considerable extent: it will be right to apply leeches, but certainly blood-letting should not be pushed too far, and throughout the whole treatment it will be necessary to keep in view the nature of the constitution which is generally met with in scrofulous subjects ; it is lan- guid and debilitated ; the digestive organs are deranged ; there is loss of appetite-tongue white and furred ; bowels torpid ; secretions defective in quantity and in quality—skin dry and hot; in fact there is a good deal of fever present. The mild ilepletlng plan must be first adopted, regulated as far as the constitution will hear it ; you must remove the symptoms of irritation ; open the bowels freely by calomel (lurges, repeated more or less frequently as they improve the secretions. Al-