326 OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. Sir Caesar Hawkins added to the blunt gorget its cnltiijr edge ; this was certainly an improvement ; but if the instru- ment be too wide at the part where the prostate and bladder are divided, the internal pudendal artery will be in great danger of being divided, and this is an accident which you cannot Ux> sedulously avoid. The gorget that I am in the habit of using has its cutting edge continued only part of the way back, in consequence of which, I know the exact size of the opening that is madeintrr the bladder, and it is an effectual safeguard against woundius the above artery. In using the gorget, great attention should be observed to prevent its slipping between the bladder and rectum ; it is a most horrible accident, and most horrible in its consequences. In mentioning cases, gentlemen, in this theatre, I wish you distinctly to understand, that I never refer ray remarks to any particular case, unless 1 especially direct your attention to it, when my meaning cannot of course be misinterpreted. I am induced to make these observations at the present moment from a feeling that, by possibility, my words may be misapplied, and that, while alluding to the un- fortunate occuri ence of the gorget slipping between the blad- der and rectum, that you may have imagined 1 was directing your notice towards the late unfortunate operation at Guy’s, where the prostate was so enlarged that the stone conld not be removed, and where it was supposed at the time that the gor- get had not entered the bladder. The gentleman who per- formed that operation was ever most anxious to discharge hi.=’ duty with ardour and with zeal ; his honourable conduct, and gentlemanly deportment, caused him to be sincerely esteem^ and respected by his colleagues, and his resignation, from ill health, to be deeply regretted by his brother surgeons. If I were to he asked how many times I had known the ac- cident of the gorget’s slipping and passing between the bladder and rectum happen, I should say at least a dozen, and in each case the most lamentable and fatal consequences ensued ; for the operator lays hold of the stone, bladder, and all, the for- ceps slip, he lays hold of the stone .again enclosed in the bladder, in the same manner, and thus continues to puli, bruise, and draw the bladder, till .at length the patient is car- ried hack to his bed witliout the extraction of the stone. \'iolent inflammation supervenes from the violent brni.siiic which the bladder receives, and in a fewdiiys the person is no more. .. T'his untoward circumst.ancc may be easily avoided, it you will be always sufficiently guarded to cut with your knife into the grooveof the staff, then iiiit your index fiiigej- trail into