495 ON SYMPATHETIC BUBO. tiuit the semen is a fluid which is constantly secreting day and night, consequently the adhesive inflammation is interrupted in its progress. From tliese sinuses Fungi frequently sprout out. The treatment consists in paring them ofl'at their roots, and then hringiiig the edges of the external wound in contact. 'Phese fungi are not of a malignant na- ture ; they resemble tliose that occasionally shoot from the brain. Well, a few words more, and then I will conclude. Wasting of the Testes. Tliis sometimes takes place, and is produced by two cause.s, absorption and ulceration. Here (showing a preparation) is an example of this : when this effect is produced, it is gene- rally in lads from fourteen to seventeen years of age. It is a curious circumstance, that if a boy of fifteen or sixteen gets a gonorrhoea, that it is often succeeded by a wasting of one or botli testicles, 'ibis effect is not the result of gonorrhoea only; but any cause producing iiiflammation of the testis, in very young persons, will now and then lead to a similar mis- tortune. I have known it ha|)pen in consequences of blows from cricket bats and balls. The only Treatment likely to prevent their entire decay, is probably to employ them, to render them active, before the whole of the glandular structure has become destroyed. If, however, the inflammation of the testicle has been severe, that alone is sufficient to derange the glandular structure in very young persons. I have known both testicles waste from the forma- tion of scrofulous abscesses. Such cases are truly deplorable. LECTURE LX. Gen'ti.e.men, having at a former time treated of chronic en- largement of the testicle, and irritable testicle, I shall proceed this evening to consider sympathetic bubo. .SvMFATiiRTic Bubo is usually the result of inflamination of the glands of the penis. The inflammation extends on the outward surface of the glands, the absorbents of the dorsum of the penis become en- larged, and, if you rub your finger along the dorsum, you feel them hardened like a knot or cord, and freijiiently connected with tlie glands near the pubes. A bubo of this kind rarely .suppurates ; now and then you will meet with one that sup- purates, but only in very irritable constitutions. When the