DISLOCATION OF THE RIBS. 580 spinal canal, from very severe blows upon the vertebrte, and if in any considerable quantity, produces the usual symptomt of compression. From the cause just mentioned, the spinal marrow is also liable to concussion. The lower extremitie.” beconie paralytic, in a degree proportioned to the violence of the injury. The patient lies in great pain, and unable to raise himself; if you desire him to draw his thighs toward> his abdomen, he does so with great difficulty. A case of thi.' kind was brought into the other hospital; he was cupped repeatedly in the loins, and afterwards had a blister applied, which was kept open by ungt. sabinae ; his bowels kept open by calomel and other purgatives, and a stimulating liniment rubbed daily on the lower extremities. In six weeks the mo- tion and sensation of his legs had almost returned, and he completely recovered at the end of ten weeks. In one case of concussion, it was found, on dissection, that the spinal marrow was lacerated, and the person died with paralysis of the lower extremities and abdomen. It was found in an ex- periment which Mr. Cline made on tlie spinal marrow of a dog, that it re-united after dividing it, by pressure. Mr. H. Cline was the first man who took a scientific view of frac- tures of the vertebrse, attended with displacement. He pro- posed removing the arch of the displaced vertebra, by Hey’s saw. He performed the operation once, but not successfully, and he had not an opportunity of repeating it. Mr. Tyrrell very lately performed the same operation; he made an inci- sion on the depressed bone, as the patient was lying on his chest, and removed the arch; the patient lived three weeks afterwards. On dissection there was extensive peritoneal inflammation found, but from what cause it arose is difficult to say. There is no reason why the operation should not be performed; it is not difficult; it gives no pain, aud the pa- tient cannot recover unless it be tried; it gives him, there- fore, tlie best possible chance. There is a greater probability of recovery in the lumbar than when the injury is received in the dorsal vertebras. LECTURE LXX. GENTLF.aiEN, cascs of dislocations of the ribs have been de- scribed by different authors ; such cases must be extremely rare, and must also be very difficult to detect. Their heads are said to be thrown from their articulations on the bodies of the vertebra:. But 1 have never seen such a case. There is frequently a great irregularity of the cartilages, which is