491 CHORDEE. bition of oxynuir. liydrarg. gr. J ter die ; and likevyise thiee times a-day you sliould give jj. spir. aether, nitrici in 5^iss mist, camphor. Persons liaving this disease should drink plentifully of soda water. But die best remedy that they can possibly take is the balsam of copaiba ; no medicine so com- pletely robs the urine of mucus as this. Eight or ten drops three times a-day will usually he found quite sunicient: it may be given in conjunction with the medicines before-mentioned, or in 5ij mucilag. gumi acac. et jX aq. font. Paralysis of the Bladder. Now and then a paralytic state of the bladder occurs. In early life, a case of this kind for the moment very much sur- prised me; a man came to my house, stating, that he could not make water. 1 made him lie dowm on three chairs, and then, without the least difliculty, introduced a catheter ; but, to mv astonishment, not a drop of urine came away: and 1 was tiie more astonished, as I could distinctly feel the instru- ment above the pubes. I desired him to rise from the ehair.s and .stand up ; well, the moment he did so, the urine directly began to How in a full stream; this arose from the wmight ot the super-incumhemt viscera ])ressing on the bladder; and, although the urine flowed freely while in the erect posture, yet, when the body was horizotital, not a drop w'oiild escape. He was cured by blisteriiig the loins, and by giving him a pill twice a day, composed of five grains of the chio turpentine, atid a quarter of a grain of pow’dered cantharidcs: by these means, the voluntary power of the bladder became restored. It occasionally happens that persons will be troubled by frequent bleedings from the kidneys. 1 knew a female who was annoyed in this way for more than three months. Treatment.—In these cases you must order the recumbent posture to be rigidly adhered to, in order to give the vessels an opportunity of closing. The bals. copaib. should also be [rrescribed in small doses. The diet should be low : recollect there must be no change from the recumbent posture until some time after the bleedings have ceased ; and deviations from this rule will frustate your curative intentions. The ne.xt disease to which 1 shall direct your attention is CHORDEF.. The name may make some of you smile, at least those of you who have not felt it. A chordee is a painful erection of the penis; and, during the erection, the penis is drawn either violently back, or to one side. 'I’he cause of the complaint is an inflammatory condition of the corpus spongiosum, and the pain is produced by the dilatation of the vessels, from the in- flu.x of blood, to cause an ereclion. The disease is mosttrou*