48 ON SUPPURATION. novia has a constant tendency to prevent adhesion and to se parate the plaster. The sutu|-e should penetrate the skin the* 1 gament being carefully avoided. A niece of lint u-prtwi • t« patieM'a bipod i. ,o bo p„. .hrwoufdjaod „vc“ ^ ups of adhesive plaster. Linen cloths are Uj belaid over diese, and be kept constantly wet with the lin. phinib acet and .spirit vini; a splint is to be placed behind ^he joint to secure perfect rest. joint, to In the operation for hare-lip, it is by the adhe.Mve inflam- nioved” becomes united, and the deformity rc- The effusion of adhesive matter, bv unloading the ve«els of the m’*"’ basthe effect of reducing the inflammation, .*o that the piocess generally terminates as soon as this effect is pro- LECTURE VIIL On Suppuration. Suppuration is the formation of purulent matter from tlie sea-eting oribces of the blood-vessels, which matter is named It is formed in cavities produced in the body bv a proce« of ab.sorption, as in abscesses; it is found also as a .secreted siirface° surfaces of membranes, or upou granulating The formation of matter is often attended witli severe con- shtutioiial irritation ; there are rigors succeeded bv heat hen, therefore, you see a person who has had severe ini flainniation, and you wish to know if suppuration has taken place, you ask him if he has had a cold shiverins- forthis i.« generally the lorcninner of the purulent secretion.' If the in- flamination be extensive, or seated inaiiv vital orsau, thecon- stitiitional disturbance will be verv great, and the shiverii.c which indicates the formation of matter, will be ven- «evere" and followed by a powerful re-action. Whilst the rigor con- tinues, the blood collects about the larger vcs.sels in thenei<-h bourhood of the heart, and in the heart itself; at length tlii-1 organ becomes stimulated to action, and sends the blood witli considerable force to all parts of the bodv, but more particii larly to that part where pus is about to be secreted. A rigor therefore, is merely a con.stitutional effort towards "accom- plishing the object that nature has in view. When pus i- easily produced, as upon mucous surfaces, there is no ngor ivhatcver