67 ACUTE AND CHRONIC ABSCESS. if this be not attended to, they will at last slough ; but if, on the contrary, you carefully avoid leaving any of that unorga- nized substance, adhesion will take place, and the wound heal up. Every thing in these cases depends on getting rid of the solid matter. Bread poultices, wetted with a sulphate of zinc lotion and spirits of wine, may be used afterwards. Whilst living at Broad-street, in the City, a lady came to me with a tumour in the side of the neck. 1 perceived on the opposite side several scars ; 1 said, “ Will you allow me to try if 1 can prevent a scar here ?” She answered, it was for that purpose she had consulted me. Warm poultices had been used on the |uevious occasions, with which I would have nothing to do in this, and she got well with scarcely a pimple to be seen. It is of the highest importance, then, to endeavour to prevent those appearances, which, on the exposed parts of the body, produce such painful feelings. In the higher orders of life, particularly, a child with scars and blotches on its neck would be secluded from society. Now, gentlemen, there is a point of great importance to be attended to, viz.—the direction in which you make the open- ing: always make it transversely, and not in the axis of the neck ; for when the wound heals, it will scarcely be seen among the creases or folds of the neck. One more observation on this subject: let me entreat you not to open these tumours when they have a blush on them like the hue of a grape; the veins are in a dilated state, and if you open the tumour, you will bring discredit on yourself. If the edges of the wound should not unite in any part, a little injection of sulphate of zinc or copper may he used. There are two other points connected with this subject, which 1 will mention to yon, and then I shall have done. 1. The causes of hectic fever. You are all aware that a continued fever, i.c. rigors followed by heat, and a sweating stage, attend the formation of matter ; these rigors take place once or twice in twenty-four hours, according to the irritabi- lity of the part and constitution : and had it been asked, thirty «r forty years ago, on what it depended, it would have been said, ab.sorption of matter into the constitution. Some of the old surgeons used to put sponge to the mouth of wounds, to absorb the matter, and prevent its being carried into the con- ■stitution ; biit gentlemen, it appears to have no power on the constitution. There is no doubt, certaiiily, that the in- oculation of putrid matter will, as we often see, sometimes prove fatal. I he proofs that the absorption of common mat- ter into the constitution does not |)ioduce fever, are—I. It is not during the formation of matter that the fever come,5 on ; I' 2