LOCAL TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 31 where there is enlargement of the mesenteric glands. Calo- mel and rhubarb, the hydr. cum cretii, and soda, will also be found medicines of much power in the chronic diseases of children. Lastly, as it is not advisable to give these little creatures mercury, if it can be avoided, a medicine, composed of two grains of rhubarb, and five grains of the carbonate of iron, given two or three times a-day, will often render its eni])loy- ment unnecessary : tliis medicine acts as an aperient and pow- erful tonic. The nature of inflammation I hope you all now thoroughly understand : recollect that the vessels of the part are in a di- lated state, and the surrounding ones have an increased action. I shall next speak of the Local Treatment of Inflammation. Much has been said about the application of cold in these affections. _ People have been arguing about words rather than ideas, but it really is not worth while to attend to such fasti- dious, nonsensical objections as have been started against this remedy. dTiough cold is not a positive agent, yet it is capable of affording great relief in inflammation—first, by lessening the size of the vessels—secondly, by lessening action, which it effects by diminishing nervous irritability. If cold be applied to the system generally, it has the power of lessening the fre- quency of the pulse in an extraordinary degree. I have tried this upon myself. I went out of my house one evening into the garden when warm, my pulse being 8G; at the exph-ation of an hour it was 76 ; at the end of two hours, was reducetL to 6.5 ; and had not only lessened in (piickness, but also in fulness. _ Cold will produce torpor, and even death. A curious instance of this kind occurred near Halifax, in Nova .Scotia: Dr. Scott had been dining a little way in the country with some friends, and they were on their return at night, when one of the party separated from the rest, saving to a companion, that he would frighten some of them by-and- y. Hovreyci, they reached Halifax without seeing any thing more of him. At this the party became alarmed for his safety, and returned for the pmyiose of finding him. He was niscovered behind a hillock of snow, in an erect position, hut ipiite dead. ’ Another curiou.s instance of this kind is related in Cooke’s v oyages, when some of the ollicers and crew of one of the >hips were landing at 'I'crra del Fuego. Dr. Solandcr, who vvas ot the party, lartieulaily cautioned them not to go to sleep ; and said that it was exceedingly dangcrou.s to do so in told si.uations. It happened, however, that the Doctor was