137 ON WOUNDS OF THE BRAIN. ed, the divided parts begin to unite by means of theadiiesive intiauimation ; if this process cannot effect a cure, gianula- tions form, which at length project througli the opening in the skull, and give rise t'o the fungus before mentioned. Upon proper treatment the safety of your patient depends. If you do not repress the growth of the fungus, there will be violent constitutional irritation, and the life of the person in jeopardy ; but, on the contrary, if you attend to the condition of the wound, and prevent the funpis from rising, there will be, comparatively speaking, but little danger. Well, gentlemen, the treatment is as follows :—You are to apply to the fungus a piece of lint, wetted with liquor calcis, and over this, strapping of adhesive plaster; when you ex- amine the part on the following day, you will find tlie fungus considerably diminished ; you are then to use a thicker piece of lint, and the .strapping as before ; pursuing this plan, you at length get the fungus to the level of the scalp ; but this is not sutficieutly low for your purpose, therefore you must still thicken the lint until you have succeeded in getting it even with the edges of the dura mater, in which position it must be cautiously preserved ; when, at last the dura mater heals over it, and your object is accomplished. We witness many examples of such cases in these hospitals. Formerly it was the practice in the treatment of these diseases to remove the bone contiguous to the fungus : immense quantities of bone in this manner were taken away, thereby affording every faci- lity to the growth of the fungus, and which, of course, rapidly increased, until the patient was destroyed. By such treatment as this, uo person could possibly recover ; the method was a most injurious and stupid one : therefore let me caution you against adopting it. 'I’he |)lan of treatment which I have just recommended to you is, unquestionably, the best; viz., that of repressing the growth of the fungus until the dura mater heals over it. Inflammation following Wounds of tiif. Biiain. I shall now speak more particularly of the infiainmation which follows wounds of the brain, wherein their chief danger consists; which danger is much increased, if the dura mater be the part attacked. Upon the first apjiroach of inflammation, the person complains of a great pain in the head ; vcryiiuickly falls into a comatose state; and when roused fi om this con- dition, the pain is excessive ; the scalp, round the external wound, becomes oedematous, for, if you press upon it, the im- pression of the finger is retained ; the edges of the vvound have a shining glossy appearance, and from the wound itself is discharged a fluid, composed of blood and .serum; .sometimes