SCROFULOUS DISEASES OF JOINTS. 5G2 vaiices, and is not subdued, it will be necessary to tmphrj some local counter-irritant. Blisters, tartar emetic ointment, vinegar poultices, issues and setons, are the various means used for this purpose. If the joint suppurates, it will be be.‘t not to apply issues or setous close to the joint. Mr. Cline tried once to investigate this point, and the result of his ob- servation was, that if setous and blisters were employed, they should be employed at some little distance from the joint. Blisters may be applied over the joint, but they should not be so large as to produce considerable irritation ;"they should be kept open by the unguentum sabinae. Depend on "it this if the best treatment; the tartar emetic ointment is a u.seful ir- ritant, in the proportion of a drachm of the tartarized anti- mony to an ounce of spermaceti ointment. When the irrita- tion has, by evaporating lotions, and other means, been lessened, no motion being at all employed, it will be neces- sary to put a splint, under the limb, e.xtending from the ham to the heel, and then to use friction, so that the joint may in time be restored to use. If no friction or passive motion be employed, there will be no chance of re.storing the limb. This was the advantage of the late Mr. Grosvenor’s plan, of 0.x- ford. I will not say that friction, when the inflammation is goiiig on, is not injudicious ; but I mean that when the in- flammation is subdued you are not to leave tbe joint in a state of rest, but to use friction. Let me put you on your guard with respect to cases of common inflammation ; in them you may employ motion earlier than in scrofulous dis- ease. 'I'here is such a disposition to a return of these last affections, that you should never give any pain in the motion you use; the e.xercise should be so employed as not to excite the least uneasiness in taking it. The next circumstance to be considered is, when does am- putation become necessary ? Formerly, limbs used to be amputated for scrofulous affections much more frequently than at the present day. The reason we seldom amputate is. that the affected limb may, with care and nianacemcnt, be often made more useful than an artificial one. In cnlarge- tnents of the knee and ankle, it may be necessary now and then to amputate; but it ought never to be done unless the patient is labouring under great constitutional irritation, which threatens destruction to his life, or the limb has un- dergone such changes that it is not likely to be useful here- al'ter. For instance, in cases of scrofulous affections of the ankle joint, the foot often remains extended, .and the patient is only able to walk on his toes. Here an artificial foot would be much better than the natural one. In scrofulous diseases