415 ON POISONS. six months from the infliction of the injuiy. When i was formerly trying some experiments in comparative anatomy, 1 was anxious to see what effects were prodnced upon living structure by the poison of vipers ; and, with a view of ascer- taining, I confined a rabbit and viper together, and, by irri- tating the viper, induced it to bite the ear of the rabbit; the wounded ear soon began to droop, as did also the other ear shortly afterwards; the animal was soon seized with con- vulsive motions, which were quickly followed by death. Upon dissection, the part which had been bitten was quite black, and the cellular tissue on that side of the animal where the wound had been given, after the skin had been stripped off, appeared to have been discoloured by extravasated blood. A rattle-snake, that was confined in a cage, some time since, bit a man in the finger ; the patient was attended by Sir Everard Home; the inflammation rapidly extended up the arm, and to several parts of the body; abscesses were pro- duced, and, after languishing several days in great suffering, the patient died. Treatment of the Bite of P'ipers.—I tell you what I once did for myself, when I met with an accident of this kind, whilst trying the experiments to which 1 have just now alluded. Among others I was in the habit of freezing reptile^: you all know that a frog may be frozen so completely, that, by slightly pulling the legs, the joints will crackle and break; yet, by the application of gentle and well regulated heat, the muscles of the animal, upon the melting of the blood, will begin to tremble, and soon regain their natural functions; and a few minutes after having been apparently dead, and converted into a solid piece of ice, the animal will be seen hopping about the room. Vipers also may be frozen, and will regain their actions in a similar mantier. On one occasion, after having taken a frozen viper out of the freezing mixture, and not suspecting that it had so quickly regained its natural state, I was bitten by it on the back of the hand ; this happened one evening at lecture; and the late Mr. Eox, the dentist, who was present, and at that period a pu()il of mine, at my desire, immediately excised the wound by means of a lancet, and I applied a ban- dage tightly round the wrist for the purpose of preventing absorption, in case any of the poison had remained. 'I'liis treatment completely succeeded, and not a single had symp- tom followed the injury. This is the plan, then, that I always advise you to pursue in cases of this kind ; cut out the part which has been stung, and apply a ligature above the wound, if the situation will admit of it, with a view of preventing