130 ON FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. gentleman, who felt the animal’s pulse during the continuanrc of the experiment, stated, that it became slower as the pressure became increased. In man it is the same—slow and labouring. After blows have been received on the head, it often hap- pens that upon making aii e.xaniination of the scalp, there appears to be depression of hone to a great extent, when, in reality, there is none. Let me put you on your guard here. A i)ersou receives a blow ou ihe scalp : the parts immediately surrounding the spot where the blow was received will rise, from the extravasation of blood, two or three lines higher than the part it.self; for there the cellular membrane having been condensed by the injury, will likewi.se tend to increase the deception ; thus the surrounding parts are considerably higher than the middle; and the external character of the contusion is certainly calculated to deceive those who are unacquainted with the nature of these accidents. I have several times seen these afl'ections ; but the first case which I recollect was that of a child brought into Guy’s, wjio had received a severe blow on the head from a brickbat, which had been thrown at it by a man. All present were prepared for the operation, fully expecting that 1 should apply the trephine ; for they fell con- vinced that there was considerable depression of bone ; and when 1 staled that I should not operate, .they exclaimed, “Good God ! I wonder what ran he his reason.’’ This child, after having been freely bled and purged, in two or three days quite recovered. I have ofteu been sent for by my dressers to these cases, and have been requested to bring my instruments with me ; but upon examination have found that there was no depression of bone, and that the uneven appearance of the scalp was pro- duced by the causes before mentioned. It al..^o very ofteu happens in fractures of the cranium that considerable depression of bone will take place from the external table of the skull being driven into the diploe, and without producing the slightest injury to the internal table; do not, therefore, be precipitate in your diagnosis, nor hastily determine ujion performing an operation, which you might afterwards have reason to repent: these fractures, however, can only occur in those of a middle age, for in the \ ei y young and in very old age, the skull i.« thin and without diploe. I believe in the course of my practice that I have frequently met with this accident, and we have many preparations in the museum which clearly demonst'-ale their true character; but the tliree now before me (pointing to three .'■knllsi are, I think, quite sufiicient to satisfy your minds as to the nature of this accident; here y”U see the external table has been driven