494 INFLAMMATION OF THE TESTICLE. prove a preventive to inflamed testicles.) Well, then, fir.-t order a suspensory bandage; give the patient two or three calomel and colocynth pills ; and, in the morning, a dose of infusion of senna with sulphate of magnesia. Apply to the testis a lotion, composed of one ounce of spirits of wine and five ounces of water ; or, muriate of ammonia and water, and a small quantity of the spirit. T'hese means usually sne- ceed in overcoming the disease ; if they should cot, you must take blood from the scrotum, but not by the application of leeches, at least not in private practice, as the mess they pro- duce would, in all probability, lead to an exposure of jour patient’s malady ; therefore, what 1 do is this—1 direct the patient to stand before me, and, making the skin of the scro- tum tense, I open three or four of the veins with the point of the lancet; then, by fomenting the scrotum with a little warm water, or directing the patient to stand before a fire, in five dr ten minutes you obtain as much blood as is requisite, and, by then making the patient lie down, the bleeding will immediately cease : thus, by this method, in a few minutes you procure more blood than you would in double the time by the application of leeches, and without any exposure. The weight of poultices is an objection to their employment; but fomentations may be prescribed with advantage, as they un- load the vessels, and act beneficially in the same manner as leeches. At the same time, purgative medicines should be freely administered. In some irritable constitutions, even all the remedies which 1 have named will not be successful, the pain and inflamma- tion still continuing ; and you are under the necessity of having recourse to opium—the best form in which it can be given is that of the compound ipecacuanha powder. 1 pre- scribe ten grains of this, and two grains of calomel, to be taken at night; sometimes 1 order them night and morning. Dover’s powder and calomel thus combined, without excep- tion, form the best remedy that 1 am acquainted with, for sub dning irritable inflammation ; and after the operation of pur- gatives, you will find them of infinite service. Well, it sometimes bapjicns that, notwithstaiidinc all we can do, abscesses in the testicle will form ; we niu.«t then ap- ply poultices and fomentations, for the purpose of bringing them to a speedy issue. After the discharge of the matter, should any sinuses remain, yoti must inject with a solution ot sttlphate of cop|icr, in the ])roportion of two grains to an ounce of water ; diluted sulphuric acid is occasionally used, but 1 give the ))reference to the former. 'I'he reason that there is so much dilliculty in getting these sinuses to heal, is