628 ON COMPOUND FRACTURES. remain. The patient should be bled from the arm, if the in- flammation and constitutional irritation be considerable, and leeches should be occasionally applied under these circum- stances. The bowels should be kept gently open, but all aaive purging avoided. If the suppurative process have extended up the tendons of the fore-arm, it wll be necessary to am- putate. The operation should not be performed where the tendons are loose in the arm, but further up, in the mus- cular part of it; you would otherwise have a sloughy irritable stump. Another untoward circumstance is high degree of inflamma- tion attacking the neighbouring parts. If the patient’s gene- ral health be good, the inflammation will not extend beyond a few inches around the accident; but if the patient be irri- table, and the injuiT, for example, be in the leg, the inflam- mation will extend along the course of the absorbents to the groin, and if there be effusion at the same time accompanying this, it must be considered as an indication of great danger. Such appearances must not be treated very actively by deple- tion ; apply leeches, fomentations also, and poultices to the neighbourhood of the wound. Lotions also of the liquor amraonise acetatis, with rectified spirits of wine, should be applied to the inflammation on the limb, whilst the poultice is applied to the neighbourhood of the wound. At the same time opium should be given to allay the constitutional irri- tability, and a gentle diaphoresis promoted on the skin, by giving some saline medicines, as the liq. ammon. acet. These symptoms generally make their appearance in persons who have lived irregularly, either as regards their diet or their habits. Be very cautious about the administration of purga- tives, as they disturb the patient very much ; but if absolutely necessarv, give an enema. Another obstacle met with in the treatment of compound fracture is an excessive spasmodic action of the muscles. Ihis action is sometimes so violent as to render all your .attempts to overcome it absolutely nugatory. In one case it disturbed the limb so much as to render amputation necessary, and on dissection it was found that tliere was a piece of bone sepa- rated from the other parts, and locked between the exiremi- ties of the bone. It is sometimes neccss.ary to amputate from a iranI of union between the fractured ends of the bone ; and on this subicct can furnish you witli tlie knowledge of a circumstance that may be of the greatest importance in your future practice You may recollect having seen me amputate, a short time since, the leg of a voting woni.an in Dorcas’ iVard, for a great