ON THE OPERATION FOR DEPRESSION, &C. 285 tically iu the other, and thus disease be communicated to the one which is sound, and an operation be required to be per- formed on it. 1 do not think myself that tliis is a sufficient reason, because, under so little excitement, the chance of the other being affected is slight. The disadvantages of this plan are various ; 1 kuovv that a sympathy exists between the eyes, and that if inflamraatiou is .set up iu one, it will be excited by sympathy on the other, which may destroy the organ that is sound. But suppose you succeed, what do you effect.’ tlie fo- cus will be different, and the patient vvill not be able to use both eyes at the same time. Next, where there is only one eye sound, and it performs its office well, and vision is good, it will be better to wait till it becomes dim ; then the operation for restoring the patient to sight may be performed, and two chances be in the patient’s favour. Therefore it seems that in performing the operation for cataract, where one eye only is affected, you expose the patient to the risk of losing the sight of both. The plan that appears to me to be the best is, not to operate exeept both are affected ; then you may safely perform the operation. Before speaking of the operation for cataract, it will be ex- pected perhaps to premise by saying something of the treat- ment ; but besides an operation in this com])laint very little else iu the way of treatment will be of use. Various plans of treatment have been adopted, but without success, therefore I shall proceed at once to speak of the operations. The opera- tions for cataract are three in number—first, depression, or couching, by which the cataract is removed from the axis of vision; second, extraction, which consists in making an inci- sion through the cornea ; third, the operation for the solution of the cataract. Operation for Depression or Couching. This mode of operating consists iu removing the opaque lens out of the axis of vision by depressing it into the vitreous hu ■ inour ; this is done by a needle, of which there are three dif- ferent kinds now employed, Hey’s, Scarpa’s, and Beer’s needles. Hey’s needle is about seven-eighths of an inch in length; it is rounded except at the point, where it is flat for the eighth of an inch ; it terminates by a semicircular cutting edge, which ought to be exceedingly sharp. Scarpa’s needle is more slender than the other, and curved at the point. When you look at it sideways, it presetits a fl.at convex appearance on the dorsum, it is of a triangular shape towards the point, and has also a concavity ; it is sntliciently strong to depress the lens. The next is Beer’s spear-pointed needle; it is narrow at the neck. 1 give the preference my-