86 ON ULCERS. inent of tliese ulcers. But more of this in another lecture, as I shall liave to speak of gangrene again. The next kind of ulcer that I come to is the Irritable Ulcer. 'I'his sore is extremely difficult to cure. How then are vou to know it ? When you find the granulation.s most unequal ; in some parts being very high, in others very low. 'I'he dis- charge from the wound consi.sts of a bloody pus. I do not know what to compare it to better (thoiich it is not quite .so good) tban strawberry cream. (A laugh.) It is pus mixed with the red particles of blood. This sore may be known bvthe inequality ot the granulations, the nature of the discharge, and the great pain and tenderness in the part; so that the patient, when touched in that |)art, is like a sensitive plant. As tou will be sure to find considerable difficulty in the treatment of these sores, 1 will tell you, the best application that you can make use of is one compounded of the cetaceous ointment, gray oxide of mercury, and powdered opium ; — Ji Unguent Cetacei Hydr. Mit. a, gss. Pulv. Opii jj. M. Fiat unguentum. This must be spread on lint, and applied to the part twice a-day. What are the internal remedies you ought to exhibit in the.se cases, gentlemen ?—calomel and opium : the.se are the medicines on which you are to rely '; a grain and a half of calomel and a grain of opium moruingand evening. Nothing will be of so much service as this medicine. It should not be carried so far as to produce ptyalisin, or to affect the constim- tion severely ; but it should be given so as to restore the secre- tions, and to diminish the action ol the nervous system. The calomel will do the first, and the opium will lessen the ner- vous irritability. 'I'he trealineut of infiaiumation has been im- proved of late by calomel and opium. 'I'he effect of this medicine in chronic inflammation ma\ be seen in the diseasecalled iritis. Here calomel and opium may be exhibited ; nor should a de- posit of white matter, having the appearance almo.-t of pus, into the autei ior chamber of the eye, be any barrier to their use. Give five grains of calomel and a grain of opium night and morning; and in the space of a week, if the eye has not suffered a pood deal, or become disorganised, this remedy will correct the inflammation. We use other aids, such as the com- pound decoction of the sarsaparilla. Some think it a placebo ; others have a very high opinion of its efficacy. I do not think much of it myself in those cases ; but, after the use of mer- cury, it diminishes the irritability of the constitution, and