52 ON SUPPURATION. calomel and oidnm—tbese measures, judicionsly used, iviJJ often clieck the procress of the disease, and in a short time completely remove it. Formerly it was the opinion that matter was produced by a dissolution of the solids; hut this o|)inion is now exploded, for we have numerous facts to prove that it is not true; in the urethra, for example, you all know that matter will he formed on its surface for months ; and is the urethra destroyed by it ? No, but, on the contrary, is thicker than it was before the disclnirge existed ; and, upon examination of this part after death, no ulcers have been discovered, even if the matter had been flowing for months : the ancients thought that gonor- rhopa arose from ulceration of the urethra ; this opinion, there- fore, is also found to be wrong. Again, in large cavities, such as the chest and abdomen, an immense quantity of matter may he secreted, and yet, after death, no erosion of the solids will be discoverable ; but the membranes lining their cavities, namely, the pleura and peritoneum, will be found very mate- rially thickened. I remember, when there was a very warm discussion on this subject, the disputants used to put pieces of raw meat upon the surfaces of ulcers, and after suffering them to remain for some tirat, would then carefully weigh them for the purpose of ascertaining the quantity of substance lost. Pus is not a fluid produced by the dissolution of the solids ; it is secreted from the blood-vessels, but not until they have been acted upon by inflammation. The efl'cets produced by the application of a blister c.xcmplify this ; when the cuticle is raid'd, first serum and fibrin are thrown out; remove tl.e cuticle and apply upon the raw skin a piece of glass ; at fir.'t no matter is to be seen, but in a few minutes you will observe it collect and adhere to the under side of the ela.ss; bile, urine, and, in fact, all the fluids, are secreted from the blood, but in each in.'tance the action of the vc.^sels i.< difierent. I’us is composed of serum, and particles swimming in that scrum ; there mav be also, a little coagulable matter in tl e scrum ; this, however, is 1 ypothesis ; that fibrin is poured out from the vessebs in adhesive inflammation is not hypothesis, hut, on the contrary, a well-ascertained fact. 'Hie globules of p'us are the same as the globule's ol the blood, hist the action of the vessels aj'q'cars to take au’ay thi'ii coloui ; their foini is the same ; size the .same ; these globules also resemhlc those that are contained in.mucus. , ^ I’li.s, when healthy, is a bland fluid, and will not irritate the t arts that produce it. If peured into v.ater, it sink-, because its specific gravity is greater than that ot water. It