OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. 319 ueficial effect on children who have stone in the bladder, and pass a large quantity of matter ; it will remove this excessive secretion, and enable you afterwards to perform the operation with success. ■Some little benefit may therefore be derived from medical treatment, by lessening the irritability of the bladder and con- stitution, but the stone will remain, and surgery alone will be the only effectual means by which the sufferings ot the patient can be removed. Operation of Lithotomy. We shall now proceed to speak of the operation for stone, of the lateral operation, together with the high operation, and shall also show you a forceps for removing calculi from the bladder, when they are small, without having recourse to any cutting operation. And tir.st 1 shall descrihe the lateral ope- ration ; 1 shall not perform it this evening, for I don’t know whether there is a subject or not, but I shall state to you the circumstances to be attended to before the operation, give you a de.scription of the instruments required, and perform the operation on the next evening. The first circumstance to consider before you operate for lithotomy, is whether the constitution of the patient is in a sound state, or his general health good. He who practises surgery must know that if an operation were performed as soon as the symptoms of stone arise, without first inquiring into the state of the patient’s constitution, the surgeon would lose a great number of his patients, and soon injure his charac- ter ; there is no operation in which an attention to the con- stitution is more necessary before it is performed than that for the stone. The person should he in good general health at the time, for unless he is, there will be little chance of success. Those wlio have been exposed to the vicissitudes of life and to poverty, and have been obliged to labour for their bread, ge- nerally bear the operation for stone well, and in those persons the chance of success is considerably greater than in the higher ranks of society, and those you generally meet with in private practice. Let any man be lionest, and he must acknowledge that in ho-ipital practice there is infinitely more success than in private practice ; for those who have been reared in the lap of luxury, and have drunk freely, if suhniittcd to an operation for stone, freipieutly die from it. Therefore, with respect to the higher orders of society, unless a surgeon ineviously study the constitution, and require his patients to live diti'ercntly from what they have been Hccnstoined, he will injure his re- putation. and lose his patients. Great advantage will be de- rived from putting a patient, who is to be operated on for