ON FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. 183 boy did well; but the mother of the other boy interfered to prevent the operation of trephining ; and though it was per- formed after symptoms of inflammation had appeared, he died. It is quite true that it often happens that fracture with depres- sion is frequently not followed by inflammation, even when the fracture is compound ; but we cannot be certain of this, and if it does ensue, we cannot save the patient by trephining at a hue period. The rule, therefore, which I always follow, is this:—When I am called to a fracture, with depression, which is exposed to view, I generally use an elevator, and very rarely the trephine. I put this instrument under the bone, raise it up, and if it has been comminuted, remove the small portions of bone. If, however, one bone is wedged within the other, I apply the trephine for raising the depressed portion of bone. The elevation of the bone is never followed by any mischief; but if you do not raise it, aud inflammation follows, it will be too late to attempt to save the life of the patient. I shall conclude, gentlemen, by mentioning two other cir- cumstances ; but they are two circumstances to which, if there be any thing valuable in the lecture, 1 wish most particularly to call your attention. The first is this ; it sometimes happens, in fracture of the skull attended with depression, that a small spicular portion of bone will project into the brain, so as to produce and sup- port epileptic symptoms. A negro, who was a patient of Mr. Birch, had fracture from a blow on the head, and a portion of bone was depressed. Shortly after, he was seized with epilep- tic fits, which continued for many years. When he was ad- mitted into the hospital, it was found that there was still a portion of the depressed bone remaining, and the trephine was applied to it. When the circular piece of bone was completely sawed round by the trephine so that it could be moved from side to side, Mr. Birch found a difficulty in raising it; he put the elevator under it, but still it adhered to something within. At last he took a pair of forceps, and, by using more force, he extracted a little spur or thorn, which had proceeded from the inner side of the skull through the dura mater into the substance of the brain, and was the cause of the epileptic fits. After its removal, he had but one more fit, and completely recovered. The other circumstance which I shall mention is one, which, whether we regard it in a physiological or surgical point of view, is perhaps, one of the most extraordinary that ever occurred; and, as connected with surgery and [)liysiology, I am surprised it hits not made a greater impression on the