ON HERNIA. 241 tines into the abdomen, either fails in doing it altogether, or if he gets a portion of intestine within the ring, the stricture and all the dangerous symptoms of strangulation still remain. You will look for the stricture, therefore, in congenital her- nia, at an inch or an inch and a half above the abdominal ring, and directly opposite to the tendon of the transversalis muscle. 1 am not aware of any circumstance in this opera- tion which differs from that adopted in the common inguinal hernia. When the intestine adheres generally to the tunica vaginalis, all you are to do is to divide the stricture, and leave the intestine within the tunica vaginalis. If the adhesion is only in a particular point, you might cut through it; but you must not attempt to cut through any consideiable portion of the tunica vaginalis, as you would run great risk of dividing the spermatic artery or vein. All you should do, after dividing the stricture, is to bring the edges of the wound together, and make them adhere; in this way you leave the patient as you found him, with his irreducible hernia, but relieved from the dangerous symptoms of strangulation. The patient should wear a laced bag-truss after the operation. There is a particular species of hernia of the tunica vagina- lis, ot which I have hitherto seen hut three e.v'amples ; there are two specimens in the College, and one I shall now send round to you. This is an encysted hernia of the tunica vagina- lis ; and 1 shall endeavour to explain to you the way in which It takes place. The hernia in this case is very much con- cealed within the scrotum ; a bag is situated within the tunica vaginalis, which is not formed by peritoneum, hut i.s a cyst produced in the following manner Opposite to the situation •of the abdominal ring adhesion takes place between the sides <of the tunica vaginalis, and a ])ouch is formed leading into the itunica vaginalis. A stricture crosses the bag directly opposite n to the abdominal ring, shutting it up; ami as the intestine Icle.scend.s into the upper part of the bag, the adhesion becomes • elongated, and at length a sac is produced. 'I’he case from ’Which this preparation was taken I had an oiiportunity of Mcemg at the other hospital. 'I’hc patient was under the eare • Of Mr. forster ; he came to the hospital with .symptoms of • strangulation, but the hernia was extremely concealed He • was trequently persuaded to submit to the operation for.stran- • ^lated hernia, hut he constantly refused, and chose rather to operation. On examination of the _iwdy after death, it was found that a cyst had formed, eon- • fining a convolution of intestine, which became strangulated t the orifice, and was the cause of death, 'rherc was a (plan- It