DISLOCATIONS OF THE FINGERS AND TOES. 593 suture, if necessary, aud over this put a piece of lint dipped in blood, which is the best application; if necessary, you must apply a poultice, but where the bruise lias not been very cousiderable, it will heal by the adhesive process. A case of this kind occurred a short time since, from the explosion of a powder-flask, in the hand of a young gentleman, at Brent- ford; the thumb was only connected to the hand by the ten- dons of the long extensor and flexor ; it was treated in the way I have just recommended, and passive motion employed at the end of a fortnight, by which the motion of the joint was so restored as to enable him to write without any incon- venience. Dislocation of the First Phalanx.— In the simple disloca- tion of this bone, you will find it thrown back upon the meta- carpal bone, where it forms a projection ; and the lower part or the metacarpal bone projects inwards, towards the palm of the hand. The thumb may be brought towards the fingers, but the flexion and extension, which are performed between the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx, are prevented by the dislocation. Here also the direction in which the exten- sion is to be made must be attended to v the thumb should be bent towards the palm, in order to relax the flexor muscles, and the mode of applying the extending force is as follows, which may be generally adopted in dislocations of the toes, thumb, and fingers:—In order to relax the parts as much as possible, the hand should be soaked for a considerable time in warm water, a piece of wetted wa.sh leather is to be as closely wrapped round the first phalanx as possible ; a tape, about two yards in length, should be fastened on the leather with a kuot which will not slip, such as the sailors call the clove hitch. An asistant should now firmly press on the me- tacarpal bone, by putting his middle and first fingers between the fore-finger and thumb of the patient, and thus make counter-extension, whilst the surgeon, assisted by others, draws the first phalanx from the metacarpal bone, inclining it at the same time a little towards the palm of the hand. If the efforts made in this way, after having been continued ten or fifteen minutes, should not succeed, then it will be neces- sary to adopt another plan, which is this ; in addition to the apparatus already em|)loyed, let a strong worsted tajie be carrieil between the metacarpal bone and fore-finger, bend the fore-arm roundj a bed-post, and let the tape be firmly tied to it, so as to prevent the hand yielding when extension is made. 'I o the tape surrounding the first phalanx, a pulley is to be applied, and extension made, which will generally succeed. With the greatest care ;ind attention, and with the « t?