347 ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. the otlters ; and it is more properly a sanious serum, as it has not the comiuon character of pus. This arises from the attempt at its formation being imperfect; and if you open the swelling, a quantity of bloody serum will be discharged. Prior to an opening being formed, the skin becomes livid, and the breast is very painful in that part where it opens. In general, the opening is not made by art, as the object is to prevent ulcera- tion as long as you can ; but when the ulcerative state has be- gun the glands above the clavicle enlarge, the arm sw'ells first just above the elbow, then it e.xtendg over the hand and tore- arm, and upper arm. There is an interruption to the functions of the absorbent system ; the blood is not returned by the veins ; an increased secretion takes place from the termination of the arteries ; fluid is thrown out into the cellular tissue, which, when evacuated, coagulates. The constitution is se- verely affected, there is a difficulty of breathing ; an inability to lie but on one side, pain in the right side, and also in the loins : and the patient says that she has rheumatic feelings all over the bones. The stomach is deranged ; the patient has severe spasms at the scrobiculus cordis and frequent vomi- tings ; at last she becomes worn out from irritation, and expires. What do you find on dissection ? Is the disease confined to the particular part, the breast, or are its effects general ?—Gen- tlemen, I will tell you what you find on examination afier death ;—The breast is one solid mass, like cartilage, with very little of vascularity, except its edges; internally fibrous, but the vessels are few, and pass over its surface. When the breast has acquired any magnitude, there is generally an opening in it; and then, internally, it has the appearance of being worm- eaten, and is spongy at the part where there is ulceration, it is very vascular, and with the ulceration you will find a bloody serum. The absorbent glands put on the same character as the scirrhous breast; but besides this, the scirrhus extends to the cellular membrane, the skin and the muscles ; the skin is scirrhous, the cellular membrane partakes of the inflammation, and also becomes scirrhous, and the pectoral mu.scles are full of scirrhous tubercles, which are white and solid ; and thus a great part of its fibres are generally diseased. The glands in the axilla are of a scirrhous nature ; in the beginning they are solid and continue so until ulceration commences ; they then become spongy, and contain a sanious serum. The glands above the clavicle are in the same state, and by pressure on the thoracic duct they cause an interruption to the process of ab- sorption ; chyle is prevented from being transmitted into the blood, and thus it is that the appetite is souietimes voracious, whilst the patient is rapidly wasting. But for the chest ■.—You