ENTROPIUM. m stiite of the system on which it generally depends. The eye- lids adhere to each other in the nioniings, which distretAes the patient considerably, 'j'here may be excoriation of the and thickening of the conjunctiva—excoriation face ; lippitudinous ulcer.? break out - the cilia becomes altered in their growth, and turned inwards on the globe of the eye; and from these different states a ten- dency to chronic ophthalmia is kept up. It is necessary when styes are attended with inflammation and redness, that cold applications, poultices, and fomentations should be applied, as III other inflammations ; and When matter is formed, that the abscess should be opened with a lancet. But it more fre- <]uently happens that this affection depends upon something wrong in the system, on derangement of the digestive oreans, or impaired functions in some part of the body; and "then these states must be attended to, for they produce irritation, and sometimes ulceration of the edges of the eve-lids. 'The best local applications that can be made use of, are those of a imld stimulating nature, the mercurial ointments, with a little of which the edges of the lid should he besmeared every uicht at bed-time, the parts being previously washed with tepid yvater. The citrine ointment, (the uneucntum hydrursyri nitratis) is the one in common nse ; but it is in its proper state too stimulating for the eyes, therefore it must be diluted with some simple ointment. Both the red and white precipitate mercurial ointments are used, and the zinc ointment also ; in fact, it is not essential what kind is employed, if it be mildiv stimulating. Thfchiasis. Another affection of which I shall speak, is that known hv the name of trichiasis. It is that state of the eye-lashes, in y\hich they become altered in grow'th, and turned inwards on the globe of the eye, irritating the conjunctiva on eveiy motion of the eye. Some think that this complaint is not owing t-o the effect of the altered growth of the cilia only, but to a turning in of the lids, called Entropiuai. Entropium, or inversion of the eye-lids, is produced from ulceration of the tarsi, the cicatrices formed by the healing of lippitudinous ulcers wliich alter the shape of the lids, so that the eye-lashes are turned inwards, irritate the conjunctiva, and produce a continual state of irritation of the tvliole organ. 'J'here is a watering of the eye, together with chronic ophthal- mia, and in a short time vessels mav be seen shooting over the cornea; nebula and ulceration of tlie cornea supen'cne, and thus a serious state of irritation of the transjiarent part of the eye is produced. Where the affection is simple trichiasis^