ON THE DIFFERENT AMPUTATIONS. 413 sion through the superficial set of museles ; this will prevent the formation of a conical stump. The reason is obvious ; the external muscles being cut longer thau the deep-seated, an allowance is made for their retraeting; when, therefore, they are drawn up to their fullest extent, they are then of the same length as the deep-seated muscles, thus the end of the bone, and consequently the entire stump will present to you a fiat surface. You will probably ask, why do not the deep- seated muscles retract too ? The answer is, they cannot, irom their intimate connexion with, and attachment to, the bone. The principle in this operation is to have the muscles the same length as the bone, without the necessity of applyine a bandage. In dressing this stump it is generally advisable to apply a roller ne.xt to the skin, in consequence of the spaces which exist between the muscles at the end of the stump ; the liga- ments are then to be placed at the most depending part, and straps of adhesive plaster put on in the same manner as for amputation below the knee. In this operation it is generally necessai’y to tie three arte- ries—the femoral, the profunda, and that branch which usually runs either in or by the sciatic nerve, for the purpose of se- curing it, and the application of a ligature here requires con- siderable care, for the want of which I have in two instances known a ligature to have been put upon the sciatic nerve it- self. In the first case it was not attended by any evil conse- quences ; but, in the second, violent spasms came on in the part; they were afterwards diffused throughout the body, and ultimately proved destructive to life. It should he equally your object to heal this stump by the adhesive process, as much as that of the leg ; but in applying the strap of adhesive plaster, remember that if matter should form it will gravitate, and at the lowest part of the stump, where the ligatures are hanging, you should leave a small aper- ture to permit its escape. [The learned lecturer performed each operation upon the •dead subject in the different modes described in the course of the lecture.] LECTURE L. Amputation of tiif. Hand at the Wrist Joint. 1 MIS operation is not unfrequently required, in conscipicnce of extensive laceration of the metacarpus. Jlcforc shewing you this operation, however, let me observe, that if any one of