INFLAMMATION OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. 485 to retention of urine, by plugging up the orifice of the urethra, yet the lateral eulargeiueiit, although of great magnitude, does not produce any such efi’ect. That you may be enabled perfectly to comprehend what I have been stating to you, I will send round for your inspection different specimens of the diseases I have noticed. (The learned lecturer here delivered several preparations to the students.^ U ell, gentlemen, behind the prostate we frequently find sacs formed in the coats of the bladder: here is a preparation iu which you see nine : here is another with, 1 believe, as many. 'These sacs are produced in the following manner :— the muscular fibres of the bladder give, way, and between these fibres the mucous membrane protrudes; thus, in reality the •saes are elongations of the mucous membrane. Me also find the bladder much enlarged in this disease; as also the ureters and the pelvis of the kidneys. How, then, when diseased prostate exists, are you to know it? what are the diagnostic signs? Why, the enlargement laterally may be readily ascertained by introducing the finger into the rectum ; but the enlargement of the middle lobe can ■ not be so learnt. In what way, then ? Why, by the intro- duction of a catheter or bougie, and the latter is the best; it will be found to stop suddenly : you are then to introduce a catheter, for the purpose of drawing off the water; the in- strument will be resisted in its common course, and you must depress the handle a good deal, with a view of tilting its point over the enlarged gland ; thus the end of the instrument will be rising perpendicularly, as it were, behind the pubes. 'These, then, are the means you are to employ to obtain a correct diagnosis. Now, with regard to the cause of reten- tion of urine, iu those cases of enlargement of the prostate, where the disease exists in the third lobe, it geneially arises from the urine having been allowed to remain in the bladder for too long a period, thus collecting iu so large a quantity that the swollen lobe is pressed forward against the mouth of the urethra, and thus closes the entrance to that canal. With regard to the causes of enlargemeut of the prostate. It 18 often the result of libidinous age; old people frequently feel a greater degree of excitement than the constitution i.s capable of supimrting, and disease is the consequence ; powerful excitement is by no means desirable for aged indi- viduals. I shall next proceed to consider the Treatment of Enlarged Prostate.—Very little can be effected here by medicine ; it is a disease over which medicines have but very slight influence ; you may, however, give the oxy-