OPEIIATION OF LITHOTOMY. 334 gave his medicine to a peiBou in wliose bladder a cyst of this kind formed. It was fully established that a stone bad been distinctly felt by some of the most eminent surgeons in the metropolis, before this person took the medicine; and aftei he had taken the medicine for some time, the stone could no longer be felt. On examination of the body after death, how- ever, it appeared that the .stone had escaped into a cyst, by which it was completely enclosed, so that it no longer pro- duced any irritation in the bladder. 'There is a preparation on the table, which will illustrate the appearance of such a cyst, the mucous membrane passing between the muscular fibres, and forming a cavity through the coats of the bladder large enough to admit the stone. When the stone is partly in the cyst, and partly in the bladder, yon may sometime.« open the cyst, and remove the stone without opening the bladder. An example of this occurred lately in a child at the other hospi- tal, who had slight symptoms of stone. On sounding the child I felt a stone, hut as it did not give the usual impression to the sound, I passed my finger into the rectum, and felt the stoni confined in a bag above it. On raising the stone with my finger, it struck firmly again.st the sound. 1 did not open the bladder in this case, but passing my finger into the rectum, and carrying a knife through the perinaeum above the rectum. I opened the cyst, and extracted the stone from it. 'The child did not pass its urine through the opening after the first day. and the wound healed very readily. 1 have seen Mr. Chandler extract a stone from a cyst in a child, by means of a probe- pointed bistoury ; lie dilated the mouth of the cyst, so as to be enabled afterwards to extract the stone. In general, cysts in the bladder containing stones arc connected with an enlarged state of the prostate gland. There is a preparation illustrating this state, which wa- taken from a patient who died from the operation in the other hospital. 'The repeated attempts which were made to extract the stone, which did not succeed till after a great len^h of ^ time, produced great irritation, and ultimately ulceration of the bladder, which led to the destruction of life. .\ great number of small stones, to the amount of thirty, forty, or more, are sometimes found lodged in a cyst, situated behind the prostate gland. 'There is a practical point which ought not to escape my attention or your.< ; and tliat is, that tlie bladder sometimes undergoes a partial contraction, so that the stone is completely embraced by it. Here is an example taken from a child, which died from this cause at the other hospital when I was an apprentice; there is another example of this partial contraction of the bladder in the collection. The w .>y