206 ox HERNIA. the niglit as well as during the day. The mode of its apidication is, merely to place it on the side of tlie hernia, and bring it round the body ; and if you use an understrap, this should be brought between the thiglis. (The learned lecturer exhibited to tlie class the mode of ap|)lying this and the other species cf trusses.) I do not know whether 1 may not have a little affectiou for this kind of truss ; for, to say the truth, when 1 wa.s aijoiit sixteen or seventeen years of age, upon hearing a lecture ou hernia in this theatre, 1 discovered that 1 was myself the sub- ject of that complaint. As soon as I felt satisfied of this fact, I could attend to no more of the lecture; but 1 went honw, threw myself on the bed, kept my legs elevated against the bed-posts, and remained in that position till Mr. Cline re- turned. laugh.) I had requested to see him the moment he entered ; and as soon as I saw him I told him that I had had a stvelling for sometime, which, after hearing the lecture that night, I was sure was a hernia. IMr. Cline laughed, gat'e me a common truss of this descri|)tion, which I wore for three years ; at the expiration of which time 1 had not the slightest appearance of hernia. I would not, however, leave the truss off, but 1 continued to wear it for two years longer, and, from that time up to the present moment, 1 have never had the least appearance of the complaint. The circumstance to which I allude may, perhaps, have given me a greater inclina- tion to attend to this disease, and to investigate all the facts connected with it. Of late years many improvements have been made in tnisses. Here is a spring-truss (exhibiting it to the class), invented by Mr. Egg, which does not require any string, but is merely put round the body. This truss answers the purpose extremely well, and mav lie worn by night as well as by day. A most ingenious truss, which has now come into general use, was invented some years ago by Mr. Salmon, a gentleman to whom tlie profession is indebted for many other ingenious inventions. This truss, of which the principle is entirely new, is very easily applied, and may be very conveniently worn. One pad is placed upon the inguinal canal, on the side oi the hernia, and the other jiad on the base of the os sacrum. 'Ihis tni.ss is not liable to'shift its jilace, and is now in very general use for incipient hernias, or hernia.s which are difficult to keei» suiqiorted. There is, however, one objection to this truss, and that is, that it cannot be worn durinc the nwlit. which is necessary to produce a cure of hernia. 1 am aware that some persons say, it is of no consequence whether the jiatient wear a truss or not, when he is in a recumbent posture, but I do