ON STRUMOUS OPHTHALMIA. 263 case of children. Blood should be taken in large quantities from the arm of the patient. The army surgeons, who have had the most extensive opportunities of witnessing this form of the disease, all concur in the utility of copious bleeding. All the other antiphlogistic remedies, which I before enume- rated to yon, are to be put in practice in this case. Purgatives should be administered so as to produce a considerable quan- tity of watery stools ; diaphoretic medicines, and especially the tartrite of antimony, in doses ofor ^ a grain, should be given at such intervals as to keep the patient in a state ot nausea, and topical applications should be employed very much in the same manner as in simple indaramation. During the first stage of the complaint, moist warmth in the form ot fomentations and poultices, such as I have already described, will be found beneficial. The acute stage, however, is of very short duration, and they are not to be continued beyond that period. The extent to which the antiphlogistic plan should be pushed must vary, according to the violence of the com- plaint and the constitution of the patient. Young, robust, and plethoric ])atients will bear depletion to almost any ex- tent ; on the other hand, you must proceed with more caution where the patient is of a weakly, debilitated, or irritable habit of body. You must not, however, he deterred from adopting an active plan of treatment until you have produced a mani- fest effect on the system of the patient : until the pulse becomes soft; the skin moist; the pain, swelling, tension, and throb- bing of the eyes considerably abated ; thechemosis diminished, and in fact all the acute symptoms more or less subdued. When this is the case, if you sliould be called to the complaint in an early stage of it, the sub.sequent treatment will in gene- ral be very easy. It often happens, hovvever, that we are not called to this complaint until it has arrived at the chronic stage, when the conjunctiva is feebly pouring out ])us, the pulse depressed, the skin cold and clammy, the countenance sallow, and when the constitution has materially suffered from the progress of the disease. In this state, an entirely different plan of treatment will be required. Gently stimulating appli- cations should he employed by means of a syringe, so as to clean.se the conjunctiva, and free it from the ])us which has collected on its surface, and at the same time stimulate the rela.xed vessels. In general it will be necessary to employ tonic remedies, such as bark, for instance, alvvays attending to the due action of the bowels, without which tonics would he useless,and even injuriou.s, to the patient. To children, bark may be given in the form of extract, to the extent of from two to five grains, two or three timesa-day. 'I’lie eyes should