ON CALCULI IN THE BLADDER. 317 With respect to the medical treatment of calculi, when a person says to me, ** I think I can dissolve a stone by some chemical menstruum,” my features, which are more disposed to the risible than the solemn, are apt to give way ; I generally smile, 'fhe menstrua employed for the purpo.se of dissolving stones in the bladder, undergo so much alteration before they reach the cavity of the bladder, that they can have very little influence on a stone which is already formed. Nay, I can tell you more, if those very menstrua be injected directly ^on the surface of a stone existing in the bladder, the stone will still remain undissolved. I witnessed an admirable case in the other hospital, which was kept for a length of time under a dresser of mine, who was very chemically disposed, and who thought he could dissolve the stone by the injection of the menstrua best adapted for that purpose. He did so for a long time, and taught the man to inject these menstrua into the bladder himself. I used, in going through the wards, to say to this man, “ Well, are you any better ?” The man shook his head. After a time, however, on my repeating this ques- tion, he replied. “ Yes, Sir, 1 am better.” “ Oh, you are,” .said 1, “ how does that happen ?” “ Why, Sir,” said the man, “ I have learnt to inject opium into my bladder, and this gives me great relief, though I cannot say that any thing I previously tried did me any good.” The opium tranquillized him at first, but after a time it lost its influence, and this man died of an ulcerated bladder. The whole internal surface of the bladder was ulcerated, and covered with stalactites of triple phosphate. So much for injecting menstrua into the bladder with a view of dissolving the stone : still less influence can those menstrua have on the stone when taken internally, and altered as they must be when carried through the circulation, and passing through the process of secretion before they reach the bladder. But though medicines cannot dissolve the stone, they will do good by diminishing the irritability of the bladder. This is strongly illustrated by the following case ;—Some years ago 1 happened to be in Norfidk, at a public breakfast, when I asked the lady of a naval officer, how it happened that the admiral was not there. She informed me that he was very ill, and wished me to call upon him. 1 found him lying on his sofa, suffering under the symptoms of stone, and upon in- troducing a sound, 1 chipped off' a portion of calculus which he pas.sed a short time after. 1 sent the calculus to Dr. Mar- cet, who, upon analyziiig it, found it to be of the mulben y kind, that is, oxalate of lime, and accordingly advised me to order the patient muriatic acid. I was happy to take the advice of Dr. Marcet, upon whose judgment I bad the fullest