77 ON GRANULATION. power of forming new skin, but the new skin in the centre is produced in consequence of the whole of the skin not having been ulcerated away, and granulations arising from the part of the skin which was left. This only happens in irregularly- formed sores, where the healing process is gone on to the centre, and then the sore has broken out in the circumfer- ence. If granulations arise from any portion of skin in the centre, these granulations produce new skin, and an insulated portion of skin is produced, forming a part of the cicatrix, which is not afterwards ulcerated away. When a cicatrix i.s formed, in the first instance it is ex- tremely vascular ; but when it has existed for any length of time, the blood-vessels become contracted, and it is whiter than the original skin. Hence the white appearance of the cicatrices after small-pox ; for, although they are more vas- cular than the original skiu, when first formed, in a little time they lose this vascularity, and are endued with less living power than the surrounding parts. The readiness with which the surface of a sore is covered in by cicatrization depends very much on its form. A sore of a circular form requires a very considerable time before it will heal; whereas a sore of much greater length, but of less diameter, will heal more quickly. You may always pronounce, therefore, that a round sore vvill be longer in healing than a longitudinal one, cceteris paribus, as, for example, in the same patient, where the constitution is the same. The reason is, that the vessels have to elongate much less from the edge to the centre in a longitudinal than in a circular sore. The form, therefore, has an infiuence on the readiness with which cica- trization takes place. Sores are very often difficult to heal, from their situation. Thus, if a sore be situated at the back of the leg, there will often be great difficulty in healing it. Indeed, such a sore can only be healed by raising the heel, and so loosening the skin, in order to give it a power of being drawn in, to form a new cicatrix. By this means the vessels are more readily elongated, and continually draw the skin nearer the cctitre of the sore. It appears, then, that the form and situation of the sore have a very considerable influence on the healing power. Here is a model in plaster, on the table, representing the ca.se of a patient who had been sevei^dy burnt, and in which ewtensivc deformity had supervened on the cicatrization of the wounds. The chin had become united to the breast, the arms to the sides, and the upper arm to the fore-arm. Now, in looking at a case like this, some of you might be induced to exclaim. How abominably inattentive must the