ON HYDROCELE, 182 forced dorra ; well, said I, this raay be hydrocele, but 1 sball not tap you ; I requested a candle to be brought; no transpa- rency was observable; T desired him to lie down upon the chairs, when I found it to be hernia, and reduced it. This, then, shows how cautious we ought to be in such cases, before we introduce the trocar, for I might have been misled by the history of this case, and proceeded at once to have performed the operation of tapping ; had I done so, in all probability, the trocar would have passed into this gentleman’s intestines. It was a hernia which had succeeded hydrocele. Another variety met with, is that in which a fluctuating swelling will remain, after a considerable portion of water has been removed. The first case of this kind that I saw was sent to me by Dr. Chester, and Mr. Roberts, of Gloucester. The patient had been under the care of those gentlemen, aud had been tapped for hydrocele : a quantity of water was drawn off, but still a swelling remained. He was sent to tovvn for me to see him, at which time the hydrocele had become nearly as large as before. Upon hearing the history of this case, the impression upon my mind n'as, that when the operation for tap|)ing had been performed, the operaWr had let the canula slip out of the tunica vaginalis, which cir- cumstance, I thought, had led to the retention of a portion of the fluid. Well, believing this, I passed in the trocar and canula myself; some water came away, but not all; this struck me as being very strange, for I had taken great care to keep the end of the canula within the tunica vaginalis. 1 ex- amined the remaining swelling ; found fluctuation ; then tried it with a candle, and saw that it was transparent. _Well, sir, I said, this is water now, introduced the trocar again, a little way from where I did at first, and off it ran. The fluid, in the second instance, had nothing of the yellow appearance of that which is drawn off in hydrocele, but, on the contrary, was as clear as water. I have before mentioned to you, that the testicle in hydro- cele is commonly situated at the back part, and two-thirds of the way downwards. Here, however, there is great variety, aud it is even sometimes’found in front. I will tell you how this happens. 'I’he jicrson is attacked with inflammation in the tunica vaginalis, before any collection of water has taken place; adhesive matter is thrown otit, ]trobably at the fore jjart, which occasions permanent adhesion l»etwecothe middle and outer coat of the testicle ; should serum be secreted after this, of course it would be lodged at the sides and pos- terior part. What would the consequence be, if, in such a case as tiiis, the trocar were to be introduced in the usual