ACUTE AND CHRONIC ABSCESS. 65 The moineut one drop of matter may be felt to fluctuate, it is advisable to make a free opening, both as it regards the con- stitution and the part. Wlienever the matter can be felt close to bone, it will be riglit to open it, excepting in cases where it may occur from severe courses of mercury, between the cra- nium and pericranium. Mercury will inflame the periosteum (and the pericranium is a part of the periosteum) to a greater degree than the venereal disease itself; and in those cases where a fluid exists between the pericranium and bone, unat- tended with any blush, do not open it; it will be removed by purging, and giving bountifully the decoctiou of sarsaparilla. But when matter is formed, and there is a blush, it will not be absorbed; an opening must be made, exfoliation will often take place; but when there is no blush, beware of opening the tumour. Now, gentlemen, the treatment of chronic abscesses will be very different from those of tlie acute kind. In the last case, you wish to diminish the state of excitement in the constitu- tion ; and in the former you do all you canto give it additional powers, by allowing generous diet, and giving the patient am- monia and bark ; the ammonia is the medicine on which the principal reliance is to be placed. You know that of late bark has not been much used ; but people are apt to run into ex- tremes—bark assists the suppuraiive process ; generous diet must be allowed, in order to increase the action of the parts, by giving tone to the constitution. Stimulant poultices .should be applied to the part, and the best I know is the muriate of soda (common salt) and water, a meat-spoonful of the salt to a pint of water, and the poultice should be wetted with this ; yeast and oatmeal, vinegar and flour, each of these expedite the process of suppuration. In indolent cases, it is customary to employ stimulant plasters, and the best 1 know is the empl. galb. comp. ; it is stimulating, and consequently excites the action of the part. The emplast. amnion, cum hydrarg., and the emplast. thiiris comp, are also used ; they, however, are more tranquillizing, and, in general, excite slight perspiration over the part, similar in its operation to the soap cerate, which is al.«o of u.<e. These then, gentlemen, are the remedies, local and consti- tutional, to be used in chronic abscesses : but it remains now to be considered how to treat chronic abscesses, when it be- comes neces.sary to 0()cn them ; 1 shall now proceed to tell you. Buppo.'ie you are called to a case where there is a collec- tion of matter under the fascia lata of the thigh (the largest in the body), extending, as it often does, from just above the knee to the troclianter major ; what would you do Open it F