ON GANGRENE. 94 pedes the healing process. The.'e edges must be adapted to their surfaces, and this may be done by means of the empl. galhan. comp., which will remove the indurated cuticle, and stimulate tlie parts to action; if, this, however, should not succeed, you may use the ungt. hydr. fort, or unct. lyttie : or you may, with a lancet, scarify the edges, and this method will often succeed when every other fails. The edges of sores are sometimes very much inverUd; con- stitutional treatment, as well as local, is necessary- here. With respect to local, the application of the nitrate of silver to the edges, and the black wash to the surface of the wound, are generally all that will be required: and the constitutional me- dicines 1 have so often mentioned to you must be regularly given until the ulcer heals. Some sores have their edges very much evertfid, and this affection is commonly symptomatic of a cancerous diathesis; the usual method of treatment practised in these hospitals is to poultice such ulcers ; to attend particularly to the condition of the general health, until the edges have resumed a natural and healthy state. The admirable mode recommended by Mr. Uaynton should be had recourse to, wliich, by approxi- inating the sides of the wound, and thus facilitating the pro- ces.ses of granulation and cicatrization, will more surprisingly contribute towards the completion of the object we have in view. LECTURE XIV. On Gangrene. Having traced inflammation through its adhesive, suppura- tive, and ulcerative stages, I shall now proceed to consider it in its most destructive "form, namely, when it exists in such excess as to produce gangrene. We find that inflammation, when it is extremely active, occasions a destruction of vital power. At other times, when there is a le.ss degree of in- flammatory action, but where the powers of the part are feeble, the life of the part will also be destroyed ; so that gan- grene is produced either by an excess of inflammatory action, where the powers are natural, or by a less degree of inflam- matorv action, where the iiowers of the part are feeble. Gan- grene may be considered as a partial death. This is its deh- nition ; the death of one part of the body, while the other parts arc alive. 'I’he svmptoms of gangrene difler accor.ung to the manner in which it is produced. When gangrene is the result oi Inch and active inflammation, the pain attending its juoduction is