ON HERNIA. 219 of pain, and it saves the patient from tiie danger of active inflammation j cold then is of considerable use when delay is wanted ; it now and then happens that you would like to have a surgeon at your elbov; in operating for hernia, though yon might be quite equal to the task, to sanction your proceed- ings; as for the fate, heaven alone knows, for it is extremely uncertain. Apply cold then in cases where, during the interim, you wish to have time to consult; as it delays, at least, the return of inflammation. I have seen persons brought into the sur- gery of this hospital when the snow has been on the ground, and they have been placed flat on a board, and snow or ice has been applied ; immediately they have become easy, and in a short time the hernia returned ; therefore, the application of ice is useful in two points of view. It hap|iens, however, that ice cannot always be procured ; particularly in the country, and the substances which you will use as substitutes are the nitrate of potash, and muriate of ammonia; these are to be mixed together, and about a table-spoonful is to be put into a pint of water; this will produce a degree of cold equal to 26° Fahr.,six degrees below the freezing point; if you breatlie on a vessel containing this mixture, the halitus will be con- verted to ice ; a greater degree of cold than this even might be obtained by the addition of more nitrate of |)otash and sal ammoniac; as low as 20° Fahr., twelve degrees below the freezing point; the only objection to tliis is, that it does not retain its cold, but requires to be often repeated. Linen, wetted with this mixture, spread over a part, produces a con- siderable degree of cold. When ice is employed, it should be put into a bladder, and broken into small pieces; it should be half filled, and the part completely enveloped in it; if it is put into linen, there is a danger of some escaping, and destroying the life of the parts on which it goes. A case of this kind once happened in this hospital. Another means that has been used, and the most successful of all is the lohnrno enema; it is the most powerful agent we ^ssess; take one drachm of the tobacco, and add a pint of wiling water, let the infusion remain about a quarter of an hour, and then strain ; use only half at once to begin with, for though some persons might bear the whole and even more, yet there arc others who cannot bear the least thing. 'I'he tiTect of this remedy is to quicken the pulse, and also make It small ; the skin becomes cold and pallid, and there is ex- treme relaxation of the muscles. A case of umbilical hernia that I saw, with a surgeon in the neighbourhood of London, was diminished under the use of