631 ON SUPPURATION IN BONE. also, aud for this purpose the lotion of muriutic acid, coni- nieiicing with gtt. ji. to gi. of water, or the lotio?i of nitric acid gtt. ji. to 3J., will be found the most useful. I think, however, that the diluted nitric acid is the best; it induces a healthy state of the bone, and of the other parts, and it is the applica- tion which I generally prefer. Sometimes acetic acid is luscd for this purpose. When tlie granulations arise from either the medullary membrane, or from the periosteum, on the surface of the bone, cartilage is first deposited, and afterwards phosphate of lime. When an abscess forms in the cancellated structure, a pe- culiar process takes place. 'I’he I'csult of the pressure of the absces.s is to cause an absorption of the cancellated structure, aud in this way the space for the increase of the abscess con- tinues to be enlai’ged. At the time that there is an infiam- inatory action existing in the medullary membrane, there is a corresponding degree of inflammation going on in the peri- osteum, which causes a bony crust to be deposited on the surface, which materially increases the size and strength of the bone. But upon that part of the bone least covered by skin and muscles there is an ulcerative process going on, which overcomes the deposit from the periosteum, and thus the matter is evacuated. In this way it otten happens that there is little of the original bone left, but the weight of the, body is principally supported by the new shell of bone which is formed. But if the constitution be so enfeebled that it cannot deposit a sufficient quantity of bony matter externally, whilst the process of absorption is going on within, then the coats of the bone become so thin, that the bone either breaks, or cannot support the superincumbent pressure. 'I'he best treatment to pursue in this stage of the disease, is to inject the interior of the bone with the muriatic or nitric acid lotions, the latter is preferable, and at the same time insist on the observance of rest, tjupiiort the strength of the constitution, and avoid all those causes which would jiroduce irritation, either generally or locally. ylhscciscs in Ike shell of the hone require to be treated in the same way, and their process of restoration occurs rather quick- er than when the abscess is seated more internally. T he portions of bone thus depriveil of their vitality must separate, and this exfoliation of bone is either external or in- ternal. WTien the periosteum is se|iarated to any extent troni the surface of the bone, if it be immediately replaced, it will again unite, and no exfoliation will ensue. But if it he al- lowed to remain detached from the surtace of the hone tor