INTRODUCTORY LECTURK. O o and it lias ever been found that lialf-anatomists are bungling jiractitioners; ignorance here, as it always will, gives confi- dence without power. But it is con.solotary to know, that the human frame is better understood at the present epoch by students ihan it was forty years ago by professors. With us, the march of improvement has been most rapid ; and it has principally arisen from the assiduity with which the modern .Mirgeons have ])ursued their avocations in the dissecting room. A few years since, all operations were attended with hazard; those now undertaken commonly do well, which can only be e.xplained by our increased information. An old surgeon, now deceased, said, “ that operations for e.xtracting stones trom the bladder, put him in mind of sailing between .Scylla and Charybdis.” It was replied, “ that not to attempt them was certainly resigning his patients to Scylla!” ’Tis true, these operations require the most perfect anatomical skill; as do those for hernia, aneurism, and fractures of the bones of the head, attended with depression. Anatomy like- wise teaches us how to discriminate disease ; in which lies iiiore than half the cure. Without this kno vledge, disloca- tions frequently eannot be detected ; whereby patients may become miserable for life, and thus the repulation of the surgeon be lor ever lost. Some years since, one of the pro- tession, whom 1 had long known, but had not seen for many years, called on me; 1 naturally inquired respecting his suc- cess. He replied, that his life had been like April, sometimes sunshine, sometimes rain. 1 rejoined, “ How soyou have brought up a family gentecly, and have, I understand, a re- spectable practice.”—“line, (said he) but a circumstance occurred sometime ago which has given me much uneasiness; I was called to attend a case of dislocation of the .shoulder joint, but it so happened that I could not discover it; after attending the patient fitr a considerable time, another surgeon was requested to see him, who at once pronounced the bone to he out, which in reality was the case, for in a very short time he reduced it. tVhen the man recovered, he brought an action against me, 1 had to jiay two hundred pounds da- inages, and the law expenses were two iiundrod pounds more. Ihe loss of the money I did not feel, but 1 have severely felt being pointed at as an ignorant man.” A few years ago, one of the dressers in St. Thomas’s Hos- pital washed to perform an operation; and he turned his atten- tion to the surgery boy, who had a had leg, and said to him, one day, “Abraham, I should like to cut oil' your leg”— Indeed ! .«aid Ahraliam, “ 1 should not like it.”—“ Oh,” .said the dresser, “it will never be of anv use to you in its I) 2