21 ON INFLAMMATION. The second kind of specific inflammation is caused by the application of poisons. Thus, in gonorrhopa, tlie matter se- creted is widely difterent from common healthy matter, hav- ing, in the first place, a much larger quantity of mucus mixed with it; and, secondly, when applied to a secreting surface, is capable of exciting in the part an action by which similar matter and the same effects can be produced. The matter of small-pox occa.sions the same result, and as far as constitu- tional effects are concerned, it does not seem material how lante or how small a quantity of the poison is applied, the re- sult ill each case depending upon the state of the constitution. Inhere is another kind of inflammation which 1 would call the irritable; in this disorder the nerves are much more af- fected than the blood-vessels. You arc called probably to at- tend a person, who tells you that he feels in a particular part, as the hand or arm, a most agonizing pain ; and if inexpe- rienced in these matters, you will be inclined to doubt the correctness of your patient’s statement, and the more so as you can discover no alteration in the appearance of the part. It may not be amiss to mention here what happened to me some time ago. 1 was requested to see a lady having this complaint in lier foot: I tried, by every possible means, to remove it, hut in vain. When unsuccessful, I invariably re- commend the sufferer to some one else. This lady consulted two other very eminent surgeons, but their efforts, in like manner, were unable to afford relief; and finding that she got worse in town, she went into the country for change of air, where, without any medical means being employed, she entirely got rid of her trouble.sorne companion. 1 saw' this lady afterwards, and she desciibed the jiain that she used to feel as horrible ; it was constantly at the bottom of her foot; and if she walked but a very short distance, it occasioned a confinement durinc four or five days. The eyes are very subject to this torturing di.sorder. Bnt no paj ts are more frequently attacked by it than the breasts of young women. It produces such a degree of tenderness that they cannot bear the slightest pressure, anrl their stays con- sequently occasion ereat inconvenience ; the pain extend.' to the shoulder, down the arm, and even to the elbow, at the same time producing constitutional irritation. To cure these pains and general derangement, such medicines must he given as will influence the secretions, hut more particularly those of the uterus. I he irritable inflammation frequently attacks the testicles, and renders them exceedingly .sensitive, the slightest pressure causing very great pain, 'riiere is in these cases little or no