351 ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. nature, for the tumours found at this age are quite of a differ- ent character from scirrhous tumours. The disease, then, called scirrhous tubercle is found from thirty to fifty years of age; under thirty rarely, for I hare only met with two cases below thirty in the course of a life which has been favoured with considerable opportunities of watching this disease. As to the most advanced age at which 1 have seen this complaint, it is at eighty-si.x. A lady, eighty-si.K years of age, came to me w'ith a scirrhous tubercle of the breast. When she called, she asked, “Should it be removed ?” —1 said, “ No, keep it; it will not shorten your life, for this disease is slow in its pro- gress, when occurring in advanced age.” She probably lived as long with itasif it had been removed ; the breast never ulcerated, she had no pain in it, and the patient died of other complaints. However, 1 removed a scirrhous breast from a lady who was se- venty-three years of age. It had begun to ulcerate, and the pa- tient was anxious to have it done. Her state was unpleitsant to herself, and the smell from the part offensive to those around her; and on these accounts she was anxious to have an opera- tion performed. It \yas at her own earnest solicitation, and not at my suggestion, that it was done. The disease did not return, and the patient did very well. You see then, gentle- men, that there is no period, however advanced, at which scir- rhous tubercle of the breast does not occur ; but it is not to be met with in the young. The progress of this ccmiplaint is in some persons e.xtremely slow. In general, however, it destroys in about four years from the commencement, ft is from two to three years in its growth, and from a year and a half to two years in destroying life, after it has arrived at its acm6. When suppuration and ulceration have commenced, and the constitution is disordered, it is even then some time before the patient is worn out. Four or five years often elapse before life is destroyed. I have known some curious examples, in which the progress of the disease to the destruction of life has been exceedingly slow. I mentioned to you on a former evening that, in the lady who broke her thigh by turning in bed, I discovered accidentally at the time that .she had an ulcerated scirrhus of the breast. On feeling the surrounding part, I found a number of scirrhous tubercles, and I .said, “ .\ladam, how long have you had this disease?”— “ Twenty-two years. Sir,” slic replied. There was a patient in the other hospital once, who had an idccrated scirrhus of the breast, and it had remained in that state for seventeen years. I am an.xions when a patient comes to me with this horrible complaint, in such a .state as to afford herno hope from opera- tion, to mention these examples. I am anxious to say to her.