186 ON HYDROCELE. figure of liydrocele, you may be certain of it? beinc blood. But, gentlemen, guard against mistaking this complaint for diseased testicle. I was once present in tbe other hospital when a healthy testicle was removed, owing to this error; and some years since, one of the first surgeons in this town, after having removed a tumour from the scrotum ; and when the gentlemen were leaving the theatie, desired them to wait a moment, and he would show them the disease of the testicle. However, upon cutting the part open, the great bulk proved to be blood, and the testicle was in a perfectlv sound .state. Such an unfortunate occurrence as this a man must for ever lament. The cause of hydrocele appears to depend upon increased secretion, as the vessels are dilated, though there is general!v no inflammatory action. Inflaniination of the testicle will give rise to hvdrocele ; for as the inflammation disappears, hydrocele forms. This can generally be removed by exciting absorption ; for which pur- pose give the pil. hydrarg. subniur. comp., and apply to the scrotutn a lotion composed of liq. ammon. acet., having dis- solved in it some of the ammon. mur. These means will be found to have considerable influence in this hvdrocele, which re.sults from inflammation ; but in the other thev have none. Hydrocele, if left to itself, will often undergo spontaneous cure. A man was brouglit into the other hospital with a sloughing of the scrotum, a consequence of an inflammation occasioned by a hydrocele ; the water, was, in this case, dis- charged by a natural process, and nature performed a radical cure by effecting a permanent adhesion of the parts. I shall conclude this lecture by describing to you the pal- liative tveaXment of hydrocele, reserving what I have to sav on the radical or curative treatment until we next meet. Wlien persons are afraid of the curative treatment, or when it would be attended with inconvenience, as also in old people, the palliative will be demanded. It is a very simple operation, and one vvdiich any person can perform. Remember that the testicle is usually two-thirds of the way downwards at the posterior part; introduce, tlierefore, the trocar in the fore part obliquely upwards, indeed almost perpendicularly, to avoid wounding tlie testicle ; but as 1 have before shown you that the testicle occupies dilferent .situations in the rumour, you cannot introduce the trocar with safetv until vou have iisccrtained the piccise spot where the testicle is lodged, and then you will of course take care to avoid it. Let me observe, that whether you perform tlic operation for the palliative or curative treatment, withdraw the trocar the instant you believe