'1/^ ON VIRULENT GONORRHOEA. then, recollect that iii strictures the bladder is thickened and irntaole. VI ell, then, the next thing we ohsen-e is enlargement of the urethra ; and this is owing to the urine collected in these tubes, trom its uot finding a ready passage into the bladder- theiefore the ureters themselves become bladders, * Proceeding in our dissection, we often find the kidnevs dis- eased, and their glandular structure entirely absorbed - 'and it not unfrequently happens, that strictures will produce disease in the kidneys, which disease will prove destructive to life. In stiicture, diseased kidneys prove advantageous, in one point diminution of the secretion of the urine : It this. However, continues for any length of time, the con- stitution will sink from the non-excretion of that fluid • one kidney is generally more affected than the other. I have just stated to you, that the glandular structure is sometimes en- tiiely absorbed, and the kidney is occasionallv, in cases of stiictuie, so distended with urine, as almost to answer the purpose of a bladder. Well, such are the appearances found Upon disspctioii of those who die of stricture. Kiel since I first began to lecture, I have always denomi- nated that stricture of the urethra, which is produced, as it weie, by a piece of cord tied round it, the corded stricture. Another, that is produced as if by the tying of a broad band, ihe iibbou stricture ; for it frequently extends a considerable distance, even the entire way from tlie bulb to the prostate There is another species of stricture, occa.sioned by a mem- branous band running across the urethra. [Preparations, showing these varieties, were handed to the students, and passed round the theatre.] 1 iiE Cause or Permanent Stricture of the L'rethr.a is inflammation of the chronic kind ; this occasions a ereater determination of blood to the part, and produces a deposition, of adhesive matter on the outer side of the urethra ; the ure- thra itself becomes thickened, which, together with being pressed upon by the adhesive matter collected in the intersti- tial spaces surrounding the urethra, produces the stricture in question. As to the manner in which stricture is produced, I am op- posed, on this point, to Mr. Hunter, one of the greatest sur- gical authorities that ever lived ; and, it asked what was the cause of stricture, 1 should say, in ninety-nine cases out of every hundred, it was the rcsiiltof gonorrho'a. It is quite true, that children, on whom not the slightest suspicion of theit having gonorrhoea could fall, occasionally have stricture. 1 have lately met with a case of this description, and it was