ON HERNIA. 209 ladder upon the edge of a pail. The omentum could not he returned into the cavity of the ahdomeii, and it was found, upon examination of the body after death, that the intestine.s were wounded. _ A patient with irreducible hernia is always exposed to con- siderable dauger from blows which he may receive. If the hernia burst, the intestine may be returned into the abdomen but the omentum in general cannot be returned. ’ When a hernia is rendered irreducible by the growth of the me.sentery or omentum, there is no doubt that a patient may be relieved by abstinence in diet, nnd by taking such means as are calculated to reduce the bulk. Few patients, however, can be induced to observe such a degree of abstinence as may’lead to the absorption of a considerable quantity of adeps, but the effects which disea.se produces upon hernia, by reducing the bulk of the patient, prove that benefft would arise from adopt- ing a plan of abstinence. A man, who had water in his chest came to town in consequence of an irreducible hernia, which he found e.xtremely troublesome. When [ visited him, he told me that his hernia had never disturbed him until of late,wd)en he had been troubled by a severe cough. He had at this time swellings in the legs, and other symptoms of water on the chest. He became very much reduced by this disease, and the hernia which was previously irreducible became reducible and was readily returned into the cavity of the abdomen in consequence of the absorption of fatty niitter in the omentum and mesentery, by llie effects of his disease. _ If the hernia is rendered irreducible, in consequence of tlie tormation of a membranous band across the sac, you cannot depend upon any plan to effect its reduction. 'I'he long-con- tinued application of cold will sometimes effect the reduction A gentleman in the profession, from Edinburgh, who was going out to a situation in India, after travelling all night in the mail to London, was unable to return his hernia into the abdomen. He was quite free from pain, and there was no girgliiig noise indicating the presence of intestine. I told him therefore that I did not think it of much conse<iuem:e, bill that he ^^hould make pressure uiion it by wearing a truss He was umvilliiig, however, to go out to India with his hernia for circumstances I told him I did not to nHee^hi""' K>econHneiid, but that 1 would advise him to plate himself in a recumbent posture, and annly ice to the Wk w"!.s‘'aTr, “'a reduction of its Liiiircou d hf effected, so that the neraia could be returned into the abdomen. ‘■'f" hernia is very large and irre- <lucible, the best plan is to advise tbe patient to wear a laced