ON ULCERATION. 56 pulse is under 100, and at the same time small; we do not find any considerable excitement of the constitution, and the fever is rather of the hectic or chronic kind, than sudden or violent in its attack. It continues sometimes for several davs. 1 he pain attending ulceration is not very considerable; if vou ask the patient, he will tell you that it is of a tmawing kind, as if there were insects about the part. We may conclude’ therefoie, that the irritution ottf^ndw^ ulcsrut^on is hut slight^ cmd tha pain not considerable. With resjtect to the appearance of the ulcerated part, it looks as if it were worm-eaten • the surface is rough, and very irregular. ’ , Sometimes a very cousiderahle portion of the body is re- moved by ulceration. Here is an example of an ulcerated tibia on the table. See to what an extent ulceration has re- moved not only the cancellated structure of the bone, but the shell in vvhich that structure is contained. Here is another example in which a great part of the tibia has been removed ; the ulceration has extended six or seven inches, so that little more than the fibula of the leg remains ; such is the power of the absorbent vessels, of feeding, as it were, upon themselves. The ulcerative process is sometimes extremely rapid in its piogiess : as much will be destroyed in the course of a few hotirs as will require weeks and months to repair. In pro- poriion to the extent of surface destroyed will be the difficulty with which that surface is closed. Something will depenil, also, on the form of the ulceration, and the kind of surface exposed ; but the general rule is, that the difficulty of the re- liarative process is proportional to the extent of’surface de- stroyed. It IS a curious law, with respect to the ulcerative process, that it has a tendency to the nearest extermtl surface of the body. This is a law which is attended with the most salutarv effects; for, if it were otherwise, the body would very fre- quently be destroyed by the ulcerative process. In conse- quLMice of this tendency, matter formed at a depth in the bodv finds Its way through the integuments, instead of proceeding through the more important parts. Many examples may be given of this law. One of the most remarkable is this : — flatter forms not unfrequently behind the sternum close to the pleura and pericardium, which membranes are cxtremelv thin-—not so thick a.s [laper. From the proximity of these mcmbianes, it might iie expected that the matter would gene- tall} open into the pleura, and, by discharging itsidfinto the cavity of the chest, destroy life, instead of this, however, the pleura undergoes no other alteration than that of becoming thick ; and while it is acquiring this addition of substance.