112 ON ERYSIPELAS. and here we shall again find opium and ammonia onr sheet anchors. Of Erysipelas. Inflammation of the skin is generally extensive. Why' In consequence of the surface being unbroken. 'J hus, when the pleura or peritoneum is attacked by inflammation, the whole of these membranes usually become affected by it; and also when erysipelatous inflammation invades the skin, it is not uncommon to see it run from one part to another, till half the body is covered by it. Sometimes it is ushered in by fever, and sometimes not. Certain constitutions are sooner affected by it than others, and often its etfects appear to be entirely local. But unquestionably it affects the constitution more frequently than otherwise. Its characteristic appearances are, a florid skin, with vesicles containing a secretion of an amber colour under the raised cuticle. It is seldom that the skin sup- purates in these cases ; the cellular membraue, however, oc- casionally does. It is very common for erysipelatous inflam- mation to terminate in gangrene. You must not consider all cases of inflamed skin erysipelas. 1 have often seen cases treated as such, where it would have been right to deplete. The best characteristic sign is its vesicular appearance ; and this constitutes a specific dilference between it and common inflammation. The head seems to be more commonly affected by it than any Other part; it often succeeds the most trifling injuiy of the scalp ; and, like cai buncle, when it occurs in this situation, generally destroys life. I had the misfortune to lose a lady of considerable consequence from its effect.^, where it came on after the removal of a small encysted tumour from the fore- head. ft made its appearance three days after the operation, aud all the exertions of Dr. Baillie and myself were unable to arrest its progre.-s. Thus a trifling operation on the scalp de- stroyed life, in consequence of having been succeeded by ery- sipelatous inflammation. After a person has once had this disease, he is very subject to it again ; and some persons appear to be predisposed to its formation. It generally makes it appearance in spring and autumn, but seldom in winter, and not very often in summer. What- ever renders the body irritable pi-edisposes to erysipelas. In hospital practice, surgeons were formerly exceedingly afraid to operate in autumn and s|)i ine; for it has often happened that the stimulating elfects of adhesive plaster ha\e produced this disease, and luive led to the death of the iiaticnt. Sometimes it is epidemic, and sometimes contagious. Trcuhnait of Erysipelas—this town the following plan