293 ON SOJ.UTION OF THE CATARACT. that in many ca-^es where this operation had been delaj'ed, tlie patients retained no more power of vision than was sufficient to enable them to distimtiiish between li^ht and darkness. The operation may in general be performed with a hope of success between the age of eighteen months and four years. Dr. Saun- ders’s mode of operating is not confined to the cataracts of diildren ; it may be employed also in the cataracts of adults, provided they are fluid, soft, or membranous cataracts. 1 do not mean to say that this operation is entirely new ; if yon read Mr. Pott’s works, you will find that, in some in- stances, he performed a very similar operation. He tells you that, in cases where the cataract was too soft for depression, he sometimes lacerated the anterior layers of the capsule, so as to admit the aqueous humour, and procure the solution of the cataract. Hey, Scarpa, and Ware, have performed similar ope- rations. We are not, however, to consider those as the in- ventors of any practice who have merely employed it here and there, without stating any certain rules for its general appli- cability. It is to Ur. Saunders that we are indebted for having shewn the principle on which he performed this particular operation, its applicability to cataract in children, and to some cases of cataract in adults. Dr. Saunders, therefore, may be justly considered as the inventor of this operation, and is en- titled to our respect and admiration for the introduction of so material an improvement in this branch of surgery. The ope- ration is very simple; it consists merely in making an opening in the anterior layer of the capsule of the lens, breaking up more or less the texture of the cataract, and admitting the aqueous humour in which the cataract is dissolved, and by this means absorbed. It may be more properly called an operation for the absorption, than for the solution of the cata- ract, since absorption is tbe ultimate object of it. The instru- ment required is a needle, very similar to that employed in the operation for couching ; the point, however, is somewhat different; its shoulders are made cutting. It will be right, before the operation, to use belladonna for the purpose of dilating the pupil, so that the cataract may be distinctly seen. ■A small quantity of the extract of belladonna, softened to the consistence ofcream, may be introduced into the eye, or smear- ed round the lids. In operating on the adult, the patient should be placed in the same position as in the operation foi' couching; children are better placed in the recumbent posture, with the head fixed on a pillow. Sometimes a speculum is ie(iuired to steady the eye ; Pellier’s speculum is the best for this purpose. The needle may be introduced either in the same way as in the operation for couching, or else through the cornea. In the