DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 613 in the sitting posture, so as to relax the extensors of the leg which are inserted into the patella. Of Dislocations of the Tibia at the Knee Joint.—These dis- locations are four; two complete, and two incomplete. In the dislocation inwards, the tibia projects on the inner side of the joint, and the condyle of the femur rests on the ex- ternal semilunar cartilage. The tibia is sometimes thrown on the outer side of the joint, the condyle of the femur being placed on the inner semilunar cartilage, and the deformity produced is just as much as in the dislocation outwards. The tibia is sometimes dislocated forwards; the external marks of the injury are these : the tibia is raised, the thigh bone is depressed, and thrown rather to one side, sometimes so much so as to compress the popliteal artery. In the dislocation backwards, the limb is shortened, the condyles of the femur project, and there is a depression of the ligament of the pa- tella, and the leg is bent forwards. Each of these disloca- tions may be reduced by simple extension, for, as soon as you remove the surfaces of the bones from each other, the muscles give them the direction necessary to be restored to their pro- per situations. Partial Dislocations of the Femur from the Semilunar Car- tilages. In these ca.‘;es, where the secretion of the synovia into the joint has been very much increased, the ligaments become so much relaxed, as to allow the cartilages to glide on the surface of the tibia, especially if the edge of the car- tilage is pressed by the thigh- bone. This accident was first accurately described by the late Mr. Hey, of Leeds, who was a scientific and successful practitioner, and had the advance- ment of the profe.ssion at heart. The most common cause of this accident is the person striking his toe against some pro- jecting body, when the foot is everted. He immediately feels pain in the knee, and it cannot be completely extended. I have also known it happen from a sudden twist inwards, when the foot is turned out. The manner in which the acci- dent happen.s is as follows : The ligaments uniting the se- milunar cartilages to the head of the tibia become relaxed, the cartilages are easily pushed from their situations by the condyles of the femur, which therefore come into contact with the head of the tibia. When the limb is attempted to be extended, the edges of the semilunar cartilages prevent it. Now the mode of restoring the parts to their natural po- *'ki”** u* namely, to bind the limb back as far as pos- sible, by which you remove the pressure made by the thigh- bone, and this enables the cartilage to slip into its place, and the condyles of the femur are again received on the semilunar