26 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. chaiged, wJien the dog fainted. I then opened the carotid artery, and from this source obtained three ounces more, inns fourteen ounces of blood weredrawm from'a dog weigh- ing fourteen pounds; so that one ounce of blood to sixteen ounces of the solids is about the correct proportion. When you bleed to relieve inflammation, the blood should be abstracted as rapidly as possible; therefore, the orifice made into the vessel should be of considerable size ; for, if it be allowed to run slowly, the vessels have time to accommo- date themselves to the. diminished volume of circulating fluid ; so that the system scarcely receives any shock when blood is abstracted in this gradual manner. The grand object, in- deed, is, to produce fainting; to efltect which, blood must be suddenly withdrawn. \ou may bleed so as to produce constitutional and local effects at the same time. A patient of Mr. Foster’s in Guv’s Hospital, who had a concussion of the brain, was bled in the external jugular vein; immediately after the operation, the pain of the head ceased, and the irritable fever disap- peared. When you have accidents brought to you which will re- quire a long time for their recovery, you must be exceedingly careful how you take away blood from the general system, but must adopt in these cases local depletion; for if, as I have before remarked, you take away from the constitution too much of the vital fluid, nature will be unable to execute the usual processes for the restoration of the injured parts ; the most disastrous consequences, in such cases, follow the indis- criminate employment of blood-letting; and there is not to be found, in the whole range of surgical practice, a greater error than this. The second mode of relieving inflammation is by 'restoring the secretions: for whenever it occurs, at least in any violent degree, all the secretions are diminished or suppressed. ’Fhe most important secretions are those of the liver, intestines, skin, and kidneys; and, when these cease to perform their proper functions, irritative fever is the consequence. defi- ciency of secretion in the alimentary canal is the cause of a great many of the diseases to which human beings are sub- ject. The internal surface of the intestines is lined with glands; the tube itself, on an average, is twenty-seven feet in length, and three inches in circumference; thus there arc here about a thousand inches of surface, from which, in health, continual secretion proceeds. What then must the result be of allowing such an extensive surface to remain in- active }—Of course, the itroduction and continuance of irrita-