215 ON HERNIA. ing; this was allowed to remain—it soon began to slongli, which, day after day, continued to increase until he died. Upon exaiuination, it was found that there was a membranous baud crossing the neck of the hernial sac—the surgeon, there- fore, in attempting to return the intestine, had doubled it over this band, consequently the cause of strangulation was never removed ; here, (holding up a preparation) gentlemen, you have an opportunity of observing the sac and band of which I have just been speaking ; and you now see the intestine still in a strangulated state. It is not, therefore, sufficient to divide the stricture ; but before the operation can be complete, you must be satisfied that the cause of strangulation is likewise re^ moved, and that the intestine has been decidedly returned within the cavity of the abdomen. Another cause of strangulation, gentlemen, arises from a portion of intestine being occasionally entangled in a part of the omentum. 1 saw a case of this kind in a patient under the care of Mr. Pew, of Fenchurcli-street; after having divided the stricture, I was obliged, as it were, to unravel tlie intestine from the omentum, and even tore through a part of the omen- tum, before I was enabled to remove the cause of strangulation. There are four situations in which the stricture is to be met with : At the abdominal ring in large and old hernia; in or- dinary cases, an inch and a half or two inches above the abdo- minal ring, according to the size of the hernia ; the stricture is sometimes, but rarely, occasioned by a membranous band across the sac ; or by a portion of omentum becoming entan- gled with the intestine. Knowing these facts, you will be able to contend with whatever ai)pearaiices you may meet witli in cases for which you are required to operate. You will be asked, gentlemen, wliat is the cause of strangu- lation in intestinal hernia ? It will not be a sufficient answer to say, that a portion of intestine has descended into the sac; because it often ha[)penstbat strangulation is produced, although only a single convolution has descended, and this convolution being elongated, does not occupy any additional space in the mouth of the hertiia. The fact is, that the additional portion of intestine, tlimigli it consist only of a single volume, brings down with it a portion of tnesentery, which added to the piece of in- testine previously descended, so completely occupies the space of the opening as to produce the symptoms of strangulation. This is the reason why hernia often becomes strangulated in con.sequeiice of very slight efforts ; in lifting a weiglit a small portion of intestine may descend, and this bringing witii it a portion of mesentery, produces strangulation. In omental