ON GANGRENE. 5)6 will be produced, and the destruction of its life will follow. In this climate, however, destruction of the life of the part does not in general immediately follow. A person will conic to the hospitals with his feet benumbed ; he may have been wandering about the streets, unable to find a place of refuge ; until he becomes, from this cause, incapable of walking. Great care must be taken in these cases not to apply heat very suddenly; even the common heat of the bed frequently oc- casions inflammation, which is extremely liable to proceed to gangrene, in consequence of the diminished nervous influence of the part. I knew a gentleman of the first consequence in this country, and whose death occasioned perhaps as much regret as that of any one who has died for many years, who lost his life from an act of imprudence. He had been out shooting, and had exposed himself to severe cold ; and finding his feet benumbed on his return, he immediately put them into warm water. The consequenre was, that a gangrene took place, of which, notwithstanding all the care that conld be taken of him, he died. In this climate it generally happens riiat inflammation succeeds the application of cold after an interval of two or three days. By the use of some slight means of treatment this inflammation is generally suspended, and it is by the repetition of the inflammation rather than by its severity that the powers of the part become at last ex- hausted. In colder climates than our own the part exposed to cold becomes white, and the suspended circulation is cora- luonlv restored by rubbing the part with snow. If it be not very carefully treated, however, inflammation and sloughing is apt to come on. If a part be completely frozen, inflamma- tion frequently ensues in a.short time, and after continuing for a few hours, is followed by a destruction of the vital power. These are the symptoms which we ohserve in cases where gangrene is the result either of a high degree of inflammatory action, or of diminished power. When gangrene is produced by either of these causes, the ])roccss of separation soon com- mences. 'Fhis process is one of the most curiou.'' operations of nature iu the human body. There is nothing more extra- oidinary to my mind than the power which nature posscs-ses of separating even large members withotit any dancer from hemorrhage, or the smallest jeopardy to life. Thus we sec a limb of considerable size separate without in the slightest degree endangering the life of the patient, 'flierc is an in- stance of this at the present time, in the other hospital, in a case of po|)liteal aneurism, which will afibrd you an opportu- nity of judging of this process of sei'avaiiOn for yourselves. The first appearance which we observe after the destruction of