280 ON DIFFERENT KINDS OF CATARACT. I7th, or bcKinning of the 18th, century, thattlie nature of thH disease began to be understood, when Mery and Maitre-Jean, and Olliers, gave fair accounts of tliis complaint. 'Hie symp- toms ol cataract are unequivocal, and may be easily recognised. At first there is always defect of vision, and the patient sees things as through a mist, and lequires a strong light to see them plainly; this symptom changes during the progress of the complaint, the patient being able to see better in a moderate than a strong light, and then a speck, or opacity in the lens or capsule, may he distinctly observed; it is generally in the centre of the pupil, and at the situation of the lens ; this era- dually enlarges, and in proportion as the opacity increases, the sight becomes more dim, and the capability of discerning objects diminishes. In the progress of the cataract, the patient can see better in a faint than in a strong light; and thi.s is easily explained, because in the faint light the iris dilates, aud the rays of light are transmitted through the circumference of the crystalline lens, which is not yet obscured. But you see these symptoms differ in the different kinds of this disease, and this leads me to consider the different species of cataract; it is extremely important that they should be known, as the operation that it will be necessary to perform depends on the kind of cataract which exists ; but it is to be observed that the criteria are, to say the best of them, very fallible. On looking at a cataract, you cannot always be certain that it is of this or that kind, but on the whole you are enabled to give a pretty good guess. 'I'he symptoms characterizing each kind will be spoken of under the different heads. Different Kinds of Cataract. There are four kinds of cataract: 1st, The hard or firm ca- taract ; 2d, The fluid or milky cataract; 3d, The soft or ca- seous cataract; and, besides these, there is a fourth kind, the capsular cataract; the three first forming in the lens itself, and the last in the capsule. The last kind of cataract comes on after an operation, or in consequence of it, and is also found in children, when it is called congenital catar.act. This kind of cataract does not differ essentially from the other forms of capsular cataract; but is called congenital, on ac- count of its occurring at a particular period of life, or children being born with it. This form of cataract also requires a par- ticular kind of operation, aud will be particularly spoken of. Of the lenticular cataract there are three kinds, the .s<sft, fluid, and hard. These diflerent kinds of cataract occur at different periods of life. It is stated that the firm or hard cataract is found in advanced age, whilst the soft occurs at au earlier period. There is one circumstance respecting these different