ON CHANCRE. rm say positively if the sore be a chancre. But, gentlemen if you ask me whether it is possible to determine that a sore on the penis is not chancre, 1 should tell vou, that I believe It impossible for any man positively to say that it is not chancre varies exceedingly in its appearance in different per- sons, also in the same person under different degrees of irri- tation, and as it is accompanied by more or less of inflamma- tion ; and every one who has seen any thing of practice in his profession must knmv, that secondary svraptoms occasion- ally appear after sores, which, at the time he was led to sup- pose were not syphilitic. I could say in an instant when a sole had a syphilitic action ; but still a sore mar not have the character of sypliilis, and yet be so. VVe shall now trace the varieties of chancre, and the causes which more frequently produce them. The first circumstance which pves rise to variety in the appearance of chancre i.'— 1st. When the chancre is produced by the application of the ^eiieieai virus to a surface that is broken. Now, if the poi- son be applied to a sore, or an excoriation, it produces ulti- niately a syphilitic action, as is witnessed afterwards in bnbo and secondary symptoms ; but it is a long time before the venereal action is excited, and, in these cases, you will find that the sore has neither a surrounding hardness, nor a livid colour. When chancre is produced by the application of the yiius to an excoriation or tear, you must be contented to judge of its character from other circumstances ; it mar have the appearance of being syphilitic, but jou must hesitate be- fore you give a positive opinion—it requires time to decide it, and you may say to the patient, that there is considerable doubt as to the nature of the sore ; it may be siniplv an exco- iiation, or, on the other hand, it maybe a syphilitic sore: your best plan is merely to ajiply simple applications to the part, and wait, if it be syphilis, till secondary svmptoms ap- pear, when you must have recourse to mercury for the treat- ment of the complaint. 'I’his is one of the varieties caused by the application of the venereal poison to an excoriation or tear, preventing you from forming an accurate judgment on the first appearance of the sore. 1 tell you what 1 generally inquire of patients under these circumstances, viz. whether they observed the sore on the following day after connexion. If they say “ Yes,” the probability is, that it is not svphilitic, but it is no infallible criterion ; therefore treat the sore as you would any other, by common means at first, and wait the issue, to see whether it is vcnei'eal or not. .Another circum- stance, [irodiicing a variety in the appearance, is its seat. Chancre situated on the frainum is difl'erent to what has been