453 ON POISONS. sulphate of copper, which, very shortly after it had entered the stomach, produced vomiting ; and he threw up a quantity of liquid, smelling very strongly of opium. He was kept constantly in motion, the vomiting was assisted by copious draughts of warm water, and in this way he recovered. 1 wo days after, I met him in the square of the hospital, and asked him, how he did? “Why, (said he), my throat is a little sore from the effects of the sulphate of copper.” “ And how came you to take the opium?” said I. “ Why, sir, (said he), I will tell you ; 1 think my teeth are not so white as they used to be ; the women observe this, and no longer re- gard me with the same affection ; this it is which makes me miserable.” laugh.) Ferceiving that he was mad, I took measures to have him placed under the care of his friends. I have known pereons take a drachm of opiuin day after day, in divided doses. A Turk, who was selling rhubarb at the other hospital, being asked how much opiuin he could eat, showed us how much on his fingers. A drachm of solid opium was given to him, and he chewed it before us. People oheu ruin themselves by a disposition to take opium. 1 knew a woman, in tolerable circumstances, in a village in Norfolk, who was in the habit of taking large quantities of opium ; she would buy a pint of laudanum at a time, at a chemist’s shop, and, if any remained after filling her bottle, .she vvolild drink it off ill a w'ine glass. This woman was at last unable to buy her opium, and she became a pauper in the parish in which she resided. It is a habit which grows upon persons c.xces- sively, and ought never to be indulged. Opium applied ex- ternally, will produce poisonous effects ; not so soon, indeed, as when it is administered internally, but with equal certainty. If you apply opium over an extensive surface of sore, it will produce obstinate costiveness, and violent pain in the head, a furred brown tongue, and a high degree of fever. 1 remem- ber a man in the other hospital, who laboured under these symptouLS, in consequence of having opium applied over an extensive ulcer. It was not at first thought that the opium produced these effects; but upon its being suspended, the symptoms disappeared. I have known opium in water ap- plied on the surface of a scald in a child, which, I really be- lieve, occasioned its death. It produced violent constipation of the bowels, and convulsive motion in the eyes of the child. You should never apply opium over any extensive wound. If opium be. injected into the veins of an animal, the pulse will be so (|uickened, that it can with difliculty be reckoned. It will then become so convulsed, that yon can scarcely hold it on the table. In about five minutes it is tranquilFued, and