ON ULCERATION. 59 wUli a view of de^^tl•oying the power of Spain in the New Workl. As he was obliged to saif sooner than he expected, many of the crew which he took out were invalids, some having cicatrices, and others having previously had fractured bones. In his passage round Cape Hoin, he encountered very .severe weather ; many ships were obliged to return; some were lost, and the crews ot those which succeeded in getting at last to the Isle of Juan Fernandez suffered great hardships. In doubling Cape Horn, the crew suffered severely from at- tacks of the scurvy ; and it was remarked by the clergyman, who was an observing man, though he knew nothing of out profession, that the men who had had ulcers before were in- variably attacked with ulceration in the same parts, and that it their bones had been formerly fractured they became disunited. This does not surprise us, because we know that scurvy products the ulcerative process, attacking the gums, causing profuse bleeding, &c. ; that the ulcerative process has a stronger disposition towards parts newly formed, and that in this case, therefore, it appeared in parts where ulcers had formerly healed, and in disunited limbs where callus had previously formed. When the men got fresh vegetables, &c., on shore, they recovered their health; their bones united, and their sores healed. There cannot be a better example than this for the purpose of showing the readiness with vyhich newly- formed parts ulcerate, as compared with the original structures of the body. The parts more remote from the heart ulcerate more readily than those in the vicinity of the heart. This circumstance led me to say, that when the vital action is feeble, and the power of the circulation diminished, we find a greater disposition to the ulcerative process than otherwise. Thus for one ulcer in the arm we find twenty in the lower extremities; and you cannot but have observed, in going round the wards, the great number of sore legs, those opprohia of our hospitals. Ill those parts which are endued with little vital povver, ulceration takes place very readily; while in those to which the quantity of blood sent is very small, ulceration takes plate with difficulty. 'I'his is the case with tendons. Tendinous parts possess very] little blond ; very few arteries or absorbent vessels are distributed to them. Hence the process of absorp- tion goes on with great difficulty, and tendons will slough to a great extent rather than become absorbed. This circumstance must infiuenre our practice. In abscess under the fascia, an incision should be made as soon as possible through the cover- ing, to liberate the confined matter. fSo in abscess of the. finger, when the constitution suffers because the theca wil