ON GANGRENE. 95 exceedingly severe; the inflammation is very extensive; there is generally a hliish to a considerable extent; and there is Generally, though not always, a considerable degree of swell- ing. The secretion from any sore which may exist ceases, for the skin no longer perspires. Tlie surface of the skin becomes of a dark colour ; it is said to become ])ui ple, hut it is rather of a bniwnish tinge. The cuticle is raised ; a vesication is produced, and when this breaks, it is found to contain a bloody serum. When this scrum is discharged, the skin assumes the gangrenous appearance, and becomes perfectly insensible. The vesication extends to parts beyond the ulce- ration ; tl)us in sores of the leg we frequently see a large portion of the skin giving way, and the gangrenous vesications extending beyond the ulcerative surface. The constitution sufTers considerable derangement from gangrene ; there is a high degree of irritative fever, and the pulse is often e.xceed- ingly quick. The pulse is generally said to become slow when gangrene takes place, hut 1 have never observed this. I have indeed occasionally remarked but a few beats in a minute, be- cause it is very frequently intermittent. Still the pulse is (piick, though occasionally intermittent. It is said also to become .soft, but 1 should not say that this is the chaiacter of the pulse in gangrene. It is (piick, very small and thready, anti generally irregular. Gangrene seldom occui’s without delirium, and it is attended also with vomiting and hiccough. Hiccough, indeed, is the characteristic sitru of gangrene, and it takes place though the gangrene may be situate in a part very distant from the stomach ; as for example, in the toe. 1 he fact is, that when gangrene arises from a diseased state ol the constitution, the stomach is extremely deranged, and this derangement of the stomach is followed by a spasmodic contraction of the diaphragm, producing hiccough. This symptom does not arise from any alteration in the action of the diaphragm, hut Irom its sym[)atby with the deranged state of the stomach. If you wish to coi rcct hiccough, you may arrest it for a time by giving some slight stimulus, or even by adopting opposite means. 'I'hus a glass of cold water will sus- pend it for a considerable time. Such art; the symptoms when gangrene is the result of cx- tc.s.sive action. Hut gaiurcnc is sometimes the ell'cct of a low degree of inflammation ; as when it is produced by the aiipli- tation of cold. When a great degree of cold has been applied to anv part for a considerable time, the part will become heiinnmed ; that is, its nervous powers vvill be diminished : and when it is thus enfeebled, it will be unable >i> bear a very •light degree ot supervening inflammation, so that gangrene