ON HERNIA. 203 ■\v;is iiiuuediatdy cliscliavgtd. Tiiis led him to think it \va« not hernia, and he desisted ; but the symptoms of strangulateti hernia still being present, he cut through the tunica vaginalis, in which the water had been contained, avoiding the spermatic cord, and behind he found the heinial sac ; he dilated the strictuie with a bistoury, and the patient did extremely well. The other case to which I alluded, where there was a hernia and hydrocele, oecurred to Mr. H. Cline. After having eva- cuated the water, he dilated the stricture, and returned the pans ; and, as far as I recollect, the ctise turned out w'ell. There is some little difficulty in distinguishing hydrocele of the spermatic cord from hernia; the two diseases are very likely to be confounded. The transparency of hydrocele, and its beginning at the lower part of the scrotnni, are in general the characteristic marks of that complaint; but I mentioned to )’ou before, that the hydrocele might be so large as to reach the abdominal ring, when it assumes the form and shape of hernia, and might be easily confounded with it. There are two other diseases which hernia might be mis- taken for ; the first of these is varicocele—and what is vari- cocele ? It is an enlargement of the spermatic veins ; it begins above, and gradually descends into the scrotum ; the .swelling is of the form of hernia, and on the hand being ap- plied wlien the patient coughs, it dilates considerably ; and moreover, when the patient lies down it disappears; conse- quently this disease is very likely to be mistaken for hernia. Very recently I saw a case where a patient had been wearing a large spring truss for a varicocele that had been mistaken for hernia, and which had chafed him considerably. 1 tell yon, gentlemen, how you shall di.stinguish it : Tell the patient to lie down ; raise the testicles, and empty the veins; then press firmly on the abdominal ring ; keep your finger firmly there, and raise the patient from the recumbent position, and the swelling will return ; then in this easy way may you distin- guish varicocele from hernia. 2dly.—'riie other disease that may be confounded with hernia is hydrocele of the syermalic cord; and in this com- plaint oiir diagnosis fails, when the hydrocele is situated above the abdominal ring. In the recumbent posture there is no appearance of it, but as soon as the patient rises it returns. It is situated above the ring, opposite to the tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis : pressure on this [)art might be of service. _ '1 he diagno.sis of hydrocele of the spermatic cord below the ring is easy; above it is diflicult. A truss, in this complaint, is not an evil, and may be worn with advantage.