ON GRANULATION. 70 also deposits of coagulated blood between the mncoui and niusculai' coats, an appearance which, Sir Asiley said, had always been observed in dogs that had died of this complaint. 1 he animal had unfortunately bitten four persons, who were under medical treatment.] LECTURE XL On Guanulation. I HAVE endeavoured to describe to you the first mode in which the union of wounds, and the mode of filling up cavities is effected, namely, by the process of adhe.sioni 1 .chall now proceed to consider the other mode of union between divided jiarts of the body, namely. Granulation; thus the two pro- ges.ses which Nature institutes for the purpose of filling up the cavities of the body for the cure of wounds are adhesion and granulation. If you are asked for a definition of the term granulation, you will say that a granulation is a newly-formed part, generally red in colour, and having the power of secreting pus. The mode in which granulation is inoduced is as fol- lows :—and you will find it very similar to adhesion, but dif- fering from that process in one respect. When an absce.=s has been opened, or when a wound has been produced, if the abscess be not immediately closed, or if the edges of the wound have not been brought together, inflammation is ex- cited, and this inflammation occasions an effusion of the fibrin of the blood upon the surface of the wound. This fibrin is poured out in a layer which covers the surface of the wound. 'I'he layer of fibrin soon becomes va.scul.ar, for blood-vessels, which are elongations of the rasa vasorum of the divided ves- sels, are forced by the action of the heart into the fibrin which has been deposited, and this layer consequently becomes vas- cular. The difference between the mode of union by adhesion and by granulation, is, that in the latter the vcs.-els shoot to the surface of the layer which has been thi'own out, terminat- ing by open mouths on the surface of the newly-formed sub- stance, and secreting pus, at the same time that a layer of lymph, or fibrin, as it is more correctly termed, is cffu.sed. 'I’he fibrin which is poured out, besides this purulent secretion from the vessels, forms a second layer, into which the ve.ssels shoot as before. The vessels supporting the first layer are the means of supporting the second layer, where the vessels ter- minate, as before, by open mouths on the surface of the sub- stance effused. In this manner layer after layer i^ formed until the cavity becomes filled. 'The characters by which granulations arc distinguished are