234- ON HERNIA. of such cases. This ])i'eparation \va.s taken from a patient in the other hospital, who had a hernia of a very considerable size, which was operated upon in the common way, by making an incision into the hernia! sac. 'I’he surgeon who performed the operation, finding the intestine returning upon him in the manner I have described, another surgeon, who was present, said, “ Let me try.” He began trying apparently very gently and carefully, but the intestine eluded his attempts, and upon his using a little more force, it burst, and the faeces escaped over his hands. This man lived a week after the operation, and then died from want of nutrition. It was the small in- testine which burst, and the faeces escaping by the orifice, there was no opportunity for such a degree of lacteal absorp- tion as was necessary for the support of his constitution, and he died from irritation and inanition. I shall now give you an account of a case, and describe to you an operation which is not difficult, and which may be adopted with safety to the patient in these cases. .After the lecture, one evening, Mr. Birch’s dresser came to me and said, “ Sir, there is a patient with a very large hernia, which is strangulated ; Mr. Birch does not like to come down to the hospital at such au hour, and 1 should be glad if you would undertake it.” I went immediately; the patient was brought into the operating theatre, and a most formidable hernia it was. 1 said to the gentlemen in the theatre, if I operate in the usual manner on this hernia, I know what will be the result; I shall either burst the intestine in attempting to re- turn it, or I shall not be able to return it at all; 1 will not open the hernial sac. The man was placed on the table, and I operated upon him in the following manner:—1 made an incision to the extent of three inches in the upper part of the hernia, an inch and a half above the abdominal ring, and an inch and a half below it, believing that I should find the stricture at the abdominal ring, as it was a large hernia, or not more than au inch above the ring. This incision exposed the tendon of the external oblique, above the abdomin.al ring, and the fascia of the cord, or superficial fascia, which is de- rived from the tendon of the external oblique bclo\v the ring. Having made this incision, and laid bare thetasciaof the cord, I made a small opening to the extent of about an inch below the abdominal ring, mid put a director into it. HaHng insi- nuated the director between the fascia of the cord and the cremaster, I jtassed it under the abdominal ring ; and carrying a itrobe-pointed bistoury upon this director, 1 divided the ring to the extent of an inch. 1 then put my hands upon each fiide of this immense swellitig ; .and .as soon as 1 did so, 1 had