ON PARACENTESIS ABDOMINIS, S90 marks of accumulation of matter in the chest are, consider- able pain in the side, severe fever, and constitutional irrita- tion ; cough, with difficuUj- of breathing, inability to lie, ex- cept on the side on which the matter is accumulating ; and, lastly, which you would not expect, considerable enlargement of the chest on that side. 'I'he reason of this difference in the size of the chest on the side affected is, that the accumu- lation of fluid prevents expiration on that side, and the rib^ are unable to descend. There are other means of a.scertainine the presence of fluid in the chest, to which 1 need hardly allude, as you have, no doubt, seen the instrument, fthe stetho- scope) used by a physician in this hospital. 1 have not had sutBcient experience of this instrument to say decidedly how far it is available for this purpose. When matter has accu- mulated in the chest, the patient may be relieved by the fol- lowing operation. You draw the skin as much as possible upwards, and cut down with your scalpel on the upper edge of the eighth or ninth rib. Having cut through the intercos- tal muscles by this incision, without introducing the knife through the pleura, you pass the canula through the pleura, and it enters the chest. The matter escapes as soon as you withdraw the trocar, and after which draw the skin down : the wound closes without danger of any further inflammation beyond the adhesive. (The learned professor proceeded to shew the mode of performing this operation on the dead sub- ject.) By this operation I have known several lives preserv- ed. Mr. Bryant, a brother of the surgeon of that name, re- covered after the o])er.ation, which was performed by Sir B. Harwood, the late professor of anatomy at Cambridge. The two following cases of empyema have occurred in my prac- tice ;—I was called by iMr. M., a surgeon at Cheltenham, to see a young lady who had a considerable swelling of the abdomcr^ in the region of the spleen. There was an enlargement of the left side, accom])anied with difficulty of breathing, couch, and that constitutional irritation which is commonly called hectic fever. On examining this case I said that 1 thought there was fluid, and on laying the chest bare, there seemed to lie a fulness between the third and fourth rib, a little above the nipple. Upon pressing the swelling in the abdomen, and putting my finger on the iutci costal muscles, the fluid undulated between one point and the other. I said there was a collection of matter in the left pleura, and, on making a small incision with the point of the lancet, a gush of matter came from the chest. On iJutting my hand on the abdomen, 1 increased the flow most abundantly, and 1 then understood, what 1 did not be- fore perfectly understand, that the diaphragm was pushed