ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. S56 time to 110 and 120, and become small. Rest assured that, in proportion as you weaken the constitution, you quicken the pulse. Do not debilitate it then on the one hand, nor sti- mulate it on the other ; for if you do, it will be the sure way to hasten the progress of the disease. It was only yesterday that I met in consultation three medical men (one of whom was Dr. Farre), on a person affected with scirrhus. Dr. Farre has studied his profession as a professional man ought—has dissected for himself, and by this means has become intimately acquainted with the structure of the human body. He has watched disease with care in every stage, and, when opportu- nities have occurred, has pursued morbid anatomy with a zeal not often equalled ; acquiring a knowledge of the changes produced by disease on the different parts of the human frame. This is the way to study medicine : but as to the physician who attends merely to his pharmacopceia and prescriptions, which any tyro in the profession can do as well, he neglects the true means of acquring professional knowledge. One point of discussion at this consultation was, how the patient should live. I w'aited, as I wished to hear what the others had to say. “ Shall she live low.’” was asked;” “ Cer- tainly not,” said Dr. Farre. I then said, “ 1 am very glad, sir, to hear that opinion come from you.” The conversation on the subject then began (Mr. Travers also was one of the gentlemen present), and tve all uniformly agreed that what we had observed in every case of cancer or malignant tumour was, that in proportion as the patient is kept low, you preci- pitate her course to the grave; this is uniformly so, and I paticularly dwell on it, in order to prevent your minds being poisoned by false doctrines. Many, I have no doubt, believe an opposite mode of living to be the best, and conceive that they have seen it do good. They have tried it, and have thought the patient benefited, wdthout taking into the account every concomitant circumstance which has had an influence on the amelioration of the patient’s condition. The way to learn the effects of remedies, and different modes of living, is to try them without having entertained any preconceived opinion as to their efficacy. If a remedy is tried under the supposition that it is sure to do good, the practitioner will soon think that it does. No ; theonly plan is to watch impar- tially the effect of medicines on the constitution, lor in lol- lowing the other way 1 have mentioned, you will kill more in youth than you will save in age. Climate has been supposed to have an effect in preventing that state of constitution which favours the retuni of the dis- ease ; I tell you it has no such influence. A jicrson who has