lOG TREATMENT OF GANGRENE. Juable a medicine in these cases. The best means, therefore ,cl /'"h secretions bv calo- e , and to dimmish irritability by opium, and, in someca,.es, h) taking a\yay veiy small quantities of blood. It the gangrene arise from the application of cold, the treat- s reeble from the diminution of uen ous power, and it will be mort^nentl‘'’\‘°'^ p° ®‘ate by stimulants of the tl e pu'pose, the best application is friction ^ If* ^fcompanied with gentle irictiou If you are called to a patient whose feet are be- numbed by the application of cold, you must sit bv his bed- side, pour the camphorated spirit into your hand, and mb it on his feet with the utmost possible gentleness, so that the part may not be irritated by violent friction. When the first effects of cold are removed, it will be proper to apply poultices to the part. J he poultices must be cold, for warm applications to the part are to be carefully avoided. One of the most valuable of our nobility died of gangrene from an impnidence in tins resiiect. He was out shooting in December la.n, and his feet having become benumbed, he put them into warm ivatei as soon as he returned home. The consequence was, that his toe became gangrenous ; the gangrene soon extended to the other foot, and he died from its effects. MTien parts aie iiost-bitten in colder climates, you are aware that the common practice is to restore the circulation by rubbing them with snow. So much for the prevention of gangrene. But as soon as gangrene has commenced, it will be neces- sary to apply a gentle stimulus to the parts, with a view of siippoiting the action of the surrounding parts which are thieatened with the destruction of life, 'i'he application which 1 have found to be most uniformly successful in such case.«, is the poultice of stale beer grounds. The stale beer grounds, which,may be obtained in any public-house, should be mixed with linseed meal, and a poultice formed of them, which will produce a gentle and beneficial stimulus to the part, and pre- vent the gangrene from spreading to the surrounding skin, .''piiituous fomentations are also of use for the same purpose. At the same time that this local treatment is einploved, means must be taken to support the constitution, which is debilitated by cxcessii e action. Ihe best mode of su|i[>orting the consti- tution is by the exhibition of ammonia mixed with opiiiui. From seven to ten grains of the carbonate of ammonia, with twenty drops or half a drarhm ol the tincture of opium, should he taken two or three times a-day, or even more frequentlv.