ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 357 scirrhous tubercle in England would receive no advantage by going to a warm climate, or by any change whatever. I will give you an instance, which will illustrate this point very well. A woman who was operated on in this country for a scirrhus of the breast, went soon after to the island of Tri- nidad ; at the time she left England the wound had healed. Soon after she reached 'I'riuidad the tumour returned, and the glands of the a-Killa became enlarged. She was brought back to England, with her constitution extremely debilitated : at the time of her return it was winter; she soon sank, and died. In England this person had submitted to an operation : she went to a warm climate soon after; the disease then made its appearance again, and she returned to this country in a cold season, which had no effect in retarding the progress of the complaint; in the warm country the disease was not pre- vented from returning; in this, its progress was not arrested by the cold. Operatio.n for the Removal of a Scirrhous Breast. This operation is nothing more than a simple piece of dis- section ; it consists in making a semicircular incision at the upper part of the breast, and over the tumour ; in this step you cut through the vessels which supply the scirrhus. When the mammary artery and its branches have been divided, you desire an assistant to compress the vessels by pressure, just above the incision, and you then go on excavating the parts and cellular tissue; the pectoral muscle is laid bare (and it is good plan always to do this) ; lastly, it is right to divide the integuments below the tumour, lest, as it sometimes happens, a gland is enlarged in the axilla ; then it will be best to remove it, and the intervening part between it and the breast; for if you cutout the gland only, the disease returns, and it is always attended with unfavourable results. The absorbent vessels are the means by which the disease is communicated to the other parts. If the glands in the axilla generally are enlarged, do not operate, for the disease will be sure to return. I never >aw an operation performed under such circumstances suc- ce.s.»ful. After the breast is removed, bring the edges together by suture ; in the earlier period of my life I did not adopt this practice; I have since found that the wound heals better If sutures are employed than adhesive plaster only. You put one or two .sutures, which keep the edges together; w'hen you ohserve a drawing in of the nipple, always secure that part, this very day I removed a breast with a nipple in this state, in company with a respectable medical practitioner, and I cut through the centre of the nipple, to see whether it had any connexion with the tumour. I saw a scirrhous band going