ON HERNIA. 233 she was up and had a truss on. On examining tlie part, I found that there was a rupture as large as that before the operation, nay larger, and that there was no adhesion of the inoutli of the sac. The cutting away of the hernial sac i.s quite useless. Plans have been proposed of introducing gold wiie for the purpo.se of dividing the hernial sac at the mouth, also of rubbing the parts with certain substances for the purpose of exciting ad- hesive inflammation ; but all these proposals are mere quack- eries. One of those fellows who are in the habit of publi.shing their cures of hernia, and their methods of preventing the fu- ture descent of the hernial sac, called upon me, and a.?ked whether 1 would like to go and see a patient of his, whom lie had cured by rubbing the parts with some preparation. “ Why upon my word,'’ said I, “I feel no inclination to go, for 1 know you might just as well ask me to go and see you jum|) to the moon !”—“Well, sir,” said he, “ then you will not see him .' “ No,” said 1, “I will not.” Four or five months after, this man, having quarrelled with the junto with which he wa.s united, came to me, and said, “ Sir, it was entirely an imposition. hat do you suppose we rubbed our patients with, ill order to impose upon the public —“ I cannot tell,” .said 1.—“ Sir,” replied he, “ it was nothing but hedge-hog’s fat. It cost us some trouble to catch our hedge-hogs ; but it was the fat of that animal with which we pretended to prevent the descent ot hernia.”—You may suppose, gentlemen, that 1 felt no regret at having refused to see this man’s patient. Operation for large Hernia. I shall now proceed to describe to you the operation for heinia when of considerable size, which reijuires a very dif- fereiit mode of treatment from hernia of a small size. 1 know no situation in which a man is placed under greater difficulty tnan that in which a surgeon has to operate on a hernia of very considerable size, and finds a great ((uantity of intestine in the lap of the patient, and the parts so diminished from the lengtli of time the hernia has existed, that there is no room left for the return of the intestine which has descended. He tries to pu.sh back the intestine ; it eludes his efforts, ami after repeated attempts, when he has at length succeeded in returning a considerable portion of it into the abdomen, the wTiole rusiie.s down again into the scrotum. !So much handling 01 the intestine iieces.sarily leads to such a degree of inllaui- mation as to occasion the death of the patient. In this mail- a hernia, when openiled upon in the comiiiou way, generally proves destructive to life. Here is an exaiii|ile (e.x- iiig a prepaiation to the class) which shows you the result