336 ON' CALCULI IN' THE URETHRA. power of soothing the parts, and diminishing the irritaxinj (piality of the urine. Whether it have that effect or not is doubtful; but it is generally believed to have some influence ill this way. The danger after the operation for .stone is, that of peritoneal inflammation. On the day after the operation, therefore, you should put your hand on the lower part of the iratient’s abdomen, and inquire whether he feels any pain. If there is any tenderness of the peritoneum, you should apply leeches to the abdomen, and foment it; it will be often neces- sary to talte away blood, and to put the patient in a warm bath, if the symptoms .should be urgent; vomiti|ig is a fre- quent symptom, when the abdomen of the patient is in a tense state. The subsequent treatment will consi.n in givine con- siderable doses of the submuriate of mercury. Calotnel is a very useful medicine in this case, not only as a purgative, but because, combined with opium, it diminishes irritability, and lessens the disposition to inflammation in the abdomen. Pnr- ffatives and anodyne injections should also be admini.-tered. The time in which a patient recovers is generally from seven- teen to tw'enty-one days, under favourable circumstances. It is sometimes longer when the perinteum is deep ; on the other hand, I have known a patient to be well in a fortnight alter the operation. The urine frequently passes in the right cout'e in about twenty-four hours after the operation ; .■sometimes, however, not till after three or four days ; this will depend, in a great measure, on the size of the stone. In general, the patient has a ligor, when the urine returns to its natural course ; you need not, therefore, be alarmed at this symptom. ’ On Calculi in the Urethra. When a stone is lodged in the urethra, it is found in three situations ; I will endeavour to e.\plain to you the difference of treatment required, according to the .'situation in which the stone is found. When you find a stone in the urethra, it will be in vain to attempt to extract it with the forceps ; even when it is felt very near the orifice of the urethra, or when you c.".n see it by opening the orifice, you can very rarely succeed in extracting it with the forceps, 'rhere are three siinations in which a stone is found lodged in the urethra ; fir.st, m the perinamm • secondly, opposite the scrotum ; and, thirdly, op- posite the framum. ’ When it is lodged in the i.erinxum, and the iiatient is labouring under retention of urine trom that cause be very much on vour guard not to disiilace it from it' situation, or thrust it back towards the bladder,as you will be in danger of subjecting the patient to the neccs.Mly of ainr- wards submitting to the operation for liihotomy. \\ .la: you should do is to pa.ss the largest sized bougie into the p.-i-saee.