270 ON FUNGUS OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. They are seated in different parts. Tiie appearance* that they present at first are red or yellowish .<ipot.s arising from adepf/si* of lymph in those parts, and are slightly elevated. There is considerable turgescence of the vessels around them. If they occur on the cornea, it will be nebulous and opaque; the ve.'"- sels round the cornea will be seen distended, carrying red blood, and having a radiated disposition. If the lymph be not removed by absorption, the pustules break, matter escapes, and ulcers form in their place. Sometimes there is only one ofthesc ulcers, frequently two, one at each side of the cornea, just at the junction of the transparent with the opaque cornea, and oc- casionally the cornea is even encircled by them. Although the inflammation accompanying the formation of pustules is not acute, yet it frequently happens that there will be more or less pain on moving the eye, intolerance of light, and effusion of tears. These ulcers are difficult to manage, as they often occur in the scrofulous habits of body and broken-up constitutions, and are apt to become chronic, and consequently difficult of cure. When the healing of the ulcers takes place, and the same state of body continues, they are soon reproduced, and the dis- ease is greatly aggravated. As for the treatment this affection requires, it will be hardly necessary to say, that if considerable inflammation exists, depletion must be employed. The inflam- mation, however, is of the atonic kind. First apply leeches, but not in large numbers, so as not to carry depletion to to<j great an e.xtent: it will be proper to evacuate the bowels, not by drastic purges, but mild aperients, and to attend to the secretions. Blisters will be useful, if the sight be affected. When the state of the bowels has been regulated, you must begin with tonic remedies, and as early as possible with mild astringent collyria, and the best is the vinum opii. The only- point to guard against is, that depletion be not pursued to too great an extent at the outset. The system must be imi- gorated by tonic remedies, and tone given to the vessels of the part. The next affection to which 1 shall direct your attention, is the result of purulent ophthalmia, which is that called Fungus of the Conjunctiva. This appearance of the conjunctiva occurs in diseased sub- jects. The conjunctiva becomes loose and red, the vessels turgid with blood, and there is a fold of this membraue on the inside of the lids, which produces considerable irregularity on its surface—a morbid secretion is keptnp on the part —and not iinfrequently eversion of the lids is the result. Extraneous bodicsioften enter the eye, and disturb it considerably. To prevent this, and remedy the complaint, the loose j-oruoii oi