ON CHANCRE. 506 very irritable, you will find in the first that there would be scarcely any inflammation, whilst in the second it would be violent, and of an erysipelatous character; indeed, under these cireumstances, if the part be not very carefully nianaced, it will be in considerable danger. So a man with a chaocre to-day, which has a healthy appearance, shall to-night in- dulge in some act of debauchery, to-morrow he will have a bloody discharge from the sore, inflammation round the edges, and an irritable state of the parts, which you will soon find assuming a sloughing disposition. Thus,'then, if the constitution be irritable naturally, from intemperate habits, or inattention to rest, the most serious state of chancre mav arise. People pursuing a particular business, such as joumev- ineu bakers, whose habits are of the most irregular kind, are frequently affected with ehancres going into the sloughing process. See, for instance, how these people pass their lives', kneading dough during the greater part of the night. King down only during short intervals to rest, frequently staving up alt the night without any repose; and if they rest at’all, ouly for a few hours towards morning, and thus rendering their eonstitutions excessively irritable. When the chancre proceeds to a sloughing state, from any of the causes 1 have mentioned, the pulse will be generally from 120 to 160 ; you will also find a considerable erysipelatous inflammation ex- tending round the chancre; and, in a short time, the slough ing process commences, by which the penis is lost. These varieties of chanere you have an opportunity every week of seeing for yourselves ; and if you have not observed them, it shews a shameful neglect of your duty. The time at which chancre appears after connexion is from four to seven davs ; but if there is a gonorrhoea also, it prevents the appearance of the chancre so early; thus, if a person be affected with the two poisons, the one delays the appearance of the other. If the matter of a chancre be applied to the urethra, it will not produce a gonorrhoeal discharge, but a sore, and that sore will pour out a serous fluid, mixed with the red particles of blood, not at all purulent, but of a bloody serum, which is the matter from the chancre, and not in any respect gonorrhoeal. The matter of gonorrhoea does not produce chancre ; for, if leeches be applied to the jirepucc, and the gonorrha\al matter afterwards comes in contact with the leech-bites, a sore is pro- duced, not of a chancreous character, and it heals by common means. The poison of chancre will not produce a gonon'ho?a, nor the poison of gonorrlima induce a chancre. Having thus endeavoured to explain the character of chaiiCTv, J shall now speak of the treatment it requires; atid here let