13 TREATMENT OF IRRITATION. integuments, and a large wound coimmmicating with the joint. The man was admitted into Guy’s Hospital; an operation was proposed, but die patient would not consent. 'I'he wound was therefore dressed, and in a short time it completely healed, without auy unfavourable symptom showing itself. Irritation is greatest in children, and least in aged persons ; the former are very much affected by operations, whilst the latter are very slightly so- Ciiildren under two years of age, upon having stoues removed from their bladders, will be fre- quently carried off by convulsions ; therefore, if you can pos- sibly avoid it, never perform the operation on a very young child ; at all events, not under three years of age. One of the worat kinds of irritation is that occasioned by the absorption of morbid matter during dissection ; it is therefore impossible that you can be too careful of the instruments you use in di.ssecting and opening bodies, as carelessness on this point has caused the loss of many a valuable life. LECTURE II. Treatment of Irritation. The treatment of irritation being much the same as that re- quired in inflammation, 1 shall now give but a short descrip- tion ofit. When constitutional irritation arises from a local cause, the remedies must be chiefly directed to the removal of that cause, or to lessen its effects on the constitution ; but, on the con- trary, when local disease is either promoted or aggravated by constitutional derangement, then your remedy must be di- rected to the disorder of the system ; and as that improves, so will the local affections disappear. Case.—A short time since, a case of compound fracture was brought into Guy’s Hospital. For the first five days there was no alteration ; after a time, however, the man’s constitution suffered very considerably ; a probe was passed into the wound, and a loose portion of bone was found pressing against the tibialis anticus; the part was dilated by a scalpel ; the de- tached bone c.Ktiacted ; the constitution began to recover its former vigour, the patinit’s health very rapidly improved, and he is now dischareed cured. A case of sinijile fracture of the superior [lortion of the tibia w:is admitted into Thomas’s Hospital, whicli was fol- lowed by violent irritation of the whole system. The whole limb became inflamed, and matter formed at the scat of the fracture. After a short time it was thought pro|)er to am- putate the limb, when, on c.xamining it afterwards, small pieces