ON HERNIA. m of strangulated inguinal hernia; and the reason is, that the orifice through which the femoral hernia protrudes is smaller, and the pressure consequently greater. The patient complains of more pain than in inguinal hernia, and rarely lives so long (if the stiicture remain) as a person under the same circum- stances with the other kinds of hernia. I have known a pa- tient die seventeen hours only after the hernia (femoral, had become strangulated. With'strangulated inguinal hernia, I have known patients live a week ; in femoral, they generally survive four days, if the stricture remain ; but I have also known them die in so short a space as seventeen hours. Suppose you were called to a case of strangulated femoral hernia, how would you proceed.’—You would first resort to the taxis; the patient must be placed on the bed, with the shoulders elevated, the knees bent at right angles to the body, and approximated to each other, so as to admit an arm only between ; then you employ pressure on the hernia. The hernia is to be pressed directly downwards, in order to get it below Poupart’s ligament; if you press it upwards, without having first done this, you will merely get it farther above the ligament. It must first be brought below the level of Poupart’s ligament, and then kneaded between the fingers, and pressed upwards. The form of femoral is different, as 1 explained to yon, from that of inguinal hernia. By this drawing (here the learned professor drew a diagram of the state of the parts) you see that the body of femoral hernia is turned upwards and forwards over the neck, and nearly at right angles to it above Poupart’s ligament, and it would be mere folly to press it upwards till it has first been brought downwards, as the hernia would only be doubled the more on itself. Having failed in your attempt at the taxis, you employ thetobacco injection, bleed the patient, and use the warm bath. No time, however, is to be lost in femoral, as there is less chance of reducing it than in inguinal hernia. These means failing, you must resort to the opera- tion ; it is a case in which delay occasions much mischief. I will now show you, as far as I am able, the operation for femoral hernia, but we shall not have the same advantages now as on the other occasion. Not having a femoral hernia to perform the operation on, I have introduced a piece of in- testine under Poupart’s ligament, and formed a hernia, which, I believe, will answer the purpose. In operating for femoral hernia, you make the first incision in the course of Poupart’s ligament, along the tumour, extend- ing from one side to the other; the second you make at right angles to the first, towards the umbilicus, so that the two incisions resemble the letter inverted ; the angular flaps arc