252 ON INFLAMMATION OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. illustration of the change which takes place by the process of inflainination in general. I have only to premise, before speaking of the symptoms, that the inflammation mav exist in yai lous degrees, from the .slightest degree of excitement np to most violent and intense character. 1 i® redness of the part: which is verv re- maikable, because the blood naturally conveyed by the vessels to this part is colourless. Under any existing irritation, the vessels are distinctly observable, and becomelnjected by red blood. When the irritation continues, the vessels become still moie apparent, and at length all the interlacements and anas- tomoses of the vessels of the conjunctiva partake of the in- nammatlon, and present almost one uniform appearance of ledness. During this time more or less pain is experienced ; at first, as the vessels become filled, an uneasy sensation is felt ; this increases, and at length, upon the admission of light, a sharp lancinating pain is experienced : the patient is under the necessity of keeping the eye closed, and, indeed, has some difficulty in raising it, not only from the pain he suf- feis, but from the degree of fulness and sw'elling with which It IS accompanied. This pain goes on increasing, and at length the patient complains of a burning heat, and a sensation as if some extraneous body were lodged in the conjunctiva : a sort of grating between the conjunctiva and the lid. At this time the adrnission of the least light or air produces such lancinat- ing pain, that the eye is spasmodically closed. During the first part of the inflammation there is a more abundant secre- tion of tears, and this generally increases until there is a con- stant flow of water from under the lids. It sometimes happens that, at the highest stage of excite- ment, this increased secretion is suddenly diminished, and there is a preternatural dryness of the eyes, producing painful sensations. A considerable degree of swelling takes place ; the conjunctiva becomes turgid from the increased quantity of blood admitted by tbe vessels, and effusion follows. Although the swelling is pretty equally diffused over the whole surface of the conjunctiva, it seems to be the greatest at the transpa- rent cornea, because here the coat is more tightly adherent. The conjunctiva is here elevated in a circular fold, and this appearance is called chemosis. The eyelids are in general more or less swollen from the same cause ; namely, the greater determination of blood to the part, and the filiing of the vessels. Not only is pain experienced in the eye from the causes I have mentioned, but also a sense of weight and ful- ness in the globe of the eye, as if the ball were too large for the socket. The neighbouring jiarts also, the forehead and