ON FISTULA IN ANO. 398 the chest, as hyclrothorax, I scarcely know what medicine to recommend ; these diseases almost always prove destructive to life. It is of great importance to give such medicines as will bring the fistula into a healthy state. With this view the halsam of copaiba may be given with advantage ; if there i.s much irritation, give soda, which has great efficacy in dimi- nishing the irritability of the rectum. Aromatic medicines should be given; especially the medicine which used to be called Ward’s paste, which has been very properly introduced in the last edition of the London Pharmacopoeia, having been found by experience to produce excellent effects in this dis- ease. 'i"he composition of this paste is as follows :— Of Pepper, two drachms. Of Elicampane, and Fennel Seeds, each half an ounce. This is to be mixed up with honey, so as to form an electu- ary ; and a tea-spoonful of it to be taken two or three times a- day. This medicine, in a very short time, brings the fistula into a healing state ; healthy granulations arise from the sur- face, and the discharge, instead of being serous or bloody, con- sists of good pus. Submuriate of mercury, with saline purges, should be occasionally given during the use of these aromatic confections, with a view of promoting the secretion of the liver and intestines. The operation of dividing the sphincter ani, is simple in proportion as you find a ready opening into the rectnm. You introduce a small probe-pointed bistoury into the fistula, pass your finger up the rectum to meet the in - strument, and, carrying the point downwards, divide the in- tervening parts. If the fistula is very e.xtensive, you will be under the necessity of putting your finger on the extremity of the instrument, drawing the knife downwards. If the fistula does not open into the rectum, you must pass the instrument up the sinus till it reaches the extremity ; put your finger into the rectum to meet the knife, place it along the end of the knife, and move the rectum for some little time with your finger nail, and then, cutting through the cellular tissue, bring the point of the instrument into the rectum. Mr. Savigny in- vented for this purpose a knife with two blades, one pointed, tbe other round; the pointed knife sliding on the side of a probe bistoury. The objection to this instrument, however, is, that it occupies too much spaccf so that a small sinus will not receive it., A very copious hemorrhage generally follows the division of the intestine ; you must not, therefore, leave yonr patient, but endeavour to stO[) the hemorrhage hy intro- ducing a portion of lint into the wound. No union of the sphincler ani will take place, until granulations have arisen at the parts of the wound moat distant from the rectum. You