-1G4 ON VIRULENT GONOURIIffiA. ger) is, in tlie present state of our knowledge, perfectiy un- pardonable. It is lamentable to reflect on the number of lives which must have been destroyed by piithisis and otlierwise, ill consequence of the imprudent exhibition of mercury for a disease which did not require it, which prevailed among the older surgeons. At the present time, however, a surgeon must be either grossly ignorant, or shamefully negligent of the duty which he owes to the character of his profession, and to the common dictates or humanity, if he persists in giving mercury for this disease. Let ihose person.s who suppose that gonorrhoea cau be cured by mercury, go round our wards, and see whether mercury has any effect on that disease. Look, gcu tleinen, at 100 patients in our foul wards, many of whom come into the hospital with syphilis and gonorrhoea ; and many, 1 am sorry to say, who have only gonorrha-a, but who are in- variably carried to these wards. What is the mi.^erable treat- ment of these patients} You are aware gentlemen, that I scarcely ever enter the foul wards of the other hospital ;— when a particular case demands my attention, 1 hare the pa- tient removed to a clean ward. I will tell you why 1 do not enter those wards, gentlemen. I abstain from entering them, because patients under gonorrhoea are compelled to undergo so infamotis a system of treatment that I cannot bear to wit- ness it. To compel an unfortunate patient to undergo a course of mercury, for a disease which does not require it, is a proceeding wliich reflects disgrace and dishonour on the character of a medical institution. No consideration shall induce me to repress my feelings on this subject; uo autho- rity shall restrain me from giving full e.xpression to those feelings. As long as I continue a surgeou of Guy’s hospital. I will endeavour to do my duty; but 1 care not whether I con- tinue a surgeou of that iiospital another day. I do say that the present treatment of patients under gonorrhoea in these hospitals, by putting them unnecessarily under a cour.<e of mercury for five or six weeks, is infamous and di.sgraceful. The health of a patient is, perhaps, irremediably destroyed by this treatment; and, after all, not the slightest effect is prti- duced by it on the disease. If lie is cured of liis eonorrhma at all, he must he cured by otlicr means. If you go to a [«- tient for gonorriia-a in the foul wards, at tlie cud of his course, and ask him liow many time.' he has rubbed in, he will gene- rally answer, “twenty eight times.” If you ask wlietluT be is salivated, he will tell you that be spits three pints a-day: blit ask him whether bis gonorrha'a is cured, and be wili re- ply, “ No, 1 have a clap still upon me.” His disea.'e is not in the sliglitest degree aftected by the mercurial course to which