ON HYDROCELE. ISO the water is completely enclosed in the cavity of the tnnica vaginalis. If the question were put to you, where i* the water situated in hydrocele ? the an.swer would be what I have just stated ; aud if you gave any other, it w-ould be directly jH;r- ceived that your knowledge of the anatomy of the part wa.' but imperfect. The situation of the water in hvdrocele is pre- cisely similar to water in the pericardium ; and what should we say of the man wdio would assert that this water was con- tained between the pericardium and heart ? WTiy, gentlemen, we should feel assured that he was entirely ignorant of the matter, for w'ater in the pericardium is situated distinctly within it: and so is water in hydrocele completely within the tunica vaginalis. Hydrocele is a generic term, and a multitude Of tumours have received this appellation. It is now, however, usually confined to two ; I should, therefore, say that hydrocele is of two kinds, viz., 1st, of the tunica vaginalis ; aud, 2d, of the spermatic cord. Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis. Well, then, of hydrocele in the tunica vaginalis. ITie swell- ing at first shows itself at the lower part of the testicle, and gradually rises till it arrives at the abdominal dug; is of a pyriform .shape ; largest two-thirds of the way downwards ; a little less at the bottom ; and smallest at the ring. The com- mon formation of hydrocele is unattended with pain, except- ing, however, in those cases where it has been the result of inflammation ; but, generally speaking, there is no pmn, and the patient accidentally discovers the existence of the swelling, and often not until it has arrived at considerable magnitude. Commonly there is no redness of the scrotum—no discolo- ration. The ordinary situation of the testicle in hydrocele is two- thirds of the way down the tumour, at the posterior part. Here, I say, is its usual situation ; but in this respect it some- times varies, as I shall presently show you. lu performing the operatiou for hydrocele, it is of the utmost imjtortance that you should have an exact knowledge of the situation of the testicle, for ignorance in this respect has often led to its being pierced by the trocar. You can easily discover the po- sition of the testicle by a careful examination of the swelling, and by squeezing it with some degree of force at every part. IVhen you press upon the testicle, you will find that part of the tumour more firm ; the p.atient will manifest much un- easiness, and complain that you give him a good deal of pain ; in this manner, then, you can readily discover where it is situated. The weight of the tumour is but little (this of