SCROFULOUS GLANDS OF THE NECK. 557 small quantity of the hydrargyrus cum creta (one grain) three or four times in the twenty-four hours. You must next consider what local treatment to employ if the gland suppur- ates. Wlien you find that there is a disposition to suppurate, evaporating lotions will not succeed, and therefore must be discontinued. You should feel if there be any fluctuation : for the moment that there is the slightest blush on the part and sense of fluctuation, indicating the presence of pus, you should make a small opening with a lancet, as in a common abscess; you should not wait for the skin to assume a livid hue, for then you will never be able to prevent scars. A scar in the neck of a boy is not of much consequence, but in the neck of a female it is quite a different case. In boys the neck is covered by the dress ; whereas, in females, it is ge- nerally exposed, and a scar in tliat part might be the means of destroying the happiness of the individual whose misfor- tune it was to have it. Nothing, gentlemen, is so revolting to the mind, or at least the minds of those who possess fine feel- ings and a refined taste, as the appearance of any thing on the female figure which calls to the recollection that the person you behold is tainted by a disease of a scrofulous nature ; and therefore it is your duty, if you have any regard for your own reputation and the happiness of others, to prevent the occur- rence of scars on the neck, a circumstance which may be easily effected. 1 will tell you why scars on the neck are so frequently met with : the surgeon waits, too often, till the skin has become livid, and then makes a puncture. But in this case he gains nothing by making an opening into the gland ; in fact, if the skin be of a livid colour, I advise you then not to make an opening. Apply poultices, and let nature effect the opening ; for the scar will not be so great then as if you were to make it. But I seriously advise you to make a puncture before the skin assumes the appearance I have just been describing to you. The instrument witli which I open tliese abscesses is a cataract knife, and I make the in- cision transversely, and just in the direction of the creases of the neck, so that when the wound heals, no scar is to be perceived. V'/hen the matter is discharged by the puncture, apply your finger to the side of the swelling, and squeeze out all the solid matter that may be contained in the gland. If the sac be not carefully emptied of all the solid matter, this substance will keep up considerable irritation, and prevent the healing of the wound ; therefore I wish to press on your attention the necessity of attending to this point. 1 have fre- quently seen serious inconvenience occasioned by its being neglected. Remember, first, the time at which you arc to