ON ABSCESSES. GI AIjscesses are dangerous according to the following circum- 't.iiices:— . , . rirst, from their size. It is not, howerer, the quantity of matter produced which renders them dangerous, hut the diffi- ciiltv which nature has in repairing the devastation made hy excavation of the solids, from the pressure of the matter. An abscess may discharge a quart of matter, and the enn- .stitutioii may have been scarcely affected by it; hut very soon after it i.s opened the constitution hegius to suffer. It is not therefore, the quantity of matter, hut the process of restora- tion after the evacuation of the matter, which atlects the con- stitution. 'I'he largest abscesses which occur in the body are tho.se of the liver. I’atients will sometimes recover from ab- scesses of this part, in which immense quantities ot matter liave formed. 1 remember one ot enormous magnitude, from which the patient recovered. Case.—V>r. Saunders, the lecturer on medicine at Guy s, asked me to see a woman wlio had a huge absces.s in the side. 1 made an opening into it with a lancet, and it discharged a surprising ipiantity of matter, as much as would till two- thirds of a wash hand basin. I have heard, indeed, of much larger quantities ot matter having been discharged. Attei pressing out the matter, I passed a roller tightly .round the abdomen, and brought the parts together, with a view' of pro- ducing the adliesive process, which now and then occurs. I did not see the patient again, but some days alter I met Dr. .Saunders, who asked me how I thought the patient w'as going on. I told him I supposed he asked me, because he tlioiight me very sanguine ; and he rcjdied, that I should be gratified to learn that tlie woman was doing extremely well, lu fact, the orifice had closed ; no more matter w'as discharged, and the patient got well without any bad symptoms. ^ 1 have men- tioned this case, because it may guide your practice when you are operating upon large abscjsses, and sliow you the pro- priety of endeavouring to procure the adhesive process, by bringing the sides of the abscess together. V ery large ab- .•cesses sometimes terminate favourably, but in a great iium- of cases they destroy life. 'I'he next circumstance whieh renders abscesses dangerous is their number. 'I'hus, the great iiumber of little abscessc.s on the surface of the body, in sinall-]iox, frctpicntly destroy life. Here utiture performs the suppurative piocess ; the pus- tules die away, and the cuticle is se|)arated from the siirfiice of the body ; but nature h:is not the power, in many cases, of repairing the destruction of the cutis ; the exposure of the