ON GANGRENE. 101 mail hi the prime of life, who died from gangrene, in conse- quence of an injury to the femoral artery. Thi.s gentleman was thrown out of a gig a.s he was going down a hill, and the wheel of tlie carriage went over hi.s thigh. When he vvas taken up, it was found that he had a simple fracture of the fe- mur. Every thing which attention and skill could do for him was done; but some peculiarities were immediately observed at the time of the accident. The lower part of the leg was (juite insensible ; it was considerably .swelled and hard. After lying in bed for a week, the patient became so restless that he wished to be removed. This was done in the gentlest pos- sible manner. He did not, however, experience the relief which he expected from a change of position, and the swell- ing was in some degree increased. I was then sent for ; and when 1 saw him, I was surprised to find that gangrene had already commenced at the knee. This was hardly to be expected tVom a simple fiacture ; for it so rarely happens that the femoral artery is injured by a fracture of the thigh-bone, that amongst all the cases of fractured fe- mur which 1 had seen in the eourse of my life, 1 never yet met with an instance in which the artery was injured. How- ever, from the immediate insensibility of the limb at the time of the accident, from its coldness, from tlie swelling which accompanied it, and also from the pulsation which existed opposite to the fracture, I W'as led to believe that the femoral artery was torn through. The question then arose whether we should amputate or not. Upon examination, I found the limb emphysematous ; the air had extended into the cellular tissue up the thigh to the abdomen, and putrefaction had al- ready commenced. I perceived, therefore, that the patient had but a tew hours to live, and that it was useless to put him to the pain of an operation. Upon examination after death, by the medical gentlemen at Rochester, where the patient resided, it was ascertaineil that the femoral artery was divided. It seems e.xtraordinary, when we contemplate the situation of the thigh-bone, that a fracture of it should notin one case out of ten produce a similar residt. A little knowledge of ana- tomy, however, explains this circumstance. Tiie artery is en- closed ill a sheath, which so far protects it, and its elasticity yielding to the pre.ssure of the bone, enables it to escape in a great majority of cases trom the occurrence of this accident. I he history i)f gangrene, as far as dissection enables us to judge ot it, is this : 'I’he excessive action of the part closes the blood-vessels, and the blood contained in them becomes coa- gulated. 1 his is a curious circumstance, which 1 ascertained by an experiment made on an animal. It is a well-known