82 ON ULCERS. the sore, the common treatment is to apply dry lint to the centre of the spre, and some unctuous substance to the edee*. The lint, by its pressure, prevents the growth of granulations in the centre, while the unctuoiis substance allows the granu- lations on the edge to proceed and inosculate with those on the surface of the sore. The lint should not be applied to the edge of the sore, for if it be, the granulations will he prevented from proceeding towards the centre of the sore. 'The nitrate of silver, aud the sulphate of copper, are employed for the purpose of destroying luxuriant granulations near the edges of the sore. Here our practice is just reversed. Lint is applied to the centre of the sore, for the purpose of keeping dotyu the granulations on the surface ; whereas the caustic is applied for the purpose of keeping down the granulations which are nearest the edge of the sore. " In this way we promote the healing of the sore, forming a little circle by the caustic from day to day until we arrive at the centre. Adhesive plaster is used with the same intention, viz., that of keeping down the granula- tions. 'I’he common adhesive plaster is, however, too stimu- lating for this purpose ; a plaster, composed of equal part.s of the emplastrum thiiris compositum, and the cmpla.strum sa- ponis, is a much better piaster to promote the healiug of ulcers than the common adhesive plaster. This is a point deserving attention ; because, if the application be of so stimu- lating a nature as to excite inllaniniat.on and e.X'oriate the skin, we are often under the necessity of Icav ing off the adhe- sive plaster. It sometimes happens, that the action is so great as to oblige us to apply a sheet of lead to the surface of the sore ; when this is necessary, you may apply a piece of lint covered with the ceratum cetacei, over these a piece of sheet lead, aud round the whole a roller should be passed ot about five’yards in length. These are the various modes of treat- ment in this state of the sore. The next circumstance to which we shall advert, as civing rise to difficultv in the treatment of ulcers, is a languid state of the sore, in'which its action is too slight. \Miat is the cha- racter of such a sore ? \ou may kno'v that a soie is in this state, by the glossy and scmi-irans[)arcnt appearance of the granulations; instead of the florid hue which characterises granulations in their healthy state, a considerable portion of them is bloodless. The fact is, tbahthe vessels near the sur- rounding parts have not sutlicii nt powa r to throw the blood to the extremities of the granulations. To remove this elossv ap- pearance, and (irodnce a healthy stale ot the sore, ilie applica- tion most commonly used is the ungnentnm Indrargyn mtrico- oxidi. 'I'his is a strong stimulating ai plicatu n, which occa-