17 ON INFLAMMATION. (leial)le distance, and it is a very nnfavourable sign in tliis accident. When matter is produced by intianunatiou of this texture, and is seated under it, great irritative fever fucceeds until it is di.scharged ; as, for example, in the palms of the hands, or soles of the feet. When inflammation attacks muscles, it is known bv the •spasmodic tvvitcbings which attend it. Tendons are not very susceptible of iiifiainination, but they sometimes become in- flamed to a considerable extent. Punctured wounds of ten- dons are apt to produce tetanus more than wounds of other parts of the body. Matter formed under tendons burrows to a great extent, and produces violent irritation, as under the tendon of the occipito-froutalis muscle, and the covering of the temporalis. Inflammation in the absorbent ves.sels is marked by red line.s on the skin in the cour.se of these vessels. These form bartl knots, from the skin [larticipatim; in the inflammation. 'Pheir glamls become also inflamed, and both tdaiids and ves.sels oc- casionally suppurate. They more frequently inflame from eommoti irritation than the absorption of poisons. '1 he arteries are rarely inflamed, excepting after wounds, or the application of ligature.s. Inflammation, however, of the arteries may be very extensive, when it occurs in a person whose health is very much deranged. 1 have known instances wltere it extended even to the heart. I was present vt heiiMr. Cline opened the body of a man who had a ligature put on the femoral artery near the groin, and who died at the second week from the operation. 'I'lie internal surface of the arterv was inflamed, as wa.s ttkso that of the exieinal and common iliacs, and the aorta was of a florid red inicrnallv, as far as the valves of the heitrt. Vein.H which are inflamed from wouiid.s become like hard and broad eords, and extremely tender to the touch ; and if it occur from bleediiiE, it extends from the orifice to the axilla. I have seen several I'atientsdie from this cairse ; and on exa- mination, the inner coats of the arteries have been generallv tound adhering. I have .seen suppuration of a vein, and I once saw an abscess in the longitudinal .sinus of the dura mater, of winch we have a beautiful specimen in the anatomical col- lection at .St. Thomas’s Hospital. When inflammation of the veins IS produced by the application of ligature.s ou them, it will be tound to be greater below the ligature than above it _ Nerves are very rarely inflamed, but when they are, the iiain IS e.xccssue, and there is a tingling sensation in the parts to uincn the uervt* is distributed. Wound.*? of nerves, tliou^Ii r\- treinely painful at the moment^ are followed by little irritation, c