ON HERNIA. 230 Omentum in a state of Gangrene. When the omentum is in a gangrenous state, it will be known by the blood coagulating in the veins, and this is the criterion whether it is to be returned or not. To a.“certain this, pass yonr lingers along the surface of the omentum, and if the blood be coagulated in the veins, there will be a crispy feel. 'Fhe omentum in a state of gangrene has nothing of the blue apj>ear- ance seen on gangrenous surfaces, nor any of the green spots to be found on the intestine in a similar state. ^\Tien the omen- tum is gangrenous, excision is the treatment always adopted; cut away the omentum close to the mouth of the hernial bag, and leave the remainder to plug up the opening ; the vessels must be secured. The practice of the old surgeons used to be, to apply a ligature on the part just above the gangrene, a prac- tice that one scarcely knows how sufficiently to condemn. AMiat is the operation for strangulated hernia performed for ? to ac- complish what object ? Why, to relieve the omentum or intes- tine from its strangulated state. Under the old plan, no sooner was this done, than a stricture, worse than the one which ex- isted before the operation, was produced ; consequently the continuation of the symptoms and ultimately destruction of life, used to be the consequence. The practice is one that cannot be thought of without our being shocked that it was ever adopted. Treatment after the Operation.—You must bring the integu- ments together, and keep them in apposition by means of su- tures ; do not include any parts in the sutures but the skin, and bring the edges so in contact as to produce adhesion ; if you can effect this a great advantage will be gained. .After the operation for strangulated hernia there are two things from which danger is to be apprehended ; first, that the in- testines may not perform their office, and the fa?ccs not paM in their natural course ; secondly and principallv, that peri- toneal inflammation may come on, and produce the same effect as if gangrene were present. The object then should be to close the wound as completely as possible, and for this purpose slight pressure will be of service. If the hernial sac remains open, the process of adhesion will be difficult; but if adhesion of the sac takes place, ]»eritoneal inflammation will probably be prevented. After the integuments have been brought together by means of sutures, slight pressure should be made by dossils'of lint, aud’the parts should be supported in a suspensory bandage. 'I'he suspensory bandage will be of use in preventing the formation of matter in the scrotum. Tliere are three things, then, that you are to attend to in the after treatment; first, keeping the parts together by sutures ;