475 ON VIRULENT GONORRHOEA. instances, when injudiciously employed. Caution is necc.s- sary in the use of nitrate of silver, to prevent its getting m contact with any other parts than where its presence is abso- lutely necessary ; and let me advise you not to use the caustic alkali as a substitute for lunar caustic ; it is much too soluble, and, by running over an extended surface, is calculated to pro- duce a great degree of inflammation. 1 have known eight ap- plications of the lunar caustic completely succeed in curing stricture, when every other means had failed; in this case there was a fistula in perinaeo behind the stricture. I have now to make two or three observations on the con- sequences of introducing bougies : here is a preparation (hold- ing it up), in which you see the bougie forced out of the ure- thrainto the scrotum, just by the bulb; here is another pre- paration in which the bougie was forced into the bulb itself. Now, whenever you suspect a tear of the urethra in passing a bougie, immediately withdraw the iustrument, and desire the patient, if possible, to retain his urine, that it may not irritate the wound, and also to prevent its escaping through the open- ing, and becoming extravasated in the surrounding cellular substance. In this way you give time for a clot of blood to form over the surface of the wound—a slight degree of in- flammation is excited, and it becomes healed by the adhesive process, without any further mischief. Another circumstance I wish to mention to you is, that the passing of a bougie is sometimes attended with very considerable hemorrhage from the urethra. A practitioner once called upon me in a great hurry, but whose name 1 will not mention, for I do not wish to hurt him, although he is not at all calculated to practise surgery; well, this person called upon me, and requested me to go immediately and see a patient of his, who had a profuse bleeding from the penis, occasioned by the introduction of a bougie. I went and found as he had stated; I pressed a roller upon the perineum, which instantly checked the flow of blood. A short time afterwards I was sent for to the same patient, from the hemorrhage having returned ; this gentleman had been lounging before the fire, with a foot on each side of the chimney-piece ; the warmth coming in contact with the peri- neum, had brought on a renewal of the hemorrhage. I now- made an incision upon the part, and divided the artery of the bulb ; thi.s operation completely succeeded, and the bleeding was permanently subdued.