456 ox POIEON.-i. cilagiuoiis secretion, aflects the internal coats of me ttoirja-i and produces gangrene. The inflaiiiniation, hovrever, i*- no- general, but affects only particular spots. When the poison pas.ses the bound.s of the stomach, and enters the dnodeuunj, it still produces ulcerated spots of a gangrenous cokior, tlit i nil animation not being generally diffused. If, therefore, vou should be called upon in a court of justice to say whether you believe a person to have been poisoned by ar.-eiiic, vour jude- nient must lie guided by the following appearances :—If the lierson has died by the effects of arsenic, you will find a large quantity of mucus secreted in the stomach, a part of the arseuic supported in the mucus, aud gangrenous spots in the in- ternal part of the stomach. Having found tlie.se appear- ances, and carefully washed out the stomach, it is bette: to send the contents to some person who is in the habit of making chemical experiments. A medical man, unless he i.- a first rate chemist, ought not to depeud upon his own ex- periments in cases where the lives of individuals mav, per- haps be involved in the decision. He should content him.«>elr w'ith carefully collecting the contents of the stomach, and sending them to be analysed by a professed chemist. Tht dose of arsenic, when it is given as a medicine, is five drops of the arseiiiate of potash three times a day at the commence- ment. Tills dose may be increased at the utmost to fifteen drops. Few stomachs can bear it to that extent; and, in general, when I give this medicine wdth a view for the removal of any periodical disease of the intermittent form, I begin with five drops tliree times a day, aud very rareiy increase it beyond twelve drops. The bad effects which this medicine produces after a time, often leads us to regret that we should liave employed it at all. (t occasions pain in the stomach, a disordered state of the bowels, oedematous swellings in the face, and in the hand.s aud feet, from which it is often a lone time before the patient recovers. With respect to the exter- nal application of arsenic, you should be very much on your guard in its employment. I reniemher a patient in the other hospital, who had a fungus in the eye, to which the solution of arsenic was very liberally applied ; he complained very much of pain iii the stomach, and the result was, that he died of iuflauiniatiou iu that organ. On e.xamiiiation of the bodv after death, the stomacli exhibited the peculiar inffanimatorv appearances produced by the poison of arsciuc. It is a curious circumstance, tliat if arsenic be injected into the blood- vessels, it kills by producing iutlammatioii in the .stomach. There are few subjects whicli have been less attended to than tlie disposition that exists in some parts of the body to be act-