y TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. XO fiud this description of pulse, you will be justified in taking awav blood. The hardest pulse that I ever met with, was in a person who had infiamraatinu of the heart; in infiauunation of the lungs and of the brain the pulse is hard, but not to be compared to this. The pulse, however, is not always hard when inflam- mation attacks important parts. The contrary is sometimes the fact; for, when the stomach or intestines is thus affected, the pulse is scarcely discoverable. Persons, unacquainted with the nature of this fact, are frightened at seeing a man fre- quently bled, who has, for e.\ample, strangulated hernia, and will often exclaim, “ Pray don’t bleed him any more, see how pale he is, and his pulse is almost gone.” \Vell then, recol- lect, that in inflammations of the abdominal viscera the pulse is feeble; but inflammation of the liver, however, is an ex- ception to this rule. Quickness of pulse is not in itself a sufficient proof that bleeding is requisite, but when united with hardness, no ad- ditional evidence of its necessity can be wanted; therefore, never bleed where there is a quick pulse, unless at the same time it be a hard one. The indication for a repetifion of blood-letting is said to be a huffy state of the blood, but your decision must not be governed by tliis appearance, you must still have a hard pulse. When blood is cupped it is said to be a proof of strength, and that bleeding should be repeated ; the following case, however, will show that even a cupped state of the blood and buffiness conjoined are not sufficient evidence to warrant a conclusion that venesection may be re- peated. A man at Guy’s Hospital, in tlie last state of scurvy, and whose blood-vessels were so weak that a very slight pies- sure upon the skin produced ecchymosis—whose gums bled frequently, and whose pulse W’as exceedingly feeble atid quick—had taken from his arm, at my request, a very small quantity of blood, by way of experiment; after standing for a few hours, it became not only huffy, but exceedingly cup- ped. When, therefore, you employ bleeding, it may be of importance to you to keep this experiment in your reineni- brance. The quantity of blood which should be drawn at a time, in inflammation, must depend entirely on the severity of the complaint. 'I'he proportion of blood, compared with the solids, which can be drawn from an animal before it dies, is about one pound to sixteen. I ascertained this fact in the following manner : —I took a small dog, weighing fourteen pounds, and opened his jugular vein ; in this way eleven ounces were dis-