622 ON COMPOUND FRACTURES. out; and I have seen several patients, treated by Mr. Pott for this accident, who had this deformity. 'Fhe second objection to the practice is, that the limb, from being kept long in the extended position, causes the motion of the knee-joint to be very much diminished, and there is great difficulty subse- quently in restoring it. In compound fracture of the humerus, let the arm hang by the side, with the fore-arm and hand very slightly supported in a sling, so that its weight may not be entirely taken off the humerus, for it will tend materially to preserve the apposition of the ends of the bone. Do not keep the patient in bed, lor in the recumbent posture the arm is generally placed across the chest, the arm is put on the twist, and the fracture unites hadly. A compound fracture of the femur generally does better than a compound fracture of the leg, because the bone is so much surrounded by muscle that the wound made is much more easily closer!, and is not therefore followed by the same degree of suppuration. ^rhe humerus generally does well when fractured, on the same account. The worst cases are those of the fore-arm and leg, from inflammation and sloughing of the tendons in the one, and the superficial nature of the covering of the bone m the other. . . ... The constitutional fmi/inenf required in these accidents mil be regulated by the force of the symptoms ; but there are a few circumstances which 1 consider important for you to be- come acquainted with. If the patient be young and plethoric take blood from the arm sufficient to allay the constitutional suffering, but do not give purgatives, as they ven' much dis- turb the patient, and add to the irritation, by the necessi i which there is of his being frequently moved. Nothing is so bad in the treatment of compound fracture as the frequent changing of the positions and dressings of the patient; it is a state of rest which is nece.ssary for the >' and, therefore, the less they are disturbed .f’^ opium to quiet the irritation, and give also, at the ^^nicti , the saline mixture, with the liquor aiitim. tartaiizat. to Keep up the secretion of the skin. I shall next speak of the difficulties someUmes the treatment of these accidents; and, bist of the diiheu which now and then exists in the reduction ol the bone, wlii.h TcLsionally arises from a portion of skin being "'Pl-d «>-der the projecting extremitv of the bone. M hen you ti> to ex- tend tlJ limb, you find iilace. If this projecting portion of bone be not large, mak