469 ON VIRULENT GONORRHCEA. inedy, namely, that the greatest advantage may be derived from combining its use with that of the balsam of copaiba. An ounce of the balsam of copaiba, an ounce of the mucilage of acacia, and two drachms of cubebs, in four ounces of the mistura caraphorata, make an admirable mixture when tlie balsam of copaiba alone is beginning to lose its etfect. Such, ueutlemen, it appears to me, is the mode of treating gonor- rho;a, which will best contribute to the maintenance of your own professional character, and to the welfare of your pa- tients. LECTURE LVJ. In this evening’s lecture, gentlemen, I shall call your atten- tion to some of the consequences of gonorrhma, and first of Strictures of the Urethra. 'I'hese are of three kinds—the permanent, spasmodic, and inflammatory. The permanent stricture is the result of a thickening of the urethra from chronic inflammation ; the spasmodic arises either from a contraction of the muscles surrounding the ure- thra, or from the urethra itself; the inflammatory, in conse- quence of inflammation of the acute kind, which generally succeeds the acute gonorrhoea. This inflammation occasions an extravasation of adhesive matter between the corpus spon- giosum and surface of the urethra. At the commencement of the formation of every permanent stricture, you are made acquainted with the real nature of the complaint by the following symptoms :—The first is, the re- tention of a few drops of urine in the urethra, after the whole appears to have been discharged; so that when the penis has been returned into the small clothes, the linen becomes slightly wetted, and if you press on the under side of the urethra, a few drops more will be voided, which had collected between the neck of the bladder and that part of the urethra where the stricture is situated. The next circumstance you notice is an irritable state of the bladder ; this is evinced by the person not being enabled to sleep so long as usual without discharging his urine. A man in health, will sleep for seven, eight, or nine hours, without being obliged to empty his blad- der ; but when he has stricture, he cannot continue for a longer period than four or five hours, and frequenlly much le.s.s even than this. The next circumstance observable is the