201 ON HERNIA. It sometimes liappens that there are hernia with the exter- nal covering so thin that you are enabled to see the peristaltic motion of the intestines ; this is not unfrequently the case in lai-ge hernia. 1 have seen the lower orifice of the stomach pulled down to the abdominal ring. Hernia varies as to its contents; at one time it contains in- testines, at another omentum ; and here let me observe that intestines will be generally found in the hernia ot children, and that omentum is very rarely to be met with in the very young. I stated to you that tliere were several varieties, that the hernia sometimes enters the spermatic cord, and splits it into two parts; and that the spermatic artery and vein are before, and the vas deferens behind ; here is a specimen, however, (holding it in the hand) of the spermatic cord being- split by a hernia, with the spermatic artery and vein on the outer, and vas deferens on the inner side ; on this account, in large hernia, if the operation is performed, the opening is made in the upper and not the lower part; in large hernia a peculiar mode of operating is required. I have seen the bladder in a hernial sac ; this happens in the oblique inguinal hernia more frequently than the direct. Now, gentlemen, I have given you the anatoniy of inguinal hernia, I next come to the symptoms and diagnostic marks of this disease. If you were asked how you would know a hernia, what answer would you give Why hernia is to be known when it acts with the abdominal muscles, dilates and expands on coughing ; 2dly, from its course, beginning from above and gradually descending; 3dly, when the person is placed in the recumbent posture the hernia returns ; and then by these three means will you be assisted in detecting the hernia. Its reduction in the recumbent position is a striking mark of dis- tinction, but not without exception; and besides, if it is a hernia, when the intestine goes into the abdomen there is a gurgling noise, from the air and fluid which it contains. When there is omentum in the sac, the sensation communi- cated to the finger is different; omentum is less easily dis- tended, more solid. Some surgeons have said, “ Oh ! a hernia will be known to contain omentum by its doughy feel and want of elasticity ;” this may be said in the closet, but will not do at the bedside of the patient. Here 1 must remark, that 1 have seen some of the best surgeons deceived in this point, and that when the contents of the hernial sac have been .said to be intestine, they have been omentum ; and when omentum they have been intestine; there is not a surgeon of any experience but will allow with me, that there is con-