ON PSOROPHTHALMY. ~0 / the one I have just been describing, because it is in general a consequence of it, is PSOROPIITIIALMY. Psorophthalmy is an inflammation particularly of tliat part of the conjunctiva which lines the lids, but it extends sometiines over the whole of the conjunctiva covering the globe. This com- plaint is often obstinate, and extremely difficult of ‘'t'te i it extends over the cornea, coniiinctival lining of the palpebrae, the cheek and nose ; and, lastly, the globe of the eye become.s affected, if this complaint be not checked. At the origin of this disease, there is a glutinous matter secreted on the edge of the lids- ulcers form ; and there is often great difficulty in sepa- rating the lids from one another. By this nieans matter lodges on the lids, and tends to keep up the irritation of the whole of the part. You not unfreqiieiitly see the redness extending down the whole of the cheek, and excoriation taking place on the cuticle. If the inflaiumatiou spreails over the whole of Bie conjunctiva, the lachrvmal sac becomes irritated, and effusion of tears over the cheek takes place on the surface of the cheek. The inflammation is of theatonic kind, accompanied with that symptom distinguishing strumous ophthalmia, intolerance of light, and a feel as if there were some extraneous body in tin- eye, grit or sand, which gives rise to an effusion of the tears. The lids are very red on the edges, and there is an incrustation of matter on them. There is occasionally^ a contraction of the intecument of the lower lid, by which it becomes depressed and everted. In this inflammation the secretion deposited from the lids dries up, ulcers form, small briny incrustations are formed, and there is an apiiearance of tinea on the lids. The watery* part of the secretion from the lids is evaporated, which leaves the incrustations that keep up the irritation and form small ulcers. In consequence, an alteration in the figure of the tarsi occurs ; there is a contraction of the cellular membraiie just beneath the lower palpebra, and eversion of that lid. I his affection of the eye is of difficult management, and is frequently found in persons of a scrofulous diathesis, in children of large towns who are ill fed and wor.se clothed, with little attention paid to cleanliness. The complaint is very obstinate in its cure ; and if relieved, it generally returns, and becomes as bad as ever. It is not, however, confined to the lower classes, but the higher and middling ranks of society are sometimes attacked wdtli it —those who are of a scrofulous diathesis. In schools also it will be found ; it frequently arises from the irritating matter be’uig applied to the lid, which may be conveyed from one to another by using the same towel, or in some such way. '1 he treatment