559 SCROFULOUS DISEASES OF JOINTS. Treatment of Diseased Mesenteric Glands.—As to tlie treat- ment, I advise you to direct that tlie child should take ani- mal food, prepared so that it may be easily digested. Vege- table food is very improper. A little arrow-root may be taken, and nutritious broths. Animal food will generally best agree with the child, if it he prepared in the manner by which it may be most easily digested. The principle on which you act is, that the child may take the most nutritious food, and why} Because, absorption being to a great degree pre- vented, it is important that nothing but highly nutritious rood should be taken, so that nutriment may be conveyed to the system. Animal food is more nutritious than vegetable food; therefore you give it in preference to the last. To assist the digestive piocess, it is desirable to give some wine and water, to stimulate the stomaeh, to secrete the gastric juice, and to e.vcite the action of the intestines. In exciting the intestines, you have a two-fold object in view : stimulat- ing the absorbents, and producing the peristaltic motion of the intestines. The best medicine in this disease, with which I am acquainted, is the o.xymuriate of mercury, given in small doses, and in combination with the tincture of bark ; one grain of the oxymuriate, in two ounces of tincture of bark ; or, should the bowels be costive, in the same quantity of tincture of rhubarb. The hydrargyrus cum cretii and rhubarb, given so as to produce an aperient effect, are good medicines. The o.xymuriate of mercury should be given with no other view than to improve the secretion from the liver and intestines, and thus produce one stool a-day. The abdomen should be covered with a stimulating ])laster, or frequently rubbed with the hand, in order to produce a gentle action in the part, and excite the absorbents. This is the treatment of enlarged me- senteric glands. Drop.sy is sometimes connected with this disease. 'J'iien ])aracente.sis should be performed, when the patient generally recovers. Now' and then a mesenteric gland suppurates, opens at the navel, and frequently communicates with the intestines, and thus an artificial anus is produced. In these cases, where there is an artificial anus, a large pio|)ortion recovers. Poul- tices should be applied over the opening; and when the in- riamrnation is subdued, strips of adhesive plaster should be applied, so as to bring the edges of the wound together, but not until you tbink that all the matter has been discharged from the gland. Diseasf.s of Joints. The diseases of joints vary in their character, accoidine to fJie stage of the complaint. It generally ha])peii.s, that after a