ON CALCULI IN THE BLADDER. 310 there is always considerable pain : and the patient walks wiib didiculty, with slight pain at the end of the yard. Some pej sons will come into your room, sit down, and say that they think that they have a stone in the bladder, and talk lightly of it; but you may depend, gentlemen, that they have no such thing ; the pain felt opposite to the fraenutn, in cases of stone of the bladder, is as if a knife was running through the penis, and they will describe it as a deep-seated pain. It i.« different in degree in many cases, .some being exceedingly irritable, others being much less so—but the pain is generally very se- vere. Very little urine can be kept in the bladder, and the patient feels a frequent disposition to void it. Pain opposite to thefrmnum, and a frequent disposition to void the urine, are symptoms attending stone ; and if there is much irritation, bloody urine will be voided : indeed this is a constant conco- mitant, and is a symptom you should particularly inquire for : it is not always present in the veiy young but in adults, and those who have been afflicted with stone for a long time, this symptom will be met with. Where persons who have stone cannot ride on horseback without being obliged frequently W dismount and void the urine—what you find is this, they go a short distance, then are obliged to stop and get off, and dis- charge their urine, which is bloody. If they ride in a carriage it is the same, they are obliged to stop and get out—and if they are in the company of friends, and wish to conceal it from them, the desire to void the urine is so great, that they are obliged to sacrifice their natural delicacy of mind to the irresistible call of nature. The urine is not changed unless there is much irrita- tiou in the bladder ; butif the stone has been of long standing, and there is disease in the bladder, there will be clots of blood ill the urine. When the mucous membrane of the bladder is affected, the urine will be white, which will show that the bladder is diseased ; there will also be Hakes of matter in it, and when this is the case, the patient is in a state that would be improper for an operation. There is a sudden arrest of the urine during the flow of a full stream, in consequence cither ot a valve formed in the uretlira, or the stone resting qgainst ihe neck of tlie bladder. The diagnostic symptoms of stone in tlie bladder are pain towards the e.xtremity of the penis, opposite to the framum, discharge of bloody urine ; sudden arrest of tbi water during the flow of a full stream, and a frequent disposi- tion to void tlie urine, and pain in doing it, partienlarly in the erect position. Persons witli stone are frequently obliccd, wlieii tiicy make water, to rest their heads against somethin^, to bend their iiriiis and legs, and tlnis discliargc tlicir uniie. 'I’licre is a disposition also to void the fscccs at tlie time oi