ROBERTS BROTHERS, Boston. “Among all the Cook-Books this will certainly take its place as one of the very best.” — The Christian Union. MRS. LINCOLN’S BOSTON COOK-BOOK. WHAT TO DO AND WHAT NOT TO DO IN COOKING. By MRS. D. A. LINCOLN, AUTHOR OF “CARVING AND SERVING.” 'With 50 Illustrations. One handsome i2mo volume of 600 pages, neatly half bound. Price, 52.00. “ It is the trimmest, best arranged, best illustrated, most intelligible manual of cookery as a high art, and as an economic art, that has appeared.” — Inde- pendent. “ ^ >s exactly fitted for use as a family authority, in that it is the work, not of a theorizer, but of a woman who knows what she is talking about. It is the very common-sense of the science of cookery.” — Extracts from Sallie Joy White1 s Letters in Philadelphia and Portlandpapers. “ The recipes are practical, and give just those facts which are generally omitted from books of this sort, to the discouragement of the housekeeper, and frequently to the lamentable disaster and failure of her plans. Mrs. Lincoln has laid a large number of people under obligation, and puts into her book a large amount of general experience in the difficult and delicate art of cooking. The book is admirably arranged, and is supplied with the most perfect indexes we have ever seen in any work of the kind.” — The Christian Union. “It is to be recommended for its usefulness in point of receipts of moderate cost and quantity, in its variety, its comprehensiveness, and for the excellence of its typographical form.” — Boston Transcript. “ We have no fear in saying that Mrs. Lincoln’s work is the best and most practical cook-book of its kind that has ever appeared. It does not emanate from the chef of some queen’s or nobleman’s cuisine, but it tells in the most simple and practical and exact way those little things which women ought to know, but have generally to learn by sad experience. It is a book which ought to be in every household.” — Philadelphia Press. * Mrs. Lincoln’s Boston Cook-Book is kept on sale by all booksellers everynvhere. If you cannot readily obtain it, enclose the amount $2.00, directly to the Publishers, who will mail it, post-paid.