ANATOMOGRAPHY or GRAPHIC ANATOMY BY WILLIAM DARLING, M.D., F.R.C.S. Eng PROFESSOE OF ANATOMY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK. MOTOR NERVES OF THE INTRINSIC MUSCLES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. MOTO:^. NERVES OF THE INTRINSIC MUSCLES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. MUSCLES DIVIDED IN CASES OF AMPUTATION. FORAMINA COMMUNICATING WITH THE INTERIOR OF THE CRANIUM. SYNOPSIS OF THE STRUCTURE OF THE HEART AND THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. BAILLIERE, TINDALL, AND COX, KING WILLIAM STREET, STRAND. LONDON:INTRODUCTORY NOTE. These tables will be found serviceable as a means of enabling the student to remember the details of information gathered by study of the subject in books and by observation. They are valueless as an assistance in " cramming ;" no aid will be derived from them until this detailed study has been accomplished. The explanatory notes appended to each table will be found sufficient to indicate the right method of employing it ; but—particularly with the table referring to amputations—these directions must be carefully read. In the table of " Motor Nerves of Muscles of the Lower Extremity " " Curral," by a printer's error, has been substituted for "Crural." The external popliteal branch of the great sciatic nerve is in the same table termed " Peroneal," a name less familiar to English students than to their American brothers. In using the tables of Motor Nerves it will be found convenient to read from right to left, proceeding from the< column of ^' totals " to those of distribution. The present series will be followed at intervals by other Anatomographical tables.MOTOR NEKVES OF THE INTEINSIC MUSCLES OP THE UPPER EXTREMITY. By WILLIAM DARLING, M.D., F.R.O.S., Professor of Anatormj in the University of New York. — ■ Nei'ves. Muscles of the Scapulo - Humeral Reg"., or Muscles connecting the Arm with Shoulder. 1 Humeral Reg., or Muscles situated on the Arm. Muscles of the Forearm. Muscles of the Hand. Total. Muscles. i 5th and 6th SUPRA-SCAPULAR< Cervical ( Nerve. 2 2 2 Supra-spinatus, and Infra-spinatus. Subscapular - O From Pos- 1 terior Cord Circumflex •••1^ of the 1 Brachial Musculo-SpiralJ Plexus. 2 2 ... 2 3 ... 2 2 5 2 2 14 Subscapularis, and Teres Major. Deltoid, and Teres Minor. Triceps, Anconeus, Subanconeus, and Eadialis Longior. Supinator Longus, Extensor Carpi J. V^o L\Jx A-lL Ij^XV'i3oCWU.O • • • 9 q J Extensor Carpi Eadialis Brevior. Do. Communis Digitorum. Do. Minimi Digiti. Do. Carpi Ulnaris. and Exten Supinator Brevis. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis. Do. Primi Internodii Pollicis. Do. Secundi do. do. sor Indicis. Musculo-CutaneouSjEx. Cord 1 2 3 3 Coraco-Brachialis, Biceps, and Brachialis Anticus. Median, Ex. and In. Cord • . . 4 - 11 Pronator Teres. Flexor Carpi Eadialis. Palmaris Longus. Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. Abductor Pollicis. Opponens Pollicis. First and Second Lumbricales. 1 1 of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis 1 (outer head). Anterior Interosseous ... • . • Pronator Quadratus, Flexor Longus PoUicis and outer half of the Flexor Profundus Digitorum, UiuNAii, Inner Cord Flexor Carpi Ulnaris, and inner half of the Flexor Profundus Digitorum. Superficial PaJmar ... 1 1 16 Palmaris Brevis. Deep Palmar \ Abductor Pollicis, Abductor Minimi Digiti, Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, Opponens Minimi Digiti, 3rd and 4th Lumbricahis, 7 luterossei, and inner half of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis (iuuer head). 7 4 20 19 50 50 X.B.—The above table, constructed for the purpose of showing the Motor Nerves of the Intrinsic Muscles of the Upper Extremity, indicates at the same time the name and number of the muscles situated on the dififerent segments of the limb. It should be borne in mind that the Flexors and Pronators of the forearm and hand are situated on the anterior, while the f^xtensor and Supinator Muscles are on the posterior surface of the limb. By reference to the table it will also be fouud that of the former (27 in number) 11 are supplied by the Median, 16 by the Ulnar Nerve and its V)ranches, and of the latter (11 in number) 2 are supplied by the Muscule-Spiral, and the remaining 9 by the Posterior Interosseous. The Brachialis Anticus u«ually receives a fikmeut from the Musculo-Spiral, as well as from the Musculo-Cutaneous Nerve.MOTOR NERVES OF THE MUSCLES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. Iliac Femoral Region. Poplit. Region. Crural Region. Pedal Region. a\ cr\ Co. Anter. Int. Glut. Poster. Ant. Exter. Post. Sup. Post. Deep. Dors. Plant. Total. Names of tlie Muscles. 2 ... ... ... 2 Psoas Magnus, and Psoas Parvus. 1. Ant. Crural 1 6 ... ... ... ... ... 7 ... Iliacus, Sartorius, Pectus Femoris, Vastus Externus, Vastus Internus, Crureus, and Subcrureus. 2. Obtm-ator ... 6 1 6 1 K io Gracilis, 3 Adductors, Pectiueus, and Obturator Ex- ternus. Sacral Plexus ... 5 ... ... ... ■• ... 5 5 ... Pyriformis, Gemellus Superior, Obturator Internus, Gemellus Inferior, and Quadratus Femoris. 1. Super. Gluteal 1 ... 2 ... 3 3 Tensor Vaginae Femoris, Gluteus Medius and Minimus. 2. Small Sciatic ... ... 1 ... ... ... 1 1 Gluteus Maximus. 3. Great Sciatic 3 3 Biceps, Semitendinosus, Semimembranosus. A. Popliteal... ... 1 3 4 Popliteus, Gastrocnemius, Plantaris and Soleus. Poster Tibial ... :. : 3 ... . • ■ 3 Flexor Longus Pollicis, Flexor Longus Digitorum, and Tibialis Posticus. a. Int. Plantar ... 5 5 Abductor Pollicis, Flexor Brevis Digitorum, Flexor Brevis Pollicis, 1st and 2nd Lumbricales. /3. Extern. Plantar ... • • . ... 14 14 29 ... Abductor Minimi Digiti, Flexor Accessorius, Adductor Pollicis, 3rd and 4th I-umbricales, Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, Transversus Pedis and the 7 lu- terossei. JJ. Peroneal ... ... ... ... ... ... ... a. Anter. Tibial ... ... ... 3 1 1 5 Tibialis Anticus, Extensor riopiius jroiiicih, jiixieiibui Longus Digitorum, Peroneus Tertius, and Ex- tensor isrevis uigibumm. /3. Musculo-Cuta- neons 2 2 7 45 Peroneus Longus, and Peroneus Brevis. 3 7 5 1 9 3 1 3 3 3 3 1 19 60 60 60 3 24 1 12 20 ^ N.B.-The PecdmuH receives additional filaments from the Anterior Curral and Accessory Obturator N.; the Adductor Magnus one from the Sciatic and ^^}^Jll^f^[^^^ horn the Sacral PlexuH. It thu8 appears, that of the sixty muscles of the Lower Extremity, fifteen are supplied by the Lumbar, and the remaining torty-tive Dy tne oaoitu3TWO JOISTS. Sterno-Cleido-Mivstoid St^rni>-Hvoid OmchHroid Pecroniiis Major Latissimus Dorsi Biceps Flexor Cabiti Triceps Extensor Cubiti HEAD AND NECK. TRUNK. SHOULDER. ARM. FOREARM. Flexor Carpi Radialis Palmaris Ix)ngTis Flexor Sublimis Dio^itorum Flexor Carpi Ulnaris Extensor Carpi PtadialLs L. Extensor Carpi Ead Brevis I Extensor Communi.'5 Digi- ' torum Extensor iMinimi Digiti Extensor Carpi Ulnaris 9' HAND. 16 ONE JOINT. Subclaviiis Pectoralis Minor Serratus Magnus Trapezius Levator Anguli Scapulae Rhomboideus Minor Rhomboideus Major ,7 Deltoid Supva-spinatus Infra-spin atus Teres Minor Teres Major Subscapularis Coraco - Brachialis Brachialis Anticus Pronator Teres Anconeus Supinator Longus Supinator Brevis Flexor Longus Pollicis Flexor Profundus Digi- torum Extensor Ossis Meta- carpi PolUcis Extensor Primi Inter- nodii Pollicis Extensor Secuudi Inter- nodii Pollicis Extensor Indicis 25 PLAN TO SHOW THE NAMES AND NUMBER OF THE MUSCLES DIVIDED IN THE AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE PRINCIPAL JOINTS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. TWO JOINTS. Cont ^ Sartoriu? ■ } Rector Femoris Int. Gracilis ^ Biceps P. { Semi-tendinosus ( Semi-membranosus TRUNK. ONE JOINT. Psoas Magnus ( Iliac Iliacus S Region Tensor Vagi- ) Ant.Femo- nae Femoris [ ral group Pectineus \ Adductor Longus (inter- Adductor Brevis ^naldo. Adductor Magnus j Gluteus Maximus Gluteus Medius Gluteus Minimis Pyriformis Gemellus Superior Obturator luter- ( nus j Gemellus Inferior Obturator Ex- ) | ternus j j Quadratus Fe- 7 | 1^ moris ) J Glu- teal do. Vastus Externus \ Ant. Crurseus Tibial Vastus Internus ; do. Popliteus Popliteat. Tibialis Anticus Extensor Proprius Pollicis Extensor Longus Digito- rum Soleus Tibialis Posticus Flexor Longus Pollicis Flexor Longus Digitorum Peroueus Longus Peroneus Brevis Peroneiis Tertius These tables are a>nstructed for the purpose-of enabling the learner to ascertain the names and numbers of the muscles divided in cases of imputation through the principal joints of the upper and lower extremities. The horizontal lines represent the segments of the limb respectively. The intermediate spaces will of course correspond to the joints. The red hues represent the group of muscles passing from one segment to another, and opposite which are their names In order to ascertain the number of muscles divided in amputation through any joint, /V'"'-'""*' ijcLweeu snouiuer ana arm, ana it wiu iubcir.<ri.i, nuee . x^xv^^iix^g f^icy^^y^ ^..^ . whith, being abided together, make 11, the number of muscles divided. By proceeding' in the same manner with the other joints, it will be found that in amputating at the elbow lb are divM, at the wi-ist 15, at the hip 22, at the knee 12. and at the ankle 12. For instance, in the case of Matthew Wood, alluded to by Cheselden in his Anatomy, whose entire upper extremity 5^ ^ windmill, there were 12 muscles torn across. This is proved by the horizontal line drawn between the Trunk and Shoulder. Crossing three red lines, and opposite tlie lowei end of theue lines, are the numbers, 7, 3, and 2, the sum of which is 12. The table also shows the name and number of the muscles which connect the segments between which they extena.The foramina are arranged in regular order from before backwaras, anterior ff^, 8 in the middle fossa, and 6 in the posterior tossa, ^' " A TABLE EEPRESENTING THE FORAMINA COMMUNICATING WITH THE INTERIOR OF THE CRANIUM, AND THE ORGANS WHICH THEY TRANSMIT. SINGLE. FORAMINA. I. Anterior Fossa. 1. Forameu Caecum ... II. Posterior Fossa. 2. Forameu Maguum ANTERIOR FOSSA. 5 pairs. I. Ethmoidal Fissure II. Olfactory Foramina 3. Anterior Ethmoidal Canal (Fronto-Ethmoidal) 4. Posterior Ethmoidal Canal (Fronto-Ethmoidal) 5. Optic Foramen .PARTS PASSING THROUGH THE VARIOUS FORAMINA. A small vein from the lining membrane of the nose to the superior longitudinal sinus, sometimes one from the frontal sinus, and a fold of the dura mater. Medulla oblongata and its envelopes, the vertebral arteries, and the spinal accessory nerves. The nasal nerve. Filaments of the olfactory nerve, and the nasal branches of the ethmoidal arteries. Anterior ethmoidal artery and nasal nerve. Posterior ethmoidal artery and vein. Optic nerve and ophthalmic artery. MIDDLE FOSSA. 8 pairs. Foramen Lacerum Fissure) ... Orbitale (Sphenoidal or Spheno-Frontal 2. Foramen Rotundum 3. Foramen Yesalii . . 4. * Foramen Ovale ... 5. Foramen Spinosum 6. Foramen Lacerum Medium (Spheno-Petrosal) 7. Small Foramen (not named) 8. Hiatus Fallopii r 1. Meatus Auditorius Internus ••• I 2. Aqueduct of the Vestibule . 3. Forameu Lacerum Posterius(Occipito-Petrosal) POSTERIOR FOSSA. J 6mirs. - 14. *Ma8toid ••• ••• 5. Anterior Condyloid . 6. * Posterior Con lyloid dyloid The third, fourth, and three branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth, and sixth cranial nerves ; the opthalmic vein, a branch of the lachrymal artery, and sometimes the lachrymal artery itself, and a process of the dura mater. Superior maxillary nerve, or second branch of the trifacial or fifth cranial nerve. A small vein, one of the emissary veins of Santorini. The two roots of the inferior maxillary nerve or third branch of the fifth, the lesser petrosal nerve, and the small meningeal artery a branch of the internal maxillary. Middle meningeal artery, the two meningeal veins, and filaments of the sympathetic nerve from the cavernous plexus. Internal carotid artery, the carotid plexus, the large petrosal nerve, and a meningeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal artery. Lesser petrosal nerve. • u + i Large petrosal nerve, a branch of the middle meningeal artery, which anastomoses with the stylo- mastoid a branch of the posterior auricular. Facial, and auditory nerves, and the auditory artery, a branch of the basilar. A small artery and vein, and a process of the dura mater. Glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory nerves ; the internal juguiai vein, ana meningeal branches from the ascending pharyngeal and occipital arteries. A small vein, which opens into the lateral sinus and occipital veins, and occasionally a small aiteiy a branch of the occipital. , , , t -u i f The hypoglossal nerve and a meningeal branch from the ascending phalangeal ait«^^^ Posterior condyloid vein, establishiog a communication between the vertebral vem and lateral smus. Of the former one on each side of the sagittal suture transmits a VIZ. the t^en c'^mf^Uhe fo,i;.>;gnum. ofthe .-emainiug 38:6 F«r. are fouud in the The number of foramina coranmnicating with the interior of the cranium are from 36 to 42 •mall vein, and horaetimes a Hmall artery. Of the remaining 40, 2 are in the mesial plane The ^Im^'^prinwr'in red indicate the Foramina through which one or more of the Cranial nerves pass ; those underiined in red indicate the Foramina of exit of branches3SYNOPSIS OF THE STRUCTURE OP THE HEART, A^J) THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. The Organs of Gircuiation—\st. Tlie Heart, ^nd. Arteries. 3rd. Capillaries. 4th. Veins. looks downwards, forwards, and to the left. Ventricles especially the left, towards the apex respectively the Eight and Left Auricle, ana tne Kignt ana-Lett Ventricle. 3—The Ciivities on the right side have no direct communication with those on the left, being separated by a vertical partition called a " Septum ;" that portion which separates the Auricles being termed " Septum Auricularum," while that which separates the Ventricles is called " Septum Ventriculorum." When the term "Septum" Cordis is employed in an absolute manner, the Septum of the Ventricles is invariably meant. 4.—Between the cavities of the same side there is a free communication by an opening called the Auriculo-Ventricular, through which the blood passes. 5—The cavities on the right side of the Septum, consistino- of the Eight Auricle and Eight Ventricle, frequently known by the name of the "Pulmonic" Heart, contain venous blood, while that portion on the left, containing the Left Auricle and Left Ventricle, is styled the " Systemic " Heart, and contains arterial blood. 6. —Into each Auricle there are five openings ; by four of these, the mouths of veins, blood enters, and by one, the Auriculo-Ventricular, blood passes out into a Ventricle. 7. —Lito each Ventricle there are two openings, viz: the Auriculo-Ventricular and the Arterial. By the former the blood enters, by the latter it leaves the Ventricle. 8. —At each opening of a Ventricle is placed a valve, one of which called the Auriculo Ventricular, allows the blood to enter the cavity from the Auricle, but prevents it from passing back ; the other, named Ai'terial, allows the blood to leave the Ventricle, but prevents it from returning. 9. —It thus appears that there are four valves employed in the transmission of the blood through the Heart, viz. : one between the Eight Auricle and Eight Ventricle, called " Tricuspid," another between the Left Auricle and Left Ventricle, named " Mitral," and sometimes " Bicuspid." The two other valves are situated in the Pulmonary Artery, and Aorta, and are known respectively as the " Pulmonic " and " Aortic " valves. 10. —The contraction of the waUs of a cavity is called its " Systole," and the relaxation its " Diastole." When we speak of the " Systole " and " Diastole " of the Heart, we invariably refer to the condition of the Ventricles. 11. —The contraction and dilatation of cavities of the same generic name are synchronous and isochronous, while those of different generic names are alternate. Thus, the two Auricles are in a state of contraction and dilatation at the same time, as is also the case with the Ventricles, but when the Auricles are contracting the Ventricles are dilating, and vice-versa. 12. —On listening over the region of the Heart, two sounds are heard, known as the " First " and "Second " sounds. When the first sound is heard the Ventricles are contracting j.nd the Auricles are dOating, while during the second sound the Auricles are contracting and the Ventricles are dilating. 13. —During the fii'st sound of the Heart the Auriculo-Ventricular valves are shut and the Arterial valves are open ; while during the second, the Auriculo Ventricular valves are open, and the Arterial valves are closed, 14—When an abnormal sound proceeds from a valve that should be shut, it shows that the blood is taking a retrograde direction, and is called Eegurgitation; when proceeding from a valve that should be open, it then is said to be " Obstruction." 15.—With regard to the course of the blood through the Heart, it may be stated in general terms that when the blood leaves an organ whose name begins with V, it enters one whose name begins"with A, and vice-versa ; while in the tissues, when it leaves an organ beginning with A, it enters one beginning with C, and passes into one beginning with V, as shown by the following diagram. CD., C.A., C.V., & F.T. L.V. Pulmonary Veins. Aorta. Syst. Cap.