1 h V m r c I\ <r \ TTw f'i - ■ - /T • ■ . fr ■’i • % . / \ \ / #1 r- fr ' ■■ V . '• -v ,V '1 S' i!' ■' "S'!'•IC»XX>C>C<X>C='C<>C<:<='C<:<=<:<>0<>C<:-<>0C=<>0<>0<-0' SURGICAL TRACTS, ■e XS-OC^CO-OOC^ C>C^<>CK>C<><X:<sOC>C<=<:<vC<X>C<^ _ [ Price In Boards, 4s. 3d. ]V Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/detaiis/b28044101f SURGICAL TRACT S/ CONTAINING A TREATISE UPON ULCERS of the LEGS; IN WHICH Former M'ethods of Treatment are candidly examined, and compared WITH ONE more dlATIONAL and SAFEj EfFeaed without REST and CONFINEMENT. TOGETHER WITH- Hints on a Successful Method of treating fome SCROPHULOUS TUMORS; And the Ma7nmary~Ahj'ccfsy and Sore Nipples- of Lylng-iti, Women* The second EDITIONi « Revi/ed^ Evlargedy and Defended^ TO WHICH ARE NOW ADDED, OBSERVATIONS. ON THE More Common DISORDERS of the EYE, AND On GANGRENE. By MICHAEL UNDERWOOD, M. D. Mque Pauperibus. prodeji, Locupletibus aqtie. Hor. Lib. Ep. I. LONDON: Printed for J. MATHEWS, No. i8, Strand. MDCCLXXXVIII.TO THE MASTER, WARDENS, AND COURT of ASSISTANTS, I OF THE WORSHIPFUL COMPANY of SURGEONS. GENTLEMEN, HAT great Ornament of our J- ProfeiEon, the late Sir Cisfar Hawkms^ Bart, havino; honoured a former edition of this little work with his approbation, will, I hope, apologize for the liberty I now take in I.J ( Vi ) in dedicating this revifed edition of it to you, and claiming your Pro- tedlion. The Public has long ago had op- portunity of deciding on the merits of fuch parts of it as then appeared; and though their judgment has not been unanimous, (and in what inftance has it ever been fo ?) the Author has had abundant Evidence from his own Experience, and from the teftimony of f' Others, of his labors having been pro- ductive of much Good. Nor has the practice he enforced, as far as he has been able to learn, produced the evils Tome people had apprehended ; while the ftrong manner in which another edition has been called for, is a pre- fumptive indication of the favorable opinion of Others. His{ vii ) His aim and expedation, from the firft, was public Good; and he has certainly lefs temptation than ever to inferior motives, in the prefent publication. His dehre therefore ftill is, that the work may lland upon its own proper merits ; and he is now happy in fubmitting it to a Court every way adequate to forming an impartial and valid Judgment; and deciding upon its future Reputation. However devoted pf later years to another branch of Medicine, the Au- thor is, ftill proud of having received his firfl Education under the Beft Siir- geo?i in the World, and of fubmitting to the Profeflion, the refult of fome former experience in that line or practice. It were needlefs, therefore, to fay what Claim You, Gentlemen, hav^ef ( viii ) have to his labors, Ihould they appear to have any merit, and the Honour you will do him in accepting this Token of Refpedl, from GENTLEMEN, Tour mojl obedient, \ hu77ible Servant, Michael Underwood. Great Marlborougb-Strcet, October i©th, 1787. P R E-m P R E F A C E. No man publifhes an opinion to the world, even on the mod: trivial occaiion, without fome view to himfelf, or others, or to both ; and cuftom has eftablifhed an almoft uni- verfal law, by which an author is bound either to difcover his real motives, or to devife fome plaulible, and handfome excufe for his own boldnefs. The writer of the following fheets, without affedting any uncommon fliare of phi- lanthropy, would not willingly have rifked the favourable opinion of his friends, had he not been perfuaded, that the pradlice he has ventured to recommend is founded on the mofl rational principles, and will not fail to be of fome fervice to the diftrefled. He is encou-?• preface. encouraged to fay tlius much, at leaif, having feen very conhdefable advantages ariling from -a method of treatment, materially different from that at prefent in fafhion. And if any improvement can be fuggefted, in a branch of furgery confefledly imperfect, (for who will deny that lore legs are, di^cult^df a laftino- ' 'N 'i ® curer} no- great apology can be tliought ne- ceflary, for communicating to the world any hints on the fubject that may be ufefuL It may add fomeAvcight to this little per- formance, to fay, that it is the refult of more than twenty years attention and experience; the writer having,'’ for a long tin'je, invited the poor to his houfe, and even common beggars, the mod: intraflabie of all patients, and fuch as, either for want of proper food, and clothing, -or from their diflblute lives, are the mod un- likely of all to be cured. He affedts no other merit than this attention to fo limited, and in general fo much' negledfed, a branch of his profedion ; to which he was led, fo long ago, by an indance that fell in his way, of a cure performed with great eafe, and without con- finement, by a very ignorant empiric, after two eminent furgeons had failed in the at- tempt. The knowledge of this at an early period in life, when youth and inexperience promptPREFACE. prompt to undertake any thing, having con- vinced him of the poffibillty of fuch cures, and led.him to the knowledge of many, in- duced him to turn his thoughts to a fubjedf, which he has never hnce loft light of. In the mean time, his education under the heft of mafters, together with his long relidence in one of the largeft, and bed: condudted hofpitals in this metropolis, as well as his attendance in thole of Paris, gave him fufficlent opportunities of feeing, that for fome caufe or other, the knowledge of completely healing old ulcers in the legs, has ever been very deficient and un- certain. The fubjedl:, though of fo great im- portance to the fuffering individual, has, per- haps, not appeared of fufficlent confequence to eminent fiirgeons, whofe employment has ufu- ally been both of a more profitable, and agree- able kind. It is hoped, gentlemen of this clafs, who deferve and pofl'efs the higheft de- gree of public efteem and confidence, will not think this an Injurious fufpicion,. efpecially as the mention of it is principally intended, to fave the writer the mortification of having his drfl attempt thought inferior to the dignity of a fil'd: rate pradlitioner. Befides, any attempt mud: be laudable to refcue this branch from the hands of quacks and ignorant pretenders, b 2 whoPREFACE. im who it mull: be confeffed, have fometimes got credit in thefe cafes, where men of fcience and a regular education have failed. And here it may be proper, as the former clafs of practitioners needs no increahng, to add, that the precile quantities and forms of fome of the applications hereafter mentioned, are not fpe- cihed, but left to the judgment of the furgeon ; who will find no difficulty in proportioning every ahlive and powerful Ingredient, to the nature and variety of each particular cafe, the writer not having the lead; delign of concealing any thing from him. The form, indeed, in which thefe obferva- tions are prefented, requires more excufes than the author knows how to make; but he trufts that the plainnefs, or rather homelinefs of their drefs, will not fo far prejudice them in the eyes of liberal men, as to prevent their being examin- ed with candor, and made ufe of in praftice, if they are found to be at all juft and rational. A want of regularity and elegance in compofi- tion, may with truth in this cafe, be imputed to want both of experience, and Jeifure to ftudy the corredfnefs and imbellifhments of language, He has, indeed, no pretenfions as a writei but though truth may be adorned by a florid ftyle, or enforced by elegance of argument, the greateft deficiencyXlll PREFACE. deficiency in thefe ornaments cannot invalidate fa6ls, nor juftlfy an ill-natured critlcifm, on that which made no part of the author’s de- fign. ^ ■ As to the mode in which thefe obfervations are prefented, the prefect was judged the moft likely to anfwer any good end, for though what the, author has to fay in point of diredions, might have been exprefled in a fmaller compafs, or have appeared in lome periodical publication, he could not, in fuch a channel, fo fully fupport the principles he has laid down, nor juftify his deviation from eftablifhed authorities. He knew, moreover, that an attempt had been made in that way, by a gentleman of acknow- ledged abilities,* which did not feem to gain the attention of the publlcr • With regard to the few hints on fcrophulous affedlons, and other matters (lightly touched upon, they are likewife the refult of fome ex- perience :■ how far they are worthy the atten- tion of the public, is cheerfully fubmitted to their .confideration. The author, however, begs leave to urge again his good intentions, and to exprefs his * Ale, Else, Alcd, Olfer”J,.aml Inquiries.., VoLIv. b 3 hopes.P R E‘ F A C F: XIV hopes, that the fuccefs of his plan, may in other hands, be equal to his own ; and then he fhall expedt the fatisfaftion of contributing very greatly to leffen the difficulties and dif- treffes of many afflicted fellow-creatures, to preferve fome of them from leading miferable lives, and now and then prevent that moft dreadful remedy for bad ulcers, the lofs of a limb. ' THIS fecond edition appears before Public with fewer emendations, in point of flyle and manner, than might have been expedted. But the author having been called to turn his thoughts fomewhat another way, and to other publications, really has not found time hnce a fecond edition has been much inquired after, to pay fufficient attention to it. Indeed, with- out an entire change of plan, and new ar- rangement of matters, no adequate alterations, in thefe refpecls, could be effected ; although he hopes there are others of much more impor- tance to the ffudent. Befides, he is ffill of opinion,P R E F.A C E.’: opinion, that, on account of tKe dodrine being: fo oppofite to former practice, and fome pre^. judices to it yet remaining, an attempt to. abridge the work very much, by fimply ob^ jecting to the lenient plan, and merely Rating his oTvn, were not the heft method of combat-^ ing inveterate prejudices, or likely to eftablidi- a new mode of praflice, as yet unfupported by great Names. The like reafon, it is hoped,* may apologize for continuing the long refer- ences and quotations from the ancients, wliicli. might otherwlfe have been omitted. He has, however, made a few corrections; has abridgi* ed and tranfpofed feveral parts, and made gon- fiderable addition to others, in the traCt upon, ulcers ; as well as attended to every objection, that has come to his knowledge. The latter elpecially, he thought incumbent upon him, as it is probable he may not take up his pen again . on chirurglcal fubjeCts ; and he hopes he has executed it with modefty, though with a,firm.-' nefs becoming the defence of a mode of prac- tice, which he conceives tq be juftihed as well by theory as experience. - It was in defign, indeed, to have made fome farther DiflinClions of ulcers, in order to aflift young pradtitloners who may take up the plan ; but he has not been able to do it to his mind. b 4 Som#opreface. xvi Some progrefs, indeed, might cafily have bees made, but too many difficulties occurred to ad- mit of a complete arrangement, with fufficient clearnefs for any good, pradlical ufe. Such fpecific diftindtion may, however, be made, and themareful obferver, determined to purfue and profit by thefe hints, will not long be at a lofs for it; but it will be befi: attained-by ex- perience. For, befides the peculiar lymptoms attendant upon different ulcers, another difcri- mination is often neceffary, which is fo much an objedl of fenfe, that it can be conveyed but very imperfectly in words. For apart from the obfcurity arifing from the fluduation of language, there are certain things' of which words can convey no* adequate ideas, however clear thofe of the writer may be. Architecture (if fuch an allufion might be allowed of here} furnifhes an ample proof of this : for what words could have given any accurate conception of ancient buildings, (of which no drawings were prefervedj had not their Ruins remained? But from thefe, conveyed by the Pencil’s fifter- art, ancient Greece and Rome are every where prefented to view, and modern buildings rife in j^Jiatic or Gothic magnificence. From the difficulties necelfarlly attending fuch an attempt in the prefent inflance, it is hoped,XVll PREFACE. hoped, the reader, defirous only of pra£llcal information, will be Fill fatlshed with the two former general dlftindlions of ulcers. Daily experience, it has been faid, will render fa- miliar to him others of lefs importance, will enable him to make a praflical arrangement, and from the direflions laid down, to feleft the treatment beft adapted to every clafs he may make for himfelf. The author would think himfelf happy if only the above objeclions might be made to the work, but he has to lament, that there are yet individuals of high rank in the profeffion, who fatisfy themfelves with giving their tefti- mony altogether againft a plan of which they have not been plealed to make a trial, either in. their private or holpltal praflice ; though it can be proved, that wher^ their plan perfevered in for feveral months, has done nothing, a cure hath been eafily and fafely effefled upon, this. It has, indeed, met with fufficient fup- port elfewhere, and the author received both from abroad, and from different parts of this kingdom, the repeated thanks of many prac- titioners with affurance of its great fuccefs in their hands. It is with concern, however, he has to ob- fervc, that it is not likely to prove fo beneficial ' inP .R E F A C E xvm in hcfpiials ^s-to pi'ivate patipnfs-; -it being Im-' poflible.furgcons (laould ‘vifrt the former every day, much lefs drefs every bad ulcer with their own hands. Such 'fores muft therefore be com- ijnitted to pupils, many of whom come ioLondo?!^ jjiid indeed too many leave it, poflefled of fo little knowledge or attention, that whenever .any matter muft be fubmitted to their difere- tion and care, (of which the application of tight baiidage is 'a moft important one) it is well if patients do not conftantly fuffer by it. iVot that the plan, indeed, is incapable of very extenfivc ufefulnefs, even in hofpitals and dlf- penfaries, if furgeons would do their part in luperlntending and diredling the pupils, order- ing proper rollers, and advifing patients to walk, and efpeclally, would they become lefs timid in their ufe of the precipitate. As an in- ftance, the author has Mr. Pearfons permihion to fay, that lince the winter of 1783, fome hundred patients have been cured upon this plan, under his direction, at the Lock Hofpital and Ccirey-Slreet P 'ljpenjary; many of whofe tilcers were very large, lome extending nearly round the leg, and of many years handing. But howfoever the peculiar advantages ot this plan may, in any inftance, be lefleiied, it is lubmitted, with increafed confidence, to the atten-pre'face; xix attention of praflitloners of every rank, which the writer feels himfelf junified in doing, by the beft of motives—from the' benefit it has afforded to fo m^any poor fufferers fince the for- mer edition appeared. Agreeably to thefe aflertions, he could refer O to various other teftimonies he has received in the courfe of the lafi: two years. Out of thefe, however, he has ventured to feledl a letter, (not more flattering than many others) which how- foever regarded in refpect to himfelf, he has thought it a juflice to tlie Public to fubjoin to this preface. It were unneceflTary, it is hoped, to fay, that it is prefented in the writer’s owm words, as well as with his confent: and as its compliments would be very lightly efleemed by the author of this work, fhould their effects only terminate in himfelf, fo fliall be any cenlure to which the publication of them may' expofe him, flaould other practitioners be ex- cited to make a like fair trial of a plan, which he is perfuaded will exceed their warmefl; ex- pectations, and ultimately benefit mankind. X)earPREFACE. Dear Sir, M Y, time has of Jate been fo much engrohed by bufinefs, that I have not till now had an opportunity of aiifwering the laft letter you honoured me with—You vvilh to know if the lame fuccefs attends me in purfuing your plan as that I had the pleafure of communi- cating to you, at the .commencement of our correfpondence. 1 cannot fay it is the Jame, Sir—it fo much exceeds my mod: fanguine ex- pectation. 1 have really often been aftonidied at the JLafe with which I cure old and large Ulcers of the Legs, by a ftricl adherence to the rules you have laid down, after they have with- llood every other mode I had been previoully, acquainted with. It was this continual difappolntment that fil'd: led me, though prejudiced, a priori, agalnd the plan recommended in your Treatife, to give a diir trial to itand accordjngly I took it up early in the fummer of 1783.—I have perfe- vered in that plan ever lince, and it now con- dltutes almod the whole of a very extenjive bu- dnefs. And I mud declare in judice to you, that in the numbers I have cured, I have never ob-PREFACE. XXI cbferved any inconvenience following the flip- prejjion of a difcharge, that could be in the lead attributed to the running being flopped—And having been myfelf equally fearful with other pradlitioners of the bad ejfedis arifing from the cure of old ulcers; Lhave been particularly atten- tive to this circumflance, till allured by long experience, that upon your plan, my fears had been groundlefs ; while the Eafe with which I have cured ulcerated legs of every kind, and of every period of duration, from one to thirty years, in more than two hundred inflances ; and the few relapfes which have fjcceeded, con- vince me, (and will, I doubt not, every other praflitioner who w’lil give your plan a fair trial) that it is the only one on which the cure of Ulcers ot the Legs ought to be attempted. Wilhing you may long enjoy, &c. &c. I lubfcribe mylelf, with the mod: refpedlful efieem, " SIR, Your obedient, humble Servant, T. SMYTH. Cherry O r’t o n, near Peterboronjrli, Jan. j itli, I 787. The’The Reader is reqitejled to extiife and corredl the follozuin^ ERRATA. ifTTRODUCTlONi Fiige 4, Line 7, IKotc, for ichvrum^ read ichorem. TREATISE upon ULCERS. page 60, Line 4, l^o'tc^ for Foot^ read Sore. I’age 62, Line g, for c.v, read no. Page 74, Line 6, dele the. Page 83, Line 17, for read/inV; Page 85, Line 6, from the Bottom, add and to the beginning of the Line. Page 115, Line 3, Kote^ for except, rend cffcH. Page 119, AWe, for 37, 38, read 31, 32. page 124, Line 15, for bis, read/A-. ^ On S C R O P H U L A. Page 24, Line 5, for it^ read they^ On DISORDERS of the E Y E. Page 37, Line 11, Rote, for fat read fct. Page.39, Line 24, for incrcafing, read incrcaJcJ* On the MILK-ABSCESS. Page 32, Line 21, dele oj. On GANG R E N E. Page 6S, Line 14, for fpecifics, fpeeijits. CON-^ •- > 0 ■C O-N' T E N T S. I'N T R O D U C T I O N. •• '■ Page • E FINTTION, and Caufes of UlcerSy in general 1 Peculiarities of Ulcers of the Legs Page 2 to .4 Obvious Uifi'nbiiom of Ulcers Ulcers of the Legs difficult of Cure Caufes ufually ajfigned for this Difficulty More rational Account of it Nature of the Ulcerative Procefs Origin of Pus ' - “ Proofs of Ulceration farther confdered Operation of Ulcers on the Syfenij and the \ Safety of healing them - - 7 — 9 — 14 — 18 3 5 6 8 13 18 22 21 24 34 treatise upon ULCERS, 55 a Intentions in the 1‘reatment of Ulcers of the Legs —■ 33 Modes of f reatment and Remedies in common 7^ Ufey With their feveral Difadvantages j More certain Plan propofed - - 4^ ^9 Dreffings made ufe of—Objections anfzvered 51 — 56 On Bandage I itsDefgn, Mode of Operation, ^c. 57 — 68 Exercifexx!v CONTENTS. Exerdfe—7/J Operation and Advantages P . 69 to 77 Diet ‘ - - •— 78 Medicines 57~39* 4^ — 44* 79 — 84 Dijiindions of Ulcers 84 —■ 85 Symptoms—Infammation and Pain 86 — 93 Old Ulcers mujl be properly digefed — 94 The Plan farther illuf rated and defended 95 — 103 Application to various Ulcers 104 — no On Healing - . - 111 — 122 Second Clafs of Ulcers — 123 Eryftpelatous Ulcer 124 — 127 Phagedenic and various large Ulcers 128 \ 134 On bracing Applications 135 — 144 On IJJues 145 — 146 Cautions after Ulcers are healed 147 — 148 On Scrophulous Ulcers I — 14 On D forders .of the Eye 17 — 38 An extraordinary Cafe 38 - 42 On the Mammary-Abfeefs 47 ~ 59 On Gangrene , - - 63 — 77 INTRO-INTRODUCTION. There ate fome difeafes which derive their importance, not fo much from their fatal tendency, as from the pain and un- eafinefs they occafion. Stationary ulcers in the legs, may be juftly ranked under this clafs. In general, we do not efteem their cure elTential to life; but he who is the unhappy fubjedt of them can belt eftimate, how much the comforts and enjoyment of it are im- paired by them. A variety of obfervations might be made on the fevcral peculiarities of thefe ulcers; but it is, by no means, the defign of this work to intrude upon the reader with theory on the nature of the complaint, any farther than it may be neceffary, in order to ellablilli the means of a fafe, and lading cure. ' In this view, it will be proper to drop a few words upon ulcers in general, and on fome material differ- ences between thofe now to be confidcred, and all A other^ IKTRODUCTION. other fores; between recent wounds of the legs, occafioned by fome accident, and thofe made on any other part of the body : fome reafon there muft be, for the additional trouble in healing the former, as well as the greater difficulty with which they are afterwards preferved in that ftate. This is effentially necelTary if we would eftablifli a rational pradice, and fo far as this end is kept in view, it is hoped, an attempt will not be accounted fuperfluous. It fcarcely needs to be obferved, that ulcers may be occafioned either by every external accident abra- ding the Ikin,* or bruiling the parts underneath, in a certain habit of body, predifpofed to ulceration ; or by any internal caufe,'|'' exciting fuch inflammation in a part as fliall incline it to fuppurate, though no external injury has been received ; fuch are fevers of different kinds. To thefe fliduld be added negled, or mifmanagement, when an abfeefs is formed, by which a Ample wound is converted into an ulcer, of continual fore of the part. Thefe are briefly the caufes of ulcers in general, and where no fpeciAc contagion prevails in the habit, are all that need to be confidered. In thofe of the legs, indeed, we are farther led to remark the ftate and circumftances of the limb, which being a depending and an extreme part of the bod)'’, may be regarded as a particular and predifpoAng ♦ Ulcus ^ continui folutio ab crofione fadla.—Galem. f Ulceris caufac vel intern* fiiut, vcl exrcrnnf.—Parey. caufe*INTRODUCTION' ^ caufe. Its being an extreme part, appears to have a much greater influence than has generall}^ been imagin- ed, or at leafi: exprefled by writers on this fubje^, and tends very much ro account for the frequency of the difeafe, and to point out an indication of cure, which in practice has been entirely overlooked. But previous to entering upon the cure, it will be proper to make fome obfervations upon ulcers in general, enlarging a little on fome peculiarities attend- ing thofe on the lower extremities. § Authors of credit* have ufually defined an ul- cer to be a folution of continuity in a foft part, dif- charging a purulent, or ichorous matter. But the procefs of ulceration confifls in more than a fimple folution of continuity; there is a real lofs of fubftance in the ulcerated part. To obtain therefore a more correct definition, I would be underflood to mean by an ulcer, a folution of continuity in a foft part of the body, from which an ichorous, purulent, fanious, or vitiated matter is difcharged; attended with a lofs of fubftance in the part.;|; § This * Hippocrates excepted, who calls any folution of continuity bv that name. f WisEMAM, Turner, Bell. “ Partis mollis folutio purulenta, vel ichorofa.” CuLLEN. “ Les ulceres font des folutions de continuit6 dans Ic parties moI« Ics, avec ecoulemeot de pus.” Traitl des Tttmeurs ct des Ulceres, + Sennertus and Hoffman give nearly this definition—“ UI* «us dicitur folutio continui cum immijiuta magnitudine, in parte A z molli,4 INTRO PUCTION. § This chara(fter may be very applicable to ulcers in general, and be quite fufficient as a diagnofis; but many important diftinftlons are to be attended to, whichmullhaveconfiderableinfluencein the treatment. It will be fufficient, however, to hint at a few of them. I. An ulcer may be fimple, arifing from external caufes merely. II. It may be the confequence of, or be connedled with a bad habit of body ; or, III. It may be owing to fome fpecific contagion. IV. The fituation allb of ulcers deferves our at' tention. They may affed: the furfaces of parts, in molli, a materia erodente ortum habens. Dlfferunt nimirum in eo vulnus et ulcus, quod in vulnerc i'altem ell foluta unitas, nihil vero ueceflario de parte amilTuin elt; in ulcere vero femper aliquid de parte aftedta iinminutum et ainilllim eft, fi non plus, fal- teni cuticula.” SENNERTUS : lih.^.parsi. “ Suntautem ulcera partium folidarum, atque moHium cum cavitate quadam minor;, ichorem tenucm, falfum et acrein fundente, diftblntiones ct eroft- oncs a fero extravafato, ct corrupto originem ducentes.” HoFf- MAN, cap ’vl. § I. It is evident however, that Hoffman, Sharp, and fome later writers, defign moreover by an ulcer, an old, or ill-conditioned abfeefs; and there feems to be fome reafon for this diftindion, it we would fpcak with prccilion ; for otherwile, every impofthuma- tion, when burft or opened, as well as every wound after an opera- tion, is equally an ulcer—Hoffman’s words are, “ Differunt ulcera ab abfcellibus, turn in hifee major, quani in illis deprehendl- tur cavitas, atque non tarn fanies aquofa, falfa et acris, quam poti- us pus laudabile, bene cotftum a fanguine, in partibus mufculofis ftagnante, et mora corrupto, gignitur; licet negari minimie poterit, ulcera fa;pe ex apoftematibus oriri, qux in principlo rneri fuerunf abfcefliis.” § 2. thiINTRODUCTION. 5 live A 3 ‘ the manner of an eryfipelas ; or partake more of the natore of a phlegmon, by being feated in the fub- llances of parts. But it will be neceflary in this place to remark other diftindions, noticed by the beft writers. I. An ulcer, it has been faid, may be of fuch a fpecies, that it will not admit of cure.* This, how- ever, cannot often be the cafe, and belongs not to the prefent intention. II. The ulcer may arife from, or be accompanied with fuch a peculiar ftate of the conllitutlon,'}- that the patient may be unable to undergo fuch a difei- pline, as will be abfolutely neceffary to its cure. III. A patient’s ftate of health, or peculiar circum- ftances in life may be fuch, that the injunflion of confinement and a recumbent pofture cannot be com- plied with.j; The prefent inquiry will be more immediately diredled to the treatment of ulcers oc- curring under thefe laft-mentioned circumftances; and as the lenient method is generally injoined with 'an horizontal pofition of the limb, they will both refpedlively fall under confideration. § Ulcers troublcfome in themfelves, or of long ftanding, are very often brought into a healing ftate, by mild means, and ablolute reft, where no eachcdtic difpofition exifts.[| It the patient after this fhould * Cancerous, &c. “ Ulcera Hydropicorum vix imo ne vix curantur.’* Hippoc. Lih. vi, Aph. Sharp’s Surgery. hitroduH* page 29. 5 Ih.page-j^^.— II Ib,31.^ introduction. live freely, or ufe much exercife, it Is highly proba- .,ble the fore will break out again. In fuch a cafe, it may be faid the perfon has been cured, but he is not reftored to fociety. A very natural inquiry fuggefts itfelf here, viz. Is this the only rational method of treating fuch ulcers ?—If it can be proved, that a ftridt courfe of regimen is generally unneceflary, and that abfolute reft is often not only needlefs, but pre- judicial; if it can be demonftrated, that by a diffe- rent mode of treatment, they may be as certainly,and often as fpeedily cured, and without danger of relapfe ; it becomes a fubjedt highly deferving the attention of every pradtitioner. § It has been obferved, and long been a decided opinion, that wounds or ulcers, fituated on the lower extremities, below the knee, do not generally heal fo kindly as thofe on the upper parts of the body.* Various reafons have been affigned for this laft'men- tioned fadt; and as principles are more or lefs con- nedted with pradtice, it will be very proper to glance n at this fubjedt, which will bring forward the imme- diate objedt of inquiry. Thefe extremities being depending parts, a ftagna- tion of the circulating fluids has been offered by fome • as an explanation ; whilft others have attributed it to a defeent of depraved or vitiated humors^'i• It * It is a maxim in furgery, that abfeeffes and ulcera will have a greater or lefs tendency to heal, as they are higher or lower in the body. Sharp's Surgery. IntrodnSl. page 17. f See Wiseman, Turner, Sharp. Galen. Dc Ulccrihm mallgmntii Natura:, “ Talia cnim appello, inINTRODUCTION. 7 A 4 It Is ever of the utmoft confequence, to feparate fadts from hypothefes. Our knowledge is adtually increafed by the one; we are not certain gainers by the other. Effedls are obvious to every attentive ob- ferver, but caufes are often latent and dubious. The firft theory cannot be admitted ; as its proxl- mate caufe is, by no means, a conftant attendant on fore legs: GEdema fometimes precedes, fometimes accompanies, and often feems to be a confequence of ulcers, but is only one evidence amongft others, of cachexy. The fecond enumerated caufe Hands merely on an hypothetical balls. ’Till we get more diftinct ideas of what is meant by vitiated, or depraved humors, and have their exillence demonllrated, it ought not to be admitted as theoccafion of the difference in queftion ; efpecially as this difference is capable of being very conliderably leffened, merely by topical applications and exercife, as will be Hiewn in Its proper place. § Without prefuming abfolutely to remove the diffculty, a few hints on the fubjedt may not prove unworthy of attention. in quibiis aut pars afFeila tarn vitioro habku eft prxdita, ut vel opti- mum languinem, qui nutiitionis gratia confluir, corrumpat: aut id quod influit, adeo perverfum exiflir, ut etiamfi pars redle fe habeat, ab ipfo tamen folo crodatur.” (Dc cowp. mcJ. lib. h>. Ambrose Parey, on the cacoiithic ulcer, copies after Galena influentem corrumpit huinorem,” (fays he) and on the cacho- chymia-^“ propter influentis fanguinis, partem exedemis,, pars aft'cfta nimium huiuida non coalefcit.” Lib,. ,viL cap, x, I. The^ INTRODUCTION. I. The living power of the animal exifts In great- eft quantity neareft the heart. In proportion to the different diftance of parts from this centre of life, the circulation of the blood is more languid, the ani- mal heat is at a lower temperature, and the animal functions are more liable to interruption. But the healing powers depend greatly on the general, or re- lative vigor of the fyftem: if therefore, the vital ener- gy diminifhes, at a diftance from the centre, fhall we be furprifed to find, that the vis medicatrix (which owes its, falutary power to the fame caufe) is dimiqiflied likewlfe} II. In the lower extremities there is diffufed much tendinous or ligamentous membrane. This kind of fubftance, though not void of fenfibllity, poffeffes a very fmall (bare of it; its blood veffels are fcarcely vifible unlefs rendered fo by difeafe, and in that ftate it acquires a high degree of irritability. The ftruc- ture of the parts therefore, may in fome cafes, have confiderable influence in retarding the cure of ulcers. And perhaps the depending pofition of the limbs, though not fuflicient of Itfelf, may in fome degree co-operate with other caufes in producing the evils complained of. When an ulcer on the lower extremities, tolerably free from inflammatory fymptoms, and unconnedted with cacoethic, or fpecifle affection of the fyftem, be- comes intradlable under the mo.ft prudent manage- ment, it is highly neceffary to know the caufe: In- quifitive men have, Indeed, aflidioufly inveftigated it, but to how little purpofe, the fucoefs, or rather the wantINTRODUCTIOI^. 9 of fuccefs in general prafticc, too evidently de- monftrates.—I have ventured to fuppofe, that the moft probable caufe is a defeat of vital energy, either general or local. If general, which it is of impor- tance, indeed, to determine, and an atonic ftate of the fyftem prevails, that plan muft be purfued, which is moft likely to produce a ftate of general ftrength ; but if the caufe be merely local, our views muft be very difterent. It muft then be treated as a diminu- tion of adlion in the part. Not that it is meant to fuggeft, that thofe two caufes cannot exift together; they very often meet in the fame fubjedl. But it is proper to obferve, that they may, and often do exift feparately. Nor are we to conclude, that becaufe our treatment has a tendency to ftrengthen the pati- ent, the defired end will always be obtained. There may be a fufHcient quantity of power in the conftitu- tion to overcome a difeafe, though that pow'er be not fully exerted. It is often neceflary to roufe nature to adtion, by the external ufe of ftimulants. But in do- ing this, it will he well to obferve, that as we have a certain end in view, pur means muft be adequate. Stimulating applications may be fo ufed, as to fret or irritate the part, without the leaft good effedf, nay, with very bad elfedts. If the power and adtion of the part be not rendered fuperior to the difeafe, every ineffedtual effort of nature will inqreafc it, and con- fequently retard the cure. Perhaps, the irritation arlfing from motion, may In this view, be accounted one kind of hurtful ftimulus, when applied to ulcers on the lower extremities. A perfon(to INTRODUCTIOISf. ' perfoh affedred with this kind offore, though hefliould not entirely confine himfelf, will be difpofed to walk iefs than ufual, and to give the leg fame little induU gence. The ftimulus, thus irregularly applied, ex- cites the veiTels to an increafed adfion ; pain becomes confiderable; the furrounding parts are inflamed; and the dilcharge is, increafed,—He refls.—Nature •was making efforts to give a new furface to the ulcer, but the ilimulus which excited her to adtion being- O withdrawn, her attempts are partial and ineffectual. And as more or lefs of lofs of fubftance, always pre- cedes the fhooting of granulations, perhaps only the firlf part of the procefs is compleated; hence the ulcer is more foul, is deeper, and more extcnfivethan before. All thefe evils are attributed to the motion of the part, and abfolute reft is deemed a neceffary requiflte towards obtaining a cure.—Whether this be as evident as it hath been generally imagined, is a matter very much to be doubted indeed, and Is wor- thy of farther inquiry. § It appears then to be rational, as w^ell as agreeable to experience, to fuppofe, that, neither the only nor yet the chief obftacle to the healing of ulcers can arife from the legs being depending parrs of the body, but as hath been obferved, from their being extreme parts, where the circulation is leafl; vigorous. Hence it is, that the complaints of younger people are chiefly confined to the head and upper parts of the body, which at a more advanced age ufual ly aff'edf the lower; audit frequently happens, that fuch as have had difordera of the eyes when young, arc afflidted with fiflulte ini ano_jINTRODUCTON, ano, or forelegs, when they grow older; the circulation of the blood through the more extreme parts, and their confequent tone, being then impaired : and every fur- geon knows how much more frequently a gangrene is found to feize the feet or the toes, than any other part of the body. For although the fingers, with, their veflels equally fmall, are at a confiderable dif- tance from the heart, yet the circulation in them is more vigorous, both on account of their veiTels com- ing from the beginning of the aorta, and the conti- nued exercife from their more conftant ufe. The lower extremities being fiill farther diftant, and not fo much engaged, have thefe difadvantages compen- fated by the exercife nature has impofed upon them, in the fupport and conveyance of the whole body; for the want of which neceflary fiimulus, in indolent and fedentary people, the circulation becomes too languid to preferve their due tone. From this caufe, as well as from the anatomy of their parts, it is eafy to account for the fwelling of the feet and ancles, fo common in fuch perfons, as well as for that which happens from the limb having been kept, for any length of time, in an horizontal pofition : for here, W'hilft the moles movenda is great, the vires moventes are diminifhed. It is therefore prefumed, that exercife being fo neceflary to fupport general health, and par- ticularly the vigor of the extremities themfelves, is fo far from being pofitively detrimental, that under proper management, it muft prove conducive to the healing of ulcers fituate upon them. Hence it will appear to be the province of art, to devife fome pro- » per■'li INTRODUCTION". per means to regulate the effeds of exercife, rather than to aim at a cure fome other wa})-, by fub- "verting the order of nature, and depriving the patient, for a time, of a neceOfary mean of fupporting, or re- covering his health; which pernicious cuftom, it is prefumed, Is one principal occafion of the difficulty in queftion. It may be necclTary to paufe here, to take fome -notice of certain objections made to this mode of’ reafoning, particularly by the Editors of the Critical' Reviezi), It ffiould feem, that fome of their (tridtures have arifcn either from my having exprefled myfelf inaccurately, or from fome miftake on their part; or it is not likely they would have adduced the inftance of the divifion of the facro-fciatic nerve of a frog, ia oppofition to the theory I had ventured,to advance. By this inftance they would intimate, that great ner- vous energy is not fo neediary in order to the healing of ulcers on the lower extremities, as I am fuppofed to have imagined ; and that “ my theory is therefore fallacious, and the confcquences drawn from it, “ erroneous.’’ I ffiall not Hop here to make any remarks on the cold blood of this aquatic, as rendering it an Impro- per inilance for illuftrating the fubjeCt in difpute, but fliall only point out what my pofition has uni- formly been, viz. that the circulation of the blood in the lower extremities is too languid for the purpofe of due Incarnation, and the fpeedy healing of fores feated upon them. That fuch a languor aCfually •exUls, befides a variety of other evidences, is demon- flrablo-INTRODUCTION. ^3 Tfable from the vafl: colcinefs of the feet and toes of people of a delicate habit, in whom, indeed, they are feldom warm but in the hotter months. The fadf is certainly incontrovertible, the vis vitie is adtually lefs than in fuperior parts; and wounds occafioned mere- ly by accident, and under every favorablecircumftancc of age, conilitution, &c. and brought into a good ftate, are found to cicatrize more flowly than on other parts of the body : whilft no wound heals fo foon any where as on the head, let the natural conftitution be whatever it may. As to nervous influence, which the pbjeftion alludes to, there may be enough of it, of a certain kind, for any thing I know, and perhaps often more than we wifli for; no fores being more irritable than thofc of the legs. And if I have appeared to intimate, that the lower extremities are enervated, it was intended in fuch a fenfe only as to denote their atonic ftate, for want of a due vis vitte, a fadl not to be denied ; and I have no doubt, has for its caufe the languid circulation in the parts. This, as well as every other inflance of the animal oeconomy is, in- dubitably, wife and falutary on the whole, though it will notfollow that it is conducive to the hcalingof ul- cers fo circumftanced; and will ferve to llluftrate the propriety of a meafure of that exercife which nature has evidently deligned the legs to fuflain, and which is fo much infilled upon in the courfe of this work.*' § The 'V'~ \ - * The idea of a defeft of vital energy in the part, has lately met with farther fupport from experiment, or rather from fafts.; whichINTRODUCTION. § The nature of the ulcerative procefs next de- ferves our confideration. When from fome caufe, ex- ternal or internal, ulceration takes place, a very ufual way of accounting for this folution of continuity has been, that there is a melting down of the foft parts into pus, fanies, &c.’^’ Experiments on dead and living fubjedts have been made to prove this; yet it is ap- prehended, this procefs never takes place in the living body ; it is a procefs that contradidts every thing we know of the animal oeconomy, and the obfervations of the moft accurate phyfiologifts. The perfedt folution of a foft part, even when re- moved from the body, is not eafily affedled by art, unlefs which being afeertained by a gentleman in no wife concerned In this difpute, may, perhaps, have more weight than if fuch expe- riments had been made merely under my own eye. Mr. Partington did me the honor of informing me, that as foon as he had periifed my treatife, he tried the effe£l of electri- city upon ulcers of the legs, fcrophulous fores in the neck, and upon chilblains, whilfl; they were under the care of furgeons of eminence : and that both they and Mr. Parti>rgton were fatisfied of its good effects in expediting the feveral cures, in confequence of its local influence and flirring up the vires medicatrices in the parts. Upon the fame principle, I apprehend, it has been found fuccefsful in many cutaneous difeafes, improperly aferibed to acrimony, and other obfeure qualities prevailing in the fyflem, which are rather owing to a diminiflied vital energy, or to ^ mor- bid a£tion, in the parr. * “ Vafcula diflenta riipta cum dolore, calore, pulfu, liquores fuos effundunt, folvunt, puuefaciunt leviter, folida tenera atterunr, folvunt, fluidis mlfcent in unum fimilem album, fplflum, glutino* fum, pinguem humorem, pus didtum.” Boer. Jph. 387. “ Pu6 or matter is certainly no natural fecretion.—I believe I may*5 INTRODUCTION. nnlefs it be immerfed in cauflic liquors; much lefs have we ever feen mufcular flefh, and cellular membrane converted into a fluid refembling pus. Simple divi- fion of a living fibre does not necelTarily produce the death of that fibre; but decompofition, either by the putrefactive fermentation, or by art, never can take place without depriving the aflfedted part of its life. Moreover, as the purulent matters difeharged by ul- cers, differ in their chemical properties from dead animal fibres in a ftate of dilfolution, we are certainly not authorized to conclude, that there is a fimilar af-^ rangement of particles. Befides, we ought to find the moil profufe difeharge from an ulcer during the ex- foliation of its floughycovering; whereas the reverfe of this is really the cafe : an ulcer never pouring out fo large a quantity of good matter, as during a few of the firfl days after its furface hasbecome clean. And every pradtitioner mufl; recolledt having feen cafes, where the dimenfions of an ulcer have been Increafed to twice its fize, in the fpace of a few hours, without fuch a proportionate increafe of the difeharge, as we ought to expedt under the idea of dilfolution. The procefs of ulceration feems to be a certain adt of the abforbent fyftem, whereby in confequence of a ftimulus, it takes up the foft parts, and carries them irmy venture to affirm, that the diflblution of fome of the folidpar- ticles of broken capillary veffiels, and a mixture of Ibme part of the juices that ffiould circulate through them, makes a neceflary part of the produdlion. Mr. Pott, vol, i,p, 315. intoi6 INTRODUCTION. into the circulation.* No anatomift can doubt the poffibility of this, when he confiders, that ointments, and even powders are readily abforbed, efpecially where there is a want of cuticular covering.If this account of the matter be admitted, we lhall be affifted in underftaiiding the caufe of the rapid progrefs of ul- ceration, the exfoliation of dead foft parts, and de- fquamation of carious bone. Since this trad: firft appeared, it has been objeaed to this idea of ulceration, that it is a dodtrine as yet by no means eftablilhed, and although there certainly doth exift in the animal body a power of abforbing its own conftituent parts, yet it cannot be proved that this abforption is always attendant upon ulcera- tion ; nor is there any rcafon that prevents us equally from fuppofing that ulceration may be the effedl of fome external corroding power, the nature of which is unknown to us. Such an obfervation certainly deferves a ferious attention, and I do not know that any thing I have advanced is diredtly inconfiftent with it. I pretend to no great phyfiological knowledge, and never in- tended CO infiftiUpon the extent of the abforption to which I have alluded, or have attempted to prove that it always takes place in ulceration ; I have only * Phyfiology, I believe, is indebted to the ingenious Mr. Hunter for this no lefs probable, than curious idea. •j- See Mr. Cruikshank’s letter on theabforption of calomel, to whom the world is no lefs indebted for his indefatigable atten- tion to, and ufeful difeoveries in the abforbent lyflem. con-INTRODUCTION. 17 contended, tlitit the idea of Mr. Hunter (as far as I have adopted it) appears to me truly ingenious, and far preferable to that of parts being melted down into pus; againft which, at leaft, I imagine fome argu- ments are advanced that will not eafily be overturned. It is very probable, indeed, that the animal juices when extravafated, may acquire fuch an acrid quality- in a difeafed part, as may deftroy that cohefion of parts necelTary to their life, and may fo change them that very little of them maybefeen ; though the whole of them may not be taken off by the abforbents. It is certain, that the conflituent parts of animal bodies when reduced to their firft principles, are but fmnll in quantity, and when the body is fo reduced by putrefadlion after death, the quantity of earth and water is but very inconfiderable. But whatever ana- logy to this putrefadlive principle the juices may acquire during life, lb as to be capable of mutilating the parts, it will by no means follow, that they are fo changed as to be turned into pus ; for not only is the diflblution here fpoken of, the effedf of dlfeafe In the juices, but is fuch as muft reduce the parts to their firft principles, at leaft in a confiderable degree, and exifts only in a foul and bad ftate of the fore ; whereas the formation of pus, cfpecially of laudable matter, depends on the healthy ftate of an ulcer, and is ufually an indication of a favourable ilfue. So that, whatever corroding power there may be, wdie- ther Internal or external, it can, by no means, account for the kindly fuppuration of abfcelfes and ulcers, where the parts are fuppofed to be melted dowm into B pus.'INTRODUCTION. pus. An idea, as I conceive, unbecoming a think<i ing mind, as it fuppofes fomething utterly unlike every thing elfe of which we have any probable evi- dence in the animal oeconomy; and which was, indeed, the chief matter 1 intended to controwrt, and muft ftill think, is far lefs probable than that adt of the . ab for bents, conceived of by Mr. Hunter. - § But this idea of ulceration fuggefts a very natural inquiry, viz. from whence comes the purulent mat- ter difeharged by ulcers ? It has been faid, that ul- cers are drains to carry olf peccant humors;* or dif- folved cellular and mufcular fubftance ; -f- we have been told, indeed, that pus exifis in the blood, and is poured forth at thefe outlets.—The laft-mentioned idea is in itfelf fo improbable, and {landing unfup- ported by any decifive proofs, it may be regarded merely as hypothetical.—A few remarks on the for- mer will naturally arrfe in the farther difeuffion of the fubjedf. * “Ulcers may be looked upon as drains which nature has made choice of to relieve herfelf.” Le Dr an, •f “ Pus is a mixture of various ingredients, viz. blood, which has loft its red colour, and is the largeft ingitdient in the mixture; a little vifeid lymphatic juice, and the extremities of the lacerated veflels, which fall off in fmall parcels, and are converted into a foftifh and whitillr kind of glue.’^ Fizez, On Suppuration. “ Si fanguis in ventrem effufus fuerit, pr:eter naturam, necelTe eft ut fuppuratur. Hrppoc. JJph. xx. Lib. 6. “ Hac cnim parte caro putrefeit et exulceratur, et accedentem pituitam ct bilcin, infuper putrcfacit, et lit pus.” Id. Se ]\lorhis^ Lib. 2, Sec alfo Cullen. ‘‘ Thet N T R 6 D U C T I O N. 19 ' « The moft probable opinion,” (fays a very ingeni- ous and refpedable author)* * “ hitherto advanced, con- cerning the formation of pus is, that it is always pro- duced by a certain degree of fermentation in the fc- rous part of the blood, after its fecretion into the ca- vities of ulcers and abfceffes.” This opinion llands fupported by the moft refpedtable authorities, 'I-" but is not free from difficulties. Serous effulions made from a furface, that is not in a ftate of inflammation, will remain for months unchanged, and never aflume the appearance of pus. | More or lefs of inflamma- tion || feems abfolutely neceflary to its formation. It may likewife be obferved, that the nature of the dif- charge depends greatly upon the healthy, or morbid flate of the fore, as will be made to appear in its place. Perhaps then, it may approach rtearer the truth to fuppofe, that pus is a fecretion fui generis, from the ruptured veflTels of a cavity, or ulcerated furface, con- fequent on a certain degree'of inflammation; pofleffing originally the moft bland and falutary' qualities. §' Not that it is meant to be underftood, that pus is fe- B z creted ' - -i ^ . ■ ■ . , » * Mr. Bell. 0» the Theory and Management ofUlceri^ &c. f Dr. George Fordyce. J 1 he water in hydrocephalus internus, afcites, hydrocele, which is generally coagulable. jj “When a quantity of fluid is throw'n out into any cavity, _(ihe inflammation continuing) it ferments, and is converted into pus." Dr, George Fordyce. 5 It is not neceflary, that a part fliall have precifely what w'e uaderflandhy a glandular flrufture, in order to fecrete fluids for parti*ao INTRODUCTION; crcted in the form under which it appears, but it i3 probable, that when it covers the furface of a wound, under the appearance of an adhefive glairy fluid, the' only diftercnce between this and white pus confifls in the c^uantity of fuperfluous water ; when, by remain- ing for fome time upon the part, the thinner fluid is abforbed, or exhaled, the remaining part alfumcs opacity, and acquires a thicker confidence; * for if wounds, furnidiing a great quantity of good pus, are paifiAilar purpofes. The mucous membrane, which lines every cavity expofed to the action of external air, fecretes a fluid called mucus, for the defence of that part, See.—This, in a healthy ilate, is mild and inodorous, and much refembles the white of an egg, being perteidly infipid ; and confequently, can be little more than a mucilasie and water. Whereas ferum cantains neutral fairs in abundance ; fuch mucus therefore cannot be efFufed ferum. If It were merely ferum, it would be more irritating as its confiflency increafed, the reverfe of which is the cafe. When morbid fecre- tion takes place, as in catarrh, gonorrhoea, &c. the eftedts of the neutral fairs in the ferum poured out, are pretty evident. Now, thefe difeafes cannot increafe the quantity of faline matter, confe- quently, we mull feek for the caufe of this acrimony in the dif- ferent addon of tVie veflels.—Thefe varioufly excited, by external or internal flimull, to irregularities in their adfion, maj likewiie ailill: us in our inquiries after the caufe of the various appearances and qualities of pus, and of the difference between that and fuch morbid focretions from an inflamed furface, as affume a piuulent appearance.—With regard to the latter diflindfion, it may be wor- thy the confideration of phyflologifls, how far \.hcJimpJe injiavt malion of a furface, may poflibly be inadeqtiarc to the produamn of true pus; and whether an ernjion, or lofs of ful>Jl<^ncc^ may not be cfl'ential to that particular fecretion. * Sir JcHf; ranici.E. {Jp/entUx,} examinedINTRODUCTION. 21 examined a few hours after being dreffed, no fuch matter as pus will appear, but a thin, ill-looking fanies is fpread over the furface.*—Indeed, the for- mation of true pus, and the putrefaftive fermentation of animal fubftances, bear no refemblance to each other, lince pure pus is perfedlly inodorous, whilfl the other emits a volatile alkali. Nor do we find, that matter difcharged from a wound bears any regu- lar propotion either in quantit}', or quality, to the fuppofed degree of fermentation. If we only attend to the diflercnt afpedt of an ulcer, when it produces pus, ichor, or fanies, whether we realbn analogically, or from evident appearances, the idea that has been thrown out, of the healthy or morbid adtion of the vef- fels, as the moll; probable caufe of this difference,"!' appears, by no means, to be an unreafonable conjec- ture. In fupport of this theory, however, I fliali * From hence, a fallacy may be difcerned in the Ingenious the- ory of the late il/r. Frckc, though It is a much more rational one than that of concofllon, or what is ufually meant by fermentation. Fie humoroully obferves, il it can be fliewn, that any part of the blood, put Into a fand hear, and digefled there, or that decodling k ever lo long, produces any thing like laudable pus, he will give up his theory, viz. that pus is produced by defpumation, or agita- tion, from the ferum of the blood palfing through the partially obftrudted extremities of divided, or ruptured veflels, which like a fponge, refilling a tree pailage to the globules of air contained in the blood, beat* up the ferum in its pali'agc into a froth, jutl asr foap and water would be by a like agitation.—Art of Heai.- ING. •j See Mr. Belt’s lull edition of his Treatife upon Ulcers^ B 3 mention•INTRODUCTION. Si w mention one fact that-may merit fome attention ; viz^ that not only by medicineSj but by mere external ap- plications',. it is frequently in the furgeon’s power to alter both the appearance, and the quantity of matter difcharged from a fore, as every man of any experi- ence mud often have had occafion to obferve. • But, the idea of true pus being a diflblution of the mufcular and cellular fubftance, &c. may, in another point of view, feem to demand a little farther atten- tion. In fupport of this opinion, we are told, that in- every colledlion of matter, there is adlually very con- liderable lofs of’fubftance in the part, and for proof of it vve are pointed to the, cavity from whence the matter has flowed, on the burfting, or opening of the abfcefs, and to the difappearance of the cellular and adipofe membrane; the greateft part of which, how'r ever, feems only to be condenfed. To examine this point a little more narrowly, let us take a view of it •where the fa<ft ought to be the moft evident, as in the cafe of large impofthumations, fuch as the pfoas abfcefs; from whence a pint, or more, of matter has. run out on the fpontaneous giving way, or artificial opening of the integuments. In fuch cafes, has there been a deftruaion of mufcle, veflels, cellular and adipofe membrane, equal to the quantity of pus, or the cavity that is formed ? What ! a pound * of muf- cle and adipofe membrane deftroyed ? A bulk. ♦ Experimenta on living animals have lately been made to fup- port fuch an opinion. equal23 INTRODUCTION. tqunl to a pint, or more, of matter ?—We may, in- deed, find the mufcles feparated one from another, and the cellular membrane torn away by the weight of the fluid ; or fometimes a mufcle divided longitu- dinally, or its belly eaten through ; but the idea of ■a whole pound of organized parts being loft, or melted down into matter, is really much more improbable than any thing that has been advanced concerning the formation of pus, or dq^rine of the abforption of parts into the conftitution. For whatever ^las been faid on the latter, is merely to account for a lofs of parts, which fometimes actually difappear in the pro- cefs of ulceration ; but the former opinion fuppofes a quantity of parts to be deftroyed, (in order to account for exceflive fuppuration) where there is no fuch ma- nifeft difappearancc. Moreover, in largecolledions of matter, there is not only a prodigious difeharge on the firft burfting of the abfeefs, but it often continues im- moderate for days, and even for months, till the pati- ent is deftroyed by it: yet upon opening the body, only a very Imall portion of mufcle appears to be loft, and there is little, or no more deficiency of adipofe membrane in the part, than throughout the reft of the body; the whole of which, in fuch cafes, is exceedingly emaciated, and the fat fuppofed to have been abforb- ed. To lum up the whole. It appears, that in the for- ,mer inftance of the fudden Ipreading of an ulcer,* the difeharge is, by no means, proportionate to the * Pare t c. * : B 4 great^4 INTRODUCTIOK. great lofs of parts; and in the prefent, there Is not ^ lofs of parts proportionate to the immoderate dif- charge. But it is faid by others, that there is not, indeed, fo great a diffolution of folld parts, as to furnifli the xvhole of thefe purulent matters, but fo much of them Is melted down as gives tenacity to the fluid ; and is an eflential ingredient in true pus/>^ Befides what has been already advanced in anfwer to this latter alfertion, it may be obfcrved, that wherever there Is an e\ddent admixture of fat, or of the craffi- mentum of blood, or the parts are in a lax and floughy ftate, the pus is never good, but always thin, difcoloured, or fetid. Whereas, when the furface of an ulcer is firm and florid, without the leaft appear- ance of the melting down of parts, (as it is called) there, it has been obferved, the pus is thick and good; there only is it album, lave et ccquale. Moreover, if the diffolution of organized parts, does not furnifli a very confiderable portion of the j^)urulent difeharge, it can fupply only a very fmal'i part of it, and is rather an accident, in particular inflances, than a neceffary ingredient in true pus. This, I think, may be fufficlently manifcflfrom what has been faid above on the flate of the parts, as they appear in thofe whp die of an atrophy. In confequence of very large incurable abfeeffes, as well as from the foul flate of every fore, and the impurity of the pus. * Boeriiaave, Blr. Pott, &c« ivheiNINTRODUCTION'. 25 whenever there is an admixture of fat, or of the craffi- mentum of the blood. And if fo little of the pus can be furnifhed by the diffolution of folid parts, and its true purulent appearance be not occalion* * cd thereby, the difficulty is not removed, and the queflion returns, viz. how is pus formed ?—a queftion I have attempted to anfvver, and it is hoped, in a manner, that for any thing that has yet been advanced to the contrary, may appear more fatis- fadory and rational than any other account that has been given of the matter. § When the conftitution has, at a certain time of life, been long accuftomed to the prefence of an ulcer in fome part of the body, practitioners have been much divided about the propriety of attempting a cure. It has been deemed improper to heal it, with- out fubftituting a drain in fome convenient parr, in its dead.'* This opinion is founded partly on theory, partly on obfervation. If we regard old ulcers as drains, or outlets for vitiated humors ;-j~ the evacu- ants of a conliderable quantity of fluids, where re- tention mufl; diforder, or overload the fyftem, and induce plethora, ;j; &c. fuch ideas mufl: naturally pro- \ * See Mr. Bell, On Ulcen, who thinks Iflues in all cafes in- difpenfible ; of which fentiment farther notice will be taken, A mefure qu’on travaille a gucrir I'ulcere, il faut avoir foia d’ouvrir un cautcre a la panic qu’on jugera le plus convcnable, pour donirer aux mauvaifes humeurs un cpanchoir a la place dc celui qu’on va koucher, Traitc dcs Ulccrcs^ ^c, J Mr. Bell, ducc•2,6 .I'N TRODUCTION. ,duce a doubt of the expediency of cffeifling fo Im- portant a change ; and fa£ts are not wanting to prove that difagreeable, and even fatal confequences, have followed the drying up of long continued ulcers, and even of iflues. *—But though the fafts cannot be de- nied, the explanation given of them may be called in queftion. '■j*' We know, that in many cafes, very fufpicious a priori, ulcers have been dried up, not x>nly without bad confequences, but where very con- fiderable advantages have enfucd. Whereas, fatal accidents have fometimes taken place after the cauti- ous healing of more recent fores in apparently good habits of body, which would fcarcely have been attributed to fuch cures as to their proper caufe.—The pqft Hoc and propter Hoc, it is well known, require a judicious diferimination.—Where, indeed, there has long been a very protule dilcharge of matter, a cel- fation of the accuflomed evacuation may have fome influence. But if particular cafes aic excepted, it is more than probable, that the effedt of ulcers upon the coniUtution, is not to be imputed to the Quantity, ‘ » Le Dkan’s Obfervatlons—Sharp’s Surgery, Inuoduaion. -j- Ulcera diuturna et inveterata non fine periculo curantur, nifi corpus diligenter purgetur, et vidlus ratio bona obfervetur ; cujus rci exempl’um habet Ga/. Fahricius, de quodam viio qul cum ulcus inveteratum in crure finiftro ab empirico a>iOoJo; curatum fuifict, pod menfes aliquot pleuritidc in liniflro latere correptus, atque inde mortmis eft, et morbo durante ialia cxpuit, quaha antca cx ulcere effluere folebant. ^ . Fib-v. rroguojllca. mnebINTRODUCTION. fe*r much lefs to the Quality of the matter difcharged by them ; which it is likely, depend on the ftate and adfion of the veflels of the part, where, at lead, there is no fpecific contagion. No opinion is more popu- lar than the exiftence -of humors in the blood ; and perhaps very few opinions have lefs foundation in faft. The ferum of blood may differ in confiftency, and contain more or lefs faline particles; the red glo- bules may exift in greater or fmaller quantity ; the coagulating lymph may vary in its relative propor- tion to the watery parts of the blood—if we advance much farther, we are treading merely on hypothetical ground. Nor are we warranted to conclude from obfervation, that Quantity ought to inlluence us much more in the healing of ulcers. This has, indeed, been ftrongly afl'erted by many, and is urged by Mr. Bell in the lad edition of his Treatife upon Ulcers ; but it is appre- hended, without any appearance of argument—Let us inquire into the fadt—Are the effedts of ulcers upon the conffitution, by any means, proportionate to the quantity of matter difcharged by them ? Nay, do they not more commonly take place in people of a fpare and thin habit, and thofe of a lax fibre, rather than in the athletic, and fuch as are fubjedt to ple- thora ? And do we not fee, that the fpecies of ulcer, and its feat, very often determine its harmlefs, or mifcheivous tendency ? Whatever may be the habit of body, were we always to form our prognoftic of the termination of ulcers, from the quantity of furface C -INTRODUCTION". iS furface they occupy, or the fluids they difcharge, every day’s experience would prove the fallacy of fuch an indication. Small ulcers, (unattended with caries of the bone) may bring on hetlical fymptoms, and the amputation of the whole limb fliall fave the life, and reftore the health of the patient. It has been obferved by the Editors of the Critical Reviav, in their remarks upon this traft, that they have fecn “ both afthmaand Palfy repeatedly brought on and cured, by healing an old ulcer and again opening It; nor would any remedy prevent the re- currence of thefe dangerous diforders or cure them, without redorlng the ufual difeharge; and from the x'^ery fame part.”—I feel myfelf indebted to every rea- der who may date objections In an open and candid manner, efpecially when they relate to matters of fadf, as in the prefent'well-chofen inllance. But, I imagine it cannot be a prefuraption to fuppofe, that fuch inltances are very rare, and can therefore operate only in a way of general caution. As to the more common evils which may have followed the healing up of fore legs, it has been obferved, that they cannot all be attributed to the cure of the ulcer, though it is pofi'ible fome of them may. But this, is has been laid. Is an effed:, by no means, peculiar to the cure of fore legs; and I am certain, for I fpeak from experi- ence, is feldom owing to the cure, but to the improper manner In which the healing has been accomplilhed i whereby the veffels of the part arc left under a certain didempered date and morbid adion, which termi- natesINTRODUCTION. nates either in a new ulcer, or Irritates the fyftem : eifeds that can very rarely follow a proper digeftion and due cure of the fore. .And this is a circum- ftance of fuch importance in regard to fore legs, that if properly attended to muft, fooner or later, induce furgeons to adopt the plan now, upon due refLedioii and experience, again commended to their notice; and will, I hope, eventually prove a lading benefit to fociety, when I can no longer have an interefl in it.-^But to return from this little digreffion : it is general doctrines that good praditioni?rs will have regard to, and the fafety of healing old ulcers on the legs, is mentioned as fuch; and as general dodrine, I may venture to fupport it both from reafon and experience. Nor do objedtors, I Imagine, defign to prohibit the cure of them on every occafion,in the fear ofafihma,palfy,oranyotherchronIc complaint. Par- ticular exceptions there, doubtlefs, are to every gene- ral rule, and w'ith which men of practice are very well acquainted, and to which they will cautioufiy attend ; though by the bye, furgeons are continually attempt- ing the cure ot old ulcers on the legs in every large holpital, jult as readily as if no kind of bad confe- quence were ever to be apprehended ; and when they fail ol fuccefs, are ncverthclefs In no fear of inducing an afthma, by removing the falutary ulcer, at the cxpence of the limb. As to the peculiar objedtion to healing old ulcers, there is a deal of fallacy in the circumfiancc of the length of time an ulcer may hap- pen to have lubfifled, and particularly with regard to poorI N T R O'D U C T I O N. poor people, in whom it often becomes fiatlonary merely from their ncccffitous fituation, which de- prives them of the bell means of relief; to which may be added, their not being in a capacity of com- plying with the miftaken notion of the neceffity of reh,* which has proved eventually the occaiion of more An anonymous writer, who lately fuggefted his thoughts on ulcerated legs, with a view to lead furgeons to inveftigate the fub- je6t, juftly claims from his candour a title to notice, efpecially from me, for the polite mention made of the plan I had recom- mended, which was then but juft publiftied. And it is with plea- fure I can aflure this gentleman, that the treatment of fore legs is now a matter taken up in different parts of the kingdom, and with a fuccefs that has ferved amply to confirm the praftife I had fug- geiled. Every frefli inftance has demonftrated the propriety of the idea I threw out, as to the occaiion of the difficulty of the cure^ and the means of removing it, as well as of the futility of at- tempting it upon the lenient plan, which, as this writer obferves, either fails in the firft inftance, or the fore often breaks out again. In farther confirmation of this fentiment, I would remind this candid inquirer, that much more powerful applications than yellow bafilicon are required to bring ulcers into a good ftate, which once effedfed, dreffing them with a mild digeftive will not keep them open, (as he has fuggefted. In cafes where he apprehends they' ought to be preferved as ilfues,) unlefs it be from its not being fufficiently a£Hve ; and not from its ftimulus. Let the pea be taken out of an ifl'ue, and the ulcer drellcd with yellow bafilicon; or a perpetual blifter be treated in like manner, and they will nei-i ther of them be long kept open; whereas, common blifters are fometimes difficult to be healed ; aud every praflitloner muft have known them continue open for two or three months, in fpight of every attempt to tire contrary, efpecially in teething children ; tliougli here, It is acknowledged, tire evil is not local. This wri-1 N T R O D U C T I O Nr 31, more amputations, than almoft all the injuries from violence and accident, which ufually attend the lower clafles of mankind. § The ill-efted:s which ulcers have upon the con- flitution depend, it has been faid, on the circumftanccs, and fituation of the fore, and feem to arife from irritati- on, and the confequent general Hate of excitement into which the fyftem is thrown. When the difcharge is very profufe, inanition is produced; but iimple inanition is not a proximate caufe of hectic fever, nor of fymp- toms of irritation. * * The fyftem being kept in a per- petual ftate of tenfion, by the conftant fdmulus of an ulcer, and nature fruitlefsly exhaufting herfelf to fub- diie an obftinate difeafe, will fufiiciently account for that train of ill fymptoms, which fometimes accoin- ter’s idea may, however, ferve to exemplify what pains are taken,, upon the lenient plan, to compel ulcers of the legs to dry up, when the light llimulus of a mild digeflive is fuppofed capable of keeping them open.—We cannot therefore infer, from fome complaints fucceeding to cures efFeded in the ordinary way, that there can be no fafe way of healing old ulcers ,• nor learn from fuch pradice, when, or by what means they may be falutary, or injurious to the habit. * Wounds of the tendons, ligaments, cartilages, and the cavities of joints, are more liable to be attended with I'ymptoms of irrita- tion, than the inflammation of other parts; by fuch fymptoms therefore are meant, great deprefiion of flrength, anxiety, frequent refpiration, quick and fmall pulfe, a tendency to delirium, or fpaf- modic affcdions of the mufcles. Thefe fymptoms do not indicate a difeafe of the general fyftem, but depend upon the prefence of an irritating caufe ; and when the caufe is removed, the effed imme- diately ccafes. jxinicSINTRODUCTION* panics ulceration, -j*-—But though ftimuli, In certain habits, and under certain circumftances, may prove detrimental to health, yet in many inftances, we find them excellent remedies. The good effeds of blifters and cauftics, applied near the feats of difeafes, are generally known ; yet we do not fuppofe, that there is any fpecific virtue in cantharides, neither do we regard them as the evacuants of vitiated humors. It is a fact pretty generally admitted, that however plen- tifully a bliftered part may pour out Its ferum, it is often more advantageous to heal the fore, and apply a frefli ftimulant, than to keep it open by mild digef- tives. If the good effeds of blifiers, therefore, be ad- mitted upon thefe principles, why rejed this reafoning in the cafe of ulcers, which may not improperly be termed perpetual blifters or Ifllies ? The efteds of ulcers upon the conftitution in gene- ral, being thus hinted at, the main queftion may be refumed, viz. Is it always proper to attempt the cure of ulcers ? Were a general and dired anfwer to be offered, it might be given In the affirmative. Should a cafe occur (which is not Improbable) where upon the whole. It may be judged a lefs evil to fuffer the ulcer to remain, than to attempt its cure, yet if Its extent of furface be very confiderable, it will be pru- dent to leflen Its dimenfions. To this may be added. -f- Natura cnim, femper folicita eft in confcrvatlone Individui fai, morbifque fefe opponit; fed proutvalida aut imbecillis fuerit, aut vidiix eradit, aut fuccumbif. Hildanus, Obferv. Chirurgn 77* thatINTRODUCTION. 3^ tKat as the feat of an ulcer, however fmall, may fee in a very inconvenient part of the body, a large iffue * may, in many cafes, be fubftituted in its ftead which if this reafoning be valid, will much oftener than it is imagined, have the flime good effed:. Whether, therefore, we regard the operation of ulcers as a drain, or as a ftimulus to the fyftem, there can fel- dom be any reafonable objedion againft healing them. The preceding obfervations are natural, they are founded on fads, and it is hoped, they will fupport the inference intended to be drawn from them. Many of them almoft infenfibly occurred to the author in the courfeofhis pradice, nor did he difcern half their force, till repeated experience conftrained him to at- tend to them, and forced on his mind fuch reiledions as led to fupport them. Be it obferved, however, once for all, that fticcefs preceded his reafonings, and though he fhould have failed in his theor)'’, the fads Band unaltered, and every man will find himfelf at liberty to prefer his own illuftration of them. He concludes it, indeed, far fafer, even indufirioufly to * In all thefe cafes, it is proper to purge once or twice a week with calomel, if the patient can bear it, and to make an ilTue • when the fore is almoft healed. Sharp, InlroduBion, p. 40. i Le Draw, Bell. The latter has fome obfervations tending to prove, that the difcharge from a common iffue is ufually much greater than is generally imagined. c invent34 INTRODUCTION. invent a fpeclous theory in fupport of experience, than to found a practice on mere metaphyfical reafonings, however ingenious they may feem. If he has erred, he has erred on the fafe fide, and again cheerfully fubmits both his principles and practice to the judg- ment of others. A TREATISEA TREATISE UPON ULCERS of the LEGS. IN the treatment of ulcers on the lower extre- mities, it has been efteemed of the utmoft importance, to confider the fore in a peculiar connexion with the general health of the patient. In this view, it has been judged fufficient to bring fome ulcers into an eafy, harmlefs ftate ; whilft others, from their long continuance, magnitude, or advanced age of the patient, have been thought incapable of cure. But where none of theie im- pediments may occur, furgeons, neverthelefs, differ very much about the moft fafe and rational means of accomplifhing it. Whether there be many ulcers whofe cure may not be undertaken with the greateft fafety, and , probability of fuccefs, I fhall not difpute again ia this place; and however numerous they may be, the known rules of art are fufficient for every thing C 2 thatA TREATISE upon 3S iccnis to Sg cxpc^icd from it. 1 msyj liowGvcry venture to iidd^ th3t perhsps nothing will contribute fo much to the eafe of tl^e patient, as the bandage hereafter to be mentioned, drawn moderately tight. It is the confcfledly curable ulcer then, that will be the chief fubjedt of this trax^f, including, however, many of thofe found in that dubious hate fomc praditioners have imagined. To purfue this intention more perfedly. It will be neceffary to take a comprehenfive view of the ufual modes of treatment' recommended, to gether with the internal remedies on ' which fur- geons have at different periods principally relied* And here a large field for difputation would open, if notice were taken of every thing that has been in vogue, or has had fome warm advocates even from the prefs. But I fiiall only glance at fuch things as have not been generally adopted, and fiiall chiefly confine my obfervations to thofe in great credit amongfl; furgeons of reputation, who the author of this little efiay wlfiies may perufe it with the fame degree of candor, that he has meant to exercife of modefiy and refpedf. In the liberty he has taken in differing from them in opinion. He cheerfully ac- knowledges the fuperior abilities of many of thofe who may be his readers, as well as their more extetv five experience in the general pradliceof furgery—he thinks, however, he has fome improvements to ofler on the article of ulcers, though there are fo many others, in which he flioiild think it fufficiently ho.r notable to fay, I ■pVir, fennar, fi non ^aj[ibus ItU L C E'H S OF.' THE L E G S. ■37 It may be proper to begin with the internal remedies, as they will require but few obfervations, ■and will ferve to unfold the nature of the plan propofed in the following pages. Among>ft remedies taf this clafs, the Cicuta, Solanum, and Nitre were once in great repute with fome praftitioners. Of the former, which has been tried in fo many complaints, little more need be faid in this da}', than that it hath failed of that general fuccefs we were once made to expedV, in any of thofe for which it was at firft fo highly recommended; though it is well known there are others, in which it fre- quently proves a mold valuable remedy. In the hands of judicious phyficians, and particularly thofe great ornaments to the profeffion. Dr. PFarren, and the late Dr. Fotkergill, many fevere anomalous com- plaints have been immediately relieved by it, after having withftood every rational mean;c that could be thought of*—The cicuta, how'ever, is no fpecific for C 3 fore * Of this the writer of thefe pages was, perhaps, one of the moft fortunate inftances, when under the care ofDr. WARREtr for a moft fevere and painful afedtion of the face. The cicuta alfo proved equally fuccefsful in regard to Mrs. Under-zvood, when affliiffed for a long time, with violent pain in the ftomach, and for which Dr. Warren had previoufly direfled cordials, bitters and opium, without any lading advantage.—The author hopes he ftiall Dot offend that eminent pradfitioncr, by taking this opportunity of publicly acknowledging, the very great obligations he has been long under to his friendfliip and fei vices; and as, by no means, the lead of them, that he has been, more than once, the kind inftrumentA TREATISE ttpoit 38 fore legs, and though it may have its ufe as an anodyne, in a few cafes hereafter to be mentioned., it will be fufficlent to obferve here, that it hath, perhaps, done lefs for thefe than for any ulcers, for which it has been at different times recom- mended. The SoLANUM, I believe, has been long exploded, as a remedy not at all to be depended upon, and would not have been mentioned here, if great things had not once been faid of it. It appears, however, to have had its ufe in fome cafes, which I was witnefs to many years ago, when houfe-furgeon to St. George's hofpital, but it is certainly much too powerful and uncertain a remedy for general ufe, and no rule has been found whereby a judgment might be formed of the probability of its fucceeding, unlefs it may be faid in cafes attended with great pain; and herein it is not only far lefs certain than opium, but much inferior to the cicuta. It may, however, be admi- niftered with fafety for a few days, and will often produce a florid furface on an ill-conditioned fore. Nitre was a few years ago recommended in the cure of ulcers;* and having been long regardful of inftrument of prolonging the valuable days of his nearell relative, and choiceft comfort in life. The cicuta hath likewife been fometimes efficacious in difeafes of the moft dangerous nature, and even in that opprobrium to the healing art, the cancer, when feated in the uterus. Of this, the writer may give the public a fuller account in fome future w'ork, if the remedy ffiould con- tinue to be as fuccefsful as he has in feveral inftanccs lately experienced if. * Dr. Rowley, On Ulcers of the Legs% everyULCERS OF THE^ LEGS. 59 every thing that promifed relief in thefe complaints^ I was readily difpofed to attend to it. After a fair and repeated trial of it, I can venture to fay only, that i-t is likely to be ufeful upon the lenient plan, as it certainly co-operates with the intention there pur- fued, of reft, evacuations, &c. by its known quality of leftening fenfibility in the nerves of the ftomach and the general fyftem, and thus making the fluids circulate more flowly : but it has been obferved,'^ that the cure of ulcers, when accomplilhed by fuch means, is feldoni permanent. Befides, the poflibility of fuch a medicine, in large dofes long continued, pro- ducing fome unpleafant effedts in certain conftitutions, may be confidered as another objedtion to its general ufe. It is, indeed, a well known and powerful diuretic, but when taken in the large dofes prefcribed, its temporary good eftedfs, I apprehend, are not fo much to be attributed to this as to its fedative pow- ers. In more moderate dofes, however, it may be adminiftered in thofe cafes, wherein the above re- medies are evidently called for, as will be noticed hereafter. Before I proceed to inquire farther into the ufe of internal remedies, it may not be araifs to glance likewife at fome external modes of treatment not generally adopted, which might not, indeed, be thought worth mentioning, but that I wilh to notice every thing that has been reputedly fuccefsful. One of thefe confifls of fridtions, and though it may be accounted m fome degree empirical, probably * Vide the Introduftion. C4 fome40 A TREATISE vto^ ' fome good may have been done by it. And it fo far coincides with the prefent plan, as it proves a fti- mulus, fupplying the defcdt arifing from the languid circulation in the extremities. It will thereby li- berate the parts, and open the fine veficls termin- ating on the fkin but there is fomething fo painful (as I am told) in the operation, and fo inelegant and inartificial in the mode, that no lurgeon will pro- bably ever adopt it. There are other empirics who effedlually cure ulcers jof the legs without confinement, or regulation of diet, fome of them rvith, and others without the ufe of tight bandage ; one of thefe makes free ufe of the mercur. eorrofiv. rub. and as it appears, with very good fuccefs. But where no bandage has been ap- plied, the ulcers are apt to^break out again. Another method among fuch practitioners, is that of bathing the limb in aftringent liquors, or applying aftringent lotions or drefiings. And indeed , fuch a practice in fome cafes, with certain limitations and additions, feems more intitled to attention, than many other external applications; though it is ca- pable of doing great mifehief in the hands of empirics. This method, however, as far as I have been able to trace it, does nothing W'ithout very tight bandage or refi. Befides thefe methods, there are others which have been ufed in different parts of the kingdom, not * Defriflio potell: folverc, ligare, incarnare, minuere; dura li- gare: mollis folvere : multa minuerer modcrata craflefacere. HlPPOC. Officin. Mat. W’ithoutULCERS OF THE ■ L E G S. 4'^ ■without fome fuccefs; but fo much pains has been taken to conceal them, that their good effea:s arc neceffarily very limited. Amongft tbefe, the moft remarkable that has come to my knowledge, is that long pradifed by a refpeftable gentleman not of the profeflion; who died foon after the former edition of this work appeared. He, indeed, ever kept his remedies as fecret as poffible ; but, it is to be hoped, his fucceflbr in this branch of the healing art, may be prevailed upon to adt with a liberality becoming the profeflion. I proceed now to take notice of fuch internal reme- dies as have been in more general ufe, and are ftill in great reputation with the belt pradfitioners in furgery. The firftlfhall mention is Mercury.—This may, indeed, be ufed with great advantage in many cafcs,«- as a moft powerful deobftruent and ftimulant. But when exhibited freely, fo as to raife a fallva- tion,-'!' the cafe is entirely changed ; it ma}’’, indeed, from the vaft difeharge it occalions by the various fecretions, in a few inftances carry offfomething that has been injurious to the habit, and may efpecially keep it from the wound, and from counteradfing the furgeon’s defigns; but it is very probable, it ufually adts far more powerfully by reducing the vis vlts for the prefent, and thereby coincides with the inten- tions of refl, diet, and purgatives, as will be farther fliewn in the fequel of this work. And every candid pradtitioner will allow, that of all the cafes of fore * Sec Falck on Mercury, f Sec Sharp’s Surgery. legs42 A TREATISE upok kgs that return fo frequently to the hofpitals, the greatefi: number Is from thofe who were cured undef a courfe of mercury ; nor is it even probable, that llrong and laborious men, whofe fores have been healed by the means of fo debilitating a plan, fhould continue long in a found ftate, when they return to their ufual diet and exercife. Calomel taken inwardly, and in fmall dofes as an alterative, though it lefs powerfully promotes the fe- cretions, ad:s neverthelefs upon the fame plan, and being, indeed, ufually joined with purgatives, cannot fail to effedt juft as much as other medicines of this clafs. It may have one advantage of them, however, by acting as a ftimulus to the fyftem, and In com- mon with other mercurials Is likely to be ferviceable where the habit may be tainted with lues venerea. Peruvian Bark Is directed in the cure of ulcers of the legs, as it is alfo of many other fores, and is, doubtlefs, a very valuable drug. In the cafes before us, and perhaps in all others, it adds as a tonic, and as fuch, often produces wonderful effedts; neither phyfician nor furgeon would willingly practice with- out it: but in the prefent Inftancc, it may be ob- jedted to. In many cafes, as a medicine to- be very long continued, at leaft, with the view in which it is fometimes preferibed. It is ufeful only where nature Is languid, and her powers ftand In need of aftiftance to bring an ulcer into a good ftate; it may then, in general, be foon difeontinued, as ftiould every other means ufed under the idea of expediting a cure. It may be doubted, Indeed, It it ever adt& as an43 ULCERS OF THE LEGS, an aftringent in this way, but if it does, it will be often injurious, as will be farther explained in its place. After what has been faid, little need to be ob- ferved on the article of Purging, unlefs it be to make an apology for fo egregious a deviation from the general, and moft antient pradice and this I am ready to do both on the prefent, and every other occafion, when I lhall be found ditFering from gen- tlemen who have made furgery their ftudy and prac- tice much longer, and to more advantage than I have pretended to.—But, amicus FlalOj amicus Socrates, fed magis arnica veritas.—To yield to any authority, would here be criminal. Fadts muft, and will Band.—I have feen the practice of the molt eminent of the profeffion both here and in Paris, and have profited from it; but in this inftance, at leaft, ge- neral prefcription has failed, and every man knows how tedious is the cure, and how frequent the relapfe of fore legs. Nature is compelled to dry up the furface of the ulcer, by the improper help of epu- lotics, reft, abftinence and phyfic, rather than en- couraged to throw off by the fore, whatever is offen- five, to fill up the furface with found flefh, and gra- dually to abate the difeharge, only in proportion as that furface diminifiies.—This is the work of na- * See Hippoc. Lii. de Humor. Turner, Sharp, and H EisTER on Ulcers of the Legs, the laft of whon^more particularly, advifes frequent purges to carry off the foul humours; forgetting that a continued rccourfe to them, will carry off the good as well as the bad. ture.44 A' TREATISE upoit " ture.—'Ns<rci)u tpva-ig Icil^o? *—art fliould do no more Than affift her endeavours, or remove the obftacles in her wa}’.—But this is to anticipate the fubftance of the following fheets; fuffice it to fay here, that what- ever virtue the exhibition of purges may be judged to have in healing of ulcers, the frequent ufe of them certainly does not difpofe them to remain fo; nay on the other hand, I venture to affert, that the long continued ufe of them is needlefs, and even prejudicial, in the cure itfelf, as is every other mean of lowering the flrength, and for the prefent impair- ing the general health of the patient. Another mean in great repute, both with former and modern practitioners, is the ufe of Alterative Medicines.—What virtue fome drugs may poffiblv be pofl'effed of, it may not feem very modeft to difi- pute, but this I may venture to fay, that fome me- dicines have obtained very fine names, which it is well if they deferve. That there -are fuch, as with very little or no fenfible operation, may aflifl the vis medicatrix nature to make a falutary change in the fyflem, will not be doubted by men of experience ; though there are certainly very few medicines that aCt fpecifically on any difeafe, or induce any fuch change in the blood, as the term feems defigned to imply. There arc cafes and conflitutions, it is grant- ed, that require medicines to aflifl the healing of wounds, but in fpecific contagions excepted, we have little reafon to think, there are any deferving the ■* Lih> vl, § 5»v nameULCERS OF THE LEGS. 45 name of alteratives, in fuch a fenfe, as to point them out as adapted to the ulcers now under con- lideration, or that do any thing more towards the cure of them, than of any other v.'ound. It will be fufficient therefore, the general health be attended to, and fuch medicines occafionally diredted, as are likely to promote it, (of which notice will prefently be taken); if it be othervvife, I have been hitherto for- tunate in not having found the neceffity of them, and the patient feldom cares how few he is troubled with. The reader’s attention is drawn next to the Diet to which fuch patients ought to be confined; and here I muft again exprefs my diflent from the ge- neral opinion, which I would not do, without being thoroughly fatisfied of the fufficiency of the grounds upon which I advance fo very an uncommon one* But it is apprehended to be a matter of Very con-r fiderable importance.—The diet ought not to be flender, unufually low, or limited,, as is too fre- quently recommended,* but juft that u'hich the per- fon ought to life in a good ftate of health ; lower than too many like to indulge in, and rather better than fome people allow themfelves; paying due at- tention to cuftom and habit, which, it is well known, are to a proverb become a fecond nature. The fafety and advantage of fuch a diet will be parti- * Modicus clbus er aqua omnibus ulceribus conducunr. Hip* roc. De Ulceribus. See alfo Heistee, Tcrner, and more modern writers on this fiibjedl. cularizcd45 A TREATISE upon cularizcd in another place, at prefent I fliall confine mylelf to what is judged to be improper, and fhali therefore briefly point out the difadvantages of an error in this rcfpect, A low, and very limited diet, by its effedfs in weakening the conftitution, together with reft and purging, tends to keep up that indif- pofttion to heal, conftantly obferved in thefe fores; and thus confpires W'ith the weaker circulation in the parts, to prevent the formation of good and laudable pus, fo neceflary to the cleanfing and filling up of every old ulcer* Befides, cures effedied under fuch a regimen are very unlikely to ftand, and accord- ingly very rarely continue for any length of time. In many patients, and efpeclally the heedlefs, and often abandoned amongft the poor, who foon return to their old and very different ftyle of living, the yet tender cicatrice is unable to withftand this new im- petus of the fluids, the confequence of which muft be plain and obvious, without adverting to other confiderations. Indeed, too applicable to this and other circumftances of difcipline, in the management of fore legs, is that univerfal maxim, omms fubita immutaUo pericuhfa; for indeed nature is abhorrent from it.-*—In fhort, if the cure of very bad ulcers on the lower extremities is defigned to be lafting, there muft be a greater conformity in the non-naturals. * Neque ex multa fame nimia fatietas; nequeex nimia fatletate fames idonea eft.—Item, neque ex nimio labore fubitum otium, Deque ex nimio otio fubitus labor, fine gravi noxa eft. Cei.sus, Lil, /. cap, 3. ' asULCERS OF THE LEGS. 47 £s they are called, both under, and after the cure, than feems to have been agreeable to the fentiraent, or pradtice of the generality of furgeons in any age. The fuppofed importance and neceffity of Rest, and an horizontal pofition of the affedted limb, has long been a fine qua non in the cure of large and old ulcers on the legs, both amongft the ancients and moderns,* and though it may feem bold, yet it is the leading defign of this publication to attempt to fet it afide, at lead, to propofe a method of cure without it, better, more rational, and lading. And here it will, doubtlefs, be fuppofed, that every idea of neceffity, or peculiar indication is excluded, fuch as fever, local indammation, &c. which certainly demand a temporary confinement; and that the ob- jedtion is limited to the fimple idea of red of the part, in order to facilitate, or perfcdt the cure. Where- as, the frequenc)'’, I had almod faid condancy, with which large and old ulcers on the legs are found to * Stare autem ulcer! mlnime conducit, praefertim fi quis iij crure ulcus habeat; imo neque federe, neque anibulare. Verum otium et quies maxime conferunt. Hippoc. De Ulcerihuu See alfo Traite da Tiimeurs et des Ulcercs, Paris^ ^759* “ I injoin reft, with a due pofition of the limb, if not in bed or upon a couch, lying along at lead: upon fome chair or ftool, near a level with the trunk of the body.” Turner. “ Above all things reft, and an horizontal pofition ; which lad circumftance is of fo great importance to the cure of ulcers on the legs, that urilefs the patient will conform to it firiiSUy, the Ikill of the furgeon will often avail nothing,” Sharp’s Surgery. (IntrcdnSlion) p. jS, return4? A TREATISE upojr return, is greatly owing to their having been healed in an horizontal pofition of the limb. Having now conhderecl many, and perhaps the chief of the internal means in general ufe, together with the pofition of the affcdled part, and the diet of the patient, I fhall proceed to make fome obfer- vations on the ordinary topical applications, the more immediate province of furgery. And the firft thing that demands a particular notice, is the long continued ufe of Fomentatiom and Foul- ticesy which, however they may invigorate and warm at the infiant, tend greatly to relax the open mouths of the fine veffels, to defiroy the tone of the mufcular fibres, and induce a flabbinefs of the Ikin over the whole limb;-'^ thus laying an additional foundation for ulcers, healed in this wa)'', to break out again. The ufe of them likewife generally obliges the patient not only to reft, but to keep in his bed,-!- that the limb may be preferved conftantly warm ; for where this Is not attended to, little good can reafonably be expeded, fince a common poultice, foon becoming cold, is likely, in many cafes, to produce more harm than advantage. What has been fald, it ftiould be obferved, relates to their long continued ufe ; an oc- cafional recourfe to them, efpecially In the com- mencement of the cure, and in fome Inftances here- after to be fpecified, may be lometimes, though not very frequently neceflary. * See BrLi.. Pari ii. Id, . Without49 ULCERS OF THE LEGS. Without examining particularly the great variety of Drefmgs that have been in common ule, it will be fufficient in this place to fay, that mere greafy ap- ' plications without fome warm and Simulating addi-' tion, however proper and ufeful in fimple ulcers on other parts of the body, are liable to the fame objedions, and therefore not adapted to old fores on the legs. For though, like the former, they may fometimes, with the affiSance of reft and epulotics, bring the Ikin over the furface, they are fure to leave the difeafe at the bottom. After having thus ftated fome principal objedions againft the ordinary pradice, I am happy that expe- rience warrants me in propofing a plan of cure more certain and agreeable, as well as more durable than any hitherto deferibed. Indeed, the fuccefs has been abundantly greater than was at firft expeded, and its fimplicity cannot fail of recommending it in prefer- ence to any other, if it were pofleftTed of only equal advantages. But to fave the trouble and pain of confinement and ftrid regimen, almoft without the ule of internal remedies, which in general are nc. t very much relifhed by patients of any clafs, is furely an objed highly worthy of attention; fo that very little need be added, if the rationality and fafety of the method can be made equally clear with its cer- tainty and cafe. In the treatment of ulcers, two things are prin- cipally aimed at, by whatever means we may defign their accomplifliment, firft, to bring the fore into a good condition with refped to its appearance, 1) itsA TREATISE tjpoii its difchargc, and the fenfations of the patient; arhcf then fecondly, to induee its furface to dry up, or form a ciczftrice. In order to thefe, in the cure of every deep ulcer, it is necelTary that its bottom fhould throw up healthy granulations, and come up near, or quite to the level of the furrounding Ikin, unlefa the ulcer has been attended with great lofs of fub- flance, or caries of the bone ; but fuch incarnation h here irrcluded in the firft idea, as it ufually takes place at the time, or very foon after th® fore puts on a healthy appearance. To thefe in- tentions a third may be added, which enters pecu- liarly into this plan,, which is to heal them by fuch means as fliaU be moll: likely to prevent a feturn of the cornpla-int. An ulcer is here fnppofed to be unattended with much topical inflammation, or uncommon pain, and without any febrile diathefis in the habitr Here the principal Intention is to procure, and keep up a copi- ous difcharge, without any apprehenCon, in general,, about the time it may continue,- or the effects it may produce ;■ the former will not continue long after the ulcer is becoraedean, the lattery(it will'be fliewn) may be regarded as the very obyed: in pursuit; at leafl, the fame means that have produced and kept up a copious difcharge, will cleanfe the foul furface, liberate the vefl'cls in the part, and occafion a good appearance of the fore, much fooner than any thing elfe, and can therefore produce no manner of bad cGnfcquence.''^ The I fiiotrld be unjud if I did not remark, that when thefe ter- rible fcwbutic ukcfs are cured by thrs method (a fuppurative poul- tice)ULCERS OF THE LEGS. 51 The means of accomplliliing thefe intentions may be ranked under four general heads, External Appli- cations, Bandage, Exercife, Diet and Medicines. Of the fird: It would be difficult to make any exadt, or regular arrangement; but it may be faid in general, that they confift of digeftives, deterfives, efcharotics, and a certain kind of aftringents. In order to date the advantages which It has been faid may be expedted from this planj it will be ne- celTary to examine the feveral articles juft now enu- merated, and to obviate the objedtions that may arife in the minds even of eminent pradfitioners, againft fo free a ufe of the remedies propofed ; efpecially as fo much is expedted from them, as to occafion the difcarding fo many other means which cuftom has damped with an aimoft facred authority. The Digeftive in mod: cafes cannot be too ftrong, if not produdlive of that kind of irritation, which may provoke inflammation In the neighbouring parts; nor is that much to be apprehended, for it is remark- tice) you may perceive during the cure, the patients countenances, which were generally of a fquallid hue before, to be clearing up daily by the difeharge from the fore, till they come to a perfedlly healthy appearance. And this being done without any internal medicines, I lay it down for a maxim in all cafes, that it is better for the patient to difeharge any peccant matter externally from the part, which nature laid it on, than to retradf it into the blood, by bleeding, purges, or other evacuatioris ; for by this means, the matter is often tranflated to the lungs, or other noble part: for It is a well known maxim, that ab extra intus redlrtf malum cjl'* Fr E K e’s Art of ihaVtng, Dz ableI can A TREATISE UPON able, that very irritating applications to thefe ulcers fcarce ever induce it, cfpecially, (however incredible it may appear) where exercife is freely allowed ; which by its tendency to promote the difeharge, fo far counteracts Inflammation. The preclle form of fuch digeflives, it would be thought trifling to inflft upon, as the Pharmacopocite oihondon zy\{\Edinburgh for the moft part contain them, or fuch as are very fimilar to them ; * though both pharmacopoeias are deficient, in regard to a fuitablc digeflive for tendinous parts. In other rcfpects, how- ever, Ibrne one of the more aCtive among thefe pre« feribed formulae, will in a very fevv days produce a fine furface on an old, and very painful fore, and with the afliflance of exercife, a good diet, and pro- per roller, will in a variety of cafes, and without any other means, cfleCt a fpeedy and lafling cure; though the patient fhould have been fubjeCt to fore legs for a number of years, and never eafy a month together, after having been repeatedly healed in the ordinary vvay. * It may be ufeful, however, juft to fay, that the Unguent. Bafil, nigr. of the London Pharmacop. as a digeflive for ulcers on the legs, is as inoch preferable to the Bafil. flav. as that would be to the Unij. album. >And I mention this, and have alfo, in the prefent edition, taken notice of other applications I have found ufeful, in confequence of being informed, that gentlemen who have adopted the plan, and with very good fuccefs, have been at great pains in making experiments in regard to topicals, before they could be fatisfied what might belt correfpond with the hints I had formerly given.55 ULCERS OF TILF LEGS. I can forefee no formal objection to be made againft any of thefe digeilive, or detcrfive ointments. Such made of the warmer gums, balfams and oils, have always been in ufe among furgeons; and if I have intimated, as I mean to do, that they cannot be too powerful (if calculated to promote digeftion, and induce firm and florid granulations), and that they oueht to be longer continued than is commonlv O V J done, it is on account of the more inert flate, and weaker circulation obferved in thefe parts, and their difpofition to break out again into a fore, if preci- pitately healed. It is to prevent this, that the difcharge is direfted to be kept up as long as nature fliall be difpofed to it, inftcad of having early recourfe to drying, or healing applications, as they are called, in order to haften the cure ; and for which, in the greateft number of cafes, there will be found little occafion on this plan. But to pafs on to things more liable to objefllon, fuch as very flimulating, and corrofive applications. Here, I wifli firfl of all to obviate in part the force of a principal objcdlion, that they occafion pain, (which, however, they often remove,)* by obferving, that fuch applications are to be ufed only now and then ; and 1 can aflcrt, that although they are to be applied in confiderable quantity, they will not excite half fo much pain as might be apprehended ; as * See Wiseman, On Ulcers ’■Mith Pa'itu Chap, iv, Ohferv. 2. Pook. a. D 3 they54 A TREATISE UPON they are ufed chiefly to fores in a certain flate, which will very well endure them, and are rendered very tolerable at the worfl, by means of that exercrfe fo continually inculcated. For I am conftantly told by patients to whom they have been the mofl: freely ufed, that walking always mitigates the pain, which accordingly is feverefl in bed, at whatever time of the day they have been applied. Nor ought I to omit aflerting, that filling a fore with mercur. corrof. ruber, affords very little more pain, than modcr rately fprinkling it on the part; befides which, we are to confider that one drefling in this manner fre- quently fuperfedes the neceffity of many repetitions of it, in a more moderate way. Another objedion may arife from the ftimulus, fuch applications will occafion, endangering inflam- mation, and rendering an ill-conditioned fore flill more obflinate, by producing a fliarp and ichorous difeharge more abundantly corrofive. This is cer- tainly true in a few cafes, of which I lhall fpeak in their proper place, but in a general way, fadts prove ‘ diredfly the contrary; fores on the legs require a flimulus, '* and it has been faid, are not eafily provoked to inflammation. I have applied the red precipitate to fores exquifitely tender and painful, difeharging nothing but a thin ichor, which has co- vered the furrounding fkin with heated pimples, and * WisEMyVN obferves, that “applications to thefe ulcers ought to have a temperate heat ; and whatever objeftions” (fays he) may be made againft even cauftic applications, where milder onps take no place, we proceed to the llronger.” fmaU55 ULCERS OF THE LEGS. fmall ulcers, and that after trying lenient applications to no purpofe; the precipitate has immediately chan- ged the appearance and difeharge of the fores, th-e furrounding ikin has loft its unpleafant afpedh, the pain has been removed, and the ulcer, when fmall, been nearly filled up in a few days, Befides objections taken from the pain, and other effects of fuch evident ftimuli, it may be farther re- marked againft the quantity and manner, in which fuch applications are ufed, as well as the intention itfelf, that large furfaces, being thus repeatedly and rudely deftroyed, and even deep floughs produced in fome of them, is a very inelegant mode of dreffing an ulcer, and has more appearance of the farrier, than the furgeon. I ftiall not on this occafion ftay to compare it with the aCtual cautery, very frequent- ly in the hands of the former, and not altogether laid afide by the latter, but refting fatisfied with the evi- dent advantages arifing from the means recommended, muft urge the neceffity of maintaing, in many cafes, a new furface ; without which, though the ulcer may fometlmes heal up, under ftriCt regimen and reft, it will moft probably break out again when the patient returns to his ufual diet and exercife, Befide the arguments that have been offered in de- fence of fuch applications as create a more than ordi- nary irritation, or feem difpofed to increafe pain in the ulcer, there are not wanting obvious faCts to fup- port them; it being univerfally acknowledged there are many cafes, even where a kind of fpurious in- D 4 llammation5^ A TREATISE upon flammatlon* attends, in which they prove more fpeedily ufeful than any other applications. I might particularly inflance the fmall ulcers on the gums, and infide of the lips, faid to arife from an affection of the ftomach, which are generally cured in a few days, by a little burnt allum, a flight touch with the lunar cauftic, or a drop of fpirit of fea-falt. Whereas, holding warm milk, or any other lenitive, for a much longer time in the mouth, and frequently repeated, though foft and pleafant to their tender fur- face, offended even with the ftroke of the tongue, would have little or no tendency to heal them. So alfo the true feurvy on thefe parts, will bear, by de- grees, the undiluted fpirit of fait,''!'' and is cured by it, when bland applications would increafe the complaint. It is alfo well known, that fome fmall ulcers upon other parts of the body, (and even affetflions of the eye-lids) which are apt to furnifli * I have made ufe of this term from a conviftion, that there are frequent appearances of inflammation, as to colour and heat, where the adlion of the parts affedted is very diifimular to that always met with in true inflammation. Of this fpurious kind may be ranked Eiyfipelar, the treatment of which, it is well known, ought to be materially ciifl'ercnt from that of the true phlegmon—But the fubjedt is not proper for farther difcullion in this place, and would lead me too far; though it may be necefliiry the reader fliould keep the diflind'tion in view, in regard to various paflages, as well tts the pjadHcc frequently inculcated, in the following pages. •| See Van Swieten’s Comment, on Boerhaave, and Lind, On the Seuny.57 ULCERS OF THE LEGS. sn almoft cauftlc difcharge, and are therefore intole- rably painful, and difficult of cure under lenient appli- cations, are frequently dried up in a very fliort time, by a few flight touches of the lunar cauftic ; which by deflroying fome little inflamed gland, removes the fource of the evil at once. In regard to the bracing, or aflrin'gent applications I have mentioned, the propriety of them \vill appear beft in their proper place. It will only be neceffary at prefent to remark, that thefe aflringents are dif- ferent from thofe In common ufe, both becaufe they do not leave a drynefs on the fkin, and becaufe they are of a very deterfive nature ; neither are they made of fuch a ftrength as to fupprefs the difcharge, but rather to brace the furface of fome particular ulcers : befides, the ufe of them is not conflant, and Is feldom long continued. I COME next to the fubjetfl of Bandage.—It may be an empirical, but Is no bad argument, when the integrity and common fenfe of the fpeaker are not fufpedted, to fay, that fadVs are flronger than rea- foning; they are ftubborn things even to a proverb, and they fpeak in favour of very tight bandage. I have applied it to the corpulent, heavy and inactive, to the young of an inflammatory habit, to the aged, to the pale and leucophlegmatic, nor have ever re- pented the ufe of it when accompanied with exercife; which every one will fee, has fome tendency to coun- teradl the pofliblc 111 efiefts of fuch applications to the extremities. It is true, we have known tight rolling and the laced-flocking prove hurtful to fome people.5^ A TREATISE upon people, when applied to large, hard fvvellings of the leg with varicofe veins, and have been repeatedly fol- lowed by fuch complaints of the ftomach, as have made it neceffary to lay them afide, though the limb has been greatly benefited by their ufe. But this difadvantagc does not always take place even in thefe cafes, and the objedfion is greatly, if not totally re- moved, as I have had the clearefi; proofs, when there is a fore on the leg; the difcharge from w'hieh, cannot but tend to obviate all the apprehended ill-confe- t»uences and whilfi; that is, on this plan, encou- raged * See WisEMAM.’s Surgery, ^Book ii. Chap. 4. Obfcrv. i. Although for very obvious reafons, I have been unwilling to atJduce any cafes of my own, in fupport of my opinion, yet I am inclined to think the following is fo fully in point, in regard to the difference made by the prefence of a fore, where tight bandage is itfedin difeafed and difordered limbs, as well as refpefHngthe fafety of healing up fpme ulcers in very fufpicious habits of body, that I have been prevailed upon, in this inftance, to wave my prejudices againft introducing cafes on difputable points. To avoid breaking in upon the fubjeft, however, I have thrown it into a note, that the reader may pafs it over if he pleafes.—A young woman, whofe mo- ther had been afhiffed with a painful tumor and haidnefs of the leg, a feirrhus in the bread, and afterwards died of a cancer in her mouth ; had herfelf a fimilar complaint ot the leg from the age of eight years. On the firft appearance of the menfes, this became tiiore painful and enlarged, and foon after, confined her for fome time to her bed ; it was then fomented and poulticed, and flic was let blood and purged, which took off the inflammation, but the hardnefs •f Aut famam ft<iucre, aut fibi convenientia finge, Scrii>;or— fioRACE, i/e Jr/c59 ULCERS OF THE LEGS nged by digeftives and exercife, it will abate only in proportion as the ulcer diminllhes in lize ; which, as will be fhewn prefently, is permitted, rather than compelled to dry up. Befides hardnefs and tumour remained as before, A linen roller, and af- terwards a laced-ftocking were applied, which kept it eafy for three or four weeks, but her llomach being agedled, flie was obliged to lay them afide. In a fliort time, the leg became pain- ful again, but did not inflame for feme years j when (he was again confined, and treated as before, but never got rid of the hardnefs and fwelling, nor was ever long together perfectly free from the pain.—She was always eafier after the flow of the menfes, and in moft pain about the return of that period. At the age of two and twen'y flie married, and foon becoming pregnant, herflomach was much indifpofed, and fhe fuffered in that way for feveral weeks. During this time, her leg became abun- dantly better, the hardnefs and tumor abated, and flie could bear to prefs, and beat it with her hand, in a way flie had never before dared to attempt. About the end of the fourth month of geftation, her ftomach complaints confiderably abated, aud her leg became inflantly painful; and in tw'o days was very hard and enlarged, was confiderably inflamed, and had a little oozing from under the fkin. At this time I was confulted, and was informed that her fltuation in life would not allow her to reft, or keep the leg long together in a horizontal pofition. Upon confidering the w’hole of her cafe. It appeared very pru- dent to prevent complete ulceration, but (as fbe could not keep the part fupported) I was fearful I could not prevent it; though had her habit of body been difterent, I fliould have had no fears about treating the fore like other inflamed ulcers on the leg, when- ever the fkin fliould compleatly give way. I therefore did what I could to prevent the farther cracking of the fkin ; but without abfolute reft, this was fcarcely to be expedted, nor is it certain, evenI 6o A TREATISE upon Befides tbefe things, the kind of roller is to be con- (idered, which ought to be made of the thinneft PP^elch flannel, not thicker thancoarfe linen, with advantages no linen can have; it not^only being fofter, fitting eafier. even that could have prevented it. It accordingly gradually be- came fore, and was painful to tl^ bigheft degree, fo that flie often fat fereaming out aloud for ho^rs ^together, unable to pat her foot to the ground, though the "mm was dreffed only with ccratiim alb. or a fatiirnine cerate, and fometimes with different kinds of poultices; and Ihe kept the limb as quiet as her fituation would allow of. Not knowing what to do better, I determined to try my own method, being fatisfied that tumid legs will often bear rolling when aft’effed with ulcers, though they would never endure it be- fore. I drefl'ed it with a powerful digefHve, and rolled it up mo- derately tight, though it was fwelled to a greater fize than any leg I ever faw ; notwithdanding it had, forfome time, been refted great part of the day on a chair. It had broken into a fmall, fhul fore, of an irregular fliape, without tlie Itaft appearance of red fiefh, and the Ikin was difcoloured half round the leg, which was exceedingly varicofe ; it difeharged a fcalding ichor, that de- liroyed the Ikin wherever it ran, increafing the fize of the fore, and was getting daily more painful. Having drefl'ed it as above-mentioned, (lie was now permitted ami encouraged to walk, and became eafier from the hour the roller was applied, which continued to agree perfedUy well. The leg remained pretty eafy throughout the cure, except for feme time after it was drefl'ed, when fliarper applications had been ufed, but continued fo fpread till the ulcer became clean, and a copious dif- charge was produced ; which did not exceed ftven or eight d.ays at the mofl. After this, it was no longer painful, difeharged ■ laudable pus, and in about a fortnight’s time, began to heal very kindly, and continued to (lo fo till h was perfedly well.6i ULCERS OF - TH£ LEGS. eafier, and making no plaits on the fkin, but is elaftic to a very confiderable degree. This is greatly increafeci by its being torn acrofs, and fewed together ielvage- wife, (the hard felvage-thread being firll cut off) whereby Like many other ulcers, when the patient is permitted to w’alk, it was always mod painful in the night, for which reafon, the was obliged to take occaftonally half a grain, or a grain of extraiftuin thebaic urn at going to reft j which was fufticient to quiet the pain, and fcemed to produce a very good eftedt on the lore. At the time this was the moft painful, flie was not only permitted, but compelled to walk out, and always came home eafier, though flic often walked farther than fhe had been able to do at a time for a number of years; yet the leg never fwelled, but evidently grew fofter by the exercife. In this cafe, as well as in a variety of others I may afterwards fpecify, the application of precipitate, though it fometimes gave great pain for an hour or two, proved an occafton of fpcedier eafe on the whole, as it ddiroyed the foul furface, produced a laudable difeharge, and brought the fore into a defirable ftate much fooner than it could otherwife have been* When this application was made ufe of, the ulcer difeharged a cauftic fairies, that corroded wherever it ran, and the furface was fo fenfible, that the patient could not endure the ftighteft touch of an armed probe, to wipe off the matter. It was only a few weeks in getting well, the hardnefs and tumor of the limb fub- fiding as loon as a copious fuppuratlon took place; and before the ulcer was healed, the leg was, I believe, quite as fmall as the other, and has continued fo ever lince, though there was no re- markable return of the ficknefs, and lire has now lain-in above a twelve-month. Neither did geftation afford any impediment to the cure, nor have I in all the cafes I have met with, ever taken notice of fuch an effedf, though fome gentlemen of charadler haw, andA TREATISE 62 UPON- ( whereby the roller is made to yield to every motion, and varying fhape of the limb, and admits of, and affifts the patient fo much in walking, that I have known perfons with fuch painful fores as prevented their Handing upright, find immediate relief in this refpedl:, and be able to walk with comfort, from the firft hour they were put on. To this fadt numbers can teflify, and^it is from experience I can fay,, it will be found wrfmall improvement in rollers for the legs, that flannel is fubftitutcd for linen, and that they are made up in the manner here recommended. I fliould neither fpeak with fuch confidence, nor en- large as I have done about trifles, having feen enough to prevent my depending on a few fortunate cafes, or venturing to publifli my thoughts to the world, as containing any improvement, if not fufficiently fup- ported by fadfs, or if there were any room left to doubt, upon what fuch favourable events had turn- ed—Perhaps thefe, and other advantages -f- of this bandage, may be explained on the following prin- ciples. I. The moving foft parts are not only kept warm, but receive a confiderable and conflant fupport, and and much has been obferved by authors on this head.—“ Itn~ pregnantihui uLcrum curatio propter rctentionemfuperjluitatuvt carum, propterca quod ipfarum 7ucnjlrua rethientur.” Avicenna, de Ulceribus, Lih. /<r. This perfon has hnee the former edition of this traft lain-iti a fecond time, and has enjoyed good health, the leg alfo continuing perfeflly well. -j-See page 77. AV/r. theirULCERS OF THE LEGS. 65 their a<Sion is rendered more general and regular; wsi- may even fuppofe that fome part of the effects of adtion, is transferred upon the bandage, or Its ope- ration fo modulated, that it is not wholly exerted on the fkin. II. The blood and lymph are determined to a more ' equable circulation. III. The growth of fungus Is confiderably re- trained, and callous edges are prevented, or ro moved. IV. The furrounding Ikin is brought forward on the fore, and the feveral parts are brought into con- tact ; and confcquenUy, a lodgment of matter is lefs likely to take place. V. Compreflion warms, fuftains, ftrengthens; and By ijepeUing from the adjacent tumid parts, derives from the fyftem greater powers of healing, to the feat of the ulcer. VI. The compreflion dlfpofes the fore to heal more fmoothly ; and thefe advantages which are very con- fiderable, are increafed, as hinted before, by the free ufe of the limb. I have fald fo much on this head, becaufe this, as a general practice, is fo much out of fafliion, though once in great efteem with eminent furgeons, and particularly PFifcmariy whofe contrivance the laced-ftocking feems to have been. The antients, indeed, made ufe of rollers much oftencr than we do, and apparently to confiderable advantage, but they Ipeak of them only as retentive bandages, or for bringing divided parts into contadt, and to aflill theA TREATISE upon’ 64 the more fpcedy clofing up of deep ulcers after a proper digeftion; or at the moft, as expulfive, to prevent fluxion to a part; but their bandages were but ill-calculated to anfwer the end, and were never ' applied fo tight as Wlfernan recommended, nor with particular reference to the . legs. J'Fifeman himfelf, however, does not appear to have- underflood all the advantages he received from the life of his laced- ftocking, as he feems apprehenfive that the cure of uleers on the legs obtained by this means, were lefs likely to ftand, than thofe effedted without it. He appears, therefore, frequently to have recommended the flocking and rollers on the fame principle with reft, and an horizontal pofition of the limb, to pre- vent what is termed a defeent of humours to the fore, and the erdematous fwelling that often accompanies thefe ulcers. But his reafoning was certainly not fo good as his pradlice, and had his bandage effedfed no- thing beyond his intentions, his fuccefs had been much lefs than it was. The roller has many other ufes befides counteradling the difpofition to oedema, (to which the lower extremities are peculiarly liable), and one that I muft. beg leave to notice in this place, arifing from the manner in which the filling up of every deep ulcer is efledled. To this end, there is not only a trifling elongation of the capillary vef- fels in the wound, but the parts contiguous to the ulcer are found to wafte, or diminifli confiderably; infomuch that Fabre and Louis* eminent Mcmoircs dc 1’Academic de Chirnrgic^ Fo!. iv. furgeonsULCERS OF THE LEGS. 65 furgeons in PariSf attribute the whole of this procefs to what they call m affaifeme7Jti or a wailing away of the extremities of thefe capillary vcfTels. This, in- deed, is by no means the whole of the cafe,=* though it is principally hereby, that the cicatrice in deep ulcers approaches the level of the furrounding parts, vyvhen I'uch wounds are perfedlly healed ; and this, (as hath been mentioned already) ought to be the cafe in newly healed ulcers ; and when it is not, the cure in general is net vc^ry likely to Hand. As this is a circumllance evident to everv atten- j five practitioner, I cannot help obferving, it is mat- ter of fome furprize, that rollers are not more fre- quently ufed than they are, and a greater compreffioii made by them, not only for fores on the leg, but aifo on many other parts of the body; as it is ])robabie they would not a little contribute to their cure. There is only one inilance, however, that I know of (common incifed wounds excepted) in which this practice has been much attended to, which is that of the venereal buboe; though even in this, the praClice has not been general. But Mr. Bromfelld, I know, has conllantly had recourfe to it for that ill-condi- tioned fore, which it is well known is frequently very troublefome to heal, after the venereal virus has been deftroyed. Such, however, after refilling a variety of i That there is a power of extenfion or developemeiu ia the veflels of a wounded part, is evident from the vaft fungus that will flioot up in fome ill-conditioned fores, and in various ex* crefcenccs, which are furaiflied both with blood-vclltU and nerves, K drellingSA TREATISE upojt 66 drefiings and alterative medicines, have been pre- fently healed upon the application of a very tight bandage; for which information, when I firft began bufinefs, as well as many acfts of kindnefs, I am in- debted to that gentleman, to whom the public well knows its obligations in matters of greater impor- tance. Upon this head, I am much indebted to the inge- nious author of a Treatife upon Ulcers before-men- menrioned, whofe reafoning long ago perfedtly fa- tisfied me, as to the fafety and advantages of tight bandage, and determined me boldly to pufh the expe- riment', till I fhould find reafon to change my opinion; which this publication is proof enough 1 have not done. But the laced-flocking fo much recommended by Wifeman^ falls far fliort of this double intention, and is every way inferior to the flannel roller, which lies much fmoother, tighter, and makes a much more even, pleafant, and fleady compreflion, than can be made by any other contrivance. T By this means, as it * Bell, Part ii. § 2. See alfo Clare, On Ahfce(f“5. WxsEMAN, Indeed, almod every where prefers the laced-ftock- ing to the roller, giving for a reafon that the roller makes a lefs uniform prefTure, and even bruifes the parts : but however this may be with a linen balidage, no laced-ftocking can be fo fmooth, firm, or fo pleafant as a flannel roller. The great advantages of which are now fo evident to me, that however neceflary furgeons may think red to be in fome very bad cafes, however attached to particular diet or dreflings, or prejudiced againft any part of this work; I would, entirely upon piluciple, importune them to add toULCERS OF THE LEGS. 67 it has been faid, the growing flelh in a healing wound, is eafily kept within bounds, and that trou- blefome luxuriance is prevented, of which a more moderate degree is always required ; and for the want of which, it will be fliewn, fores on the lower ex- tremities do not heal fo readily as on moft other parts of the body. • As fo much is expeded from rolling, it will readily be prefumed, fome care is required in doing ir, and, indeed, the application of bandage is no contemptible branch of the prcfeflion ; for though 1 do not mean to hint, that fo much judgment or memory is requi- lite for rolling up a leg, as in the application of bandage to many other parts, yet great attention is neceflary. The roller muft make a due preffure on every part, or fome finus may unexpededly be formed ; but of this there is not the lead danger, if it be applied v;ith care, and the proper diredions ob- ferved, though it be drawn ever fo tight; neither will it leave fo much riling on the Ikin as a linen one, which alfo will give conliderable pain if the patient be permitted to walk. The w'armth likewife which the flannel communicates to the limb, efpecially in to all thefe, the conftant ufe of a fianncl roller, and can afTure them of far greater fuccefs than they have ever had, in every ulcer of the lower extremities. Its advantages, however, are not con- fined to fuch cafes, for I may venture to afl’ert from farther ex- perience of its utility, that a flannel roller is greatly preferable to a linen one, in almofl: every cafe where a roller is had recourfe to^ and particularly after amputations; efpecially in the improved method, as Mr. Allanfon'% may now juflly be iiylcd. E a cold6^ A TREATISE upon cold weather, has long appeared to me a matter of very confiderabie advantage.* The manner of applying it, it has been faid, re- quires nothing but care. Every one knows that tight bandage fhould begin at fome diftance below, and be carried fome way above the parts it is chiefly defigned to comprefs ; otherwife, the matter attempting to iffue from the ulcer, being confined by the tight preflTure upon it, will force a paflage wherever it finds a lefs refiflance, and thus convert a Ample ulcer into a fiftulous fore. But for ulcers on the legs, efpecially where exer- cife is allowed, this rule fliould be confiderably ex- tended, and the bandage (which ought to be about four inches wide) fliould begin as far below, and be carried as much above the affedted part as the limb will'allow of. To this end, it fliould commence at the extremity of the foot, where it fliould be drawn very tight, (the end of the roller firfl: croffing the inflep) and after being brought two or three times over the ancle, fliould afeend fpirally (the edge of one turn of the roller being not more than about an inch from another) till it rifes to the calf of the leg. Here the flridlure ought to be lefs, to permit a free adtion of the mufcles, and the turns therefore be foniewhat more diftant ; in which manner it muft be continued up to the knee : above this part it would be im- proper to carry it, though recommended by con- * Sec Bell, On Ulcers, Part ii. §. 2. fiderableULCERS OF THE LEGS. €9 I cannot E 3 ficlerable authority, * and that for moft obvious rea- fons, where exercife is both permitted and injoined. I have been thus particular on this head, from the great confequence I know’- it to be of, and hope it will not on this account be imagined that I affedt any particular art in the performance. Every furgeon well knows of how much confequence it is, that rollers be properly adapted to the end for which they are defigned, and how much trouble may arife from great compreffion being made above or below the precife part, for which fuch compreffion was employ- ed : all fuch are capable of doing it w’ell, if they will do it with care, which is the thing I mean to inculcate; as otherwlfe, the patient whofe leg is rolled tight, W'ill fuffer great pain, and the furgeon be long difappoint- ed in the cure, How'ever trifling thefe diredtions may appear, experience will prove them to be other- wife—A very moderate fhareof knowdedge of thefirfl: principles of fcience, were fufficient to guard me from inflfling on trifles; upon which the art of heal- ing will never depend. But as there are many young men alw’ays in London, w'ho come profefledly to learn, and fome of them with very little previous education in furgery, for fuch at leaft, more parti- cular diredtions may not be w'holly unneceflary. With regard to Exercise, it may poffibly be faid, that this in a great variety of cafes, (even with- out the prefence of fever, or topical inflammation) ** Medical Obferv. and Inq. Vol, iv,A TREATISE upon 70 cannot fall to produce, or increafe pain, efpecially where ftimnlating applications are ufed. And that in all cafes, Crhough no pain or inflammation fhould follow) it muft have a natural tendency to retard the cure, if not entirely to hinder it, both by diflurbing the tender granulations as they rife on the fore, and preventing that procefs of nature by which they dry on the furface, and produce a cicatrice. Of this fome notice has been taken already, as far as pain is concerned, and it has been faid, that ex- ercife frequently removes it. In other refpedts, though fuch reafoning may be very jufl, as it regards many wounds on other parts of the body, it has not a like application to old fores on the legs; where a more than ordinary ftimulus is required. The latter are never fo expeditioufly cured, as thofe on fuperior parts, in whatever way they are treated; but I am fatisfied from a variety of fads, will in many inftan- ces heal fooner with exercife than without it. It Is acknowledged, that after the operation for the hare- lip, and every other fimilar cafe, where parts are tg be united by the firft intention, they muft not only be brought into contadl, but be kept fo for fome time, in as quiet a ftate as is poflible, or they will feldom unite firmly. But how very different thefe cafes are, it can be fcarcely necefl'ary to point out, and I have mentioned them only for the better clearing our way to the precife point on which the argument turns. For though the lips ol fuch wounds will not grow together, whilft they are kept conflantly in motion, yet both lips will be covered with ikin in a very few71 ULCERS OF THE LEGS. few days, and in this fenfe, a healing of the wound is produced; and it mufl be very great motion indeed to prevent it. Now this is the kind of healing in queftion relative to ulcers on the legs, and if mo- tion of the part affedted is capable of preventing it, (where a proper bandage is conftantly worn) * it muft either be fnch, and to a degree that would prevent, not the union, but the healing of the raw edges of the lip I have mentioned; and furely no common adfion of the lips will do this. Or fecondly, it muft be effedted from the exercife fo greatly increafing the difcharge, as to prevent that difpofition to dry up. * It may not be ufelefs in this place, to make a few general ob- fervations on mufcular adlion, with a view to point out the fource of fome of thofe particular advantages of tight bandage before no- ticed,where exercife is ufed. In mufcular adlion, there is abvays an accurtatiou of the moving fibre, and a general enlarge- ment of the mufcle. This increafe of bulk is not eqvial, but is greater about the belly, than at the extremities of the mufcle.—Dif- eafe in a part may render this adllon liable to great irregu- larities—Fafcia, and annular ligaments, &c. prevent unequal contradlion, and its manifefi inconveniencies.—It is true, we don’t find the mufcles adling in fuch a way, as to prefs from within out- wards, to a degree capable of forcing up the fkin very confiderably;* but they can, neverihelels, pull upwards and downwards, with fuflicient force to derange a healing wound.—Now bandage effec- tually prevents irregular adtion, and will keep the fkin from moving confiderably when the mufcles adl, as well as diminifli the fwell of thofe that lie immediately under it..—Thefe are precifcly the points aimed at; and that bandage will anfwer tbefe intentions, is very evident, both from reafou and experience, f See pages 62, 63. E4 which7 a • A TREATISE upojt which ought to take place in the extreme vefTels of the fore, whereby it has been faid, the cicatrice is formed. And if the quantity of difcharge be the objedion, in regard to ulcers on the legs, k proves all I contend for ; it is defirable if it be good, and the want of it is, during the greateft part of the cure, the grand obffacle in our way to the healing of the fore. For thofe on the leg, and efpecially the mofl painful ones, either difcharge very little, or abound only in a thin and excoriating ichor. Nor can either of them be changed for the better, but by fuch means as lliall redore the due tone of the veflels of the part, fo as to condenfe the loofc, or unfold the callous texture of the furface, and thereby open a way for the fecretion of laudable pus, frequently the belt drelling that can be applied to a fore. Now, exereife contributes to this, inafmuch as It tends to promote a free and bold circulation of the blood, to open the fmall veflels, and reltore a free paflage in the fyflem of lymphatics, whereby it in- creafes the ftrength and vigor of the limb. On this account, the difcharge can never do harm, nor the exereife that promotes it keep the fore improperly open ; for if the habit in general have nothing parti- cularly amifs in it, and the circumllances of the part be fuch as have been deferibed, the difcharge will gradually abate as the ulcer diminilhes, and its fur- * L’ulcere fee, qui nc fuppure pas, ne peut pas fe deterger, or tout ulcere qui ne deterge pas, ne peut pas fe guerir. T’ aite dcs tumeurs ct dcs Ulceres. Ports. ' faceULCERS OF THE LEGS. 75 face will always dry up in a reafonable time. Such exercife of the part is not, indeed, neceffary to the healing of fores on the upper extremeties; but the difference in the lower ones, and particularly the inferior parts of them, is greater than has been gene- rally imagined, or has, at leaft, had any influence upon practice. Nature, therefore, ever attentive to the good of the whole, and provident for every defeft, has wifely fupplied the natural deficiency arifing from their diflance from the heart, in the beft way it was pofiible; befides, therefore, that fliare of labor they have in common with other parts, it has not only impofed upon thefe (as was hinted before) the weight of the whole body,^jDUt has deftined them to be the inftruments of tfes conveyance from one place to another. But on this Ibmething has already been faid, and I may have flill farther occafion to infifl as I go on ; fuffice it to hint here, how greatly prejudicial it muft be to general health for any perfon, accuftomed to labor and exercife, to be confined for a length of time in an inadfive flate, and the greateft part of it, in an almoft horizontal pofition,—Can it then be neceffary in the cure of ulcers on the legs, to deprive the part ?ffedted of thofe very advantages which nature de- figncd for its prefervation in vigor ? * Has it the inofl: Ufus corroboraf, otiam autem coliicjuet. Hippoc. Med, Offidn. T,his obfervation is umverfally allowed, and is remarkably evi- dent74 A TREATISE ufon moft remote tendency to perfect the cure; I mean, to make fuch a cure as lhall Hand ?—If not, certainly our art is materially defedtive, or vve are faulty in the ufe of it; for is not a perfedt cure much more likely to be effedted, under fuch exercife of the limb as fhall afford the natural flimulus, if certain evils attendant upon that exercife can be ob- viated ? It is granted, however, that exercife may in the cafe of fome large fores, to a certain degree, retard the healing of ulcerated legs, for the fame reafon that very great motion might be hurtful to fores on other parrs. But inftead of being otherwife injurious (by occafioning fluxion of noxious humours, and I know not what other evils faid to be peculiar to the lower extremities'), it is really ufeful in every other refpedf if a proper bandage be applied, and is there- fore advantageous upon the whole for every ulcer on the legs, as I hope hath been tolerably proved; and particularly, as it hath a diredt tendency to pre- vent the fore breaking out again.* * Many dent in the va(l influence that great exercife of the extremities is obferved to have in watermen and porters ; the former of whom have ufiially large ftrong arms, and flender legs ; and the latter thick mufcular legs, alinofl: without exception, if they are in health. * How far the continuance of a roller, which I underftand a very refpedtable hofpital furgeon advifes to his patients, may pre- vent a return of the complaint, I have no right to attemp t to de- cide,ULCERS OF THE LEGS. 75 Man}^, however, would be the difadvantages of motion in ulcers of the legs, if they were covered only with a common poultice, or left merely to the dreffings that are ufually applied to them ; but upon the plan here recommended, they are conftantly fup- ported by a firm, foft, and yet elaftic bandage or roller, which in very many cafes, as infallibly coun- teradfs every poflible inconvenience ariling from mo- tion, as the motion itfelf, thus fupported, has a ma- nifefl: advantage. And though fome objedtions in turn might, with equal propriety, be made againfi: the remedy itfelf, or the conflant application of fo tight a compreffion as has been recommended, yet all fuch objedtions, it has been remarked, are greatly obviated by the ufe of exercife.* *—I am aware, that cide, fince I have never injoined reft, in any inftance, fince I knew how to effeft the cure without it ; though, indeed, an hof- pital is not the propereft place to determine the point, as the pa- tients are often never heard of after their difcharge ; we know, however, how very common it is, for large, or old ulcers, healed by means of reft of the part, to break into much worfe fores than before they were lirft healed. * A free ufe of the limb has been fo generally exploded amongft regular practitioners, that it has been more neceflary to infift thus largely upon it; and this appears, not only ftom its general difufe, but alfo from fufpicions arifing in the minds of fenfible writers,^ ‘ after men of fuch experience and reputation as Mr. Elfe feein to have approved of it. J , f Bell, On Ulcers.—The following fpecimen willfliew how flriCl an adherence to reft, authors have required, “ II faut faire tenir ^ Medical Ohferv. and Inquiries^ Vd, iv.76 A treatise UPON that Aich arguiTiCnt appears to manifeft difadvantage, and may be thought to be little more than a circulus in tircuh; however, it is confonant to various maxims that were never dlfputed : for inllance, as a very nourifli- ing diet would prove hurtful, where proportionable txercife were negleded, and vice verla, hard labor without adequate nourifliment, but taken together, contribute to the health of the fubjedt; fo clearly has experience proved to me, the faiutary effedfs of tight bandage and exercife united, in regard to the ulcers in queftion. Notwithftanding what has been here and elfew'here advanced on this fubjedf, I have been fomewhat fur- prifed, fince the firft appearance of this tradf, to find that fo attentive and judicious a pradlitioncr as Mr. Belly fliould in the lafl edition of this treatife upon ulcers, fo ftrongly inculcate the neceffity both of le- nient applications and reff, in the cure of ulcers on the low'er extremities ; without offering one argument in fupport of the latter, or attempting an anfvver to thofe I had advanced. Having barely mentioned my opinions, he obferves, (p. 203) that he has tried every method that has been publiflicd to the world, and has fuccceded in all of them; but that he finds no cures fo eafily or fpeedily obtained, nor any tenir la jiartie malade dans lepliis grand repos; le moindre mouve- roent eft capable dV faire des teraillemens, qui aiigmentrnt la doiileur et la fuppuration, dctruifcnt les cbaiis tendres qui renai- ft'ent, et brifent les premiers lineamens de la cicatrice.” Ti'aite lirs f ti/uturs ct dcs Ulceres, that77 ULCERS OF THE LEGS. that prove lb permanent, as thofe efFefted by mild dreffiogs and reft. Now, luch fentiments, dpecially the latter, appear to me very extraordinary indeed ; but being only aftertions, I may, with the ftridefl: regard to truth, venture in return to aflert, that be-^ Tides all that has been adduced as evidence, in a way of reafon and argument, my own experience, and that of numbers of others, in hundreds of inftances, runs dire^ly the contrary way. And I venture farther to fuggeft, that if Mr. Bell will be at the pains of dreffing his patients with his own hands, will roll up the legs conftantly himfelf, and by the due ufe of adive applications will procure a found furface to ulcers, he will meet with many that will be healed fooner, numbers more certainly, and all more manently, than by mild dreftings and abfolute reft. But if furgeons will make ufe only or chiefly of bland applications, which it is granted may fome- times more fpcedily induce new granulations, as Mr. Bell has afterted, but will never induce found ones in diftempered parts, or on a foul furface, they mull: expedt fuch a cicatrice, however induced, in a fhort, time to give way. And I may juft obferve in this place, that I do not vvonder iUr. Bell fo ftrongly infifts upon the necellity of inferting an iflue previous to the cure of every ulcer of long ftanding,* though he confiders them merely as local affedlions.—As ilfucs are not likely however to do any harm, and are fomc- times ufeful^ it were needlefs to urge many arguments * Page 330. again ftA treatise uPi'iN' againftfo general a fentiment; neverthelefs, iflues being always troublefome, and to many people very* dilagreeable, it is but jufticc to fay, I rarely propofe them, and have nor, in any view, experienced the bad confequences of the negletft. The Diet recommended in this method, may- be as exceptionable to fome people as any thing that has been advanced ; but fuch are defired ever to keep in \'iew the whole of the plan, one part agreeing with, and affilling the other, and all of them confpiring to the grand end in view, which is to heal fore legs in fuch a way as fhall tend to perfeft a cure. And, indeed, were it not for the depending fitu- ation of thefe fores, furgeons would fcarcely have thought of the propriety of a fparing, or low diet,* for fo many months together, in the cure of them ; nor yet of that frequent recourfe to purging, without which the healing up of old, or large ulcers is never attempted. For thefe fores, it has been faid, are not ufually attended with inflammation, and where they are, it is feldom difficult to be removed. In- deed ulcers of this clafs, are more generally to be met with, in weak, relaxed conflitutions, than amongft flrong plethoric fubjecls of an inflammatory habit, and are in fuch circumftances more difficult to be cured. But when a way is difeovered to prevent the ill- effed:s of exercife, and the defeent of humors, as it is * See Bell, Par/ /L § z, where the ingenious author declares himfelf of this opinion. called.79 ULCERS OF THE LEGS. called, there can be no objediion, (an evident flate of general, or local inflammation excepted), to any diet that would be found proper for fuch people at another time; and which moft are fure to indulge themfelves in, as foon as the furgeon has taken his leave. The above ill-effedfs, it has been already obferved, are obviated by a proper bandage, and I hope it has been made appear,'^ that the feat of this ulcer being on a depending part, is not the chief hindrance to a cure, but its being an extreme part of the body, in . which the circulation is lefs vigorous, and the vires medicatrices naturse, for thefe reafons, more languid 9nd ineffedtual.. If thefe things are allowed, many advantages mufl: arife from fuch a diet,-j'- as hath a diredt tendency to fupport the patient in full health, and to aflift the powers of nature to create, and fupport a difeharge of laudable pus, the conftant forerunner of a cure in every curable ulcer. The laft article mentioned relates to Medicines, of which fome notice has been taken already, but chiefly in a way of objection to fome in general ufe; it will therefore be proper here to enlarge a little on the fubjedt, wherein I hope not to forget the caution its importance requires. I know how eafy, and how common a thing it is wdth fome w'riters, in order to * See Imrocluffion, p. 8—13. •f I’ei haps talteci meats, and fpirits, are the chief things to be interdicled. fupport8o A TREATISE upon fupport an opinion, to bear down their opponents on every occafion, by declaring fadts to be on their own fide; which they often do nor, and fometimes, indeed, are not permitted, to produce. Such an argument, therefore, feldom comes with proper teftimonials but from hofpital praditioners, or mufi, at leafi, exped to fiand or fall, according to the lliare of credit due to the writer. As far as that can go, however, in the prefent infiance, I am encouraged to fay, experience has led me to fufped, that lefs is to be hoped for, and much lefs is required from medicines, than is generally fuppofed ; ulcers on the legs being, in general, mere local complaints, not conneded with any particular difeafe of the fyftem. It is poffible, I may be fomewhat Angular in thefe opinions ; whilft others have produced their experience to prove, that fore legs can only fafely be cured by Internal remedies. It is, however, by no means, my intention to aflert, that medicines are never neceflary for thefe, as well as other fores; but that they are frequently preferibed in a very indeterminate manner, and their effeds are confequently uncertain. But fiiould the patient labor under the true feurvy, or the ulcer follow the fup- preffioii of fome periodical, or critical difeharge, or the difappearance of a long continued eruption on the fkin ; thefe, befide other more common com- plaints, fuch as evident fymptoms of a venereal in- iedtion, the prefence of tever, &c. will confiantly call for the phyfician’s afiifiance, who will be at no lofs to purfue a rational intention. In Ihort, what- ever is obvioully wrong in the habit is to be correded, but8i ULCERS OP THE LEGS. bot where there is no peculiar indication, I neither know how to prefcrlbe, nor to expedt much benefit from medicines. If furgeons will refledt for a mo- ment, they will perceive the import of this obferva- tion ; let them confider only what are the medicines ufually dire^ed, which, perhaps, excepting only the bark and cathartics, are adminiftered under the idea of alteratives, by which fome people intend a clafs of medicines that will effedt a certain change in the habit, without fo much as an idea, w'hat that change is to be. The patient has a fore ; it looks ill, that is, it is not deterged, or w'ill not continue fo; the matter difcharged from it is bad ; or the ulcer is not difpofed to heal up.—Let every thing be done in fuch a cafe, that has a tendency to mend the appear- ance of the fore upon rational principles, and which generally is done for fores on other parts of the body. Let rccourfe be had to fuitable drefGngs; let the patient enjoy the air, moderate exercife,* and a proper diet; let a tight bandage be applied to brace and contradf the fore, to keep dowm the fungus, remove callous edges, and prove a tonic to the part. If thefe things fall, fuch medicines fhould be admi- niflered as will brace the fyflem, or corrcdt its ma- nifeft defedts—farther than this, I muft fay again, I have neither known their ufe, nor that frequent W'ant of them which others complain of.-j' F Nof- ’'Celsus, Lih.vii. Cap, 3. f By a modern French writer on this fuhjeft, We are advifed, before the healing up of old ulcers, to corred the vitiated blood, andA TREATISE upon 82 Not that troubling patients with ufelefs medicines, and the little unnecelTary expence, of importance, indeed, to fome people, are the principal objediens on this head ; but the great mifchief is, that in molt cafes, the furgeon’s thoughts being hereby led off to a wrong objed, he is diverted from an attention to the true means of affording relief. Inllead, therefore, of making the moft of the particular habit of each in- dividual, by proper topical applications and general remedies, he is contriving how he may remove fome imaginary, or at the moft, fome unknown complaint, or to cure a manifeft dyferacy, for which he is not likely to find an adequate remedy. But fhould the time come, when fome real alterative, or peculiar tonic fhall be difeovered that may co-operate with the furgeon^s defigns, I fhall be as ready as others to' embrace it. Wherever ulcers are conneded with evident dif- eafe of the fyftem, it has been granted, the affiftance and to purify it from the foreign leven with which it is infefted. To this end he gives us fix general indications. “ I. Si le maladeala verole, Ic fcorbut, ou les ecrouelles. 2. Si “ le fang eft charge de bile. 3. Si le fang eft acre et fale fans erre charge de bile. 4. Si le fang pcche par etre trop epais, et “ trop refineux, 5. Si Ton juge qiie le fang foit trop fereux. “ 6. En gcncrale, il faur, dans tous les cas, purger fouvent le “ malade, mais le purger doucement j lui donner tous les jours “ line ou deux prifes de quinquina; et lui faire obferver on regime ** exatft, tant pour la quantite, qiie pour la qualite de la nou- “ riture*”—If the reader can acquire any praftical knowledge from the moft of thefe indicatijns, I muft contels he has greatly the advantage of me. ofULCERS OF THE LEGS. 8^ of fuitable medicines Will be required; all that I mean to infift upon is, that this is not generally the cafe. The true fcorbutic ulcer, attended with fpongy gums, and other marks of putrefcency of the fluidsj does not very often occur in this Illand, or at lead in the neighbourhood of the metropolis ; and the fcro- phulous very feldom attacks the legs in form of ulcers. The venereal, indeed, more frequently oc- curs, or at lead, ulcers will partake of the poifon, and I have feen alfo the cancerous, or fomething very like it; but as there will ever be, in thefe cafes, fomething charadferidic to their caufe, the ■furgeon can feldom or never midake them. There are, indeed, many foul ulcers, which when of very long danding, are frequently affided by me- dicine ; but fuch generally attack the poor, who have either injured thefconditution by hard drinking, or on the contrary, have been in want of almod the necedaries of life. In fuch cafes, the bark is a tonic, (which is fometimes improved by the addition of fal martis) is of wonderful efficacy, and ought in many cafes, to be given in much larger dofesthan itufually is ; and in a few indances, for a confiderable time. There is another medicine, which from its popu- larity, feems to claim an attention, and perhaps has been of fervice in fome cafes, though I am not yet fatisfied the fores would not have got well without it. This is the corrofive fublimate, which in very large, and old fores, has, in compliance with cudom, been frequently adminidered with feeming fuccefs.. But it is often improper for labouring men, w'ho are F z muchH A TREATISE UPO^T much out of doors, and for obvious reafons more efpecially in winter. However, where thefe ob- jections do not equally take place, every furgeon of experience will judg'e for himfelf, what advantages he may reafonably expeCt from the ufe of it. Befides the cicuta, opium, and other internal re- medies already hinted at, I flaall here mention other three—a ftiong decoCtion of the woods, lime-water, and emetics. The firft will be of fervice chiefly in cafes of obftruCted perfpiration, and cutaneous erup- tions, or the fudden difappearance of them; the lime-water, in the erifipelatous lore, (hereafter to be noticed) efpecially where a great part of the limb is infelfed with a Raiding difeharge, which takes off the fkin wherever it runs. But we fhall be difap- pointed, if we depend on this, or any other internal means; at leafl: I have always found external appli- cations much more effectual—Emetics, may fome- times be ufeful in fome cacochvmic habits, or where there is a cold phleghm on the flomach ; and previous to the exhibition of tonics. Having now'^ attempted, at leafl, to anfwer fome principal objections to the plan I have propofed, and explained what may be expeCted from it, with the manner in which the effeCf is produced, it is high time to proceed to a more particular appli- cation of it. In order to this, it w'ill be neceffary to make fome DiftinCtions of ulcers, lince the general indications cannot be alike applicable to all.* Perhaps this * See Intr^d. p. 5.' mightULCER-S OF THE LEGS. S5 m'gbt have appeared, with much more propriety, in a former part of the work, but it feemed of impor- tance to be fully underflood as I went on, and to obviate, as they occurred, the difficulties of an at- tempt to introduce 'fo confiderable an innovation in pradice. On this account, I have preferred this defultory mode to a more concife and formal method ; but fhould I fo far fucceed, as to point out 1 pradlice which others can with fafety adopt, and furnifli the ingenious with hints that may be depended upon, it is hoped, that fome, or even many defedls in other thin<rs will be overlooked. o The numerous claffes of ulcers, of which writers have treated in fo many diflinft chapters, feem more calculated to difplay the Ingenuity of authors, than to lead to any ufeful diferimination ; and mufl therefore tend to perplex thofe whom they ought to inftrudt. Such diftindilons are taken chiefly from certain ac- cidental appearances of the fore, and the nature of the difeharge; but are mod of them fo made as to have very little relation to pradlice, when applied to ulcers on the legs. Whether, indeed, ulcers are in- dolent or painful, fungous or callous, nioifl or dry, or difeharge ichor, or fanies, amounts to little more than that their furface is in an ill-conditioned date, can make only an accidental, and no efl'ential diffe-. rence in the grand indications of cure : all fuch cir- cumflances being mere fymptoms, requiring only a temporary attention, and not charadleriflic of a dif- ference in fpecies. The mod cafy and pradlical divifion I have been F 3 ableS6 A TREATISE upon able to make, will be to confider them under two heads onlj^, which are calculated to illuftrate the pre- ceding obfervations, and correfpond with the more clTential points of difference in the treatment they will require. The firft Clafs will include ulcers attended with great enlargement, or hardnefs of the limb; recent ulcers originating from an abfcefs, or any internal complaint; and every very old ulcer of a moderate hze, efpecially in habits accuflomed to them. The Second comprehends the true phagedenic ul- cer ; fuperficial ulcers where the furrounding Ikin is excoriated by an exceflive and acrid difcharge; various large ones in very old people, or thofe of a relaxed fibre and habit, and all ‘very large ulcers wdth a pale and loofe furface, generally the confequence of bad health, poverty, or negledt. In fpeaking of each of thefe, it will be neceffary to make fuch enlargements and fubdivifions, as may relate to praftical ufe. And firft, it will be proper to obferve, there arc two general affeftions, or fymptoms, every ulcer is liable to, which will require their particular treat- ment. Thefe are inflammation and pain; for each of which k will be neceffary to lay down forne general rules. With refpedf to inflammation, fhould this attend a large fore, where the pain is very confiderable, (for the pain fo common in very fmall ulcers, is fddom the confequence of much inflammation, but rather of a thin and cauftic difcharge ;) an emollient fomen- tationULCERS OF THE LEGS. tation of white poppy heads, and afterwards a bread and milk poultice for a few days, may be applied to advantage : but if fuch a cafe can arife as to require a much longer continuance of a poultice, it fhould be changed for one of the faturnine kind. This will furnifli the fame moifture and heat, and is not only ^ a left relaxing application, (for fuch it has been ob- fervcd, ihould never be very long continued to the legs'^ ) but is a more powerful antiphlogiftic. And here I may venture to repeat from a long experience, that fuch poultices and fomentations, however great their reputation, are feldom neceffary but in the be- ginning of the cure, where the parts are in a date of inflammation, and particularly in the poor, who have long endured, and flood much upon them in that flate; whofe fkin is likewife often dry and left dirty, and its pores confequently obftrufted. But as foon as the inflammation and foulnefs on the fldn are taken off, flrong digeftives, with exercife and a roller, will produce a much fpeedier and better digeftion.-f-—This I am fo fatisfied of, that I have no kind of hefitation in fpeaking peremptorily on the fubjedt. I wifli to make one remark more on this head, which is, that when a bread and milk poultice is re- quired, it fliould generally be applied on the naked F 4 fore. * See alfo Bell, On Ulcers, f Wiseman gives a cafe very much in point, and obferve?, that after confining a patient to the bed for a very bad ulcer, which he88 A TREATISE UPON fore,* * whereby it fits eafier, and Is much more nfeful, becoming the mildefl: application that was ever con- trived, if it be well made.“|~ And I hope I fhall be pardoned if I add, it ought generally to be made, and he had poulticed a confiderable time, he could not get It to heal till he left oft' the poultice, and applied a laced flocking. Book ii. cb. g. * See Freke’s Art of Healing. f When I confider the importance of a good poultice to ulcers, when the ufe of them is called for, and the number of pupils who viftt the metropolis every year, with an exprefs defign of acquiring every kind ofchirurgical knowledge, many of whom there is reafoti to think, have rarely feen a bread and milk poultice properly made ; it is hoped, it will not be thought trifling on this occilion to mention the bell method of making it. This can be at the worft, but a little time thrown away, and if only one young prac- titioner fhould make a better poultice by this means, or if a Angle patient be benefited by it, I fhall readily forgive others who may fmile at the receipt; for however well furgeons know how to make them, the fa£l is, they are feldom well made.—It has been too generally thought, that thefe poultices cannot be boiled too long ; but on the contrary, it is long boiling that fpoils them. They fhould be made of the crumb of moderately fiale bread, which fhould be cleared from every thing the leaf! hard, or lumpy, and after being grated, flaould be rubbed between the bands, till reduced, as near as poflible, toils firlt llate of flour. The milk fhould then be boiled, and the bread lightly fprinkled in with one hand, vvhilft it is kept flirting with the other. The difficulty with which the fpoon is moved, will fhetv when a proper quantity of bread is put in, after which it fhould not remain on the fire above two or three minutes at moft, and fliould be turned out boiling, by which means the bottom will retain its heat a long time, after its furfaccULCERS OF THE LEGS, 89 and applied by the furgeon himfelf, or at leaft in his prefence, and not intrufted to a carelefs fervant, or ignorant nurfe, as it ufually is; the former of whom imagines no Ikill is required, and the latter, that no body can make one fo well as herfelf; though there is not one poultice in fifty, made and applied by either of them, that is properly managed. Before I quit this fubjedf, I cannot help adding, that if much benefit is expected from thefe applications, they fliould in many cafes be renewed oftener than they generally are ; for the want of this, the fmaller ones efpecially, foon becoming cold, I am fatisfied, are often likely to occafion more Injury than good. Thefe, it is well known, are the cafes which call for bleeding and purging, and for which I have like- wife fometimes advifed nitre and cicuta,* or opium ; the fjrface is become cool enough to allow of its application. It (hould be fpread upon a piece of double linen cloth, (not over fine) by the help of a round-ended knife (greafed with hog’s lard or oil, inftead of putting greafe into it, which prevents its hanging to- gether,) to the fize it is required : and fliould generally be about three quarters of an inch in thicknefs on the linen. If poultices are too ftiffor lumpy, they will lie heavy, and become painful to an inflamed part; if too thin, or not well mixed into an homo- geneous mafs, they foon become cold, and chill the part they are intended to nourifli.—If a poultice is to be applied to a depending part, fuch as the eye or thebreaft, where it will be apt to flip off, it will be an advantage to turn up the four fides of the inner cloth, about half an inch over the poultice ; which will thereby be greatly fupportecl. * Ihis may fometimes have one advantage of opium, as it hath DO tendency to conflipate the bowels, and if it has any other ' virtues-A TREATISE 9© UPON the laft, however, will be lefs proper if the inflam- mation be confiderable ; but the antiphlogiftic regi- men can never be required very long, for if the in- flammation does not prefently yield, there is probably fome other caufe for it than the ulcer, unlefs there be difeafe of the bone. The former, it will be the phyfician’s province to difeover and remove ; but if neither of thefe fhould be the cafe, and yet the in- flammation continue, it will not prove of the phleg- monous kind, and I can venture to fay will yield together with the pain, to fuch topical applications as fliall promote a difeharge, and with the affiflance of firm bandage and exercife, (hall cleanfe or deftroy the too fenfible furface; which will immediately be followed by eafe, and a healthy appearance of the fore. It may be neceffary in this place, to take notice of a fource of pain not mentioned, that I know of, by any writer, and for a clear account of which I am obliged principally to an ingenious correfpondent in the country, fince the firfl edition of this tradf; having myfelf obferved it only once, in any confiderable degree. This is an obfeure oedema, more commonly attending fmall fores, and occafioning very great pain about the little ulcers, or not unfrequently along ihc whole fpine of the tibia, efpecially in the morn- ing; and is effedfually cured by only applying the bandage a little tighter than ufual. It may be met virtues than that of an anodyne, as fome people have been of opinion, the patient will enjoy the advantage of them. ^ WithULCERS OF THE LEGS. 91 with not only in large and tumid limbs, but in very- well fhaped legs, where the oedema is not percep- tible to the eye, but may always be difcovered by a careful examination with the finger^—As I have rarely allowed any of my patients to' apply the bandage themfelves, and have always been careful of drawing it tight, it is not likely this painful oedema fhould have often fallen in my way. The fingle inftance I met with, however, has borne fuch dired: teftimony to the obfervation of my correfpondenr, (who is often obliged to allow diftant patients to drefs their ow'n fores for feveral days together), that it could not but appear to me as highly improper to overlook an obfervation, from which it is probable many patients may be benefited. After what has been faid, another obfervation or two refpedling the fymptom of pain, is all that will be necelTary. And here I remark, that fevere pain muft be mitigated, if it cannot be entirely removed, or nothing will go on well; whilft the degree of pain, together with the nature of the difcharge,will point our the moft proper remedy for it; the quantity of the anodyne, is therefore not fo much to be attended to, as Its effedts. I have known excruciating pain from fmall ulcers, almoft entirely removed by half a grain of opium, taken only every other night, whilfl: at other times, three or four grains have given but little relief. In thefe cafes, the difcharge Is always thin and acrid; and though fuch vitiated matter may arife from the morbid fiate of the folids, and of the fecre- tory92 A TREATISE upon - tory organs of the parts, which throw off fuch kind of fluids as cannot be changed into laudable pus, yet this docs not certainly arife from an inflammatory caufe, and therefore is not always removed by antU phloglflics, and mere emollient applications; though it ever will be fo, when that is the cafe. But if the habit Ts not particularly concerned, it depends more frequently upon a want of that fpecies, or degree of inflammation, w'hich is neceflary to produce w'ell concodted pus,* w'hich is therefore often induced by flimulating applications, which are the mofl; fafe and and rational means of promoting it, and will, in this cafe alfo, as certainly be followed by a ceffation of the pain.“i~ And herein ^ve go back as far as relates to ulcers on the legs, to the pradtic^ of the antients,!; * La feconde caufe (du defaut de fuppuration) eft le defaut d’in- fiammation dans la playe. Traite ties Ulcercs, tsfe. f Parey fpeaks exactly to this purpofe in the cure of ulcers, III/, xii. cap, 9. where after having diiedted cataplafms of folanum, cicuta, poppey feeds, and fometimes opium ; ftiould thefe fail to procure eafe in fome cafes, he adds, “ neque anodynis, neque narcoticis, fedari poteris, imo blandis medicamentis appofitis magis ac magis irritabitur. Iraque ad catherastica confugiendum erir, nempe fortibus morbis fortia remedia funt optima. Quare ulceri imponatur pulvillus forii et viribus aufto egypeiaco, aur paulooleo chalcanti imbiitus, his enim domandi efftri illius ddoris vis eft.’* To this he adds, “ interim ulceri circumponetur refrigerantia, iie virium remediorum vehementia fluxionem exciter.”—But tins latter is greatly obviated by the ufe of a proper roller. J See Gai.en, particularly bis book Dc Cotupojit, Mcchcavicnt, fccundum Genera) andCEESUS. Lib. v. cap. 2b, whofc93 ULCERS OF THE LEGS. whofe ointments, it has been noticed, generally con- fided of the warm gums, fpirits, and efcharotics, which though, in many cafes, juftly exploded from pradiice, in the treatment of ulcers in general,* are of admirable efficacy, in fuch as attack the lower extremities. What has been faid will probably be quite fufficlent on thefe heads;-we have here manlfed indications before us, and the remedies are therefore ufually fimple and obvious—not always thought equally evi- dent, through the whole indications of cure. Systematical writers, who have been fond of mul- tiplying diftindtions of ulcers, have been equally precife in their diredlions for obtaining a cure.q- We are to digeft, deterge, incarn, and cicatrize; linufcs are to be laid open, callous edges are to be removetl by the knife, or deftroyed by the adtual or poten- tial cautery; fome intemperies is to be corredted, or the whole habit to be altered : and above all, they advife a horizontal polition of the limb, and * See Bell, On Ulcers, who has made fevcral very ufeful ob- fervations on this head, though the French furgeons are dill of a ditierent opinion, (as appears from their 4th volume of Mmoires dc ddrurgie), and indeed fome latitude muft be allowed; for the fa(5l is, that in the cure of every ulcer, as of fever, a certain degree of inflammation, or exertion of the fyftein is neceflary ; and too little, or an undue effort, does as certainly, though upon a different principle from Plethora, fruflrate the falutary inten- tions of nature. t Compofiti ulceris ad curationem multx funt Indicationes pto- pofitE. Parey. . injoiii94 A TREATISE upon injoin abfolute reft. The whole procefs of cure is moft accurately delineated, and fome appofite remedy” prefcribed to effedl every intention, as if art were fufficient for it all, and nature had nothing to do in the bufinefs. And indeed, were ulcers fuch very- tradable, methodical things, as the pidure repre- fents, memory might fupply the place of judgment, and this part of furgery would be reduced to arith- metical exadnefs. But he whom pradice has made moft converfant with nature, well knows that her operations and the arrangements of fcience too little refemble each other. It is univerfaily admitted, however, that except an ulcer becomes clean, it will not cicatrize, though praditioners are not fo well agreed, concerning the beft means of bringing it about. But we are always to know our proper place, art being in this, and in every other inftance, a mere hand-maid to nature, to lend affiftance in a way the moft agreeable to her own laws. In the introdudion to this little work, an at- tempt has been made to reduce the principles of the cure of ulcers to two only, viz. an attention to the general vigor of the conftitution, and to the adion of the parts ; but with this view, it may be neceftary to pay fome regard to the nature of the different pro- cefles that are going on in the healing of every ulcer. There is, it has been intimated, a produdion of new fubftance in its cavity, and a condenfation of its furrounding parts to a certain level and extent. The former of thefe, indeed, is, I believe, very incon- fiderable; it is, however, by the union of the two, thatULCERS OF THE LEGS. 95 that nature accompHfhes her end. That thefe procef- fes do take place, may be known by an examination of the fubftance which is formed in the cavity of every cicatrized ulcer; and by the apparent evennefs of the newly formed cicatrice with the neighbouring parts. And every one inuft have obferved, that the lofs of fubftance is more evident at fome months dif- tance from the time of cure,* than on the firfl healing of the fore. Now, if the principles I have all along been laying down, as well as thofe lad mentioned, are at all juft and rational, they will at once ferve to difcover the impropriety of depending upon very mild applica- tions,T whilft they inforce the expediency of the means I have recommended. The cure, it has been fald, is brought about by the general vigor of the fyftem, and the adtion of the the parts, together with an abforption of thofe con- tiguous to the ulcer, the moft appofite to which in- * This obfervation has been long made in the cafe of thofe fo- veolse which remain after the fmall-pox. -j- Perhaps the very beft of thefe is the fuppurative poultice fo much recommended by Mr. Freke, but it does nothing without the horizontal pofition of the limb ; and has even then been too frequently ineffedfual, or it is probable, would not have been difcarded from hofpital pradticc. His intention, however, was perfedlly rational, which was, “ to fweat out ibe difeafe an idea I have always had in view, in oppofition to that of drying up diftempered parts ; which mull always be wrong. But the former intention may be much better accomplilhcd by other means, that do not require reft and confinement. dications,95 A TREATISE upon dIcations, arc good diet, exercife and bandage, with the external ufe of invigorating applications. And how much may beeffedled by them, experience alone can demonflrate, and it is a principal defign of this treatife to fet forth. I am happy, however, to find an author of confiderable efiecm, and amongft the beft of the later practitioners, fo much of my mind, I mean PVtfeman, who had continual recourfe to warm and active applications, and rarely drelTed an ulcer on the leg in the firit ftage of the cure, without mere, corrofiv. ruber in one form or other. By this means, and the help of a roller, or laced-ftocking, he fuc- ceeded much better than moO: practitioners have done fince, with all our improvements.* And I am fa- tisfied from what I have experienced, that had he allowed his patients to walk, and by the help of a flannel roller, had made a Hill tighter compreffion than the laced-ftocking can pleafantly admit, or in- deed can effeCV, and had been yet bolder in the ufe of fiimulating applications, he had not had reafon to * Notwithflanding all fciences have been improved by reducing them to a ftate of fimplicity, yet, in an attempt to purify them, artifls have been fometinies led to overlook the principles on which I'ome practice has been founded, and have therefore difearded many things that were valuable—like fome unprincipled empiric, who in order to get rid of an imaginary ill-humor in the blood, dirciEls fo large a quantity to be taken away, as reduces his patient to a worfe difeafe than he laboured under before 5 forgetting that the good and bad blood would run out together. See Thoughts u^oa Amputation by Dr. Kirkland. complain97 ULCERS OF THE LEGS. complain, that healing fome kind of ulcers was in general only a palliative cure. For it has been very evident in reading his cafes, and comparing them with my own experience, that the principal things which he failed in (befides forbidding his patients to walk, which it fliould feem, was nor, however, al- ways the cafe) was the not continuing his ftimulating applications much longer than he did, and his chang- ing them for very drying ones in the end, in order to haflen the formation of the cicatrice. See his cafes, in chap. x. particularly ; in reading which, I could not avoid being furprized he had not himfelf made the remark. The like obfervations may be made on Dr. I'urner, who was in many refpeds but a copyer from him, but in others, feems to have had an advantage; and had he been well acquainted with the ufe of the roller, and been lefs fond of abftinence and reft, would have fet an example, which after* pradlitioners would have made but little improve- ments on. These things then, viz. Exercife, Bandage, and active Applications, may be folely depended upon in ordinary cafes; and where there is no fpecific poifon, or other manifeft evil in the habit, they will efFcd: every thing in this clafs of ulcers, which art hath hitherto accompliflied by reft, diet, and medi- cine I and will moreover effedl fuch a cure as will ftand through all the ordinary fituations of life. Any common digeftive is rendered deterfive in the degree it may be thought fit, by the addition of a little calomel, corrofive fublimate, the white, or red G pre*9S A TREATISE upon precipitate, or by a fmall portion of verdigrcafe ; or we have a very excellent one ready made to cur hands, the unguent, citrinum ; but, however uncom- mon the pradfice, it is fometimes better to ufe the red precipitate alone In the firft ftage of the cure, than to mix it with the digeflive; and this the ulcer will alfo readily bear, when exercife, and a good diet are allowed. And here it is, that the judgment of the furgeon difcovers itfelf, in adapting his dref- lings to the nature of the ulcer, which (laying afide the refinements, and nice diftindtions I have ventured to difcard,) muft by one mean or other, be brought to difcharge laudable pus, whatever appearance its fur- face may have ; for nothing goes on well till this is effedted. On the other hand, furgeons have gene- rally been too e-afily fatisfied, efpecially in regard to old fores; and if the ulcer has but appeared clean, it has been prefumed, that all has been going on well. To this end, therefore, various trifling applications have been made ufe of, fuch as walhing with a ftrong decodtion of hemlock, drefling the ulcer with the gaftric juice, and other light flimulants, or aftrin- gents, or covering it with fedative and emollient poultices. But all this is inviting a fore to heal up at any rate, and by leaving the difeafe at the bottom, has infured its breaking out again. But not only muft the furface be clean, but the granulations firm, and fuch a plentiful digeftion promoted, as may liberate the vellels, reftore the due tone of the parts, and fur- nifh laudable pus. This, the moft inveterate ulcers the legs may be brought to afford, as freely as fores on99 ULCERS OP THE L£GS. fores feated any where eife; unlefs, perhaps, thofe on the head are excepted, w^hich, I think, furnilh, pus more perfectly albuniy lave, et aquale^ than thofe of any other part. Probably nothing but experience can induce any one to think, how eafily this ma)^, in ordinary cafes, be efFedfed by powerful digeftives, and exercife, and how foon afterwards many troublefome fores put on a proper appearance, and are brought into a healthy, and healing condition. But where thefe things fail, recourfe mu ft be had to more powerful means,* and fuch as no furgeon is ever at a lofs for; which if freely applied, interpofing lenient applications if the appearance of the fore feems to demand them,'|~ will deftroy the foul furface, and give nature (affifted by a good diet) an opportunity to exert herfelf ; and as Hoffman fays on this very occalion,” ex voto fuC'^ cedit confolidatio.” Perhaps, one of the beft applications of this kind, is the mere. cor. ruber very finely levigated ; this is peculiarly ufeful in fome fmall and obftinate ulcers prefently to be noticed, nor will it be immediately fufpedled, with what freedom, and frequency this * “ Vulnera maligniora valenuoribus egent remediis; Imbecil- lioribus, autem, mitiora.” G A LETT. De Compend. Med. Lih, iv% t In cafes wherein the author has made ufe of any remedies out of the common way, he has in this edition pointed them out, and deferibed the kind of fores that may call for their ufe ; though id this clafs of ulcers fuch inftances are very few. Cz adivetoo A TREATISE upon adive mineral may be applied. It may be laid of this, as Hippoa-ates lays of fritlions, that it foftcns the hard, flrengthens the relaxed fibres, defiroys the unfound, fiimulates and elevates the growing flefh; that it promotes, or diminiflies difcharge, and keeps open, or heals up the ulcer, jufi as you would dire<5t it. Nor is this faying too much of it, with refpe<ft to a great number of cafes, for all this is a very cer- tain confequence of a proper ufe of it, where a tight bandage is applied, and adequate cxercile allowed. Rut then, it has been hinted that, for fome of thefe purpofes, (which will hereafter be fpecified) it mull: be ufed with great freedom, and be often repeated, and infiead of being lightly fprinkled over an ill- conditioned furface, the ulcer mull be filled* with ir, the furgeon taking up a large pinch of it, and plugging up the fore. It has been faid, that the above praftice is parti- cularly ufeful in many fmall ulcers; but even in large fores, fomething of the fame kind will be found ne- cefiary. The foul furface mull be removed, and the fore brought to the ftate of a frelli wound, which can be done only by the diftempered parts being melted * While I was engaged in drawing up this little traft, I chanced to meet with more authority for the above practice than I expedlcd, for looking over Wisemam, I found him making ufe of the very expreffion'^ to which pradice, I am fatisfied, he, as well as Dr. Tur*ner, owed much of their fuccefs. The former tdls us be performed cures on the legs in as few weeks, as the patients had been years under the hands of thofe he calls the barber chirurgcons of the time. Book, /V. cb. 9. ( downULCERS OF THE LEGS. lof down (as it is ufually faid) by powerful d'igeflives-, or deflroyed by corrofives ; and till this be done, foroe obdacle or other will continually arife,*- but this once efl'edted, you remove the greateft hinderance to the cure. And it may be more eafily done than is generally imagined, and though the fucceecling furface fliould put on the fame unpleafant appearance, after the firft, or even fecond application, yet the amend- ment, though gradual, is certain, and the pain is lefa fevere than might be expedted. The digeflives are ilill continued when the efcharotics are left off, and the parts being, by thefe means, put into adlion, in- general nothing farther is required, than to wait till nature is able to accomplHh her proper work. The want of this ability, or occafion to exert herfelf, is the grand impediment to the cure, but this redored once and again, will effect every thing that is re- quired.L G 3 Belides Ulceribus hand diligenter deterfis, hyperfarcofis fupervenire folet. Parey, De XJlccrihus.—See alfo Rhazes, IJh, Divlsm cop. 134, 13S. In which cafe (lays a modern writer) “ the gra- nulations are either foft and fpongy, and arife only from the fur- face of the ulcer, or elfe rife too high in the form of fungus, or foon ceafing to flioot, are not followed by a difpoficion to form a cicatrice j or if the ulcer heals, it foon breaks out again.” -j-From the very judicious ohfervations on the with cafes annexed, publiflied by Dr. Wall, it fliould appear, that the good eft'efts produced by them on ulcers of the legs, have arifen from their volatile fpirit. Such au idea agrees very well with the theory I have adopted, and which every day’'s expe- rience has confirmed. Dr. Wall, indeed, in one place fpeaks of the coldnefs, and aftringency of the Malvcni-wotcrs externally applied.A TREATISE ufoN’ 102 * J Befides the abovementioned ufe of the precipitate, for the purpofe of bringing foul ulcers into a good flate, it is not unfrequently neceflary in order to pre- ferve them fo, and to promote incarnation ; and even in this view, it often anfwers much better by being fprinkled upon the fore, than mixed up with the digeftive. I know how much that mode has been objected to by the late M\ Sharps who both as a writer and praditioner, I fliould be more inclined to envy than to cenfure. Neverthelefs, experience is the beft teftimony, and has demonftrated to me how much, and to how great advantage, ulcers on the legs will endure the ufe of precipitate. Perhaps, an inattention to this, has been one occafion of the very unfavourable opinion furgeons have always entertained of fore legs, and of the difficulty of their cure j but fo various are the inftances I have feen of the fpecific power of precipitate, in different kinds of ulcers, where every common application had been ufed to no purpofe, that I can recommend it with more confidence than ever. I do not fpeak merely of foul, or callous ulcers, but of thofe very aptly denominated dyfepulotici wherein nothing has appeared particularly amifs, but there has been no applied, but thla is only an opinion he has taken up from fomc cafes, in which they had not proved beneficial; for he obferves, they often occafion fo great heat in the part as to induce fuppu- ration in cold tumors, and that in almoft every cafe where they have been ufeful, they have raifed more or lefs inflammation, and have often occafioned very confidcrable pain for fome days. dif.ULCERS OF THE LEGS. 105 dlfpofition to heal. The furface of fueh fores has fometimes been glaffy, and the edges fliarp and an- gular as if newly divided with a knife , without the leaft difpofition to granulate or incarii, but at the fame time not of that irritable nature which inclines them to fpread ; which I ihall fpeak of under the next head. The free ufe of the precipitate, for four or five days, though It has, indeed, fometimes produced little Houghs, which, however, have not feemcd to render the fores deeper, has put the atonic parts Into adtion, and like the exhibition of the cortex on fimilar occafions, has removed every unkindly appearance, produced a difeharge of good pus, and difpofed the ulcer to heal. I have already hinted in another place,* that this Hands no longer on my authority ; the accounts I have been favored with from different pradfitioners, both here and on the Con- tinent, fince the former edition of this treatife, bear a diredt tefiimony to the advantages the Public has derived from the hints I then ventured to throw out. Patients have alfo been treated in this way in different hofpitals, where the good appearance of large ulcers, repeatedly covered with precipitate, has fuHy anfw'ered every expedtation I had formed, or had previoufly experiejiced in my owm pradtice. Some confiderable knowledge in the profeffion, as well as experience of this plan, and attention to the effedls of the remedies, are, indeed, eflentially ne*- celfary, by which alone the pradtitloner can be enabled * Additional Preface to this Edition. G 4 toJ04 A TREATISE upon to judge how long he may continub the bold ufe of fo adive an application : for it fometimes happens, that one day too long will ofFeud a fore that has been inexpreffibly benefited by its ufe; whereby the cure will be retarded. And if the plan has met with lefs fuccefs in hofpitals than in private pradice, it is not unfair to attribute much of this, not only to the foul air of the wards, and the improper manner in which (it has been noticed) a tight bandage is fometimes ap- plied, but to the inattention or ignorance of fome of the pupils in this refped ; it being impoffible for the furgeon, in every cafe, to lay down rules fuf- ficiently precife for the pupils to follow, which con- ftrains him to fubmit leffer things to the temporary difcretion of the dreffers. Having fo fully dated, and endeavoured to defend the principles and pradice laid down, it remains only to colled them into one point of view ; and then to feled a few of the varieties of ulcers to be met with in this clafs, with the treatment of each, as illuf- trative of the feveral indications and remedies pro- pofed. And to this end, it feems only neceflary that the reader fliould be reminded of what has all along been obferved of the peculiar circumdances of fores on the lower extremities, and of the caufes and ope- ration of thefe peculiarities.—To obviate the force of thefe, by proper bandage, and other fuitable topical applications, and general remedies, tending to re- move, or corred, the atony, and other ill-difpofitions of the parts, and both enable them, and the fydem at large, to make fuch well-direded and falutary exer- ' tions105 ULCERS OF' TiiE LEGS, tions as lhall place ulcers, fo fcated, in circumftances as fimilar as may be to thole on other parts of the body, has been the leading idea throughout this work. How far this reafoning may have been juft, or the means above-pointed out may appear rational and adequate, the reader himfelf is now called upon to decide; whilft the author, for his part, has the fatisfadion of thinking, that fuccefs has, at leaft, juftified his attempt, and given Ibme fandion to the pradice he ventures to recommend. Amongst the few inftances to be feleded from particular cafes, is a fmall ulcer, frequently hinted at, and for which, after every other mean has failed, the precipitate, or other efcharotic is a fpecific. It is improperly accounted fcorbutic, and particularly af- feds the parts about, and even below, the ankles ; which, indeed, cannot therefore properly be called a fore leg. This is exquifitely painful, and for fome time appeared difficult of cure without refting the limb, fo little advantage being obtained from the roller; which cannot be made to afford much com- preffion below the feat of the fore. It was in thefe cafes more efpecially, that IVtfeman preferred a laced- flocking, becaufc (as he tells us) he “ could not with a roller make a fuitable compreffion fo near the ankle, without caufing a fwelling on the foot.” But this Is certainly a miftake, for having, at firft, found the fame difficulty, I was foon able to remedy it, by carrying the roller feveral times over the ankle and foot, fo as to leave no part but juft the point of the heel uncovered by the roller; and by this means, I alfoA TREATISE upon 106 alfo make a tolerable compreffion below the ulcer itfelf: p which intentions, the circumftance of the roller being made of flannel, very greatly contributes. Thefe cafes are often attended with a confiderable puffinefs, and a tetterous appearance of the furround- ing Ikin, accompanied wdth a thin and acrid dif- charge, which renders the parts additionally tender; whilfl the little ulcer is almofl: perfectly dry, and cannot eafily be brought to fuppuration, till the complaint of the fldn is removed. This I once thought was relieved by bathing the parts in Nevil- holi water, as lately recommended for this purpofe, but 1 loon learnt, is much more fpecdily removed by drying applications, which inftead of the common cerate, may be fpread on lint, or linen cloth, and applied over the ufual drefling to the fore; for which common treacle is often a very good one, as w'ell as for many other irritable ulcers. The outer drefling may confifl: of cerat. alb. with bole ahd powdered allum ; or the ung. deficcativ. rubrum, or in more obftinate cafes, a comprefs of linen may be wetted in a folution of facch. faturn. and vitr. alb. with an ounce or two of camphorated fpirit, in a pint of fpring water; which, notvvithftanding the tumor, and heated appearance of the part, I never found dif- agree.* If the fore fliould not foon change its com- * Thefe afFe£Uons of the tkm, vulgarly called fcorbutic, have ufually no one fymptom of that difmal complaint, and being merely local, fliould always be treated as a difeafe of the Ikin ; for true fcorbutic107 ULCERS OF THE LEGS. complexion, on the difappearance of the affeftion of the Ikin, the little ulcer Ihould be filled with precipitate,* * pulv. angel, diflblved lunar cauftic, or any fimilar efcharotic, and when the Hough is come out, be immediately repeated, if the fore Ihould not then put on a kindly appearance, which it certainly will in a very little time; but the cure will not (land if this be negledled. But though fo much has been faid on the bold ufe of very deterfive, and even efcharotic applications, it is to be remembered, that recourfe need not always be had to them in the firft inftance; but whenever lefs adtive means, aided by the bandage and exercife, fliall prove ineffedtnal, I reft it upon every man’s experience to demonftrate the utility of them. There is nothing I can be more fatisfied of, than the propriety of the method here recommended. There is no fmall fore on the leg ufually fo trouble- fcorbutic ulcers arfe of a very different kind, and will not endure the ufe of efcharotics. See Dr. Cullen’s Sy?iop, Nofohg, alfo Dr. Lind, on this difeafe. Fart ii. chap. 1. * Wiseman fpeaking of fuch an ulcer, has this bold expref- fion, which I doubt not was the refult of experience, “ the belt anodyne had been to have filled it with precipitate.” Book it. ch. 4.—He was not afraid of the coniequence mentioned by Hippocrates, or knew better how to,diftinguilh cafes, than to be in any danger of the evil he mentions; who fays, “ Thrinon Da- monis filius, habebat malleolum ulcus, juxta nervum fane non purum, huic a pharmaco corrofo contigit, ut opiflhotonos more- retur,” Epident. Lib, v. fomeio8 A TREATISE irpoN fome to heal, by ordinary means, as an old nicer near the ankle, and there are fcarce any of the antient ■U'liters but mention it as fuch ; whereas, there is no ulcer on the leg, that is fo eafily, foon, and certainly cured, when properly treated. The numbers, and variety I have feen, leave me no room for doubt on this head; of which fome have been from three to thiriy years {landing, breaking out again as conilantly as they were healed, and inexpreflibly painful. But if not of the phagedenic kind (of which I fliall treat in another place) are perfedly cured, in a few weeks, by taking much exercife, and dreffing with the warmed; digeftives, or (where thefe fail) by a free ufe of precipitate, and a ban- dage. This may be very tightly applied, if no true inflammation attends, or as foon as this llrall be re- moved by bleeding, and a few days application of Frekes fupj urative poultice which it will be fome- times proper to begin with, if the ulcer is deep. Since the former edition, I have had an inflance of the efficacy of the precipitate, in a fore on my own ankle occafioned by a burn. A fmall and very pain- ful little efehar was formed, which, after I was tired of poultices and other emollient applications, and common digeftives, I loaded with precipitate twice a day, and applied a right flannel roller; which I fhould have done fooner, had it not been fer recent a fore. The fmall fize, and drynefs of the ulcer, in- * See his Art of Healing—his poultice coufifted of figs, onions, mai-nimallows, and white lily roots. ducedULCERS OF THE LEGS. IC9 duced me to drefs it fo often ; and by this means, a kindly fuppuration foon took place, which feparated the dough. Imagining, now, the little ulcer might be healed by any common means, I made ufe only of a few turns of a linen roller, to fecure the dreffings, and for feveral days, applied nothing but ceratum album, and afterwards, common digedivcs ; but one dough formed after another, whilft under this courfe. I then returned to my dannel roller and dreded again with precipitate, which I fprinkled on the fore every day. After this no more doughs appeared, and the ulcer healed kindly, under the conftant ufe of the precipitate. There is another fpecies of fmall ulcers, accounted difficult to heal, that is llkewife, improperly, ter- med fcorbutic, and is exceedingly painful, though without any tumor of the limb; and fometimcs at- tacks young and robud; people. Thefe fores are dif- perfed over a great part of the leg, particularly along the fpine of the tibia ; are generally round, and ra-r .ther deep, with thickened edges; and are often not larger than peas : whofoever has once noticed them, will readily diftinguidi them from ev^ry other fore. Though difficult to be healed, and difpofed to break out 2gam, as they certainly are, when treated upon the lenient plan, frequently nothing more is neceffiary than to bathe the limb for a few nights in tepid fak and water ; to drefs the ulcers with precipitate and digedive, and apply a very tight bandage, which immediately removes the pain; and 1 have known fuch ulcers, though of long Handing, perfectly healed inA TREATISE uW no in ten or twelve days. Should others, however, prove obftinate, from having their feat on more tendinous parts of the leg, the ointment muft be made more aftive by the addition of a little lapis infernalis ; which forms an admirable dreffing for many dyfe- pulotic fores. There are other fmall old ulcers, which often require a peculiar kind of dreffing, merely from their being feated on tendinous or ligamentous furfaces, fuch as the inftep and lower parts of the leg. On this head, I need only to obferve, that common treacle with frefli lemon juice boiled up in it, agrees with them fo well, that they require nothing more, unlefs it be to have the furrounding parts touched W'ith a lotion of the tind:ur. martis cum fpir. falis, fufficiently diluted; both which applications fhould be continued as long as the fores remain in a very irritable Hate. I ffiall juft remark, that the like dreffings agree equally well with many foul ulcers, that are irritated with moft other dreffings. 1 have alfo met with other deep, and painful ulcers, fomewhat larger, of no regular figure, nor confined to any particular parts, for which the fine powder of bark is often a good dreffing. After the ulcer has been filled with this, morning and night for a few days, and covered with a good digeftive, fuch fores will begin to fill up with firm and florid granulations, and will lofe their morbid fenfibility ; but if they fhould not, the furface muft be deftroyed by preci- pitate, as formerly diredled, and trial made again of the bark, if it fhould feem to be neceflary. InULCERS OF THE LEGS. Ill In ulcers of long Handing, and where the con- flltution is thought to be concerned, it fometimes happens that befides a large fore, the leg fliall be exceedingly fwelled, with hard tumors, or lumps, in one or more parts of it, which will not always be dilTolved by the difcharge. But while this is kept up, the application of a large piece of oil’d-filk will produce the happieil etfedfs, and with fafety difperfe the indurations. And as it fometimes happens, that the other leg will be equally fwollen, and exceedingly hard, though without ulceration, that fliould likewife be rolled, and covered with a like piece of oil’d-f Ik ; which, by exercife, will daily produce a confiderable perfpiration, and without the leaft affiflance from medicine, will bring down the hardnefs and fwelling, by the time the ulcer on the other is healed. This diredtion, however trifling it may appear, I have found fuch evident advantage from, that I think I Ihould not have done juftice to my fubjedt, if 1 had not made particular mention of it. For the like purpofe, the leg may be well rubbed with volatile liniment and about an eighth part of mercurial ointment; but I think, I have never found occafion to have recourfe to any_ embrocation for this fpecies of fwollen leg, flnee I firft made ufe of the flannel roller and oil’d-filk. Having now faid every thing that can be necef- fary, with refpedt to cleanfing and incarning, and pointed out a few ufeful medicines, and fome parti- cular cafes in this clafs of ulcers, I fliall clofe it with fomc obfervations on healing; an article of113 • A TREATISE upoir of as much importance, as any that has been noticed. This laft procefs of nature is by no means to be hurried ; and if every thing is right, and the bottom of the ulcer become found, no particular means will be required for it, it being, in general, fufficiently dlfpofed to heal of itfelf, and will, even with the ufe of ointments not a little deterfive.* For it is fuppofed (as will foon be explained), the more adtive ones have been weakened already, but not fo much as to become mere greafy applications; which (efpecially warmed ones,-}') upon this plan, do as much in- jury, by relaxing the parts, as do very drying ap- plications, when ufed to haften the produdtion of the cicatrice. If this latter be attempted too foon, and efpecially If early recourfe be had to drying applications, the furgeon will foon perceive his miflake. The ulcer being only partially digefted, like thofe treated upon the lenient plan, when apparently about to heal up, will burft out in one form or other. This will efpecially follow in thofe termed conftitntional fores, attended with difeafed fkin, and of very long ftand- ing:. Flere fmall ulcers will be formed in the diftem-. pered parts of. the lkin, which in a while becomes pappy, and denotes the parts underneath to be un-r * Wiseman parriculaily notes having cleanfed, incarned, and healed ulcers on the legs, by the ufe of precipitate. ■ -j- Sec Rem., On Uh:crs, in regard to the relaxing nature of warmed applications. ]\Iedio luijjimus found.ULCERS OF THE LEGS. found. Hence matter may be forced up by preffurc, through many little orifices, putting on fuch an ap- pearance of difeafe throughout a great furface of the limb, as may difcourage the furgeon from expedting a cure, without a great length of time, and affiftance from reft. But all will go well notwithftanding, under the advantage of good rolling and exercife, if the difcharge be kept up ; for the exercife, inftead of protradting the cure, I am fatisfied, tends in fuch cafes, diredtly to enfure it; and I accordingly always defire it may be increafed. All that can be neceflary, is to lay the fmall contiguous fores into one, by a flight touch of the lancet, w'hich will afford very little pain, as the parts are now become perfedlly foddenj and the fkin parted from the edges of the fore; or fliould this be objedled toby the patient, the little holes may be filled up, once or more, with precipitate, and the cure will go on as cffedfcually, and almoft as fpeedily as could be w'iflaed. It was faid, the digeftive or other dreffing, after a time may be weakened, and this may be done with- out improperly diminifliing that difcharge, which it has fo often been infifted upon ought to be kept up ; for when the tnoft adliye remedies have been ufed, in bad cafes, for two or three weeks, the ftimulus from exercife will fufficiently maintain it; and it is a good maxim to proceed gradually to that change between a copious difcharge, and its total fuppreffion, which fhould be always kept in view through the whole of the cure. As foon then as the fore, however large, puts on H a per*A TREATISE 1 14 UPON a perfectly healthy appearance, this change in the dreffing fhould begin, which lliould be repeatedly weakened, three or four times, at fuch intervals as the fize of the fore, and the time fuppofed neceflary for its cure, fliall point out. But great caution is re- quired not to be too hafty in this, or to continue it, if the difeharge is {fill very confiderable. An at- tempt to fupprefs this is always improper, and if it fucceeds, will, indeed, divert the difeharge fome other way for a rime, but without any advanatge to the patient; and the matter inftead of burfting through the fkin, where that happens to be difeafed, will form a paffage in different places through the furface of- the. fore. In this cafe, the bandage ffiould be drawn tighter below the feat of the ulcer, and the matter by preffure with the fingers, at each dreffing, fliould be carefully forced up ; the furgeon muff lixkewife return to more adlive applications, by which the fore will foon recover a more pleafant ap- pearance. But if no fuch change fliould prefently take place, either more time is required to cleanfe fome diffempered parts in the ulcer, or elfe the whole fore is unfound to the bottom. In the former cafe, time, it has been faid, will do every thing that is wanted; but if it does not, recourfe muff be had again to.efcharotics, which, if the bone be not dif- eafed, will invigorate the parts, and foon improve the difeharge ; or if ffrongcr be ufed, a thick flough will be made, and the furface, the moment that is thrown off', will be clean, and will put on a promifing appearance -a gain. ^ ^ UponULCERS OP THE LEGS. '• Upon this head It may be proper to obferve, that when large and old ulcers are brought to a co- pious difcharge, whilft the furgeon, from their un- kindly nature, is afraid of too haftily weakening his dreffings, though the ulcer may be very confiderably diminiflied in fize, it will often be proper to defend its tender edges, and new Ikin, as it is called, with a little cerat. epulot. or fome fimilar application. But it may be ftill better, in very irritable ulcers, and fuch as are much indifpofed to heal, to fpread a ■ margin of cerate on the fame dreffing, that the whole may be covered with one piece of lint, by which, means the difcharge finds a readier way to run off; a matter of the greatefl importance in fuch ulcers as are eafily offended. The pledgit, for this reafon, iliould likewife extend confiderably beyond the fur- ' face of the fore, efpecially in fmall ulcers, or the tightnefs of the bandage will prevent the matter from efcaping, and thereby occafion a continual irritation, which will difpofe the ulcer to fpread. But though Hz cerate • The doftr’me here inculcated, though founded upon repeated fafls, I find flrongly controverted by Mr. Hunter—When treating of pus, in my ledtures” (fays that able teacher) “ I ob- ferved, that I was inclined to believe that no matter, of ^xhatever kind^ can produce any except upon the part that formed it: nor do I believe that the matter of any fore, let it be ‘lubat it veill, ever does, or can do any hurt to that fore ; for the parts, which formed the matter are of the fame nature, and cannot be irritated by that which they produced, except extraneous matter is joined with It.—'If what I have novv advanced is true, wiping, or waflring awayA TREATISE upon cerate is ailowed of with the view I have mentioned^ the ufe of drying applications will, by no means, halhen the cure in this clafs of ulcers, which, perhaps, contains much the greatefl number. It away matter, under the idea of keeping the parts clean, is in every cafe abfurd.” See his Treatifc on the Venereal Difafe, page 36, Note. It is fomewhat unpleafant to have to combat fentiments with fo refpcdlable an opponent, whofc experience as a furgeon, as well as his phyfiological attainments, might well claim a reverence from the moil eminent praditioners. But the dotStrine contained in the above extratfl feems to be far too general^ and I think may lead to erroneous pradlice; for an enemy as I am toa fcrupulous attention, and rude manner of always wiping oft'all the difeharge that may be furnilhedby ulcers, I am equally perfuaded, that much matter con- fined upon them will often occafion their fpreading.—It is very pleafing, indeed, to be able to account for the changes taking place in difeafes, and for the operation of certain remedies, as \ve are thereby often enabled to extend the application of the latter to different complaints, and render them more generally ufeful; but we may be too nice in our inquiries, and a turn for theory, and phyfiological difquifitions, may poffibly be carried top far; and certainly are fo, when not only unfup|X)rted, but con- tradidfed by fafts ; as appears to be the cafe in the prefent infiance. For though it is very probable, that the fyfiem may not be affedfed by the abforption of new ve'nereal matter, any more than inoculated patients arc by a frefli application of the variolous; there are ne- verthclefs other ulcers that will fuft'er by the acrid matters which they fometimes fecrete. The difeharge furnifhed by a cancerous fore, it is well known, will erode the fldn, and extend thedimen- fions of the ulcer when not otherwife in a fpreading or fphacelating ftate ; and the like will happen to many other fores when there is no admixture of foreign matters. To prove this, let an ulcer onULCERS OF THE LEGS. 117 It may then be laid down as a general maxim,, that they lliould rather be fuffercd, than invited to Ikin over; and to fpeak plainly^ I would, efpecially in thole of long {landing, rather irritate ihan coax them, for I know they will heal in the end. And I wifh to enforce this idea very ilrongly, as of the greatefl importance,* and to recommend, in all fufpicious cafes, and efpecially where ulcers have been difpofed to return, the long continued ufe of detcrfive applications, not only till the fores have long put on a very florid and healthy appearance, but almoft, or intirely to heal the ulcer under the ufe of fuch adlive applications; nor will even time always be loll in fo doing. For if every part is be- come perfedlly found, the bandage will furnifh that warmth which Inclines them to heal ; whilfl on the other hand, if nature be not yet difpofed entirely to fupprefs the difeharge, the furgeon, as hath been fiiewn, by attempting to heal up the fore, will have the leg be drelTed with a little white cerate, or any other bland ointment, fpread upon lint, and afterwards with the like fpread on a thin piece of fpnnge, and the part be fo rolled upas to confine the difeharge : or IhouUl the cerate be thought capable of com- municating this property, the difl'erent appearances of the fore will be fiill more evident when drelled one day only with dry lint, and another with fpongc. In a certain flate of the fore, when dif- charging plentifully, the ulcer will be either foul or taw, and its dimenfiorts Increafed, under the former, but will appear frelh, healthy and granulating, by means of ibc acrid difeharge being more abforbed by the latter. * Vide page 28, of the Introduction. H 3 greatii8 A TREATISE upon great part of his work to do over again. For this- reafoiij dry lint, blue vitriol,* nor hard comprefs, Ihould never be ufed, though I know they have fuc- ceeded for a prefent cure in feveral inllances. The cafe, indeed, is different, when patients, at this period, are confined, dieted, and purged, (though upon that plan fores are not fo foon brought into a good flate ;) fuch applications may then both agree, and expedite the healing of the fore; but fuch ulcers being rather deficcated by art, than cicatrized by nature, many fuch patients muft foon make application again. The habit is to be firfl: gradually relieved, and to fpeak a popular language, the humors are to run off, and the change from a long accufiomed, or copious drain, to be cautioufly effedted ; but which gradually abating as the wound diminifhes in its fize, nature, however averfe to fudden tranfitions, will when left to herfelf, in a reafonable time find fome other vent. * Wiseman experienced this in a cafe that appeared to be going on well, but fuddenly turned foul, and in a few days be- came as bad as ever. (Book H, ch. q.) This, however, feems to have been his ufual method, and it muft be acknowledged, that fome ulcers on the legs healed in this manner may ftand well, but there is no adequate rule to determine by ; and therefore would a furgeon be certain of healing an ulcer, and perfei5ling a cure, that muft not be his method. -j-See Mr. Else’s paper in the Med. Obfer’v. a?idLiquirics, where he fpeaks of covering the ulcer with a ftieet of lead ; fo alfo a late French author j though, indeed, the pradlice is very ancient. ThisULCERS OF THE LEGS. 119 This remark, and what has been faid above, it will be fuppoled, is peculiarly applicable to ulcers of long Handing, but although in more recent cafes, it may not be lb neceflary that nature lliould find fome Other outlet than, the ulcer, neverthelefs, all the above reafoning, as far as it relates to pradice, will gene- rally hold good : though it may, perhaps, be better accounted for upon very ^different principles. * Ex- perience proves that few ulcers on the legs, though brought into a clean flate, ought to be healed by any other means than preferving them fo, nor will any other, under the diredions here given, in ordinary cafes, be found in the leafi; neceflary. Every furgeoii knows very well, that the great difficulty refpeding the cure of ulcers, and more efpecially thofe on the lower extremities, is to bring them into a good and healing ftate, and when that is accomplifiied an entire cure will follow of courfe. This Is one reafon that wounds on the head fill up fo readily ; they are not long in a foul Hate, and therefore after a few days ufe of fome lenient digeftive, want only to be kept clean, or at the moft, to have their luxuriant granulations kept within bounds, which are merely a confequence of flrong digefiive powers, and of nature over-doing her part. But in the cales before us, there is little Having already offered an opinion on that fubjedl:-, (vide the IntroduHion, p, 37, 38.) when fpeaking of the good or bad effet'fs ulcers have on the conlHlution, which, it was laid, were pro- bably rather owing to irritation than the difcharge; it was more natural to exprefs m.yfelf here ia the common language of writers upon this fubjeft. H4 of120 A treatise UPON of this to be apprehended, for it has been faid, the conftant and firm prelTure from the roller, Cwhich may be increafed as may be found neceffary,) will always keep down this loofe fungus. It will there- fore be fufficient to apply a mild, defenfive plafter. Or fometimes one more drying, (as formerly recom- mended, if there are heats on the fidn) which fiiould be fpread only on a piece of doubled linen, and be laid over the digefiive; but if hard comprefs, or merely drying applications are laid on the fore, the ill-confequences I have mentioned will ge- nerally follow, or the fore, for want of proper di- gefiion, will break out again. Upon the above plan, however, every objediion to healing the ulcer, as well as our fears for its return, are fufficiently obviated, and for want of which, the author of the paper in the Medical Obfervations^ ap- pears to have obferved the above unpleafant effects; for if old ulcers are dried up infiead of digefied, and fkinned over infiead of being cleanfed and incarned * Hippocr A.TES fpeaking of recent ulcers, hints at this expe- ditious method of healing under particular circumilances, but how inapplicable to the cafes before us, reafon and experience will de- termine—“ aut fi quis avertat (viz, fuppurationem) ut omnino non fuppurentur, praeterquam neceflario, eoque paiiciflimo pure, et ficca funt quam maxime, ex medicamento non moleflo,”—though rn another place he adds, “ ulcera non purgata, non committi folenr, etiamfi adducuntur, neque fua fponte coeunr. De Ulca - ihui^ § V.—No better proof, however, need be fought for, that fuch is the general mode of treating ulcers of the legs, than the. candid obfer.yation of the anonymous writer mentioned in the In- troduiftior, page 30. IWr.I2t ULCERS OF THE L E G S. i£.ariy thing Is ever to be apprehended from the fup- preffion of an accuftomed difcharge, or the leaft at- tention to be paid to the depending fite of a wound, it is here we muft expedt all the evils that theory fuggefts, or experience is faid to have proved. Bur, indeed, it generally happens, that ulcers thus healed, form a callous cicatrice, which foon tails off when the parts are not found underneath, and fo prevents the mifchiefs expeded. Whereas, having thoroughly digefted the ulcer,, and brought it into a healing condition, leave it to nature at this particular period, and not only will the cure be effedual, but as hath been obferved, will often be accomplilhed in as little time, as it is ufually done by reft, diet, and purgatives,, with the affiftance of all the alteratives, as they arc called, that I have ever feen ufed. One caution, more, however, may be neceffary, in. regard to a circumftance juft now mentioned, the healing up with a callous cicatrice, or fcab ; ofteur times not eaftly avoidable indeed, and as feldont thought of upon the lenient plan, but almoft uni- formly an occafion of ulcers breaking out again. This is, however, by no means, fo likely to happen- upon the plan rccompended, as under the lenient one, praditioners being often glad to get old ulcers healed by any means in their power, efpccially in hofpitals, w'hich arc crouded with them. It were needlcls, I apprehend, to inquire into the caufe of the breaking out of ulcers that are covered in part with a fcab, though it were eafy to devife a fpccioLis theory; but the fad is a ftanding one, that it'ill A TREATISE upon if ulcers are fuffered to heal up before the whole of the furface has been covered with firm granulations, or if after this, they have been dried up with a thick fcab, or fuch be formed afterwards, they will be apt to break out into worfe fores than before. Such fcabs arife either from the furface of the ulcer becoming dry in different parts, in the form of iflands, as they have been called, or from the thickening of the edges of the cicatrice. The former mufl never be allowed of in this clafs of ulcers; but fuch fpurious covering mull: be deftroyed, the bottom of the ulcer, in fuch parts, being unfound; no fore on any other part of the body ever healing in that manner, when defended from the air. In the latter inllance of fcab, when the fore is become fmall, the edges of the new cicatrice are found, from day to day, rifing above the level of the found fkin, as the cicatrice advances on the furface; and certainly indicates a fucceeding fcab. This is therefore to be prevented, efpecially in ulcers of long Handing, or fuch as have difeharged very coploufly, and in patients who have been accufiomed to fore legs. In order to prevent fuch kind of healing, the new edges fliould be well rubbed daily with an armed probe, or be feraped down with the fpatula as long as they lhall appear thick ; and fliould this not be fufficient, they fliould even be deflroyed by lunar cauflic, and the dderfive powers of the dreffings be increafed. This may be done by the unguentum citrinum, or the cerat. epulof. with precipitate, by which ulcers may be healed very kindly, and on the above account, I have obferved this fort of dreffings areULCERS OF THE LEGS. 125 are in many cafes, preferable to a weakened digelHve, in the laft ftage of the cure. Only large fores will afford any difficulty ; what- ever pain, fwelling, or humors, fo called, attend fmaller ulcers (of this clafs), they will occafion very little trouble, after a little experience of this method of treatment. The eopious difeharge, which a proper diet, exercife, and the digeftives always produce, remove thefe, and many other fymptoms, that are found fo troublefome on every other plan; and fooii •bringing the fore into a healing ftate, ufually no farther difficulties occur, if the bottom be found. If therefore, after this period, a large ulcer is found indifpofed to heal up, (though there be no other reafon for fufpedting mifchief at the bottom) and the ufual flimulants are found ineffedtual, the fore after the ufe of them, ftill continuing at a fland; fomething farther is neceffary : the powers of nature being, in fome habits of body, often infufficient to cover a large fur- face with new fkin, without other affiftance, and a very different ftimulus, which will prefently be de- fcribed.’* This brings me to the Second Clafs of ulcers, which in feveral refpedts, requires a treatment dif- ferent from the preceding. It was a juft obfervation of Ambrofe Parey, “ neceffe quoque eft varia adelfe medicamenta, viribus pariter et virium gradibus dif- tindtafor fays he, “ nihil mirum fit, fi fuo fepe excidant fine, qui eodcm medicamento, omnia ma- ligna ulcera curant, et fanare fe poffe putant.-'j' •j- Cap. y. Lib, xii. * Sec passes 140, 142. UnderA TREATISE upo:? 324 Under this head then, I fliall treat that fpecies of nicer called eryfipelatous,-^ or herpes exedens, oc- cupying merely the furfaces of parts, which is always glaiTy, and in its firft flage, eafily offended by every nncffuous application ; alfo many fmall ulcers, at- tended with an eryfipelatous affection of the fkin, furniflung a copious, and almoft caullic difcharge; the true phagedenic, and various large ulcers in very old, or poor people, and in patients of a relaxed fibre and habit; including every very large ulcer of long {landing, with the like pale, and loofe furface, the confeqnence of bad health, negledt, or intem- perance; Not that I mean to imply that no very large ulcer will yield to the former method, nor that fee means there laid down, have no ihare in the cure of thofe now to be confidered, unlefs the eryfipelatous be faid to afford an exception ; for whatever may be the circumflances of the ulcer, it is to be digefled and deterged, before we proceed to incarn.''b Thefe things premifed, the cure of every ulcer is ro be undertaken with the fame intentions; pow'erful fuppuratives, digeilives, and deterfive applications are to be ufed, and we are to proceed to efcharotics as oGcafion may require. But when adive remedies under every form are found to difagree, after a fore has been properly digefted, and has put on a tole- Introilucl. 4» 5* 4 T'o incarn before we miindify, or deterge before ^ve digeff, is building without ii foundation, or to lay fuch foundation on the Iroufe-top. Dr. Tcrner. rableULCERS OF THE LEGS. rable appearance, it is to be ranked in the fecond clafs, however fmall it may be ; and efpecially that ulcer, the mod obftinate of any, deferibed under various names,* and ufually known amongft us by that of the putrid or phagedenic—I flrall begin with the eryfi[)elatous. I HAVE adopted this term, for the want of a better, to dd'eribe an angry, fuperficial ulcer, which is lometimes likewife accompanied with an affedtion of the fkin that will fpread over the greater part of the leg; and chiefly attacks the aged and infirm. It ahvays furniflies abundance of thin, and very acrid difeharge, efpecially if the furrounding ikin is af- fedted, rendering the limb intolerably painful; and when the dreflings are removed, frequently emits a fleam like boiling water. I have known poultices and fomentations ufed a long time to no purpofe ; the ulcer either not, healing at all, or breaking out in frefli places almofl immediately, and the pain flill increafing. Purges likewife are here of no ufe ; as to medicines, opium and bark Teem of the greateft avail: the pain muft be mitigated, and the habit be flrengthened. The dreflings flrould likewife be cal- culated to prevent fluxion to the parr, or but little advantage will be gained ; and in this fpecies, I have never feen any harm from fupprefling the difeharge, though the remedies fliould increafe the pain at their firfl application. Of of the Greek?.—Ulcus depitfeen?, rodens, or lerpens ; ulcus ambulativutn; ulcus putridum, et phageda;nicu;n—L’ulccrc putride. 1 lavine,A TREATISE upok 126 Having, in bad cafes, made ufe of a mild fuppu- rative poultice for a fliort time, to cleanfe the fkiii, and empty the little inflamed and obftrudlcd glands, by promoting their fuppuration, I always apply fome digeftive to the deeper parts, for two or three days. After which, they may bedrefl'ed with an ointment made with as much true armeman bole as Goulard’s cerate will take up, or a cerate to w'hich fome fine crocus martis is added, infiead of the pulv. lap. calamin : whilfl: the whole limb, when the fkin is affedfed, fhould be well dulled with the fine powder of bark, or covered with the unguent, deficcat. rubrum, and after a while, with a comprefs wetted in the drying folution, made with facch. faturni and vitr. album, formerly mentioned,* to avoid loading the fkin with the oint- ment. With fuch applications, it will fometimes be ufeful to give the cicuta, and aq. calcis minus compof. or the Lljbon diet-drink, where the pain has been fo far abated as to admit of laying afide the opium, and there is no peculiar indication for the bark. But if the above externals lliould fail, recourfe mull be had to the afiringent folution, or ointment, I fhall pre- fently make known,f which will certainly be ef- fcaiual; and may, I hope, in many cafes, prove a valuable addition to chirurgical pharmacy. This is of itfelf, the remedy for thofe fmall ulcers attended with fuch an affedlion of the fkin, as will caufe a fleam to rife from it like boiling water, which, after * Page, Jo6. f Sec Pages, 140, 142. applyingULCERS OF THE LEGS. 127 applying a poultice a few days, I am not afraid of fuppreffing by thefe means ; and indeed have found medicines incapable of doing it. Where almoft the whole leg has been affedted, a fcurf, or fcab, will remain for a coniiderable time, which muft not be haftily rubbed off. But the parts may, now and then, be touched with a little unguent, cierul. mit. and at other times be walhed with the drying folution till the fcales fall off of therafelves, or are very eafily feparated ; at which time the fkin will be found, and perfedtly fmooth underneath. In all fuch cafes, a piece of oil’d-filk Ihould, now and then, be applied under the roller, about the time the fcabs begin to loofen, though fome of the fores fhould not yet be healed up ; which will haften the feparation of the fcales, and take off the fliffnefs of the limb. This fliould likewife be worn for a fliort time after the cure is compleated, which it will contribute greatly to the continuance of, but muft occafionally be laid afide, if it induces too great moifture on thefkin ; and the flannel roller be continued. There is a fimilar, but lefs violent affedlion of the fkin, attending not only this, but fome ulcers of the former clafs, which niay be treated in a manner that may appear ftrange on the firft mention of it, but is perfedlly fafe. This is lightly dufting the fretted parts with precipitate very finely levigated, which fo far from increafing the difeharge, or aggravating this fpurious inflammation,ufually checks them very foon; which it is evident luch a remedy cannot do impro- perly. I was myfelf furprized at the firft good ef- fefts123 A TREATISE upon fcd:s I experienced from it, after the afore-mentioned drying applications had proved lefs friendly to the parts than ufnal. This appearance of the flein in common fores, happens generally in the cafe of fmall angry ulcers, where upon the healing up of /one or more, others conftantly break out; which .nothing I have ever tried, fo often prevents as the treatment here recommended. But fhould any of •the excoriated parts get deeper under this treatment, and a little ulcer be made, it will always prove lefs Bl-conditioncd than thofe which had been fpon* taneoufly formed, and will be Iboner healed than thefe angry excoriations would be, by any fedative, or drying applications. The dlieafe feems to be in the febaceous glands, the nature of which, fliould .kem from the remedy, is an atonic, rather than phlegmonous difpofition of the parts. From thefe I pafs on to the phagedenic ulcer; in treating on which, perhaps every thing will be faid, that can be neceflary for any other large and troublefome fore, clalfed under this general divifion. This ulcer is always attended with an obflinate callus on the edges, and on fome parts of its furfacc; is often* flreaked w'ith red lines, and is foul, glafly, and Imooth, or relemblcs a newly made wound, where a portion of fiefh has been rudely torn away by the bite of an animal. It is very eafily offended, and often fpreads and eats like a canker, on the ap- plication of common efcharotics,* (which, indeed, it ^ See Feeke’s An of Beetling. See alfo Paeey from Galen. “ nainULCERS OF THE LEGS. 129 It will fometimes cio under any treatment) the acrid matter either diflefting its way between the mufcles, by deftroying the cellular membrane, or elfe eating through the fkin. Its edges always put on an irre- gular, and unkindly appearance, are often fwelled, and ftreaked with blood-veflels like the bottom of the fore, and are difpofed, from their laxity, to bleed upon the flighteft touch. This ulcer generallv takes place in the very pooreft people, whofe blood iS broken down by hard labor, or intemperance ; is very difficult to cure, and when very large often bafflei every attempt of the beft hofpital furgeons. There are, however, more ways than one of fub- doing many of thefe obftlnate fores, and to this, the free exhibition of the bark will greatly contribute. The efficacy of this medicine may frequently be great- ly increafed by being joined with aromatics, or in W'O- men whofe menfes are obftrudted, with chalybeates ; which efpecially in that form preferibed by the late Dr. Griffiths^ is, perhaps, the beft remedjr in chlo- rotic, and other cachochymic habits, ever adminif- tered. Where the patient’s fttuation will conveniently admit of reft, (though indeed the remedies may be admini-ftered without it,* *) a fomentation ufed for a’ I fevV “ iiam diuturnior, et coplofior ficcaiitiucn, et defergentium ufus, “ ulcera excavant indies; quare (fays he) prudens videbit medicus, ‘‘ quando a valeiitioribus detergentibus, et corrodentibus ad mi- tiora fit digrediendum.” Cap. 9. Lib, xii, * The different intention with which a cpmmpn bread and milk poultice,’A TREATISE upoit 130 few days, and the fuppnradvc cataplafm,* * fupported lightly by a . flannel roller, about a week longer, never fail to leflen the moft troublefome fymptoms, and lb far to fubdue them, as to render this ulcer more traftabie under ordinary means. That kind of drefling, befides every other advantage, has that of abforbing, and therefore, flieathing the corrolive, and cauftic difcharge, increaled by moft other dref- flngs, to the great aggravation of the fore. When the callous edges become fofr, their Inequa- lities are removed, and a fine Ikin begins to cover them, the poultice may be difeontinued, and the ulcer be dreflfed with fome mild fuppurative ointment, with the occafional addition of a little faturnine cerate, which is peculiarly friendly to this irritable fore, or fbmetimes, the cerate made with crocus martis; but more frequently, the beft application, in this ftate, is Goulard's cerate and bole juft now mentioned.“p By poultice, and that now .recommended, is made ufe of, is fuch, that although the former is feldom of much fervice, unlefs it be' preferved warm, by the patient being confined to his bed, the latter, from its potential warmth, willanfwer tolerably well when lightly fupported by a flannel roller, though the patient be fuffered to walk j which he may do, not only about the houfe, but to the furgeon’s to be drefled, or examined, as I have repeatedly proved. * See page io§.' ' -j- Befldes experience, fuch ointments have the fandlion of all the old writers from the time of Galen, who conflantly advife fome preparation of lead with the abforbent earths, or other pow- defj for this malignant and eatin^ uleer. • •• thefe131 ULCERS OF THE LEGS. tliefe means the ulcer will become manageable, and will foon bear more effedtual remedies. This period may be known, both by the appearance of the fore, and by, now and then, mixing a little red precipitate with the digeflive, or by dreffing with the unguentum citrinum. If the ulcer will bear thefe, a very few days will produce a wonderful change, healthy granulations will fhoot, the remain- ing callohties will difappear, (which may be haftened by repeated fcarifications) the hollow parts will fill lip, and, probably, no farther difficulties will arife. And here, I mufl; return to the caution, fejilna lente^ which can fcarcely be too often repeated with regard to ulcers on the lower extremities. But whenever gentle efcharotics, and powerful digeftives are found to difagree, recourfe muft be had to lenients, either fuch as are above-mentioned, or at times more fup- purative ones, according to the particular appearance of the fore ; now and then interpofing a dreffing with a little precipitate, or fpriiikling the fore with lapis calamin. and myrrhe, whenever the cure feems to be at a Hand. By thefe means I have fucceeded In very trouble- fome ulcers of this fpecles, though pcrfedtly intrac- table at firft with every common digeftive, and ab- horrent from ordinary deterfives; and I believe they will generally fucceed very well if the ulcer is fmall: but if it be very large, it will not always be healed by them, without reft, the bad confcquences of which have been often adverted to, Mr. Freke, indeed, in regard to thefe cafes, has fpoken very pofitively of I 2 the132 A TREATISE UPON the cffeds of his fuppurative poultice, but It will certainly prove Infufficient when there are large fungi, or of very long Handing. The difeafe often runs too deep, with too hard a callus, to allow the parts to get unloaded, and however fuppurative the poul- tice, it Is not adlive enough to anfwer the end. The hardened parts, however, mull: be removed ; and It may be proper in this place, to hint at a method of treating them that is often preferable, becaufe much lefs fevere, than the cautery, or total excifion with the knife. It is true, a fungus but rarely occurs, fo as to prove troublefome, under the plan I have men- tioned, and which both the bandage and exercife have an uniform tendency to prevent; yet It fome- times happens that a large and hard fungus Is formed ready to our hand, and- is generally the confequence of a bad bottom to the fore. If this arlfes from a narrow neck, It may often be removed by preffing fome fine lint pretty firmly round its bafe; or if this fail, a tight ligature may be cafily paflTed round it. But if the bafis be large, and it lliould not feem dif- pofed to yield to digeftives and bandage (which the fofter fungus generally will, as the bottom of the fore is lefs frequently unfound,) it will be fufiicient, in mofl cafes, to make one deep incifion to its bot- tom, after which its fides wiil frequently wafie away by digeftives and bandage ; but ihould this prove infufficient, cfcharotics fnould be fprinkled between the lips, and be occafionally repeated, till the iungus lliall fubfide. This effeaed, proper digeflives Ihould be continued, by which the uifchaige Will bo kept up.ULCERS OF THE LEGS. 133 up, and every thing Mr. Freke expe^fted from his fuppurative poultice will be happily accompliflied, without the baneful efiedts of reft of the limb; and without it, he never looked for a cure. The large phagedenic ulcer is the only one that w'ill create any great difficulty to the experienced furgeon; fmall ones, of whatever duration, and whatever may be the age and conftitution of the pa- tient, as far as I have fecn, are healed by the above means, with eafe, expedition and fafety, after having withftood a variety of others under a tedious con- finement. And many common large ulcers, though deep, with difeafe of the Ikin to a confiderable ex- tent, it has been faid, are cured in a very reafonable time, and require nothing but patience; I mean require the caution fo frequently given, not to be anxious to heal them entirely, till the furface becomes perfectly good, and they are difpofed to it with any common dreffing. But the very large phagedenic ulcer, which is eafily put out of humour, and dif- pofed to fpread on every little occafion, is that which will prove the fkill, and fometims try the patience of the furgeon. However, from w'hat I have known, I can venture to recommend a method to others ; though it is con- fefl'ed, want of opportunities has limited my expe- rience in the worft fores of this kind,* which falling I 3 to * In one of the Medical Jouniah^ anno 1785, we hatre a par- ticular account, by Leonard Gillefpie, of the wonderful efficacy of lemod-UPON 154 A TREATISE to the fhareonly of the pooreft people, arefeldom fecn but in large hofpltals, which I have therefore occafion- ally vi(ited,purpofely to make obfervstions upon ulcers on the legs, by comparing fome of the word cafes with thofe I have been concerned for. The poverty, and evil cuftom of thefe patients, indeed, greatly aggravate the complaint, and though the plan re- commended be ever fo well adapted to the difeafe, want of compliance on their part may render it abor- tive ; and it is poffible, there may be fome cafes will yield to no treatment whatever. If very adtive applications are ufed, in the form of an ointment, thefe are often mod advantageoudy applied to the large, and irritable fore, upon a thin piece of fponge; by which means very deterfive ointments will agree very well for the fliort time they are neceflary, when they would otherwife eat the lemon-juice, as a dreffing for the fcorbutic, or putrid ulcer amongft feamen; and the public has been favoured with a like account by Dr. Blane, in his treatife on their difeafes. How far this appli- cation may be ferviceable in what is termed, at land, the putrid, or phagedenic ulcer, I have had no fufficient opportunity of experi- encing fince I have been acquainted with thofe publications. FIow- ever, from the good Which I conceive has been effected from a tnixture of lemon-juice and treacle, it appears probable, that lemon-juice alone might be very ufeful in fuch fpreading ulcers, particularly from its tonic qualities ; a circumftance of great im- portance, as will prefently be noticed. At any rate, however, dcfirous as I am of thro.ving every poffible light on the treatment of ulcers on the lower extremities, I thought it proper to com- municate this pratftice to fuch readers as may not have feen the ufeful publications that firft recommended it. ulcerULCERS OF THE LEGS. I 4 known ulcer into holes, and give it a raw, dry, and indi- gefled appearance. I received this hint, from what Freke fays on his poultice, that it abforbs the acrid difeharge, whilft it conveys to the furface of the ulcer a fuitable application. This led me to reconfider the very frequent ufe the ancients made of fponge, which is one of the many valuable remedies of anti- quity, that the moderns have indiferiminately dif- carded ; though it is in many cafes, one of thefitteft means of conveying appofite dreffings to a fore, that w'as ever devifed. It is liable to no poflible objedion that I know of, in point of utility, if not made ufe of too long, and which every furgeon will know how to avoid. There is, however, a very bad phagedenic ulcer, and always a large one, that diflikes almoft every thing in an undluous form, at leaft wdll not be healed by fuch applications, till brought into a different ilate; that is, till its furface is braced.—There is here, I apprehend, no virulent humor, as is ufually fufpefted, no virus that wants to be difeharged at the fore, nor an irritans nliquld which nature cannot ether- wife get rid of. Fadts demonftrate the contrary, for not only do patients enjoy very good health, after getting rid of the ulcer and their limb together, by undergoing a painful operation; but the cure of fome of the worfl of them, proves fuch ideas to be rather apologies for the want of fuecefs, than founded in the rcafon of things. Sores have been, and are healed by empirics, under all circumfiances, and no fuch dreadful evils have enfued ; but w'e have not*5^ A TREATISE UPON known their art, and have contented ourfelves with fuppofing it to be unfafe, and difpijting the propriety of a cure we have not been able to effed;!—Hie labor^ hoc opus ejl ! This I would ftir up my brethren to attempt, and am perfuaded they may fucceed oftener than it is imagin- ed ; and perhaps the moft rational means is to remove the local afFedion, a relaxed, and therefore irritable flate of the parts. That this has been frequently the great obflacle to their cure, it were eafy to prove by a variety of obfervations taken from healing fores, and from fuch as having promifed w'ell fora while, and then looking pale for a few days, have run into a gangrene; or at lead have continued at a Hand—but I am fatisfied, every experienced furgeon is before hand with me, and is inclined, at lead:, to fuppofe it probable, that the hint may be juft. It is not defigned, however, to dry up ulcers on the legs, as one w'ould a fcratch on the finger; the veflels of the part are firft to be freed, and the ulcer pro- perly digefted, and deterged; efcharotics are to be applied if found neceftTary, and the fore to be treat- ed as diredted in the former part of this w'ork, fo long as nature is difpofed to be aftive; but the moment fhe flags, or cannot be rouzed to a falutary exertion, by ftimulating applications and exercife, (or whenever fuch applications offend,) the inference is as obvious, as an attention to it never fails to be ufeful. The fore is to be braced^ and the parrs dif- pofed to conrradt; the certain confequence of which will be a frelh, and healthy appearance of the ulcer; a prettyULCERS OF THE LEGS., 137 a pretty fare fign we have not miftaken the cafe, and that the means we are ufing cannot be wrong. But if this be attempted too foon, the plan is per- fectly irrational, and the cure will not be accomplifh- ed, or cannot be expected to continue. For this reafon I have objected to the early ufc of thofe drying applications, which fome empirics have entirely de- pended on , as well as againft dreffing ulcers with aq. vegitab. miner, dry lint, and covering the furfacc with lead ; which I may venture* to fay, would, at Icaft, be ufed with more fafety and fuccefs at a later period, when fores are well cleanfed, and nature flags under fruitlefs efforts to cover a large furface fhe can- not firft fufficiently contrail. And here, I cannot but remark, that there are but very few parts of the body, on which we meet with fores fo large as thofe on the legs, where the whole furface is to be covered with entire new fkin. Surgeons are always careful to preferve a great deal of fkin when they take off any of the larger limbs, or a tumor of any confiderable fize; by this means, although the ulcer, a few days after the operation, may have been very extenfive, the cicatrice at laft is often not larger than half a crown- piece, or even a Ihilling : and it is on this account, that large furfaces are fometimes fo readily healed. But there is frequently great difficulty in thoroughly doling a fore occafioned by a burn, on any part of the body, when the true ffiin and adipofe membrane have been deflroyedto a confiderable extent. * Such cafes. • In fuch indancfts, though a patient be ever fo healthy, we are133 A TREATISE ufon ' cafes, in this refped:, approach the neareft to the ulcers in queflion, of which the old fkin can be brought over only a fmall part of the furface, and the reft is covered entirely by new. In all fuch cafes, the aftringent lotion already hinted at will won- derfully affift the cure, by enabling nature to con- tradt the furface, and leflen the dimenfions of the lore. But however, and whenever bracing applications are ufed to the legs, they fhould not be continued throughout the cure, nor longer than is abfclutely neceflary ; but being gradually weakened, the laft ftage fltould be effedted, if poffible, by ordinary means, and with the cautions laid down in the fore- going pages. The folution may freqently be made ufe of merely to vvafh the furface of the fore, or fometimes may be applied on a piece of double linen, (for lint flicks too clofe to the furface) its edges, (in very bad cafes) being firft fpread with any mild cerate,to prevent them from adhering too tightly to the Ikin, and thereby confining the difeharge; and Ihould therefore be fomewhat larger than the ulcer. There are, how- ever, fome very large fores that require a more ef- fectual method, and the folution is more adv'an- tageoufiy applied, for a ftiort time, on a thin piece arc apt to fay, that the conlUtmion long acenflomed to the dif- chaige, IS thereby indifpofcd to fulTer the ulcer to clofe. But it is very probable, it may often be better accounted for, on the piintinle juil now mentioned. ofULCERS OF THE LEGS. 139 of fponge ; but as the fore contracts, and becomes dryer, the granulations are apt to Ihoot into it, and the furface will bleed on taking it off. A dice of new bread may then be fubflituted, a little time longer, in its ftead, which will equally abforb the acrid difcharge; but this will be necelfary only when the fore is yet very large, and has been much dif* pofed to fpread, or very unwilling to heal. And lliould we, now and then, meet with a cafe, where- in the application of the folution upon bread, may feem necelfary for many days together, as this may be thought an uncommon, and awkward manner of applying a dreffing, the vitriol, which forms the balls of the folution, may be mixed up with a proper quan- tity of oil, and made into a mild cerate, or ointment; with ingredients more or lefs fuppurative, or other- W'ife, according to the particular circumltances of the cafe. But above all thefe, bathing the limb for a quarter of an hour before each drelTing, in a tepid folution of the calcined vitriol * fhould be made trial of ,* an expedient I was not acquainted with when the former edition appeared. But if none of thefe difficulties appear upon leaving off the dreffing with fponge, a piece of linen wetted in the folution, may be laid on the fore ; or even walliing it with the fo- iution may now be fufficient, and a mild digellive, or in very obllinate cafes, the ,cerate with crocus martis, or Goulard’s pomatum and bole, be applied * See pa|;e 142, to140 A TREATISE tTPON" 9 to its furface. To this, a little precipitate, or cor- rolive fublimate, may fometimes be added to ad- vantage, if an ulcer has hitherto been in a very irri- table ftate, and it is apprehended may not have been perfedfly dlgeded. Some of thefe phagedenic ulcers with a very large furface, and of very long landing, are of a nafty greenifh hue, exceedingly foul and indigeded, and fo painful that they cannot endure the tedious procefs of ordinary deterfives, but as hath been obferved, are exceedingly aggravated by them : they will fome- times, indeed, be benefited by the application of the theriaca venet. but are very apt to prove foul again. They may be cleanfed, however, in one or two dref- fings, by fome fuch lotion as the aqua phaged^enica, for the lotion that pafies under that name, is too firong to be fafely applied with freedom to very large fur- faces. * Or, if ointments containing mercury are thought proper, the unguent, citrinum is one of the nioft powerful, or an ounce of ung. bafil. flav. with ’ a fcruple of the mercur. corrof. fublim. will form an excellent deterfive. But it fometimes proves a very painful application, and ought never to extend bej^ond the fore, as it may blifter the part all around, and bring on an eryfipelatous inflammation. The lotion I juft now hinted at, is, indeed, gene- nerally preferable; this I have called a deterfive * It 13 likewlfe a very inartificial preparation, formed upon er- roneous principles, by which the intention is very much fruf- trated. lotion.141 ULCERS OF THE LEGS. lotion,todiftinguifh it from thatIformerly mentioned, and confiOs of a mild folution of fal. martis, with avery fmall portion of mere, corrof. fublimatus ,• a thick piece of crumb of new bread well foaked in this 1‘olution, and bound on the fore at going to bed, will often cleanfe it in one night, and produce a difeharge of as laudable pus as the furgeon can vvilh for ; nor will frequent repetitions be neceflary. It will then be fufficient in general, to wafh the ulcer with it before the ordinary dreffings are applied. But fhould the ulcer fpread again after a while, though it has been perfedtly digelled, and looked as w-ell for a time, as a common lore on the arm, recourfe mull be had to the firfl mentioned lotion. The loofe fiabby furface muft be braced, and contracted, (and this is fitly done by aftringents, which invigorate and W'arai without relaxing) which every furgeon knows always produces a frefli and pleafant appearance, lightly gra- nulated, but without a difpofition to bleed upon every touch of an armed probe ; w'hich by the bye, is fometimes ufed more freely in wiping the furface of fores than is fafe, and generally much more than is neceflary. This lotion is very fimple, )'et is exceedingly de- terfive, and by means of its bracing powers, gently corrugates the furface, and by kindly urging nature to action, gives the fore a florid and flrawberry ap- pearance, but without leaving that drynefs upon it, which common aftringents, and particularly allum, always induce. And it may be neceflary here to obferve, that though applications merely aftringent or drying,A TRI^ATISE 142 UPON drying, are in general very improper, for reafons that ■have been repeatedly hinted at, experience proves there are fome things of the aftringent kind, which are likewife deterfive, that may frequently be ufed with advantage and fafety. It vv'as not, however, without long attention to the fubject, and numberlefs attempts, that a fafe and fuitable preparation has been difeovered; fuch an one, as will not only brace, but cleanfe the fore, and preferve a pleafant appearance of its furface, whilft it difpofes it to heal; fuch an one, as according to the ilrength it is made of, will abate, or preferve the difeharge, will Simulate the riling granulations, and urgenature to exert herfelf, or will more powerfully corrugate its extreme velTels, and difpoling them to contract, prepare them to cicatrize at the edges of the fore. Such, it is thought, is the folution frequently hint- ed at, and that it will often anfwer all the purpofes re- quired in many obllinate ulcers. It may fafely be ufed to every very large one, and in perfedt confiftence with the plan of not compelling them to dry up, if it be not ufed too early, or continued too long; and which the prudence, and experience of the furgeon will de- termine. This is made of the vitr. virid. ad albitu- dinem calcinatum, dilTolved in aq. font, and prepared of fuch a Ilrength, according to the nature and extent of the fore, as the pradlitioner fliall think fit. But it Ihould be only in the hands of furgeons, who will vary its aftringent quality and drength, to the cir- cumllanees of the cafe, and will not attempt to dry up old ulcers in the mode of empirics : for if made of an im|)roper drength, it becomes a very differentULCERS OF THE LEGS. 143 application, and will alone induce a fkin on the fur- face of many, ulcers that are yet in a very undigefted ftate, and unfit to be healed—but fitnefs and fafety are not always the objedts of that clafs of practitioners, and to whom therefore a little knowledge is a very dangerous thing. Thus far fpme experience may be faid to have gone, but how much farther this plan may with fafety and advantage be extended, it is time only can prove. It has been obferved, however, that my ex- perience of its advantages over every other method hitherto made public, has been greatly confirmed fince the former edition of this work ; and I have therefore farther ground for hoping that the treatment .laid down in thefe pages, may be applied to ulcers attended with caries of the bone. At lead, when the ulcer is only of a moderate fize, and the injury has not penetrated fo deeply, or the pain and inflam- mation are fo great, as to render a very long confine- ment abfolutely necelfary, the methods propofed feem topromife fuccefs; though my own experience may not warrant me to promife it where the caries is confider- able. And allowing only a certain time of confine- ment at a necefiary period, when the bone is exfo- liating, (which may be haftened by flight perforations into the found part) exercife will have a very con- fiderable advantage through the refl of the cure; for as a degree of inflammation is the procefs, by which nature throws off fphacelated portions of bone, it being perfectly fimilar to that which takes place in the fofter parts of the body, I may venture to think this pro- cc fs144 A TREATISE upon cefs may go on better, and if it fucceed, far more fafely, with moderate exercife than by abfolute reft, as the cure is likely to be more lafting. We know how much can be done, even in the foul air of an hofpitalj, under the hands of experienced pradlitioners,, in fome very bad cafes j though this is certainly fometimes prevented by the clofenefs of the place, or the patient accidentally taking a fever.* * If thefe rilks could be avoided by the patient being, with fafety, permitted to take as much exercife a part of the day, as might maintain him during his cure, perhaps now and then a limb, or a life might be faved; or, at leaft, the attempt, it is hoped, might be juftified. But after all that can be faid, the nccefiity of am- putation, in fome cafes, cannot be difputed ; but I am daily more perfuaded, there is good reafon to hope fuch will not often occur, after this method fhall have been for fome time adopted. For patients will then have been informed, that fore legs are cured without confinement from their families or labor, and that fo cured, they will not be afterwards liable to return, but from the fame caufes that pro- duced them at firft. Thefe confiderations will, pro- bably, encourage moft patients to feek advice very *■ Befitle thefe difadvanlages, there is another very common in hofpltals ; which is the cultoin of taking oft' the dreftings frotn fore legs, fometimes an hour or more before they are drell'ed up again. *i'he bad cft'eifts of this prajSficc mull be evident to every man, but will be mote fo, by comparifon, upon leaving it off. foon,ULCERS Of THE LEGS. I45 foon, and though fome of the poorer amongft them fhoLild procraftinate longer, many of thefe may ne- verthelefs get effedual help when they apply; which' will be likel}^, at lea ft, to prevent the difmal effeds' of a mere temporary cure. Beside the few cafes which, but for amputation, are beyond the reach of art, others have been men-'- tioned, which manifefting the exiftence of internal’ difeafe, with morbid affedlon of fome of the vifcera,- where it has always been prefumed an external drain' mu ft prove ferviceable, it may become a matter oL doubt, whether their cure may be fafely attempted,** or the fubftitution of iifues be a fufficient fupply in-- * Ulcers attending the leg In old people, ought to be looked upon as critical, and therefore lliould not be healed. Le Dran. So Hkister, and many other eminent writers.—The opinion of Avicenna is fo very emphatical, I hope I fliall be excufed if 1 give the quotation. “ Sed in fenioribus non fanantur eoruin ulcera—et quartdoque fanantur, deinde refcinduntur, quantam' non generatur in eis earn, nifi ante mundificationem ; quando* ergo retinetur in eis luperfluitas non munda, oportet inde ut oorrumpatur continuitas proveniens fecunda.” De t/lcerii* L.ih. in).—I have ventured, however, to cure ulcers of many years flanding in very old people, and one many years ago in a lady upwards of eighty years of age, whom a very eminent furgeoo. had cautioned agalnll futiering it to be healed ; all of Whom have fi.nce enjoyed good health, and the ulcers have (hewn no difpo- fition to break out again. This piadiice has alfo the fupport of Mr. Bell, who though fo great an advocate for iflucs, Confidera fore legs, except in cafes of fpecilic infetftion, merely as local af« feftiona. K " the*146 A TREATISE UPON their ileacL Here the phyfician ought to be con- fulced, and, indeed, it were to be wiihed this were much oftener done in furgical cafes, than it is; he would furnilh the furgeon with fome ufeful hints on various occafions, and whilft they would proceed pari paffu together, the patient w'ouid not have to repent it in the end.—But in the prefcnt inftance, iliould they be of opinion that the difcharge from a large iffue would be inadequate to the drain from the ulcer, they may perhaps be in the right, and the pa- tient will probably chufe to err on the fafe fide. There are certainly fadts which favor either fide of the argument, and therefore fome latitude mufl: be allowed, and the difcretion of practitioners muft de- termine in particular cafes. fVifenian, for inftance, gives us a remarkable one (Book ii. ck. 9./ of a young woman afflicted with a bad ulcer on her leg, which for a long time refifted all the means ufed by him- felf and others, on account of fupprcfTed catamenia, which periodically occafioned a foulnefs of the ulcer ; till at length the fore being healed by the affiftance of See Bell, On Ul^tn, Part ii. § 2. on the nature and quan- tity of pus difeharged from a common ilTuc—add to this, the very moderate difcharge many ulcers furnifli when left to themfelves, or dreffed as they ufually are by paupers, with a little very bad cerat. epulor. But reafoning from fafts, it appears full as pro- bable, that the advantages of natural, or artificial drains, arife iftorc from irritation, than the difcharge from the fore. See IntrodHSlion^ tagci 31, 32, a l.aced-tJLCERS OF THE LEGS. 147 a laced-ftocking,^ the woman enjoyed perfedl health, and the menfes foon afterwards returned in their na- tural courfe. Suffice it to fay, that great numbers have been cured where the bad confequences appre- hended have not enfued, and as far as I could learn, very few have ever broken out again. Some Caution however is ncceffary, but it confids in very few things, viz. Purging, Temperance, and continuing the Bandage for fome time. Though purging has been fo ftridlly forbidden, with a view to invite the ulcer to heal, during which procefj, to prevent conftipation is all that, in general, fhould be aimed at; yet when the cure is nearly ac- compliffied, fuch a courfe is fuggefted with the greateft propriety. A few bri/k purges, at convenient intervals, ffiould at this time be direfted, accord- ing to the age and ftrength of the patient* The t That thie, and many of Wiseman’s beft cures were efFe£fed by a tight bandage, and often by a free ufe of precipitate, Is ex- ceedingly apparent,—Speaking of ulcers with great lofs of fub- fiance, which he drefied with bafilicon mixed with precipitate, (which he there obferves he ufually carried in his falvatory) he exprefles himfelf thus.—“ I then rolled it up with expullive ban* “ dage, the cure indeed confiding mainly in the well-rolling—by “ the ufe of it, both the influx w'as taken off, and the member ftiengtheued.” And again c/j, ’uiii, on the ulcer with callous lips, he fays, “ the fpeedy cure of this I Imputed to the laced- “ flocking, it performing all the intentions ncceffary to the curing of many fuch like ulcers.” roller, KzUS A TREATISE upon " roller, it was laid, fhonld be continued for forndi time ; the fize and duration of the ulcer, with fimilar clrcumftanccs, v.-hich every furgeon will have refpedt to, will determine the length of this period ; for tf the ulcer has been very large, and of long {landing, it will be neceflary to continue the roller a confider- able time. It need, however, be worn only for a few weeks during the night. This is all that is required; advifing, however, that caution proper for every convalefcenr, to attend to his general health, and to take a purge now and then, if a conllipated date of the bowels fhould re- quire it. To thefe, indeed, was added a caution to the intemperate, fince, doubtlefs, a certain manner of living, may render this, and the cure of any other complaint, of very uncertain duration. If men will run quo duett giddy they mud themfelves, and not the phydeian or furgeon, who has once or more cured them, abide by the confequences. BY way of Conclufion, it may not be amifs to bring the principal intentions into one view, as well as make fome apology for fo bold an attempt to fet afide the common remedies and applications for ulcers on the legs, and even to recommend a me- thod, in many refpedls diametrically oppofitc to thofe in vogue ; as Exercife indead of Red and Confine- ment ; free generous Diet indead of a dridl fparing * See Dr. Kirkland on the upm Amputation. diet of patients, in his Tlwights Rcgi*ULCERS OF THE LEGS. 149 Regimen: and fl;rong Digeflive Ointments rather than mild Poultices and cooling Cerates. If the fuccefs of a plan varying in fuch effentkl refpedfs from any hitherto received, Ihould juPify the hope entertained, the advantages will not be in- confiderable to men of pleafure or of bufinefs, but efpecially to the fuffering poor, who croud the pub- lic hofpitals much more on account of thefe diforders than any others. If they can be cured without being obliged to leave their families, and that labor by which their families are fupported, it is thought one grand obftacle to their applying for relief in proper time will be removed : and the furgeon will doubt- iefs be glad, on many accounts, to be laved the very difagreeable neceffity of receiving fuch objedts into the hofpital, moft of whom may with more fafety and propriety, be cured out of the houfe. But important and defirable as is fuch a defign, the author is aware of the obllacles there may be to the extenlive ufeful- nefs he has had in view, in rendering fuch a plan general amongft the very pooreft and heedlefs part of mankind, who are feldom faithful to themfelves. Satisfied, however, of imany advantages it will have amongfl thofe of fuperior rank, and wherever patients can be depended on, he is confident fome good will be effedted upon this plan, that has never been accom- plifhed by any other. He only requefts his brethren will condefeend to make ufe of the preceding hints, and allow a little time to prove the utility of the mode, and he dovibts not they will find fuccefs enough K 3 toJ50 A TREATISE upoh to encourage them to perfevere, until farther im- provements will be made by them. He has, however, difcharged his part; he has de- livered his fentiments as the refult of long attention to the fubjedl, and muft leave his readers to pafs ■what fentence they pleafe. In the mean rime, it is his fatisfadfion to have aimed at things, which it can be no crime to have attempted though his defign fliould not perfedtly fucceed; whilft to have con- cealed what was judged likely to be of fuch public* utility, would have been criminal in the eye of every benevolent mind. It may be proper t6 add, that it has not been his defign to intimate that other furgeons are without their fuccefs in thefe cafes, fome of whom he knows have paid particular attention to them; and fhould any know already as much as he has to fay, and be able to heal old ulcers without confinement, or pro- bability of their return, it is pity the public has not been made acquainted with it. It would have favcd the compiler of thefe fheets fome trouble ; who had no fuch defire of appearing in public, as needlefsly to have expofed himfelf to the hazard of cenfure, for opinions he has fuppofed novel among regular pra(^ titioners. To fuch he now fubmits the foregoing pages, perfuaded they contain fome improvements. But fhould they, after a longer trial, be found in- adequate to the end, and any other method be pointed out more rational, eafy, and certain, it will be the dutyULCERS OF THE LEGS. duty of every candid prad:itIon.er to adopt it. Till then, the author can only fay, Vive : Si quid noviJU reSlius tjlis^ Candidas imperti: ft non) his utere mecunu Hor. Epift. VI. L. i.r- T j 10 1 w ^ * 0f •iTi r '••o f V. . t .:> lo ■ t- •., ii":: . :3 • /> tfi.- '. ; ■ : f , V-. ^ - <1 * • r ,v • * r f - • * #1. * • • - : , l. i< ? i. 4. ".;V! 'TBRIEF PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON SOME SCROPHULOUS ULCERS; OPHTHALMY; THE MAMMARY ABSCESS, AND G,ANGRENE. Inejl fua gratia parvis./: K •/ oI r,\7 ;.• ; ;? 1) ■ f/,; fo,»,v.t\‘i - 'U I ".-•'* • '" . ' ** • * ■-* "S ? 1 '•>,•*••■- i. V ' • \* It « t " ' ■ i. X:*-- A 1 r l ;. 4 :> c ^ \ >r tf. * . .: I '’u;,' v-rr; ■ :♦'t':i 'itJ i> ' • /T ’.' ■ ; ..' :o :ifx'- '*- ’4- ;'■» ! .t' '- / ;; r*'- ' /»•? V->** - Sr-;,’: ' • o? A ^ • WPractical Observations UPON SOME 5CROPHULOUS ULCERS. HEN I began to refleft on the great advan- tages that had refulted, In many bad ulcers of the legs, from a bold ufe of the mercur. corrofiv. ruber, and of fome digeftive ointments of a warmer compofition than thofe in common ufe, as well as from a generous diet and exercife, it was natural enough to extend the trial of them in other trouble- some fores. The refult of thefe experiments has, in- deed, exceeded my expedlatlons, and I can now venture to recommend them to the trial of other pradlitloners, and particularly, for cold glandular tumors about the neck, fuppofed generally to be of the fcrophulous kind ; which, however, frequently appear, and break into very troublefome fores, without any other marks of that dreadful com- plaint I wasOBSERVATIONS UPON 4 I was farther encouraged in thefe attempts, by ifome obfervations of the late Afr./re/r ; who indeed was a man of a lively and warm imagination, and Ibmetimes a little eccentric, but was, neverthelefs, a thinking man, and had plaufible reafons to aflign for every part of his prafticc. His ideas of thefe cafes (as well as of difeafed bones) ferved to confirm me in the opinion I had entertained both of the difeafe and the remedy. ' I have now, for fome time, ufed the precipitate Avith great freedom in fcrophulous afife^ftions of the neck, and to very great advantage.—If the fwellings are at all difpofed to come forward, but are not broken, or have only a fniall orifice, I always haften the maturation, and the difiblution of the fkin as far as it is difeafed, by means of epithems made of honey, flour, and yolk of egg, to which alfo may be added a little yeafi. I am very little concerned to what extent the fore may run, as I know I fliall have much diftempered gland to deftroy underneath, and that if the latter be not efiedually done, the fore will either not heal entirely, however fmall it may be- come, or will foon break out again. The fears, however, are even fmaller, than when the ulcers ar?; treated in the ordinary way. For the Ikin, in this part, being thin, frequently loofe, and yielding, the tumor beneath it removed, and the fores healing up much fooner than under the lenient method, I have known them, when cured by the above means, leave no more than a feam, and a little rednefs to beSCROPHULOU'S ULCERS. ^ be obfetved afterwards, without any proper fear on the part. The onl^ dlhigreeable circumftance that can attend fuch a pradice, I apprehend, is the poffibility of a falivation, of which I can fay only, that it has never happened to me ; though before I relied fo much on external means as I now do, I have given mercurial medicines in fmall dofes, for a confiderable time, whiHl I have made ufe of precipitate daily with great freedom. Moreover, as it is very common to pre- feribe fea-water, or. fome other laxative, in thefe cafes, the rifk of a falivation, I imagine, will in general be very, little. But fhculd even fymptoms of k appear, every praditioner, as he will know the caufe of it, will immediately take care not to in- creafe it. ‘ I am now, however, perfuaded, there will generally be little or no occafion, for adminiftering mercurials inwardly, or any other medicine under the idea of an alterative, (at leak, I am afraid, we know of none peculiarly adapted to the difeafe) much lefs for frequent purges, which ferve only to reduce the vis vitaq which, in thefe cafes, is always too languid already. 1 find likewife, the fores heal up as kindly without, as where mercurials, antimonials, cicuta, neutral falts, or fea-water are made ufe of, all o which I have formerly preferibed with great free- dom; and I doubt not that the plan 1 mean to recommend, efpecially when this difeafe is confined to the neck, will be very frequently fuccefsful in theUPON OBSERVATIONS 6 the hands of every other gentleman, who will give a fair trial to it. If the patient is unhealthy in other refpedls, fuch medicines fliould be dired:ed as appear fuitable to his complaints, when the bark will, 1 believe, be fre- quently found as ufeful as any ; and I have found evident good elfedls from a flrong decodion of the woods, and crude antimony. But in a general way, I depend upon nothing fo much as procuring a good and early maturation of the tumors, and fuppur'ation of the diilempered Ikin and glands, by means of the aforementioned epithem ; a very bold and continued ufe of the precipitate ; a nourifliing diet, and as much exercife as the patient can well bear; eftceming walk- ing the bed of all. To this end, the patient Ihould be encouraged to be continually on his feet, and abroad in the air as often as the weather will fafely admit of it; and of whatever age he be, after beginning this exercife in a way that fliall be quite agreeable, to increafe it daily, till helhall goto bed every night thoroughly fatigued. . Of the advantage of this,* I have had fuch proofs,^ as leave me no room to doubt of the propriety of venturing to recommend it, as far * Nihil eft, quod utiliflimain fuperflui et nocentis humidi perf- ■pirationem tarn egregiejuver, quam motus corporifque exercitatio, qua tuendx fanitatia vix prsefentius datur aiixilium.—Peregrinatip ad oTOuium ralubriratem pertiner, quia non modo cum continuo motu, fed frequentiori etiam aeiis inialubris in falubiioreiu muta- tione enniunaa eft, qua: tuendsc lanitati et corpori a pluribus morbh pra'fervando egregib vclificatur. Hof FMAN, Mo/ri Optimo Sofnitatis Cop. ix, ctfeip. asSCROPHULOUS ULCERS. 7 as fuch experience may be Tuppofed capable of doing it. And of this I recolledt two remarkable inftanccs; the one in a lad who came to London exceedingly fcroph^lous, and was hired to go behind the carriage of a gentleman, who was in it many hours every day.* The other was the fon of an excifeman, who having very long walks, took the child, w'ho was about fix years old, conftantly with him. Neither of thefe patients took any other medicine than a dram or two of Epfom falts, four or five times a week; yet both got perfedly well. To obtain the advantages that have been hinted .from the ufe of the precipitate, fcrophulous ulcers Ihould be filled with it, and if a Hough is formed by it, (which will not always be the cafe) the fuppu- rative epithem is the befi: drefling till the Hough is thrown off; when the precipitate Ihould be imme- diately repeated. The firft, and a very early advan- tage, from fuch a ufe of it, will be a change in the difcharge, both in quantity and quality, which from having been too little, or from an abundance of cor- roding fanies, will be changed to a moderate difcharge of good and laudable pus; and the fore, except when a Hough is produced by the application, will always look clean. In a little time there will alfo be a favourable change in the parts contiguous to the ulcer, the fwelling w'ill fubfide, and from a red and heated appearance, the furrounding Hein will acquire its natural color, and the patient himfelf, or his friends, will be able to judge of the favorable tyrn in his cafe. have advifed a daily ufe of the precipitate, which, indeed;,8 OBSERVATIONS UPON indeed, I intend almofl literally ; for when a good deal of the gland has been deftroyed, the fore and furrounding fcin will be found to contradt under the ufe of it, as if an aftringent application were made ufe of; and the parts will actually heal up to the breadth of a ftraw, whilft this adtive mineral, which has already deftroyed a clufler of diftempered glands, is daily applied. I have elfewhere taken notice,* that electricity has been found very ferviceable in thefe fores, and that it’ becomes fo by communicating powers to the parts* But it will be farther neceflary to remark, that it not only forwards maturation in fuch tumors as are pre- vioufly difpofed to fuppurate, but does it in the molt advantageous manner, as well as expedites their healing, and often without fo much as a fear. For tumors brought by this means to fuppuration, fre- quently break only into very fmall apertures, from which, however, the matter runs very freely by the daily ufe of eleCtricity ; and when they are difpofed to heal, the Ikin on the furface becomes attached again to the parts below, and only perhaps half a dozen very fmall fpccks, in the form of fo many pin-holes, remain. Since the former edition, I have had fome farther experience of the virtues of camphor in cold tumors, and I can now recommend it, in confequence of Inch trials, as frequently capable of dlfperfing fuch as have Vide the Introdudtion to Treatift upon Ulesrs., pnges rj, 14. {Kn/e.)SCROPHULOUS ULCERS. 9 long been in a quiefcent Hate, and not dlfpofed to fuppuration. Such tumors have fometimes proved exceedingly troublefome, on this account, remaining indolent after others have fuppurated plentifully. In this date, oil well faturated with camphor,* has become a very ufeful and fafe application, and by refolving the fmaller indolent tumors, ferves to corn- pleat a cure, that would otherwife have remained imperfed:, after all thofe had been healed, whiph the epithem had brought to fuppuration. Eledricity likewife, though it forwards fome tumors, will affift the refolution of fuch as are not difpofed to fuppurate. I KNOW it is an opinion with fome people, that fcrophulous fweUlngs ought not to be invited to fup- puration ; though not from an idea that they will heal lefs kindly in confequence of early maturation, but folely from the difficulty of healing them when- ever fuppuration takes place, and the abfcefs is burft. But fince fcrophulous tumors, and particularly thofe of the neck, almofl conftantly end in fuppuration, at one time or other, though not at all invited to it by art; and fince experience has proved the very con- fiderable advantage of bringing them to an early and * This is likewife the beft remedy, I believe, for the incipient bronchocele, which it difperfes fometimes in the fpace of a feW' weeks, if very well rubbed into the part at leaft three times a day, and a piece of flannel well greazed with it, be kept conflantly to the throat. The patient at the fame time ought to take a dram or two of the Sal Rupil. every morning, I. copious10 OBSERVATIONS vfo^ copious maturation, which both prevents fo much of- the glands being afFedted, and occafions a more per- fedl diffolution of that which is already diftempered, I can confidently advife the early ufe of the fuppu- ratlve epithem,* in preference to every other remedy, nnlefs it be convenient to make trial of fca-bathins. It will be a means of preventing many of the fad effcdts of leaving thefe tumors for months, and even years to themfelves, (as I have feen them) in habits of body fo ill-calculated to get rid of difeafe; and wherein medicine is univerfally acknowledged to afford fo little affiftance. But lliould a fcrophulous tumor in this part be unufually large, it may be treated in a fomewhat dif- ferent manner; it Ihould, however, be fpeedily brought to fuppuration, by the epithem already men- tioned; or fliould this be done to our hand, as it will confequently contain a good deal of pus, the glands will thereby be already confiderably diflblved. On this account, there will not only be lefs occafion for fo bold a ufe of the precipitate, but the extent of the tumor being confiderable, it will be of confequence to preferve a good deal of the Ikln, if there be no objedion to doing it. Therefore, if that is not in a very bad ftate, (which it frequently indeed is, before large tumors fuppurate plentifully) it will be found very convenient to open the abfeefs, by making only * Hence, prol>ably, it is that the ^Jalvtrn-Watcrs have fome- times proved fo beneficial in thefe cafes. See a note on the Malverrt- fKilcrSy in the Treatife jipon Ulcers, pages l oi, 102. a punc-SCROPHULOUS ULCERS. ii a punfture with a lancet, firft at the top, and then at the bottom of the tumor, fufEcient to pafs a feton through it; or it may be done at once by a fmall feton-needle, armed with a flender Ikaign of cotton or lilk. Befides every other advantage of this method of difcharging the matter, which will alfo be gradual, is the exclufion of air; a point fcarcely enough at- tended to in the treatment of abfceffes. The feton being introduced, fhould be drawn up and down at leaft twice every day, and fometimes be moiftened with fome proper deterfive ointment; and occalion* ally fprinkled with precipitate. The conflant irri- tation of the feton, will tend to diffolve the remain- ing hardnefs of the glands, far more than any com- mon poultice, w'hich frequently ferves only to de- flroy the fkin without affording that ffimulus to the parts underneath, W'hich this fore always requires. The irritation of the feton wall alfo difpofe the bot- tom of the abfcefs to throw up healthy granulations, the moment the hardnefs is diffolved, and the fore W'ill thereby heal up kindly, more expeditioufl}'’, and with much lefs fear, than could be expelled from the extent of the tumor; no more than the marks of the pundlures, and a little rednefs of the fkin, as it was obferved, remaining afterwards to be icen. Should the pundlures made by the feton, however, not be difpoled to heal in a reafonable time, after the filk is withdrawn (which fhould be gradual, by removing a few threads at a time,) and yet no frefh hardnels take place, nor the difeharge be increafed 5 L 2 theiz OBSERVATIONS upoit the little orifices may be eafily dried up, by dreffing them twice a day with bits of lint dipped in a mix- ture confiding of a little new milk, and a drop or two of extradf. faturni, which by this means 'will be thickened to the confiftence of a liniment, and becomes a very ufeful application to many other very troublefome ulcers; of which I lirft faw the good effedts fpme years ago, in a very different cafe, under the diredtion of Mr. IVatJ'on.—If the edges of the pundtures become callous., a few touches with the lunar cauflic will foften them, and difpofe the pundtures to heal. - If I might be permitted to offer any farther hints on thefe troublefome fores, and to judge from fome favorable circumftances joined to a little experience, I fliould hope the laft mentioned method may afford fpme confiderable affiftance In fome fcrophulous ab- feeffes about the joints of the upper extremities, if the patient be llkewlfe fent to the fea ; which I have feen attended with the happieft effedts. As for thofe on the lower ones, befides every other difadvantage they labour under, that of depriving the patient of good air and exercife, forbids me to expedt any very material improvement upon the common method of treatment. Thefe things are all I mean to propofe for thefe Ill- conditioned tumors, which I believe, indeed, will of- ten require no other aflifiance. And I am perfuaded, more may be effedted b\’’ them, and much fooner, than is frequently done by the various alterative me- dicines, and other means that are generally preferibed; unlefsSGROPHULOUS ULCERS. nnlefs in fome inftances, it be fea-bathing, the great advantages of which are extrearrily uncertain, and to be known onl}' by the trial of it : every praftitioner having found his utmoft expectations exceeded by it in fome cafes, whilft in others, his patients have re- turned from the fea much worfe than they w'ent there. At all events, the above plan may with propriety take place in the winter feafon, when fea-bathing is thought by fome practitioners to be attended with ha- zard, to delicate habits: or fhould even that be de- termined upon, the fores may be treated in the above manner at the fam.e time. It is not unlikely, that fuch a ufe of the precipitate as I have now been recommending, may be already known to other gentlemen of the profeffion, byt it is certainly not the common praCfice, nor has it, I be- lieve, ever been made public and from what I have known myfelf, and been informed of by others, of the fuccefs of ordinary means, I can venture to fay, that the cure will often be more expeditious and certain, as w'ell as lefs unpleafant, if the plan fhould be generally adopted.—It is feafee neceflary to add, that after the cure, or juft before it is compleated, it will often be advifeable to open an iffuc in fome convenient part of the body, as well as to attend * Since the firft edition, I have obferved in the Praxis Bai-hct- tiana, that the ufe ot efcharotics is recommended as adapted to tbefe fores ; but it is mentioned only in a general way, as being ferviceable after lenient applications have been made ufe of in vain ; which is a maxim equally applicable to mod other fores. 3 care-14 OBSERVATIONS, he. carefully to the diet, and continue the exerclfe for a time.—Should the patient have been fubjed; to oph- thalmia, or have other mark of fcrophula in the habit, thefe will be additional inducements for making a trial of fea-bathing, which he 'ftiould not only con- tinue through the feafon, but return to it the fol- lowing fummer, if it has been evidently beneficial. Should a difpofition to ophthalmy return, or other weaknefs of the eye take place, other remedies will be requifite, as will be noticed in the following trad. BRIEFBRIEF HINTS ON SOME OF THE MORE COMMON DISEASES OF THE E Y«. . • ' •sssitv^ ■> • • ,cy. ^ V rv , ;- ■ . l-y ^■ .■'i' . ■',. * ll ^ ■ p'. l'<.. .'.•'.•I ■ ;■(©.;< ;.qi> V '“t . ' ^ ♦ ’ * \ ^ iwo .5 ? 3 in "SI V II DISORDERS OF THE EYE, Having in the preceding obfervations had occafion to mention the fcrophulous oph- (halmy, I lhall in this edition drop fome farther ^hints on that complaint, in a few additional pages on the more common diforders of the eyes, which may, at lead, fcrve to diredt the j'oiing pradfitioner. There is, I believe, no part of the human body whofe difeafes have been more the fubjedf of em- p}ricifm than the eye, though no part can be more important to us, nor intitled to more cautious treatment. A principal occafion of thefe complaints lapfing into fuch hands, is, perhaps, the very great uncer- tainty in the operation of the bed remedies, owing to the variety of conftitutions in the fubjeds of them, as well as to the very different treatment thefe diforders require at different periods. Hence the nu-disorders i8 \ numerous eye-waters we hear of (and fo much extolled by furgeons as well as by empyrics,) many of which, I doubt not, have been very ferviceable in their turns, but are all equally improper, as general remedies. This neceffary diverfity of treatment is, however, very well known to every good practitioner, though the precife period for a change in the remedies is not fo readily afcertained. The chief difficulty in the cure of ophthalmy arifes, I apprehend, from the great irritability of the organs of fight, and their difpofition to exceffive relaxation ; but between thefe alfo, there is a dif- tinClion frequently to be made, that is of the greateil importance, but has not, I think, been very gene- rally obferved. Thefe fymptoms, indeed, fome- tiiries exifi; together, and are dependant on one another; but what I defign to remark is, that in diforders of the eyes, there is a fpecific difference between them, to which we are carefully to attend, as to an important guide in our practice. And this will be very evident to the attentive pradlitioner, from the confideration of fedative applications fo frequently failing of fuccefs, in apparently irritable llates of this organ, ivhilft bracing applications will as often prove exceedingly prejudicial in cafes at- tended with great relaxation.* Hence it muff happen, that It is very probable, it may be on this account, that the thebaic tihcluie has proved fo beneficial in a great variety of cafes, related by Jl/r. wherein neither the wine alone, nor opium diflblved-19 Of the E Y E, that either the particular afFedlion has been miftaken, \vhere only one of them has exifted, or it has not been rightly afcertained which has been the primary af- fedtion, and the proper caufe of the other. Indeed, furgeons are well acquainted with the cir- cumftance of relaxation, and have well known how liable the eyes are to be fo affedfed in confequence of almoft every confiderable inflammation ; and Jiave therefore paid great regard to it in their treatmept of common ophthalmias. On this account, they have carefully avoided urging any antiphlogiflic plan be- yond a certain time, and particularly as to the ufc of very relaxing, and warmed applications ; which often occafion irreparable mifchief. I have however reafon to believe, there is yet occafion for other cau- tions on this head, and room for improvement. A very different obfervation may therefore be made refpedting bracing and invigorating applications, which notwithftanding the irritable difpofition of the organs of vifion, and the pain that frequently attends fuch applications, are fometimes moft ufeful when rendered fharper, and more irritating than thofe in general ufe—Dolor dolorem cedatj is a well known adage, and often as applicable to painful affedfions of the eyes, as to many other inftances of fpafmodic affedlions; though the good effedts of irritating ap- plications may, perhaps, be otherwife accounted diflblved in wnter have had a like good efFefl: a circumflance I am difpofed to credit, though I never thought of making the ex- |)criment. for.disorders zo for. But the frequent uncertainty of our remcches, for the want of making adequate diftin(!ilions in regard to the length ol time thefe complaints may have con- tinued ; their various caufes; and the habit of body of the patient, has given rife to a hundred dilferent remedies of the fame clafs; has puzzled 3'oung prac- titioners ; and has promoted the caufe of em- ♦ pyricifm. As the intention of fuch obfervations as can be contained in the limits 1 have affigned to myfelf, can only be general, I fliall haften to attempt fome im- provement of the above remarks, and to point out fome pradlical diredtions for the treatment of thefe very common, and very diftreffing complaints. And firft, in refpedf to the period of true inflam- mation, it may be remarked, that whilft the befl; pradtitioners have been properly cautious of not cout tinning too long any antiphlogiftic plan, they have, perhaps, fometimes not done enough in the period devoted to it. The fadl is, that in very confiderable and recent inflammations, in athletic habits, the an- tiphlogiflic plan ought to be purfued boldly in the beginning, whereby the inflammation will be more certainly overcome, and with lefs rifle of bringing on hurtful relaxation, than by gentler means, and a feebler procefs, longer continued. To this end, both hands fif I may be allowed the exprefflon) fliould be laid on the difeafe, and whatever may appear requifite for fubduing the inflammation, fliould be done at once. Hence, bleeding in all the different forms, blifters, cathartics, and nitre, (which latter fliouldOf the ' E Y E. 21 iTiould be exhibited with great freedom) fedatlve col- lyria, (and fometimes anodyne fomentations) become the proper remedies; as well as defending the eye from a ftrong light: and if the pain be very con- liderable, an opiate flrould be taken at goin'g to reft. Where the difcharge is acrid and abnndant, a drop or two of fome foft mucilage inftilled between the lids, is very friendly to this delicate organ ; and when the inflammation has begun to give way, two or three drops of laudanum applied in the fame man- ner, at going to bed, has fometimes removed the complaint before the next morning. - When fuch an antiphlogiftic plan has been properly purfued for two or three days, it becomes time to think of guarding againft relaxation, and which a much longer continuance of fuch a plan would, in many inftances, infallibly produce. Tonical appli- cations and internal remedies, and among the latter, efpecially the bark, are to be ufed, which if it be the proper time for them, will immediately produce a good effed; and if they do not, muft not, for the prefent, be perfevered in. It is not, however, a dif- tentlon of the veflTels of the tunica conjundiva with red blood, that forbids a recourfe to fuch means, or to the continuance of thent ; for this w'ill happen cither from relaxation, or from an irritable ftate of the part, as well as from true inflammation ; between each of which, it has been fliid, the praditioner ought to make a careful difcrimination, and to adapt / hl?> remedies accordingly. Indeed, the treatment of very recent Inflammations ofDISORDERS 22 of the ej^es, is generally plain and obvious, and no one is at a lofs for fultable remedies; but in habitual affedtions of thefe organs, where frequent returns have induced other fymptoms, and difpofed the parts to peculiar relaxation, or irritability of its veffels and nerves, the greateft Iklll is required to diftinguifli them, in order to form a rational and fuccefsful me- thod of cure. This is a matter of the greateft Importance, and it has been hinted, is not always fo eafily done; it is a knowledge to be acquired as much from experience and great attention, as from thofe juft principles of art, acquired by a regular education. There is a fome- thing, however, in the appearance of the eyes, which is not eafily deferibed, that will affift us in making this diferimination ; and which taken In connexion with the prefent occafton of the complaint, the frequency of its appearance, and the conftitution of the patient, will lead the attentive and experienced pradtitioner to difeover, whether Ample relaxation, the mere effedt of the antiphlogiftic plan, and habit of the patient, or w'hether the great irritability of the organ, and perhaps of the whole fyftem, be the fymptom to be particularly attended to. For in cafes attended with great nervous irritability, or where the relaxation is immediately occafioned by it, befides a frequent, but variable relaxation of the iris, there is often to be perceived a fulnds, and a fenfe of weight is felt, in the upper eye-lids, which are inclined alfo to drop, accompanied with a yel- iowilh tinge of the tunica conjundliva, that feldom leavesOf the Y E. 23- leaves the patient entirely, and is fuddenly recurring upon every little cold, or increafed exertion of the organs of fight. Befides the indications to be ob- tained from an attention to the habit of bod}'-, the above fymptoms will not be ufually met with in cafes of fimple relaxation, where mere afiringent applications prove ufeful, which in the former will always ferve to aggravate the complaint; as will even dafliings with cold water, fo often very ferviceable in the other. Whether the complaint be owing to fimple relaxation, or to mere irritability of the parts, when this is once fully afcertained, good pradlitioners are at no lofs for fuitable remedies, and as I would not appear to multiply them by needlefs prefcrip- tions, where pradtitioners are acquainted with va- rieties enough, I fhall only fay, that ifjt be mere relaxation, the afiringent folution I have fo often re- commended is among the befi in a fluid form, where a powerful bracing application is called for; and may be made of any firengtb, as occafion may require. But there is in many people an irritability of habit, of which every complaint they are feized with, will very powerfully partake, and more efpecially com- plaints of the eyes; and when that organ has been often affcdted, the flighteft occafion will caufe a re- turn of them. Here, the pradlitioner will be at no lofs for a proper diagnofiic, and I fliall therefore only obferve, that applications partaking both of a fedative and invigorating nature, fliould be immediately had recourfe to. A very powerful remedy very often in thefcdisorders £4 thefe cafes, is an aromatic volatile vapor, * conveyed’ to the eye-lids, through a fmall Inverted funnel, ef- pecially at going to bed; and from which I have feen aflonilliing effedls, where the patient has been for years fubjedt to diflreffing complaints, and in danger of lofing the fight. Some benefit may like- wife be obtained by daily touching the upper eye- lids and parts about with the Spir. Volat. Aromat. Thefe little means have alfo been very ufeful where I have fufpedted a difpofitlon to cataradt and gutta ferena in which, as well as the above-mentioned cafes, the cautious and long continued ufe of elec- tricity, it is now well known, has alfo been very frequently ferviceable.'l I may here add another obfervation, derived from repeated experience in what I would call a nervous ophthalmy, in regar4^to the ufe of collyria j which, though a priori we ftiould prefume ought ever to be * Two drams of the Spir. volat. aromatic, in two ounces ^of water, kept boiling, will anfwer this purpofe very well. -f- By the fame means, I llkewife once removed a very painful nervous afteAion of the tedes of long (landing, which had rendered the parts fo exceedingly irritable, that it could fcarely endure the lighted touch, and had rendered a married gentleman very mifer- al)le ; having withftood many ordinary means of cure. ;[; For the firft hints of the great advantages of a long continued courfe of eleflricity in the gutta frrena, and even a perfeft cute In feveral recent cafes, I was indebted to Mr. Hry^ one of the I'urgeons of the Infirmary at ; fomc of which cafes have lince been publilhcd in, the 5th vol. of the Medical Oh/ervat^ and Inquiries, ufed^5 Of the E Y E. lited cold, are neverthelelefs oftentimes Inftantly bc-^ neficlal upon ufing them aftually warm, efpecially in cold weather. Of the propriety of this change, the fenfations of the patient upon the ufe of cold collyria will frequently be a guide to us; and I have only to remark, that they ought not to be ufed warm for any length of time, in which refpedt however, the intelligence of the patient may again ferve to di- rect us. Amongft the means for removing great inflam- mation, was mentioned the defending the eye from a flrong light, which is indeed indifpenfibly neceflary. This fliould, however, be rarely extended to keeping the patient’s room perfectly dark, or covering the eye itfelf in fuch a way as to exclude all contadt of light as fuch covering, by heating the eye, will always * I hope it may not be deemed altogether impertinent in this place, to offer a few obvious cautions, fcarce fufficiently attended to by thofe whofe eyes are naturally weak, or {lightly diftem- pered. Such people ought to be peculiarly careful not only of not continuing any occalional exercife of the eyes after it becomes painful to them, but as much as pollible, to be always expofed to the fame degree or quantity of light. This attention is particu- larly neceflary when engaged in reading, writing, or other em- ployment that is likely to fatigue them : too little, or too much light being equally improper when the eyes Sre much exercifed ; and is, indeed, at any rime injurious. The fudden tranfitioa from a dark to a very luminous afpe£f, and efpecially if often re- peated through the day, has nearly produced blindnefs in feveral iflftances; and patients have been recovered from the danger by little more than attending to this oircumftance. For the like xeafou,!^ Mdisorders 26 always add to the complaint. But in cafes of con- flitutio.nal ophthalmias, and particularly in fcro- phulous habits, a perfedly ereft pofture, throughout the day, with the head raifed as much as may be, at night, is elfeiVtially neceffarj'', and eminently ufeful; infomuch that frequently, no means of cure will fuc- ceed unlefs this be very ftridtly attended to. In re- peated inflammations, in patients of fuch a habit of body, I have known this alone efficacious, after many means had been prefcribed in vain by men of long experience, and where an obftinate inflammation had been kept up for feveral w'eeks, and the patient unable to endure the lead glimmering of light, or to open the eye-lids without the moft excruciating pain. And fuch ophthalmias, indeed, very frequently need nothing more than this caution, except it be to give a laxative occafionally, and to touch the eye-lids, now and then, with an ointment I fliall prefently mention; andefpeclally toadmitlight gradually intotheroom,as the patient fhall be able bear it. In regard to medi- cine, nothing, I believe, does fo much good as the bark. reafon, reading in the dulk of the evening, and then, fuddenly, by a ftrong candle-light, may induce mifchief in weak and dif- tempered eyes, that may not be difcovered till too late to be re- medied. I fliall clofe this note by obferving, that when reading a fmall print, without the help of glafles, becomes painful, fuch reading fliould be laid afide; as glafles, in this cafe, only ftrain the eyes, and Ihould never be taken up till a uniform neceffity fliall oblige, and then fliould aot afterwards be laid afide ; it being a fliock to the optic nerves to have the like objedls varioully repre- feiited, perhaps a hundred tiiius in a day. andOf the eye. 27 and lliould this not prevent frequent relapfes, the pa- tient, it has been faid, fhould make trial of the fea; which is more frequently ufeful in fcrophulous ophthalmias than in any other inftance. Something has already been faid in favour of in- vigorating applications, which for the chronical ophthalmia, and that tedious one which fometimes follows the meazles and frnall-pox, as well as in many fcrophulous cafes, ought to be made much more adive than they ufually are, and of which I have had- many happy inftances. But, indeed, many inflam- mations of the eyes, that are apt to return frequently and upon flight occafions, are rather owing to an atony of the parts, than a true inflammatory caufe, and will therefore always be benefited by fuch appli- cations. And thefe fhould be applied in an undtuous form rather than in a W'ay of lotion, and will be found to be a very confiderable improvement. Hence it is, I apprehend, that Sir Hans Shanes lini- ment formerly gained fo much reputation, and has fo often been of fervice; its only virtues, however, confiding in its form and the powder it contains, which affording a flight flimulus to the parts, is rendered more permanent in the form of a liniment, than any fluid collyria can afford. Ointments againft inflammatory affe<ftions ought not ufually, however, to contain fuch kind of powders, w'hich often do harm, and can furnifli no powers that cannot be otherwife obtained, and efpecially by fome preparation of mercury ; which indeed will do more in many ophthalmias than any other kind of reme- M 2 dies.DI SORDERS dies. The due irritation and difcharge fuch reiw.* dies occafionj the firft two or three times they^ arg made ufe of, throw the atonic parts into healthy atlion, and liberate the vcffels ; from which 1 have feen more good effeded in one or two nights, than has been done in weeks and in months by facchur. faturni, white vitriol, and all the other ordinary in- gredients of fluid collyria. Such may be made by the addition of the unguen- turn cterul. fortius to the ceratum album, or if a greater ftimulus is required, by one or two drachms of the mevcur# corrofiv. ruber, very finely levigated, to half an ounce of unguent, alb. and the like quan- tity of olive oil j or what is frequently more effica- cious, a kind of unguentum citrinum, of different flrengths, prepared with frefli butter, and to which camphire fliould be added. The infide of the eye- lids only need to be touched with one of tbefe, at going to bed, and though they will fometimes oc- calion very confiderable pain at the time of their ap- plication, and on fit ft opening the eyes the next morning, they will render the parts very cafy and pleahmt through the reft of the day.—Indeed, had I nothing elfe to offer on difeafes of the eyes, than the careful diftindtion between the true inflammatory, and chronic ophthalmy, (which is feldora fufficiendy attended to) and the fubftitution of thefe liniments for fluid collyria, I conceive I fliould deferve well of the public. I am not ignorant, indeed, that fuch re- medies are made conftant ufe of by fome gentlemen of the profeffion, who have been far from taking pains2^9 Of the. E Y E •pains to make their virtues generally known ; which ■they certainly are not.—Nor Ihoukl gentlemen of more liberal fentiments, at the head of the profeiEon, conclude every publication needlefs that may con- tain nothing new to them ; nor fuppofe, that becaufe they make no fecret of their knowledge, that the generality of prad;itioners arc as wife as them- felves.^ , A common Impediment to the cure of ophthalmias, is a bad habit of body, which though an obftacle common to other complaints, is efpecially trouble- fome in thefe. Amongft the various remedies In com- mon ufe on thefe occafions, befide iffues, the bark, and warm pediluvia, which are very frequently bene- ficial, I fhall venture to fuggeft one, that may be given to advantage where no other remedy may be peculiarly indicated ; this is, calomel joined with * Since this paper was drawn up, I have feen ilfr. Bc//'s obfer- vations on ophthalmia^ the early publication of which does him great credit j but As he fpeaks more from the pra6tice of Mr. PcUicr than his own,: there feemed llill to be fufficient inducement for adding my mite of experience.—-It was long atter the above note was added to the manufcript, that I was informed Mr. JPare had written fo 'fully as he has done, on thefe com- plaints. And had I feen his ufeful publication before I had pre- pared the prefent tra£f, 1 flujuld not have thought of writing on the fubjedl. I can, however, declare, that as I have made noad- ^dition nor alteration, whatever, (except the notes inferted at pages iS, and 3j,) fince I heard any thing of ilir.treatife, fo did 1 not hope there may be hints in the prefent that will have their I fliould even now have fupprefled it. M 3 cicuta.3<5 DISORDERS cicuta, a remedy not in very common ufe, but well adaped to many old and obftinate difeafes of the eye. NO common complaint is oftentimes more difEcult of cure than affedtions of the eye-lids. Tbefe are fome- times attended with a diftention and rednefs of the vef- fels of the eye, and fometimes not; but vifion is always impaired. In fome inftances, likewife, the edges of the eye-lids difchargc a very acrid matter, which ex- coriates the cheeks; and in others, the lids are red and ulcerated, but almoft dry. ■ In thefe cafes, it is well known, that a cautious mfe of the lunar cauftic will fometimes effedt an almoft inftantaneous cure; but I believe, it has not been often enough noticed, that a turning inwards of the eye-lafhes is fometimes the foie caufe of this very ob- ftinate complaint: the remedy for which is fuf- ficiently obvious. In other inftances of the lippitudo, the common mercurial ointment, or that with red precipitate, proves very ferviceable, bur more efpe- cially,. the unguentum citriiium, prepared as before- mentioned, a remedy perhaps fcarely to be equalled for this, and many other fmall ulcers. I have alfo feen great good effedted, in a few days, by a very old remedy made ufe of frequently in Si. Bartho- lomew's hofpital, and for which I am obliged to Mr, Boitj and doubt not his permiflion for giving the prefeription; though my own experience, indeed, goes to a preference of the unguentum citrinum. R. La-31 'Of the E Y E. R Lapis Tuti^ ppt. Calamin. aajiij. Plumb, uft. Gum. Camphor, aajj^ Myrrha?, Sarcocoll. Vitriol, alb. aaE. Butyri infuHi^ ^vj. Accurate mifceantur. There Is another and often fatal inflammation, efpecially to infants, of which there Is not much notice taken by writers ; nor has It, I believe, been accurately diflinguilhed till of later years : it is now ufually termed ophthalmia p.urulenta, on account of the vaft quantity of thick matter always dif- charged. , This may be efteemed a diforder both of the eyes and of the lids ; but is in fadl a fevere inflammation of the whole tunica conjunctiva, which goes rapidly into a flate of general fuppuration, and Is fo much thickened where it is reflected over the- lids, that it turns out a eonflderable way the moment they are drawn afunder. Ver}^ frequently the Inflammation is communicated to the cornea itfelf, which- will fometimes burfl, and the patient is confcquently de- prived of fight, at lead; for a time. Very foon after this, both the inflammation and difcharge ge- nerally ceafe ; and the aqueous humour being In fome cafes rcflored, and retained by a fpeedy cicatrice of the cornea, the patient reeovers a very tolerable M 4 degreedisorders 32 degree of fight. At other times, fome internal part of the eye, and particularly the iris, is fo greatly injured, or the cornea is fo much impaired, that it remains collapfed, and all hope of future vifion is cut off. In any cafe, the patient rarely recovers without the fight being more or lefs impaired for a time, by a greater or lefs number of fpecks formed on the cornea. Neverthelefs, we are frequently agreeably difappointed at the decline of this dreadful inflam- mation, and have the happinefs of finding the eye much lefs injured than had been fuf|)edted, either from the great difeharge and long continuance of the inflammation, or from the appearance of the eye itfelf when we were firft able to get a fight of it. For I have fometimes known the whole cornea ap- parently much depreffed, and at others, fmaller in- dentations formed on different parts, and after all, the fight been perfectly good as foon as the inflam- mation had completely fubfided, without either ci- catrice or fpecks to be feen on the cornea. This being, perhaps, the moft violent of all in- flammations, requires the fpeedieft affiftance. The patient Ihould be let blood freely and repeatedly, (according to the age and habit of body), efpecially in the neck, or by opening the temporal artery; the turgid veffels paffing over the fclerotica flrould be frequently divided ; leeches flioi^ld^be applied to the temples, and blifters to the and behind the ears ; the patient fhould be purged gently ; and the thickened tunica conjunctiva fhould be deeply fcarified once or twice a day, as long as it falls out fo lowS3 Or THE EYE. Jow as to prevent a blear figbt of the eye. The pait Ihould at firft be conftantly wetted with coding col- Jyria, to which afterwards a little brandy and vitriol may be added, and a drop or two of laudanum be inftilled into the eye, and every thing be attempted that may prevent or diminifh fuppuration; which I have known take place in a very few hours. Should thefe means fail, or what very often hap- pens, affiftance be called in too late, the lids mufl: be frequently drawn afunder to let out the matter, by- right as w'ell as by day; and in the cafe of infants, in whom the matter will be more confined, the edges of the eye-lids Ihould be frequently greazed through- out the day, and at night be covered with a little of ■Goulard's fpread upon very thin linen, and over that a light comprefs, hanging ioofely over the eyes, dipped in the vegito-mineral-water and brandy, or fpread with a kind of liniment made by beating up alum in the white of an egg. Should the inflam- mation and difeharge ftill increafe, a drop of laud- anum, or of a folution of the green vitriol calcined to whitenefs, fliould be inftilled into the eye, at leafl: once a day; which, whatever pain it may occafion at the time, will counteradt the inflammation more than any of the topical applications at a certain period of the difeafe, unlefs it be fome one of the mercurial liniments before recommended.'^ In ♦ In Mr, Ware’s Treatife on Ophthalmia, flrong cortimencla- lion is givtn to Bates's aqua mitriolica camphorata, diluted with about fixtecn tinlts its quamiry of water, as a collyrium, to be made34 disorders » In fine, the grand remedies carl}^ in the difeafe feem to be blifters and topical bleedings, efpecially by leeches; but then it is not the application of one or two that will anfwer any good end, though often repeated ; but if fix or eight to a child of four or •five years of age, and a dozen to adults, be applied at once, efpecially at going to bed, a flop will fre- quently be put to the mofi: formidable inflammation, and nothing farther be required than the ufe of fom'e aflringent collyrium, and to attend to the fpecks, flrould any be formed on the cornea. On the other hand, fliould the inflammation continue many days, aflringent applications mufl be had recourfe to, and the cortex be adminiflered in larp-e dofes. O There is an ophthalmia flill lefs noticed by writers than the former, which occurs feldomer than any other ; and is rarely cured if not attended to very foon. It might be called ophthalmia interna^ being a fuffufion of blood within the coats of the eye, ap- pearing through the pupil ; while the conjunctiva oftentimes preferves for a while its natural colour. made ufe of from the firlt appearance of this inflammation. I have had only three opportunities, indeed, of making trial of it fince that excellent traiS was put into my hands, and in which it fuc- ceeded very well. But apart from this little experience of its efficacy, Mr. Ware’s ideas of the compl.aint appear fo perfeiEHy tocorrefpond with my own, that it would feem to me an injuflice to fuch readers as may not be acquainted with that work, not to mention a remedy apparently fo well calculated to counterad in- flammation, and recommended upon fuch authority and ex- perience. ,35 Of the E Y E. though at others, I believe it has, from the firft, the appearance of the common ophthalmia; this, how- ever, ufually comes on in one ftage or other of the difeafe. It is fometimes a complaint of long Handing, Healing on for a while almoH imperceptibly, till the patient is alarmed at being, fuddenly, almoH de- prived of fight; which fometimes as unexpectedly re- turns in a fliort time, and goes away again as fuddenl3^ It feems to be attended with fome diforder of the optic nerve, the pupil being fomewhat dilated, and the retina rather indifpofed to contraCt, though the eye be expofed to a Hrong light. It attacks people of different ages, and- in young tvomen is often attended with fuppreffion of the men- fes, the return of which fometimes removes the com- plaint. I never met with it in robuH habits, nor have found general bleedings, or other antiphlogiHic remedies of any ufe. Topical bleeding by leeches, and in the jugular vein, are preferable; and elec- tricity has fometimes been ferviceable, though it has in others appeared to increafe the complaint, which feems to depend upon the irritability and relaxation of the organ. Bark, therefore, and a bliHer on the head, touching the lids with ung. citrin. and drop- ping a little laudanum often into the eye, fcarifying the under-lids, and in the end, I think fea-bathing, are the moH likely means of relief. It will oftentimes be neceffary to continue thefe remedies for a great length of time, having feen good effects produced by thein after I had nearly given up36 DISORDERS all hope of doing an)!; good. It always, I believe, attacks both eyes, and if attention be not paid to the complaint before the conjundtlva is much inflam- ed, the patient will after all moft probably be in great meafure deprived of flght, the cornea, in that cafe, becoming perfedlly opake. i SHALL only drop another hint or two, and fhall conclude all I mean at prefent to offer on diforders of the eyes. It may, perhaps, appear to be a bold one, and by many people be condemned, as likely to injure fo delicate an organ ; but it is given from experience, which at firfl; arofe from accident, and in proper hands may be as fafely, as advantageoufly ufed. This refpedts the extradlum faturni, which I have known made ufe of, undiluted, to advantage, I have, indeed, never made trial of it in this flate, but have ufed it in the proportion of one drop to three or four of water, and have never feen it do harm ; or the extract may be mixed up with olive oil into a liniment, which will give Ids pain, and will remain longer on the part. It h as already been faid, that the chronical oph- thalmy often arlfes from atony, and it as frequently depends upon a morbid, or undue adtion of the parts, which in numbcrlcfs inflances is more certainly re- nioved by adtive applications, than by any other means. I have long been fatisfied of the juftnefs of this idea, which I have fo much inculcated in the former parts of this tradt, and am happy to nnd a gentleman of lb much rcafoning and judgment as Mr, Himter, fupporting it by fo many flriking fadts. m37 Of the eye. 5n his late treatife on the venereal dlfeafe. Indeed, we have often nothing elfe to do in various old ulcers, in certain habits of body, than to create a contrary and due ftimulus, in order to remove pain, tumour, or fpurious inflammation, and various other local indifpofitions, to which a morbid adiion of the parts has given rite.* By this means it is, I doubt not, that the remedy laft recommended, as well as the mercurial ones, have been of fo much fervice in the moil obfiinate and long continued ophthalmias, after every ufual remedy had been tried without any lailing good effedl. * It may be obje£Ied, perhaps, that a great deal has been faid in the courfe of this little volume in favour of adlive applications; but the writer hopes, without reafon for the leaf! fufpicion of his fuppofing them capable of doing every thing, or that a trial, at lead, ought to be made of them on almoft every occafion. No^ thing, indeed, is farther from his own ideas, who wiflics only to lead young praflitioners to diflinguilh cafes with judgment; and having done fo, he doubts not they will find, that powerful exter- nal fiimuli will have their place,and perhaps more frequently than may have been fulpedled, and upon the mod rational principles. And as a general apology, he would here obferve, that he fat out with no peculiar theory of his own, but being gradually and na- turally led to the various trials he has maie, repeated fadts have confirained him to purfue a pradlice which has been very fuccefs- ful, in his own hands and others; and he has the happinefs of finding it may be fupported by found reafoning and argument, which it required but llender abilities indeed to difeover, or to arrange into as fpecious a theory as a pradtice founded upon fadU can ever Hand in need of. A very38 disorders A very fmall portion of the former may be applied, by a camel-hair pencil, when the patient is in bed, and after a few times ufing, be repeated in the morn- ing, if the complaint be not greatly abated, nor the means difagree. The vafl; difcharge produced in many chronical cafes by fuch ftimulant applications, and the adion into which they throw the parts, are often the moft likely means of removing many ob- flinate complaints, not here particularly noticed, which have thickened the cornea, and not only great- ly impaired the light, but have obliged the patient to keep the eyes in a flate of reft for many weeks, and even months at a time, and ®ccafionally for feveral years. I fliall Juft obferve what every one knows, that fe- vere ophthalmias induce fmall fpecks, and fometimes very confiderable opacity of the cornea ; it Is, how- ever, perhaps not very generally known, that fo fimple a. remedy as two or three drops of the aq. fapphir. inftilled into the eye for a length of time, infallibly removes all that have not been of very long ftand- ing, without the painful and difagreeable affiftance of cauftics or other remedy. I fliall now clofe the above obfervations with the following extraordinary cafe, which may ferve to lliew what nature is fometimes capable of doing for hcrfelf. Mrs. Hoppey, aged about thirty years, the wife of a grocer formerly of Great Ru[fel-Jireety Bloomfburyr was attacked with the common fymptoms of oph- thalmy, at a time I w'as making occafional vifits to one39 'Of the eye. one of her children, and was therefore defired to look at her eye. The charge of the complaint was not, however, properly committed to me, but from time to time I gave fuch diredtions as appeared to me to be requifite; which were not, indeed, fo per- fedlly complied with, as perhaps, they ought to have been. At one of thefe vifits, thinking it neceffary Mrs. Hoppey fliould be blooded again, on account of the fevere pain flie underwent, it was ftrongly objedfed to, and as I afterwards underftood, on account of fome fcruples her apothecary entertained, who had formerly pradlifed as a furgeon in the country. On this account, the late Sir C*^sar Hawkins was confulted, who approving of the plan that had been purfued, and intimating the importance of great at- tention in order to her fafety, I afterwards vifited Mrs. Hoppey daily, and Sir C^sar Hawkins was occafonally confulted. Soon after this time, and on the abatement of the Inflammation, flie loft the fight of the eye, which likewife began to be enlarged, and puflied forwards, the veflels of the lids, fides of the nofe, and forehead W'ere fwelled, and were attended with confiderable pulfation. Thefe fymptoms increafing for feveral months, notwithftanding different means made ufe of, till the eye became greatly enlarged, and feemed nearly forced out of the orbit; it was therefore judged proper to extirpate it, in the apprehenfion of an aneurifm within the orbit, which it was expedled might fuddenly give way. About this time, Mr. IVatfon was likewife confulted; the operation was deter-4® D I. BORDERS determined upon, and the day for It was to be fixed as I llioiild fettle with SirC^sar Hawkins. In this interval, I met with an accident by a fall, which confined me for three or four weeks to the houfe, and I requefted Sir C.’esar Hawkins to per- form the operation for me, if itfhouldbe thought that waiting for my getting abroad might be hazardous to the patient. After making Mrs. Hoppey a vifit with a view to fettling this matter. Sir Caesar Hawkins cal- led upon me, and propofed deferring the operation a few days; adding, that he conceived the eye had rather a better appearance, and though he, perhaps, rather hopedy than was Jlitisfird of this particular, he thought it might be trufied for a few days, with the cautions and diredlions he had given the patient. In about a week after this he acquainted me, that he wilhed the operation might be poftponed a while longer, as the tumour was certainly not increafed. If it were not diminiftied, and of which I fiiould be a better judge, as I had not feen it for fome time. As foon as I could get abroad I w'aited upon Mrs. Hoppeyy and was fatisfied the eye w'as not more en- larged, nor projedlcd, than it had been, and I thought the pulfation w'as diminlfhed; the pain like- wife being lefs, and time having encouraged our pa- tient as well as ourfelves, to hope there might be Jefs danger of a fudden rupture than we had once apprehended, all thought of extirpation was loon afterwards laid afide, unlefs fome new fymptoru Ibould indicate Its necellity. Diiring this fufpence Uie pain became very Incon«». fiderable.41 Of the E y e. ^lderable, and I faw my patient only once a week, and a while afterwards the pain leaving her intiiclj, I vifitcd her only once in a month, for above a }ear. At one of thefe vlfits I was informed fire was well, and thoucrh fhe knew not for certain when the change had firft taken place, fire had a few mornings before cbferved, whild ftanding at her glafs, that the af- fedfed eye looked nearly as well as the other; and that upon clofing the latter, fhe found her fight alfo was perfedlly reftored. Upon this agreeable news I took a formal leave of her, only when I had occafion to vifit any of the family, or was at leifure when I palled near her door, 1 inquired after her, and examined the eye; which for feveral years continued very well, having only a certain awkward look, -and a kind of fquinting that iievertotally left her. Eleven years after her recovery flie w'ent to refide at Manchejler, and continued there in very good health ; the eye formerly affedted becoming, as fhe thought, flrono-er than the other, but was fometimes a little painful in frody weather. Nine years afteV retiring into the country the fquinting was obferved to increafe, till the eye w'as turned quite to one fide; it was likewife puflied a little forward again, though the fight remained unimpaired. But fome weeks after this, die was fuddenly attacked with excruciating pain, which obliged her'to go to bed in the middle of the day, and fend to her apothecary ; who applied a blider to the nape of the neck. In a few hours after this attack, N fhe42 D I S O R D E R S, &C. llie loft the fight of the eye, which inftead of con- tinuing to pufii forwards, was- rather withdrawn within the orbit, and the upper eye-lid dropped; which fhe never afterwards raifed. This violent pain continued for three days, which fhe compared to that (he had fuffered in London, about the commencement of the complaint, and which Iheob- ferved, continued very fevere the fame length of time. At the decline of the pain, file became at times co- matofe, and after lying in that ftate for five days, flic expired at the time, as I am informed, fhe was thought to be recovering. I am forry to add, that, though fhe had very confidcrately given her confent to the head being opened after death, her hint was negledted ; which had flie died in London I fhould have been happy to have embraced, and thereby have afeertained exadlly the nature of the complaint. TREAT-TREATMENT OF THE MAMMARY-ABSCESS AND SORE-NIPPLES LYING-IN WOMEN.V i ■> ' , _ V-1^ ■ ■ ■ . f i '■ ’^;1. -: f: < % s «. t; ■ ' ^ ^ -t. • . , .,' r'V^.v; ;- 1 v^~r. i A£ • -■ 5 . "7' «.A- ^ •• *. - - ; ..1 >>■ -K-' 4- J ' , , « ' . j . ^ ^ '-• * V'.'. •.'"I- ' . >: .4.'- - I » >r-. : •> il; : 0. A ./ , ,<• ' *'4 / ' • - • ( - ' * t - » ,'•» ». » '.\ r .. ; .if . kv J ' ^ . \ V . ji. 4 K' C* f>4 rf»TREATMENT N 3 out. ■f OF THE MAMMARY-ABSCESS, &c. Before I fpeak of the milk-abfcefs, I fhall ^ in this place obferve, what perhaps fome gen- tlemen may thank me for, that I can venture to fay, the aftringent folution I have fo frequently recom- mended, is the bell application hitherto known for that obftinate and painful fore on the nipples of fuck- ling women, for which almofl every thing has been tried—and almofl: in vain. The nipples need only to be touched with it feveral times in the day, either by the point of the finger, or a camel-hair pencil; the part being afterwards covered with the patient’s hand, or other contrivance, to prevent the folution being wiped off; the flrength of which rnuit be de- termined by the degree of tendernefs and extent of the fore. I think I have found fome advantage in thefe cafes, and certainly, in drawing out a bad nipple, by covering it with a large nutmeg, hollowed46 TREATMENT OF th£ out, and the edges left flat. But whether the warm aromatic quality of the nut has contributed to this, or it has arifen merely from defending the tender nipple both from the linen, which becomes rough by the milk drying upon it, and from the common air, I am not at all anxious to determine. Such a contrivance is always at hand, and attended with no trouble though worn pretty conftantly, and I there- fore often advife the ufe of it as foon as the nipples begin to get fore. This is like wife, doubtlefs, the belt time to have recourfe to the folution, which has hitherto anfwered exceedingly well, ever fince I have been acquainted with it. In feme very bad cafes, where the chaps are fo deep that the folution cannot be retained on the part, and are exquifitely tender, efpecially if of long ftanding, it will be ufe- ful to cover the part with an ointment that is not relaxing, but moderately warm and drying, as the common w'hite cerate may be rendered, by fimmer- ing a little brandy in it. A cafe fometimes occurs, in which the nipple is not fo much chapped, as it is enlarged and inflamed, and attended with an oozing of lliarp ferum. Here, after walking the part with the folution made very weak, fprinkling it with a little finely powdered gum tragacanth is of very An- gular fervice. But in other inftances, my chief de- pendence is upon the folution, which if properly at- tended to, will remove the complaint. It has alfo flood the tell of the BritiJJj Lying-in Hojpital, where it has been for a long time made ufe of at my defire, and with the cxpedled fuccefs; though there are always in47 MAMMARY-ABSCESS. in the hofpital many women thus affecfted, and oyt of fuch numbers, it is probable, all the various kinds of fore nipples muft have taken place. It may reafonably be expcdted, that fomething fhould be faid of the fuccefs of this remedy fines thefe obfervations firll appeared ; and the writer can with truth alTure the public, that his own experience has not ferved to lefiTen the good opinion he enter- tained of it, though fome other pradtitioners feem to have made ufe of it with lefs fuccefs. It is to be lamented, that if men are generally found partial to their own difeoveries, others are oftentimes propor- donably prejudiced againft them ; fo that, if the fuc- cefs of any means Ihould depend on a more than or- dinary attention to its ftrength and mode of appli- cation, its credit is not likely to be increafed in their hands. All that the waiter need to fay of this re- medy is, that his own patients have been greatly benefited by it, and have been glad to recommend it to others; and that if applied with care and due at- tention to its ftrength and effedls, it will be found, at leaft, much oftner fuccefsful than any means hi- therto in general ufe.—The tongue will be the bell ordinary tefi; of its due ftrength, which muft always be varied according to the degree of pain and other efTedls; always beginning with it fufficiently weak* On thefe accounts, it can be no wonder, if it Ihould do lefs good when left in the hands of nurfes, or ufed merely at the diferetion of patients, fome of whom do not make ufe of it frequently enough^ N 4 whilftOF THE 48 TREATMENT whilll others arc inclined, as improperly, to keep It conftantly on the part. But in the hands of phy- ficians or furgeons, who know what effedts it is de- hgned to produce, and will regulate it accordingly, it cannot lail to gain them credit, and give fatis- fadtion, provided they w'ill for a few days attend to it thenilelves, with a little of that pains men ufually bellow on inventions of their own. One great advantage of the folution is, that it is perfedtly harmlefs, and docs not therefore require the caution of being wiped off from the part, when the child is laid to the breaft. Being alfo lightly aflringent and deterfive, without creating the pain, or that unpleafant and harfh drynefs, w'hich other aftringents produce, renders it as promifing, as ex- perience hath proved it to be fuccefsful in this ob- ilinate complaint; w'hich befides the great pain that attends it, has frequently fruflrated a moil laudable and pleafing impulfe of nature, by preventing the fond mother from fuppiying the firfl wants of the tender infant, to which fhe has given birth. But the evil does not frequently flop here; the pain and inflammation of the nipples often extend to the breaft itfelf, and fuppuration takes place.—I proceed therefore to make fome obfervations on this fubjedl, which though important, has not, that I know of, been yet publicly treated of. It would be needlefs, in this place, to take up the reader’s time, by adverting to the various other oc- caflons which threaten fuch a complaint, fince, per- haps, the only one in the patient’s power to pre- vent,49 MAMMARY-ABSCESS. •v*ent, is that of taking cold ; as frequent an occahon, indeed, as any, and againfl: which every precaution ought to be taken. With a view to this, it may be obferved, that the cuftom of bathing the breafts of women, who do not fuckle, frequently proves very injurious, though it has not, perhaps, been generally fufpedfed. The rubbing in a little oil and fpirit, as foon as the patient is delivered, may be harmlefs enough ; though if fomething mull: be done, in com- pliance with cuilom, the application of a diachylon plaifter will anfwer every ordinary intention, without any of the difadvantages which attend the frequent repetition of ufelefs embrocations, which expofe the part to taking cold. And as the above, and any other fuch lotions as nurfes ufually recommend, and place great confidence in, have no fuch power as is generally attributed to them, they are certainly much better let alone. And if it fhould be thought proper to have recourfe to fuch as adtually poffefs any con- fiderably repelling property, they will, of courfe, be direded by the praditioner himfelf, who will give every neceffary caution ; as the confequences of cold taken in the application, are generally much more likely to give rife to fuppuration, than leaving the bu- finefs to nature. THE * It is perhaps worthy of remark on this occafion, that the mammary-abfcefs was for a number of years a very common com- plaint in the Britijh Lying-in Hofpital; and has always been attri- buted to cold, as the moft general caufe. The jultnefs of this fufpicion50 TREATMENT of THE THE firfl f)^mptoms of fuch an unfavourable turn, are ufualiy a deep lancinating pain, hardnefs and tumor in fome part of the breaft, and a confiderable diminution of the cuftomary difcharge of milk by the nipple. This is the moment to prevent the appre- hended mifehief, as a very Ihort delay renders the means ineffeftual; the Ikin foon becomins difeo- loured, and the breaft greatly enlarged. To remedy this, immediate recourfe ftiould be had to bleeding, and to laxative and anodyne medicines; but above all tofedative applications, which are ufualiy found to be the moft powerful difeutients. Sometimes, however, folutions of crude fal ammoniac, with the addition of a good quantity of fpirit, and if the inflammation be very recent, fome vinegar, will be more advife- able than fltturnine remedies. CompreflTes of coarfe linen-cloth, wetted In fuch a liquor made moderately warm, and renewed as often as they become dry, are abundantly preferable to heating and relaxing fo- mentations or poultices, to which furgeons have ufualiy had recourfe. When the above means are made ufe of in proper fufpicion has been confirmed fince water-clofets have been con- firudted on every floor. Previous to this, feveral women, from motives of delicacy, were inclined to go, too early, acrofs a paved yard, though continually cautioned againft it : But for full twq years, fince that contrivance has been made, there have been only two inflances of the mammary abfeefs.—Though this circumfiance may, perhaps, be thought to prove too much, it iieverthelcfs being a fadf, ought to have Its proper weight, time.51 MAMMARY-ABSCESS. time, the inflammatory fymptoms will foon difappear, the pain be entirely removed, and if the milk runs freely again from the nipple, there will be no farther danger of fuppuration. On the other hand, if there be not a very early and confiderable abatement of the firft fymptoms, however flowly the^procefs may go on, the breaft will feldom fail to fuppurate. In this ftate, therefore, the plan ought very foon to be chaneed, in order to forward the work of maturation. And this, wherever the pulle will allow of bleeding, will often be haftened by taking away a fmall quan- tity of blood, once or twice, from the arm; though the patient fliould already have been let blood with a very different view. This will likewife be always a fafe pradfice in plethoric habits, or where the in- flammation is attended with fever, and the event yet doubtful; Ihould fuppuration finally take place, the bleeding will likewife tend to leflen the fize of the abfcefs. The whole bread fliould now be covered with a mild fuppurative poultice,* which muft be continued till * A very good poultice of this kind, is that formerly made ufe of by Plunket, and is preferable to the linfeed-cake. To half a pint of milk Ihould be put about three table fpoonsful of finely powdered linfeed : after boiling a few minutes, add a fmall quan- tity of crumbs of bread, fufiicient to bring it to the confiftence of a poultice, to which is to be added, on taking it off the fire, the yolk of one egg. This will make a very fmooth poultice, and much lighter than mere bread and milk ; an advantage, in the cafe of much inflammation, cfpecially in glandular parts, too obvious to be particularly inlifted upon. the52r TREATMENT of the the matter can be felt, and may then be changed for one of mere bread and milk ; the part fliould alfo be fomented twice a day^ if the abfcefs threatens to be large, and docs not incline to ripen fall:, after there are evident tokens of fuppuration. The circumHance of early maturation is of the greateft importance, for in proportion to the length of time taken up in that j:)rocers, will be the fize of the abfcefs, and the time afterwards necelfary for its cure ; at leaft, this is pretty uniformly the cafe. Of no lefs importance is the manner of treating abfeeffes after the matter is well formed. And here I am conftrained to oppofe the antient and common method of furgeons, that of making a large opening with the knife; which can feldom, or never be necef- fary. This happy idea originated from the late in- genious Dr. Hunter, (to whofe unremitted labors in the improvement of his profeffion, as well as in many other inftanccs, the public is lb eminently indebted ;) and I believe, that gentlemen in the department of tsi' midwifery, at lead in London, are well acquainted with the many advantages of fparing women this painful operation : but as it has not been noticed by furgical writers, nor, I think, fufficiently approved of by the generality of the profeffion, there are pro- bably many pradtitioners who are not duly acquainted' with it. The impropriety of making large openings in the bread, arifes, I apprehend, from its glandular llruc- ture, and peculiar ufe, together w'ith the harmlcfs nature of the coaqdaint. But I ffiall not enlarge here.MAMMARY-ABSCESS. 53 here, on the many unfavorable circumftances at- tending fuch a pradtice, and the tedioufnefs of the cure as the inevitable confequence. I mean only to hint at a method every way preferable to fo painful a procefs. But not only are the larger in- cilions highly improper, which are made with the knife, but fmaller openings with a lancet arc gene- rally better let alone ; not only becaufe commonly needlefs, and very diftreffing to the patient, but the bread: will heal fooner when the abfcefs is left to burft of itfelf. Hereby, we are fure the fuppuration will become as compleat as the cafe will admit of, and the little jagged round aperture nature makes for herfelf, will keep open much better than the fmooth pundture from a lancet. All that is com- monly neceflary, is to cover the part with a foft bread and milk poultice; to keep it well fupported by an eafy bandage ; and carefully to prefs out the matter, and renew the poultice twice or three times a day. I cannot avoid taking notice in this place, that whilft in one Review this pradfice is faid to have been long underftood, and even publilhed to the world, (thougli I muft dill _confefs, that I never happened to meet with it,) a critique appeared in the Englijh Review of a very different caft. To the Editor of this (as well as thofe of the Monthly and Critical Reviews) I, indeed, feel myfelf much indebted for a very refpcdtful and candid account of the former edition of this work. Objedtions, however, arc made to leaving milky abfceffes to burd of them- felves.THE 54 TREATMENT of felves, and perhaps fome of the firft furgeons may be of the fame opinion ; which renders this point very worthy of farther difcuflion. It fcarce need be ob- fcrved, that ! had myfclf in the very next paragraph offered certain exceptions to this rule, which, how- ever, as a general one, I am, from the bell: motives, inclined to defend. ' I I am aware, that the patient may fometimes un- dergo fome very confiderable pain for tw^elve or four and twenty hours, by the matter being left to make its own way through the fkin, and I have myfelf formeilv made this circumftance an arg-nment for O opening fome fmall abfeeffes; but, from a fair com- parifon of all the effedfs of each mode, am fatisfied to which the preference ought to be given. For, be- fides that the pain which leaving an abfeefs to burfl of itfelf, may without any difadvantage be much abated, or intirely removed by a dofe or two of laudanum, I have on the other hand, after having opened rhefe abfeefTes in order to obviate that pain, received no thanks from my patients; w'ho partly from the dread fome people have of any cutting in- llrument, and partly from the adtual pain of the little operation, and its confequences for fome hours afterwards, have on a fubfequent occafion determined to leave the bufinefs to nature, and to endure with patience the effedts of her operations, or at moft, to llun the pain by an opiate taken at bed-time. But it has been fuggeded, that there are other, and more material advantages refulting from a well-timed opening made by the lancet, and that for the want55 MAM MARY- ABSCESS. of it, the little orifice will often be clofed up, and a frefh abfcefs be. formed. In anfwer to this, I miift fay, that I am conflrained to doubt the juftnefs of this obfervation. I vvas myfelf bred up to be of this opinion, and was with difficulty led to change It; but a long and pretty extenfive practice, and much obfervation have, as I think, led me to fornv a more juft opinion of the matter. The fadt, in- deed, is, that the little apertures may be very eafily and certainly kept open, as long as there remains any thing to be difcharged from parts with which they communicate, and that frelh impofthumations will not be formed, but in cafes where other parts of the breaft are in an obftrudted and diftempered ftate, and not yet inclined to fuppuration ; in which cafe, letthefirft abfcefs be opened, and treated in what- ever manner it may, new impofthumations will be formed, and, indeed, in this cafe, are to be defired. Whereas, when other difeafed parts have commu- nicated with the firft abfcefs, I have without difficulty kept an orifice (not larger than a pin’s head) for many weeks open, till the various indurated parts having fuppurated, the matter has found its way to the firft and only orifice, w'hich has difcharged very confidcrably, and for a long time together, without any interruption ; and when the breaft has got well, only the fmalleft fear imaginable has remained. And it might be here noticed again, that the little jagged aperture which nature has made for herfelf, keeps open much better than one from the lancer, though made four or five times as large : every furgeon ^ knowing56 T R E A T M E N T o F T H E knowing how foon incifed wounds aredlfpofed to heal lip at the angles, efpecially if extended into the found Hiin, leaving only a kind of fiftulous orifice in the centre. So that upon the whole, after having be- llowed much attention on this fubjedl, it is ftill my unprejudiced opinion, that it is in general bell to leave the bufinefs to nature; and that if there may be any merit in being the firll publilher of fuch an opinion, it properly belongs to this little work. The above method of difeharging the matter, it was faid, is ufually the bed ; there are however in- flances, where I have thought fmall pundlures made with the point of a lancet have their ufe. Such are cafes, wherein the whole bread is very hard, and the habit not difpofed to form matter fo plentifully, as the indurated date of the part feenis to require. Here a great number of very fmall impodhtimations are formed, come very dowly to a head, often thicken and harden the Ikin, are but little difpofed to break, and ceafe to difeharge as foon as they have vent. The little tumors will even fometimes fubfide, if an opening is not made foon after the matter can be felt; and the induration remains a long time nearly the fame. Poultices of more potential heat than thofe of mere bread and milk, are here particularly fervice- able, as well as light friclions with a weak volatile liniment, and fometiiues a cautious ufe of the un- guent. cteruleum ; which fhould not be forcibly rubbed in, but fpread lightly over the bread. At this period, the exhibition of the bark is found ufeful in fome conditutions; in others, fmall dofes of co.c- rofive■ MAMMARY ABSCESS. ' 57 rofive fublimate; and I have fometimes foiind the deco6tion of farfaparilla, and powder of midipedeS, or fweating with pulv. Doveri of very confiderable fervice ; as well as purging now and then with rhubarb and calomel. The worft cafes I have met with, have arifen from, cold taken after the end of the month, and are, per- haps, more common in women who have not fuckled their children, nor been properly attentive to the turn of the milk. Here, one or more very large lumps are often pretty fuddenly formed, or fometimes fmaller ones almoft infenfibly run together, and occu- py a great part of the breaft ; are alwayse-xceedingly hard, but are not ufually painful at firft. The ap- pearance, in fofhe inftances, is very alarminp'^ hut they all neverthelefs end perfedfly well if prudently managed. I have been called to cafes of feveral months landing, where the bread: had entirely loft its natural appearance, had become hard in every part, flattened, and the nipple been almoft obli- terated. When the difeafe extends to fuch a degree, fuppuration muft take place, and, indeed, is a de- flrable event, as otherwife mifehief would enfue ; for I believe, an entire refolution of the tumor is not to be effeded. Hence, faturnine applications, which have been much too indiferiminately made ufe of, are here highly improper. I have feen no- thing fo ufeful as mild poultices, and a caudous ufe of the unguent. Cccrul. fortius, from half a Icruple to half a drachm,, repeated pv rafione effeBils, and now and then taking, away a , fmall quantity of blood ; ^ while58 TREATMENT of the while the body has been kept open by the fal ru- pellens. polychrefl. or other cooling laxative. By thefe means, I have fucceeded in cafes to ap- pearance exceedingly unfavorable, and not at firfl to be diftinguifhed from incurable fehirrhi; which have neverthelefs got well in a very reafonable time, and the patients have afterwards fuckled children without the leaft inconvenience. In fuch cafes, more efpecially, the abfeefs when formed fhould always be lelt to burfl; of itfelf, the ufe of the knife having a diredt tendency to increafe the induration of the parts, as well as to injure the ilrudture of the breaft ; and at the beft, it has been faid, is perfectly unne- ceffary. Sometimes, where the fuppuratlon has gone on very llowly, an oozing of ichor or fanies will remain, and often a difeharge of milk from the fore, long after the tumor and hardnefs are removed. And I have been applied to, where a fmall fiftulous fore has remained for fome months, which I have fafely dried up in as few days, by drefling it with aq. vegitab. .mineral, made very ftrong: but if the finus runs .deep, the aflringent folution before-mentioned, ufed I by way.of an injedtion, may be preferable. The above hints are thrown together, as the refult of long experience both in the Entijh Lying’in Hofpital, and in private pradtice; not, indeed, as a treatife upon abfeefles of the breaft, but as the out-lines of a pleafant and fafe pradtice, which every man of ex- perience will know how to apply, and the young pradtitioner may ipoflibly profit from. But59 MAMMARY ABSCESS. But in whatever way any fuch abfcefres may hd' treated, and however preferable this lenient method moft certainly is to the ufe of the knife, and to the large incifions formerly made, the milk-abfccfs will very often prove exceedingly painful, while the neceflary long ufe of poultices mud render this com- plaint very difagreeable to the patient. If the num- ber therefore may be in the lead diminiflied, by the fpeedy cure of fore nipples, fuch a remedy muft be acceptable, in a double refped:, to gentlemen en- gaged in the department of midzvifery.-—Perhaps, furgeons in general may be glad to hear, that the aftringent folution is very ufeful in other fiftulous fores than thofejuft mentioned, and is alfo an ex- cellent application to expedite the healing of large burns, as well as fome troublefome venereal ulcers. And I am yet in hopes, when it fliall come into hofpital ufe, (which I do not know it ever has,) it may be found very ferviceable from its friendly af- tringency, in many cafes which I fhall not yet take upon me to fpeak of. The vitr. cierul. calcined to rednefs is a very different preparation, as well as a folution of it in its natural date. The latter has been long in hofpital ufe, and particularly St. Thomai's, but this is not only a very drying, but a cauftic ap- plication, and frequently offends irritable fores, un- lefs it be made extremely weak; by which it will be rendered greatlj^ inferior to the folution I have recommended. O 3'r ■ y- r,-f ;V. I■ . *f • ' *A . ■ # ^ >STRICTURES UPON- GANGRENE.^ — 4 V-.sktm- «3a f t.fA "°t a m:. ii.: ^ fv vrimi U.t: ‘ • ■'V ' ^ - , - . .. . . ■' ^Iv •,<•***-' •• f. \s'4 *STRICTURES UPON GANGRENE. HOUGH various are the fources of know- ledge in this country, they muft ftill be con- lidered as imperfeft; and, perhaps, nqthing is fo much wanted for the improvement of the healing art, as a public inftitution fimilar to the Academie Royal ' de Chirurgie, as eftablilhed in Paris, In London there have been of late years, indeed, fome private So- cieties fomewhat of that kind ; but the number of their refpedlive members Is too limited, and familiar admiffion, as a vifitor, is permitted only to a few. Befides, the members of thefe fbcietles confid chiefly of ftudents, who attend rather to learn than to in- ftrudt; whence fuch eftablifliments are rather cal- culated to communicate a little fuperficial kbow- ledge, in a Ihort time, than to perfedt any of the members64 STRICTURES members; many of whom continue only a year or two in London. The Inftitution, in fome refpedts, more rciembling that of Paris, is with the College of Phyfidans, whole Fellozus, at dated times, read papers, dra|j;n v\p byjhemfelves and others, on medical fub- jedls. But though their judgment and impartiality will not be fufpedfed, and their feledtion of papers may give more fatisfadtion, than any private editors; yet this inftitution likewife falls Ihort of the prefent in- tention : for befides that their plan is too limited, their readings and obfervations are-not open to the- p1-ofeffio.n‘ in general, and efpedally to the younger part of it, who have every thing to learn. For the w'ant of fuch an Inftitution, young men, efpedally fuch as are to pradife in the metropolis, are conftrained to read a great deal, and often at a ven- ture or if they do not, they will lofe many a ufeful hint that is to be picked up in various works where but little might be expeded. On the other hand, many a point of ufeful knowledge is loft, or confined to a very fmall circle, not fo much for its want of importance, as from its being oftentimes a fingle ob- fdvation, which for want of an cafy mode of com- rhunication, can circulate only in a way of conver- fation; whereby the young artift, conceiving him- lelf unlikely to receive the credit of the obfervation, very frequently confines it to himlelf. But Societies with the firft Phyficians and Surgeons at their head, and open, under proper regulations, to all the ftu- dents in medicine, where public fpeaking, and read- ing of Ihort papers were encouraged, the lubjedts properly.Upon GANGRENE. 6^ pro|>crly difcuffed, and the refult of experience and inquiry duly publiflied, would quickly fpread ufe- ful knowledge through the kingdom, refcue many a good practical hint from oblivion, and prevent a great number of larger works on the fame fubjed:, (each of which inquifitive men are obliged to wade through ;) and would nearly, if not entirely fupprefs many trifling publications. I have been led into thefe refledions from confider- ing different parts of the prefent little work, and efpecially the fubject immediately in hand ; on which I defign to fay fo very little, that it might well have been fupprefl'ed, but from the perfuaflon it will contain fome hints not fufflciently known, efpecially by fludents, and for which the young reader of the former parts of the work may poflibJy find occa- iion, before the hints might otherwife fall in his vyay. It was on this account, that the former editiqn of my Treatife upon Ulcers of the Legs was not pub- liftied by itfelf; to which alone, however, I had firft turned my thoughts. Perfuaded, neverthelefs, as I was, that the treatment of fome fcrophulous tumors might be improved upon, and that the moft eafy and fafe method of managing the milky abfeefs, as well as other matters there treated, were, by no means, generally known ; the work was fuftered to put on that mifcellaneous appearance, and for the like rea- fons has received the additions now fubraitted to the Public; aware of the cenfures to which it may be on this, as well as other accounts, expoled, I am, ne- vcrthelefs66 STRICTURES verthelefs, ambitious to add my fmall mite to a' treafury of knowledge fo ufeful to the world as the Healing-arty however the execution may be criticized, or the author misjudged. With the candid, how- ever, it is hoped, the apology may be accepted, (though immethodically introduced in this place) as well for the work at large, as for the prefent digref- lion, by way of introduction to the very few hints to be offered on the fubjedt of Gangrene. Gangrenes may be diftlngulfned into four kinds ; fuch as arlfe from irritation, attended with more or lefs of local inflammation ; from an inflammatory diathefis of the fyflem i from general debility; and from dyfcracy. To each of thefe fpecies, exter- nal Injuries may give rife, or become the remote caufe. From this variety, though not always clearly un- derftood, have arifen the different means of cure ex- tolled in different ages and countries, and by different practitioners in the fame age and fituation. The moft dangerous and frequently fatal gangrene, is that which attends, and is fupported by a bad ha- bit of body ; In which opiates, cordials, tonics ex- ternal and internal, have been found equally inef- ficacious ; a permanent caufe of morbid irritation or atony prevailing, which is fometimes out of the reach of art, efpeclally in aged fubjcCts, and in infants. More however may be effected even here, or at leaft, in fpreading fphaceli fufpeCted to depend upon a cer- tain habit, as well as in gangrenes from other caufes, byUpon GANGREN E* §7 by mere external applications, than may have ufually been imagined, and has been one inducement to riie to intrude thefe hints on the Public. It is not my intention to enlarge on this diforder in general, or to review all that has at different times been advanced ; this diieafe having been largely dif- cufled, and various fuccefsful modes of treatment been recommended. It is certain, however, that neither cordials, volatile falts, opiates, nor even the bark, are efficacious alike, or by any means proper, in every fpecies of gangrene; though the latter, fince the time of Douglas, has been fo much depended upon, that even Mr, Pott, when he firll recommended the ufe of opium in gangrenes of the toes, for which the public is fo much indebted to him, feems cau- tious of being fupe(fted of fpeaking dirrefpeftfully of a medicine, which in every other fpecies of gan- grene, he himfelf appears to efleem almoft a fpecific. Every art is confeffedly imperfect, but there would certainly be lefs of Imperfediion in the prac-. tlce of phyfic, were ftudents better diredted in their firfl; refearches; W'hich muft, however, greatly de- pend upon their teachers, who ought to lead them between the extremes of implicit confidence, and what may be called fciemific fcepticlfm. There is a degree of empj'ricifm pervading every branch of me- aicine, and too many aware of this, are found run- ning into the maze of theory, and therefore give cre- dit to nothing that they cannot explain, though their arguments are frequently convincing to none but themfclves. EverySTRICTURES 6$ Every pradlitioner, however, Ihould have fome direct view in every thing he prefcribes, and ought to know what he is to expert from every medicine or topical application, however at a lofs about its pre* cife mode of operation. For the want of this, means of cure for various difeafes have been handed down to us, which numbers implicitly adopt without any difcrimination of caufes; and therefore fail of effedting a cure, whilft they are employing excellent remedies for'one fpecies of a difeafe that has various modifi- cations. Hence it is, that the bark and cordials have been fo univerfally extolled for their wonderful fuc- cefs in gangrenes, for different fpecies of which they a're almofi fpecifics, whilft they as conftantly fail in others, to the furprize only of thofe, who are pre- feribing to the name of a difeafe, without attending to concomitant fymptoms, and different conftitutions. The bark failing in fo many inftances, opium, it has been faid, has of late years become a fafhionable medicine in gangrenes, efpecially of the extremities; and though it has been ferviceable in other cafes than thofe for which it was fo happily advifed by Mr. Pott, has alfo been produdtive of mifehief when pre- feribed without that due difcrimination, (more at- tended to, perhaps, by Mr. Hunter, than any other writer on this fubject, that I know of,) which I fiiall now in a few inftances endeavour to point out to younger pradtitioners.* Gangrenes * As it is a long time fince thefe obfervations were drawn up, (which have been delayed for want of lime to review the trad upon6^ Upon GA^NGRENE. Gangrenes are frequently attended with much true inflammation, and fometimes are preceded and caufed by it; and in this cafe, however rapid the progrefs of the gangrene may be, both the bark and other tonics, with every kind of cordial, ought entirely to be refrained from; and bleeding, laxatives, and cool- ing medicines be exhibited in their ftead, with emol- lient fomentations and cataplafms, (not applied too hot) to abate the fenfibility of the part, and promote fnppuration* After thefe evacuations, an opiate fliould generally be adminiftered at night, (and is proper in every gangrene where the pain is confider- able) ; and thefe means fliould be continued as long (though rarely many days) as the inflammatory dia* thefis fliall evidently prevail. For fo long as this lhall continue, the blood remain fizy, and perhaps the bowels coftive, loading them with bark, w^hich the ftomach cannot digeft, is only adding fuel to fire, by augmenting the load, or increafing the action of the fyftem, and rendering the partially obflrudted veflels totally impervious. But there is often local inflammation and great upon ulcers) I had not then feen the lad edition of Mr. Bell’s Sur- gery, in which are many valuable praftical obfervations, and ex- cellent diftindtions of gangrenes. Had he more completely accom- plifhed this defign, and he himfelf had experience of the great ad-* vantagesarifing from a due recourfe toopium, in very many cafes, 1 had thought the expediency of thefe hints entirely fuperfeded. But Mr. Bell does n® more than barely mention that remedy, in a note, as having been recommended upon the authority of Mr* Pott. pain.STRICTURES pain, attended with a quick and even tenfe pulfe, that depends more upon fpafm, than a true inflam- matory caule, efpecially in old people. Here, much caution and general knowledge is required ; but ufu- ally opium is the befl remedy, and may be fafely ad- miniftcred every four or fix hours, as the pain may require, after two or three ftools have been procured by a gentle laxative or a glyfler. Should opium be the proper remedy, it will almoft immediately prove ufeful; after which, the bark and wine, or other cordial fhould be directed; but more efpecially the bark, as in old people the fyftem is debilitated. For bark is evidently a tonic, and as fuch has a tendency to flrengthen the general fyftem ; whereas cordials are only temporary ftimuli, and w'here the habit continues debilitated, only adf as an increafe of power in mechanics, and ferve to haften thedeftruc- tion of the machine. But fhould this, or any other plan fail of pro- ducing fome amendment, it ought not to be long perfevered in, as it is poffible we may have miftaken both the caufe of the difeafe and the conftitution of the patient; for if our remedies be properly adapted, however rapid the progrefs of the gangrene may have been, it will ufiially be very foon checked. Whereas, when a gangrene has continued to fpread for days, and even weeks, under the fame treatment, (as I have feen under eminent pradlitioners in regard to the bark;) if it has at length flopped, and the patient recovered, the recovery may fafely be attributed to the ftrength of the conftitution, of which the inflam* matoryUpon GANGRENE. matory difpofition has been brought down by the length of the difeafe, rather than to the propriety of the means that have been made ufe of. On the other hand, I have feen a rapidly fpread- ing gangrene, even in advanced years, where bark has been adminiftered freely without any good ef- fect, immediately checked, upon taking away twelve or fourteen ounces of highly inflamed and lizy blood, unloading the bowels, and inflead of cordials and wine, refrefliing the heated patient with faline draughts, and afterwards quieting with opium. So alfo in the fpurious inflammation dependent on ir- ritation, I have known opium keep off a difpofition to gangrene in the toes, even for years, where the difcolouration and pain have conftantly returned foon after the opium has been laid afide; although the patient has died at lafl: of a gangrene of the extre- mities, at an advanced age of life. By whatever means, however, the gangrene may be flopped, there are but few cafes, I believe, where the bark, cordial medicines and wine, will not be found proper at fome period of the difeafe. Should the gangrene take place from atony, general or local, the one or all of thefe will be proper from the begin- ning, and the patient mufl; be fupported by a generous diet throughout the cure. Should they fail in cafes evidently of this clafs, the vitriol, cterul. Ihould be given inflead of the bark, beginning with very fmall dofes, fuch as an eighth of a grain, or lefs, four or fix times a day, diffolved in a fpoonful of fpirituous cinnamon water: a medicine excellently adapted to gangrenesSTRICTURES 7^ gangrenes attending that atony of habit induced by an impaired digellion from hard drinking; and as far as my experience has gone, is more efficacious than the bark, whenever the ftomach will bear it. I once faw a remarkable inftance of this in a large fpreading fphacelus, which w'as immediately checked by it, after the largeft dofes of the bark had failed ; and repeated re-appearances of the gangrene upon returning to the bark, as often flopped by returning to the vitriol. To conclude this head, let the general habit of the patient, and the flate of the part difeafed be pro- perly afeertained ; let us ceafe preferibing to the Name of a difeafe, and cafl off the fliackles of preju- dice ; let us only make ufe of our underftanding, 'and give attention to the fymptoms peculiar to the ■feveral cafes we are treating ; and we fhall find many gangrenes of the moflhanpromifing appearances, and in a very fpreading and fphacelated flate, frequently checked by very fimple and obvious means, and foon converted into well-conditioned ulcers, difpofed to heal up in a reafonable time. The habit is either in a flate of inflammation, and the patient more or lefs athletic, and then there will always be much true local inflammation ; or the habit is atonic, with more or lefs of fpurious in- flammation of the parts, the conflant concomitant of a debilitated fyflem. To check the inflammation in the one cafe, and to fupport the vis vita; and allay the local morbid adlion in the other, as well by external as internal means, is equally agreeable to.Upt)N GANGRENE. 73 to found tlieorj', as it is fnpported fnccefs and experience. Before I quit the fubjedt of interna! remedies, I cannot avoid taking notice of an inflammation too frequently terminating in ‘dangerous fuppuration, or o-ano-rene, that has not, I believe, had that attention paid to it which it deferves; I mean, the cafe of punc^ ture by an invenomed inftrument. This misfortune ufually tails to the lot of medical people, when eni- ' ployed in opening dead bodies, and on other occa- fions fomewhat fimilar; and has too often proved fatal. Such accidents appear to me to be frequently very ill treated from the beginning, by purging, bleeding, and other antiphlogiftic remedies, to the exclufion of the only proper, and very oppofite means, that of Invigorating the fyflern. I have known feveral fucli cafes treated in the firft-mentioned way, and all of them follovved by great local mifchiefs, and fome have even ended fatally. Whereas, in others, where there have been evident marks of infection, and ab- forption of the poifon, along the courfe of the lym- phatic, the evil has been flopped, and the perfon been perfedly well the next day, by the oppofite treatment. The beft remedy of this kind, I believe, is wine, which fliould be partaken of freely, accord- ing to the conflitution and habits of the patient, and if had recourfe to on the day of the accident, or any time before rigor, lowncfs, thirft, or other fymptom of affection of the fyflern have taken place, will ge- nerally prevent farther infection, by flirting up the vires medicatrices nature to expel the poifon. This P may^4 STRICTURES may be farther promoted by proper dofes of the bark, taken on the next day. The pundtured part Ihould alfo be touched with the lunar cauftic, or if the in- jury be confiderable, with the cauftic alkali, which will penetrate deeper. Having given thefe brief hints, I lhall now clofe with fome fimilar refledtions on topical applications. When the probable caufe of the gangrene has been . difeovered, together with the general habit, and pre- fent circumttances of the patient, the furgeon will be at no lofs how to adapt his applications and dreffings; and this fhould be invariably done. To Simulate and irritate an inflamed part, already too much in adtion, by balfams and fpirits,. when the general habit needs to be cooled and unloaded, were as con- trary to good principles, as it muft be unfuccefsful in pradtice. Here, emollient and relaxing fomenta- tions, poultices, and ointments, are the moft likely to abate the inflammation, to liberate the veflels of the •parr, and affift nature to feparate the efehar. Oh the other hand, poultices of ftale beer and oat- meal, fo frequently and indiferiminately applied to fphacelated parts, are not only always improper where there is much true inflammation, but even in the atonic flate, often do harm from their weight : in the former cafe, a poultice of fine linfeed-meal with a little ointment of Elder-flowers, will be found preferable; for the latter, a foft bread and milk poultice with a good deal of theriaca. For gangrenes in old people, and often for thofe of infants, efpe- 'cially if the gangrene is fmall, the theriaca alone is a veryUpon GANGRENE. '^5 a very convenient application. It is light, potentially warm, and yet fomewhat fedative ; it does not very foon get dry, and is more conveniently renewed than poultices and fomentations ; and is feldom improper in fuch fubjefts, unlefs the local adtion be confider- ably greater than the powers of the fyftem. But even then, the attempt may often be made with fuc- cefs, as a contrary ftimulus will fometimes change the undue and morbid aftion of the parts, and oc- cafion a favorable turn to the difeafe. . But the parts contiguous to the feat of gangrene, are almoft always very painful, as long as the fpha- celus continues to fpread, and are in this painful ftate often improperly irritated by heating applica- tions. The propriety of topicals Ihould ever be determined by their effedts, and are generally hurt- ful, in thefe cafes, if they occafion much pain ; and Ihould this effed: of ftimulating applications, or even of fomentations and warmed poultices, continue for fome hours after the gangrene has be^n dreffed, they fliould be changed for thofe of a different quality, unlefs there be an evident atony of the parts. There may be, it has been.faid, a date of general debility, though from irritation there may be too great local adion, which if not foon removed by a contrary flimulus from adive applications, the continuing of them will increafe the complaint. Here, feda- tives, and fometimes poultices of bark, applied cold, may be made ufe of for a while, and will often do wonders, by allaying the morbid adion of the parts, P 2, and VSTRICTURES 75 and mitigating the pain ; after which, tonics external and internal, Ihould be employed. By this means it is, I apprehend, that the ferment- ing poultice * has been found of late years fo very ferviceable, and is a grand acquifition in furgery ; but is too little known, by appearing only in a work not generally read by young furgeons. Its effeds have been aftonifliing, and perhaps are aflifled by wrapping up the parts above the gangrene in com- prelles wrung out of fpirits, and renewed as they become dry. It may not operate, however, alto- gether in the w'ay Afr. Power has conceived, nor yet by creating heat, as others have fuppofed, but as much from its being a fedative, and applied in a cold ftate, as from any fpecilic quality of its con- tents ; and therefore derives not its chief virtues from its abforbing, or corredling the acrimonious juices contained in fphacelated parts, if k fhould be allowed to have any tendency that way. However this may be, I believe it has effeded cures, where feemingly from a bad habit o-f body, gangrenes have been in a fpreading ftate for a long time together. In regard to fcarifications, I believe it may be faid, that if we only cut through the efehar, and do not penetrate the found parts, they will foraetimes * This may be made of flour,, honey, and water, mixed up wills veafl, and fpread into a thin pafte, i,ind fet near the fire till it fliall bc^’in to ferment; and in that flate fliould be laid on the part, once or twice a day, if the pain be very great. See yfbpend'.v to Malical ’TravfaHioai of the College of Plnfaatis, Koh ii. bes7:7 Upon GANGRENE* be ufeful^ both by taking off from the load and preffure, and letting out an offenfjve ichor : like- wife in fome inflances, fcarifications above the gan- grened part where the limb is. greatly enlarged,, and the parts loaded with extravafated ferum, appear ta prevent the fpreading of the gangrene upwards,, and- are eventually beneficial* I have only farther to obferve, that as not a few patients fink in confequence of the difcharge,. even Jong after a feparation of parts, has taken place, in cafes where amputation is impracticable nothing can be more evidently indicated at this period, than good air,, a nourifhing and generous diet, a. moderate quantity of wine, and other cordials, with fuch toniq. medicines as m.ay bell agree with the ftomaQh,, f F I NTBOOKS printed for^ and fold hy J. MATHEWS, No. i8, Strand. I. A TREATISE on the Diseases ofCHiLDREN, -LX with Dirediions for the Management of In- fants from the Birth; efpecially fnch as are brought up by Hand, by Michael Underwood, M. D. Price fewed, 3s. 2. Principles of Surgery, Part the Firlf, by John Pearson, Surgeon to the Lock Hofpital, and to the Public Difpenfary. Price in boards, 5s. 3. A Key to open Scripture Metaphgrs, in four Books, by Mr. Benjamin Keach ; recommended by leveral eminent Divines of the prefent Day. Price ih IIS. 6d. 4. Horje Solitari^, or Effays upon the effential Divinity and proper Perfonality of the Son and Holy Spirit, confidered in connexion with their refpedtive Offices in human Redemption, and with the Faith and Practice of the Chriftian Life; to which are added, brief Accounts of the Herefies which have arifen upon the Divinity of thefe Per- sons ; and alfo an Hiftorical Essay upon the Doc- trine OF THE Trinity, both as it appeared before the Chridian ^ra, and as it hath been promulgated and corrupted in various parts of the world, in 1 vols. 8vo. the fecond Eklit. with large Additions, Price in boards, 12s. or 14s. bound.—A/. B. The above Work is earneftly recommended by the Rev. Mr. Romaine. 5. Fifty-two Sermons on the Baptifmal Covenant, the Creed, the Ten Commandments, and other im- portant Subjedls of Practical Religion, in 2 vols. 8vo. by Samuel Walker, of Truro, A. B. Price in boards, los. or i2s. bound. 6. The Chriftian, being a Courfe of pradfical Sermons, by Samuel Walker of Truro, A. B. Price 2S. 6d. 7. A Compendious View of natural and revealed Religion, in 7 Books, interfperfed with ferious Ad- dreflesB a O K s, . ilitfTes to the Confciences of the Readers, in i vol. large 8vo. by John Brown. Price in boards, ;;s. 8. A brief Concordance to the Holy Scriptures of the Old and New Teftament, by John Brown. Price bound 23. 6d. 9. Toplady’s Pofthumous Works, containing ■I. Excellent Paflages feledted from the Writings of Eminent Divines, &c. 2. Short Memorials of God’s gracious Dealings with his Soul. 3. Col- 'ledtions of Letters. 4. A lliort Hiflory of England. Price in boards, 5s. 10. Beart’s Vindication of the Eternal Law and Everlafting Gofpel. The 3d Edit, with a Preface and Notes, by C. Decoetlogon. Price fewed 2s. 6d. or bound. 3s. 11. A Sketch of the dlftinguifliing Graces of the Chriftian Character, by Philip Gordon, A. M. Price fewed 2s. 6d. 12. Shrubfole’s Chriftian Memoirs, fewed, 3s. 6d. 13. Prayers and Offices of Devotion for Families and for particular Perfons upon moft Occafions, by Benjamin Jenks, the 21ft. Edit, price bound 3s. 14. A Companion for the Chriftian in his Field and Garden. Price bound 2s. fewed is. 6d. 15. The Chriftian Remembrancer or ftiort Re- flections upon the Faith, Life, and ConduCt of a real Chriftian ; the 2d Edit, on a larger Type, price 2S. fewed, bound 2s. 6d. The above two by the Author of Horse Solitari^. Where may be had Books in all the Sciences and Branches of polite Literature, and particularly thofe of evangelical and experimental Divinity, both new and fecoiid-hand. Bibles and Common Prayers of all Kinds and Sizes : Likewife a great Variety of Hymn Books, by MeflT. Whitefield, Madan, Peckwell, Newton, Dr. Watts, &c. iii different neat and elegant Bind- ings ; with Stationary Wares of all Sorts; Ledgers and Accompt Books, &c. &c. Books neatly Bound—Money for Libr.aries, or Parcels of Books.OBSERVATIONS ON THE DIFFERENT MODES OF PUNCTURING THE BLADDER, IN CASES OF ' RETENTION OF URINE; POINTING OUT THE ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES OF EACH MODE OF OPERATING, UNDER DIFFER- ENT CIRCUMSTANCES AND DISEASES, CONTAINING An ANSWER to the following Oufion: “ In cafes of retention of urine requiring a punfture of “ the bladder; what are the advantages, and difadvantages, “ of the different modes which have been propofed; both “ as refpefting the anatomy of the parts concerned in the “ operations, and as regarding their more remote confe- “ quences ?” TO WHICH IS ADDED, An appendix, CONTAINING SEVERAL PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS. On fome of the Caufes of RETENTION of URINE, And on the USE of CATHETERS. i By WALTER WELDON, Surgeon. ' SOUTHAMPTON: PRINTED BY T. BAKER. FOR W. DAWSON, PATERNOSTER-ROW, LONDON. MDCCXCIII.TO THOMPSON FORSTER, Efq. SURGEON TO GUY’s HOSPITAL. DEAR SIR, As a fmall teftimony of the efteem and friendfhip, I entertain for you ; I have the honor of infcribing to you my firfl attempt of adding a mite to the fund of furgical knowledae; O ’ And, 1 have the honor to be, DEAR SIR, Your moft obedient. And moft humble lervani. W. WELDON.ADVERTISEMENT. HE obfervations in the following pages are coL lefted, principally, from notes which the author has taken at different times from cafes which prefented themfelves to him, or came to his knowledge in the courfe of his lludies and praftice; and which notes were intended merely for his private ufe. When they were put into their prefent form, not a thought was entertained of laying them before the public. A fociety, of which the author was a member, infli- tuted in Southwark, for the improvement of medicine and furgery, propofed as the fubjeft of their prize dif- fertations for the year 1791, the queftion Hated in the title page ; in anfwer to which, thefe obfervations were thrown together and prefented. Since that time, feveral of his medical friends re- quefted the perufal of them, and have Intimated their wifhes that they, as well as fomc other obfervations wriuen on a fimilar occafion, might be put into print. This,This, together with a defire of turning the attention of praftitioners, in general, more towards the mode of re- lieving a fet of difeafes which, the author is forry to fay that he has feen, more than once, prove fatal, from a want of proper attention ; and a defire of removing that prejudice which too generally prevails in the me- dical world againft the operation of punfturing the bladder, has induced him to publifh them. If they fliall be found to fugged ufeful hints to thofe praflitioners, who have not an extenfive praftice in fur- gery, but yet are liable, occafionally, to have the ma- nagement of thefe difeafes, without having an opportu- nity of calling in a more experienced furgeon to their alTiftancc, the intention of the author will, in great meafure, be fulfilled : although, at the fame time, he hopes, fome of the hints contained therein, will not be undcfervlng of attention from the more experienced- furgeon. ‘ Having had frequent opportunities of obferving that much mifehief is often done by the too frequent and improper ufe of catheters, in certain difeafes of the ure- thra, the author has added, in an appendix, fome ob- fervatlons on the ufe of thofe inftruments. Thefe, he hopes, will likewife be found ufeful to fuch praftitio- ners as are not much in the habit of ufing catheters ; as well as to thofe who are profecuting their ftudies in this branch of furgery. SOUTMAMl'TON, ■ June 4, 1793.CONTENTS. PACK. Introduction, - - . . . ^ SECTION I. A fiiort anatomical defcription of the parts ne- cefTary to be known in the operation of punc- turing the bladder, SECTION II. Of the fymptoms produced by a retention of urine, - - - - - _ - SECTION III. Of the different modes of puncfuring the bladder, - I. Of the operation per ano, - - II. Of the operation in perinaeo, III. Of the operation above the pubes, 35 4‘ 58 63 SECTION( viii j SECTION IV. PAGE. Of the advantages and difadvantages attending the different modes of punfturing the bladder, 68 I. Of the parts in danger of being wounded, in each operation; and the confequences of wounding them, - - - - - 71 II. Of the danger to the fyllem from each of the operations, and its confequent fymptoms, 80 III. Of the advantages of each operation, in evacuating the urine, - - - - 82 IV. Of the difference in the facility with which the wound may be kept open, or healed, after each operation, - - 88 V. Of the facility of each operation to the furgeon, 93 SECTION V. Of the difeafes which, being prefent with the ' retention of urine, ought to influence the fur- geon, in determining which operation is pre- ferable, -------97 I. Of ihofe difeafes which give rife to the retention of urine, - - - - 9^ II. Of the difeafes which may accidentally be prefent in the furrounding parts, - 122 Conclulions, - - - - - - ^-5 APPENDIX.( i* ) . APPENDIX. PAGE. Praftical obfervations on fome of the caufes of retention of urine, and on the ufe of ca- theters, 131 SECTION I. % Of catheters, as adapted to the urethra in its healthy ftate, - - - - - -133 SECTION II. Of the difeafes caufing retention of urine, and of the ufe of catheters in them, - - - 138 I. Of inflammation, - 142 II. Of fpafm, 1 1 1 III. Of ftrifture, complicated with the fore- going difeafes, - - - - - 147 IV. Of an enlargement of gland, the proftrate - 166ERRATA. fige. Line. lO, i8, for 40“ read 80°. 57, II, longer read larger, 112, 4, pafs read prefs, 144, 14, ureters read urethras.OBSERVATIONS, &c. INTRODUCTION, T N cafes of retention of urine, where, to evacuate the water by its natural paf- fage, every method with which we are ac-' quaintpd has been tried in vain, it is ne- ceffary, in order to fave or prolong life, to make an artificial opening into the bladder. But praftitioners are much dri vided in opinion refpefting the part in which this opening may, vrith mofl pro- priety, be made. Difeafes of the bladder, and of its excre- tory duft, are very frequent ; but cafes B . of '( lO ) I of retention of urine, demanding the bladder to be punftured, are fo rare, that in all probability it never has occurred, nor ever will occur, to any one praftitioner, to meet with it in all the varieties of thefe difeafes, and have an opportunity of judging from experience of the advan- tages, and difadvantages, of each mode of operating, in every peculiar difeafe. This leads me to think that the generality of authors who have treated on this fub- Je6l have written from theory, or copied each other. Even thofe who have WTitten from praftical knowledge, feem mofl of them to have taken too partial a view of the fubje^.. Having feen one mode of ope- rating fucceed, or fail, in one or two cafes, they have fuppofed it preferable, or impro- per, in every cafe that can polfibly occur. Forming conclufions too general, from particular cafes, is one grand fource of the diver-We . B 2 ( ” ) diverfities of opinion which fo generally prevail upon many fubjefts in the dif- ferent branches of medicine. No where is it more obvious than in this operation. Let us only take a view of the different difeafes which render it neceffary, of the changes in ftrufture which the Bladder and its furrounding parts are capable of undergoing, in confequence both of heal- thy and difeafed operations, and we fhall be convinced that each mode of operating occafionally has its advantages, and that cafes alfo occur in v/hich one or other of the modes of operating is not difadvan- tageous only, but abfolutely imprafticable. It is ev ident then, that in any cafes where the propriety of punfluring the bladder is afcertained, before we can determine where the operation may be performed to moft advantage, feveral thingsrmuft be confidered,( 12 ) We ought to be very well acquainted with the natural ftrufture and fituation of the parts to be wounded, or in danger of being wounded, in each operation. We ought to attend to the difference in the lituation of thefe parts, depending on the peculiar conformation of different people* Another thing to be confidered, is the facility of the operation, both to the fur- geon'and to the patient. For an opera^ tion which may be fafe, and even prefer^ ablCj when performed by a furgeon who is a good anatomift, may be fatal when performed by an unfkilful operator. It is not fufficient that we preferve a patient’s life merely by the operation, we mull preferve alfo his future comfort and happinefs ; the confequences therefore of each( 13 ) each mode of operating, deferve our moft ferious confideration. In a retention of urine there is always a difeafed alteration in the ftrufture and funtlions of the urethra, or of fome part connefted with it. It is of the utmoft im- portance to afcertain this alteration, and the part in which it has taken place; as it will generally aflift us in determining where to perform the operation, and of- tentimes is alone fufficient to regulate our conduft. In this efl’ay I do not propofe entering into long, and probably unnecelfary de- tails of the opinions of others ; thefe may be gathered by reading their works. But I fhall lay down what occurs to me upon the fubje6l from my own obfervations, and from analogy. In doing this I fhall in fome meafure purfue the following order. In( H ) In the firfl; place, I fhall give a fhort de- fcription of the anatomy of the parts, fo far as the knowledge of it appears to be necelfary in performing this operation. Afterwards I fhall fpeak of the fymptoms attending on a retention of urine. Then I fhall defcribe the different modes of operating. After this I fhall take notice of the ad- vantages, and difadvantages attending them, when the operation is performed on heal- thy parts. Laftly, I fhall point out thofe difeafes, which occur to me as likely to have any confiderable influence on the fuccefs at- tending the operation, or which may ren- der one mode of operating preferable to another. SECTION( ) SECTION I. A SHORT ANATOMICAL DESCRIPTION OF THE PARTS NECESSARY TO BE KNOWN IN THE OPERATION OF PUNCTURING THE BLADDER. / HE bladder is an organifed bag, com.* pofed principally of a compa6l vaf- cular membrane, which is covered with mufcular fibres. The mufcular fibres may be divided into two layers. The external layer extends from the fundus towards the cervix; the internal extends round it in a circular direHion. Its internal furface is fmooth, and covered with a mucus; the external furface is rough, being covered with( i6 ) with reticular membrane by means of which it is attached to the furrounding parts. I The human bladder is of an irregular figure, and different from that of almoft every quadruped, being fmaller at its fu- perior part or fundus than it is towards its ^ cervix, which extends backwards, refiing upon the reftum. 0 The bladder is fituated within the ca*. vity of the pelvis, immediately behind the fymphyfis of the pubes, on the anterior part of the reftum, with which it is in contaft. Inferiorly it is confined by its connection with the proftrate gland,' and urethra; fuperiorly it is loofe, and with refpeCt to the furrounding parts, is differ- ently fituated at different times. Having a mufcular power, it always adapts its ca- pacity to its contents. When in an empty con-( 17 ) contrafted ftate, the fundus is very near to the cervix ; and the whole of the blad- der is lituated, two inches or more, below the brim of the pelvis. As it becomes filled, its fundus gradually rifes, and in a moderately-diftended flate, is nearly equal with the fuperior part of the fymphyfis pubes. In cafes of preternatural diften- tion it rifes much higher, and may be felt in the hypogaftric region; and in fome cafes it has been known to rife above the umbilicus. Superiorly, and pofteriorly, the bladder is connefted to the peritonaeum. On ex- amining thefe parts when the bladder is in a contrafted flate, we find this mem- brane lining the abdominal mufcles, as low as the offa pubes. During this courfe it is connefted to them by reticular mem- brane, which towards the inferior part be- C comes( i8 ) comes very loofe; fo loofe that, at about one inch and an half, or two inches above the pubes, it will admit of the peritonaeum being feparated from the mufcles to a confiderable diftance. From the fuperior part of the offa pubes, the peritonaeum pafles obliquely downwards,and backwards, to the fundus of the bladder; from thence it extends down its pofterior part, and about oppolite to the extremity of the os coccygis, it is reflefted on to the re6lum; over which it afcends, forming the mefo reftum. When the bladder is diflended with urine, it is evident that this peculiar fitu- ation of the peritonaeum rauft in fome meafure vary. We find accordingly that, 'as the fundus of the bladder rifes, carrying up that portion of the peritonaeum by which it is covered, it feparates, and raifes the( 19 ) the peritonaeum from the inferior part of the reftus mufcle. This feparation muft / take place in a greater degree, in propor- tion as the bladder rifes higher in the ab- domen. It may be fufpefted that the procefs of peritonaeum, which extends between the bladder and reftum, is railed at the fame time; but the peritonaeum is at this part more clofely connected. The bladder alfo, here, is more fixed ; and the fituation of it is little changed in confequence of its being diftended. As, however, it is capa- ble of contraftion, and relaxation, in every part, the diftance between the refleftion of peritonaeum, and the proftrate gland, muft be greater when it is in a diftended, than when it is in an empty ftate. f The bladder, at its inferior part, is tonnefted to the ureters, vafa deferentia, C 2 vcf-( 20 ) f vefliculae feminales, proftrate gland, and urethra. The ureters pafs down behind the peri- tonaeum, and enter the bladder obliquely at its inferior part, about two inches from the orifice of the urethra, and about the fame diftance from each other. There is, therefore, little danger of wounding them, in the operation of punfturing the bladder. The vafa deferentia pafs into the pelvis under the peritonaeum, and arriving at the pofterior part of the bladder, they gra- dually approach each other, and come in contact between the bladder and re61um, about a quarter of an inch behind the proftrate gland, forming an angle of about 40*^; then pafling parallel about one-third of an inch, each of them termi- nates( 21 ) nates in the excretory du6i; of the corre- fponding veflicula feminalis. The vefficulac feminales are fituated clofe to the outer fide of the vafa deferentia: fo that their pofterior extremities are at a confiderable diftance from each other, and their anterior extremities are nearly in contaft. Each of them fends off a fmall excretory duft, which receives the vas de- ferens of the fame fide. Thefe du6ls pafs nearly parallel along a groove in the fub- * ftance of the proftrate gland,* and termi- nate in the urethra, on each fide of the ^ N. caput galinaginis. That portion of the bladder which is fituated in the fpace bounded by the vafa deferentia, and the lower extremity of the mefo-re61um, is in contaft with the reftum. This portion is but fmall ; for tlieC 22 ) The the part where the peritonaeum is refleQed, is not quite two inches from the proftrate gland. If we fuppofe a triangle, the fides of which are, each of them, one inch and an half long, and the bafe one inch and a quarter, its area, when inverted, will near- ly correfpond with the area of this portion of the bladder. The proftrate gland is conne6ied to the cervix of the bladder. It is of a fome- what flattened conical figure, and rather more than an inch in length. Its bafis is towards the bladder; its apex towards the ' membranous part of the urethra. It lies upon the inferior part of the reftum, a little above the fphinfter ani, as that intef- tine extends backwards towards the os coc-‘ cygis. The proftrate gland may be felt by paffing a finger into the reftum; and the vala deferentia may, without much diffi- culty, be felt above it.( 23 ) The beginning of the urethra is fituated ■ at the bafe of the proftrate ; it extends obliquely downwards and forwards, thro’ the fuperior part of this gland, from its bafe to its apex. So that the proftrate gland is fituated principally at the fides of the urethra, but a fmall portion on its po- fterior part, and a ftill fmaller on its ante- rior-fuperior part. From the proftrate gland, the urethra is extended a fhort diftance, furrounded by reticular membrane, and a few mufcular fibres : this is called its membranous por- tion. It is fituated under the arch of the pubes, where it pafles through a ligament' ous fubftance. The uretlira then enters the corpus fpongiofum, at the fuperior part of the bulb. It is at a corifiderable depth from the perinaeum ; being covered by the integuments, a confiderable quan- tity( 24 ) \ tity of adipofe membrane, and fome muf- cles connefted with the furrounding parts ; and, as it forms a confiderable curve, the poflerior extremity, is deeper feated than the anterior. SECTION '4' /t)F THE SYMPTOMS PRODUCED BY A RE- TENTION OF URINE, Retention of urine is, ftri6tly fpeak- ing, a fymptomatic difeafe. It is a I’ymptom arifing from any difeafe which prevents the urine pafTing through the urethra; and the fymptoms produced by it are fecondar)^ fymptoms. But as the fymptoms arifmg from the interruption of fo important a funftion are always very formidable, and frequently fatal; although the difeafe giving rife to it is often, in other refpefts, free from danger; it has become ufual to fpeak of a retention of urine as a primary difeafe, calling the difeafe which D pro-( 26 ) produces it the caufe. Thus if a fpafm of the urethra, or a dil’eafe of the proftrate gland, produces a retention of urine; the fpafm or the difeafed proftrate is faid to be the caufe; the retention of urine, the dif- eafe; and the effefts produced by it are, by confequence, conftdered as primary fymp- toms. This diftinftion being merely verbal, de- ferves little attention; but as it is conve- nient to our prefent purpofe, I ftiall take the liberty of following it. It .is 6f the utmoft confequence, how- ever, always to recolleft, that the caufes of retention of urine are various, and give rife to various other fymptoms; fome of which at times are very formidable, and occafionally are fo complicated with thofe fymptoms arifing from this difeafe, as to caufe a confiderable variety in them, and * fome-( 27 ) fometimes to increafe their violence. As this will frequently occafion a confiderable diverfity in the treatment proper to be fol- lowed, the furgeon ought, in every cafe, to pay a ftrift attention to the difcovery of the caufe. The fymptoms attending on this difeafe^ are generally as follow. The patient feels an inclination to make water, but, on at- tempting it, finds himfelf incapable. The urine, not yielding to the aftion of the mufcular power of the bladder, proves a ftimulus to it; a ftronger and more violent aftion is excited, and the patient feels confiderable pain. This makes him afraid of ftraining: on the contrary, he endea- vors to prevent the aftion of the bladder, and takes off, as much as polfible, all pref- fure from it, by bending his body forw^ards. But there remains a very unpleafant, pain- ful fenfation, and a continual defire to void D 2 the( 28 ) the urine, arifing from the diftended ftate of the bladder,and which gradually increafes as the difeafe advances. The bladder be- coming more diftended, its aftion, at laft, becomes involuntary; and generally comes on in repeated fits. The mufcular power of the bladder contrafts violently for a fhort time, and then ceafes, as if exhaufted; the diaphragm, and abdominal mufcles, and indeed all the mufcles of the body, fympathifing with it, contraft at the fame time ; and the patient feels a moft excru- ciating pain. During the fit, the patient, if ftanding, has his legs a little feparated; his knee and hip joints half bent; his body bending foi^ wards, his hands having faft hold of the bed-poft, or any thing near him ; and he {eems exceflively agitated : fometimes he fqueezes the glans penis, fancying he can prefs fome urine out of it. Now and then a drop( , 29 ') I a drop or two of urine comes away^ occa- fionally tinged with blood. The fits return, at different periods, in different cafes; but, in all, the time of their recurrence is irregular, and uncertain i frequently there is fcarcely any interval be- tween them ; frequently the interval is confiderable. I have feen cafes where the retention of urine was complete, and the intermiffions between the fits were fome- times three or four hours; at other times not five minutes, Exaftly fuch fymptoms as thefe I have feen, where the bladder was in an inflamed ftate, and contained no urine. But, in the early ftage of the difeafe, the continued lo- • cal pain was greater; and there was a con- fiderable degree of fever; which, in a Am- ple retention of urine, is not the cafe. The patient is much hurried by the pain, and the pulfeI ( 3° ) pulfe fometimes is rather quickened, but not to that degree which I have obferved when the bladder is inflamed: nor is there that proftration of ftrength and fpirits which generally occurs in the latter difeafe. As the difeafe advances, however, the bladder becomes more irritable, and, at laft, inflamed; the pulfe quickens, and a confiderable fymptomatic fever comes on. All the fymptoms increafe, with frequent cold-fweats, and, fometimes, fainting, from the exceflTive pain. If the bladder was, previoufly, in an healthy date, it will ad- mit a confiderable quantity of urine be- fore the fymptoms become violent; and then, early in the difeafe, a tumor may be felt in the lower part of the hypo- • gaftric region. When this is the cafe, the nature of the difeafe is out of doubt. But fometimes, when the bladder is in an irri- table ftate, three or four ounces of urine being retained in it, will produce all the fymp-fympton^^?si^^0iv;e-mentio^ ; and then, ef- pecially If the patient is rather corpulent, no tumor is perceptible. In this cafe, if the difeafe is not'produced by an enlarged proftrate gland, r^he fluftuation may be felt on paffing a finger into the reftum. If we do not fucceed by this method, all the milder means for procuring the eva- cuation of the urine may be tried : but it is better not to think of punfturing the bladder. For, although there may be a retention of a fmall quantity of urine, the bladder mufhfBl^ fo difeafed, that, in all probability, the patient will not furvive the operation. If the patient is not relieved, as the dif- eafe advances, the hypogaftric region be- comes tender and painful, on being prelf- cd; this gradually increafes, till the pa- tient cannot bear the leaft prelfure, with- out great pain : his pulfe becomes quicker, and( 32 ) and weaker, and, at laft, irregular. The continued pain, from the diftention of the bladder, increafes, and fometimes extends along the courfe of the ureters : the fits, and the increafed pain produced by the temporary a61ions of the mufcular power of the bladder, become weaker, and lefs frequent, till they ceafe entirely. The ftrength gradually finks; delirium, and convulfions, come on ; and, in a few hours, death clofes the fcene. The fymptoms now laid down were col- lefted from cafes which have fallen under my own obfervation. I have feparated from them, as carefully as polfible, thofe fymptoms produced by the difeafe, caufing the retention of urine; and thofe fymp- toms, alfo, which were produced by the means employed to remove it. I have feen two cafes, where, from obftinacy, fear, prejudice, and other caufes, little was done( 33 ) done to relieve the patients, and they died. In both, the lymptoms were very much the fame; except that in one cafe, the progrefs was more flow. A very fmall quantity of urine, now and then, came away, which feemed to prolong the pa-, dent’s life; and he lived about thirty-fix hours after the delirium, and convulfions came on. We are told, by authors, that the blad^ der has fometimes been ruptured in this difeafe ; but as I have never yet met with a regular detail of the fymptoms attending it, I cannot fay at what time this accident happened ; whether the internal tunic gave way, during the violent a6don of the mufcular fibres; or whether it did not occur till the life and texture of the bladder was deftroyed, by the violence of the inflammation. The latter is, in faft, a mortification ; and what feemed to take E place.( 34 ) place, in the above cafes. But I was not able, in either cafe, to afcertain the ap- pearances, after death ; as I could not ob- tain leave to open the body. I am in- clined to think, however, that a rupture of the bladder is rather an improbable circumftance ; unlefs in fome peculiar cafes of difeafe. SECTION( 35 ) I SECTION III. OF THE DIFFERENT MODES OF PUNC- TURING THE BLADDER. bladder being deeply feated, and almoft furrounded with bone, there are only three parts where we can, with any propriety, peiform the operation of punc- turing it. Thefe parts are, the re6lum, the perinaeum,andabovethe oflapubes. Hence the different modes of operating are com- monly denominated, the operation per ai\0-; the operation in perinceo, and the operation Jupra pubes. Each of thefe operations has its incon- veniences ; is attended, frequently, witJi E 2 con- con-( 36 ) confiderable difficulty, and fometimes with no fmall degree of danger. In general, however, the danger attending cafes where either of thefe operations is performed, is much more from the difeafe, than from the operation. In fpeaking of thefe operations, I fhall fuppofe that all the milder methods of re- lief have been previoully tried, in vain; and that to punfture the: bladder ‘is the only means, which gives us a chance of faving, or prolonging, the life of the patient. In order to obtain the greateft chance of fuccefs, in either of thefe operations, there is a certain period, or ftate of the difeafe, at which the operation ought to be performed. If we perform it before we have given all the milder methods of cure( 37 ) cul^e as fair a chance as poflible, we fliall often have recourfe, unneceffarily, to an operation which, poifibly, may terminate fatally, or end in an incurable fiftula. On the other hand, it may be delayed too long; the bladder may become mor- tified, or ruptured, when it can afford no relief. Performing it then, will put the patient to unneceffary pain ; his hopes, and the hopes of his friends, will be fru- ftrated, and the operation will be unde- fervedly condemned. To afcertain the precife period when it is unfafe to perfifl any longer in the ufe of milder remedies; and when, at the fame time, thefe remedies have had as fair a trial as the nature' of the cafe will ad- I mit of, requires our moll ferious atten- tion. No invariable rule can be laid down. When( 38 )’ When the fymptoms of retention of urine are not complicated with danger* ous fymptoms from any other difeafe, the danger, as far as I have been able to ob- ferve, arifes from inflammation, and morti- fication, taking place, rather than from the burfting of the bladder. If fo, the proper period for the performance of the opera- tion is, as foon as the inflammation is ob- ferved to be coming on, before it has time to increafe to any alarming degree. It is impoffible to fay, at what time, af- ter the commencement of the difeafe, in- flammation may take place; there are fo many caufes to occafion a diverfity. The retention of urine is more complete on its attack, in fome cafes, than in others; the quantity of urine fecreted in a given time ; the capacity of the bladder; its irritability; and the general flrength of the patient t areC 39 ) are all of them circumftances which will vary, in different cafes: infomuch, that two cafes, agreeing exaftly in the violence, and rapidity of their fymptoms, will fcarce- ly ever be met with. The furgeon muft attend, therefore, to the peculiar conftitution of his patient; the caufe of the difeafe; the rapidity, the vio- lence, and the order of the fymptoms. He fhould attend, alfo, to the means which have been attempted for his relief, and the effefts which thofe means have pro- duced. As long as the patient is free from fe- ver, and the pulfe continues flow, or but little hurried, and there is no remarkable tendernefs in the region of the bladder, or kidneys ; and as long as he has toler- able eafy intervals, although the occa- fional a6lion of the bladder may at times beI ( 40 ) be rather violent, and the pain attending it confiderable; there does not appear to be much danger in waiting for the trial of other means. If, during the exertions, the patient fhall void a little urine now and then, this alfo will give us time. Sometimes, after the aftion of the bladder, and the confequent pain have been very great for fome time, they will nearly ceafe, even for feveral hours, and then return again. Here, great care fhould be taken not to be deceived into the notion that a rupture, or mortification, has taken place. The bladder continues diftended,and,on be- ing prelfed to a certain degree, is fenfible of pain. But the pulfe and fever muft form our principal guides ; if the former is of moderate ftrength, flow, and regular; and the latter attended with no alarming fymp- toms, there is no immediate danger. It is better, however, to perform the operation < too foon, than too late. Therefore, when- ever( 4» ) ever fufficient time has been obtained, to give all the milder methods of cure a fair trial, and they have failed, it is better not to wait till fymptoms of danger come on, but to perform the operation immediately. Particular attention fhould be paid, that the means made ufe of for the relief of the dif- eafe, do not increafe it. A great deal of mifchief is often done to the urethra, by ca- theters being improperly ufed. So much inflammation fometimes is brought on, as to take away that chance which the patient would otherwife obtain from the operation. When thefe things are atteilded to, the operation of punfturing the bladder, is lefs dangerous than is commonly imagined. I. Of the oPERATio'N per AN)i, This operation is Ample and very eafy. It confifts in making an opening through F the( 42 ) the reftum into the bladder, at that part where they are in contaft with each other. It requires a knowledge of the fituation of fome few parts, in order to avoid wound- ing them unneceffarily; and this know- ledge, with a little attention, is not diffi- cult to attain. The parts in danger of being wounded, I unneceffarily, in this operation, are, the vafa deferentia ; the vefficulas feminales ; and the procefs of peritonaeum, which ex- tends between the bladder and reftum. I have already noticed the fituation of thefe parts. I obferved that the vafa de- ferentia approach each other, obliquely, and come in contaft, about a quarter of an inch behind the bafe of the proftrate gland. I obferved, alfo, that the procefs of peritonaeum terminates oppolite to the extremity of the os coccygis ; which is about one inch and a half above the bafe of( 43 ) of the proflrate. The triangular portion of the bladder, which is bounded by thefe parts, is connefted to the re6lum, by reti- cular membrane only, and may be punc- tured with the greateft fafety. Seeing the fpace, in which this operation may be performed, is fmall; it is abfolutely neceffary that it be accurately diftinguifh- ed by the operator: therefore, the follow- ing obfervations may, probably, be worthy of notice. I The patient fhould be placed as inthe ope- ration of lithotomy. A finger fhould then be paffed into the reftum, with its anterior part tOM^ards the bladder; and the ope- rator fhould dillinguifii the proflrate gland from the bladder. This is more diflRcult, on account of the bladder being diftended with urine; and fometimes from the coats F 2 off 44 ) of it being confiderably thickened: but ftill it may be done, by moderate atten- tion. It will be found a little above the fphinfter ani; and will be prefTed againft the return, fo as fometimes to impede the paflage of the finger. Above the bafe of the proftrate gland, may be felt, the vafa deferentia, palTing between the bladder and return. They are not quite fo hard as they are nearer to the tefles; but they are harder than the furrounding parts, and larger than in any other part of their courfe, and feel fomething like two cords. They lie very clofe to the edges of the velficufe femi- nales. The velficulse feminales may be diftinguifhed by their being fituated on the outfide of the vafa deferentia; by the irre- gularity they produce; and by tlie fluc- tuation of the urine being lefs. diftinft throughC 45 ) through them. * Feeling for the part where the vafa deferentia come in con- taO:, the finger fliould be pafled difeft- ly upwards, about one inch. Here we {hall feel the bladder very diftinftly, prelf- ing againft the reftum. A trocar fliould then be palled along the fore-part of the finger, and puflied into it. The trocar which is ufed, ought to be of a fufficient length, and curvature. I do not * It {hoLild be recollefted, that the author is fpeak- ing, here, of thofe cafes only, in which the bladder has undergone no change in its ftrufture ; therefore, it will frequently happen, in cafes where the operation is ne- ceffary, that the furgeon is not able to feel the vafa de- ferentia, and the vefliculae feminales, fo diftinftly as is here defcribed ; nay, that, foinetimes, he is not able to feel them at all; but if the otlrer rules here laid down are attended to, there is little danger of wounding them. It is remarkable, that, when an obftruftion to the palfage of the urine forms, and increafes gradually, the bladder gradually becomes thickened in its fub- ftance ; fometimeS vto an amazing degree. The in- creafed refiftance in the palfage, not allowing the urine to( 46 ) not approve of the trocars, in common ufe; they are made circular in their dia- meter, and with a triangular point. I think an oval trocar is preferable; as it admits of a lancet-point. In moft cafes where a trocar is ufed, we wifh the wound to be made in fuch a manner as will, as much as polTible, favour its healing by adhefive in- flammation. A fmall wound is more fa- I vorable to heal, than a large one; and a wound, the fides of which have a tendency to to pafs away fo rapidly as before, the bladder is pre- vented expelling it fo quickly with the ordinary force: this proves an additional ftimulus to its mufcular fibres, and they aft with greater force. As the refiftance in- creafes, the ftimulus, and the confequent afction of the bladder, increafes ; and, as the affion increafes, the fize and ftrensth. of the mufcular fibres increafe alfo. O Common obfervation will lliew, that, where a mulcle, or a fet of mufcles, are exerted in an increafed degree, for a length of time, they become gradually larger and ftronger. Thefe exertions prove an additional ftimu- lus to the circulation in them; more blood paffes thro’ them, in a given time; and the aftions, for their growth and nourilliment, are carried on more rapidly.I ( 47 ) I to fall in contaa, than one where they tend to recede from each other. A triangular-pointed trocar appears, to me, to have two material objeftions. < The furface of a wound made by it, is greater than the furface of a wound made by a flat-pointed trocar of nearly the fame fize: the latter forms a longitudinal in- cifion, having but two fides; whereas the former makes a triangular incifion, confe- quently having three angles and fix fides. Befides, it is an inftrument badly adapted for cutting; and makes, in fome meafure, a lacerated wound. The other objeftion to the triangular- pointed trocar, arifes from the fliape of the wound formed by it. The fides of a wound having thrt^e loofe flaps, are, cer- tainly, lefs favorable for falling in con- ta6i;,( 48 ) ta61;, than the fides of a longitudinal in- cifion. The confequences of thefe objeftions are; that a greater degree of inflammation than is necelTary, is brought on ; and there is danger of a fuppuration taking place, when we wifh to avoid it. In every cafe of punfturing the bladder, I think, a lancet-pointed trocar is prefer- able. It can never be attended with in- convenience. Lefs furface of wound, in proportion to its fize, is produced; and, if it is proper to heal it before ulceration takes place, we are lefs liable to be difap- pointed. Having withdrawn the trocar, and fuf- fered the water to run out through the canula, the next confideration is, whether the wound is to be kept open, or to be healed.I ( 49 ) t liealed. In this we muft be governed by the caufe of the difeafe. If that is of fuch a nature that it can be removed immedi- ately, we muff withdraw the canula. The fides of the wound, then falling in con- ta6f, will generally heal without further trouble. It will be proper, however, to take care, and prevent the part being irritated, by the fseces colleffing in the reffum. For this purpofe, emollient clyf- ters may be ufed ; but here, again, cau- tion is neceffary, that it be not irritated by the pipe ; by their too frequent repetF tion ; or bv their beingp thrown in too forcibly. Generally, however, the obffruffion in the natural paffageis of a more permanent nature ; and it is found advifeable to keep the new-formed paffage open. For this purpofe, we are, in general, advifed to leave the canula, or a catheter, in the blad- G der.( 50 ) (ler, through the re6lum. This, I think, is not, altogether, a fafe praftice. The prefence of an hard, unyielding body, in the reftum, is very difagreeable, and in- / convenient, to the patiCnt. It is continu- ally irritating the parts, and exciting tenef- mus ; and there is great danger of it pro- ducing ulceration, on the oppofite furface of the bladder. If, in order to avoid the latter inconvenience, the extremity of the tube is introduced but juft within the aper- ture in the bladder, it is liable to be forced out by the atlion of the reftum and le- va tores ani. The difficulty of keeping a canula in the bladder, through the reflum, has been • V confidered as a very principal objeftion to this operation ; which, otherwife, has feveral advantages. This objeftion inav. in fome inealure, be obviated, by ufing. inftead of a filver tube, a Imall catheter. or( 5« ) or tube, made of elaftic gum. It may be introduced, by pafTing it through the ca- nula; which may then be withdrawn over it. This elaftic tube, being foft, will adapt itfelf to the fbape of the parts in which it is fituated, and will yield readily to their ' aftion. An inconvenience attending the elaftic gum canulas is, that, on being long immerfed in a fluid, they become very foft; and then their elafticity is very eafily overcome, by the preflhre of the parts furrounding them. If they are made of linen, or filk, covered with elaftic gum, this inconvenience is lefs liable to happen. Or a fmall male catheter may, occafion- ally, be introduced, through the tube. After all, however, I am of opinion, that a tube is wholly unneceflary; and that, as long as the urine cannot pafs by its natu- ral paflage, the artificial paftage is incapa- ble of healing. a 9 If( 52 ) If the operation is performed as I have advifed, the mufcular power of the blad- der will leffen the extent of the wound very confiderably; and, alfo, will bring its fides in contaft. In confequence of this, we know that the coagulable lymph which is thrown out under the fucceeding inflam- mation, will form a flight union between the parts, and ferve as a medium, into which, if the parts are left a fufficient time at reft, the wounded veflels will, by de- grees, extend; the union, by this means, gradually becoming firmer, until it is com- pleted. This procefs takes up fome time. For the firft ten or twelve hours, the union is very flight, and eafily overcome by any force tending to feparate the fides of the wound. When the bladder is empty, the ftimulus from the urine being removed, its a6fion will entirely ceafe ; and the gra- vity' ( 53 ) vity of the urine muU not be fufficient to force it through the wound. But as it again gradually fills, the ftimulus gra- dually returns ; and, at lafi, is fufficient to excite the contraftion of the bladder. The urine will then be preffed upon, in every diredlion, by the fides of the blad- der ; and, the natural paflage being ftill impervious, it will be forced through the artificial opening. The fides of the wound will asrain fall in contaft, and the urine will colleft as before, until the bladder is agrain excited to contraftion. This will O continue to be repeated, probably, till the urine can pafs freely by its natural paf- fage. The tendency to_ union, immediately after the operation, is great; and leffiens after each time the wound is opened, until fuppuration takes place on its edges; then there/ ( 54 ) there is no danger of its uniting till the ^ « urine can pafs through the urethra. When the pafTage of the urethra is opened, the bladder, meeting with lefs re- fiftance from the urine, will prefs it with lefs force againft the fides of the wound. Thefe not being feparated, as ufual, granulations will gradually unite / them. It will be proper for the patient, at firll:, to attempt the evacuation of his urine, frequently—perhaps, every two or three hours; in order to prevent the union be- coming too firm. Or the furgeon, if he chufes, may introduce an extraneous body, for a few hours, if it can be retained there; merely to keep the Tides of the wound from falling in contaft, during the firfl part of the adhefive inflammation. For this■ ( 55 ) this purpofe, a bit of bougie, or an elaftic gum canula, is preferable to any metallic inftrument; as a foft fubftance will irritate lefs, and, by confequence, excite lefs in- flammation, than an hard one. But, if the operation is delayed fo long, that inflam- mation takes place in the bladder, the urine will not be retained by it, at leaft, for any confiderable time. For a very fmall quantity of urine, even a Angle drop, fometimes, fo irritates an inflamed bladder, as to excite the moft; violent contra6iions. Thefe obfervations receive ^reat conAr- mation from a cafe related by Dr. Ha- milton, in the philofophical tranfadfions, and mentioned, alfo, by Mr. John Hun- ter, in his treatife on the lues venerea. In this cafe, the catheter was withdrawn, immediately on evacuating the urine, and the bladder was found capable of retain- ing( 56 ) ing what was afterwards fecreted, until it was excited to contra6lion ; when the urine paffed freely through the wound. This continued till the natural palfage was open- ed ; which was in about two days; and then the wound healed readily. Probably, it will be objefted, that this is the only cafe upon record, in which the power of retaining the urine has taken place; and that a lingle cafe is not fuffi- cient to eftablifh a general conclufidn. But, it muff be oblerved, that, in moff cafes where this operation has been per- formed, a canula was left in the wound. No conclufions, therefore, can be drawn from thofe cafes, againft this opinion. It feems to me, to depend on the concur- rence of feveral of the immutable laws of the animal economy, when in a Ib.te of health. If fo, it will always take ]dace wliere( 57 ) where the parts are previoufly in an heal- thy hate, and the operation is properly performed. * Befides avoiding extreme inconveni- ence, pain, and trouble, the laying afide of the caniila is attended with another advantage. The conftant preffure of an hard body againft the edges of the wound, proves a continual fource of irri- tation ; ulceration is excited, and the wound is thus made longer than is necef- fary. A continual adhefive inflammation, alfo, is kept up ; and the coagulable lymph which is thrown out in confe- I quence * My triend, Mr. Forster, of Broad-ilreet-Build- ings, furgeon to Guy’s hofpital, in a letter I received from him, a few days fince, obferves, that he has per- formed the operation per ano twice. In one cafe, not being called in till it was too late, the man died foon after the operation. The other cafe was in a man about twenty-four years of age, a foldier of the 22d regiment: he labored under a total retention of urine, from( 5^ ) quence of it, gives rife to a confiderable thickening, and hardnefs, of the furround- ing parts ; leffening their vafcularity, and living powers. Thus, forming a fiftulous opening, that is difficult to heal, and, fre- quently, incurable ; through which the urine will, perpetually, be paffing, and ex- coriating the re6fum. II. OPERATION IN PeRIN^O. This operation is ufually defcribed as, being very fimple and eafy. To perform it properly, however, more dexterity in dif- from a fpafm of the urethra. After the operation, a canula was left in the wound, till the fpafm abated; which was in about fix hours. In about eight days, the artificial opening healed. During this time, the patient was capable of retaining his urine completely, and fut- fered no inconvenience; except that, when he attempt- ed to make water, it came away in part through the urethra, and in part thro’ the wound. April, i793'( 59 ) diffeftion, and a more accurate anatomical knowledge, is neceffary, than falls to the lot of the generality of pradlitioners. Even where the operator has been a very good anatomift, I have feen. this operation prove very difficult, and embarrafling. The patient ought to be placed as in the former operation. An incifion ffiould be made on one fide of the perineum, through the integuments and cellular membrane; the diffeftion ffiould be continued between the ereftor penis, and the accelerator urinae mufcles, through the tranfverus perinasi, and a portion of the levator ani, when the proftrate gland may be felt. A trocar ffiould then be paffed into the bladder, on the outer-fide of this gland, and rather anteriorly, that the vefficula feminalis may be avoided. It is eafier to deferibe than to perform this operation. There is a / great thicknefs of fubftance to pafs thro’, I 2 which( 6o ) which, makes the difleftion difficult, and dangerous, if the operator is not a good anatomift; as parts are in danger, the wounding of which may be very diftreffing, if not fatal to the patient. Formerly, it was a praftice to thruft a trocar from the perinaeum, at once, into the bladder; and I have heard fome, even at the prefent day, fpeak rather favor- ably of this pra6Hce. This random man- ner of operating, ought to be feverely re- probated. The urethra is in great danger of being perforated; and that, probably, in two or more places. The proftrate gland is almoft certain of being wounded, which is ‘ unnecelfary; and there is great danger of wounding the excretory dufts / of the vefficulae feminales, which are fitu- ated within it, by which the funftions, both of the telles and the vefficulas feminales will be completely .deftroyed. If, in order to( ) to avoid thefe, the trocar is paffed too much outwards, the ureters may be wound- ed ; if too far backwards, the vefliculas fe- minales, the vafa deferentia, or even the rec- tum, may be wounded. For the bladder is fituated at fuch a depth from the perinaeum, that is impoffiblewith precifion to direft the point of a trocar to any particular part of it. After the operation, a canula ought to be left in the wound, otherwife the fuc- ceeding inflammation, and tenfion, will clofe it up ; and we may, pofTibly, be un- der the neceffity of repeating the ope- ration. This, during the inflamed ffate which the part muft be in, will be attend* ed with extreme danger to the patient, and with great difficulty-and embarraffment to the operator. The inconvenience at- tending the ufe of a canula, in this cafe, is inconfiderable. Care fliould be taken, that its extremity does not prcfs againft the bladder,( 62 ) bladder, with fuch force as to excite ulce- ration. As a fharp edge is, more liable to caufe ulceration, than a rounded furface, a female catheter feems to be a fafer in- ftrument, than a canula, to leave in the wound. The trocar to be ufed in this operation, ought to be of fuch a length that its canula may be about fix inches long. The depth of the bladder, from the furface of the perinaeum, is, in every cafe, very confiderable ; and, in corpu- lent fubjefts, it will frequently be found that a fhorter canula will not anfwer the purpofe. No harm can happen from the trocar being too long; as it need be in- troduced fo far only as is necefl’ary to draw off the urine; but, if it fhould be too fhort, this will prove very embarraffing to the furgeon, and, fometimes, fatal to the patient, from the intention of the opera- tion being fruflrated. The trocar had better be of an oval form, for the reafons given( 63 ) given in the operation per ano. Alfo, it will pafs with more eafe; with lefs pain to the patient; and lefs violence to the parts, which is another advantage very worthy of attention, as the parts through which it is to be palfed are of confiderablc thicknefs. III. Of the OPERATION above Pubes. When the bladder admits of fuch a de- gree of diftention, that the fundus of it rifes above the olfa pubes; and when, at the fame time, the patient is not fo corpu- lent as to prevent the bladder being dif- tin6lly felt; this operation may be per- formed, with eafe and fafety. A punfture about half an inch in length may be made, with a large-fized lancet, a little( 64 ) little on one fide of the linea alba^ between it and the ufual fituation of the pyramidalis ' mufcle. The inferior edge of this punc- ture may be half an inch, or lefs, above the os pubis. A trocar, limilar to that - defcribed in the laft operation, but Ihorter, may then be palTed obliquely downwards, and thruft into, the bladder; when the water may be drawn off. As the urine will continue to pafs thro' this palfage, until the natural palfage is opened, a canula ought to be kept con- ftantly in the bladder. If this is not at- tended to, the urine, on palfing out of the bladder, will get into the loofe reticular membrane furrounding it, and caufe in- flammation and fuppLiration. Whether the bladder is capable of re- taining the urine, until it is excited to contraction by the bulk of it, I cannot fay. It( 65 ) It is probable it is, in fome degree, though not fo perfeftly as in the operation per ano ; for the bladder is rather thinner at its anterior-fuperior part, than it is, pofle- riorly, towards its cervix ; and, as it is fur- rounded by a very loofe reticular mem- brane, the edges of a wound in it, cannot fall fo firmly together, as thofe of a corre- fponding wound in the latter part. Befides, the thicknefs of the bladder being lefs than the thicknefs of the parts wounded through the reftum ; the refiflance to the paffage of the urine, from the adhefive in- flammation, cannot be fb great. Suppofing the bladder to be capable of retaining the urine, and of expelling it, at intervals; ftill the objeftion is not removed. ‘ The fpace through which the urine muft pafs to the external orifice, when the blad- der is in a nearly contrafted date, is very confiderable; and the reticular mem- K brane( 66 ) . brane filling this fpace is fo very loofe, that the greater part, if not the whole of the urine, would, even then, be retained and diffufed through it. The canula belonging to the trocar is, by no means, a proper inftrument to be ' left in the bladder; for its lharp edge is liable to excite ulceration. A fmall, male catheter, as recommended by Mr. Hun- ter, feems to be as good an inftrument as any. If made of elaftic gum, it will, I think, be preferable; as it will ftimulate lefs, and adapt itfelf better to the forms and aftions of the parts in which it is fitu- ated. It may be introduced on a piece of curved wire ; and, to prevent itsr flipping out of the bladder, the end of it may be pafted juft within the urethra, and retained there, when the irritation it produces is not too great. The wire fhould be withdrawn a little wav, or it had better be withdrawn en-( 67 ) entirely, if the catheter is firm enough to remain in its fituation without it. The upper end of the catheter fiiould then be faftened to a bandage going round the ab- domen. K 2 SECTIONC 68 ) SECTION IV. OF THE ADVANTAGES AND DISADVAN- TAGES ATTENDING THE DIFFERENT MODES OF PUNCTURING THE BLAD- DER. T_T AVING given a general defcription of that praftice which appears to me the heft to be followed, in performing'each of the operations ; I proceed now to con- lider the advantages, and difadvantages, at- tending them; ftill fuppofing the furround- ing parts to be free from difeafe. When a retention of urine takes place, ■ and the bladder is diftended to fuch a de- gree, that there is reafon to fear mortifi- cation.( 6g ) cation, or a rupture, (the confequence of which is the death of the patient,) we, in order to prevent thefe accidents, evacuate the urine by punfturing the bladder. But, in performing the operation, the evacuation of the urine is not the only conlideration to be had in view. Jt Ihould be confider- ed, alfo, how the operation may be per- formed, with leaft danger to the patient, and moft to his future advantage. To render the operation as fuccefsful as polTible, in both thefe refpedls, belides the attention neceffary to prevent it being deferred too long, the following appear to be among the principal difficulties which the attention of the furgeon is required to obviate. I. The danger of wounding parts, the wounding of which may deflroy any im- portant( 7° ) portant fun6lions of the animal economy, or life itfelf. II. The danger to the fyftem, from the operation; and'its confequent fymptoms. III. The danger of the urine getting into the furrounding parts. IV. The difficulty of managing the wound in fuch a manner, as to keep it open as long as may be neceflary; and to heal it, when the natural paffage ffiall be reftored. V. The facility of the operation to the furgeon. Thefe I ffiall conlider under feparate heads. I. Of( 71 ) I. Of the PARTS in danger of being WOUNDED, in each operation ; and ' the CONSEQUENCES of wounding them. When the operation is performed above the pubes, the only part, of any importance, that is in danger of being wounded, is the peritonaeum. When the bladder will fuf- fer diftention, fo much as to contain a con- > liderable quantity of urine, and be eafily felt above the pubes, there is no danger of wounding this membrane: but, frequently, in cafes requiring the operation, the blad- der is fp extremely irritable, that the mbft violent fymptoms are produced, by the re- tention of a very inconfiderable quantity of urine. In thefe inflances, the bladder can be felt but indiftinftly; and fometimes not at all, through the abdominal mufcles; more efpecially in corpulent fubje6ls ; and then( 72 ). The then there is great danger of wounding the peritonaeum. The confequences of wounding this membrane, are very ferious. There is \ great danger of inflammation taking place, over the whole cavity; which moft com- monly terminates in the death of the pa- tient. If the peritonaeum is wounded, in this operation, danger of inflammation taking place arifes, from two caufes. ' If the edges of the wound do not uilite by adhelion, the inflammation gradually extends, by a fort of fympathy, over the whole cavity of the peritonaeum; or, till adhelion takes place, between fome part of its lides, forming a lefler cavity, as now and then is found to happen. This lefler cavity will then circumfcribe the inflam- mation.( 73 ) The urine getting into the cavity of the peritonaeum, afts as a fecond caufe; either to excite inflammation, or to increafe it when already excited. On account of this inconvenience, it ought to be a rule, not to attempt the ope- ration above the pubes, unlefs the bladder can be diftinftly felt. In thin, emaciated fubjefts, the bladder can be felt above the pubes, v/hen it is but moderately diftended: but, as the fubjeft is more corpulent, the difficulty, in diftinguiffiing it, is greater; and, in fome very corpulent fubjefts, it is not to be felt, even when diftended to a confiderable degree. In thefe cafes, if we are fatisfied that the bladder is fo diftend- ed as to rife a confiderable way above the pubes, the thicknefs of the parietes of the abdomen is fo confiderable, as to render the operation very difficult, and the fitu- ation of the peritonaeum very uncertain. L For( 74 } For thefe reafons, I think, the operation ought not to be performed in this part, in corpulent fubjefts, when it can poffibly be avoided. When the operation is performed per ano, the parts which it requires mofl; at- tention to avoid, are the peritonaeum, the vafa deferentia, the velTiculae feminales, and the proftrate gland. I have already obferv^ed how thefe parts may be avoided; and fliall now fpeak of the confequences of wounding them. The confequence of wounding the peri- tonaeum, at this part, nfiay be the fame as of woundingit above the pubes. Butas the part which is liable to be wounded is more de- pending, there is lefs danger of the urine getting into its cavity : and if the patient lays with his back fomewhat raifed, the gravity of the urine gives it a tendency to pafs( 75 ) pafs into the reftum. Another, and a ftill more important circumftance in favor of wounds in this part of the peritonseum, is that, the fides'of it being in contaft, adhe- live inflammation, under proper attention, will generally take place ; and when it does, neither the urine, nor the inflamma- tion, can extend further. But I do not, from this obfervation, wilh it to be under- flood as confidering a wound of the peri- tonaeum, at this part, a matter of flight confequence. We do not know that ad- hefive inflammation will always take place; and, if it fails once in an hundred times, this is a fufficient reafon to make us always carefully avoid wounding it. If either of the vafa deferentia is wound- ed, it is mofl probable the cavity of it will be obliterated. It is poflible, however, that the wound may penetrate into fome of the cells only; when the wound may L 2 heal( 76 ) heal, without deftroying the funftions of the du6l. ' Obliterating the du6l produces the fame effeft as removing one of the teftes. The danger of doing it, therefore, deferves con- fi deration ; and it may, I think, be avoid- ed, by moderate attention. But, even if it fhould accidentally be wounded, the confequence is nothing, compared with the additional danger which may, fome- times, attend the life of the patient, from the operation being performed in another place. I do not know that wounds of the vef- liculas feminales, are attended with any fe- rious confequence. They generally, as far as I can learn, from cafes where they have been fuppofed to be wounded, heal as readily as moll: other parts; and, if one of them fhould be obliterated, from what we at( 77 ) to at prefent know of their funftions, we have no reafon to believe that it will be attended with any material inconvenience to the patient. The proftrate gland ought to be atten- tively avoided ; which, when it is in a found ftate, may be done with great eafe. For, befides wounding a part which is fometimes difficult to heal, both the du61s of the vefficulae feminales are almoft cer- tain of being wounded. If this happens, the funftions of both teftes, and both vef- ficulas feminales, are cut off. When the operation is performed in pe- rinaeo, the parts which ought to be avoid- ed, are the urethra, the proftrate gland, the vefficulae feminales, and the reftum. I before obferved, that the only way to avoid thefe parts, with certainty, is carefully( 78 ) to difle6l down to one fide of the proflrate gland, before the trocar is introduced. In doing this, a great deal of care is necef- fary, to avoid wounding the urethra. If the urethra will admit an inftrument to pafs into the membranous part of it, a ca- theter had better be introduced. As far as it extends, it will point out its fituation; and,, if an inftrument cannot be pafled in- to the membranous part, it will feldom be necefl’ary to pun6lure the bladder: as the water may, generally, be evacuated, by punfturing the urethra above the part which refifts the inftrument. The confequence of wounding the ure- thra is, in general, extremely difagreeable. If the wound be no more than a punfture, or be a ftrait incifion through one fide on- ly, it may, poftibly, heal without any trou- ble ; but, frequently, the wound is fuch, that union cannot take place, and an in- curable /( 79 )' curable fiflula is produced. It has fre- quently been wounded in two, or more, places; and I recoiled: hearing of a cafe, not long fince, in which it was completely divided. The proftrate gland is a fubftance, in which the powers of refloration are lefs than in fome other foft parts: and altho' when in an healthy ftate, recent wounds of it are found to heal, without difficulty; yet, when difeafed, or when it is neceffary to keep the wound open for fome days (as is frequently the cafe in this operation), it ought to be avoided, as there is great danger of the wound becoming fiftulous. There is alfo the fame danger of wounding the dufts of the vefficulac feminales, as in the former operation. The other parts which I have obferved ought to be avoided, are fo far out of the way.■( 8o ) to / way, that they are in little danger of being wounded, except through ignorance, or in- attention ; and, therefore, the rifque of wounding them affords no objecf ion to this operation. II. Of the DANGER to the system from each of the operations, and the con- j sequent symptoms. When an operation is performed, in parts where the fimply wounding of them does not endanger life, and where the liv- ing powers are nearly equal, the danger from the operation is in proportion to the quantity of inflammation which is pro- duced ; and this again is, in great meafure, in proportion to the quantity of furface wounded. Therefore, as there is lefs fur- face wounded, in punfluring the bladder, where it is moll fuperficial, this part ought( 8i ) to be pfeferred; unlefs fomething of great- er importance occurs to prevent it. « In the operation per ano, the furface of the wound is very fmall; too fmall to pro- duce inflammation fufhcient to affe6l the conftitution generally. In the operation above the pubes, when \ the patient is moderately thin, the furface of the wound is much greater, than in the operation laft-mentioned. But, ftill, the inflammation produced, is not fo great as to affe6l the conftitution. I When the operation is performed, in pe- rinaeo, the furface wounded is very confi- derable; the violence done to the parts, is, fometimes, not much lefs than in fome cafes of lithotomy- There generally is a confiderable fymptomatic fever; and the M con-( 82 ) conftitution is fometimes fo much afFefted, as to endanger the life of the patient. This danger will become more ferious, if the patient fulfers much by the retention of urine, previous to the operation. It can hardly be- necelTary to obferve, that, after either of thefe operations, the patient fhould be kept perfeftly quiet; and that the antiphlogiftic plan fhould be attentively followed. III. Of the ADVANTAGES of Cach OPERA- TION, in EVACUATING the URINE. The part where the operation is perform- ed, ought to be as favorable as pofTible for the evacuation of the urine; that it may not colle6l in the furrounding parts. This( 83 ) This is a very important conhderation. If the urine cannot be freely evacuated^ and that, too, as long as may be neceffary, the end of the operation is not anfwered: the life of the patient may not be faved ; or another difeafe may be introduced, under which the patient will drag out a miferable exiftence. If the opinion I have delivered, in fpeaking of the operation per ano, be juft, I think that operation muft be al- . lowed to poflefs this advantage, in the greateft degree. The thicknefs of the parts through which the urine pafles, is inconfiderable ; the reticular membrane connefling them, is too firm to allow the urine to colleft in it; and the retentive power of the bladder ftill continues. So that the patient fuffers very little inconve- nience, except when he wills to expel his M 2 urine.( 84 ) urine, or faeces. In the former of thefe cafes, the urine may fometimes rather irri> tate the reftum, and caufe a flight tenef- mus; in the latter, the increafed fenfibility of the wounded part may be produaive of pain, during the aaion of the mufcles: though the aaion of the mufcles may, in great meafure, be prevented, if we remove the caufe of it, by the frequent ufe of ’ emollient clyflers. If the urine fhould pafs continually into the reaum, as muff now and then be the cafe when the wound has been a long time open, it will be rather difagreeableas it will irritate, and excoriate this part. In this cafe, the parts fhould be defended, as much as poffible, from the acrimony of the urine, by means of fome oily matter. In the operation in perinaeo, a canula ought to be kept conflantly in the wound. If( 85 ) It If this is not done, the fides of it will be prefled together, when the urine will not pafs freely ; and, if much inflammation takes place,- a complete retention will often be re-produced. If, at this time, we are able to introduce an inftrument, it will be with great difficulty, and will put the pa- tient to extreme pain. I think a metallic canula, preferable to one of any fofter ma- terials ; for the latter, in a fhort time, will become fo foft that, being incapable of re- flfting the tumefaftion which takes place in the wound, its fides will be prefled to- gether. When the operation is performed above the pubes, on the bladder contrafting, the opening in it recedes, a confiderable way, from the external opening; and, if a tube is not kept in the wound, to convey the urine externally, it diffufes itfelf into the furrounding reticular membrane; which( 86 ) it irritates, producing inflammation, and its confequences—adhefions, abfceffes, fif- tulas, &c. Thefe, from their (ituation, are out of the reach of art, or nearly fo. Con- liderable fymptomatic fever, and he61;ic fymptoms, are produced; which generally terminate in death. t The danger of thefe unhappy confe- quences, is a great objeftion to this mode of operating; and, when it is put in prac- 1 tice, renders the greateft attention necef- fary, in order to prevent them. A good deal of art is necelfary in managing the ca- nula, in this cafe. If it is not fufficiently large to fill up the orifice in the bladder, the urine will efcape by the fide of it. This is lefs liable to happen while the wound is recent; for then the wounded edges of the bladder are capable of contrafting round a tube which is' fmaller than the trocar; more( 87 ) more efpecially, if the wound is a longitu- dinal one: but, when the wound has been long open, the coagulable lymph which is thrown out, will render the edges of it hard, and incapable of contrafting. It is very difficult to keep a canula which is ftrait, or nearly fo, in the bladder, with- out doing mifchief. If it is introduced too far, it will prefs againft the oppo- fite fide of the bladder, and caufe ulcera- tion ; if, on the other hand, it is very little too ffiort, it will perpetually be flipping out of the orifice; wffiich is very unplea- fant, as the introducing of it again is at- tended with confiderable difficulty. I have, therefore, recommended a male catheter to be ufed; as direfted by Mr. Hunter. But, in the ufe of it, great attention is ne- ceffary; or it will irritate the neck of the bladder, to fuch a degree, that it will be necelfary to remove it. IV. Of( 88 ) It IV. Of the DIFFERENCE in the faci- lity with which the wound may be KEPT OPEN, or HEALED, after each OPERATION. When we confider that the eafe, or difficulty, of healing the external opening, depends, in moft cafes, on the facility with which the opening in the bladder heals ; and that the ftru6fure of the blad- ' der, being nearly the fame in all the parts where it is punftured, its power of healing cannot differ much ; we are naturally led to fuppofe, there can be no great difference in favor of either operation, in this refpe61^. When the urine can pafs by its natural paffage, and the wound can be permitted to heal foon after the operation, I do not think there is any material difference; either of them, in healthy fubjefts, will heal without much difficulty : but, whenf C 89 ) it becomes neceffary to keep the pallage open, for a length of time, the wounded parts undergo fuch changes, as render them more difficult to heal. In confequence of fituation, and in confequence of other cir- cumftances, thefe changes will fomewhat differ in the different parts. In the operation above the pubes, it is neceffary, as I before obferved, that the canula ffiould be kept conftantly in the wound. This extraneous body proves a fource of irritation, by which a continual inflammation is kept up : this inflamma- tion is partly fuppurative, and partly ad- hehve. A coagulable lymph is conftantly being thrown out of the inflamed veffels, into the furrounding parts, producing a confiderable thickening and hardnefs of them; at the fame time, there is great dan- ger of finufes forming. If the patient Ihould furvive till this change has taken 'N place,( go ) place, and jdie natural paflage fhould then be opened, on the inftrument being with- drawn, the edges of the wound in the blad- der will have become fo firm and hard, as to be incapable of contrafting; and the urine will, for fome time, efcape into the re- ticular membrane, producing the fame unhappy confequences, as when it efcapes immediately after the bladder is punftured. For, in order that the wound may heal, it is neceffary that granulations form, and fill up its fpace; and that the greater part of the coagulable lymph be removed by abforption. This, from the weaknefs of the living powers in the part, muff be a work of fome time; and, frequently, the wound will not heal at all. In the operation in perinaeo, we are, in fome meafure, liable to the fame inconve- nience as in the former operation; that is, the wound being unfavorable^for healing; al-( 91 ) although, from the dijBFerence in the ftruc-- ture of the furroimding parts, the urine is lefs liable to get into them : but, now and then, the external wound will clofe ; the wound in the bladder continuing open. When this is the cafe, very troublefome "abfcelfes, and deep-feated, complicated fif- tulas, are liable to be produced. When the operation is performed per ano, very different opinions have been en- tertained ; fome faying that the wound produced here is more favorable for heal- ing, and others, that it is more unfavor- able, than in either of the other opera- tions ; and both parties fometimes call in experience to fupport their opinions. Cafes, no doubt, have occurred, where the wound has not healed after the na^ tural pajflage was reftored, but has con- tinued fiflulous ; and the urine, by cont- Ifantly palling through it into the rec- N 2 turn.( 92 i) turn, has proved very troublefome. But, in thefe cafes, I am of opinion that either fufficient attention was not paid, in per- forming the operation, the opening be- ing made too large, or not in the proper place ; or the parts were, previoufly, in a \ difeafed date. For there are feveral cafes • upon record, where this operation was per- formed, with fuccefs; and, in fome of them, a canula was kept in the wound conflantly for four or five weeks ; when, the urine palfing through the urethra, it was removed, and the wound healed in a very Ihort time. I can fee no reafon why this Ihould not always be the cafe, when the operation is performed with attention. If care is taken to prevent the bladder being too much didended with urine, the urine will not prevent the healing of the part; and ex- perience proves, alfo, that the faeces can do no harm, even fhould they get into the wound; which, if the wound is made as fmall( 93 ) fmall as it ought to be, will feldom be the cafe. If the canula is laid afide, and is had recourfe to, only when neceflity re- quires it, a material advantage will thus be obtained over the other operations : for this caufe of irritation not being prefent, the fides of the wound will not become fo thick and hard ; by confequence, the pow- ers of reftoration will be greater, and the wound will heal in a Ihorter time. V. Of the FACILITY of each operation to the SURGEON.- The laft conlideration which now oc- curs to me, when the operation is per- formed on found parts, and in an healthy fubjeft, is the facility of the operation to the furgeon. To( 94 ) To a furgeon who is acquainted with the anatomy of the parts, and accuftomed to diffeftion, this confideration ought to have but little weight; as he knows how to avoid wounding thofe parts which ought not to be wounded, and is able to perform each operation with as much eafe and fafety as, from its nature, it will admit of: but as this operation, when indicated, admits of no delay, it often happens that a praftitioner muft perform it who has not thefe advantages. In this inftance, it will generally be proper for the furgeon, on his own account as well as on the ac- count of his patient, to perform the ope- ration in that manner which is eafieh and attended with the leaft danger of wound- ing any important part; although fome objeftions may occur, which would, other- wife, forbid it. If( 95 ) If the patient is not very corpulent, and the bladder admits of a moderate degree of diftention, the operation above the pubes is the moft fafe and eafy; but when the bladder cannot be felt above the pubes, either from its not admitting of fufficient diftention, or from the corpu- lency of the patient, this mode of operat- ing is embarraffing, and even dangerous. The operation per ano is, by no means, difficult: the rules for performing it are few, and eafy to be obferved ; and, by at- tending to them, the operation may be performed by a perfon who is ignorant of praftical anatomy, without danger, at leaft to the life of the patient. ' The operation in perinseo, I before ob- ferved, is very difficult; and, fometimes, embarraffing. If it can poffibly be avoid- ed, it ought not to be attempted by a per- fon( 96 ) foil who is not well acquainted with the ftrufture, and fituation, of the parts con- cerned. Having now conlidered what has oc- curred to me as worthy of notice, both againft and in favor of each mode of punc- turing the bladder, when the operation is performed on a fubjefl in whom the parts have not undergone any conliderable dif- eafed change ; I proceed to make fome obfervations on thofe difeafes which ought to influence our condu6l in determining which mode of operating is preferable in particular cafes. SECTION( 97 ) SECTION V. OF THE DISEASES WHICH, BEING' PRE- SENT WITH THE RETENTION OF U- RINE, OUGHT TO INFLUENCE THE SURGEON, IN determining WHICH OPERATION IS PREFERABLE. "TTTERE each of thefe difeafes to be ^ ^ fully confidered, this would open an extenfive field for enquiry; but to give a complete hiftory of them, is foreign to the intention of this elfay. I fliall at- tempt to confider them, fo far only as they are connefted with thefe operations. I In this point of view, they may be di- vided under two heads. O. I. Thofe( 98 ; I. Thofe which give rife to the reten- tion of urine; and, II. Thofe which are accidentally prefent in the furrounding parts. I. Of thofe DISEASES which give rise to the retention ^ urine. Under this head come to be conlidered fome of the difeafes of the urethra, of the proftrate gland, and of the bladder itfelf. The difeafes of the urethra, which I think it neceffaiy to notice, are ftrifture, fpafm, inflammation, calculi, and excre- fcences in the urethra. I do not think that either of thefe dif- eafes, fingly, except fpafm, can produce a retention of urine' fo permanent as to render the operation neceffary. Striftures form gra- dually;( 99 ) dually; and, before they completely clofc the urethra, a new paffage is always form- ed. If a fmall calculus gets into the ure- thra, and produces a retention of urine, when it is near the neck of the bladder, it may be pulhed back into it; and when it can be come at, externally, it may fome- times be brought forwards, by a gentle prelfure being made with a finger behind it: if this does not fucceed, it may be cut upon, and thus removed. A calculus, too fmall to fill the diame- ter of the urethra, may get into it, and be retained behind a ftrifture, when it will gradually become increafed in fize ; but then a groove will be formed in it, thro’ which the urine will pafs. The fame will happen where'there is no ftrifture, if a cal- culus fhould be retained in the urethra any confiderable length of time. If a fpafm affe6ls an urethra that was previoufly O 2 in( lOO ) in a found ftate, it generally yields to proper treatment; nor, in any inftance with which I am acquainted, has inflam- mation of the urethra caufed a permanent retention of urine, indicating an operation. But a retention of urine is, fometimes, produced by a conjun6lion of two, or more, of thefe difeafes. Perfons who la- bor under a ftrifture, are very fubjeft to fpafm at the ftriftured part, producing a very obfliinate retention of urine, that will fometimes fruftrate every milder method of treatment. In thefe cafes, the a6Iion which, after a certain time, takes place in the bladder, for the expulfion of the urine; and frequently, alfo, the inflammation pro- duced by the repeated attempts to ch'aw it off; increafes the violence of the fpafm, or continues it after it would otherwife have ceafed. When we judge this to be the cafe, we expeft that, on removing the water.( >01 ) water, the inflammation, and fpafm, will ceafe, and that we fhall then have the ftric- ture only to remove. To evacuate the water, in this cafe, it is not neceflary, always, to punfture the bladder; for, if the ftrifture be even in the membranous part of the, urethra, (as, indeed, it moft frequently is,) and is not very clofe to the prolfrate, an incifion may fometimes be made into the urethra, be- yond it. For where a ftrifture has con- tinued for a confiderable time, that por- tion of the urethra above the ftrift ure, often becomes conliderably enlarged. When this is the cafe, and the patient is rather thin, if a catheter is pafled gently up, clofe to the ftrifture, in order to point out its precile fituation, and, a finger being placed immediately above it, the patient is defired to attempt the expulfion of his urine, an obfcure fluftuation may, fre- quently,( 102 ) quently, be felt. * Into this, a punfture Ihould be made. We may then wait till the inflammation, and fpafm, have ceafed; when we fhall be able to turn our atten- tion to the removal of the ftrifture. If the ftrifture is fo fituated that we can- not cut into the urethra beyond it, or if, being fituated in or near the membranous part, we cannot trace it by the mark I be- fore laid down, the bladder mull be punc- tured; and the only objeft of confidera- tion is, where this can be done to mofl: advantage, ( I Ihould, if polfible, avoid performing it in perinaeo; as, independent of the pre- ceding * I met with a cafe of this kind, about four years fince, where I could plainly feel a fluftuation : but the farally-furgeon exprefling very great doubts to the pa- tient about the fuccefs of an operation which prejudice had taught him to look upon as always fatal, the patient obftinately refufed to fubmit to it, and died.( J°3 ) ceding obfervations, from its vicinity to the difeafed part, the inflammation may increafe more, and fpread further, than it otherwife would. If I thought that, after the fpafm was a- bated, I could pafs a bougie beyond the ftrifture, I would perform the operation per ano: but if there is reafon to appre- hend that this cannot be done, I think the O' eration above the pubes is preferable, as then we are able to attempt the removal of the ftrifture; according to a plan recom- mended by Mr. Hunter. This is, to pafs a curved canula through the bladder, as far as the ftriflure, and a ftrait canula thro’ the external portion of the urethra; when, getting the ftriftured part between the two canulas, it may fafely be perfo- rated with a piercer. I faw( i°4 } 1 faw a cafe, not long lince, where a cal- culus was lodged in the membranous por- tion of the urethra, it had increafed gra- dually to a confiderable fize ; and, inflam- mation accidentally coming on in the part, a retention of urine took place, under which the man died. The furrounding parts were fo much inflamed, and fo tumid, that it ap- peared improper, if not almofl: imprafti- cable, to extraft the ftone, at that time. But had the bladder been punftured, either per ano, or above the pubes, the urine would have been evacuated, and the in- flammation, which was much increafed by its retention, would, it is mofl probable, have fubfided ; then the done might have been extracted, and the life of the patient, probably, have been faved; at leaft, a chance would have been obtained, which, from nothing being done, was inevitably loft. An-( 1°5 ) Another fet of caufes, producing a re- tention of urine, are, fome difeafes of the proftrate gland. We are not fo well acquainted with the difeafes, to which this part is fubjeft, as could be wilhed. There is, however, a difeafe of this part which is, frequently, the caufe of a retention of urine. At what time of life this difeafe, generally, firft commences, I cannot fay; but that ftate of it which gives rife to a retention of urine, is, by much, the moft frequent in old people, though not peculiar to them: I have feen it in a perfon below the age of forty. Ifi this ftate, the proftrate gland is fix or eight times its natural fize. Inftead of leflening, it increafes the fize of that portion of the urethra which is fituated within it, rendering it both wider and longer; but, at the fame time, increafing P Its( io6 ) its incurvation. In confequence of its ‘ increafed fize, and of the change it under- goes in form, the fides of it, and its pofte- rior portion, extend into the cavity of the bladder, giving the appearance of two or three tumors; fometimes of equals fome- times of different fizes. Thefe, falling to- gether, aft as valves to the urethra, pre- venting the free evacuation of the urine. They are fo fituated as to fall together^ fpontaneoufly; the confequence of which is, that they are preffed together with greater force, in proportion as the blad- der becomes diftended with urine. A perfon will, fometimes, bear this difeafe for feveral years, without any very great inconvenience, provided he is careful to * void his urine frequently; but, if he ne- glefts it for fome time beyond the ufual period, he will not be able to void it at all. The( 10/ ) The operation is not always neceffary, in thefe cafes; for, frequently, by proper attention, and a little dexterity, a catheter may be palfed into the bladder. Occa- fionally, however, the furgeon is not fo fortunate ; and the patient has no chance for his life, but from the bladder being punflured. As retentions of urine are met with at different periods of the difeafe we are now fpeaking of, I fhall, with refpeft to the operation, divide it into two dates; which will give rife to fome diverfity in our praftice. J. The proftrate gland may be enlarged to a confiderable fize, without giving the patient much trouble, provided he is at- tentive not to fuffer the urine to colled in too large a quantity. In this date, indam- mation may come on, and produce a reten- P2 lion( io8 ) tion of urine. The fame effeft may be produced by allowing the urine to colleft in too large a quantity. Or both thefc caufes may aft together, the one increaf- ing the other. 2. The proftrate gland may be fo enr larged, and in fuch a difeafed ftate, that the patient is harralfed by frequent re^ turns of the retention of urine. In the firfi; ftate of the difeafe, there are two or three caufes co-operating, in pro- ducing the retention of urine; and we have reafon to believe, that, if we can remove thofe caufes, which are temporary, the pa- tient, at leaft for a time, may be tolerable comfortable. The enlargement of the proftrate gland, it is moft probable wefhall find difficult to remove: but the inflam- mation, or the urine, may generally be removed by art. A( »°9 ) A cafe occurred to me, about two years fince, in which the proftrate gland was difeafed ; but the patient could void his urine with tolerable eafe, till one day, after walking the diftance of feveral miles (dur- ing a confiderable part of which he re- filled a great defire to make water, for want of a convenient opportunity), he found himfelf unable to void his urine at all, altho’ he made repeated and violent atempts. He was bled, medicines were given internally; and feveral attempts were made to introduce a catheter, but with no good eff'eft. The next morning I faw him, when he labored under a confiderable fymptomatic fever, with great tenfion and tendernefs of the lower part of the abdo- men. The bladder was, evidently, very much dillended, and the patient was ama- fingly diftrefled by its frequent and violent contraftions; during which, a fingle drop, or two drops, of urine, now and then, came( 3*0 ) came away, tinged with blood ; and, upon enquiry, I found that a confiderable quan- tity of blood had come away, after the dif- ferent attempts to introduce a catheter. Sufpefting the caufe of the difeafe, I palf- ed my finger into the reftum : in doing this, I found confiderable difficulty; part- ly from the very irritable ftate of the rec- tum and fphinfter ani, and partly from the extreme pain I gave the patient by preffing againff the urethra and proftrate gland. I found the proflrate very much enlarged ; but was able to get the end of my finger beyond it. As the parts were in fuch an inflamed and irritable flate, and as I thought the introducing of a trocar lb far up the reblum, under the difficulties which I found I muff encounter, would prove very embarraffing, and, in fome de- gree, dangerous; and as the patient, at the fame time, was rather thin; I had refolved, if the operation became neceflary, to per- form( 111 ) form it above the pubes; where I could plainly feel the bladder diftended with urine: but I thought it proper, firft, to at- tempt the introdu6lion of a catheter. Af- ter perfevering in this attempt, for near one hour and a half, with very little inter- ruption, I was fo fortunate as to lucceed in Hipping the point of the catheter, before the projefting portion of the prollrate gland, into the bladder. The patient, as may be expefted, was inftantly relieved; and, by means of phlebotomy, perfe6f reft, low diet, cool air, fomentations, and re- peated clyfters, the inflammation was gra- dually reduced : but it was full a month before the patient was able to evacuate his urine, with tolerable freedom ; during the greater part of which time, I was under the neceflity of drawing it off", every twelve hours. In doing this, for the firft five or fix daysj I, in general, found great diflE- culty,( 112 ) culty, and was fometimes half an hour, or more, before I fucceeded ; but, at laft, I found that, on bringing the extremity of the inftrument to pafs againft a certain point of the urethra, with very moderate force, it fuddenly flipped into the bladder. As the acute inflammation abated, the proftrate gland became fomewhat fmaller; but, when I ceafed to attend the patient, it was three, or four times its natural fize: and, even then, probably, was very little larger than it was before this attack. For afterwards, upon enquiring the hiftory of this man, I found that he frequently ex* perienced fome little difficulty in making water, and, that now and then, in confe- quence of violent exercife, or of retaining his urine too long, he had fuffered a tern* porary retention, but never in fo violent a degree as when I faw him. About( ) About eight months after this, I met with another cafe, in every refpeft fimi- lar to that above defcribed; except that the fymptoms were fomewhat lefs violent. It was near three-quarters of an hour before I fucceeded in getting a catheter into the bladder, in this cafe; and it was nearly three weeks afterwards, before the urine could be evacuated without the affiftance of a catheter. But, as I before obferved, we are not always fo. fortunate as to fucceed in intro- ducing a catheter; and the bladder muft be punftured, or death enfue. If, in this ftate of the difeafe, the prof- trate gland is not fo enlarged as to prevent the finger being palfed beyond it, with to- lerable eafe, the operation can be per- formed per ano ; but, if the finger cannot Q be( 114 ) be paffed beyond the proftrate, it ought not to be attempted in this part, if it can pofTibly be performed above the puhes. It is dangerous to attempt pun6Iuring the bladder through the reftum, above the reach of the finger; and every one muft fee the impropriety of wounding the prof- trate, when in this difeafed ftate. The difeafe will be hurried on more rapidly; and the wound, in all probahility, will ne- ver heal. Indeed, the operation per ano is not the bell; (fpeaking generally), in any cafe of this difeafe. In each of the cafes before related, I was able to feel the blad- der, beyond the proftrate gland ; but the anus, fyrnpathifing with the difeafe of the contiguous parts, was extremely irritable, and its mufcles contrafled fo forcibly, that I found confiderable difficulty in intro- ducing a finger, and gave the patient a great deal of pain. There was greater ir- \ ritability( ii5 ) ritability in the anufes in thefe cafes, than in thofe cafes I have met with where the difeafe was further advanced. If the operation per ano is fometimes objeftionable, on account of the danger of increafing the difeafe of the proftrate gland, the operation in perinaeo muft be always fo : this gland being fo enlarged, it is im- polfible to punfture the bladder, from the perinasum, without palfing through it; and in a part, alfo, much thicker than the part which would be wounded, by palfing a trocar thro’ it, in the operation per ano. The difeafe of the proftrate will, alfo, be increafed, by the inflammation ariling from the extenlive wound which muft be made in the integuments. The operation above the pubes, feems to have the preference in this ftate of the difeafe; as we can evacuate the urine by Q 2 that( ) that operation, without danger of in- creafing the caufe of its retention; and, as foon as we are able to pafs a catheter into .the bladder, through the urethra, it ought to be done, and kept, if the urethra will bear it, almoft conftantly there, until the artificial opening is healed. In the fecond date of this difeafe, the patient is in the mofl; melancholy fituation it is poffible to conceive. The diforder which the fyflem fuffers from the inter- ruption of fo important a funftion, gra- dually reduces it to a mod emaciated and debilitated date : frequent returns of the mod excruciating pain, dedroy both his happinefs and red. From the continu- ance, and progredive increafe, of the dif- eafe, every Iiope of relief, in this world, vanidies; the fpirits are agitated and ex- hauded, and death is implored to termi- nate his fufferings. In( 117 ) In this ftate, a retention of urine, fome- times, comes on; under which the patient finks ; or, when the fit has been violent, he dies exhaufled, after the water has been drawn off. Now and then, before a retention of urine takes place, rendering the operation neceffary, fuppuration takes place in the proftrate gland; which, becoming more general, gradually extends to the furround- ing parts. If, during this ffage of the difeafe, a total retention of urine takes place, all that we can hope for is, to give a momen- tary relief from the pain ; and, perhaps, to prolong life a few days, or hours. The prognoftic is fo unfavorable, and the dread of cutting fo great, that the patient himfelf will feldom fubmit to the operation; nor will his friends, often, permit it. Indeed, I * dodo not think it fhould be recommended, unlefs there is a profpeft of the urine again pafTing by its natural palTage; for it can be performed, with any degree of propriety, above the pubes only, and even this mode of operating has a very ftrong objeftion. For, although the operation may prove fo far fuccefsful, that the pa- tient lhall furvive this fit, the urine muft pafs through the artificial opening, dur- ing the remainder of his life: by confe- quence, it will be continually efcaping in- to the reticular membrane furrounding the bladder, and exciting inflammation there; which muft, neceftarily, add to the mifery of the patient, and increafe the original difeafe. In thefe deplorable inftances, I think, it is not a bad praftice to pafs a catheter, the diameter of which is fmall, as far along the urethra as is pofiible, and then thruft( ”9 ) it, through the projefting portion of the proftrate gland, into the bladder, leaving it there, if poflible, till the inflammation in- duced by it fubfided ; when the opening, if the patient lives, will, probably, become fiftulous. If this mode is not preferred to the operation above the pubes, it may be had recourfe to when that cannot: as, for inftance, when the patient is very corpu- lent ; or when the bladder is not fuf- ficiently diftended, to be felt above the pubes. The third fet of difeafes which I obferv- ed may caufe a retention of urine, are thofe of the bladder itfelf. The bladder is fubjeft to a great variety of difeafes. But cafes of retention of urine, requiring the operation, in confe- quence of a difeafe of the bladder, are very rare. Polypi' ( 120 ) Polypi, (ometimes, form, on the inter- nal furface of the bladder, and prove ex- tremely troublefome; giving rife to fymp- toms very fimilar to thofe depending on the ftone, or a difeafed proftrate. But a retention of urine caufed by them is, gene- rally, removed with great eafe, by a ca- theter. It is poflible that a fmall polypus, fituated clofe to the neck of the urethra, may flip into it, and, a degree of inflam- mation, or fpafm, coming on, may be re- tained fo firmly, as to reflfl; every attempt to pafs a catheter. When the neck of the bladder is become ulcerated, a fungus may form, from the difeafed furface, and caufe a retention of urine. But if this fliould not give way to the catheter, the fubftance is fo foft that, it is more than probable, the inftrument will pafs through it. Hydatids( 121 ) Hydatids have been known to form about the neck of the urethra, and caufe a retention of urine; but they alfo will, ge- nerally, yield to the force of the catheter. ( In any of thefe cafes fhould it become necelTary to punfture the bladder, if the proftrate gland and the parts furrounding the anus are free from difeafe, I prefer the operation per ano. There are fome other difeafes which are faid, occafionally, to produce a retention of urine ; but as they will give rife to no' new obfervations refpeHing the operations for relieving it, it is not necelTary to fpeak of them here. Therefore, I proceed now to the fecond clafs of thofe difeafes which ought to in- fluence our conducf in deterniining where to punfture the bladder. R Of( 122 ) Of the DISEASES which may acciden- tally be PRESENT in the surround- ing PARTS. Of thefe, I fliall fay but little; it being fufficient for our purpofe, merely to men- tion them, and point out the inconve- niencies attending the operation, when performed in a part where they are pre- fent. When a patient is troubled with haemor- rhoides, caution is neceffary m punfturing the bladder through the re6lum; for, m fome cafes, the velfels are confiderably en- larged, and may give rife to a troublefome hemorrhage. From the increafed thick- nefs of the cellular fubllance about the redum, the parts are more difficult to dffi- tinguilh; efpecially, the vafa deferentia, and vefficule feminales. A ftiH greater in-( 123 ) inconvenience may arife, from the un- healthy ftate of the parts diminilhing theif powers of reftoration; in confequence of which, the wound is more liable to be- come fiftuloiis. It is not every cafe of piles that can ren- der this operation improper. If they are not very large, nor fituated high up the reflum, they need not, I think, be much regarded. But no general rule can be given which will, invariably, diftinguifh when this, or either of the other modes of operating, ought to be avoided: it mull be left to the judgment of the fur- geon; and thatjudgmentmuftbe regulated by confidering all the objeaions to the different modes of operating, and this amongft the reft. In cafes of fcirrhous reaum, the ope- ration ought, by no means, to be per- R 2 form-( 124 ) formed per ano; it is hurrying the patient on todeftruftion : violent pain, and inflam- mation, will be produced; and life will, inevitably, be Ihortened. Abrcefles, and filkilas about the anus, ought to prevent our performing the ope- ration per ano, if it can poflibly be done in another part. Abfcefl’es, and fiftulas, in perinaeo.are an obieaion to the operation m that part; unlefs we have reafon to believe that we can perform an operation, to relieve them, at the fame time. Even then, 1 think it a dangerous praftice. CON-( 125 ) CONCLUSIONS. From the obfervations laid down, in the foregoing pages, the following conclufions are drawn. I. A retention of urine is, ftriftly fpeaking, a fymptomatic difeafe. It is a fymptoin arifing from any difeafe which obftrufts the paffage thro’ the urethra; and when that difeafe can be rernoved, this fymptom immediately ceafes. II. The parts concerned in the different modes of punfturing the bladder, are liable to. ( >26- ) to confiderable changes in their ftrufture; fome of which changes are confiftent with health, many the confequence of difeafe; but any of them will, in moll cafes, conli- derably influence the fuccefs of the ope- ration. Therefore, in every cafe, before the advantages, and difadvantages, of each ' mode of operating, with refpeft either to their immediate, or to their remote con- fequences, can be determined, it is necef- fary to be acquainted with the exa6l ftatc of the parts concerned. III. A retention of urine arifing, fometimes from a change in the ftrufture of the ure- thra, or of fome part connefted with it; fometimes from a difeafed aftion of thefe parts; it is neceflary to be acquainted with the caufe of it, alfo, before it can be af- certained which mode of operating is pre- ferable. IV.I > VI. ( 127 ) IV. Suppofing all the parts concerned in the operations to be in a ftate of health; when the patient is moderately thin; the operation above the pubes is moft eafy to perform ; and moft ftmple, with refpeft to the anatomy of the parts. The opera- tion per ano is ftmple, and by no means difficult. The parts concerned in the ope- ration in perin2£0, are more numerous than in either of the above operations; and the precife fttuation of fome of them being rather uncertain, the operation is more complex and difficult. V. If the natural paffage can be reftored immediately, the eafieft mode of operating is preferable; as the urine may be eva- cuated as freely, and the wound will heal as readily, as in that mode of operating which is more difficult.■ ( 128 ) - VI. If the natural paflage cannot be refliored immediately; or, if the cafe is doubtful; the operation per ano ought to be pre- ferred. The patient can, generally, retain his urine ; he is freed from the danger and trouble of a canula ; and, what is of ftill more confequence, he can expel the urine freely, whenever he pleafes, without dan- ger of its collefting in the furrounding parts. VII. If any of the parts to be wounded, in either mode of operating, have undergone fuch a difeafed change in their ftrufturc as may leflen their powers of reftoration, or fuch a change as may render the pre- cife fituation of any important part un- certain, that mode of operating ought, if pollible, to be avoided. Therefore, when the proflrate gland is enlarged ; and in( 129 ) in many difeafes of the perinaeum; it is improper to perform the operation in pe- rinsEO. When the reftum is affefted with a fcirrhus ;• in fome cafes of haemorrhoides ; when the proftrate gland is fo enlarged, that the operation cannot be performed above it; and in any cafe where the fluftuation of the urine cannot be dif- tinftly felt, by a finger, in the reftum fthe- operation per ano is improper. When the patient is very corpulent, or is dropfical; or when the bladder cannot be felt diftinftly, as the fituation of the peritonaeum is uncer- certain, the operation ought not to be per- formed above the pubes. SfjCrAPPENDIX. PRACTICAL observations ON SOME OF THE CAUSES OF RETENTION OF URINE, AND ON THE USE OF CATHE- TERS. TN the preceding obfervations on reten- tion of urine, the principal objeft I had in view was, the operation of putifturing the bladder. As the performing of this opera- tion is highly improper, before every mild- er method, from which there is a chance of obtaining relief, has been tried; any ob- S 2 fer-( 132 ) fervations in that place, on the introduc- tion of catheters, would have been foreign to the fubjeft. But as the introduaion of a catheter, though apparently a very fim- ple, is often an extremely delicate and dif- ficult operation ; and, at the fame time, an operation on the facility of performing, and on the proper management and luc- cefs of which, the life of a patient, fome- times, depends ; I hope I (hall not be thought tedious, if I venture, here, to make fome obfervations upon it. SECTION( 133 ) r;i . , Mi SECTION I. : .1, f OF CATHETERS, A'S ADAPTED TO THE URETHRA,IN ITS HEALTHY STATE. A Catheter ought to correfpond, in length, diameter, and curvature, with the urethra into which it is introduced. It ought to be o£ a fufficient length to enter the bladder; of fuch a dia- meter as to pafs freely, and yet, in fome degree, to fill the urethra, that its extre- mity may not catch in the fides of it, or get into fome of the larger lacunas; and, in curvature, it ought to correfpond with the curvature of the urethra. All this, I have no doubt, will, generally fpeaking, be uni- verfally allowed. As( 134 ) As the general form of the urethra, the dimenfions of thofe catheters which are in moft frequent ufe, and the mode of intro- ducing them through an healthy urethra, are all laid down in numerous works which are in the hands of every body, it is not ne- celfary for me to take up much time on that part of the fubjeft. But I think it neceffary to obferve, that the catheters in general ufe do, moll of them, vary, very conliderably, from the urethra, in the degree of curva- ture ; and, indeed, they vary very conli- derably from each other; although they almoft all agree in this^, that they form a fegmcnt of a much larger circle, than that formed by the urethra; and their curva- ture is lelfened towards the point. As that part of the urethra, on the outer fide of the pubes, freely admits of flexion, in any direction; and as the membranous part, where tlie principal curvature is form- ed,\ ( 135 ) ed, admits of confiderable variation from its natural ftate, little inconvenience is, in general, obferved, from this difference. When the catheter is buffered to pafs gent- ly along, and to take its own direftion, it follows that courfe where there is leaft re- finance ; and, by that means, although it does not prefs immediately in a proper direftion, it generally enters the bladder. But for a catheter to enter the bladder with the greateft eafe, the curvature ought to be greater than it commonly is, and ought to be continued equally to the ex- tremity. This renders a little more atten- tion neceffary, in paffing it as far as the bulb. That, however, is of little confe- quence ; as the catheter we are now fpeak- ing of, ought never to be ufed for the re- moval of any obflru6lion in that part of the paffage of the urethra, fituatcd be- tween the bulb and the external orifice. But when the point arrives at the curva- ture( 136 ) ture of the urethra, it paffes, with much greater eafe; is lefs liable to catch in any irregularities, or in the lacunae; and there is a much greater chance of its overcoming any refiftance that may be in the paffage for, on its entering this part, the centre of the canal becomes the centre of its mo- tion ; and, the curve of the catheter fol- lowing the curve of the urethra, the force propelling it forwards, acls, equally, on all fides of the canal, and not on its pofterior fide only, as is the cafe with the generality of catheters. Thus the catheter palfes on, fcarcely altering the relative fituation of the parts. When this circumftance is at- tended to, the furgeon has a much better command, alfo, of the inftrument, and is able to vary the direftion of its point with much greater eafe. Many pratfitioners direft us to begin nafliiio- a catheter, with the concave part ' of( 137 ) SECTION T towards the abdomen; while others dire6l US to keep the concave part downwards, until the point be paffed under the arch of the pubes. More ftrefs is often laid on this part of the operation, than it appears to deferve. It feems, to me, very immaterial which mode is preferred; though, perhaps, the former, being the fimpleft, is generally the belt. If the inftrument is palfed flow- ly along, and the handle of it is kept fufh- ciently elevated, the point paffes with the greateft eafe under the arch of the pubes, even when it is much more curved than catheters commonly are. In fome cafes, where the urethra was very irritable, I have feen the patient exprefs confiderable pain, during the time of turning the cathe- ter ; although it was done with the great- eft care, and the point kept as fteady as poftible.( 138 ) I SECTION II, OF THE DISEASES CAUSING RETENTION OF URINE, AND OF THE USE OF CATHE- TERS IN THEM. I Before an inftmment is paffed into the bladder, to draw off the urine, the caufe of its retention fhould, if poflible, be afcertained. Cafes of retention of urine often occur, where the immediate intro- duaion of an inftrument is improper, or impraaicable; and where other means may firft be tried, with greater propriety, and a much greater chance of fuccefs. When artificial means are employed to procure an evacuation of the urine, it is ^ be-( 139 ) S \ becaufe the bladder is not capable of over- coming the refinance which the urine meets with, in its pafiage thro’ the urethra. Th’is may arife from different caufes.' It may arife from a diminution, or lofs, of the contraftile power of the bladder; rendering it incapable of overcoming the ufual refiftance; as is the cafe in paralyfis of the bladder; or when it has contrafted firm adhefions with the furrounding parts, in confequence of violent inflammation, as now and then happens. In thefe inftances, no difficulty is found in paffing a catheter. Or it may arife from an increafed re- fiftance in the paffage of the urethra. This refiftance may be produced by a variety of caufes : by a fubftance preffing on the orifice of the urethra, as a cal- culus, a polypus, hydatids, &c. ; or by tumors ])reffing the fides of the urethra T 2 to-.( 140 ) together. Or it inay be caufed by a dif- eafe of the urethra, or of the proftrate gland. When a retention of urine arifes from a calculus, or any fubftance, falling on the orifice of the urethra, there is, generally, no difficulty in introducing a catheter; fometimes it gives the patient a degree of pain, from the irritable Hate of the neck of the bladder. - . ' When the refifiance to the paifage of the urine is caufed by a tumor preffing on the fides of the urethra, before an attempt is made to pafs a catheter, the furgeon ffiould endeavor to-afcertain the nature of the tumor, and its precife fituation, with refpea to the urethra. The knowledge of this, is often of great confequence in introducing an inftrument ; and, fome- times, will prevent the neceffity of it, by ena-( 141 ) enabling him to remove a part of the pref- fure; as, for inftance, when an abfcefs forms in perinaeo, and, by its preffure, caufes a retention, means Ihould be employed to abate the inflammation; when fuppuration has taken place, an opening fhould be made into itj as early as poflible, and the pus evacuated ; when the urine will, frequently, flow fponta- neoufly. The moft frequent, and the moft ferious cafes of retention of urine, arife from difeafes of the urethra, and of the proftrate gland. It is in thefe cafes, that a catheter, which, in general, is a fafe inflrument, and is managed with great eafe, becomes fre- quently a formidable. and dangerous in- ftrument, requiring the greateft judgment, delicacy, and attention, in the management of it. Xhere( »42 ) There is a variety of difeafes of the ure- thra, which occafion a retention of urine; but a catheter ought not to be ufed, indif- criminately, in them all. Very few are the cafes in which a furgeon, if he is called in in time, ought not firft to employ fuch other means as the nature of the fymptom fhall diftate. Difeafes of the urethra may be divided into, fuch as arife from a difeafed a6lion; fuch as arife ’ from an alteration in the » ftrufture; and fuch as are complicated. I. Of Inflammation. Inflammation of the urethra, either from venereal or other caufes, fometimes becomes fo violent, as to produce a total retention of urine ; and the attention of the patient is, frequently, fo engaged by the( 143 ) the latter fymptom, that he fuppofes it to be the caufe of all his fulFerings. On the contrary, it is the effefl of the difeafe. For, when the retention of urine is com- plete, it is becaufe there is no urine in the bladder; the inflammation having extend- ed up to the kidneys, and prevented the fecretion of it. Where there is violent inflammation of the urethra, and neck of the bladder, extreme ftrangury is often the confequence ; the urine coming away, with great pain and difficulty, by drops; but I never heard of inflammation, alone, caufing a total retention of urine, if there was any in the bladder. The introduftion of a catheter in thefe cafes is highly improper; it puts the patient to a vafl; deal of pain, unneceflarily, and in- fallibly increafes the difeafe it is intended to remedy. On the other hand, bleeding largely, and repeating it with freedom ; the( Hi ) the warm bath; emollient clyfters, given frequently; fomentations; antimonials,and opium, by the mouth, in fmall dofes; and the antiphlogiftic plan followed to its great- eft extent, is generally found to reduce the inflammation, and produce a fpeedy flow of the urine. II. 0/ Spasm. The urethra is fubje6l to another dif- eafed a6f ion, alfo; which is a violent mor- bid contraftion, without inflammation. This is generally called, a fpafm of the urethra. Thofe cafes of this difeafe which I have feen, were in people whofe ureters were very irritable ; and this irritability appeared to be brought on, either by a preceding inflammation from gonorrhea, or fome other caufe, or from the prefence of a ftridure. A perfon who has once been( H5 ) been troubled with it, is very liable to a return; and, in many people, itfeemsto, become habitual, returning at frequent, and uncertain periods. The degree of its violence is uncertain j and the time of its continuance is equally fo. Sometimes it is produftive only of a flight pain, and difficulty in voiding the urine, and difap- pears in a ffiort time. Occafionally, it is more violent and continued; cauflng a complete retention of urine. When this is the cafe, the violent aftion of the blad- der, and abdominal mufcles, prefles the urine againft the difeafed part, and thus keeps up a conftant irritation, which ren- ders the difeafe more obflinate. It is not always, however, that the intro- du6lion of an inftrument is found necef- fary to draw off the water, in a fpafm of the urethra, unconnefted with any difeafed alteration in its flru6lure. It fhould not II be( 146' ) be attempted, except in cafes where there is a complete retention, and the bladder is fo diftended, that we have reafon to fear an inflammation, before any other means have time to produce their effefl;; and, even then, an attempt fhould firfl. be made to introduce a bougie. A fpafm of the urethra, complicated with a ftrifture, I fhall fpeak of prefently; and the treatment, both of Ample and com- plicated fpafm, is very fimilar: fo that, as far as relates to the acute fymptoms, they may often be looked upon as the fame difeafe, only differing in degree ; efpecially as the furgeon is frequently at a lofs to afcertain whether there be a permanent flrifture or not. The manner, therefore, of treating Ample fpafm, may, with eafe, be collefted from the obfervations that will prefently occur, refpefting the treatment of the complicated difeafe. III. Of /( >47 ) m. o/s TRiCTURE, complicated with the foregoing diseases. The urethra, as I before obferved, is fub- jeft to difeafed changes, not ofily in its aftions, but alfo in its ftru6lure. Difeafes arifing from this caufe, are more tedious, and lefs acute, than thofe depend- ing on the former; and are extremely lia- ble to be complicated with them. The moft frequent difeafe of this kind taking place, primarily, in the urethra, and the only one which I fhall mention here, is' ftrifture. As a llri61;ure is a confiderable time in forming, and increafes by flow degrees, it never, alone, caufes a complete retention of urine; for, before a ftrifture clofes the 'U 2 paf-( 148 ) paffage of the urethra, a new paffage is al- ways formed in the parts beyond it. There^ would, therefore, be no occalion for no- ticing this difeafe, in this place, were it not that perfons laboring under flriftures, are liable to inflammation, to fpafm, or to cal- culi, being retained by them : thus giving rife to fome of the moft diftrefling cafes of retention of urine ; which, oftentimes, can be relieved by an operation only. • When inflammation comes on a ftric-' ture, the plan of treatment proper in a flinple inflammation of the part, ought to be purfued, and carried to its utmoft ex- tent, before any attempt is made to intro- duce an inftrument. Urethras laboring under a ftrifture, feem to be peculiarly liable to a fpafm; and this complicated difeafe is, as far as my oblervations have extended, a more fre- quent( 149 ) quent caufe of obftinate retentions of urine, than any that occurs. In thefe cafes, it fliould be recollefted, that there are two caufes, operating toge- ther in the produdion of the difeafe: the one, a permanent change in the ftrufture of the part; which can be removed by local applications only i the other, a tem- porary change in the a6lions of the part; which, if time will permit us to wait, may, often, be removed, by the appli- cation of remedies, both general and lo- cal ; or which will, frequently, ceafe fpon- taneoufly. It fliould be recollefted, alfo, that the means which are neceffary to re- move the llrifture, have, often, a manifeft tendency to increafe the fpafm* As the ftrifture, alone, did not produce a complete retention of urine, we have reafon to think that, if the difeafed aftion can( iso ) can firft be removed, the urine may be evacuated by its natural paflage; and then time will be obtained to employ proper means for the removal of the former dif- eafe. Unlefs the attendance of a furgeon is neglefted fo long, that the fymptoms from retention become alarming, and there is danger from inflammation and mortifica- tion, no attempt ought to be made to pafs a catheter into the bladder, until other means have been ufed to leflen, or, if pof- fible, to remove the fpafm : for we lhall, almofl; certainly, be foiled in the attempt; and, if we are, the irritation offered to the parts will render the difeafe more violent. If an attempt is made, at this time, to in- troduce a bougie, it fhould be with a view only of afcertaining the nature of the dif- eafe ; it ought to be introduced with ex- treme caution ; and, on its meeting with a per-( 151 ) permanent refiftance, it ought to be with- drawn. The other means that may be ufed to leflen, or remove the fpafm, are fuch as are known to leflen the fpafmodic aftion of the mufcles, in other parts; and fuch as are known, from experience, to have before produced good effefts in this dif- eafe. Thefe remedies are either local or general. When the difeafe is not very violent, the former, alone, are frequently capable of removing it; as, emollient, and anodyne clyfters; fomentations, and poultices ; to the perinaeum. Stimulating applications, rubbed on the perineum, have, often, produced a good effeft; as volatile lini- ment, and many of the rubefacientia. I have feen relief obtained by rubbing the perinacum, gently, for fome time, with a mix-( 152 ) mixture of camphorated fpirits, and tinc- ture of opium. Blifters to the perinseum, above the pubes, or to the facrum, have been recommended. Dipping the glans penis in cold water, is faid, fometimes to have removed the fpafrn. Dafhing cold water on the abdomen, has been recom- mended; and I have feen it tried, but without the leaft good effeft. Eleftricity has been recommended. In fome cafes, where the patient has been coftive, a pur- gative has procured a relaxation of the fpafrn. - But if local remedies do not give relief, in a fhort time, they fhould be joined with thofe that ad upon the fyftem in general. Of thefe, one of the rnoft powerful is, 6pium, given in large dofes, and repeated as often as the fyffem can bear it. Thofe means which leffen the force of the circu- lation, and of the inufcular a6lion in ge- neral.( 153 ) neral, are very powerful remedies ; and have, frequently, brought on a flow of the urine, after almoft every other remedy has failed ; and after attempts, to pafs a bou- gie, or a catheter, have been made in vain. The means, for this purpofe, are various. Bleeding from a large orifice, till the pati- tient begins to faint, will fometimes caufe a relaxation of the fpafm, and the urine will come away on preffing the lower part of the abdomen; or a bougie will be found to pafs, although it was refifted a few mi- nutes before. When this method has fail- ed, I have feen a ftrong infufion of tobacco, given, a few drops every half hour, till it excites naufea, prove effe6fual. It leffens the force, and frequency, of the pulfe, and induces an univerfal debility over the whole fyflem, fometimes to an amazing de- gree. Under this fiate I have feen the fpafm abate, and the urine come away merely upon preffing the abdomen. But X great( 154 ) great attention is neceffary in the ufe of this remedy ; for it is very powerful in its operation, and, at the fame time, very va- riable in its ftrength : alfo it operates more readily upon Ibme perfons, than upon others; and, if given in too large dofes, is liable to induce very alarming fymptoms. The naufea, and alFeftion of the head, fometimes, becomes exceffively diftrefling; the pulfe weak, and flow; the countenance pallid; the body covered with cold fweats; and the patient perpetually fainting : therefore, when it is necefl'ary to have re- courfe to this remedy, it ought to be given in very fmall dofes, increafed in the moft gradual manner, and not repeated oftener than the time above-mentioned. About five years fince, I had a patient laboring under this difeafe; on whom all the common methods of treatment were tried, without fuccefs. I wifhed to try the in- /( 155 ) I infufion of tobacco; but having, not long before, feen an inftance in which the above fymptoms were brought on by its ufe, and became alarming; I was willing, in the firft place, to try the effefts of another re- medy. At that time, I was attending Mr. Cline's leftures on anatomy, and recol-^ le6led that he had mentioned a cafe, where the tinftura ferri muriati was given, with good elfeCt. The particulars of that cafe, I do not, at this time, exaftly recolleft; but it induced me, to recommend the re- medy. The patient was ordered to take ten drops, for the firft dofe ; and afterwards fix drops, every fifteen minutes. After the third, or fourth dofe, a degree ofnaufea came on; the pulfe became flower, and a general relaxation, and temporary debility, took place. During this time, I attempted to pals a bougie; and fucceeded, with toler- able eafe. It was fuffered to remain in the bladder, till an effort was made to expel X 2 the( 156 ) the urine ; when, being withdrawn, the urine followed it pretty freely. I have not had fufficient experience of this medi- cine, to fay that it will prove generally fuccefsful; but it appears to me a valuable remedy. It is more manageable than the infufion of tobacco; and the fymptoms it produces, are Ids diftrdfing: therefore, I think it very worthy of trial, when the fymptoms are not fo urgent, as to render the dday, attending its exhibition, dangerous. Thefe means, if they do not produce the efteft defired, will, at leaft, be of fervice in rendering the urethra lefs irritable ; and, confequently, will increafe the chance of fuccefs, in the introduclion of an inflru* ment. When it is found necelfary to introduce an inllrument, a bougie ought to be tried firlt; it is much fafer than a catheter; will irri-( 157 ) t irritate the parts lefs; and, oftentimes, can be introduced when a catheter cannot. If a bougie cannot be paffedby the ufual means, attempts may be made to pafs it, while the patient is in the warm bath. I have been able to pafs it, during a fainting fit. This, fometimes, comes on fpontane-. oufly; or from the aftion of the medicines the patient has been taking; or it may be brought on, by taking away a fufficient quantity of blood from a large orifice. If the furgeon has time to purfue the means above laid down, with proper at- tention, he will fucceed in evacuating the urine, in moft cafes of fimple fpafin ; and, generally, in cafes alfo where it is com- plicated ^ Moft of the circumftanccs requiring attention, in the ufe of bougies, being laid down by various authors; particularly by Mr. Hunter, in his ircatife on the venereal( 158 ) \ plicated with ftrifture. Sometimes, how- ever, notwithftanding all his attention, he will fail of fucceeding : but more frequent- ly it will happen, that his attendance is not defired till the retention of urine pro- duces alarming fyinptoms, and the pa- tient’s life is in danger ; or, at leaft, till the difeafe is fo far advanced, that there is not fufficient time to purfue, with fafety, all the means above laid down. Some- times, alfo, to add to his difficulties, a vio- lent inflammation is added to the original difeafe; or the urethra is lacerated, by the improper ufe of a catheter. Catheters are, in general, too much ufed in thefe difeafes ; it is a common practice with many pra6Htioners, the moment they hear venereal dil'eafe; and by Mr. Bell, in his treatife oil gonorrhcea and lues venerea ; it is thought unneceflary to take up any time on that fubjeft.( 159 ) hear of a retention of urine, to think of introducing this inftrument. But let thofe praftitioners recolleft, that a catheter, in the difeafe we are now fpeaking of, unlefs ufed with great ability, is a-very formida- ble inftrument; that it requires the great- eft dexterity, and the moft extreme cau- tion, not only to ufe it to advantage, but to ufe it without doing irreparable mifchief. I have, frequently, feen inftances, where much mifchief has been done, by its ufe ; and have heard of many more. At the fame time, it muft be obferved, that in the hands of a fkilful operator, there are few cafes in which it is not a fafe inftrument; and many in which it may be ufed to great advantage, after bougies have failed of fuc- cels. This is more efpecially the cafe, when the difeafe is fituated in the membra-? nous part of the urethra, and is a fimple fpafm, or a fpafm complicated with a flight ftriftuie; for, in thefe cafes, a bougie, in con-( i6o ) confequence of its bending or foftening, is lefs manageable than'a catheter is. We will now fappofe that all the means above-mentioned, and all that art can pre- fcribe, have been tried ; as far as time will permit, for the removal of the fpafm, but in vain; and that a catheter is had recourfe to, as the laft refort before an artificial paf- fage is made for the urine. By this I do not mean to infmuate, that a catheter fliould, in no cafe, be tried, till this Rate of th€ difeafe. In the hands of a fkilful furgeon, as I have juft obferved, there are few cafes where its introduaion may not be attempted, with fafety. To him a greater latitude is allowable. His judgement will direH him, in what cafes it may be ufed with a probable chance of fuccefs, and how far it may be perfifted in, confiftently with the advantage of the pati- ent ;( i6i ) ent; it will point out the degree of force . • that may be ufed with fafety, and the direftion in which that force (hould be applied; and, in cafe he is foiled, when, . and how long, he may deli ft from its ufe, and continue the application of other means. But where the furgeon is little accuftomed to the ufe of this inftrument, and is in any doubt refpefting the precife nature of the cafe, I have little hefitation in faying, that it ought not to be meddled with till the period I am now fuppofmg. At what period foever a catheter may be ufed, many of the obfervations I fliallmake are generally fpeaking, equally applicable; only, the lefs urgent the fymptoms are, the more cautious, if poftible, fliould we be in the ufe of it. When the difeafe is a fimple fpafm, a catheter of a moderate diameter, is ge'- nerally found to anlwer better, than one of Y a very( i62 ) a very fmall diameter ; but when the fpafm is complicated with a ftrifture, the diameter of the catheter fhould be fmall enough to pafs the ftrifture, if polfible, without doing it violence. For the immediate objefts are, to draw off the urine, and remove the fpafm, leaving the ftrifture to be removed by proper treatment at a future period; but the leaf! violence done to the part, tends to increafe the fpafm. If the difeafe is feated in that part of the urethra which is between the glans and the bulb, it is feldorn necelfary to pafs a catheter into the bladder; therefore, one that is nearly flrait, is the befl. Or, if a (Irak catheter, that is of a fufficient length, cannot be obtained, fuch a common one, as is leak curved, towards the point, fliould be fubflituted. But if the difeafe is in the membranous part, the curvature of the catheter ought to equal, if poffible, the cur-( 1^3 ) curvature of the urethra; for as the cathe- ter muft pafs through the urethra,by forcing the fides of it afunder, it ought to pafs ex- aaiy along the courfe of it, and prefs, equally, in every direBion; but thefe ad- vantages can be obtained, with any degree of certainty, in no other manner, than by making the curvature of the former to correfpond exaftly with that of the latter. If this is not attended to, the point of the inftrument, when it comes to the difeafed part, inftead of preffing againft its centre, preffes principally againft its pofterior part. In common catheters, this defeft may be remedied, in fome meafure, though by no means completely, by deprefting the han- dle ; which throws the point of the inftru- ment forwards. But, ftill, the point does not defcribe the courfe of the urethra; and, without extreme attention, there is great danger of forcing it through its ftdes. Y 2 A catheter( 164 ) the A catheter fliould be introduced with the greateft caution; fliould be prefled forwards, flowly, and gradually, with very moderate force; and fliould be per- mitted, ill fome meafure, to take its own direftion, particular care being taken that its point does not get into any of the la- cunae.- The furgeon cannot, occafionally, leave a catheter, with its point, in the ure- thra, as he may a bougie; for if the hand is removed, the inftrument immediatlely flips from its place. Therefore, he mult keep the extremity of the inftrument in his hand; and, when the point arrives at the difeafed part, he mull endeavor to get it on by very flow degrees, and increafe the force in a very gradual manner, con- tinuing it for a confiderable time. To this means, tlie fpafm will fometimes gradually yield ; and the catlieter will pafs. Great attention fliould be paid, to increafe the force in the moft gradual manner, and, at( 165. ) the fame time, not to apply it, in fuch a degree, as to endanger the forcing of it through the fides of the urethra. After having perfevered in this plan, for a fufficient time to give it a fair chance, if we do not fucceed, it is better, in my opinion, to pun6fure the bladder at once, than, by perfifting in an attempt, which, moft probably will prove fruitlefs, ufelefsly inflame, and tear the urethra; render the difeafe more violent; and, per- haps, deftroy the patient. Frequently, the flri6lure has fo leflened the diameter of the canal, that a catheter of the fmalleft diameter would not pafs, before the fpafm came on. - This, though it cannot always be known to a certainty, fometirnes may; and may generally be fuf- * pefted, by the degree of difliculty the pa- tient has experienced in expelling his urine, and by the fmallnels of the ftream. In( i66 ) In thefe cafes, it is in vain to think of pafling a catheter, without forcing it through the ftrifture; and this would be a very dangerous praftice, it being uncer- tain what courfe the catheter might take. Therefore, when the cafe is clear, if a bougie fails, it is better not to attempt the introduaion of a catheter, but to punaure the bladder. IV. Of an ENLARGEMENT of the PROS- TRATE GLAND. ‘ The laft difeafe I fhall mention, as caufing a retention of urine, and ren- dering the ufe of a catheter neceffary, is an enlargement of the proftrate gland. But, as I have fpoken of this difeafe in the preceeding pages, I fball confine myfelf, now, to the ufe of the catheter in it. I have( i67 ) 1 have already obferved, that, in this dif- eafe, that portion of the urethra which is htuated within the proftrate gland, be- comes much longer, more curved, and at the time wider, than it is in its natural hate. I have obferved, alfo, that when a retention of urine takes place in this dif- eafe, it is in confequence of the lides of the proftrate gland being prefled firmly together, and the pofterior part projefting forward; thus afting as a valve to the urethra. It is neceffary, therefore, that the catheter, which is ufed in thefe cafes, be one inch and an half, or two inches, longer than in other cafes: at the fame time, its curvature ought to be in- creafed in proportion to the increafed curvature of the urethra; efpecially to- wards the point. Where we are foiled in pafting a catheter; it is flopped, by the pofterior portion of the proftrate projeft- ing forwards fo much, that the point of a common( 168 ) the common catheter cannot be flipped be- fore it, but is detained in one of the depref- fions, on the fldes of the caput galinaginis; or, entangled in fome of the larger lacunas; or in the excretory du6i;s of the vefliculae feminales, which are generally much en- larged; or, if the inftrument is pulhed forwards too forcibly, -the point is buried in the fubftance of the proftrate gland. / * i A catheter, of a proper length, and cur- vature, and of fuch a diameter, as to pafs with eafe through the found part of the urethra, being provided, and introduced as far as the difeafed part, an attempt fliould then be made to flip it before the projefting portion of the difeafed pro- ftrate, by deprefting the handle, and pulh- ing it gently forward. If this does not fucceed, a finger fhould be pafled into the return. By means of this, we fliall have perfe6l command of the point of a more( 109 ) the inftrument; which, as the palfage is pretty wide, may be moved about, with tolerable eafe. Endeavors may then be made to pafs it forwards, by moving it about in various direftions; for, fome- times, the enlargement is confined prin- cipally to one fide of the gland, and then the urethra is forced to the oppofite fide. But this fhould conftantly be kept in remembrance; that no f6rce ought to be ufed; unlefs the furgeon has previoufly determined, to thruft the catheter through the fubftance of the proftrate gland : it cannot poffibly do any good ; on the con- trary, there is a certainty of its doing mif- chief, by lacerating, and inflaming the parts. The urethra is not impervious; nor is it too narrow for the inffrument to pafs ; for it is wider than natural. The reafon why the urine cannot pafs out of the bladder is, as I before obferved, that the fides of the gland, and the poflerior part of it, which Z areThe ( 17° ) are much enlarged, fall.together, and afting as valves, prevent it. And the reafon why the catheter does not pafs into it, is, that the palTage is become more curved; and the inftrument, inflead of following the di- reftion of the paffage, prefles again!! the projefting part of the prohrate gland. But if the point of the catheter is direfted along the courfe of the urethra, it pafles, in moft cafes, with tolerable eafe ; the great difficulty, then, confifts in finding the courfe of the urethra: to remove this difficulty, the oblervations above laid down muft be attended to ; and, when the furgeon is ac- quainted with the nature of the difeafe, and the general alteration, which has taken place in the ftrufture of the parts, every thing depends, in a great meafure, upon his facility in handling the inftrument; no two cafes being exaftly fimilar. The chance of fuccefs is greater, in proportion, as he handles it with more dexterity.r 1 N 1 s. ( lyi } The catheter in the hands of a I’urgeon, like the pencil in the hand of a painter, rec^uires frec^uent ufe, and much pra6fice, to be managed with facility and fuccefs. Rules may be laid down for the forming of a rough outline; but thofe more delicate movements which, in many inftances, are necelfary to enfure fuccefs, can no more be defcribed, than a painter can defcribe thofe finer touches of his pencil, which are necelfary in the perfefting of fome finilhed performance.N i‘ < r niVV y ' 'yi’l . ' • • l I f ' f>^r ' V 1 • > It is propoferl to publilh, in a Hiort time, fome prac- tical obfervations on the treatment of Compound Fractures, containing an anfwer to the following queftion ; propofed by the Lyceum Medicum Londinense, as the fubjeft of their prize dilTerta- tion, for the year 1792. “ What are the bell methods of treating compound “ fractures, according to the degree of injury the limb “ has fullained ?”and remarks CASES I N SURGERY: To which is fubjoined, An j^ppENDlX, CONTAINING THE ]yi E T H O D OF CURING THE bronchocele I N COVENTRY. Rationalem quidem puto medidnam cffe ; m* “ ftrui vero ab evidendibus caufis, obfcuns omnibus, “ non a cogitatione artifids, fed ab ipfa arte reje is. Pptstts. LONDON, f * Printed for T. Longman, in Pater-nofter-row; ^Jl M.DCC.LXXIX,. ' V ' ;l X .-i \a xj . M • U ■■ 'C. ■ ] . ' ■ • * \ » ^A 2 riods 1 T O WILLIAM SHARP, Efq; S I R, T Take the liberty of foliciting your patronage to the following papers: which, Ihould they prove as ufeful, as they are well intended, will, I flatter myfelf, be honoured with your approbation. The time which I employed under your more immediate in- ftrudlions, I have ever confidered as one of the mofl: fortunate pe-DEDICATION. riods of my life :—to that circum- ftance, whatever advances I may have made in my profeffion, are principally to be attributed. Influenced, therefore, upon the prefent occahon, by no other motives than thofe of the fincereft gratitude and refped, I fhall for- bear offending your delicacy, thro’ a vain attempt to imprefs the world with a more favourable opinion than they already entertain, of your charader and abilitiesYou will permit me, however, to conclude this addrefs, with my moft ardent wiihes for your long enjoyment of that health, which you are every day comniunicating to others: and of that happinefs, which from theB. W I L M E R, dedication. moft ample experience, you know to be the genuine refult of Denevo- lent aiflions. I am, SIR, With the greateft Efteem, Your moft obliged, Humble Servant, Coventry, July 20, 1779.V f %INTRODUCTION^- tT is now, I believe, univerfally ac- i knowledged, that fcience in general, hath received more advantages from ex- perimental enquiries into truth, than from all the fpeculative theories ot the ancients. ' By a diligent attention to the appear- ances of difeafes, and the obvious defigns of nature in relieving them, the pradice of phyfic is reduced to more certain pryi- ciples than heretofore j and Surgery, whic at the commencement of the prefent cen- tury, was in the moft contemptible (late, hath of late years, in this country, ar- rived at a great degree of perfection. One caufe of the prefent improved ftate of Surgery in England, was the aCt A 4INTRODUCTION. of parliament in the year 1745, by which the Surgeons company was made a diftinct corporation from the Barbers Previous to that period, and at a time when France was giving every poffible encouragement to Surgery and Anatomy, the progrefs of thele iciences in this kingdom, was not in the lead regarded. “ The members of “ the company in London were fubjedl to “ heavy fines and expences, and liable to “ ferve many troublefome offices, from which they ace now exempted. The “ governors of the London hofpitals, from “ an ill-judged policy, entirely refufed the education of pupils at one houfe, and t The Surgeons and Barbers were incorporated by the ^2ii of Henry VIII. The preamble of this aft fets forth, that “ the faid two leveral and difUnft companies of Surgeons and Barbers were neceffary to be united, and “ made one body corporate, to the intent, that by their ‘‘ union, am| often aflembling together, the good, and due’order,' exercife, and knowledge, in the faid fci* “ ence or faculty of Surgery, fhould be, as well in fpe* “ culation as in praftice, both to thenfifelves, and their fervants, and apprentices j and by their learning, and “ diligent, and ripe information?, more perfeft, fpeedy, and efFcftualit was therefore enafted, &c. This aft was repealed by the iSth of George II. . .. allowed‘ introduction. ‘‘ allowed of the attendance of only nine “ at a time at the other At the fame time alfo, the leading members of the Barber Surgeons com- pany, contrived a bye-law, to prevent the Lowledge of anatomy from fpreading : they levied a penalty of ten pounds, on any perfon who (hould difledf a body out of the hall without their leave (which was not to be obtained) and every offen- der was fure to be profecuted. . It hath been a cuffom with me, when- ever I have been concerned in any cafe, remarkable for the variety of its circum— ftances: or where, the methods put in pradice for the cure, had any unexpeded effeds, to make memorandums of it. The prefent Cases, are feleded from obfervations made in this manner, during a pradice of eight years. * Chefelden’s Remarks at the end of Gataker’s tran- flation of Le Dran’s Operations. WhateverINTRODUCTION. Wh EREVER any remarks are annexed to a cafe, it hath been my earned; wifb to avoid theoretic reafoning, and confine my- felf to the more obvious and fimple de- dudions, naturally arifing from the fub- jed: I mud: take the liberty of adding, that a particular regard to fidelity hath been obferved in the narration of events. Relations of fruitlefs attempts, or even errors in the treatment of difeafes, may furnidi matter of inflrudion : thefe cafes, therefore, are not intended to exhi- bit a feries of fuccefsful pradice only : and the reader may exped to meet with difap- pointments as well as mid:akes; whenever fuch circumftances have happened, they have, without referve, been acknowledged. The prefent method-of cutting for the ftone in England, hath (at lead; in my opi- nion) been very ill related in all the pub- lifhed accounts upon the fubjed: and the different procedes of that operation have been either curforily paded over, or de- fcribed in a confufed indidind manner. This,INTRODUCTION. This, I hope, will ferve as a fufficient ex- cafe, for attempting to give a more accu- rate defeription of lithotomy. Upon the whole, Ihould the contents of the following pages prove, in any re- fped, ufeful to the younger Praftitioner, the intention of the Editor in their publi- cation, will be fully anfwered.I directions to the Bookbinder. P.L A T E I. to face page 70. PtL A T E II. after the laft Cafe of frac- tures, and immediately before the Ap- ipendix. Explanation of Plate II. Fig. I. The inferior fplint. Fig. 2. Thefuperior fplint. Fig. 3. The fplints applied over the foliat- ed bandage, upon the leg and thigh. The fplints fhould be made of a thin plate of iron, well hammered to the fhape of the parts; they fhould be covered exter- nally with leather, lined with dimity, and well fluffed with combed wool. . j ,v f i CON-A V CONTENTS. Observations niae on ftrangulaftd her- Page £ On the hernia humoralls - - I9 An abfcefs of the teftis - *■ 34 A cafe of a fcirrhous tefticie of an un-^ common fize, combined with an hy- drocele and an inteftinal hernia, cured by caftration - - ' 3^ A tumour upon the head, under which there was a deficiency of the cranium 4® The hidory of a fradure and depreffion of the fkull, no -fymptoms of which ap- peared until the fourteenth day after the accident . - - 42CONTENTS. An A laceration of the right hemifphere of the brain, occahoned by external in- jury - Page 49 A cafe of the hydrocephalus internus, where mercury was adminiftered with- out fuccefs - - - “5^ An account of the good effeds arifing from a fcarification of the tunica con- jundiva, in a violent chemofis - 57 A tumour of the inferior eye-lid cured by excifion - - “ " ^3 -The hiftory of an uncommon tumour which thruft the globe of the right eye entirely out of the focket - 64 A cancerous difeafe of the mouth, fuccefl- fully treated • - ~ 7^ An account of the extirpation of a large tumour of the ranula kind - 75 The cure of a ranula, by incifion and cauftic - - “ " 79An / CONTENTS. f An uncommon cafe of the febris angi- nofa ----- Page 81 The hlftory of a fatal difeafe of the cefophagus, occafioned by an acci- dent - - - - 86 An account of a wound of the trachea, which proved mortal from an uncom- mon caufe - - - 90 A very hngular affedion of the cefopha- gus, which occafioned the death of the patient - - - - 94 An account of a locked jaw and opiftho- tonos, cured by opiate clyfters - 104 A paronychia, attended with uncommon fymptoms - - - 107 A difeafe of the ftomach, which occa- fioned death, by a feirrhous induration near the pyloris _ - - 114 An amputation of a cancerous breaft 116CONTENTS. An An account of a cancer of the breaft, where the tumour was twice extirpated, without fuccefs - - Page 123 Obfervations on the utility of blifters, applied to the umbilical region in the ileus, and inverfion of the periftaltic motion of the inteftines from other caufes “ - "■ " ^^7 The difledion of a woman in the lad month of pregnancy - - i39 An univerfal emphyfema, occafioned by the abforption of putrid fluids from the uterus - - " “ An account of a fatal retroverfio uteri 144 An uncommon cafe in lithotomy - 15^ A' defcription of the prefent method of operating for the ftone - - ^5^ A fiftula in ano, from which a flone was extracted * !: * - 162CONTENTS. A a An account of the good eftedls of di- viding the aponeurofis of the bi- ceps mufcle, in a painful lacerated wound - - - - Psge 164 The hidory of a rupture of the crural vein, attended with a very large extra- vafation of blood - - j68 An aneurifm of the popliteal artery, with fome remarks on aneurifms in ge- neral - - - - j 71 Oblervations on compound fracftures 183 An account of the cure of a compound fradure of the leg, where, from the injury the parts received, amputation had been judged expedient - 213 A compound fradure of the leg, fuppofed to require amputation from a violent haemorrhage ^ - - .. 216' The hidory of a compound fradurQ of the leg, attended with very alarming appearances - - » 218CONTENTS. A compound fracture of the fore-arni^ combined wiia a diflocation of the os humeri - - - " 222 I An account of a compound diflocation of the elbow joint - •- - 225 A frafture of the leg, in which the epi- phyiis was feparated from the tibia 228 -appendix. Of the method of curing the broncho- cele - - - - “ ^33 t t An account of a woman accidentally burnt .to death at Coventry - “ 255errata. Pa?e i8, Line 4, for exomphalus, read exomphalos, - I — expoliati6n, — exfoliation. 14, — dictation, dilatation. 65, 13,— honey, bony. gi, 14, — affeft, effea. ggj ai, — feirrhous, feirrhus. 12, — groove-ftaff, grooved-flaff. CASES:. A ‘•j i * ji- • jr** }. > * - ^ f/'. - ^ , .A j' :i ,•.*’. fj/f ./'«i i\ . y .. •jf'r'**" ••% , .}, »5 ,:j :«. '.rs . '.> .13— >1 — • .ir.-wiri-i — 1 •'9’«ni!3 — ,,i - ■ r ^:;i—^ - — ,=5-- :.'0ui5 — li.-,-- ‘ -r - .* ’ / ’ • >■, >.'! Cft\ •* » »>» m ;( I h ^ I „ /. -.■'I .■'V‘ 'CASES AND REMARKS 1 N SURGERY. OBSERVATIONS on STRAN- GULATED HERNIiE. OF all the difeafes to which the I human body is fubjedt, there are none more dangerous in their ten- dency, nor any more fpeedily fatal in their event, than ftrangulated hernia, cfpecially if they are neglected, or improperly treated. After the great pains which the mo- derns have taken to improve this part of Surgery, and the publication of an inge- nious treatife written profefledly upon the fubjedt, by a celebrated Surgeon of Lon- • Mr. Pott. , B doOsI CASES AND REMARKS don, an attempt to throw any new light upon it will probably be deemed unnecef- fary, if not prefumptuous. The only apo- logy I (hall make for entering upon this topic is, to declare, that the obfervations I have to offer are the pure refult of prac- tical experience. Baths, fomentations, and poultices actually warm, or bot, are very much, I believe I might fay generally, ufed in this country in all cafes of hernias, under fymp- toms of ftrangulation. This kind of pradlice appears to me fo extremely injudicious, that I have often wondered how it could, for any length of time, preferve fo great a degree of reputa- tion. But as erroneous ideas muft of confequence produce improper methods of pradice, the cuftom of applying things adually warm in thefe cafes, was probably grounded upon the fuppolition of a dif- eafed ftate, or ftridure, of the tendinous apertures of the abdominal mufcles, or li- gaments. When a portion of omentum, intclline,IN 3 SURGERY. inteftine, or both, is forced out of the ca- vity of the abdomen into the groin, the perfon is faid to have a bubonocele. This effedl cannot happen, unlefs the open- ing of the tendon of the external oblique mufcle is preternaturally extended. It is frequently found that the contents of the hernia, from the horizontal pofition of the patient in the night, recede into the abdomen, and prolapfe again the follow- ing day. During the receffion of the parts, the furgeon may pulh the integuments be- fore his finger, and introduce its point in- to the opening of the tendon, and he will find that it is much larger than it ufually is in a natural ftatej and, if either from a protrufion of a larger portion of the in- teftine, omantum, or of both, the con- tents cannot be eafily returned, there is a fudden increafe of the tumour, by degrees the parts indurate, and the cafe becomes a ftrangulated hernia. In this cafe a ftran- gulation does not take place becaufe the opening \slefs than it was before the fymp- toms came on, but becaufe the parts fo difplaced are become larger. B 2 And,CASES AND REMARKS 4 And, juft for the fame reafon, when a finall portion of intefUne only is, from fudden violence, or mufcular exertion, forced through the tendinous opening, it becomes ftrangulated, not becaufe there was at that moment any particular altera- tion or ftridure in the fibres of the ten- don, but becaufe the portion of inteftine lying in an uneafy fituation, increafes in bulk, and therefore cannot be returned without fome difficulty. If a ring is drawn over the finger tight enough to comprefs the returning veins, the parts beneath it will fwell. Here is a flrangulation, and it may be faid that the ring forms the ftric- ture. But I believe no man in his fenfes would in this cafe propofe, by put- ting the finger into warm water, to make the ring larger, or to diminifh the tumour, by increafing the capacity of the whole vaf- cular fyftem of the part fo ftrangulated. My reafon for making this comparifon is, becaufe it is now generally allowed, that tendons, ligaments, &c. have fo little elaf- ticity, as to be but flightly aftedted (at leaft fuddenly) by warm applications, efpe- cially5 IN S U R G E R Y. dally when they are fituated at fome dif- tance from the fkin. In every ftrangnlated hernia, before redudion can be effeded, one or other of thefe things muft happen : either the open- ing of the tendon muft be made larger, or the bulk of the tumour muft be leffened. There feems to be very little chance, by warm applications to the fkin, to relax an inelaftic fubftance, < even in an undifeafed ftate; and they appear diametrically oppo- fite to the intention of reducing the bulk of the tumour, when ftrangulation hath taken place. If the rupture is an entero- cele, all applications that are warmer than the heat of the body, will rarefy and ex- pand the air within the inteftine, the blood will be folicited in greater quantities into the vafcular fyftem of the part, and every fymptom dependant upon ftrangulation will become worfe ' ‘ In • Dr. Huxham relates a cafe, where an Inguinal her- pia proved fatal in two days, and in which nuarm fomen- tatiom were continually applied. Upon difleftibn, the blood-veffels of the parts were turgid and varicofe, and B 3 the<5 CASES AND REMARKS In the operation of bleeding, the fore-: arm may be faid to be ftrangulated by the ligature; and if, to facilitate the evacua- tion, the furgeon immerfes his patient’s arm in warm water, the veins and the parts below the bandage immediately fwell. It would be abfurd to offer any more arguments in fupport of a. propofition, which in its own nature appears to be felf- evident. For fome years paft, whenever I have been called to a ftrangulated rup- ture, I have made it my firft bufinefs to endeavour to leffen the bulk of the tumour by co/J, and fometimes aftringent applica- tions : and the fuccefs I have met with from this mode of treatment, is my prin- cipal inducement for communicating it to the public. the inteftine within the hernial fac amazingly diftended with air. The Doftor concludes the account with thefe remarks : “ This unhappy cafe gave me a fevere reflec- “ tion ; and I cannot but think the malady was much “ increafed by the repeated application of the hot fomen- , “ tations, as it rarefied the air greatly, and, by relaxing the parts, gave further room to the vail expanfion.” Philofoph. Tranfadl. N° 459. p. 623.7 IN SURGERY. I COULD produce many inftances, where there was little apparent reafon to exped a redudion (as well from the violent as the duration of the fymptoms) m which I have happily fucceeded, by t e application of cold water or vinegar To avoid unneceffary repetitions, I ihall feled two or three cafes where other furgeons were concerned with me. I WAS fent for into Leicefterlhire, to C a Rev. Mr. K* 1 found him with molt of the fymptoms ufually attendingaftrangu- lated hernia. I was informed that, for fe- veral years, he had a fmall fwelhng in the groin, which, two days before I faw him, had been, by walking, fuddenly increafed : nothing had paffed through the mteftinal canal fince this acceffion to the contents o the hernia. He vomited and hiccoughed frequently, had great pain in the tumour, as well as in the hypogaftric region, and his pulfe was extrernely low and weak. Mr. Jervis, an ingenious furgeon of Lut- terworth, and formerly houfe-furgeon to St. George’s-hofpital, had attended him B 4 S E I. i.>774CASES AND REMARKS 8 from the commencement of the fymptoms, had done every thing which could obtain a fandlion from modern pradlice, to relieve him, and from time to time had made feveral atternptS), by manual^affiftance, to reduce the prolapfed parts, without being fortu- nate enough to fucceed. Warm fomenta- tions, and the tobacco ciyfter (which had never failed with Heifter) had been here ufed ineffecftually. Mr. Jervis was fo con- fident, that every thing which promifed to ferve the patient had been put in pradHce, that he propofed to our confideration the operation for the bubonocele, as the only probable chance remaining of faving his life. Before we proceeded, I defired that cold applications might be tried, to which he very readily afi'ented. The weather was fevere at this time: comprefles of linen, dipped in cold vine- gar, were fuddenly applied to the tu- mour i and, as often as they became u arm, were removed, and frefh ones ufed in their place. The patient was foon fenfible of a retradion of the parts within the hernia j 5 /IN SURGER Yi 9 gnd we could quickly after perceive, that the tenfion and induration of the tumour were confiderably diminiflied. Upon at- tempting then to reduce the inteftine with the fingers, the air contained within was ob- ferved to move firft, and fbon after all the contents of the hernia were returned into the cavity of the abdomen, with the greatefl eafe imaginable I WAS fent for to IVlrs.——f of W^ithy- c a s brook in this county,, to advife with Mr.^"P-^7 Welton, a furgeon and apothecary of Bed- worth, concerning the neceflity of perform- ing the operation for the bubonocele. The tumour was fmall and painful: fhe had been ill three days before I faw her. Her pulfe was quick and weak j her tongue brownj'fhe vomited often; was coflive, and much fatigued with an hiccough. Mr. Welton had bled her, ordered clylfers re- * I lately met Mr. Jervis, on account of an amputa- tion of the thigh, and had the pleafure to hear, that he had been fent for by a furgeon, to perform the operation for the bubonocele, and had happily fucceeded in the re- duftion by cold applications, at a time when the cafe appeared defperate. peatedly. ; II, ‘77S-JO CASES AND REMARKS peatedly, ^arm fomentations had been ufcd, and endeavours frequently made to reduce the hernia, but without thedefired cffed:. • , By means of compreffcs, wetted with vinegar, applied cold, and by gently preff- ing the parts with my lingers, I obtained, in a very Ihort time, a complete reduaion of the hernia, and the patient became loon well. ^ „T Some time after this I was called to. T_ £)■ , of Stoke, near this place,, labouring under a ftrangulated rupture. I ordered cold applications, and endea- voured to return the inteftine, but Could hot fucceed at that time. I then direaed the comprefl'es to be frequently changed during the fucceeding night, and before morning the contents of the tumour had, fpontaneoudy receded into the abdomen. I BELIEVE it happens more frequently than is generally imagined, that the im- pediment to the reduaion of the contentsII IN SURGERY. of a hernia, is in no degree connedled with the tendinous opening of the external oh-; lique ixiufcle of the abdomen Every one in the leaft converfant with anatomy knows now, that what ufed improperly to be called the ring of the mufcle, is no- thing elle but a divarication of the fibres of the tendon, running obliquely downward; fo that, in the cafe of great comprefTure from the fuperior edge of the aperture upon the hernial fac, it is natural to fuppofe, that the prolapfed parts might eafily pufli or force their way toward the os pubis, where the fibres of the tendon divaricate mod:. The neck, or orifice, of the her- nial fac, mufl be a circle, or nearly fo: and fhould that be fo difeafed, thick- ened, or altered from its natural flate, as to prevent the contents of the hernia from being returned into the abdomen, it would become a caufe of ftrangulation, much more dangerous than any preffure which the tendon of the external oblique mufcle could occafion, and conftitute a cafe where • Vide Arnaud’s Diflertation on Hernias, Part II. Sed. 2. warm ICASES AND REMARKS warm applications muft be altogether in- efFedual, becaufe the part intended to be foftened by them is fo much more out of their reach. Notwithstanding the fuccefs I have had in reducing hernias by cold ap- plications, after every thing elfe had failed, I have, within thefe eight years, been obliged to perform the operation for the bubonocele four times. In two of thefe cafes, the impolTibility of redu6tion ap- peared to have arifen from the induration and fmallnefs of the diameter of the neck of the hernial fac. The firft perfon I operated upon loft his life, after the tendinous aper- ture of the external oblique miifcle had been largely dilated. Upon difledion of the parts after death, a fmall duplicature of the ileum was found fo ftrongly embraced by the neck of the fac, that it could not be difengaged until the ftriaure was di- vided by the knife. In this cafe th? neck, of the fac was hard, firm, thickened, car-t tilaginous, and refembled the os tincae. Mr,IN SURGERY. 13 Mr. Harrold, a very eminent and judi- cious Surgeon of this city (to whom I am under the greateft obligations) did me the favour to attend the operation and the ex- amination of the body. The next cafe that occurred, in which the impediment to reduction appeared to have arifen from a ftridlure of the neck of the hernial fac onlji had a more favourable termination. J- of this city, was feized C a s with a violent pain in the inferior part of the abdomen : which was fucceeded by vomiting and coftivenefs. Apr. 5 On the third day of his illnefs I firft faw him, and found, upon enquiry, that he had a fwelling in his left groin, which was then become very painful; and that various methods had been ineffedtually tri- ed for his relief. After having ufed cold applications to the part, I endeavoured to procure a re- duction \ E IV. . 1774CASES AND REMARiCS H dudion of the hernial contents, but with^ out fuccefs. The patient was reduced much, and the bad fymptoms had made an alarming pro- grefs: I therefore defired a confultatiort might be had. In the afternoon of the third day. Dr. Simfon, a very ingenious phyfician of this place, Mr. Harrold, and myfelf, determined, that the operation for the bubonocele could not any longer be prudently delayed. \ After the hernial fac was opened, and the tendon of the external oblique mufcle largely divided, it was found impoffible to return the inteftine into the cavity of the abdomen. The part prolapfed, ap- peared to have been a duphcature of the ileum extremely inflamed, and had ma- ny little cxtravafations of blood between its coats. I puihed my finger within the fac, and perceived a ftriaure m its veci, which forcibly refifted the reduftion of the inteftine. H.AV1NPSURGERY. 15 IN Having fecured the inteftine with my finger, I, with fome difficulty, forced the obtufe point of the curved biftory through the ftridture, and divided it. The inteftine was then eafily returned, and the patient recovered perfect health, without the intervention of any particular occurrence. One might with great propriety com- pare the paraphymofis with the ftrangu- lated hernia, were it not, that the parts concerned in the latter cafe are effenUally necelTary to life, and in the former not lb. In the paraphymofis, the orifice of the retraced prepuce is not large enough to al- low the tumefied glans penis to pafs through it. It would be abfurd to fuppofe, that bathing the part in warm water, or apply- ' ing round it an emollient poultice, would relax the ftridure in fo great a degree, as it would occafion the glans penis to in- creafeCASES AND REMARKS i6 tha * creafe in fize.—And yet,- abfurd as the pradice may appear, and notwithftanding Celfus * and others, have given us excel- lent diredions to the contrary, emollient poultices and warm fomentations, continue to be employed in this difeafci The firft necefliry bufincfs in this cafe,- as well as in the ftrangulated hernia, is, fo far to reduce the bulk of the tumid part by cold applications, and a well regulated gradual prefTure, as to enable it to be paffed through the ftridure, the very idea of re- lading which, (hould be totally given up. Celsus f hath well obferved the ef- feds of heat and cold in thefe cafes j fome modern writers H have alio recommended the ufe of cold applications for the reduc- tion of hernlae j and there have been others, who have expreifed their fears, * Corn. Celf. de Medicin. Lib. VII. Cap. XXV. p At fi inteftinum quoque defcendit, &c. fri^ore omn contrahitur, calore difFunditur. Celf. de Medic. Li VII. cap. XVIII. p 457- I! Poteau, Goulard, and Aiken.iN SURCtER Y. ^7. that the fudden ufe of them to an inflamed part, might endanger a gangrene; but, as I have never feen this happen, I cannot fay any thing to it from experience. Up- on the fame occaflon ^the redudlion of her- n\x) M. Bellofte * has advifed the appli- cation of aftringehts, in preference to emol- lients. In the fiimnier feafdn, perhaps common \Vater or vinegar might not be cold enough > to anfwer the deflred purpofe : but in many places preferved ice may be had ; and there are f various methods of creating artificial cold f, neutral falts whilft they are dif- fblving, ihcreafe the coldnefs of water. Some * Le Chfrilrgieh d’Hopital, troifieme partie, Chapitre III. p. 267. In the fecond edition of the Hofpital Sur- geon, printed in the year i773> M- Bellofte has recom- mended told applications for the redudlion of ftrangulated hernia. Le Chir. d’Hopit. Tom. II. p. 126. + The greateft degree of artificial cold is occafioned. by pouring the nitrous acid upon fnow. In the month of December 1759, at Pcterlburgh, there happened a froft, much more fevere than had been remembered be- fore at that place. On the 14th of December, De Lille’s thermometer ftood at 212, equal to 42 degrees below the C cypheri8 CASES AND REMARKS \ Some time fince I was favoured with a letter from Mr. William Sharp upon this fubjedt. He acquainted me, that he had applied ice to an exomphalus, attended with very urgent and dangerous fymptoms. Although it did not immediately fucceed, yet by a diligent perfeverance in its ufe, it , ^ anfwered his mod: fanguine expedlations. It reduced the bulk of the tumour, and removed thofe fymptoms which appeared to have been occafioned-by a drangulation of the parts. cypher on Fahrenheit’s. Mr. Braun procured four diffe- rent glaffes, containing fnow, upon which he poured fome of Glauber’s fpirit of nitre; having now immerfed the bulb of the thermometer fuccellively in them all, he found that he had increafed the natural cold 58 degrees ; and upon his taking it out, to his great furprize, he dif^ covered, that the mercury had become folid and con- gealed : that, when it was taken out of the glafs it wa^ malleable, and was 12 minutes before it recovered its flu- idity in the open air. De Admirando Frigore artifici- ali, quo Mercurius eft congelatus, &c. a J. A. Braunio, Acad. Sclent. Memb. &c. O B S E R- - f1 IN SURGERY^ OBSERVATIONS on the HERNIA HUMORALIS. T T very frecjuently happens in the vene- real gonorrhoea, from taking cold, from the improper ufe of injections, from the: introdudion of a bougie, and poffibly from other caufes, that both tefticles become painful, fwollcn-, and inflamed. If relief is not foon obtained by red, proper evacuations, 6cc. the difeafe in- ; creafes very rapidly, the fpermatic chord . ! becomes large, hard, and irritable, and I there is a fudden dilatation of the whole ; vafcular compages of the teftis, particu- I larly of the epidydymis. The vas defe- rens, and the vena fpermatica, become va- ricous j the pain extends to the loins, and from the extreme irritation of the parts affeded, heat, third, and other febrile fymptoms fupervene. 1 c 2 If 120 CASES AND REMARKS That I If the cafe has been mifmanaged, or the patient obliged to ufe exercife, 6cc* the inflammation is communicated to the fkin of the fcrotum, and fuppuration is either threatened, or does, in fome in- flances, adlually take place. That this event fhould ever happen, appears to be more the confequence of fome error in the external treatment of the difeafe, than from any natural tendency, which this particular inflammation has to fuppurate. There can be very few exceptions to the defire, that all Surgeons have to cure al- mofl: every fpecies of inflammation by dif- perflon ; but in the cafe we are now fpeak- ing of, there are many very material rea- fons, why fuppuration fliould be guarded againfl, as much as poflible. After having gone through all the pain and fatigue, which necelTarily accom- pany that degree of inflammation which precedes fuppuration, the patient muft ' fuffer a long time the difagreeable dif- charge from a painful fore, which may at lafl become fidulous.I 21 IN SURGERY. That the inflammation does fometimes terminate in this manner, we may learn from the obfervations of the celebrated Aftruc Dr. Vaughan f relates the cafe of a gentleman, who having contracted a go- norrhoea, which was foon apparently cured by an injeCtion : a ftriClure of the urethra fucceeded, for which the patient ufed a bougie. After fome time, a fwelling of the tefticles commenced, which, before the Doctor was confulted, had increafed to a very alarming'degree; and notwith- ftanding the care, attention, and ability of his phyfician, the patient died after fup- puration had taken place.- arfpj fomen- tations and emollient cataplafms, were very. liberally ufed in this cafe : of the impro- priety of which, I fhall have occafion tQ fpeak hereafter. • Si refolutio non fucceflerit, fapius in fup.puratum abire, ruptoque abfceflu in fijlulofum ulcus degenerare. Aftruc de Morbis Vener. Lib. 111. Cap. IV. p. 193. "t Medic. Obferv. and Enq. Lond. Vol. III. c 3 WhenCASES AND REMARKS 22 ' When the venereal hernia hath arrived at the height of its inflammatory ftage, I believe (with fome few exceptions) the di- redioas of Aflruc may be confidered as the ftandaj'd of common pradice. After having given the moft excellent ^ rules in every other refped, he advifes the free ufe of a iiuarm fomentation, compofed of mallow-roots and linfeed boiled in wa- ter ; and the application of a poultice, rnade of the mucilaginous parts of vege- tables and the oil of earth-worms. That he had no particular fuccefs from this mode of treatment, appears evident from his own words It often happens, in the flighter kind , of thefe cafes, that the patient is obliged * Tumor inflammatorJus teftium, nunquaro periculo vacat, cum febrem comitem habeat, ac in graves affeflus, ab/cejfumy JiJlulam, See. teftium, poffit degenerare. Superftitem duritiem dimiflis, fenfim tenuioribus par- tibus frequenter in feirrhum indurari, qui hydrocelen, pneumatocelen, farcocelen, &c. tton raro inducit. Aftruc de Morb. Vener. Lib. III. Cap. IV. p. 19+- toIN SURGERY. 2*3^ to walk about during the time of his ill-'- nefs, in which circumftance, after having the part fufpended by a proper bandage, he is either direded to wear feme difeutient plaifter, or to ufe fuch other applications as he can conveniently carry in his pocket. When the difeafe is fo bad, as to ren- der confinement neceffary, I believe it is the general pradlice of many Surgeons, to I diredt the ufe of warm fomentations, of i emollient and greafy cataplafms. When the greateft degree of benefit is expeded to arife from thefe applications, they ap- pear to me to be capable of doing the mofl mifehief. At the time when the tefticle i is very much tumefied, the fpermatic chord i is extremely painful, indurated, and en-. 1 larged, quite up to the aperture of the ten- i don of the external oblique mufcle of the 1 abdomen; which (being inelaflic, and I therefore incapable of giving way to the i fwelling of the chord) preffes upon it, and J the tefticle, as well as its appendages, are I juft in the fame ftate with regard to the in- 1 terception of the returning fluids, as the ^ C 4 ftran-2^ CASES AND REMARKS ftrangulated inteftin.e. Indeed, the fwell- ing will be more likely to be increafed by fuch preffure or refiflance, becaufe- not on- ' ly the fpermatic yeip and the lymphatics, but alfo the vas deferens, (liould return their different fluids through the opening of the tendon; and from hence, perhaps, may be deduced the reafon, why, in thefe cafes, the vas deferens and epidydymis be- come fo much enlarged. Besides this kind of flrangulation, which the inflamed fpermaiic chord fuf- fers by the preffure of the tendon through which it paffes, another kind of refiflance may be fuppofed to arife from its particu- lar flrudure; in which, fo many different kinds of veflels are clofely compared in a fafciculus,by a particular provifion of mem- branous fibres, almofl furrounded by the cremafler'mufcle, and an aponeurofis frorr^ the abdominal tendons. If from thefe circamflances, a flrangu- lation, or impediment to the return of ;he fluids from the tcflicle may be fuppofed • to » >I in' S U R G E R Y. ?S to arife, every argument againft the ufe of warm and emollient applications, will take place in the caie of an hernia humoralis, which I produced, when treating of the (Irangulated bubonocele. Xo prevent un- neceflary repetitions, I beg leave to refer the reader to what hath been faid upon that fubjed before.—When a perfon at- tempts to perfuade others to adopt any al- terations in pracflice, it will certainly be cxpeded from him to produce better evi- dence in his favour than mere reafoning, however plaufible it may appear. Within thefe laft feven years, I have ufed cold, and fometimes reftringent ap- plications in cafes of the hernia humora- lis, and always with fuccefs: I have never feen any bad effeds from their ufe ; I have never known in any inftance, a fuppura- tion take place in this gland, from a vene- real caufe; and my patients are generally cured in lefs than half the time which the common method of treatment requires, efpecially where warm and emollient ap- plications have been made ufe of. DifferentCASES AND REMARKS 26 Different cafes will require diffe- rent remedies: I have fometimes ufed cold water with fuccefs, but when the integu- ments are inflamed and painful, the vegeto- mineral water of Goulard is as proper an application as any other, as it feems to polfefs a fedative, as well as a reftringent ' and difcutient quality. In proportion as the inflammation abates, the quantity of the extradl: of lead, as well as of the cam- phorated fpirit, ought to be increafed in the faturnine water. When the fkin is not at all inflamed, the cafe will admit of Rronger aftringents, and fometimes flimu- lating applications will do great fervice. I HAVE ufed the aqua vitrioliCa cam- phorata with thefe intentions, and have fcen, frequently, a fudden diminution of the tumour, from the free ufe of a folu- tion of crude fal ammoniac in vinegar, ap- plied cold, and frequently renewed. At the time, fome one or other of thefe ap- plications is ufed, as the circumflances of the cafe indicate j the general ftate of the patient mufl; be attended to, and fuch eva- cuationsIN SURGERY. 2J He cutatlons made, as the Surgeon may think neceffary. A Gentleman of rank having con- tradted a gonorrhoea in London, and be- ing under a matrimonial contradt, put himfelf under the care of an eminent Sur- geon there, giving him a ftridt injundlion to cure him with as much fpeed as poffible. In the courfe of a fortnight, by means of injedtions, all appearances of the dif- eafe were removed, and the Gentleman very joyfully fet out upon a journey to Ireland. Before he had left London an hour, he perceived an uneafinefs and weight in one of his tefticles, and a pain foon after- wards extended to his groin. These fymptoms were probably ag- gravated by travelling, and increafed fd very rapidly, that when he arrived at this place,' he found it impoflible to proceed any farther.CASES AND REMARKS He July 21. He was feverifh, the tefticle was pro- digioufly enlarged, the flcin of the fcro- tum had began to inflame ; the fpermatic chord was hard, painful, and fwollen quite up to the tendinous aperture of the ex- ternal oblique mufcle of the abdomen. I took fome blood from the arm, bathed the difeafed tefticle well with the faturnine water of Goulard, cold; and then fufpend- ed the part in a bag-trufs. The patient was ordered to bed, and diredled to lie with the thigh of the affedted fide bent, that the tendinous fibres which prelTed upon the fpermatic chord might be re- laxed. His bowels were opened by a folution of manna and Rochelle fait in water, and he was ordered a draught at night, con- taining thirty drops of thebaic tindlure. • ' The next day, he was in every refpedt much in the fame ftate, only that he had more eafe.in'SXJR-GER-Y. ^9 He was ordered to keep in an horizon- tal poiition, and the folution of Rochelle fait, See. was repeated. The faturnine water was applied cold, as before, during the courfe of this day, and the comprefles were frequently changed. The anodyne was repeated at night. On the third day the (kin of the fero- tum had refumed its natural colour^ and the general fwelling of the parts was di- minifhed. The fame medicines and ap- plications were continued as before. On the fourth day, the tumour was well bathed with a folution of crude fal ammoniac in vinegar, and linen rags wetted with it, were often applied to the'parts, cold. This method was purfued until the tenth day, when the fwelling was almoft reduced. There remained at that time, fome little induration of the epidydymis, for which I advifed the ufe of the em- plaftrum30' CASES AN© remarks plaftrum e fapone cum mercurio *; anci as the patient’s affairs required his pre- fence in Ireland, he left this city on the eleventh day, believing himfelf cured. Mr. Aiken, an ingenious Surgeon of Warrington, has recommended, in his Obfervations on the external ufe of the preparations of lead, the faturnine water applied cold in the hernia humoralis, and I flatter myfelf my readers will excufe me, if I tranfcribe the whole paffage. The fwelled tefticles,” fays he, ‘‘ fre- ** quently accompanying a gonorrheea, will “ very well illuflrate the effeds of emolli- “ ent, faturnine, and common aftringent « and ftimulating topics. Thefe ufually come on very fuddenly, increafe to a “'large bulk, and are extremely painful “ and fenfible to the touch. The prefent “ pradice of applying an emollient poul- * R Cerat. Sapon. Empl. Commun. Argent, Viv. H Jlv. Balf. Peruv. M. f. S. A. Eraplaftrum. “ ticcIN S U R G E R Y. 31 I ** tice indifcriminately to every kind of in- “ flammatory tumour, has given me, and, ** I fuppofe, almoft every Surgeon, fre- “ quent opportunities of obferving the “ effedts of thefe topics : and I will ven- “ ture to appeal to the experience of any " pradlitioner, whether fuch a treatment “ does not always prove extremely tedi- ous, painful, and confining; and whe- ther the cure is not generally incom- “ plete, a confiderable hardnefs of the epidydymis remaining, perhaps for “ life. Saturnine applications have been ** ufed in thefe cafes with great fuccefs. “ I HAVE feen the faturnine water, made pretty ftrong, applied cold, and, “ affifled by proper pofture and bandage, ** remove the turnour and pain in a fhort ‘‘ time ; and, duly continued, take away “ all hardnefs. Comnion aftringent and ftimulant applications have alfo been rc- “ commended, and I once had a ftrikin^ “ inftance of their efficacy. A perfon 5 “ fuddenlyCASES AND REMARK^ 3^ “ fuddenly attacked in the morning with' a fwelled tefticle, was obliged, on ac- “ count of neceffary.bufinefs, to walk about “ all that day. I applied a folded handker- “ chief, well foaked with rum, to the “ part, retained by another tied round his body. This was wetted twice or “ thrice during the day, and at night I found, notwithftanding his exercife, that the bulk was greatly reduced, and the fenfibility diminifhed.—This^ applica- “ tion, with the addition of vinegar, waS “ continued fome time longer, and the part perfeftly recovered, without any *« confinement to the patient. I HAVE heard a juftly celebrated pro- “ feflbr advile the emollient method In' thefe cafes, and condemn the ufe ** even of camphor, as too ftimulating ; “ but fuch a cafe as this, and many fimilaf ones that are to be met with in pra<ftice, ** would prove to me at leaft, a fufficient “ affurance againfi: any ill eonfeqnences that might be apprehended theoretically ‘‘ from the ufe of this clafs of topics ii7 “ infiam-^I N S U R G E R Y. ‘^3 inflammatory tumours s and I am well convinced, that emollients are peculiarly ill calculated for the refolutioii of in- flammations of lax glandular parts, while medicines pretty flrongly ftimu- lant, may be applied with great fafety and advantage.” An DCASES AND REMARKS 54 An abscess of the TESTIS. Case VI. T B , fervant to a gentleman, afked junep, 1778. J • opinion concerning a complaint he had in the fcrotum. One of his tefticles was verv much en- ( * ^ larged, indurated, and the fpermatic chord was likewife difeafed quite up to the open- ing of the external oblique mufcle. N o venereal fymptom preceded the fwelling, which had been a great while forming; and was, he faid, the confe- quence of a bruife upon the part. As he was in a few days obliged to go to London, I gave, him only, at that time, fome applications of the emplaftrum e fapone cum merchrio, and fufpended the fcrotum in a bag-trufs. ]uly!. Upon his return from London, the complaint was much increafed, the Ikin ofik S U R G E R Y. ‘of the fcrotum was inflamed, and there was an evident fliidtuation within. I directed him, then, to ufe a fo- mentation and poultice, prepared with ci- cuta. In a few days a more complete fup- puration enfued, and the matter made its way out by two different orifices, which did not appear to communicate with each other. The difcharge continued more or lefs feveral weeks; and, during that time, the applications were not altered. At length the drain totally ceafed j and then the em- plaftrum e fapone curn mercurio was agaiii applied, to diffolve the remaining hard- nefs, which was effected in time, and the patient became well.The 3^ Case Sept. 8, CASES AND REMARKS A CASE of a SCIRRHOUS TES- TICLE of an uncommon fize, com- bined with an HYDROCELE and an INTESTINAL HERNIA; cured by caftration. VII B applied to me for ad- 1778. ¥ ¥ vjce, refpeding a very large tumour he had in the fcrotum. The account he gave of his difeafe was: that hxteen years before I faw him, he had a rupture on the left fide, which was fo troublefome to him, that he was frequently obliged to exert very conliderable efforts to return it; that he had procured a trufs, which he believed had prevented the de- fcent of the rupture; but that his tefticle began to fwell, that it had by degrees in- creafed, and of late was become fo incon- venient to him, that he would fubmit to any thing I would recommend, to obtain a cure.inSURGERY. The tumour in the fcrotum was very large; and, although there was a mani- feft fluduation, and I was convinced there muft be a confiderable quantity of- fome fluid within the tunica vaginalis, yet, from the hardnefs and inequality of the furface, I was equally certain that the tefticle itfelf was very materially difeafed. At this time there was an inteftinal hernia on the other fide; the veins of the fcrotum were very much enlarged, and va- ricous: and the patient had a pain in his back, which probably arofe from the weight of the tumour. The fuperior part of the fpermatic chord was plainly to be diftinguifhed, and appeared to be very little thickened. With a view to afcer- tain, with as much precifion as might be, the true ftate of the tefticle, I pafted a fmall trochar into the anterior and inferior part of the tumour, and drew off twenty ounces of bloody lymph. The tefticle appeared then to be extremely hard, un- equal, and feirrhous. In confultation with Mr. Harrold, caftration was propofed, and D 3 theCASES AND REMARKS 3? the operation performed the enfuing day. The difeafed tefticle weighed more than two pounds. Before the operation the patient took a purge, which having emptied the bowels, he wasordered an anodyne draught; andthis was repeated the firft night. The next day he was feveriih, and vomited often; but thefe fymptoms were removed by drink- ing ' water impregnated with fixed air, joined with fmall quantities of tindura thebaica. The wound was treated according to the rules of furgery, and was entirely healed, in nine weeks. By fome modern writers in furgery it hath been contended, that there are par- ticular advantages to be derived from taking up the fpermatic artery, without any other part of the chord. In every operation of the kind that I have yet feen, the whole fpermatic chord was tied in the beginning of the operation; which ' * • manoeuvreIN SURGERY. 39 mancEuvre has feemed to me,' in general, to leffen the pain of the confequent parts of the diffedion; and, by dividing the chord beneath the ligature, immediately after it hath been tied, the furgeon will more fpeedily, and with greater facility, difengage the tefticle from the fcrotum. In the cafe I have here related, I tied the fpermatic chord in the beginning of the operation; from which procefs the pa- tient declared he felt lefs pain, than when, afterward, the artery of the feptum fcroti was taken up by a tenaculum, and fe- cured by ligature. D 4' A t I IGASES AND REMARKS 40 A TUMOUR upon the HEAD, under which there vyas a deficiency of the Cranium. Case VIII.T N the year 1774 a boy, fourteen years of age, was brought to Mr. Harrold, with a tumour upon the head, fituated about the middle of the fagittal future, and equal in fize to an hen’s egg. 'i The account his father gave was: that his fon had been violently ftricken over the part affedied, about two months before, with the handle of a broken chair, and that a fwelling immediately enfued, which he every day hoped would difappear, from the ufe of fuch medicines as his neighbours had recommended to him. Beins: deceiv- pd in his expedations, he was obliged to have recourfe to better afliftance. Mr. Harr OLD, upon examination of the cafe, judged the tumour to contain blood, and made afree incifion thro’ the integuments. A \IN S U R G E R Y. 4* The A large quantity of blood in a fluid flate, not in the leaft grumous or dilcoloured, was immediately difcharged j and a con- flderable haemorrhage enfuing, he haftily drefled the wound with dry lint, &c.- Two days afterward he removed the exter- nal dreflang; and, as he did not chufe to hazard a return of the haemorrhage, he left fome part of the lint, which adhered flrongly to the parts. When this was re- moved at a fubfequent dreflang, a quantity of ichorous and putrid matter was dif-. charged with it. / Upon infpedling the bottom of the ca- vity, Mr. Harrold was furprifed to per- ceive the pulfation of the brain, and that there was a total deficiency of bone in all that part, correfponding with the bafis of , - the tumour, the diameter of which was nearly two inches. The furface of the dura, mater granulated, and the wound was Jiealed according to the rules of furgery.N I K CASES AND REMARKS The HISTORY of a FRACTURE and DEPRESSION of the SCULL, 'no fymptoms of which appeared until the fourteenth day after the accident. Case IX. A Cbaife-driver at One of our inns, ap- May22,i77i.-^ plied to me on account of a wound he had received in his forehead, and he particularly defired I would examine the Rate of his fcull, which he was apprehenfive was broken.'—-He informed me, that the day before I faw him, he was fitting, be- fore the body of his mafter s chaife, be- tween Atherftone and Nuneaton, and Hooping forward to adjuft fome part of the harnefs which had been difordered, he re- ceived a kick from one of the hoifes. He perceived he was wounded, that he bled very much, and, to flop the haemor- rhage, he jumped off the carriage, and filled the wound with fand. When he ar- rived at Nuneaton he applied to a Surgeon, whom he likewife defired to examine the43 IN SURGERY. Rate of his fcull.-—The boy was very vvell when he came to me in every refpe£t, except the wound,in his forehead. After I had wafhed out the fand and dirt, I proceeded to examine the date of the fubjacent parts. The pericranium feem- ed bruifed, but it was not detached from the bone. The patient came every day to, my furgery to be dreffed, and (agairtft my directions) continued to look after horfes, and drive chaifes, as ufual. <. . I . In the fpace of fourteen days, the wound upon the upper part of the forehead was almoft healed. He then began to com- plain of a giddinefs of the head ; and, when this fymptom commenced, he was ordered to lofe fome blood, and to be kept very quiet. Notwithftanding the directions that were given upon this occafion, the vertigo increafed, accompanied with a pain of the head j and to thefe fymptoms fu- pervened a defeCt of memory, and a gene- ral lofs of ftrength. It was now apparent there was fome latent mifehief: the wound V : . , ■ wasCASES AND REMARKS 44 was therefore infpedfed with particular at- tention. One part of it appeared more flabby than the refl:, and, upon preffure, a fmall quantity of fanies was difcharged. 1 puflied a probe through the fungous part, and paffing it upward under the fcalp, dif- covered a roughnefs on the furface of the right parietal bone, near the fagittal future, and more than three inches from the wound of the forehead. Having made an incifion through the fcalp over this part, I difcovered a fradure, attended with very confiderable depreflion of the bone. By two applications of the trephine, aflifted by Mr.' Simfon, Surgeon of Glafgow, the whole of the depreffed portion of the fcull was removed. The fymptoms did not in the leafl abate immediately after the operation : the pref- fure of the fradured os parietale upon the dura mater, having occafioned an inflam- mation of that membrane. The caufe was removed, but the effeds feenied to remain, -r—Although the patient was three times r ' bledIN S U R G E R Y* 45 ! bled within a fmall fpace of time after the I operation, and, in other refpedts, a ftri<3: i antiphlogiftic plan was purfued, yet the f difeafe of the dura mater went on from 1 inflammation to mortification. The pa- i-tient'was trepanned on the 7th of June, ifixteen days after the accident happened; riand, on the 15th, the dura mater floughed ioff in a putrid {late. The bad lymptoms iidecreafed after this event; but there was a troublefome fungus from the cortical fubftance of the brain, and a confiderable portion of it came away in the fubfequent dreflings The patient, after the febrile fymptoms :difappeared, became very languid; but, » by a liberal ufe of the bark, he gradually recovered his flrength, and, in defpite of all remonftrances, began again to purfue his irregularities. He was often drunk, ran about the ftreets, attended the bufinefs • Hildanus relates, that part of the fubftance of the brain protruded, in a perfon that he trepanned, to fuch a degree, that he was obliged, feveral times, to remove it by ligature.—The patient recovered. Obfervat, Chi- rurg. Centur. IV. Obf. III. p. 287. ofCASES AND REMARKS 46 of the {tables, and, not with {landing all he could do to prevent it, nature {till prevailed,' and healed his wound. \ In this cafe it appears very probable, that the wound of the forehead w’as occahoned by one part of the horfe s fhoe, and the fradure of the parietal bone by another. The prefent method of removing a large circular portion of the fcalp, previons to the operation of the trepan, appears to me not only a very unneceflary, but a very in- human praaice. It removes the feat of the hair, expofes a larger quantity of the furface of the bone than is neceflary (ren- dering thereby an expoiiation almoft un- avoidable) confiderably retards the cure of the wound, and when, at laft, the parts are healed after this operation, they will experience the lofs of that defence, which the thick Ikin and aponeurofis of the occi- pito-frontalis mufcle, forming the fcalp, would ofnerwife have yielded to them *. . Nudacnimcaro, fi fine cute relinquMur, ^gte ^ ctcatricem perducitur. Galen. Comme«. lit- tn H.ppocr. de fraduris charter. Tom. XII. P- 2)4*SURGERY. 47 In feveral cafes of fradlured fculls that I have been concerned in, and in which it i was neceffary to apply the trephine more ■} than once, the cure hath been accompliflied without removing any portion of the fcalp; and the wounds were healed in half the time that muft have been employed, if ex- cilion had taken place. In two of thefe p cafes the injury was in the forehead j .by I purfuing the above method, a very con- Jfiderable deformity was avoided: and I have feen but one cafe, thus treated, where li an exfoliation of the bone was neceffary. I To make a proper dilitation of the ^ wound for the admiffion of the trephine, I purfue the track of the fradture with the I knife, in whatever diredlion it appears to take. If the circumftances of the cafe make :it proper to expofe a portion of the fcull, ;in a form nearly circular, the old way of 1 making two incifions, interfering each other iat right angles, and afterward differing iback the flaps, will denude the fubjacent boneCASES AND REMARKS bone full as well, for every purpofe of the operation, as if all that part of the integui- • ments had been cut off If it is not, therefore, abfolutely necef- fary to remove any portion of the fcalp, .even when the fcull is extenfively frac- tured, how very irrational and cruel i-s the pradice (which I have too often feen) of fcalping. the patient, even upon the fufpicion of a fradure; protrading there- by the cure to three or four months, which otherwife might have been accomplilhed in almoft as many days. * Quae duabus tranfverfis linels litterse X figuram ac dpit, ut deinde a fmgulis procedentibus angulis cuns fubfecetur. Celfus de Medic. Lib. VIII. Cap. IV. p.- AiU S U R G E R V. 49 ! A LACERATION of the RIGHT HEMISPHERE of the BRAIN* occafioned by external injury. I WAS Tent for, in the middle of the Case X. night, to Hands, who, being [ much in liquor, had fallen from his horfe, [ upon the road betwixt Warwick and this I city. 1 difcovered that he had bled at the j ears, was infenfible and fpeechlefs. As I there were marks of contufon on the right 1 fide of the head, I made an incifion through i the fcalp, but the pericranium was not I iachcd, and the fcull appeared found. After fuffering the arteries that were I divided to bleed about fourteen ounces, I I'drefTed the wound, and left him until the j morning, by which time I fuppofed thofe ‘ ' tTymptoms which arofe from intoxication, P would, of courfe, dilappear. In the morn- |iing of the fucceeding day he was in no re- ^ifpedt better, but continued very comatofe liand fevcrifii. 1 „CASES AND REMARKS' 5® I THEN had recourfe to evacuations, which, I flattered myfelf, would have given the abforbent fyfliem an opportunity to take up the fluids, which, I fuppofed had been extravafated under the fcull.—A large quan- tity of blood was taken from the arm; leeches were applied to the temples; blif- ters to the legs, and behind the ears; ftools were procured by clyfters; and the evacu- ating plan was purfued on the two follow- ing days, without the leaft amendment. On the fifth day the patient remained flupid, infenfible, and fpeechlefs. It was now evident that evacuations, general and partial, had been made as far as prudence would allow ; and, at this pe- riod, the furface of the fcull having af- fumed a difeafed afped, in confultation with Mr. Harrold, it was agreed to perforate the bone. When the circular portion of the fcull was removed, there was no extrava- fated blood perceived betwixt it and the dura mater; but under that membrane fome kind of fluid was evident to the touch. 5 The51 IN SURGERY. The dura mater was divided by a lan- cet, and about half a tea-cup-full of bloody lymph was immediately difcharged. The patient had no fort of relief from the operation: freili blifters were applied; more blood was taken away j anodynes with fudorifics were adminiftered, without the leaft good efFedt. The day after the trephine was applied, Mr. William Sharp, of St. Bartholomew’s-hofpital, faw the pa- tient j who thought that nothing had been left untried, which promifed to be of any eflential fcrvice in the cafe. On the ninth day from the accident he died. I Upon dilTedlion, no part of the fcull appeared fradtured; the pericranium and dura mater were, in every point, adherent to it. Upon removing the arch of the bone, a large laceration was perceived to extend through the right hemisphere of the brain, beginning in the anterior, and ter- minating in the pofterior lobe. It pene- trated through the cortical, and part of the medullary fubdance of the brain, and com- municated with the right lateral ventricle. E 2 ' ACASES AND REMARKS 52 Case XI. Dec.14,1777 A CASE of the HYDROCEPHA- LUS INTERNES, where mer- cury was adminlftered without fuccefs. T W A S defired to fee Mary Sither- Rone, an adtive lively girl, four years of age 1 found her very ill, complaining of great pain of the head, toffing it about from one fide of the pillow to the other. Her cheeks were red, her pulfe quick, and fhe had been four days coftive. Her mother informed me, that eight days be- fore I faw her daughter (he was drowfy, and had a great defire to incline her head upon the table. The fecond day of her illnefs, fhe complained of pain in the back part of her head, and defired her mother to hold and prcfs it. On the fifth day fhe was fick, brought up her breakfaft, and could not bear the light. 'On the fiicceeding day (he was drowfy, vomited, and complained much of her head, but remained fenfible. The fymptoms con- tinued and increafed until the eighth, when fhe was in the Rate above defcribed. DuringIN SURGERY. 53 E 3 She During the whole progrefs of the dif- ,.eafe, fhe could never bear a candle to be fin the room at night, but fcreamed aloud to have it removed. As {he had been collive four days, the ifirft neceflary bufinefs feemed to be to 1 empty the inteftinal canal. With this ;view two clyfters were injected, at proper ■ intervals 5 but they both returned without jproducing the defired effedt. An< opening (medicine was ordered, and blifters were applied betwixt the -{houlders, and upon the arms’. - The difeafe increafed, but {he could Dec. 15. pfpeak, and was fenfible. Six grains of [icalomel were divided into as many dofes, Hand they were all taken in the courfe of the |i day and the fucceeding night; one drachm, »llikewife,~ of the ftronger mercurial oint- Lment was well rubbed into the legs. Before the next morning there had been a confiderable difcharge of lymph ;and faliva from the mouth and noftrils, r.and her eyes watered much.54 Dec. j6. CASES AND REMARKS She was much worfe: her hands were convulled, and the mufcles moving the globe of the eye fo afFeded with fpafms, that no part, except the white, could be feen for fome hours. -Being out of town all this day, the mercurial courfe was in- termitted. The convulfions had ceafed; (he was, however, worfe in all other refpedts : fhe lay ftill, was ftupid, infenfible, fpeechlefs, and incapable of deglutition. Her pulfe was too quick to be counted with accu- racy ; the pupils of the eyes were widely dilated, and did not contrad at the ap- proach of the ftrongeft light: the dif- charge from her mouth and nofe had ceafed. As I could not, in the prefent fituation, give her any more mercury by the mouth, I direded two drachms of mercurial ointment to be rubbed this day into the legs. I WAS furprifed to find her alive. The fymptoms were, in every refped, much the fame as they had been the preceding day,IN 55 E 4 SURGERY. day. There was no difcharge from the mouth; and two drachms more of the ointment were, in the evening, ru e into the legs and thighs. 'She was rather better, could fwallow, Dec. 19 but there was no difcharge from the fali- vary glands. She,was at this time coftive; and as_the calomel had before opened her body, fix grains of it were joined in a mix- ture and the whole quantity was taken in the courfe of the day and the night enfuing. She was no worfe in any refpeft; fhe - ■ ■ could fwallow well, andv difcovered in her motions more figns of fenfibility j but the eyes at this period were not affedted by light, and the pupils remained widely di- lated. In the afternoon her cheeks were very red, her pulfe remarkably quick, and a profufe fweat broke out from every part / ♦ R Calomel, gr. vi. Syr. fambucl, 3 vi. Aq. purs 3 u. M. Capiat fextam partem, horis fuigulis tcrtiis. ofC A S.E S AND remarks of the body. The mixture, containing fix grains of calomel, was repeated. She was much worfe in every refpedi file had fweated profufely in the night, and her pulfe was uncommonly quick and weak; the eye-lids were wide open, and the furface of the tunica conjundtiva dry and glafly, She fwallowed nothing in the courfe of the day, and died in the evening. Leave could not be obtained to examine the head. I TRIED mercury in this cafe, from the fuccefs which the ingenious Dr. Dobfon of Liverpool had by the exhibition of this re- medy, in one inftance of the hydrocepha- lus internus. Difagreeable as it muft be to relate the inefBcacy of a medicine that hath, even once only, fucceeded in a dif- eafe before deemed incurable, and from which the medical world had conceived the higheft expedlations i yet having.given it, in the above recited cafe, a fair trial, I thought it a duty incumbent on me to com- municate to the public this inftance of its want of fuccefs. AnIN S U R G E R, Y. 57 An ACCOUNT of the good Effeds arifing from a Scarification of the T U- NICA CONJUNCTIVA, in a violent C H E M O S I S. H O M AjS D AV IS, of Bed worth, Case xii. applied to me with-a difeafe of left eye, which had been of fix weeks :ontinuance.'—The tunica conjundiva of the eye-lids, as well as of the, globe of the eye, was much inflamed, and fo ex- ceflively thickened, that it.projeded very confiderably beyond the furface of the cor- nea, and gave, it the appearance of being funk in the eye. In this: ftate the.tu- nica conjundiva refembled a piece ’ of raw liver. The patient- was almofl: de- prived of fight, partly occafioned by a ge- neral cloudinefs of the cornea, and on ac- count of an opake fpot, which occupied that part of the furface of the eye oppp- fite the pupil. H E complained of a very excruciat- ng pain from the difeafed eye, {hooting throughCASES AND REMARKS through the temple to the back part of the head. He informed me that he had been repeatedly bled, and advifed to apply blifters behind the neck and earsfrom neither of which, nor indeed from any thing that had been attempted to relieve him, had he received the leaft benefit: on the contrary, it was much to be appre- hended, that a total lofs of the ufe of the organ of vifion mull have been the inevit- able confequencc. I directed him to have fix leeches applied in the circumference of the eye, as clofe to it as poflible ; and, on account of the extreme pain and irritability which at- tended, I gave him a pill every night, com- pofed of two grains of extradlum thebai- cum, and the fame quantity of calomel. He was direftcd to ufe a pediluvium every night, and to take, every third morning, an ounce of Rochelle fait diffolved in water. The difeafed eye was fomented feveral times a day, with the faturnine wa- ter of Goulard. ' TheIN SURGERY. The The tunica conjunaiva not being in Sept. 19. any degree unloaded, fix leeches were again applied round the eye j and I intend- ed to have opened the temporal artery, but its pulfation could not be difcovered with fiiflicient precifion, to give that operation any chance of fucceeding. The other di- reaions were obferved as before. The acute pain in the head was dimi- 21. nifhed, but the ftate of the tunica conjunc- tiva was much the fame as before. Hav- ing fomented the eye and temples fome time with warm milk and water, I invert- ed the lower lid, and with the point of a lancet made feven or eight fcarifications in- ' to the tunica conjunftiva. I kept the car- tilage fome time inverted with my finger, to promote the evacuation; and by thefe means two or three tea-fpoonfuls of blood were difchargedthe warm fomentation was ufed again. The patient flept much better this night than uTual; in the fuc- could fee objedls more and the pain of the head was inconfiderable.6o CASES AND REMARKS \ Sept. 28. The fcarification was repeated with fuch advantage, that on the 30th the tu- nica conjunftiva appeared only of a pale red colour, its veflels having been emptied and contradled. The calomel, pills were continued; in which the, proportion of opium was reduced to half the ufual quan- tity. The application to the eye was then the aqua vitriolica camphorata, and it was ordered to be ufed cold, I On the 6th of Oftober the patient could ’ difcern objects pretty diftindtly; the fpot upon the cornea was much reduced in di- menfions, and the inflammation of the tu- nica conjundliva entirely removed. In very bad inflammations of the eye, where that fyftem of veflTels which, in a ftate of health, circulate only the pellucid parts of the blood, are fo much dilated as to admit the red globules (errore loci) if the dileafe hath been of long continuance, the veflels are fo preternaturally diftended, and their contradfile power fo much weak- ened, that it will be in vain to expert a cureIN SURGERY. cure from any generail evacuations.- —- In this ftate of the cafe, I have often feen the moft beneficial effeas from a fcarifica- tion of the tunica conjuhaiva of the infe- ■ rior eye-lids, 'with ^ brufh made of the ears of bearded wheat j by which the vef- fels of the part inflamed are divided, the ftagnant blood is evacuated, and perhaps a falutary flimulus is communicated, by which the relaxed veflels contraft to their proper dimenfions. A very particular ac- count of this operation, and a great num- ber of cafes, demonflrating its good ef- fefts in many difeafes of the eye and its coats, are given by Duddell in a treatife upon thefe fubjedls. The reafon I ufed a lancet in the cafe I have juft related was, becaufe I had no brufhes at that time, nor any proper materials for making them. There is an objedtion to the ufe of the lan- cet : if the little wound of the divided veffels does not exactly correfpond with that of the tunica conjundiva, the blood may infinuate itfelf into the reticular mem- * Benedift Duddell, on the Difeafes of the horny Coat of the Eye, &c. brane.CASES AND REMARKS 6a brane, and fpreading abroad under the fkin, give it the appearance of a black eye. This remark may, perhaps, appear of very little importance; nor fliould I have men- tioned it, if I had not experienced the in- convenience of fuch a circumftance. ^ i I A63 SURGERY. The IN A TUMOUR of the INFERIOR E Y E - L 1D, cured by excifion. I 1 Dissected a tumour from the lowerc ase xili eye-lid, in a young man of this city : it was about the fize of a pigeon’s egg. A tranfverfe incihon was made over the tumour, about an eighth of an inch be- low the edge of the eye-lid; and, in en- deavouring to feparate the cyft from the ikin, I wounded it, and found it full of hydatids. I cut away all the anterior part of the cyft, the reft floughed offj and the wound foon healed, without leaving any deformity. 'CASES AND remarks 64 ^The 'HISTORY of an uneommon TUMOUR, which thruft the Globe of the right Eye entirely out of the Socket. j CaseXIV.TN the year 1774, M. Watts, aged ''*■ thirty, interfering between two men who were fighting, had a blow from one of them, by which (lie was knocked down. "About a'week after this, fhe perceived a fmall fwelling on the part where fhe re- ceived the blow.’ It was not very trouble- fome to her, and therefore fhe ‘negledted it. As I was paffing her houfe one day, fhe called me in to examine it. I DISCOVERED a tumouT, about the fize of a hazel nut, upon the upper part of the nofe, rather inclining to the right fide. Its bafis adhered to the os nafi, very near, and a little above that part, where the ten* don of the orbicularis mufcle is inferted, and it was fo fixed, hard, and immove- able, that I imagined it to have been an cxoftofis.' ■ IN SURGERY. ' I ADVISED her to rub into the part* iibvery night and morning, fome mercurial ointment.'—-I believe it was three months after this time before I faw the poor wo- man again.’—^At this period, the tumour ' was much increafed, extending its dimen- Ifions on every fide, particularly toward I the eye; and: part of it havihg approached near the orbit, in fuch a degree as to prefs upon the faccus lachrymalis, occafioned the j tears to diftil down the cheek. The moft : prominent part of the fwelling was foft, i but its circumference ftill retained a boney ! hardnefs. The patient began to have a dull pain in the part, which extended to the temple and right fide of the forehead. As the cafe appeared then very lingular, : I took every opportunity of (hewing it to ! furgeons of my acquaintance. Although nor>e of them could define the exadt na- r ture of the difeafc, they all agreed, that, i from the apparent fludluation in the moft ■ prominent part, there muft be a fluid ; within. In a confultation, at which four furgeons were prefent, it was determined F thatCASE$ AND REMARKS 66 that an incifion (hould be made into the body of the tumour, to evacuate the fluid, and that if any thing further was done, the future procelfes of the operation fhould be regulated by circumlfances as they arofe. The neceflity of fome attempts to relieve the patient was urged, on account of the large fize of the tumour, of the great dif- pofition which it difeovered to increafe every day, "and the probability there was that the globe of the eye would be injured, or entirely deftroyed, by the further pro* grefs of the difeafe. In purfuance of this refolutlon, and in prefence of the gentlemen who advifed the meafure, I made an incifion through the integuments, the whole length of the tu- mour, and afterward divided a thick carti- laginous cyft, but, to our great furprife, not one drop of any fluid was evacuated, except' fuch a quantity of blood as might be fuppofed to flow from the incifions: the cavity of the tumour feemed to be filled up with a fungus. Th3In SURGER^* F 2 her The queftions now were. Whether w£i fhould flop, or Whether we (hould pro- ceed, and attempt the extirpation of the whole ?—The great extent of the bafis of the tumour, its firm adherence every where to the fubjacent bones, and the incom- preflible hardnefs of its fides, were argu- ments againfl the prudence of the enter- :prize j the fituation of part of the tumour ijwithin the orbit, and the probability that Ithe bones of the nofe, &c. partook of the 'mifchief, in a fituation too deep to be reached bv any efforts of art, furnifhed prefumptive proofs of hnpraBicability j“iof the operation.- The wound was there- of: fore dreffed up in the common manner, and it healed in a little time, without de- ? monflrating the lead; appearance of any n kind of malignity. The fwelling kept on '5 increafing as ufual, extending lower down ’ by the fide of the nofe, and the eye be- T gan to be pufhed out of its focket. J ' " ' ■; In this deplorable fituation, I was very defirous that the poor woman might have' the bed: advice poflible, and therefore fentCASES AND REMARKS her to London, recommended her to the care of Mr. William Sharp, and acquainted him by letter, that if he could give her the leaft encouragement, ftie would fub- mit 'to any thing he advifed, and day in London as long as he thought proper, Mr. Sharp was fo obliging as to pro- cure for her the joint opinion of the fur- geons of St. Bartholomew’s-hofpital. Thofe gentlemen, upon a confideration of the cafe, agreed that the extirpation of the tumour could not be undertaken with any profpedl of fuccefs; and therefore nothing could be done but to palliate the fymptoms. After Raying fome days in London, fhe returned to Coventry. Her complaints then became every day gradually worfe, and fhe had frequent re- turns of hsemorrhage from thenofe, which reduced her ftrength fo much, that her life was not apprehended to be of long continuance. By means, however, of the bark, a nourithing diet, the ufe of opiates (when her pain made them necedary) and theI IN SURGERY. the faturnine water of Goulard, applied cold to the tumour, Ihe recovered her ftrength wonderfully, and the returns of haemorrhage were much lefs frequent. In proportion to the increafe of the tumour, and confequent diftention of the parts, her pain augmented, and the ufe of opium in large dofes, became more than ever ne- eelTary. Three months before her death, which happened two years after the commence- ment of the difeafe, the noftril of the af- feded fide appeared to have been filled up with a hard fubfiance, of the fcirrhous oolypous kind} and the other fo com- □reffed by its bulk, that the nofe appeared ftrangely diftorted, and there feemed to oe no paflage even for air, through the aoftrils into the lungs. At this period, the globe of the right ^ye was entirely thruft out of the focket; md, notwithftanding the great elongation which the optic nerve muft neceflarily have hflained, before this wonderful change of F 3 fituationV CASES AND REMARKS ■ fituation could have taken place, the poor woman could fee to read a large print, when the other eye was covered. This can only be explained by the very gradual, and almoft imperceptible manner, in which this event happened. The pupil was capa- ble of free expanfion and contradlion, but the circle at all times was rather larger than it (hould have been in a natural ftate of the eye. About a fortnight before (he died, the polypous excrefcence appeared exter- mally through the right noftril, and from • thfe feparation of a Jdough about the center of the'tumour,the fame fungous appearance prefented. No other circumftances of this •extraordinary cafe happened worth relate ing, except that a little time before her deceafe, there w^as a confiderable.hasmorr rhage from the noftril, At length, worn out with pain, weaknefs, and fatigue, death put a welcome period to her fufferings. It is much to be lamented, that I could not procure permiftion to examine the ftate of ’^■he parts after* her deceafe. A4 ? i ) i '• i )V / h- . I' S-' •"'» 'ti ■t-s t. J » . J 'i’M ji - . - ic -• *'IN SURGERY* A CANCEROUS DISEASE of the M O U T H, fuccefsfully treated. TV/f R S. E n> of Warwick, at the Case XV. latter end of the year 1769 perceived a fmall fwelling within her upper lip. Some little time after its firft appearance it was attended with pains, (hooting over the roof of the mouth toward the throat. The neighbouring parts became hard, her pains increafed, the point firft affeded ul- cerated, and tEe difeafe fpread toward the throat. At the expiration of two years, when all her complaints, inftead of giving way to the methods that had been tried for her relief, appeared to be exafperated, fhe was fuppofed to be incurable by the gentlemen who had attended her. In this fituation (he came to Coventry, in June 1772. I found* her then much, emaciated, with an hedic fever; the dif- eafe had fpread into her throat; her up- per lip and gums were almoft deftroyed; and the parts around the fore were indu- F 4 rated72 CASES AND REMARKS rated and tumefied. Her nights were paffed without fleep, on account of the conti- nual lancinating pain under which Ihe laboured. Her appetite was gone, her pulfe was quick, and fhe had for fome time been weakened by exceffiye nodtur- nal fweats. She was defired to confine herfelf as much as poflible to a milk diet, joined with rice, and when thirfty, to drink the malt infufion. Three times every day (he took an antifeptic draught I defired her to take, into her mouth often, half a large fpoonful of a mixture of the exprefled juices of the leaves of hemlock and the roots of carrot, in equal quantities} and every night, at bed-time, an anodyne pill •!*. was adminiftered. * R Infuf. cort. Per. frigid. ^ i. Tindl. cort. Hux. - 3 ii. El. vit. acid. gutt. xx. Syr. e cort. aur. 3 i. M. ' f'iat hauftus. I •}• R Extr. cicutas, gr. v. Thebaic, gr. i; M. f. pilula. After « . I I*I ' IN S U R G E R Y. fi V After purfuing this plan a fortnight, 1 her acute pains were leflened, and the ge- flineral afpedt of the fore was clearly not V' worfe than when we began, which afforded Qi fome kind of encouragement to proceed. I r The draught was continued twice a day July 26. jipnly, the elixir vitrioli omited, and half Ip a grain of mercurius corrofivus fublimatus, ' Ttidiffolved in a fmall quantity of proof fpi- rit, added to each. The anodyne pill was Uaken as before, and a quarter of a pint of ta decodion * ordered to be drank every night and morning.——Amendment was githen vifible every day: in lefs than a month jllthe indurated tides of the fore foftened^ 3lthe cavity leffenedj the pains were almoft .Tjgone; the night fweats ceafedj and her. d health in every refpedt was better. I Her mouth was at that time become llfore, from the effeds of the fublimate^ "i R Rad. farfae incif. J ii. “ •j Cort. Peruv. contuf. ^ i. coque fimul in aqua; 1 fontanae iii, ad ii, cola Sc adde aq. cin. j fort. ? ii. i * 1 .( t butCASES AND REMARKS 74 but fucb evident advantages appeared to have arifen from it, that I did not chufe to incur any hazard of flopping the pro- grefs of a fuccefsful treatment, to avoid a merely local inconvenience. When there feemed to be any danger of falivation, it was prevented, by wafhing the mouth with the faturnine water of Goulard, and keeping her bowels open. The corrofive fublimafe, therefore, and the other medi- cines were continued, ufitil the cure was completed, 1 On the i8th of September 1772, Mrs: | ^ returned to W^arwick, perfe(5tly ; well; and although it is now more than ■ fix years fince fhe was under my care, fhe : has not experienced the lead return of heir: complaint i • The'Utc Mr. Gooch, in his laft publication, hath iven us an account of the good effeas of fublintate in a; ancerous cafe, nearly fimilar' to the above. Med. and . :hirurg. Obferv. p- HS* ! An;75 IN SVRGERY. An ACCOUNT of the extirpation of a large TUMOUR of the Ranula kind. Mrs. W d, of Warwick, appliedCAss xvr. to me for the relief of a large fwell-®'P’‘*>'”'- ing under her chin. It occupied all the fpace under the lower jaw, and its inferior point extended as low as the thyroid gland. It appeared very large likewife within the mouth, under the tongue, which was thruil againft the roof of the mouth, and, by it's preffure- upon the epiglottis, made the adtion of breathing fometirnes diffi- cult ; during the time fhe flept, (he was obliged to lie with her mbuth quite open, r—-She was thirty-fix years of age; and the fwelling had been gradually forming ever fince her infancy. At the age of fix- teen it almoft vanifhed, then increafed again; and from that period to the-time I faw her, it became continually larger, al- though its increafe was flow, and almoft imperceptible. 'She had taken- a great varietyCASESand remarks variety of medicines, but without any ad- vantage. I INFORMED her fhe could have no ; chance of a cure without the affiftance of the knife. She replied, that Ihe came to ; Coventry to fubmit to any thing I fhould propofe for her advantage. 5ept. t?. Having her head well fecured betwixt the knees of a perfon fitting down, and, with the approbation of Mr. Harrold, I made two incifions through the integu- ments, whofe points meeting each other at the fuperior and inferior parts of the tu- mour, defcribed a figure nearly oval j and the ikin was afterwards diffedted on each fide toward the bafis. The cyft not being yet expofed, the incifion was continued through the platyfma myoides, and the mylo-hyoidei mufcles. Upon dividing the cyft, which was extremely thick, about: twelve ounces of curdled matter were dif- J charged. I cut away all the anterior-part of the cyft; and after taking up three ar- teries, which bled very freely, filled thei IN S U R G E R Y. cavity of the wound with dry lint. Af- jter the operation, fhe was ordered to drink ^plentifully of diluent liquors, to gargle her mouth often in the day with a repellent I cooling application, and at night to take The parts were in great pain, tenfe, and hot; the membrane of the mouth was thickened, and there had been a large dif- jcharge of faliva. Some blood was taken from the arm, a clyfter ordered, the gargle was continued, and the opiate repeated at night. The lymptoms were much more favour- ible i {he refted well, and the pain and leat of the parts were abated. ^ Upon removing the dreflings, I dif- :overed' the mufcles had contradted fo nuch (the fmall opening which commu- licated with the remaining part of the ■yft, being now contraded fo much as :arcely to admit my finger through it) hat I feared the aperture might be obli- teratedI V 78 CASES AND REMARKS terated, before we could procme a deftrnc' tion of the cyft. " To prevent this efTeft, 1 introduced a bit of prepared fpunge. Sept. 23. The fpunge having fufticiemly ddated the aperture of the mufcles, feme of the caufticum commune fortius was fpread up- on lint, and introduced upon the point o my finger, into contaft with the cyft, wLre it was held for the fpace of half an hour, when I thought it probable that a fufficient flough mightbe produced.-—In a few days the cyft began toloofen, and foon after digefted off;' new granulations arofe, in L weeks the wound healed; and the patient returned home in perfea health. The79 IN SURGERY. The CUREofaRANULA, by indfion. and cauftic. iT WAS confulted in the cafe of Mifs Case XVII. * P , of Wooton in the county Warwick, who had a tumour of two year’s continuance under the tongue. I hoped, after the containing fluid fhould be evacuated, and the fides of the cyft Hade to adhere, that a cure might be ' obtained. For this purpofe I palTed a large crook- 'd needle, armed with a flrong ligature, vithin the mouth, from one fide of the bafis ' ' if the tumour to the other. About two large poonfuls of a fluid, in confiffence like the vhite of an egg, were difchargedj and he ends of the thread were left to hang ut of the patient’s mouth, that they light be drawn from fide to fide every ^ay. , ' ^ As foon as the difcharge of the vifcid uid ceafed, the feton was withdrawn, ^ andand in a little time (he appeared well.— In lefs than a month’s time the fwelling became as large as ever. I then cut away a circular portion of the membrane of the mouth, arid on the fucceeding day applied the cauftic, in the fame manner as hath been related in the preceding cafe. The cyft was in this manner effeaually deftroy- ed; and the patient afterward continued free from any return of her complaint . * The cure of the ranula can never be obtained by fimply opening the tumour. Sulpart. Vander-Wiel relate, a cafe, where a ranula had been opened three time, without ruceeft j and at lad the cure was obtained by corrofive applications. Toro. 1. Vide Schenkius, Obf. 388. lib. lo. _ Pare recommends the aftual cautery. 1 ‘^Y/ilafe of thi, kind, Tnlpiu, obferres that the cur. was obtained by hot Iron. Obferv. Med. Lib. . P' *"iaA«te'. after Inclfton, employed an efcharotlc po«- having with a fcalpel,- It Ihould be drelTed with Imt, fatura with alum water. Obferv. Chirurg. p. t43* , Van Swleten relates a cafe of a large ranula cuied^b, incifion.and the ufe of an aftringent fomentation, ment. in Aphor. Boerh. §. 79^' Marchetti8i i N SURGERY. To D R. ASH. I' Sir, tc H E following cafe of the Icarlet J X « fgygj. ^ (tj^e prefent epidemic of I ** this county) having been attended with j “ very fingular circumftances, I flatter myfelf a fhort hiftory of it will not be “ difpleafing to you. I am, 6cc. ’ Jr Marchettis recommends the juice of the chelidonium ji^: majus vulgare, to deftroy the cyft. Velchius advifes the fame application. Obferv. Medic. Epif. 26. p. 17* M. de la Faye defcribes the cafe of a ranula fo large, that it prevented the patient from opening the mouth, or ' fpeaking: it was cured by incifion and caullic. Dionis obferves, that the fiinple opening of the tu- mour will not affect a cure : therefore he advifes the part to be dreifed, after incifion, with the vitriolic acid and ' 4 hiel rofarum. ^ M. Louis declares that he hath opened many of thefe i) tumours by incifion, and they have been reproduced in a : fhort fpace of time. He contends that the ranula is oc- < cafioned by a dilatation of the fublingual falivary gland, in confequence of . a difeafe or obliteration of the excre- 1 tory dudt: and therefore the difeafe cannot properly be ! called an cncyfted tumour. Vid. I’Encyclopedie, article I Grenouillette. ‘ • Febris anginofa. Huxham. Scarlatina anginofa. Sauvage. Scarlatina. Plenciz. G ON J *CASES AND remarks '82 I Case XVlll.^^ N the 14th of Odober laft Elizabeth Green, a healthy young woman, of Stoke in this neighbourhood, was feized with a fliivering fit^ which was foon fuc- ceeded by heat, thirft, and other febrile iymptoms. The next day her mouth and throat were fo painful, that {he fwallowed with the utmoft difficulty. On the third day a fcarlct raili made its appearance on her arms, neck, and other parts. Thefe iymptoms continued until the fifth day, when {he became delirious; and having been for fome hours incapable of fwallow- ing liquids, or of breathing without great difficulty, by a violent exertion of cough- ing and retching fhe brought up fome bloody matter, and a great quantity of membranous Houghs. After this difeharge fhe could fwallow much better, and with lefs pain j but the fever and its fymptoms continued until the fourteenth day, when I was firfl defired to viiit her. I FOUND her extremely ill: her pulfewas quick and weak; her-fkin hot and dry; and the 1G 2 the I inSURGER. y. 2'the'epidermis univerfally peeling off m !i fcales. Her throat was, fhe (aid, better; 11 but I had no opportunity of examining the i ftate of it, the mufcles of the lower jaw I being fo rigid, that (he could only open I her mouth to admit the extremity of a tea- ilfpoon. She complained of much pain on |!the.left fide of the neck, where, upon ex- ( amination, was difcovered a very perceptible c induration. I thought there might be fome ^ chance of a fuppuration taking place in this i part, which might prove ferviceable to the > cafe, .and therefore diredled an emollient cataplafm, to which was added a propor- '! tion of flour of mufiard, fufiicient to com- j municate a heat to the ikin. Every fourth hour ihe was ordered to take two ounces of decoftion of bark, mixed with half a drachm of the cordial confection. % The next day (the fifteenth) I was ' haftily fent for, her friends fuppofing (he was dying. She had fainted; and, w’hen ' I faw her, all the mufcles of the right arm i and leg were violently convulfed. She ' continued in this ftate two hours, and thenCASES, AND REMARKS 4 the fpafm ceafed. I made no other altera- tion in the treatment, than adding five grains of camphor to each dofe of cordial mixture. In the night the convulfions returned, attended with a rattling in the throat. After the paroxyfm left her, fhe lay fome time in a ftate, in which her friends again fuppofed fhe had but a fhort time to live: fhe recovered, however, a^ little, and defired to drink fome cold, water. j I On the fixteenth the convulfions return- ed three or four times,, with equal vio- lence ; and in the intervals die complained- of great pains of the neck. Her cordiaE medicine with wine was perfifted in, and the ftimulating cataplafm continued. On the feventeenth day I perceived an obfcure fluctuation in the fide of the neck; and apprehending that an external opening for the matter would afford the befi: chance * of recovery, I made an incifion, three parts of an inch in length, through-the integu- • ments, under the angle of the jaw, and nearIN SURGERY. G 3 The ;ear the anterior edge of the fterno-maf- )ideus mufcle; then pufliing the knife n, about two ounces of very offeniive latter were difcharged. The drain con- nued large for feveral days; but, after le operation, llie never had the leaji re^ irn of convulfions, the febrile lymptoms "adually abated, and every appearance of inger is now entirely gone; a great de- •ee of weaknefs only remaining, which ill probably require a conliderable length [' time to remove. ^ Coventry, *ov. i6, 1778. ICASES AND REMARKS 86- The HISTORY of a fatal DISEASE of the OESOPHAGUS, occafioned by an accident. Case XIX TN thc month of January, 1776, one A Thurfton, a barber, having a difpute with a man, received an injury in his throat, by a rough ftick being, with vio- lence, pulhed down it. Some blood was difcharged; and the next day, finding his throat fore, he called upon me. I \vas not at home, and he negleded to procure any affiftance until a month had pafled, whei^. I was defired to vifit him. He complained then of a moft violent pain in the fide of the neck, could fwal- low nothing but fluids, and thofe with the utmofl difficulty. 1 had not an op- portunity of examining the throat, as the pain and rigidity of the mufcles prevented him from moving the lower jav/. I TREATED the complaiot at firft as an inflammatory quinfey, by bleeding, clyl- ters,87 IN SURGERY. ers, antiphlogiftic gargles, and blifters.*—— ')n the fourth day from the time I firft faw lim, after a very relllefs night, he brougkt ip fuddenly a large quantity of purulent and 'ery offenfive matter. The fymptoms ^ i^ere, in confequence of this, in fome mea— □re abated, and I had hopes that the fup- luration would have proved the cribs of . he difeafe; but in this expectation I was jiifappointed : the quantity ot matter, in- iead of leffening, continually increafed. )n fome days, indeed, it appeared very mall, then it ufed fuddenly' to increafe; •robably occaboned by a lodgement in Dme part of the cefophagus, or from the natter bnding its way into the ftomacb, rom whence it was, every third or fourth ay, dfcharged by vomiting. A s there was then much reafon to ear the patient would bnk under fuch a ong continued difcharge of matter, or fuf- er from its abforption into the fyftem, very method was taken to prevent, as nuch as pobible, thefe efFeCls. The bark vas very liberally adminiftercd ; the parts G 4 were88 CASES a:^n D REMARKS f were conftantly wafhed with,an antifcptic gargle; a milk and vegetable diet W’as en-r- joined; and a conftant circulation of frefli air was procured through the chamber^ but to no good purpofe: the patient be- came weaker; the hedlic fymptoms ad- vanced ; and the difcharge of matter was every day augmented. IN the beginning of March (three months from the time the injury was re- ceived) I obferved a blufli of inflammation on the fide of the neck, againft which the patient defcribed the flick to have been puflied; and hoping that we might pre- vent the matter from draining into the flo- mach by an external opening, I ordered an emollient poultice to the part, which was continued eight days. I then diredted another cataplafm, compofed of the farina of linfeed and water, to which a fmall quantity of the powder of muflard was added. This application occafioncd pain; in a little time a tumour was formed, and, as foon as a fludluation was evident, I opened it by cauflic, and let out about' fourIN S U R G E R Y, 8) Four ounces of matter, the mofl: putrid I ever remember to have feen. When the . sfchar feparated, the fat of the cellular membrane appeared to have been entirely melted away j the carotid artery was ex- pofed; and the mufcles were as clean as if they had been difleded. The external opening appeared to communicate with the internal ulcer, as fome parts of the food were now and then difcharged through it. ^ The patient was ordered to lie upon the fide alfeded, that the matter might ' have a more depending drain; the anti- Fepticplan was flridly continued, and every precaution taken that might afford a chance of recovery. But the matter became more icrimonious, and increafed in quantity; his ftrength leffened; a diarrhoea came on; and in June (fix months from the date of his complaint) he died, emaciated to the greateft degree. AnCASES AND REMARKS An ACCOUNT of a wound of the - TRACHEA, which proved mortal . from an uncommon caufe. « Case XX. QN the 4th of March, 1774, a young woman of this city, in a fit of de- fpondency, cut her throat. Soon after fhe was difcovered, I faw her. She had di- vided, with a penknife, the whole annu- lar fubfiance of the trachea, juft beneath the thyroid cartilage; had loft a great quantity of blood, and was incapable of fpeaking. By two ftitches of the inter- lupted’future, aififted by flips of flicking plaifter, I brought the fides of the wound of the integuments into contadl. The next day the patient was in a pro- mifing way, ^and was capable of fpeaking. On the third day fhe had a violent cough; and, upon removing the dreffings, the greateft part of the air, in the adl of expiration, feemed to eicape through the vvound, with an uncommon noife. With a view to moderate the cough, flie was " ^ ‘ orderedIN S U R G E R Y. 9^ ordered an anodyne lindlus, and a large blifter was applied to the back. She was direded to abftain from every thing acri- monious or heating; nourifliment was al- ways given her in a lic^uid form; and, to promote a regular oilcharge from the in- teftinal canal, a clyfter was adminiftered every evening. By degrees the cough abated, and every day there feemed to be more reafon to en- :tertain hopes of a favourable termination of the cafe. At the expiration of three weeks fhe was capable of fitting up; the - ' Wound was very much diminifhed in lize, uand the mticous difcharge leffened at every idreffing. In the fourth week the wound i'was nearly healed, when the patient was feized with a difficulty of breathing, ac- companied with a fenfe of fuffocation; and, A after a continuance and increafe of thefe d fymptoms during the fpace of twenty-four U hours, ffie died, i I' I DISSECTED, the parts the day after her i deceafe, affifted by Mr. Harrold.-—The ' external fgt CASES AND REMARKS external wound had been contrafted fo much, that there was then only room to introduce a probe, which palled very freely into the trachea downward. The cicatrix adhered very firmly to the inferior part of the divided trachea, but the fuperior por- tion had retra(fted half an inch, and its cavii,y was fo much filled up by granulations of flefii that there did not appear room for a fufficient quantity of air to pafs through it to dilate the lungs; and when the exter- nal wound became fo fmall that the lungs could not be fupplied with air from that fource, a difficulty of breathing com- menced, and at length the patient was fuffocated, by the very efforts which na- ture made to heal the divided parts. Some time before this cafe occurred, Mr. Harrold did me the favour to defire I would fee a patient of his, who had cut into the cavity of the trachea, betwixt the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. In this cafe the integuments only had been united by ligature, and the patient, in every re- fpedt, feemed to be in a fituation as re- moteI I IN SURGERY. iCimote from danger as could be imagined: jlineverthelefs, in the fifth night he fuddenly b died. I ATTENDED the examination of the body; and the immediate caufe of death, 3 in this inftance, appeared to us to have I been occafioned by the rupture of a fmall jjartery, the blood from which not having i ready external paifage, had found its ivay into the trachea, and there formed I coagulum, which plugged up the ca- i7ity of the windpipe, and fuffocated the oatient, by preventing the accefs of air to he lungs. When we took out the coagu- ated blood, it appeared to have branched mt into the 'ramifications of the aiperia rteria. Qj^ery. Would the fewing up the /indpipe, and leaving the external wound ' pen, in both or either of thefe cafes, have fforded a better chance of'recovery ? ' ACASES AND REMARICS 94 A very lingular afFedtion of the OE S O- P H A G U S, which occafioned the death of the patient. 1 The oefophagus (whofe found ftate is of the utmoft confequence to the ani- mal machine) is fubjeft to many and very dangerous difeafes. Amongft the caufes that have occafioned a difficult deglutition, have been mentioned fpafms ^ j ulcers; a fcirrhous induration of the coats of the oefophagus of the numerous lym- phatic glands H. nearly in contadl with itj and facculi, or preternatural, pouches §. * An account of a cafe of this kind, cured by antifpaf- modics, is related by Dr. Percival. Med. Tranfaa. + The^oefophagus in a perfon was found cartilaginoM Arooghout whole exten,. and fo n.uch con.^ae . that a hog’s briftle could fcarcely be ^ranfrmtted. M Ap I’Acad. Royal, de Chirurg. Tom. I- p- 439- I, Tulpius has related a cafe where the xenderedLpervious. by a fcirrhous tumour twixt the trachea and oefophagus. which prove Obferv. Medic. Lib. I. iV recorded by & A remarkable inftance of this kind is reco Mr. tdtow of Medical Obfer,a„on. and E. .^juiries, Vol. III. P-Ss- EvER^IN SURGERY. 95 Every degree of difficulty of fwallow- ing may be fuppofed, likewife, to arife from a paralytic flate of the oefophagus confidered as a mufcle; and the daily and conftant adtion it mull neceffiarily undergo * Tulpius defcribes a cafe, where, from a paralytic late of the mufcles fubfervient to deglutition, the patient lied on the feventh day. Obferv. Medic. Lib. I. Cap. -2. p. 79. Jacotius obferves that he hath feen this difeafe, and hat the patient generally dies: but Stalpart. Vander- Viel hath given the hiftory of a cafe, where a young wo- nan was reduced almoft to a Ikeleton, from a difficulty f fwallowing.—A whale-bone was introduced, and no triaure found : whence the phyfician concluded the cafe vas paralytic. During the fpace of a whole year the 3od, after being mafticated, was puftied into the fto- lach by a probang, with a fpunge fixed to its extremity, vt length the patient wonderfully recovered. Obfervat. ’om. II. Obf. 27. p. 287. , Willis likewife defcribes a paralytic cafe, almoft fimilar ) the laft; wherein the mufcular fibres of the cefopha- us haying loft their tonic power, the food was daily irced into the ftomach, during, the fpace of fixteen years y the whalebone. Pharmaceut. Ration. Sedl. II Can* p. 45. ■ Galen probably alludes to this difeafe of thecefophagu hen he fays, " Si irigeftorum in tranfitu tarditas aqual & fine dolore accidere confuevit, & in fupino decuMl augetur, erefta yero cervice mitigatur, circa ullui anguftia: fenfum.” De locis affedtis, Lib. V. Can < hart. Tom, VII. p. 491. ■ ■ forCASES AND REMARKS for the purpofes of life, muft neceffarily expofe it to an infinity of mRchief, refult- jng from the retention of extraneous and adventitious fubllances. The moft dan- getous, and perhaps not the moft infre- quent caufe of a chronic diiBculty of {wal- lowing, originates from a thickening and gradual contraflion of the coats of the gullet; and which regularly, and by flow degrees, increafes, until the canal is ren- dered totally impervious, and the inifer- able patient is literally ftarved to death. ' ^ Whether this particular difeafe of the oefophagus is truly fcitrhous, is of a fcro- nhulous nature, or whether it is ‘ndepen- -dent of both, hath not yet been fufficiently afcertained. Certain it is, that this com- - plaint is fometimes complicated with fwol- ien lymphatic glands; and mercury, which ' from all experience hath been found to e ■ afperate a true fcirrhous,. is the only reme- ■ dy which, in the cafe before us, hath tLrto been known to have producedIN SURGERY. 9? I Van Swieten who has defcribed fthis dil'eafe with his uAial accuracy, is in- clined to think, that the pernicious cuflom I of drinking tea or coffee almod fcalding ihot, may be the caufe of it, by coagulat- ;iingthe fluids, and flirinking up the fblids. ii This opinion is probably true, becaufe w’’0- Jimen are almoft the only fubjedts of the iidifeafe. Indeed, in all the cafes of the ;felkind that I have feen or heard of, the pa- Itients were of that fex. Dr. Munckley -f* has given a hiftory of the cure of this difeafe by mercury ||: ■ in a very candid manner^ he informs us, ;that fuccefs can only be expedled to at- itend its adminidration under certain'’cir- fiicumftances and periods of the difeafe; and £;that, when no nutriment can be conveyed 3 into the ftomach, and the conftitution is 3|much impaired from the want of fufte- ■f nance. See. the patient is equally unable ' to bear either the remedy or the difeafe. • Comment, in Aphor. Boerh. § 797. t Med. Tranfaft. Vol. I. p. 165. II Ruyfch firft gave an account of the utility of mer- 7 cury in thefe kinds of difficult deglutition. Adverf. ' Anat. Med. Chirurg. Dec. i. Obf. 10. H ThisCASES AND REMARKS 98 This ohfervation of Dr. Munckley is mod certainly true. Case XXL ^ Lady in the neighbourhood of this city had a difficulty ot fwallowing, gra- dually increafing during four years; and, when I was confulted in her cafe, it was , with the utmoft difficulty, and with great pain, that ffie could get into her ftomach , a tea-fpoonful of water. | Two drachms of the ftrong mercurial | ointment were in this cafe rubbed into the . patient’s legs, every night, until a mode- rate fpitting was occafioned. At proper in- tervals the procefs was repeated, until eight ounces of the ointment had been applied. No kind of benefit, however, arofe from its ufe : but, on the contrary, the difficulty of j deglutition increafed every day until her j death, which happened three months after ffie began the mercurial courfe From a ■ miffcaken delicacy of her friends, I was pre- ^ vented from examining the date of the ; cefophagus after her deceafe. • Van Swieten obferves that, among other things, h* ' • hai tried the of mercury in this difeafe, and has *feeh a falivation brought on without any kind of bene t. Comment, in Aphor. Boerh. § 797. Amongst1 J i i ; IN S tf R G E R Y. ^ . Amongst the various difeafes to which ^Ithe oefophagus is fubjedl, the following is §:fo extremely fingular, that the conimuni^ i:cation of it muft be plealing to the medi- ij'cal reader, although it may, perhaps, af- ^ ford him no material pradljcal informa- tion. 99 M RS. W- of this place, of a thin Case XXIL and relaxed habit of body, during [the laft ten years of’her life experienced [great difficulty in fwallowing folid food; and very frequently the fmalleft portion of any thing, ffie was eating, would flick in the paffage, until it was diflodged by puking, and by violent exertions of the diaphragm and abdominal mufcles. About two years after ffie was affedled with this diforder, finding that her com- plaints became very troublefome, ffie con- fulted a phyfician, who preferibed an in- ternal medicine, which was a preparation of mercury. She had no relief from itj and perhaps the reafon might have been, that ffie had not refolution fufficient to H 2 perfift100 CASES AND REMARKS perfift in its ufe, until it was probable that ^ny material benefit could have arifen from it. In the month of September 1774, Ihe was unable to fwallow the lead; portion of any folid' fubfiance whatever 1 and fome time afterward (lie was incapable of getting into her ftomach any kind of fluids. Dur- ing the whole continuance of her illnefs, Ihe had no fixed pain in her throat, and, although the pharynx was frequently in- ' fpeded, it exhibited no other marks of particular difeafe, but that it appeared more pale than ufual. She complained of a troublefome and very difagreeable drynefs of her throat; to relieve which, an emollient gargle was fent her: but, upon making the experi- ment, (he difcovered {he had not the lead power to ufe it. She had very frequent and troublefome retchings, which appear- ed to have been occafioned by wind; and although no fluids could at this period find their way from the mouth, through the oefophagus. /I IN S U R G E R Y. loi' i cefopha^us, into the flomach, yet the con- 1 tents of the ftomach were difcharged by vomiting, with apparent eafe.' From the time flie was incapable of jifwallowing liquids until a week before her ;ii death (an interval of fix weeks) the vis r'vitas was fo well fupported by mutton broth, frequently injected into the intef- itines, that fhe could walk about her apart- Iment, and had regular ftoois of a folid confidence. Nothing like matter was, during the progrefs of the difeafe, dif- ?.charged from her mouth; nor was there ever obferved the lead offenfive fmell in :her breath. About the time fhe was in- capable of fwallowing folids, the cafe ap- ^peared fo much to refemble thofe defcribed by Dr. Munckley, that it was determined to give the remedy he recommends a fair trial. With this view, a proper quantity of mercurial ointment was rubbed upon the legs feveral weeks, without the lead ad- vantage. No method which could be H 3 thoughtCASES AND REMARKS thought of, appeared in the leaft to retard the progrefs of this extraordinary difeafe; on the 20th of March, 1775, fhe died. V After her deceafe, I examined the parts with a very eminent furgeon. The thyroid gland was enlarged, but it did not appear to have made any preffure upon the cefophagus. We difcovered that the whole annular fubdance of the fuperior part of the mfophagus w^as converted into a tough vifeid mafs, of a dark brown colour. The length of that part of the tube thus dif- eafed, was at Itafl three inches. The ftruc- ture of the coats of this part of the oefo- phagus, as well as of the correfponding portion of the longi colli mufcles, was fo entirely deftroyed, that nothing appeared to be betwixt the bodies of the vertebras cervicis and the trachea, but the rotten fubflance juft deferibed. That part of the oefophagus below the feat of the difeale was perfe<ftly found, nor was there any particular ftridture at the inferior point, where the mifehief feemed to terminate. The fuperior line near the pharynx, had much, I• IN SURGERY.-,'. J03 mucli the appearance of the edge of a ma- lignant ulcer, except that it appeared to have been corroded only, without any in- duration of the parts. I The circumftance of the patient being unable to fwallow liquids, at the time the contents of the ftomach were freely dif- charged through the cefophagus, will not appear furprifing, when we confider, that a very effential part of the office of deglu- tition, is carried on by the fucceffive con- tractions of the orbicular fibres of the muf- cular coat of the cefophagus, which were totally deflroyed in this cafe In the aCtion of vomiting, the contents of the ftomach are forcibly expelled through the mouth, by the violent fpafmodic con- tractions of the diaphragm and abdominal inufcles j and in this operation the cefbph- agus feems to be pajjive only. , • Aliffi vero interiores, circulares, etiam valentes fibr®, fimiliter a crkoide principio fumto, fueceffivo motu con- • traftze cibum depellunt, &c. Alb. Haller. PrimtC Lines Phyfiol. Cap. 23. p. 399* H 4 ■ AnCASES AND kEMARKS 104 \ # An ACCOUNT of a LOCKED JAW and OPISTHOTONOS, cured hj opiate clyfters. .Case XXIII. A Poor woman in the workhoufe in this oa.10,1773. foine time before had been fubjed; to paralytic complaints, fuddenly fell down in a kind of convulfive fit, and when file was taken up, could neither fpeak nor fwallow. I — II. When I faw her, the lower jaw was quite locked; the mufcles which move it upward were rigid ; the temporal and malTeters were as hard as a board; the head was drawn backward, and the mufcles of the fpine were in fo contraded a flate, that it was impoffible to bend the back in the leafl; degree forward. She had loft two teeth from the upper jaw; and through this aperture I poured into her mouth a fpoonful of water; but when it came into her throat fhe feemed in danger of fuffocation, until a ftrong con- vulfiveIN S 1/R G E R Y. ' tos ulfive motion of the thorax had forced it lack again. The poor woman was all the me fenfible, without the power of fpeak- ig, and made figns, in a very miferablc ^ay, for every thing (he wanted. r As it did not appear to me, that (he ould fwallow one drop of any kind of aids, I thought the beft, indeed the only -•ay of relieving her, muft be by giving ledicines as well as nutriment in clyfters. accordingly ordered eight ounces of mut- )n broth to be injeded three times a day, ad every eight hours a clyfter, confilting f fix ounces of water, and two drachms f tind. thebaic. She remained four days i the fame (late, in which time (he did ot fwallow any thing. The quantity of nd. thebaic, was increafed in the clyl^ers, nd the rigid mufclcs of the face were ^ell rubbed with camphorated oil. On the fifth day (he could fpeak, and pen her mouth a little. On the feventh le could fwallow liquids. She was then ireded to take two drachms of laudanum » threelo6 CASES AND REMARKS three times a day, by the mouth. She every day became better, and in a (hort time was almoft as well as ufual^ but it was fix weeks before the mufcles of the neck and .back had recovered their proper flexibility.SURGERY. IN 107 L PORONYCHIA', attended with uncommon fymptoms. I OHN PEG, of this place, in the Case XXIV. middle of June 1775/ very flightly :ratched the irifide of his right thumb. !*revious to this accident, he was healthy 1 every refpe<fl. Finding the next day )iat his thumb was fwollen, he applied to ^ furgeon for relief. His cafe became very day worfe; and on June 26, ten ays from the commencement of the com- laint, 1 was defired to fee him. I Th?: thumb was then exceffively en- irged, and the fore-arm fwollen to the Ibow joint, from whence a red ftreak ex- ended along the courfe of the lymphatics, nto the axilla. On account of the extreme •ain of the parts, he had flept little for fe- eral nights j he was hot, and his pulfe ^eat 11 o ftrokes in a minute. I made n incifion in the middle of the infide of he thumb, extending the whole length it. The flexor tendons were very floughy, andio8 June 27. CASES AND REMARKS and matter was confined all round the bones. I dreficd the wound with the ce- ratum faturni, and covered the whole arm with linen rags, moiftened with oleum and acet. litharg. aa. p. e. and ordered him to take an ounce of fal Glauberi diflblved in water. I He paflfed a good night, had been re- freihed with fleep, and was much eafier. All the circumftances of the cafe were pro- mifing; there was then 'a free difcharge of matter; the tendon appeared more floughy; the fwelling was reduced; and the red ftreak entirely gone. He was drelTed ex- actly as before. About half an hour after this, he cried out with the violent pain of his thumb, which gradually extended up the infide of the arm in the coiirfe of the veffels, and crept into the axilla. Soon after he complained of his heart, and was feized with fuch an oppreflive difficulty of breathing, that the people about him thought he was dying. AtIN S U R G E R Y. 109 At this time I was in the country, and )uld not fee him till three o’clock in the ternoon. In the fpace of five hours, in hich I was abfent, he had eight convul- se fits, and the fpafms of the mufcles ere fo violent, that feveral men could )t, without difficulty, confine him in :d. His pulfe was very low, his coun- nance pale 3 the fore-arm was again 'ollen, and hots and, upon the whole, was evident that an uncommon irrita- ^n of the thumb was the caufe of thefe ngerous fymptoms-. ill REMOVED the dreffings from the ound, and applied.to it a pledget of lint, :ibued with the balfamum Peruvianum, i d gave him internally thirty drops of the me balfam upon a lump of fugar, which ■ as likewife ordered to be repeated every .tur. Six leeches were diredled to be ap- ] ed to the infide of the arm, near the rift. In the evening he was rather bet- !•; had but one violent paroxyfm fince ii'aw him laft 3 but, as he was then hot, i.ook from the other arm twelve ounces ofCASES AND REMARKS of blood. The ufe of the balfam was con- tinued through the night. fi. . He had a bad night, the convulfive pa- roxyfms continuing, although not fo vio- knt as before. He had a difmal counte- nance, the mufcles of the lips and cheeks being often diftorted. The difcharge from the thumb was large. It was dreffed as before with the baifam, and the internal life of it continued through the day. His pulfe was very low, and he had frequent returns of the difEcult refpiration j in the evening an intenfe pain of the thumb ex- tended up his arm. Cloths wet with the feturnine water of Goulard,, were applied cold to the wrift and fore-arm, and hxty drops of thetyaic -tinaure were given in tvihe and water, and repeated every third hour of the night. He dofed much 5 and when he awaked had returns of the fpaluM, but they were lefs violent, • i - f ' i J ’ -A ' 'He was remarkably low this morning} his pulfe had ninety ftrokes in a minute, the convuliions had ceafed fome bours^IN SURGERY. Ill id the fore-arm was neither fwollen nor linful; he bore it to be preffed hard with- it complaining j but his head ached, hich was attributed to the large quan- ty of laudanum (§15) which he had ken lince the laft evening. The fore as uncommonly irritable, the lead: touch ith foft lint communicated, he faid, a ing to his heart. The fame dreffings ere continued, and fixty drops of the- liic tin<J^ure, with the fame quantity of eruvian balfam, were ordered to be taken Ttvy fix hours, alternately, through the ly- Within the fpace of half an hour after June 30J s thumb was' dreffed laft, he had three olent convulfive paroxyfms, which left im very weak.-^ Before the acceflion of le fits, his^thumb was always particularly linful. Being"at this period coftive, a i.yfter was’ ordered. The half. Peruv. iving heated and difagreed with his fto- •lach, was then difcontinued, and eighty •ops of thebaic tindure were adminiftered 'ery four hours. He< II2 July I. 2. CASES AND REMARKS He was confiderably better, and pafled the night without any return of convul- fion. The fwelling of the hand was en- tirely removed, nor had he the leaft pain there. The fore digefted well, but was Rill remarkably irritable: the matter, therefore, was not wiped oft, but the bal- fam applied as before. As he continued Rill coRive, he was ordered to drink a draught of a folution, of fal Glauberi ' every four hours. After Rools were pro- cured, the laudanum was repeated as be- fore. ' • He began to recover his natural com- plexionthe anxiety about, his heart, he faid, was entirely, gone his pulfe beat a hundred Rrokes in a minute j he had no convulfions, except fome .very flight and frequent twitchings of jhe mufcles. In ,the courfe of dreffing this morning, having accidentally touched his thumb too hard, he fainted from the violence of the pain. He was diredted to take eighty drops of ..laudanum, as before, every fix hours. AfterIN S U R G E R Y. ' 113 After the lafl: dreffing he had feveral July 3* convulfions, but continued free from them all the night,and flept well; his pulfe was at eighty; he had twoftools; and, upon the whole, was much better. The fore , difcharged largely, yet ftill remained very ipainful: the tinft. theb. was continued as ' before. The convuliions returned twice: the jthebaic tindture was ordered to be taken j|in the ufual dole. From this time he was ‘.free from all fpafmodic fymptoms, and the wound became lefs painful every day, until it was healed* The ufe of the lau- idanum was left off by degrees. 4» I A I ICASES AND REMARKS i 1 I A DISEASE of the STOMACH, which occafioned death, by a fcirrhous induration near the pyloris. • t Case XXV. tN June 1774, I was confuked in the cafe of J. Phillips, of this city, aged thirty-five. During the fpace-of a year before he applied to me. he experienced ‘ many complaints, the feat of all which, he Paid, was in his ftomach. He had fuffered ■ a great degree of pain, which was always aggravated by eating, and it generally con- tinned until; by vomiting, the ftomach had / difcharged the load. His appetite was as • good as ufual; but, for the laft month be- ; fore I faw. him, he could never keep any thing upon his ftomach longer than half . an hour. He was extremely reduced and , emaciated; had taken repeated vomits, J rhubarb, and other medicines, without any | good effect. ^ I ORDERED a faline medicine to be takenif in the aft of effervefcence, joined with ajj few drops of laudanum, and direded himl:| -.4to eat frequently the mofl nutritious food in very fmall quantities. After this pUn had been purfued fome time without any advantage, 1 gave him columbo root, with fio better fuccefs j and defpairing at length of doing any good in the cafe, I advifed him to leave off all medicine, and to take, three or four times a day, clyflers of mut- ton broth, This refource probably length- ened out his miferable life fome time; and at laft he died of a marafmus, worn out with pain, fatigue, and want of propejr nutriment. On the day after his death I examined his body, with Dr. Simfon. The feat of ithe difeafe was near the pyloris: the coats iiof the ftomach at that part were indurat- [:ed, thickened, and compreffed the paffage. * fb much, as almofl to obliterate its orifice^ The villous coat of the difeafed part of the ftomach was a little ulcerated, but it ap- ijt)eared to have been the effed of a very recent change that had taken place in the joart. The other vifcera were in a found jftate.I CASES AND REMARKS An AMPUTATION of a CAN- CEROUS BREAST. CaseXXVI.T was fent for to Mrs. W- of July 6,1774. A prime-Thorpe, Leicefterflbire, Two years before I faw her, flie perceived a lump in her left bread. In the courfe of a few weeks the difeafe increafed, and die then applied to a furgeon in her neighbour- hood, who advifed her to leave it to na- • ture. In the fpace of a year from the firft: appearance of the tumour, it feems that itt made very little progrefs j but afterward it: increafed rapidly, and alarmed the patient: and her friends. Mr. Smith, an eminent furgeon^ of Leicefter, was then called in, who advifed the extirpation of the tumour; but the patient net confenting to the operation, he was obliged to be content with endeavour- ing to palliate the fymptoms. He very prudently advifed her to avoid every thing, which either by ftimulus or acrimony might irritate the feirrhus, and convert ‘ o intoIN SURGERY. into a cancer. He adminiftered the ci- cuta both internally and externally, and joined opium with the external applica- tion, whenever pain, or other circum- Rances, made it necelTary. Notwithftand- ing thefe precautions, the difeafe every day gained ground. When I faw her, the whole breaft was in a cancerous Rate, amazingly enlarged, ulcerated, and dilcharged a large (quantity pf corrofive fanjes. The continual drain- ing of this poifpnous fluid, had inflamed and excoriated all the neighbouring parts iwith which it came in contadl. Such were the circumflances of a cafe Kin a patient of feventy-foiir years of age; ^funder which, ip cpnfuRation with her fur- .igeon, I propol^d the extirpation of the ‘ fihreaft. The arguments in favour of this idfice were: First, The breaft, though fo much eur :a'-ged, did not apparently adhere to the I 'edtoral mufcle. 117 Secondly,CASES AND REMARKS Secondly, Notwithftanding the cancer was ulcerated, and had affedled, by the acrimony of the difcharge, the circumja- cent parts, yet there were no certain proofs that the habit was difeafed, or that the vi- rus had been abloibed, the lymphatics and glands of the axilla being at this time per- fcftly fiee, and in a natural hate. Thirdly, The patient fuftaining fo well an immenfe daily difcharge from the difeafed breaft, might be admitted as a prefumptive proof that flie would as well bear the lofs of fluids, which muft necef- farily be the refult of the operation. And, Lastly, The certain profpea of a miferable death, if fhe did not avail her- felf of the only chance remainhig of efcap- ing from fo terrible a calamity. These reafons w^ere fubmitted to confideration of the patient and her friends, who agreed upon the operation; and on the 13th of July (lie came to Coventry.IN SURGERY. 119 As foon as flie had recovered the fatigue of her journey, I amputated the bread:, with the affiftance of Meffieurs Harrold and Yardley. The bafis of the tumour adhered to the pectoral mufcle, part of which was cut off, to prevent any part of the cancer remaining. I likewife diffedfed as much of the adipofe membrane fur- rounding the bread, as I could with con- venience. From the day of the operation to the time the dreflings were removed, no particular circumftance occurred ; {he was treated in the common manner. She refled fo well the firfl night, that an anodyne, which was diredled to be taken in the beginning of the night, was omited. The faturnine water of Goulard was applied cold, over the dreffings, and to the inflamed parts, with fuch fuccefs, that the patient experienced very little pain j and in the courfe of a week the.flcin had almoft: refumed its natural colour and foftnefs. On the fourth day after the ope- ration, fhe had fome degree of that fever, which generally precedes fuppuration; the I 4 fymp-120 July 21. CASES AND REMARKS fymptoms, however, were moderated* by neutral falts, and an anodyne at night. The drefTings were firft removed, ex- cept Tome of the lint, which firmly ad- hered to the pedoral mufcle. By the ufe of mild digeftives the wound was foon clean, but the difcharge was putrid, and of a bad colour. The patient became very weak, and the heat of the atmofphere was at that time exceflive. A STREAM of frefii air was procured through the room, by opening all the win- dows j (he eat all kinds of fruit that were in feafon j fhe took an antifeptic draught ^ every four hours, and the fore was drefled with a lotion of the fame kind f. After this plan had been purfued two or threq * R Extr. cor. Per. 3 i. Tinft. cort. Hux. 3 i. Elix. vit. acid. 3 fs. Syr. cort. aur. J i. Inf. cham. ^ i. M. f. haullus. •I" R Aq. font, ft i. Tin6t. myrrh, fimp. 3 Merc, corrof. fub. gr. iv. M. f. lotio, , days.121 IN SURGERY. days, the difcharge was altered for the bet- ter, both in colour and confiftence, and the wound contracted fb faft, that in fix weeks it was reduced to the fize of a crown- piece. At that time there arofe from a part of the fore a fungus, of a dark colour, which became painful, and gleetcd, not- withftanding all the reft of the furface pro- duced laudable pus. Fearing, therefore, this might have been fome remains of the original difeafe, I determined to involve it in a Hough; and, to do this effectually, I pufhed into the fungus a bit of corrofive fublimate, the fize and figure of a barley- corn. This application gave very little pain, and foon anfwered the intended purpofe. In a few days a deep efchar feparated, leav- ing under it healthy granulations. From this time every circumflance appeared fa- vourable ; and on the 20th of Auguft Mrs. W left Coventry,, with the reafon- ^ble expectation that the fore would be completely healed in a fhort time. Thisj22 CASES .a!nd remarks ' This much wiflied for event did not, however, take place : the glands of the axilla, and the lymphatics betwixt them and the edge of the fore, indurated. Af- ter (he had been at home a few weeks ano- ther tumour arofe, became painful, and ul- cerated ; the advance of the fymptoms was rapid, and occafioned the death of the patient. AnIN SURGERY. 123 An ACCOUNT of a CANCER of the BREAST, where the tumour was twice extirpated, without fuccefs. WAS defired to vifit Mrs. S T WAS defired to vifit Mrs. S , of this city. She had a fcirrhous tumour, jyiarch 12, which in the courfe of ten months occu- *772* pied nearly half the right breaft, above the nipple. It was perfedly free from any attachment to the fubjacent parts, and the glands of the axilla were not in the leaft indurated. 1 informed her, that the ef- fects of medicine in fuch cafes were ex- tremely uncertain j and advifed her, with- out farther delay, to have the tumour re- moved by the knife. Two days afterward, in the prefence of Dr. Simfon and Mr. Harrold, 1 performed the operation. The fides of the wound were brought as clofe together as could be, with flips of flicking plaifter j the patient took an opi- ate three nights fucceeding the operation; and in lefs than four weeks the wound was weU cicatrized, . « At124 CASES AND REMARKS At the expiration of four months {he perceived another tumour, near the axilla, v/bieh Lecanu painful and enlarged every day. She was then direded to take the extract of cicuia, in as large dofes as the flomach would bear; and to this medicine was joined a decodtion of bark. The leaves and i'vr* of cicuta, in the form of a cataplafm, were applied to the tumour. In a few weeks the difeafe made a quick progrefs; and, after confulting Mr. Sharp of London, and Mr. Harrold, it was again recommended to take that chance of reco- very which the knife only, promifed to af- ford. This was urged to her the more, as the difeafe was then advancing fo faff, * that it was to be feared, in a fhort time the tumour might be fo much attached to the fubjacent parts, as to render the extir- pation of it difficult, if not impoffible. On the 2d of November I performed the fecond operation j removed a part of the inferior edge of the pedtoral mufcle, to which the tumour adhered, and like- wife125 IN SURGERY. 1 \ wife cut away a confiderable quantity of the furrounding adipofe membrane. Instead of treating the wound as be- fore, that it might heal by the firft inten- tion, I filled the cavity with lint, to pro- mote as large a fuppuration as might be. The fore had for fome time a very good appearance, and every day diminifhed in fize j but after the fourth week it became again painful, the difcharge was acrimo- nious, the fuperior edge was hard, and the parts betwixt it and the axilla became dif- eafed; the fubaxillary glands indurated; and, notwithftanding a plentiful ufe of the cicuta and bark, the ulcer fpread into the axilla, and corroded fome large branches of the artery, from whence death enfued. The two preceding cafes are not related with a defign to deter the young practi- tioner from extirpating cancerous tumours, but to afford a caution, that, previous to the operation, his promifes of a cure ought to be guarded and referved. In this view, therefore, I thought their communication might126 CASES AND REMARKS might be more ufeful to the profeffion than the relation of many other cancerous cafes, in which I have employed the knife with fuccefs. The fecond cafe here defcribed, was one of the moll promifing I ever faw j but when the difeafe is not merely local (and of which we can have no fort of evidence) however favourable appearances may feem at firft to the furgeon, the event of the operation will ever be extremely uncertain. I remember to have feen a fcirrhous tumour extirpated from the inlide of the knee, by an eminent furgeon, and the wound pro- duced by the operation completely healed. Some months afterward another fwelling arofe under the cicatrix, which fpread into the ham, and feemed to adhere to the fe- mur. In confultation amputation was ad- vifed, and performed. When the wound was thought to be in a favourable date for healing, a cancerous fungus fprouted from the extremity of the bone, and, before the patient died, a difeafe of the fame kind made its appearance in his mouth. O B S E R-127 IN SURGERY. OBSERVATIONS on the utility of BLISTERS, applied to the U M- BILICAL REGION in the ILE- US, and INVERSION of the PE- RISTALTIC MOTION of.the INTESTINES from other caufes. C IR John Pringle * recommends the application of blifters to the painful part of the abdomen, in the ileus 5 and obferves, that he has more than .once “ known the patient relieved, as loon as he has felt the burning of the fkin, and at the fame time have ftools by a purge “ or clyfter, which had been given before without effed:.” In the three following cafes a bllfter ap- plied round the navel fucceeded, when the means ufually employed in fuch circum- ftances had been previoufly tried without fuccefs. The firft was a true ileus y in the fecond the inteftines appeared to have been inflamed, in cgnfequence of external • Difeafes of the Army, p. i jo. injury;128 CASES AND REMARKS Case I injury; and in the third, there was a com- plete inverfion of the periftaltic motion, clearly fymptomatic ; and which feems to afford a ftrong prefumptive proof, that the operation of cantharides, fo applied, is merely antifpafmodic. ON the 3d of February, 1774, I was defired to vifit a young man in this city, who had been attended two days by 'an apothecary. He had repeatedly bled him, ordered clyfters, fomentations, opi- ates, and a variety of folutive medicines in a fluid flate, and in the form of pills, with- out the leafl advantage. The fymptoms were, a conftant and acute pain below the jiavel, continual vomiting, hiccough, lan- guid pulfe, coftivenefs, and a cadaverous countenance. I directed a large bliftering plaifter, with a perforation in its center, to be ap- plied round the navel', and, being deter- mined to wait the effects, I ordered no me- dicine. Soon after he experienced the pain of the blifter he enquired for the clofe- Rool,129 IN SURGERY. ftool, had an evacuation, by which he was much relieved, the pain of the abdomen gradually abated, and in a few days he was reftored to health. A proper attention to diet was obferved; but the patient took no medicine after the application of the blifter. T N the beginning of the year 1777, ^ boy, fifteen years of age, accidentally fell from the wall of a gentleman’s garden, upon fome iron pallifadoes, the Tpikes of which projedled feven inches beyond the horizontal rail. He was fufpended fome time; and, 'when he was taken off, it was difcovered that he had feveral wounds in his belly, through one of which a part of the inteftines protruded. I WAS engaged, when this accident ’ happened, in other bufinefs; and there- fore fent a gentleman (at that time a pu- pil of mine) to the affiftance of the pa- tient, with inflru6lions, if he found any difficulty in returning the prolapfed intef- tine, to make a dilatation of the wound K v/ith Case XXIX.\ CASES AND REMARKS with a biftoury, fufficient for that purpofe^. He purfued my direflions in every refped, but could not fucceed. I SAW the boy in the evening. There were two perforations into the cavity of the abdomen, at fome little diftance from the navel, and a third in the right flank, near the flexure of the thigh, through which a fmall portion of inteftine was ftill Jlrangulated, although the wound of the integuments was very properly dilated. I difcovered, upon a more minute examina- tion, that the inteftine was forced under Pouparfs ligament^ from whence the im- pediment to redudion arofe. With a probe-pointed curved biftoury, guarded by the fore-finger of my left-hand, I divided the ligament, in fuch a degree as was ne- cefiTary for the re-admiiTion of the intef- tine. The wound was united by the in- terrupted future. Great attention was paid to every circumftance which might be fup- * “ Si anguftius vulnus eft, quam ut inteftina com- ** mode refundantur, incidendiim eft, donee fatis patent. Corn. Celf. Medic. Lib. VII. Cap. i6.IM S tj R G E k Y. 131 pofed to regard either the prefect welfare, , or fature recovery of the patient. The inteftinal canal was kept open by clyflers; pain was relieved by anodynes j faline me- dicines and neutral falts were given, to abate the febrile heat, which fupervened the day after the accident i fomentations were applied to the abdomen; and blood was freely taken from the arm. Not- withftanding thefe precautions, which (there was reafon to hope) might have afforded better fuccefs, fymptoms of the mod alarming nature very foon made their I appearance. i / ' . On the fourth day the pulfe was quick, the fkin hot and dry; he was extremely reftlefs, and there was a general tenfion, ac- companied with pain, throughout the whole abdomen. The wound of the groin was particularly painful j its edges indurated^ and, upon preffure, fome very offenfive matter was forced out. To give as free a difcharge to it as poffible, the threads of the ligature were cut through, and the pa- tient was ordered to lie frequently upon K 2 the' CASES AND REMARKS the affcded I'lde. Before the next day the difcharge of matter was plenteous, and the relief obtained confiderable. All the bad fymptoms by degrees abated j and when the inflammatory diathefis was removed, I ordered him the bark. In twenty days after the accident, the two fuperior wounds were entirely healed, and that of the groin in a good ftate, af- fording a proper quantity of thick pus, which leflfened every day; fo that no doubt feemed then to remain, but in a little time the cure mufl; have been completed. But before this event happened, and near a month from the time of the accident, with- out any certain apparent caufe, all the fymptoms of the ileus came on. He was coftive, vomited, and had a conftant and moft violent pain in the inferior part of the abdomen. He was then ordered fome pills of calo- mel, opium, and extradfum catharticum, and in the intervals of the hours when he took them, he drank a fmall quantity of a folution of the fal cathart. amar. ClyflersI »33 IN SURGERY. were alfb diredled, and a fomentation was applied to the abdomen. On the enfuing day he was worfe in every refpedti a hiccough attended, and the clyfters produced no ftool. The ca- lomel pills were repeated, and in the in- termediate hours he took a draught, com- pofed of a folution of caftor oil in pepper- mint water, with a few drops of lauda- num. In the evening he was exadlly in' the fame ftate, when a large blifter was applied to the umbilical region. Before the next morning his vomiting ceafed, he had feveral ftools, and the pain was in a great degree abated. From this time he gradually recovered, and continues as well as he ever was before. When he firft went abroad a crural hernia happened, from Poupart’s ligament having been di- vided ; but this was remedied» by the ap- plication of a proper ejaftic bandage • Tulpius relates a cafe, where a hernia fucceeded a wound of the abdomen, which being negleded, produced a mortification and death, feveral years after the accident happened. Obferv, Medic. Lib, III. Cap. 20. p. 211. K 3 ONCASES AND REMARKS N the 5th of November, 1778, John Sneith, a boy fifteen years of age, received a violent blow upon the head, from the edge of an iron-hooped pail, which fradlured the fcull. Although a confiderable portion of the os frontis was deprefiTed, the boy was exempt from mofi: of thofe fymptoms,, which ufually attend fuch accidents; and the day after he re- oeived the blow, he was very fenfible, and could walk about. At this time, in confultation with Mr.. Harrold, it was agreed, by repeated applir- cation of the.trephine, to remove all the- fradtured portion of the bone. After the: pperation (which was performed without" cutting off any fart of the /calf) he was; kept quiet, and a clyfter was direded. The next day he was fev'erifli, com- plained much of his head, and vomited • • From the wonderful fympathy which prevails be-- ^wixt the head and the precordia, Scultetus obferves, that. almoft all thofe who receive wounds of the head, com- plain of a bitter tails in the mouth. Scuhec. Armament. Chirurg. p. 198.IN SURGERY." As the clyfter given the day of the opera- tion had not procured any evacuation, he was ordered another, in which an ounce of Epfom fait was diflblved. This had no better fuccefs; and in the courfe of the day he had two more clyfters, neither of which anfwered the intended purpofe; and his nurfe fuppofed they came up by the mouth, as the ficknefs and vomiting were always occalioned as much after them, as when he took any thing into the llo- mach. Some blood was taken from the arm, and a fmall pill was adminiftered, contain- ing one grain of opium, and three of :ca- lomel. On the third day from the opera- tion, the hopes of his recovery were fmall; the fever increafed, attended with continual vomiting, by which the contents of the inteftines were difcharged upward. Clyf- ters were repeated, but no ftools were pro- cured ; and it appeared evident, that the periftaltic motion of the inteftinal canal was totally inverted. In the evening he became deliriou?, and it required conftant K 4 attention36' CASES AND PvE MARKS attention to keep him in bed. He had taken, during the day, faline draughts, in a ftate of effervefcence, with a few drops of laudanum ; but neither thefe, nor any thing we could contrive, ftaid upon his Ifomach longer than a few minutes. t In this deplorable Rate of the cafe, when every effort of art proved fo abfo- lutely inefficacious, a large blifter was ap- plied round the navel, and its fuccefs much exceeded our expedlations. After the blif- ter had been upon the abdomen four hours, the vomiting ceafed, and never returned afterward. Before the next morning he had two ftools, and was in many refpeifts better, although he Rill continued very ill. The delirium was gone, but he had great pain in his head; his pulfe was quick, and in the evening of the fourth day he was fo reRlefs, that we thought it neceffary to give him an opiate. On the 5th he was much in the fame Rate, and this night he had feveral Rods, which were fucceeded by a Rrangury, andIN SURGERY. *37 and fuch a violent irritation of the re(fl:um, as to occafion a conftant tenefmus. An tryfepelatofe eruption alfo covered the whole furface of the body. The ftrangury and tenefmus were attributed to the aftion of the cantharides, and they were, after fome time, relieved by drinking a decodion of marlh-mallow roots, and a folution of fpermaceti, with a proper quantity of the- baic tindure. On the feventh he was much reduced in ftrength, but continued fenfible; his face was pale, his pulfe languid, the wound ary, and fhewed not the lead difpofition to digeft; and the circumjacent parts were flabby and cedematous. The bark was then given, and repeated until the eleventh aay, when he was much better; his rength increafed, and the edges of the lore wore a more favourable afpedj but the furface of the dura mater was ftill black and putrid. ^ The parts were drelTed with an antifeptic balfam, compofed of mel rofar. 6c half, traumat. aa, p, TheCASES AND REMARKS The The dura mater foon afterward Houghed off, and a fungus arofe from the brain; but this appeared to have been reftrained by dry lint, affifted with moderate pr^lTure. The patient continued to mend every day, and on the 12th of January the wound was completely cicatrized. Q^ery, Did the blifter in this cafe re- move the fpafm of the inteftinal canal, by exciting pain on the lldn of the abdomen ? Or was the periftaltic motion re-inverted by the adtion of cantharides, abforbed into the fyftem, and thence irritating the neck of the bladder and redlum ( u •IN SURGERY. 139 The DISSECTION of a WOMAN in the laft month of P REG NAN C Y. T N the year 1772 a poor woman of this ^ city, in lifting a weiglit too great for her flrength, was feized with a flooding. Being very near the expiration of her reckoning, fhe fent for a midwife, who tried every method flie could think of, for fome days, to flop the difcharge, but in vain. Within a few minutes after the poor woman died, 1 was haflily fent for, by thofe about her, to extract the child, which they affirmed to be alive. I WAS very glad to embrace this oppor- tunity of feeing* the gravid uterus, and therefore immediately laid open the cavity of the abdomen, by a crucial incifion. The body of the uterus was rather to the left fide i the fmall inteftines were pufhed to the right, and againfi: the liver. I opened the uterus longitudinally, and found the child furrounded by the water, ;he membranes not having been broken. The Case XXXI.140 CASES AND REMARKS An The fcEtus was dead j the head reftcd up- on the brim of the pelvis, the occiput cor- refponding with the center of the opening. The os uteri was not much dilated; the I placenta adhered to the cervix, excepting a fmall portion, which had probably been feparated by the ftrain, and which had been the caufe of the flooding, and death of the woman.I S U R G E R Y. HI An UNIVERSAL EMPHYSEMA, occafioned by the abforption of putrid fluids from the uterus. I T WAS called to Mary Winny, in this city, who had been a week in labour, jyjy 24,1774. The midwife attending informed me that the child prefen ted right; that the labour had from the beginning proceeded in a very flow manner, but that of late her pains had left her, and on the day before, her body had began to fwell; whence fup- pofing her in great danger, fhe had defired that I might be fent for. Upon entering the room, the air was fo putrid and offenflve that I could fcarce bear it. The patient’s fkin was hot, and communicated a painful fenfation to the touch; her whole "body, particularly the face, was much inflated. The reticular membrane of the eye-lids was fo much diflended, that fhe had no power of open- ing them, and fhe complained much of thirft and internal heat. When the fwell- ingCASES. AND. REMARKS ing was examined more particularly, it was difcovered to be emphyfematous, and that the cellular membrane was univerally blown up by air. The head of the child was at that time engaged in the center of the pelvis; the fcalp peeled off, which, together with the cadaverous fmell, proved that it had been dead fome time. I I OPENED the head, and with a crotchet extracted the child, in a very putrid ftate. The patient was ordered into another room, the windows and doors of which were kept conftantly open. She was direfted to eat currants, goofeberries, and cherries; her common drink was Port wine and water, with orange and lemon juice; and every two hours {he took two ounces of the tinc- ture of rofes. She had a better night after her deli- very than could have been expefled ; the next day (he was cooler, and not fo much fwollen ; on the third day {he could open her eye-lids. The antifeptic plan was pur- fued : {he took the bark; by degrees the general' IN S U R G E R y. ' ■ • 143 An general.tumefadlion fubfided; the patient (contrary to my expectation) recovered; and, at the expiration of five weeks, was as well as women ufually are after lying-in. This uncommon cafe clearly proves, that, in confequence of putrefaClion, air may efcape from the fluids into the cellu- lar membrane, or that part of it where there is the lead; refifiance j that, being rarefied by febrile heat, it may diftend the body in a wonderful manner, and produce a general emphyfema. Huxham has given an account of two cafes of emphyfema, which arofe from a putrid caufe. The in- fiance here related, feems likewife to de- monftrate that putrid fluids maybeabforbed into the fyftem' from the uterus, and be a caufe of very dangerous puerperal fevers.144 Case XXXIII. July 7,1777 CASES AND REMAPvKS An ACCOUNT of a fatal RETRO- VERSIO UTERI. I WAS defired, by the parifh-officers of Allefley, to vifit Elizabeth Arnold, a ‘poor woman belonging to that place. I found her in a very weak ftate, and com- plaining of violent pain in the back and abdomen. Her pulfe was very quick and tremulous; her tongue dry, and of a dark colour; (he vomited frequently, and was much Vatigued with a troublefome hic- cough ; fhe had been coftive ten days, and I was informed her urine diftilled from her involuntarily. Her complaints general feemed to me fo much to refemble thofe attending an inteftinal hernia under ftran- pulation, that I enquired whether Ihe had Lv particular fwelling in her groins or belly and was informed fhe had a great fwelling at her navel. Upon exarnination, I difcovered a general tenfion of the abdo- men, and a large elevated tumour at th navel, which protruded fo much, as to re femble the half of a melon. The fkin uponIN S U R G E R Y. 14S the apex of the tumour was inflamed, and fo irritable, that the lead touch or preffufe upon it gave her much uneafmefs. A fur- geon and apothecary in the neighbourhood had ordered various medicines for her re- lief, none of which were retained in her domach j -and a bliftering plaifter had been applied upon the tumour. From her defcription of the fymptoms, at my firfl vifit, 1 mud confefs I appre- hended that a large quantity of the intef- tinal canal was protruded at the navel; therefore ordered a flimulating clyfter to be injedted into the redum as foon as pof- fible, and gave her Internally a folution of the oleum Ricini, in mint-water; a com- prefs faturated with cold vinegar was di- reded to be applied to the tumour. The next day, July the 8th, I faw her again. Her attendants had not been able to adminider the clyder,' the pipe could not be introduced. She had four thin dools after dae began with the mixture, and her vomiting had been much lefs fre- L quentCASES ANB REMARKS quent than on the preceding day. Not- withftanding the relief that might have been expedled from an open ftate of the belly, the fwelling at the navel was in- crealed, and was become more painful than before. The cafe appearing now more myfterious than ever, I again defired to hear the hiftory of her complaints; and was told, that, three weeks before I faw her, fhe imagined herfelf to be more than twelve weeks gone with child ; that one day fhe had been much tired in weeding corn, had fat three hours upon the cool grafs to reft ; that flie was taken ill in the evening, and, from the pains flie expe- rienced, believing fhe was going to mif- carry, (he fent for her midwife, who in- formed her fhe was not pregnant. She was feven and forty years of age, had had feveral children, the laft of which was born when file was five and forty. I EXAMINED the vagina, and the cafe then appeared very plain. A large, hard, circumferibed tumour was fituated betwixt my finger in the vagina, and another intro- ducedtN SURGERY. m the pelvis, that I could not fucceed. I^iiced into the reftum. I could neither difcover the os uteri, nor with eafe pafs fny finger betwixt the tumour and the fymphyfis of the ofTa pubis. Having at- tempted, feveral times, to introduce a ca- theter into the bladder without fuccefs, I made a very confiderable preffure upon fhe tumour in the vagina, which receding a little, a fmall ftream of urine ruflied but. The catheter was then eafily intro- duced, and fix pints were drawn oft: the tumour at the navel immediatdy fubfided. The prefiure upon the redlum was fo greatj as not to allow of a clyder pafiing; as foon, therefore, as the bladder was emp- tied, I placed the patient upon her elbows and knees, in the manner recommended in the Medical Obfervations and Enqui- ries, and having introduced‘two fingers of the left-hand into the redtum, and as many of the right as I could pafs into the vagina, I endeavoured to replace the re- - Uoverted uterus; but it was fo locked upI 148 CASES AND REMARKS July 9. She was much worfe and weaker in every refpedt. I drew off by the catheter on this day, about four pints of urine, and again tried various methods to reinftate the uterus, but all my endeavours were inef- fedual. She now funk very faft, and every fj/mptom became worfe; in the evening there was an appearance of blood upon the linen and bed-cloaths, and on the next day llie died. t The day fucceeding her death I ex- amined the body, affifted by Mr. Harrold. The bladder was very much diftended, and its fundus extended higher than the navel. The inteftinal canal, in general, was filled with air, and in many parts dif- covered marks of inflammation. The in- ferior part of the tube was more particu- larly difeafed. The colon was amazingly enlarged, inflamed, and the mefocolon in- terfperfed with gangrenous fpots. The bladder contained a large quantity ot bloody, coffee-coloured urine; and more than half a pound of coagulated blood was in its cavity. J made a tranfverfe incifion through the inferiorIN SURGERY. inferior and poflerior part of. the bladder, into the upper part of the vagina, and dif- covered the os tincee prefenting to the fu- perior part of the fymphyfis of the oifa pu- bis. I paffed a catheter into it, the in- flrument took a direcflion downward, and with my finger in the vagina, felt its point in the fundus of the uterus, now refting upon the os coccygis. By prefiing alter- nately on the upper and lower parts of the uterus, I could very diftindlly feel, at the inferior part of the vagina, the head of the foetus fluduate and ftrike againft the point of my finger, which was then oppofite the fundus of the uterus. The pelvis was fo filled up that, not- withftanding all refiftance from the integu- ments and abdominal mufcles was remov- ed, and the weight of the inteftines and bladder taken off, we could not reduce the uterus, until we had divided the fymphy- fis of the pubes. Then introducing my hand into the vagina, I returned the gravid uterus, and we were furprifed at the fize of it. It contained a male foetus, com- 3 pletelyCASES AND REMARKS pletely formed, the membranes were un- broken, nor were any of the contents in any refpedl difeafed 5 there was a confider- able quantity of the liquor amnii. Dr. De la Cour of Bath, and Dr. Siinfon of this place, faw the uterus, Sec. at my houfe, the day after the diffedtion, and were of opinion that the feetus mufl; bave been at leaft four months old at the ' time the woman died. If a fimilar cafe i was to occur in my pradlice again, I flioiild be inclined to try the method recommend- ed by Dr. Hunter j by a fmall trochar to perforate the uterus through the vagina : from this operation the liquor amnii would be difeharged, and an opportunity given of reducing the uterus j; or if redudtion could not be immediately accomplilhed,. abortion might take place, which would probably anfwer the. fame beneficial |)urpofes. AnL 4 the t IN SURGERY. >jrX An UNCOMMON CASE in LITHOTOMY. U. TO L D H A M, of Griff, in the Case • county of Warwick, came to ventry, to be cut for the ftone. In the prefence of feveral gentlemen of the fa- culty, I performed the operation. When the forceps was introduced into the blad- der I could very diftindly feel the (lone, and obtained a firm hold of it between the blades of the inftrument. In attempting' to extradt it, I met with fo much refiftance, that it unfortunately flipt out of the for- ceps, into fuch a fituation of the bladder, that it could not afterward be touched, although feveral endeavours were made for that purpofe, by myfelf and the other gen- tlemen, with various kinds of forceps, both flraight and curved. After fatiguing the pa- tient to no good purpofe for a confiderable time, it was judged expedient to order him to bed, and to defer any other at- tempts to extradt the ftone, until thofe fymptoms which we expedted would beCASES AND REMARKS the refult of the injury the parts had al- ready fufFered, fliould have fubfided. * The fymptomatic fever was as favour- able as it ufually is after any of the great operations of furgery; and, with the af- fiftance of an opiate, the patient dept fe- veral hours the firft night. His bowels were kept open by clyfters, and fuch other directions given as the nature of the cafe feemed to require. Qn the fifth day he was fo well, that we determined to make another attempt to extraCl the ftone, Accordingly, the patient being placed upon a table, in the fame fituation, and fecured in the fame manner as when he was cut, by means of a common di- rector a gorget was introduced into the bladder, to ferve as a condqCtpr for the forceps. The ftone was again, with fqme . little difficulty, engaged in the forceps; but, probably from the fame caufe as be- fore, it could not be extracted, notwith- Itanding all the precautions we ufed on this occafion, When it flipped out of the forceps,' IN SURGERY. ^51 forceps, the patient faid that he found It was drawn up high in his body, as if it had been adted upon by a fucker. After this happened, we were never able to touch the ftone again by the inftrument. It probably got into a pouch of the bladder, near the fundus, becaufe, after its retrac- tion from the forceps, we could feel it by preffing,over the offa pubis; but neither this preffure, nor any change in the pofitlon of the body, made any alteration in the fitua- tion of the ftone. In the fpace of thirteen days he was placed five different times up- on the table, and every effort we could devife to extradl the ftone was pradlifed without fuccefs. By fo much reiterated pain and fatigue, the life of the patient was reduced to great hazard. He was kept, however, as eafy as fuch circumftances would admit, by a very free ufe of opium.' On the fourteenth day, after a very reftlefs night, there hap- pened a large difcharge of purulent and offenfive matter from the bladder. The next day I fecured the ftone within the bladesCASES AND REMARKS U4 blades of the forceps, and extradled it with very little difficulty. The various attempts to extrad: the ftone, accompanied with fo much pain and irritation, brought on fuch fymptoms, that we could not flatter ourfelves (although the flone was now removed) that the man could live many days.,, His voice was fo low and hoarfe that it could, fcarce be heardi his tongue was dry and browns the whole internal furface of' the mouth was covered with apthous incruftations; his pulfe was weak and intermitting; he hiccoughed often; and a very extenfive mortification occupied the region of the os facrum. Notwithstanding thefe very dan- gerous circumflances, the patient gradually recovered a perfed ftate of health; the urine, after fome time, flowed through its proper channel, and the wound was com- pletely cicatrized. The apthac were foon cured by the expreffed juice of turnips, <?iven internally, as recommended by Ka- ^ telaer.IN S U R G,E R Y. •. fss felaer % and a plentiful ufe of the bark appeared to be ferviceable: but the patient probably owes his life to the great abilities * and attention of Mr. Harrold, who Super- intended the whole treatment. I remember to have feen in London a man, who had been cut for the.ftone at Montpelier: he had with him a certifi- cate, figned by four furgeons, defcribing the particulars of the operation, and fetting forth, that the extraction of the ftone could not be accpmplilhed until the third week after, although many attempts had been made for that purpofe. At length they fucceeded, after a fuppuration of the in- ternal coat of the bladder had loofened an adhefion, which, in their opinion, had taken place between the fione and the bladder. • Katelaer de Apthis, p. 50. ✓ ACASES AND REMARKS ij6 ADESCRIPTION of the PRE- SENT METHOD of OPERAT- ING for the STONE. TWO days before the operation, if the patient is plethoric, fome blood fliould be taken from the arm, and he may ufe a warm bath in the evening. The next day after bleeding, a proper dofe of manna and Rochelle fait (hould be given in the morning, and at bed-time an anodyne draught is to be adminiftered. A common clyfter mufl be injeded into the redtum, two hours before the operation; and after its difcharge the patient fhould be indrud- ed to retain his urine, that the pofterior part of the bladder may be fecured from injury when the cutting gorget is intro- duced. The perinaeum having been fliaved, and the patient properly fecured upon a table of convenient ftruifure, the furgeon mull pafs the groove-flaff into the bladder; by inclining its handle obliciuely toward the rightIN S U R G E R Y. . *57 right groin, the groove will prefent to the left fide of the perinaeum. The ftaff is then to be delivered to the .afliftant fur- geon, who is not only to hold it firm, but to give it fome degree of prelTure for- ward, and in the direction he received it j another perfon is to fupport the fcrotum. The operator is to fix himfelf in a chair of convenient height, with his right foot upon a ftool, that by refting his elbow on his knee, his hand may be fupported with more fieadinefs during the operation. The knife is then to be introduced at a point a little on the left fide the raphe of the perinaeum, and about half an inch be- low the fymphyfis of the ofla pubis. The incifion is to be carried on obliquely down- ward and outward, and to terminate rather below the obtufe procefs of the left if- chium. If this is properly done, the length of the incifion in adults will be about three inches and a half. Another incifion mufi; then be made nearer the middle line of the pelvis, and of lefs extent than the former, by which the tranfverfalis perinasi, and part of the fibrest C A S'E S AND REMARK fibres bf the levator ani mufcles, fhould be divided.' The line of this incifion will be clofe to the left 'fide of the mufculus accelerator urinse, which will, in fome de- ' greCj be removed from its natural fituation, by the oblique ^diredtion of the ftaff. The defign of this procefs is to expofe the mm- branous part of the urethra, through which the groove of the ftaff ought to be diflindtly felt. If this cannot be done to the fatif- fadion of the furgeoD, he muft diffed ^ little deeper through the cellular mem- brane, and divide any bridles or fibres that may happen to be in his way. When the groove of the flaff can be accurately diftinguiflied, the operator is to prefs the end of the nail of his left thumb upon the right edge of the groove, by which he may with facility condud the point of the knife into the fulcus. When he is cer- tain the knife and groove of the ftaff are in naked contaSl^ he is to divide the mem- branous, part of the urethra to the anterior furface of the proftate gland • The x.txm anterior is here ufed in relation to the yi- fm pofition of the patient. TheIN SURGERY, The wound of the urethra having beeii thus properly made, the furgeon is to in- troduce the- beak of the common cutting gorget into the groove of the ftaff, where he muft fuftain its fituation with firmnefs, and rifing from his chair, he is to take the llaff in his left-hand, from the affiftant. The diredlion of the ftaff is then to be changed. Hitherto it had been prelied downward, and obliquely forward, to fa- cilitate the intention of cutting into the groove; the handle is now to be brought forward, by which the point in the blad- der will be raifed, and the curvature re- moved nearer the arch of the pubes The handle of the gorget is to be prelTed as low down by the lide of the anus as the wound will admit, and its beak is to be pulhed upward and along the groove of the Half, until it enters the bladder; by which manoeuvre the proftate gland will be divided laterally, and the danger * If this circumftance is not attended to, the gorget may be puflied into the cellular fubftance betwixt the reftum and bladder, or even into the cavity of the for- mer ; an accident i once faw happen to an operator in London* fivoidedCASES AND REMARKS avoided of wounding the left feminal du6t, which opens clofe to the caput Gallina- pinis, now fuppofed to be in the fulcus of the ftafF. The furgeon will know when the gor- get is in the bladder, by the efflux of urine. The ftaff is then to be withdrawn, and the forceps, conduced by the gorget, introduced into the bladder. The gorget mull be removed, and, before the blades of the forceps are opened, every endea- vour fflould be made to afcertain, witb-all poffible precifion, the fituation of the ftone. It frequently is the cafe that it lies in a kind of bed, formed by its weight and preffure, below the proftate gland, and the moment the forceps is opened it gets beyond and over the done. When this happens, it will be advifeable to employ a pair of forceps whofe blades are curved, or form an angle with the handles of the in- ftrument. If the ftone is fituated higher in the bladder, and there touched by the . points of the ftraight forceps, the operator, at the fame time that he opens the inftru-jN SURGERY. ment, fliould advance it, otherwife, when he clofes the forceps to embrace the ftone, it will only rub againft its anterior furface; becaufe as the blades divaricate, they de- Icribe a fegment of a circle, and are every moment receding from the ftOne, if the caution here given is not obferved. In the extra^libn of the ftonej the fuf- geon muft avail himfelf of his anatomical knowledge of the bones and ligaments of the pelvis. He will refledt, that if he gives the forceps a diredion upward, he will be refilled and counteraded in his de- ligns by the branches of the ofla pubis, which are not capable of giving way; whereas if he adls diredly downward, or obliquely to the left fide, the os coccygis and facro-fciatic ligament will admit cf confiderable dilatation. For more minute diredlions relative to the engaging the ftone in the forceps, or its confequent extradlion, I muft beg leave to refer the reader to Monf. le Dran ^ and • Le Dran’s Operations, tranflated by Mr. Gataker, p. 239, &c. M Mr.162 Case XXXV. CASES AND REMARKS Mr. Bromfield who.have treated thefe fubjedts very copioufly. A FISTULA in ANO„ from which a ftone was extradled^ IN the month of November, i774> A ■, of Warwick, applied to me on account of a fiftula in ano, which he had been afflidted with rhore than twelve months. Upon examination, an aperture was difcovered about half an inch from the verge of the anus, on the left lide. Through this opening I introduced a probe into the finus, more than two inches deep, in a diredion parallel with the rec- tum, and felt at the bottom a (tone. From the nature of the difcharge through the fif- tulous opening, I fufpeded likewife there was a communication with the redtum. I puffed a probe-pointed curved biffoury to the bottom of the finus, and receiving its point upon my finger, within the redtum, * Chirurgical Obfervaticns and Cafes, Vol. II. P* ^33* with-An M 2 / IN SURGERY. withdrew them together, by which means the cavities of the fiftula and redum were laid into one, and, by the fame ftroke of the knife, the fphinder mufcle was divided. A pair of common forceps being conveyed into the wound, I extraducd a done, which appeared to have belongea to a plumb or apricot. No other particular circumftance oc-' curred worth relating in this cafe. In the fpace of two months the wound healed; but the patient (from his age, and the fphinaer mufcle having been much vveak- ened by difeafe) experienced-fome incon- venience from not being able, at all times, to retain his excrement.164 CASES AND REMARKS An Case XXXVI. An ACCOUNT of the good effedts of DIVIDING the APONEURO- SIS of the BICEPS MUSCLE, in a painful lacerated wound A Plethoric young woman, fervant to the Rev. Mr. Goodwin, at Lough- ton in Buckinghamlhire, on the nth of June, 1769, was thrown from a cart, and in the fall received a wound by a flint, in the flexure of the arm. I Lw her foon after the accident: flie was then in great pain j there had been a confiderable he- morrhage, and her arm was much fwol- len. The wound was tranfverfe, near an inch in length, its lower extremity termi- nating at a little diftance from the inner condyle of the os humeri. The fafcia of the biceps mufcle was torn, and part of it appeared ragged between the lips of the wound. * This cafe was publUhed in the fourth volume of the Medical Obfervations and Enquiries.IN S U R G E R Y. An emollient cataplafm ^ was applied to her arm ; fixteen ounces of blood were taken away 5 the fore-arm was kept in a bent pofition, to relax the biceps; and the ^ patient was diredled to bed : a laxative me- dicine was alfo ordered to keep the body open. She paffed the night very ill, and was feverifh; hfer arm was exceflively painful; fhe could neither move it herfelf, nor would fhe fuffer it to be moved by any one elfe. « A FORTNIGHT elapfed, during which time the bad fymptoms I have defcribed continued, notwithftanding a ftridt anti- phlogiftic plan was purfued. Xhe pain was fo acute, that even opium produced neither eafe nor fleep, and the great irri» tation kept up a conftant fever, accompa- nied alternately with fhiverings and weak- ening fweats. The wound difcharged a * From the experience I have fince had, In fome cafes where the aponeurofes of tendons have been wounded, I have reafon to believe, that if cold afiringenu had been employed in the above recited cafe, inftead of warn mol' lient cataplafms, there would have been no necelTity for dividing the fafeia of the biceps mufcle. M 3 thinC A SE S AND REMARKS thin gleet, of a greenifh colour j the parts around it \a ere much indurated, and, as fhe exprefled it, her arm felt as if it. had been bound tight by a cord. In thefe diftreffing circumdances, when .her life was apparentlydn the greateft dan- gei, 1 determined to divide the thinking, by taking'off the''ftriaure, 'we fhould probably have an alteration in our favour. On the twenty-fifth of June I made an incifion, two inches long, through the integurnents and ' aponeurofis of the mufcles. As fdon as this was done, the divided parts of the fafcia flew open; and theduccefs was equal to our expeaation. She‘was relieved immediately; the pain’, tumour, inflammation, and fever left her, and.the firfl: time'dhe dreflTings were re- moved after the operation, there was laud- able pus, inftead of the thin gleet which had been before conflantly difcharged. The wound granulated and healed as foon,^and with as little trouble, as if it had been in any othet part of the body. It may be neceffary to obferve, that there was no ■ ■ matteifIN S U R G E R Y. M 4 matter under the fafcia, nor was the di -vifion of it attended with much pain. > Whoever confiders the great irritabi- lity of'parts in a date of inflammation, and how much the pain is increafed by any preflhre of bandage, will eafily account for the fudden relief which this perfon had from a divifion of the fajcia, the inelaf- ticity of which prevented it from giving way to the fwelling of the parts beneath it; and this cafe feems to make it ex- tremely probable, that the bad lymptoius following wounds of the tendons, and aponeurofes, refult more frpiti^ mechanica preflure, than any peculiarity in the ture of thefe parts, which were, till o late, thought fo exquifltely nervous and fenfible. TheGASES AND remarks i68 Case XXXVI. M?y 3, 1772 The HISTORY of a RUPTURE of the CRURAL VEIN, attended with a very large extravafation of blood. R. B had the misL-rtune to fall from his horfe, and was rode over by another gentleman, clofe behind him. He was carried to an inn at Nuneaton, and a furgeon relident at that place imme- diately fent for. The next day, fonqe very alarming fymptoms having appeared, 1 v^as defired to vifit him, with an erninent phy- sician of this city. In the Superior part of the right thigh, near the gioin, and juft below Poupaft’s ligament, w^as a fmall efchar, which ap- peared to have been occaftoned by the vio- lent prefliire and blow of the horfe’s fhoe. The integuments of the anterior part of the thigh, as well as of the inferior region of the abdomen, were raifed up in a very extraordinary manner byextravafated blood, and the whole Scrotum was prodigioufly enlarged. Cloths169 IN SURGERY. the Cloths wetted with a folution of /crude fal ammoniac in vinegar, were con- tinually applied cold to the affedted parts,’ to promote the reabforption of the fluid ; and every proper direction was given by Dr. Simfon, refpedling the internal treat- ment of the patient. f ■ TpE fuccefs attending the methods that were purfued was fo great, that on the fourth day from the accident, more thart half the extravafated blood appeared to have been taken into the road of circula- tion. From this time the procefs of ab- forption did not appear to go on fo rapidly; the efchar was feparating, in every point, from the contiguous parts; and we had apprehenfions that it might, poffibly, have been thrown off before the wound of the yeffel which had furnifhed the extravafated blood, fhould have been healed. The cold application of vinegar, &c. was therefore continued until the eighth day, at which time the Hough came away, with a large quantity of thick grumous blood. The parts affeded were then covered withCASES AND REMARKS An J/Or the ceratum faponaceum, except the wound, which was dreffed with a pledget of foft digeftive, that as little impediment as poffible might be given to the diichafge. The grumous blood can^e awayvery day in confiderable quantities,, ,hy which the bulk of the tumour was diininiihed there was no return of internal haemorrhage j and in two months the cure was perfeded, without any'particular accident, but the epidydym'is of the right tejli.le remained for fome time indurated and enlarged. ^I7I S U R G E R Y. -I.N An ANEURISM of the POPLI- TEAL artery, with fome REM ARKS .on AN EUR I SMS . in general. T T'.hath been inconteftibly demonftrated, that the principal arterial trunks of the leg and 'arm may be tied in the operation for the aneurjfm, and the circulation of the blood afterward carried on by the col- lateral anaftomofing branches *. It hath been faid, and indeed upon the evidence of reafon and experience, that this opera- tion will fucceed beft when a due degree of prcffure upon the tumour hath been previoufly made, by w'hich the collateral branches will be gradually dilated, and the * Parey was the firfl: perfon who fecured the bleeding veflels a/(er amputation with a ligature ; but this method was recommended long before.—Thus Galen fays, “ Quippe de genere obturantium quodammodo ell, & “ vinculum ipfis vails fanguinem fundentibus circumpo- “ fitum, ipfique noftri digiti, dum ea committunt & “ conftringunt,” Method. Med. Lib.V. Cap. 3. Charter. Tom. X. p. 107, &c.—From the time of Galen to Am- brofe Parey, furgeons were ufed to reflrain haemorrhages from the larger arteries with the aftual cautery. newCASES AND REMARKS new road for the blood opened, before the old one be rendered impervious. The recommendation of the ufe of pref- fure, as a proper preparative for the opera- tion, muft, however, be received with li- mitation, as there are fome fpecies of the jlpurious aneurifm, where it cannot be fup- pofed to take place. Till within thefe very few years, it was an opinion generally re- ceived amongft furgeons in England, that if the principal arterial trunk of the arm or thigh was tied, the parts below the li- gature muft neceflarily mortify, from an interception of the blood which' (hould nourifti them. Whenever, therefore, an aneurifm had its feat in the crural or hume- ral artery (above the flexure of the elbow joint) nothing but amputation was thought of. Some very eminent furgeons have de- clared their opinion, that whenever the operation for the aneurifm hath fuccceded in the bend of the arm, the artery had di- vided above the part (a variety fometirnes obferved) and a branch only had been in- cluded in the ligature. AnatomistsIN SURGERY. i%3 i Anatomists have difcovered, by their injections, that the whole body is an anaf- tomofis of veffels, and by this wife dif- politlon of our machine, whenever the vafcular fyftem of any particular part is obftruCted, the circulation will be car- ried on by the collateral veffels. It feems to have been referved for modern furgery, to prove that even the trunks of the hu- meral and crural arteries may be included in a ligature, and, notwithftanding the great impediment to the circulation of the blood, which muft be the refult of the operation, the parts helow will neither in general mortify, nor be deprived of their ufe. The change which takes place in the mode of circulation of the blood after the operation for the aneurifm, hath fometimes occurred from fome particular difeafe of the arteries, I have feen an injeCled pre- paration (the hiftory of the perfon it was taken from I cannot recolleCl) where the cavity of the crural artery was obliterated the length of two or three inches, and in whichCASES AND REMARKS * Med. Obfervations and Enquiries, Vol. II. which the collateral branches were fo won-' derfutly dilited, that the progrefs of the circulation might very well be fuppofed to have been carried on without any great hindrance. Mr. Antrobus of Liverpool hath re- corded a cafe, in which the patient’s foot was mortified, and afcpatation took place, accompanied with good digeftion, t-wo inches above the ancle. The leg was am- putated at the ufaal place below the knee, and when the tourniquet was flackened, there was no efflux of blood from the di- vided arteries, nor any pulfation to be per- ceived in their extremities *. In this cafe it appears, that after the principal arteries had been, by difeafe, rendered ufelefs, the circulation was carried on by the collateral branches with fufficient force to produce a crood digeftion, at a confiderable diftance below the found part of the large veffels. ' I have been myfelf witnefs to a cafe nearly fimilar to that related by Mr. A -trobus, where no haemorrhage happened from the principal arteries, either at the time of amputation or afterward, although nothing more ftyptic than dry lint was ap- plied to the dump; the digeftion and ci- catrization of the wound went on without interruption. The firft account of the crural artery being tied, we meet with in Severinus. The cafe was a fpurious aneurifm, and the ligature was made upon the artery fo near the groin, that amputation could not have been performed. The patient was young, and perfedly recovered' the ufe of the limb Some few years dnce Mr. Burchall, of Manchefter, tied the crural artery with fuccefs, for an aneurifm. This operation was performed in the Manchefter infir- mary, on the 4th of March, 1757. The patient was difcharged cured, on the 17th of April following, and the limb was found • Marc. Aurel, Severin, de Effic. Med. Lib. I. Part 2. p. 5J, &c. nearlyCASES AND REMARKS nearly as ftrong and as ferviceable as the other, when he was afterward examined by the Medical Society of London From the circumftances of this well authenti- , cated cafe, there can remain no degree of doubt but that the trunk of the crural ar- tery was tied in the operation. Since the publication of Mr. Burchalls cafe, the crural artery has been tied by Mr. Leflie of Cork, in a fpurious aneurifm, and with fuccefs -f*. In all controverted points of furgery, the moft certain rule to diredl our conduct will ever be found to arife from a compa- rifon of the events of a given number of fimilar cafes, treated in different methods. Thus in twelve patients, where the crural artery hath been tied, a certain proportion of this number will probably die: and in the fame number who fuffer amputation; ' it cannot be expeaed they flaould all re- cover. If now, for example, four out of the twelve who have had the crural artery • Med. Obfer. and Enquiries, Vol. III. p- io6. Med. Comment. Edinb. Vol. II. IIN SURGERY. tied fliould die, and only three of thofe Who have undergone amputation, it wi. be an argument in favour of the propriety of the former pradice : becaufe thofe who furvivc from this method, have their limbs preferved ; and if the ligature fails, and the parts below Ihould mortify, the pa- tient may have fome kind of hope of efcap- Ing at laft by amputation. As far, there- fore, as the fuccefs of a few cafes can ob- tain, the. furgeon will be authorifed to re- commend the operation for the aneurifm of the crural artery, in preference to am- putation Although it be certain there is a natural provifion for the maintenance of the collateral circulation in general, when any of the principal arterial trunks are, by difeafe or accident, rendered in- adequate to the purpofe: yet it may be deferving attention to enquire, whether * It is, I fear, much more to be wilhed than ex- peaed, that furgeons would candidly acquaint the pub- lic with their ill fuccefs, as well as with their more for- tunate pradice ; a proper line of conduft might then be had, by comparing the events of particular cafes. we /CASES AND REMARKS. 178 we may not be deprived of this advan- tage, on account of fome local peculiari- ties of the fyftem. In the thigh the cru- ral artery, at its fuperior part, detaches fome very conhderable branches, which are deftined for the nouriihment and fup- port of the numerous large mufcles of the limb; and thefe veflels anaftomofe, with others, from the inferior part of the trunk, in a fnfficient degree to afford at lead a probable fuppofition, that the circulation might be continued after the principal ar- tery had been, by ligature, rendered im- ' pervious. But, in the hdiUt the pophtsal artery feems very much deprived of thefe advantages 5 very few ramifications are here made, and thofe that anaflomofe with others from above the joint, are in a fitu- ation to be obflrudled in their dilatation, by the preffure of the adjacent tendons and ligaments, rendered irritable by the opera- tion, by the projection of the epiphyfis of the tibia, and the condyles of the os fe- moris, communicating refiftance to every falutary effort of expanfion. Shouldtn SURGERY. Should the operation for the aneurifm be attempted in the ham, the fituauon Jhe patient muft be in, will be part.cu- larly embarraffing to the leg is extended, to put the tumo artery upon the ftretch, the tendons fum- ing the ham-ftrings will very much im- pede the future procefles of the operation, and if the leg is placed in a ftate “f ’ there will be ftiH more objedions to the pofition. The mere difficulties attending any operation in furgery may, perhaps, appear not to be fufficient realons to de- cline it; and by the adventurous and in- trepid operator it may be conceived, that honour and reputation are to be acquire in proportion to the danger he hath in- curred. But when to the difficulties at- tending any operation, is added the extreme hazard the patient muft fuftain, even from the moft adroit performance of it, it furely becomes a fubjea deferving the attention of the moft dextrous operator, and well worth the confideration of the moft fcien- tlfic and beft informed pradlitioner. N 2 With'j8o cases and remarks With regard to the cafe of which we are now'fpeaking (the aneurifm of the pop^ liteal artery) there is not, that I know, a fingle cafe upon record, where the opera- tion for the aneurifm hath fucceeded. It hath been done feveral times within thefe few years, in our public hofpitals; but I have not heard of any one cafe where it anfwercd the intended purpofe. In a con- verfation I had, two years lince, with a very ingenious furgeon of London upon this fubjeft, he acquainted me that he had lately perform.ed the operation, and with great hopes of fuccefs; but unfortunately, on the fecond or third day after, a profufe hsemorrhage enfued, of which the patient died, before he could get to his affiftance. Whilst the minds of furgeons of the firft eminence are wavering with refpedt to the propriety of operating for the aneu- ■ rifm in the ham, every cafe upon the fub- je<fl, recorded with fidelity, (hould be well received by the public; and, with a view to affifi: in clearing up a doubtful part of * Mr. H r. ourIN S U R G E R Y. - our profeflion, I <ha\l dofe thefe remarks with the following cafe : IN the year I774> J" XXXVIII. trade a blackfmith, perceived a fmall tumour, deep feated in his left ham. Af- ter it had continued fome time, he (hewed it to an eminent furgeon, who gave him fuch dlredions as he thought neceffary. - The difeafe increafed every day, and he applied for my afliftance about a year after the commencement of his complaints. The tumour was then become very pain- ful, and fo large as to occupy all the fpace betwixt the ham-ftrings, and to defcend downward within the heads of the g^f- trocnemius mufcle. Applying my hand upon it, 1 difcovered a very ftrong pulfa- tion, and no doubt feemed to remain of its being an aneurifm of the pophteal ar- tery. In confultation afterward with Mr. Har- rold and Mr. Parrott, a very eminent fur- geon of Birmingham, in conhderation of the difficulty of performing the operation N 3 forCASES AND REMARKS for the aneurifm in this part, and of the very uncertain nature of the event, it was ftrongly urged to the patient to fuffer am-" putation. The man defired he might have time to confult his friends upon the fubjed, who lived at a confiderable diftance. They, in anfwer, requefted he would come to them, as fome furgeons in their neighbour- hood had propofed to cure him without the lofs of the limb. He went to them, the operation for the aneurifm was done, and the patient died on the third day * Vide iEglneta, Lib. VI. Cap. 37. Marc. Aurel. Severinus de Effic. Medians. Schenckius. Morgagni de Caufis & Sed. Morb. Hildanus Cent. Obferv. Mem. de TAcad. Roy. An. .7'2, 1733- y^nat. Philofoph. Traniadl. Abr. Vol ^ Haen de Aneurifmat. Rat. Medend Cap^XXX. Mem. de I’Acad. de Chirurg. Edinb. Med._ nhf and IV. Sharp, and le Dran’s Operations Med_ Obf. andEnq. Vol. 1. H, HI. and IV. Med. Com^Edinb. Vol. II. White’s Cafes in Surgery. Treatife upon Sponge. Pott’s Remarks on the Neceffity of Amputation, J. 69. Royfeh. Obf. Cemur, O B S E R-183 SURGERY. I N OBSERVATIONS on COM- POUND FRACTURES. SOME years have now elapfed, Fnce Mr. Pott publiflaed his Remarks on Fradures and Diflocations, wherein he appears the advocate for immediate ampu- tation in certain cafes, which I {hall more particularly defcribe hereafter. The fame gentleman hath likewife favoured us lately with Obfervations on the Neceffity of Am- putation, &c. The mode of practice re- commended in both thefe publications (if it may be confidered as the ftandard by which the condu<ft of furgeons is to be regulated) feems to be, at leaft, the pro- bable fource of infinite mifchief to man- kind. Before I proceed farther I fhall premife, that no one either has, or can have, a greater veneration for Mr. Pott’s chirurgical abilities in general than myfelf; perhaps no man hath contributed fo much to the improvement of furgery j and I ac- knowledge with gratitude the great ad- N 4 vantagesCASES AND REMARKS 84 vantages I have received both from his writings and his ledlures. To enjoin an immediate recourfe to am- putation after an accident happens, when the reftoration of the limb may be at moft but doubtful, and the delay of the knife at- tended with no apparent danger, is leaving the unhappy patient too much to the mer- C'y of the generality of furgeons, in a fitu- ation fo truly delicate, as to require the abilities of the mod fagacious praditioner to determine upon the neceffity of the ope- ration ", and the lofs of a limb is fuch a melancholy.circumftance, that nothing but the mod indijpenjible neceffity ffiould ever induce the furgeon to recommend it. Mr. Pott confcffies^, “ that the amputation of a limb is an operation terrible to bear, “ horrid to fee, and mud leave the perfon “ on whom it has been performed, in a mutilated imperfed date.” After having thus defcribed the na- ture of this operation, he proceeds to de- • Remarks on the Neceffity of Amputation, &c. p. 45* fend^ 114 ’ S u R G E R Y. fend the propriety of it, becaufe it feems ^ a contrary dodrine ^ has, within a few - years, been boldly and induftrioufly “ propagated, not without fome very in- “ decent, as well as untrue refledions, on “ the profeflion in general, and on thofe « who have the care of hofpitals in par^ « ticular: and, becaufe” he is ‘‘ con- ** vinced that fuch dodtrine has been ein- “ ployed to the prejudice of mankind, by “ covering ignorance and tiTnidityf and “ alfo for ferving the bale purpofe of ma- “ levolence.” Mr. Pott further obferves, that “ mankind are too apt to form their opinion from events only : fuccefs “ with many conhitutes propriety, and the failure of it is often very unjuftly ** fet to the account of mifcondudt, or of want of knowledge.” With refpedt to this obfervation, I profefs I do not underftan'd how mankind, in general, are to judge of the propriety of a furgeon’s condudt, but from his fuc- * Remarks on the Neceflity, &c. p. 46. p. 47. t Ibid.CASES AND REMARKS l86 cefs: they cannot be fuppofed to know either the nature of his profeffion, or the principles upon which it is founded. Mr. Pott proceeds to reprehend the backwardnefs which appears in young fur- geons to amputate. “ A young * prac- “ titioner,” fays he, ‘‘ at a diftance from aflildance, and thereby deprived of that “ fupport, may be afraid to put his cha- “ radter to hazard, by adling in fuch a « manner, as, although it might juftly “ intitle him to fuccefs, yet cannot com- “ mand it. He may underftand his art, but art is not infallible. He may be a “ very excellent furgeon, and yet be afraid to encounter the pi-ejudices of fome, and the malevolence of others. Mr. Pott feems to have forgotten that formerly, up- on another occafion, he had cenfured the young furgeon for too much attention to operatwnsy-^znd the little regard paid to the common, or pradical parts of furgery f* When ♦ Remarks on theNeceflity of Amputation, &c. p. 47. I The treatment of the fiftula lacrymalis “ hardly comes under the name of an operation, the great, and “ alrooftIN SURGERY. When young furgeons leave the coun- try to attend the London hofpitals, their purfuit feems chiefly direded to the ope- rative part of forgery. In their converfa- tion with each other, they aflc what ope- rations have been done, what to be ieen. who performs them with the greateft ex- pedition ? &c. Is it then improbable that fucb an one, frelh from the fchool of St. Bartholomew, when he is called upon to give his afliftance in a compound fradure, attended with extenfive comminution of the bones, and laceration of the mufcles; where the external wound is large, and hor- rible to the fight i under fuch circumftances, perhaps wilhing to operate, encouraged by Mr. Pott's opinion and diredion: is it, I fay, at all improbable that he will con- demn the limb to immediate amputation ? After engagements at fea and upon land, where compound fradtures are ex- tremely frequent, have the furgeons of the i\mo^ cnlyobjea, which they who come hither” (Lon- don) “ from the diftant countries, have in view.” Mr. Pott’s preface to his Obfervations on the Fiftula Lacry- malis. ■ armyi88 CASES AND REMARKS army or navy ever betrayed the lead reluc- tance to amputation ? Has timidity marked their conduit in*this refpeit ? or have they, at any time, been accufed wdth attempting to preferve too many legs and arms ? On the contrary, it is no lefs a lamentable, than an indifputable fait, that, upon thefe occahons, the limbs of thofe unfortunate men, who have ventured their lives in their country’s caufe, have been frequently fa- crificed to the indolence or barbarity of their furgeons. At a time, therefore, when 300,000 men are faid to be employed in the fervice and defence of the Britifh empire, is it ei- ther political or prudent, can it be con- liftent with humanity, that, one of the firft furgeons of Europe 'Ihould give deliberate encouragement to the fanguinary bufinefs of mutilation ? Mr. Pott obferves, that flat con- tradiilions have no more authority than pofitive aflTertionsI will therefore fub- mit the reafons 1 have for diffenting fromt 189 IN SURGERY. his opinion, to the confideration of hiin- felf, and the reft of my brethren. According to Mr. Pott, there are three points of time in compound frac- tures, in which amputation may become neceftary. First, Immediately, or as foon as may be after the receipt of the injury.” Secondly, “ When the bones con- “ tinue for a great length of time with- « out any difpofition to unite, and the “ difcharge from the wound has been lb long, and is fo large, that the patient’s ftrength fails, and general lymptoms, foreboding diftblution, come on.” Thirdly, When a mortification “ (hall have taken fuch complete polTef- fion of the foft parts of the inferior part of the limb, quite down to the bone, that, upon a feparation of fuch parts, “ the bone or bones fhall be left bare in the interlpacei” • 9 InCASES and REMARICS 1^0 In my humble opinion, there can be but one good reafon why amputation fhould be performed in any cafe, viz. to prelerve life. The firft queftion, therefore, that I {hall alk Mr. Pott is, Whether he amputates itnfnedlcitely after the accident to prevent fudden death ? The anfwer muft be in the negative; fudden death never happening in compound fractures, efpecially in thofe which-he calls hdzcii'dousj or that may frobabJy be produdive of mortification, &c. and for which he advifes the operas tion. If Mr. Pott does not operate to pre- vent immediate death, his • intention muft be to avoid thofe fymptoms which he has . Rated in the two other periods, when, m his opinion, amputation may become ne- ceflary. We might therefore proceed to enquire, whether the operation could not be per- formed at thofe other points of time, wit equal, or perhaps greater advantage, than at firft 5—when the neceJIity of the mealure might be eftablifhed by demonftration; ^but.IN $ U R G E R Y. *9* before we do this, we fhall make (bme remarks upon the firft proportion. We will fuppofe the circumftances of a compound fracture are fuch, as to render the cafe, in Mr. Pott’s judgment, hazard- ous j and he has declared his opinion, that (although the patient might pojjibly reco- ver without the operation) yet he will have a much better chance of living by having the limb removed: we will alfo take it for granted, that the patient and his friends I are convinced of the force of his argu- ments, and the operation is immediately performed: can Mr. Pott fay that his pa- tient is thereby exempted from danger; or that he is not almoft in as dangerous a ftate as ever ? I have feen the pradiice of feveral hofpital furgeons, and have known their ^ patients die where amputation had been performed in compound fradlures, immediately after the accident. Compound fradlures moft frequently happen to the laborious part of mankind; * The relative proportion I cannot exadlly afeertain. V' toCASES AND REMARKS I to thofe who are ftrong and in health. Skilful furgcons have remarked, and perience hath confirmed their obfervation, that a ftate of high health is unfriendly to the fuccefs of amputation. People thus circumft’anced are fubjedl to more fever, pain, and irritation, in proportion to the ftrength of the mufcles, and the force of the circulation. There is likewife a dif- trefs of mind, a melancholy defppndency, infeparably connefted widi the fuJden lofs of a limb. Although it is propofed to am- putate as foon as poffible after the injury hath been received, yet fome fpace of time 'muft neceffarily intervene, before the pro- per apparatus can be procured, and the hufinefs undertaken. In this interval pain is excited, and fome degree of inflamma- tion may well be fuppofed to poffefs the part upon which the operation is intended to be performed. The fecohd point of time at which, Mr. Pott fays, amputation becomes nccef- fary, is “ when the bones continue for a « creat length of time without any d^po- - ^ “ ntioniIN SURGERY. . m “ fitioii to unite, &c. and the patient, ‘‘ from too large a difcharge of matter, &c. is fuppofed to be in danger of “ dying.” When the patient is reduced to tliis deplorable condition j when the difcharge of matter is great, or, from an abforp.tion of part of it into the fyftem, the blobd is melted down; when all the fyrnp- toms are in a progreiTive increafe from bad to worfe (the moft powerful antifeptics having been ineffedtually employed, and the bones ftill remaining in a Jiate of difunion:') if the patient does not part with his limb, the lofs of his life muft be the inevitable confequence. Should amputation be per- formed even in thefe circumflances, before the patient is too much reduced, the fur- geon will have the fatisfadfion to think, that he has not performed the operation until the necefjity of it was demonftrable; and (which is of much greater confequence) the patient will have a better chance of recovery, than if it had been performed G imme^CASES AND REMARKS 194 immediately after the accident I appeal to the experience of all furgeons, whether perfons who have been previouOy reduced, either by pain, abforbed matter, colliqua- tive diarrhoeas, &c. do not generally reco- ver after amputation ^ and whether the re- verfe of this propofition is not true of thofe, who lofe their limbs foon after the injury hath happened. Does Mr. Pott, therefore, advife am- putation immediately after accidents, to an- ticipate a period wherein that bufinefs might be undertaken with more apparent fafety to the patient, and greater fatisfadion to the furgeon ? This fuppofition militates fo ftrongly with the found judgment which * Mr. Pott, after cenfuring Van Swieten for advifing US to wait/wo ordays, until antifeptics might be tried in thefe cafes, before we proceed to amputation ; obferves, “ that, by waiting that time, the patient wi^^ “ have very little chance indeed from the operation. But that it is not always fo dangerous to wait.a few days, we may fairly conclude, when Mr. Pott himfelf acquaints us, that, in the fecond ftage of a compound Mure, am- putation may become neceffary, “ when the bones con- “ tinue for a great length of time without any difpofitio*. “ to unite,’' &c. ^ -r charaderifesr.:: in s u r g e r y. a i chara£lerifes Mr. Pott’s works in general, that it muft be totally inadmiffible.v .' , ‘TV. [ Compound fractures, I muft allow, are obferved to terminate very unfavour- ably in public hofpicals; patients cannot be fuppoled to have the benefit of good air, where wounded people arc too often crouded in the fame wards, with others who are dying of malignant fevers. But 1 have often thought there muft have been fome other caufe befides contaminated air, to produce the difference in the events of compound fradlures in the country, and in public hofpitals. When tenfion hath taken place in the limb, which it generally does, more or lefs, it is a maxim in many hofpi^ tals to ufe emollient relaxing ppultices, warm or hot, to apply which, it is necef- fary that the limb be lifted up at each time of dreffingj by this motion the bones rub againft each other, and wound or irritate the mufcles: and this'bufinefs is fome- times done by the nurfes, that the limb may be clean for the infpedtion of the fur- geon. When the poultice is removed, a O 2 warmCASES AND REMARKS warm fomenting cloth is put on, and thus the fore is expofed to the air, perhaps an hour; and, before another cataplafm is applied, the fradtured limb muft be once more difturbed. When the whole limb in a compound frafture is much fwollen, painful, inflam- ed, and indurated, what are the curative intentions ? The anfwer is, to get the parts unloaded by a refolution of the inflamma- tory tumefadlion, and thereby to procure an eafy digeflion of the wound, and to avoid the formation of abfceffes under the fkin, or in the interfaces of the mufcles. Warm emollient applications relax the vef- fels; encourage, therefore, a greater in- flux of juices: in confequence of both, they increafe tumefadlion. Digeflion of wounds is befl procured when the circum- jacent parts are leafl fwollen. Warm emol- lient applications therefore, in this cafe, retard the digeflion of the wound. At the fame time, alfo, that the furgeon (if he purfues this kind of pradlice) is coun- teradling the curative intentions, he is do-197 IN SURGERY. I ing every thing in his power to encourage a general fuppuration, and reduce the cafe to the very ftate fo well defcribed by Mr, Pott, and in which it may be neceffary to amputate the limb, to prevent the patient from dying, in confequence of fuch ex- teniive fuppuration. The third flage of a compound frac- ture is faid to be, v^hen “ a mortifica- tion (hall have taken fuch complete *■ poffelTion of the inferior parts of the limb, that, upon a reparation of the “ morbid from the found parts, the bone “ or bones fhall be left bare in the inter- “ fpace.’^ Of all the different kinds of mortifica- tion, none might be fuppofed to be fo truly local, or fo little difpofed to fpread, as that occafioned by external violence. Jt is very eafy to imagine, that, from the fall of great weights upon the limbs, and by the operation of various other caufes, the flrudfure of the parts may be fo much deflroyed, as to make mortification not O 3 onlyCASES AND REMARKS i only a probable event,, but an unavoidable confpquence. It is. vhy frequently the cafe, even in mortification from infernal caufes, that the t efforts i of art produce a ftoD to 'the' difeafe. How much more likely, is this eventvto happen, when ex- ternal violence hath been the eaufe ? Ac- cordingly we find, that fometimes the fkin, mufcles, tendons, and ligaments are dcfiroyed to the bones^ whicEi Upon a feparution of the mortified p&rt^, are left ..quite bare. In fome of thefe cifes, no- thing elfe may be neceflary but to faw through the bones. •. ' .i r But Mr. Pott obferves, “ that fome- “ times the progrefs of the difeafe is “ fo rapid, as ,to deftroy the patient in a fhort fpace of time.” . • . Those perfons who have been deftroyed by '3. fpreading gangrene, from external injury, mufi: have had very bad habits ^ and it therefore fiill remains a quefiion, whether early amputation cjould, have fayed them.199 IN SURGERY. them. Upon the whole, then, I have ne- deavoured to prove. First, That amputation (liould never be performed immediately after compound fradlures have been received, in thofe cafes, which appear uncertain, or hazardous only. Secondly, That the fecond point of time in which that operation is faid to be neceflary, would not fo frequently hap- pen, if a proper method of treatment had been purfued; and if it fhould oc- cur, the patient will have a better chance of living than if it had been performed at firfl; and, 1-^ -, Thirdly, That if a mortification fhould unexpedtedly Tupervene, it will not, of necejjiiyy proTe fatal. In the courfe of'my pradice I have not hitherto, in a fingle inflance, had occa- fion to amputate for a compound fi;ac- ture, although I have' been concerned in O 4 ‘ fome200 CASES AND REMARKS r ibme cafes where, upon Mr. Pott’s hypo- thecs, the operation would have been deemed nccelTary; yet not only the lives of the patients, but the ufe of the injured lirpbs have alfo been preferved I have never, indeed (when I have at- tended from the beginning of the cafe) had a patient in that date from a compound fradure, where it might even have become a queftion, whether amputation fliould have been performed, to obviate the effedts of too large a difcharge of matter, or of its ab- forption into the fyftem : and this fuccefs I attribute very much to the early ufe of cold and repellent applications, and avoid- ing all warm, emollient, and relaxing to- • If it was neceffary to amputate for a compound frac- ture fo frequently as Mr. Pott would make us believe, it muft appear very extraordinary that the late Mr. Gooch, in a very extenfive and long coKtinned praftice, never cut ofF a limb on fuch an occafion. See his laft Volume, P- 82. , . f • Monf. Boucher has deroonUrated, by a variety of m- ftances, that cafes of the moft apparently dangerous na- ture, and where the bones have been fraftured in their articulation, may be cured without amputation. Mem. dc I’Acad. Roy. de Chirurg. Tom. II. Obfery. fur d^s Playes d’Armes a Feu, p. 287 Sc 461. picsIN SURGERY. iof which pics; whereby the fuppurative procefs hath been kept within due bounds. As foon as I am called to a cafe of this kind, if no peculiar circumftance forbids, the leg (for inftance) is placed upon its outlide, in the common inflecfled por- tion If the fuperior portion of the fradlured tibia protrudes through a fmall wound, and there is difficulty in its re- duftion, it will invariably be found to arife from the bone being girded by the integuments. Inftead, therefore, of fa- tiguing the patient by an unneceffary and ■fruitlefs extenfion, the furgeon ffiould di- vide with a bidoury, that part of the IkiTi 4 • Many of what are called the modern improvements in furgery, may be found in the writings of the ancients. The praftice of placing limbs, when fradured, in fuch an eafy infledled poflure as they ufually take in a ftate of reft or fleep, is enjoined both by Hippocrates and Galen, “ Quibus in liguris quum otiamur, partes habere con- “ fuevimus, ha: in curationibus eligendae funt.” And afterward, “ Itaque li homines otiari confideraveris, ple- “ rumque manus (e. g,) inter fummam extenfionem, & “ extremam flexionem non plane medias roperies, fed “ qua; ad extenfionem propendeant.” De Med. Officin. Text. 7.1. Chart. Tom. XII. p. 87.CASES AND REMA.RKS which appears to form the flridure. But if the protruded part of the bone fhould be fradtured very obliquely, or with fuch fharp angles as would probably-, when re- duced, either wound or confiderably irri- tate the mufcles, it will,, in general, be advifeable to faw it off. It fometimes hap- pens that tiie tibia is very much fhattered and comminuted; in this cafe, if the frag- ments are loofe, they fhould by all means ,be removed j and if the external wound is ' not large enough for this purpofe, it may very fafely be dilated. But if the inter- :mediate fragments are large, and firmly attached to the mufcles, &c. the attempt to remove them may poflibly be attended with much inconvenience, and is thereiore to be avoided. I ; After the wound of the flcin hath •been enlarged, or the protruded portion of the bone removed by the faw; when the ioofe fragments have been extraded, or fuffered to remain i ora's either of thefe .methods may be rendered more eligible than the reft, by the particular circum- ftanceaIN SURGERY. .,203 I fiances of the cafe : it will, in’ general, re- quire but a fmall degree of, extenfion'to reduce the limb to its natural form. The wound is then to be dreffed^ and, whe- ther it be fmall or large, no - application feems, in general, fo proper as dry lint, which fhould be fuffered to 'remain on the part (at lead not forcibly removed) until it is loofened by digeflion, or fome other caufe. , i . . * ’ c The next procefs, indeed the mod: ne- ceflary of any, is to endeavour, by Tome topical application to the whole limb, . to counteradt that determination of fluids in- to the parts which is always^ more or lefs, the effedl of contufion, pain, and irrita- tion. In proportion to the degree of in- flammation, and extent of tumefadlion, we may form a fair conjedture of the en- -fuing danger from excefllve fuppuration, which (though frequently a fatal attendant ^on compound fradlures in public hofpitals) I have very rarely found reafon to appre- hend in the country.CASES.AND HEMARKS I HAVE before attempted to prove, that all warm relaxant applications are very per- nicious, when tenfion hath already taken place in the limb; and if fo, very little need be faid to fhew the impropriety of their ufe, when the defign of the furgeon is to prevent inflammation, to refifl; the di- latation of the vefTels, and thereby retrain ’the confequent tumefaftion and fuppura- tion within as fmall bounds as may be. I do not know any better method to anfwer 'thefe intentions, in general, than to apply a very foft napkin, well foaked in the fa- turnine water of Goulard, cold^ all over -^the injured limb. As foon as it becomes dry, a frefh lotion fhould be poured on, and this fhould be continued during the firfl days, or until all inflammatory ap- pearances have fubfided. It fometimes happens, that one or more of the deep-feated veins are lacerat- ed, and if the wound of the integuments is fmall, or becomes choaked up with co- agulable lymph, the extravafated blood will force its way betwixt the fkin and ♦> mufclea.I which IN S U R G E R Y, mufcles. When this cafe occurs, or when- ever tenhon happens from an internal has- morrhage, no better application can be ufed than a folution of crude fal armoniac in vinegar, with which, the parts fhould conftantly be covered, co/d During the time the lotion is applied, it does not feem proper (at leaft it will not ■ be convenient) to ufe any bandage over the napkin; and, if there is a great degree of tenfion, it may perhaps be fuggefted, that the ufe of fplints in fome cafes may be altogether unnecelfary j becaufe, under that circumftance, the integuments being very tight, will by their preffure fecure the fi- tuation of the fradured bones. But if the limb is exempt from tumefadion, and fjplints are not ufed, the'patient will be fub- jed to the very fevere {hocks, which thofe who experience thefe misfortunes fo feel- ingly deferibe. In either cafe it feems very proper to apply one fplint under the limb, * r have had an opportunity of feeing, in more than one inftance, the efFefts of warm applications in fuch cafes and It was aftonilhing how much the tumour was increafed5>o6 C A S'E S A‘.N D REM A.R K S which will form an even furface for it to reft upon -j-. ■ If it be thought unnecef- fary to apply rthe upper fplint in the day, it fhould be always ufed^at night; becaufe it is principally at that time the patient fuffers thofe .very perniciou5 colHfions of the bone, which, from a ftate of the moft perfect eafe, will often occafion fevere pains for feveral hours. Thefe (hocks commonly happen foon after the patient has fallen afleep; and from thence I fufpedl, they arife from an attempt to turn the body, whereby the fuperior part of ^the fradured bone is fuddenly difplaced: the ufe of fplints therefore, during the night, cannot be difpenfed with. + The fplints I ufe in cqnipo.uud .fraftures are the. com- nion deal ones, recommended by Mr. Pott; and they are made long enough to proje£i fomewhat beyond the extremities of the fraaured bone. ‘By keeping the joints above and below the injured part at reft, they anfwer all the purpofes-that can be expeded from fplints, without making any improper prelTure upon the circoirrjacent parts, which.thofe m,tt,ever he liable to that are contrived to lit the leg, and be ,n contaft with a .reat part of its furface. They Ihonld be lined with flan- nel, and well padded with combed wool. l TheIN S U R G E 'll Y.'- ’ Teie next ftep, which is ufually taken m order to prevent tenfion, &c. is a re- courfe to the lancet. But if the furgeon is called upon foon after the accident, he • will commonly find his patient diftrelTed in mind, his mufcles in a tremulous fiate, his body cold, and his pulfe weak: it may, perhaps, therefore admit of a quef- tion, whether bleeding fhould take place at this period ? With regard to my own pradice, I never ufe the lancet under fuch circumftances; but defer it until either a painful throbbing in the limb, or ari ac- celerated, hardened pulfe, indicates its propriety; and then, it fhould feem, blood may be advantageoufly taken away, in as large a quantity as the nature of the fymp- ’toms require, s It is of very great importance to empty the inteftinal canal as foon as poffible, arid ‘this intention would be bed; anfwered by clyfiiers; but as the pofition the patient is obliged to be in, will not, in many cafes, admit of their ufe, fome kind of opening given by the mouth; and2o8 CASES AND REMARKS and for this purpofe a folution of manna and Rochelle I'alt may be as proper as any other. It (hould be given and repeated until it produces the defired eftedt; or, if it flaould be flow in its operation, a few grains of calomel will probably fuc- ceed. After a proper application hath been made to the injured limbj when the pa- tient has been bled (if it appears necelTary) and his bowels have been opened : the next defirable objedl will be to eafe or mitigate the pain. In every cafe of this kind, pain fliould be relieved with the moft ftudious care; for as inflammation occafions pain, fo pain, in its turn, increafes inflamma- tion : and thus the caufe and effedl are per- petually augmenting each other. In one view, therefore, the antiphlogiftic plan feems admirably calculated to anfwer fuch purpofe; but this alone will not fucceed, when the parts are in a very irritable ftate, without the ufe of opium. At whatever time, or upon whatever occafion, opium is given with an intention to remove pain.IN S U R G E R Y. ao9 the dofe {hould always be proportioned to the degree of irritation it is intended to counterad. When the nerves are violently affedted with pain, it requires, in general, a much larger dofe of opium than is com- monly given, either to obtain eafe, or pro- cure deep} without which the medicine cannot properly be called anodyne I believe it is a very common error to give opium upon thefe occafions in too fmall quantities to produce any good effed:. It fhould be given in a large dofe, and re- peated until it hath anfwered the intention of the prefcriber, otherwife it would be ' much better not to adminifter it at all -f*. If the mode of pradice here recom- mended is put in ufe early, it will very feldom happen that any confiderable ten- fion will take place j and if it fhould, I * Anodyna vocant, qus fomno dolorem levant.” Ceir. Lib. V. Cap, 25. p. 278. f The dofe I frequently order is the following ; R Tinft. Theb. a guttr XL ad LX. Vin. antim. gutt. XXX. Sp. mind. J fs. Aq. font. 3 vi. m. f. hauftus, urgente dolorti fumendus. P amCASES AND REMARKS 210 am perfuaded a perfeverance in' the fame plan will remove it. When the inflammatory tumefadlion' hath fubfided, and the digeftion of the wound l;aken place, the limb may be co- vered with theceratum faponaceum, fpread on linen, leaving an aperture for the wound, which (hould then be drefled every day with a pledget of fome foft digeftive, and the whole fecured with the foliated or many- tailed flannel bandage. To keep the ban- dage clean, and prevent the neceflity of changing it, a piece of oil-cloth fliould be placed betwixt it and the dreflings, and the pledget over the wound may be cover- ed likewife with a bolder of tow, or linen, to abforb the difcharge. I HAVE before obferved, that placing the limb upon its outward furface * is, in general, • I once faw a very remarkable inftance of the ufeful- nefs of the relaxed pofition in a compound fradure, where, after the redddion of the bones, the leg at was laid ftraight. The furgeon concerned was furprifed, when he removed the dreflings, to perceive the fuperior portion of the bone protruded through the wound, m as * o-r^atiN SURGERY. general, the bell: way of di/pdfing it j aS, in that cafe, the greater part of the muf- cles furrdundlng the fradlured bones are, ks rhuch as they can be, relaxed: but I have found fome inconvenience from it. If the fradture happens in the fuperior part of the leg, neat the knee-joint, and the leg is much infledted, the redus, cru- reus; thfe vaftus externiis, and internus mufcies ad fo flrongly upon the patella and its ligament, that the fuperior frag- ment of the tibia conneded with them will every day be foilnd difplaced, efpe- cially if fplintS are ufed, which are calcu- lated to fecure the leg only. To obviate this inconvenience, there muff either be a thange df pofitiOn in the limb, or (which is better) the parts may be conveniently fecured by particular fplints, which fhall be defcribed hereafter. great a degree as at firft. In the courfe of ten days it .was reduced feveral times, and as often found difplaced, un- til it was propofed to lay the limb upon its exterior fur- jface, in the relaxed portion. This change of pofture mly, without any extenfion, reduced the bone, and the core was accbmpliihed'without any further difficulty, or fubfequent difplacsrhent. P 2 IfCASES Xnd remarks 2ia If the thigh is fradured, and placed upon its outward furface, if particular attention is not given that the patient inclines his body, and refts upon the hip of the fame fide, when he gets up, a very confiderable defor- mity will be experienced, and his foot and toes be turned outward. Let the fradlure be what it may, if the limb is placed on its outfide, no pillows fliould be ufed; and, as a plain furface muft prove of advantages, the patient fhould lie upon a mattrefs. For more minute diredions refpeding the management of fradures, whether fimple or compound, I refer the reader to Mr. Pott’s * treatife, which (thofe parts only excepted from which I have taken the liberty to diffent) is by much the bell t have feen upon the fubjed. Having now defcribed the method of treating compound fradures, which ap- pears to me the moft eligible, I fhall fub- join a few hiftories, wherein its applica- tion to particular cafes will be proved to i have been attended with fuccefs. • Remarks on Fraftures and Diflocations. AnIN SURGERY. 213’ An ACCOUNT of the CURE of a COMPOUND FRACTURE of the LEG, where, from the injury the parts received, amputation had been judged expedient. 1 T WA S fent for to Hawkefbury, to af- Case * fift Meffieurs Bindley, Barber, and„^xxix. Welton, furgeons, in the amputation of a leg. The patient was a young man, of a robuft and healthy habit of body. On the preceding day, by the breaking of a rope, he had the misfortune to fall from the height of fixty feet, to the bottom of a coal-pit. From this accident the lower jaw was fradtured, and general marks of contulion were vifible in his face and head. The fibula of the right leg was fradlured, and the tibia having been forced from its perpendicular bearing on the af- tragalus, was diflocated. The left leg was literally fhattered to pieces; the limb appeared half a foot fhorter than the other, and there was a very large lacerated wound, through which the fuperior por- P 3 tionCASES AND' REMARKS tion of the tibia protruded. Under this there were feveral portions of the bone, feparated from the main body, and fome of them, by their points, had been driven into the mufcles. The tibialis anticus mufcle was tranfverfely torn, quite through its whole fubftance. Upon the whole, the circumftances of the cafe appeared fo terrible to the gentle- men concerned, that the neceffary appara- tus for amputation was'provided. I ob- jedted to the operation for many reafons; but the argument which appeared to have mod weight with them was, that the pa- tient, from the effedls of fuch complicated mifehief, would probably die, and thereby bring difgrace at lead upon the operation, if not upon the per/ons concerned. ' The kregular portion of the tibia, which proiedled, was lawn off; the intervening loofe fragments were extracted; the wound was dreded with dry lint, and the limb placed in as eafy a pofition as the circum- danees of the cafe would admit. The ‘ pulfq2 IN S U R G E R Y. was kept down by bleeding; the inteftl- nal canal was opened by lenient cathar- tics; and a dridt antiphlogiftic plan pur- fued during the exiftence of inflammatory iymptoms. By the ufe of the bark, when they were removed, by abfliaining from all warm emollient and relaxing applica- tions, and by the diligent attendance of Mr. Bindley, the patient not only reco- vered his health, but the ufe of his limb (which otherwife might have been facri- ftced to the fiippofed necejjity of amputa-’ tion) was preferved. In this cafe, although four inches of the whole fubftance of the tibia were removed, yet the lirnb became more ferviceable than the other. I faw the patient the fummer after the accident, and at that time he was ufing the cold-bath at Newmham, on ac- count of a weaknefs which had continued from the diflocation of the right ancle.CASES AND REMARKS 216 A COMPOUND FRACTURE of the LEG, fuppojed to require am- putation from a violent haemorrhage. » Case XL. A Middle-aged man, riding on the full Junc4, 1773’gallop, and turning the corner of the roan betwixt Lutterworth and Market- harborough, came againft the pole of a carriage with fuch impetuolify, that he was thrown to the ground By the vio- lence of the fall his leg was fradlured, and the fuperior portion of the tibia forcibly pulhed through his boot into the road. A large difcharge of blood immediately en- fued, and the man was conveyed to Lut- terworth, and placed under the care of Mr. Jervis. Appearances were fo unfavourable on the third day after the accident (the hae- morrhage ftill continuing) that Mr. Jervis apprehended the amputation of the limb would have afforded the beft chance of recovery. At this period I found the patient much reduced 5 the wound was plugged up with coagulableIN s u R O- E R y» coagulable lymph, through which, how- ever, the blood ftill found its way copiouf- ly; and there, was fo great an extravafalion betwixt the Ikin and the-^mufcles, as to render the whole limb very confiderably tumefied. In confultation it was agreed that the leg fhould be covered with cloths, well fa- turated with a folution of crude fal ar- moniac in vinegar, applied cold; that he fhould take the Peruvian bark, joined with nitre; and an anodyne be adminiftered in the evening. From the time the cold and aflringent application was made, the hae-* morrhage ceafcd; the extravafated blood was by degrees abforbed; the tenfion abated; and all the bad fymptoms dimi- nifhed. The patient afterward not only enjoyed perfect health, but the ufe of the fractured limb was happily reftored* /CASES and-REMARKS A COMPOUND FRACTURE of the L E‘G, attended with very alarming appearances. Case XLI.yj R. W , of Aftley, in the county ^^776*^’ of Warwick, by the fall of a cow on ' the outfide of his left leg, ‘had both the bones fradlured near the middle; and through a fmall wound, about half an iiidh from the-internal edge of the tibia, a large ftrcajn of blood proceeded. Four hours" after the accident happened, I found that a coagulum rof blood had ftopped up the external wound, and the divided veffel Had bleh internally to fuch a degree, that the leg was diftended to a mod: enormous fize. The Ikin was every where removed from the mufcles, by'the vaft quantity of blood which had infmuated itfelf into the cellular membrane. ' The preflure the parts fudained pre- vented him from having any degree of paini and he complained only of a numb- npfs of the foot, which appeared of a dark ■ nnroleIN SURGERY. 219 purple colour. A furgeon, who had been lent for from Nuneaton, had bled the pa- tient before my arrival. The curative in-, tendons appeared to be, to promote the abforption of the blood already extrava- fated, and at the fame time to prevent the wounded veffel from pouring out any more. With a view to anfwer thefe pur- pofes, the parts were fomented cold, with the extracft of lead diluted in vinegar; the leg was placed upon its exterior furface, in the relaxed polition j and Mr. Sharp’s fplints were employed to fecure the litua- tion of the extremities of the fractured bones. A folution of fal Glauberi in wa- ter was given, and repeated at proper in- tervals, to procure flools. # ■ • — On the enfuing day the tendon was much diminilhed, but the leg was co- ^ vered with vefications. Some of them contained lymph only, while others had a bloody fluid, which appeared tp have tran- fuded through the cutis: the hlifters v/ere all cut. The patient having fome degree of fever, was ordered to take a faline draught22^6 CASES AND REMARKS draught every four hours; and the ceratum faponaceum, fpread on linen, was applied to the whole furface of the leg. On the fifth day the limb was much reduced in its fize, but the ikin where the blifters had been afiumed a dark purple colour. At this time we entertained hopes that all danger from frefii haemorrhage was over; and therefore ventured to foment the limb with the common fomentation •warm to three quarts of which was added an ounce of crude fal armoniac, dif- folved in diililled vinegar. The ceratum faponaceum was re-applied after the fo- mentation, and the faline draughts were continued, to each of which was added a fcruple of the powder of bark. . On the feventh day appearances, in ge- neral, were favourable; and although the fkin of the fradured limb ftill had a fuA * In cxtrflvsffltlon of blood, sfccr the ule of cold sp* plications, and when the procefs of abforption hath ap- peared to have been fufpended, I have foraetimes ufeJ vvarpi ones with advantage. plClOUSIN SURGERY. 221 A picious afpedl, yet there was an equable warmth throughout the whole, and the tendon was greatly dimlnilhed. At a cer- tain hour every day a fever arofe, which we imputed to the abforption of extra- vafated blood. On the tenth day, whilft we were ufing the warm fomentation, there happened a condderable haemorrhage from the wound ; we therefore fubftituted cold for warm ap- plications i on the next day he bled again, but not in fo large a quantity. Thirty drops of elixir vitrioli were then added to each dofe of the cortex, and he took fre- quently a tea-cupfull of the tindura rofa- rum. On the twelfth day there was a large fanious difcharge from the wound, which continued the Ipace of a week. It decreafed afterward and the matter was prevented from lodging in the interftices of the mufcles, by the application of pro- per compreffes. The bark was continued until all appearance of danger was over: the patient gradually recovered a good ftate' of health, and the ufe of the fradured limb,222 CASES AND REMARKS I A COM'POUND FRACTURE of the F O R E - A R M, combined with a diflocation of the os humeri. Case HE fervant of — Wehh, Efq; of Jan.15,1779- A Dublin, galloping after his mailer’s carriage, was thrown from his horfe, upon the London road, two miles from this city, with fuch violence, that part of th® •bones of the fore-arm was forced through the fleeve of his coat and furtout. He was brought to this town, and put under the 'care of Mr. Harrold and myfelL The os humeri was diflocatedj and the head of the bone perceived to lie in the axilla. The fraaure of the radius and ul- na was attended with comminution, and there Were two wounds of the fkin, through one of which a'portion of the ex- tenfor carpi ulnaris mufcle was protruded, in a lacerated Rate. The inferior wound was fituated near the part where the fupe- rior edge of the pronator quadratus is in- ferted into the ulna. The1 in' S U R G E' R The diflbcaifloti was reduced by b'ettci- ing the fore-arm, and applying the-ex- tending force to the os humeri on/y. ‘' The arm, after being well fomented with the faturnine water of -Goulard cold, was wrapped up in cloths wetted with the fame, and particular direftions were'given to keep them in a moift date, by pouring fome of the lotion upon them frequently. Before the ufe of this, the patient’s arm was in great pain, and fwelling and inflam- mation were coming on; it was very pleaf- ing to fee the good effeds'of the cold af- tringent application. By means of this, and an opiate in the evening, the patient flept feveral hours in the night, and the next morning complained of very little pain. The fwelling was Inconfiderable, and Jan. i6<, the ikin of the arm very little difcoloured : an opening medicine was ordered in the morning, and an anodyne in the evening. The fame external application was con- tinued i and a pledget fpread with common digeftive ointment applied to the wounds. AlthoughCASES/a.nd remarks 224 Although the opiate was by tniftake omit- ted, the patient flept very well in the courfe .of this night, and on the fucceeding day ''he had neither pain, fever,* or indeed any .particular complaint. » • ' The lotion was applied conftantly the firft week, during which time all thofe fymptoms which are faid to attend com- pound fraftures were prevented, and the wound digefted well. On the eighth day, when all inflammatory danger was appre- hended to be over, the cerat. faponac. was applied to the arm, and the fituation of the fradured bones fecured by the foliated flannel bandage and fplints. At the expi- Vation of fourteen days both the wounds were healed 5 and at the end of a month the patient was thought fufficiently reco- vered to undertake a journey to Ireland. j.; ♦ ■ In this cafe, twelve quarts of the fatur- nine lotion were employed the firft week. AnIN SURGERY. 225 An ACCOUNT of a COMPOUND DISLOCATION of the ELBOW-' JOINT. tOSEPH TYSAL, playing at leap- Case '' frog, fell violently upon the palm ofSept.4,j773. the right-hand, by which accident the elbow-joint was diilocated. Examining . the fituation of the parts foon after the oc- currence, I perceived the olecranon diflo- catcd backward and upward, behind the os humeri. There was a tranfverfe w'ound, more than two inches in length, on the infide of the arm, through which the in- ternal condylet and part of the articulating furface of the os humeri, were protruded. The capfular ligament of the joint was la- ' cerated, which, togetjier with the tendon of the biceps mufcle, appeared externally through the lips of the wound. Having placed an afliftant, with his hands croffing upon the fuperior part of the arm, to preferve a proper refiflance, I ordered another to make a gradual exten- lion226 CASES AND REMARKS • fion at the inferior part of the fore-arm. - When I thought a fufficient force had been ufed in this diredlion, I fuddenly bent the fore-arm inward and toward the breaft, and the diflocated bones were immediately reduced. From the injury the parts had fuftain- ed i from the laceration of the capfular li- ' gament; from the protrufion of part of the articulating furface of the joint, and its expofure to the air: I apprehended that an anchylofis mull have been the moft favourable termination of the cafe. Upon the fupp'ofition, therefore, that this ' event would happen, and to present the patient’s arm being totally ufekfs to him in his employment as a weaver, after having drelTed the wound fupcrficially with dry lint and (licking-plaifler, 1 bent the fore- arm, and placed it in a pofition in which it defcribed a right angle with the os hu- meri. To guard againll an inflammation, and confequent fuppuration in the joint, the patient was bled, ordered opening me- dicines, and an opiate at bed-time; the A armA arm was covered with cloths foaked in a Ibliition of Crude fal armoniac in vinegar^ Cold. By thefe means he fuffered as little, and was equally exempt from pain, as if the Cafe had been a fimple diflocation. The external wound healed by (what furgeons call) the firft intention, and the expected anchylofis did not take place. Although there was, for fome time, a confiderable interruption to the perfecfl flexure of the joint, yet in the courfe of twelve months the boy could work at the loom, and the injured arm was nearly as ferviceable as the other. / I LATELY made an enquiry concerning this patient, and was informed that he re- covered the perfed: ufe of the diflocated arm, and was then ferving in the king’s army in North America.228 ' CASES AND REMARKS C A S E XLIV. May 4, 1778 A F R A C T U R E * of the L E G, in which the epiphyfis was feparated from the tibia. A Surgeon of the army, met with the above accident by a fall from his horfe, in the park contiguous to this town. Before I faw him the cafe was fuppofed' to have been a luxation, as there was a confiderable external projec- tion of the bones of the leg, juft beneath the knee joint, probably occafioned by his attempting to walk after he had received the injury. The parts were in great pain, and the irritation excited a confiderable de- cree of fever. l By a flight prefi'ure on the outfide of the leg, the fra^ured tibia was reduced; the parts were covered with the ceratum faponaceum, fuftained by a foliated flannel » Boerhaave has improperly arranged this cafe in t e Ss of luxations, Aphorifm CCCLX. iEgmeta as :11 defined a luxation : “ Elapfus articuli ex proprio cavo in alienu.m, a quo motos ajbicranus impeditur. b.VI. Cap.lll.p^g.ioi. ( '229 IN SURGERY. bandage, moderately tight; the leg was placed upon its outfide, and a little infledled only, that the ligament of the patella might not be too much upon the ftretch. A ftridl antiphlogiftic regimen was re- commended, and an opiate given in the evening. The pain of the knee was fo intenfe during the night, that the anodyne produced no effedt. In the morning of the 5th the fever increafed, and the leg, from the knee to the ancle, was ex- tremely tenfe, painful, and difcovered a great difpohtion to inflammation. The flcin was ftained with extravafated fluids, of various fhades, from a brown yellow, to a livid complexion. In this difagreeable fitualion of things, fourteen ounces of blood were taken from the arm, an ounce of Rochelle fait was given foon afterward, and, when it began to operate, a faline draught with nitre was repeated every three hours: thirty-five drops of laudanum were given at night. , The tight integuments then fufliciently fuflaining the fradlured bone, the flannel CL 3 appa-CASES AND REMARKS £39 apparatus was difufed. The parts were conilantly bathed the whole day, fome- tlmes with the vegeto-mineral water of Goulard, and fometimes with a difcutient and anodyne fomentation, compofed of a decodlion of poppy-heads, to which was added fome crude fal armoniac diffolved in vinegar. At night the ceratum fapona- ceum was again applied. June 6 and 7. The fymptoms were much in the fame ftate, with a little variation in the colour of the fldn, which was then become darker. The fame plan was purfued, his bowels were very well opened by the Rochelle fait, and the quantity of thebaic tindure in the niglu draught was increafed in pro- portion to the degree of pain. g The febrile fymptoms were almofl; gone, and the tenfion of the leg very much reduced. ,0, He continued to mend i but, notwith- ftanding.the opiate was not omitted in the evening, he had but little ref, on account ' ‘' . • ofIN SURGERY. 231 ■ , < of the collifion of the fradtured bone. There was a neceffity, therefore, of ap- plying fome apparatus that would fecure the (ituation of the tibia, and at the fame time prevent any motion in the knee-joint. Thefe purpofes were extremely well an- fwered by a particular kind of fplints, con- trived by Mr. William Sharp, for a fimilar cafe From this time there happened no par- ticular circumftance worth relating: the patient by degrees recovered the ufe of his leg; but there was, for fome time, a con- fiderable fliffnefs in the knee-joint. • See Plate If. Q_4 APPEN-tI 1 APPENDIX. Of the METHOD of CURING the BRONCHOCELE. \ \ TH E bronchgcele is a preternatural enlargement of the thyroid gland. It does not appear that the ancients had any precife ideas of the nature of this difeafe, and of courfe the methods they have propofed for its cure, niuft have been ec^ually yague and uncertain. \ Cf.lsus * confounds with the bron- chocele, that fpecies of encyfted tumour • “ At in cervice. Inter cutem & afperam arteriam, “ tumor increfcic GraecI vocant) quo, modo “ caro hebcs, modo humor aliquis, melli aquasve fimilis, includitur.” Celfus, de Medic. Lib. VII. Cap. 13. *p. 447. calledAPPENDIX. 234 called by furgeons meliceris, and recom- mends the application of a caudic for its cure; but adds, the method by excihon is more expeditious. Albucasis feemstohave embraced the fame error, but is more cautious of the knife, and relates a cafe, where an igno- rant operator, in attempting the excifion of a bronchocele, divided the large veffels of the neck, and killed the patient. Paul us ^Egineta defcribes two fpecies of bronchocele, one of which, he 'fays, is occafioned by fat, and the other, aneurifmatic: for the relief of the firfl kind he advifes the ufe of the knife. Wiseman and Freind -f have con- founded this difeafe with the fcrophula; the latter exprefly declaring, that when the difeafe occupied the thyroid gland, it is not properly a bronchocele, but a dru- ma lolli, Wifeman, on the other hand, * Paul. JEginet. de Afper® Arteriae Tuiaore, qui Bronchocele dicitur. f Hiftory of Phyfic. f deno-APPENDIX. 235 denominates a tumour bronchocele, which was evidently ftrumous, occupying part of the cheek, and extending round the root of the ear . i The moderns have not deicribed this difeafe with the precifion that might, in the prefent improved date of furgery, have been expedled. Heifler, and others who have copied from him, have fallen into the error of Wifeman and Freind, and have confounded the bronchocele with fcrophulous fwellings, fituated in the la- teral and anterior parts of the neck. There cannot, certainly, be a more dehrable thing in the purfuit of medical or chirurgical knowledge, than to afcertain with all poffible exadnefs the real nature of difeafes; to diftinguifh them from each other with certainty; and to reduce the method of treating them to as great a de- gree of fimplicity as may be. I can re- coiled but a few inftances in which the bronchocele was accompanied with other • Chirurg. Treatifes, fol. Edit, p. 279. ‘ fcrophulousAPPENDIX. / 236 fcrophulous appearances. It is true, the fcrophula has a great tendency to fix upon glands; but the thyroid gland differs in its ftrudture as much from thofe that are affedled by the fcrophula, as the liver does from the kidneys 5 and there is juft as much reafon to think a man mufl havothe jaundice, becaufe he has a nephritis, as tp fuppofe the bronchocele muft be ftrumous, becaufe its feat is in the thyroid gland, and becaufe glands are found to be difeafed in the fcrophula. The fcrophulous virus is generally dif- covered to have produced its effects in the road of abforption, and its feat, of confe- quence, is moftly in the lymphatic glands. The lymphatic fyftem, by the induftry of modern anatomifts, is now very well de- fined; by filling the tubes with quickfil- ver they are difcoverable to the eye, and the lymphatic glands have been clearly de- monftrated. The thyroid gland differs ef- fentially in its ftru<fture from tfie lympha- tics. The large proportion of artcreal blood whichappendix. 237 which this gland hath, renders it probable that it fecretes fome fluid, but its excretory duds (if there are any) have never yet been difcovered j and until the ufe of this part is better underftood, the caufe of the bronchocele may remain unknown. Various conjedlures, indeed, the ap- parent refult of whim and caprice, have been formed concerning the caufe of this difeafe. Thus the air and waters of a. country, the drinking of very cold water, or that in which fnow hath been dilTolved, ftraining, or lifting, great weights, have been, with great confidence, pronounced the caufe of the bronchocele. Lifting weights muft be the common lot of the inferior clafs of mankind in every country; and it is difficult to fay why the Laplan- der, who drinks nothing but fnow-water the greatefi; part of the year, (hould not be equally fubje(5l to the complaint as the inhabitants of the Alps and mountains of Tyrol, where the bronchocele is fo com- mon, that it is efteemed a perfonal advan- tage.238 APPENDIX. tage *. Science in this country being ilow diverted of theoretic chimeras, will not be fatisfied with fuch futile attempts to ex- plain the caufes of difeafes, but expedls them to be better fupported by truth and demonftration. Monsieur Girard, phyfician in or- dinary to the king of France, mentions ai fpecies of bronchocele, which murt have been very uncommon. It is, he fays, oc-^' cartoned by a portion of the internal mem- brane of the trachea being protruded be- twixt two of the cartilaginous rings of the windpipe, and forming a tumour in the • II y a des villages entiers oa perfonne n’en eft ex- ** ercpt. On a dit que c’etoit une queftton dans le paysy “ de favoir ft c’eft un defaut d’en avoir ou de n’en avoir “ point, & dans le Tirol en efFet, on pretend que cela' *» pafle pour ornement. Dans les lieux ou tout le monde “ en a, les hommes & les femmes difputent entr’ eux de “ beaute, fuivant la difpofition plus ou moins r^guliere “ & avantageufe du Goitre qu’ils portent. Les Tiro- “ liens traitent de Cols de Grue ceux de leurs voifins, de “ meme que les etrangers qui n’ont point de Goitre.' “ Un jingloisy voyagcant dans ces contrees attira tous les regards par fa figure ; mais on trouvoit qu’il lui man- quoit un grand agrement: le belle homfne, difoit on', ** jV/ cmoit un goltte'^ Girard, Traite des Loilpes, p. 409. anteriorAPPENDIX. anterior part of the neck, foft, not difco- loured, and without pain. There is no doubt but the inhabitants of mountainous countries are more fubje«ft to the bronchocele than others j but there are exceptions to this general obfervation. In fome parts of France the bronchocele (le goitre) is endemic, particularly in Dauphine and the Gevaudan. In the Ge- vaudan there are two little towns, at no great diftance from each other, one of them is called St. Chely, and the other Malzieu. Malzieu is fituated in a •valley', furrounded by high mountains, and in this town moft of the people have fwelled necks j whereas at St. Chely, which Hands in a high fituation, the goitre is unknown The bronchocele is to be met with at Paris and its environs, and there (as I be- lieve at all other places) women are more fubjea to it than men and Monfieur Gi- rard having obferved in France, as well • Girard, du goitre, asappendix. 240 as fome other countries, that the greater number of women who have the bron- chocele are marriedy is induced to think the caufe may be explained from circum- fiances which take place in parturition. Admitting this to be a fadt, he has ex- plained it in a very ingenious manner But the women of St. Chely muft be fup- pofed to have the fame difficulties in bring- ing forth their children as at Paris, and other places, and yet the bronchocele is '* “ C’eft toujours apres une grande infpiratlon qu6 les femmes en couche font les plus grands efforts. Les “ poumons, remplis d’air, fouffrent une grande compref- “ fion, ainfi que le diaphragme. Les mufcles du larynx ** fe contradtent pour empecher la fortie de I’air, dont la prdfence eft de la plus grande efficacite', pour que les • mufcles du bas-ventre exercent une puiffance propor- “ tionnee a la refiftance qu’ils ont a vaincre ; & il eft « vraifemblable que leur adlibn I’emporte de beau'eoup fur celle de la matrice pour I’expulfjon de I’enfant. C’eft done avec raifon que les femmes, dans cet etat, « retiennent le plus qu’elles peuvent leurs cris, pour fa- vorifer cette aaion. 11 fen refulte, d’un autre cote, “ que Pair, chaffe avec violence, mais arrete avec la “ memp force par le retreclffement de la glotte & du gofier, gonfie & diftend d’une part la trachee-artere, L merae que les bronches, & de I’autre intercepte la .. circulation du fang dans les parties voifinesv^ le peut memc fairc extravafer dans Ic tiffu cellalaire.” unknowiiAPPENDIX. 241: unknown there j and indeed the fa6l, as far as I know, is, there are as many un- married women who have this difeafc, as of thofe who have experienced the pains of labour. The bronchocele is common in many parts of England, particularly in Derby- shire; hence it is fometimes called the Derby neck. It is alfo very prevalent in fome diftrids of Germany, the moun- tainous parts of Swifferland, at Turin, and the country adjacent the Po and the Doria. I HAVE before obferved, that the an- cients had no certain ideas of the nature of Ihe bronchocele, and therefore could not be luppofed to recommend any method of curing it, which would bear the examina- tion ot rational enquiry. Celfus having confounded the bronchocele with a com- mon encyfted tumour, and advifed the ufe of the knife for its cure, appears to have, led others into the fame miftake. * R TheAPPENDIX. 2'42 The extirpation of the bronchocele by the knife, hath been attempted by Aqua- pendente, and recommended by Dionis. And we read in Palfin that a young la- dy of diftin<fUon having had a broncho- cele extirpated, died under the operation. Mr. Gooch tells us, “ that he was “ once prevailed upon to be prefent at the “ extirpation of a bronchocele. The Sur- geon was an intrepid operator, but be- “ fore he had half finhhed the bufinefs, “ there was fuch an efFulion of blood, as obliged him to defift, and turn his “ whole attention to reflraining the has- ** morrhage j or, in the opinion of all pre- fent, the patient would have funk and ** died under his hands. She died in lefs ** than a week, and I was informed that the blood was never totally flopped. “ In another Cafe, where the operation «* was performed againft my opinion, by « one of the moft dextrous operators in « London, a fatal haemorrhage was very near taking place. 1 he young lady s * Palfin Anatom. Tom. II. p. + Gooch’s Med. & Chirurg. Obf. p. »36* ‘ “ Iite /APPENDIX. ** life was preferved, only by having a fuc- ** ceflion of perfons to keep a conftant ** prelTure upon the bleeding veffels day ** and night for near a weeki with their fingers upon proper comprelTes, after “ the operator had been repeatedly difap- “ pointed in the ufe of the needle and ** ligature.” Whei!i we refle(ft upon the fituation of the thyroid ^ gland, and confider its nu- fnerous arteriesjj vtrhich increafe in diame- ter in proportion to the enlargement of the part, we (hall not be furprifed at the diffi- culties, that miift attend its extirpation in a dtfeafed flatej and the danger there ever muft be, of incurring a fatal haemorrhage. • Les parties que cette humear affefte, font entre- “ lacees d’une quantit6 immenfe de vailTeaux fanguins. “ L’ouvertare, principalement de I’artere laryngee fupe- ** rieare, premiere branche de la carotide externe (artere “ fort grolfe, a proportion du petit volume de la glande “ thyro'ide, a la quelle die va fe rendre,) jetteroit dans “ un peril Eminent de more, vuqu’il eft ici tres—difficile “ de Her les vai/feaux, ou de faire de fortes compreffions “ pour appuyer I’adion de ragaric’ou d’un cauftique.’* Girard da Goitre, p. 433. A a Some244 appendix. Some obfervations have beerv commufil- cated to the Royal Academy of Surgery at Paris, of the radical cure of the broncho- cele having been obtained, by making an incifion on each fide the tumour, and then, by the introdudlion of a feton, to promote an internal fuppuration. In particular cafes, where an external opening hath been made, Monf. Louis, a Surgeon of the firft eminence at Paris, affirms, that, if there is no reafon (on account of a fcirrhous hardnefs) to fuppofe the tumour will de- generate into a cancer, he attacks the com- plaint with the cauflic flone; and when the efchar feparates, by reiterated applica- tions of the cauftic, he puffies on into the centre of the gland. This' procefs not only, Le fays, occafions a deftrudion of the fubftance of the part, but, that after- wards, proper external refolvent applica- tions may be appfied with advantage, which before the opening of th'e tumour, may have been ufed without the lead; bene- fit. Monf. Louis farther^oblerves, that in fome of thefe cafes, wanders may be done with butter of antimony, ufed with dif- cretion.APPENDIX. 245 cretion. From the fjtuation and flrudure of the thyroid gland, there can be little reafon to imagine, that any topical appli- cation can be of ufe in the bronchocele. , Whatever is thus applied, is abforbed by • ' the bibulous orifices of the lymphatic?, which open upon the furface of the fkin, and is either carried on with the lymph ipto the common courfp of circulation, or arrefled by the next lymphatic gland. Monf. Girard * acquaints us, that he has fopietjmes feen an incipient bronchocele difperfed by gentle and long continued fridfion upon the partj and advifes its ufe, whenever an internal procefs is entered upon for a cpre,, which he tjiinks muff be taken from the clafs of medicines that operate upon the urinary pafTages. He defends this opinion by analogical reafon- ing, and partly by two or three uncommon cafes that he has met with. One of thefe is the cafe of a poor woman, who had a bronchocele for fbme titne, of which fhe was cured by a diabetes: • Girard des Loupes, p. H 3 ' Fromappendix. From the whole, we may be allowed to deduce the following corollaries. ift. That an attempt to extirpate the bronchocele with the knife, can never be made without hazarding the pati- ent’s life: 2dly, That there can be but fmall hopes of a cure from topical application : and, 3dly, That the refolution of the tumour can only be expeded by internal me- dicines. Mons. DaPeyron, a phyfician m Au- vergne,' has had great fuccefs in the treat- ment of the bronchocele, from the diffol- vent and diuretic effeas of the powder ot calcined egg-ftelU. Three cafes upon tins fubiea, were read with applaufe in t e Royal Academy of Sciences at Montpelier, the lathof January 17691 and been fince inferted in the Journal de Me- decine ^ of the month of March 1770. yid. journal de Mededne du niois dc Mai •S 1770.APPENDIX. 247 He prepares his patients for fome days< with mutton broth, in which the roots of madder have been boiled; then he gives a purge, after which he begins with the al- caline powder. Two fcruples or a drachm* of if, is mixed with three large fpoonfuls of old red Port wine, and given every night and morning. By thefe means, the tumours difappeared in lefs than forty days. Upon another occafion, Monf. Dapey- ron has aflerted, that fifteen or twenty dofes of a drachm each, of the powder of calcined egg-fiiells, are fufficient for the radical cure of the bronchocele. ' How far this method will fucceed in fimilar cafes, muft be left to future experience to de- termine. A Surgeon of reputation, w’ho ferved in the army of the Eledor of Bavaria in the war before the laft, had a remedy, by which he is faid to have cured the bron- chocele in the fpace of 'twelve days. The recipe is as follows: R 4 Take248 . APPENDIX. Take—Sulphur one ounce. Spunge, one dcachm and a half. Bits of new cloth of different colours, two handfuls. The whole is to be put into a new and varnilhed earthen pot, and after being co- vered and luted, it is to be placed in an oven. ’ . When the contents are calcined, they are to be powdered, and paffed through a fieve. • The powder is to be divided into twelve parts 5 fix of thefe are to be re- ferved for internal ufe, and the other parts are to be mixed with a poultice of bread and milk, and applied to the tumour. Mr. Proffer * alfo relates, that the bron- chocele may be cgred by the exhibition of a medicine twice a day, compofed of mille- pedes, burnt fpunge, and cinnabar of an- timony. The patient is to be purged at intervals, with mercurial cathartic pills. I MIGHT enumerate fome other me- thods, that have, at various times, been * Treatife on Bronchocele.APPENDIX. 249 put in practice for the cure of this trduble- Ibme difeafe; but as none of them have, preferved any degree of reputation, their > infertion would take up the Reader's time to no purpofe. Indeed, it muft be af- cribed to the total inefficacy of moft of the remedies recommended for the cure of the thick neck, that many eminent Surgeons, with Mr. Gooch, have confeffed, in their attempts to refolve thefe fwellings, they have generally been defeated The moft celebrated remedy for the ' cure of the bronchocele, is that which for many years hath been fold at Co- ventry, and hitherto confined to the know- • ledge of a few perfons. The hiftory of it is as follows. It is now a confiderable time fince Dr. Bate lived at Coventry, and pra<ftifed as a phyfician. He had a daughter, who mar- ried a Mr. Keeling, an apothecary of the ' town : after Mifs Bate was married to Mr. Keeling, ffie was afflidted with a • Cooch’s Med. & Chinirg. Obf. p. 138, bron- Iappendix. bronchocele, and applied to her father for . his advice in the cafe, who gave her a pre- fcription which perfected her cure. After this event, Mr. Keeling adminiftered the fame medicines to other patients with fuch fuccefs, as foon procured him no fmall de*» gree of reputation. After his deatn, Mrs. Keeling kept the medicine a fecret, but prepared and fold it with fo much advan- tage, that (he is faid to have gained more than three thoufand pounds by it. Mrs. Keeling has now been dead between twen- ty and thirty years. Mr. Lucas, who ferved his apprenticefhip with Mr. Keel- ing, and prepared the medicine for him, communicated the fecret to Mr. Brock- hurft, who was likewife an apothecary at Coventry, and from him the difcovery was made to Dr. Jones, a phyfician at this place, who has been dead about i6 years. After the deceafe of Dr. Jones, the lecret was divulged to two or three perfons I cannot abfolutely determine, which of the two following receipts Dr. Bate gave his daughter j nor does it appear of gteat confequence, becaufe, upon trial, theyAPPENDIX. up have both been found to fucceed equally well, in the cure of the bronchocele. Numb. I. I The day after the moon hath been in the full, the patient is to take a vomit. On the fucceeding day a purge is to be ad- miniftered. On the third night, going-to bed, one of the following bolufes is to be placed in the mouth under the tongue, and being fuffered to diflblve gradually, is to be fwallowed. This bole is to be re- peated the fix fucceeding nights. R Calcined fpunge Cork calcined. Pumice-ftone burnt, of each i o grains, to be feparately powdered, and made into a bole with fyjrup, honey, or mucilage. On each of the feven days the patient takes the preceding bole, the following powder is to be admlniftered in the fore- poon, in any proper vehicle. ’ Thi? was taken probably from Mulltanus. R Flor.appendix. R Flor. cham. pulv. Rad. gentian, pulv. Sum. centaur, min. pulv. aa. gr. v. M. On the eighth day the purge is to be re- peated. * In the wane of the fucceeding moon the fame procefs is to be entered into, and repeated a third time, unlefs the dif- eafe is cured before. The vomit is only to be taken before the firft courfe of me- dicines. % ' Numb. II. R Spongias calcinat. ^fs- Mellis q. f. pro bolo. The Preparation. Tie the heft fpunge up hard with wet packthread, and calcine it in a crucible. Thefe boles are to be ufed as thofe of the former receipt; the bitter powders are to be taken, and the fame directions with re- gard to evacuations, obferved in every re- .fpeCt as in Numb. I. A VERY eminent Surgeon, who hath had many opportunities of feeing the good effectsAPPENDIX* ^ 253 eftedls of both thefe preparations, aflures me, that either of them will fucceed with more certainty, if the patient takes a vo- mit and purge during the increafe of the moon. / Some parts of thefe direflions feem to bear the charadter of empiricifm; but where no harm can poffibly arile from,. nor any inconvenience follow their ufe, it is to be wifhed, that thofe who think proper to give either of the preceding me-- thods a trial, will do it in the manner re-' commended. It feems highly probable, that the chief virtue of the bole confifls in the. calcined fpunge. ’ It is at prefent a dif- pute amongft naturalifts, whether fpungei is a vegetable ^ or whether, like the cor-i ralines, it is of animal origin. It yields upon * a chymical analyfis a larger quantity of vola- tile alcaline fait, than can be obtained from > ' any animal fubftance, except the bags of the filk-worm ; the caput mortuum icinerated, yields alfo a large proportion of fixed fait, not454 appendi5^- > not an alcaline one, like that ot yegeta. bles, but chiefly of the marine kind . Sponge is found in the Tea adhering to rocks! particularly in the Mediterranean, and about the iflands of the Archipelago. . The calcined fpunge for either of our preparations, is carefully. » glafs or marble mortar : if a brafs one is ufed, the falls of fpunge attraft fo much of the metal, as to acquire an emetic iroperty. ’ If the bronchocele is not very large, lard, or of long date; if emale, young, or not paft thir y, ieve it will frequently give way to the treat ,ent juft defcribed : but. if the turnou bath been of long continuance ; if the pa TZ is u man, or of either fex paft the meridian of life ; I fesr, of the opprobria medicorum. • Lewis’s Mater. Medic, p. 5S°‘APPENDIX. An ACCOUNT of a WOMAN, accidentally burnt to death at Coventry. In a Letter to Mr. William Sharp- From the Philofophical Tranfadtions. Sir, following cafe, which has lately engaged the attention of every one in this part of the world, appears fo very extraordinary, that I was determined to give you a minute account of its circum- fiances; which will be the more agree- able to you, as you may depend upon the truth of every thing I /hall relate to you concerning it. ^ Mary Clues, of Gosford-ftreet iii Uff fifty-two years, had an in- diflerent charafter, and was much addifled to drinking. Since tlie death of her huf- and, which happened about a year and a half fmce, her propenfity to this vice in- creafed to fuch a degree, that, I have been mformed by fevera! of her neighbours, Ac has drank the quantity of four half pints 2SSappendix. pints of rum, undiluted with any other liquor, in a day. This praftice was fo fa- miliar to her, that fcarce a day has paffed thefe laft twelve months, but (he has fwal- lowed from half a pint to a quart of rum or anifeed-water. Her health gradual^ declined, and, from being a jolly we - looking woman, (he grew thinner, her complexion altered, and her dun became dry. About the beginning of February laft (he was attacked with the jaundice, and kept her bed. Although (he was now fo helplefs, as hardly to be able to do any thing for herfelf, (he continued her old cuf- tom^of dram-drinking, and generally fmoaked a pipe every night. No one lived with her in the houfe. Her neighbours ufedintheday, frequently to come in, to fee after her j and in the night commonly, tho’ not always, a perfon fat up to whom (lie hath often cried out. that (he fawthe devil in fome part of the ro^, who was come'to take her away. Her bed-room was next the ftreet on the lund-floor, the walls of -which were Jlaiftered, and the floor made of bricks.I APPENDIX. 25^ The chimney was fmall, and there was a grate in it, which, from its fize, could contain but a very fmall quantity of fire. Her bedflead flood parallel to, and at the diflance of about three feet from the chimney. The bed’s head was clofe to> the wall. On the other fide the bed, op- pofite the chimney, was a window open- ing to the flreet. One curtain only be- longed to the bed, which was hung oni the fide ne.xt the window, to prevent the light being troublelome. She was ac- cuflomed to lie upon her fide, clofe to the edge of the bedfleadj next the fire ; and on Sunday morning, March the ifl, tum- bled upon the fioor; where her helplefs flate obliged her to lie fome time, until X Mary Hollyer, her next neighbour, came accidentally to fee her. With fome diffi- culty ffie got her into bed. The farre ni^ht, although ffie was advifed to it, ffie refufed to have any one to fit up with her j and, at half pafl eleven,^ one Brooks, who ' was an occafional attendant, left her ag well as ufual, locked up her door, and went home. He had placed two bits of S coalappendix. coal quite backward upon the fire in the grate ; and put a fmall rufh-light in a can- dleftick, which was fet in a chair near the head of the bed, but not on the fide where the curtain was. At half after five the next morning, a fmoak w^s obferved to come out of the window in the fireet; and, upon breaking open the door, fome flames were perceived in the room, which, with five or fix buckets of w'ater, were eafily extinguifhed. Betwixt the bed and fire-place, lay the remains of Mrs. Clues. The legs and one thigh were untouched. Except thefe parts, there were not the leaf! remains of any fkin, mufcles, or vif- cera. The bones of the fkull, thorax, fpine, and the upper extremities, were completely calcined, and covered with a whitifh efflorefcence. The fkull lay near the head of the bed, the legs near th* bottom, and the fpine in a curved direc- tion ; fo that fhe appeared to have been burnt on her right fide, with her back next the grate. The right Jmur was fe- parated from the acetabulum of the if- chium j the left was alfo feparated, and brokenAPPENDIX. broken off about three inches below the great trochanter. The conned:ion of the facrum with the ojfa innominata, rand the inferior vertebrce of the loins was deftroy- ed. The intervening ligaments kept the ‘uertebra of the loins, back, and neck to- gether, and the ikull was ftill refling up- on the atlas. When the flames were ex- tinguifhed, it appeared that very little da- mage had been done to the furniture of the room, and that the fide of the bed next the fire had fuffered moft. The bed- flead was fuperficially burnt, but the fea- ther-bed, fheets, blankets, &c. were not deftroyed. The curtain on the other fide the bed was untouched, and a deal door near the bed not in the lead; injured, I was in the room about two hours after the mifchief was difcovered, and obferved the walls and every thing in the room were coloured black : there was a difagreeable vapour, but nothing was much burnt, except Mrs. Clues, whofe remains I faw in the ftate juft defcribed. I took away one of the bones (the remains of the fa- crum) which you have inclofed with this ^ 2 Letter. /V ^6o APPENDI5C. Letter. The only way that I can account for this phenomenon is, by fuppofing that (lie again fell out of bed on Monday morning; that her linen was fet on fire, either by the candle from the chair, or a coal falling from the grate ; that her folids and ‘ fluids had been rendered inflammable, by the im- menfe quantity of fpirituous liquors fhe had drank; and that fhe was probably foon reduced to afhes, as the room fuffered very' Uttle. \ the end.Praftical Obfervations UPON' AMPUTATION, ^ ^ ' AND THE after-treatment. By EDWARD ALANSON, Surgeon to the Liverpool Infirmary. LONDON, Printed for J. F. and C. Rivington, No. 62, St. Paul’s Church Yard. MDCCLXXIX.To the Prefident^ Treafurer^ and Trnjiees of the Liver- .Gentlemen, I Eagerly embrace the Opportunity which the prefent Publication affords, to acknowledge the Honor you conferred upon me, by electing me to the Office with which I have, by your Partiality, been feveral Years intrufted ; and to inform you, that this my Station has enabled me to make fome Surgical Obfervations, which I have Reafon to believe will prove (particularly at this jundlure) very beneficial to Mankind. I beg Leave to prefent to you a Remark, which muft give you Plea- fure. It in your public Infirmary the Objects are not only treated with great Humanity and Succefs, but the Art of Surgery likewife improved, it plainly appears, that the Utility of A 2 thefeDEDICATION. thefe Houfes is by no Means confin- ed to the Obje6ls they contain, but is extended to all Ranks, Nations and Ages. You muft have obferved with Plea- fure, that necefiary Unanimity which prevails amongfl: the medical People within your Walls. To you. Gentlemen, who have the Welfare of this Infirmary fo conftantly in View, thefe Sheets are addreffed ; with the fullefl: Afiurances on my Part, that while 1 have Health, you may always command my ut- moft Attention, and in Teftimony of that Refpect, I remain, Y^our mofl: obedient, Bajnett Street, humble Servant, 1779. EDWARD ALANSON.PREFACE. WHEN we attempt to introduce any new and importantDeviati- ons, from the ufual Mode of Pradlice, into general Ufe, and particularly in a Point of fuch Confequence, as the directing almofl; a total Change in the Mode of performing and after- treating one of the principal Surgical Operations, the Public have a Right to be fully acquainted with the Au- thor’s Rea-fons and Motives for fuch Attempt; and fuch Trials fhould like- - wife previouily have been made, as are fufficient to convince, that what we recommend, will bear the TeR of general Experience. I have taken fome Pains to inform, myfelf what other Practitioners are doing in other Hofjutals, and from fuch unprejudiced Authority, as I can fully rely upon; I am convinced, that toovi PREFACE. too little Skin is faved, the Mufcles are generally divided by a perpendi- cular circular Incifion, no Union is attempted by the firft Intention, the Parts are drefled with dry Lint, and by many the Arteries, tied with the Needle, including Nerves, Veins, and the adjacent Parts. Hence will more frequently arife Spafms, brilk Symptomatic Fever, Haemorrhage, large Difcharge of Mat-* ter, Retradtion of the Mufcles, and Exfoliation: theTreatment which it is the Intention of this little Eflay to recommend, may be conlidered as a powerful Preventative of thefe dif-^ agreeable Symptoms ; and I am af- fured, our Cures are compleated in half the Time requifite, under the common Treatment: Thefe are my Reafons for addreffing the Public upon this Subjedt. I mofl earneflly recommend the* Treatment here defcribed, to the Con-PREFACE. Vll ConEderation of the Army and Navy Surcreons; no doubt there are Men of Experience and Judgment in thefe Stations; but I am forry to obferve, that I have feen fome late Inftances of their Treatment, and heard of others, where fo little Attention has been directed to fave a Sufficient Quantity of Skin, that the Bones have projefted, and the Cures proved uncommonly tedious. The Facts here defcribed may be relied upon, the Practice recommend- ed is the refult of a confiderable Ex- perience, for nine Years, in a public Hofpital, where the Treatment is in- fpeded by, and fully known to others. If I have expreffed myfelf in fuch a Manner, as to enable the Reader to put in Pradtice the Means recom- mended, I have fully attained what I aimed at; if I have made a Step to- wards the In'iprovement of Surgery, I ffiall be much pleafed ; an Art, that, when, iVlll preface. when pradifed wkh Humanity, Ho- nor and Judgment, is an Ornament to human Nature, and for its Certainty in relieving many of the moft diftrefs- ful Accidents, to which all are liable, niuft ever be confidered as of the ut- mofl: Importance to,the Happinefs of Mankind.I [ ' ] O N AMPUTATION, AND THE AFTER-TREATMENT. PART I. On the Mode of performhig the Operation* My Deviations from the ufual Prac- tice, confift; Firft, in the Mode of operating; and Secondly, in the After-treatment: I fliall proceed to give as concife and clear an Account of both, as is in my Power. Firft, as to the Operation, we differ re- lative to the Application of the Tape, the • Quantity of Skin faved, and the Manner .of executing the Double Incifion. B The I[' 2 ] The Ufe of a Tape or circular Band con- fidered. After firft viewing the Sentiments of the beft modern Surgical Writers, and confi- dering what I have to offer, I will leave the Reader to draw his own Conclufions. While one of the Affiftants holds the Teg, you muft roll a Slip of fine Rag Half an Inch broad. Three or Four Times round it, about Four or Five Inches below the in- ferior Extremity of the Patella : this being pinned on, is to ferve as a Guide for the Knife, which without it, peihaps, would not be directed fo dextroully. Sharpe $ .Operations, p. 226. ‘‘ The Part is then fixed upon for making the Fiifl Incifion through the Integuments, Flalf an Inch below which the Tape is to be paffed round the Limb, (making feveral Turns as tight as pofiible,) and to be pinned. It feems to me to be the Intention of many Operators, to apply this Tape only as a Guide/ [ 3 ] for the Knife, as dlreaed by Mr. an to cut either above or below it, as it may happen: with this Intention they roll round the Limb loofely. ' his Book of Surgery, recommends the p to be applied tight round the Limb in orde to keep the flefliy Parts clofe to the Bone, his Intention being to amputate, by carrying his Incifion through the Integuments an Mufcles down to the Bone at once. e i e wife fays that the Amputation is to be made below the Tape, as does Monro in the Me t- cal Mays. The French Surgeons, in their Metmirs, are llkewife of the fame Way of thinking. Le Dran does not apply the Tape for the Dlrealon of the Knife, but to keep the Mufcles compaa and clofe to the Bone. I mull here remark, that cutting above the Tape will prevent the Operator from being embarrafled when he is to make his Second Incifion, which is to go through the Mufcles to the Bone, as the Tape generally flips olF, and is in the Way of the Knife, if the Firft Incifion is made below it. Another Advan- tage, which arifes from pulling the Tape as B 2 tight[ 4 ] tight as pollible in paffing it round the Limb before it is pinned, is, that the Skin will be raifed from the fubjacent Mufcles, when the Affiftant draws it up, which cannot be the Cafe, if the Incifion is made below the Tape ; but, by carrying the Knife a little above it, the Integuments will be divided without cutting into the Mufcles, the Pati- ents faved from fome Pain, and a Neatnefs given to the Operation.” Bromjield's Ch'irurg* Ohjerv, \ The'laft-named Author, having taken a very full View of the Subjedt, I have tranfcribed the whole Paffage; and have been the more particular in this Refpedt, as it likev/ife con- tains the Sentiments of others. To make fhort of the Matter, I dare venture to alTert, that whether you cut above or below the Tape j whether you conlider it as a Diredlor to the Knife, or as giving Steadinefs to the Parts; or with whatever apparent View you apply it, that it may be advantageoully laid aiide ; as the following Method appears upoil Trial, in every Refpedt fuperior. The[ 5 ]■ The mental Sufferings of the Difeafed will ever be confidered, by the humane Pradtiti-^ oner, as highly intitled to his Attention j and we cannot avoid obferving, that after the Tourniquet is applied, every Moment s Delay detains the Patient in a moffc painful State of Mind, which the Application of the Tape greatly prolongs; therefore, if not attended with adequate fuperior Advantages, here is fufficient Reafon for exploding its Ufe. There- fore, as foon as the Tourniquet is applied, let an Affiflant grafp the Limb circularly with both Hands, and firmly draw the Skin and Mufcles upwards ^ the Operator now fixing his Eye upon the proper Part, will make ther circular Incifion through the Skin and adipofe Membrane, with conliderable Facility and Difpatch, and the Knife will pafs much quicker, in confeqlience of the tenfc State in wdiich the Parts are fupported; and the Ope- rator’s Attention not being confined to cut in the exa£l: Direction of the Tape, will enable him to execute'in Half the Time. Hence it appears, that the Application of the Tape occafions a confiderable and anxious State! 6 ] State of Delay, previous to the circular lu- cifioii, and llkewife is a great Obftacle to the fpeedy Execution of it. Now, as it is uni- verfally allowed, that the Divifion of the Skin is the moll painful Part of Incifions in general, we are always direfted to execute this Part of an Operation with Difpatch. I may likewife obferve, that the leading Ob- jeas are more fully kept in View, viz. the faving as much Skin and mufcular Subftance, as will afterwards form a good Culhion upon the Extremity of the Bones ; and this is pro- moted by the Method here recommended : Therefore, I think the Ufe of the Tape is exploded upon rational Grounds. On the Double Incision. TH E Double Incifion, as ufually ad- vifed and praaifed by all the bell mo- dern Surgical Writers, is, I believe, capable of confiderable Improvement; as wdl evi- dently appear to every unprejudiced Perfon[ 7 ] that will take a candid View of the Subjedl . And this will be the moft effeaually accom- plilhed, by confidering the Precepts of the beft Writers, and comparing them with the Reafon, and Experience, I have to offer. “ The Ligature being made according to Cuftom, with Mr. Petit's Tourniquet to flop the Blood, and the Limb being fupported by- two Affiftants, I made a circular Incifion through the Skin and Mufcles, with the crooked Knife: Then ordering them to be drawn upwards, by the Affiflant who em- braced the fuperior Part of the Arm, I be- gan the circular Turn again with the Knife, even with the Wound, cutting a fecond Time to the Bone, which I fawed off even with the Flefh.” Le T>raris Surgery. “ The Courfe of the Blood being flopped, you mufl begin your Incifion jufl below the Linen Roller, on the under Part of the Limb, bringing your Knife towards you, which at one Sweep may cut more than the Semicircle ; then beginning your fecond Wound[ 8 ] Wound on the upper Part, it mnfl: be con- tinued from the one Extremity to the other .of the firft Wound, making them but one Line. Thefe Incifions muft be made quite through the Membrana Adipofa, as far as the Mufcles, then taking off the Linen iRoller, and an Affiftant drawing back the Skin, as far as it will go, you make your Wound from the Edges of it when drawn hack, through the Flelh to the Bone, ia the fame Manner as you did through the Skin.” Sharpes Operations, p. 227. ‘‘ As’foon as the Tape ishhus applied, the Tourniquet is to be fcrewed tight: The cir- cular Incifion through the Integuments be- ing.made by the difmembering Knife, if any little Parts of the Integuments ftill adhere to the Mufcles, they fhould be fet at Liberty with the Point of it, fo as that the Skin may flip eafily over the Mufcles. The Af- fiftant muft then draw up the Skin as high as poffible, which the Operator may affift -with his Fingers. The Knife is then applied clofe to the Edge of the Integuments thus drawn[ 9 ] drawn up, and carried quite through the Muicles down to the Bone, in a circu ar Manner as before ” Bromjield’s Chirurg. Obf. Vol. I. p. 15^* LeDran, after the circular Incifion, di- reas the Skin and Mufcles to be drawn up- wards; he then cuts through theMufcles down to the Bone. Sbarpe, after the circular In- cifion, direas an Affiftant to draw back the Skin as far as it will go, and to make your Wound from the Edges of it, when drawn back, through the Mufcles down to the Bone. Bromfald's, Advice is more judicious, ^ and agreeable to the Praaice of the moft eminent Operators of the prefent Day: His Words are, “ After the circular Incifion, if any little Parts of the Integuments ftill adhere to the Mufcles, they fliould be fet at Liberty,” Now if we ad agreeable to the Advice of the laft named Author, it is extremely un- certain what Quantity of Skin we fhall fave; in fome Subjeas more, in others lefs; be- caufe in fome the cellular and ligamentous Attachments will yield more readily than in C others.[ 10 ] others. However, it is certain not any of them fave a fufficient Quantity j that is, as much as will, after the Operation is finilhed, fully cover the whole Surface of the Wound with the moft perfeftEafe; and upon this Circumftance a fpeedy Cure principally de- : . ^ " f pends. BromfieU'% Advice is, f‘ to draw up the Skin as high as poffible,” but gives us no exaa: Diredion as to the Quantity of Skin we ought to preferve. Diredions “ to draw the Skin upwards,” “ as far as it will go,” as high' as poffible,” do not affign the Quantity proper to be faved i therefore, it remains for future Experience to decide, what Quantity ffiould be faved to produce the mod fpeedy Cure. After you have made your Incifion thro the Skin and adipofe Membrane, agreeable to the foregoing Diredioiis, the Affidant dill con- tinuing a deady fupport of the Parts, feparate the cellular and ligamentous Attachments with the Point of your Knife, till as much Skin is ' - . ' drawndrawn up, as wiU afterwards whole Surface of the Wound, wi* the tnoi perfea Eafe. And that this may alway be Lecuted, I have fully experienced m a Van. y of different Subjefts. Our next Deviation from tl^ ^od* of opera,tng, is in a ^ _ Mufcles, in making the lecoi “ The Knife is then applied dofe to the E g of the Integuments thus drawn up. and car- ried quite through the Mufc es own to the Bone in a circular Mariner as before. . SharpCi It would be ufelefs to produce any other .Quotation upon this Point, as theDireaion is fimilar to that of all the beft Writers, and ex- aaiy what is praaifed by moft Operators of the prefent Time. Altho’ the Produaion of a fpeedy Cure does not depend fo fully upon this Part of the Operation, as the foregoing, the following Deviation is of confiderable Importance; as will enable you to faw olF the Bone, much higher than is ufually prac- • C 2[ 1 tlfed ; and the Parts fo divided, are much bet- ter adapted to cover the Bone, approximate,' and unite. Inftead of applying the Knife clofe to the Edge of the Integuments, and dividing the Mufcles in a circular Manner down to the Bone, let it be done as follows: We will fuppofe you are operating upon the Thigh; •apply the Edge of your Knife, under the Edge of the fupported Integuments, and cut ob- liquely thro’ the Mufcles; upwards as to the Limb, and down to the Bone ; fo as to lay it bare, about three or four Fingers Breadth higher than you would by the ufual perpen- dicular circular Inciiion, and continue to di- vide the Parts all round the Limb, guiding the Knife in the fame Direction : the fpeedy Execution of this Incifion will be much expe- dited, by the Affiftant continuing a firm and fieady Elevation of the Parts, as the Knife adts. With the Afiiitance of the Leather Retfadlor, as advifed by Goochy and BromfiehU you will now faw off the Bone highei than is ufually pradifed, which is a confiderable' Ad- vantage,[ 13 ] vantage, and coincides with the original in-, tentlon of the double Inclfion ; viz. to prevent a Projeaion of the Bone, and form a fmall. Cicatrix. A Stump thus formed in the Thigh, if you fupport the Parts gently forwards, after the Operation; viewing the whole Surface of the Wound, may be faid in fome Degree to refemble a Cone, the Apex of which is the Extremity of the Bone: the Parts thus divi- ded, are obvioufly the beft calculated to pre- vent a Sugar-loaf Stump. 1 Having given a full Defcrlption of the Deviations in the Mode of performing the Operation, I Ihould, inProfecution of thepro- pofed Plan, immediately proceed to the Dref- fings ; but will firft beg Leave to make a few Remarks, which, altho’ not new, yet are of the utmoft Importance, and if not obferved, may in fome Degree fruftrate our Plan of Ope- rating and DrefTing,' by preventing what we have inView thro’ the Whole, viz. a Union of the Parts by the firft Intention. Now[ M- ] ■ !Now altho’ this cannot be eftedled in a to- ttil Degree, yet it will take Plac(p confiderably ; and more fo, than thofe who have not prac- tiled the Method, will perhaps at the iirft View conceive. It is of the utmoft Confequence, that the Veffels fliould not be taken up with the Needle and Ligature, in the old Method, where the Artery, Veins, Nerves, and fome of the adjacent Parts, are all included: this muft everbeprodiidiive of larger Inflammation, Tenfion, and confequent Suppuration, befides the violent Spafms, which are the more im- mediate Confequence: to which maybe added, the firm Hold given to the Ligatures, which frequently renders their Separation very tedi- ous : all thefe are obvious Obflrudions to the defired Union. When the Arteries are drawn out with the Tenaculum, and tied as naked as poffible, it will be attended with very lit- tle Pain at the Time, and as little fubfequent Trouble, or Interruption to the fpeedy union of the Parts- As to the comparative Security from- Hamiorrhage, it is almofl fuperfluous to add my Teftimony, after what has been ad- vanced, by feveral Modern Writers of theE 15 1 firft Note: however, 1 fliall take this Oppor- tunity to obferve. ihat the Tenaculum has been ufed in our Hofpital feveral Years, and in my Opinion merits every Recommendati- on <riven by its moft fanguine Advocates. ' 1 ^ PART i[ i6 ] ' PART II. On the Treatment after the Operation. WE will firft take a View of the Di- reaions given, by the bell Surgical Writers, upon this Subjea. “You mull apply loofe dry Lint to the Wound ; or in cafe the fmall Veffels bleed plentifully, you rnay throw a Handful of Flour amongft the Lint, which will contribute to the more ef- feaual flopping up their Orifices : before you lay on, the Pledgit, you muft bind the Stump, and begin to roll from the lower Part of the Thigh, down to the Extremity of the Stump. The Ufe of this Roller is to keep the Skin forwards, which, notwithflanding the Steps already taken to prevent its falling back, v/ould in fome Meafure do fo, unlefs fuftained in this Manner.” Sharpe^ p. 230. As Pain is a dreadful Symptom indeed, and produaive of much Mifchief even after an Operation is perfedly well performed, the utmoft Attention is required, to prevent or[ 17 ] remove itj 3.nd for this Con.fider3.tIon fi;i3it circular Bandage fliould be avoided, to which, from the Interruption of the Circulation of the Blood, may juftly be aferibed not only Pain, but many of the mofi: threatening coh- fequential Symptoms. A very little Reflec- tion will fufficiently convince us of the Ab- furdity of this Pradice, and that, inftead of preventing, it tends diredly to increafe the Hsemorrhage, as has been demonflrated by ProfefiTor Monro, one of the greatefl Men of the Age. Soft Lint, evenly applied, a Plaificr or Pledget fpread with Unguent. Tripharm. Cerat. alb. or fomething of this Nature, confined with Strips of common Plaifter, as has been direded, and a knitted Woollen Cap, will be found Drefling and Bandage fuffi- cient, in whatever Limb Amputation is per- formed 5 which readily yielding to the Dif- tenfion of the Veffels, upon the increafed Power and Velocity of the Blood, will^allow a more free and uninterrupted Reflux; con- fequently lefs Pain, Fever, and Inflammation will enfue, and a quicker Digeftion of the Wound, without fo much offenfive Gleet as D I have^ ^ t [ i8 ] I have obferved. Hence we may reafonably infer, that the Patient’s Life will be lefs ex- pofed to Danger, if ftrait Bandage be omitted in Amputation.” Gooches Surgery, Vol. II. p. 335. Bromjield, in his Surgery, Vol. I. p. 172. after having defcribed the Operation, adds, that to reap the Advantage of the double In- cilion, the Skin fhould be brought forward by an Affiftant, and retained with a circu- lar Roller} but immediately gives us the fol- lowing PalTage, which is a diredt Contra- didion to the foregoing; and leaves the Read- er in doubt, whether the Refult of the Author’s extenfive Experience is in Favor of the immediate Application of the circular Bandage, or not: we are firft advifed to ufe it, and then told that People are too folicit- ous in bringing the Skin forwards early, ex- ■peding it to fix immediately, but I will give you the whole PafiTage in his own Words. “ I think, in general, we are rather too fo- licitous in bringing the Skin forwards early after an Amputation, expeding it is to fix imme-[ '9 ] immediately j but I have frequently feen Mifchief done by the tightnefs of the Roller, when applied with this View, and Abfcefles have been the Confequence. When the Roller is applied with this Intention below the Knee, Rill greater Caution is neceffary, as the Edges of the fawn End of the Tibia, by the Prellure of the Bandage, have made their Way through the Integuments; there- fore, we fhould always, in thin People, lay a Comprefs of Tow or Cloth on each Side of the Tibia, fufficiently thick to prevent the Roller from preffing too tight on the Bone, when we come to pafs its Circles round the lower Edge of the Stump, and when the Skin is well fupported by the laft Circle of the Roller, we Ihould pin the End there.” Hence you fee, that whether a circular Bandage Ihould be applied immediately after the Operation, or you are to wait, until the inflammatory State of the Parts is abated, by a kindly Digeftion of the Wound, are Points, which remain very much undecided by Prac- titioners of the firfl: Rank. If you apply a circular[ 20 1 circular Linen Roller, fufficiently tight to de- tain the Skin forwards, as it will not’yield to the" fubfequent inflammatory Tenfion of the Parts, it will confequently often otcaflon all the difagreeable Symptoms related by the foregoing judicious Authors. In the Year 1770,1! fully and atten- tively confldered all I had feeii and read upon this Subjedt. 1 had obferved, that not- withftanding the Advantage of the double In- ciflon, as ufually pradtifed. Exfoliation of the Bone, a tedious Cure, and in the Thigh par- ticularly, Retradlicn of the Mufcles, and a Sugar-loaf Stump, were too often the Con- fequence; and this, even when the Bufinefs was condudled by Men of defervedly'the fiift Eminence in the Kingdom. If we do not apply the Roller until Digeftion is form- ed, it clearly appears from Experience, that it comes too late to prevent thefe Evils, or ' ^nfwer any important Purpofe. When the Part, to fome Diftance from the Surface of the Stump, have all been in a State of In^ flammation, the cellular Membrane, or con- nedting- [ ] ne^iing Medium, which in a State of Health, (that is Immediately after the Operation,) is capable of confiderable Elongatim, is now fo altered, by the Inflammation it has under- gone, the Suppuration, and confequent Dif- folution of its Texture, to which may be add- ed, the new formed Adhefions, to which all membranous Parts in an inflammatory State are peculiarly liable, that it is deprived of its yielding Power. As a Proof of this, attempt to draw the Skin forwards, after the inflammatory Stage, and you will find the cellular Membrane fcarcely yield at all, and this more particularly near the Extremity of the Stump, where the Inflammation has been the moft confiderable; hence at this Part, during your x^ttempt, the Edge of the Skin tucks in upon the Surface of the Wound, and the cellular Membrane will give Way only gradually, by being firmly retained in this Poflure, with the Afiifliance of a firm circular Bandage. Therefore the Surgeon will be much difappointed, if he expedls to bring the Skin forwards in any confiderable Degree, by applying his Bandage at this Period ;[ 22 ] Period ; and the Patient will fuller Pain du- ring its Application, and for fome Time after, occafioned by the adherent Parts being fupported upon the Stretch. The following Inferences ^re fairly de- ducible from the foregoing Confiderations. I. That theAdhelion, in confequence of the Inflammation, is a mod: urgent Reafon, why the Skin ought to be brought forwards im-^ mediately after the Operation, that it may become fixed by that Adhefion. 2. That if this could be effedted, by Means that would not increafe the inflammatory Tcnfion, and the other difagreeable confequent Symptoms, a great Point would be gained. 3. That a Bandage capable of fupporting the Parts, and eafliy yielding to the fubfequent inflam- matory Tenflon, appears to be the Defidc'^ ratum. I.now refieded, that in fome very painful Cafes of fradured Ribs, the Parts are firmly fupported by a Flannel Bandage, and that this eafily adapts itfelf to the alternate Mo- tions[ 23 1 ' tions of the Cheft, being of a foft, yielding, elaftic Nature: and hence it appeared fairly dediicible, that a Bandage made of the fame Materials, is the heft calculated for a ufeful circular one after Amputation. I had at this Time a Patient at the Hofpital, with a White Swelling in the Knee, who came from the 'Country to have the Limb amputated. Be- ing a young Operator, and hence more par- ticularly defirous of Succefs, I was led to the foregoing Refledtions, which ended in a De- termination to ufe the Flannel circular Band- age immediately after the Operation, and to watch it attentively, that if it occalioned more Pain than ufual, it might be immediately removed. The circular Incihon was made as near as poflible to the difeafed Parts, thro’ the Skin and Membrana Adipofa, down to the Muf- cles, the Parts being firmly retraced, the cellular and membranous Attachments yield- ed fo confiderably, that rather more Skin was fayed than ufual, the Mufcles were dividedr 24 ] by a perpendicular circular Incilion, and the Bone, as is common, with the Saw. At this Time I was not aware of the Pro- priety of faving as much Skin as will after- wards cover the whole Surface of the Wound, and confequently did not divide the cellular and membranous Attachments in that free Manner, which I now fo urgently recom- mend. Upon flackening the Tourniquet a Number of Veflels difcharged, the mufcular Branches appeared uncommonly large, and it was thought neceffary to tie thirteen Arte- ries at the Time of the Operation. The Skin being now brought forwards over the Extremity of the Stump, and retained there by an Affiftant, a circular Roller made of the finefl Swan-lkin Flannel, was paffed round the Body, and carried two or three Times round the upper Part of the Thigh, where it formed a fufhcient Bafis for the Support of the Skin and Mufcles; it was then brought forwards in a circular Direftion, till it arrived near the Extremity of the Stump. xMthough the Roller was not drawn‘ [ 25 ] tight, it appeared to fupport the Parts fuf- fiLntly, and very much to my Satisfadion. I then applied dry Lint upon the Bone, an Surface of the Mufcles, but the Edge of the Wound was dreffed with Pledgets, fpread with a foft digeftive Ointment. The Ope- ration was performed at eleven o’Clock m the Morning, and the Patient continued as eafy as ufual, till five in the Afternoon ; the Stump then bled fo faft, that it wasnecefikry to remove the Dreflings; two Arteries dif- charged very faft, which had^ not appeared before; they were drawn out with the Tena- culum, and tied. I was much hurt with the Sufferings of the poor Patient; when the Lint, which had formed a firm Adhefion with the Surface of the Sore, was feparated, he declared that he felt more from ihis,^ than any Pait of the Amputation. After having tied fo many Veffels, I confidered him as in very little Danger of a return ng Hffimorrhage, and therefore re-applied the Bandage, and inftead of the dry Lint, placed the Skin over the Surface of the Wound, as far as it would[ 26 ] go, and drelTed the whole with digeftive Pledgets. Upon the fourth Day after the Operation, I changed the Dreffings, \^hich all feparated with .the mod: perfect Eafe; the Difcharge was very fmall, and the Skin was over the Wound, exadtly as I had left it, and the whole in a very kind State refpedling inflam- matory Tenfion'. In fhort, the Skin fooil formed fuch Adhefions, as fixed it where it was firfi: placed, the Difcharge was uncom- monly moderate thro’ the whole Cure, and by continuing the Bandage to fupport the Parts, with foft gentle Dreflings, the Stump perfect- ly healed in twenty Days. The Cicatrix was in the Centre of the Stump, and fo fmall as to be perfectly covered with a Shil- ling ; and as the old Skin formed fo con- fiderable a Portion of the Extremity of the Stump, and there had been fo fmall a‘Wade of the adipofe and cellular Parts, in confe- quence of the fmall Suppuration, the’whole looked very plump and full, and formed the bed Cudiion to walk upon I had ever feen. The Vt 27 ] The Linen circular Bandage, as recom- mended and ufed by many, immediately af- ter the Operation, had been laid afide in this Hofpital, till Digeftion, and an Abatement of the inflammatory Symptoms had taken Place, and this Praftice was agreeable to the Opinion of a very experienced Pradfitioner, for whofe Judgment I had a great Refped: fo that it was with Difficulty I could recon- cile myfelf to a Trial of the Flannel, imme- diately after the Operation. However, after this Trial, I began to think the Pradice of Surgeons erroneous, in not attempting to bring the Skin forwards immediately after the- Operation, that Adhefions might take Place: and likewife, that the Application of dry Lint opened and dilated the Surface of the Wound, and caufed great Irritation j and confec^uently, firfl:, large ferous Difcharges, and afterwards, great Suppurations: that this was going con- trary to Nature, who is the moft fuccefsful in reftoring difeafed Parts, when the leafl: , interrupted by Art. Therefore from this Time, I always applied the circular Bandage, and never teized the Wound with dry Lint, E 2 feldom1 a little [ ] jfeldom applying any Drefling, but the di- geftive Pledgets, except when fmallVeflels bled, which were not fo large as to require the Ligature: I commonly reftrained thefe -with light Doffils of Lint, dipped in Ol. Oli- var. et Sp. Tereb. a. p. as. which always fe- parated at the firft Dreffing. Meffrs. Park and Lyon, my Colleagues at the Infirmary, immediately purfued this Plan, and to their Accuracy and Attention, the Public are indebted for a more extenlive Trial of the Bandage, and fome of the fub- fequent Hints. In Mr. BromJield\ Book of Surgery, you will find the following Pafiage, “ The pro- per Dreffing is dry Lint to the Bone, then a' circular Piece of old Holland, to lie within the Skin on the Mufcles, which is of great Service, as the reft of the Dreffings will come off eafily, when this is taken hold of; dry Lint fhould be applied on this Piece of Li- nen, to fill up the j^Cavities in the Stump s and in Cafe the fmall Veffels fhould weep,[ 29 ] a little Flour may be thrown on the Bit^.of Cloth, on the next Layer of Lint, which inay alfo be affifted in its Compreffion, by applying a foft Bolder of Tow ^ on the Lint. Small Pledgets of the digeftive Oint- ment fpread on Lint, fliould be made Ufe of to the Edges of the Stump, which will pre- vent the flicking of the Dreffings. The Interpofition of a Piece of old Hol- land, is certainly a rational, and judicious Improvement: but if the Cavities are to be filled up, and Flour, with Compreffion, add- ed, great Irritation and Dilatation of the Wound, will certainly be the Confequence. . Dry Lint appears to be a neat and conve- nient Drefling for freffi Wounds, as it has aPower, particularly when affifted with gentle Preffiure, of fpeedily fuppreffing the bleeding from all the fmall Veflels; but I ffiall con- fine myfelf to a few Obferv'ations upon its Effeds as a Drefling after Amputation ; from which the Reader may draw his oyn Conclu- fions, as to the Propriety of applying it in; other[ 3° ] Other Cafes, where the Parts have been re- cently divided. Whether the Skin is brought forwards, and retained by a circular Bandage or other- wife, the Application of dry Lint will al- ways be a confiderable Hindrance to a fpeedy Cure; for altho’ it does not poffefs an innate ftimulant Quality, yet it adts as fuch in a great Degree, when confidered in a mecha- nical View: It is the moft proper Applica- tion we have to keep the Parts open, for when wet with the Difcharge from the Wound, it is expanded by the retained Moif- ture like a Sponge; and hence, as it adheres to, and is within the Wound, will confequently occafion a Dilatation of its whole Surface* Hence you may eafily judge what will be the Confequence of this Dilatation wlien counter- adled by an external circular Bandage; and how Pain, Inflammation, and large ferous. Difeharges are occafioned by filling the Ca- vity of an Abfeefs with dry Lint, after you have opened it by Incifion. x\s the Lint adheres and then expands when applied to theI 31 ] 4 the Extremity of a Stump, hence will a- rife Spafms, from the Nerves being irritated i and from the fame Caufe ading upon the Extremity of the Veffels, we can account for the large ferous Difcharges from the whole Surface, and often a violent Haomor- rhage from the larger VelTels. That this is the real State of the Matter, I am as well convinced as I poffibly can be by attentive Obfervation. We will fuppofe all to go on as well as ufual, till the Third or Fourth Day from the Time of the Operation j you will then find the whole Surface of the Wound confi- derably enlarged, the Edge of it thickened and inflamed, and a large ferous ofFenfive Difcharge. You are not able to feparate much of the Lint, which has formed fo firm an Adhefion as a large Suppuration only, continued for feveral Days, can eafily re- move : I am well convinced that moft of the Matter, which forms in Cafes where the Parts are fo treated, is in Confequence of the Ir- ritation of thefe Dreflings, with which the Wound[ 3^ ] Wound is fo injudicioufly Huffed, and load- ed by many Pradlitioncrs. As the Matter, which remains in the adherent Lint from Day to Day, muft confequently increafe in Acrimony, hence by its Stimulus, not only the Wound, but the whole Syftem is difor- dered, and often a previous Hedlic nourifhed by what is abforbed, and its topical Influence- upon the Bone is fuch, as to make Exfoliation no uncommon Confequence of fuch Treat- ment. Notwithftanding the Advantage of the double Incifion, and the Treatment of the Parts, as now ufually pra£tifed; a grcatDif- charge. Exfoliation, a large Cicatiix, and a Suo'ar-Loaf Stump are often the Confe- quence of Amputation. That this is not an ideal Pidlure, but a real Defcription of what the Atithor has fre- quently feen, during his Attention for feve, ral Years, to Patients treated in this Manner, thofe who continue fuch Treatment will readily believe. . T -'ll[ 33 ] I will now bring into one View our eftab- IKbed Mode of performing the Operation of Amputation on the Thigh, and the After- treatment, as praalfed in the Liverpool In- Jirmary, Apply the Tourniquet as ufual, and let an Affiftant draw up the Skin and Mufcles, by firmly grafping the Limb with both Hands, 'the Operator then makes the circular In- cifion as quick as poffible through the Skin, and Membrana Adlpofa, down to the Mufcles: He next feparates the cellular and membra- nous Attachments with the Edge of his Knife, till as much Skin is drawn back as will afterwards cover the Surface of ^ the Stump with the moft perfed Eafe. The . Afiiftant ftill 'firmly fupporting the Parts as before, apply the Edge of your Knife under the Edge of the retraced Integuments, and cut obliquely through the Mufcles upwards as to the Limb, and down to the Bone; oi, in other Words, cut in fuch a Diredion, as to lay the Bone bare about two or three Fingers Breadth higher than is ufually done F by[ 31 ] by the common perpendicular circuhr Ind- hon, and continue to divide, or dig, out the IVTulcles’ all round the Limb, by guiding the Knife in the fame Diredion. The Part where the Bone is to be laid bare, whether two, three, or four Fingers Breadth higher than the Edge of the retraded Integuments, or in other Words, the Quantity of mufcular Subftance to be digged cut, in making the double Inchion, muft be regulated by confi- dering the Length of the Limb, and the Quantity of Skin that has been previoufly faved, by dividing the membranous Attach- ments. The Quantity of Skin faved, and mufcular Subftance' taken out, muft be in fuch an exad Proportion to each other, as that by a Removal of both, the whole Sur- fcice of the Wound will afterwards be eafily covered, and the Length of the Limb not more diortened than is neceflary to obtain this End. The Bone being now bare all round, is to be divided, as ufual, with the Saw, and as high up as poihble, which will be more eafily executed, if the Retrador, re- commended by Gooch and BromJieU, is firfl: applied.[ 35 ] applied, for the Siipiport and Defence of the foft Parts. After the Removal of the Limb, let each bleeding Artery be gently drawn out with the ' Tenaculum, and tied with a common Liga- ture as naked as poflible. The whole Surface of the Wound is now to be well cleaned with a Sponge and warm Water, as no doubt any Coagula remaining upon its Surface, or about theinterftices of the Mufcles, would be a con- fiderable Obftrudtion to that defired Union, which we have always in view through the whole Plan. Let the Skin and Mufcles be gently brought forwards; then fix the Flan- nel circular Roller round the Body, and carry it two or three Times round the ypper Part of the Thigh, where it will form a fuL ficient Bafis, that will greatly add to the Sup- port of the Skin and Mufcles; then carry it forwards in a circular Piredtion till it arrives fufficiently near the Extremity of the Stump, where it is to be faftened as ufual. You are now to place the Skin and Mufcles over the Extremity of the Bone, in fuch a Dire($Jtion, F % thut[ 36 ] that the Wound fliall appear only as a Line, drawn down the Face of the Stump, termi- nating v/ith an Angle, above and below, from the latter of which the Ligatures are to be left out, it being the mod: convenient and de- pendent part. The Skin is eafily fecured in this Pofture, by long Slips of Linen, or Lint, about two Fingers Breadth, fpread with Ce- rate, or any foft cooling Ointment, thefe are to be brought from Side to Side acrofs the •Face of the Stump; then apply over them a little foft Lint, with a Tow Pledget, and comprefs of Linen, the whole to be retained with a light Linen Roller It is the ufual Cuftom, to rajfe the End of the Stump from the Surface of the Bed, with Pillows; which 'appears to me very injudici- ous, when done to the Height commonly pradifed, as it draws the Pofterior Mufcles off the Face of the Stump. I find the bed: Di- redlion is to raife the Stump about half a Hand’s Breadth from the Surface of the Bed. Mr. Z,vo« firll placed the Skin in this Direaion, in an Amputatioi of the Thigh, and dreffed with a dry Linen troh Cloth, applied from Side to Side, next the Face of the ^tump.[ 37 ] / When the whole of the Treatment has been agreeable to the foregoing Diredions, the Parts are generally fo free from Spafms, that the Ufe of Opium is not requifite; the, Symptomatic Fever will likewife be equally moderate; and upon the third or fourth Day, when you change the Dreffings, you will always find that the Difcharge has been fo fmall, as fcarcely to have run through them:, hence it is not often necelfary to change the circular Bandage, at the firfl: or fecond Dref- fing; I rather whh to avoid it, till the Ad- hefions are more compleat. By a Continuance of the above fimple Treatment, varied as Appearances indicate, the Cures have been always compleated in lefs Time than ufual. In the Thigh the Stump has frequently healed in nineteen Days, fo perfedly as to require no further dreffing. My laft Amputation was on a Man about 44 Years old, in the Middle of the fore Arm, to remove carious carpal, and metacarpal Bones: the Operation was done July lo, 1779^.[ 38 ] i779» on the 24*'' of the lameMbnth the Wound was perfedly healed, and the Patient dlfcharged the Hofpital on the 27''’, the Ci- catrix only a fimple Line acrofs the Face of the Stump from Side to Side, and his general Health fo perfedly reftored, that he walked Home from the Hofpital (the Afternoon of ' the Day of his Difcharge) which is 13 Miles diftant. The earlieft unfavourable Symptoms Fub- fequent to Amputation, are Spafms, and Hse- morrhage: as I Ihould be highly blameable to arrogate any Merit that is not folely due to the Method I have recommended, it is but juft toobferve, that the Abatement of violent Spafms is principally due to the Veftels being drawn out and tied alone with the Tenacu- lum, as introduced into Pradtice by Mr. Bromjieldi who moft highly deferves the Thanks of every Well-wifher to Surgery for fo ufeful and important an Improvement. I would rather have the Merit of this fingle Improvement, than the Vanity of being the Author of all the fpeculative and theoretical Volumes ever publidied. How-[ 39 ] However, I may fairly obferve, that the Spafms are certainly in fome Degree prevent- ed by an Exclufion of all extraneous Drelf- ings. Further, as fluffing the Parts full of, or even dreffing with dry Lint, promotes Spafm, and dilates the whole Surface of the Wound, it mull confequently conduce to produce Haemorrhage, and upon this Point I fpeak folely from Experience : I have attended, for the Space of feven Years to Amputations, where the Parts were treated with Doffils of dry Lint and Flour, and a fubfequent He- morrhage was frequently the Confequence : and I can now moil folemnly aver, that for the lafl nine Years I have treated the Parts nearly agreeable to thefe Diredlions, and that I have notfeen afingle Cafe of Hemorrhage, fubfequent to Amputation, neither have I heard of any where the Parts have been fo treated. The Hemorrhage fubfequent to Amputa- tion, may not improperly be divided into two differentI ‘[ 40 ] I different Kinds, deduced from the Period of Time at which each occur, and their confe- quent Danger. The firft I would call that which follows the Operation, within the Space of twenty-four Hours, and is, I believe, often occafioned by dilating the Wound with ex- ■panding Dreffings. This is a very diftreffing Symptom both to the, humane Operator, and Patient, as it rec^uires aKemoval of theDref- -fings, which have now formed a confiderable Adhefion to the whole Surface of the Wound, and the feparating them from the Extremities j of the Nerves is more painful than any Part ; of an Amputation : and likewife the necef- j fny Ligature upon Parts in the higheft De- gree of Irritation is a vdry difagreeable Bufi- nefs to execute, and rnoff painful to fuffer: •however, this Kind of Haemorrhage is feldom ^ fatal, as we are commonly upon the Watch, and prepared to relieve it. The fecond Kind ' I would diflinguiai to be that which happens after the above Period ; and a moff alarming Symptom it commonly proves, and has fVe- quently ended fatally before it has been Qif- ; covered, and confequently.before -any Reme- | H If \ t[ 41 1 dy could be applied. It moil: frequently oc- curs, many Days after the Operation, when Digeftion and Granulation are fully formed, and all Danger of this Kind is reafonably fup- pofed to be over. In one Cafe where I at- tended, it happened three Weeks after the Operation. When the Skin is not placed over the Surface of the Wound, but, inftead of this judicious Pradice, the Wound is dila- ted with dry Lint, Nature ever adive to re- lieve herfelf, forms a confiderable Digedion, and confequent Granulation upon the whole Surface, by which the Dreffings are feparated and cad od”. In fome Habits thefe Granu- lations do not prove a fufficient Support to the Extremity of an Artery, they are not able to refid the Impetus of the circulating Fluid, which confequently burds forth, and fre- quently exhauds the Patient before be is eithci aware of his Situation, or any Help can be obtained. I have known this Haemorrhage happen when all the Ligatures have been cad off, and a Month after the Operation, when the Stump was half healed. Vid. two G fatal[ 42 ] fatal Cafes of this Haemorrhage in Bromfield's, Siirg. Ohf. Vol. I. p. 307. As I have not either feen or. heard of one of thefe Cafes, where the Parts have been treated as here recommended, I have Reafon to believe it will prove a very effedlaal Pre- ventative, and every unprejudiced Judge will be immediately convinced, that the Extre- mities of the Velfels are more effedually fup- ported by the Skin applied over the whole Surface of the Wound, and the confecj^uent Union, than by keeping the Parts largely open, and procuring a Digeftion, and in fome Ha- bits, a foft fpongy Granulation over their Ex- tremities. The next train of Symptoms fubfequent to Amputation, and the ufual Treatment, are a large Difcharge of Matter, Exfoliation, and Retradion of the Skin and Mufcles, and con- fequently, what is called a Sugar-loaf Stump. The Dilatation and Irritation of the Wound, occafioned by its being Ruffed with dry[ 43 ] dry Lint, the high Degree of inflammatory Tenfion^ and large ferous Difcharge, are al^- ways confequently followed by a proportion- ably large Difcharge of Matter, and this ispro- moted by what is retained in the Lint, dill adherent to the Surface of the Wound. Its topical EfFe<fl here is not the Whole of the Evil, it becomes more acriminous, and is fre- quently abforbed into the Habit, in a State more prejudicial to the whole Syflem, and thefe Circumdances make greatly againd the Pati- ent’s recovery, particularly where the general Health has previoufly been greatly reduced, and the Amputation performed, to cut od' the Seat of Abforbtion from Parts difeafed by Caries and large Difcharges, attended with Heftic, Cough, and other Symptoms of difeaf- ed Lungs. The Application of dry Idnt upon the Ex- tremity of the Bone, with the confequent Retention of acrid Matter, and Expofure to the Influence of the Air, I conflder as the principal Caufes of Exfoliation, which is no unfrequent Confequence of fuch Treat- Q 2 ment.[ 44 ] merit. Sometimes only fmall Splcnlae Sepa- rate, but oftener the Edge or Rim, all round the Extremity of the Bone. I have feen very large Portions of the Thigh Bone Sepa- rate, in one Cafe nearly its whole Subftance, and four Inches in Length. When the Pieces are fmall, and the Extremity of the Bone fully covered with Granulations, as they pafs through, they produce pricking Pains in the Part, Sometimes fo violent as to dlfturb the Patient’s Reft, attended with great Sorenefs, Inflammation, and Increafed Difcharge; in others they pafs without producing the leaft Inconvenience. Since I have pradifed the Method of ope- rating and drefting here recommended, I have not had the fmalleft Exfoliation, nor ever feen any Part of the Extremity of the Bone after the Operation; for by dividing the Mufcles as advlfed, and bringing the Whole of the Soft Parts forwards, the Bone is imme- diately concealed, and never gives the leaft Interruption to the Progrefs of the Gyre. Like-[ 45 ] Likewife, as the Cicatrix is fo fmall, vl%. only alimpleLine drawn acrofs the Face of the Stump, the Parts are fooner capable of bear- ing the requifite Preffure from the Ufe of a wooden Leg, and are not lo liable to break out again, as in thofe Cafes where the Ope- ration has been pradifed in the ufual Man- ner, in which there is a larger Generation of new Flefh and Skin, which will remain ten- der for a much longer Space of Time, PART[ 46 ] PART III. ' On the Amputation of the Arm, at the Arti~ dilation with the Scapula. IF you examine the Writings of the heft Surgical Authors, you will find that but few, even in the greatefi: run of Pradicc, have -amputated the Arm al its Articulation with the Scapula 3 and likewife be convinced that but little fatisfadory Intelligence is to be ob- tained on this Subjed, if we accept Mr. Bromfield's Information, which highly merits an attentive perufal. Opportunities rnufl have occurred, at all Times, and at all Ages, unfortunate difeafed Subjeds, with Caries in the Joint, and ex- ternal Injuries from Gun-fiaot, compound Fradures, and Wounds of the large Blood- velTels, muft have rendered the NccelTity of operating as frequent as at prefent. Hence it may reafonably be inferred, that either a Dread of the Danger and Difficulty attending the Operation, or a Want of Judgment in fe- leding[ 47 ] ledling thofe Cafes that required it, may be confidered as the Caufes why it was fo feldom performed. And hence we may plainly dif- cover why fo fmall a Progrefs has been made towards rendering this Operation any thing like compleat: fo that this Honor feems to have been referved for Mr- Bromjieldy a well known Author and Pradlitioner of theprefent Day. He is the only Author who has re- duced the Operation to a regular Plan, and this not from Speculation, but adlual Expe- rience, the only true Source of folid Im- provement. However, it muH; be juflly obferved, that his Patients were all fimilar, viz. thofe whofe original Difeafe was Abfcefs, or Caries, in the Neighbourhood of the Joint. He ob- ferves, as to the Operation, that he had but little Encouragement to do it at firft, from thofe who had fcen it performed repeatedly in the Army, where the Joint of the Shoulder had been greatly injured by Gun-fliot, and Amputation at the Joint was the only Chance for preferving Life: for tliough the Opera*■ [ 48 ] Operations were feemingly well performed, and every thing went on to all Appearance 'well for near three Weeks, yet I am told the Patients all died,” p. 209. It is much to be lamented, that the Mode of operating, and the unfortunate Progrefs of thefe Cafes, have not been particularly noted, and faithfully communicated to the Public, as it is from ' fuch a Record of Fafts only that any real Improvements can reafonably be expedted. Where the Hiftory of them is totally loft Pofterity reap no Improvement, nor are we able to diftinguifti whether thefe fatal Events were owing to a Want of Improvement in operating, or depended upon the dangerous Nature of the Injuries abftradledly. It has however been my Lot to amputate the Arm at its Articulation with the Scapula, in a very unprdmiling Cafe of Gun-lhot Wound, with Succefs : others may have done the fame, but. an accurate Hiftory of fuch an Event is not to be found in the Records of furgical Fadts. As• [ 49 ] As the State of the Parts to be divided hi the Operation, were different from thofe in Mr. Bromjield’^ Patients, I thought myfelf juffihed in deviating in the Mode of ope- rating. T)an. Catlings a mlddle-fized, firong, healthy Man, is the Subject of the follow- ing Hiftory. On March the 4*^ 1774, he was ramming a Cartridge down the Mouth of a Cannon that had been juft fired; fome Part of the Wadding yet alive in the Breech of the Gun, let off the new Charge, and having his right Arm oppofite to the Mouth of the Gun, it blew him from aboard the Veffel into the River. He was taken out but half alive, and brought to the Infirmary. Upon Examination it appeared, that the right Arm was carried off, high up, juft below the the infertion of the deltoid Mufcle, there- maining Bone and mufcular Subftance were fo much injured, that in Confultation it wa.s determined to amputate at the Articulation with the Scapula. The Skin was free from Laceration about the Joint, and'even pver the H remain-' [ 5° ] remaining injured Bone and Mufcles; but confiderable Extravafation appeared in the cellular Subftance, upon the Pedoralis Major, Scapula, Clavicle, and adjacent Parts: the Eye-brows and Ladies were burnt off, and the Integuments upon the whole Face had fuftered confiderably: the Eyes were clofed with the fwelling of the Lids, the Pulfe and Breathing tolerably good, but the Patient in an urgent State of Stupor, unlefs when confiderably roufed: in fhort he appeared the mod miferable Objeft I had ever feen: his Face, the State of the Arm and adjacent Parts, the Stupor, and confequent Shock up- on the whole'Habit, rendered him a very un- promifing Subjeft to operate upon, and yet there was no Alternative: the Pulfe am Breathing were the only favourable Symp- toms The Operation mud be done with . the Difadvamage of Candle-light, and I had but little Time to form my Plan. I had read Mr. Bromfield’s. Account of his Opera- tions very lately, and it then occurred to me, whether (in cafe of Gun-rtiot, Or compound Traflure, with a wounded Artery, requiring[ 51 ] this Operation, where the Motion of the Joint was free,) yon could not reduce the Operation to a more fimple form, as follows : Cut thro’ the Skin and adipofe Membrane, round the Arm, fufficiently belov/ the Acro- mion, then go obliquely upwards, thro’ the deltoid and pofterior Mufcles up to the Joint, then go forwards, and after dividing the Ten- don of the Pedtoralis Major, andadjacentParts, feparate and tie the Artery, which may be kept out of the Way by the Fingers of an Adiftant, and the Head of the Bone taken out: if this cannot be eafily executed for want of Room, the Parts muft be divided - in Front from the Acromion, but this lafl Step I would make an Adi of Neceflity. Jf this Scheme is pradlicable, the Operation will be rendered more limple, no Sutures required, and I would have, if poffible, as much Skin faved as will afterwards cover the whole Sur- face of the Wound, and no Dreffings applied within the Edges of the Skin, convinced that the Cure would be more Ipeedily compleated by this Mode of Operation: and by leaving the Cure of the Wound more to Nature, and H 2 not[ 5^ ] not obftruding her Operations by the Intru- fion of Dreflings : in lliort, I fliould expedt the Progrefs of the Cure would be in fome- Degree fimilar to our Succefs in common Amputations, where the Parts are treated in a fimilar Manner. \ The Patient was placed upon a Table of a convenient Ileight, and the Shoulder brought off the Side, fufhciently to give Room for the Hand and Knife j and a proper Preifure made upon the fubclavian Artery, by the Fingers of a judicious Aibdant; a circular Incifion was then made about a Hand’s Breaath below the Acromion, and carried thro’the Skin and Mem- branax^dipofa, round the Arm; the deltoid and pofterior Mufcles were then divided obliquely uptothecapfularLigament; this was much faci- litated by an Affiftant drawing up the Skin with his Fingers. I then divided the Tendon of the Biceps and capfular Ligament, upon the an- terior and pofterior Part of the Joint: an Ar- tery then difeharged fo freely, that we were convinced the Preffure upon the Subclavian was not effeCtiial, altho’ judiciouQy made: •' ' there-[ 53 ] tlierefore I tied this Veffei, with the Aflirtance ot' the Tenaculum, and determined to finidi the Operation in the following Manner: To divide the Tendon of the Pedloralis Major, the capfular Ligament all round, and the refl of the Parts, except theArtery, Veins,Nerves, and cellular Subftance immediately adjacent; and as it was very difficult to diftinguiffi thefe Parts fo accurately, by fo obfcure a Light, as to be able to tie the Blood Veffiels, and cut the Nerves higher up, I included the Whole in a temporary Ligature, held juft tight enough to prevent Haemorrhage: below this the Parts were divided, which finiffied the Operation, that is, feparated the Limb : then the Artery and Veins were drawn out to- gether with the Tenaculum, and included in the fame Ligature, the temporary one was now removed. The mufeukrand cellular Subdance, when divided, thro’ the whole Operation had a very unfavourable Appearance, being loaded with extravafated Blood; therefore, I took out as much[ 54 ] much of the Whole as I could, and the fame Indifpofition about the Clavicle will perhaps account for the Predure upon the Artery not being fuflicient to rellrain the Hsemorrhage: indeed, the Parts divided in the Operation appeared fo bruifed, that I thought a Gan- grene would almoft certainly follow. A confiderable Quantity of Skin was faved, fo that when it was placed over the Mufcles, and Acetabulum Scapuls, the Wound had the Appearance of little more than a Line drawn from Side to Side, acrofs the Face of the Stump, and the Ligatures were left out at the Angle next the Ched; long, narrow Slips of Lint, fpread with a foft cooling Oint- ment, were applied longitudinally, from be- low upwards, fo as to approximate the Lips of the Wound, and affifted by two long Pieces of flicking Plaifter, the Whole fupported with a Tow Pledget, Comprefs, and a light Flannel Roller. Diredions were given that the Patient fliould take Broth, gentle Cordi- als, and Anodynes occafionally. .[ 55 ] ' The next Day I was furprifed to find the Patient fo well: he was reftored to his Senfes, the fymptomatic Fever moderate, but com- piained greatly of the Sorenefs upon the Face, eafy about the Shoulder, had taken Drinks freely, and what appeared very furprifing, he had not the lead Recolleflion of the Accident 'that had happened, nor of his having under- gone an Operation. Ordered to have the Face conftantly Moifi: with Linen-comprelTes dipped in the faturnine Water, that Stools fhould be procured by Clyfters, that an anti- phlogiftic Plan of Diet and Medicine be ri- gidly ufed, and Anodynes occafionally. It would be tedious and uninterefting, to re- cite the minute Appearance of each Drefling : therefore, let it fuffice to obferve, than on the ninth Day, he was in every Refpedt as well as I could reafonably expedt: the Wound had a favourable Appearance, the Skin re- mained fixed, nearly in the State it was placed after the Operation; and the Dilcharge was a fmall Quantity of Matter, mixed with a thin fynovial Fluid ; the extravafated Blood m[ s« ] ill the neighbouring Parts was abfQrbed daily^ and the Face recovered likewife; the Patient . was able to lit up mod: Part of the Day,- and the Ligatures leparated a^ foon as in a com- mon Amputation. On the tenth Day he complained of Cold and Heat alternately, faid he was ill, altho’ he could not well tell what to complain of, his Indifpofition was fo flight. On the eleventh he appeared languid, the Countenance funk, the Skin moift, cold, and clammy, the Wound pale and flabby, more difpofed to open, and had gleeted largely. Whether thefe difagreeable Changes were owing to his living in the Air of the Infir- mary, which at this Time was tainted by offenlive Difcharges from feveral fpreading putrid Sores, and a full Houfe, or to a Want of a more generous Regimen than he had as yet been allowed, I was rather at a Lofs to determime. It had been often obferved in this Houfe, that our Sailors, and induflrious Mechanics, whofe Stations habit them to hard Labour, and the conflantUfe of flrongLiquors, if they become the Subjects of compound Fradlures, Amputation, or any important[ 57 ] ilrrgical Injury, attended with large Sores, they will not long be healthy under an anti- phlogiftic Plan. Their Sores will certainly grow worfe, and lb will the State of their general Health, and thefe Evils are only to be remedied by an Indulgence in their foi- mer Habits. Free Air, Wine, Rum and Wa- ter mixed, Ale, animal Food m moderate Quantities, with the Bark, and Cordials, are the only Remedies. To obviate the Caufe of foul Air, oi th? Want of a more tonic Regimen, I removed my Patient the next Day to the Paik Coffee- houfe, an elevated, open, airy Situation, about a Mile from the Town 5 and he was allowed animal Food at Noon, and Ale thiee or four Times a Day, and directed to take the Bark in Powder, and as the Weather and his Strength would permit, to walk in the Garden. So fpeedy was his Recovery upon this Plan, that on the lixteenth, I was fur- prifed to find that he came to my Houfe in Town, to be dreffed, and returned again on Foot, which in all about four Miles. I Both[ 5^ 1 Both his general Health, and the Wound, improved daily: at the end of a Month from the Day of operating, the Wound was "healed, except a fmall Opening, that would | admit only the Head of a Probe, which palled 1 up towards the Acetabulum Scapulas, and dif- \ charged a lynovial Fluid in fmall Quantities, ^ and did not totally clofe for the Space of a : Month longer, fince which Time it has re- mained totally healed. 'i The Dreffings were always applied as at .j the firlf, all external, and with a View to ap- proximate the Edges of the Wound, which when healed, the Cicatrix was exactly the ; cl i I f V. a The Part next the Acromion, i next the Chefl, e the Axilla, the Angle next the Back, e the Angle where the Ligatures were left out. *' I do f Size here reprefented.[ 59 ] i do not mean to caft the leafl dirrerpe(fl-» ful Refledlion upon Mr. BromJield’B Plan of operating and dreffing: on the contrary, I think myfelf greatly obliged to him, for the Information I have received from his ufeful Publication upon this Subject: my Patient’s- Cafe, and thofe that he operated upon, differ- ed materially, and confequently each may, with Propriety, admit of a different Treat- ment* I It would be mifleading the Public, not to confefs, that altho’ I accomplifhed my Point, with only a circular Incifion, yet it was exe- cuted with fome Difficulty; for the Divifion of the capfular Ligament would have been greatly facilitated, by the more eafy Ac- cefs to the Part, which would have been produced by a longitudinal Incifion, from the Acromion, thro’ the Skin and deltoid Mufcle. On the contrary, when we confider the Advantages gained by excluding the external Air, as much as poffible, in many of the moft important furgical Cafes, for Inflance in compound Fradures, in opening large I 2 deeo[ 6o ] deep feated Ablceffes by a. Seton, the radical Cure of the Hydrocele by Seton, the fpeedy Cures made by placing the Skin over the. whole Surface of the Wound after Amputa- tion, and the favourable Termination of Dan, Catlings Cafe ; thbfe Refleaiions will make ns anxious to finifh the Operation, where it can be done with tolerable Eafe, without the longitudinal Incifion along the deltoid, by which the Air would find more eafy Accefs into the Cavity of the Wound, and Aceta- bulum Scapula. Perhaps the free Accefs of Air into the Joint, may reafonably be confi- dered as one Caufe of the Exfoliation of the Cartilage, but a more powerful one is the Application of dry Lint within the Aceta- bulum Scapulae; which, by forming an Ad- liefion, and confequently a Retention of Mat- ter upon the Part from Day to Day, will, I am of Opinion, more certainly occafion an Exfoliation of the Cartilage, in this Infiiance, than it does of the Bone after Amputation. Mr. Bromfield lays it down as a general Rule, that the Cartilage will exfoliate in eve-[ ] ry-Inftance: Pag. 244, fpeaking of Beijier\ Advice, to attempt a Union by the firft Inten- tion i he adds, “ but he has forgot, that in Cafe the Head of the Scapula is found, that' the Cartilage will prevent the Uniop, till it is exfoliatedan^ from this Opinion he regu- lates hisPradlice: and p, 254, direds you to pare off the Cartilage, and apply dry Lint' to the Bone, and let it remain till it drops off j and probably the Granulations will then fhew themfelves fprouting from the Bone.” This may be a neceffary. and judicious Practice, where Matter has previoufly lodged in the Joint, and occafione.d fuch an Alteration in the Texture of the Parts, that Exfoliation of Bone or Cartilage will confequeritly follow: But that in recent Injuries, the Cartilage will not always exfoliate, my Patient’s Cafe fur- niflies a Proof, and if inllead of dreffing the Wound to the Bottom with dry Lint, the Skin is placed as I have diredled, and the Dreffingsallappliedexteriorto theWound, the Exfoliation of Bone or Cartilage will be fre- - quently prevented; and Nature, not teized and interrupted by Art, will do Wonders in fpeedily[ 62 ] fpeedily filling up and contrading the Wound.. As I was necefTitated to operate by Candle- light, I could not diflinguifh the minute Parts fo exadlly as would have rendered the Pro- grefs thro^ the Operation more pleafing to mej therefore, altho’ the Artery was left long, agreeable to Mr. Bromfield'^ Dire<flion, I durft not divide the Nerves higher: yet the Evils which fuch Treatment is intended to obviate, was effedually prevented, by the Plan of dreffing the Wound, the Nerves be- ing covered by the old Skin. The Patient is now in the moil: perfea Health, which he has enjoyed ever fince the Wound healed ; he is employed at the Cuf- tom Houfe in this Town, and capable of go- ing thro’ the neceffary Fatigue of his Station,, by which he earns a comfortable Livelihood, POST-[ 63 ] \ / POSTSCRIPT. SINCE the foregoing Sheets were finifh- ed, I have heard of one Inflance, where Hsemorrhage followed our Treatment; but it was from the whole Surface of the Stump: and I am now in Confultation upon a fimilar Cafe, after an Amputation in the fore Arm occafioned by a compleat Sphacelus of the Hand after a compound Fradlure above the Wrift: as this Kind of Hemorrhage is a con- fequence of a peculiarly difeafed State of the whole Syftem, it cannot be certainly prevent- ed by a topical Treatment of the Wound. I am now of Opinion, that, in general, it IS the moft judicious, to place the Skin fo as to form the Line acrofs the Face of the Stump from Side to Side, the Difcharge is fo fmall] ^at a depending Drain is not a necelTary Objedt: the Ligatures are the moft conveni- the Arm and ihigh, on account of the Vicinity of the great Artery, in the fore Arm and Leg, they may be left out at either Angle The Pa"' tient Ihould be direded to keep out of Bed every Day after the firft Dreffing, as long as ps Strength will permit, which Will confiderably reftore and preferve his ge- neral64 POSTSCRIPT. neral Health; the ufual Mode of confining the Patient to Bed will fonietimes produce or continue hedic Fever, Debility, Diar- rheea, ^c. Thofe who have had this Plan of Treat- ment deferibed to them, objed to a Suppofition that the Ligatures will be troublefome, and get fixed in the Part ^ how- ever, Experience is the befl Guide in thefe Matters; the Ligatures, when made as here direded, have always fufficiently fecured t e Veffels, feparated eafily and fpeedily, nor have t feen one Inftance, where the Cures have been piotrafted by them. I am far from thinking that the Operation hnd After-treatment, will not yet admit of farther Improvements, in the Hands of ae judicious and candid Praffitioner; how- ever if he has the Succefs, upon a Trial of the Means here recommended, that has at- S their Ufe under my Obferyation, I hope it will appear, that I have not enhei m - Applied my Time, or millead the Public. the end.ti-^i 0 \ tr:- / 0 \9: ■■' ^ . / (*;