274 DISSECTION OF THE GROIN. Inguinal canal. Tho channel in the groin along which the intestine finds its way is the ingninal canal. This is a nariw passage between the muscles, which reaches from the internal to the external abdominal ring. Its direction is oblique downwards and inwards ; and its length is about one inch and a half. It is constructed by the strata in the wall of the belly in this manner :— Bounding the canal superficially, for its whole length, are the teguments, with the aponeurosis of the external oblique, B ; and deeper than the last and at the outer end, is placed the fleshy part of the internal oblique, D, with the cremaster, E, along its border. Separating the passage from the abdominal cavity, comes first the conjoined tendon, H, for a short distance towards the inner end; and behind it, reaching the whole length, lie the fascia transversalis I, the subperitoneal fat, and the peritoneum. The upper opening of the inguinal canal, by which the gut enters, is the internal abdominal ring (p. 271); and the lower opening, through which the intestine escapes from the wall of the belly, is the external abdominal ring (p. 264). Coverings.—A piece of intestine coming outwards through the internal abdominal ring, L, receives investments from the sur- rounding strata. Some of these exist as tubes around the cord ready for the reception of the nascent hernia, whilst others origi- nate during the protrusion of the intestine. As the intestine is forced gradually onwards it elongates and forms for itself cover- ings of the peritoneum and the subperitoneal fatty layer. And it is then received into the following tubes around the cord, viz., the prolongation of the fascia transversalis (infundibuliform fascia), the fleshy covering of the cremaster muscle (cremasteric fascia), the intercolumnar layer from the external oblique (sper- matic fascia), and lastly the subcutaneous fatty layer (superficial fascia), and the skin. The most internal covering of the intes- tine, the peritoneal or serous, is named the sac of the hernia. If the gut protrudes through the wall of the belly it will be clotlied with all seven of the coverings enumerated above, and will form a complete hernia; or if it enters the scrotum it constitutes a scrotal rupture (oscheocele). But if the intestine is stopped in its course