307 BRANCHES OF INTERNAL ILIAC. The gluteal, o, the largest of all, is directed backwards between the sacral nerves to the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic notch: it leaves the pelvis above the pyriformis muscle, and ends in the buttock. The sciatic artmj, p, descends to the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic notch, and passes ii'om the pelvis below the pyri- formis muscle: it ends in the buttock and the back of the thigh. The pudic branch, r, takes a downward course with the preced- ing, and escapes from the pelvis between the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles: its distribution is exhibited in the Plates of the Perinteum. The oUurator artery, s, runs forwards across the pelvic cavity with the nerve of the same name to the sub-pubic foramen: external to the pelvis it supplies the obtm-ator muscle and the hip-joint. Visceral tranches. In both sexes there are vesical and hsemor- rhoidal arteries; and in the female there are in addition uterine and vaginal. The vesical Iranches, t, three in number, come from the iliac, and the partly obliterated hypogastric artery (Plate xl.), and ramify in the upper and lower regions of the bladder. The middle haimorrhoidal artery arises most often in common with the lower vesical: it is small, and is distributed in the rectum. Uterine and vaginal arteries. These branches, which are spe- cial to the female, are distributed as the names signify. The uterine is the larger, and is tortuous; and the vaginal is generally an offset of the middle hsemorrhoidal. The large azygos vein, b, begins in a lumbar vein, and may, communicate with the inferior cava. It enters the thorax through the aortic opening, receives most of the intercostal veins of both sides, and ends in the vena cava superior. Thoracic duct, a. Opposite the last dorsal, or the first lumbar vertebra this tube begins in a dilatation—receptaculum chyli, between the aorta and the right crus of the diaphragm. Into this dilated part three or four large lymphatic vessels from the mesen- teric and lumbar glands are received. It ascends then through X 2 •