458 DISSEOTION OF THE FRONT OF THE LEG. runs along the outer border of the foot, and terminates on the outside of the little toe. When in contact with the foot it furnishes nerves to all the outer margin, but the oflfeets to the sole are larger than those on the dorsum. Oftentimes the nerve is large; then it supplies more digits than usual, and a larger part of the dorsum of the foot. The musculo-culaneous nerve, 3, is one of the terminal pieces of the external popHteal trunk (p. 423), and takes partly a deep and partly a superficial position in the limb, so as to give branches to muscles and integuments—whence the name. Beginning at the back of the limb, it is directed forwards at first outside the fibula and under the peroneus longus. In front of that bone it is inclined down between the peronei muscles and the extensor longus digitorum; and gradually reaching the surface, it pierces the fascia in the lower third of the leg to end on the dorsum of the foot and toes. • When the nerve is beneath the fascia it furnishes offsets to the peroneus longus and brevis muscles. After it becomes cutaneous it divides into two pieces, inner and outer, which are continued over the dorsum of the foot to the extremities of the toes, like the radial nerve on the hand. These two branches may vary much in size and in distribution; but commonly they supply dorsal digital nerves to all the toes, except the outer side of the little toe, and the contiguous sides of the great and second toes. Each of the two primary pieces furnishes offsets to its side of the foot, and communicates with the saphenous nerve close to it. Anterior tibial nerve, 8. At the back of the first interosseous space this nerve becomes cutaneous ; and it ends in two dorsal digital nerves for the adjacent sides of the first and second toes. Offsets of it enter the teguments of the first interosseous space ; and it is joined by the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Cutaneous of the external fopliteal, 4. Arising from the external popliteal at the back of the limb, and piercing the fascia, it is distributed in the integuments of the fore and outer parts of the leg as low as the spot at which the muscnlo-cutaneous makes its appearance.