DEEP MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. 451 The chief office of these muscles is to approximate the four outer toes towards, or to remove them fi-om the great toe ; and they act therefore as abductors and adductors of those digits to the inner one. For instance the three plantar and the innermost dorsal muscle addiict the four smaller to the larger toe ; and the remaining three muscles of the dorsal set will move the second, third, and fourth, toes away from that digit, so as to become abductors. When the four outer toes are being bent by the action of the flexors the interossei will help in the completion of the move- ment ; and when the digits have been extended these muscles will serve to fix the first phalanges against the metatarsal bones. Tendon of the peromus longus, Q. The fleshy belly of the muscle in the leg is delineated in the following Plate ; and only part of the course of its tendon, and the insertion, appear in this Figure. As now seen, the tendon winds round the outer surface of the OS calcis to cross the foot from the outer to the inner side. At first it is received into a groove in the cuboid bone, and is then continued forwards to be inserted into the base of the meta- tarsal bone of the great toe, and into the fore part of the internal cuneiform bone; sometimes also by a slip into the base of the second metatarsal bone. As the tendon crosses the sole it is contained in a sheath which is formed towards the outer part by the long plantar ligament, U, and the cuboid bone, and at the inner part by areolar tissue; and its motion in the sheath is facilitated by a synovial sac which extends to the insertion. On the outer aspect of the cuboid bone the tendon becomes flattened and thickened, and at that spot it contains either fibro-cartilage or a sesamoid bone. Insertion of the tihialis jwsttcus, T. Arising at the back of the leg (Plate LV.) its tendon passes along the inner side of the foot, supporting the articulation between the astragalus and scaphoid bone, and is inserted into the tubercle on the inner and under part of the os scaphoides. From the insertion processes are continued to several of the tarsal and metatarsal bones :—one, V, reaches the internal cuneiform ; another, Y, is attached to the middle cuneiform and the second metatarsal; a third, W, is pro- o u 2