82 DISSECTION OF THE FEONT OF THE FOREARM. Filaments of the palmar cutaneous branch, 6, of the ulnar nerve entwine around the vessel. As the artery rests on the annular ligament of the wrist, it is very near the pisiform bone; it is crossed by a slip from the flexor carpi ulnaris to the annular ligament, and is concealed by some fleshy bundles of the palmaris brevis muscle (Plate viii.)- The nerve, still internal, intervenes between the bone and the blood-vessel. All the offsets of the lower part are too small to be considered of moment in ligature of the artery. Ligature of the artery at its lower fourtli, which is sometimes practised for a wound of the trunk in the palm of the hand, is a simple operation; and an inspection of Plate viii. will render more intelligible the following remarks. Drawing back the inner part of the hand so as to stretch and depress the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, make a cut about two inches long in the hollow observable on the surface, and carry it through the integuments and the deep facia down to the flexor tendon. By bending now the wrist, the tendon will be relaxed, and can be moved aside. Under the muscle, but covered by a deeper layer of fascia, which is to be divided, the vessels and nerve will appear—the nerve being internal and serving as the deep guide to the artery. When the sheath has been opened, and the artery detached from it and the surrounding veins, the needle carrying the ligature can be passed easily under the vessel. In tying the vessel for a wound near the wrist two ligatures are to be used, as in the radial artery, because blood may be poured out above and below. Branches. Named offsets arise near the large joints of the wrist and elbow, and smaller muscular branches leave the trunk at short intervals. The posterior recurrent branch, g, is continued beneath the superficial layer of muscles to the space between the inner condyle of the humerus and the olecranon process, where it sup- plies the joint, and communicates with the inferior profunda and anastomotic branches (Plate iv.).