313 MUSCLES IN THE PELVIC OUTLET. The pyriformis muscle, V, arises by fleshy slips from the bodies of three sacral vertebra3 (the first and last bones being free) ; fr'om the lateral mass of the sacrum outside the anterior fora- mina ; and ft'om the upper part of the hinder border of the hip-bone, and the sacro-sciatic ligament. Leaving tlie pelvis by the great sacro-sciatic notch, it crosses the back of the hip-joint to be inserted into the great trochanter. See Plate of the Buttock. In the pelvis the muscle lies beneath the sacral plexus, and some branches of the internal iliac artery; and on the left side the rectum rests on it. As it passes through the great sacro- sciatic notch it divides that space iuto two. In contact with the lower border is the coccygeus. The coccygeus muscle, R, thin and triangular in shape, arises from the upper edge and the point of the ischial spine, Q, of the ' hip-bone; and it is inserted by a widened part into the ft'ont of the coccyx near the edge, and into the last piece of the sacrum. Intermediate in position between the levator ani and the pyri- fonnis, the muscle reaches by its lower edge the levator, and is scpai'ated fr'om the pyriformis by the pudic and sciatic vessels and nerves. The pelvic surface touches the rectum on the left side, and the periucBal surface blends with the small sacro-sciatio ligament which partly conceals it: the muscle is crossed poste- riorly by the pudic nerve. The muscles of opposite sides support the pelvic viscera and the coccyx ; and shortening by the contraction of the fibres, they will draw forwards the coccyx after the bone has been forced backwards. Levator ani, P. The insertion of the muscle is shown in Plate XXX., and the origin a]Dpears in this side-view of the pelvis. lb arises in front from the back of the pubes just above the obturator internus, lower down from the fascia covering the obturator muscle, and, still lower, from the back of the triangular ligament, N ; behind, from the lower border of the ischial spine, Q ; and between those osseous attachments, from the under sur- face of the recto-vesical fascia. Its fibres are inclined down and back, and have the undermentioned insertion;—the most anterior unite below the triangular hgament with the muscle of the other