PUDIC VESSELS AND NERVE. 259 The branch of the bulb, n, is seen to run transversely through the fibres of the constrictor, and about half an inch from the base of the ligament, to be distributed in the corpus spongiosum urethrte : it supplies an offset to Cowper's gland. Most commonly it is superficial in part to the constrictor muscle. If this branch springs from the pudic trunk below the level of the ligament it will cross the front of the ischio-rectal fossa to reach its destination, and will be liable to injury in the lateral operation for stone. Deep muscular branches. These arise by a common offset from the pudic trunk, or fi-om the superficial perineal artery ; they are indicated on the left side. A deep transverse perinseal branch, e, which is sometimes united with the superficial transverse, ends in the fore part of the sphincter and the levator ani. From it an offset is directed through the base of the triangular ligament to supply the con- strictor urethras and the corpus spongiosum urethras. Pudic veins. Two veins course with the pudic artery along the side of the perinseal region, and they are joined by veins which accompany the branches of the artery. The companion vein of the dorsal artery of the penis does not join the pudic veins, but enters the pelvis through the triangular ligament, and ends in the vesico-prostatic plexus. PUDIC NERVE AND ITS DEEP BRANCHES. The pudic nerve lies in part in the ischio-rectal fossa, and in part in the triangular ligament; and finally perforating the fore layer of the ligament, like the artery, becomes the dorsal nerve of the penis. In the ischio-rectal fossa the nerve is deeper than the artery: here it furnishes a large perinseal branch, which passes forwards on the opposite side of the pudic artery, and splits into the two superficial periuEeal nerves before described (p. 253). Between the layers of the triangular ligament the nerve remains still deeper than the pudic vessels, and lies in a separate sheath of fascia. No offsets are supplied from this last part of the nerve. The deep branches come from the deeper of the two superficial