DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 340 and inwards to end in the integuments of the pubes, penis, and scrotum. See also Plate xxxii. A second superficial pudic artery, which lies at first beneath the fascia lata, is delineated in Plate xlv., and will be referred to with the anatomy of the femoral artery. The superficial epigastric artery, h, appears tlirough the fascia near Ponpart's ligament, being sometimes United with the pre- ceding small artery, and ascends in the fat of the belly towards the umbilicus. The superficial circumflex iliac artery, e, runs outwards at first beneath the fascia lata, and pierces that membrane towards the outer border of the thigh, to end in the integuments. Two or three oflFsets enter the fat at intervals ; and some accompany the genito-crural and external cutaneous nerves. Other unnamed small arteries, which accompany the nerves, 4 and 5, and are marked with, /, are derived from the femoral trunk lower down in the thigh. Superficial veins. The companion veins of the superficial arteries above described end for the most part in the saphenous vein. Internal saphenous vein, d. This large cutaneous vein reaches from the dorsum of the foot to the groin, but only the upper part is laid bare in the dissection. As now seen, the vein ascends, internal to the mid-line of the thigh, to about an inch and a half from Poupart's ligament, where it sinks through an opening in the fascia lata to enter the femoral trunk. Near its ending it receives the superficial pudic, e; the epigastric, h; and the cir- cumflex iliac vein, I. Somewhat lower down in the thigh it is joined usually by two larger branches ;—one, g, formed by the veins from the outer surface and front of the thigh, and the other by veins from the inner and hinder parts of the limb. Superficial inguinal glands. These glands in the thigh are placed on the sides of the saphenous vein, and are superficial to the fascia lata. Of a flattened form and reddish colour, they vary much in size and number : in this body they were rather large, and not numerous. They receive the afferent superficial lymphatics from the inner and fore parts of the limb ; and trans-