103 SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OP THE FOREAEM. humerus being fixed—and will extend the elbow-joint in conjunc- tion with the triceps. Extmisors of the ihumb. Three muscles, extending the thumb, issue between the common extensor of the fingers, E, and the radial extensors of the wrist, C and D. Two, viz., the extensor of the metacarpal bone, K, and that of the first phalanx, L, lie close together on the outer border of the forearm ; and the third, the extensor of the last phalanx, N, is placed below the others, and is separated from them by an interval. The anatomy of these muscles will be found in the description of Plate xii. Indicator muscle, V. Only below the annular ligament is the tendon of this muscle visible ; and it blends with the common expansion on the first phalanx of the fore finger. The posterior annular ligament, X, confines the tendons of the muscles to the wrist, so as to make the extensors of the digits carry backwards the hand after the digits have been straightened. Formed mostly of transverse fibres, but continuous above and below with the special fascia of the limb, it is fixed externally into the radius and internally, where it reaches lower down, into two bones of the carpus—cuneiform and pisifonn. As the tendons pass beneath this band they are lodged in separate channels. There are six spaces, in which the tendons are arranged in the following order :—The most internal compart- ment contains the extensor carpi ulnaris, G; and the one that follows on the outer side is occupied by the extensor minimi digiti, F. The next space receives the common extensor of the fingers, E, and the special extensor of the fore finger, V; and then comes a narrow sheath for the extensor secundi internodii polHcis, N. Still to the radial side is a large space lodging the two radial extensors of the wrist, C and D ; and most external of all is the tube through which pass the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, K, and extensor primi internodii pollicis, L. Each sheath in the ligament is provided with a synovial membrane. All the tendons, with one exception, lie in grooves in the sub- jacent bones, and to the edges of the grooves processes of the fibrous tissue are attached. The tendon not resting on the bone is that of the extensor minimi digiti, F, which Ues between the