30.5 Internal iliac artery. internal iliac arfceiy and its branches are displayed; and in the aortic opening of the diaphragm the thoracic duct and azygos vein appear. a. Thoracic duct. b. Large azygos vein. c. Aorta. d. First lumbar artery. e. Second lumbar. /. Third lumbar. g. Fourth lumbar. Ji. Last intercostal artery. i. Middle sacral artery giving a lumbar branch. k. Common iliac artery. h External iliac. m. Internal iliac. ii. Ilio-lumbar brallch. 0. Gluteal artery. 2>. Sciatic branch, r. Pudic branch. s. Obturator branch. t. Visceral offsets of the iliac. V. Lateral sacral branch. Lumbar arteries, cl, e, /, g. Four in number, they belong to the parietal branches of the aorta; but in this body a fifth lumbar springs fi-om the middle sacral arteiy: they are named first, second, &c., like the vertebras. The vessels are directed backwards along the bodies of the vertebrte under the crus of the diaphi-agm and the psoas, and each divides into two (dorsal and abdominal branches) between the transverse processes. The dorsal branches are continued onwards in the direction of the parent vessel, and supply the back, the contents of the spinal canal, and the vertebra3; the abdominal branches enter the hinder part of the abdominal wall, and anastomose with the intercostal above, and with branches of the internal iliac below. The veins accompanying the lumbar arteries open into the inferior cava (Plate xxxVi.). Last intercostal artery, h. Appearing below the last rib with the last dorsal nerve, it pierces the fascia lumborum, and is dis- tributed with its. nerve in the wall of the abdomen. The internal iliac artery, m, supplies the pelvic viscera, and maintains anastomoses outside the pelvis with branches of the femoral trunk. It begins opposite the base of the sacrum in the bifurcation of the common iliac artery, Jc, and descends into the pelvis towards the great sacro-sciatic notch, where it divides into two pieces—anterior and posterior. From its extremity a partly obliterated vessel (hypogastric) is continued forwards on the