348 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. and the two are united below by a curve around the shai-p margin of the saphenous opening. In attempts to reduce a large femoral hernia the bend in the course is to be specially remembered, and the contents of the constricted gut are to be directed down and back to the upper part of the saphenous opening. Whilst the intestine remains in the crural canal the hernia is said to be incomplete ; but if the gut has escaped from the canal, and forms a tumour on the surface, the hernia is called complete. Coverings of the hernia. The investments applied to the intes- tine as it descends are derived partly from strata in the abdomen, and partly from structures in the thigh. In the first place the gut receives a sheath from the peritoneum, which forms the sac of the hernia. In the next place it pushes onwards and elongates the layer of subperitoneal fat (septum crurale) as it enters the crural ring ; and it causes the inguinal gland to be pushed aside or absorbed. With those two strata derived from the'abdomen it traverses the cruraUcanal as far as the saphe- nous opening; and at that point it will obtain the next two coverings, viz. those of the crural sheath and the cribriform fascia, though it may burst through one or both of these. And lastly it stretches and forms coverings for itself of the subcutaneous fatty layer and the skin. Six layers are thus enumerated as the coverings of a complete femoral hernia. In a recent tumour the several strata may be separated from each other ; but in an older large hernia the cover- ings derived from the septum crurale and the crural sheath are conjoined, and form the fascia propria of Cooper. During an operation the surgeon may be able to recognise only four, viz. the skin and the subcutaneous fatty layer, the fatty subperitoneal covering, and the peritoneal sac. Diagnosis. The tumour of a complete femoral is generally smaller than that of an inguinal hernia ; and its deeper part or neck can be traced down to the hollow at the upper and inner part of the thigh, that is, to the upper cornu of the saphenous opening. Should it be larger in size, it extends transversely along the line of Poupart's ligament, instead of descending towards the