ISCIllO-RECTAL FOSSA. 245 place the lower end of the rectum after this has been protruded in defecation. It supports also the pelvic viscera, and raises and compresses the tube of the urethra by its anterior fibres. IscMo-rectal fossa. This hollow is so called from its position between the hip-bone and the rectum. Its extent on the surface of the body is marked by a line opposite the tip of the coccyx in one direction, and the fore part of the anus in the other. After dissection it appears as a somewhat conical interval, which is wide behind and narrow before, and decreases in breadth as it sinks into the pelvis. From before back it measures about two inches. Along the side of the pelvis its depth reaches two inches. Across it is about an inch wide iinder the integuments. Its outer boundary is vertical, and consists of the pelvis with the internal obturator muscle covered by fascia. The inner wall, very oblique, is formed by the levator ani, D, and the external sphincter, B ; this surface is covered by a thin fascia. In front is the triangular ligament of the periuEeum. Behind lies the gluteus maximus, E ; and deeper still is the sacro-sciatic ligament. Vessels and nerves pass through the space. On the outer wall lies the internal pudic artery, a : it is contained in a sheath of fascia, which keeps it in place; and it is accompanied by two veins and the pudic nerve. Posteriorly the vessel is placed about one inch and a half from the surface of the pubic arch, but towards the front of the fossa only half an inch from the edge of the bone. Crossing the space (left side) from the pudic trunks,are the infe- rior hemorrhoidal vessels, d, and the inferior htemorrhoidal nerve, 3, which distribute branches to the lower end of the gut. At the ft-ont of the hollow, close to the outer wall, lie the two superfi- cial perineal nerves, 1 and 2, with the superficial perineal artery sometimes : these pass forwards to the anterior half of the peri- neum. Behind, near the coccyx, another small nerve, 5, may be recognised : this is an offset from the fourth sacral to the extre- mity of the rectum and the teguments. Winding round the border of the gluteus maximus at the back of the space, are super- ficial branches of the sciatic vessels and nerve. A granular fat fills the hollow and supports the gut. Its defi- ciency in emaciated bodies causes a surface-depression on the side