INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 316 with the pudic artery, are the chief vessels in the Figure. The other arteries, which are cut thi-ough, do not require further notice than that contained in the table of reference. OUiterated hypogastric. In the foetus the artery in the place of the internal iliac is continued through the umbilicus to the placenta. This vessel is called hypogastric as it lies by the side of the bladder and within the belly, and umbilical outside the cavity. After birth that artery is obliterated, and the cord above noticed remains in its place. This cord, d, is placed in the adult on the lateral part of the bladder as far as the apex, and then against the abdominal wall as high as the umbilicus. By its side lies a small artery which furnishes vesical offsets. Vesical arteries. Two or three in number, they spring from the fore part of the internal iliac trunk : the upper and middle, c and e, supply the greater part of the bladder, whilst the lower, /, is distributed to the base, and to the generative parts below. Pudic ariery, g. In the views of the perinEeum this vessel has been exhibited in parts, but in this side-view it is laid bare from the beginning nearly to the end. It leaves the pelvis through the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic notch, and winding over the back of the ischial spine, appears in the ischio-rectal hollow of the perinseum by passing through the small sacro-sciatic notch. Entering next between the layers of the triangular ligament by perforating the posterior piece, N, near the base, it finally pierces the anterior layer near the symphysis pubis (Plate xxx.), and ends in the penis. Its named offsets are furnished chiefly to the lower end of the rectum, to the peringeum and scrotum, and to the urethra and the penis : *they are numerous, and arise from behind forwards as a. Common iliac artery, 6. Common iliac vein. i. Superficial permajal branch. c. Superior vesical artery. d. Obliterated hypogastric. e. Middle vesical artery. /. Inferior vesical artery. g. Pudic artery. h. Inferior heemorrlioidal branch. I Dorsal artery of the penis. I. Arteiy of the bulb. n. Spermatic artery. 0. Spermatic veins. p. Sciatic artery, cut. r. Branch of the sciatic.