281 INTERNAL INGUINAL HEllNIA. grecatlj' dependent npon a correct diagnosis of its kind, because the spot at which the internal hernia leaves the abdominal cavity is different from that for the external; and attempts to put it back, which would be useful when the kind of hernia is recognised, might be injurious when this has been mistaken. In the case of an internal hernia the passage along which the fasces have to be directed is quite straiglit through the abdominal wall, and in the direction of a line carried inwards through the external abdominal ring. When the taxis is about to be used, the fih'st requisite is to have the structures in the groin relaxed by placing the trunk in the recumbent posture, and by raising the thigh and rotating it inwards. And dm-ing the employment of the taxis the fundus of the tumour should be compressed evenly and steadily with the grasp of the one hand, whilst the fore fingers of the other are used to dii'ect npwards some of the contents of the intestine. Position of the Truss.—In applying a truss for an internal hernia the pad of the instrument is to be placed on the hole in the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, because the aper- ture of entrance into the wall is opposite the apertm^e of exit from the same. This opening, or the external abdominal ring, will be opposite a spot on the surface of the bod}' immediately outside the pubic crest. Seat of Stricture. The band constricting the intestine may be found at two places. Firstly it may exist at the narrowed mouth of the sac, and may be produced by fibrous tissue external to that part, or by a thickening of the wall of the sac inside the neck. Secondly it may result from the firm sharp margin of the external abdominal ring. Division of the Stricture. Partial or complete arrest of the cir- culation in the intestine follows inability to reduce the rupture by the taxis ; and an operation is needed to set free the gut from its imprisonment, and to arrest its mortification. An incision is to be made through the wall of the belly down to the neck of the tumour, to remove stricture external to the sac ; but should this proceeding fail in its object, and the existence of stricture inside the neck of the sac be made thereby probable, the peritoneal covering should be opened, and the constricting band should be