280 DISSECTION OP THE GROIN. tlie edge of the rectus and the epigastric vessels, therefore there 18 an interval (about half an inch wide) between its outer border and the epigastric vessels, in which the next stratum appears. Under the muscles the transversalis fascia, I, the subperitoneal fat, and the peritoneum, are stretched continuously over the area of the space, and without apertures in them. Coverings. The position of the hernia in the triangular interval is determined by the existence of a pit or fossa on the inside of the abdominal wall opposite, H, (Plate xxxv.) ; and it is at this point, behind the conjoined tendon, where the hernia is most com- monly found. As the external oblique is the only layer with an aperture in it, and with a tube descending from its margin, all the coverings of the rupture, except that one, will be formed anew, being elongated from the several strata as the intestine gradually makes its way onwards. The intestine in advancing extends firstly the peritoneum and the subperitoneal fat, forming the sac out of the former of the two. Then it pushes forwards the fascia transversalis, and obtains for itself another thin covering. Kextly, meeting, with the obstructing conjoined tendon, it elongates the same ; or, if the hernia is produced suddenly, the tendon may be slit to give passage to the tumour. Still advancing, the rupture passes over the cord and the cremaster muscle, and escapes through the external abdominal ring, where it receives the investment of the spermatic fascia. And lastly it comes to be placed under the superficial fascia and the skin, as it descends along the spermatic cord. Diuynosis. As this hernia enters the wall of the belly nearer the mid line than the internal abdominal ring, and takes withal a straight course, it comes to lie rather inside the spermatic cord as it escapes through the external abdominal ring, and rather over the pubic crest. But the best diagnostic marks between this and an external hernia are, the straightness and shortness of its passage through the abdominal parietes, and the absence fr'om the inguinal canal of a narrowed oblique neck. An internal hernia cannot be distinguished ft'om an external when the last is lai'ge, and has been of lon'g standing (p. 275). Taxis. When the rupture has to be reduced success will be