94 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. Abductor jpollicis, B. This is the most superficial muscle. It arises behind from the annular ligament, and the ridge of the trapezium bone ; and is inserted by a tendon into the outside of the base of the first phalanx. The muscle draws away the thumb from the index finger. Adductor pollicis, H. The origin of the muscle, Avhich is not always separate from the inner head of the flexor brevis, is fixed to the ridge on the palmar surface of the metacaqDal bone of the middle finger; and the muscle is inserted with the inner head, F, of the short flexor into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx. By its action the thumb is placed on the palm and the fore finger, so as to deepen externally the hollow of the hand. Oppomns pollicis, C. The muscle is partly covered by the abductor, and arises, like it, from the annular ligament and the prominence of the trapezium bone: it is inserted into the meta- carpal bone of the thumb along the outer edge. This muscle can abduct the metacarpal bone, and can then so move it as to allow the ball of the thumb to be turned opposite the ball of each digit, as in the act of picking up a pea with the thumb and each finger. The flexor brevis pollicis is divided into two pieces or heads, D and F, at its insertion into the thumb. Single at its hinder attachment or origin, it is fixed to the annular ligament near the lower edge, to two carpal bones (os trapezoides and os magnum), and to the bases of the two metacarpal bones answering to the two carpals. The fibres, collected into two bundles which are separated by the tendon, M, of the long flexor, are inserted into the sesamoid bones, and the base of the first phalanx—the outer head, D, joining the abductor, and the inner head, F, blending with the adductor pollicis. This muscle bends the metacarpo-phalangeal joint of the thumb ; it draws inwards also the thumb over the palm and approaches it to the other digits. Little-finger muscles. The group of muscles connected with the little finger contains three, viz., an abductor, an adductor, and a short flexor, as in the thumb; but the flexor is sometimes absent.