105 ARTERIES OF THE BACK OF THE HAND. Its branches are inconsiderable in size, but numerous, and are distributed to the back of the hand and some digits. The place of the radial artery can be easily ascertained through the skin, if the tendons crossing it are made prominent by exten- sion of the thumb; and as the vessel is closer to the extensor of the second phalanx than to the others, this tendon should be taken as the guide to it. Slight wounds on the back of the wrist would be likely to open the artery ; and when the radial lies over the tendons instead of under them, it is still more superficial, and is more exposed to accident. In disarticulation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, the artery lies close to the joint, and wiU be cut unless the knife is kept near the bone. Branches of the artery supply the carpus, the metacarpus, and the digits. The posterior carpal iranch, I, forms an arch behind the wrist with a corresponding branch of the ulnar artery, and communi- cates with the posterior interosseous, g: from this carpal arch interosseous arteries are sometimes given to the inner two meta- carpal spaces. The metacarpal Iranch, c, arising here in common with the preceding, runs to the second interosseous space, and ends at the front of the space in two branches for the contiguous sides of the fore and middle digits on the dorsal surface. Behind it receives a perforating branch from the deep palmar arch, and in front it communicates with the digital arteries. Dorsal interosseous arteries, f,f, lie over the inner two inter- osseous muscles, and are derived from the dorsal carpal arch ; or they may come from the perforating arteries of the deep palmar arch, as in the dissection from which the Drawing was made. At the cleft of the fingers they give offsets to the sides of the digits, and anastomose with the digital arteries ; and if they spring from the dorsal carpal arch, they receive, behind, the perforating arte- ries from the deep palmar arch. Dorsal tranches of the thumb and fore fi^iger.—Two small Ijranches belong to the thumb, and these run along the meta-