64 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE ARM. A. Lower end pf the long liead of tho triceps cut throut/li. B. Upper end of the long head of the triceps. C. Outer head of the tricep.s. D, F. Inner head of the triceps. E. The nerve and vessels to the anconeus. G. Anconeus muscle. H. Supinator longus muscle. K. Teres minor muscle. L. Infra-spinatus muscle. M. Latissimus dorsi muscle. N. Teres major muscle. P. Deltoid muscle. Q. Outer condyle of the humerus. R. Olecranon process. S. Fascia of the forearm reflected. Triceps extensor Irachii.—The superficial view of this muscle, and the attachment of the middle head can be seen in Plate vi. Only the origin of tlie outer and inner heads will be noticed below. The outer head, C, arises at the back of the humerus above the groove in the bone, which lodges the musculo-spiral nerve and the vessels; it narrows above as it ends near the insertion of the teres minor. The inner head, D, and F, arises from the back of the humerus below the vsdnding groove, reaching upwards by a pointed part as high as the teres major muscle—sometimes to the upper, and sometimes the lower border. This head is wide below, and reaches laterally to the intermuscular septa, from which fibres take origin.* Subanconeus.—Some of the deepest fibres of the triceps near the elbow terminate in the capsule of the joint, like fibres of the extensor of the knee, and are said to constitute a separate muscle, to which the name subanconeus has been applied; but I have not observed such isolated and distinct muscular bands as Anatomists describe. Supinator longus muscle, H.—Covered by the fascia of the limb the muscle is fixed to the outer condyloid ridge of the humerus, as high as the groove before referred to. This muscle and the extensor carpi radialis longus occupy the ridge—the fonner reach- * This statement of the origin of the inner and outer heads of the triceps differs much from the common Anatomical description. It contains the view of Theile, and has the merit of being more accurate. The original account is given in Midler's Archiv fiir Anatomic, &c., for 1839, p. 420—"Ueber den Triceps brachii und den flexor digitorum sublimis des Menschen."