219 THE CARTILAGES OF THE LARYNX. central part or body, and of two lateral pieces on each side—the cornua. The body, B, is the deepest part of the bone: it is convex and uneven in front, and concave and smooth behind. Elevator and depressor muscles are fixed into the fore part; and by its upper edge its gives attachment to the fibrous membrane of the tongue, and that of the larynx. The cornua articulate with each side of the body. The large one, A, projects backwards behind the tongue, and is joined by muscles of the pharynx, larynx, and tongue. The small cornu, 0, is a short rounded process, to which the stylo-hyoid ligament (X, Fig. i.) is connected. Cartilages of the larynx. There are several pieces of cartilage in the larynx as in the trachea ; but they differ in their nature. One set resembles the permanent cartilages of the ribs, and like them is prone to ossify; the other set, consisting of small pieces, is constructed of yellow cartilage, as in the eyelid, and is not trans- muted into bone. > The large and firm cartilages, which are more or less ossified in the adult, are more immediately connected with the vocal cords: they are four in number, viz., the thyroid, cricoid, and two ary- tsenoid. The thyroid cartilage, D, is the largest and highest, and is named from protecting the rest like a shield. It is formed of two simi- lar halves, which are widely separated behind, and are united in front at an acute angle, so as to be prominent beneath the skin (pomum Adami). Each half end^ posteriorly in a rounded thickened border, which is prolonged.above and below into a point—the cornua: of these, . the upper cornu, E, is the longest, and the lower one, F, articu- lates with the cricoid cartilage. Externally muscles of the phaiynx and larynx are fixed into the thyroid; and internally it receives the insertion of the vocal cords and of the muscles acting on those cords. The cricoid cartilage, Gr, forms a ring around the air passage, and is much deeper behind than before, like a signet ring. On its upper border at the back are seated the two arytasnoid carti-