324 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. in number, viz., two posterior, two lateral, and one superior. They constitute a wide piece of peritoneum, reaching from the side of the bladder to the abdominal wall, which is subdivided arbitrarily into the parts above said. The upper, which is single, is directed from the apex along the obliterated hypogastric artery. The lateral, one on each side, is attached to the viscus behind the obliterated hypogastric. The posterior, also one on each side, is produced by the hypo- gastric vessel behind the back of the bladder. It consists of a doubling of the serous membrane, and contains the remains of the obliterated vessel, the ureter, and some vesical arteries. Between the ligaments of opposite sides the serous membrane extends downwards as the recto-tesical pouch. The recto-vesical pouch, F, is the piece of the peritoneum which sinks between the bladder and the rectum; it receives its name from its position. Behind, it is as wide as the interval between the posterior ligaments of the bladder, but in front it tapers to a point, and projects slightly between the vesiculas seminales. Its fore part is distant about four inches from the anus. In punc- turing the bladder through the rectum, the surgeon should be careful not to carry his instrument so far back as to injure the pouch, because in that case the urine migl t find its way into the cavity of the abdomen, and would give rise to peritonitis. But the distension of the bladder affords some security against this accident; since the viscus enlarging carries upwards the perito- neum, and removes the pouch farther from the anus. Generative apparatus. In the pelvis are contained the following accessory generative parts, viz. the vesicula seminalis and vas deferens, together with the prostate. The vas deferens, G, is the excretory duct of the testicle, and conveys the semen to the urethra. Separating from the vessels of the spermatic cord at the internal abdominal ring, it crosses the obliterated hypogastric artery, and then descends along the side, to the under part of the bladder, where it joins with the vesicula seminalis to form the common ejaculatory duct: finally it ends