183 INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. The large or middle meningeal artery, b, ascends to the head beneath the external pterygoid musole, and enters the skull through the foramen spinosum (p. 119). It supplies branches to the temporal and external pterygoid muscles, an offset to the tympanum through the Glaserian fissure, and the following :— Small meningeal Iranch, c. Arising from the large meningeal, it enters the skull through the foramen ovale: an offset is fur- nished outside the skull to the internal pterygoid with the branch of nerve to that muscle. INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. The branches of the inferior maxillary nerve, whose lettering corresponds with that in Plate xx., are here traced backwards to the foramen of exit of theii' trunk from the skull. 1. Auiiculo-temporal nerve. 2. Inferior dental nerve. 3. Gustatory nerve. 4. Masseteric branch, cut. 5. Buccal brancli. 6. Chorda tympani nerve. 7. Mylo-hyoid branch. 8. Deep temporal branch, 9. Branch to the external pterygoid. + Branch to the internal pterygoid. The inferior maxillary or the third trunk of the fifth cranial nerve (Plate xiii.) leaves the skull by the foramen ovale, and splits at once into two under the external pterygoid muscle, viz.—- an anterior small part, and a posterior large part. And as the nerve is composed of a motor and a sensory root (p. 117), the function bestowed by its offsets will be determined by their receiving filaments from only one or fi'om both roots. The smallpisce of the nerve breaks up into branches to most of the muscles of mastication as below:— The masseteric Iranch, 3, courses above the pterygoideus ex- ternus and through the sigmoid notch to the under surface of its 'muscle, in whose fibres it can be followed nearly to the anterior edge: it gives an offset to the back of the temporal muscle. The deep temporal branch, 8, is directed upwards on the skull into the fibres of the temporal muscle, and usually with an artery of the same name. The buccal branch, 5, pierces the external pterygoid, and is continued over the buccinator towards the corner of the mouth ;