87 CENTRAL MUSCLES OF THE PALM. Tendons of the flexor profundus (Plate ix.), also four in number, cross the palm beneath the superficial flexor, and may be seen pro- jecting slightly on the sides. Entering the digital sheaths, each is transmitted through the accompanying flexor sublimis tendon, as is shown on the ring finger, and passes onwards to be inserted by a single piece into the base of the last phalanx. Small rounded muscles, the lumbricales, are attached to these tendons in the palm (Fig. ii.). Between each tendon of the deep flexor and the fore part of the middle phalanx is a thin membranous band (opposite W) uniting the two, which is called " ligamentum breve ;" and intervening in like manner between each piece of the superficial flexor and the front of the metacarpal phalanx, is another " ligamentum breve," to fix this tendon to the underlying bone. The deep flexor draws forward the last phalanges, and bends the last phalangeal joints. Still continuing to shorten, it assists the superficial flexor in bending the metacarpo-phalangeal joints in the act of shutting the fingers ; and combined with the same muscle, it will flex the wrist when the digits are closed. In amputating on the living body through the phalangeal articulations, some diflEiculty is experienced, when the joint is opened at the back, in entering the knife between the ends of the bones, owing to the flexor tendon drawing the distal against the nearer phalanx; and this difficulty is increased in the case of the last joint, in consequence of the smallness of the part to be held preventing sufficient force being employed to overcome the tendon. When the joint is opened at the front the impeding tendon has been previously cut, and the operation can be executed without hindrance to the passage of the knife. Sheath of the flexor tendons, K, In each finger this reaches from the palm of the hand to the last phalanx. It is constructed on the one side by the bones; and on the other by fibrous bands, which are thinnest opposite the joints : these thinner pieces have been removed in the dissection. A synovial membrane lines each sheath, projecting into the palm of the hand, where it is closed; and long tapering folds (vincula vasculosa) are continued from it to the tendons : one of