132 DISSECTION OF THE POSTERIOR TRIANGLE. A. Platysma myoides. B. Storno-cleido-mastoid muscle. C. Splenius capitis. D. Trapezius. E. " Levator auguli scapula3. G. Scalenus anticus. H. Omo-hyoideus. K. Deltoid muscle. L. Clavicle. N. Pectoralis major. F. Scalenus medius. Platysma myoides, A. This is a membraniform fleshy layer, which is contained in the fatty stratum between the skin and the deep fascia. Arising from the scapular arch, and the top of the thorax and shoulder, it crosses the side of the neck, and is inserted into the base of the lower jaw, blending with muscles of the face. It covers the external jugular vein, Tc, and the lower two thirds of the posterior triangular space. Its fibres are inclined do^Ti- wards and backwards from the jaw to the shoulder; and in open- ing the external jugular vein in venesection the incision is to be so directed as to cut them across. The sterno-cleiclo-mastoid muscle, B, crosses the neck obliquely from the thorax to the ear. Below, it arises from the first piece of the sternum, and the inner third of the clavicle (Plate xvii.); and it is inserted above into the mastoid portion of the temporal, and the upper curved line of the occipital bone. From its diagonal position in the neck it separates a triangular hollow in front from another behind : it covers the great carotid blood vessels and the neck muscles, and is crossed by superficial nerves and veins. It is pierced by one large nerve—the spinal accessory or the eleventh cranial nerve, 13. Both muscles acting, the head will be brought forwards, as in nodding, or the sternum wiU be raised ; according as they may take their fixed point above or below. If only one muscle is used the head is turned to the opposite side ; but in combination with other muscles attached to the mastoid process it can incline the head towards the shoulder on the same side. In wiy-neck (torticollis) arising from muscular contraction, the sterno-mastoid forms a hard, tense cord on the side of the neck opposite to that to which the head is turned. Subcuta- neous cutting through of the muscle has been practised to remove the deformity. The trapezius, D, attached behind to the spinal column and