428 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE LEG. The anterior tibial artery, d, is one of the two trunks into which the popliteal splits at the lower border of the popliteus muscle ; it passes above the interosseous membrane to the front of the leg, and its anatomy is illustrated in Plate lviii. The posterior tibial artery, y, the other trunk obtained from the division of the popliteal, extends to the sole of the foot, and ends in the plantar arteries. It is limited by the lower border of the popliteus in one direction, and by the lower edge of the internal annular ligament in the other. On the surface of the limb its position would be indicated by a line from the centre of the knee- joint to a point midway between the heel and the ankle. The upper half of the vessel lies deeply, and the lower is comparatively superficial. Upper lialf. Placed beneath the soleus, as is seen in the pre- ceding Plate, it rests on the tibialis posticus, f. Close to it inter- nally is the flexor longus digitorum, and lying outside it near the termination is the flexor longus pollicis. Companion veins course along the sides of the artery, and join across it at short distances. The large posterior tibial nerve lies close to the artery : at the upper end it is internal, but it becomes external to that vessel below the origin of the peroneal artery; and it keeps afterwards the same position. Loiver half. Below the middle of the leg the soleus ends in a tendon, and the artery, gradually inclining inwards, comes to lie between the tendon and the edge of the tibia. Here it is covered by the deep fascia and teguments, and lies on the flexor longus digitorum and the end of the tibia : on its outer side is placed the flexor longus pollicis as in the upper part. The venae comites and the posterior tibial nerve have the same position to the lower as to the upper half. Between the heel and the ankle the artery passes under the internal annular ligament, and over the ankle-joint; and it divides at the lower border of that band into the two plantar arteries. Internal to it at this spot lies the tendon of the long flexor of the toes, and external and nearer to it, the tendon of the long flexor