299 AORTA AND ITS BRANCHES. the common iliac arteries, 1. Tliis large trunk rests on the ver- tebral column behind the Yiscera and the peritoneum, and is crossed by the left renal vein, t. Its offsets are visceral and parietal. The visceral Iranches are the following : three spring from the front of the vessel, viz. coeliac axis /, upper mesenteric g, and inferior mesenteric Ic; and three pairs of branches, which come from the sides, are the supra-renal j, the renal h, and the sper- matic i. Only the lateral visceral branches remain in the dissec- tion, the former set having been cut necessarily in the removal of the viscera. The renal ai'tery, h, is directed almost horizontally outwards to the kidney, and divides near that viscus into branches which enter it between the vein and ureter. - The artery of the left side is not so long as that on the right. The supra-renal or middle capsular artery, /, taking the same direction, as the renal, enters the supra-renal body. In the foetus it is larger than in the adult. The spermatic artery, i, arises near the renal (the testicle deve- loping in the loins), and descends over the psoas and the external iliac artery to the internal abdominal ring : at this spot it leaves the abdomen to reach the testicle. On the right side the artery crosses the vena cava. Originally the spermatic vessels were short and straight, like the renal, but their increase in length is brought about by the testicle passing from the place of growth in the abdomen to the scrotum. Parietal Iranches. The arteries that are furnished to the wall of the belly are the diaphragmatic, the lumbar, and the middle sacral. The diapliragmcttic, e, are the first two branches of the aorta in the abdomen, and ramify on the under surface of the dia- phragm. Each courses over the fleshy fibres of the muscle to the front, and furnishes an offset towards the Jiinder part. The lumbar arteries, I, four in number on each side, arise from the back of the aorta, and coiTespond with the intercostals in the thorax : their distribution is more evident in Plate xxxvii. The middle sacral artery, n, arises from the point of splitting of