DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 354 S'wperfidal vessels. Small arteries, for the most part unnamed ; and the internal saphenous vein and its tributaries ramify in the fat of the thigh. Cutaneous arteries. All the cutaneous nerves are accompanied by superficial arteries ; but as these are small, and not so easily traced as the firmer nerves, they were not dissected farther than was necessary to give an idea of their main parts. Kamifying with the ilio-inguinal nerve, 1, is a branch from the cremasteric artery ; with the genito-crural nerve, 2, and external cutaneous, 3, are branches from the superficial circumflex iliac ; with the middle cutaneous, 8, and internal cutaneous, 5, are small branches of the femoral trunk; with the saphenous nerve, 11, and with its branches, 10 and 22, are offsets of the anastomotic artery ; and with the obturator nerve, 13, runs a small branch of the internal circumflex artery. Other cutaneous arteries issue beneath the edges of the sar- torius muscle, being furnished from the femoral trunk ; and many small offsets, piercing the fleshy fibres of the vasti and rectus, come from the vessels to those muscles. The internal saphenous vein, f, lies in the fat with the super- ficial nerves along the inner part of the thigh. Below, it passes the knee-joint on the inner side, behind the prominence of the inner condyle, and ascends obliquely to the level of the hip- joint, where it pierces the fascia lata to join the deep vein. See Plate XLii. Large unnamed branches join it about the knee, and smaller veins enter it in the thigh ; and it receives near its ending the named veins accompanying the small superficial arteries of the groin. SCARPA'S TRIANGULAR SPACE. The triangular interval at the top of the thigh answers to the axilla in the upper limb. It is a rather shallow, intermuscular space, which is situate on the flexion-side of the hip-joint, and contains the main vessels of the limb, with the nerve of the front of the thigh. Its boundaries are the following :—ThB base, directed upwards