327 FIXED CURVE OF THE UllETHRA. gular ligament ; for immediately before that membrane tiie urinary passage is dilated in the sinus of the bulb, and will permit the point of the instriunent to deviate from the straight line, even when this is of the proper size. Beyond the ligament, obstruc- tion to the progress of the instrument can scarcely exist in conse- quence of the large capacity of the m-ethra. The third stage of the lateral operation for lithotomy consists in dividing the part of the urethral curve behind the triangular ligament. The knife having opened the urethi'a between the layers of the triangular ligament (p. 260) is carried into the bladder through the prostate. To give the necessary direction to the incision (p. 326) the handle of the knife is to be raised above the level of the blade, and the edge is to be turned down and out. The lateral part of the prostate is to be incised, so as to obtain the greatest opening in that body ; and more or less of the neck of the bladder is to be cut through according to the size of the calculus. In the division of those parts the heel of the scalpel is to be kept near the staff, whilst the fore part of the blade is used with a sawing motion. If the stone is lai'ger than can be removed by the incision on one side, a similar cut is to be practised in the opposite half of the prostate. In executing the thii-d stage of the operation, the surgeon endeavours to cut as little as possible of the loose sheath of fascia enveloping the base of the prostate and the neck of the bladder, in order that the piece of the recto-vesical fascia separating the pelvic cavity from the perinteum may remain intact. This object vsdll be attained most certainly by keeping the heel of the knife near the staff as above directed ; for if the hinder part of the blade is too far removed jfrom that instrument the aperture into the bladder will be necessarily larger, and the prostate and its sheath may be totally divided. It is just possible also, if the prostate is slit too largely, that the " accessory pudic " artery, (Quain), which lies occasionally on the side of the prostate, may be wounded with fatal result. Where it is necessary to augment still more the opening for the extraction of a large calculus, or one of moderate size in a child, the bladder may be cut in the same line as the prostate, viz., as