DISSECTION OF THE TELVIS. 336 into the uterus close below and before the Fallopian tube. About five inches in length, it is directed outwards from the cavity of the belly through the internal abdominal ring and the inguinal canal to the groin, where it blends with the subdermic areolar tissue. In the abdominal cavity it is invested by the peritoneum ; and in the inguinal canal it is accompanied for a short distance by a process of that membrane, which is sometimes pervious to a small extent. This band consists of fibrous tissue, and of muscular fibres continuous with those of the uterus ; and its office is to assist in supporting the womb. The ovary, F, is an ovalish body, something like the testicle in form, which is situate at the back of the broad uterine fold of the peritoneum, and below the other two appendages. It is whitish in colour, with more or less of an irregular surface ; and it measures about an inch and a half in length in the child- bearing period of life. Its position is horizontal, with the ends directed inwards and outwards : it is attached to the uterus in- ternally by a special fibrous band—ligament of the ovary, Q ; and externally it is connected by one of the fimbriae to the trumpet- shaped mouth of the Fallopian tube. This body contains a spongy substance surrounded by a dense fibrous coat; and the whole is invested by the serous membrane. There is not any excretory canal attached to it, for the Fallopian tube discharges the office of conveyer of its generative products. In the ovary the ova are produced ; and when these small bodies are matured they burst through the external coats, and are received into the pavilion of the Fallopian tube, which grasps the ovary at the time of their escape. The Ligament of the ovary, Q, is a narrow fibrous band uniting the inner end of the ovary with the body of the uterus : it lies below the Fallopian tube in the broad ligament. VISCERAL ARTERIES OF THE PELVIS. The viscera common to both sexes receive similar arteries, and those peculiar to each sex have special vessels.