247 H/EMORRIIOIDAL VESSELS AND NERVES. the anterior part of the vessel appears in Plate xxxi. In this part of its coarse it gives the following branch to the rectum. The inferior hccmorrhoidal artery, b, crosses the centre of the ischio-rectal fossa, and divides near the gut into branches for the supply of the muscles, the integuments, and the fat. One or two of its offsets run forwards to the teguments in fi-ont of the ischio- rectal fossa. The artery may be represented by two pieces, as in the Plate. Fiidic veins. Two veins accompany the pudic artery, and they receive from the ischio-rectal fossa small veins, which are com- panion branches of the hjemorroidal artery. Sciatic artery. Branches, d, of this artery come to the surface round the gluteus : most of them end in the integuments, but some enter the muscular fibres. Veins run with the arteries. Nerves in the posterior fart of the jjerinccum. Nerves from three sources, viz., the sacral, pudic, and small sciatic, are met with in • the ischio-rectal fossa. 1. Anterior superficial periiiEeal. 2. Posterior superficial jierinajal. 3. Inferior hjEmorrlioidal. 4. Brauclies of the small sciatic, 5. Branch of the fourth sacral. 6. Branches of the lower sacral nerves. The ptcdic nerve is ?i branch of the sacral plexus, and accom- panies the artery of the same name, distributing offsets like it for the most part. In the posterior half of the perineeum the nerve lies deeper than the artery (Plate xxxi.), and furnishes the two following branches :— The inferior Immorrlioidal, 3, runs with the artery of the same name across the ischio-rectal fossa, and ends in the external sphincter muscle and the integuments : some offsets are directed forwards to the fore part of the perineeum. The^je?7n(eiz/ Iranch of the pudic, of larger size than the piece of the trunk continued to the penis, furnishes all the remaining nerves of the perinteum. It begins about half way along the fossa, and becoming superficial to the artery splits into cutaneous, muscular, and genital offsets : —