276 DISSECTION OF THE GROIN-. the tumour in the groin some of the accumulated fluid and gaseous contents of the gut. In this proceeding success will be more likely to attend on the efforts of the person wlio is mindful of the position of the internal abdominal ring, and of the obliquity of the inguinal canal, than on the attempts of him who may disregard, or may not be acquainted with those facts. Gentle and general pressure continued perseveriugly will be always more effective than force applied partially and only for a short time, in evacua- ting the contents of the intestine, and in returning the gut into the cavity of the belly. Position of a Truss.—After a hernia has been reduced it must be kept in the abdomen by a truss. In the external inguinal hernia the pad of the truss should close the internal abdominal ring; and it should be applied to a point in the groin half an inch above Poupart's ligament, and about midway between the pubes and the front of the iliac crest. In the other kind of in- guinal hernia (internal) the pad of the truss will occupy a diffe- rent position (p. 281). Stricture.—If the intestine cannot be restored to its natural cavity by the taxis, the contents of the alimentary canal accumu- late in it; and the veins in the wall of the gut being compressed by the edge of the narrowed hole of one of the abdominal rings (generally the internal) are incapable of returning their contents, so that swelling, and mo^e or less complete stagnation of the flow of blood ensue. In this way the intestine may be strictured or strangulated, according to the degree of completeness of the arrest of the circulation. The constriction may be placed at the in- ternal abdominal ring; at the external ring; or more rarely at the lower edge of the internal oblique muscle. The most usual site of stricture is at the internal abdominal ring, and it may be ]iroduGed in two ways:—either it results from a constricting band of fibrous tissue outside the peritoneal sac ; or from a thickening of the peritoneum itself at the neck of the hernia, so as to form a sharp firm band inside the sac, by which the arrest of the circu- lation may be brought about when the fasces accumulate in the intestine and increase its size as before explained. Division of the Stricture.—Division of the band impeding the