EXTERNAL ROTATOR MUSCLES. 386 on one leg, say the right, it will rotate the trunk, turning the face to the opposite side. The obturator miernus, F, arises inside the pelvis, like the pyri- formis, and is attached to nearly the whole inner surface of the obturator membrane, and to the greater part of the inner surface of the hip-bone behind the thyroid hole. The muscle appears through the small sacro-sciatic notch, and passes over the back of the hip-joint to be inserted into the great trochanter, in front of the pyriformis, and into the contiguous part of the neck of the femur. Outside the pelvis the small gemelli muscles lie along the sides of the obturator ; the whole is covered by the gluteus maximus, and is crossed by the sciatic vessels and nerves : underneath is the capsule of the hip-joint—a bursa intervening. In the sacro- sciatic notch the pudic vessels with nerves lie on the muscle ; and the under surface, which is tendinous and divided into pieces as it rests on the bone, is lubricated by a synovial membrane. This muscle being almost parallel to the pyriformis its action is similar on the pendent and elevated femur ; and on the pelvis when supported on both legs or on one. During walking it and the other members of its group assist the gluteus medius and minimus in fixing the pelvis on the supporting limb ; and when the limb is swung forwards it and the other rotators will keep the foot straight. The gemellus siuperior, E, arises from the outer and lower part of the ischial spine, and is inserted with the obturator internus which it joins. The muscle lies above the obturator internus, and is smaller than its fellow : -it is often absent. The gemellus inferior, G, is in contact with the lower border of the obturator internus, and is much larger than the upper ge- mellus. It arises from the lower edge of the groove in the hip- bone for the obturator internus ; and it is inserted into the tro- chanter of the femur with the obturator muscle. These muscles liave the same connections as the extra-pelvic part of the obturator internus, to which they sceu^ to be accessory heads of attachment. The upper intervenes between the obtu- rator and the pyriformis and gluteus minimus, and the lower 0 c