DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 352 10. ratellar branch of the saphe- nous. 11. Internal saphenous nerve. 12. Offset of saphenous to the leg. 13. Superficial part of the obturator. Ilio-inguinal nerve, 1, This small branch of the lumbar plexus has been noticed in page 309 ; and it has been delineated in the preceding Plates. Genito-crural nerve. The crural part, 2, of this nerve issues beneath Poupart's ligament at the spot here indicated, when it is larger than usual; but commonly it lies nearer to the femoral vessels, as shown in Plate xliii., where it is seen to perforate the crural sheath. It comes through the fascia lata near Poupart's ligament, and ramifies in the fat about half way down the thigh. Before or after it pierces the fascia it joins the middle cutaneous nerve, 8 ; and in the body used for the dissection, a junction took place under the fascia lata with the external cutaneous nerve, 3. The external cutaneous nerve, 3, leaves the abdomen beneath the outer end of Poupart's ligament, and becomes subcutaneous about four inches from that band. It extends in the fat as low as the knee, and supplies branches to the outer and hinder parts of the thigh, behind a hue drawn from the front of the iliac crest to the outer edge of the patella. One or two small branches pierce the fascia lata at a point higher than the trunk of the nerve. Anterior crural nerve, 4. This large trunk of the lumbar plexus (p. 309) passes from the abdomen below Poupart's ligament ; and, lying outside the crural sheath, divides into cutaneous and musculai" branches. The superficial branches are the three fol- lowing, viz. the internal and middle cutaneous, and the internal saphenous. The muscular branches are shown in Plate xlvi. The middle cutaneous of the thigh, 8, enters the fat about three inches from Poupart's ligament: it extends to the knee along the centre of the thigh, distributing offsets laterally, and ends in the integuments over the patella. Most commonly the nerve is sub- divided into two ; or there may be two distinct nerves. Internal cutaneous of the thigh, 5. Springing from the anterior crural with the preceding, it descends beneath the fascia lata and along the edge of the sartorius, or under the muscle, as far as