405 VESSELS OF THE BACK OE THE THIGH. tendon, which is inserted into a groove on the inner tuberosity of the head of the tibia, and sends off the three following fibrous processes :—one backwards to join the capsule of the knee-joint; another forwards to blend with the internal lateral ligament of that joint; and a third downwards to unite with the fascia cover- ing the popliteus muscle. At the insertion a small bursa is in- terposed between the tendon and the bone. Crossing beneath the other hamstrings it is hollowed out above to lodge the semitendinosus. Beneath it is the adductor magnus. In the lower third of the thigh it bounds internally the ham, and projects into that hollow so as to cover the popliteal vessels. Between its lower tendon and the inner head of the gastrocnemius is a bursa, which is oftentimes enlarged and contains a thick glairy reddish fluid. Being stronger than the semitendinosus it acts more powerfully in bending the knee-joint, and in rotating inwards the foot, sup- posing the tibia to be the part moved. In the standing posture the pelvis is propped by it and the other hamstrings. In attempts to flex the hip-joint, whilst the knee is kept extended, it can be used to check the elevation of the femur. In concert with ts fellows it will depress and move back the femur, as in walking backwards. After the body has been bent forwards, as in stoop- ing, the muscle will draw down and back the ischial tuberosity, and place the pelvis in the erect position. Adductor magnus. This large fleshy muscle separates the ham- strings, and the nerves and vessels at the back of the thigh, from the femoral vessels and the other adductor muscles. Near the attachment to the lower end of the linea aspera the femoral ves- sels pass from before back through an aperture in it, which is fleshy behind but tendinous in front: this hole is bounded exter- nally by the slip, F, which is fixed for a short distance to the inner condyloid line; and internally by the strong fibres, I, coming from the ischial tuberosity, and ending in a tendon which is fixed to the inner condyle of the femur. VESSELS OF THE BACK OF THE THIGH. Many branches of the profunda artery pierce the adductor