129 DEEP NERVES OF THE ORBIT. ganglion, and the sixth nerve, are met with in the two deeper stages of the dissection of the orbit. On the right side the lenticuLar ganglion is depicted, with the optic nerve ; and the other nerves are visible on the left side. 2. Optic nervo. 3. Third cranial nerve. 4. Fourtli nerve. 5. Fifth cranial nerve. 6. Sixth cranial nerve. 13. Gasserian ganglion. 20. Nasal nerve at its origin. 21. Ujiper branch of the tliird nerve. 22. Lower branch of the third nerve. 23. Nasal nerve leaving the orbit. 24. Inira-trdchlear uei"ve. 25. Louticnlar ganglion. 26. Long root of the lenticular ganglion to the nasal nerve. The optic or second cranial nerve, 2, lies in the middle of the hollow included by the recti muscles, and enters the back of the eyeball rather internal to the centre : it spreads out in the nervous stratum of the retina. Along it the ciliary arteries and nerves are conveyed to the eyeball. The ophthalmic or lenticular ganglion, 25, is a small rather red body, about as large as a pin's head of moderate size, which is situate at the back of the orbit, close to the ophthalmic artery and the optic nerve. Nerves issue from it at four points (angles): two pass backwards, joining other nerves, and these are called roots ; and several nerves are sent forwards to the eyeball along the optic nerve. Posterior branches.—A long slender branch—the long root, 26, joins the nasal nerve, 20. Another thick and short branch—the short root, unites with the third nerve, 22, (right side). Some- times a third offset, between those two, connects the ganglion with tlie sympathetic. The anterior branches or the short ciliary nerves to the eyeball' are about twelve in number, and form two bundles, upper and lower: they are furnished to the ball, and especially to the mus- cular structure in it. The third cranial nerve, 3, splits into two as it is about to enter the orbit between the heads of the outer rectus. Its upper piece, 21, ends in the upper rectus, and in the elevator of the upper eyelid.