238 DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. shaped end in the meatus ; but in the recent state a piece of the lining membrane of the nose is stretched over the aperture forming a valve for it, and leaves only a small oblique passage for the tears. In the Figure the size of the opening, 0, is to be seen. Usually the flap closes the aperture, and prevents air from being driven out of the nose into the lachrymal canals. An instrument entering the duct from below must necessarily injure the valve. One sinus, viz., that of the body of the sphenoid bone, L, does not open into a meatus : its aperture, which is rather large, may be seen on the slanting hinder part of the roof. THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE AND THE BLOODVESSELS. The nmcous membrane, named pituitary and Schneideriau, clothes the cavity, uniting with the periosteum of the bones, and joins the skin in front, and the lining of the pharynx posteriorly. It is continued over the foramina transmitting vessels and nerves into the cavity, so as to close them ; but it sinks into the apertures leading into the sinuses in the surrounding bones, and lines those air spaces, whilst it diminishes somewhat the size of their openings. Through the nasal duct it is continued upwards to the lachrymal sac, and forms below a thin valve, 0, which shuts the opening. In the lower half of the nasal cavity the membrane is thick and vascular, particularly over the septum nasi and the lower spongy bone ; and it increases the surface of the latter by being prolonged from the lower margin. Its epithelium is columnar and ciliated, except in the dilatation near the nostril where it joins the epidermis and is laminar: at this same spot it is pro- vided with papilla, and with long hairs or vibrissas. Large mucous glands abound in the lower part of the nose, and their apertures cover the surface. In the upper part of the nose the mucous layer is less thick and vascular, and is of a yellowish colour. The epithelium is thick, especially over the olfactory region, and is laminar according to Bowman ; though other observers state that it is ciliated at spots, and is columnar. The glands ai-e numerous. In the olfactory region these resemble the sweat-glands of the skin, and