LIGATURE OF POSTEPJOlt TIBIAL. 429 of the great toe. The companion vems and nerve have the same position as above. Size and position of the iranches. Numerous small branches, chiefly muscular, arise at intervals along the artery ; but about one inch and a half from the beginning springs the large pero- neal trunk, and near the ankle-joint a branch of intermediate size (communicating) leaves it. Ligature of the artery. In the living body the artery is not likely to need tying except in the case of a wound of the leg or foot, and reference will be afterwards made to those injuries ; but the placing a ligature on the vessel in the dead body may be practised in both the upper or deep, and the lower or superficial part. In the upper half. Where the posterior tibial is covered by the soleus it may be reached in the following way :—A longitudinal incision about four inches long is to be carried through the in- teguments and deep fascia at the distance of an inch behind the edge of the tibia: * this cut should lie behind the internal saphe- nous vein, and near the edge of the gastrocnemius (Plate Liii.). Should this last muscle come into sight it is to be turned aside, and the soleus, which then appears, is to be cut through for the whole length of the superficial incision; whilst this step is being executed the ankle is to be extended with the view of relaxing the muscle, and as the fleshy fibres are divided an aponeurosis on the under surface shows itself. On carefully cutting through this aponeurotic part, and a thin piece of the deep fascia under it, the blood-vessels will be arrived at immediately beneath, though external to the line of the incision. To find the artery, look for the posterior tibial nerve, which lies on the outer side of, and may be taken as the deep guide to the vessel. Only a very thin sheath encloses the vessels ; and in opening and detaching it care should be taken of the vense comites. * If the cut is made near the edge of the tibia, with the view of separating this muscle from the bone, as is sometimes recommended, the student is apt to detach also the deep flexor of the toes, and to experience some difficiilty in finding the interval between the muscles.