'112 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE THIGH. The external articular branch, 3, leaves the pai-ent trunk high At the upper part of the ham it is placed outside the line of the bloodvessels, but it gradually approaches these near the knee, and conceals them at the lower point of the space. Its offsets are furnished to the knee-joint, and to the teguments and some muscles of the back of the leg : most of them are now seen at their origin. Articular branches. The posterior, 2, arises near the top of the ham, and runs beneath the trunk of the nerve and the popliteal vessels to the back of the knee-joint: piercing the posterior liga- ment, it ends in the synovial membrane. Another branch, lower internal, (Plate Liv.) united with the pre- ceding or leaving the nerve below it, passes under the trunks of the bloodvessels, and accompanies the lower internal articular artery to the joint. Branches of the gastrocnemius, 5. Each head of the muscle receives a separate nerve, and the branch to the outer head supplies an offset to the plantaris muscle. Branch to the' soleus, 6. A rather large nerve, it passes under the gastrocnemius, and enters the top of the soleus (Pate liv.). The short saphciious, 4, is a nerve for the teguments: it lies on the popliteal trunk, and then courses over the gastrocnemius, to become cutaneous below the calf of the leg (Plate liii.). The external popliteal nerve, 13, whilst contained in the ham lies under cover of the biceps muscle; but it leaves the space oppo- site the level of the knee-joint, and proceeds behind the tendon of the same muscle to a little below the head of the fibula, where it ends in branches for the front of the leg. In the part of its course beyond the space it is very superficial, resting on the gastrocnemius and soleus, and being covered by the integuments and fascia of the limb: here the nerve may be struck by a blow or injured by a wound; whilst higher up it is protected by the overhanging biceps, which will serve also as a guide to its position. No muscular branch is furnished to the back of the leg, but like the other popliteal nerve ic gives an articular offset to the knee, and cutaneous to the back of the leg.