160 DTRSECTIOx^ OF THE FRONT OF THE NECK. very little, because the descendens noni nerve, 3, and oifsets of the upper thyroid vessels to the sterno-mastoideus cross the sheath. The sheath is next to be opened towards the inner part—over the artery—avoiding the nerve, and the small vessels if possible ; and after the artery has been separated fi-om its sheath the needle is to be passed under it, whilst the opposite side of the sheath is raised with a pair of forceps. Between the artery and vein lies the vagus nerve: this is not to be included in the ligature, and if the artery has been carefully detached the nerve cannot well be caught. Before tying the thread the operator should ascertain that the pulsation in the vessel can be stopped by pressure. Should the artery be denuded too much, the application of two ligatures may be needful—one at each end of the part laid bare. And should the size of the vein be inconveniently large, it may be diminished by the pressure of the finger of an assistant at the upper part of the wound. In an operation on the left side the vein, from its position over the artery, would have to be turned aside; and this step may be needed also on the right side when the vein covers the artery. In the operation on the dead body the needle will pierce readily the coats of a large loose artery, if force is used; and any check therefore to the progress of the needle in the living body should be met by drawing back the point of the instrument, and by pulling upwards tightly with a forceps the opposite side of the sheath before another attempt is made to pass the ligature. The internal carotid artery, c, is the direct continuation of the common carotid trunk, and enters the skull through the temporal bone (Plate xxiv.). Below the level of the digastric muscle the artery may be reached by the surgeon, but above that muscle it is quite inaccessible. No offset is given from this vessel in the neck. In the accessible part of its course it corresponds with the surface-line of the common carotid. It is covered, like that vessel, by the sterno-mastoideus, and rests on the spine;—at this spot it lies external or posterior to the external, carotid trunk. The internal jugular vein, and the vagus and sympathetic nerves,