DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 280 brane of the larynx as low as the true vocal cord ; and by its extreme sensibility it guards the upper part of the passage against the entrance of anything but the air. As soon as a particle of food or drink touches the lining membrane, the respiratory muscles are called into play by a reflex act, and the foreign body is ex- pelled by coughing. In the attempt to breathe an irrespirable gas the passage is closed by the contraction of the surrounding muscles, also through a reflex act. When the nerve is cut across in an animal during life the sensibility of the part is lost, and food may enter the larynx. To the crico-thyroideus muscle, which it supplies alone, it gives motor influence as well as sensibility; and to the arytcenoideus, to which with the recurrent it furnishes off'sets, it imparts only sensibility. The inferior laryngeal or recuri'ent nerve, 5, ascends over the side of the cricoid cartilage, and ends in muscular offsets beneath the thyroid. At first the nerve supplies branches to the mucous membrane of the pharynx, and the communicating branch, 6, which joins the upper laryngeal under the thyroid cartilage. The continuation of the nerve, 7, then terminates in branches for muscles :—one belongs to the crico-arytfeuoideus posticus, R; a second, which passes beneath the preceding muscle, enters the arytsenoideus, Y; and another gives nerves to the crico- aryta3noideus lateralis, Q, and the thyro-arytsenoideus, P. In short, the nerve supplies all the special laryngeal muscles except the crico-thyroideus, Y, which receives the external laryngeal branch of the superior laryngeal nerve.* The recurrent is the motor nerve of the muscles acting on the * Anatomists are silent for the most part respecting tlie nerve to the muscle here called depressor of the epiglottis ; but Mr. Hilton states (Guy's Hospital Reports, vol. 2, 1837) as the result of " repeated aud careful dissections " that it is supplied from the recurrent nerve by means of two filaments which are prolonged from the branch of the same nerve to the thyro-arytsenoideus. Neither in my own dissections, nor in those of Mr. P. B. Mason and Mr. J. S. Cluff, formerly Demonstrators of Anatomy, could any separate branch bo traced fiom the recurrent nerve to the muscle. Mr. Cluff made six special exaniinations of the human larynx, one of tlie larynx of a donkey, and one of the larynx of a cat.