THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY AND ITS BRANCHES. 169 From the position of the branches, the connections, and the difterence in the depth of the ends of the subclavian trunk, the third or external part, l, will be best suited for ligature on account of its comparative freedom from any branch, and its easily accessible position. As the second part gives origin commonly to but one branch it may admit of being tied under some circum- stances. Whilst the inner or first part is so beset by branches as not to possess commonly an interval sufficient for the apphcation of a ligature without secondary hemorrhage. On the left side the complicated connections forbid the attempt to put a thread on the first part. Ligature. The steps of the operation for securing the artery in the third part, or beyond the scalenus, have been detailed at p. 141. Should the less usual operation of tying the second part of the artery be resorted to, the clavicular piece of the sterno-mastoideus and the anterior scalenus would have to be cut through. In dividing the scalenus great care should be taken of the phrenic nerve, 3, on its front. Ordinarily the external jugular vein lies outside the scalenus : with the position here taken it would need to be cut through, and the ends would require to be tied. Branches of the siibclavian artery. At their origin the branches are concealed by the jugular vein and the anterior scalenus, but in Plate xxiv. most may be seen. From the first part come the vertebral, the thyroid axis, and the internal mammary; and fi-om the second part, the upper intercostal, with a small branch to the spinal canal (Quain). 1. The t;erfe&r«/is the first branch, and ascends to the brain through the apertures in the six upper cervical vertebr£e. 2. The thyroid axis, a short thick trunk, splits into the three following;—Inferior thyroid, d. This is a tortuous artery, and ends in the thyroid body : an oflFset, the ascending cervical, f, lies between the anterior scalenus and the larger anterior rectus, sup- plying offsets to both, and to the spinal canal. The transverse cervical, h, crosses the scalenus, and ends under the trapezius by dividing into two. The supra-scapular, I, courses along the clavicle to the scapula, on the dorsum of wliich it ramifies.