287 CRUKAL RING AND OBTURATOR HOLE. flexed aud extended the influence of the state of the limb on the margins of the ring will be perceived; for laxness of Poupart's and Gimbernat's ligament will be induced by raising the thigh, and tightness of those bands will follow straighteuing of the limb. The ring is filled by a lymphatic gland, and transmits lymph- vessels from the thigh to.the abdomen. Towards the cavity of the belly it is closed by the strata of the peritoneum and subperi- toneal fat. But the subperitoneal layer is thickened over the crural ring, and is projected downwards into that aperture, making thus a partition between the limb and the abdomen ; and from this arrangement the term septum crurale was applied to it by M. Cloquet, Vessels occupy the outer side and the fi'ont of the ring. In the former situation is the iliac vein, I. ■ In the latter lie a small pubic branch, /, of the epigastric vessels, and deeper amongst the muscles, the spermatic vessels of the testis. Occasionally the obturator artery, g, arises from the epigastric, c, above the ring, and descends into the pelvis close to the iliac vein, and along the outer part of the ring. With the same origin it may com'se to the pelvis along the base of Gimbernat's ligament, at the inner part of the ring: when it thus occupies the inner side, the ring will be encompassed by vessels except at the back. OUurator or subjpuUc aperture. Below the brim of the pelvis is a third aperture, which transmits from the abdomen the obtu- rator vessels and nerve. It is a small oblique canal at the upper part of the thyroid foramen; and it is bounded partly by bone, and partly by the obturator membrane and muscles. Like the two apertures before described, it is separated from the cavity of the abdomen by the peritoneum and the subperitoneal fat. Occasionally a piece of intestine leaves the abdomen through this hole, forming an obturator hernia. In such a case the tumour would be clothed by the peritoneum and the subperitoneal fat, like the other hernias, and it would finally escape into the thigh under the pectineus muscle. "Very commonly small pellets of fat from the subperitoneal layer project through the aperture.