DISSECTION OF THE GROIN. 266 abdominal ring they are stronger than elsewhere, and to the thickened band in that situation the name " intercolumnar " is given. In this band the fibres form arches with the concavity up, and are prolonged downwards and outwards to Poupart's ligament. By their transverse position they unite together the diverging slender threads of the aponeurosis of the oblique ; and passing the pillars of the abdominal ring they give strength to that part so weakened by the existence of a large hole. The spermatic cord, E, reaches from the testicle to the cavity of the abdomen, and passes obliquely through the groin (Plate xxxiv.). It consists of the vessels, nerves, lymphatics, and excretory duct of the testicle, which are surrounded by coverings derived from the abdominal wall and the scrotum. As it lies in the external abdominal ring it rests upon the outer pillar, and receives the thin intercolumnar covering from the margin of that opening. A hernia escaping through the external ring will be superficial to the cord, and will descend within the covering derived from the margin. Cutaneous vessels. Several small arteries with companion veins issue through apertures in the aponeurosis of the external oblique ; these are distinct from the cutaneous vessels of the groin before described (p. 262), which belong to the femoral trunks. Five small arteries appear near the middle line, and are derived from the epigastric in the abdominal wall: another is placed near the iliac crest of the hip-bone, and comes from the circumflex iliac artery.—A branch, larger than the rest, though like them un- named, issues through the abdominal ring with the cord, and ends in the integuments of the scrotum and upper and inner parts of the thigh. Cutaneous nerves accompany most of the arteries. Cutaneous nerves. The nerves are more constant than the vessels in their position and distribution, and some of them are named : they perforate the aponeurosis of the external oblique. 1. Cutaneous part of the ilio- inguinal. 2. Ending of the ilio-hypogastric. 3. Cutaneous endiugs of the dorsal nerves.