220 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. lages; and outside and below these the lower cornua of the thyroid cartilage rest on it. Internally it is smooth and is ' lined by mucous membrane; and externally muscles are attached to it. The part of the larynx enclosed by this cartilage is quite inex- tensible; and by means of the great depth of the cricoid behind, the arytjBnoid cartilages are raised to the height needful for the attachment of the vocal cords to them. The aryicBnoid cartilages are something like a pitcher in shape, and are placed at the back of the larynx. Each is pyramidal in form, with the base resting on the upper border of the cricoid cartilage, and the apex blending with the cartilage of Santorini, T. Narrow and smooth internally or towards its fellow, it is widened and rough externally where muscles are inserted into it. Fig. ii., H. Its posterior part is hollowed, and lodges the arytenoid muscle; and from its fore part projects a spur into which the Tocal cord, 0, is fixed. This is the most moveable of the laryngeal cartilages ; and as the vocal cord and most of the muscles altering the condition of that cord are connected with it, the production and modification of the voice are influenced by its position. The remaining small cartilages do not take part in the produc- tion of the voice, though they may assist in modifying the same after it is formed, and they are therefore of secondary import. Five in number, the chief of them acts as a valve to the upper opening of the larynx, and is called epiglottis: the others are two pairs, one being named cartilages of Santorini, and the second, cartilages of Wrisberg. The cartilages of Santorini, T, (cornicula laryngis) are placed on the tops of the aryta^noid cartilages. "Wide below they gradually taper above, the points bending towards each other. They bound posteriorly the upper laryngeal opening; and, enveloped by the mucous membrane, serve for the attachment of the folds, U, bounding laterally that opening. The cartilages of Wrisierg, K, Fig. ii. (cuneiform cartilages), are placed in front of the cornicula one in each arytjeno-epiglottid fold U. Each resembles a grain of rice in shape and size. The