CONNECTIONS OF THE SALIVAKY GLANDS. fascia would be destroyed by the deeper dissection, these will be noticed below. H. Stylo-hyoideus. The sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, B, incases somewhat the nar- rowed part of the neck by the elongation of its edges forwards ' and backwards. The anterior curved border is manifest in the Drawing, and it is kept in this position by a piece of fascia, N, which is attached to the lower jaw. The muscle covers the carotid bloodvessels as high as the digastricus, and even when the head is thrown backwards. In the operation of tying the common carotid artery the muscle would have to be dissected back for some distance before the line of the vessel is reached ; and pressure on the artery must be made through the muscle. This fleshy covering gives protection to the large vessels; and these cannot be injured in wounds of the neck unless the muscle is cut. Deep cervical fascia. The special fascia of the neck invests the muscles with sheaths. Most of it has been removed in cleaning the muscles; but a strong process marked, N, has been left for the purpose of showing its connection on the one hand with the stemo-mastoideus, and on the other with the angle of the lower jaw. The oflBce of this piece is to keep curved the anterior border of the sterno-mastoideus, for as soon as it is cut the edge takes a straight direction, as in Plate xvii. CONNECTIONS OF THE SALIVARY GLANDS. On each side there are three salivary glands in contact with the lower jaw. One is lodged behind the ramus and angle of the bone, and is named parotid: an(^ther is partly covered by the side of the jaw—the submaxillary ; and the third, the sublingual, lies beneath the front of the tongue. A. Plat,ysma myoides, cut. B. Steruo-cloido-mastoidoiis. C. Thyro-liyoideus. D. Omo-hyoidous. E. Stemo-hyoideus. F. Anterior belly of the digastric J. Hyoid bone. K. Submaxillary gland. L, Parotid gland. N. Process of the deep cervical fascia fixing the sterno-mas- muscle. toideus. t Lymphatic glands.