DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE ARM. 66 motic vessel of the back of the arm, and con-esponds with the profunda artery of the femoral trunk in the thigh. Springinj? from the brachial, near the axilla, it is the largest offset of that vessel, and winds behind the humerus in the hollow separating the inner and outer heads of the triceps, as far as the ontfir side of the limb, where it ends in muscular, anastomotic, and cuta- ♦ neons offsets. The muscular Iranches supply the three heads of the triceps, viz., the long head, A, the external, C, and the internal, D. A second artery enters the long head from the brachial trunk. The anastomotic offsets, three in number, spring from the end of the profunda. One, i, variable in size, accompanies the musculo- spiral nerve to the front of the arm, and communicates with the radial recurrent. A second,/, runs on the intermuscular septum to the outer condyle, and anastomoses with a branch, g, of the radial recurrent, and with a branch, h, of the recuiTent interos- seous ; and the third artery, 7c, descends in the triceps to the hollow between the outer condyle and the olecranon, and entering the anconeus, G-, joins in the last muscle with the recurrent of the interosseous. The cutaneous offsets, two or three in number, pass out with nerves to the integuments, and are derived, for the most part, fi'om the branch, /. The posterior circumflex arterxj enters under the deltoid muscle (Plate v.). From the part of the artery now visible spring the branch to the teres minor, I, and the offsets to the integuments and the deltoid, m, and n. The usual companion veins run with the arteries, though they are not included in the Plate ; those with the profunda artery join a brachial vein ; and the circumflex veins open into the axillary trunk. NERVES OF THE BACK OF THE ARM. The nerves correspond in the main with the vessels. With the profunda is situate the large musculo-spiral nerve, distributing branches to the triceps and the integuments ; and by the side of