3 MUSCLES OF THE THORAX AND ARM. the axillary vessels to join the pectoralis major, the fascia of the arm, or the coraco-brachialis muscle. The teres major, D, lies behind the latissimus, by which it is partly concealed. Attached below to the scapula, it is inserted into the humerus beneath the broad muscle of the back, C. The three muscles, pectoralis major, latissimus, and teres, con- verging from the trunk and scapula to the upper part of the arm- bone, will approximate the raised moveable limb to the trunk when they act simultaneoualy; and the limb will be moved forwards or backwards in accordance with the preponderating power of the pectoral or of the two others. Their action may occasion disloca- tion of the humerus under the following circumstances. In falling, with the arm outstretched, the elbow comes into contact with the ground, and renders the lower end of the humerus immoveable; and if the muscles then act suddenly and forcibly they will draw down the upper end of the bone, which is free to move, and bring it into the axilla. The serratus magnus, F, shuts out the ribs from the axilla, as it is directed backwards from the chest to the scapula. Its separate slips of origin from the ribs (serrations) are marked by the passage between them of nerves, and here and there of small vessels. The siibscapularis, H, fills the hollow of the scapula and excludes this bone from the axilla. The upward and outward direction of its fibres over the shoulder joint is indicated in the Figure. For a description of the muscle, see the explanation of Plate ii. The arm muscles are the coraco-brachialis, K, and biceps, L, in front of the humerus, and the triceps, N, behind that bone. The share taken by th^e two last muscles in the outline of the limb may be seen in the Drawing: their anatomy will be studied in other dissections. The coraco-brachialis, K, attached as the name expresses, is displayed fully in Plate ii. As here seen, it is partly sub- cutaneous, and lies partly beneath the pectoralis major. The swell of the muscle is felt readily through the teguments, and serves as the surgeon's guide to the axillary artery along its inner edge. n 2