DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOREAKM. 102 At the fi'onfc of the phalanx this expansion divides into three,* S : of these, the central part is fixed into the second phalanx at the base: while the two lateral pieces join, and are inserted as one, T, into the base of the last phalanx. Opposite each phalangeal joint a fibrous expansion is continued from the tendon to the capsule : on the first joint this is indicated by the letter E. When straightening the fingers the muscle extends the joints from root to tip, separating the digits at the same time ; it acts secondarily as an extensor of the wrist. If the elbow has been bent, it can become an extensor, like the other muscles which take origin by the common tendon. The extensor minimi digiti, F, more or less united with the pre- ceding, is sometimes tendinous in the upper third of the forearm, as is shown in the Plate. Arising by the common attachment, its tendon is divided into two beyond the annular ligament, and the pieces blend on the first phalanx with the other tendons. The muscle extends the little finger, and exercises afterwards. the same action on the wrist joint. Extensor carpi ulnaris, Gr. "With the common origin above, the muscle is fiixed also by aponeurosis to the ulna for three inches below the anconeus, H. Passing through the annular ligament, it has a tendinous insertion into the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. The hand is drawn backwards and to the nlnar side by this muscle. Anconeus, H. This, the smallest of the superficial muscles, arises from the hinder and lower parts of the condyle of the humerus, and chiefly by a separate tendon. The fibres give rise to a belly of a triangular shape as they are directed downwards and inwards to their insertion into the upper third of the ulna, on the posterior surface. Some of the upper fleshy fibres seem con- tinuous with the fibres of the triceps. Inserted into the ulna it will draw backwards this bone—the * In the natural state a thiu membrane connects the pieces of the tendon, but this was removed in the dissection to render more evident the arrange- ment above described.