DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 296 through; and it will be reduced in size by the contraction of the fleshy fibres. The opening for the vena cava (for. quadratum) lies on the right of the oesophagean, and higher than it. It is situate in the central tendon near the back part. Its margins blend with the coat of the vein, except on the inner side; and its size will not be diminished during the contraction of the fleshy fibres of the diaphragm. It gives passage to the vena cava inferior, and some areolar tissue. I The aortic opening is rather behind than in the diaphragm, and is opposite the last dorsal vertebra. Laterally it is bounded by the pillars of the diaphragm ; and in front by a narrow tendinous band which intervenes between the crura. Through it pass the aorta, the thoracic duct, and the large azygos vein, with areolar tissue. T^hs. fissure for the splanchnic nerves (Plate xxxvii.) lies in the fleshy part of the crus, and transmits on the right side the splanchnic nerves. Through that on the left side, besides the three corresponding nerves, passes the small azygos vein. The psoas magnus muscle, K, occupies the loins, and leaves the abdomen beneath Poupart's ligament to be attached to the femm- with the iliacus. The muscle arises from the bodies of the lumbar vertebree and then- intervertebral substance; from the body of the last dorsal; and from the transverse processes in the loins by aponeurotic slips. Inferiorily it ends in a tendon, which is continued to the Lhigh, and is inserted into the small trochanter of the femur. The psoas lies beneath the kidney and the ureter and the sper- matic vessels. At the attachment to the lumbar vertebra fibrous arches span over the lumbar vessels; and along its inner edge below the spinal column rest the external iliac vessels. The outer edge overlays the quadratus lumborum, I, and the iliacus, L, and some nerves of the lumbar plexus. If the femur is fi'ee to be moved this muscle will raise it towards the abdomen, bending the hip-joint; and afterwards will rotate out the limb. "When the limb is immovable, as when it supports the weight of the body, the muscle will draw forwaids