422 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE LEG. it is crossed near the ending by the small tendon of the plan- taris, and its point of splitting into the tibials is concealed by the soleus, J. Beneath it lies the popliteus, L Superficial and close to the artery is the popliteal vein, which gradually inclines inwards, so as to be placed altogether inside at the lower border of the popliteus. The internal popliteal nerve, coursing along the blood-vessel, changes its position to the artery in the same manner as the vein ; for opposite the back of the knee-joint it lies between the vessel and the surface, but is internal to the artery at the lower border of the popliteus. Branches. From this part of the popliteal arise the lower muscular offsets, and the lower pair of articular arteries. The loiver muscular Iranches are furnished to the muscles of the calf, viz., gastrocnemius, soleus, and plantaris. Branches to the gastrocnemius, c and d. Two in number, they are named, commonly, sural. The artery, c, enters the inner fleshy belly of the muscle ; and the vessel, d, ramifying in the outer belly, gives a small offset to the plantaris. Branch to the soleus, i. Accompanying the nerve of the same name, it pierces the upper part of its muscle at the cutaneous aspect. , The lower pair of articular arteries are directed, one outwards, the other inwards, to the front of the knee-joint. The outer, e, runs above the head of the fibula and beneath the external lateral ligament to the outer part of the knee, where it anastomoses with the other articular arteries over the joint. The inn&r, f, lying at a lower level than its fellow, passes beneath the internal lateral ligament to the inner side of the articulation, and terminates like the other. A small articular nerve takes the same course. The 2}oj}liteal vein, h, begins by the union of the anterior and posterior tibial veins at the spot where the artery ends. Internal to the artery at first, it becomes afterwards superficial, aud then external, as before said. The branches joining it in this part are companions to those of the artery.