328 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. nearly as possible along the upper edge of the vesicula seminalis, and below the attachment of the lateral ligament of the recto- vesical fascia. To me it appears safer to cut that viscus in a direction the most desirable, than to leave it to tear in a less favourable direction under the influence of the force used, as it is said, for the dilatation of the prostate. Stricture of the ui'ethra is mo&t common at the fore part of the curve where the tube is covered by the ejaculator urina3 muscle ; it has its seat but seldom in the membranous part, and is rare in the prostatic part of the canal. In rupture of any part of the urethral curve the urine will find its way to the scrotum and penis. If the accident is situated at the fore part, in front of the triangular ligament, the fluid will be coufiued and directed forwards by the superficial fascia (p. 250). If the urine escapes between the layers of the ligament, it will move forwards in consequence of the anterior layer of that struc- ture being less resisting than the posterior. And even when the prostatic part is broken through, the urine will be directed for- wards to the triangular ligament as long as the sheath of fascia around the prostate is entire, and then onwards along the mem- branous part of the tube. yiSCERAL ARTERIES OF THE PELVIS. The visceral arteries are furnished from different sources :— Those for the bladder, and the generative organs beneath it are derived from the internal iliac artery ; and those for the rectum come mainly from the inferior mesenteric artery—a branch of the aorta. a. Common iliac arteiy. b. Common iliac vein. c. GUiterated hypogastric. fl. Inferior vesical artery. e. Branch to vesicula and prostate. /. Branch to the bladder. (/. Middle vesical artery. 7i. Upper vesical artery. i. Upper haemorrhoidal artery. Branches of upper hajmo- rrhoidal artery. m. Gluteal artery, cut. 2). Sciatic arteiy, cut. r. Branch to levator ani, cut. The vesical arteries are two or three in number: when there