61 AKTERIES OF THE ARM AND SHOULDER. Achillis in the leg. Also some of the lower fleshy fibres will be broken through by the humerus being forced fi-ora the tendon. By the action of the triceps, fracture of the lower end of the humerus near the elbow may be made to resemble the dislocation above noticed; for the lower end of the bone entering into the elbow-joint is forced upwards behind the rest of the shaft by the contracting muscle, and the olecranon is rendered more than usually prominent. But the nature of the injury may be made out by attention to the place of the olecranon:—in a dislocation this point of bone projects much beyond, and is higher than the condyles of the humerus; but in fracture of the bone it is not more prominent with respect to the condyles than in the other limb, and it retains its usual position on a level with them. Deltoid muscle, F.—At the origin of this muscle from the spine of the scapula it is tendinous behind, and blends with the fascia covering the infra-spinate muscle. The hinder part of the muscle has been turned forwards to allow a sight of the circumflex vessels and nerve beneath. Latissimiis clorsi, B.—The muscle has been cut and thrown down as it crosses the angle of the scapula; the extent to which it covers that point of bone, and the rhomboideus major and teres major muscles, may be observed. ARTERIES OF THE ARM AND SHOULDER. The trunk of the brachial artery and some of its ofi'sets are met with in the dissection of the back of the arm. Branches of the axillary artery are distributed to the shoulder. a. Dorsal scapular artery. b. Circumflex artery. c. Muscular ofi'set of the superior profunda artery. d. Muscular branch of the brachial. e. Trunk of the brachial. /. Muscular branch of the brachial. g. Inferior profunda artery. The IracMal artery, e, is visible from behind where it lies inside the humerus, but it disappears below by passing in front of the arm bone. Contiguous to the upper part of the artery is the triceps muscle, viz., the middle head, H, and the inner head, Gr.