81 AUTEEIES OF THE FOEEARM. a. Bi-achial .artery. b. Radial arteiy. c. Ulnar artery. d. Anterior carpal branch of the c. Superlicial volar branch. cf. Posterior ulnar recurrent branch. k. Anterior interosseoua. n. Median artery. radial trunk. The ulnar artery, e, tends to the inner side of the limb, and enters the palm of the hand in front (Plate x.). It keeps the name " ulnar" from the bifurcation of the brachial trunk to the lower border of the annular ligament, X. The artery has a curved course in the forearm, being directed inwards in the upper part, but taking a straight direction at the lower part. A line on the surface, to mark the straight part of the artery, should be drawn from the inner condyle of the humerus to the inner side of the pisiform bone. The vessel is covered by muscles in the upper half of the forearm, but becomes more superficial below. In the deep part of its course, viz., between the origin and the meeting with the flexor carpi ulnaris, G, the artery is curved with the convexity upwards. It is covered by the superficial layer of muscles except the flexor carpi ulnaris; and it rests firstly on the lower part of the brachialis anticus, B, and afterwards on the flexor profundus digitorum, L. Companion veins are ranged on. its sides, with communicating branches over it. The median nerve, 1, is placed inside the ulnar artery for about an inch; it then crosses over, and leaves that vessel in the fore- arm. The ulnar nerve, 3, approaches the artery about half way between the wrist and elbow-joints, from which point it is situate inside, and close to the vessel. The loiver half of the artery lies along the flexor carpi ulnaris, G, by which it is overlapped (Plate viii.) ; and it is therefore more deeply placed than the con-esponding part of the radial blood- vessel. On its outer side are the tendons of the flexor sublimis digitorum, P (Plate viii.), and it lies on the flexor digitorum profundus, L. The companion veins join together freely over the artery, and the ulnar nerve, 3, is in contact with it on the inner side. G