DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 310 pelvis, and serves as the connecting nerve between this and the lumbar plexus. Before the cord joins the first sacral nerve it gives origin to the upper gluteal nerve, 16 ; this branch passes out of the pelvis through the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic notch with the gluteal artery and vein, and is distributed to muscles on the back of the pelvis. Sacral nerves. Five in number like the lumbar nerves, they decrease in size from above down. Four of them issue from the spinal canal through the apertures in the front of the sacrum, and the fifth or last comes between the sacrum and the coccyx. The three highest, and part of the fourth, enter the sacral plexus; but the rest of the fourth joins the fifth nerve, and terminates in mus- cular and visceral branches. The fifth sacral joins the coccygeal nerve, and ends on the back of the coccyx. The sacral plexus, 25, is formed chiefly by the union of the three upper sacral nerves with part of the fourth, as before said ; and it is further joined by the large lumbo-sacral cord, 24, from above. Its component nerves blend together in a flat band, which rests on the pyriformis muscle. Its branches are numerous:—Some belong to the external rotator muscles, and will be dissected with the buttock ; others are prolonged to the back of the limb ; and one is distributed to the perinseum. Last dorsal nerve, 17. This lies below the last rib, and appears in the abdomen after passing through or beneath the external arched ligament, with its accompanying vessels. After a distance of about three inches, it pierces the posterior tendon of the trans- versalis muscle (fascia lumborum), and terminates in the abdo- minal wall. A separate small abdominal branch arises from the nerve before this leaves the abdomen. KNOTTED CORD OP THE SYMPATHETIC. In the abdomen the sympathetic consists of plexuses in front of the vertebral column, for the supply of the viscera; and of two gangliated cords, one on each side of the spine, which join the