161 ARTERIES OF THE FRONT OF THE NECK. have the same position to the internal, as to the common carotid artery. Crossing the artery superficially is the hypoglossal nerve, 14, which sends down the descendeus noni branch, 3; and beneath it the superior laryngeal nerve, 1, is directed inwards. The occipital artery, g, runs backwards over it, commonly near the digastric muscle, but sometimes lower down as in the Figure: a branch of this supplies the sterno-mastoideus. Ligature. If this artery is ever tied it should be secured as far from its origin as it well can be ; and a point between the hyoid bone and the digastric muscle may be selected as the most suitable. But the part of the artery available may be very short in conse- quence of the common carotid ascending as far as, or farther than the OS hyoides before it splits. Should the forked ending of the common trunk be found in an operation, both the resulting arteries may be secured at their origin. Occasionally the ending of the common carotid rises still nearer to the head, and in those cases no part of the internal carotid will be below the digastric muscle. The spot for the application of the ligature being well ascer- tained by means of the digastric muscle, the hyoid bone, and the line of the artery, the first steps of the operation, and the parts to be cut through are the same as those before given for ligature of the common carotid. After the sterno-mastoid muscle has been reflected the hypoglossal nerve and the occipital artery, with their branches, may be met with. When laying bare the artery care must be taken of the external carotid trunk on the one side, and of the internal jugular vein on the other ; and in passing the aneurism needle the same precautions are to be observed as in the case of the common carotid (p. 159). The external carotid artery, reaches from the upper border of the thyroid cartilage nearly to the neck of the lower jaw, and ends by dividing into temporal and maxillary branches. It is smaller than the internal carotid; and it distributes branches to the neck, and the outer parts of the head. At first it is placed on the anterior or inner side of the internal carotid, but after- wards becomes superficial to that vessel. M