TIBIALIS ANTICUS MUSCLE. 459 MUSCLES OF THE FRONT OF THE LEG. Two groups of muscles come into view in this Illustration : an anterior which bends the ankle and extends the toes; and a lateral for the extension of the ankle. Anterior group of muscles. Between tJie tibia and fibula are lodged two flexors of the ankle (tibialis and peroneus tertius); and between them are situate the long extensor of the toes and the special extensor of the great toe. On the dorsum of the foot lies the short extensor of the toes. The tibialis anticus, A, is the widest and most internal muscle of the group. Its origm is fixed to the upper half or rather more of the outer surface of the tibia, and to the contiguous part of the interosseous membrane—the membranous attachment reaching rather lower dowa than the osseous. In the lower third of the leg the muscle acquires a tendon, and passing through a sheath in each part of the annular ligament, is inserted into the inner surface of the internal cuneiform bone, and the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. In contact with the fascia throughout, the muscle is inseparably united with it by an aponeurosis at the upper part. It rests on the tibia and the interosseous membrane, covering the spine of that bone in the lower third of the leg ; and lies over the ankle joint and the tarsus. Its outer border touches the extensor digi- lorum and extensor poUicis, and is the guide to the anterior tibial vessels. In the annular ligament the tendon is surrounded by a synovial sac which reaches nearly to the insertion. With the foot free to be moved the muscle will bend the ankle and caiTy inwards the great toe ; it can also raise the inner border of the foot, dj'awing inwards this part. The foot being fixed, as A. Tibialis anticus. B. Extensor longus digitorum. C. Extensor longus poUicis. D. Peroneus tertius. F. Extensor brevis digitorum. H. Peroneus longus. I. Peroneus brevis. J. Upper part of annular liga- ment. K. Lower part of annular ligament. N. External annular ligament. 0. Sheaths for the peronei.