294 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. convex, and the lower concave. In contact with tlie upper are the viscera and membranes of the thorax ; and the lower, clothed by the peritoneum, touclies the larger viscera in the abdominal cavity. Three lai-ge tubes—two for the conveyance of blood (aorta and cava), and one of the food (oesophagus)—pass through the muscle ; and smaller apertures for the ti-ansit of vessels and nerves exist on each side. In the dead body the muscle is arched higher on the sides than in the centre, and the, bulge on the right is higher than that on the left. The right curve ascends as high as the upper border of the cartilage of the fifth rib near the sternum, and the left reaches in like manner to the level of the sixth rib. By the action of this muscle the cavities of the ab- domen and thorax are enlarged and diminished, and the viscera are compressed and relaxed alternately. During contraction or shortening of the fibres the muscle moves down slightly in the cavity of the abdomen, diminishing this space and enlarging the thorax ; and as the fleshy or lateral part moves more than the central or tendinous the whole muscle resembles in form a flat-roofed tent. In consequence of an increase in the size of the thorax during its contraction it acts as an inspiratory muscle. By the descent above indicated the viscera in the upper part of the abdomen are forced down ; and if the diaphragm be fixed in that position, whilst the abdominal muscles are contracted, the viscera will be compressed between the two, and the contents of some may be expelled. When the shortened fibres relax and lengthen the muscle is moved one rib higher on both sides than its level in the dead body; and it diminishes in this way the cavity of the thorax, whilst it increases pj-oportionally that of the abdomen. By causing a decrease in the cavity of the thorax it becomes an ex- piratory muscle. In its ascent the viscera of the thorax are raised, especially the heart, and those in the abdomen regain their usual place. Named imtIs of the muscle. These are three, viz., the central tendon, the pillars, and the arched ligaments. The central tendon, not attached to bone, is a thin aponeurotic layer, which is shaped like a trefoil leaf, and has been called