277 VAEIETIES OF EXTERNAL HERNIA. return of the intestine is to be effected by the operation for hernia. Tlie-seat of stricture cannot be .ascertained beforehand, but as it is placed most frequently at the internal abdominal ring the incisions are planned with the view of laying bare the neck di" the hernia ; and as there arc two kinds of stricture—one outside, the other inside the sac of the hernia, the mode of proceeding will vary with each. All iibrous bands outside the neck of the sac are fii-st divided in an operation, and an endeavour is to be then made to push back gently the intestine into the abdomen; but if the gut cannot be passed through the narrowed aperture with the employment of moderate force, the peritoneal sac is to be opened below the neck, and the constricting band is to be cut from within out on a director introduced beneath it in a longitu- dinal direction. Should the operator ascertain that the stricture is not situate at the internal abdominal ring, he must seek it lower down at the border of the internal oblique, or at the external abdominal ring, as before said. Supposing the constriction to be present at one of those spots, an attempt should be made in the first instance to relieve the intestine after the manner above explained, and with- out opening the peritoneal sac. Varieties of external hernia.—Differences in the state of the peritoneal covering or sac of this hernia give' origin to two varieties. Usually these occur in the male infant, and child ; but they may be present in the adult male if the peritoneum has the same arrangement as in infancy, in consequence of an arrest in the changes commonly ensuing on the passage of the testicle. One of the two varieties is called congenital, and the other infantile hernia. Congenital inguinal hernia differs from the ordinary external hernia in not protruding as a covering for itself a piece of peri- toneum to form the sac. In this kind the intestine descends in the unclosed peritoneal pouch (processus vaginalis peritonei) which accompanied the testicle at the time of passage from the abdomen to the scrotum ; and consequently it touches the testicle, reaching downwards in front of, and below that viscus. Its coverings are similar to those of an ordinary external hernia,