856 DISSECTION OP THE THIGH. superficial lymphatics near Poupart's ligament; upwards they are continued into the abdomen. SURFACE MUSCLES OF THE FKONT OF THE THIGH. Only one muscle—the sartorius, A, is completely laid bare in the surface view of the fore and inner parts of the thigh. Inside or above the sartorius are two groups of muscles, the flexors of the hip and adductors of the thigh ; and outside the sartorius lies the extensor group of the knee. Altogether at the upper and outer part appears a small muscle (tensor vaginaB femoris), which belongs to the abductor or gluteal set of muscles. A. Sartorius muscle. B. Tendon of tlie sartorius. C. Tensor vaginae femoris, D. Iliaeus muscle. E. Eectus femoris. F. Vastus internus. G. Pectineus muscle. H. Adductor longus. I. Gracilis muscle. J. Tendon of adductor magnus. X. Spot for ligature of tlie femoral artery. The sartorius, A, is the longest muscle in the body. It crosses obliquely the thigh from the hip-bone on the outer side to the tibia on the inner, and lies in a hollow between the adductors of the thigh and extensors of the knee. The muscle is narrow at its origin, and is attached to the upper iliac spinous process, and to half the notch between the two spinous processes. The fibres form a thin widened belly on the thigh, and end below in a short flat tendon, B, which is inserted into the inner surface of the tibia near the tubercle : from the upper border of the tendon one expansion is continued to the knee-joint capsule, and from the lower border another is pro- longed to the fascia of the leg. The sartorius conceals the greater part of the femoral yessels, and the branches of the anterior crural nerve. It rests on the following muscles :—along the inner edge, from above down, come the iliaeus, D, pectineus, G, adductor longus, H, gracilis, I, and the inner hamstrings ; and along the outer edge are the tensor vaginae femoris, C, rectus, E, vastus internus, F, and tendon of the adductor magnus, J. Just above the knee it