222 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. Between the arytmioicl and cricoid cartilages there is a very moveable joint with a fibrous capsule suiTounding the articular surfaces, and a synoyial membrane lubricating them. In this joint the arytjenoid cartilage can slide on the cricoid forwards and backwards, and inwards and outwards; and further, when the arytfenoid is controlled by the muscles tending to draw it in op- posite directions, it can be rotated round a vertical axis so as to move the anterior spur outwards and inwards. The condition of the vocal cord, 0, is altered by the movements of the cartilage. Thus it is relaxed when the arytasnoid is carried forwards, and is tightened when the same is moved backwards; and the distance of the cords from one another will be increased and diminished as the two cartilages are moved from and towards each other. In rotation out the cords are separated and made tense, and in rotation in they are approached, but without being relaxed. The smaller or accessory cartilages are articulated by liga- mentous bands, but have not moveable joints as in the larger cartilages. The cartilages of Santorini are united to the top of the arytenoid by surrounding fibrous tissue: but at times there is some in- dication of a joint between the base of the one and the apex of the other. The ejngloftis is fixed below by a band (thyro-epiglottid) to the thyroid cartilage, close below the notch in the upper border ; and in front it is united to the back of the hyoid bone by fibrous tissue —the hyo-epiglottid ligament. The larynx joins the trachea below by a membrane similar to that connecting the rings of this tube; and it is attached to the hyoid bone above by the following ligament. The thyro-hyoid membrane, T, is thin for the most part, but it forms rounded thicker cords behind—the thyi'o-hyoid ligaments, M. It is inserted below into the upper edge of the thyroid cartilage; but it is continued onwards to the upper edge of the os hyoides, muscles shutting it out from the lower edge of that bone : a synovial membrane intervenes between the two.