409 POPLITEAL ARTERY. bloodvessel in the interval between the heads of the gastrocne- mius. The obturator nerve, 1, runs on the artery as far as tlie knee-joint, in which it ends. From this part of the arterial trunk muscular and articular arteries are supplied, the former coming off near the top of the ham, and the latter near the knee-joint. All are so small in size as not to disturb the reparative process which would be set up in the parent trunk after a ligature has been applied to it. Peculiarities. Very few variations in the course and condition of the artery, and in the surrounding parts are met with. Perhaps the most noteworthy change in the artery is its bifurcation into the two tibials opposite the knee-joint, instead of below that articulation. The position of the companion vein to the artery is in- constant, at one time covering more of that bloodvessel than at another ; and not very unfrequently the yein and artery change places. Ligature. Should circumstances render ligature of the popli- teal artery necessary, the spot best suited for its application would be about an inch above the condyles of the femur, where there are only small collateral branches, and where the connections are not complicated. The surface guide for the first incision will be the line of direction of the artery, and the vessel will be arrived at by cutting vertically down through the fat towards the femur. The depth of the vessel may be diminished during an operation by bending the knee so as to relax the sides of the ham. On attempting to separate the vein from the artery it should be remembered that the two are very closely united together, and that sometimes the artery is external to the vein. Compression. Whilst the popliteal artery is contained in the intermuscular space behind the knee, pressure can be applied to impede the current of the circulating fluid. Bending the knee too, so as to make the calf of the leg touch the back of the thigh, will compress to a certain extent the artery, and will control the circulation of the blood in it ; and this kiud of pressure has been employed with success in later times in the treatment of aneurism of the popliteal artery.