DISSECTION OF THE GROIN. 262 or the deep layer of the superficial fascia. Distinct from the subcutaneous layer at the top of the thigh, glands and vessels intervening, it becomes thinner and less separate as it ascends on the abdomen. "When followed down to the limb it will be found to blend with the fascia lata, G, a little below the tendon of the external oblique muscle. Cutaneous vessels.—In the fatty layer are contained the following small arteries and veins. a. Superficial epigastric artery. b. Superficial pndic_artery. c. Superficial circumflex iliac ar- tery. d. Superficial pudic vein. e, f. Superficial epigastric veins. The three small arteries above mentioned ramify in the fat: they are the first branches of the femoral trunk, and communicate with offsets of deeper arteries similarly named. As their names express, the pudic branch, &, ends in the pubes and the integu- ments of the penis; the epigastric, a, in the teguments of the lower part of the belly; and the circumflex iliac, c, in the fat of the outer portion of the thigh.—Many variations occur in their arrangement : in this body the epigastric was divided into branches, and the circumflex iliac was small. As the superficial pudic crosses the cord it may be cut when the integuments are divided in the operation for inguinal hernia. Usually the vessel is so small as to be disregarded, because the haemorrhage soon ceases after its section ; but if the bleeding is troublesome a ligature ought to be placed on the end nearest the femoral trunk. Veins. Superficial veins of the same name run with the arteries, and have a like extent. Single or double as they lie with the arteries, they converge below to the internal saphenous vein into which they open. Inguinal glands.\\ Along the line of Poupart's ligament lies a chain of superficial inguinal lymphatic glands, which is marked as above.—They are situate between the subcutaneous fatty layer and the thin aponeurosis of the fascia lata, H, and receive lymphatics from the contiguous parts of the abdomen and outside of the pelvis, and from the genital organs; and they communicate >