APPENDAGES OF THE UTERUS. 835 ligiimeni, F. The membrane may be then traced over the front of the uterus to the back of the bladder, and forms between those viscera the vesico-uterine pouch. And finally it covers all the posterior surface of the bladder included between the two obli- terated hypogastric arteries, c. The recto-titerme pouch, N, of the peritoneum resembles the recto-vesical in the male. Below it reaches beyond the uterus and touches the back of the vagina. On each side, as in the male, are the visceral arteries and the ureter, invested by the serous membrane. The vesico-uterine pouch, 0, intervenes between the bladder and the uterus, and extends downwards usually only two-thirds of the anterior surface of the womb, but in the body from which the Figure was taken it was prolonged (as behind) as far as the tube of the vagina, with which it was in contact. Appendages of the uterus. These are enclosed in the broad ligament, and are three in number on each side, viz. Fallopian tube, round ligament, and ovary and its ligament. The Fallopian tube, Gr, lies along the upper free edge of the broad fold of the peritoneum, and is about four inches in length. By the inner end it is attached to the body of the uterus, and at the outer it terminates in a fi-ee dilated extremity—the infundi- bulum or pavilion. Between the extremities it has a curved con- dition with the convexity up ; and it is small and round near the uterus, but gradually enlarges towards the outer or trumpet-shaped end. It is a hollow tube ; internally it communicates with the cavity of the uterus, and externally by a small aperture with the sac of the peritoneum. The outer end is provided with points or fringes called fimbria,, and with folds of the mucous membrane within. Some of these are larger than the others ; and in the bottom of the dilatation is the aperture of the tube surrounded by the folds. Its office is to convey the ovum from the ovary to the uterus ; and a muscular layer, continuous with that in the wall of the uterus, enters into its structure. The round or suspensory ligament of the uterus, E, is contained in the fore part of the broad ligament, near the top, and is inserted