DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 850 constricting bands external to the sac, whether at the saphenous opening or at Gimbernat's ligament. After the division of tlie external stricture, a slight degree of force will suflBce to replace the intestine in the cavity of the abdomen. Internal stricture. Stricture exists sometimes inside the sac of the hernia. In this case the constriction is produced, as in inguinal hernia (p. 276), by a thickening of the peritoneum of the neck of the sac, so as to form a band which diminishes the space in the interior, and impedes the passage both of the intes- tinal contents, and of the blood in the wall of the intestine. Its position is opposite the line of Gimbernat's ligament and the crural arch. As the kind of strangulation cannot be determined before- hand, the coverings of the hernia are to be divided at the neck of the tumour, as in the case of the external stricture ; and if the sac cannot be emptied of its contents after cutting through all constricting parts external to it, the intestine is to be relieved from internal stricture by opening the peritoneal sac, and, the knife being introduced on a director beneath the thickened band, by cutting horizontally inwards towards Gimbernat's ligament. In executing this last part of the operation the surgeon does not see what the knife cuts, and therefore he uses it sparingly, for as soon as the string-Uke band is divided the intestine becomes fi-ee to be passed into the abdomen. In Plate xxxv. an inner view is given of the crural ring with the vessels around which may be endangered in an operation ; and in page 289 are detailed the precautions to be taken in setting free the gut fi'om internal stricture. SUPERFICIAL VESSELS AND NERVES. The cutaneous vessels and nerves which are figured in this Plate have been described in page 339 ; and they are marked for the most part with the same letters and figures of reference as in the preceding Plate. Consequently only their names will be given in the subjoined tables.