EXTENSOK MUSCLE OF THE KNEE. 367 attached by one end to bone, and by the other to the fascia lata. It takes origin from the upper iliac spinous process, from the contiguous pai-t of the iliac crest, and from half the notch between the two ihac spinous processes ; reaching downwards at the outer side of the thigh, it is inserted into the fascia lata where the upper and middle thirds meet. The muscle is incased in strong fascia, and is placed between the gluteus medius, B, behind, and the sartorius. A, and rectus, E, in front. Underneath it lies the upper part of the vastus cxternus, L, and the ascending branches, /, of the external cir- cumflex artery. A small nerve, 1, and arterial offsets enter the under surface. The muscle can abduct the thigh from the other limb, and make tense the fascia, deriving from this circumstance the name tensor of the fascia lata. After the thigh has been rotated out the muscle will act as an internal rotator of the femur. The extensor of the knee (triceps extensor cruris) consists of three separate parts or heads, viz., rectus femoris, E, vastus internus, F, and vastus externus, L, which are united below in a common tendon. Redits femoris, E (Plate XLV.). This spindle-shaped muscle forms the middle or long head of the extensor. It arises from the hip-bone by two tendinous pieces :—one is attached to the anterior inferior iliac spinous process ; and the other, longer and wider, is fixed to the depression above the acetabulum. Inferiorly the muscle becomes tendinous, and blends in a common tendon of insertion, P, with the other two heads of the extensor. The rectus is superficial except above, where it is covered by the sartorius, the iliacus, D, and the gluteus minimus, M. It conceals branches of the external circumflex artery, e, and anterior crural nerve, 2, Some of the fleshy fibres run fi'om a central tendon to the sides, like the feather of a quill, producing the arrangement called penniform. The vastus externus, L, or outer head of the extensor, arises from the upper half of the femur by a piece from half an inch to an inch thick, which is limited behind by the following points of the bone, viz., the outer part of the neck, the root of the great