•ISO DISSECTION OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. The abductor minimi di{jiti, C, is wide behind, lil<e the abductor polliciB, and arises more largely from the os calcis, viz. from the fore part of the inner or larger tubercle, and from the outer tubercle ; and many fibres are attached to the plantar fascia both superficially and on the outer side. In front the muscle is in- serted by tendon into the outer side of the metatarsal phalanx of the little toe. Like the two preceding muscles it is invested by the fascia. Internal to it behind is the short flexor of the toes, with an inter- muscular septum of fascia intervening; and about the middle of the foot the offsets of the plantar vessels and nerves separate them. When the muscle is everted, as in Fig. ii., it will be seen to rest on the flexor accessories, F, the peroneus longus, and the short flexor of the little toe, 0. The muscle can abduct the little toe from its fellows, and bend the first joint of that toe after the same manner as the abductor pollicis. Superficial transverse ligament of the toes, K. In the form of a flattened band it reaches from the outer to the inner toe, and consists of transverse fibres which are united to the sheaths of the flexor tendons. Under it pass the digital vessels and nerves. It serves the purpose of uniting together the roots of the digits, as in the hand. A deeper transverse ligament connects the heads of the metatarsal bones. SUPERFICIAL AKTERIES OF THE SOLE. Near the roots of the toes appear the digital arteries, which spring from the plantai' trunks; and over the muscles ramify cutaneous vessels of the posterior tibial and plantar arteries. a. Cutaneous branch of the sole. h. Internal plantar trunk. c. External plantar trunk. d. Digital branch of outside of little toe. e. Digital branch of inside of great toe. /. Digital branch of first and second toes. g. Digital branch of second and third toes. h. Digital brsuch of third and fourth toes. i. Digital branch of fourth and fifth toes.