DISSECTION OF THE SOLE OE THE FOOT. 440 the toes they issue between the processes of that fascia, though the first or most internal enters the teguments farther back than the rest. Each, except the first, bifurcates to supply the con- tiguous sides of two toes. On the digits they are continued along the lateral aspect, as in the hand ; and distributing in their course cutaneous and articular offsets, end on the last phalanx in a tuft of fine nerves from which the ball of the digit is princi- pally supplied. The first digital nerve, 4, courses to the inner side of the great toe, and sends many cutaneous branches to the inside of the foot ante- rior to the tarsus : an offset from it enters the flexor brevis pollicis. The second digital, 5, supplies the most internal lumbricalis muscle, and ends on the sides of the second and third toes. The third digital, 6, belongs to the neighbouring sides of th e third and fourth toes, and gives a branch to the second lumbri- calis muscle. The fourth digital, 7, is distributed, like the others, to the collateral sides of the third and fourth toes, and is joined by a communicating branch, 8, from the external plantar. The internal plantar nerve in the foot resembles the median in the hand in its supply to three digits and a half; in the arrange- ment of its digital branches; and in having a communication with the nerve furnished to the remaining digits. Like the median it gives branches also to the first two lumbricales, and the abductor and flexor brevis pollicis. But as the muscles of the first digit are not alike in the hand and foot the distribution of the two nerves is not identical throughout. For instance in the foot there is not any branch coiTespouding with that given by the median to the opj)onens pollicis; and none in the hand answering to the nerve of the flexor perforatus in the foot. Lastly, the whole of the flexor brevis pollicis is supplied by the internal plantar nerve in the foot, but only the outer head of the muscle in the Jiand receives a branch from the median. The external plantar nerve, 3, is chiefly expended in muscles, ■ and emits digital branches only to one toe and a half, like the ulnar nerve in the hand. A