282 DISSECTION OF THE GROIN. divided directly upwards by meaus of a knife carried along a director inserted under it. As a large apparently internal hernia, with a straight direction through the abdominal wall, may have begun as an external or oblique one, and may have assumed afterwards the look of an internal rupture by reason of its weight (p. 275), the scalpel should be kept on the front of the tumour in an operation, and parallel to the middle line of the body. And in dividing the stricture the cut should be made directly upwards in the same direction. By taking these precautions the danger of wounding the epigastric vessels curving around the neck of such a hernia on the inner side will be best avoided. Variety of internal hernia.—Within the triangular space of Hes- selbach a rupture may protrude at a different spot from that above mentioned. External in position to the other, it will be placed nearer the epigastric vessels, a, coming out between them and the edge of the conjoined tendon, H. Without any aperture for its exit, it has to elongate and make coverings for itself, like the common form of internal hernia which lies nearer the pubes. Course and coverings. The Drawing demonstrates the oblique course the intestine would take through nearly the whole of the inguinal canal. As the rupture is placed farther out in the trian- gular space than the conjoined tendon it will want neoessarily a covering fi'om that stratum ; and it differs from the more common internal hernia in not possessing that investment. But as the intestine proceeds along the inguinal canal and the cord it slips within the cremaster muscle, and then issues from the abdominal wall by the external abdominal ring, forming a pear-shaped swelling. Its coverings from within out will be, peritoneum or sac, sub- peritoneal fat, fascia transversalis, cremasteric fascia, spermatic fascia, and the teguments and skin: in short, they are the same as to number and structures as the coverings of the external or oblique hernia. Diagnosis.—During life this kind of the internal hernia is not to be distinguished fi'om the external or oblique in consequence of