159 LIGATURE OF THE CAROTID ARTERY. externally with the artery; and on the left side the vein advances over it, especially lower in the neck. Three veins cross the artery;—near the chest is the anterior jugular vein, s; near the ending the upper thyroid vein; and below, X , the middle thyroid vein. In front of the sheath, in the upper half, the descendens noni nerve, 3, crosses obliquely from without inwards. Beneath the sheath is the sympathetic nerve; and lower down the recurrent laryngeal nerve and inferior thyroid artery cross inwards under it. In the sheath, between the artery and vein lies the vagus nerve. No collateral offset arises commonly fi'om the carotid artery, and the trunk remains nearly of the same size; but not unfre- quently the upper thyroid branch cl is transferred to the slight dilatation at the end. Ligature of the vessel. The part of the common carotid marked thus X is selected for ligature because it is far removed fi."om each end, and because it is less deep here than at a lower point. But since the vessel may bifurcate as low as the cricoid cartilage or even lower, two trunks instead of one maybe met with at this spot. Should the point of splitting of the artery be recognised in the operation of ligature both trunks may be tied; but if the origin of the two trunks cannot be seen in consequence of the artery having divided very soon, the finger may be pressed on each, and that trunk may be tied which takes blood to the disease or injury for which the operation was undertaken (Quain). Steps of the operation. With the line of the vessel in mind, the operator places the forefinger of the left hand opposite the cricoid cartilage, and makes an incision in that line three inches in length (the finger marking the centre) through the integu- ments, platysma, and deep fascia, down to the fibres of the sterno- mastoideus: should the cut be made too far forwards, the anterior jugular vein may be injured. Next the sterno-mastoid muscle is to be dissected back rather beyond the position of the artery, the head being inclined towards the shoulder of the same side to relax its fibres. The operator now looks for the deep guide, viz., the angle formed below by the omo-hyoid muscle, 0, and the sterno- mastoideus, A, and seeks the vessel at that spot, dissecting but