198 DEEP DISSECTION OF THE NECK. External carotid trunk, m.—Only the lower part of the artery, with its first branches which were not represented or only imper- fectly in preceding Plates, has been left in the dissection. And as the carotid begins above the usual place these first branches have to descend to their destined positions. The wpper thyroid, 1c, runs over the superficial surface of the thyroid body, N, before entering the substance. It famishes, firstly, muscular offsets; next a laryngeal branch, n; and lastly, a crico-thyroid branch, I, which lies on the membrane of the same name, joining that of the opposite side, and would be endangered in the operation of laryngotomy. Litigual artery, o :—its hyoideau offset arises before the artery passes beneath the hyo-glossus, Q, and is distributed to the thyro- hyoideus, P. The facial artery, p, furnishes the following branches to the neck before it reaches the jaw :— A tonsiUitic offset, r, ascends between the pterygoideus internus and the stylo-glossus, V, and perforating the upper constrictor, X, ends in the tonsil and the side of the tongue. An inferior palatine branch, s, courses along the side of the pharynx between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles to the upper border of the superior constrictor, X, where it passes in-wards to supply the palate. It supplies muscular branches; and one offset long and slender, reaches the Eustachian tube \. Other offsets of the facial, viz., submental and glandular are seen in Plate xvii. The ascending pharyngeal artery, arises near the beginning of the external carotid, and ascends on the spinal column between the pharynx and the internal carotid trunk nearly to the skull. Here it enters the pharynx above the upper constrictor, and ends in branches to the front and back of the soft palate ; of these the anterior are the largest, and join with corresponding branches of the opposite side, so as to form two arches beneath the mucous membrane—one lying near the upper, and the other near the lower edge of the velum palati (Quain).* * Fifth edition of Quain's Anatomy, 1846, p. 489.