206 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. THE PHARYNX AND ITS MUSCLES. The pharynx is the upper part of the alimentary tube which is placed behind the nose, mouth, and larynx. Both the food and air pass along it. It reaches from the skull to the lower end of the larynx, gradually tapering from above down, and measures from five to six inches in length. Above it is inserted into the skull by a thin fibrous membrane called the aponeurosis of attach- ment of the pharynx ; and in front it is fixed to the head, the hyoid bone, and the larynx. . In the wall of the pharynx are contained constricting and elevating muscles, which are employed in swallowing; the latter are engage^ in placing the receiving bag in the position required for the entrance of the food or drink, and the fomier urge onwards to the gullet the morsel received. A. Inferior constrictor. B. Middle consti-ictor. C. Superior constrictor. D. Stylo-pliaryngeus. E. Levator palati. F. Tensor palati. G. Buccinator. H. Stylo-glossus, cut. I. Temporal muscle. J. Mylo-liyoideus. K. Sterno-hyoideus. I L. Omo-liyoidcus. M. Hyo-glossus. N. Thyro-hyoideus. 0. Stylo hyoid ligament, ossified. P. Sterno thyroideus. Q. Crico-thyroideu.s. 11. Thyroid body, thrown down. S. Qisophagus or gullet T. Trachea or windpipe. + Ptnrygo-niaxillary ligament. The constrictor muscles are flat and thin, and are three in number on each side, viz. lower, middle, and upper. They are attached in fi'ont to the larynx, hyoid bone, and the head, and meet their fellows in the middle line behind: their contiguous edges overlap like scales, the upper being more superficial. The lower constrictor, A (laryngo-pharyngeus) arises from the side of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages of the larynx; and the fibres end in the middle line behind. Its upper edge overlays the middle constrictor B, and the lower is continuous with the circular fibres of the oesophagtis. The middle constrictor, B, (hyo-pharyngeus) is connected in front with the hyoid bone, viz. with the great and small coi-nua.