48 DISSECTION OF TJHE ARM. arterial coats, and, as a consequence, liaBmorrhage may follow the coming away of the ligature. Let the ligature be put on the vessel as high as the sheath is detached; and before tying it, pressure should be used for the purpose of ascertaining whether the circulation through the chief vessels of the limb can be arrested. Should the pulse still beat as before at the wrist, the existence of more than one arterial trunk may be suspected; and the operator, after tying the one, seeks another by its side. If two arteries are present both are to be secured ; for the object in view when putting a ligature on the brachial trunk, is to stop the entrance of the blood into the limb ■through the main vessel, and to ensure its coming in only slowly, and through the anastomosing channels. Before an attempt is made to place a ligature on the brachial trunk, the difficulties likely to arise from different states of the artery or of the surrounding parts should be weU considered. An unusual position of the brachial artery has been observed. In the condition referred to the vessel separates from the biceps above, or about midway between the arm-pit and elbow, and courses through the arm along the inner intermuscular septum, C (p. 39). So, in an operation at the usual spot, if the main blood-vessel cannot be found by the side of the muscle, it should be sought farther in, or nearer the inner border of the limb.* There may be more than one large artery in the limb as before said. Two vessels have been found as frequently as 1 in 5, and the surgeon may expect therefore to meet with this condition.f "When two vessels are present they usually lie side by side in the place of the brachial; and their existence might be inferred in an operation in consequence of the smaller size and more super- ficial position of the vessel first found. But sometimes the two are • Two instances of this kind were met with dming operations on the dead body, and have been put on record by Mr. Quain : "Commentaries on the Arteries," p. 259. I have observed a similar unusual place of the artery, with difficulty in finding the vessel, whilst I was engaged in superintending the operations of students. t The Anatomy of the Arteries, by Mr. Quain.