263 EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. by deeper lymphatics with glands by the side of the large blood- vessels.—Usually they are about three or four in number, but this varies with their size. FIRST MUSCULAR LAYER. The outer muscle of the groin is the external oblique, which receives its name from the direction of the fibres, and the situation in the abdominal wall. Fleshy on the sides, it is tendinous or aponeurotic on the front and below; and near the middle line the aponeurosis blends with the tendon of the muscle beneath. A. Aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. B. External piUar of the abdo- minal ring. C. Internal pillar of the abdo- minal ring. D. Poupart's ligament. E. Spermatic cord. F. Intercolumnar fibres. G. Fascia lata. H. Aponeurosis of the fascia lata. I. Linea alba. J. Linea semilunaris. K. Iliac crest of the hip bone. f f Inguinal glands. The lower part of the aponeurosis has the following attach- ments. Along the middle line it unites with its fellow in the linea alba, I, reaching to the front of the os pubis. Below, it is fixed at the outer part to the iliac crest, K, and at the inner part to the spine and pectineal line of the pubes by the slip, B : and between these two bony attachments it forms the strong rather rounded band of Poupart's ligament, D, across the thigh. The aponeurosis is constructed of separate threads directed downwards and inwards obliquely. Near the top of the thigh its fibres are thicker than elsewhere ; and a little above and external to the pubes they are separated for a short space, so as to leave an interval—the external abdominal ring. For the purpose of binding together the longitudinal fibres and giving strength to the aponeurosis, a stratum of oblique fibres (intercolumnar) is continued over the surface. Here and there are small apertures in it for the transmission of superficial vessels and nerves. The named parts of the aponeurosis visible in the Drawing are, the linea alba, linea semilunaris, Poupart's ligament, and the external abdominal ring. The linea alba, I, is a strong tendinous band along the midline