ADDUCTOR MUSCLES. 373 Partly subfascial, this adductor is covered near the femur by the sartorius and the femoral vessels : by the opposite surface it touches the adductor brevis and magaus, and the profunda vessels and pai't of the obturator nerve. The muscle assists in bringing forwards the femur in walking; and carrying that bone towards its fellow, it will be chiefly instru- mental in crossing the thighs. If the femur is fixed, as in standing, the muscle balances with others the pelvis on the limb. The gracilis, I, is a thin tapering muscle, which reaches from the pelvis to the tibia. It arises by a thin tendon, from two and a half to three inches deep, along the lower border of the hip- bone, and reaches upwards half way along the symphysis. At the lower third of the thigh it ends in a rounded tendon, and is inserted into the inner surface of the tibia, beneath the sartorius, A, but nearer the knee than the semi-tendinosus, 0, which it resembles in size and form. The muscle is superficial, and its connections are better illus- trated in Plate XLiv. It lies against the adductor brevis and magnus as far as the lower third of the thigh, and thence against the semi-membranosus as it bounds internally the popliteal space. Near its insertion it is placed on the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, a bursa intervening; and gives an expansion to join the fascia of the leg. "With the limb free to move the gracilis will draw the femur towards .the other thigh, especially after abduction of it. If the tibia is free to move the muscle will bend and rotate inwards the knee-joint; and when the tibia is fixed the muscle will act on the pelvis, like the rest of the group. Adductor brevis, K. Deeper placed than the muscles before described, it arises beneath the adductor longus from the fore part of the os innominatum, where it is attached outside the gracilis^for a distance of two inches. The muscle widens below, and is inserted into the femur behind the pectineus, and into the line prolonged from the linea aspera. It is concealed above by the pectineus and adductor longus, but as these separate from each other below they leave a large part of the muscle uncovered: near its origin it is crossed by the