STRICTURE OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 349 scrotum as in the inguinal hernia. It can be distinguished with certainty from the inguinal hernia by the position of its neck beneath the crural arch ; and if the finger can detect the cord of Poupart's ligament passing over the neck of the tumour there cannot be any doubt of the hernia being femoral. T<ixis and truss. Before attempts are made to replace the intestine in the cavity of the abdomen, the limb is to be raised and rotated in, and the shouldere are to be elevated at the same time, with the view of relaxing to the utmost the rigidity of the fibrous structures amongst which the intestine passes. Then pressure is to be made with one hand to the fundus of the tumour, whilst the first two fingers of the other are to be applied to the neck of the hernia to direct the contents of the intestine round the falciform edge of the saphenous opening, and upwards along the crural canal to the cavity of the abdomen. Whilst practising the manipulation the force employed is to be moderate but sustained. If the tumour has extended upwards on the abdo- men it should be brought downwards towards the saphenous open- ing, in order that the bend around the falciform process of the fascia lata may be lessened. After the hernia has been reduced its re-descent is to be stopped by a truss: but as the pad of this instrument cannot compress the internal crural ring, through which the intestine begins to descend, it is to be placed below Poupart's ligament, over the upper and inner part of the saphenous opening. External stricture. The strangulation of the intestine will be produced generally by a constricting fibrous band across and outside the neck of the sac of the hernia. The seat of the con- striction may be at the level of Poupart's ligament or of the saphenous opening, but both are near together, the spots being only about half an inch apart. In the ^former situation it is occasioned by the firm edge of the band formed by Gimbernat's ligament and the crural arch ; and in the latter, by the sharp margin of the falciform part of the fascia lata. This stricture may be relieved, without opening the sac of the hernia, by cutting down to the upper and inner part of the neclc of the tumour, just below Poupart's ligament, and by incising all