123 NERVES OF THE OKBIT, Offsets for the eyelall. Several branches, posterior ciliary, pierce the back of the eyeball around the optic nerve. Other smaller arteries, which are usually not injected, enter the front of the ball, close to the cornea : these are the anterior ciliary, and they are best seen in inflammation of the iris. One artery enters the optic nerve behind the ball; it ramifies in the retina, and is called the central artery of the retina. The lachrymal branch accompanies the nerve, 19, to the gland of the same name. Muscular branches arise at intervals : some of these are seen in the Figure. Eyelid offsets. Each eyelid receives a palpebral branch : these are directed transversely, in contact with the tarsal cartilages, and anastomose externally with the lachrymal—forming an arch in each lid. Branches leaving the orbit. Besides the two terminal branches (frontal and nasal), three others leave the cavity. One, anterior ethmoidal, e, accompanies the nasal nerve to the nose, and supplies meningeal offaets. Another, posterior ethmoidal, f, smaller than the preceding, passes through the foramen of the same name to the dura mater in the anterior fossa of the skull. And the third, supra-orbital, g, runs with the nerve of the same name through the supra-orbital notch to the forehead. The ophthalmic vein, h, taking the same general course as the artery, joins in front the facial vein ; and as its branches corre- spond mostly with those of the artery few are delineated. At the back of the orbit it leaves the artery, and passing between the heads of the outer rectus, ends in the cavernous sinus in the skull (Plate xiv. Q). Eyeball veins :—These differ from the arteries of the ball in their number and course. Four in number, they issue on opposite sides of the eye, and about midway between the cornea and the entrance of the optic nerve. NERVES OF THE ORBIT. Five cranial nerves enter the orbital cavity, viz. 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, (in pai't) and 6th ; and all, except the second or optic.