CUTANEOUS NERVES OF THE FRONT OF THE LEG. 457 the outer end of the arch with a vein from the outer side of the foot: it soon bends below the outer ankle to the back of the leg, where it is represented in Plate Lin. Cutaneous arteries. In the leg these are small in size, and are offsets of the anterior tibial, but as they are unnamed no letters of reference have been placed on them. They issue mostly along the borders of the tibialis anticus, and those along the outer side of the muscle mark the position of the subjacent tibial trunk. One lai-ger than the rest, and external to them, pierces the fascia out- side the extensor of the toes, B, and runs with the musculof cutaneous nerve, 3. On the dorsum of the foot and toes the other small tin- named arteries originate in the dorsal artery of the foot and its branches. CUTANEOUS NERVES OF THE FRONT OF THE LEG. On the dorsum of the foot, as on the back of the hand, there is a free distribution of cutaneous nerves ; whilst the teguments on the fore part of the leg, like those on the back of the forearm are but sparingly supplied with nerves. 1. Internal saphenous. 2. External saphenous. 3. Musculo-cutaneous. 4. Cutaneous of external poplin teal. 5. Cutaneous of anterior tibial. The internal sajohenous, 1, courses along the inner side of the leg (Plate LV.), and sends forwards many fine branches to the teguments over the tibialis anticus: the largest of these, near the knee, is marked thus, f. Below the middle of the leg it turns to the fore part of the ankle with the saphenous vein to end in the teguments of the inner side of the instep, reaching abont two thirds along the foot. Near the ending it is joined by the musculo- cutaneous ; and some of the terminal filaments sink through the fascia, like the musculo-cutaneous nerve in the forearm, to supply the tarsus. The external saphenous, 2, a branch of the internal popliteal trunk (p. 412), descends along the back of the leg to the heel (Plate Liii.). Bending forwards below the external malleolus, it