LUMBAR PLEXUS. 309 sacral cord. Its offsets, six in number, are furnished to the lower part of the abdominal wall, to the spermatic cord coverings, and to the front of the limb. Ilio-hypogastric, 6, and ilio-inguinal, 7 : these two branches arise in the first nerve, and come into sight at the top of the psoas muscle. Directed downwards and outwards across the quadratus lumborum to the ihac crest, they enter the wall of the belly, and end in the muscles and integuments (Plate xxx., p. 269). At the iliac crest the nerve, 6, gives a cutaneous offset to the buttock. Genito-crural, 8. This branch comes from the second nerve, and the loop between the first two. Piercing the fibres of the psoas, it descends on the surface of that muscle towards Poupart's ligament, and divides into two. The genital part, which is cut, leaves the abdomen with the spermatic vessels, and is distributed to the cremaster muscle. The crural piece is continued below the ligament, and reaches the teguments of the front of the thigh. The external cutaneous, 9, springs in the third nerve, and appears at the outer border of the psoas about the middle : the nerve leaves the belly beneath Poupart's ligament at the outer end, and ramifies in the teguments of the thigh. ThQ anterior crural nerve, 10, is the largest offset of the plexus: it receives most of the fourth nerve, and is joined by a large fasci- culus from the nerves above. Emerging from beneath the psoas near Poupart's ligament, it lies in the hollow between that muscle and the iliacus. The nerve escapes from the abdomen beneath Poupart's ligament, and is supplied to the fore part of the limb. In the abdomen it furnishes two or more branches to the iliacus muscle, and a small nerve to the coats of the femoral artery. OUurator nerve, 11. Beginning in the third and fourth nerves, it comes into sight at the pelvic border of the psoas. It is then continued across the cavity of the pelvis to the sub-pubic aperture in the upper part of the thyroid foramen, and supplies the adductor muscles of the thigh. The lumbosacral cord, 24, is formed by the whole of the fifth lumbar nerve, and by a fasciculus, 23, which is derived fr'om the fourth nerve. This largo cord ■ enters the sacral plexus in the