EXTERNAL PLANTAR NERVE. 447 Acting with the transversalis pedis the muscle will adduct the great toe to the others; and iii concert with the short flexor and abductor it will bend the metatavso-phalangeal joint. Transversalis pedis, S. This is a thin fleshy slip, which lies across the heads of the metatarsal bones. It arises by bundles of fibres from the capsule of the metatarso-phalangeal articulations of the fourth, third, and second, toes (sometimes the fifth) ; and from the fascia covering the interossei muscles. Internally it is inserted with the adductor into the nearest phalanx of the great toe. By its cutaneous surface it is in contact with the flexor per- forans, the lumbricales, and the digital nerves ; and by the deep, it touches the interossei and the digital vessels. The muscle is described by Theile as a short head of the adductor poUicis. From its position and attachment to the four inner toes it will approximate them to one another. The flexor hrevis minimi digiti, 0, lies on the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and resembles the interossei. Posteriorly it arises from the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, and from the sheath of the peroneous longus tendon ; and it is inserted anteriorly into the base of the first phalanx after blending with the capsule of the metatarso-phalangeal articulation, and into the fore part of the metatarsal bone (Theile). As the name signifies the muscle may be used as a flexor of the metatarso-phalangeal joint ; but it may draw down slightly the outer border of the foot in consequence of its attachment to the metatarsal bone. As far as the root of the little toe the external plantar with its digital offsets was shown in the preceding Plate, and the remainder or the deep part of the nerve is represented in this view. EXTERNAL PLANTAR NERVE. 2. Internal plantar nerve, cut. 3. External plantar nerve. 4. Superficial or digital part of 5. Deep part of external plantar. 6. Branch to transversalis pedis, ft Rranclies to outer two luni- extemal plantar. bricalesi.