CONNECTIONS OF THE moSTATE. 325 in the prostatic part of the urethra. At the under surface of the bladder it is placed internal to the yesicula seminalis of the same side, and is enlarged and slightly sacculated. The vesicula seminalis, B, one on each side, is a small saccu- lated reservoir below the bladder, which is connected with the vas deferens, like the gall bladder with the biliary duct. Rather larger behind than in front it is covered by a layer of the recto- vesical fascia, and by a stratum of involuntary muscular fibres; and it forms with the vas deferens the lateral boundary of the triangular space at the fundus of the urinary bladder. It is filled with a fluid secreted by itself, and contains some spermato- zoids brought by the vas deferens. It is constructed of a tube bent into a zigzag form ; and on removing the surrounding fibrous tissue the bends disappear, and the tube measures from four to six inches. In front it becomes narrowed, and joins the vas deferens at the back of the prostate to give rise to the common ejaculatory duct. The prostate gland, L, surrounds the neck of the bladder, and the beginning of the urethra, and is a firm muscular and glan- dular body. Shaped like a chestnut with the larger end backwards, it mea- sures one inch and a quarter from before back, one inch and a half across at the base, and about three quarters of an inch in depth. Its upper surface is convex, and the under is flattened and it is described as consisting of a median and two lateral lobes. Situate between the triangular ligament of the urethra and the bladder it is placed about an inch below the pubes, and is incased in a sheath, as before said. Its upper surface is connected to the pubes by the recto-vesical fascia forming the anterior true liga- ment of the bladder; and the under surface touches the rectum. The apex is in contact with the triangular ligament of the urethra, and the base suiTounds the neck of the bladder. Through this body the urethra is directed forwards from the bladder, rather above the centre ; and the two common ejaculatory ducts are inclined obliquely upwards in it to open into the urethra. A line through the centre of the prostate has a different direc-