DISSECTION OF THE GROIN. 264 of the belly, which roaches from the pelvis to tlie chest, and in which the aponeuroses of the flat muscles of opposite sides are blended. Lima semilunaris, J. This is a yellowish line, somewhat depressed even before the integuments are removed, which is directed upwards from the tuberosity of the pubes to the tip of the eighth rib. It marks the position of the outer edge of the rectus muscle, and is rather less strong below. Pouparfs ligament, D, is the thickened lower edge of the aponeurosis across the top of the thigh. Externally it is rounded, and is attached to the front of the iliac crest; internally it becomes widened, and is fixed into the spine and the pectineal line of the hip-bone : and below it blends with the fascia lata, G. This band is curved downwards towards the thigh so as to make the outer third oblique, and the inner two-thirds more horizontal in direction. Like the linea alba, it serves as a fixed point for the underlying muscles and the surrounding fascia. It receives also the name crural arch ; and in Plate xliv. the reason of this name appears, as the aponeurosis is shown arching over muscles, vessels, and nerves at the top of the thigh. This firm band can be felt readily through the integument, and marks the limit between the abdomen and the thigh. Even the nature of a hernial tumour may be decided by its position to the band ; for if the swelling lies above the ligament it forms an inguinal hernia, and if it projects to the surface below, it con- stitutes a femoral hernia. The external abdominal ring or the opening in the aponeurosis of the oblique muscle, transmits the testicle in the fetus. Trian- gular in form, with the apex upwards and outwards, it is placed outside the pubes and extends considerably above that point of bone.—It measures commonly about one inch from base to apex, and half an inch across ; but it varies much in size in different bodies, and is smaller in the female than the male. The pieces of the aponeurosis bounding it laterally are named the pillars. The inner pillar, C, flat and thin, is continued to the front of the pubes ; and the outer, B, curved around the spermatic cord which rests on it, is fixed to the spine of the pubes, and joins Poupart's