363 BRANCHES OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY. Should the artery be deprived of its sheath to a greater extent than is needed for the passage of the aneurism needle, it should be secured by two ligatures—one at each end of the denuded part. On reaching the artery the operator may find the origin of the profunda at that point, or possibly, though but rarely, the femoral trunk split into two ;—In each case he would include both vessels in ligatures. Usually the femoral vein is not seen in the operation specified ; but if it is split, or if one of its pieces crosses over the artery, it may be in the way of the knife in opening the sheath. Branches of the femoral artery. The first thi-ee branches are small and cutaneous, and are named superficial pudic, epigastric, and circumflex iliac: these have been noticed with Plate XLii. Another superficial pudic branch is the following :— The inferior or deeper superficial pudic arises from the femoral trunk rather lower; it runs beneath the fascia lata and the gracilis muscle to the inner side of the thigh, where it ends in the tegu- ments of the limb and scrotum, and in the labium pudendi of the female. SmaU collateral offsets are furnished to the muscles with which it is in contact. The profunda artery, g, arises about an inch and a half below Poupart's ligament, and descends in the thigh beneath the femoral artery, as is shown in Plate xlvii. It supplies large nutrient and anastomotic branches to the thigh. Cutaneous and muscular iranches. The small arteries to the integuments which are marked thus, f, have been described in page 354. The muscular branches from the femoral trunk are but few : they enter the vastus internus, sartorius, and adductor longus. The anastomotic artery, h, springs from the end of the femoral, and is continued between the vastus internus and the tendon of the adductor magnus to the inner side of the knee : here it ramifies under the aponeurotic investment of the joint, and anastomoses with the other articular arteries. OlFsets are given by it to the vastus internus, one crossing the lower end of the femur above the joint.