135 BOUNDARIES OF THE TRIANGULAR SPACE. Another muscle, the serratus magnus, lies in the lower and outer angle of the triangular space, viz., where the omo-hyoideus and the trapezius meet; it is concealed by the trapezius. POSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE OF THE NECK. The intermuscular interval on the side of the neck, named the posterior triangular space, is narrow before the fascia is removed, Uke the corresponding hollows opposite the joints, but in the Drawing the space is delineated as it appears after dissection. The great artery of the upper limb with some smaller branches, and the cendcal nerves, together with much fat and interspersed lymphatic glands, are contained in this hollow. This interval reaches from the clavicle to the back of the head. It is bounded in front by the sterno-mastoideus, B, and behind by the trapezius muscle, D. By its dissection greater apparent length is given to the neck, in consequence of the teguments being re- moved from part of the head. Narrower above than below, the space is said to be triangular. Rather it is flask-shaped, with the small part directed upwards. As low as the letter D, the hollow is shallow, and the sides nearly straight; but beyond that spot it becomes deeper, and is widened in consequence of the posterior border being curved. When in its natm*al position, the upper part of the sterno-mastoid projects farther back towards the trapezius than is indicated in the Drawing. Stretched over the space are the skin, the subcutaneous fatty layer containing the platysma, A, and the deep cervical fascia. And the floor of the hollow is formed by the superficial stratum of the mus- cles of the side of the neck, in the following order. Beginning above, the splenius capitis, C, is first met with ; and below it lies the levator anguli scapulae, divided into parts and marked by E, E. Farther down comes the scalenus medius, F; and near the clavicle the serratus magnus projects above the first rib, but this would be visible under the trapezius only in a front-view. The space is divided into two unequally-sized parts by the small