m DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE LEG, outer border, throwing the weight of the body on the inner side; and in rising from stooping it will help to bring back the fibula to a right angle with the foot. The peroneus hrevis, I, is attached to the outer or anterior surface of the fibula for the lower two thirds of the shaft—the upper end being pointed and lying inside its fellow; and from the intermuscular septum between it and the anterior muscles of the leg. At the ankle its tendon passes with that of the peroneus longus through the external annular ligament, lying next the bone; escaped from this it is received into a sheath, 0, on the outer side of the os calcis, above that for the peroneus longus; and it is finally inserted by a widened end into the base of the meta- tarsal bone of the little toe. In the leg the lower part of this peroneus is superficial in front of the other, and its tendon is connected to the fibula and the tarsus by sheaths like those of its companion. Fascia isolates it from the. muscles on the front and back of the le<r. This muscle extends the ankle, and moves the foot outwards almost horizontally when the toes are not supported ; but when the foot is fixed, as in standing, it will assist the long peroneus in raising the outer border from the ground. In rising from stooping it acts on the fibula like the peroneus longus. External annular ligament, N. This is a thin band behind and rather below the fibular malleolus, which is formed by thickened fascia, like the other annular ligaments near the ankle. In front it is attached to the malleolus, and behind to the os calcis. Its upper end joins the fascia of the leg, and the lower is united by a thin fibrous layer to the bands of fibro-cartilage fixing the tendons of the peronei to the os calcis. There is but one space in the ligament, and this lodges the two peronei; it is lubricated by a synovial sac, which bifurcates inferiorly—a piece being continued with each tendon into the fibro-cartilaginous sheath, .ANTERIOR TIBIAL VESSELS. The anterior tibial artery with its vense comites extends through the front of the leg to the sole of the foot.