ILIAC AETERIES AND VEINS. 301 The external iliac artery, d, courses along the psoas muscle to the lower limb, and reaches from the base of the sacrum to the lower border of Poupart's ligament. Its position will be marked on the surface of the abdomen by a line from the left of the um- bilicus to a spot midway between the symphysis pubis and the iliac crest. Throughout its length it is covered by the peritoneum and subperitoneal fat, and a chain of lymphatic glands lies along its side. Near Poupart's ligament it is crossed by several small vessels (p. 290). On the left side the large intestine crosses the artery. Its companion vein is internal on the left side ; but on the right side, the vein is on the inside near Poupart's ligament, and on the outside near the sacrum, crossing under the artery. Two tranches, epigastric and circumflex iliac, arise from the artery near the end : they have been noticed before (p. 291). Ligatm-e of the vessel should be practised rather below its middle (p. 290). Muscular branches in the abdomen. In the diaphragm small terminal offsets of the intercostal arteries ramify, and anastomose with the other arteries to the muscle, To the quadratus, I, and iliacus, L, branches of the lumbar and ilio-lumbar arteries are fui'nished. Abdominal veins. Each of the large arterial trunks above described has its companion vein, whose anatomy is simdar to that of the arteiy. The external iliac, r, has the same limits as the artery of the same name, and is provided also with two branches, viz. cfr- cumflex iliac and epigastric. Its position to the artery varies on the two sides: thus the left lies inside and below, and the right crosses underneath its artery ft'om the inner to the outer side. The common iliac, q, is formed by the union of the pelvic vein (internal iliac) and of the lower limb vein (external iliac) ; the veins of opposite sides blend in the vena cava inferior opposite the last lumbar vertebra, so that the veins do not reach so high as the arteries of the same name. Two veins, ilio-lumbar and lateral