CONNECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. 321 course behind and below the bladder, and lies in the curve of the sacrum and coccyx. It measures about eight inches in length, and is divided into three parts. The upper part, E, extends to the third piece of the sacrum: it is inclined inwards to the mid-line of that bone, and it is sur- rounded by the peritoneum which attaches it to the pelvic wall by a fold—the meso-rectum. Branches of the left internal iliac ai-tery, and the left ureter, are directed forwards by the side of the gut. The middle portion, D, reaches to the end of the coccyx and the coccygeus muscle. It is about three inches long ; and it is invested by the peritoneal pouch, F, which tapering gradually to a point, covers the sides and front of the intestine above, but only the fore part below. Resting behind on the sacrum and coccyx, it touches.in front the under part of the bladder, with the vesiculae seminales and the vasa deferentia. On each side descends the coccygeus, R. The third piece, 0, intervenes between the tip of the coccyx, and the anus ; it measures about one inch and a half, and is curved backwards somewhat. It is destitute of serous membrane. Above, are the fore part of the prostate, and the membranous and bulbous parts of the urethra. It is incased by muscles ;— the lavatores ani of opposite sides covering and supporting it laterally and behind, and the external sphincter surrounding it at the anus. Its cavity is narrowed at the orifice on the surface ; but above'that point is a dilatation, which is greatly enlarged in old men so as to rise upwards on the sides of the prostate, and in which the faeces accumulate. By the introduction of the finger into the rectum, the size and condition of the prostate may be ascertained ; and by the same means assistance may be given sometimes in the recognition of a calculus in the bladder, for the finger can raise and bring within reach of the sound a stone that has fallen into the hollow of the bladder behind the prostate. In the operation of puncturing the bladder through the rectum for retention of urine, a bent canula with a trocar is passed into the gut, and is guided by the fore finger to the under part of the Y