DISSECTION OF THE OltOIN. 272 of the limb on the condition of tlie opening should be kept in mind when an attempt has to be made to return a hernia into the c a-vily of the nbdomen. Sul)j)eriloneal fat. Underneath the tranversalis fascia is a layer of fat, varying in thickness with the obesity or leanness of the body, which gives a covering also to the spermatic cord. On looking into an opened abdomen this layer is recognised beneath the peritoneum ; and from this circumstance the name has been obtained. Peritoneum. Still within the subperitoneal fat is the stratum of the serous membrane of the abdomen, or the peritoneum. This is a thin translucent layer, not now visible, from which an offset in the fetus (processus vaginahs peritonei) was continued around the testicle passing from the abdomen to the scrotum : of this prolongation one or two fibrous bands can be usually discovered in the adult, descending in front of the vessels of the cord, and within the tube of the fascia transversalis. The spennatic cord, K, reaches from the testicle to the opening in the fascia transversalis, and consists of the vessels connecting •that viscus with parts in the abdomen. In the groin it lies obliquely amongst the abdominal muscles in a channel called the inguinal canal; and it predisposes by its situation to the escape of a piece of intestine from the abdomen. Beyond the abdominal wall it hangs vertically to the testicle, and can be felt on the surface of the body. Roundish in form and about half an inch in diameter, it is composed of the vessels and the efferent duct of the testicle, with nerves, lymphatics, and areolar tissue. It is surrounded by coverings from the structures amongst or through which it passes, which come in the following order when enumerated from with- out in :—the teguments, including the skin, and the superficial fascia or the subcutaneous fatty layer; the spermatic fascia (Plate xxxii.); the cremasteric covering (Plate xxxiii.); the funnel- shaped covering (Plate xxxiv.); and beneath all the subperitoneal fat. In the fetus at the time of the passage of the testicle there was an additional partial covering of the peritoneum, but this dis- appears with the subsequent change taking place in the prolonga-