QUADRATUS AND ILIACUS MUSCLES. 297 the trunk over the femur, as in stooping. In standing the lumbcar part of the spine is kept erect by the action of both muscles ; or is bent to the side by one. The psoas parvus muscle, J, appears to be but a part of the large psoas : it is often absent.* It takes origin from the bodies of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrJB, and from their interver- tebral substance; and it ends below in a strong tendon, which is inserted into the fore part of the brim of the pelvis, blending with the iliac fascia. Near the ribs the muscle lies on the psoas magnus, but slips to the inner side of this muscle below. As the muscle is not fixed to the femur it cannot act on the hip-joint. In the recumbent posture it may raise forwards the pelvis ; and in standing it assists the large psoas in supporting and bending forwai-ds the lumbar part of the spine. Quadratics lumboruni, I. This muscle fills the space between the last rib and the ihac crest, and is best displayed in Plate xxxvii. Two to three inches wide below, the muscle arises from the ilio-vertebral ligament, and the crest of the hip-bone behind that band : it is inserted internally into the transverse processes of the four upper or all the lumbar vertebrae, and into the last rib and the body of the last dorsal vertebra. The quadi'atus is partly concealed by the psoas, and is contained in a sheath derived from the fascia lumborum. Nerves from the lumbar plexus cross it, and the last dorsal nerve lies along the outer edge. When the muscle acts from the pelvis it can render firm the last rib so as to give a fixed point for the action of the diapkragm in deep inspu'ation. If both muscles act on the spine they will assist the psoas muscles in maintaining it erect ; but if only one is active the spine will be inclined towards the same side. In climbing it will assist the abdominal muscles in raising the pelvis. The iliacus muscle, D, arises fi'om the iliac fossa of the hip- bone, and from the base of the sacrum ; from the ilio-vertebral ligament behind ; and from the capsule of the hip-joint in fr'out. * This muscle was found but onco in twenty bodies which were examined carefully by Tlieile. " Lehre von deu Miiskcln." Leipzig, 184L