117 CRANIAL NERVES IN THE BASE OF THE SKULL. small, though only the large root is visible, for this lies over and conceals the small root. The large root enters a sheath of dura mater above the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and swells into a large ganglion in the middle fossa of the skull. This ganglion, 13, named Gasserian, and about as large as the thumb-nail, is widened in front, and is crossed by a ridge to which the dura mater adheres closely. From the fore part of the ganglion three large trunks are sent forwards to end on the face, hence the origin of the name of the nerve:—the highest of these is the ophthalmic trunk, 14, which passes through the sphenoidal fissure to the orbit; the middle one, or the superior maxillary, 15, leaves the skull by the foramen rotunduin; and the third, the inferior maxillary nerve, 16, issues from the skull through the foramen ovale. These trunks of the ganglion confer sensibility on the parts to which they are distributed. The small root of the fifth lies under the large one, and will come into view on raising the ganglion; it is unconnected with the ganghon, and belongs exclusively to the inferior maxillary trunk. Blending with offsets of the inferior maxillary trunk outside the skull, it is conveyed to muscles, and chiefly to those of mastication, to which it gives the power of contracting. The abducent, or sixth nerve, 6, pierces the dura mater behind the body of the sphenoid bone, and entering the cavernous sinus, passes through the sphenoidal fissure to one muscle (external rectus) of the orbit. All the nerves crossing the middle fossa of the base of the skull, viz., the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth, communicate with the sympathetic on the carotid artery. The facial, or seventh nerve, 7, (portio dura of the seventh pair, Willis,) enters the meatus auditorius internus. In the bottom of that hollow it is received into the aqueduct of Fallopius, and is conveyed to the stylo-mastoid foramen, where it escapes, to be distributed to the muscles of the face, the head, and the ear (in part); it is the motor nerve of those muscles. The auditory, or eighth nerve, 8, (portio mollis of the seventh pair, Willis,) soft, and divided into fibrils, accompanies the facial