CONNECTIONS OP TEE BLADDER. 323 each side is the vesicula seminalis with the vas deferens; and the part between those bodies is called the triangular space of the bladder. The size of the base and its shape depend upon the distension ; for as the bladder increases in size it projects towards the rectum, and forms a pouch below the level of the cervix and the canal of the urethra, into which a calculus will subside. The body of the viscus touches in front the wall of the pelvis, and is free from peritoneum ; and when the bladder is distended it rises above the pelvis, and can be reached without injury to the serous membrane, by an incision through the lower part of the abdominal wall. Behind, it is covered by the peritoneum, and is in contact more or less with the small intestines, which descend into the pelvis in some bodies. Laterally the obliterated hypogas- tric artery ascends along the viscus ; and descending behind this is the vas deferens, which passes internal to the ureter and the vesicula seminalis. Nearer the fundus the ureter pierces the muscular wall. All the side behind the obliterated hypogastric is clothed by the peritoneum, whilst all in front of it is devoid of that layer; so that the cord of the obliterated vessel lies along the line of reflection of the serous membrane. The neck or cervix is the narrowed part of the bladder which is surrounded by the prostate ; and fi-om it the urethra or the excre- tory canal of the urine is continued. In the contracted state of the viscus it is the lowest part of the cavity, but in distension it is placed considerably above the ftindus. The ureter, J, brings the urine -from the kidney to the bladder. Crossing the common iliac vessels, it is continued through the pelvis to the bladder; and it pierces this, below, at the lateral aspect, and about one inch and a half from the prostate. In the pelvic cavity it forms an arch below that of the obliterated hypo- gastric artery. Ligaments of the bladder. This viscus is retained in place partly by ligaments : of these there are two kinds, true and false. The true ligaments consist of the pelvic fascia: they are at- tached to the neck and the lower part of the bladder, and are noticed with the preceding Plate (p. 318). The false ligaments4ire formed by the peritoneum, and are five T 2