156 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE NECK. Depressors of the os hyoicles. These muscles cover the trachea and larynx, and are marked B, 0, and D. Omo-hyoideiis, C. The anterior belly of this muscle crosses the common carotid artery and jugular vein just below the cricoid cartilage, and is inserted into the body of the hyoid bone close to the great cornu. For the posterior belly, see Plate xv. and p. 133. Stemo-hyoidens, B. The muscle arises from the inner surface of the sternum and first rib, and is inserted into the middle of the body of the hyoid bone. Sterno-thyroideus, D, arises lower in the chest than the preced- ing, though like it from the sternum and the rib, and is inserted into the oblique line on the thyroid cartilage, where it is con- tinuous with the following. The small thyro-hyoideus, F, joining the preceding below, is inserted into the anterior half of the great cornu, and into part of the body of the os hyoides. This group of muscles is covered partly by the sterno-mas- toideus; and it conceals the windpipe and the thyroid body, and the sheath of the great bloodvessels. An interval separates the muscles of opposite sides along the middle hue of the neck, except for about an inch above the sternum, where the stemo-thyi-oid muscles touch. Action. Commonly the muscles act from the sternum, and draw down rapidly the os hyoides as soon as the morsel of food or the fluid to be swallowed has passed the upper aperture of the larynx. If they take their fixed point above, the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid will assist in dilating the chest in laborious breathing ; and the small thyro-hyoid, F, will raise and tilt back- wards the thyroid cartilage—relaxing thereby the vocal cords. Elevators of the hyoid lone. These muscles are more numerous than their antagonists, for some extrinsic muscles of the tongue help to raise the os hyoides: the deeper muscles of the set may be referred to in Plate xxii. Stylo-hrjoideus, P. Arising near the root of the styloid process, tlie muscle is divided into two parte, between which passes the tendon of the posterior belly, R, of the digastricus; and it is