SUPERFICIAL NERVES OF THE HAND. 91 skin ; a ligature was put on the brachial in the middle of the arm, with the hope of getting above the origin of the abnormal branch ; it (the unusual branch) continued however to pulsate after the ligature was tightened ; the vas aberrans itself was therefore tied at once, close below the elbow, but notwithstanding all these pre- cautions, haemorrhage occurred on the following day as violent as ever ; the wound (in the palm) was a second time enlarged, and fortunately the blood burst forth at the time of operation and the wounded artery was easily tied : the patient recovered rapidly."* The result of ligature of the brachial in the above-cited case teaches, that tying the vessel in the wound of the palm, if such a step is possible, is to be preferred to a distant operation on the main ai'tery of the Umb, in those instances in which the surgeon suspects that a large unusual median artery joins the superficial palmar arch. SUPERFICIAL NERVES OF THE HAND. The median and ulnar nerves divide in the pahn of the hand into large branches, which end on the digits as the nerves of touch. They give branches to the superficial muscles; and the ulnar nerve supplies also the deep muscles by means of a special ofiset. 1. Trunk of the median nerve. 2. First digital branch. 3. Second digital branch. 4. Third digital branch. 5. Fourth digital branch. 6. Fifth digital branch. 7. Communicating branch from the median to the idnar. 8. Outer digital branch of the ulnar. 9. Inner digital branch of the ulnar. 10. Tnmk of the ulnar nerve. The median nerve, 1, is the larger of the two trunks distributed in the hand. Issuing from beneath the annular ligament, it is * Tliis case is reported by Mr. Cadge, in the part of Morton's Surgical Anatomy which was completed by him (London, 1850, p. 371). The artery named "vas aberrans," does not correspond with the ai'teries commonly so called; and it was probably the "median artery," which sometimes arises from the lower end of the brachial, and joins the palmar arch, as Plate 45 of Mr. Quain's Work on the Surgical Anatomy of the Arteries illustrates.