DISSECTION OF THE GUOIN. 268 A. External oblique muscle. B. Tendon of the oblique reflected. C. Poupavt's ligament. D. Cremaster muscle. E. Pyramidalis muscle. F. Spermatic cord. G. Internal oblique muscle. I. Band behind Poup. lig. Internal oMique muscle 0. This muscle is distinguished from the preceding by the direction of its fibres ; and it arches over the spermatic cord, in tead of being pierced by a hole for the same, as the external oblique is. Below it possesses fleshy fibres, where the obliquus externus is tendinous; and these are attached (part of the origin) to the outer half of Poupart's ligament, C, to a fibrous band behind it, I, and to the crest of the hip-bone. From this origin the fibres pass forwards, the upper ascending, and the lower arching over the spermatic cord, to end in the common tendon or aponeurosis. The aponeurosis of the muscle unites inseparably with that of the external oblique towards the middle line of the body, and ends "with it in the linea alba. The part laid bare has the following attachment below :—it is inserted into the front of the pubes, and, farther out, into the pectineal line for half an inch. Above the umbilicus the tendon is split to incase the rectus muscle, but midway between the navel and the pubes it is undivided, and is continued in front of the rectus. In the groin the muscle covers the apertiu'e in the abdominal wall through which the testicle escapes, and it conceals in part the spermatic cord. Its lower edge is free, and arches over the cord: contiguous to this edge is the cremaster muscle D. Several superficial nerves and vessels pierce the muscle. The cremaster muscle, D, lies along the lower border of the in- ternal oblique, and covers with loops the spermatic cord. Exter- nally the muscle arises by fleshy fibres from Poupart's ligament below the internal obhque and transversalis, some fibres blending with those muscles; and internally it is inserted by tendon into the pubes and the aponeurosis of the internal oblique. It has the following arrangement with respect to the spermatic cord:—On each side it forms a fleshy bundle, the external being the strongest, and over the front of the cord'it gives rise to a scries of loops which reach to the testicle. Further the fleshy loops are united