250 DISSECTION OF THK I'KRINyEUM. the symphysis pubis is an inch, and it lies equidistantl'y between the hip-bones. Within the layers of the triangular ligament it is surrounded, like the spongy part, with a voluntary muscle, the constrictor urethras, IT. The prostatic or the innermost portion of the urethra is about one inch and a quarter in length. It is contained altogether in the prostate; and it will have the same connections with surrounding parts as that body. The triangular ligament, K, acts as a supporting structure to the urethra, and fills the fore part of the pubic arch : it closes also the interval between the contiguous borders of the levatores ani. Its widest part is turned backwards; and its length is one inch and a half at the centre ft'om above down. It is comiected with the parts around in the following way:— The apex is united with the symphysis pubis. The base, some- what arched on each side, joins in the middle line the central point of the perinseum, whilst laterally it is connected with the superficial fascia, and with a fascia covering the levator ani in the ischio-rectal fossa. On each side the ligament is fixed into the hip-bone. Two membranous strata enter into the composition of the tri- angular ligament : they are named anterior and posterior, and are near together above, but are separated below by the urethra and its muscles. Only the anterior layer is visible in the Plate. The anterior layer, partly cut through on the left side, is a thin fibrous membrane, which permits the subjacent muscular fibres and the vessels to be seen through it. It has several, apertures :—Thus perforating the ligament in the middle line, one inch from the pubes and the sides of the pubic arch, is the tube of the urethra; and midway between the former opening and the pubes the dorsal vein of the penis pierces both layers of the ligament. On each side, near the apex, the dorsal artery and nerve of the penis issue through separate holes in the anterior layer. The posterior layer of the ligament is continuous with the pelvic fascia ; and it may be seen in Plate xxxix. of the pelvis. Between the layers of the ligament on each side the following