89 SUPERFICIAL ARTERIES OF THE HAND. Companion veins lie on the sides of the artery. From the concavity of the arch spring small unnamed offsets ; and from the convexity digital arteries proceed. The digital arteries, foiu- in number, and mai'ked each with the letter/, supply three digits and a half. In their course to the digits the three outer lie over interosseous spaces, whilst the other is placed along the ianer part of the palm ; and at the clefb of the fingers they divide, except the most internal, into two for the contiguous sides of the digits. Coursing along the fingers they are united by a loop behind each phalangeal joint ; and at the end of the finger they terminate in a loop which gives offsets to the tip, as is seen on the fourth digit. The following communications take place between the digital arteries of the ulnar and the branches -of the radial. At the inner side of the palm the branch h, which springs from the artery to the inner side of the little finger, joins either the deep arch or an interosseous branch; at the roots of the fingers the digital arteries anastomose with the interosseous branches of the deep arch ; and at the tip of the fore finger the digital artery on the ulnar side inosculates with the arteria radialis indicis. In the hand the large digital vessels and nerves lie over the intervals between the metacarpal bones ; and in the fingers they occupy the sides. Incisions into the palm of the hand can be made therefore with least injury over the line of the metacarpal bones; and a cut into a finger, along its centre. Wounds of arteries in the palm of the hand are followed generally by copious bleeding, in consequence of the numerous communications between the chief vessels. In an injury of the superficial palmar arch, at c, for instance, blood will be ftu-nished by the ulnar tnink, a. And though this source might be cut off by a ligature, the blood could be supplied by the radial artery to the other end of the arch, through the anastomosing branches, d, and g; or through the anastomoses above described of the digital with the interosseous arteries, and with the arteria radialis indicis. In such an arrangement of the vessels as that delineated in the Figure, the bleeding from the wound might be commanded by placing a ligature on each side of the orifice in