DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 4 BOUNDARIES OF THE AXILLA. The axilla corresponds with the surface depression of the arm-pit. As it is a portion of the space included by the thoracic muscles converging to the humerus, it has necessarily a pyramidal form; and it is limited in ft-ont and behind chiefly by those muscles, whilst inside it is the chest, and on the outside the humerus. This intermuscular interval lodges the large vessels and nerves of the lunb, with lymphatics, and contains a loose granular fat. Along the fore part lies the pectoralis major. A, reaching from apex to base, and forming by its lower or free edge the anterior fold of the arm-pit; and underneath it, constructing only a small part of this boundary, is the pectoralis minor, B. After the fat had been removed from the space, the pectoralis sank down somewhat, as the Drawing indicates, in consequence of the body not being very ft-esh. Bounding the interval behind are three muscles, viz., the subscapularis, H, the latissimus, C, and the teres major, D: the two latter muscles enter into the formation of the lower part of this boundary, and extend lower down the limb than the pecto- ralis. Within the edge of the latissimus, here shown everted, is a hollow containing vessels, nerves, and glands, in which pus may burrow, or slightly enlarged glands may lie undetected by the fingers. On the inner convex side of the axilla is the serratus magnus, F, covering the four highest ribs and their intercostal muscles. On the outer side, where the space is limited, are placed the humerus and the contiguous part of the scapula, with the coraco- brachialis, K, and biceps, L, muscles. The base, or the elongated loM^er opening of the axilla, is wider at the chest than at the arm; but it is not so wide before as after the dissection, because the parts when cleaned separate from each other. A rather dense fascia closes the axillary space in this direction, and impedes the advance of pus to the surface. The apex or narrowed part of the space joins the root of the