DISSECTION OF THE BASE OF THE SKULL. 114 the most part the surface of the fossa is convex, but along the middle line it is hollowed where it lodges the olfactory bulb : at the forepart of the hollow, H, small apertures exist iu the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone for the transmission of the olfactory nerve filaments to the nose. On the anterior fossa rest the frontal lobes of the large brain. The middle fossa, A, receives the middle part of the cerebrum or large brain. Much deeper than the anterior fossa, its bottom will reach down to a level with the articulation of the lower jaw. Along the middle line is the depression (sella Turcica) on the body of the sphenoid bone containing the pituitary body. Small vessels ramify in the fossa; and the internal carotid artery and some cranial nerves cross the inner end. The posterior fossa, B, is more extensive than the others, being wide and shallow, and contains the hemispheres of the small brain or cerebellum. Its depth will be marked on the side of the head by the tip of the mastoid process. In its centre is the large foramen magnum transmitting the spinal cord. If the skull has not been savra so low as the occipital protube- rance, there will be another depression at the base, the superior occipital fossa, C,.in which the posterior end or the occipital lobe of the large brain rests. Dura mater. This is a strong fibrous membrane, which serves as an endosteum to the bone, and supports parts of the brain. Its vessels and nerves are named meningeal. Three chief processes project inwards between parts of the brain : two of these are met with in the examination of the base of the skull, and the third occupies the middle line of the head above the occipital protuberance. The tentorium cereielli, D (Plate xiv.),is arched over the posterior fossa of the base, leaving only a small aperture in front for the communication of the spinal cord with the brain ; and it is inter- posed between the large and small brains. Uniting with it along its middle, above and below, are folds—the falx cerebri and fals cerebelli, which keep it fixed tightly. In its centre is a triangular venous space, the straight sinus, G. The fah cereielli, F, reaches from the occipital protuberance to