DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 360 ftiscia lata. The vessel rests at first on the psoas muscle, and is placed lower down over the pectineus, G, but at some distance from it, the profunda and circumflex vessels with fat intervening. To the inner side and close to the artery lies the femoral vein, which inclines gradually behind that vessel towards the apex of the space. Outside the artery, either close to, or at a little distance from it, is the anterior crural nerve: this divides into many branches in the space of Scarpa; and of these, the internal cutaneous, 5, crosses over the artery near to or beneath the sartorius. The dee}} part of the artery (Plate XLV.) is contained in an intermuscular interval on the inner side of the femur, which has been called Hunter's canal. Superficial to the vessel in this hollow is the sartorius, A; with an aponeurotic layer beneath that muscle, which is stretched between the vastus internus, F, and the ad- ductor longus and magnus muscles, H and J : this layer does not appear in the Figure, as it was removed in the dissection. Be- neath the vessel lie the adductors, viz. pectineus, G (the lower end), adductor brevis (a small piece), adductor longus, H, and adductor magnus, J. On the outer side is the vastus internus, which separates the artery fi'om the femur. Inferiorly the artery issues from that space through the aperture in the adductor magnus muscle. The femoral vein is closely applied to the artery throughout, and winds behind it from the inner to the outer side. The super- ficial or internal saphenous vein has a position inside the blood vessel, but oftentimes an external branch of that vein crosses the line of the artery (Plate xlii. g). The internal saphenous nerve, 13, runs with the artery; it is outside that vessel above, but inside below, and crosses beneath the aponeurosis over the artery. Position and size of the branches. Most of the unnamed branches of the femoral artery are small in size and cutaneous, and arise at tolerably regular intervals along the trunk. From the begin- ning come three small named branches (Plate XLli.), viz. super- ficial epigastric, b, circumflex iliac, c, and pudic, a. Two inches lower down arises the large profunda trunk, g, for the supply of 0