DISSECTION OF THE PEllIN^CTM. 250 and the roots of the penis with their appertaining muscles, vessels, and nerves. Commonly its form is an equilateral triangle, and its sides measure three inches. Its boundaries have been detailed (p. 241). All the parts included in this space are covered by the subcutaneous fatty layer described below. The superficial fascia, G, clothes the body under the skin, and is directly continuous with the same layer in the scrotum and on the thighs; but as it is continued into the scrotum it loses its fat, and acquires involuntary muscular fibres, forming therewith a contractile tissue (dartos). Over the fore part of the perinaaal space the fascia possesses a membranous layer on the under surface, which is indicated in the Plate, and has the following connections :—Externally it is fixed into the margin of the hip-bone outside the cms penis. Behind, it bends down at the back of the transversalis muscle, to be united with the triangular ligament of the urethra. And in front it is continued into the scrotum without being connected with any subjacent part. Attached thus on the sides and behind, it arches over the space containing the urethral tube and the muscles. From its under surface some areolar tissue projects downwards opposite the urethra, and forms a partition between the right and the left side : this is a complete septum behind, but is incomplete in the scrotum where it is pervious to air or fluid. The space thus included by the attachments of the superficial fascia opens into the scrotum in front, and is partly subdivided behind. When air is blown under the fascia it passes forwards on the same side as far as the median septum is complete, and it then diffuses itself in the scrotum ; but if more air is still forced in on the same side it will move backwards from the scrotum along the opposite side of the perinseum. When urine finds its way into the fore part of the perinseum through an aperture in the urethra it is directed forwards through the scrotum, like the air, by the attachments of the superficial fascia on the sides and behind. Tube of the urethra. In the side view of the male pelvis (Plate XL.) this tube may be seen to extend from the bladder to the end of the penis. In its course it passes through the