'SUPEliFICIAL AND TLANTAR ATJTIilllES. •137 Ciilancous ar/cries. The teguments of the posterior part of tlie sole receive branches from the posterior tibial trunk, and those of the rest of the foot are supplied by the pUxntar arteries. The cuianeoas plantar of the posterior tibial, a, is shown at its origin in Plate LV : when it is small there may be two instead of one. Piercing the internal annular ligament as one or two branches, which accompany the cutaneous nerve, it ramifies in the teguments of the under and fore part of the heel. Its vcnsc comites join the posterior tibial veins. Cutaneous branches of the plantar arteries issue by the sides of the flexor brevis digitoruni—between it and the abductor pollicis internally, and between it and the abductor minimi digiti exter- nally ; and towards the toes the cutaneous offsets are furnished by the digital arteries :—These several branches supply the integu- ments anterior to the distribution of the artery, a. The plan tar arteries, the chief vessels of the sole of the foot, are two in number, inner and outer: they are derived from the splitting of the posterior tibial at the lower border of the internal annular ligament ; and their connections with muscles at the hinder part of the foot can be observed in Fig. ii. The infer ml 2)lantar, h, is directed beneath the abductor pollicis (the sole of the foot being up) to the interval between this muscle and the flexor brevis digitoruni, where it becomes superficial oppo- site the back of the first interosseous space. It is then directed forwards and out over the flexor tendons, in company with vcnte comites and the internal plantar nerve, and ends at the fore part of the third interosseous space by joining the third digital artery, h. Whilst the artery retains its deep position it furnishes cuta- neous branches of the sole, muscular branches to the abductor pollicis and flexor perforatus, and deep offsets to the bones aud ligaments of the inner part of the tarsus. After the vessel reaches the surface it supplies the following superficial digital, and deep or muscular branches. The suimficial digital brandies arc three slender arteries which run forward, and are thus arranged :— The must internal belongs to the inner side uf Liic foot aui