460 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE LEG. in standing, it will help the tibialis posticus to lift the inner inargiu of the instep, so as to make the outside of the foot the supporting part of the body. After the advanced foot has reached the ground in walking, the muscle will be able to bring the tibia forwards over the instep ; and in stooping and rising it will assist in steadying the bones of the leg. In deformity of the foot with inversion, and elevation of the inner part of the sole from the ground, the tendon of the tibialis anticus is shortened and prominent, and will have to be divided, together with others, before the sole can be brought into its natural position. The pemieus tertius, D, is small, and is generally united with the extensor longus digitorum. It arises from the lower fourth or third of the inner surface (anterior part) of the fibula, below the long extensor of the toes, and from the lower end of the inter- osseous membrane. The tendon varies much in size, like the fleshy part of the muscle, and is transmitted through a sheath in the lower part of the annular ligament with the long extensor, to be inserted by a widened extremity into the upper part of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. More or less joined with the long extensor of the toes, it is superficial throughout, and is separated from the peroneus brevis behind it by a piece of fascia which is fixed into the fibula. Underneath the muscle lie the lower portion of the fibula, the ankle-joint, and the short extensor of the toes. When the foot hangs the muscle will be employed as a flexor of the ankle, like the tibialis ; and it will raise the outer border of the foot. But should the limb be fixed by contact with the ground, the action of the peroneus tertius on the leg in walking and stooping will be the same as that of the tibialis. The extensor longiis digitorum, B, is a thin narrow muscle, which arises from the head and three fourths of the inner surface (anterior part) of the fibula ; from the external tuberosity of the tibia, and the contiguous interosseous membrane (about an inch); and from the fascia of the leg. Its tendon below is contained in a sheath in the lower portion of the annular ligament with the