420 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE LEG, the hinder border of this bone. And between the two bones it is connected with a tendinous band, which bridges over the popliteal vessels and nerves. About midway between the knee and the heel the fleshy fibres end in a tendon, which blends with that of the gastrocnemius. On the cutaneous surface rest the plantaris and gastrocnemius ; and underneath the soleus are the deep muscles of the leg, with the main blood-vessels and nerve of the limb. The fibular attachment is thick and fleshy, and the tibial, thinner than the other, is aponeurotic on the under surface (Plate LV.). Parallel to the upper border is the popliteus muscle, I. The Tendo Achillis, K, is formed by the union of the aponeu- roses of the gastrocnemius and soleus about half way down the leg. At its upper end it measures about three inches in width, and is thin, but it gradually tapers downwards, becoming thicker and rounded near the heel ; and finally it is inserted by a some- what widened part into the lower half of the posterior surface of the OS calcis. In Plate lv. a bursa is shown, separating the tendon from the upper part of the bone. Comparatively super- ficial throughout, it is covered only by the teguments and the deep fascia ; and along the outer side, below, are placed the short saphenous vein and nerve. In deformity of the foot with elevation of the heel, division of the tendon is needful to allow the os calcis to be put in contact with the ground. In the execution of this operation the cutting instrument is entered beneath the tendon about an inch above the heel, and on the inner side ; and the tendon being put on the stretch by forcible flexion of the ankle, the knife is carried outwards through it, with a sawing movement, care being taken not to divide the integuments as the last part of the tendon is cut through. Sometimes the tendon is ruptured across in the living body by the forcible and sudden action of the fleshy fibres. When this accident happens, the broken ends are separated widely, the upper fragment being raised by the contraction of the fleshy bellies, and the lower piece being depressed by the descent of the os calcis through flexion of the ankle. With the view of approxi-