PARTS OF THE DIAPIIllAGM. heart-shaped or cordiform. It receives by its circumference the fleshy fibres, and is pierced by the large inferior cava : it is divided into three pieces;—a central, B; a left narrow portion, C; and a right piece, D. The crura or pillars lie on the sides of the aorta, a, and form tvro thick fleshy bundles, which are fixed by tendon to the subjacent lumbar vertebrae and their intervertebral substance. Of the two, the right crus is larger than the left, and in the succeeding Plate it may be seen more distinctly. From the tendinous part the fleshy fibres ascend to the central tendon, but the most internal set pass between the aorta and the oesophagus, decussating with their fellows, and bound laterally the oesophagean opening in then.' upward course to their destination. Most commonly the fasciculus of the right side is anterior to that of the left at the point of crossing. The arched ligaments are fibrous bands over the loin-muscles for the purpose of giving attachment to the hinder fibres of the diaphragm. The internal one, G, (ligam. arcuat, intern.) the longest and . most curved, lies over the psoas muscle. By the inner end it joins the tendinous part of the crus, and by the outer it is inserted into the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra. The external band, H, (lig. arc. extern.) is attached externally to the last rib, and internally it blends with the inner ligament: it is placed over the quadratus muscle, I, and under or through it the last dorsal nerve and the accompanying vessels issue. Apertures in the diaphragm. Three large central holes give passage to the oesophagus and the two large bloodvessels of the lower half of the body ; and on each side of the aorta is a fissm'e in the crus for the transmission of the splanchnic nerves. The msophagean opening occupies the fleshy pai't of the muscle behind the central tendon. It is placed in front of the spinal column, above and to the left of the aortic opening. Its bounding fibres are derived from the crura, those on the left side coming from the right crus ; and the opposite. Through this aperture are transmitted the oesophagus, and the two pneumo-gastric nei-ves, with areolar tissue. It is larger than the tube passing