314 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. side in the central point of the perinaeum; others course back- wards over the side of the gut, some joining the muscular coat of the intestine, to meet the fibres of the opposite muscle in a tendi- nous line between the gut and the coccyx; and the posterior fibres end on the lower part of the coccyx. By their position in the pelvic outlet the muscles form a fleshy diaphragm, which is convex to the periuEeum and is pierced by the rectum. The outer surface looks to the wall of the pelvis and the ischio-rectal fossa; and the inner, to the bladder and urethra, and the rectum. The anterior border lies against the urethral tube in the male, and the urethra and vagina in the female; whilst the interval between the muscles of opposite sides is closed by the triangular ligament of the urethra. When the levator ani contracts it raises the rectum; and it will restore to the natural position the lower end of the intestine which has been protruded, and everted in the passing of the faeces. It will also compress the lower part of the bladderj and the generative organs lying below and in front of that viscus. And as the muscles of opposite sides unite below the urethral tube in the male, and the vagina in the female, they will be able to constrict those passages. By means of the fibres attached to the coccyx the muscles will raise that bone with the aid of the eoccygeus. The triangular ligament of the urethra is described in p. 256. In this Figure the two layers are represented as they appear after the removal of the bone to which they are attached laterally. The two strata of which it consists are farther apart in the middle line than at the sides, and between them lie muscles, vessels, and nerves. Inferiorly, the layers blend together; and from the lower edge a thin fascia is prolonged over the levator ani muscle in the ischio-rectal fossa. In this view the posterior layer is seen to be pierced by the dorsal artery and nerve of the pudic; and to give attachment to the levator ani, P. INTEKNAL ILIAC ARTERY. Yisceral branches, and the obliterated hypogastric, are con- tinued forwards from the end of the internal iliac; and these.