ARTERIES 01'' THE ARM. 45 ARTERIES OF THE ARM. The brachial artery and the end of the axillary trunk may be studied in this dissection with their connections undisturbed. The ramifications or ending of the branches must be learnt with the aid of the other Plates. ' h. Brachial artery. m. Muscular offset of the superior * Spot best suited for ligature of profunda branch. the vessel. n. Inferior profunda brauch. I. External mammary branch of p. Anastomotic branch. the axillary arterJ^ The Irachial artery, Ic, extends from the lower border of the teres major muscle, N, to a finger's breadth below the bend of the elbow (Quain), where it bifurcates into the radial and ulnar arteries. The inner edge of the muscular prominence of the coraco-brachialis and biceps marks its position in the limb ; or a line fi'om the arm-pit to the middle of the bend of the elbow would correspond with the course of the vessel. In consequence of its superficial position in the arm the vessel can be readily compressed. Above the spot marked with an asterisk the artery lies inside the humerus, and pressure to act on it should be directed outwards against the bone ; but below that spot it inclines in front of the bone, and the blood will be stopped in it by forcing backwards the fingers or the thumb. Its connections with muscles and fascia are the following:— Beneath it, from above down, are the long head of the triceps, M; the inner head, K, of the same muscle ; the coraco-brachialis, H, where the asterisk is placed ; and thence to the ending, the brachialis anticus, F. Superficial to the artery is the deep fascia of the limb with the integuments. Two companion veins are close to the brachial trunk—one on each side—and anastomose across it after the manner of sucli veins ; and at the bend of tlie elbow the median basilic vein, f, crosses the artery. The basilic vein, g, lies inside the line of the vessel—sometimes nearer, and at others farther from it. Several nerves accompany the artery above, but only one below.