CONNECTIONS OF THE UTERUS. 333 Its upper end, large and rounded, is named the fundus. About two-thirds down it decreases much in size; and this narrowed part, neck or cervix, is received into the vagina, B. The inter- mediate part of the viscus is the body. The anterior surface is flattened ; the posterior is rounded ; and the narrow sides slope gi-adually towards the neck. The cavity in the interior is flat and triangular: it commu- nicates below with the vagina by an oval opening, or the mouth of the uterus, os tincce,; and on each side above is a small round aperture into the Fallopian tube, Gr. The uterus and the vagina are interposed between the bladder and the rectum ; and the womb is supported in its place by liga- ments connecting it to the abdominal wall. In the unimpregnated condition the uterus is placed below the brim of the pelvis ; and it sinks down lower in the dead body. Its upper end is directed forwards, and the lower backwards; and a line through the centre would correspond with the axis of the inlet of the pelvis ; if that line was prolonged upwards it would touch the abdominal wall a little above the pubes. The anterior flattened surface touches the back of the bladder, and is covered in part by peritoneum : commonly the serous membrane reaches only half or two-thirds down, and the cervix is united by fibrous tissue to the bladder; but in the body from which the Figure was taken, the whole of the anterior sm-face was clothed by that membrane. The posterior surface, rounded, is turned to the rectum, and is entirely covered by peritoneum.* The upper end is in contact with the small intestines, which descend into the pelvis in the woman ; and the lower end is received into the vagina in such a way as to be covered higher behind than in front. On each side the uterus gives insertion to a broad fold of peri- toneum, which is attached externally to the wall of the pelvis, and divides the cavity into two—an anterior, containing the bladder, and a posterior, the rectum. In this fold are included the three uterine appendages, viz.: the Fallopian tube, G; the round ligament, E, and the ovary and its ligament, F ; and