227 MUSCLES OF THE LARYNX. The crico-arykenoideus posticus, K, (J, Fig. iii.) arises from tho right lateral depression on the back of the cricoid cartilage, and is inserted above into the base of the arjtaenoid cartilage at the outer side. When this muscle acts the arytsenoid cartilage -will be rotated around its vertical axis, and the anterior spur will be moved out- wards away from the middle line. By this movement the glottis is widened at the base, and the upper aperture of the larynx is also made larger. The crico-arijicenoideus laieralis, Q, arises from the upper edge of the cricoid cartilage at the lateral aspect; and taking a back- ward direction it is inserted with the preceding into the external prominence at the base of the arytsenoid cartilage, and into the contiguous part of the outer surface. As the preceding muscle moves outwards the external projec- tion of the cartilage, the lateral crico-arytEenoideus is put on the stretch; but as soon as the posterior muscle ceases to contract, the lateral one will restore the displaced cartilage to its usual position. This muscle, acting by itself, will turn inwards the anterior spur, and diminish the width of the glottis. The arylcenoideus, V, the only single muscle of the larynx, closes the interval between the arytsenoid cartilages. It consists mostly of transverse fibres, which are attached to the hollowed posterior surfaces of the cartilages; but it possesses also two superficial bands, which are directed from the base of one cartilage to the apex of the other. These oblique slips cross each other at the middle, and join in front the thyro-arytsenoideus and the de pressor epiglottidis. The fibres of the muscle contracting will draw the aryttenoid cartilages towards each other, and diminish the width of the glottis. And, as this movement approximates the vocal cords, the muscle is one of the two employed in placing the cords in the' vocalizing position. The muscle diminishes behind the width" of the upper laryngeal orifice. Muscles governing the fitch of the voice.—The muscles making tight or loose the vocal cords, and rendering the voice either high or deep in tone, are the two subjoined. Q 2