leo DISSKCTFON OF THE BASE OF TTIK SKULL THE DUEA MATER WITH THE SINUSES. The tentorium cereMli, D, has been left entire for the purpose of showing the height and extent of this partition. Its position will be marked on the surface by a line on a level with the part of the ear joining the side of the head. Venous spaces occupy the middle part, and the attached edge of the membrane ; and one of the largest spaces, called the caver- nous, is close to each anterior extremity. The cavernous sinus, Q, may be opened, as on the left side, by cutting through the dura mater from the anterior clinoid process to the petrous portion of the temporal bone, the cut being made internal to the third and fourth nerves. This hollow is placed on the side of the body of the sphenoid, and reaches from the sphenoidal fissure to the temporal bone. Rather more than an inch long, it measures across about half an inch, after the handle of the knife has been put into it ; and it is dilated behind where it joins other sinuses. Its inner boundary is formed by the sphenoid bone covered by thin dura mater ; and the outer boundary, consisting of thickened dnra mater, contains the third, 3, fourth, 4, and the ophthalmic trunk of the fifth nei-ve, 14, Plate xiii. Through the inner part of the space pass the internal carotid artery and tlie sixth cranial nerve ; and tliese are separated fi'om the blood by the thin venous lining membrane. Small fibrous bands and arteries traverse the space, giving rise to the term " cavernous." Blood is received fi'om a few small cerebral veins which pierce the outer wall, though chiefly from the ophthalmic vein (Fig. xiii. li) which entei'S in front; and it circulates backwards to be conveyed to the lateral sinus by the upper and lower petrosal sinuses. The blood in the space communicates with that outside the head by means of small emissary veins, which penetrate through the foramen lacerum. Three short sinuses join the cavernous spaces of opposite sides across the middle fine ;—one lying before the pituitary body, one behind it; and the other across the basilar process of