303 SriNAL NERVES IN THE ABDOMEN. Occasionally the cava lies on the left of the aorta as high as the kidney : then receiving the left renal vein, it crosses the spine into its usual place. SPINAL NERVES IN THE ABDOMEN. All the nerves now visible, except two, come from the lumbar plexus in the psoas muscle. In the next Plate the origin of the nerves from the plexus is brought under notice. 1. Last dorsal nerve. 5. Genital branch of genito-crural, 2. llio-hypogastric branch. 6. External cntaneous branch. 3. Ilio-mguinal branch. 7. Anterior criu'al nerve. 4. Criu-al branch of genito-crural 8. Ending of jDhrenic nerve. nerve. Branches of lumlar plexus. The position of the branches of the plexus to the psoas muscle is the following:—Along the outer edge appear four nerves; two at the upper part, viz., the ilio- hypogastric and ilio-inguinal; one about the middle—the external cutaneous; and a large nerve below—the anterior crural. Rather below the pelvic part of the inner edge of the muscle the obtu- rator nerve courses forwards (Plate xxxvii.). Piercing the fibres of the muscle will be one or two pieces of the genito-crural nerve; this difference depending upon the division of the nerve nearer to, or farther from its origin in the plexus. All these branches are distributed outside the cavity of the abdomen, ending in the abdominal wall, the lower limb, and the cutaneous and fleshy coverings of the spermatic cord. Ending of the phrenic nerve, 8. Some of the terminal branches of this nerve pierce the fibres of the diaphragm, and run on the under surface of the muscle before disappearing in the fleshy fibres. On the abdominal surface of the muscle they communi- cate with branches of the sympathetic nerve forming a plexus. At the place of union a ganglion exists on the right side (Swan). i Last dorsal nerve, 1. This trunk appears below the last rib, and enters the wall of the belly to be distributed in it, like the other intercostal nerves: it can be seen more plainly in the following Plate.