DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 210 0. The uvula. P. Anterior pillar of tlie palate. Q. The tonsil. R. Posterior pillar of the palate. S. The tongue. T. The epiglottis. V. Upper opening of the larynx. W. Opening of the ojsophagus. X. Internal pterygoid muscle. Z, Mylo-hyoid nmscle. for the air and food, but tho upper part transmits air exclusively, and the lower part conveys only food. These three portions, dif- fering thus in their use, have the following limits :—the upper reaches as low as the opening of the mouth, M, and communicates with the caTities of the nose and tympanum ; the middle region extends fi-om the mouth to the aperture of the larynx V ; and the third portion lies beyond the larynx, and is continuous below with the oesophagus W. Along the front of the pharynx ai-e seven openings, A. Tube of the cesophagus. B. Pharynx cut, and reflected. C. Inner part of pharynx covered hy mucous membrane. D. Septum nasi. E. Lower spongy bone. F. Eustachian tube. I. Buccinator muscle. K. Soft palate. M. Roof of the mouth. N. Salpingo-pharyngeus muscle. The Eustachian tuhe, F, one on each side, lies close to the base of the sliuU ; on the right side the mucous membrane has been removed fi'om the lower end. Its extremity in the phaiynx is cartilaginous and membranous, and is dilatable; but the upper part is osseous, and is contained in the temporal bone. At its lower end the cartilage is enlarged, but more at the inner than the outer side, and gives to the tube a funnel-shaped opening. The pharyngeal aperture is oval from before back, and is placed close behind the internal pterygoid plate, to which the tube is united by fibrous tissue higher up ;' it is on a level with the in- ferior meatus,—the upper part of the opening reaching as high as the upper border of the lower spongy bone. This tube leads from the phaiynx to the middle ear or tympa- num ; it transmits air to the ear cavity, and allows the mucus of that space to escape through it. Ordinarily the lower end is closed,^a'nd^ the air is shut in the tympanum, but the pharyngeal opening can' be rendered patent by the action of the palate muscles, so as to permit the passage of air. An instrument can be passed into it through the nose for the purposj3 of