DISSECTION OP THE PELVIS. 334 these are placed from above down in the order in which they are here enumerated. The vagina, B, is a tube which reaches from the uterus to the vulva on the exterior of the body. It takes a curved course in front of the rectum, and below the bladder and urethra. The fore part is shorter than the hinder; and a line through it would cor- respond with the axes of the cavity and outlet of the pelvis. When distended it is roundish in form, but in the natural state it is flattened ft-om before back except at the ends. It measures about five inches in length. In its course it pierces the recto-vesical fascia, receiving from this a sheath on the lower half ; and it is transmitted through the lower part of the triangular ligament of the urethra. The upper end is attached to the neck of the uterus, reaching farther on the posterior than the anterior surface ; and the lower end is sur- rounded by the constrictor vaginas muscle, L. At the outer orifice in the child, and in the virgin state, there is an incomplete occluding structure called the hymen. The comtrictor vagina,, L, is an orbicular muscle around the end of the vagina. It is attached in front on each side to the clitoris: ft'om this spot the fibres pass back on' the sides of the vaginal aperture, and end at the central point of the perinseum, some joining the external sphincter ani: The muscle constricts the vagina ; and possesses at one time a voluntary, and at another an involuntary action, like the ejacu- lator urinte by which it is represented in the other sex. Peritoneum in the pelvis. The serous membrane is reflected over the viscera so as partly to cover and fix them to the wall of the pelvis, after a similar manner in both sexes. Surrounding the upper half of the rectum it attaches the gut to the wall behind by a fold—the meso-rectum. In front of the intestine it is reflected on the back of the vagina and the posterior surface of the uterus, and forms the recto-uterine pouch between the womb and the rectum. On each side of the uterus it is ex- tended outwards in a wide piece to the side of the pelvis, giving rise to the broad ligament, which contains and supports the Fallopian tube, G, the round ligament, E, and the ovary with its