461 EXTENSOKS OF THE DIGITS. peroneus tertius, and divides into four pieces for insertion into the four outer toes. On the back of the toes the tendons are arranged like those of the extensor of the fingers. For example, on the first phalanx there is a fibrous expansion, which is not fixed into the subjacent bone, and is formed by pieces of the long and short extensors, and by tendons from the lumbricalis and interossei; but that on the little toe does not receive any contribution from the short extensor. At the front of the metatarsal phalanx the expansion divides into three parts, which are connected with the two re- maining phalanges in this manner :—The short central piece is inserted into the base of the middle phalanx ; and the two lateral blend into one at the fore part of the middle, and are inserted into the base of the last phalanx. Opposite the two nearest pha- langeal joints a fibrous slip descends on each side from the expan- sion, to blend with the capsule of those articulations. The muscle lies partly in the leg and partly on the dorsum of the foot; and although not fixed into the nearest phalanx, it is BO closely united to that bone by the other tendinous slips joining it, as to be able to extend the metatarso-phalangeal joint. Like the tibialis it is superficial throughout. Along the inner side lie the tibialis and extensor poUiciswith the tibial vessels and nerve ; and on the outer are situate the two external peronei, but separated by a process of fascia. If the foot and toes are not fixed the muscle extends the pha- langeal joints from root to tip, separating the digits at the same time ; and it raises afterwards the foot so as to bend the ankle. Should the foot rest on the ground with the fibula slanting backwards, that bone can be brought forwards over the foot by this muscle. In stooping and rising it will assist the tibialis. The extensor Irevis digitonm, F, occupies the dorsum of the foot, and gives tendons to the four inner toes. Thin and fleshy behind, it arises from the outer surface of the os calcis near the fore part, and from the outer end of the lower piece of the anterior annular ligament. At the back of the metatarsal bones it divides into four fleshy bundles; and from these proceed tendons to join the common expansion on the dorsum of the first phalanx in the