242 DISSECTION OF THE PEEINiEUM. fat, and contains some vessels and nerves. On the left side the boundaries of the space may be defined ; and on "the right, the vessels and nerves may be brought into view, as in the Plate. To begin the dissection raise the skin from the posterior part of the space by means of a transverse cut at the front of the anus, and of a longitudinal one carried backwards from the other, around the anus, to the coccyx. From the front and back of the sphincter surrounding the anus a fleshy slip is to be followed on each side into the subcutaneous fatty layer. Next remove the fat and the small vessels and nerves from the ischio-rectal fossa on the left side ; and then trace in the right hollow the small vessels and nerves, as in the Figure. Rechm. About the lower three inches of the large intestine is contained in the periuaium. This part of the gut rests on the end of the sacrum and on the coccyx. "Whilst the rectum touches the bones it-is straight in its direction ; but at the end of the spinal column it is bent backwards, and ends at the surface in the anal aperture. It is not of uniform size, for at the anus it is nar- rowed much by the sphincter muscles, but an inch higher it is swollen into a sinus. This dilatation is enveloped by the levator ani muscle, 0, on each side. Commonly there are rounded swellings of a bluish colour pro- jecting from the interior of the gut, which are denominated internal piles or htemorrhoids ; these are formed out of dilated veins in this manner. Within the internal sphincter the middle liEeniorrhoidal arteries and veins form loops around the intestine under the mucous membrane, having an arrangement peculiar to this part of the alimentary passage.* From time to time parts of these loops become dilated ; and in this state they form small tumours which are forced down, together with the mucous mem- brane, through the sphincter by the straining efforts to expel the contents of the rectum ; and they carry with them some of the intermingled arterial loops. After a still longer interval the canal of the vein becomes obliterated by a solidified fibrinous clot, and * The arrangement of these vessels and their disposition in haaniorrhoids have been delineated in a Work on Diseases of the Rectum, by llicliard Qtiain, F.R.S. Lond. 18f;4.