DISSECTION OF THE GROIX. 290 In all its extent the vessel is covered by the peritoneum and the subperitoneal fat; and it is accompanied by a chain of lymphatic glands on the inner side and the fore part. Towards its lower end numerous smaller vessels lie on it: thus the sper- matic artery and veins, c, and the genital branch, 1, of the gcnito- crural nerve pass along it; crossing over its inner side for a sliort . distance is the vas deferens of the testis, K ; and directed trans- versely over it near its ending is the circumflex iliac vein, i. To its inner side, and taking a deeper position than it, is the external iliac vein, b; but on the right side there is a slight difference in the position of the vein (Plate xxxvi.). Two branches for the wall of the abdomen, viz. circumflex iliac and epigastric, arise from the lower end of the vessel. Ligature of the artery. The slight depth of the external iliac, and the small disturbance of the contents of the abdomen in an attempt to reach it, render practicable the ligature of this vessel by cutting through the wall of the belly in the groin. Not to displace unnecessarily the peritoneum, the ligature should be kept as near as it can be to Poupart's ligament; but the exact spot to be selected for the apphcation of the thread will be determined by the position of the branches. Usually two branches arise near the end of the arteiy, and on opposite sides of it; and if the position of these vessels was constant the trunk might be tied about an inch higher up. But as these branches take origin at different distances (one to two inches, Quain) from Pou- part's ligament, and as the obturator artery may be attached also to the lower half of the iliac trunk, the spot selected for ligature should be one inch and a half to two inches above the crural arch. The operation may be practised in this manner. A cut is to be made through the integuments of the wall of the belly in the groin ft-om a point a little above and outside the internal ab- dominal ring to the front of the iliac crest ; but on the right side the cut will be reversed. The three muscular strata are divided successively down to the yellow-looking fascia transver- salis, li; and then this thin membrane may be slit on a director. Next, the peritoneum and the subperitoneal fat are to be detached carefully with the finger, without rupture, from the iliac fossa.