SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF THE FOREARM. 60 pronator of the hand, and the others are flexors of the wrist and fingers. A. Biceps flexor bracliii. B. Bracliialis anticiis. C. Pronator teres. D. Palmaris longus. E. Flexor carpi raclialis. F. Flexor digitorum sublimis. G. Flexor carpi ulnaris. H. Flexor longus poUicis. L. Supinator longus. N. Palmaris brevis. P. Extensor carpi radialis longior. S. Extensor ossis metacarpi poUi- cis ; close alongside is the tendon of the extensor prinii internodii polliois. t Inner intermuscular septum of the arm. * Slip of fascia connecting the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris with the annular ligament. Pronator radii teres, C, the first muscle of the inner group, arises in part from the common origin ;* from the condyloid ridge of the humerus ; and from the coronoid process of the ulna by a separate slip (Plate ix.). Below it is inserted into the middle of the radius beneath the supinator longus, L. By its outer edge the muscle bounds the hollow in front of the elbow, and by the other it touches the flexor carpi radialis. Near the insertion the radial vessels rest on it. "When the pronator first contracts it will roll the radius over the ulna, pronating the hand ; and acting still more, it will bend the elbow-joint over which it passes. The flexor carpi radialis, E, having the common origin, is con- tinued through a groove in the os trapezium to be inserted chiefly into the base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger, but also by a slip into the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. The tendon of the muscle is prominent below outside the middle line of the forearm, and bounds internally a surface- depression over the radius which contains the radial artery ; it may be talcen as the guide to that vessel. After beuding the wrist, the muscle will approximate the fore- arm to the arm. * Most of the superficial muscles of the forearm, on both the front and back, have a common origin from the fascia of the limb, and from a strong fibrous process (tendon of origin) which is attached to the cojidyle of the humerus in each case, and sends pieces between the muscles.