318 DISSECTION OF THE TELVIS. bladder and the rectum, so that the viscera are partly within the cavity of the abdomen, and partly outside the flooring or mem- branous boundary of that cavity. Though the viscera pass through the fascia there is not any passage leading from the pelvic cavity, for the margins of the apertures for their transmis- sion are inseparably united to the parts transmitted. From the under or perinatal surface of the fascia are furnished two pro- longations, like the fingers of a glove, which form sheaths for the prostate and the rectum. As the fascia suspends the bladder, it forms the true ligaments of this viscus on each side, and in front. These will be noticed below. The sheath of the prostate, C, derived from the recto-vesical fascia, as above said, blends at the front of that body with the posterior layer, N, of the triangular ligament. It gives a com- plete, though not very dense covering, and is separated from the prostate by a plexus of veins, and by some small arteries. Sheath of the redum. This incases about the lower three inches of the gut, and is continued to the anus where it gradually ends. It is thicker than the tube on the prostate, and is separated from the intestine by fat, and by the upper hEemorrhoidal vessels. Ligaments of the Madder. The part of the fascia intervening between the wall of the pelvis and the bladder constitutes, as before said, the true ligaments of that viscus: they are two in number on each side, anterior and lateral, but there is not any slit or division between them. The anterior, T, is a narrow prominent band, which reaches from the back of the pubes to the sheath of the prostate and the neck of the bladder. It contains a bundle of muscular fibres derived from the external or longitudinal layer of the urinary bladder. A hollow exists between the ligaments of opposite sides. The lateral ligament is the wide expanded part of the fascia, A, which is attached to the neck and side of the bladder above the vesicula seminalis, along the line, B. From its insertion a piece is continued under the bladder to incase, with a like piece from the opposite side, the vesicula seminalis in a sheath.