137 ALTERATION IN SIZE OF THE SPACE. Larger before than behind, it is placed nearly opposite the middle third of the clavicle. It is about one inch and a half long, and an inch wide in ft-ont after the dissection; but until the orao-hyoideus has been displaced, this muscle will he closer to the clavicle, diminishing thus the width. Contained in it are the subclavian artery, a, the brachial plexus, 11, and the external jugular vein, k, with tlieir offsets, together with lymphatics and the usual fat. Arteries. The subclavian trunk, a, crosses the space from within out. In front it issues from beneath the anterior scalenus, G ; and it disappears below beneath the clavicle. Along the side of the space formed by the clavicle, the supra-scapular vessels, b, lie under cover of that bone. And at the corner where the omo- hyoideus meets the sterno-mastoideus, the transverse cervical vessels, c, cross the hollow. Veins. If the subclavian vein is full it may appear beneath the clavicle, though it lies usually at a lower level than the artery. The external jugular vein, Jc, is directed across the space, to join the subclavian vein below: companion veins, I and w, of the trans- verse cervical and supra-scapular arteries enter it near the clavicle. Nerves. External to the artery, or higher in the neck than it, the large bundles of nerves entering the brachial plexus are directed downwards in their course to the arm-pit: they have a deep position like the artery, and occupy the interval between the vessel and the omo-hyoid muscle. Near the outer part of the space they approach closer to the vessel, and serve as a valuable guide to it from the constancy of their position, and their white appearance and firm feel. Over the space descend the superficial branches of the cervical plexus: these must be divided in an incision into the neck. The size of the clavicular part of the triangular space varies much with the condition of the bounding muscles. Alterations in length will be determined by the attachment of the trapezius and sterno-mastoideus to the clavicle, for if one or both should reach farther tlian usual on that bone, the intermuscular space must be diminished accordingly. The width will be dependent upon the tiize and the situation of the omo-hyoideus, IT. When the muscle