COURSE OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 347 and is on a level with the crural arch. It is about as large as the tip of the fore finger, and measures most from within out: it is closed by the inguinal gland, I, which lies in it, and by the sub- peritoneal fat (septum crurale) and the peritoneum which stretch across it above the gland. Its bounding parts, and the vessels around, are described at page 286. (Plate xxxv.) The crural canal, K, is the narrow space inside the crural sheath, which is internal to the femoral vein. It extends from the crural ring to the upper cornu of the saphenous opening, and measures fi'om half to three quarters of an inch in length. It gradually tapers from above down, being pyramidal in form with the base upwards. Contained in the crural sheath, it will be bounded externally to that tube, both in front and behind by fascia lata ; and it is closed below by the meeting of the femoral vein with the inner slanting side of the crural sheath. The saphenous opening is concealed by the reflected piece of the fascia lata ; but it is delineated in Figure XLii. Its boundaries, size, and conditions, have been described in page 342. By means of this aperture the gut comes forwards to the surface of the thigh; and this apertm-e of exit has been called the lower opening of the crural passage. Course of femoral hernia. The piece of intestine in femoral hernia passes beneath the crural arch and within the crural sheath as before said, but it changes its direction as it proceeds onwards. Entering the crural canal through the abdominal aperture, it de- scends vertically as far as the upper cornu of the saphenous opening. Next it advances through that opening to the sur- face of the thigh, making at first a small round tumour, but as more of the gut is protruded it extends transversely below Pou- part's ligament. Finally, as the hernia enlarges it ascends over the crural arch on to the abdomen, because there is less resistance in this direction than towards the thigh. In consequence of the winding course of the intestine the last or ascending part comes to be parallel almost to the first or descending part of the tumour;