874 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. superficial part of the obturator nerve, and at its insertion by the profunda vessels. The posterior surface rests on the adductor magnus, and on the deep piece of the obturator nerve and the accompanying vessels. Its upper border touches the obturator and psoas muscles, and the internal circumflex vessels. Its action is similar to that of the pectineus and adductor longus; for it engages in adduction of the femur ; in the projec- tion forwards of that bone in walking ; and in supporting the pelvis in standing. The adductor viagmis, J, is the largest muscle in the group of adductors, and is wide and fleshy above, but narrow and tendinous below. It takes origin along the lower border of the hip-bone between the symphysis and the ischial tuberosity. From the pelvis the fibres diverge to a wide insertion into the femur, after this manner:—The anterior and upper fibres are fixed to the line continued from the great trochanter to the linea aspera, to the linea aspera itself, and for about an inch to the ridge leading from that crest of bone to the inner condyle; whilst the hinder and lower fibres end in a strong tendon, and are attached by it to the inner condyle and the inner condyloid ridge. This large adductor forms a triangular partition between the other adductor muscles and the hamstrings. Its upper border touches the obturator externus, and the lower is overlaid by the gracilis and sartorius. Near the femur the profunda vessels he on it; and the muscle, united with the other adductors, is pierced by the perforating branches of those vessels. At the lower third of the thigh the adductor transmits the femoral artery through an aperture, Q, which is tendinous on the anterior and fleshy on the posterior surface. This muscle acts powerfully as an adductor of the thigh, espe- cially if the limb is in a state of abduction, as in riding, '^hen the limb is behind the trunk in walking the great adductor will bring it forwards; but it does not flex the hip-joint, like the other adductors. In standing it will prop the pelvis with its companions. Psoas and iliacus. These muscles are separate at their origin in the abdomen (p. 296), but are united near their attachment to