DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 14 scapular vessels within the edge of the latissimus dorsi; but after the dissection of the axilla they hang in fVont of the muscle by their small vessels, as is shown in the Plate. Another or anterior group is nearer the fore part of the axilla, in connection with the long thoracic and external mammary arteries. And a third set is placed along the large axillary vessels. Each collection of glands has for the most part its own set of lymphatic vessels. Thus the anterior group receives lymphatics from the fore part of the thorax and from the mamma: the posterior group is joined by the lymphatics fi'om the side of the chest, and from the back; and that along the bloodvessels trans- mits lymphatics from the upper limb. The lymphatic vessels, after passing through their respective glands, unite into one or more trunks at the top of the axilla, and open into the lymphatic duct of the same side. Disease in the part from which the lymphatic vessels are derived may occasion enlargement of the group of glands through which those vessels are transmitted; and the knowledge of the destina- tion of the lymphatics will suggest the glandular group likely to be affected:—Thus, a poisoned wound of the hand, as in dissection, will cause inflammation of the glands by the side of the axillary vessels; and so forth. In making the necessary examination to detect disease of the glands, the limb should be approximated to the side to relax the muscles and fascia bounding the axilla, and thus to permit easier and freer manipulation. The glands near the axillary vessels follow the arm when this is. elevated. Enlargement of a gland may suiTound or press upon the intercosto-humeral nerve, or the nerve of Wrisberg, and occasion numbness in the part to which either nerve is distributed. Should extirpation of a diseased gland be considered advisable, the surgeon should be mindful that it has large bloodvessels, in the form of a foot-stalk, which are derived from the contiguous vessels; and he should secure the vascular pedicle with a thread before he cuts it through. If this precaution is neglected the divided vessels retract into the loose areolar tissue of the axilla, and may continue to bleed at intervals so as to endanger life.