EXTERNAL ILIAC VESSELS, 291 On looking into the wound, witli the hglit falling into it, the ai'tery ■will be seen in the bottom ; and after slightly detaching the iliac trunk from the surrounding parts, a ligature may be readily api)lied to it. Should the origin of a branch come into sight when the trunk is laid bare it may be included in the thread. Difficulty in the execution of the operation may be due to enlargement of the contiguous inguinal glands, which may cover the arterial trunk, and would be detached from it with diffi- culty. The following variation in the situation of the artery will give rise to some embarrassment unless the operator is previously acquainted with it. Not uncommonly the vessel is much bent downwards into the pelvis, so as to lie below the brim, and to be out of sight: in such a condition the artery would have to be raised to its usual level by the fore finger introduced into the wound, before a ligature could be passed around it. Sometimes also in detaching the subperitoneal fat the external iliac is raised from its usual situation, and is carried upwards with that layer : when this displacement occurs the vessel may be detected in the fatty layer by means of the pulsation. Branches of the iliac. The two branches of the artery ramify in the wall of the belly, one in the front, and the other behind. Only the beginning of those branches can be now seen. The epigastric artery, e, ascends on the inner side of the internal abdominal ring to the rectus muscle. At first it lies beneath the fascia transversalis, but finally perforates this membrane to enter the sheath of the rectus. On each side of the artery lies a vein ; these join below into one. Small branches, pulic, run inwards to the back of the pubes, anastomosing with their fellows, and the obturator, g. Cremasteric offsets (p. 273) are supplied to the muscular covering of the cord. The cvrcumflex iliac artery,,f?, is directed to the iliac fossa below Poupart's ligament (Plate xxxvi.). Small muscular branches are given by it to the abdominal wall and the iliacus. Two other small arteries, the spermatic and obturator, come into the dissection for a short distance. TJ 2