DISSECTION OF THE OEBIT. 130 The lower and larger part of the nerve, 22, (left side) divides into three : one enters the inferior rectus, V; the second belongs to the internal rectus ; and the third offset, 22, (right side) is continued below the eyeball to the inferior oblique muscle. The last branch is joined by the short root of the lenticular ganglion, and supplies through that communication motor nerves to the muscular fibres of the eyeball. Paralysis of the muscles supplied by the third nerve is attended by dropping of the eyelid, and inability to raise it; and the eye loses its movements in certain directions. Supposing its existence on one side, the cornea could not be moved vertically, that is to say, it could not be turned upwards or downwards by the elevator and depressor muscles ; it could not be drawn inwards horizontally by the adductor; nor could it be inclined upwards and outwards by the inferior oblique—all the muscles needful for those movements being supplied by the nerve, and being therefore unable to contract. Only two movements would remain, viz. abduction and rotation downwards and outwards:—the former depending on the external rectus which is supplied by the sixth nerve ; and the latter, on the superior oblique, which receives the fourth nerve. Double vision will accompany the paralysis when an attempt is made to look with both eyes to the temple of the opposite or healthy side; and this occurrence is to be accounted for by the loss of the muscular control over the ball of the affected side. In look- ing vsdth both eyes to the temple (left) in the undiseased state of the muscles, the left eye will be inclined outwards by the external rectus, and the right eye will be turned inwards, towards its fellow, by the internal rectus. But in paralysis, say of the right eide, the affected eye cannot be inclined towards its fellow in consequence of the internal rectus having lost its power of con- tracting, whilst the healthy or left eye will be turned outwards by the external rectus muscle ; and as the axes of the eyes are not kept parallel, images are formed on non-corresponding points of the two retinae, and double vision results. The sixth cranial nerve, 6, enters the orbit between the heads of the external rectus, lying below the third and nasal nerves,