221 ARTICULATIONS OF THE CARTILAGES. use of these is not known : they are not connected to the other cartilages by ligamentous bands. The epiglottis, L, stands in front of the opening into the larynx (Plate xxvi.). Shaped like a leaf, with the wide part up and the pedicle down, it is attached by fibrous tissue to the thyroid carti- lage. Its hinder or laryngeal surface has a smooth covering of mucous membrane with apertures for glands in its substance ; and the fore part is connected to the tongue by a central and two lateral folds of mucous membrane. From each side is continued the arytfeno-epiglottid fold. This valve is employed in closing the laryngeal opening during deglutition (p. 212). And when placed over the opening during the production of vocal sounds it causes the pitch of the note to be lowered. ARTICULATlOiTS OF THE CARTILAGES. The larger laryngeal cartilages are articulated together by means of joints where the extent of movement is great; and the larynx is further united to the hyoid bone above and the trachea below by fibrous membrane. The cricoid and thyroid cartilages are articulated at two points, viz., laterally and in front. Laterally there is a joint on each side between the lower cornu, F, of the thyroid and the side of the cricoid, in which an en- closing capsule and a lining synovial membrane are present. By means of this joint the front of the thyroid cartilage can be ap- proximated to or removed from the cricoid. When the thyroid is depressed the vocal cords are tightened, and when it is raised or canied backwards they are relaxed. Anteriorly a strong elastic membrane, crico-thyroid, N, closes the interval between the two. By its lower edge it is inserted into the upper border of the cricoid as far back as the arytsenoid cartilage. Above it joins the lower border of the thyroid for a short distance, also the spur on the front of the arytjenoid; and between those fixed points it forms a free edge, 0, the vocal cord. This free upper edge can be tightened or rendered lax by the thyroid cartilage being depressed or raised.