MUSCLES OF THE RECTUM. 243 the submucous areolar tissue outside becoming thickened, the whole forms a firm dense fleshy-looking mass. Of course the number and size of the piles will be proportioned to the enlarge- ment of the veins, and the extent to which the loops have descended. If their removal is desired, some means, such as ligature, which would arrest the flow of blood, should be had recourse to ; for as the veins are deprived of valves the swellings should not be cut off, because the ends of the arterial and venous loops would then remain open to bleed into the intestine. Muscles of the rectum. Three muscles surround the lower end of the intestine, and are employed in diminishing its opening. A fourth elevates and constricts the gut. A. Spliincter ani intevnus. B. Spliincter ani externus. C. CoiTugator cutis aui. D. Lfivator ani. E. Gluteus niaximus. The internal sphincter, A, is a narrow band of pale circular fibres around the extremity of the rectum, which is continuous with the circular fibres of the gut. About a quarter of an inch in width at the surface, it is distinct from the external sphincter, B ; and on the intestine it extends downwards half an inch, joining the muscular coat of that tube. This muscle assists in closing the anus, and its action on that aperture is involuntary. Cmrugator cutis ani, C.—Superficial to the internal sphincter is a thin stratum of involuntary muscular fibres to which I have given the above name.* This subcutaneous layer extends around the anus, but only a part on the right side has been delineated. It begins rather external to the preceding sphincter ; and the fibres converging enter the anus, and end in the submucous tissue inside the internal sphincter. It forms a thin layer around the anus, which is closely united to the skin. When the fibres contract they corrugate the skin around the anus, throwing it into lines radiating from the aperture. * This muscle was noticed by me in 1854. I have not found hitherto any reference to it in works of Anatomy. It is constantly present. R 2