INNER STRATA OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL. 285 across the front of the hip-bone, arching over the muscles, vessels, and nerves, which are continued from the cavity of the abdomen to the thigh. Rounded externally where it is joined to the hip- bone and is united with the subjacent parts, it is separated in- ternally by the iliac vessels from the underlying muscles and bone, and is fixed by a widened part (Gimbernat's ligament) into the tuberosity and the pectineal line of the pubes. Gimbernat's ligament, C, is that part of the widened inner attachment of the crural arch, which intervenes between the rounded anterior part, B, and the bone beneath. Triangular in shape, the apex is inserted into the tuberosity of the pubes, and the base is turned to the iliac vein, &. From apex to base it measures about an inch, and it is kept on the stretch by its union at the base with the fascia lata. The fascia transversalis, L, lines the wall of the abdomen as low as Poupart's ligament. Ceasing opposite that band, it has a different disposition at the outer and inner ends. As far inwards as the letter B, it is connected to the ligament, and blends with the iliac fascia, D: between the spot referred to and Gimbernat's ligament it is continued beneath the inner half of the crural arch, and enters the fore part of the loose crural sheath around the femoral vessel; and still more internally it is fixed into the pec- tineal line of the pubes beneath the conjoiued tendon (p. 271) and Gimbernat's ligament. Just above Gimbernat's ligament is a depression in the fascia, opposite the inner inguinal fossa, I, where the internal inguinal hernia begins to protrude. Internal aMominal ring, F. This is an elongated aperture in the fascia transversalis, which is external to the epigastric vessels, and a little above Poupart's ligament. Through it pass the con- stituents of the spermatic cord, viz. the spermatic vessels, c, and their nerves, the duct of the testis, K, part of the genito-crural nerve, I, and lymphatics : when these have reached the inside of the abdomen they diverge to their destination beneath the peri- toneum and the subperitoneal fat. Before the dissection is made the aperture will be closed by the two internal strata of the abdominal wall, viz. subperitoneal fat and peritoneum; but in the state of the parts necessary for the production of a congenital