393 SACRO-SCIATIC LIGAMENTS. Like the other rotators out, the external obturator draws back- wards the great trochanter when the femur liangs loosely ; and even when the hip-joint is flexed it will execute the same move- ment of the thigh-bone, and in this respect it differs from the other muscles of its gi-oup. When the limbs are fixed as in standing it contributes its share of power in maintaining the pelvis upright on the femur ; and in standing on one leg it helps also to fix the pelvis. Psoas onagniis, K. The tendon of this muscle inclines over the hip-joint and the neck of the femur to its insertion into the small trochanter. The sacro-sciatic ligaments connect the back of the hip-bone to the sacrum and coccyx : they are two in number, and are named large and small. The large ligament, U, is wide and thin internally, but thicker and pointed externally. It is attached by its widened part to the back of the hip-bone, to the side of the sacrum, and to the side of the coccyx. Its fibres are directed backwards and outwards, and beiag aggregated together, are inserted into the inner side of the ischial tuberosity and lower border of the hip-bone. It closes below the great sacro-sciatic notch of the pelvis, and gives origin to fibres of the gluteus maximus. Branches of the gluteal and sciatic arteries perforate the ligament, and the ofli'sets of the posterior sacral nerves lie beneath a superficial layer of its fibres. The small ligament, V, unites internally with the larger band, and is attached with it to the side of the sacrum and coccyx. Its constituent fibres are coarse, and pass outwards to be inserted into the ischial spine. By its position it divides into two apertures the space included by the hip-bone and the great ligament. The upper and larger aperture or notch is bounded above by the hip-bone, and below by the small sacro-sciatic ligament. Through it are transmitted the pyriformis muscle, and vessels and nerves. Above the muscle issues the gluteal artery, a, with its veins, and the upper gluteal nerve, 4; and below the muscle issue the great and small sciatic nerves, 6 and 12, the pudic nerve, 10, and the sciatic and pudic vessels, I and g.