279 INTERNAL INGUINAL HERNIA. the child, like the congenital kind, there is not any sign by which it can be distinguished during life IVoni the common external hernia. Evidence of the existence of an infantile hernia is first obtained in an operation for the relief of the strangulation. Then, as the knife is moved onwards to divide the stricture it opens the loose sac of the tunica vaginalis, in which a serous fluid is generally collected. Should the stricture be placed inside the neck of such a hernia the hinder second sac would have to be cut into before the intestine would be laid bare. Internal inguinal hernia comes through the abdominal wall at a spot internal to the epigastric artery, and obtains its name fi'om its position inside that vessel. It takes a straight course through the parietes of the abdomen opposite, H ; and it is named also direct hernia from its straightness in comparison with an external hernia. The terms complete and incomplete, bubonocele and oscheo- cele (p. 274), may be applied to this as well as to the external hernia. Triangular space of the groin.—Inside the epigastric vessels is the triangular space of Hesselbach, in which the internal rupture comes forth. It is bounded externally by the vessels, a ; inter- nally by the edge of the rectus muscle, N; and below by Poupart's ligament. In width it measures about one inch and a half at the base, and from base to apex about two inches. The following is the arrangement of the strata within the space above defined. Firstly come the teguments, consisting of the skin, and the subcutaneous fatty layer or the superficial fascia. Beneath the teguments the aponeurosis of the external oblique, B, covers all the triangular space, and is pierced by the large ex- ternal abdominal ring. When this has been reflected the sper- matic cord, clothed by the cremaster muscle, E, is seen to lie along the base of the space. Still deeper is the conjoined tendon, H, which is formed by the union of the aponeuroses of the internal oblique, D, and transversalis, F (p. 271): this aponeurotic layer is not wide enough to cover the whole of the space included between