DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 372 ADDUCTOR MUSCLES OF THE HIP-JOINT. This group of muscles occupies the space between the pelvis and the femur, and consists of three adductors, with the pectineus and gracilis: two of the muscles, viz, pectineus and adductor longus, are represented in Plate XLV. The pectineus (G, Plate XLV.) is the smallest and highest of the muscles in the adductor group. It has a fleshy origin from the ilio-pectineal line of the hip-bone, and from the smooth triangular surface in front of that line; its fibres descend and are inserted by means of a thin tendon, about two inches wide, behind the small trochanter of the femur, and into the upper part of the line leading from that prominence to the linea aspera. The muscle is in contact with the fascia, and forms part of the inner boundary of Scarpa's space. Beneath it lie the obtm'ator and adductor brevis muscles, with part of the obturator nerve. Along the upper border is placed the psoas with the external circumflex vessels ; and along the lower is the adductor longus. The pectineus will adduct and raise the femur if this bone is not fixed ; and it will take part with the rest of its group in projecting forwards the thigh in walking. When the femur is immoveable, as in standing, it will assist in balancing, or drawing forwards the pelvis. The adductor longus (H, Plate xlv.) is situate on the same level as the pectineus, but between this and the gracilis : it is narrow at its origin from the pelvis, but becomes wider below. Its upper tendon, about as large as the end of the finger, is fixed to the front of the pubic part of the hip-bone, just below the angle formed by the symphysis and the pubic crest.; and the lower tendinous end is inserted into the inner lip of the linea aspera. A. Sartorius. B. Psoas muscle. C. Tensor vaginae femoris. D. iliacus. E. Rectus femoris, eut. F. Vastus internus. G. Pectineus, cut. H. Adductor longiis, cut. J. Adductor magnus. K. Adductor brevis. L. Vastus extemus. I. Gracilis. M. Semi-membranosus. N. Obturator oxternus. 0. Semi-tendinosus. P. Internal lateral ligament of knee.