302 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. sacral, enter each fcrunk ; and the middle sacral is received into the left common iliac. I'he following are the differences between the veins of opposite sides :—In length the left exceeds the right. In position to the companion bloodvessel they vary on the two sides of the body, for instance, the right is external to and above its artery, whilst the left lies below, and passes also beneath the right common iliac artery. The inferior cava (vena cava ascendens) conveys to the heart the blood of the lower half of the body. Placed on the right side of the spine, it begins opposite the body of the fifth lumbar ver- tebra by the union of the common iliac veins, and passing through the diaphragm enters the right ventricle of the heart : it is there- fore longer than its companion artery, the aorta. Covered in fi'ont by the peritoneum like the aorta, it rests for the most part on those branches of the aorta which are directed to the right, viz. lumbar, renal, capsular, and diaphragmatic ; but the right spermatic crosses over it. For about an inch and a half from the diaphragm it is surrounded by the liver. Its branches are parietal and visceral like the offsets of the aorta. The former set, the smallest, consists of lumbar and dia- phragmatic. Visceral veins from the alimentary tube and its glandular viscera, and corresponding with the' coeliac axis and mesenteric arteries, do not enter directly the cava, but blend into one—the vena portje. This single trunk ramifies through the liver ; and the circulating blood is finally conveyed to the cava by large veins—venae cavEe hepaticas—close to the liver. In the dissec- tion these veins were necessarily cut across by the removal of the liver. The visceral veins fi'om the snpra-renal body, the kidney,* and the testicle, are received into the cava as separate vessels on the right side ; but the corresponding veins on the left side join the left renal vein, and the blood from all three is transmitted by this single channel to the cava. v • The right renal vein joins the cava frequently higher than the left: it is also the shortest of the two.