DISSECTION OF THE PERINiEUM. The external sphincter, B, surrounds the end of the rectum with a thin muscular layer about an inch in width, which is fixed in front and behind. The hinder part is attached by fibrous tissue to the back of the coccyx near the tip, and blends largely with the subcutaneous areolar tissue on each side : in the Figure this part, which is not always very evident, has been cut and reflected. In front, where the muscle is also wide, it is inserted into the central point of the perineum, and on each side it joins the subcutaneous fatty layer by a rather wide slip. This muscle shuts the anus and raises the skin around that opening. Through the close union of this muscle and the corru- gator with the dermis, every alteration in the condition of their fibres is accompanied by movement of the skin; and so ulcers near the anus become very painful. Before rest can be obtained and the healing process established, the muscular fibres require often- times to be divided. Ordinarily the muscle is kept in a state of contraction through the influence of the spinal cord, and it is relaxed only at the time of passing the feces ; but there exists also some voluntary power over the action of the muscle. When the spinal cord is injured this sphincter passes from a tonic state to one of paralysis ; and in long-continued exhaustive disease, as fever, it may become powerless, so as to allow of the feces escaping involuntarily. The levator ani, D, forms with the muscle of the opposite side a fleshy diaphragm in the outlet of the pelvis. It is attached above to the inner surface of the os innominatum—partly to bone and partly to the recto-vesical fascia and the triangular ligament (Plate xxxviii.). The fibres descending are inserted into the tip of the coccyx ; into the side of the rectum, blending with the sphincter ; and before and behind the gut the muscles of opposite sides are joined. The fleshy stratum formed by the two muscles closes the outlet of the pelvis behind the triangular ligament, and is convex downwards : through it the rectum is transmitted. Its under surface looks to the ischio-rectal fossa, and the upper touches the recto-vesical fascia. The origin of the muscle is best seen in the Plate of the side view of the pelvis above referred to. The chief action of the muscle is to raise and restore to its