24S DISSECTION OF THE I'ERINyEUM. Only the two cutaneous oifsets are now dissected in part: they are named superficial, perina3al, anterior, 1, and posterior, 2, and are contained for a short space in the ischio-recLal fossa, as they course forwards to end in the scrotum. Sacral nerves. A branch of the fourth sacral nerve, 5, pierces the fibres of the levator ani near the tip of the coccyx, and is distributed to the external sphincter and the integuments. Altogether behind the ischio-rectal fossa one or two other small branches of the sacral nerves will appear (according to the extent of the dissection) by the side of the coccyx: they pierce the fibres of the gluteus maximus, and ramify in the integuments. Small sciatic nerve. Cutaneous branches, 4, of this nerve wind round the largest gluteal muscle to reach the integuments near the sacrum and coccyx. In the posterior half of the perinjeum the first incisions in the lateral operation of lithotomy are begun. With the view of opening a way down to the urethra, and of securing an aperture in the integuments large enough for the free use of the forceps and the extraction of the stone, the operator sinks his knife through the skin just in front of the anus, and carries it down- wards and backwards as far as midway between the anus and the ischial tuberosity. In this first stage of the operation the knife should be kept in the middle of the ischio-rectal fossa, and should be made to penetrate more deeply behind than in front. Neces- sarily the hjBmorroidal vessels and nerves crossing the fossa must be cut as the hollow is laid open. If the incision in the skin is too near the anus the rectum may be cut, and if it -is taken close to the bone externally the pudic artery may be injured. In the usual adult state of the parts the pudic vessels cannot well be reached ; but in a child in whom the bones are undeveloped, or in a man with a very narrow pelvic outlet, the artery might be wounded at the fore part of the fossa, where it becomes much more superficial. The rectum will usually remain untouched in the living body, supposing it to have been pre- viously freed from its contents, by pressing it inwards away fi-om the scalpel with the fore finger of the left hand.