OPERATION FOll FEMOEAL HERNIA. 2S9 and be caused by a fibrous band, or by the sharp tendinous edge of Poupart's and Ginibernat's ligament ; or it may be placed inside the sac, being produced by thickened peritoneum. Division of the stricture. When all attempts to relieve the con- striction of the gut, by cutting fibrous bands external to the neck of the sac, have failed, the sac will have to be opened, and the knife introduced under Poupart's ligament into the lower part of the belly. In dividing the internal stricture the edge of the knife should be turned inwards because the inner side of the crural ring is usually free fi'om any blood-vessel; but the cutting instrument should not be introduced farther than is necessary, for if the bladder is distended, so as to project above the level of the brim of the pelvis, it may be injured. Occasionally the obturator artery lies along the inner side of the crural ring (p. 287). "When this unusual condition exists the vessel is close inside the neck of the hernia, and would most probably be cut by the knife carried inwards as above directed. Fortunately this exceptional state is very rare in conjunction with a hernia requiring an operation for the relief of strangulation inside the neck of the sac. EXTERNAL ILIAC VESSELS. The topographical anatomy of the lower half of the external iliac vessel,—^the part of the artery to which a ligature may be applied—is represented in this Illustration. a. External iliac artery. 6. External iUac vein. c. Spermatic artery. d. Circumflex iliac artery. e. Epigastric artery. /. Pubic branches of epigastric. g. Obturator artery. h. Epigastric vein. i. Circumflex iUac vein. k. Obturator vein. I. Spermatic vein. The external iliac, a, is the beginning of the main artery of the lower limb, and is contained in the cavity of the abdomen. It reaches fi'om the base of the sacrum to the lower border of Poupart's ligament, where it receives the name " femoral." It has a straight course above the brim of the pelvis, and takes the psoas muscle as its guide. u