THIRD STRATUM OF THE GROIN. 271 of the ilio-pectineal line beneath the tendon of the internal oblique, some fibres blending with the subjacent fascia. Above the um- bilicus the aponeurosis lies beneath the rectus ; but about midway between the navel and the pubes it is placed over the muscle. Conjoined tendon H. Near the pelvis the aponeuroses of the in- ternal oblique and transversalis are partly united at their insertion into the pectineal line of the pubes, and form the stratum of the conjoined tendon. But the two do not contribute to its formation in equal proportions, for the aponeurosis of the oblique is about half an inch, whilst that of the transversalis is an inch in width. Fascia transversalis I. Beneath the transversalis is spread a thin fibrous membrane, which takes its name from being in con- tact with that muscle. Where the muscle is deficient below the membrane is strongest; and in it is an aperture, L,—the internal abdominal ring, through which comes the spermatic cord. From the margin of the ring a tube of membrane, J, is prolonged around the cord, like a glove on the finger, and is named the funnel- shaped covering of the cord, or the infundibuliform fascia of the inguinal hernia. Outside and below the ring the fascia is thicker and stronger than on the inside where the epigastric vessels appear through it. At Poupart's ligament the fascia descends beneath that band into the thigh, arid forms the fore part of the sheath incasing the femoral vessels. The internal aMominal ring- L, is oval in form, measuring most from above down,, and is placed about half an inch above Poupart's ligament: on the surface of the abdomen it corresponds with a spot midway between the symphysis pubis and the iliac crest, and a finger's breadth above the ligament of Poupart. It is bounded above by the arched border of the transversalis muscle, F; below by Poupart's ligament; and internally by the epigastric vessels. In this opening lies the spermatic cord, and through it a piece of intestine is protruded in an external inguinal hernia. The tense- ness of the margin of the ring, as well as of the fascia in which it is situate, is detennined by the position of the limb; for when the thigh is raised and rotated in, all the strata of the wall of the belly are relaxed, but when the limb is extended, as in standing, those parts are put on the stretch/ The influence of the position