278 DISSECTION OF THE GROIN. but its peritoneal covering or the sac is obtained in a different way as just said. Congenital hernia would be recognised both in the infant and the adult by the extent of the descent of the intestine, for this reaches as far as the lower end of the testicle or beyond it; whilst in the common external hernia the tumour is stopped on a level Avith the top of the testicle as it extends into the scrotum. What has been before detailed respecting the taxis and the application of a truss, the seat and the division of the stricture in external inguinal hernia, will apply to this and the following variety of the same kind of rupture. Infantile hernia is due like the congenital to an unobliterated state of the processus vaginalis peritonei of the testicle ; and it received its name from being first recognised in children. The state of the peritoneum necessary for the formation of this hemia is the following :—Commonly the vaginal pouch of peritoneum of the testis is obliterated in the fetus from the internal abdominal ring down to the testicle; but sometimes it is obliterated only for a very short distance from that opening, so as to leave a larger sac than usual around the testis, which reaches upwards along the spermatic cord and the inguinal canal. This developmental deviation remains permanently, and will give rise at any period of life to the heTnia called infantile. With the presence of the state of the peritoneum above de- scribed, should an external hernia take place, it would push before it in the usual way a sac of the peritoneum with the sub- pcritoueal fat; then it would pass through the internal abdominal ring, and be received into the tubes or coverings incasing the spermatic cord (p. 274). But as it makes its way along the in- guinal canal and the cord it comes to be placed behind the loose unclosed pouch of the peritoneum already referred to. In reality there would be two separate serous sacs in connection with this kind of hernia ;—an anterior consisting of the tunica vaginalis testis which would contain only serum ; and a posterior, the sac of the hernia, opening into the cavity of the belly, in which the intestine is lodged. Though this rupture may be found in the adult as well as in