178 DISSECTION OF THE TTERYGOID REGION. muscle arises chiefly from the pterygoid fossa, but below from the palate and upper jaw bones by a process which extends in front of the lower part of the external pterygoid muscle. It is inserted into the inner surface of the angle and ramus of the jaw as high as the dental foramen. It raises the angle of the jaw in conjunction with the masseter, and may be considered the internal elevator of the angle. The external pterygoid muscle, B, is directed almost horizontally back and out from the base of the skull to the condyle of the jaw. Arising from the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate, and from the contiguous part of the great wing of the sphenoid bone as high as the crest, the muscle is inserted into the front of the neck of the lower jaw, and into the interarticular fibro-cartilage. An interval separates the attachments to the external pterygoid plate and the great wing, through which the internal maxillary artery, d, usually passes. If the muscles of both sides act the jaw is moved downwards and forwards, and the front lower teeth pass beyond the upper. If only one muscle acts, say the right, it draws the condyle of tlie same side further into the articular socket, and causes the chin to project to the left of the middle line of the head, the grinding teeth of the lower jaw passing laterally over those of the upper jaw. The hi(rcinator muscle, D, forms a thin fleshy layer in the cheek between the mucous membrane and the teguments. It is attached to the jaws opposite the molar teeth, and between the jaws at the back of the mouth to a fibrous band—the pterygo-maxillary ligament. Towards the corner of the mouth the fibres are aggre- gated together, and entering the lips blend with the orbicularis oris muscle. In the movements of the lips the muscle retracts the corner of the mouth, and so widens that aperture, and wrinkles the cheek. In mastication it is applied to the jaws, and prevents the food escaping outside the teeth ; when it is paralysed the food distends it and the cheek in an incpnvenient manner.