DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 50 The anastomotic branch, p, is directed inwards through the inner intermuscular septum, and communicates with the inferior profunda, n. An offset descends in front of the elbow joint, supplying the brachialis anticus and one or more muscles of the fore arm, and anastomoses with an anterior recurrent branch from the ulnar artery. Muscular offsets spring from the trunk at intervals, and supply the muscles on the fore part and the back of the humerus. Small cutaneous offsets to the arm are shown coming from the end of the brachial, and the end of the axillary artery. Anastomoses of the branches.—After ligature of the brachial artery the blood is conveyed into the limb by the anastomosis of the branches arising above, with those beyond the spot tied. Thus the superior profunda joins behind the elbow with the anastomotic and the recurrent interosseous ; and on the outer side with the recurrent branch from the radial artery (Plate vii.). The inferior profunda communicates with the anastomotic, and with the posterior recurrent of the ulnar (Plate viii.). And the anas- tomotic branch, joining the profunda, transmits its blood to the anterior recurrent branch of the ulnar (Plate viii.). The artery entering the shaft of the humerus will anastomose above and below with the vessels supplied to the ends of the bone. NERVES OF THE ARM. All the nerves included in this dissection are derived from the brachial plexus in the axilla, with the exception of the small offsets over the shoulder, which come from the cervical plexus in the neck. Only a part of each trunk is laid bare, as it passes onwards to its destination in the forearm. 1. Internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral. 2. Branch of musculo-spiral to the inner and middle heads of the triceps. 3. Nerve of Wrisherg or small in- ternal cutaneous. 4. Internal cutaneous (large). 5. Anterior branch of the internal cutaneous. 6. Posterior branch of the intenial cutaneous. 7. Median nerve. 8. Ulnar nerve. 9. Branches of the cervical plexus.