72 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. musclos is represented in the lower limb by the ham. It contains the chief vessel of the arm and the companion nerve; and by its position on the aspect of the limb to which the joint is bent, greater freedom of movement forwards is permitted. The interval is somewhat triangular in form, as seen on the surface, and has the following boundaries:—stretching over it is the aponeurosis of the limb joined by an offset from the biceps tendon, with the integuments and the superficial veins and nerves (Plate iii.); and covering the underlying bones are the brachi- alis anticus, B, and supinator brevis. Externally is placed the supinator longus, L, and internally the pronator teres, C; the fibres of the former being nearly straight in the forearm, and those of the latter slanting downwards and outwards. The base is turned towards the arm; and the apex points forwards in the forearm. Contained in the hollow is the tendon of the biceps, with vessels, nerves, fat, and lymphatics ; and their position in it is as follows:— On the outer side is the biceps muscle. A, whose tendon dips into the space to reach its insertion into the radius. The brachial artery, I, lies close inside the biceps, and divides, opposite the '"neck of the radius" (Quain), into the two arteries of the forearm, which are directed forwards through the space, the radial being superficial and the ulnar deep in its position. VenjB comites entwine around the arterial trunks. Small arteries are found in the space. Thus in the outer part the recurrent of the radial artery (Plate xii. 3) is directed transversely to the supinator longus; and in the inner part of the hollow, offsets of the anastomotic artery, a, descend beneath the pronator teres to join the anterior recurrent of the ulnar artery. Other cutaneous offsets, c and d, come forwards to the integuments fi'om the brachial and the radial artery. Inside the artery, and separated fi'om it by a slight interval, which increases below to a quarter or half an inch, comes the median nerve, 2. At this spot the nerve supplies small offsets to the inner group of muscles of the forearm. Underneath the supinator longus, and therefore outside the superficial limits of