359 TRUNK OF FEMORAL ARTERY. a. Femoral artery. * Spot for ligature. 6. Circumflex iliac branch. c. Epigastric branch. d. Superficial circumflex iliac, c. Superficial puclic. /. Deeper superficial pudic.*] g. Profunda artery. h. Anastomotic arteiy. i. Superficial branch of anastomotic. f Cutaneous arteries of tlic femoral. j. Ending of external iliac artery. k. Femoral vein. I. Superficial pudic vein. n. Deeper superficial pudic. 0. Profunda. p. Saphenous vein, cut. The fmnoral artery, a, is continuous directly with the external iliac, and reaches beyond the knee, like the brachial beyond the elbow, before it breaks up into secondary trunks. Its extent is marked in one direction by the lower border of Poupart's liga- ment, and in the other by the opening in the adductor magnus: finally it turns to the back of the limb by this aperture, and obtains the name pojDliteal. Its course in the limb is 'oblique; for near the pelvis the vessel L"cs over the hip-joint, whilst it is placed inside the femur below. And its position in the thigh would be marked by a line on the sm'face from midway between the symphysis pubis and iliac crest to the prominence of the inner condyle of the femur, when the knee is half bent, and the thigh bone rotated out. Pressure ap- plied to the artery in the middle third of the thigh should there- fore be directed outwards towards the femur; and when employed above, it must be made directly backwards against the hip-bone. At the top of the thigh the vessel is near the surface and is uncovered by muscle, but in the rest of its extent it is concealed, by the sartorius (see Plate xliv.). In the description of its connec- tions the artery will be divided into a superficial and a deep part. The superficial part (Plate xliv.) is contained in Scarpa's trian- gular space, and measures from three to four inches in length according to the width of the sartorius muscle. It lies nearly in the centre of the space, and its position in the limb may be ascer- tained by means of the upper part of the line before given for the course of the femoral trunk. At first the artery is encased in the crural sheath with the femoral vein (Plate xliii.). Between it and the surface of the limb lie the common teguments with inguinal glands, and the