319 RECTO-VESICAL FASCIA. Ligament of the rectum ? No name has been given to the part of the fascia which is attached to the gut; but from the ischial spine the membrane is continued to the intestine, and this part might be called the lateral ligament of the rectum, from its sup- porting that viscus. From the arrangement of the recto-vesical fascia on the viscera it appears that the prostate, and the lower part of the rectum, lie below the septum or the membranous flooring of the abdomen, and may be reached from the perinteum without entering the cavity of the pelvis. About a finger's length of the intestine may be cut without passing the limits of the fascia ; and all the pro- state may be cut through in a direction downwards and backwards without injuring the septum. The reflection of the fascia with respect to the prostate demonstrates how division of this body can be made for the extraction of a stone from the bladder without entering the pelvis ; and its disposition on the rectum will explain how the intestine may be slit in the operation for fistula in ano without serious consequences ensuing. The attachment of the fascia to the side of the bladder indi- cates in what direction a cut is to be made in that viscus for the extraction of a calculus in the adult, which is larger than the prostate, or even of a stone of moderate size in the child. An incision carried downwards and backwards below the attachment, B, of the fascia, but parallel and close to it, would divide the viscus along the upper edge of the vesicula seminalis, and would be situate below the septal piece. A, and therefore below the cavity of the abdomen. In the case of such a cut being practised the urine would flow down to the perinteum, because the barrier presented by the septal part of the fascia would stop its progress in the opposite direction. Should, however, an incision be made upwards, in a direction towards the apex of the bladder, the knife would divide the septal piece of the fascia, and open up the cavity of the pelvis. Vessels and nerves. Some of the arteries to the viscera, and a part of the sacral plexus, are shown in this and the preceding Plate; but they will be noticed in the description of the next