SUKFACE MUSCLES OF THE THIGH. 357 bounds the popliteal space with the inner hamstrings; and this part is pierced by the patellar branch, 10, of the saphenous nerve. The action of the muscle is exemplified in the posture of squat- ting. By its contraction the hip-bone is drawn forwards, the tibia backwai-ds, and the fascia lata is rendered tense at the same time. If the pelvic end is fixed and the tibia fi-ee, the knee-joint will be bent; and if the tibial extremity becomes the fixed point the pelvis will be supported and drawn forwards. In standing on one leg, say the right, the muscle of the same side will assist in turning inwards the pelvis on the top of the femui', and in rotat- ing the trunk to the left side: with the left muscle acting in the same way the trunk will be moved in the opposite direction. Flexor muscles of the hip-joint. These are two in number, viz. the psoas and iliacus (p. 296); but only the latter, D, is now visible, as the psoas is concealed by the femoral artery. Both arise in the abdomen, and issue thence beneath Poupart's ligament to be inserted into, and in front of and below the small trochanter of the femm". The adductor muscles of the thigh form the large fleshy mass at the inner side of the femur ; they are five in number, but only three, viz, pectineus, G, adductor longus, H, and gracilis, I, are in contact with the fascia. All will be more completely laid bare in subsequent Plates; and in Figure XLVii. the deeper members of the group are exhibited. The extensors of the knee-joint are three large muscles, which make the bulge on the fore part of the thigh: they consist of rectus femoris, E, vastus internus, F, and vastus externus (L, Plate XLVI,). Above, they are concealed for a short distance by the sartorius, A, and tensor vaginse femoris, C ; and below, they blend in a common tendon, which is continued over the knee- joint to the tibia. Plate xlvi, is specially devoted to the ana- tomy of these muscles, and of the vessels and nerves belonging to them.