GREAT SCIATIC NERVE. 411 1. Obturator nerve. 2. Posterior articular of the kueo. 3. External articular of the knee. 4. Short saphenous. 5. Branches to the gastrocnemius. 6. Branch to the soleus muscle. 7. Peroneal communicating branch. 8. Nerve to short head of the biceps. ^ 9. Branch to adductor magnus. I + A second branch to the adductor. 10. Muscular branch to the ham- strings. 11. Great sciatic nerve. 12. Internal popliteal trunk. 13. External popliteal trunk. 14. Small sciatic nerve. 15. Inferior hsemorrhoidal nerve. 16. Inferior pudendal nerve. The ffreat sciatic nerve, 11, takes origin in the sacral plexus (p. 310); and after passing the buttock, it is continued along the back of the thigh as far as midway between the hip and knee- joiuts, where it bifurcates into internal and external popliteal. In this course the nerve is covered above by the gluteus maximus, and thence by the biceps, so that it is not superficial in any part. It rests on the adductor magnus, and lies along the outer side of the semimembranosus. The point of splitting of the nerve reaches sometimes nearer the knee; at other times it takes place close to the origin from the sacral plexus, one piece piercing the fibres of the pyriformis muscle. Its branches are furnished to the neighbouring muscles, viz. to the hamstrings and the great adductor. The h-anch to tJie hamstrings, 10, leaves the upper part of the trunk in the thigh, and subdivides into pieces which enter the semiteudinosus, semimembranosus, and the heads of the biceps. Occasionally some of those offsets arise as separate branches from the nerve-trunk. Branch to His adductor magnus, 9. This springs from the great sciatic below the others,- and sinks into the fleshy fibres about the middle of the muscle ; but it is small in comparison with the size of the adductor, because the muscle is supplied mainly by the obturator nerve (p. 378). A second nerve, f, penetrates the fibres near the inner border. The internal po2)liteal nerve, 12, is the larger of the two trunks derived from the great sciatic, and is directed to the back of the leg. It is continued through the middle of the ham, and retains the name popliteal as far as the lower border of the pophteus.