DISSECTION OF THE HAND. 92 consumed chiefly in five digital branches, which supply both sides of each of the three outer digits, and the outer side or half of the ring finger. Comparatively few branches are furnished to muscles. The digital "branches are continued through the palm of the hand, and along the sides of the digits to the extremity, where they end m a tuft of oflFsets for the supply of the ball and nail- pulp of the finger. To the skin of the palm and the surface of the digits they give many branches. Two of them supply lumbrical muscles; thus the third nerve, 4, gives a branch to the most external lumbricalis; and the fourth nerve, 5, to the next following muscle. Muscular Iranches. Part of the fleshy ball of the thumb is supplied by the branch, 8; this is distributed to the muscles outside the long flexor tendon, viz., to the abductor pollicis, B, opponens pollicis, C, and the outer head of the short flexor, D. If the median nerve was cut through close to the annular ligament, sensibility would be destroyed in the palmar surface of the hand and fingers outside a line drawn from the middle of the ring finger to the wrist; and it would be diminished at the dorsal aspect of the three outer digits beyond the matacarpo-phalangeal joints, where offsets from the digital nerves ramify. The muscles of the thumb before referred to as supplied by the median, and marked B, C, and D, together with the outer two lumbricales, would be paralysed. The ulnar nerve, 10, divides on the annular ligaments into a superficial or digital, and a deep or muscular part. From the superficial part two digital Iranches, 8 and 9, are furnished to the little finger (both sides), and to half the ring finger ; these have a similar distribution to the digital nerves of the median. The branch marked 9 sends off'sets to the palmaris brevis muscle, and the integuments of the inner part of the hand ; and the external of the two, 8, receives a connecting branch, 7, from the median nerve. Insensibility of the palmar surface of the hand and fingers, inside a line fi'om the ring-finger to the wrist, follows incision of