DTSSECTION OF THE PERTNyEUM. 260 perinasal nerves :—One, 4, pierces the triangular ligament, and eads in the constrictor urethras muscle, H ; this same branch supplied in this body the erector penis, F. Another branch, 5, enters the corpus spongiosum urethrEe. The most direct and the shortest course into the bladder from the perinseum is through the central point, which is marked thus * ; and through it the membranous part of the urethra is entered in both the median, and the bilateral operation for stone. In the lateral operation for stone the surgeon enters the knife. obliquely into the membranous part of the urethra. In the first stage of the operation the incisions down to the urethra are carried by the side of the rectum and through the ischio-rectal fossa, as before related (p. 248), instead of through the central point of the perinasum. The second stage consists in opening the membranous portion of the urethra; and the Drawing shows what parts would be cut through as the knife is placed in the staff. Thus the base of the ligament, the deep transversalis, and the constrictor urethras muscle, and the deep nerves and vessels (seen on the right side) would be in part divided. The artery of the bulb ought not to be cut, and unless the first incisions are begun too far forwards it will not be injured, when it has its ordinary arrangement; but when it arises behind the triangular ligament, and crosses the fore part of the ischio-rectal fossa to reach the bulb, it lies immedi- ately before the scalpel, and cannot be avoided by care and know- ledge on the part of the surgeon. In the third stage of the operation the knife is carried through the membranous and prostatic parts of the urethra into the bladder : the direction of the incision, and the parts to be cut through and avoided, will be best understood when the side view of the pelvis is referred to (Plate XL.). In retention of urine from stricture at the back of the spongy portion of the urethra, the distended membranous part of that tube projects towards the surface at the middle of the triangular ligament, near the base, and can be readily reached through the central point of the perinseum.