DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 322 bladder which is to be punctured, viz., the base between the vesi- culte seminales, and behind the prostate. But the instrument should not be introduced farther than three inches from the anus, lest the pouch, F, of the peritoneum should be injured. As the arteries/, Ic, I, &c., which are directed longitudinally on the exterior, pierce the intestine and take a straight course inside to the anus, they will be best avoided in an operation by cutting parallel to them. The arrangement of these arteries lower down in the gut will be referred to afterwards. The %(,rinary hlaclder, H, receives the urine conveyed by the ureters, and assists through the contraction of its muscular wall in the expulsion of that fluid from the body. It is placed at the front of the pelvis, above the rectum, and is partly surrounded by peritoneum, which helps to retain it in sitii. Its form is determined by its degree of distension. When empty it is flattened, and is triangular in shape ; but as it be- comes distended it assumes a conical form, with the apex towards the abdominal wall and the base to the rectum. Its height in the abdomen varies with the degree of dilatation ; for it lies below the brim of the pelvis in the contracted state, but as it expands it rises above the pelvis against the abdominal wall; and in extreme distension it is curved forwards over the pubes by the resistance opposed by the small intestines to its ascent. When moderately dilated it measures about five inches in length, and three in diameter, and holds about a pint; but it is larger in the female than the male. Parts of it have received the following designations :—The upper end is named apex, and the lower, the base • the intervening portion is the body; and the term neck is given to the part surrounded by the prostate. Connections of the Madder:—The apex touches the pubes, or the abdominal wall according to the distension. From it three cords are continued to the umbilicus, viz., the obliterated hypogastric artery on each side, and the urachus in the middle. Behind the cords the bladder is covered by the peritoneum, but is free from that membrane in front of them. The base or fundus rests on the middle piece of the rectum without the intervention of peritoneum. In contact with it on