326 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. tion in the standing and recumbent postures. In the erect position of the body it curves upwards and backwards from the triangular ligament; but when the body is recumbent, as in the operation for stone, the axis is inclined downwards and backwards from that membrane towards the end of the sacrum. This change in the axis is to be kept in mind in lithotomy, because the knife is to be directed in that line into the bladder. The prostate is made up of involuntary muscular fibres which are chiefly circular. Surrounding the fibres externally is a thin membrane or rind, which 'is quite distinct from the sheath derived from the recto-vesical fascia (p. 318). Some glands are placed below the urethral tube, projecting amongst the muscular fibres : they open into the floor of the urethra by twelve to twenty ducts. The secretion of these glands is poured into the urethra, and is added to the seminal fluid obtained from the testicle and the vesicula seminalis. Curve of the urethra. The bend in the hinder part of the tube of the urethra below the symphysis pubis constitutes the perma- nent curve. It reaches from the bladder to about an inch and a half in front of the triangular ligament. Its convexity is turned towards the perinteum and the rectum, and is greatest at the front of the triangular ligament in the erect position of the body. From this point it is inclined upwards and forwards to the penis, and upwards and backwards to the bladder. The urethral tube is kept in place by its union with the penis, by its passage through the triangular ligament, and by the recto- vesical fascia around the prostate. It is surrounded completely by muscular fibre, in part voluntary, and in part involuntary :— Thus in front of the triangular ligament it is incased by the ejaculator uiinse—a voluntary muscle ; between the layers of that structure the voluntary constrictor urethras, with a thin involun- tary stratum, surrounds the tube ; and behind that ligament the urethra is included in the thick involuntary mass of the prostate. In the passage of a catheter or sound along the urethra the greatest hindrance is met with in the urethral curve, and espe- cially where this passes through the anterior layer of the trian-