NERVES IN THE POSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. 145 The great auricular nerve, 3, courses near the external jugular vein to the lobe of the ear, and ends in the integuments of the liinder and outer parts of the pinna. One offset joins the pos- terior auricular nerve, 14, and others are directed forwards to the integuments over the parotid gland : some long slender branches pass through the parotid to join the facial nerve (Plate xvii.). The small occipital nerve, 4, lies along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoideus, and perforating the deep cervical fascia near the head, ramifies in the scalp of the occipital region. The superficial cervical nerve, 5, is often represented by several small nerves, as in the Drawing, and is therefore very variable in its size : it is distributed to the platysma, and to the integuments of the neck in front of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Descending Iranches. The chief of these, two or three in number, belong to the teguments of the shoulder and the upper part of the thorax; but some offsets are directed backwards to the integuments over the trapezius muscle, from the clavicle nearly to the head. A large nerve, 6, divides into three :—one crosses the attach- ment of the sterno-mastoideus to the clavicle, another lies over the insertion of the trapezius into the same bone, and the third crosses the middle of the clavicle; they extend two or three inches below the collar bone, the inner nerves reaching least far. Muscular offsets. Only a few of these are now visible. One, |, enters the levator anguli scapulae. Others, 9, pass beneath the trapezius supplying it; and they join beneath that muscle with the spinal accessory nerve, 13. Brachial plexus.—The lower four, cervical nerves, and the first doi-sal nerve (in part), give rise to the large bundles of nerves marked, 11 ; but in the side view presented to the ArList the an-angemcqt of the several nerves entering the plexus could not be shown as in Plate xviii. The plexus extends under the clavicle to the axilla, where it terminates in nerves for the upper limb ; and all the muscular offsets in the neck come from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves, with the exception of small branches to the longus colli and the scaleni.