DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 224 thyroid cartilage about the centre of its depth, and behind into the anterior spur at the base of the arytenoid cartilage. In the male it measures rather more than half an inch, and in the female rather less. This band forms the upper free edge of the crico- thyroid ligament (Fig. ii., N), and consists of a bundle of fine elastic tissue covered by thin mucous membrane. It has two free surfiices, one internal which looks to its fellow, and one above where it bounds the ventricle ; and the free edge between those two surfaces is the part that is made to vibrate by the outgoing current of air. Sound or voice is produced by the expired air throwing into vibration the free edges of the lower two vocal cords. In breath- ing the vibrating edges are at a distance from each other, and divergent behind, and the air passes by them without sound. In order that voice should be produced those edges require to be approximated and put parallel to each other by muscles, and so to be brought into the state called the vocalizing position. The pitch of the voice varies with the degree of tightness or laxness of the vocal cords. If the cords are loose a deep sound ensues, but if they are tight, a high tone is formed. Alterations in the degree of tension depend upon the action of controlling muscles. The glottis (rima glottidis), R, is the narrow interval or chink between the true vocal cords. Its extent is greater than that of the cords, for it reaches across the larynx; and it is bounded on each side by the vocal cord and the aryttenoid cartilage. It measures from before back nearly an inch, and across at the base when dilated about a third of an inch : both measurements refer to the larynx of the male. In the female the size is less by two or three lines. During inspiration the space is larger than iu expiration. Its form changes with the dilatation. In a state of rest the inter- val resembles a spear-head with the shaft placed backwards ; when dilated it is triangular in form, the base of the interval being behind. The ventricle of the lanjnx, Q, is the hollow between the false and true vocal cords of the same side; and it extends from the