426 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE LEG. extensors of the ankle in walking, and the flexor longus digitorum in standing on the toes. If the lower end of the muscle becomes the fixed point, the fibula, when placed in front of the astragalus, will be brought backwards to a right angle with the foot, as is seen in rising from a stooping posture, and in walking backwards. The flexor longus digilonm, E, lies on the tibia, and is the most slender of the muscles in the deep layer at the back of the leg. It arises from the posterior surface of the tibia, be- ginning at the attachment of the soleus, and extending to three Inches from the lower end ; and some fibres are connected exter- nally to the aponeurosis covering the tibialis. Near the ankle the muscle ends in a tendon, which passes behind that of the tibialis through a separate sheath in the annular ligament, and entering the foot ends in slips for the four outer toes (Plate LVi.). In the leg this flexor is placed beneath the soleus for half its length, but the rest of the muscle projects inside the tendo Achillis and supports the tibial vessels. By the under surface it touches the tibia as far as to three inches from the inner.malleolus, where it is sepai'ated from that bone by the intervention of the tibialis posticus. Along the outer edge lie the tibial vessels for about the upper half of its length, but below that point it projects outwards beyond the vessels. The foot being moveable the long flexor will bend the four outer toes, and extend afterwards the ankle. If the foot rests on the ground, so that the toes are rendered immoveable, the muscle will be united in its action with the preceding flexor to raise the weight of the body, as in standing on the toes, or in walking, Supposing the tibia placed in front of the astragalus, as in stooping, the muscle acting from below will assist in bringing that bone to a right angle with the foot. The tibialis posticus, F, is the central muscle of the deep layer, and covers the membrane between the bones. It has a wide origin from the interosseous membrane, the tibia, and the fibula;— viz., from all the membrane except an inch below ; from a special surface on each bone, which is contiguous to the membrane, and reaches down as far as two inches from the malleolus; and some