DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN, 306 bladder to the umbilicus in the adult (Plate xxxviii., d), but this is open in the fcetus and forms the main vessel. Sun-ounded by much fat the artery measures about one inch and a half in length, and lies commonly on the lumbo-sacral cord and the first sacral nerve. Its companion vein is placed between it and the pelvis, but inclines to the outer part on the right side. Ligature. The extent of this as of the other iliac arteries is subject to great variations, but its length commonly is from one inch to one inch and a half. Should ligature of the vessel be required during life the length ought to amount to one inch. And should it be found shorter in an operation, say only half an inch, tying both the iliac arteries would be safer than putting a string on the one (Quain). Branches of the iliac. These are numerous, and are classified commonly into two sets, which come from the two pieces (anterior and posterior) into which the' artery divides ; but the origin of the branches deviates greatly from the prescribed arrangement. They may be arranged in three classes, viz., branches distributed to the parietes of the pelvis on the inside, some exterior to the cavity, and others to the viscera. The internal parietal set consists of the ilio-lumbar and lateral sacral arteries. The ilio-lumhar branch, n, is directed outwards to the iliac fossa beneath the external iliac vessels: there it ramifies in the fossa, some oflFsets running on the surface of the muscle to the iliac crest, and others supplying the hip-bone. An ascending or lum- bar branch anastomoses v?ith the last lumbar artery. The lateral sacral branches are two in number, upper and lower, and the upper is marked with v: they run on the side of the sacrum, supplying the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles, and send branches into the spinal canal through the anterior sacral apertures. External parietal set. These are the gluteal, sciatic, pudic, and obturator: they are famished to parts outside the cavity of the pelvis, and anastomose with branches of the femoral artery. Only a short piece of each branch is included in the dissection.