DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 18 muscles on opposite sides; but only two are now evident, viz., the deltoid or great abductor, E, and the subscapularis or in- ternal rotator, H. In the group of thoracic muscles are included the pectoralis major and minor, the serratus magnus, the latissimus dorsi, and the subclavius. Pectoralis major, A. After the division of the muscle the parts underneath it can be observed. It covers the pectoralis minor on the chest, and the coraco-brachialis, K, and the biceps, L and 0, in the arm. Near the clavicle the subclavius muscle, S, and the costo-coracoid membrane, V, lie beneath it. Above and below the pectoralis minor the axillary vessels and nerves are covered by the great pectoral muscle alone. At its insertion the tendon is divided into two parts, with an interval between, something like a sling. On the under piece, P, the lower chest fibres are received; and in the other (seen only in part), the upper thoracic and the clavicular fibres terminate. The pectoralis minor, B, is attached to the side of the chest, and to the third, fourth, and fifth ribs; it is inserted externally into the coracoid process of the scapula, where it blends in a common tendon with the coraco-brachialis, K, and the short head of the biceps, L. Between the chest and the shoulder the muscle forms part of the anterior boundary of the axilla, and lies over the axillary vessels and nerves; and between the muscle and the clavicle is a triangular interval—the sides being formed by that bone and the pectoralis minor, the base by the* thorax, and the apex by the coracoid process—in which the upper part of the axillary artery may be tied. Its position to other vessels and nerves is so apparent as not to need farther notice. The petftoralis minor assists the serratus, as before said, in drawing forwards the scapula; and it may act as a muscle of forced inspiration when the scapula is the fixed part. Serratus magnus, F, covers the side of the chest, taking origin by nine fleshy slips from the eight upper ribs; and it is inserted into the base of the scapula. Its special nerve, 5, lies on the surface, and distributes offsets to it.