DEEP MUSCLES OF THE BUTTOCK. 391 ried out as in the preceding Plate, the third stage will be arrived at by removing the gluteus medius, and by cutting through and reflecting the obturatur intemus and quadratus femoris. On taking away a superficial stratum of the great sacro-sciatic liga- ment the sacral nerves will come into sight. The small sciatic nerve and the sciatic artery were cut away, and all the veins were removed with the view of rendering the connections less complicated. DEEP MUSCLES OF THE BUTTOCK. Two muscles, the gluteus minimus and obturator externus, come under notice for the first time ; but most of the others have been demonstrated in the preceding Plate, though some points in their anatomy receive here further illustration. A. Cut ends of the gluteus maxi- mus. B. Insertion of the gluteus medius. C. Gluteus minimus. D. Tensor vaginae femoris. E. Pyriformis. F. Upijer gemellus. G. Obturator Laternus, cut, H. Lower gemellus. I. Cut ends of the quadratus femoris. J. Obturator externus. K. Insertion of psoas magnns. L. Insertion of adductor magnus. N. Vastus externus. 0. Semimembranosus. P. Biceps crui'is (long head), E, Semitendinosus. T. Origin of adductor magnus. U. Great sacro-sciatic ligament. V, Small sacro-sciatic ligament. The gluteus minimus, G, is somewhat pja'amidal in form, and is attached to the hip-bone and femur, like the gluteus medius, beneath which it lies. It arises from the space between the two curved lines on the back of the hip-bone, and extends backwards to the line of union of the iliac and ischial portions of that bone. From this attachment the fibres are directed downwards, con- verging to a tendon, which is inserted along the fore part of the great trochanter, and blends inferiorly with the tendon of the gluteus medius. Some of the deeper fibres end in the capsule of the hip-joint (Theile). This muscle is covered by the gluteus medius and pyriformis, and rests on the hip-bone and joint. At the anterior border is placed the tensor of the fascia lata ; and at the hinder edge, the