332 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS, urethra. It pierces the recto-vesical fascia, like the gut in the male, and is uncovered by peritoneum for about three inches below. Its vessels and nerves are similar to those in the male. Bladder, H. Like the corresponding organ in the other sex, it is the most anterior and superficial of the pelvic viscera, but it does not descend so low in the cavity of the pelvis as in man. Its form diEFers somewhat from that of the male bladder: thus it is less deep, and is wider below from side to side than from before back; the under part or base is flatter, and does not project so much below the urethra. The connections of the body of the viscus with parts around are similar to those of the male at each side, and in front; but they differ below and behind. Posteriorly the bladder touches the uterus ; and inferiorly it rests upon the vagina. The urethra, I, is a short narrow passage which reaches from the bladder to the vulva. It measures about one inch and a half in length, and is therefore much shorter than the urine-tube in the male. Its position is above the vagina, and in its course to the exterior of the body it has the following connections. At first it is surrounded by the vascular structure of the vagina, so as to seem to form one mass with that tube before a separation has been made by dissection ; then it pierces the triangular ligament of the urethra, and is surrounded by the fibres of the constrictor urethrEB muscle between the layers of that structure; and lastly it ends in the bottom of the vulva, about a quarter of an inch above the opening of the vagina. This short canal of the female answers to the prostatic and membranous parts of the male urethra (Plate xl.). The ureier, J, differs from the corresponding tube of the otlier sex in having a longer course in the pelvis, and in crossing the side of the uterus before it reaches the bladder. The uterus, or womb. A, is a thick muscular viscus with a small central cavity for the reception of the ovum. Somewhat pyramidal in form, with the larger end upwards, and flattened from before back, it measures about threp inches in length, two in breadth, and one in thickness.