417 GASTKOCNEMIUS MUSCLE. As now seen the ham measures about three inches in length, and one and a half in width at the widest part; and its dimin- ished size is due to the approximation of the biceps, A, and semimembranosus, B, over the hollow. Like the axilla, the space extends largely under the muscles though it has but a com- paratively small surface opening; and it is prolonged upwards between the femur and the hamstrings. Tumours in the space, projecting under the muscles bounding laterally the ham, would not be recognised with facility in consequence of the fleshy coverings over them. Vessels. In the undisturbed state of the ham the popliteal vessels are laid bare only for a very short distance. About an inch of the popliteal artery, a, is visible—the part opposite the condyle of the femur, which comes from beneath the semimem- branosus, and disappears under the inner head of the gastro- cnemius. A muscular branch, t, leaves the trunk of the artery here, and supplies the biceps and semimembranosus : this furnishes a cuta- r^eous offset with the small sciatic nerve. About two inches of the popliteal vein can be seen lying ex- ternal to and in contact with the artery: at this spot the short saphenous vein opens into it. Nerves. Veiy unequal parts of the popliteal nerves appear in the hollow of the ham before the muscles are drawn apart from each other. About three inches of the internal popliteal trunk is uncovered; but strictly speaking only an inch of the external popliteal, for the greater part of the nerve here delineated lies out of the ham, and rests on the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles. Muscles of the calf of the leg. Three muscles form the calf of the leg, viz., gastrocnemius, soleus, and plantaris, but only the first is illustrated in this Figm'e. The gastrocnemius, the most superficial of the muscles of the calf, consists of two halves or bellies, F and H, which unite below in a common tendon. The inner half of the muscle is attached above by tendon to the posterior part of the inner condyle of the femur, and by E K