DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 38 Cutting down to the artery in front of the elbow is an easy operation in the dead body. Taking the inner edge of the biceps muscle as the superficial guide to the position of the vessel, an in- cision two or three inches in length, and parallel to the artery, may be carried along the biceps, so as to divide the integuments ; and should the median basilic vein come into view at this stage, it may be drawn inwards. The deep fascia is next to be cut to the same extent, and the wound is to be moved inwards over the line of the artery. Deep in the wound the firm white median nerve appears on the inner side of the artery, but gradually inclining away from it in front of the elbow-joint: this nerve will serve as the deep guide to the position of the vessel, though the operator should be aware that it may be placed away from the artery, lying along the inner intermuscular septum of the arm.* The nerve being recog- nised, the artery is to be sought between it and the edge of the biceps. Lastly, the sheath of the vessel having been opened, and the venae comites separated from the artery, the aneurism needle may be passed, and the ligature may be tied in the usual way. Some unusual conditions of the arteries in front of the elbow deserve consideration with reference to the operation of blood- letting. The occasional presence of an artery in the fat with the superficial veins has been before noticed, p. 34. The number of large arteries too beneath the fascia may vary. Commonly there is only one, the brachial ; but there may be two, which consist of the brachial trunk and the radial or ulnar ; and lastly, three may be occasionally found, resulting from division of the brachial into its usual arteries rather above the elbow-joint, and the unusual origin of the interosseous from the brachial high in the arm.f The possibility of so many arteries being present in one spot must suggest caution to the student about to bleed, and to the surgeon * 1 have met with three examples of this condition in the dissecting-room of University College. In another body the nerve was deeper than the artery, and was covered, above the elbow, by fibres of the brachialis anticus. t The facts here refeiTed to shortly, are stated fuUy in the Surgical Anatomy of the Arteries by Professor Quain, p. 259.