148 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE NECK. No large arterial trunk can be seen on the surface of the neck as long as the stemo-mastoideus keeps its natural position ;* and this Plate teaches also that no triangular space containing the large cervical bloodvessels is observable until that muscle has been displaced, as in Plate xviii. A few small arteries reach the surface. Thus, the facial artcrv a, with its vein winds over the submaxillary gland and the jaw in front of the masseter muscle, and gives forwards the sub- mental branch, t, below the jaw ; whilst opposite the back of the hyoid bone the lingual vessels, c, appear for a short distance. Issuing from beneath the sterno-mastoideus are small cutaneous oflPsets, e, of the upper thyroid artery—one, d, entering the super- ficial lymphatic gland near the hyoid bone ; and piercing the sterno-mastoideus are other cutaneous arteries,/, of the subclavian and external carotid trunks. Near the ear a cutaneous branch, g, of the posterior auricular artery, escaping beneath the parotid gland, crosses over the sterno-mastoideus. Two superficial jugular veins are directed from above down through the anterior part of the neck. One, the external jugular, h, crosses the sterno-mastoideus from before back; and the other, the anterior jugular, I, lies in fi'ont of that muscle, and near the middle line of the neck. Cutaneous nerves cross from behind forwards, spreading out over the region dissected. The nerve marked, 1, is the cervical part of the seventh cranial nerve, which reaches as low as the hyoid bone; and the nerve, 2, is a branch of the cervical plexus to the teguments below the preceding. MUSCLES AND THE CERVICAL FASCIA. Most of the muscles laid bare will be described more fully in the explanation of the following Plate ; but as the natural state of the stemo-raastoideus, and its connection with the cervical * Anatomists depict and describe tlie common carotid artery as uncovered by the sterno-mastoideus at its upjier end. And the directions of surgeons for placing a ligature on that bloodvessel are based on the same inaccuracy.