70 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. The palmaris longus, D, has the common origin between the preceding and the flexor carpi ulnaris, G ; and its tendon piercing the aponeurosis of the limb near the wrist, ends in the fascia of the pahn of the hand, after sending a slip to join the short muscles of the thumb. This muscle may be absent. It renders tense the palmar fascia, and assists in bending the elbow and wrist. The flewr carpi ulnaris, G, is the most internal muscle of the set. Attached to the inner condyle of the humerus, where it blends with the other muscles, and to the posterior ridge of the ulna by an aponeurosis, it is inserted into the pisiform bone, and joins by offsets the annular ligament of the wrist and the muscles of the little finger. The outer edge of the muscle corresponds with a line from the pisiform bone to the inner condyle of the humerus, and there is a surface-groove in the lower third of the forearm over that edge. The muscle conceals below the ulnar vessels and nerve. Its main action is expressed by its name, but it serves also as a flexor of the elbow-joint. The flexor cligitonm sublimis, F, is the deepest of the muscles of the superficial layer. It is attached by its thin outer edge to the upper three fourths of the shaft of the radius; higher still, to the inner side of the coronoid process of the ulna; and finally to the lateral ligament of the elbow-joint, and the common tendon of origin of the other muscles. It ends below in four tendons for the fingers, which cross the hand, and are inserted into the middle phalanges (Plate x.). The extent of attachment to the radius, and the position of the radial vessels to it may be noticed in the Drawing. Only two tendons appear on the surface, viz., those of the middle and ring fingers. Issuing beneath the lower border is the median nerve, 2. Besides bending the phalanges, the muscle will contribute to flex the wrist and elbow. Above the elbow are the flexors of that joint, viz., biceps and hrach'ialis anticus. The flrst is inserted into the radius and the