108 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOREAEM. base of the nearest phalanx; its tendon is united often with that of the extensor of the metacarpal bone. Its primary aetion is to extend the nearest joint of the thumb ; and contracting still more, the muscle will extend the wrist- joint. Extensor secundi internodii pollicis, D, arises, like the preceding, from only one bone and the interosseous membrane, and chiefly irom an impression on the ulna about four inches long, which lies inside that for the extensor ossis metacarpi. Contained in a separate space in the annular ligament, the tendon is continued over the back of the wrist, and the radial extensors of that joint, to its insertion into the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. The muscle will extend the last joint of the thumb; and it can afterwards assist the other extensors in moving backwards the thumb, and extending the \vrist. Exietisor indicis, E. The indicator muscle arises, inside the pre- ceding, from the shaft of the ulnar for three or four inches below the middle (in length), though reaching sometimes as high as the anconeus. Passing through the annular ligament with the common extensor, it is directed to the fore finger, where it joins on the first phalanx the common tendinous expansion (p. 101). The name expresses its action on the fore finger. If all the fingers are opened together, it assists the common extensor. When the fore finger is straightened, the other digits being closed, this muscle alone points the finger; for, during the act, the part of the common extensor to that finger is passive, being drawn out of line towards the second finger by the fibrous band connecting the two outer pieces of the extensor tendon. Supinator longus, M. In this Plate the peculiar shape of the upper part of the muscle, and the way in which it curves over the long extensor of the wiist to touch the short extensor, can be observed. The posterior annular Jigame7it, S, is described with Plate xi. In the dissection the sheath containing the common extensor of the digits was opened to trace the ending of the posterior inter- osseous nerve on the back of the wrist.