DEEP VESSE].S OF THE BACK OF THE LEG. 427 fleshy fibres are also attached to the aponeurosis covering the surface. Inferiorly the muscle passes between the tibia and the flexor longus digitorum; and its tendon is transmitted to the foot through the inner space of the annular ligament, lying in the groove in the inner malleolus. Its insertion into the scaphoid and other bones of the foot appears in Plate LVil. Fig. 2. Situate between the flexors of the digits, the tibialis is covered by the thin aponeurosis which is fixed into the leg-bones, and superficial to all is the soleus : on it lie the tibial vessels and nerve for the upper half. Beneath it is the interosseous membrane. Superiorly there is an interval between its attachments to the bones, through vrhich the anterior tibial vessels pass; and inferiorly the muscle is directed inwards beneath the flexor longus digitorum. Should the foot be free to be moved the tibialis posticus will draw it down and back so as to extend the ankle, and will direct inwards the great toe. If the foot rests on the ground, the muscle uniting in its action with the tibialis anticus will raise the inner edge, as in standing on the outer border of the foot. When the bones of the leg slant forwards, as in stooping, the muscle taking its fixed point below will combine with the deep flexors of the digits in bringing back the tibia over the astragalus, as the leg is straightened. DEEP VESSELS OF THE BACK OF THE LEG. At the back of the leg, as on the front of the forearm, the main artery of the limb bifurcates just beyond the joint, and from the chief of the two pieces into which it splits is given a third artery, so that in each member there exists one leading vessel where there is a single bone, and three where there are two bones. Arteries. Veins. a. Popliteal trunk. h. Lower and external articular. c. Lower internal articular. d. Anterior tibial trunk. e. Peroneal trunk. /. Continuation of peroneal. g. Posterior tibial truiik. h. Popliteal trunk. I. Peroneal venaj comites. n. Venae comites, posterior tibial. 0. Communicating from deep to superiicial veins. ■p. Internal saphenous.