46 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. The median nerve, 7, keeps close to the vessel throughout, except in front of the elbow, where it inclines away to the inner side ; as low as the part marked thus * it is outside the vessel, then it crosses gradually over, though occasionally under the artery, and gains the inner side about two inches above the elbow. The ulnar nerve, 8, lies inside and in close contact with the artery nearly to the asterisk, but at that spot it diverges from the vessel and courses along the inner intermuscular septum. The musculo- spiral nerve is placed behind the upper part of the artery for two inches (see Plate vi.). The large internal cutaneous nerve, 4, rests on the upper third of the brachial artery ; but in some bodies it is moved farther in, as in the dissection from which the di'awing was taken. Position and names of the branches. Besides small muscular and cutaneous offsets, four named branches spring from the brachial trunk. The highest and largest, vpper profunda, leaves the back of the artery about an inch from the beginning. The next largest, the inferioi' profunda, n, arises near the upper end of the inner intermuscular septum. A nutritive artery of the shaft of the humerus begins near the last, and is covered by the biceps. Another small branch, the anastomotic artery, p, comes from the parent trunk near the elbow. All the branches are small except the superior profunda ; and no two arise at opposite sides of the trunk to interfere by a cross current with the healing process after a thread has been put on it. Almost any point would therefore be available for the appli- cation of a ligature ; but the spot generally selected is marked with an asterisk in the Plate, the vessel being here free from any large offset, and being firmly supported by the coraco-brachialis and the humerus. Ligature at the middle of the artery. This operation on the bi-achial trunk, without a wound at the spot where it is tied, is sometimes rendered necessary by an aneurism, or by htemorrhage fxom a vessel lower in the limb. Under ordinary circumstances the operation is not difficult, as the brachial trunk is so near the surface, and the guides to the vessel are good. The superficial guide to the position of the