406 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE THIGH. magnus, and ramify in the hamstrings. Below that muscle lie the popliteal vessels and their branches. And in the region of the buttock some small branches of the sciatic, pudic, and internal circumflex arteries are delineated. Arteries. a. Inferior hiemorrhoidal of the pudic. li. Small sciatic. c. Internal circumflex. d. First perforating branch. e. Second perforating. /. Third perforating. g. Muscular branches of profunda. i. Popliteal artery. j. Muscular branch of popliteal. h. Upper external articular branch. I. Upper internal articular. n. Inner ^ural branch. r. Outer sural branch. Veins. 0. Popliteal vein. p. Short saphenous. Branches of the internal iliac. The two branches here seen have been previously referred to with the description of other Plates : —a, marks the inferior hcemorrhoidal branch of the pudic, which supplies the sphincter ani and the gut (Plate xxix.); and, h, points out the ramifications of the small sciatic artery at the lower border of the gluteus maximus (Plate xlix,). Branches of the jn-ofunda. Most of the branches of the pro- funda, viz., perforating and muscular, are directed to the back of the thigh through the adductor magnus, and ramify in the ham- strings : one (internal circumflex) runs above the adductor. Internal circumflex, c. The transverse branch of this artery passes between the edges of the quadratus femoris, D, and adductor magnus, I, and supplies the hamstring muscles (p. 305). The perforating arteries are four in number, and are derived from the profunda on the front of the thigh (p. 377). AU of them pierce the adductor magnus near its attachment to the femur,— the first appearing near the top of the muscle, and the last near the lower end of the linea aspera ; and all, except the first, are more or less concealed by the biceps. The first is marked with d, the second with e, and the cutaneous part of the third with /: they have the following distribution :— They (except the first) are directed outwards close to the linea aspera, and through the short head of the biceps and the external