265 EXTERNAL ABDOMINAL RING. ligament below. In this opening lies the cord in the male, and the round or suspensory ligament of the uterus in the female ; and through it the inguinal hernia is protruded. From its margin a thin fascia is prolonged on the spermatic cord or the round ligament, which is called intercolumnar from its position; and when this covers a hernia it is named the sper- matic fascia. In a large hernia this stratum becomes much thickened. Variations in the size of the opening will affect differently a hernia protruding through it. If the aperture is small its sharp edges will offer some resistance to the return of the gut, and may even constrict the intestinal vessels ; whilst if it is larger than usual no impediment will arise from its then comparatively lax margins. After a hernia has existed for a time the opening assumes a rounded form, and from this circumstance the term " ring " has been derived. The sharpness of the edges and the capacity of the external abdominal ring are modified by the position of the limb to the trunk. When the limb is extended, as in standing, Poupart's ligament is drawn down by the tightened fascia lata of the thigh, and the margins of the opening are rendered tense, whilst the interval between them is diminished. But when the limb is placed in the opposite state, viz., raised and rotated in, Poupart's ligament rises, becoming lax; and the sides of the ring being loose, greater capacity can be more readily imparted to it. In an attempt - therefore to push back a hernia the manipulator should see that the hip-joint is bent and rotated in, whilst the body is in a re- cumbent posture, in order that no impediment shall arise from unrelaxed fiisciee or tendons. Over this opening the pad of a truss has to be placed in internal or direct hernia; and its position on the surface of the body can be ascertained in this way :—Carry the forefinger along the ridge of the pubic crest from within out, and as soon as it passes the ■ limit of that bony ridge it will be placed over the external abdo- minal ring. The mtercolumnar fibres, F, form a continuous covering upon the aponeurosis of the exteriial oblique. Near the apex of the