DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 316 here stated :—Inferior hEemorrhoidal, h, one or two in number ; superficial pcrinasal,/; artery of tlie bulb,/; dorsal artery of the penis,/; and muscular to the levator ani and the perinseal muscles. For the detailed description of these branches, see the Perina^um. The sciatic artery, p, which is seen to descend through the pelvis in Plate xxxvi., escapes from that cavity below the pyri- formis, V, lying between this and the coccygeus, R. PUDIC NERVE AND BRANCHES. The distribution of this nerve is displayed in the Plates of the PerinJBum, but its origin, general course, and branching, appear in this view. 1. Sacral plexus. 5. Superficial perinteal branches. 2. Dorsal nerve of the penis. 6. Branch to ejaculator urinae. 3. Periufeal nerve. 7. Branch to constrictor urethrae. 4. Inferior h£emorrhoidal branch. The pudic nerve arises in the sacral plexus as one or two pieces, "and has the same general course and distribution as the artery of the same name. Where it begins as a single trunk the parts, 2 and 3, are blended as far as the ischial spine, Q ; but at this point they separate, one, inferior, reaching the perinEeurn, and the other, superior in position, being furnished to the penis. The perincBal branch is directed forwards to the scrotum in which it ends; its offsets are these :—one or two inferior haBmor-- rhoidal branches, 4, to the muscles and integuments of the lower end of the rectum; two superficial perinteal branches, 5, (anterior and posterior) to the integuments of the scrotum; and branches to the muscles, and the part of the urethra in the peringeum, of which two, 6 and 7, are shown. The dorsal nerve of the penis, 2, ascends along the side of the pelvis and the internal obturator muscle to the back of the tri- angular ligament; and takes its place between the layers of that membrane by penetrating the posterior layer higher than the dorsal artery of the penis. In company with the artery of the same name it ascends near to the symphysis pubis, perforates the anterior layer of the ligament, and is distributed to the body and the integuments of the penis.