133 LATERAL MUSCLES OF THE NECK. the head, is inserted in front into the outer third of the clavicle, and into the acromion process and the spine of the scapula. The anterior free edge of the muscle limits behind the pos- terior triangular space ; it is thin in the upper half, and it is projected forwards, as a point, opposite the fourth cervical nerve and the narrowed part of the neck.* The fore part of the trapezius will help the levator anguli scapulae, E, in raising the shoulder. Splenius capitis, C. This small part of the splenius muscle appears in the posterior triangular space, where it arches forwards from the spinal column to the mastoid process. Taking its fixed point behind, it can turn the face to its own side ; or acting with the sterno-mastoid, it will incline the head to the shoulder. When the muscles of opposite sides act together, the head will be carried backwards. Levator anguli scapulm, E, occupies the hinder part of the triangular space. It arises from the transverse processes of the thi-ee or four upper cervical vertebra, and is inserted into the base of the scapula (Plate v. 0.) ; its processes of origin may- remain separate for some distance as in the Plate, and appear like distinct muscles. Its ordinary action is manifested in shrugging the shoul- ders ; in this movement it is assisted by the upper part of the trapezius. The omo-hyoideus is a double-bellied muscle, which reaches from the scapula to the hyoid bone, and is tendinous beneath the sterno-mastoideus (Plate xviii.): for the anatomy of the anterior belly, see Plate xvii. The fibres of the posterior belly, H, are attached beneath the trapezius to the upper border of the scapula, close to the notch in that bone ; and they end in front in the intermediate tendon. This belly crosses the posterior triangular space, cutting off a small part below, which contains the subclavian artery; and it is kept in place by a sheath of the cervical fascia. * When this edge, is represented in Anatomical Plates as straight between the upper and lower attachments, the displaced condition is delineated.