66 DISSECTION OF THE SHOULDER. the outside of the humerus above the middle. Sufficient of the muscle has been divided to show beneath it the head of the humerus, the insertion of the dorsal scapular muscles, and the posterior circumflex artery, a, and nerve, 1. Between the acromion process and the deltoid muscle, on the one side, and the head of the humerus with the dorsal scapular muscles on the other, is a bursa—one of the largest in the body— which lubricates those surfaces in the movements of the arm. In chronic rheumatic arthritis, when the surrounding capsule and muscles are destroyed, this bursa communicates with the articula- tion—the deltoid and acromion becoming incasing structures of the shoulder-joint. When taking its fixed point above, this muscle is the chief elevator of the humerus, and it can carry backwards and forwards the raised limb ; but in all these movements it is assisted by the scapular muscles. The arm is raised by the central fibres of the deltoid and the supra-spinatus muscle, H; it is moved forwards by the clavicular fibres and the subscapularis; and it is carried back by the fibres attached to the spine of the scapula, and by the infra-spinatus, K, and teres minor, L. Supposing the deltoid to act from the humerus, as in drawing along the body by the arms, the muscle serves as the chief bond of union between the shoulder and arm bones. Triceps extensor cuhiti.—Two heads of this muscle, outer and middle, are visible in the Plate. The outer head, G, attached to the upper part of the back of the humerus, reaches nearly as high as the insertion of the teres minor, L, and is covered by the deltoid. The middle or long head, F, is fixed to the inferior costa of the scapula close to the shoulder-joint. This part enters between the two teres muscles (over the major and under the minor), and divides into two the triangular space included by them. In front of the head, between it and the humerus, is a quadrangular interval, through which the posterior circumflex vessels and nerve turn from the axilla ; and behind the head is an opening tri- angular in shape, which transmits the dorsal branch of tlie sub- scapular vessels.