DISSECTION OF THE GROIN. 238 ANATOMY OF FEMORAL HERNIA. A protnision of intestine below Poupart's ligament to the Uiigh gives rise to a femoral hernia. Part of the anatomy of the hernia can be studied in the abdomen, and part with the lower limb; but only the facts illustrated in this Plate of the dissection of the groin will be here alluded to. Course. Enteruig the loose crural sheath through the crural ring, the gut descends on the inner side of the femoral vein along the narrow space of the crural canal, as far as the saphenous opening in the fascia lata; at this spot it escapes from its narrow passage, being directed forwards through the saphenous opening, and forms a swelling on the surface of the thigh. As it proceeds in its course it displaces, or causes to be absorbed the gland situate in the crural canal. Whilst it is in the crural sheath the gut has nearly a straight direction, but as it projects forwards to the surface a bend is formed at the level of the saphenous open- ing ; and as it increases in size, ascending on the abdomen, a second bend is produced. See the description in the thigh. The narrowed part of the tumom' beneath Poupart's ligament is named the neck of the hernia. 'Goverings. The intestine pushes before it some strata apper- taining to the wall of the belly, and others belonging to the thigh. The coverings derived from the abdomen are the peri- toneal or the sac, and the subperitoneal or fatty layer whicli varies much ui thickness in different bodies. The limb-coverings are obtained from the crural sheath, and the teguments, and will be described with Plates XLii. and XLiii. Taxis. By the view in the Plate it appears that the return of the intestine will be retarded by the tendinous band of Poupart's and Gimbernat's ligament, if this is kept tight by an extended state of the thigh ; and therefore the thigh should be raised and rotated inwards to relax to the utmost that band during the employment of the taxis. Stricture. Strangulation of the intestine takes place most com- monly in the neck of the rupture. It may be outside the sac,