488 DISSECTION OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. great toe, and gives offsets to the abductor and flexor brevis poUicis ; it communicates with the artery, /, of the first interos- seous space by a cross branch under the long flexor tendon. The second, lying over the first interosseous space, joins the digital artery, g, at the root of the toes. The third, enters the digital artery, h, like the others.* The muscular Iranches, which are shown in Fig. ii., penetrate the fibres of the flexor brevis poUicis, and the inner two lumbri- cales muscles. The external plantar artery c (Fig. ii.) has an arched course to the back of the fourth interosseous space, and there sinks under the third layer of muscles to form the plantar arch (Plate LVir.). Covered at first by the abductor pollicis, it is placed next between the flexor digitorum and the accessorius, F, and finally it lies in the interval between the flexor of the toes and tlie abductor of the little toe. Venae comites are continued on the sides of the artery ; and the external plantar nerve has the same course and con- nections. Collateral branches are furnished from this part of the artery to the contiguous muscles,—abductor minimi, flexor digitorum, and flexor accessorius ; and to the bones and ligaments of the outer side of the foot : these last communicate with the arteries on the dorsum. From the deep part of the plantar artery (plantar arch) the digital arteries on the sides of the toes are derived; but a more complete view of these will be obtained in the following Plate. NERVES OF THE SOLE. The nerves, like the arteries, consist of cutaneous and deep branches : the former come from the posterior tibial and plantar • The condition of tlie arteiy -which is represented in this Plate differs , much from that which is ordinarily described. This arrangement is the Qommon one ; but the arteries of the foot, like those of the liand sn, arebject to variations, and the distribution of the digital branches will deviate occa sionally Ironi that above givi'U.