DISSECTION OF THE GKOIN. 286 hernia, fclic ring is not closed by those layers, but remains patent for the escape of.the gut; whilst the two strata (peri- toneum and subperitoneal fat) form tubes which reach to the tes- ticle and are ready to receive the descending intestine. In an external inguinal hernia the piece of intestine leaves the abdominal cavity through this hole, and protrudes along the spermatic cord. Of necessity the gut will force onwards, and make coverings for itself of the peritoneum and the subperitoneal fat, as already said (p. 274), before it receives the other coverings from the abdominal wall. The fascia iliaca, D, covers the iliacus muscle, and lies beneath the large external iliac blood-vessels. At Poupart's ligament it joins the fascia transversalis as far inwards as B: but thence to Gimbernat's ligament it is prolonged beneath the iliac artery and vein, and blends with the hinder part of the loose crural sheath on the femoral vessels. The crural sheath (Plate xliii.) is continuous above with the fasciae just noticed, the fascia transversalis entering the front, and the fascia iliaca the back of the tube. In it are lodged the great vessels, a and h, of the limb ; and as these occupy only the outer part of the sheath in consequence of the shape of the parts, an interval is left between the iliac vein, b, and Gimbernat's ligament, which is named the crural canal. T'he canal gradually tapers from above down, and reaches but a short distance along the crural sheath : its opening into the abdomen is called the crural ring. A femoral hernia passes through this space or passage in the crural sheath. The crural ring, G, is the aperture of entrance into the crural canal from the cavity of the abdomen. About as large as the tip of the fore finger, and flattened hke this from before back, it is bounded in front by Poupart's ligament and the subjacent band of the deep crural arch; behind by the pubes covered by the pectineus muscle and fascia lata; internally by the base of Gim- bernat's ligament, C; and externally by the ihac vein, l. Of these boundaries only the anterior and inner are unyielding and sharp enough to constrict a piece of gut lymg in it. If the fore finger is placed in the ring whilst the hip-joint is alternately