386 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. separates the obturator from the quadratus femoris and obturator externus. Near the pelvis the edges are applied together to form a kind of groove which contains the obturator, but near the femur they cover the tendon of that muscle. They act on the thigh-bone like the obturator internus, ro- tating out when the limb is hanging, and abducting when the femur is bent on the trunk. In standing on both legs, on one leg, and in walking, they will also assist the obturator though their power will be but small. The obturator externus, H, appears as a tendon between the inferior gemellus and quadratus femoris. Its origin opposite the obturator internus from the outer part of the membrane of the same name, and in part from the pelvis, is indicated in Plate XLVii.; and the buttock part of the muscle will be illustrated in the next Plate. The quadratus femoris, I, is thin and fleshy, and arises from the outer border of the tuber ischii, external to the semimembranosus. and the adductor magnus. Its fibres form a squarish layer, from two to three inches wide, which is inserted into a tubercle in the posterior inter-trochanteric line, and vertically into the upper end of the femur for two inches : the line of attachment is sometimes called linea quadrati. Covered by the same parts as the other rotators, it is also con- cealed at its origin by the hamstring muscles. Underneath it is the obturator externus with the hip-joint. By the upper border it. touches the inferior gemellus and obturator externus ; and by the lower it is in contact with the adductor magnus—a piece of the internal circumflex arteiy with its veins issuing between the two. This muscle will assist, though but feebly, the pyriformis and obturators in rotating out the hanging limb; in abducting the bent limb ; in balancing the pelvis in standing on both logs, or on one ; and in rotating the face to the opposite side when the trunk is supported on one leg. HamstriMjs and adductor magnus. The upper ends of the three flexors of the knee-joint (hamstrings) are laid bare at their attachment to the ischial tuberosity : they consist of semitcndi-