DISSECTION OF THE PERINiEUM. 254 Two superficial 2^ermcml nerves come from the large perinscal branch of the pudic in the ischio-rectal fossa (p. 247), and run forwards with the vessels to the scrotum, in which they ramify. At the scrotum they unite together, as well as with the inferior pudendal. The more posterior branch, 2, which is likewise the most super- ficial, ends chiefly in the integuments. The anterior nerve, 3, passes generally under the transversalis muscle, and supplies the levator ani and the other superficial muscles as it is directed forwards to the scrotum. The inferior pudendal nerve, 4, is a branch of the small sciatic, and pierces the fascia lata of the thigh near the border of the gluteus maximus. Thence being directed forwards, it pierces the superficial fascia, and accompanies the other nerves to the scrotum. Soon after it appears it is joined by the inferior hajraorrhoidal; and nearer the scrotum, by the superficial peringeal branch. From the superficial position of the spongy part of the urethra, a catheter or sound passing along it can be felt readily through- out ; and in a case of difiiculty in moving the instrument along, assistance may be given with the finger of the other hand. Stricture of the urethra is most frequent where the tube is covered by the ejaculator m-inte muscle. In the operation of cutting down upon the stricture from without, the muscle and the spongy wall of the urethra will have to be divided, but there will be little danger of bleeding if the incision lies directly in' the middle line, for no vessel of any size will be met with in that position ; and if the knife is passed through the median tendinous line between the ejaculator muscles, the only structure to furnish blood is the spongy vascular wall of the urethra. If openings in the tube of the urethra should occur in con- sequence of disease or accident the urine may escape from the passage, and become diffused beneath the superficial fascia of the perinaaum. After the fluid is extravasated it will be directed forwards to the scrotum, as before said, by reason of the insertion of the superficial fascia into the firm underlying parts (p. 250).