404 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE THIGH. In the lower fourth of the thigh it bounds externally the hollow of the ham, and forms the outer hamstring. Between the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint and the tendon of insertion a synovial bursa intervenes. When the tibia is free to move the muscle combines with the •other hamstrings in drawing backwards that bone and flexing the knee ; and after the joint has been bent it will rotate outwards the foot. If the bones of the leg are fixed, it will assist its fellows in propping the pelvis on the femur ; and if the lower limb is moveable at the hip, but immoveable at the knee-joint, the muscle will bring down and back the raised femur, thus checking flexion of the hip, and will help in putting back the leg in the process of walking backwards. The semitendinosus, J, is named from its long tapering tendon near the knee. It arises from the ischial tuberosity and the tendon of the biceps. ' Its fibres form at first a flat muscle ; but this becomes round below, and ends at the lower third of the tliigh in a tendon, which is inserted into the inner side of the tibia close below the gracilis (Plate XLvri.). Like the other hamstrings, it is covered above by the gluteus maximus; and it rests on the semimembranosus. To its outer side is the biceps as far as the popliteal space. At the insertion a synovial membrane envelops the tendon ; and under the muscle at its origin is placed another bursa (Theile). A tendinous line crosses the muscle obliquely from the inner to the outer side, so as to divide it into an upper and a lower part, but some of the under fibres pass over this intersecting band. Acting from the pelvis the muscle bends the knee-joint; and it will afterwards rotate in the foot. The leg being fixed and the hip-joint free to move, the muscle balances the pelvis. It will put back the raised femur in the same way as the biceps. The semimemhranosus, K, is the largest of the hamstrings, and arises by a tendon from the ischial tuberosity, external to and rather above the other two muscles. From this tendon which widens and becomes thin at the inner edge, but is thickened and rounded at the outer, the fleshy fibres spring, and form below a rounded belly. Inferiorly the muscle is terminated by a second