SUPERFICIAL ARTERIES OF THE NECK. 151 the side of tlie maxilla, it projects down the neck for an inch or more iu front of the angle of the jaw. Superficial to it are the integuments and the platysma with the deep fascia ; and beneath it is the mylo-hyoid muscle. In front it is bounded by the anterior belly of the digastric, F ; below by the digastric and the stylo-hyoid, H ; and behind by the process, N, of the deep cervical fascia which intervenes between it and the parotid. Over the surface wind the facial vessels, a. The gland consists of larger lobules than the parotid; and from its deeper surface the duct (Wharton's) is continued to the floor of the mouth : the course of the duct is evident in Plate xxii. of the submaxillary region. The sublingual gland projects in the floor of the mouth under the front of the tongue, where it forms a lengthened swelling. Placed deeply under the side of the jaw, close to the symphysis, its connections will be indicated in Plate xxii. The lymphatic glands marked thus, f, are three or four in number, and lie along the base of the jaw, superficial to the sub- maxillary gland: they receive vessels from the submental artery, 5. In scrofulous children these glands may enlarge, and suppurate. In the middle line, just above the hyoid bone, is a small lymphatic gland, which receives a vessel, d, from the upper thyroid artery. . SUPERFICIAL ARTERIES OF THE NECK. In comparison with the superficial veins the arteries appearing on the surface are few, and are small in size. None except the facial, a, and the lingual, c, are large enough to furnish serious ha^moiThage in superficial wounds ; but in cuts involving the muscles, the large trunks displayed in Plate xvii. may be opened. a. Facial artery and vein. b. Submental branch of the facial. c. Lingual artery and vein. d. Olhot of' the upper tliyroid artery to a lymphatic glaud. ce. Superficial ofTsets of the upper thyroid artery. Jf. Branches of the subclavian and carotid trunks perforating the sterno-mastoideus. r/. Cutaneous oflset of the posterior auricuhir.