408 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE LEG. trunk : in their course they receive branches corresponding with those of the artery. They have a plexiforra disposition around the tibial bloodvessel, especially above ; and they anastomose with the internal saphenous vein. Pecidiariiies. The dorsal arteiy of the foot is subject to great variations in its position and size. Frequently it forms an arch under the extensor brcvis digitorum, with the convexity towards the outer border of the foot. Much bleeding from a wound on the top of the instep, towards the outer part, which Avould be far out of the usual line of the vessel, would suggest the probability of the artery being opened in its unusual situation. When the anterior tibial is so small as not to reach to the lower part of the leg the anterior communicating branch of the peroneal becomes the dorsal artery of the foot, and takes the place of the deficient tibial trunk: this substituted vessel may have also the same uncommon curved course on the dorsum of the foot as the anterior tibial. Lkjature. In the dead body the artery is easily reached in consequence of its superficial and fixed position ; and the operation of ligature may be practised on it in the following way :— First, the position of the vessel is to be ascertained by a line on the surface, from the centre of the ankle to the back of the first interosseous space. A cut in that line, about two inches in length and nearer the interosseous space than the ankle-joint, is to divide the skin, the teguments, and the deep fascia covering the muscles. After cutting through the superficial strata the inner piece of the extensor brevis digitorum comes into sight ; and the tendon connected with those fleshy fibres serves as the deep guide to the bloodvessels issuing from beneath. In the bottom of the wound appears the anterior tibial nerve, which is generally outside and close to the artery ; but the tendons of the long extensors of the digits are at some distance from the vessels, and are not visible. Opening now the arterial sheath, and detaching the venae comites, the thread is to be passed around, and to be knotted on the vessel in the usual way. Should the tibial artery have the unusual course on the dorsum