430 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OP THE LEG. In passing the ligature let the aneurism needle be moved from right to left, and without including the veins. Occasionally no artery may be met with, for it may be wanting in this part of the leg. In the lower half. Where the posterior tibial is uncovered by muscle the surface line before given will serve as the superficial guide to its position. A cut about two inches and a half long is to divide the teguments in that line : some branches of the internal saphenous vein and nerve will probably be cut through in this stage, but the knife should be used far enough back to be clear of the trunk of the vein. Nextly the deep fascia of the limb is to be incised on a director or without, according to the skill of the operator. Beneath the fascia the posterior tibial nerve may be recognised, and it will serve as the guide to the artery in the wound: to the inner side of the nerve lie the blood-vessels. When opening the sheath, and passing the thread around the vessel, the same precautions are to be taken as in ligature of the artery higher up. Wounds of tlie artery are more likely to happen in the lower part of the leg where the vessel is near the surface than where it is covered by the soleus muscle. If the injury has its seat in the lower half of the leg the wound may be enlarged, and two ligatures may be applied to the blood-vessel so as to arrest the flow of blood from each end. But if the artery is opened through the soleus the depth will increase greatly the difficulty of finding the bleeding vessel in the bottom of the wound. In this case some surgeons have recommended that the wound should be enlarged, and that the vessel should be tied, as before said ; but others would prefer to try the effect of pressure applied to the wound and the main vessel of the limb before undertaking so difficult an operation. Branches of the posterior tibial. With the exception of the large peroneal artery the other branches are small in size. Muscular Iramhes arise from both sides of the trunk all the way along: two or three are supplied to the fibular and tibial attachments of the soleus; and the larger of these pierces the