NERVES OF THE POPLITEAL SPACE. 401 Articular arteries. Only the upper pair is visible ; and the two are attached to the arterial trunk rather above the knee-joint. The outer branch, b, crosses the femur above the condyle, and passing under the biceps, leaves the ham by perforating the ex- ternal intermuscular septum. The inner, \ is directed beneath \ the inner hamstrings and the tendon of the adductor magnus to the fi'ont of the knee-joint. A single median (azygos) articular branch enters the joint through the posterior ligament, but it is concealed by the trunks of the vessels. NERVES OF THE SPACE. In the ham are lodged the two great trunks into which the sciatic nerve splits, with branches of these ; and in the space are offsets of the small sciatic and obturator nerves. 1. Internal cutaneous of the thigh. 2. Small sciatic nerve. 3. Internal popliteal nerve. 4. Short saphenous nerve. 5. 6. Branches to the heads of the gastrocnemius. 7. Middle articular branch. 8. External articular branch. 9. Communicating peroneal branch. 10. External cutaneous of the leg. 11. External popliteal nerve. Popliteal nerves. At the back of the thigh the sciatic nerve divides into the internal and external popliteal trunks (Plate Lir.); these are continued through the ham to the leg, and furnish branches to the surrounding parts. The internal or larger trunk, 3, lies nearly in the middle of the limb, and takes the position, before said, to the blood-vessels ■;,{p. 400) : it gives articular branches to the knee-joint; muscular to the gastrocnemius, plantaris, and soleus ; and a cutaneous nerve (short saphenous) to the back and outer part of the leg. The external popliteal, 11, is placed under cover of the biceps muscle, and leaves the space below to reach the fore part of the leg. Near its commencement it gives an articular nerve, 8, to the knee-joint; and whilst it is contained in the space two or three cutaneous nerves to the back and outer part of the leg arise from it. -jSe muscles receive branches from this trunk, z skvvr fi^ D D