258 DISSECTION OF THE PERIN^EUM. urethra into two fleshy strata which pass, one over, and the other under that tube, to join similar parts of the muscle of the opposite side. These fleshy strata reach.the whole length of the membranous part of the urethra, surrounding it, and end in a median tendon (more or less complete) both above and below the passage. When the muscles of both sides act the urethral canal will be diminished like the end of the rectum by the external sphincter. During the act of making water the muscles are relaxed ; but they act spasmodically, like the ejaculatores urin^, in expelling the last portion of that fluid, or the semen. The muscle resem- bles the ejaculator urin^e in acting only with its fellow. Orbicularis ureihrce*—Encircling the urethral tube within the fibres of the constrictor is a thin layer of circular involuntary muscular fibres, which is continuous behind with the fibres of the prostate. PUDIC VESSELS. The trimks of the pudic artery and nerve are delineated on the left side ; and the distribution of the deep muscular branches is shown on the other. a. Pudic artery iu the ischio- rectal fossa. h. Pudic artery in the triangular ligament. c. Dorsal artery of the penis. d. Superficial perineal, cut. e. Deep transverse perinoeal branch. /. Branch to corpus spongiosum urethrse. n. Artery of the bulb. The pudic artery, a, courses along the os innominatmn, and lies partly in the ischio-rectal fossa, and partly in the triangular ligament. The artery, h, between the layers of the ligament is more or less covered by the fibres of the constrictor urethrse, ,and gives a considerable branch to the bulb of the urethra. Near the pubes it perforates the fore part of the ligament, and becomes the dorsal artery of the penis, c. As soon as the artery appears through the ligament it fur- nishes a small branch (art. corporis cavernosi) to the crus penis : this has not any letter of reference. * I have so designated this muscle from its arrangement and action, and have described it iu the xxxix. Vol. of the Koy. Med. Chii-. Trans, for 1856, p. 327.