DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 22 the clavicle somewhat on the sternal side of the middle of the bone, to the inner border of the coraco-brachialis muscle, K. In a dissection carried no farther than the one from which the di-awing is taken, the artery is divided into three parts by the pectoralis minor, B, viz., one part above, one beneath, and one beyond the muscle. The upper or first jpart lies in the axillary sheath between, but deeper than its companion vein and nerves. Superficial to the sheath is the clavicular attachment of the great pectoral muscle; and underneath it is the side of the chest with the intercostal muscles of the first space, and the serratus magnus, F. Crossing the artery, are some small branches of the companion vein and nerves;—thus directed over it from the outer side is the cephalic vein, I, and an anterior thoracic nerve, 3; and passing under it is the nerve to the serratus, 5. Second part. Here the artery is covered by both pectoral muscles, large and small; but it is without muscular support behind in consequence of its position across the axilla. The large axillary vein, h, has the same relative position to this as to the first part; whilst the brachial plexus, 1, dividing into pieces, is so arranged that one bundle lies outside, another inside, and a third behind the vessel. The third part, twice as long as either of the others, is in contact for two thirds of its length with the pectoralis major, but thence to the ending it is covered only by the common tegu- mentary structures. It rests successively from above do^vn on the subscapularis, H, the latissimus dorsi, 0, and the teres major, D. To its outer side lies the coraco-brachialis muscle, K. The position of the companion vein remains the same as above; but the connections of the nerves are altered, for the brachial plexus has divided into its terminal branches, which are placed on opposite sides of the vessel. Outside are two nerves, the musculo-cutaneous, 11, reaching only a short distance; and the median, 12, which extends throughout. Inside is the ulnar nerve, 13 (here somewhat displaced); and more or less removed from the artery, is the small internal cutaneous nerve, 9. Super- ficial to the artery is the large internal cutaneous, 14; and beneath