345 ANATOMY OF FEMORAL HERNIA. wards to the thigh, being oblique in direction externally, and almost horizontal internally. To the lower border the fascia lata is attached ; and as long as this membrane is entire the band is kept arched, but as soon as the fascia has been cut through the ligament becomes lax, and rises towards the abdomen. The space included between the ligament and the hip-bone is closed at the outer end by the large flexor muscles of the hip (psoas and iliacus), and at the inner by the femoral vessels and the crural sheath; the fascia3 too lining the cavity of the belly assist in closing the in- terval (Plate XXXV.). Between the ligament and the muscles there is not space for the escape of the intestine from the abdo- men, but there is room for its passage in the crural sheath. Poupart's ligament is rendered more or less resisting by the position of the limb. For instance if the limb is straight, as in standing, the crural arch is tense ; and if the thigh is rotated out at the same time, that band is made as tight as it can be. When ' the thigh is bent on the abdomen the tendinous cord is relaxed ; and it attains its greatest degree of looseness if the limb is rotated in at the same time. Of necessity this tendinous arch may act as a constricting band to a piece of intestipe descending beneath it in femoral hernia. Deep crural arch. A thin fibrous band across the front of the crural sheath has received this name. It begins about the middle of the superficial crural arch, and widening internally is attached to the pectineal line of the pubes : it consists mostly of a thick- ening of the membpane forming the fore part of the sheath. The crural sheath, F, is a loose membranous tube around the femoral vessels, and is derived fi'om the fascia lining the cavity of the belly. It lies under the inner or horizontal part of the crural arch, filling the interval not occupied by muscle ; and it extends downwards about two inches before it blends with the areolar sheath around the bloodvessels. Upwards, or towards the abdo- men, the fore part of the tube may be traced into the fascia trans- versalis; and the hinder part is described as being continuous with the fascia iliaca (Plate xxxv.). Flattened from before back, it is triangular in form, with the base towards Poupart's ligament and the apex around the femoral