248 DISSECTION OF THE PERINiEUM. of the anus. Abscesses are prone to form in it, which manifest a striliing tendency to leave sinuses or fistulaj behind them. The different conditions of these sinuses have received special names. If a sinus opens into the lower part of the gut as well as on the skin, having thus an inner and an outer orifice, it is said to be a complete fistula. Supposing the abscess to discharge its contents on the surface of the body in the usual way, the sinus remaining is named an incomplete external fistula ; and if it bursts into the gut through the inner boundary of the ischio-rectal fossa without opening externally, the passage remaining is called a blind ia- ternal fistula. When abscesses enter the gut they pierce the levator ani and the intestinal wall, and usually at a spot about an inch from the anus. These burrowing passages need to be laid open before they will heal, like sinuses in the groin ; and in slit- ting with a knife those that pierce the gut, the levator ani, the external sphincter, and the intestine, will have to be divided. * Bloodvessels of the 'posterior part of the perinmcm. The small arteries and veins supplying the lower end of the rectum, are derived fi'om the pudic. Some others are distributed to the in- teguments by the sciatic vessels. a, Pudic artery. b. Inferior heemorrlioidal. c. A second h.Temorrlioidal braucli. d. Branches of the sciatic. The pudic artery, a, an offset of the internal iliac in the pelvis, enters the perineeum through the small sacro-sciatic notch, and ascends through this region to end in the penis or the clitoris, according to the sex. In the hinder part of its course the vessel lies in the ischio-rectal fossa, and gradually becomes more super- ficial in front, as before said. It is accompanied by two veins, by the trunk of the pudic nerve which is' deeper than it, and by the perinatal branch of the same nerve which is nearer the surface : * Mr. Marsliall has proposed that these sinuses should be cauterized by a wii-e heated by galvanism, with the view of preventing secondary lu-eniorrhage. See a paper in Vol. xxxiv. of the Transactions of ther Roy. Med. Chir. Society.