DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 300 the aorta, and descending beneath the left common iliac vein, runs along the middle of the sacrum to the end of the spinal column. Small offsets are supplied from it opposite each vertebra. The common iliac artery, h, is the primaiy trunk derived from the bifurcation of the aorta. About two inches in length it reaches as far as the fibro-cartilage between the last lumbar ver- tebra and the base of the sacrum : at this spot it ends by dividing into external and internal iliac arteries. Of the two vessels the right is more oblique in direction, and longer than the left. Each artery lies against the spinal column, and is placed beneath the peritoneum, like the aorta ; it is crossed by several offsets of the sympathetic nerve, and sometimes by the ureter, P. On opposite sides of the body its connections with other vessels are different. On the left, the iliac trunk is crossed by part of the inferior mesenteric artery, Tc; and its companion vein, q, lies neater the pelvis. On the right side the iliac artery touches three large venous trunks ; thus the right common iliac vein is ex- ternal to it, the left common iliac vein crosses beneath it, and the beginning of the vena cava is placed on the outer side opposite the fifth lumbar vertebra. Only small glandular offsets are furnished, as a rule, by the common iliac trunk, but a renal or an ilio-lumbar artery will take origin from it occasionally. Ligature.—The length of the arterial trunk, and the origin of branches influence greatly the chances of a successful ligature of it. If the vessel is less than an inch in length it is too short for the application of a string without htemorrhage ensuing on the sepa- ration of that band ; in such a condition ligature of the beginning of the external and internal iliac would be preferable to tying the trunk which is too short (Quain). If during an operation an un- common branch should be seen to spring from the iliac artery it should be included in the ligature, in order that its disturbing influence on the obliteration of the vessel may be removed. Internal iliac artery, c. This is the smallest of the two vessels resulting from the bifurcation of the common iliac trunk : it enters the pelvis, furnishing branches to that cavity, and is shown in Plate xxxvii.