4. Inferior pnilfiiflal nerve. perin.'eal. PERINyEAL VESSELS AND NERVES. 2.T3 ligament appears; and the superficial perinajal vessels and nerves course forwards through it. In the fii'st stage of the lateral operation for stone, when the operator is making a way down to the urethra, the knife may be brought into the hinder part of the space, and may cut through the transverse muscle, part of the ejaculator, and some of the superficial pcrinreal vessels and nerves. This is likely to happen if the cutaneous incisions are begun too far forwards ; but if the operation is well planned and executed, the scalpel will be sunk behind the transversalis muscle, and through the levator ani at the fore and inner part of the ischio- rectal fossa. Superficial perinmal vessels. The arteries which are distributed to the superficial muscles and the integuments are derived from the pudic trunk. Veins accompany the arteries, and end in the pudic. a. Superficial periiiEeal artery. h. Transverse perinajal artery. c. Cutaneous offsets of the super- ficial perinseal to the thigh. The superficial 2J(irinccal artery, a, arises from the pudic trunk near the front of the ischio-rectal fossa, and crosses over the transversalis muscle as it courses forwards to end in the scrotum at the fore part of the perinasum it divides into pieces, and it is sometimes split into two from the origin. It furnishes offsets ta the superficial perinseal muscles, to the integuments of the thigh,, and sometimes the following branch. The transverse periticeal artery, b, comes either from the pre- ceding or from the pudic trunk near it, and passes inwards- behind the transversalis to end in the integuments, and in the muscles between the rectum and the urethra. The veins with the superficial perinteal artery are large and plexiform at the scrotum. Superficial perinatal nerves. Three nerves supply the integu- ments and the muscles; and these are offsets of the pudic and small sciatic. 1. InfeFior hsemorrhoidal nerve.' 2. Posterior of the two superficial 3. Anterior of the two superficial perineal.