DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 330 Spinal Merm .-—These arc supplied to some muscles, and to the viscera in part. Only two of the muscular brandies are shown: they are fur- nished by the fourth sacral nerve. The nerve marked, 2, belongs to the levator ani of the left side, and enters the inner surface ; another nerve to the coccygeus, 3, penetrates into the fibres on the pelvic aspect of its muscle ; and the third descends to the perinasum to supply the external sphincter (Plate xxix. 5). Nerves to the viscera, 1, are derived from the fourth or the third sacral nerve, and occasionally from both those nerves j they supply chiefly the lower part of the bladder, and before they reach that viscus they communicate freely with the pelvic plexus of the sympathetic. Sijmpatlutic nerve. One part of the sympathetic is distri- buted altogether to the viscera, and^the other is a knotted cord in front of the sacrum : a similar arrangement exists on each side of the pelvic cavity. Only an outline of the visceral part is here sketched. Hypogastric plexus. In front of the sacrum is a plexus of the sympathetic with this name ; and on each side proceeds an offset, 5, in the form of a flattened band without ganglia. This pro- longation communicates with the knotted cord lying on the sacral vertebra by means of the small nerves, 7, 7 ; and, below, it ends in the pelvic plexus. Pelvic 2^l&xus. This is a large network on the side of the bladder and rectum, of which only a fragment is indicated by the figures, 6, 6. It receives, above, the part, 5, of the hypogas- tric plexus, and is joined behind by large j^branches from the spinal sacral nerves in the pelvis. Offsets are furnished by it to the bladder and the rectum, and to the vesicula seminalis, penis, and urethra: of these the nerves of the bladder are larger and ■whiter than the rest, and receive more spinal nerve-fibres. A view of this plexus has been omitted fi'om the Plate because its dissection is in general too difficult for the student to execute, and because the insertion of so large a mass of nerves would interfere with the sight of the pelvic viscera-