361 LIGATURE OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY. the thigh. And close to the ending springs the small anastomotic ' artery, h, for the knee-joint. Of these branches the profunda is the largest; and to it the term deep femoral has been given. It arises commonly from the second inch of the femoral trunk, varying much as to its site within that limit; but its origin takes often a much wider range as the observations of Mr. Quain have demonstrated,* Thus it may be attached to the first inch of the femoral, or even higher, so as to come from the end of the external iliac. Or it may leave the parent vessel lower in the thigh, arising as far as four inches from Poupart's ligament; but in this state of deviation its cir- cumflex branches are usually attached higher up and separately to the femoral trunk. As the beginning of this large vessel ranges then over the upper four inches of the femoral artery a ligature cannot be applied to that part of the vessel without the prospect of subsequent hemorrhage. Ligature of the femoral. As this vessel, like the artery of the upper limb, is conveniently placed for the employment of pres- sure to control the circulation of the blood, the operation of tying it with a thread for the treatment of aneurism in the popliteal space will be resorted to but rarely; but should such a proceed- ing be required the following directions may be useful in its execution. The spot chosen for ligature is determined by the place of origin of the profunda, as the surgeon desires to place the thread on the femoral trunk beyond that large nutritive and anastomotic branch. But as the origin of the profunda wanders over the highest four inches of the femoral artery, a spot between four and five inches from Poupart's ligament, which is marked thus, X, in the Figure, is to be selected as the most suitable for that ope- ration, even though the vessel is not so accessible .as it would be in Scarpa's triangular space. The position of the femoral artery in the limb may be ascer- tained by a line on the surface from the mid point between the iliac crest and the symphysis pubis to the inner condyle of the * In the work before referred to on the Surgical Anatomy of the Arteries.