252 DISSECTION OF THE PEllINiEUM. fascia is removed the muscle bangs lower, as on the right side in the Plate. This muscle when acting with its fellow fixes and draws down- wards and backwards the central point of the perinseum : the two may compress shghtly the bulb of the urethra beneath. The ejamlalor urincp., D, covers the urethra, and consists of two halves, right and left, which are united by a tendon in the middle line. The fibres of each half arise from the median tendon and from the central point; and they are directed outwards over the urethra to be inserted by three slips in the following manner :— The anterior fasciculus, formed by the longest fibres, takes its attachment to the outer part of the penis; the posterior is inserted into the subjacent triangular ligament; and the middle or intermediate turns round the urethra, and unites with the cor- responding slip of the other side. The muscle covers the spongy part of the urethra for about two inches in front of the triangular ligament; and the manner in which the tube is surrounded will appear when the ejaculator is detached in a deeper dissection. By surrounding the urethra the muscle acts as a sphincter on that passage, and can expel with force the fluid from the tube. During the continuous flow of the urine the fibres of both sides are relaxed; but at the time of the expulsion of the last of the stream they come into forcible contraction under the influence of the will. In the expulsion of the semen the action of the muscle is involuntary. Erector penis, F. This muscle conceals the cms penis. It is attached to the innominate bone on each side of, and behind the cms ; and it is inserted anteriorly by aponeurotic fibres into the inner and outer surfaces of the cms, where this joins the body of the penis. It compresses the cms penis on which it lies, and retards the escape of blood from that body through the veins: in this way it assists in the distension of the penis. A triane;ular interval exists between the three muscles above described. It is bounded externally by the erector penis, F, internally by the ejaculator urinai, D, and posteriorly by the trans- versalis perintei, C. In the area of -this space the triangular