LOWER PART OF THE POPLITEAL VESSELS. 421 mating the ends, the heel should be raised by forced extension of the ankle, and the knee should be bent to relax the gastro- cnemius ; by the adoption of the position here indicated, the upper end, which is^able to the greatest displacement, may be more readily depressed towards, and retained near the lower fragment by a bandage on the leg. Use of fJie gastrocminius and soleus. These muscles raise the OS calcis, and in this way extend the ankle. Should the toes rest on the ground, so as to render the foot immoveable, the muscles can still raise the heel with the weight of the body, as in the different kinds of progression, or in standing on the toes. If the lower attachment becomes the fixed point the soleus can render the leg-bones steady on the foot, and the gastro- cnemius and plantaris will support the knee-joint, as in the straightened state of the limb in standing. During stooping to the ground the gastrocnemius and plantaris will assist in bending the knee ; and in the act of rising from that posture the soleus brings back the bones of the leg over the astragalus. Before the foot reaches the ground in walking backwards the muscles point the toes ; and after the sole touches the ground they incline back the slanting limb over it. LOWER PART OF THE POPLITEAL VESSELS. The part of the popliteal vessels here referred to extends beyond the limits of the ham, and is laid bare by reflecting the gastro- cnemius. a. Popliteal artery. b. Upper muscular branch. c. Branch, to inner head of the gas- trocnemius. d. Branch to outer head of the gas- trocnemius and the plantaris. e. Lower external articular artery. /. Lower internal articular artery. g. Branch to the soleus. h. Popliteal vein. j. Internal saphenous vein. k. External saphenous vein, cut. Popliteal artery, a. The part of this artery which is now visible extends from the knee-joint to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, I, Covered by the gastrocnemius (now reflected),