251 MUSCLES OF THE URETHRA. triangular ligamcut of the urethra, and is divided by that struc- ture into three parts : a posterior or prostatic, an anterior or spongy, and a middle or membranous which is contained in the ligament. The spongy portion, which occupies the anterior half of tlie pei'inffial space, lies in the midline of the body, and gives rise to a prominence under the central ridge or raphe of the skin. Alto- gether behind it is placed an inch from the pubes and from each hip-bone; and after an extent of two inches it is applied to the under part of the penis. For a distance of about two inches it is covered by a voluntary muscle. Muscles of the urethra and penis. In the fore part of the perinEeum there are superficial and deep muscles. The superficial layer is represented in this Plate, and consists of three on each side: two of these, 0 and D, are connected with the tube of the urethra, and one, F, belongs to the penis. Between the urethra and the penis is a tendinous point—central point of the perineum, in which the muscles blend. D. Ejaculator urinse. E. Gluteus maximus. F. Erector penis. The central point of the perinceimi shows best in Plate xxxi. It is a firm white spot, lying nearly in the centre of the pelvic outlet, which serves as a fixed point for the attachment of the urethral and rectal muscles. On the surface of the body it corre- sponds with a point half an inch in front of the anus. The transversalis perinoii muscle C, lies obliquely across the perineum, about half an inch in front of the anus. It arises from the inner surface of the hip-bone in front of the ischial tuberosity : and its fibres are directed obliquely forwards to the central point of the perinaeum, where it joins the muscle of the opposite side and the external sphincter. When the muscle is largely developed it unites with the accelerator urinte by a con- siderable slip (transversalis alter). Behind this muscle the super- ficial fascia bends down to the triangular hgament; and when the A. Sphincter aui externus. B. Levator ani. C. Transversalis periusei.