BRANCHES OF THE PROFUNDA. 407 intermuscular septum to the vastus extemus and internus muscles, in which they are distributed, maintaining communica- tions with their fellows and with the descending branches of the external circumflex artery. In the first artery, d, of the set there is a difference in its course, for it is higher than the short head of the biceps, and pierces the gluteus maximus. In its passage each furnishes a branch to the long head of the biceps, except the fourth when it is small; and as each artery pierces the short head of the biceps it gives a small oflfeet to that muscle. A cutcmeous branch is given off from each of the three first; and this enters the fat along the line of the outer intermuscular septum. Muscular or anastomotic branches of the profunda. These are distinct from the perforating arteries (p. 377), and pierce the adduc- tor magnus internal to those vessels. Generally foui- in number, most of them are concealed by the inner hamstrings, but the two which are visible in the Figure are marked with ff. The highest is placed outside the line of the others, and appears about five inches from the ischial tuberosity: it supplies the semitendinosus and biceps, and anastomoses with the internal circumflex. The remaining three come out in a line through a cleft between the fibres of the adductor, and about two inches from each other: they end mostly in the semimembranosus, but one or more may give offsets also to the biceps and semitendinosus, as is the case with the lowest in this Plate. Offsets are furnished from them to the great sciatic nerve. These vessels serve the purpose of maintaining at the back of the thigh communications with each other in the hamstring muscles, and with branches of the popliteal artery. Near the inner border of the adductor magnus some small cutaneous branches issue from the muscular fibres to end in the integuments. The popliteal artery, i, continues the femoral trunk from the front of the thigh to the back of the knee, and is represented in the upper limb by the lower part of the brachial artery. Named from its position in the popliteal space, it extends from the open- ing in the adductor magnus to the lower border of the popliteus