22101727002MENUS MADE EASY.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b2807872xMENUS MADE EASY 5 OK, HOW TO ORDER DINNER AND GIVE THE DISHES THEIR FRENCH NAMES NANCY LAKE. THE THIRD EDITION llontion an^i TSTeto ?^ork: FREDERICK WARNE & CO ClX/ONDON : BRADBURY, AQNEW, (Si CO., PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS. WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. well'^ Omec Call No. cQ TINTEODUCTION. This publication is a bumble endeavour to afford some assistance to ladies in the daily difficulty of what to order for dinner, and bow to describe it. Cooks are not generally gifted with fertile imagi- nations, and are inclined to get into a routine which is a source of annoyance to those who desire a variety of dishes, if not for themselves, at least for their friends. Ladies often wish to be ready with suggestions of a change in the proposals of the cook, and even when in some measure provided with these, a second difficulty arises—what are these dishes to be called? What are the correct technical names for them ? ITie French of cookery is a language of itself, and those who are not learned in it are often entirely at a loss when suddenly called on to write out a correct French menu with no other assistance than that of a dictionary. In carrying out this idea, lists ofhitroduction. VI various dishes have been given, arranged in courses, with the French names, as well as the English equivalent or description. It is not intended to give recipes, such as would he adequate for the preparation of the dishes in the kitchen; the dishes are only so far described as to enable the mistress to recognize them, giving a general idea of their ingredients and of their ap- pearance when sent to table. If the full recipes are desired for the cook’s use, they will be found in the well-known cookery books, so many of which are now pubhshed.CONTENTS. Intboduotion • CHAPTER L Soups—Clear and thick CHAPTER II. Fish—Different inodes of dressing Fish; Shell-Fish CPIAPTER III. 'ilNTBEES—Of Beef, Veal, Mutton, Lamb, Pork, Poultry, Game CHAPTER IV. Eemoves—Of Beef, Veal, Mutton, Lamb, Pork, Poultry, Game CHAPTER V. PAGE V 1 10 84 86 Roasts . IllContents. Vlll CHAPTER VI. PAGB Vkgetables aed Salads lU CHAPTER VII. Eggs and Omelettes 133 Entremets - CHAPTER VIII. -Cakes and Pastry, Puddings, Fritters, Compotes of Fruit, Creams. Jellies . .138 CHAPTER IX. Savoury Entremets 166 Ices . CHAPTER X. CHAPTER XI. Sauces and Garnishes . 175MENUS MADE EASY CHAPTER I. SOUPS OR POTAGES, In planning out a dinner the subject of Soups is the first thing to be considered. They may be divided into two classes:—1st. Thick soups, including purees of game, vegetables, &c. 2ndly. Clear, transparent soups, or consommes, of meat, game or poultry, varying according to the floating garnish added to them. At a large dinner, when there are two soups, one is thick and the other clear. ConsomniG d la Julienne has a floating gpj- nish of vegetables cut in strips. a la Xavier has a garnish of threads o± vegetables. a la Jardiniere is garnished with vege- tables cut in small fancy shapes. a la Brunoise has vegetables cut in small dice. This is sometimes called Potagt Fauhonne. BMenus Made Easy. Consomme a la Printanih'e, or Potage prin- tanier, has early summer vegetables cut in small shapes, with green peas and asparagus heads. a la Kursel is Printaniere Soup with lettuces. a la Ghiffonade has lettuces stamped out with a cutter, and peas. a la UEsdignac has a garnish of turnips, and small squares of custard. a la Royals has small fancy shapes of cus- tard, which may he white, or coloured red and green. Printanier d la Royals has the vegetables as in ^ la Printaniere,” and the little pieces of custard as in “ ^ la Eoyale.” aux qusnsllss has very small quenelles. aux pstits navsts a hrun has little pieces ol turnip fried brown. aux profitsrollss has little baked balls of a paste made of milk, butter, flour and eggs. sagou Us has a thickening of sago. aux trois racinss is garnished with carrots, turnips and celery. aux osufs poshes has poached eggs. aux pointes d’aspsrgss st osufs poshes has asparagus heads in addition to the poached eggs. au masaroni has a garnish of macaroniSoups 3 Consomme avb vermicelle has vermicelli. WitL this and with macaroni soup, grated Par< mesan must he served on a separate dish. au tapioca has tapioca in it. aux pdtes d'Italic, sometimes called Potage aux lazagnes, has pieces of Italian paste. d la semoule and au riz are respectively garnished with semolina and rice. d la Prince de Galles has little pieces of chicken enveloped in forcemeat, pieces of custard cut in the same shape, and aspa- ragus points. d la Colbert has a garnish of cos lettuce, celery, Jerusalem artichokes and button onions. aux haricots verts has French beans. d la Jerusalem has Jerusalem artichokes cut into very small halls. d la macedoine de legumes is garnished with several kinds of vegetables. d la Nivernaise has vegetables cut in thin small shapes, Itahan paste, and quenelles cut in slices. d la Duchesse is thickened with arrowroot, and garnished with thin strips of poultry or game. Potage Baraquine has tapioca, and strips of chicken and truffles. d la Gouffe is also made with tapioca, pieces of chicken, tongue and truffles.4 Menus Made Easy. Potage cro'dtes au y>ot has toasted crusts. de riz au gras is Brunoise or Jardiniere soup with the addition of rice. Consomme aux Nouilles has poached strips of German paste, made of flour, eggs, butter, &c. The following soups can be either clear or thick:— Potage d la tortue. Turtle soup. d la fausse tortue. Mock Turtle. aux ahatis d’oie. Giblet. aux queues de hoeuf. Ox tail. Thick ox- tail soup is called queues de hoeuf d VAnglaise. tete de veau. Calf’s head. aux grouses. Grouse. aux perdreaux. Partridge. aux faisans. Pheasant. ■ aux hecasses. Woodcock. aux Levraut or d la liewe. Hare. d la venaison. Yenison. Of the thick soups there are also :— Potage queues de hosuf d VIndienne. A curry soup with pieces of ox-tail in it. Mulligatavjny. Curry soup. With this and all soups “a ITndienne,” rice is served on a separate dish. queues de veau. Calf’s-tail soup.Soups. 5 Potage queues de veau d VIndienne is the same curried. aux pieds de veau. Calf s feet. tete de veau d VIndienne. Calf’s-head soup, curried. aux queues d'agneau. Lamb’s tails. d Vanguille. Eels. de homard. Lobster. d la bisque d'^crevisses. Crayfish. aux huUres. White oyster soup. aux raviolis. Came stock with small pieces of forcemeat wrapped in paste. d la Victoria. White soup with barley or rice. d la Reine. Chicken puree with cream, garnished with quenelles of chicken, or with dice of fried bread. d la chasseur. Came stock garnished with pieces of the game, yoimg onions, pota- toes, &c. aux herbes printanieres. White soup with shred lettuces and other vegetables. d la Russe. Brown soup, with vegetables and round halls of sausage meat. d Vltalienne. Fowl stock with puree from vegetables, anchovies, &c., garnished with small pieces of the fowl. d la Provengale or Bouillabaisse is made with shred Portugal onions, and is gar- nished with fillets of several kinds of fish.Menus Made Easy. 6 PotagG Oj la Comtesse. White soup of veal stock and sweetbreads, with dice of fried bread. ■ d la Chanoinesse. White soup with quenelles of fish, and mackerel roe cut in small square pieces. d la Bonne Femme. White soup with yolks of eggs and shreds of green vegetables. d la Jenny Lind. White soup with yolks of eggs and sago. CocJcie leeJcie is made of pheasant or chicken with leeks. au sagou. Sago soup. aux filets de soles. Yeal or fish stock with fillets of sole. d la Poissonniere. White soup with pieces of salmon and sole, oysters and mussels. an mouton. Mutton broth served with the mutton in it. d I’fiJcossaise. Scotch broth of mutton with barley, chopped parsley, and vegetables cut in dice. Pot-au-feu. Uncleared stock served with the vegetables in it. d la Colbert. Stock with yolks of eggs and cream, heads of endive, and poached eggs. Solferino. Stock with young vegetables, pur^e of tomatoes, chopped parsley, &c.7 Soups. Potage vermicelle d la Hollandaise. White soup with vermicelli, cream and yolks of eggs. Pilau cle riz is rice boiled in stock. d la Grecque. Pea soup and Jardiniere soup, with pieces of braised mutton. d la Bagration. White fish soup with curry powder, crayfish tails, chopped sole and vegetables. Livonien. Puree of vegetables and rice, with cream and yolks of eggs. de riz d la Turque. Mutton broth, served with rice. Bisque au riz. Crayfish soup, with the addition of rice. Creme de Chicore'e d la Colbert. White stock, cream and yolks of eggs, with chicory and poached eggs. d la Nimoise. Fish stock with yolks of eggs. d la Brisse. Chicken soup with small shapes of vegetable cream, made of a puree of the vegetable with eggs. Besides these there Pur4e de gibier. Pur^e de volaille. Pur4e delapereaux. Vurde de grouses. are the Purees :— Puree of game. Puree of fowl. Pur^e of rabbit. Puree of grouse.Menus Made Easy. 8 And the Yegetable Purees :— Pur^e de pommes de terre. Potato puree. This is often called Potage Parmentier on account of Parmentier having introduced potatoes into France. de petits pois or pois verts. Puree of green peas. This can also he called Potage d la D'Artois. Served with whole peas in it, it is Potage d la St. Germain. Potage d la Palestine. Pure", of Jerusalem arti- chokes. Potage d la Grecy. Puree of carrots. Puree d’asperges. Puree of asparagus. Puree de celeris. Puree of celery. Puree de marrons. Puree of chestnuts. Potage d la Bretonne. Puree of turnips. Puree de choux-fleurs. Puree of cauliflower. Puree de concomhres. Puree of cucumbers. Puree of onions. Puree of spinach. Puree of tomatoes. Puree of vegetable marrow. Puree of red haricots. Puree of white haricots. Potage d la Chantilly. Puree of lentils. Potage d la Stamboul. Puree of rice and tomatoes. Puree d’artichauts. Puree of artichokes. Puree d’oseille. Puree of sorrel. Puree de feves. Puree of beans. Puree de pois. Puree of dried peas. Potage d la Souhise. Puree d’epinards. Puree de tomates. Puree de potirons. Potage d la Conde. Potage d la Dustan.Soups, 9 Puree^ de •marrons d la mancelle. Pur^e of cliestnuts with puree of game. Potage d la creme d’orge. Puree of barley. d la creme de riz. Puree of rice. d la creme de tapioca. Puree of tapioca. When chervil is added to a soup, d la peluche, or d la chiffonade, de cerfeuil may be appended to the name. If maigre soups are required, Potage Julienne, and many of the vegetable soups, may be made without stock. The following are also suggested :— PotagG au lait cVamandes is made of rice milk and almond milk. d la Savoyarde. Vegetable soup, poured over slices of bread sprinlded with grated cheese. d la Monaco. Milk with yolks of eggs, poured over toast.CHAPTER II. FISH OR POISSONS. When fish is served plainly boiled, the French name for it is given on the Menu, with the name of the sauce served vpith it; as Turbot, sauce HoUan- daise, for boiled tm’hot served with Hollandaise sauce in a sauce-boat. BARBEL. Barbeau, or Barbillon, grille is broiled, and should he served with anchovy sauce. au Parmesan—pieces of barbel with Becha- mel sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan, and browned. d Vetuvee is boiled in wine, and served in the sauce with flour and butter. au court-bouillon is boiled in a bouillon of wine and onions, with cloves, herbs and lemon peel. BASS. Bar d Veau de sel is boiled. sauce au beurre—broiled, and served with butter sauce.Fish. 11 BREAM. Brdin© grille is broiled, and served witb. brown caper sauce. au vin blanc is boiled in white wine sauce. BRILL. Barbue aux cdpres is boiled and served with melted butter and capers. d la Hollandaise—served with HoUandaise sauce. sauce liomard—served with lobster sauce. d la purie de cdpres—served with a sauce of melted butter, puree of capers, gherkins and spinach. d la Provengale—soaked in oil, fried, and served with anchovy sauce. d la Ravigote—baked in paper, and served in mayonnaise sauce with capers, tarragon, chervil, spinach, &c. d la Conti—cooked in oh, stock, white wine and herbs. d la Bainte-Mdnehould. Pieces of brill with white sauce, covered with breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan, and browned. Filets de barhue d la Juive. Pillets of brill cut in two or more pieces, breadcrumbed and fried. Served with Hollandaise sauce.Menus Made Easy. 12 Filets de havhue en 'matelote. Fillets fried and dressed on a border of maslied potatoes, with matelote sauce. They are also dressed au gratin, d la meu'nihre, and in many of the ways given for turbot. CARP. Carpe frite is split and fried. d la 'maitre d’hotel is grilled and served with Maitre d’botel butter. d Vltalienne—stewed in Italian sauce. farcie au four—stuffed and baked. It may be served with a brown sauce. d la biere—boiled in beer with bacon, onions, carrots, &c. ■ d la Chambord—larded, stuffed with force- meat, boiled in court - bouillon and browned. d la Marmi^re is saute with butter, bread- crumbs, chives, garlic, &c. au bleu is pickled. Coquilles de laita'nces de carpe is carp roe scal- loped. Casserole de laitances—carp roe stewed in stock with wine and herbs. Served in the sauce with butter, flour and lemon-juice. CHAR. Ombre Chevalier en terrine is potted char.Fish. 13 COD. Cabillaud ^ la Hollandaise is served witli Hollandaise sauce. a la Portugaise—slices dipped in flour and fried; served veith a sauce of tomato sauce, mussel liquor, Harvey and anchovy. d Vlndienne is fried or grilled, and served with curry sauce. d la crime—pieces of cod in Bechamel sauce, covered with breadcrumbs and browned. farci au four—stufied and baked. gnlle d la Colbert—^broiled, and served on maitre d’botel butter, with maitre d’botel sauce. recrepi, sauce aux huitres—crimped, and served with oyster sauce. MoruG au heurre noir. Salt cod, boiled and served with black-butter sauce. au gratin — pieces of salt cod, with a sauce of butter, flour and cream; sprinkled with breadcrumbs, grated cheese and melted butter, and browned. Brandade de Morue—salt cod, in small pieces, with oil, melted butter, parsley and garlic; stirred to a cream. DABS Served as Limandes frites they are fried.14 Menus Made Easy. EELS. Anguilles au soleil are cut up, stewed in wine and water with vegetables, &c.; the pieces rolled in the sauce, breadcrumhed and fried. 6% ragolU are stewed in the same way, and served in the sauce with the addition of wine. d la hroclie are larded and roasted. d la minute—cut in pieces, boiled and served with maitre d’hotel sauce and potatoes. d la Poulette—cut in slices and stewed with broth, wine, butter, onions, mushrooms, &c. Served with yolks of eggs and lemon-juice added to the sauce. d VAnglaise—slices of eel wrapped in paste, or dipped in batter, and fried. Served with anchovy sauce. d la Tartare—cut in pieces, breadcrumbed and fried ; served in Tartare sauce. en matelote—stewed eels served in matelote sauce. EEL-POUT. Lottos en matelote are stewed in wine with mushrooms and herbs, and served in the sauce.Fish. 15 Lottes h la Parisienne—cooked in mirepoix and served in wkite sauce with oysters. d ritalienne—^fried, and served with Italian sauce. • d la Prussienne—boiled in a sauce of stock, oil, champagne, &c. FLOUNDERS. Carrelets frits are fried. grilles—broiled. Souche de carrelets. A water souchd of flounders boiled with strips of carrot and turnip, sprigs of parsley, &c. Tench and perch are dressed in this way. GUDGEON. Goujons frits are fried. GURNARD. Grondin farci au four is stufied and baked. Filets de grondins en matelote. FiUets cut in halves, breadcrumhed and fried; served on a border, with matelote sauce. d Vltalienne are served with Italian sauce. ^ maitre d’hdtel are served with maitre d’hotel sauce.16 Menus Made Easy. HADDOCK. Merluche grillee is broiled. d la Hollandaise—served with Hollandaise sauce. d la maitre d’hdtel—with maitre d’hotel sauce. sauce aux oeufs—with egg sauce. farcie—stuffed, baked, and served with brown gravy. HERRINGS. HarengS grilles, sauce moutarde, are broiled, and served with white sauce and mustard. d la creme—boiled, and served with a sauce of cream, butter and lemon-juice. fumes a la Bruxelloise — smoked fillets broiled in a paper case with a layer of stufiing between them. Served with pieces of lemon. For Croquettes de harengs they are broiled, made into balls with mashed potatoes, and fried. JOHN DORY. Jean Dor6, or Saint Pierre, en ravigote is served in Kavigote sauce.17 Fish. Jean Dore la crimiere is boiled in milk and - water, and served with a sauce of cream, butter and lemon-juice. d la purie de crevettes—served in a purde of prawns, with melted butter and Bechamel sauce. d la hateliere—served in white sauce with button onions, mushrooms and essence oi anchovy. en matelote mariniere—served in Matelote sauce with oysters. au gratin is dressed in the same way as turbot. LAMPREY. Lamproie d Vltalienne is filleted, and stewed in wine with oil, onions, herbs and lemon- juice. au supi'eme is cut up, saut^ and served in a sauce of red wine with trufiles. They are also dressed in many of the ways given for eels. MACKEREL. Maquereaux d Veau de sel are boiled. d la maitre d’hStel—broiled, and served in Maitre d’hotel sauce. Fillets are also dressed in this way. 08 MemLS Made Easy. Maquereaux d la Flamande—stuffed with chopped shallots and chives, butter, and lemon-juice; and broiled. grilles au heurre noir—grilled, and served with black-butter sauce. aux groseilles vertes—stuffed with green gooseberries, pieces of herring, &c.; boded, and served in green gooseberry sauce. Filets de maquereaux d la Venitienne — fiUets served in brown sauce with tarragon, chervil, truffles and port wine. RED MULLET. RougGts en caisse are broiled in papers, sprinkled with chopped parsley and oil. en papillotes are baked in papers and served with Italian sauce. d la Ravigote—haked in papers and served in Ravigote sauce. aux Jines herhes—cooked with butter, wine, Harvey sauce and anchovy. Served in the sauce with chopped mushrooms, parsley, shallot, and lemon-juice. la maitre d'hotel—sexsQd in Maitre d’hotel sauce. They are dressed in this way in fillets. Filets de rougets d la Montesquieu — fillets cut in halves, saute in butter with wine, lemon-Fish. 19 juice, &c., and served with a sauce ol melted butter and milk. GREY MULLET. Millets avb beurre fondu are broiled, and served with melted-butter sauce. grilles au vert—^broiled, and served with green sauce. PERCH. Perches are dressed in the same way as carp, tench and trout; and also in a water souch4. PIKE. Brochet farci is stuffed and baked. sauce au beurre d'anchois—boiled, and served with anchovy sauce. au bleu—pickled. sauce raifort — served with horse-radish sauce. sauce aux cd'pres—served with caper sauce. en matelote—stuffed and baked; served with Matelote sauce. PILCHARDS. Pelamides are dressed in the ways suggested for herrings.Menus Made Easy. 20 PLAICE. Plie au gratin are baked in brown sauce, covered with breadcrumbs. They are dressed in the same way as soles. SALMON-. Saumon d la tartare is grilled, and served witb Tar tare sauce. d VJ^cossaise is crimped and boiled. d rindienne—cut in pieces and stewed in curry sauce. d la Hollandaise—served witb HoUandaise sauce. d la Beyrout — slices broiled in papers, and served in a sauce of onions, mush- rooms, &c. • d la crhme d’anchois—slices served in a sauce of melted butter, anchovy, &c. d la Cardinal—a whole fish stuffed with fish forcemeat, braised, and served in Cardinal sauce. d la Regence—a small fish covered with forcemeat, to which chopped trufdes are added ; served in Perigueux sauce. en matelote—served in Matelote sauce. Tranche, or Darne, de saumon grillee—a grilled slice of salmon.21 Fish. Filets de saumon d VIndienne — fried fillets, served with curry sauce. d la Mare'chale—fillets saute, and served with Eavigote or Aurora sauce, garnished with shrimps or oysters. d la Tartare — fried fillets, served with Tartare sauce. d la Eavigote—fillets saut^, and served in Eavigote sauce. Mazarine de saumon is a steamed mould of salmon forcemeat. It may he garnished with prawns, or served with Cardinal sauce. Mayonnaise de saumon—pieces of cold salmon, with lettuce or other salad, and Mayonnaise sauce. SHAD. AIosg d la Maitre d'hotel is baked, and served with Maitre d’hotel sauce. It is also dressed in fillets, saute. SKATE. Hd/io d la Maitre d’hStel is served with Maitre d’hotel sauce. au heurre noir—crimped and boiled; served with black-butter sauce. frite—filleted and fried.22 Menus Made Easy. RSiio d l(h noisette—filleted and boiled; served in butter sauce with the pounded liver of the skate, and Tarragon vinegar. anx fines herhes—cooked with milk, butter, flour, lemon, herbs, &c., and served with fine-herbs sauce. SMELTS. ifperlans d la Juive are bread-crumbed, fried, and served without sauce. Served with anchovy sauce in a sauce-boat they are called d VAnglaise. en stewed in white stock with herbs and wine. au gratin—baked with melted butter and dried herbs, covered with breadcrumbs and sprinkled with wine. Buisson d’^perlans—breadcrumbed and firied with their tails in their mouths. Melted butter should be served with them. SOLES. Soles frites d VAnglaise are breadcrumbed and fried. an gratin—covered with brown sauce and bread crumbs, and baked. d la Normande—stewed with oysters, and baked with a rich brown sauce.23 Fish. Solos cb la creme d’anchois—boiled and served in , a sauce of white sauce and broth, with anchovy and whipped cream. d Vaurore—stuffed and baked; served in a white sauce, with grated Parmesan and hard-boiled egg. d la Cardinal—stuffed, baked, and served in Cardinal sauce. d la Colbert—stuffed with Maitre d’hotel butter, and served with Maitre d’hotel sauce. d la maitre dlhStel—served in Maitre d’hotel sauce. The same dish may he made with fillets. d la Trouville—cut in two or three pieces, and cooked with butter, breadcrumbs, chopped onions, and cider. Filets de soles au gratin — fillets hreadcrumbed and fried; covered with brown sauce and breadcrumbs, and baked. d Vltalienne are saute, and served in white sauce, with wine, chopped shallots, &c. d la Hollandaise are saute, and served in HoUandaise sauce. en ravigote are saute, and served in Pavigote sauce. en matelote are cut in halves, bread- crumbed, and fried; dressed in a crown, with Matelote sauce in the centre.24 Menus Made Easy. Filets de soles d la Rouennaise are coated with whiting forcemeat coloured with lobster spawn, and served with white Matelote sauce. STURGEON. Esturgeon en fricandeau is cut in thick slices, larded, stewed with bacon and mushrooms, and browned. d la Royale—tied up in the form of a bolster, covered with forcemeat, and ornamented with pieces of truffle, tongue, &c. Darne d'esturgeon au four is a baked slice of sturgeon. braise is larded and braised. grille sauce piquante is broiled, and served with Piquante sauce. d la hourguignotte is served with Bourgui- gnotte sauce. TENCH. Tanclie frite is fried. sur le gril is grilled. au court-bouillon—boiled in court-bouillon, and served with caper sauce.25 Fish. TROUT. Truites a^^- hleu are turned blue with boiling vinegar, and boiled in it with wine and vegetables; served with oil and vinegar. jriUs are Med in butter. d la Bey rout—served with Beyrout sauce. d la maUre d’hStel—served with Maitre d’hotel sauce. d la Ghamhord—cooked in marinade sauce, and garnished with crayfish, quenelles of fish, and sweetbreads. d la hussarde—stuffed with butter and herbs; broiled, and served with Poivrade sauce. Filets de truites d la Mazanne are fillets served in a sauce of melted butter, yolks of eggs, lobster spawn, anchovy, &c. d Vaurore are covered with white sauce, grated Parmesan, and hard-boiled egg. d la Genevoise are served with Genevoise sauce.Menus Made Easy. 26 TUNNY. Tlion frit is cut in pieces and fried. It is served with Remoulade sauce. TURBOT. Turbot d la Hollandaise is served with Hollandaise sauce. sauce homard—served with lobster sauce. d la creme—served with a sauce of cream, yolks of eggs, and lemon juice. dj la crime d'anchois—serYe^ with a sauce of melted butter, anchovy butter, and cream, and sprinkled with chopped gher- kins and capers. d la Mazarine—served in the same sauce as fillets of trout “a la Mazarine.” d la r^ligieuse — served in Hollandaise sauce, sprinkled with chopped tarragon, and garnished with hard-boiled egg. grilU d la Vatel—grilled; served with mussel sauce and crayfish. au gratin, or d la Bechamel—pieces of turbot in Bechamel sauce, covered with breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan, and browned.Fish. 27 Turhot db la creme gratine—alternate layers of pieces of turbot and of a sauce of milk, butter, flour, yolks of eggs, .parsley, &c., sprinkled with breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan, and browned. au gratin d, la Provenqale — alternate layers, of pieces of turbot and Provencale sauce, breadcrumbed and browned. d la Parisienne—stuffed and baked ; served with a white sauce. d la Normande—stuffed and baked; served with white Matelote sauce. Petit Turbot d la Meunilre is a small fish crimped, grilled, and served in a sauce of melted butter, yolks of eggs, and lemon juice. WEAVERS. VivGS au gratin are stewed, breadcrumbed, and baked. d la Normande—larded with pieces of eel and anchovy; cooked in wine with butter and vegetables, and served in the sauce. If served with Italian sauce they are called d la Bordelaise. d la Maitre d’JiStel—broiled and served with Maitre d’hotel sauce.28 Menus Made Easy. WHITEBAIT. Blanchailles are fried. They should he served with lemon, cayenne, and shoes of bread and butter. dj la Liable are devilled. WHITING. Merlans au gratin are hreadcrumhed and fried with their tails in their mouths. d la Frangaise—dipped in milk, floured ' and fried. Served with anchovy or any other sauce. Filets de merlans a la Hollandaise — fillets served with HoUandaise sauce. d Vltalienne are served with Itahan sauce. d la Orly are floured, fried, and served with tomato sauce. WHITING POLLOCK. Colin frit is cut in shoes, fried, and served with oil and lemon.Fish. 29 SHELL FISH. CRAB. Coquille de crabe is scalloped crab, served in tbe shell. It can also be dressed in a salad in tbe same manner as lobster. CRAYriSH. ^crevisses au court-houillon are boiled in court- bouillon. If served in Bordelaise sauce they are called ct la Bordelaise. As]pio d’icrevisses — a mould of crayfish, meat jelly, and vegetables cut in shapes. Served with Mayonnaise sauce. Petits pdtes aux icrevisses—covered patties, filled with crayfish and quenelles of fish. Langouste d la hroche. Sea crayfish roasted. LOBSTER. Homard au ccyart-houillon is boiled in court- bouillon and served with lobster sauce. d la Bordelaise—cut up and served in Bor- delaise sauce. au hari — curried ; served with boiled rice. - — m aspic—sHces coated with white sauce, in St mould of aspic.30 Menus Made Easy. Gotelettes de homard are lobster cutlets. They may be served with Mayonnaise sauce. Miroton de homard d la Cardinal — slices of lobster, half of them dipped in white sauce, and half in the same sauce coloured with lobster butter. Dressed on a salad with Mayonnaise sauce. Coquille de homard—scalloped lobster, served in the shell. Croquettes de homard are croquettes of lobster with the coral and spawn, white sauce, yolks of eggs, &c., breadcrumbed and fried. Rissoles de homard—the same preparation folded in a thin piece of paste, breadcrumbed and fried. Petits vol-au-vents de homard are little puff paste patties filled with the croquette pre- paration of lobster. Souchees de homard d la Bechamel are patties smaller than the vol-au-vents, filled with chopped lobster in Bechamel sauce. Petits pates de homard d la patissilre are little covered lobster patties. Mayonnaise de homard—the lobster cut up and served with lettuces and Mayonnaise sauce ; ornamented with anchovies, olives, and pieces of hard-boiled eggs.Fisk. 3^ Salade de homard d I’Indienne — cut in slices and served on a salad witli Indian pickles and Mayonnaise sauce; garnished with hard-hoiled egg. MUSSELS. Moules d la poulette are cooked in butter with chives and parsley, and served in the sauce with yolks of eggs. d la Villeroi are masked with Yhleroi sauce; breadcrumbed and fried. au gras—stewed with bacon, stock, flour, mushrooms, &c. Ccquilles de moules—scalloped ; served in scallop- shells. OYSTERS. Huitres d la Villeroi—large oysters, each coated with Villeroi sauce, breadcrumbed and fried. au Parmesan—browned with breadcrumbs, grated Parmesan, chopped parsley, and wine. en papillotes—rolled in oval-shaped pieces of a paste made of mashed potatoes, flour and butter, and baked. d la Diahle are devilled—broiled, seasoned with butter, lemon-juice and cayenne. SHces of brown bread and butter are served with them.Metms Made Easy. 32 Ragout aux huUres — stewed with vegetables, butter, flour, &c. Served in the sauce with yolks of eggs. Coquilles aux huUres—scalloped and served in scallop-shells. Bouchees aux huitres are small oyster patties. Petits 'pains aux huitres—oysters stewed with breadcrumbs and butter, and baked in very small rolls, from which the crumb has been scooped out. Kromeskys aux huitres — oysters cut up and cooked with butter, flour, yolk of egg, &c. Small pieces are wrapped in thin slices of bacon, dipped in batter and fried. Crodtes aux huitres—oysters pounded with cream and spread on small pieces of toast. Andouillettes aux huitres are small sausages of beef suet, breadcrumbs and oysters, with eggs, &c. Croquettes aux huitres are croquettes of oysters with oyster sauce, yolks of eggs, cayenne, and lemon-juice. Breadcrumbed and fried. Rissoles aux huitres are made of the same pre- paration wrapped in a thin coating of paste, breadcrumbed and fried. Oysters can also be curried, or fried in butter, or dressed in a vol-au-vent, or in an omelette.33 Fish. SHRIMPS AND PRAWNS. These are dressed in Rissoles or Petits pdtes in the same way as lobster. They are called Rissoles OT Petits pdtes, de crevettes—of shrimps, de chevrettes —of prawns. The preparations of shell fish are generally served as entrees. Lobster en aspic may be served in the second course instead of a dressed vegetable. DCHAPTER HI. entrIies. BEEF. The fillet, or undercut of tlie sirloin, is the part most used in the preparation of entrees. It is dressed as: Filet de boeuf a la Frangaise—cut in slices and broiled; served on Maitre d’hotel butter, with fried potatoes. d la Chdteauhriand, or Chateaubriand grille—thick shces broiled and served in Chateaubriand sauce, or in Perigueux sauce, with mushrooms. d Vltalienne — thin, oval-shaped pieces, floured, fried, and served in ItaHan sauce. Escalopes de filet de boeuf d la Reforme — thin slices, each laid between two slices of bacon; breadcrumbed, with chopped ham mixed with the crumbs, and fried. Served with Reform sauce. d la Nemours — thin slices covered with forcemeat and shces of ham, put together35 Entries of Beef. in pairs, breadcrumbed and fried. Served with a white sauce. Escalopes de filet de bceuf d V Ostende are spread with a sauce of chopped onions, Ostend or other oysters, white sauce, &c.; put together in pairs, breadcrumbed and fried. Served with a brown sauce. piques au chasseur are larded, soaked in marinade, and braised. Dressed in a crown, with brown sauce and currant jeUy. Grenadine de filet de hoeuf d la Financiere— cut in slices, larded, cooked in mirepoix, and served in the sauce with Financiere garnish. Tournedos d la sauce poivrade—slices of cooked fillet dressed in a crown alternately with fried slices of bread of the same size. Poivrade sauce in the centre. This may be served with olives, or French beans, instead of the Poivrade sauce; and would then be called Tour- nedos aux olives, or aux haricots verts. Slices of the fillet served with Piquante, HoUandaise, or other sauce, are called after the sauce with which they are served.Menus Made Easy. 36 Mironton de hceuf are slices of cooked beef in a sauce of onions, butter, gravy, flour, &c.; covered with breadcrumbs and baked. Bceuf en saucissons — slices of beef spread with forcemeat, rolled to the shape of sausages, stewed, and served in the sauce. Bowilli en matelote — slices of boiled beef in a sauce of stock, wine, onions, mush- rooms, &c. Entre-cotes de hceuf d la Bordelaise are thick shces of ribs of beef broiled and served in Bordelaise sauce, with pieces of beef marrow. Moelle de bceuf d la Orly—beef marrow cut in long pieces, dipped in batter and fried ; served with tomato sauce in a sauce-boat. Quenelles d la mo'dle are quenelles of beef marrow with breadcrumbs, eggs, &c. Bouchees d la moelle are small patties filled with marrow, and a savoury sauce of cream, shallot, chives, &c. Petites croustades d la moHle are made of the same preparation put into httle cases of fried bread; breadcrumbs strewed on the top, and browned. Vol-au-vent d’amourettes d la cr'dme is a vol- au-vent of beef tendons, with Bechamel sauce and mushrooms.Entrdes of Beef. 37 Palais de boeuf Ioj Robert — ox palates cut in round or oval pieces, and served -witli Eobert sauce. This dish may he served with other sauces instead of Eobert^ changing the name accordingly. d, la Lyonnaise—cut in pieces, and served in onion sauce. d la Ravigote — oval pieces, dipped in white sauce with shallot, parsley, &c., breadcrumbed and fried; served with Eavigote sauce. d la Vivandiere are dressed in the same way, but served in a brown sauce with onions, butter, port wine, &c. en papillotes — oval pieces in white sauce with parsley and mushrooms, broiled in papers, and served with Italian sauce. For Croquettes de palais de boeuf, the palates are cut in pieces, and rolled, with forcemeat in the centre of each. Dipped in batter and fried. They are also dressed in a vol-au-vent, or, if preferred, in several small ones as Petits vol-au-vents de palais de boeuf Ox-tongue is served as: Langue de boeuf au Parmesan—slices cooked with stock, wine and grated Parmesan. en papillotes—slices wrapped in papers with slices of bacon, and broiled.Menus Made Easy. 38 Turban de langue de hoeuf d VEcarlate — oval slices cut from two tongues, one pickled red, the other fresh; dressed in a crown alternately, with tomato sauce, d la Macedoine is dressed in the same manner, and served with a white Mace- doine garnish in the centre, and white sauce. Ox-tails are dressed as : Queue de boeuf en haricot, cut in joints, stewed, and served in the sauce with onions, carrots and turnips cut in shapes, aux navels au hrun—stewed, and served with turnips cut into small halls, and brown sauce, d la jardiniere—served with brown sauce, stewed button onions, and carrots and turnips cut in small shapes. en hari—curried, and served with boiled rice. d la Marseillaise—the pieces masked with a puree of onions, hreadcrumhed and fried ; served in brown sauce with garlic. VEAL. Grenadins de veau are oval slices cut from the “noix,” larded, braised and glazed. They are served aux petites racines with39 Entries of Veal. potatoes, carrots and turnips, and brown sauce; or with Poivrade, tomato or other sauce, and called after it. Poupiettes de veau are slices cut from the fillet, spread with forcemeat, rolled, and stewed with stock and wine. Grhme de veau is made with part of the fillet. It is pounded with eggs, cream, &c.. steamed in a mould, or in several small moulds, and served with Perigueux sauce. Veal Cutlets are served as: Cdtelettes de veau d la Russe — fried, spread on one side with a preparation of horse-radish, and hreadcrumhed with grated Parmesan mixed with the crumbs; served with thin tomato sauce. a la Maintenon — coated with a sauce of mushrooms, ham, eggs, &c., and baked or grilled in papers. en papillotes—soaked in oil with mushrooms, lemon juice, &c.; wrapped in papers and cooked in the seasoned oil. d la Drayton—thickly coated with a rich brown sauce, breadcrumbed and saute. d la sans fagon — breadcrumbed with chopped shallots and parsley mixed with the crumbs, broiled, and dressed round mashed potato40 Menus Made Easy. Cotelettes de veau d la Financilre—larded, braised and glazed; served with Finan- ciere sauce. aux champignons — larded, braised and glazed; served with a pur4e of musb- rooms. They are also served with tomato or Jardiniere sauce, or with dressed cucum- ber or asparagus, and named after the sauce or garnish with which they are served. dj la Saint-Garat—^larded with bacon and tongue, and braised. Set in aspic orna- mented with hard-boiled egg, truffles, &c., and cut out. Served cold. d la Princesse — braised in white stock, coated with Mayonnaise sauce, and served cold with salad and aspic jelly. For Escalopes ecossaises they are cut in thin slices, breadcrumbed and fried, arranged in a circle with alternate sKces of fried bacon, and Piquante sauce. The Tendons, or gristly part of the breast, cut in pieces, are dressed as: Tendrons, or Amourettes, de veau aux petitspois, stewed with butter, flour, stock, peas, &c. frits are soaked in vinegar and water, and friedEntries of Veal. 41 Tendrons de veau lb la Poulette—cooked in a white sauce with onions, mushrooms, &c. atb hlano or Blanquette de veau — cooked in a white sauce with onions and vinegar. d la noble dame — small pieces coated with a white sauce, dipped in batter and fried. Dressed with fried watercress in the centre, and a sauce of cream and butter. aux epinards — oval pieces, braised and glazed ; served with dressed spinach. en hari — curried; served with a slice of fried bacon between each piece, and with rice in the centre. en Mayonnaise—served cold in Mayonnaise sauce, with onions and gherkins. Calfs Head for an entree is honed, boiled, and cut in pieces. It is dressed as : TetG de veau d la Sainte-Menehould—the pieces coated with a sauce of butter and flour, hreadcrumbed, sprinkled with melted butter, and browned. en moule — chopped, and baked in a mould in alternate layers with chopped ham. d la Financiere—served with Financiere garnish.42 Memts Made Easy. of eggs and mushrooms. Turban de Ute de veau d la Maitre d’hdtel— the pieces dressed in a crown, with white sauce and Maitre d’hotel butter. d la Hollandaise is served with Dutch sauce; d la poulette in white sauce with mushrooms, onions, and yolks of eggs. Calves’ Brains are dressed as : Cervelles de veau d la Provengale—cooked in stock with wine, oil, parsley, garlic, &c., and served in the sauce. d la Ravigote—boiled, cut in slices and arranged in a circle, with Ravigote sauce. en caisse au gratin—small slices with a white sauce, baked in paper cases, with breadcrumbs on the top. Croquettes de cervelles — made into croquettes with breadcrumbs, milk, eggs, &c., bread- crumbed and fried. Marinade de cervelles — fritters made of pieces of the brains soaked in vinegar, dipped in batter, and fried. They are also served with Matelote, black-butter or other sauce, and take their name from it. Calves’ Ears dressed as: Oreilles de veau aux champignons are boiled and served in a brown sauce, with yolks43 Entrdes of Veal. Oreilles de veau farcies—stuffed with force- meat, breadcrumbed and fried ; served - with gravy. en raarinade — cut in strips, steeped in vinegar, &c., dipped in batter and fried; served with tomato sauce. Calf’s Tongue as: Langue de veau sauce tomates is larded, stewed, cut in two and served in tomato sauce. d la jardiniere — stewed in white stock, cut in oval slices, glazed, and served with a Jardiniere garnish. It is also served with Mushroom, Ravigote, or Piquante sauce. The Liver is dressed as : Foie de YQBXIl d VItalienne—slices cooked with oil, wine, bacon, mushrooms, &c., and served in the sauce. For Pain de foie de veau it is pounded and steamed in a mould with eggs, chopped ham, &c.; served with thin brown sauce. Calf’s Kidney is served as: Rognon de veau sautd—minced, and saute with butter, wine, brown sauce, &c. en caisse — small round slices in brown sauce with chopped shallots, mushrooms.Memis Made Easy. 44 &c., baked in small paper cases, tbe tops sprinkled with breadcrumbs. Calves’ Feet, after being boiled for jellies, are dressed as entrees, in tomato, poulette, or other sauce; the dish is called: Pieds de veau aux tomates, or according to the sauce. d, la bourgeoise are stewed with bacon, veal, carrots, onions, -&c., and served in the sauce, with the vegetables and meats. For Pieds de veau en friture or en mari- nade small pieces are steeped in vinegar and water, dipped in batter and fried. Calf’s Tail, cut in pieces and boiled, is served as: Queue de veau d la Ravigote—in Eavigote sauce; or d la poulette—in white sauce with onions and mushrooms. Sweetbreads are dressed as : Ris-de-veau d la Villeroi—slices coated with AUemande sauce, breadcrumbed and fried; served with a white sauce and any dressed vegetable. d la poulette — cooked with flour, butter, mushrooms, onions, &c. d VAnglaise — breadcrumbed and roasted; served with gravy.45 Entrdes of Veal. Ris-de-veau frits—dipped in batter and fried; served with tomato sauce. d la Provengale — braised in stock -with 'bacon and garlic, and served in tbe sauce. a VEspagnole — larded, braised in stock with veal, bacon, onions, &c., and served in the sauce. d la Toulouse are larded, braised, and served with a Toulouse garnish. en fricandeau — larded, braised and glazed; served on a pur4e of spinach or tomato. piqiVs d la Turque—^larded, braised and glazed. Cut in halves and dressed on a border of forcemeat, with rice in the centre, and supreme sauce over the rice. piques aux truffes—larded, braised, and served with truffle sauce. Jardiniere or Financiere sauce, dressed peas or cu- cumber, may be substituted for the truffle sauce, altering the name according to the sauce or vegetable with which they are served. en bigarrure—^half of them larded, braised and glazed, and half breadcrumbed and roasted. Dressed alternately, and served with tomato sauce. d la Chinoise—small sweetbreads larded and braised, set in little moulds of aspic,46 Menus Made Easy. ornamented with hard-boiled eggs, beet- root, &c. Served cold, with rice in the centre of the dish. Odtelettes de ris de veau are slices of sweetbread, breadcrumbed and fried; served with plain gravy or with a white sauce. Escalopes de ris de veau au supreme are oval slices, saute, and served with supreme sauce. d I’Indienne are breadcrumbed and fried; served with Indian sauce. en caisse are small round slices in brown sauce with chopped mushrooms, &c., baked in paper cases, sprinkled with bread- crumbs. Blanquette de ris de veau aux truffes are round slices cooked with slices of truffles in white sauce, with cream and yolks of eggs. Garnished with fried croutons of bread. Petites croustades de ris de veau are little cases of paste filled with sweetbread cut in dice, and white sauce with chopped truffles or mushrooms. Andouillettes de Troyes grilUes are broiled veal sausages, made with mushrooms, truffles, eggs, &c. Boudin de veau d la legumiere is a mould orna- mentally lined with vegetables and filled47 Entrdes of Mutton. with veal forcemtjat. Steamed, and served with thin brown sauce. Boudin de veau d la Richelieu is a mould lined with chopped truffles and filled with veal forcemeat. Steamed, and served with Perigueux sauce. These boudins are also steamed in several small moulds, lined in the same manner. Quenelles de veau d la •puree de champignons are poached quenelles of veal forcemeat served with a puree of mushrooms. They are also served with brown or white sauce or with any dressed vegetable. Petits pdUs d la hourgeoise are small patties fiUed with veal forcemeat. MUTTON. Cotolottes d.G mouton sauce tomates are grilled, and served with tomato sauce. d la jardiniere are served with stewed vege- tables. d la Souhise are stewed with stock, &c. Served with the sauce round, and thick Soubise sauce in the centre. d la Provengale are covered with a sauce of onions, garlic, butter, eggs, &c., bread- crumbed, with grated Parmesan mixed with the crumbs, and browned. Served with fried potatoes.Menus Made Easy. 4« Cotelettes de mouton d la Vicomtesse are coated with a sauce of ham, mushrooms, yolks of eggs, stock, &c.; breadcrumbed and fried; served with paper frills round the hones. d la BoMmienne—soaked in marinade, breadcrumbed and broiled; served with a sauce of some of the marinade with tomato and brown sauce, currant jelly, &c. en rohe de chamhre—covered with force- meat of veal, breadcrumbed and browned. Served with gravy. d la financUre—^braised, and served witli Financiere garnish. hraisdes aux navels—^larded, braised, and dipped in aspic with Poivrade sauce; served cold with dressed turnips and broken aspic. d la Marquise — a slice of ham laid on each cutlet, and veal forcemeat spread on it in a mound. Sprinkled with bread crumbs and browned. Served in white sauce with chopped ham. d la jRe/orme—breadcrumbed, with chopped ham mixed with the crumbs, fried, and served with Peforme sauce. They may have a Eeforme garnish in the centre.49 Entrdes of Mtitton, Cotelettes de mouton a la Marseillaise —covered with, an onion sauce, bread- crumbed and browned; served with Soubise sauce. d la Durcelle—put into long paper cases, three in each, and baked in brown sauce with Harvey sauce, chopped onions, mushrooms, &c. panees grilleee—breadcrumbed and broiled, and served with plain gravy. auxpointes d’asperges—served with a garnish in the centre of asparagus in white sauce with yolks of eggs, cream, &c. aux truffes—served in brown sauce, with truffles cut in slices. aux petites racines—on a mashed potato border with carrots and turnips cut in long shapes, and brown sauce. They are also served with any kind of dressed vegetable or puree of vegetable, or with Hollandaise, Italienne, Lyonnaise, Maitre d’hotel or other sauce. They are named after the sauce or vegetable with which they are served. For Chaudfroid de cdtelettes d Vaspic they are spread with forcemeat in a mound; coated with brown sauce, and served cold on a border of the forcemeat, garnished with aspic. Turhan de cdtelettes de mouton d la Fermiere50 Menus Made Easy. —they are dipped in Maitre d’hotel sauce with cream, and served cold, dressed in a crown with a salad of beetroot, cucumber and lettuce in the centre. A la Palestine they are served with Jerusalem artichokes cut into little halls, and white sauce. GStelettes d la Prince de Galles are pieces of stewed breast of mutton, breadcrumhed and fried; served with a puree of turnips, and gravy. PagoAt de mouton d VIrlandaise is Irish stew. Haricot de mouton is haricot mutton. It is now often called JSfavarin de mouton. Filets de mouton au chevreuil—the fillet or under part of the loin, cut in four parts, larded, and soaked in vinegar with vege- tables, &c. Braised and served with Chev- reuil sauce and French beans. Dressed in this manner it is also served d la Macedoine, with a Macedoine garnish in the centre, and brown sauce. d la minute is cooked in stock with bacon, and served in the sauce. The chump end of the loin, cut in thin slices, is dressed as Pscalopes de mouton aux fines lierhes, cooked with butter, fiour, stock, chopped mushrooms, &c. Served with a garnish of fried croutons, or sippits, of bread.Entries of MiUton. 51 Carbonade de mouton (see Eemoves) is di’essed as an entree, cut in slices and served with Piquante, Poivi’ade or other sauce. The slices are also dipped in Maitre d’hotel sauce with cream, and served cold with a salad in the centre, as Carbonade de mouton d la Fermiere. Filets de mouton d I’lndienne are thick slices of roast mutton in a sauce of broth with chopped onion and curry paste; served with rice. Petits fates de mouton d la Windsor are small covered patties filled with minced mutton, brown sauce, chopped mushrooms, &c. Kidneys dressed as: Rognons de mouton d Vepicurienne are cut open, breadcrumbed and broiled. The hollows filled with Tartare sauce; and devil sauce round. d la brochette are dressed in the same way, the hollow of the kidneys filled with a lump of maitre d’hotel butter. d la Yenitienne—cut in halves, fried in butter with chopped shallots, and dressed on a border. Brown sauce with anchovy butter, &c. au vin de Champagne—thin slices served in a sauce of white stock, champagne52 Menus Made Easy. or other white wine, flour and mushrooms, &c. Rognons de mouton en rago'iht—thin slices cooked in butter, with wine, flour, chopped mushrooms, shallot, &c. Petits pdtes aux rognons—slices in white sauce put into little patties. Sheep’s Tongues are served as: Langues de mouton hraisies—larded, braised and served in the sauce with capers. Cervelles de mouton en caisse are Sheep’s Brains cut in small pieces, with Bechamel sauce, baked in little souffle cases, the tops sprinkled with breadcrumbs. Queues de mouton au riz are braised Sheep’s Tails, coated with rice, bread- crumbed and fried. They are also served an Parmesan, omitting the rice and mixing grated Parmesan with the bread' crumbs. Sheep’s Trotters, though rarely seen at a gentle- man’s table in England, are much more often served in France. Boiled and cut in pieces, they are dressed as: Pieds de mouton en marinade, soaked in marinade, dipped in batter and fried, and served with tomato sauce; ov d la Robert, served in Robert sauce.53 Entrdes of Lamb. Pieds de mouton d la poulette are served witli poulette sauce in a baked shape of rice. LAMB. Lamb Cutlets are dressed in most of the ways which have been suggested for mutton cutlets. There are also: Cotelettes d’agneau d la Princesse—coated with Allemande sauce, breadcrumbed and fried. Served with white sauce, and dressed asparagus in the centre. For the cold entree of this name the cutlets are saute and served in Mayonnaise sauce. d la Buchesse—coated with Duxelles sauce, breadcrumhed and fried. Dressed on a high vegetable border, with vegetables in the centre, and white sauce. d la houlangere—dipped in oil and then in flour; broiled, and served with a sauce of cream, butter, &c. d la Robert—breadcrumbed, broiled and glazed ; served with Eobert sauce. aux petits Ugumes—breadcrumbed and fried; served with carrots and turnips, cut in long shapes, in the centre, and brown sauce.54 Menus Made Easy. Cotelettes d’agneau au Parmesa^i—dipped in a white sauce with grated Parmesan, hreadcrumhed and fried. d la Fompadour — coated with a mixture of chopped bacon, veal, truffles, &c., and served in papers. farcies aux truffes—larded, coated with a puree of truffles; hreadcrumhed and fried. Served with brown sauce. They are also dressed in the same manner, using a puree of artichokes, asparagus, muskrooms, or turnips, in- stead of truffles; altering the name accordingly. en belle vue—larded with tongue, ham or truffles, and braised. Set in aspic and cut out. Served cold with Mayonnaise sauce, or a Jardiniere garnish. d Vaspic—cutlets from a larded and roasted neck of lamb; coated with Provencale sauce, and served cold with aspic. J^pigramme d’agneau d Vancienne is made of cutlets cut from a boned breast of lamb, an end of hone stuck in each, hreadcrumhed and fried; arranged alternately with saute neck cutlets. Served with small round slices of lamb in the centre, with mushrooms, and white sauce with cream, &c.55 Entries of Lamb. It is also served aux concombres with a garnish in the centre of dressed cucum- ber, or with any other vegetable, naming it accordingly. Tendrons d’agneau aux pointes d’asperges — a braised breast of lamb cut up and arranged in a crown alternately with fried slices of bread, with dressed asparagus in the centre. Blanquette d’agneau — small round slices of lamb and of ham or tongue, with white sauce, parsley, &c. It is served in a baked shape of rice; or in a croustade, or fried shape, of bread. Lamb is also dressed in Croquettes or Rissoles. Lambs’ feet are dressed en marinade and d la poulette, in the same manner as sheep’s feet. As Casserole de riz aux pieds d’agneau they are served in a casserole, or baked shape, of rice. Lambs’ tails are dressed in the same way. Pieds d’agneau farcis are stuffed; served in Hol- landaise sauce with chopped gherkins. Queues d’agneau d la cremih'e are Lambs’ tails served in white sauce with whipped cream, &c. Lambs’ Brains as Cervelles d’agneau d I’innocent are cut in thin sHces and put in paper cases with white sauce, chopped parsley, &c. Sprinkled with bread- crumbs and browned.56 Menus Made Easy. Lambs’ Ears are stewed and served as : Oreilles d’agneau farcies, filled with a stuffing of veal forcemeat, &c., breadcrumbed and fried; served on a border, with Italian sauce, d la Ravigote are served on a forcemeat border, with Eavigote sauce. a la Marquise—served on a border with a peeled plover’s egg in each ear. "White sauce with cream, cock’s combs, mush- rooms, &c., in the centre. Langues d’agneau d la Persane are stewed lambs’ tongues, cut in halves and dressed in a circle, covered with a white sauce with wine, mushrooms, &c.; sprinkled with breadcrumbs and baked. Served with white sauce. Lambs’ Sweetbreads are dressed as : His d’agneau d la jardiniere, larded, braised and glazed. Served on a border with Jardiniere sauce in the centre. Dressed in this way they are served aux petits pois, aux concomhres, aux pointes d’asperges, &c., with dressed peas, cucumber, asparagus or other vegetable in the centre, instead of Jardiniere sauce. Casserole de riz aux ris d’agneau — sweet- breads and cock’s combs with AUemande sauce, in a baked shape of rice.Entrees of Pork. 57 They may also be dressed in many of the ways suggested for vis de veau. PORK. Pork Cutlets are saute, broiled, or breadcrumbed and fried. They are served with Robert, Tomato, Ravigote, Piquante, Indienne, or Remoulade sauce, and called Cotelettes de pore frais sauce tomates, or a la Robert, according to the sauce with which they are served. Dressed d la Bolognaise, they are breadcrumbed with grated Parmesan mixed with the crumbs, and fried. Served with brown sauce, and a garnish in the centre of short pieces of macaroni, mushrooms and tongue, with tomato sauce and grated cheese. Small fiUets from the under part of the loin, bread- crumbed and broiled, are called Filets de pore d la Mardchale. Filets de pore d la Hanoverienne are larded, braised and glazed; dressed in a crown with white pickled cabbage in the centre, and brown sauce. Dressed in this way they are served aux dpinards or aux pommes, with spinach or apple sauce in the centre instead of the cabbage. Escalopes de pore d la Lyonnaise are fillets cut in oval slices, breadcrumbed and fried.in 8 Menus Made Easy. Dressed in a border, covered with. Soubise sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned. Escalo'pes de pore d la Robert are breadcrumbed and fried, and served with Robert sauce. —— d VIndienne—with Indian sauce. Pig’s Ears dressed as : Oreilles de pore d la Ste. Menehould are breadcrumbed and baked, and served with Remoulade sauce. braise'es are braised and served in the stock, on dressed spinach. d la Lyonnaise—cut in strips and cooked in stock with slices of onion, &c. Pigs’ Feet are dressed en marinade in the same way as sheep’s feet; and as : Pieds de pore d la Ste. Menehould—pickled, breadcrumbed and fried. POULTRY. A. very large number of dishes can be made with chickens, and they are, perhaps, more useful than anything else in the preparation of entrees. Cut in joints they are dressed in the following ways:— Poulets d la tortore—breadcrumbed and broiled; served with tartare sauce and pickles.59 Entries of Poultry. Poulets db la honne femme—stewed and served in white sauce. aub chasseur—soaked in oil with onion, &c., breadcrumhed and broiled; served in “ Vin de Madere ” sauce with chopped ham. dj la Chahert—cooked in oil with tomatoes, chopped parsley, garlic, &c. a la Marengo—cooked in oil, and served in Italian sauce with the oil in which it was cooked. • en kari is curried, and served with rice. d la Orly—the joints are floured and fried, and served in tomato sauce with slices of onion, which are also floured and fried. a la Provengale—covered with a white sauce with slices of onion, garlic, &c.; sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned. en marinade—soaked in vinegar with herbs, &c., and fried in batter. saute—the joints are saute, and served in a sauce of stock, wine, chopped mushrooms, &c. saute aux truffes—saute, and served in brown sauce with truffles. Fricassee de ^mulet — cooked in a white sauce with mushrooms, cock’s combs, pieces of sweetbread, &c. d Vancienne—cooked with flour, butter, milk, young onions, &c.6o Mentis Made Easy. For Fritot de poidet, the joints are soaked in oil with onions, &c., dipped in flour and fried. Served with tomato sauce. Fillets of fowl, or fat pullet, are dressed as : Filets de volaille, or poulardes, au su- preme, on a border, covered with Supreme sauce. aux champignons — covered with white sauce with cream and mushrooms. If slices of truffles are substituted for the mushrooms, the dish is called aux truffes instead of aux champignons. ■ dj la Duchesse—half the fillets larded, braised and glazed, and half saute ; dressed alternately in a crown, with cock’s combs in the centre, and white sauce with cream, &c. db la Tcdma—the larger fillets larded, braised and glazed, the small under fillets stuck with pieces of French beans and saute. Arranged in a circle, with dressed spinach in the centre, and brown sauce. d VAmbassadrice—cut in shces, and coated with forcemeat of fowl with chopped truffles. Breadcrumbed, half of them with chopped truffles, and half with chopped ham mixed with the crumbs jEntrdes of Poultry. 6t saute, and arranged alternately. A puree of cucumbers with cream in the centre. Filets de volaille d la Dumas — each one divided in two, masked with a puree of. cucumbers with white sauce, &c, bread- crumbed and fried ; served on a pur4e of cucumbers with cream. d la Nesselrode—masked with a white sauce with cream, &c., and served cold, dressed alternately with glazed slices of tongue on a border of hard-boiled eggs; a salad in the centre with Mayonnaise sauce. aux concomhres are arranged in a circle alternately with stewed pieces of cucumber; served with a puree of cucumber. aux pointes d'asperges are coated with Supreme sauce, and dressed alternately with pieces of tongue of the same size; asparagus points in the centre. Supreme de volaille is the same dish served with Supreme sauce, and with truffles instead of asparagus in the centre. It may be served cold as Ghaudfroid de filets de volaille au supreme. For Supreme de volaille d la Roy ale the fillets are dressed on an ornamental border of vegetables, with a macedoine garnish in the centre, and a small piece of truffle or tongue on each fillet.62 Menus Made Easy. Saute de filets de volaille d la Cardinal is com- posed of saute fillets arranged in a circle with alternate slices of truffle ; Cardinal sauce in the centre, Poulet d la Princesse is a cold entree prepared with fillets of chickens cut in oval slices, coated with a sauce of aspic and cream, set in aspic and cut out; served on an aspic border, with salad. Salade de filets de volaille d la Brunoiv—small round slices of fowl and sHces of cucumber stewed with white sauce, aspic and peas. Cut in square pieces, and dressed on a salad border, with white tartare sauce. Blanc de volaille aux concombres — slices from the breast of a roast fowl, with pieces of cucumber, white sauce, cream, &c. Cotelettes de volaille d la Dawpliine are made with the legs of fowls from which the thigh-bone has been removed. They are dipped in Allemande sauce, breadcrumbed and fried. Served with a dressed vegetable in the centre and white sauce. Legs of fowl are also boned, stuffed with forcemeat, and served as Guisses de volaille, or poulardes, a la jardiniere, with a Jardiniere garnish; aux con- combres or aux petits pois, with dressed cucumber or peas.63 Evtrdes of Poultry. Cuisses de volaille au soleil are stuffed with forcemeat, larded in rays, braised, and served on a pyramid of forcemeat, with mushroom sauce. d Vecaillere are stuffed with forcemeat and oysters, and dressed on a pyramid of forcemeat, with oyster sauce. truffees d la Perigord—the thigh-bone re- moved, they are stuffed with truffles and maitre d’hotel butter, and braised; served in a crown with paper frills round the hones, and with truffle sauce. d la Bayonnaise—the thigh-bone removed, they are cooked in oil with onions, and served in a white sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned. farcies aux petits legumes are boned, stuffed and braised. Dressed on a border, with carrots and turnips cut in shapes, and brown sauce. Chaudfroid de volaille — cooked fowls cut in pieces, coated with white sauce and white meat jelly. Served cold, dressed in a circle with alternate slices of tongue. en mayonnaise—the pieces are coated with Bechamel sauce and served cold on a salad with Mayonnaise sauce, or with aspic whisked to a froth with Tarragon vinegar and oil.Menus Made Easy. 64 Mayonnaise de volaille — pieces of fowl served on a salad, covered with Mayonnaise sauce and garnished with olives, anchovies, &c. Chaudfroid de fricassee is a fowl cut up and coated with a white sauce. Served cold, garnished with aspic. Gapolitade de volaille — pieces of fowls served in Italian sauce with capers, or in brown sauce with wine; garnished with croutons of fried bread. Chartreuse de volaille is an ornamental mould of mixed vegetables, with pieces of chicken in the centre. Creme de volaille—a puree of fowl with cream, steamed in a mould garnished with truffles, tongue, &c. Petits souffles de volaille are made of a puree of fowl and beaten eggs; baked in little souffle cases. Souffle glace de volaille—mmcedi chicken soaked in oil, vinegar, &c.; put into a souffle dish in alternate layers with aspic whipped to a froth, and iced, Moule d'aspie d la Royale is prepared with small round slices of fowl, slices of truffle, mushrooms and cock’s combs, with Becha- mel sauce and aspic. Cut into oval pieces and dressed in a mould of aspic, ornamented with hard-boiled white of egg and truffles.Entries of PotUtry. 65 Small puff paste patties filled with minced diiclcen and white sauce, with tongue, mushrooms or truffles, are served as Pelites boucMes, or Petits pates, d la Peine. Bordure de riz a la Peine is a round wall of rice filled with minced, or puree of, fowl. It is sometimes garnished with plovers’ eggs round the edge. Minced chicken, with ham or tongue, can he made into croquettes, breadcrumbed and fried, or into rissoles, folded in thin paste and fried. The latter are sometimes coated with, broken vermicelli. Croquettes de volaille aux ti'uffes are made with chopped truffles instead of ham or tongue, and are served with truffle sauce. Dressed with tongue and served in a white sauce with chopped tongue they are called Croquettes de volaille a Vicariate. Quenelles de volaille are quenelles of chicken forcemeat. They are poached and served with a dressed vegetable, or dipped in white sauce, breadcrumbed and fried. au Supreme are poached, and dressed in a circle with Supreme sauce, and a vegetable in the centre. en demi deuil are poached, and half of them rolled in chopped truffles. Dressed66 Menus Made Easy. in a crown, with, white sauce and chopped truffles. Quenelles de volaille d Vecarlate are dressed in a crown alternately with glazed slices of tongue of the same size, and served with Supreme sauce. If a Russian tongue is used they are called d la Russe instead of d Vecarlate. Boudins de volaille d la Lucullus are quenelles of chicken forcemeat with a piece of puree of truffles in the centre of each; served in a croustade, or shape of fried bread, with Allemande sauce. —i ^ dla Richelieu are oblong pieces of queneUe forcemeat, dressed in a crown with Peri- gueux sauce. Cigarettes d la Reine are made of chicken force- meat with white sauce and chopped truffles. Pieces the shape of cigars, breadcrumbed and fried. Rissolettes de volaille d la Pompadour are diamond-shaped sandwiches of the prepa- ration for chicken croquettes with truffles, between layers of chicken forcemeat. Dipped in batter and fried. Ravioles d la Napolitaine are little pieces of chicken or game forcemeat wrapped in paste. Arranged in a circle with alternateEntrdes of Poultry. 67 slices of Parmesan cheese; baked, and served with brown sauce. Timbale de JSfouilles is a mould lined with paste, filled with German paste, minced chicken, grated cheese, &c. d la Champenoise is filled with minced chicken, anchovies, gherkins, truffles, &c., with white sauce and wine. Foie gras a I’aspic is a mould of aspic with pieces of foie gras in it. Foie gras can also he dressed with truffles in little patties, as Petits pdte's a la Mont- glas; or larded with pieces of truffle, braised, and served with truffle sauce as Foie gras d la Perigueux. DUCKS. The fillets of roast ducks are served as : Filets de canetons aux petits pois—in a circle, with stewed peas in the centre; d la Macedoine, vdth a vegetable MacMoine in the centre ; or d la Bigarade, with Biga- rade sauce. farcis — a boned duck covered with force- meat of fowl, cut in pieces the shape of fillets, and dressed in a crown with a vege- table garnish in the centre.68 Menus Made Easy. Caneton d la Liable is a roast duck cut up and devilled—served in a sauce of wine, catsup, mustard, cayenne, &c. The legs of roast ducks, in a sauce of stock and wine with shallots, &c., are served as Salmis de cuisses de canetons. GOOSE. The legs of a roast goose are cut in pieces, fried with slices of onion, and served with Piquante sauce as Quartiers, or cuisses, d’oie d la Lyon- naise. TURKEY. The pinions of a turkey as : Ailerons de dindon, or dinde, d la pur^e de celeris are honed, and served in a circle with a puree of celery in the centre. d la Ste. Menehould are hoiled in stock with wine, &c., coated with the sauce, bread- crumbed and broiled. Escalopes de dinde en Uanquette, or Blanquette de dinde, are slices cut from the breast of a roast turkey, served in white sauce with cream, &c. With the addition of slices of ham it is called aujamhon.69 Entries of Poultry. Slices of the breast are also served as : de dinde d VItalienne, with slices of gberkins and Italian sauce. Ahatis de dinde d la Ghipolata are the giblets stewed and served with Cbipolata garnish. PIGEONS. Fillets of pigeons are served as : Filets de pigeons d la Duxelle — coated with Duxelle sauce, breadcrunibed and fried. Served with Provencale sauce and mushrooms. Cotelettes de pigeons au fumet de gibier —breadcrumbed and fried, and a small piece of bone stuck in each to imitate cutlet bones. Dressed in a crown with fumet of game sauce. d la Parisienne—stuffed with forcemeat, breadcrumbed and fried. Dressed in a crown with alternate fried croutons of bread, and a brown puree of cucumbers in the centre. This dish may be served d Vltalienne with Italian sauce, or with any vegetable garnish, instead of the puree of cucumbers. Pigeons are also cut in halves and boned, with the exception of the leg bones. They are stuffed,Menus Made Easy. 70 breadcrumbed and broiled, and served as Cdtelettes de pigeons d la Financiere, in a circle, with a Financiere garnish in the centre. GAME. VENISON. Hachis d.6 venaison is hashed venison. Venison Cutlets, sautd and dressed in a crown, are served as: Cotelettes de venaison aux olives, with a sauce of port wine, brown sauce, olives, &c. aux champignons—with brown sauce and mushi’ooms. au jus de groseilles—with Poivrade sauce and red currant jelly. Rouelles de cerf d la St. Hubert are shces of fillet of venison, larded and cooked in brown sauce with wine, slices of gherkins, &c. Civet de chevreuil is jugged roebuck. Cotelettes de clievrenil sautees are cutlets of roebuck cooked in butter with wine, stock, mushrooms, &c., and served in the sauce. sautees sauce Poivrade are saut^, and served in Poivrade sauce with pickled mushrooms.E7itries of Ga77ie. 71 Gdtelettes de chevreuil d la Bohemierme are soaked in marinade, breadcrumbed and broiled. Served in brown sauce witb some of tbe marinade, currant jelly, &c. Slices from any joint are served in Piquante sauce witb currant jelly, &c., as J^mince de chevreuil. HARE. Civet de li5vre is jugged hare. Lievre, or levrailt, saute—a hare cut in pieces, saute, and served in a sauce of broth and wine with mushrooms, &c. Filets de lievre, or levraut, are fillets of hare fried and dressed in a circle with a brown sauce. They are also piques— larded and braised, and served with Poiv- rade sauce. Served with tomato sauce they are called piques sauce tomates. piques d la Bourguignotte—cut in halves, larded and braised. Dressed in a crown with a brown sauce, bacon cut in dice, young onions, &c. Gdtelettes de lilvre d la Dauplii/ne are slices cut from the fillets with a small piece of bone stuck in each, breadcrumbed and fried. Arranged in a crown with Piquante sauce and chopped olives.Meims Made Easy. 72 Turhan de lihvre d la Peronne—fillets dressed in the same way, and arranged in a circle alternately with quenelles of forcemeat of hare. White sauce with vinegar, pickled onions, &c. Boudins de lievre—rolls of forcemeat of hare, breadcrumbed and browned. RABBITS. Cut in joints, Eabbits are served as: Lapereau, or Lapin, saute aux fines herhes— saute, and served in fine-herbs sauce. sauU aux truffes—with brown sauce and slices of truffles; or aux olives, substi- tuting ohves for the truffles. d la Venitienne—larded, braised in oil and wine with veal and garhc, and served with the sauce. en kari—curried and served with rice. en gibelotte — stewed with onions, bacon, wine, &c.; served in the sauce with mushrooms. en papillote—^boned, coated with a stufflng of bacon, mushrooms, &c., and broiled in papers. The backbone with the fillets, cut in sections, larded and braised, is served as Grenadins de lapi/n or lapereau, with brown sauce and spinach.EnMes of Game. 73 Cotelettes de lapereau d la Souhise are made with the legs cut in two, honed—but a small piece of bone stuck in each piece. Spread with forcemeat and served with Soubise sauce. Filets de lapereaux aux concomhres are fillets of roast rabbits in a white sauce with slices of cucumber. d la Valenciennes are cut in halves and dressed in a crown with white sauce, cream and mushrooms. Dressed in this way with alternate pieces of ham, they are called d Vecarlate. They are also served d la Musulmane— larded and braised. Dressed in a crown with curry sauce, and rice in the centre. Turban de lapereau d la Bouarilre is composed of fillets cut in two, half of them larded and braised, and half sautd. Arranged alter- nately, with quenelles of forcemeat of rabbit in the centre, and brown sauce with wine, &c Lapereau en salade — fillets of roast rabbits soaked in oil and vinegar; served cold on a salad, garnished with hard-boiled egg, beet-root, &c. Escalopes de lapereau au fumet—^fillets cut in oval slices, and arranged alternately with slices of truffle; covered with a white sauce made of rabbit, and baked. Aux pointed74 Menus Made Easy. d' asjperges the slices are served in a white sauce with asparagus. For Fricassee de lapereau the rahhit is cut up and cooked in a white sauce with wine, mushrooms, &c. Boudins de lapin are made of a poached roll of rabbit forcemeat. Served with mushrooms or truffles, in brown sauce. It is also cut in pieces and dressed on a border. d la Richelieu — a roll of forcemeat of fowl, truffles, &c., thickly covered with forcemeat of rabbit, breadcrumbed and broiled. Served with Perigueux sauce. Puree de lapereau hordure de riz is a pur4e of rabbits in a border of rice. Timbales de semoule au chasseur are small moulds of semolina, breadcrumbed and fried, filled with forcemeat of rabbit and puree of mushrooms. Many of the ways in which chickens are dressed are also suitable for rabbits. PHEASANT. A roast pheasant, cut up, is served with Salmis sauce and mushrooms or truffles, as Salmis de faiscm.75 Entries of Game. Faisan au veloute de gibier is served in a wliite game sauce; d la 'purie de gibier in a puree of game. d la bonne femme is cooked with square pieces of ham, slices of Portugal onions, &c. rniets of pkeasants are served as : Filets de faisans piques aux legumes—larded and braised. Dressed in a crown alter- nately witb stewed pieces of cucumber of the same size. Jardiniere garnish in the centre. d la Comte de Brabant—larded and braised. Arranged alternately with shoes of bacon round a pyramid of Brussels sprouts. Fumet of game sauce. d la marquise—half of them larded and braised, and half breadcrumbed and fried. Arranged alternately, with white game sauce, and white cock’s combs in the centre. d la Maintenon—cut in halves and coated with a white sauce with chopped mush- rooms, &c.; broiled in papers, and served with gravy. Ghaudfroid de filets de faisans is a cold entree of fillets of roast pheasants cut in halves, coated with a game sauce, and garnished with hard-boiled eggs.Menus Made Easy. 76 Galantine de faisan aux truffes is a pheasant boned, and stuffed with game forcemeat, rabbit, truffles, &c. Braised, and served cold with a garnish of aspic. Boudins de faisan d la Richelieu are oval- shaped pieces of forcemeat of pheasant, breadcrumbed and fried. Served with Richelieu sance. Quenelles of forcemeat of pheasant, dressed in a crown with game sauce and mushrooms or truffles, are called Turban de quenelles de faisan. PARTRIDGE. Roast partridges, cut up, are served as Salmis de chasseur in a sauce of oil, wine, lemon, &c. As Salmis chaudfroid de yerdreaux, the joints are masked with Salmis sauce and aspic jelly. Served cold with a garnish of aspic. Fillets of roast birds, as Filets de perdreaux aux petits legumes, are dressed in a crown, with young onions, carrots and turnips cut in shapes, and game sauce. Cotelettes de perdreaux d la Bacchante are fillets with a piece of bone stuck in each, breadcrumbed and fried. Served in a white game sauce with raisins, juice of grapes, &c. They are also served d la77 Entries of Game. Douariere, with quenelles of forcemeat of partridge in the centre, and game sauce. ^ingramme de perdreaux aux champignons is composed of fillets, half of them saute, and half larded and braised. Arranged in a crown, and served with game sauce and mushrooms. For ^pigramme de perdreaux d la Perigord the fillets are dressed alternately with quenelles of forcemeat of partridge. Served with chopped truffles in a game sauce. Escalopes (thin round or oval slices) cut from the fillets, are served as Per- dreaux en escalopes, or Saute de per- dreaux, in a white game sauce with mush- rooms, &c. If truffles are substituted for the mushrooms, the dish may he called Saute de perdreaux aux truffes. Chartreuse de perdreaux is an ornamental mould of vegetables filled with larded and braised partridges, pieces of sausage, dice of bacon, &c. Pain de perdreaux is a puree of partridge steamed in a mould; served with brown game sauce. Perdreaux en souffle or Omelette soufflee cZe per- dreaux, is made of a puree of roast par-78 Memis Made Easy. tridges with eggs, &c., and is baked in a souffle dish or in small paper cases. GROUSE. Roast grouse, cut up, are dressed as : Grouse a la Ailsa — covered with fumet of game sauce with yolks of eggs, &c., sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned. d la Commodore—^the joints coated with forcemeat of grouse, and dressed in a pywamid with a rich game sauce. For Salmis de grouse aux truffes they are served in fumet of game sauce with slices of truffles; garnished with crohtons. Salade aux grouses — the joints masked with salmis sauce and aspic. Dressed on a salad with Mayonnaise sauce, garnished with hard-boiled eggs, &c. The fillets are served as Filets de grouse d la chanceliere, dressed in a crown, with small quenelles of veal in the centre, and game sauce. Black-game and Ptarmigan are dressed like grouse. WILD DUCK. Roast wild ducks, cut up, are served as ; Canards, or Canetons, sauvages en salmis with a salmis sauce.79 Entries of Game. Canards sauvages a la bigarade—with bigarade sauce. The fillets as— Filets de canetons sauvages au fwraet de gibier are served in a crown with fumet of game sauce. d Vessence—served with a brown game sauce, port wine, shallots, &c. d la Syrienne — dressed alternately with slices of fried bread spread in a dome shape with the livers with butter, &c. Served with brown game sauce and olives. TEAL. Teal are dressed in the same way as wild ducks; also as: Sarcelles d la puree de champignons—cut in joints and arranged in a circle with a puree of mushrooms in the centre; served with a macedoine garnish they are called d la m.acidoine de legumes. Filets de sarcelles aux anchois are fillets of teal with stock and grated Parmesan, a fillet of anchovy laid on each, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and Parmesan, and browned. Turban de filets de sarcelles d la Toulouse fillets dressed in a crown, with fumet of game sauce, pickled mushrooms, &c.Menus Made Easy. 8o Turban de filets de sarcelles d la moderne—the fillets are spread with forcemeat of game, and served with a fumet of game sauce. WOODCOCKS. Salmis de becasses—the birds cut up and served in salmis, or fumet of game, sauce. au chasseur—served in a game sauce, with wine, mushrooms, &c. The insides are spread on croutons, and arranged round the dish. Turban de becasses aux champignons—the birds cut in halves and dressed in a crown, with game sauce and mushrooms. Ghaudfroid de becasses—the joints masked with brown game sauce, and brown meat jelly; served cold. Filets de becasses d la Lucullus — fillets coated with forcemeat and served on a border of toasted bread, with a thick puree of woodcocks piled in the centre, and game sauce round. d la Talleyrand are dressed in a crown, with the insides spread on croutons of fried bread of the same size as the fillets. Fumet of game sauce with truffles. en canape are laid on slices of crust of bread. A stuffing of the trail with8i Entries of Game. bacon, &c., piled on the top. Served with a game sauce. Groustade de hdcasses a la Comtesse is a low oval croustade, or shape of fried bread, filled with a puree of woodcocks; the fillets dressed on the top alternately with cock’s combs. SNIPES. Snipes are dressed in the same way as woodcocks, but are cut in halves where woodcocks are filleted. They are also served as: Sccd/Ssincs d la bonne houche, filled with a forcemeat of foie gras and bacon ; dressed on a forcemeat border, covered with force- meat and baked. Served with truffle sauce. QUAILS. Cailles aux laitues are braised, and served with stewed lettuces. aux petits pois are served with peas cooked in white stock. aux truffes are stuffed with the livers, truffle, &c., and are served with Perigueux sauce. Turban de cailles d la Financiere—roast quails cut in halves and dressed on a border, with aMenus Made Easy. 82 Financiere garnish in the centre. It is also served aux concomhrea, with stewed pieces of cucumber, and a puree of cucumbers in the centre. For a compote de cailles they are cooked in wine and stock with slices of sweetbread, ham, truffles, &c.; garnished with crou- tons. They are also dressed in a vol-au- vent with Toulouse garnish, as Vol-au- vent de cailles. PLOVERS. Plovers can he dressed in any of the ways that are suggested for woodcocks. The fillets of roast birds are served as: Filets de pluviers aux champignons—in a circle alternately with croutons spread with the trail; game sauce with mushrooms. LARKS. A salmis of larks is called Mauviettes en salmis. Mauviettes grilUes are broiled; served on slices of fried bread. d la chipolata are cooked with Chipolata garnish. en caisse are boned, stuffed with force- meat and baked in paper cases.Entries of Game. 83 For a Turban de mauviettes d la Parisienne the larks are boned, stuffed with game forcemeat and truffles, and braised; dressed in a crown, with small quenelles of veal in the centre, and a game sauce. Dressed alternately with large quenelles of game forcemeat, they are called auoc quenelles. Mauviettes en cdtelettes are boned, spread with forcemeat and served with brown sauce. They are also di’essed as: Groustade de mauviettes — boned, stuffed, and baked in a croustade of fried bread with Perigueux sauce and mushrooms. Vol-au-vent de mauviettes — boned, stuffed, and served in vol-au-vent case with white game sauce and mushrooms. ORTOLANS. Ortolans d la Perigourdine are served in truffles, of which the centres have been cut out. en caisse are baked in small paper cases with Perigueux sauce.84 Menus Made Easy. Crkme de gibier is a puree of game, steamed in a mould, or in several small moulds. Pelites houchees de gibier are Little patties of game. d la puree de gibier are little patties filled with puree of game. Petits pdUs au jus are little patties lined with forcemeat, and filled with gravy. Kromeslcis d la Pusse are made with pieces of any kind of forcemeat or croquette prepara- tion, wrapped in slices of bacon, dipped in batter and fried. Cassolettes de riz are patties of rice paste, bread- crumbed and fried ; filled with forcemeat or croquette preparation. Timbales d la Pahlen are small moulds lined with macaroni, filled with a white force- meat—veal or fowl—and a black forcemeat of truffles, &c., in the centre. Timbale d la Milanaise is Milanaise garnish in a shell of paste.CHAPTER IV. EEMOVES OR RELEVfeS. BEEF. A ROAST sirloin of beef is called Aloyau d la hroche. For Aloyau de hoeuf d la Provengale the sirloin is larded and spread with a stuffing of marrow, anchovies, garlic, &c.; roasted, and served with Piquante sauce. The upper part of the sirloin, boned and rolled, is served as: Aloyau hraise d la royale—^larded and braised. d la Printaniere—braised and served with young vegetables. d la Portugaise—^larded and braised; served with stewed Portugal onions and brown sauce. d la Godard—braised, and served with slices of sweetbread, mushrooms, &c. The fillet, or undercut of the sirloin, is usually cut out and dressed as a separate dish.86 Menus Made Easy. It is roasted and served as Filet de hoeuf rSfi, and may have a vegetable garnish—Macedoine, Jar- diniere, or Printaniere—and he named accordingly. Au jus d'orange it has orange sauce. Filet de boeuf au macaroni is garnished with macaroni. d la Napolitai/rie—larded, soaked in oil with vegetables, &c., roasted, and served with Neapolitan sauce. au jus de groseilles—larded, soaked in marinade and roasted; served with a brown sauce, currant jelly, &c. pique aux Ugumes printaniers—^larded, roasted and glazed; served with young vegetables and brown sauce. d la Milanaise—larded, roasted, and served in white sauce with macaroni, &c. d la Bohemienne — larded, soaked in marinade, and roasted or braised. Served with fried slices of potatoes and Poivrade sauce with pickled onions, pickled mush- rooms, and olives; or cold, with tomato sauce, currant jelly, &c. Braised, it is served as Filet de hoeuf hrais6; d a sauce Madere it has Madeira sauce. A Bound of beef is served as : Rouelle de boeuf—houillie, boiled; au four, spiced, and baked in water with suet.Removes of Beef. 87 The Brisket as: Piece de boeuf garnie d la Flamande is braised and garnished “ a la Flamande.” Noix de boeuf hr aisee is a braised chump of beef. Ribs of beef rolled and braised are served as : Cotes de boeuf hraisees d la puree de tomates, with a puree of tomatoes in the sauce ; or d la Milanaise, with macaroni instead of the tomato puree. aux racines are larded and served with carrots; d la Portugaise, with Portugal onions. Piece de hceuf d la St. Florentin is a rolled loin served with Robert sauce. Beef or Rump Steak as: Bifteck d la Frangaise is broiled, and served with fried potatoes. en ragoUt is stewed. It is also boiled in stock, and served with a Flamande garnish as Piece de hceuf houillie d la Flamande. Garnished with sausages, bacon and cabbages, it is garni de choux. As Boeuf houilli d la Macedoine de Ugumes it is served with a Macedoine garnish. Rosbif d VAnglaise is roast beef, served with horseradish and Yorkshire pudding. Boeuf braise aux haricots verts is braised beef served with French beans.Menus Made Easy. 88 Bo8uf Hollandaise is a piece of beef rubbed with treacle, &c., salted, smoked and boiled. It is eaten cold. Pdte de hoeuf aux pommes de terre is a pie of minced beef and masked potatoes, witk a crust of masked potatoes. Pdtd chaud d’escalopes de filet de hoeuf is a kot pie of slices of fillet of beef, kam and potatoes, witk brown sauce. Ox-tongue, or Langue de hoeuf, boiled and glazed, is served d la prima donna witk a border round it of quenelles of veal, and wkite sauce witk Brussels sprouts. VEAL. A Fillet of veal is dressed as : Rouelle de veau aux petits pois — larded and roasted; served witk peas in wkite sauce. d la Pontoise—stuffed, roasted, and served cold witk Tartare sauce. d la potagere—^larded and roasted; served witk carrots cut in skapes, onions, cauli- fiower and brown sauce. d la javdinieve—stuffed with a piece of bacon, roasted, and served witk a Jardiniere garnish.Removes of Vedl. 89 Rouelle de veau d la Princesse—stuffed with forcemeat, mushrooms, &c.; roasted, and served with shoes of tongue and bacon, and white sauce with cream. d la Versaillienne—stuffed with a tongue and forcemeat; roasted, and served with quenelles, slices of stewed cucumber and white sauce with cream, &c. en thon—larded with fillets of anchovy, pickled, and cooked in oil. A Chump of veal larded and braised is served as: Noix do VGau d Voseille, or aux epinards, on a puree of sorrel or spinach ; d la hour- geoise with brown sauce. d la pofagere is braised white, and served in a white sauce with peas and pieces of cauliflower. It is also served d la puree de champignons, on a puree of mushrooms ; or aux petits legumes, with stewed young carrots, turnips and onions, and brown sauce. For Veau en fricandeau, veal is larded on one side with thick strips of bacon, on the other side with fine ones, and braised. The Loin as: Longe de veau is roasted. Served d la Stras- hourgienne, it has shoes of Strasbourg or other bacon round it, and Poivrade sauce. It is served cold au jamhon, with oval slices of ham and croutons of aspic; or d la dame blanche90 Menus Made Easy. with a sauce over it of Bechamel and aspic with Tarragon vinegar, &c., garnished with Indian pickles. Larded and braised, it is served piquee hraisde; or dj la macedoine de Ugumes, with a vegetable macMoine. -1 la Gambachres, it has a border round it of small slices of tongue, truffles and cucumber; white sauce with wine, chopped mushrooms, &c. The under part of a loin is roasted and dressed as Filet de veau a la cr^mihre, with poached eggs, and Bechamel sauce with cream, &c. A Neck of veal dressed as : Carr6 de veau au naturel is stewed, and served in the sauce with chopped gher- kins and vinegar. A la Milanaise, it is braised, and served with a Milanaise garnish. Boasted, it is served d la puree de cderis, with stewed heads of celery and puree of celery sauce. A la St. Clair, with slices of fried ham and tomato sauce. A la Bruxellaise, with Brussels sprouts and white sauce. A Breast of veal as: Poitrine de veau rStie is roasted, and served with brown sauce and melted butter; a la Souhise, with Soubise sauce. Boned, stuffed, rolled and braised, it is served d la printaniere with spring vegetables; or d la Ghipo- lata, with Chipolata garnish. Galantine de veau is served cold, garnished with aspic.Removes of M^ltton. Calf’s head is served as : T6te de veau au naturel, stewed, and garnished with the tongue and brains. farcie is stuffed with forcemeat, &c., and stewed. en tortue—it is cut in pieces and boiled with vegetables and turtle herbs—^basil, mar- joram, thyme, bay leaves, &c. Served in the sauce with wine and mushrooms. Veal and ham pie is called Pdte de veau au jambon. Timbale d la Frangaise is a pie of layers of slices of larded veal, ham and forcemeat, in a shell of paste. PdU de pieds de veau d VJ^cossaise—a pie of calf’s feet minced with suet and apples, with gravy and wine. Pdte chaud de godiveau is a hot pie of veal or fowl forcemeat. MUTTON. Handle de mouton is a roast haunch of mutton. It may be served au jus de gro- seilles with brown sauce, currant jelly, &c. d la Bohdmienne — soaked in marinade, roasted, and served in a brown sauce with pickled onions, olives, currant jelly, &c. A leg or neck of mutton is also dressed in this way.92 Menus Made Easy. A fore-quarter of Southdown mutton is called Quartier de 'pre-sale; if served with haricot beans it is d la Bretonne. A Saddle of mutton as : Selle de mouton d VAnglaise or e'n, hroche is roasted. cm laver—served with laver and a brown sauce. rStie d la venaison—^it is hung a fortnight; roasted, and served in a brown sauce with wine, &c. d la Miraheau—roasted, and served in Poiv- rade sauce with chopped gherkins and beetroot. d la Polonaise—the meat of a roast saddle is cut out, minced, and put back again with brown sauce, &c., keeping the shape by a wall of mashed potatoes. It is sprinkled with breadcrumbs, and browned. Dressed in this way, with a puree of onions over the mince, and served with Soubise sauce, it is called d la Marseillaise, A Leg of mutton as : Gigot roti is roasted. d la Russe — roasted, and the cooking finished in burning brandy. Served with the gravy and brandy. d la Provengale—garlic inserted into the leg; roasted and served with Bretonne sauce. en chevreuil—larded, soaked in oil and roasted. Served with Poivrade sauce.Removes of MttUon. 93 Gigot houilli—boiled; served with, carrots and mashed turnips. It is also served with caper sauce—sauce aux cdpres. Larded and braised it is served d la Jardiniere— with a Jardiniere garnish; d la Napoli- taine—with macaroni and Neapolitan sauce ; d la Soubise—with Soubise sauce and potato croquettes. de sept heures is boned, and stewed for seven hours with onions, carrots, &c. farci is boned, stuffed and roasted. Served with tomato or Soubise sauce. braise—stuffed and braised. d la Bretonne is stuffed and braised, and served with Bretonne sauce and haricot beans. d la Polonaise is braised, cut in slices without severing them from the bone, and a stufling put between each slice, A Neck of mutton as : Carre de mouton is roasted; bouilli, boiled and served with carrots and mashed turnips, and caper sauce in a sauce-boat. au riz—cooked with rice, slices of onion and dice of ham. d VIrlandaise is braised and served with onions and potato croquettes. d la Jardiniere—with a Jardiniere garnish;94 Menus Made Easy. or with, any dressed vegetable or pur4e, naming it accordingly. Carre de monton d la Provengale—spread with a puree of onions, breadcrumbed and browned. Served in brown sauce with garlic. d la Soubise—larded, braised, and served with Soubise sauce. au chevreuil—larded, soaked in marinade and braised. Served with Chevreuil sauce and potatoes cut in little balls. If stewed prunes are substituted for the potatoes it maybe called d VAllemande. d VAlg4rienne — larded, soaked in mari- nade and roasted. Served in brown sauce with some of the marinade and French plums. Garres de mouton d la legumihre are two necks roasted, put together hke a saddle, and the space between fiUed up with mashed potato, garnished with other vegetables. A Loin of mutton may be dressed in many of the ways suggested for necks. Also as: Carbonade de mouton—boned, larded, and rolled with forcemeat in the centre; braised and glazed. Served with a dressed vegetable, Soubise or Piquante sauce, or d la Niver- naise, with stewed carrots.Removes of Lamb. 95 A shoulder of mutton boned, stuffed, and roasted or braised, is served with Piquante sauce as L'paule de mouton farcie. En ballon, it is boned, larded, made into tbe shape of a balloon and braised. A mutton pie made with potatoes and onions, covered with potato paste, is called Pdte de mouton d VIrlandaise. LAMB. Hanche d’agrieau is a roast haunch of lamb. It is sometimes called Rosbif d’agneau d la hroche. Tbe Forequarter as: Quartier d’agneau d la hroche, is roasted. d rhoteliere—roasted and served in a sauce of maitre d’botel butter with cream. farci—a stuffing put between tbe neck and shoulder; roasted and served with brown sauce. C6tes d’agneau d la chanceliere is a roast fore- quarter, tbe shoulder cut out and tbe meat of it minced with bam, truffles, &c., and white sauce, put into tbe space tbe shoulder was cut from. Breadcrumbed, browned, and served with white sauce. Selle d’agneau rdtie is a roast saddle of lamb. It is served d I'Indienne, with Indian sauce and Indian pickles; and d la bonne fer- mihre, with lamb’s fry breadcrumbed and fried, and a sauce of broth with chopped mint.96 Menus Made Easy. Sell© d’agneau hraisee d VAllemande—boned, stuffed and braised ; served witb. Allemande sauce and any vegetable garnish. cb la Villeroi is dressed in the same way, covered with. Allemande sauce and sprinkled with breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan. d la Menagere is dressed in the same way as saddle of mutton d la Polonaise, with a white instead of a brown sauce, and the meat cut in small square slices. A Leg of lamb is dressed in the same way as a leg of mutton. Also as : Gigot d’agneau bouilli aux epinards, boiled and served on spinach; or d la Palestine with a puree of Jerusalem artichokes. The Neck as: Carre d’agneau aux petits pois is roasted and served with green peas; or aux Ugumes printaniers with spring vegetables. d la Bruxellaise is braised and served on a puree of Brussels sprouts. The Shoulder, or— Epaule d’agneau, is roasted; served d la maitre d'hotel, with maitre d’hotel sauce ; or aux pointes d’asperges, with asparagus heads and white sauce. Boned, larded, braised and glazed, it is served as glacee. . ^ la MontTHorency—boned, stuffed with force- meat, larded and braised; served withRemoves of Pork. 97 Toulouse garnish. It is also dressed d la Polonaise in the same way as a saddle of mutton. PdU cTiaud d’agneau is a hot pie of lamb cutlets with potatoes, white sauce, &c. PORK. Selle de pore frais is a roast saddle of pork. A la Robert it has Robert sauce. A Leg of pork as— Gigot de pore houilli is boiled with the carrots, turnips and parsnips with which it is served. d la Piemontaise is roasted and served in a brown sauce with Indian pickles, olives, &c. d VAllemande is pickled, boiled, and served with stewed red cabbage and pickled cabbage, carrots and turnips, and Poivrade sauce. J^chinde de pore rotie is a roast chine of pork. Carre de pore d la Rdmoulade—a roast neck served in Eemoulade sauce with chopped Indian pickles. Longe de pore rotie is a loin roasted. Pdte d la Leicestershire is a pork pie in a crust made with hog’s lard instead of butter. d la Devonshire is a pie of layers of slices l)f pork, bacon and apples. Salt pork boiled with cabbages and other vege- tables, and served with them, is called Petit sale aux choux. H98 Menus Maae Easy. A sucking pig is plainly roasted; or stuffed witk truffles, &c., as Cochon de lait d la Perigueux; or witk ckestnut and sausage-meat stuffing, and served witk Ckipolata garnisk, as d la Chipolata. A la Savoyarde—stuffed witk sausage-meat, rice, &c., and roasted; served witk little sausages, and a wkite sauce witk wine and muskrooms. Cochon de lait en galantine is a braised galantine of sucking pig. Pate froid de cochon de lait is a cold sucking pig pie. A Ham as: Jambon d la hroche aux epinards is roasted, and served witk spinack. If a York kam is used, tke disk is called Jamhon d’Yorh d VAnglaise. d la Maillot is braised in wine; served witk vegetables and Madeira sauce. glace d la Jardiniere is glazed, and garnisked “ a la Jardiniere.” It is also served d la Macedoine, aux petits pois or aux hari- cots verts, witk a garnisk of Macedoine, green peas or Frenck beans. Froinage de cochon is brawn. A kaunck of boar, or Cuissot de sanglier, may be served d la Royale, larded, and braised in wine and water witk vegetables, &c., sprinkled witk bread- crumbs and served witk tke sauce. Filet de sanglier au chasseur is a fillet of boar.99 Removes of Poultry. soaked in oil, &c., and braised; served in the sauce with Poivrade sauce. B-ure de sanglier is a boar’s head. POULTRY. A capon boiled in stock with bacon, onions, &c., is served in the sauce as Chapon au gros sel. Stuffed with truffles, &c., and roasted, it is served d la Peri- gueux, with Perigueux sauce; ov d la Piemontaise, with tomato sauce and raviohs. A fowl boded and served with Bourgeoise sauce is called Poule au pot. A fat pullet, or poularde, is roasted and served d la Jinanciere with Pinanciere garnish; or aux legumes printaniers with stewed young vegetables and brown sauce. A la Grimod de la Reynihre it is filled with a stuffing of the Hver with truffles, mushrooms, &c. Roasted in shoes of bread and ham. A la Montmorency it is larded, stuffed with foie gras, bacon, &c. Braised and glazed. A la Guillauw^e Tell it is boned, stuffed and braised; set in a mould with the stock, garnished with truffles, and served cold. For Pilau de poularde it is cooked with spice, onions, rice, &c. Masked with the rice, and garnished with hard-boiled eggs. Poulets et langue are two boiled chickens with a tongue between them; white sauce with any vegetable garnish.lOO Menus Made Easy. Poulet au riz is a chicken boiled with rice. d la Chivvy is cooked in mirepoix with slices of bacon, and served in Eavigote sauce. d la Mona—cooked with wine, tomato sauce, Portugal onion and bacon. d la d'Escars—^larded, and braised in stock and wine with bacon, vegetables, &c. rSti d la peau de goret has a crackly skin from melted lard having been dropped on it while roasting. d la Milanaise—stuffed, roasted, and served with Milanaise garnish. d la Hamhouvgeoise—stuffed with butter, chopped parsley, &c., and roasted. d Vestragon—^the stuffing is made of the liver, bacon, tarragon, &c. It is roasted, and served in a white sauce with chopped tarragon. d Vltalienne—filled with a stuffing of the livers with bacon, mushrooms, &c. Eoasted, and served in a white sauce with oil, wiae, tarragon, &c. d la sauce tomates is stuffed, braised, and served with tomato sauce. Petits poulets d VIndienne are young chickens stuffed with rice, breadcrumbs, curry powder, &c. Braised, and served with rice and Indian sauce, garnished with Indian pickles.lOI Removes of Poultry. Petits poUSSins are very young chickens. They are larded and braised, and served d la Venitienne in a white sauce with wine, cock’s combs, chopped mushrooms, &c.; or d la chevaliere, in white sauce with button onions, mushrooms, &c. Pate chaud de volaille au jamhon is a hot chicken and ham pie. froid de volaille aux truffes is a cold chicken pie, with forcemeat and truffles. DUCKS. Ducks are roasted and served au jus d'orange, v/ith orange sauce ; or braised and served aux petits pois, or aux champignons, with stewed peas or mush- rooms. Canards, or canetons, au Fere Douillet are braised in wine and stock, and served in the sauce. d la St. Michel—^braised in wine and broth, and served with mushrooms, &c., in the sauce. d VEspagnole—^braised with vegetables, oil, and garlic; served in a brown sauce with olives. d puree verte are stewed ducks, covered with a puree of green peas. They are also served aux navets, au cdleri, or aux olives, with stewed turnips or celery, or with olives.102 Menus Made Easy. GOOSE. Oie rdtie is a roast goose, served with apple sauce in a sauce-boat. braise'e d la Jardiniere is braised, and served with brown sauce and Jardiniere garnish. dj la Ghijpolata — served with Chipolata sausages. rStie, farcie de marrons—stuffed with the liver, chestnuts, &c., and roasted. d la Portugaise—stuffed with slices of Por- tugal onions, wine, &c., roasted, and served with stewed Portugal onions and a brown sauce. d VArlesi6nne—stuffed with onions, truffles, chestnuts, &c., braised in mirepoix, and served in tomato sauce. en daube is stuffed, braised, and served cold covered with the sauce. Pate aux abatis d’oie is giblet pie TURKEY. Dinde rStie is a turkey roasted, and garnished with sausages. rStie parfaite is stuffed with sausage-meat, chestnuts and truffles, and roasted. d la puree de ceteris — boiled, and servedRemoves of Poultry. 103 witli a puree of celery and slices of fried bacon. Dinde d la Ghipolata—stuffed with sausage-meat and chestnuts, roasted, and served with Ghipolata garnish. truffe'e—stuffed with forcemeat and truffles; roasted, and served with gravy and chopped truffles. d la Provengale—a stufflng of onions, bread- crumbs, &c.; roasted and served with truffle or tomato sauce. en daube—^larded and stewed; served cold, covered with the sauce. d la Yorkshire—the legs are cut off, it is boned and stuffed with forcemeat and a tongue, and served with white sauce and vegetables. A young turkey, roasted, is served as Dindonneau d la duchesse, with a puree of cucumbers, quenelles, small pieces of tongue, and French beans. Galantine de dinde is a braised galantine of turkey ; it is served cold. de dinde aux foies gras has fat livers o! fowls added to the forcemeat. PIGEONS. Pigeons stewed in stock with bacon, mushrooms, onions, &c., are served in the sauce as Pigeons en compote.104 Menus Made Easy. Pigeons d, la crapaudine are breadcrumbed and broiled ; served with Piquante sauce. en ragoiU d’eerevisses are stewed, and served in a white sauce with mushrooms and crayfish. aux petits pois are stuffed, and stewed with onions, green peas, &c. Pdte cliaud de pigeons, or pigeonneaux, is a hot pigeon pie. de pigeons d VAnglaise is a pigeon pie with collops of beef steak. GAME. • VENISON. The haunch of venison, or HanctlG d.G VOnai- SOn, ranks first amongst removes. Dressed d la Corinthienne, it is larded, soaked in marinade and roasted ; served in a brown sauce with port wine, currants, currant jelly, &c. Quartier de venaison is a fore-quarter of venison. Gigot de cerf, or venaison, is a leg of venison. Filet de cerf, or venaison, is a fillet of venison. fjpaule de cerf, or venaison, is a shoulder of venison. Carre de cerf, or venaison, is a neck of venison.Removes of Game. 105 The forequarter of a roebuck is served as Quartier de chevreuil; the leg, as Gigot de chevreuil. A venison pasty is called Pate de venaison. HARE. Lievre, or Levraut, sauce Poivrade, is larded, roasted, and served with Poivrade sauce. au jus de groseilles—^larded, roasted, and served in brown sauce with olives and currant jelly. rdtie d la Finnoise—^larded, roasted, and served in a sauce of stock, vinegar, sour cream, &c. Rdble de lUvre rdti is a baron of hare, larded and roasted, Lilvre en dauhe is boned, and stewed in a jar with bacon, veal, game stock, &c. It is served cold, in the jar. Pate de liewe d VFcossaise is a pie of stewed hare with wine, &c. Pain de lik.we d la FovkshiTe is a pie of layers of slices of hare, ham and hard-boiled eggs, with game jelly. It is served cold. RABBITS. As Lapeveaux d VAnglaise they are stewed, and served with Souhise sauce.Menus Made Easy. io6 LaperGaux grilles are flattened and broiled; served with butter and chopped parsley. aux petits pois are cooked in a white sauce with onions, green peas, &c. If mushrooms are substituted for the peas they are called d la Taverniere. d la Jardiniere are cooked in white sauce, with young onions, carrots and turnips cut in little balls, and peas. d la villageoise—stuffed, roasted, and served in melted butter sauce with shallots, &c. Galantine de lapins is made of rabbits boned without removing the heads. It is served cold, gar- nished with the sauce in which it is braised, in a jelly. Babbit pie is served as Pate chaud de lapereaux. PHEASANTS. Faisans d la Souhise are braised pheasants covered with Soubise sauce; aux marrons, with chestnut sauce. d la puree de gibier are larded, braised, and served with puree of game sauce. d la Fontainebleau—the breasts are larded in a square. They are braised in white stock with lettuces, sausages, &c., and served with the lettuces and sausages, and brown sauce.107 Removes of Game. Faisans dj la Gitana—stewed with bacon, slices of Portugal onions, tomatoes, wine, &c. a la Flamande—stewed with bacon, sausages, cabbages, &c.; served with the cabbages pressed and cut in shapes, carrots and turnips, and Poivrade sauce. dl’etouffade—larded and stewed j served with game sauce. aux foies gras—stuffed with foie gras, ham, truffle, &c., and roasted. truffes db la Piemontaise — stuffed with truffle stuffing, roasted, and served with a sauce of aspic and wine with sHces of truffles. d la Bohemienne— stuffed with foie gras, truffle, &c.; cooked in mirepoix, and served in the sauce with truffles and foie gras. d la Saint-Cloud—boned, filled with a stuffing of the livers with partridge, truffles, &c.; roasted, and served on toast with Italian sauce and truffles. Pdte chaud de faisan aux truffes is a pie of pheasant with forcemeat and truffles. PARTRIDGES. Partridges braised in stock with bacon, cabbages, &c., are served as Perdreaux aux choux, with the cabbages and slices of bacon.Menus Made Easy. io8 Perdreaux hrais^es are larded and braised. d Vetouffade—larded, and stewed in stock and wine with onions, &o. d la Parisienne—cooked in a brown sauce with wine, and served in the sauce. d VAnglaise—stuffed with the livers and butter, and roasted. A stuffing of shallots, breadcrumbs, &c., is inserted under each joint, and they are served in a sauce of stock and wine. truffes d la Perigord—stuffed with truffie stuffing and roasted; served in a white sauce with truffles. d la MecJclenhourg—stuffed with chopped French plums, game forcemeat, &c.; cooked in stock and wine, and served in the sauce with tomato sauce and currant jeUy. d la Victoria—the breast bones removed, stuffed with game forcemeat, larded and braised; served with brown sauce, wine, &c. Pate de perdreaux au chasseur is a pie of part- ridges with veal and bacon, mushrooms, and onion sauce. GROUSE. Grouse are dressed like Pheasants d la Piemon-Removes of Gdme. 109 taise. A la Kinnai/rd they are stuffed, roasted, and served with Financiere garnish. Pate de grouse d VJ^cossaise is a pie of grouse with beef steak, &c. BLACK GAME. As Coqs noirs, or Coqs de hruyere, a la royale, blackcocks are larded, braised, and served with a white sauce and little rissoles of game. A la Rob Roy they are stuffed, roasted with sprigs of heather and whiskey, and served with melted- butter sauce. Grouse are also dressed in this way. SNIPES. Snipes cut in halves, baked on layers of bacon, with butter, are served cold as Recassines en tei'rine d VIrlandaise. Boudin de becassines d Vepicurienne is com- posed of snipes, mushrooms, truffles, &c., with wine, in suet crust. Quails, Plovers, and Larks may be dressed in hot pies, and served as Pate chaud de cailles, pluviers, or mauviettes; or in cold pies, as Pates froids. Any small birds may be used for these pies.Menus Made Easy. no PdU de mauviettes d la Melton Mowbray is a lark pie witk veal and bacon, musbrooms, truffles, &c. Larks or other small birds are dressed as Boudin d la Chipolata, with Chipolata garnish in suet crust. Fdtd froid de gibier is a cold pie made of the meat of several kinds of game. d la Yorkshire is composed of goose, hare, grouse and snipes, with spices, sausage meat and slices of ham.CHAPTEK V. EOASTS, OE EOtS. Black Diver—Macreuse. Dressed avi, chocolat they are served covered with chocolate. Black Game— Coqs noirs, or Coqs de hruylre. A la Stockholm they are larded on one side, and barded with vine leaves on the other side. Bustard—Outarde canepetilre. A la Russe they have a slice cut in the breast and a stuffing inserted, and are served with brown sauce. Capon — Chapon. Served with watercress it is called au cresson. Chicken—Poulet. Served d la Forrester it is covered with watercress leaves, mustard and cress, &c. Barde, it is barded—roasted with a slice of bacon over the breast, and served with the bacon on it. Roti a la Stael it has a white crust from being sprinkled with flour during the roasting. Spring Chickens—Petits Poulets. Young Chickens—Petits Poussins Duck—Canard. Duckling—Ganeton. Served with orange sauce it is called au jus dJorange or d la higarade.Menus Made Easy. II2 Goose—Oie. Green Goose—Oison or Oisillon. Grouse— Grouse. A la bonnie lassie they are served on brown bread toast witb melted-butter sauce. Guinea Fowl—Pintade or Qelinotte. Piqu4e they are larded ; bar dee, barded. Hare—Lievre. Lapwings— V anneaux. Larks—Mauviettes. Leveret—Levraut. Ortolans—Ortolans. Partridges—Perdrix or Perdreaux. “Perdrix” is usually applied to older birds. A brace of part- ridges is Accolade de perdreaux. Peaben—Paonne. Pheasant—Fa'isan. Pigeons—Pigeons. Young Pigeons—Pigeonneaux. Bardes aux feuilles de vignes they are roasted witb vine leaves and slices of bacon over the breasts. Pintail—Pilet. Plovers—Pluviers. Fat Pullet—Poularde. QusdLs—Cailles. They are bardees aux feuilles de vignes in the same way as Pigeons. Eabbit—iapm. Young Rabbit—Lapereau. A brace of young vahhits—-Accolade de lapereaux. ShoyeW-GiSf—Rouges de riviere.113 Roasts. Snipes—Becassines. Teal—Sarcelle. They are served au cresson with watercress; and d la Bigarade with Bigarade sauce. Turkey—Dindon (m.), or JDinde (f.). Tui’key Poult — Dindonneau. They are piqiie, larded ; barde, barded; and farci, stuffed with force- meat and truffles. Widgeon—Canard siffleur. They are some- times called Macreuses. Wild Duck—Canard, or Caneton, sauvage. Woodcocks—Be'casses. Served d la Piemontaise they have game sauce and slices of truffles. iCHAPTER VI. VEGETABLES, OR LEIjUMES, AND SALADS. ARTICHOKES. Artichokes plainly boiled are served witli butter sauce in a sauce boat as Articliauts sauce au beurre, or with Dutch sauce, sauce Hollandaise. Artichoke bottoms as: Artichailts d la bonne femme are boiled and served with white sauce. d la Bruxellaise are cut in quarters, cooked in white sauce, and arranged in a border with Brussels sprouts and Maitre d’hotel sauce in the centre. au veloute are dressed in the same way and served in the sauce with cream and yolks of eggs. d la Lyonnaise—cooked in butter and served in brown sauce with onions, &c. d I’ltalienne—cooked in stock, wine, &c., and served in Itahan sauce. fareis—stuffed, and cooked with oil and bacon, &c. d Vessence de jambon—stuffed, braised, and served covered with a puree of ham.115 Vegetables. Artichauts b, la harigoule — stuffed with chopped bacon, mushrooms, &c.; braised and served with Italian sauce. farcis d I’ltalienne—the stuffing is made of onion, breadcrumbs and grated cheese. a la Hollandaise—stuffed with a pur^e made from the leaves, and served with Hollandaise sauce. en mayonnaise—served cold, coated with Mayonnaise sauce and sprinkled with chopped parsley. Creme d'artichauts is a puree of artichokes with cream, steamed in a mould; served with cream sauce. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. Topinambours a Vltalienne are cut in fancy shapes, cooked with butter, stock, &c., and glazed; served with Italian sauce. They are also saute in thin slices. A puree of Jerusalem artichokes with cream, sprinkled with grated Parmesan and browned, is called Topinambours au gratin. ASPARAGUS. Plainly boiled they are called Asperges en branches.Menus Made Easy. ii6 They are served d la sauce, with white sauce; au heurre, with butter sauce; d I’huile, with oil and vinegar. Asperges a la creme are cut up and served in Bechamel sauce. a la Pompadour—cut up and served in a sauce of butter, yolks of eggs, &c. Cut up small, they are dressed en petits pois— stewed and served in a white sauce; as Pointes d'asperges au jus—stewed in stock ; or d la creme —served in a sauce of butter, cream, yolks of eggs, &c. FRENCH BEANS. Cut in strips and boiled, they are served as: Haricots verts d I’Anglaise on a piece of butter, with chopped parsley. d la maitre d’h6tel—^xi\i Maitre d’hotel sauce. q/Uj heurre noir—^with black-butter sauce. aux fines herhes—with a sauce of butter, chopped parsley and shallots, &c. d la Poulette—in a white sauce with chopped parsley, &c. sautes are saut6 in butter with chopped parsley, &c. Haricots panaches d la Maitre d hStel are French beans and haricot beans with Maitre d’hotel sauce.Vegetables. 117 HARICOT BEANS. "White haricot beans, boiled, are served as: Haricots blancs d la Maitre d’hdtel, or d la Bretonne — with Maitre d’hotel or Bretonne sauce; au beurre de 'piment— with capsicums pounded with butter; d la moelle—with beef marrow, &c. au jus are stewed in stock. They are also served en purle with stock; or as Puree de haricots d la creme—a puree with cream. Haricots rouges d la Bourguignonne are red haricot beans cooked in stock with onions, wine, &c, BROAD BEANS. Feves de marais d VAnglaise are boiled and served with parsley and butter. d la creme are boiled in milk with chopped parsley; served in the sauce with cream, &c. Puree de feves is a puree of beans. BEETROOT. " Cut in slices, beetroot is served as : Betteraves d la creme, boiled in white sauce. d la Poitevine—served in brown sauce with onion, spice, &c. d la Chartreuse—sandwiches of a slice ofii8 Menus Made Easy. onion between slices of yellow beetroot, dipped in batter and fried. Broccoli is dressed in the same way as cauliflower. BRUSSELS SPROUTS. Choux de Bruxelles d la Maitre d'hotel are boiled, and served in Maitre d’hotel sauce. Sautes, they are saute in butter with lemon, &c. CABBAGE. Choux farcis—the heart is cut out, and a stuff- ing of sausage-meat, &c., put between each leaf. It is braised and served in the sauce. en surprise—the heart cut out, it is filled with sausage-meat and boiled chestnuts, and stewed. CARDOONS. Boiled cardoons are served au veloute in white sauce; d VEspagnole in brown sauce; or au gratin covered with breadcrumbs, sprinkled with melted butter, and browned. If grated cheese is mixed with the breadcrumbs, they are called d Vltalienne. Gardens au jus are stewed, and served in brown sauce with beef marrow. Garnished with pieces of toast spread with beef marrow, they are called d la Moelle.Vegetables. 119 A puree of cardoons ■with cream, &c., garnished with croutons, is served as Puree de cardans aux croiitons. CARROTS. Boiled and cut in shapes, carrots are served as : CarottGS d la Bechamel, in Bechamel sauce, garnished with croutons; or a la poulette, glazed, and served in Poulette sauce. d la menagere are cut in slices and served in a white sauce with wine, herbs, &c. aux petits pais—cut in dice and served "with peas in a white sauce. au sucre—mashed, and dressed with milk, sugar, eggs, &c., the top sprinkled with sugar. Young carrots stewed in white sauce are called Petites carottes, or Carottes nouvelles, d la sauce hlanche. Stewed and glazed, they are glace'es; or d Valle- mande, served with Allemande or hro'wn sauce. CAULIFLOWERS. Chouxfleurs au gratin are masked with a white sauce with grated Parmesan, hreadcrumhed and browned. They may also he called au Parmesan. sauce au heurre are served with butter sauce.120 Menus Made Easy. Chouxfleurs d la sauce—served witli wliite sauce. Pieces of cauliflower, masked with white sauce, dipped in hatter and fried, are called Marinade de chouxfleurs. CELERY. Celeri au jus is stewed in stock. a la moelle is stewed and served on toast, % with brown sauce and beef marrow. d la creme—stewed, and served in a white sauce with cream. d I'Espagnole — stewed, and served in Espagnole sauce. d la Chetwynd—stewed with onions, and served on toast with the onions, and Bechamel sauce with cream, &c. d la Villeroi — masked with Allemande sauce, hreadcrumhed and fried. Celery roots are served with butter sauce as Geleri- rave d la sauce au beurre; stewed and served au jus; or glazed—d la demi glace. They are also dressed as a Puree de celeri-rave. CHESTNUTS. Though properly a fruit, a puree of chestnuts cooked with stock and wine may be served as a vegetable, and called Puree de marrons.I2I Vegetables. CUCUMBER. Slices of cucumber cooked with cream, butter and flour are called Concombres d la creme. Concombres d la poulette—cut in pieces, and cooked with butter and sugar; served in white sauce with cream, chopped parsley, &c. farcies d la creme—the centres scooped out, they are stuffed and stewed; served in Bechamel sauce with cream and sugar. d VEspagnole—cut in short lengths, stuffed, stewed, and served with brown sauce. d la moelle—the stufiing is made of bread- crumbs, beef marrow, &c.; they are served with a brown sauce. EGG PLANT. Aubergines farcies are cut in halves, the centres chopped, and put back into the skins with oil, brown sauce, &c.; sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned. ENDIVE. Chicoree au jus is stewed in stock. —- d la creme is chopped, and dressed with cream, white sauce, &c.; garnished with croutons. If the cream is omitted, it should be called en puree.122 Menus Made Easy. LEEKS. As Poireaux au jus they are stewed in stock. LENTILS. A puree of lentils with stock, garnished with croft- tons, is served as Puree de lentilles aux crolUons. LETTUCE. Lettuce is served au jus, stewed; or as Laitues farcies, the centres cut out, filled with forcemeat and braised. MORELS. Morilles aux cro'dtons are stewed and served with the sauce on buttered toast. d Vltalienne are served in Italian sauce. d VAndalouse are cooked with oil, wine, ham, &c., and served in the sauce. MUSHROOMS. For CroiXtes aux champignons they are broiled and served on toast.123 Vegetables. Champignons dj la sauce are stewed, and served in white sauce. d la Bordelaise are soaked in oil, broiled, and served in the oil with chopped parsley, &c. farcis or au gratin are filled with stufl&ng, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and baked. They are served with or without' brown sauce. Cut in slices they are dressed en ragolU, with broth, chopped parsley, &c.; ox d la creme, with butter, cream, &c. Tor Puree de champignons they are chopped, and served with butter, gravy, &c., garnished with crofitons. ONIONS. Stewed Portugal onions are served as Olgnons au jus. Stewed in a white sauce with puree of ham they are en ragolU. For Oignons farcis the centres are cut out, they are stuffed, and cooked with bacon, &c. Small onions served in Poulette sauce are d la poulette. Au sirop dor4 they are stewed with butter, sugar, &c., and are served in the sauce. A puree of onions with stock is called Pur^e124 Menus Made Easy. d'oignons d la Bretonne. It is garnished with croutons. PEAS. Petits pois d VAnglaise are boiled and served on a lump of butter. d la Frangaise are stewed, and mixed with flour and butter. d la Parisienne—boiled with onions, butter, sugar, &c., and served with the sauce. au jus—stewed in stock. aux laitues—stewed with lettuces. d Vancienne mode—stewed, and served with cream and yolk of egg. They are also served au lard, stewed in stock with dice of bacon, &c.; or aiu jambon with dice of bam, young onions, &c. en cosses are boiled in their shells. POTATOES. Pommes de terre en chemise are boiled in their skins. Boiled and cut in slices they are served d Vanglaise, with butter; d la maitre d’hStel, in maitre d’botel sauce ; or d la creme au gratin, with white sauce and grated Parmesan, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned.Vegetables. I2b Pommes de terre d la Parisienne are cooked in butter and water with onions, &c. au lard—cut in slices and cooked in a white sauce with dice of bacon, &c. d la creme — cut in slices, and served in white sauce. saute'es—cut in slices and fried. a la Macaire—fried potato trimmings. d la Lyonnaise—cut in slices and saut4 in butter with shallot, &c. If oil is used instead of butter they are called d la Provengale. soufflees—^baked in their skins; the potatoes mixed with butter, grated Parmesan, eggs, &c., put back into the skins and browned. d Vltalienne are dressed in the same way, but the potato pulp is mixed with rice, grated Parmesan, &c. nouvelles d la creme are young potatoes boiled in cream with chopped parsley, &c. Croquettes de pommes de terre are potato cro- quettes, breadcrumbed and fried. This paste saute in small shapes, and dressed in a crown with white sauce, is called Pommes de terre d la Duchesse. It is also made into quenelles. Croquettes de pommes de terre d la Bechamel are potato croquettes with Bechamel sauce. A pur^e of potatoes as Puree de pommes de terreMenus Made Easy. 126 gratin4e is sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned. Mixed with white sauce it is called d la Maria. PURSLANE. The stalks of Purslane with cinnamon, &c., dipped in batter and fried, are called Pourpier en friture d la Milanaise. SALSIPIS. Salsifis d la creme is boiled and served in a white sauce. d la Bechamel is served in Bechamel sauce. d la moelle—stewed, and served with beef marrow spread on pieces of toast, and brown sauce. d la 2^oulette—served in white sauce with cream, mushrooms, &c. frits — soaked in oil, &c., breadcrumbed and fried. If the pieces are dipped in batter and fried they are called Beignets de salsifis. SEA-KALE. Boiled sea-kale served on toast with butter sauce is called Ghoux de mer d la sauce; d VBspagnole, it is served in Espagnole sauce.127 Vegetables. SPINACH. Spinach is served d I’Anglaise, with butter or cream; d la Frangaise with butter, stock, &c. Epinards d VAllemande—dressed with butter, cream, breadcrumbs, &c. au veloute—^with veloute sauce. d la creme—^with cream and sugar. au jus is stewed, and served with gravy. au sucre—cooked in butter and mixed with sugar, &c. TOMATOES. Tomates farcies or au gratin—the centres are cut out, they are stuffed, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and baked. d la Provengale — the centres are mixed with oil, chopped onions, &c., put back into the skins and baked. Souffle de tomates is tomato pulp with eggs, baked in small souffle cases. TRUFFLES. Truffes d la serviette are cooked in wine and broth, and served on a napkin.Menus Made Easy. 128 Truffes sous la cendre—wrapped in slices of bacon and paper, and broiled in hot cinders. au vin de champagne—cooked with bacon, veal, mushrooms, champagne, &c.; and served in the sauce. d la Piemontaise—cut in slices, fried in oil with garlic, &c., and served vdth Italian sauce on buttered crusts of rolls. demi Piemontaise are dressed in the same way, substituting tomato sauce with wine and garlic for Italian sauce. d la Lino—truffles dressed “au vin de champagne ” are used for this dish. The centres chopped with forcemeat, &c., put back into the shells, braised, and served with truffle sauce. For Crodtes aux truffes they are cut in slices, cooked in brown sauce with wine, &c., and served on toast. TURNIPS. NS/VGts aVj jus are stewed in stock and served in the shuce. (;(/K, sucre are stewed with stock and sugar. glace's au jus—stewed and glazed in stock. glaces au sucre—cooked "with butter, sugar and stock, and glazed. ^ la cut in shapes and cooked in white sauce.Vczetables. 129 They are also served in a pur4e, garnislied with croutons, as Puree de navets. VEGETABLE MARROW. Potirons, or Giraumons, d la Hollandaise are cut in pieces, baked, and served in Hollandaise sauce. d la Provengale are cut in halves, fried, and filled witli a stufiing of onions, bread- crumbs, oil, &c. au gratin—a puree of vegetable marrow with cream, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned. YAMS or SWEET POTATOES. Patates au heurre are cooked, cut in slices and served with butter. d la Frangaise are cut in pieces, and served in a sauce of butter, fiour, cream, &c. For Beignets de patates they are cut in pieces, soaked in brandy, dipped in batter and fried. Chartreuse de legumes is an ornamental mould of mixed vegetables, filled with chopped vegetables stewed in brown sauce. KMenus Made Easy. 130 Racines en menu droits are slices of onions, carrots and turnips, &c., with mustard and vinegar. SALADS. Salade d la Macedoine de legumes is composed of separate heaps of vegetables, with oil and vinegar. de 'pommes de terre—slices of potatoes and beetroot, with chopped parsley, &c., oil and vinegar. de cresson aux pommes de terre—watercress and slices of potatoes, with oil and vinegar. de tomates—slices of raw tomatoes with chopped shallots, &c., oil and vinegar. de choux rouges a la Russe—red cabbage, with sauce of sour cream, hard-boiled yolks of eggs, &c. aux concombres—slices of cucumber with oil and vinegar. aux hetteraves ~ slices of beetroot, with chopped Portugal onions, oil and vinegar. de chicore'e cb la Frangaise—endive, with oil, vinegar and garlic. d la Frangaise—lettuce, or any one kind of salad only, with oil, vinegar, &c. dVAnglaise—^lettuce, celery,beetroot,endive, &c., with oil and vinegar. d VAllemande—slices of potatoes, BrusselsSalads. sprouts, cauliflower and celery, with oil, vinegar, &c. Salade a Vltalienne—several kinds of salad and vegetables, with meat or fish, anchovies, olives, &c., and Tartare sauce. cb la Flamande—Dutch herrings, or any dried fish, pickled shrimps, apples, beet- root, potatoes, &c., with oil and vinegar. —— d VEspagnole—a border of slices of tomatoes, and pickled onions with Mayonnaise sauce in the centre. d la Russe—carrots, parsnips and beetroot cut in shapes, pieces of fowl or game, an- chovies, olives, Eussian caviare, &c., with oil, vinegar and mustard. Another way of serving it is a mould of vegetables with yolks of eggs, cream, puree of spinach, &c. d la Cazanova—dice of ham and fish, with celery, hard-boiled whites of eggs, &c. Mayonnaise sauce with powdered yolks of eggs. d la Tartare—^lettuce, with pickled cucum- bers, onions, &c., herrings cut in dice, oil and vinegar. d la Demidoff—slices of potatoes and truffles, with oil and vinegar, young onions, &c. d Madame—lettuce, with sauce of oil, vinegar, yolk of egg, &c.Menus Made Easy. 132 Salade d la Jardiniere—fine strips of vege- tables, with oil, vinegar, &c. Cerises d la vinaigrette is composed of stoned cherries, fillets of anchovies, young onions, chopped hacon, &c,, with oil, vinegar, mustard and spice.CHAPTER VII. EGGS AND OMELETTES. EGGS. Poached eggs, or (Eufs poches, may be served au jus, with brown gravy, garnished with fillets of anchovy placed crosswise on each egg; or au jambon, on oval slices of fried ham, with Poivrade sauce. So-called “buttered” eggs—cooked with butter, &c.—are served as (Eufs brouilles. CEufs brouilles aux pointes d’asperges, aux champignons, aux truffes, or au jambon, are dressed in the same way, with the addition of asparagus cut up, chopped mushrooms, truffles, or ham. hrouilUs d VIndienne are cooked with butter, chopped onion, curry powder, &c. au beurre noir—fried, and served in black- butter sauce. d la Suisse are baked in a dish lined with slices of cheese, covered with cream and sprinkled with grated cheese.^34 Menus Made Easy. (Eufs aVj IcojTi, or d VIndienne, are poached in a sauce of milk, butter, onions, curry powder, &c. au miroir are baked with butter, &c., in the dish in which they are served. aux pistacJies—^mixed with cream, pounded pistachio nuts, &c., and baked. d la bonne femme—baked with chopped onions and vinegar. an soleil—^poached, dipped in a batter and fried. d la neige—spoonfuls of whipped whites poached in milk, &c.; served in the milk with yolks of eggs. cn caisse—cooked in little souffle cases half filled with breadcrumbs. au bouillon—steamed with stock in little moulds; served with gravy. d la Provengale—cooked in small moulds with brown sauce, chopped onions, &c., and served with brown sauce. d la Bechamel are hard-boiled, cut in halves, and served in Bechamel sauce. au veloute—hard-boiled, cut in slices and served in white sauce. d la Tripe—slices of eggs with slices of onions, and Bechamel sauce with garlic, &c. au gratin—slices in layers with white sauce, grated Parmesan, &c.; sprinkled with bread- crumbs and grated Parmesan, and baked.135 O^ndettes. CEufs a Vauvore—shred hard-boiled whites of eggs in Aurora sauce, iu layers with grated . Parmesan and the yolks of the eggs powdered. d la St. Jarties—^boHed hard in moulds, the yoUcs mixed with chopped truffles and put back into the whites; served in Mayon- naise sauce with chopped truffles. en canapes—hard-boiled and cut in halves, the yolks mixed with chopped parsley, butter, &c., and put hack into the whites. farcis d la creme are prepared in the same way, and served with Bechamel sauce. en aspic—slices of hard-boiled eggs set in a mould of aspic. Plovers’ or Lapwings’ eggs are set in a mould of aspic, or served \nth a border of aspic round them, as (Eufs de pluviers, or vanneav/r, en aspic, or d Vaspic. OMELETTES. A simple omelette is called Omelette au naturel. Omelette aux fines herhes is a savoury omelette —with chopped parsley and shallot. an Parmesan—^with grated Parmesan; if Gruyere cheese is used instead of Par- mesan it is called aufromage.136 M671118 Made Easy. OinGlGttG au jamhon—with chopped ham. au lard—with chopped fried bacon. d la puree de volaille, or gibier, has some of the puree in the centre of the omelette. aux truffes has shoes of truffles in brown sauce in the centre of the omelette. aux champignons—with mushrooms in brown sauce in the centre. aux tomates—with dressed tomatoes in the centre of the omelette. aux olives—with olives and brown sauce in the centre. aux huitres—"with oysters in white sauce in the centre. aux rognons—kidneys with fine herbs in the centre of a savoury omelette. aux anchois has fillets of anchovy on pieces of toast in the centre; it is served with gravy. d la Jardiniere is made with chopped veget* ahles mixed with the eggs. In addition to these there are the sweet omelettes— au sucre. OmGlcttG aux confitures—a sweet omelette folded over jam. au rhum—a sweet omelette with rum, and a sauce of burning rum. d la Celestine—a small omelette of sugar,137 Omelettes. flour, milk and eggs, with apricot marma- lade and frangipane in the centre. An Omelette souffle'e is made with sugar, beaten yolks and beaten whites of eggs, and is baked. For Omelette soitffle'e a la creme, whipped cream is used instead of some of the whites of eggs.CHAPTER VIII. ENTREMETS. CAKES AND PASTKY. Gateau N'apolitaine is a cake composed oC thin round pieces of a paste of pounded almonds, flour, butter, yolks of eggs, &c., spread with preserve and piled, one on the other. Garnished with pistachio nuts, or masked with the preserve, or glazed with sugar icing. It is sometimes called Gateau Napolitaine a la Chantilly. a la Compiegne is a cake of flour, butter, eggs, cream, &c.; cut in slices, spread with apricot marmalade, and put together again. d la Victoria—a cake of flour, butter, eggs, dried cherries, citron, cream, &c.; served with almond custard. d’amandes—a cake of ground almonds, eggs, sugar, &c. de pistaches is made in the same way with pistachio nuts instead of almonds.Cakes and Pastry. 139 GMeau Baint Louis — a cake of flour, butter, wbites of eggs, almonds, &c., in a sbell of paste; sprinkled with chopped almonds. Saint Charles is an almond cake baked in a mould lined with paste. de riz—rice cake. Served au caramel it has burnt sugar sauce. de riz d la hourgeoise—a rice cake baked in a mould lined with breadcrumbs; served with any fruit sauce. de semoule—semolina cake. Served with cream it is called d la creme. Baba au rhum—a cake of flour, butter, eggs, sultana raisins, citron, &c., baked in a mould decreasing in stages, and served with a sauce of apricot syrup and rum. It is sometimes called Baha d la Polonaise. Brioche d la creme—a cake of flour, butter, eggs, whipped cream, &c. If served with stewed fruit it is called Brioche aux fruits. Gateau de mille feuilles—a pile of thin round pieces of puff paste, spread alternately with apricot marmalade, orange marmalade and currant jelly. Masked with apricot marma- lade, and garnished with dried cherries. Gdnoise—^Httle shapes or cakes made of a batter of pounded almonds, sugar, flour, eggs, whipped cream, &c., decorated with pink and white icing. The small shapes are140 Menus Made Easy. sometimes called Q^noises glacis a V Italienne. There are various other ways in which this is served. As Gateau ginoise aux ahricots it is a cake cut in slices, spread with apricot marmalade, and put together again; covered with the marmalade, and served with whipped cream. Genoises aux amandes are masked with merin- gue mixture, and sprinkled with chopped almonds, &c. Patisserie ginoise is Genoese pastry made of flour, butter, sugar, eggs and brandy, cut into sandwiches with jam. A Genoese cake is served in this way as Biscuits a la Venitienne, coated with pink and white icing sugar. As Puits d’amour it is cut in shapes an inch thick, the centres cut out, and the space filled with whipped cream and preserve. The whole glazed with sugar icing. These are also made with pound cake instead of Genoese. Biscuit de Savoie is Savoy or sponge cake. Any cake cut in small shapes and glazed with chocolate is served as Cliocolat glace'. Sponge biscuits glazed with chocolate are called Biscuit glace au cliocolat. Petits pains d la Parisienne are sandwiches of Anger biscuits with preserve, maskedCakes and Pastry. 141 with alternate lines of meringue mixture and preserve. Petits gMeaux anx amandes are small shapes of a paste of flour, sugar, eggs, almonds, &c., with chopped almonds strewn on the top ; they are served witli whipped cream or preserve in the centre of the dish. d rirlandaise—small cakes of a batter of flour, butter, eggs, &c. GMeaux d la reine—small shapes of a paste of pounded almonds, sugar and whites of eggs ; glazed with sugar icing. Petits gateaux d la Victoria—little cakes of flour, butter, pounded almonds, maras- chino, &c., spread with orange marmalade, and glazed with yellow icing. Madeleines are little cakes of a hatter of flour, butter, eggs, brandy, &c. Darioles—a batter of flour, sugar, eggs, cream, pounded almonds, &c., baked in dariole moulds lined with paste, with candied orange flowers on the top. Flavoured with vanilla or cofiee they are called d la vanille, or au cafe. d la Duchesse are Duchess cakes made of a batter of flour, eggs, citron, angelica, dried cherries, &c.; glazed with white sugar. d la patissiere are small cakes of sugar, flour, butter, cream, yolks of eggs, &c142 Menus Made Easy. Biscuits a Vltalienne are fancy shapes of a paste of flour, sugar, eggs, chopped almonds, &c., spread with jam, and put together in pairs. They are served in a crown with whipped cream in the centre. aux 'peclies are round-topped biscuits spread with jam and put together in pairs in the shape of peaches; coated with white icing and a little red colouring. aux dbricots are made in the same way, hut of a smaller size. Apricot jam should be used, and yellow icing. Gateaux d la creme—pastry of cream, flour and butter, in fancy shapes. Gateau feuillete' is puff paste cut in shapes. Puit de fruits aux blanches couronnes is formed of rings of puff paste spread with preserve, and put one on the other in a pile ; garnished with angelica, and a piping of whipped cream; the centre flUed with stewed fruit. Gateaux d la Condi—thin oblong or fancy shapes of puff paste, the surface covered with chopped almonds, sugar, &c. This is sometimes called Pdtisseme d'amandes d la Condi. Petits gateaux d’abricots are square pieces of puff paste folded over apricot marmalade. ^ la Polonaise are little folded envelopes143 Cakes and Pastry. of puff paste, garnislied with red currant jelly. ilventail aux cerises—strips of puff paste on a ' border of apple marmalade with stewed cherries in the centre. Petits vol-au-vents d la Chantilly are little vol-au-vents of puff paste filled with marmalade and cream “ a la Chantilly.” d la gele'e mousseuse are covered with chopped sugar coloured red, and filled with Maraschino jelly whipped to a froth. As Petits puits aux pistaches they are covered with chopped pistachio nuts and sugar, and fiUed with whipped cream. PMisserie d la tariwe—sandwiches of puff paste and jam. Gauflres d la Frangaise—a batter of flour, sugar, whipped cream, eggs, &c., baked in gaufife irons. d VAllemande, d la Flamancle, and de Carlsbad, are varieties of the French gauffres. aux amandes—a hatter of flour, sugar, almonds, eggs, &c., baked in thin pieces, coiled round and fiUed with whipped cream. Suedoises d la creme—a batter of flour, sugar, almonds, &c., baked in small balls, and served with whipped cream.144 Memis Made Easy. Potits clioux are Spanisli cakes made of a batter of flour, butter, eggs, sugar, &c., baked in small balls. They are served wax amandes, or d la creme, covered with chopped almonds and sugar, or filled with cream; aw caramel they are dipped in boiled sugar and covered with chopped pistachio nuts and sugar. a VEs'pagnole are fried in the shape of small balls. A la comtesse they are baked in finger-shaped pieces and filled with cream; en gimhlettes, deep rings of the paste are covered with chopped pistachio nuts and sugar. Petits pains de la Mecque, or Mecca loaves, are small oval cakes made of the same paste with the addition of whipped cream ; sprinkled with chopped sugar. Flavoured with lemon they are called Petits 'pains de la Mecque au citron. Soupirs de nonne, or Pets de nonne, are made of a paste of butter, sugar, flour, eggs, orange-flower water, &c., fried in small balls. This paste, in the shape of fingers, glazed with chocolate, is called Pclairs au chocolat. Profiterolles—small oval cakes of milk, butter, sugar, eggs, &c.; served with chocolate sauce.145 Cakes and Pastry. Gateaux fourres aux confitures are jam turn- overs or puffs. fourres dj la creme are turnovers or puffs filled with frangipane. fourres de pommes d la Parisienne are paste turnovers filled with stewed apples and apricot marmalade. d'Artois, or d la Manon, are small covered puff-paste tarts or tartlets filled with any kind of preserve. Filled with apricot jam they may he called D’Artois aux ahricots. Mince pies are called Pates d’emincd. Tartlets are filled with any kind of preserve, and take their name from it—as Tartelettes de fraises, aux cerises, aux prunes, &c.; d la vanille they are fiUed with pounded almonds, vanilla sugar, whipped whites of eggs, &c. TartGlettGS de creme d la Frangipane are filled with frangipane. d la Mosa/ique are filled with preserve, and covered with a mosaic of paste. d la Pompadour are filled with a hall of brioche paste folded over apricot or other marmalade, and sprinkled with sugar. DauphiUGS are tartlets fiUed with preserve, with146 Menus Made Easy. custard over it, and Meringue mixture piled on the top. Fanchonettes are tartlets filled with custard, meringued over, and the tops ornamented with little miniature meringues. In Fanchonettes a la vanille the custard is flavoured with vanilla. Mirlitons aux flenrs d’oranger are tartlets filled with a hatter of eggs, sugar, butter, pounded macaroons, candied orange flowers, &c. They are flavoured in various ways— aux amandes, with almonds instead of the orange flowers; or au chocolat, with chocolate. Aux confitures they are half filled with jam before the hatter is put in. Talmouses are cheese-cakes. au citron—lemon cheese-cakes. aux amandes are made of pounded almonds with sugar, butter, ground rice and eggs. aux oranges—made of pounded almonds, orange-flower water, sugar, butter and eggs, with orange marmalade. Of the fruit tarts there are Tarte aux abricots— apricots; aux 'prunes -plums; aux prunes reine- claude—greengages ; de peches — peaches; de pommes—apples; de pommes aux coings—apple with quince; de poires—peavs; de framboises et groseilles—raspberries and currants; de groseilles, vertes or d maquereau—green gooseberries; de147 Cakes and Pastry. groseilles—currants; de cassis—black currants ; de raisins verts—green grapes; de cerises—cherries; de rlmbarhe—rhubarb. Tourte d la creme d’amandes is an open tart filled with almond cream. d la frangipane is an open tart filled with Frangipane—a custard of flour, eggs, cream, butter or beef marrow, &c. d’ahricots d VAUemande—an open tart filled with apricots, and apricot marmalade over them. Flan de poires, de cerises, de /raises, &c., are open fruit tarts. d’oranges is an open tart filled with stewed oranges. cVamandes d la dPscars—an open tart filled with a custard of green almonds with candied orange flowers, yolks of eggs, cream, &c. This is also made with filberts. a la creme pralin4e is filled with custard, and is sprinkled with sugar and glazed. cVabricots d la Metternich is filled with apricots and cherries, and the pounded kernels with cream on the top. Fommes en croustade is a baked shape of paste filled with stewed apples, and garnished with dried cherries.Menus Made Easy. 148 Apple dumplings are called Dumylings aux ’pommes. PUDDINGS. Plum pouding—Plum pudding. Pouding au riz—Rice pudding. au tapioca—Tapioca pudding. au sagou—Sago pudding. d la semoule—Semolina pudding. au macaroni—Macaroni pudding. au vermicelle—^Vermicelli pudding. d la crbme de riz—Ground rice pudding. au pain — Bread-and-butter pudding. Another pudding “ au pain ” is made of breadcrumbs, milk, eggs, lemon peel, &c. au pain his—Brown-bread pudding. aux ahricots—breadcrumbs, cream, sugar, yolks of eggs and apricots, baked in a mould lined with paste. aux groseilles—a puree of gooseberries, with breadcrumbs, eggs, &c.; baked in a mould lined with paste. aux marrons—a mould of chestnut flour, butter, milk, eggs, &c. It is served with apncot syrup or jam. aux pommes—a baked pudding of alternate layers of breadcrumbs and apple sauce.Ptiddings. 149 Ponding auxfigues—a, boiled mould of pounded figs, suet, milk, eggs, breadcrumbs, &c. d Vananas — Pine-apple pudding. Whip ' sauce, with the pineapple syrup, is served with it. au gingemhre—Ginger pudding. au citron—Lemon pudding. aux oranges is made in the same way as lemon pudding, with oranges instead of lemons. au chocolat—a steamed mould of sponge cake in crumbs, butter, sugar, eggs, chocolate, &c. au caramel—custard pudding in a mould with burnt sugar. It is usually served cold, with burnt-sugar sauce, or with burnt brandy and sugar. d la ma,rmelade—a steamed mould of flour, brown sugar, milk, eggs, marmalade, &c.; served with marmalade sauce. souffle—very Hght steamed pudding; it is served with wine or marmalade sauce, or with a syrup of fi’uit. de cabinet, or Cabinet ponding—Cabinet pudding. This is also iced and served as Ponding de cabinet glace. au biscuit de Savoie—a sponge cake with brandy, steamed in a mould with custard and dried cherries.Menus Made Easy. 150 Pouding d la Snowdon—a steamed pudding of suet, breadcrumbs, brown sugar and marmalade. d la Goivley—a pudding of mashed potatoes, almonds, sugar, eggs, &c.; it is served covered with whip sauce. d la Mousseline—a steamed pudding of lemon, sugar, butter, eggs, &c.; served with a sweet sauce. d la Victoria—a pudding of flour, bread- crumbs, dried cherries, candied peel, cream, eggs, brandy, &c.; served with whip sauce. d VAllemande—a mould of bread cut in dice, almonds, raisins, sugar, custard, wine, &c.; served with whip sauce. Genoise—Genoese pastry spread with pre- serve and rolled. Nesselrode, or d la Nesselrode—Ice pudding. Croc|.uettes de riz are rice croquettes. de creme de riz—Ground-rice croquettes. de semoule—Semolina croquettes. de vermicelle—Vermicelli croquettes. Croustade de riz is a fancy mould of rice, the centre filled with a cornflour custard. Riz meringue — rice, with milk, cream, sugar, whites of eggs, &c.; sprinkled with sugar and baked. Dumpli'iig ferme—small balls of a paste of flour,Fritters. 151 water and currants ; served with wint sauce. Quenelles d la creme are small quenelles of a paste of flour, cream, eggs, &c. They are also made cb la semoule with semolina. Soupe dore'e, or Pain perdu—small shapes of bread, soaked in milk, &c., dipped in beaten eggs and fried. miTTERS. Beignets d’ahricots d la Chartres are apricot fritters. d’ahricots d Veau de vie—sandwiches of bread dipped in brandy, and half apricots; fried in hatter. de peches d la royale—^peach fritters. de peches au vin du Rhin—^half peaches soaked in Rhine wine, &c., and fried; served in a syrup of the wine with the kernels. depommes d la d’Orleans—apple fritters. de pommes d la Bavarie—apples soaked in brandy, &c., floured and fried. de poires—pear fritters. de /raises d la Dauphine — strawberry fritters. de groseilles d la Dauphine — currant fritters. d’ananas—pine-apple fritters.i52 Menus Made Easy. Beignets d’oranges—orange fritters. de fieurs de sureau—fritters of sprigs of elder flowers. d la crime are custard fritters. aux confitures—small sandwdches of cake and jam, dipped in batter with wine, and fried. au riz—round or oval pieces of a paste of ground rice with milk, eggs, &c., bread- crumbed and fried. d la honne femme—small fried balls of a paste of butter, sugar, eggs, &c. d la Chantilly are made of a batter of flour, eggs, cream cheese, wine, &c. de Gintra—thin round slices of cake soaked in cream, &c., floured and fried. d VAllemande—small round sandwiches of brioche paste and preserve; fried. d la Prussienne are the same made of puff paste, with apple marmalade. d I’Espagnole—small pieces of crumb of French roll soaked in cream, &c., and fried. d la Portugaise—balls of a paste of rice, milk, sugar, eggs, &c., with marmalade in the centre ; breadcrumbed and fried. en surprise—apples with the stalks left on, soaked in brandy, &c., fllled with apricot jam, dipped in batter and fried.Compotes^ &c., of Fruit. 153 Beignets souffles d- la vanille are small fried balls of a batter flavoured with vanilla. aux fleurs d’oranger are flavoured witli orange-flower water. aux confitures are served with, preserve. au maizena are made with maizena. Crepes are pancakes. aux confitures are spread with preserve and rolled. au riz are made of rice with sugar, cream, eggs, &c. au maizena are made with maizena. d la Frangaise—a batter of eggs, sugar, cream and flour, fried and folded over preserve. COMPOTES, &c., OF FRUIT. Compote d'abricots—apricots boiled in syrup. It is also made of green apricots. d’ahricots d la Breteuil — half apricots sprinkled with sugar and broiled; served with apricot and raspberry syrup. Abricots au riz are stewed apricots with rice. Served round a shape of rice, with apricot syrup, they are called d la Conde. Pain d’ahricots is a mould of apricot cheese ; it is served with cream in the centre.154 Menus Made Easy. Meringue d’abricots—apricot marmalade with custard over it, and Meringue mixture on the top. GroiUes aux ahricots are fried slices of bread spread with preserved apricots, and served with a syrup of apricots. Compote de peches—peaches boiled in syrup. They are also dressed d la Conde, and as Pain de peches in the same way as apricots. Chartreuse de peches is a mould ornamentally lined with pieces of peaches, and filled with peach marmalade. Gateau de Mirabelles is a mould of Mirabelle plum marmalade. Plums are also dressed as Meringue de prunes in the same way as apricots. de prunes d la creme is a mould of stewed prunes, currant jelly, &c.; served with whipped cream in the centre. Prunes au riz are stewed prunes with rice. Pain de prunes de damas is a mould of damson cheese or marmalade. Compote de prunes reine-claude—^greengages boiled in syrup. GroiUes aux reine-claude are little patties of fried bread filled with compote of green- gages, and the syrup poured round. Pommes au beurre are apples filled with butter and sugar, and baked.155 Compotes, &c., of Fruit. Pommes au riz are stewed apples witli rice. a^6 riz en timbale—a shell of paste filled with rice, and steWed apples in the centre ; covered with apricot marmalade. au riz meringue are stewed, and served in a border of rice with custard over them, and the whole covered with Meringue mixture. meringue'es are dressed in the same way without the rice. d la Gonde are dressed the same as apricots. d la Portugaise are baked, and covered with apricot marmalade. Miroton de pommes—stewed apples with melted currant jelly and wine; garnished with dried cherries. Gateau de pommes is a mould of apple mar- malade ; served with a custard sauce. de pommes aux ahricots—a mould of apple marmalade, covered with apricot marmalade. Pain de pommes d la Russe is a mould of apple marmalade with whipped cream in the centre, and melted currant jelly round. Croquettes de pommes are pieces of apple mar- malade, hreadcrumbed and fried. Meringue de pommes d la Portugaise—a round shell of paste filled with apple marmalade, with half apples on the top, and a well ofMeniLS Made Easy. 156 custard in the centre ; spread with orange niarmalade, and covered with Meringue mixture. Chartreuse de 'pommes is a mould ornament- ally lined with slices of apples, coloured pink and yellow, and filled with apple marmalade. Charlotte de pommes is Apple Charlotte. If apricot jam is mixed with the apple mar- malade it is called Charlotte de pommes aux ahricots. Pears are dressed au riz, as Charlotte de poires, and in many of the ways given for apples. Timbale de poires is stewed pears in a shell of paste, covered with apricot marmalade. Compote de poires au riz—a compote of pears stewed in syrup, served cold with a border of rice. de fruits d la Normande is a mould of pears stewed in cider. Slices of fried bread spread with this compote are called Crodtes d la Normande. They are dressed in a circle, with a syrup of the jam with wine in the centre. Cro4tes aux /raises d la Bellerive — strawberries spread on buttered buns. Pain de framhoises et groseilles is a mould of raspberry and currant cheese; it is servedCompotes, &c., of Fruit. 157 witli cream in the centre. Black currants are dressed in this way as Pam de cassis d la crime. Compote d’oranges—oranges boiled in syrup. Pain d'ananas is a mould of pine-apple cheese. Croiltes aux ananas are little patties of fried bread, filled with compote of pine-apples and served with the syrup. Compote de marrons—^boiled chestnuts with syrup. Gateau de marrons is a steamed mould of pounded chestnuts with cream, eggs, &c. Balls of this preparation, breadcrumhed and fried, are served as Croquettes de marrons. Marrons d la crime are powdered chestnuts covered with whipped cream. Ch^taignes croquantes are small crystallized pieces of pounded chestnuts with sugar, eggs, &c. Chartreuse de fmiits is an ornamental mould of fruit. Macedoine de fruits is composed of mixed fruits in syrup. Au citron it is flavoured with lemon. de fruits en gele'e is a mould of alternate layers of the different fruits, and of jeUy. Croiltes aux fruits are fried slices of bread spreadr5^ Menus Made Easy. with preserved fruit, and served with a syrup of the fruit. Potits nouga/ts a la Chantilly are small shapes of nougat filled with Chantilly cream. Croq.uantGS are small pieces of nougat. CBEAMS. Creme au chocolat is chocolate cream. These creams served in little cups, are called Petits pots cle creme au chocolat, &c. au cafe is coffee cream. dc the is tea cream. de the vert is green tea cream. a la vanille is vanilla cream. au ponche is flavoured with punch. au noyau is flavoured with noyau. au marasquin is flavoured with maraschino. — aux ahricots is apricot cream. de /raises is strawberry cream. de framhoises is raspberry cream. a Vananas is pineapple cream. aux mille fruits is made with preserved strawberries, raspberries, apricots, plums and other fruits. d’oranges is orange cream. d’amandes is almond cream. aux fleurs d’oranger is made of fresh orange flowers boiled in cream.159 Creams. Creme hrulee, or au caramel, is made of yolks of eggs, milk, burnt sugar, &c. de velours is made of cream, sugar, wine, &c. au gelee—a mould of whipped jelly and cream. vierge—small moulds of cream with pounded almonds, &c. a la Chantilly is made of whites of eggs and cream, with sugar, &c. d la Gelestine—a mould lined with straw- berries and filled with any kind of cream. d Vltalienne is made with cream, sugar, eggs, curacao, dried cherries, candied peel, &c. d la Flamande is made of cream, eggs, sugar, arrowroot, madeira, &c. d la Hollandaise is made of yolks of eggs and wine, with whipped cream, &c. d la Bavaroise—a mould of whipped cream, with flavouring, &c. Bavarois aux pommes is made of stewed apples, with whipped cream and noyau or maraschino. auxpoires is made in the same way with pears. aux fruits is Bavarian cream served with stewed fruit or a syrup of fruit. aux pistaches—pounded pistachio nuts and almonds, &c., with whipped cream, coloured with spinach juice; sprinkled with chopped pistachio nuts.i6o Menus Made Easy. Bavarois qai maizena is a cream of sugar, milk, maizena and yolks of eggs. glac^ is iced Bavarian cream. Cr^niG fouGtteG de fraises, or Mousse aux fraises, is whipped strawberries and cream. aux framboises—^whipped raspberries and cream. Blanc-mangGr au cafe is blanc-mange flavoured with cofiee; d la vanille it is flavoured with vanilla. aux amandes is made ■with pounded almonds, and flavoured with orange-flower water. CrGmG frite d la patissiere is a custard cut in pieces, breadcrumbed and fried. frite au chocolat—a chocolate cream cut in pieces, breadcrumbed and fried. MGringUGS d la creme are meringues filled with whipped cream. aux fraises are filled with whipped straw- berries and cream. d la Chantilly are filled "with Chantilly cream. PGtitGS mGring'QGS aux pistaches are small meringues sprinkled with chopped pistachio nuts, and filled with whipped cream. MGringUG d la Parisienne—a pile of rings of meringue preparation, piped with currant jelly in stripes, the centre filled with cream and garnished with strawberries.Creams. i6i Charlotte Russe is a mould lined with finger biscuits, and filled with whipped cream. Prussienne is a mould with half an inch of red jelly at the bottom, lined with finger biscuits, and the centre filled with Bavarian cream, aux /raises—a mould Hned with strawberries, and filled with maraschiiio cream. Biscuits d la crhne—a rich frothy cream, baked in small paper cases. Parfait au chocolat or au cafe is a tall conical mould of chocolate or cofllee cream ice. Glaces au four are small pieces of ice, folded in paste and baked. Glace meringuee au four is a mould of any kind of cream ice, covered with a meringue pre- paration, and browned. Gateau glace a VEloise—a mould lined with whipped cream, and filled with custard and stewed cherries; iced, and served with custard over it. Cartouches de M. de Gupidon—Love’s car- tridges—vanilla cream ice in the shape of cartridges, filled with chocolate. Glace de Plombieres is an ice of pounded almonds, sugar, cream, eggs, &c. This ice is not put in a mould, and is served with apricot jam. Bombe glacee—a cream of yolks of eggs with syrup, &c., iced in a round “ bombe ” mould. MMenus Made Easy. i62 Granito Romaine is a liquid ice of coffee and syrup, served in little cups. JELLIES. Gelee de pommes—Apple jelly. de prunes—Plum jelly. d'oranges—Orange jelly. de citron—Lemon jelly. de cassis—Black currant jelly. de cerises—Cherry jelly. de framhoises—Easpberry jelly. de /raises is jelly coloured red, with whole strawberries in it. If the jelly is flavoured with vanilla, it is called Gelee de /raises d, la vanille. de m/dres sauvages a la crhme—a mould of blackberry jelly with whipped cream in the centre. d Vananas is pine-apple jelly, with pieces of pineapple in it. aujus de grenades—Pomegranate jeUy. d la macedoine de /ruits—whole fruits in a jelly flavoured with maraschino. au mad'ere—Wine jelly. au odium is flavoured with rum. au noyau is flavoured with noyau. au marasquin is flavoured with maraschino. d la Chartreuse is flavoured with Chartreuse.163 y el lies. Gelee au curagdo is flavoured with curacao. au ponche is flavoui’ed with punch. au Kirsch is flavoured with Kirschenwasser. de Dantzic aux /raises is flavoured with cherry brandy, and has whole strawberries in it. de marasquin aux ahricots is flavoured with maraschino, and has pieces of apricots in it. de noyau aux fruits is flavoured with noyau, and has pieces of apricots and strawberries, or other fruits, in it. aux violettes printanieres is made of an infusion of fresh violets in syrup. Jellies of fresh flowers are also made of roses, pinks, jonquils, &c. d la Bacchante is made with the juice of green grapes and spinach, champagne, &c. d la PanacMe—a mould of alternate layers of white and pink jelly. d la Busse—a mould of jelly whisked to a froth. mousseuse d I’eau de vie—a mould of jelly whipped with brandy. mousseuse aux oranges—a mould of orange jelly whisked to a froth. fouetUe aux fruits — whipped maraschino jelly, with pieces of apricots, cherries, strawberries, &c. Kiselle is a jelly made of flour with fruit syrup.164 Menus Made Easy. SOUFFLES. These may be served in a souffle dish, or in small paper cases as Petits souffles. Sou£3.e au cafe is flavoured with coJffee. au chocolat is flavoured with chocolate. au cafe vierge is flavoured with green cofiee. au citron is flavoured with lemon. a la vanille is flavoured with vanilla. au marasquin is flavoured with maraschino. aux amandes is flavoured with pounded almonds. aux macarons is flavoured with macaroons. auxfieurs d’or anger is flavoured with candied orange flowers, or orange-flower water. au gingembre is flavoured with preserved ginger. aux ahricots is made with the addition of stewed apricots. Souffles are also made with other fruit. d la creme is made with whipped cream instead of some of the whites of eggs. Baked in small paper cases it is called Biscuits souffle d la creme. au riz is a rice souffle flavoured with lemon or vanilla. d la creme de riz is made with ground rice. au tapioca is made with tapioca. d la fflcule de pommes de terre is made with potato flour.Soufflis. 165 Souffle d la Paysanne—a puree of apples, witli a puree of chestnuts ■with, cream over it, and meringue mixture on the top. — glace au marasquin is an iced souffle flavoured ■with maraschino. Cofiee or other flavouring may he substituted for maras- chino, and the souffle named accordingly. Iced in small paper cases it is called Biscuits glaces au marasquin, &c. glace aux /raises is an iced stra^wherry souffle. glace vanille et chocolat—an iced vanilla souffle, ■with chocolate on the top. glac4 au curagao—an iced souffle flavoured with curacao and covered ■with a meringue preparation. Iced in small paper cases this is called Biscuit mousseiix glac^ en caisse.CHAPTER IX. SAVOUEY ENTREMETS OF CHEESE, ETC. Souffle au Parmesan is a cheese souffle. As Petits souffles it is served in small paper cases. Fondue au Parmesan is a cheese fondu, baked in a souffle dish or paper case, or steamed. d la Nafolitaine has the addition of short pieces of macaroni. au pdte d’ltalie has the addition of Italian paste. These may all be served in small paper cases as Petites fondues. Petites fondues en caisse au Stilton are made with the addition of small dice of Stilton cheese. Ramequins are made of milk, flour, eggs, grated Parmesan, &c., baked in small paper cases. d la Raymond are made with Gruyere cheese, and are baked in small lumps. d la Sefton, or aufeuilletage, are small shapes of pufi" paste with grated Gruyere and Par- mesan cheese.Savoury Entremets. 167 Ramequins d la Genevoise—grated cheese with cream, baked on slices of bread. Nudeln au Parmesan are poached quenelles of butter, flour, milk, eggs, grated Parmesan, &c. Kluskis an fromage d la creme are little poached rolls of a paste of cream cheese, butter, eggs, breadcrumbs, &c.; served with black- butter sauce. Canapes au fromage—dissolved Parmesan on round slices of fried bread. Croutes au fromage—grated cheese with butter, breadcrumbs, yolks of eggs, &c., spread on pieces of toast and browned. Brioches au fromage are small cakes of brioche paste with grated Parmesan and small dice of Gruyere. Grugere au fromage—butter, grated cheese, flour and eggs, baked with shoes of cheese on the top, and glazed. Creme de fromage—a baked cream of grated cheese, eggs and milk. Petits pains de fromage are little cakes of flour, butter and grated cheese. Fromage cuit is toasted cheese. Tartelettes d la Sefton are tartlets of a paste of grated Parmesan, flour, butter, &c., fllled with a cheese custard. Failles au Parmesan are cheese straws.Menus Made Easy. i68 Failles la Sefton are cheese straws of puff paste with grated Parmesan. Diablotins au Qruyere are little fried balls, the size of chocolate drops, of a paste of milk, butter, flour, eggs, grated cheese, &c. Biscuits au fromage are cheese biscuits. d la Diahle au fromage are biscuits spread with cheese, mustard, cayenne, &c., and grilled. d la Russe—biscuits spread with ''chopped parsley, hard-boiled egg and anchovies, and ornamented with the separate ingredients. Talmouses d la Saint-Denys are biscuits of flour, cream curds, cheese, butter and eggs. Timbale d la Diahle is a mould of layers of rice with grated Parmesan, &c., with alternately slices of ham and of Gruyere cheese, between the layers of rice. Baked and served with gravy. Croutes au jambon are ham toasts. d VIndienne—hutter, eggs, chopped capers, anchovy, &c., on small pieces of buttered toast. aux anchois are small pieces of fried bread spread with anchovy butter or paste. They are sometimes garnished with fillets ot anchovy. Canapes aux anchois are round slices of friedSavoury Entremets. 169 bread with chopped anchovies, capers, yolk and white of egg arranged on them separately in quarters. Allumettes d’anchois are strips of anchovies wrapped in paste and fried. Anchois farcis—anchovies boned, stuffed, dipped in batter and fried. RSties d la minime are fillets of anchovies or sardines on oblong pieces of fried bread; served with a sauce of oil, vinegar, &c. Sardines au Parmesan are sardines on buttered strips of toast spread with grated Parmesan. en papillotes are boned, stuffed, and served in papers. Tartines de caviare—Russian caviare spread on small slices of buttered toast. Canape's d la Prince de Galles — very small rolls filled with chopped ham, anchovies, gherkins and truffles, with oil, vinegar, &c. The top covered with aspic or Mayonnaise sauce. Macaroni au gratin—macaroni with grated cheese and white sauce. Sprinkled with breadcrumbs, Parmesan and melted butter, and baked, d Ioj creme is macaroni in a sauce of grated cheese, butter and cream. Garnished with crohtons.170 Menus Made Easy. Macaroni a Vltalienne—macaroni witli grated Parmesan, gravy and melted butter. d, la Napolitaine—with grated Parmesan, cream, &c, aux tomates—with a puree of tomatoes; garnished with croutons. la sauce tomates is dressed with cream, grated cheese, &c., and covered with tomato sauce. en timbale—dressed with butter and grated cheese in a shell of paste, with a paste cover. Timbale de macaroni d la Florentine is the same with the addition of cream, sugar and vaniUa. Croquettes de macaroni au fromage are cro- quettes of macaroni with grated Parmesan, Bechamel sauce, &c.; breadcrumbed and fried. Riz a VIndienne is curried rice. d la Turque is rice with melted butter. d la Milanaise—a mould of rice boiled in broth, with grated Parmesan, &c. d VEsjpagnole is served with tomato sauce, grated cheese, &c. ; garnished with slices of ham. d la Florentine—^with chopped onion, curry paste, grated Parmesan, and shrimps or prawns.171 Savoury Entremets. Riz la Piemontaise^dxY rice with potato pulp, grated Parmesan, &c. Garnished with fillets of anchovies. a la Polonaise—served with shoes of fried onion, grated ham and cheese, d la Mustapha—with melted butter and chopped truffles.CHAPTER X. 1 ICES OR GLACES. At large dinners it is usually the custom to give the names of the ices—cream and water—on the menu; but they are often omitted from it, as they are served after the dessert has been put on the table, and therefore cannot be said to form part of the dinner. Creme de tM—Tea cream ice. de tM vert—Green tea cream ice. de vanille—Vanilla cream ice. de ratafias—Ratafia cream ice. aux Jieurs d'oranger—Cream ice with in- fusion of orange flowers. Bavaroise—Bavarian cream ice. The following can be cream or water ices: Creme, or eail, de cafd—Coffee cream or water ice. de chocolat—Chocolate cream or water ice. de noyau—Noyau cr/ Am or water ice. d'ahricots — Apricot cream or water ice.173 Ices. Crom© or eau de peches—Peach cream or water ice. de /raises — Strawberry cream or water ice. de framboises—Raspberry cream or water ice. de framboises et groseilles — Rasp- berry and currant cream or water ice. de groseilles—Currant cream or water ice. de cassis — Black currant cream or water ice. de cerises—Cherry cream or water ice. de groseilles vertes—Green gooseberry cream or water ice. de raisins — Grape cream or water ice. d’ananas—Pine-apple cream or water ice. de rhubarbe — Rhubarb cream or water ice. de canneberges—Cranberry cream or water ice. de citron—Lemon cream or water ice. d’oranges — Orange cream or water ice. d’amandes — Almond cream or water ice. ’ die pistaches—Pistachio nut cream or water ice.Menus Made Easy. 174 Cr^mG or eau de marrons—Chestnut cream or water ice. de gingemhre — Ginger cream or water ice. In addition to these there are: Eau de ponche—Punch water ice. de melon—Melon water ice. de grenade—Pomegranate water ice. d’epine-vinette—Berberry water ice. de mille fruits—Mixed fruit water ice. de canelle—Cinnamon water ice. If orange ice is made of Chinese oranges it is called de Chinois. For water ices fresh fruit is necessary, as preserved fruit can only be used for cream ices.CHAPTER XI. SAUCES AND GAENISHES. SAUCES. The following are the principal sauces and gar- nishes which are used in cookery. IMany of them have been mentioned in the course of these pages, and as the names frequently convey no idea of their ingredients, a slight description of them is given. The two chief sauces are Veloute—white, and Espagnole—brown. Many other sauces are made from these. Allemande is a thicker form of veloute sauce. Anchois (Anchovy)—melted-hutter sauce with anchovy, &c. Aurore—AUemande and tomato sauce, with Chili vinegar, &c. Bearnaise—yolks of eggs, butter, French vinegar, chopped parsley, &c. Beclianiel—Yeloute sauce with cream. This is also made without stock if a maigre sauce is required. Beurre—melted-hutter sauce.176 Menus Made Easy. Beurre noir—black-butter sauce of browned butter and vinegar. This sauce is usually served with skate or grilled mackerel. Bigarade is made of oranges with brown sauce. Blonde—melted-butter sauce made with stock instead of water. Bordelaise—brown sauce with wine, chopped parsley, &c. Bourgeoise—stock with French mustard, tarra- gon, &c. Bourguignotte — brown sauce with wine, onions, mushrooms and truffles, Bretonne—brown sauce with onions, &c. Capres (Caper)—brown or white sauce, with capers. Caramel—burnt sugar. It is sometimes made of burnt brandy and sugar. Cardinal—white sauce coloured with lobster or crayfish butter. Cazanova—Mayonnaise sauce with yolks of hard- boiled eggs, shred whites of eggs and truffles. Ctiampignons (Mushroom)—brown or white sauce with puree of mushrooms. Chateaubriand—brown sauce with Maitre d’hotel sauce. Chevreuil—Poivrade sauce with wine, Harvey, red currant jeUy, &c. Court-bouillon—wine, or vinegar and water,Sauces. 177 butter, vegetables, &c. This sauce is only used in cooldng. Cr5me—melted-butter sauce with yolks of eggs and cream. Crevettes (Shrimp) — Cardinal sauce with anchovy, pickled shrimps, &c. Czarina—brown sauce with sultana raisins, gherkins, &c. Diablo (Devil sauce)—brown gravy with Oude and Harvey sauce, vinegar, &c. Diplomate—Bechamel sauce flavoured with crayfish. D’Uxelles—white sauce with chopped ham, mushrooms, parsley, &c. Estragon (Tarragon)—white stock with Tarragon vinegar, tarragon, &c. Penouil (Fennel)—melted-butter sauce with chopped fennel. Pinanciere—brown sauce with wine, mushroom catsup, &c. Pines-herbes—brown sauce with chopped mush- rooms, shallots and parsley. Pouett^e—sweet whip sauce of yolks of eggs, sugar and wine. Pumet do gibier—a brown game sauce with onions, wine, &c. Genovoise—brown sauce with wine, anchovy, chopped parsley, &c. This sauce is gener- ally used for freshwater fish.178 Menus Made Easy. Grosoilles vertGS—green gooseberries with, butter, breadcrumbs, &c. For mackerel. Hollandaise—yolks of eggs and butter witk vinegar, &c. Homard (Lobster)—melted-butter sauce, witb lobster spawn and the flesh in small pieces. Huitres (Oyster)—oysters in white or brown sauce. Indienne—tomato sauce with curry paste, an- chovy, &c. Italienne—brown or white sauce with wine, chopped shallots, mushrooms, &c. Jambon (Ham)—brown sauce with shred ham, butter, chopped shallots, &c. Jolie fllle (Fair maid’s)—white chicken sauce with hard-boiled yolks of eggs, bread- crumbs, &c. Kari—Curry sauce. Lyonnaise—Portugal onions with tomato sauce, &c. Maitre d’hotel—Bechamel sauce with chopped parsley, &c. It is also made without stock. Marinade — vinegar and water with onions, carrots, &c. Marrons (Chestnut)—chestnut flour with brown stock. White chestnut sauce is made of the flour vdth broth and milk. Matelote—brown stock with wine, young onions, musbroomsj &c. White raatelote sauce is179 Sauces. made of broth and wine, with tarragon, &c. Mayonnaise—a cold sauce of yolks of eggs, oil and vinegar. Milanaise—grated Parmesan with cream sauce, or with brown sauce and mustard. Mirepoix—broth and wine with bacon, chopped vegetables, &c. Monies (Mussel)—a white sauce with anchovy and mussels. Mousquetaire—oil and Tarragon vinegar, with mustard, shallot, &c. Montarde (Mustard) — melted-butter sauce with mustard, Chili vinegar, &c. For herrings. Napolitaine — brown sauce with Port wine, Harvey sauce, ham, horseradish, currant jelly, &c. CEufs (Egg) —melted-butter sauce with hard- boiled eggs cut in pieces. Served with haddock and salt cod. Pauvre homme — vinegar and water with shallots, &c. Percil (Parsley) — melted-butter sauce with chopped parsley. Periguenx—brown stock with wine and trufdes. Piquant©—brown sauce with vinegar, shallots, &c. Poivrado—brown sauce with vinegar, anchovy.Menus Made Easy. i8o ham, onions, &c. White Poivrade sauce is made of white sauce with vinegar, onions, &c. PortugaiSG—butter, yolks of eggs and lemon- juice. Poulette — AUemande sauce with chopped parsley. This is also called Blanquette. ProvenQale—white wine with tomatoes, chopped capers and mushrooms, garlic, &c. Raifort (Horseradish)—cream, vinegar and horse- radish. RavigotG—Maitre d’hotel sauce with Chili vine- gar, Harvey and anchovy. RavigotG VGrtG — white sauce with pounded tarragon, chervil, &c. * RcforniG—Poivrade sauce, Port wine, Harvey, currant jelly, &c. RGmOUlad-G—broth with mushrooms, chopped parsley, mustard, vinegar and garlic. Cold Remoulade sauce is made of oil with chopped parsley, capers, garhc, &c. RicllGliGTl is a white game sauce with onions and wine. RobGrt—brown stock with chopped Portugal onions, mustard and vinegar. Russe—a white sauce with horseradish, vinegar, yolks of eggs and cream. SaintG-M4nGbould — milk, butter and flour, with chopped parsley, mushrooms, &c. Salmis—a brown game sauce with wine, oil, &c.Garnishes. i8l Sauge (Sage)—stock, vinegar, chopped sage, &c. Soubise—a puree of onions with cream. Supreme—a white chicken sauce with wine and cream. Tartare—Mayonnaise sauce, or oil and vinegar, with mustard, &c. Tomates (Tomato)—a puree of tomatoes with stock, &c. Truffes (Truffle)— brown sauce with wine and truffles. Verte—wine and stock with pounded herbs, yolks of eggs, &c. Villeroi—white sauce flavoured with mushrooms, &c. Vin de Madere—thrown sauce with Madeira or other wine. It is also a sweet sauce of yolks of eggs, wine, &c. Vin d’Oporto—Port wine with shallots, Harvey, &c. This sauce is used for wild ducks. G-ARNISHES. Chipolata—small round sausages, pieces of bacon, mushrooms, chestnuts, &c., with brown sauce. Pinanci^re — cock’s combs, livers, quenelles, pieces of sweetbread, &c., with brown sauce and wine. Plamande—carrots, turnips, cabbages and other vegetables, with sausages.i82 Menus Made Easy. Godard — sweetbreads, quenelles and truffles, with brown sauce. Jardiniere—vegetables cut in shapes, in a light glaze. Macedoine — vegetables cut in shapes, with brown or white sauce. Milanaise—strips of macaroni, ham, chicken, truffles, &c., in white sauce with grated Parmesan. Reforme — shred ham, carrots, truffles and whites of eggs. Toulouse—Financiere garnish made with white instead of brown sauce. This is sometimes called a white Financiere garnish. THE END.Selections from Frederick Warne S' Co.'s Publications. Ecfcmtcc anti SS^cfuI jHanual^. With Coloured Illustrations and Practical Woodcuts. Warne’s Model Cookery and Housekeeping Book. By Mary Jewry, 3,000 Receipts, 24 Pages of Coloured Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, half-bound, gilt 0 7 6 Warne’s Model Cookery. By Mary Jewry. Containing Com- plete Instructions in Household Management, with 3,000 Receipts. Coloured Plates. Large crown 8vo, gilt 0 6 0 Warne’s Every-day Cookery. i,goo Receipts. Half-bound, gilt . 0 3 6 Warne’s Every-day Cookery. i,goo Receipts. Large crown 8vo, gilt 026 Warne’s Model Cookery and Housekeeping Book. Large crown 8vo 010 Ditto ditto Large crown 8vo, gilt 0 16 Warne’s Penny Cookery. 200 suitable Receipts. Cloth . .002 Handy Information Books. In crown 8vo, gilt . . . each 0 2 6 Manners and Rules of Good Society. Entirely New Edition. New type and new style of binding. Society Small-Talk ; or. What to Say and When to Say It. Servants (The Management of) ; Their Duties and Rules. Food and Feeding. By Sir Henry Thompson. Our Sons, and How to Start Them in Life. By Arthur King. Party Giving, on every Scale ; or. The Cost of Entertainments. The Home: As It Should be, its Duties and Amenities. ByL. Valentine. The Correct Guide to Letter Writing. New style of binding. Menus Made Easy ; or. How to Order Dinner, and Give the Dishes their French Names. By Nancy Lake. Hints on Business : Financial and Legal. By R. Denny Urlin. F.S.S. Health, Beauty and the Toilet : Letters to Ladies from a Lady Doctor. By Anna Kingsford, M.D. Paris. Best of Everything. By the Author of‘‘Enquire Within.” Large crown 8vo, gilt 026 Domestic Educator (The), originally entitled ” The Young Wo- man’s Book.” New Edition. Gilt 0 2 6 ditto Picture boards . .020 Domestic Medicine and Surgery. By J. H. Walsh, M.R.C.S. With numerous Wood Engravings and 16 Pages of Coloured Plates of Skin Diseases. Large crown 8vo, gilt . . . .076 Home Civil Service Guide. With Directions for Candidates. Entirely Re-written by Alex. Charles Ewald, F.S.A. In demv 8vO- V'H . Ditto ditto Legal Hand-Books. By Charles I 1. Wills: How to Make Them. With nearly 150 Forms. 2. Landlords, Tenants and Lodgers. With 40 Forms. Legal Hand-Books. By J. Renwick The Municipal Election Act, 1884. Letter Writers. Fcap. 8vo, cloth . The Business. Lover’s Correspondent. Juvenile Correspondent. Ladies’ Model. Gentlemen's Model. • • . • . . u 1 o Boards . . .010 . Baker. In crown 8vo, each 0 10 3. Husband and Wife,and Married Women’s Property Act, 1883. 4. Master and Servant (The Law of). Seager. In crown 8vo, each 0 10 I The Representation and the Re- 1 distribution Acts, 1884. each 0 0 6 Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Modern Letter Writer. With House- hold and Commercial Forms. The Companion Letter Writer. A Guide to Correspondence, with Commercial Forms, &c.Selections from Frederick Warne & Co.'s Publications. iWanual^, &c. The Modern Gymnast: Practical Instructions on the Horizontal Bar, Parallel Bars, Vaulting Horse, Flying Trapeze, &c. With 120 Practical Illustrations. By Charles Spencer The Modern Fencer. With Practical Instructions. By Captain Griffiths Ventriloquism (The Art of). With Directions for Learners. By Frederick Maccabe . Advice to Singers. By a Singer Washing and Cleaning: A Manual for Domestic Use. By Bessie Tremaine The Magic Lantern Manual. By W. J. Chadwick. Illustrated by 100 Woodcuts One Thousand Objects for the Microscope. By M. C. Cooke. With 500 Figures Illustrated. 12 pages of Tinted Plates The Money Market. What it Is, What it Does, and How it is Managed Carpentry and Joineiy : A Useful Manual for the Many. By S. T. Aveling. With Original and Practical Illustrations . How to Send a Boy to Sea. By Franklin Fox, late Captain P. and O. Service Water: Its Composition,Collection and Distribution. By Joseph Parry. Boards Ditto ditto Cloth .... Modern Etiquette: In Public and Private. By Mrs. L. C. Armstrong. In square fcap. 8vo, boards, new style . Ditto ditto Gilt .... Modern Hoyle ; or. How to Play Whist, Chess, Draughts, Back- gammon, Dominoes, Cribbage, Napoleon, Euchre. Poker, &c. Revised by Professor Hoffmann. In square fcap. 8vo, boards, new style Ditto ditto Gilt .... Tips for Tricyclists. By Professor Hoffmann. With numerous Illustrations. In square fcap. 8vo, boards, new style . Ditto ditto Cloth gilt The Best of Everything: A Book of Useful Receipts, thoroughly Revised to the Present Date. In square fcap. 8vo. boards, new style Ditto ditto Cloth gilt A8mo, gilt and gilt edges, with Coloured Plates, each Bijou Books. Diagrams, &c. Ventriloquism Made Easy. Fun and Flirtation. Etiquette for Ladies. Etiquette for Gentlemen. The Ball Room Guide. 'Etiquette of the Toilet. Language of Flowers. Billiards (The ABC of). Swimming (The ABC of). Gymnastics. Croquet. Etiquette of Courtship AND Marriage. Letter Writer. Parlour Magic. La Crosse. Besique. Beauty. London in Miniature. Card Tricks Made Easy. Billiards Simplified : or. How to make Breaks. Illustrated by 60 Diagrams of the actum Play of Cook, Bennett, &c. 192 pp. Crown Charades for Acting in Town and Country. By E. C. Nugent. With many Illustrations, Crown 8vo, gilt Price " s. d. 0 10 0 10 0 10 0 10 0 10 0 10 0 10 0 10 0 10 0 10 0 10 0 16 0 10 0 16 0 10 0 16 0 10 0 16 0 10 0 16 0 0 6 1 0 0 2 6'. '■ If ■ \ ~ 1.1