FIRST LINES OF THE 495 The ancient surgeons used to cut directly down to tire bone at once, aud the frequent consequence was, that the stump was a very conical, or sugar-loaf one, very unfit for bearing any degree of pressure, and, therefore, kept healed •with difficulty. The end of the bone, in fact, was very often seen protruding beyond the soft parts. Hence, the double incision, as it was termed, was eagerly adopted by surgical practitioners. In this method, the skin is cut, in the way already explained, and then the operator proceeds to the division of the muscles. But, notwithstanding the double incision, the protru- sion of the bone sometimes occurred. M. Louis, a surgeon, for whose memory every admirer of science ought to entertain the most profound veneration, was the first to discern the cause of this occurrence., and the method of preventing it. He observed, that the mus- cles of the thigh became retracted in an unequal manner, when divided. Those which are superficial, and extend along the limb, more or less obliquely, without, being attached to the bone, becoming retracted with greater force than others, which are deep, and, in some measure, parallel to the axis of the femur, and fixed to this bone throughout their whole length. The retraction begins at the moment of the operation, and, for some time after- wards, continues to increase. Hence, the effect should be promoted, and be as complete as possible, before the bone is sawn. With this view, M. Louis practised another kind of double incision ; by the first, he cut, at the same time, both the integuments, and the loose superficial mus- cles ; by the second, he divided those muscles, which are deep, and closely connected with the femur. On the first deep, circular, cut being completed, M. Louis used to re- move a band, which was round the limb above the track of the knife, in order to allow the divided muscles to be- come retracted without any impediment, and he then cut the deep muscles, on a level with the surface of those,