FIRST LINES OF THE *34 deserving of the strongest reprobation. The proper instru- ment is a small sharp bistoury ; and the operation, when adroitly executed with this, cannot be deemed a dangerous one. Hence, though there may be doubt in almost every case concerning the presence of a fluid in the chest, still the practice of paracentesis is sometimes exceedingly plausible. When the cavity of the chest is filled with water, the disease is termed hydrops pectoris ; when with pus, empy- ema, a word implying internal suppuration. Both water and pus, extravasated in the chest, have some symptoms common to them ; such as short and difficult respiration, the lungs not being able to expand themselves properly in the fluid, which surrounds and compresses them. In both cases also expiration is even more difficult than inspiration, on account of the weight of the fluid, which strongly op- poses the elevation of the diaphragm. Sometimes when the patient moves in bed, he distinctly feels the undulation of a fluid. If this is contained in only one cavity of the chest, he cannot lie comfortably on the opposite side, be- cause the fluid then compresses the other lung. The ribs on the affected side are observed to be more arched than is natural, because the fluid resists their depression. When no symptoms of suppuration have occurred, the case may be deemed hydrops pectoris. The face and integuments of the chest are frequently cedematous, and sometimes the arm on the side affected. Sometimes the dropsy of the chest is joined with the same general affections of the body. All these symptoms, however, may indicate empyema, when combined with preceding marks of inflammation and sup- puration in the ehest. If symptoms of acute peripneu- mony should have taken place ; if vigors should have oc- curred at the termination of the inflammatory fever, and just before the commencement of the above kind of symp- toms ; it is rational to infer, that the case is empyema. I remember a man in St. Bartholomew’s hospital, whose