190 ElRST LINES OF TIIE from the malady, so that though children form a large pro- portion of those subjects who are afflicted, yet the number of adults, and even old persons, is also considerable. The approach of the hip disease is far more insidious than that of a white swelling. The latter is generally pre- ceded by severe pain, while frequently the only forerunner of the forrrter is a slight weakness and limping of the affect- ed limb. As at first there is often no complaint of uneasi- ness in the hip, while pains affect the knee, it is not uncom- mon to observe the seat of the disorder mistaken, and appli- cations erroneously made to the latter joint. Even when a fixed pain begins to be felt behind the trochanter, as the joint is not visibly enlarged, the affection is too often disre- garded as one of no importance in young subjects, and as a mere rheumatic or gouty complaint in adults. The pain is also not confined to the seat of the disease, but shoots downward in the course of the vastus exbgrnus to the knee, and along the outer part of the fibula to the malleolus ex- ternus. Many refer their painful sensations to the groin. Almost as early as the least limping can be perceived, some diminution in the circumference of the leg and thigh has actually taken place. When pressure is made on the front of the acetabulum, pain is excited. Another strong pathognomonic symptom is the elongation of the limb in the incipient stage of the hip disease. I his change is easily discoverable by comparing the condyles of the osfemoris, the patella, the trochanter major, and malleolus inlernus, of the diseased limb, with the same parts of the sound one. This elongation of the lower extremity in the present case is a very striking circumstance, and one which has never yet been satisfactorily accounted for. The natural fulness and convexity of the nates become flattened. The gluteus m&gnus is emaciated, and its edge no longer forms so bold a line as it naturally does at the up- per and back part of the thigh, in the sound state of the limb.