BOOKS PRINTED FOR R. PHILLIPS. «on, being the fourth, including recent corrections and consider- able additions by tlie author; with Appendixes, consisting of a series of State Papers and authentic Documents, illustrative of the Text and of English History from the Revolution to the present Time, in twelve uniform volumes octavo, price 61. 6s. in boards. N. B. This is the ONL\ HISTORY of the same period, and the only uniform work which continues the History of Mr. Hume to the present time, thereby completing a series of our national history, with spirit, fidelity, and ability, from the aboriginal Britons to the year 1802. The HISTORY of GEORGE the THIRD may be had sepa- rately, in eight volumes, price 41.4s. in boards, or any two volumes may be had separately, price 10s. 6d. each in boards. This work .enables those persons who are possessed of Smollet’s History to the death of George II. or of Smollet and Hume, to corn- pleat their series of English History down to the Peaee of Amiens in IS02. The Appendixes to the first ten volumes may be had separate- ly, price One Guinea in boards, by those who have bought those volumes without the State Papers; the 11th and 12th volumes have never been sold without the State Papers. ^ The HISTORY of ENGLAND, from the Invasion of Julius Caesar to the Revolution, by David Hume, Esq. in eight vo- lumes, 8vo, with portraits, price 2l. l6s. in boards. *.** Hume’s and Belsham’s Histories of England, including to- gether a Period of Time from the aboriginal Britons to the Peace of Amiens, may be had complete in Twenty uniform Volumes, price Nine Pounds in boards. ARCIIfiEOLOGlA GRHlCA or, the Antiquities of Greece : being an Account of the Manners and Customs of the Greeks, relating to their Government, Magistracy, Laws, Judicial Pro- ceedings, Religion, Games, Military and Naval Affairs, Dress, Exercises, Baths, Marriages, Divorces, Funerals, Domestic Em- ployments, Entertainments, Food, Music, Painting, Public Build- ings, Harbours, Weights and Measures, &c. &c. By William May or, price f2s. boards. Biography. The LIFE of GENERAL WASHINGTON, Commander in Chief of the American forces during the war which established the inu< nenaence of his country, and first president of the United States; compiled under the inspection of his nephew, the Hon. Eusi:roe Washington, from original papers bequeathed to him by his deceased relative. By John Marshall, Chief Justice '< f the United States, See. See. To which is prefixed, an intro- duction, containing a compendious view of the colonies planted . • t.h'e English on the continent of North America. Vols. I. II. Li; TV. and V. (which complete? the work) elegantly printed in 4to. price ll. Us.’fid. each in boards. Another edition printed in demy octavo, price 12s. each volume in boards.