PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 137 the vessel were only tied above the aneurism, the inoscula- tions between the brachial artery,and the recurrent arteries of the fore arm, are so free, that the blood would continue to find its way into the aneurismal sac, almost, if not quite, as easily as before. 1 Aneurisms sometimes form in the axilla, and to save the patient from immediate death, it is the surgeon’s duty to tie the axillary artery at the place where it proceeds over the first rib. I have been informed that Mr. Keate has done this operation with success. The vessel might be got at by an incision either above or below the clavicle. I lie surgeon-general, I understand, selected the latter mode, and I am very much inclined to suspect that it is the best, for when there is an axillary aneurism, the clavicle is so much elevated, and the artery so deep below it, that it is very difficult to get at the vessel in the other method. An incision, about three inches long, might be made through the integuments, a little below the clavicle, and immediately over the hollow between the deltoid and pec- toral muscles. The axillary vein lies before the artery, and as a wound of it would probably be fatal, the ut- most caution must be observed in the dissection. Care must also be taken not to mistake one of the cervical nerves for the artery. A tolerably strong ligature should be put under the vessel as soon as it is distinctly ascertained to be such, and the vein and any adjacent nerve should be care- fully excluded. No man ought to undertake this opera- tion who is not a steady operator, and is not well acquaint- ed with the anatomy of the parts. If the aneurismal tu- mour should extend far inward, toward the sternum, this plan of operating however would not be practicable. The operation must then be attempted above the clavicle. An incision should be made just over the sternal end of the clavicle, and the clavicular portion of the sterno-cleido masfoideus muscle detached with a blunt-pointed curved bistoury. No further use should be made of a cutting in-