PRACTICE OF SURGERY, 345 frequently made to pass, by little and little, into that por- tion of the intestinal canal which is within the abdomen, and the gut may then be returned. Sometimes a piece of intestine, protruded from the belly at a narrow wound, suffer such constriction, that dilating the wound becomes indispensable. Relaxation of the ab- dominal muscles; drawing a little more intestine out of the wound, and gently pressing its contents through the Constriction into the abdomen, will, however, occasionally render the protruded part sufficiently reducible. When it is absolutely necessary to enlarge the wound, the dilatation should be made in a direction that will not endanger the epigastric artery. The incision should, if possible, be made in the direction of the muscular fibres. It is unpardonable to make the dilatation to a greater ex- tent than is necessary, for hernias are very liable to hap- pen whenever the peritoneum has been divided. For the description of the method of dilating the wound, the reader is referred to the account of the mode of dividing the stricture in cases of hernia?. When the protruded intestine is wounded, the aperture is to be closed by a particular suture, before the part ought to be returned into the abdomen. Mortification of a part of the exposed intestine may hap- pen before surgical assistance is obtained. This event is rare in cases oi wounds, bnf not uncommon in those of incarcerated hernia?. The kind of treatment, applicable to it, will be explained in the account of ruptures. When the protruded intestine is in a state of inflamma- tion, its immediate reduction is, beyond all dispute, the means most likely to set every thing right. Even when die inflammation has arisen to a vehement pitch, a timely reduction of the displaced part, and the employment of the antiphlogistic plan, will often serve to prevent the occur- rence of gangrene. The dull, brown, dark, red colour of the protruded intestine may induce the practitioner to sup-