PRACTICE OF SURGERY.. 379 tion in regard lo the sac. The division should only be of such an extent as will allow the finger to pass through the strangulation. Another advantage, attributed by Mr. A. Cooper to not dividing the sac is, that in case the epigastric artery should ever be accidentally wounded, the blood could never be- come extravasated in the abdomen. When the stricture is caused by the neck of the sac it- self, the probe-pointed bistoury must be carefully intro- duced, and a division made directly upward. Haying removed ihe stricture, the next object is to re- turn the protruded parts into the cavity of the abdomen. Nothing but an absolutely gangrenous state of the intestine should deter the practitioner from reducing it; the dark chocolate brown decolourations, with which the protruded part is often affepted, generally produce no permanent mis- chief, and ought to be discriminated from the black purple or lead-coloured spots, which arc the ordinary forerunners of mortification. The intestine is to be reduced before the omentum. The portion nearest the ring should be intro- duced first, and held there by the surgeon’s finger until followed by another portion. It is a point of great importance to examine with the finger after the operation, that the reduced parts are fairly and freely in the abdomen. Recent adhesions of the intes- tines to the inside of the sac may commonly be easily broken by the fingers. When the adhesions arc old the cautious employment of the knife is necessary; if they are sufficiently lung to allow the intestine to be raised a lit- tle from the sac, they may be easily divided. When they are so short, that the inside of the sac and peritoneal coat of the intestines arc in close contact, more ski^l is requisite, and the adherent parts of the sac must be cut off and re- turned into the abdomen, still adhering to the bowels. As soon as the intestine has been reduced, the omentum, if not diseased, is next to be replaced. However, when much