so ' FIRST LINES OF THE plans employed for this purpose, are only modifications of it. The tourniquet, the ligature, the application of a roller and compresses, even agaric itself, only become useful in the suppression of hemorrhage, on the principle of pressure. The structure of the blood-vessels is similar to that of other parts, d hey have their own arteries, veins and absorbents, and are susceptible of inflammation, ulceration, See. Their internal cuticular coat has a smooth membra- nous appearance, and, like many ofher membranes, is very prone to what Mr. Hunter termed adhesive inflam- mation. Infect, this is the process, which puts a per- manent stoppage to all bleeding from important arteries. It is by promoting this process, that the various modifi- cations of pressure acquire their efficacy. For, in order that one side of the cavity of an artery, may become agglutinated to the opposite one, two things are essen- tial : 1. That such an increased action shall be excited in the vasa vasorum, as shall produce an efFusion of coagu- lating lymph on the internal surface of the wounded ves- sel : 2. That the opposite sides of the arterial canal, shall be kept in contact with each other. Pressure fulfils both these indications, and we have only to consider further the peculiar advantages, and disadvantages of each modi- fication of it, and the method of putting it into practice.* J. TOURNIQUET. Ambrose Pare was acquainted with the utility of com- pressing the great vessels in the performance of important operations. It is .surprising, that this information did not lead him to imagine an instrument adapted to the pur- pose. A French surgeon, named Morel, enjoys the ho- * It is to be understood, that one side of the cavity of the artery adheres to the opposite one, only where the ligature, or compression, has brought the surfaces into contact, and when it has maintained them so for a due length of time. Above this situation, the artery becomes for some extent impervious by the formation of a coagulum, and as tar as the cavity is obliterated the diameter of the vessels become afterwards gradually diminished.