VALUABLE BOOKS .RECENTLY PUBLISHED ’ By RICHARD PHILLIPS, •••■• ■ ' - " •• No. 6, Bridge-Street, London. A NEW AND. COMPENDIOUS DICTIONARY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES, completed within the year, by the publica- tion of a twelve shilling part on the First Day of every Month; the whole making Twelve Parts, or Two large and elegant Quarto Volumes, with One Hundred and Forty superior Engravings, Price 71. 4s. in boards. By G. GREGORY, D. D. Doctor in Philosophy and the Arts, and Honorary Member of the Imperial University of Wilfla ; Member of ;he Manchester and Newcastle Literary and Philosophical Societies; Honorary Member of the Board of Agriculture j Domestic Chaplain to the Lord Bishop of Llandaff; Vicar of West Ham; Author of Essays Historical and Moral; the Economy of Nature, &c. A Dictionary of Arts and Sciences in a compendious form, suf- ficiently copious without being prolix, accurate but not ctilfuse, divested of all superfluous matter, compressing rather than copy- ing what has been done by others, and exhibiting a clear but con- cise view of the present state of the various branches of human knowledge, has long been a desirable object to English Readers and students. The following are the immediate advantages which are pro- mised to the purchasers of this new Dictionary. First, It exhibits a compendium of the actual present state of all .human knowledge, the more luminous because cleared of all ex- traneous* matter ; rather practical than speculative; and in which particular attention has been paid to the most useful branches. Sefond, It is of a convenient and comparatively portable size, calculated to lie on the table of every studious person, as a book of constant reference. Third, It is printed so as to correspond with the quarto editions of Dr. Johnson’s Dictionary; and the possessors of both works thus have, in tour quarto volumes, and at a moderate expence, all the literary and scientific aid winch tire English student or reader can possibly require. History. The HISTORY of GREAT BRITAIN from the REVOLU- TION of 168S, (when Hume’s History' terminates) to the Treaty of Amiens in 1802. By William Belsham, Esq. A new edi-