424 FIRST LINES OF THE pulsion of this fluid is attendee! with some decree of diffi- . cutty. As the case advances, the evacuation is made more frequently, than is natural, requiring a considerable ef- fort, and being accompanied with pain, and a straining sen- sation, which continues, for some time, after the bladder is emptied. Pain is particularly experienced, about an inch and a half from theglans penis, as in cases of gonorrhoea, and stone in the bladder. When the stricture is consider- able, the urine flows out in a very small, spiral, or forked stream, A good deal of uneasiness is also frequently felt m the loins. A gleet is another very common attendant on the complaint. Patients, who have strictures, are often troubled with involuntary emissions of the semen during sleep. In some cases the obstruction prevents (lie due ejection of this fluid in coition, and, it is not till some time after the orgasm, that the seminal secretion oozes gradually out of the mouth of the urethra, instead of being ejected with force at the proper period. In certain case's, the bladder is unusually irritable, and secretes from its inner membrane a very large quantity of viscid muous, which is discharged with the urine. As strictures aremttended with several symptoms, which are common to gonorrhoeas, and cases of stone, it is of great importance that the surgeon should enquire, whether the urine ever issues in a full stream. If it should be found to do so, even though the stream may now be in a diminished state, and there may be difficulty in effecting the evacua- tion, it is quite clear that there cannot possibly be any permanent stricture ; for this would never allow the urine to come away in a copious current. Some patients, afflicted with strictures, are also very sub- ject to complete paroxysms of fever ; in other words, they often have a cold, hot, and sweating stage of febrile disor- der in regulkr succession. The indisposition differs from agflej by the sweating being much more profuse.