48G FIRST LINES OF THE The surgeons of the Westminster hospital have lately rc* vived the operation, practised by Frere Cosme, A com- mon staff is introduced into the bladder ; the first incision is made in the ordinary -way; the urethra is cut in the same place, and in the same manner; but instead of the gorget, the lithotome cache is introduced along the groove of the staff, into the bladder. The staff is now removed, and th^bistoury turned, in such a manner that its edge faces the left side of the bladder. The spring being now- compressed, the knife rises out of the groove, in which it yras concealed, and the instrument is then to be withdrawn by one uniform motion. The operation is finished, in the game manner, as when a gorget is used. I have never seen this operation performed ; but it seems to deserve encouragement on account of its simplicity, and the smoothness with which the parts must be divided, f am ready to grant, that the laceration of tfie bladder, fre, quently attendant on the hsual mpde of performing litho? tomy, is, for the most part, owing tp the smallness of the wound, in relation to the size of the stone ; but I am firm- ly of opinion, that the gorget itself sometimes tears the fibres, instead of cutting them in a smooth, even manner. ,-The danger of cutting the whole side of tfie bladder, or of wounding the pudendal artery, and rectum, does not seem to me sq great as Mr. Charles Bell w ould lead one to believe. With respect to wounding the whole side of the bladder, was such an occurrence ever known to occur to any modern operator ? the pudendal artery cannot be sq liable to be cut by a narrow bistoury, with which the sur? geon cuts, just as far as his prudence dictates, towards the rami of the is< hium, as when a broad cutting gorget is me- chanically introduced. As the bladder ought to be cut, in the same direction, as when the gorget is employed, I see no reason why the rectum should be more exposed to a wound in this than in the common operation. How- ever, | can readily conceive, how Frere Cosme, or any