PRACTICE OF SURGERY, 125 mention bleeding, injections, clyster,&c. may be proper after the ligature is applied. When a polypus, having a pedicle attached to the fun- dus uteri, suddenly falls down, it occasions an inversion of this viscus. In order to relieve, as speedily as possible, the great pain and danger of this case, the surgeon must tie the root of the polypus as soon and as firmly as he can, and then amputate the tumour below the ligature. The uterus is to be reduced immediately afterwards. This is almost the only instance in which a cutting instrument can be employed with advantage in the present kind of case. Fleshy excrescences sometimes grow in the vagina, some of which have a broad, and others a thin basis. The last merit the appellation of polypi, and may be tied by means of a double canula, when situated deeply, and with the hand when they are near the mouth of the vagina. Polypi may grow in the oesophagus, and cause an impe- diment to deglutition. They can only be tied when capa- ble of being brought into the mouth by exciting an effort to vomit, and even then with difficulty, as the patient’s side of the canula, which is not moved. The ligature being properly applied, in this manner, its ends are to be introduced through the little double cylinder E (fig, 1.), which is only one-third of an inch long, but so wide as to be capable of being pushed over the two canukr, a b, c d, with the fingers as far as the letter g, and with the fork (fig. 3), quite to the letter l, (fig. 2,) or letter o, (fig. 4.) Then ano- ther double cylinder, through which the ends of the ligature have been introduced, F, (fig. 1.) and wide enough to pass over the long double canula;, is to join together their lower ends (M. fig. 3). The ligature is then to be drawn tight, and fastened to the rings. Herbiniaux has recommended placing pieces of thread, of various colours, on the lower ends of the ligature, with certain interspaces be- tween them (•«, n, n, n, fig. 2), in order to ascertain how thick the root of the polypus is, and how fast the cure proceeds. This engraving is taken from one in Richter’s Avfangsgr. dcr Wun- darzn. The ligatures are to be tightened gradually, as they become uteck by the destruction of the root of the tumour.