PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 323 to each of the above doses. Some practitioners exhibit a mercurial purgative about once a fortnight, during he trial of the medicine. Natron ptt. (mineral alkali) is another medicine, occasionally employed in the present cases. Other remedies are, two scruples of calcined eggshells, given every morning in a glass of red wine; 3 fs. of the kali sulphuratum, dissolved in water, taken daily; ten or fifteen drops of the tinct. digit, purpur, twice a day, the dose be- ing gradually increased ; muriated barytes; cicuta ; bella- donna, &c. External applications may also be employed, in con- junction with some of the above internal remedies. Re- peated frictions of the swelling, with a dry towel, and bathing it very often with cold water, prove very benefi- cial. Some practitioners direct the part to be rubbed with theo^. ammon. acet., or with a liniment, composed of an ounce of camphor, three drams of olive oil, and the same quantity ofthespir. ammon. comp. Very large bronchoceles sometimes, though not very fre- quently, obstruct respiration, deglutition, and the return of the blood from the head, in such a serious degree, that the surgeon would feel greatly inclined to make any rational attempt to relieve his patient, even though it might be one of a bold description. The extirpation of the whole en- larged gland is entirely out of the question. In small bronchoceles this operation is indeed practicable; but in these cases the symptoms are not sufficiently urgent to war- rant the practice. When the respiration becomes consi- derably obstructed by the pressure of a very large diseased thyroid gland, it is certainly a very warrantable proceed- ing to expose and tie the superior thyroideal artery. When the quantity of blood flowing into a tumour is greatly lessened, the size of the swelling commonly soon under- goes a considerable diminution. This may be regarded as a general principle in the treatment of all tumours what- soever. This operation has been actually practised; and y 2