PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 203 nuity. The muscles, therefore, which have the power of displacing the lower ends of such fractures, are the powers which we ought principally to endeavour to counteract. In oblique fractures it is much more difficult to keep tie ends of the bones in a proper state of apposition, because two oblique surfaces make no mechanical resistance to that effect (viz. retraction of the lower portion of the broken bone), which the strong muscles have a continual tendency to produce. But relaxation of the muscles which have the greater influence over a fracture, is not only to be observed during the time when the surgeon is setting the broken bone : it is to be strictly adopted throughout the whole cure, at least until the two ends of the bone have become firmly united together. Were this plan not to be followed, the fracture would very soon be displaced again by muscular action. The principle from which the utility of relaxing mus- cles in these cases arises, is the fact that every muscle can only contract to a certain degree of shortness; and that in proportion as its origin and insertion become approximat- ed, it loses both the power and disposition to act in an in- voluntary manner. The reflecting reader may enquire, what particular po- sition can relax every muscle connected with a broken bone ? The same position which relaxes the flexors seems to have quite an opposite effect on the extensors. The answer is, that no posture will completely relax every set of muscles in every instance; and in this circumstance the joints must be placed in the middle state, between perfect flexion and perfect extension, as in this manner, though complete relaxation is not effected, most ot the muscles will not be in the state ot tension "W hen, however, every muscle having the power to displace a fracture can be le- laxed,the others, which have no power over the progress of the case, may be neglected, and the posture determined accordingly. Thus in the fracture of the thigh, where we