PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 217 / , The symptoms of pressure on the brain, whether that pressure be caused by a depressed portion of bone, by blood, or matter, are all of one kind. Mr. Abernethy has thrown more light on this abstruse subject than any other author, and his writings will greatly assist me in this part of the present work- in cases of extravasation of blood, the patient has usu- ally been stunned by a blow, from which state he some- times recovers very soon afterwards, and in other instanees remains senseless. When he regains his senses soon after the first effects of the violence have subsided, and then gradually relapses afterwards into a drowsy condition, and then into a state which I am about to describe, consi- derable light is put upon the case by there having been an interval of sense. That the following symptoms cannot arise from the concussion is proved by the patient having recovered his senses, which he at first lost by being stunned ; that the symptoms cannot be imputed to a depression of any part of the skull is clear, because the patient would have continued senseless frojn the first; that the same symptoms cannot be attributed to matter beneath the skull is certain, because the time would not have been sufficient for (he formation of matter, and there have been no symp- toms of inflammation of the dura mater. Here any re- flecting man must know, that hemorrhage beneath the skull must exist, and as it increased after the accident, that it alone can occasion the perilous symptoms. When the quantity of blood is at first small, drowsiness and head-ach may be the only symptoms. When, how- ever, the pressure on the brain is augmented by the in- creased extravasation, the patient is gradually deprived of all sensibility, as in apoplexy. The eyes are half open ; the pupil dilated and immoveable, even when a candle is brought near the eye ; there is no sickness, which betrays sensibility in the stomach and oesophagus ; the pulse beats regularly and slowly; and respiration is carried on with difficulty, and with a stertorous noise.