531 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. M m2 producing a derangement of the ends of a fracture. A man broke his thigh, but the ends of the bone were not at all displaced, though the tracture was oblique. This circum-* stance was discovered to be o sing to paralysis ot the limb, and no sooner was the latter affection cured, and did the muscles regain their power of contraction, a few days af- terwards, than the lower end of the broken bone was drawn upward, as in ordinary cases. I have often observed, that fractured thighs are more apt to be followed by a permanent shortness of the limb, when they are treated on beds, which are too soft and yield- ing. Desault observes, that how firm soever the bed may be, as the buttocks form a greater projection than the other parts of the body, they soon cause a depression in the bedding, and hence a declivity of the plane, on which the trunk lies, is produced, so that the body glides downward, pushing before it the upper end of the frac ure, and making it pass beyond the lower one. No one can doubt, that the beds, on which broken thighs are placed, ought to be as unyielding as possible. Transverse fractures of the thigh are not so subject as oblique ones, to be attended with a shortening of the limb ; because the surface of (he upper end of Ihc fracture makes a mechanical resistance to the ascent of the lower one. The deformity of the limb, in regard to breadth, must necessarily accompany that in respect to length ; but, in transverse fractures, the first’sort of displaced state of the ends of the bone may, obviously, be the only one. In Desault’s works by Bichat, from which most of the preceding account is taken, it is next explained, how the deformity, in regard to direction, may result from the ope- ration of the blow causing the fracture; from the awkward- ness of those persons who carry the patient, or from the bad position in which the limb is laced. Besides the above kinds of deformity, the lower end of a fractured t-high bone is ordinarily rotated outward; an