342 FIRST LINES OF THE stomach is injured; evacuation of blood with the fteces when the large intestines are wounded. ^ Deep stabs have often been indicted without wounding any parts of importance, contained in the abdomen; or if such parts have been injured, the ensuing symptoms were so mild as not to discover it. The great elasticity and mo- bility of the intestines may sometimes allow them to glide out of (lie way of a penetrating instrument. Wounds piercing the cavity of the abdomen, without injuring the contained parts, are not exempt from danger. They are sometimes productive of great irritation, inflam- mation, and suppuration, on the inner surface of the peri- toneum. These effects are, probably, not merely attri- butable to the formation of an external communication ; for the breach of continuity itself is a cause of inflamma- tion. Perhaps too much stress has been laid on the introduc- tion of air into the abdomen as the cause of inflammation. In fact, the cavity of the belly is always so completely occupied by the various viscera, that the whole inner surface of the peritoneum is constantly in close contact with them, and consequently air cannot so easily diffuse itself from the wound throughout the abdomen, as has been conceived. Notwithstanding the advice of numerous u'rifers, that punctured wounds of the abdomen ought to be kept open by tents for a few days, to allow matter to flow out, in case it should form, there can be no rational doubt that an attempt ought always to be made to unite at once every kind of wound penetrating the abdomen. Success will pnly attend this effort when the stab has produced but little contusion and laceration of the fibres ; and when, con- sequently, there is no necessity for suppuration to occur. Yet it is judicious to take the chance ; for if the external ^ound heals by the adhesive inflammation, it is impro- bable that the deeper parts will not do so, when they have suffered only equal violence, and are naturally more prone to the adhesive inflammation, than parts nearer the sur-