FIRST LINES OF THE * Plate VIII, fig. 2 and 3. 478 mnrT< made on it by the surgeon’s nail, at the month of Hie urethra,as (hat. other dent made by the1 surgeon’s nail on the common-sized bougie is from the end of this latter instru- ment. If the distance between the impression of the stric- ture and the dent of the nail upon the soft bougie is greater than the space between the end of the common sized one, and the mark of the nail, we may conclude that there is a diminution in the diameter of the urethra, in front of the most contracted part of the stricture, which causes the distinct impression. For this kind of case I should cer- tainly not recommend the caustic, "We must acknowledge that it is somewhat difficult to ascertain, by means of bougies, whether the urethra is di- minished in diameter, immediately behind the most con- tracted part of the stricture. For this reason, and because it seems obvious, that the method of treatment ought to be different in cases of strictures, confined to a point of the urethra, and in others occupying some extent of the pas? sage, I think every invention for facilitating the discrimi- nation of the two kinds of cases, ought to meet the encou- ragement of liberal surgeons. Actuated by this sentiment, I feel much pleasure in noticing Mr. Charles Bell’s pro- posal to use a particular sort of probe for ascertaining the extent of strictures. u 1 procured (says this gentleman) a series of silver and gold probes,* with circular knobs ; the knobs varying from the full size of the urethra to what will just pass the narrowest stricture. By successively intro- ducing smaller balls, I ascertain the degree of stricture by the ball which passes easily, and I am secure of being in the passage, by passing, the probe onward, when it has got beyond the stricture. Then by the slight feeling of resist- ance in passing the ball, and in withdrawing it again through the obstruction, I ascertain the extent of the con- traction. If the ball of this probe be liable, like the point