f?19 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. This case demands the immediate application of the trephine, in order to give vent to the matter beneath the bone. The antiphlogistic treatment is also proper. CONCUSSION. When the brain is violently shaken, the effect is termed concussion. The patient is at first stunned and in a state of total insensibility; his extremities are frequently cold, his pulse slow and intermitting, and in short he is in a state, which is the immediate result of the violent collision, which the brain has suffered. This is what Mr. Aberncthy has so judiciously called the first stage of concussion. In proportion as the stupefaction, arising directly from the in- jury, goes off (supposing the violence not to exceed a cer- tain degree, for then no signs of returning sensation fol- low) sickness and other symptoms take place, which arc followed by symptoms of inflammation of the brain. 'J'he tendency to phrenitis increases gradually as the first effects of concussion subside. If the patient’s eyelids are now opened he will shut them again in a peevish manner ; the pupil is contracted, and though the patient is regard- less of slight impressions, he is not by any means insensi- ble. There is no stertor attendant on respiration. The treatment of this case consists in taking away very copious quantities of blood repeatedly from the temporal artery and arm, in administering saline purges, and ape- rient clysters, and ordering a low diet. In the first stage ot concussion, when all the animal functions are, as it were, at the lowest ebb, such measures every body will allow are not necessary ; but when the second stage arrives, which is invariably attended with more or less inflammation of the brain, or its membranes, the antiphlogistic t reatment alonfi holds forlh the chance of preservation. Counter-irritation should also be excited on the outside of the head by a blister. It is wonderful what immense quantities ofblooditis necessary to take away in these cases, in order to keep down the symptoms of phrenitis.