£22 FIRST LINES OF THE or at its superior, or inferior angle. Fractures, situated in the body, or spine of the scapula, cannot be much dis- placed, and are, consequently, most easily cure !. But when other parts of ihe bone, especially its neck, are broken, the fracture becomes displaced, both by the action of muscles, and by the weight of the arm. When the body, or spine, of the scapula is fractured, it is unnecessary to do any thing more, than apply a piece of soap plaster to the situation of the injury, together with a spica bandage, and keep the arm of that side perfectly quiet in a sling. In the treatment of fractures of the acro- mion, or of the coracoid process, it is indispensably requi- site to place the arm in such a position as shall relax the muscles, which are attached to those parts, and cause the fractures to be displaced, ijence, in the first instance, the deltoid muscle is to be kept in a relaxed state by elevating the arm, and maintaining it in this posture by pillows, placed betecn it and the thorax. A piece of soap plaster, a compress, and the spica bandage are to be applied, and the limb kept completely quiet. When the coracoid process is fractured, the muscles connected with it are to be relax- ed, by keeping the os brack 'd advanced forward toward the sternum, bending the elbow and turning the band supine. Thelimb is to be kept in this position by a sling, aided by a roller, if necessary. A piece of soap plaster, a compress, and a spica bandage, will also be necessary. When the neck of the scapula is broken, (lie glenoid cavity, and os brack'd fall downward, a crepitus is usually felt on raising the limb, and this descends again, immediately it is left unsupported. The evident indications arc, to keep the elbow and whole arm properly elevated in a sling, and, to forbid all exercise of the limb. A piece of soap plaster; a compress, and a spica bandage, may be applied to the shoulder. The chief dependance must be on the assist* aqce of the sling, in maintaining the arm quiet, and thede*