294 first lines of the plish his objects with far greater safety by means of Scar* pa s needle than it is possible to effect with a straight one, provided / e is well acquainted with the anatomy of the eye’ tfle scientific mode of using the instrument, and has a tolerably steady hand, and good eye of his own, DESCRIPTION OF EXTRACTION OF THE CATARACT. Baron Wenzel s knife for dividing the cornea is repre- senfed, plate VI., fig. 5. A, the back of the blade; B, its edge; C, a mark on the handle to- distinguish (he back from the edge of the blade. Mr. M are employs a knife which bears a great resemblance to Wenzel’s, and chiefly differs from it in being less spear-pointed. The lower edge of Wenzel’s knife is sharp throughout its whole length; but the upper edge, though thin, is not sharp, except to the extent of one-eighth of an inch from the point. Every knife designed for dividing the cornea, should be so con- structed as to increase gradually in thickness from the point to the handle ; by which means, as Mr. Ware ob- serves, the aqueous humour will be prevented from esca- ping before the section is begun downwards. M’hen the aqueous humour escapes prematurely, (he iris falls forward beneath the edge of the knife, and is apt to be wounded. The instrument should, therefore, be so contrived, that not a particle of this fluid can escape from the eye before the lower part of the cornea is completely divided. The patient is to sit in a low chair, and not in too strong a light, as this makes the pupil contract too much. The sound eye is to be covered with a compress. Both these directions are equally applicable to couching. The sur- geon is to raise the upper eyelid wi b the forefinger of the hand not occupied with the knife, and he is to press the tarsus against the upper edge of the orbit. The operator should be seated a little higher than the patient, resting his right foot on a stool, in order that his knee may be raised high enough to support the elbow. The knife is to be held