PRACTICE OF SURGERY. excepting the two longitudinal portions, about half an inch broad, which arc to be converted in'o eschars by the application of the caustic. The end of this substance is to be dipped in water, and treely rubbed on the situations of the intended issues. As soon as the shin has become quite brown, the caustic may be washed ofF with some wet tow, the adhesive plaster may be removed, and the part co- vered with a linseed poultice. As soon as the eschars are loose, and can be taken away without pain, the issues are to be filled with peas, or kidney beans. These arc to be covered with adhesive plaster, which will confine them in their situation. How- ever, as the hollows soon become filled up with granula- tions, unless considerable pressure be made, it is generally deemed necessary to bind a piece of pasteboard, or a com- press, containing a bit of sheet-lead, firmly on the situa- tion of the issues. The pressure, thus maintained, though creative of uneasiness, at first, will in the end save the pa- tient an immense deal of pain ; for, in consequence of its operation, the peas, or beans, will soon form as many little hollows in the cavity of the issue, as their own number, and into these the future peas may afterwards be placed, and retained, without the least uneasiness, provided the sur- geon give particular injunctions not to allow the bandage ever to be slack. The pressure saves the patient, in the end, a great deal of pain, which would otherwise be una- voidable, on account of the surgeon being necessitated to repress the rising granulations in the cavity of the issue, by sprinkling them with powdered cantharides, or tha pulv. ex cerug. ceris et sabin., or even rubbing them with the caustic. In most instances, however, it is now and then requisite to apply one of the above powders under- neath the beaus, or peas. In order to appty peas advan- tageously, they should be previously sofiened in warm wa- ter, and connected together, like beads, bv passing a thread through their centre. Then they should be allowed to be-