452 FIRST LINES Ql THE OF THE FUNCTURE ABOVE THE PUBIS. The best mode of performing this operation is in the fol- lowing manner. Let the surgeon make a perpendicular in- cision, about two inches in length, through the integuments /, and fat, covering the lower part of the linca alba. The v ound ought not to he made, as some surgeons direct, with its lowest part full an inch above the os ppbis. There is no real reason for avoiding this bone, and, the lower the incision of the above extent is made, the nearer it is to that part of the bladder, which it is most advisable to punc- ture, and the further it is from the peritoneum. lienee, the bottom of the incision should just meet the upper part of the above bone. A cut of the same length is next to be made between the pyramidal muscles, and, this being done, the surgeon can feel with his finger the prominent, distended bladder. A trocar, the curvature of which forms a segment of a circle seven inches in diameter, is now to be introduced into the exposed part of this viscus. When this instrument is held with its convexity upward, that is, towards the patient’s navel, it can be more conveniently in- troduced obliquely downward and backward info the blad- der,in the direction of the axis of this receptacle, than any sfraight trocar can possibly be. As M. Sabatier observes, a curved instrument, of this kind, is much less likely to pe- netrate the back part of the bladder, and wound the rec- tum ; besides, having this advantage, that when the urine is evacuated, and the viscus collapsed, the cannula will not be so apt, as that of a straight trocar, to be separated from the part, in which it has been introduced. When the operator perceives, by the want of resistance, lhal the point of the instrument is in the bladder, he is to take hold of the mouth of the cannula, and, while he pushes this further into the viscus, he is to withdraw the stilet. The cannula is to be allowed to remain in the wound, after the urine is evacuated. Its mouth is to be stopped with a