FIRST LINES OF THE 426 tvriting pen, and, as it enters the urethra, ought to be art- iully rotated first in one direction, and then in the other, in order that its extremity may more certainly escape be- ing entangled in any natural fold of the membrane lining the passage. Having ascertained, by the introduction of a bougie, the existence and situation ot the stricture nearest the mouth of the urethra, the next desideratum is to learn, whether the contraction is such as would be produced toy fying a piece of packthread round the canal; whether, on the other hand, it occupies a considerable extent of the length of the passage ; and lastly, w hat is the size of the bougie which can be introduced through it. It is on these latter circumstances that we ought, in my opinion, to de- termine, whether the common or caustic bougie should be preferred. Soon after Mr. Home had recommended an almost unlimited employment of armed bougies, I made many trials of his plan on patients in St. Bartholomew’s hospital. In a few of these eases I touched the strictures sixty, eighty, and even near a hundred times, without getting through them, although I followed the above gen- tleman’s directions in a very strict manner. Most com- monly, however, I found the caustic answer my expecta- tions. Now fiom reflecting on the manifest impotence of caustic to destroy a stricture, that occupies an inch or more of the canal, I have no hesitation in asserting, that when a stricture is accompanied with a contraction of some extent, both before and behind it, the common bougie is generally preferable to the caustic one. The fear of a re- turn of a stricture, when thus completely cured, has often seemed to me a suppositious and unfounded argument. Notwithstanding this sentiment, I shall recommend caust ic bougies in the majority of ordinary cases ; because in these the stricture is not more extensive, than if it were caused by a piece of packthread tied round the urethra, and there- fore it can be advantageously and expeditiously cured by the application of caustic.