223 FIRST LINES OF T&E beneath the depressed bone for the purpose of raising ifj attention being paid to anatomical objections to trephining particular situations. In cases of extravasation, the per- foration ought to be made at the place •where there are traces of violence done to the scalp, for in most instances the blood will be found beneath this situation. When the scalp has been divided, and loose splinters of the cranium are found lying underneath, they ought to be taken away with the forceps or linger ; they can only be regarded as extraneous bodies, and their own continuance may be productive of considerable irritation. The de- pressed pieces of the skull causing the bad symptoms, are sometimes completely detached from the rest of the cra- nium, and maybe taken away in the same manner. In every instance of fracture with depression, unat- tended with any motives for supposing that part of the pressure on the brain arises from extravasation, provided such depressed fracture can be raised with a pair of for- ceps, or an elevator, without applying the trephine, the latter operation may be dispensed with. It is customary to scrape the pericranium from the part of the bone on which the crown of the trephine is to be placed. Iu order to fix the centre pin of the trephine, surgeons make a small hole in the external table ofihe skull with an instrument named a perforator. The crown of the,trephine is to be turned alternately iiTone direction, and then in the other by the pronation and supination of the surgeon’s hand. As soon as the teeth of the instrument have made a circular groove, sufficiently deep for fixing the trephine,the centre-pin is to be taken out, lest it should injure the dura mater before the. internal table of thecranium is perforated. At first the operation may proceed with briskness, as the surgeon cannot possibly do mischief; and every now and then the t rephine is to be taken out of the circular groove, that the bone-dust may be brushed from the teeth of. (lie instrument.