441 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. events are liable to occur. 1. When the bladder has been distended to a certain pitch, and the cause of the retention of urine is not such, as to close the urethra, the contents of the bladder at length begin to be discharged by drops. This viscus, however, is not emptied by the occurrence..j the same degree of distention and fulness continue, though they do not augment. It is this sort'of retention ot urine, that may last several weeks, without prodiicing further dangerous consequences. 3. "When the disorder is owing to a total closure of the canal, through which the urine is naturally evacuated, the distention and fulness of the blad* der continually increase, until at length inflammation, sloughing, and even death take place. Sometimes, how- ever, and, probably, when the slough is, as it were, only a speck, the bladder bursts at the affected point, the urine becomes diffused in the surrounding parts, and the patient becomes suddenly freed from the preternatural distention of the bladder. The result depends on the situation of the slough of this viscus. For the most part, the breach is formed in the vicinity of the neck of the bladder, so that the urine is extravasated in the cellular membrane of the perineum and scrotum, andfistula in perineo take place.* Sometimes the slough opens a passage for the urine into the rectum, and this fluid is suddenly discharged with the stools. The bladder occasionally bursts at its superior and anterior part, and the urine becomes diffused in the cellular substance of the abdominal muscles. When the fundus of this viscus bursts, its contents are effused into the cavity of the abdomen, and the consequence is fatal. Sometimes, the urine is discharged at the navel. In this instance, a preternatural pouch forms, which occasions a fluctuating tumour at the umbilicus, and, at last, the swel- ling inflames and bursts. This occurrence is commonly * In th« urethra, ulceration occurs, as we have described in the Chapter on fistulyt in perineo.