4<j7 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. •which had been divided at first, and which were now in a retracted state. In this way, he could evidently saw the bone very high up, and the painful dissection of the skin from the muscles was avoided. I have always thought the reasoning of this eminent practitioner very strong, and his practice deserving of a more extensive trial, than I believe it has obtained in this country. However, my limits will not allow me to introduce, in this work, his very interest- ing observations on this subject: the reader must consult them himself, in the Mem. de l'Acad, de Chirurgie. Mr. Alanson’s mode of amputating is what still prevails in this country. The integuments being divided by a circular wound, the knife is to be applied to the inner edge of the vastus internus, and, at one stroke, an incision is to be made obliquely through the muscles, upward in respect to the limb, and down to the bone. In other words, cut in such a direction as to lay the bone bare, about two or three fingers breadth higher, than a perpendicular circular inci- sion would do. Now draw the knife towards you, so that its point may rest upon the bone, still observing to keep the instrument in the same oblique position; in order that the muscles may be divided all round the limb in that di- rection, by a proper turn of the kuife. During the per- formance of this movement, the point of the knife is to be kept in contact with the bone, round which it of course must revolve. I am happy to remark, that many excellent surgeons, whom I have seen operate, do not cut at once obliquely down to the bone, after the integuments have been sepa- rated ; but so far adopt the principles of M. Louis, as to divide the loose muscles first, and, lastly, those which are intimately attached to the bone, throughout their whole extent. This is certainly abetter mode of operating, than to follow precisely Mr. Alanson’s directions. However, I am obliged to state, that the attempt to divide the loose muscles first, and then the more fixed ones, is very apt to K. K