FIRST LINES OF THE 436 from going into the new passage, and thus it is completely hindered from acting on the stricture. In this circumstance, Mr. Hunter recommends the fol- lowing operation. Pass astaff, or any such instrument into the urethra, as far as it will go, which will probably be to the bottom of the new passage, and this, we may be certain, is beyond the stricture. Feel for the end of the instrument externally, and cut upon it, making the wound about an inch long, if the disease be before the scrotum ; and an inch and a half, or more, if in the perineum. If the new passage be between the urethra and body of the penis, you will most probably get into the sound urethra, before you come to the instrument, or new passage. If so, introduce a probe into the urethra, through the wound, and pass it towards the glans penis, or, in other words, towards the stricture. When it meets with an obstruction, this must be the stricture, which is now to be got through, and after- wards dilated. To complete the operation, withdraw the probe, and, instead of it, introduce a hollow cannula for- wards to the stricture. Then introduce another cannula from the glans downwards, till the two tubes are opposite each other, having the stricture between them. An assistant is now to take hold of the urethra on the outside, with his linger and thumb, just where the two cannuke meet, in order to keep them in their places. Through the upper cannula next introduce a piercing instrument, which is to perforate the stricture, and enter the lower cannula. The piercing instrument is now to be w ithdrawn, and a bougie introduced through the first cannula and stricture, into the second cannula. The tubes are to be withdrawn, and the end of the bougie, in the wound, directed into the bladder, through the further portion of the urethra. It may also be necessary to lay the whole of the false passage open in order to make it heal; for otherwise, it might still obstruct the future passage of bougies into the proper canal. If the new passage be between the skin and urethra, the