PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 14» When 1 jiootl escapes from a wound, or rupture, of an artery into the adjoining cellular substance, the swelling is termed a false aneurism. In tliis'instance the blood either collects in one mass, dis- tends (lie cellular substance, and converts it into a cyst, so as to form a plainly circumscribed tumour; or it is injected into all the cavities of the surrounding cellular substance, and extends along the course of the great vessels from one end of the limb to the other, thus producing an irre- gular oblong swelling. The lirst case is termed the ch - cumscrihed false aneurism; the second the diffused false aneurism.* In cases of true aneurism the coats ot the diseased ar- tery are found in a thickened, cartilaginous, and often os- sified state. The vessel is either dilated at the whole of its circumference, or only on one side : the latter case some- times happens, when the artery lies near a bone, which im- pedes the expansion of one side of the vessel. The first thing the patient perceives is an unusual throb- bing; and on examination he discovers a small pulsating tumour, which entirely vanishes when pressure is made, but immediately reappears when the pressure is taken oft. It also spontaneously subsides when the artery above it is compressed, and returns as soon as the compression no longer operates. Il is free from pain; and the skin co- vering it is of its natural colour. \V lien once the tumour lias originated it continually grows larger, and at length attains a very considerable volume. In proportion as it becomes larger its pulsation becomes weaker; and, indeed, is almost quite lost when the disease has acquired much magnitude. % e Nw * When the external coat of an artery, is wounded, and the internal ones are consequently dilated, the case is by many writers named a mixed aneurism. This seems a very superfluous distinction. Authors are also not perfectly decided about the application of the term; Monro applying it to cases in which the artery is first dilated, and then rup- tured. _