s PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 155 who have exerted their abilities in the achievement of this object, no one has been so successful as Mr. Abernethy- This gentleman soon perceived that the occurrence of he- morrhage, after tying any artery, did not commonly origi- nate from the mechanical bursting of the vessel, or from the ligature becoming lax, and changing its situation, but from ulceration of the artery. The blood vessels are themselves vascular, and derive their supply of nourish- ment from vessels transmitted to them from the surround- ing substance. How proper must it therefore be to ap- ply a ligature round an artery as near as possible to where it lies involved in its natural connections! In this situa- tion the ligature is much more likely to produce an adhe- sion of the sides of the vessel to each other, and the danger ofnlceration is less, than if it were applied, as was formerly done, to the middle of the exposed portion of the artery, where the vessel has been quite separated from its connections by the passage of the surgeon’s finger underneath it. In short, Mr. Abernethy’s mode of operating consists in mak- ing an incision about two inches and a half in length through the skin and fascia of the thigh, on the inner edge of the sartorius muscle ; as soon as the femoral artery is felt, an incision is to be made on each side of it, in order to enable the operator to pass his finger beneath it ; and, lastly, a double ligature is to be introduced by means of a blunt needle under the vessel, observing to leave out the femoral vein, and accompanying branches of the anterior crural nerve. One portion of the ligature is to be tied as high, the other as low, as the detachment of t he artery will allow. The part of the vessel between the two ligatures is then to be divided. Thus the two ends of the artery will be in the same state as those on the surface of a stump after amputation. The limb, if cold after the operation, may be covered with flannel and gently rubbed. I shall not notice any mechanical contrivances, to pre- vent the ligature slipping off the vessel, because I consi-