PRACTICE OF SURGERY. Vv hen the membrane is situated behind the meatus tm- narius, no inconvenience is perceived, until the period, when the menstrual discharge commences. As this evacu- ation cannot escape externally, it accumulates in the va- gina, so as to occasion several local and general complaints, which lead to an examination of the parts, and to the de- tection of the malformation. Pain in the loins; a sense of heaviness and tension in the uterus ; hardness of the abdo- men ; frequent propensity to make water, and even a reten- tion of urine ; pain in going to stool, &c. are the inconve- niences usually resulting from the imperforated vagina. The patient is also observed to have no'evacuation from the uterus, at the age, when it naturally ought to take place. The above complaints are experienced every month ; but they afflict the patient continually, when a large accu- mulation of blood lias occurred. At length, giddiness, paleness, swelling of the belly, drowsiness, and ellorts, like those of labour, exasperate the state of the case. The nature of the disorder may easily be detected by an ocular examination. Careless practitioners, however, may easily fall into error, and suppose, that all the above com- plaints originate from chlorosis, or pregnancy. The operation for the relief of this case is very simple. The surgeon is to divide the membrane by a longitudinal incision, made from the place just below the meatus ur, ina- rms downward. After the accumulated fluid has been eva- cuated, the edges of the divided membrane are to be kept asunder for two or three days afterwards, by means of a dossil of lint. If the dark, thick discharge does not easily escape, warm water must be injected to promote the eva- cuation. Sometimes the vagina is closed, not by a membrane, but by a concretion of the opposite surfaces of the labia, nym- phee, and mouth of the vagina. No opening is discerni- ble, except a small one from which the urine flows. At the same time, tbere is always to be seen a white''raphe, or line.