2 J 3b FIRST LINES OF THE Some surgeons also apply a longitudinal compress over the track of the vessel above the wound 5 they do s5 with a view of weakening the current of blood into the vessel. Whatever good efFect it may have in this way, is more han counterbalanced by the difficulty which it must create to the circulation in the arm. If the graduated compress be properly arranged, an effusion of blood cannot possibly appen ; and the application of pressure along the course of the artery must, at best, be deemed superfluous. After relaxing the tourniquet, if no blood escape from the artery, the surgeon should feel (he pulse at the wrist, m order to ascertain that the compression employed is not so powerful as to prevent the circulation entirely. The arm is to be kept perfectly quiet in a sling ; and in forty, eight hours, if no bleeding take place, there will be great reason to expect that the case will do well.* Compression of large arteries is never commendable, ex- cept in such a case as has been just mentioned, or when the wounded vessel is capable of being firmly compressed against an adjoining bone. The compresses someiiiges slip off, or the bandages become slack, so as to cive room for fatal hemorrhage. When this plan is employed, the tourniquet should therefore always remain slackly on the limb, and ready to'be instantaneously tightened. In this kind of treatment the external wound may heal, while the aperture in the artery remains unclosed, and an aneu- Plenk has invented an instrument, which is well calculated for healing wounds of the brachial artery by making pressure, without preventing a sufficient circulation in the arm. See Plate I. Leather shaps are attached to the buttons a, a, a, a, and are fastened behind fhe arm by buckles, one above the other below the elbow. The pad b is to be placed immediately over a graduated compress, which is to be put immediately over the wound in the artery. The necessary de- gree of pressure may be regulated by the screw c; while the branches of the instrument d, d, d, d, are at some distance from the limb, and, consequently, do not interrupt the flow of blood either through the ar- teries or veins.