PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 55 rather promote, than retard, the union of the wound. When the blood does not issue from any particular ves- sels, but from numerous small ones, compression is prefer- able to the ligature. The employment of the latter would render it necessary to tie the whole surface of the wound. In order to make effectual compression in this case, the wound is to have its opposite surfaces brought into con- tact; compresses are then to be placed over the wound, and a roller is to be applied as tightly as can be done with- out hazard of stopping the circulation in the part. If compression can ever be safely practised in bleedings from large arteries, it is when these vessels run in the vici- nity of a bone, against which they can be advantageously compressed. Bleedings from the radial and temporal ar- teries are of this kind. Compression is sometimes tried, when the brachial artery has been wounded in phlebo- tomy. Here it is occasionally tried in preference to th« ligature, because the latter cannot be employed without an operation to expose the artery. It is absurd to adopt com- pression, in this instance, with an idea, that it effects a closure of the wound in the vessel without obliterating its pervious estate; and, consequently, that there is less chance of mortification from a deficiency of blood in the limb. Frequent dissections have evinced, that whenever a large artery has been wounded and healed, the wound is never closed so as to leave the canal of the artery pervious. When an artery of magnitude has received a small wound, the following plan may be tried. A tourniquet is to be applied so as to command the flow of blood into the vessel. The edges of the external Avound are next to be brought into contact. Then a compress, shaped like a blunt cone, and which is best formed by a. scries of compresses gradually increasing in size, is to be placed with its apex exactly on the situation of the wound in the artery. This graduated compress, as it is termed, is then to be bound on the part with a roller. I