FIRST LINES OF THE 542 turc of the ligaments, which naturally confine the processus dcntatus in its situation in front of the spinal marrow, or a luxation, sideways, may be produced, in consequence of that process itself being fractured. Such alarming accidents may happen, when a person is thrown from a horse, or falls from any high situation, so as to pitch on his head, or receive a very violent blow on his neck. When the processus dcntatus is dislocated back- ward, the head itself is thrown forward, and is preterna* tnrally moveable; the face swells ; the eyes become pro- minent; the mouth isopen; the tongue is motionless ; the respiration difficult; the pulse small, and slow ; the body is deprived of seiisibiliiy and motion; and the patient is in a dyingstate. A complete luxation of the upper cervical vertebras is productive of almost instantaneous death, by the injury, or compression, which the spinal marrow must inevitably suffer. .But an incomplete dislocation, we are informed, may sometimes admit of relief, and life be preserved by the timely interference of art. There arc, certainly, in dif- ferent museums, anchylosed cervical vertebrae, in which the canal for the spinal marrow is very much lessened, in con- sequence of a preceding partial luxation. Callisen in- forms us, that he has such specimens in his own possession. However, we may fairly infer, from the remaining diminu- tion in the canal for the spinal marrow, that art had very little share in the cure, and that (lie preservation of life was not owing to the dislocation having been reduced, but to the spinal marrow having accommodated itself to any slight pressure, which it might have suffered. There can be no doubt of the rationality of attempting an immediate reduction of the processus dcntatus, if signs of life should exist. This processes thrown back, so ai> t o compress, or injure the spinal marrow, while the atlas, and head itself, are thrown forward. The recollection of these circumstances will enable a surgeon to do what is proper, -