PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 457 When the malady is local, tonics and astringents are in- dicated. Cold bathing, bark, blistering the sacrum or pe- rineum, the internal exhibition of the tinct. the shower bath, electricity, and rubbing the spine and sacrum with stimulating liniments, arejtke chief means. When the incontinence of urine is merely an effect of another disorder, the latter claims the principal attention. The second species of incontinence of urine is of a spas- modic nature, and commonly depends on some irritation operating on the bladder. Hence, the indication is to find out the irritation, and, if possible, to remove it. Hemor- rhoidal complaints, suppressed menses, a stone in the blad- der, ajfistula in ano, &c. may cause the affection. When the particular irritation cannot be discovered, general sooth- ing and antispasmodic remedies, such as opium, the warm bath, fomentations, &c. should be prescribed. The uxa ursi is said to be very useful in these cases : a scruple, or half a dram of the powder may be given, three times a day. This kind of incontinence of urine is frequently only a symptom of epilepsy, or hysteria. Sometimes if is entire- ly dependent on some pressure on the bladder; and hence, it may be a symptom of polypi of the uterus, a prolapsus of this viscus, or difficult parturition. The last sort of case, is that in which the urine is voided involuntarily in the night time, when the patient is asleep. The infirmity is mostly met with in young boys and girls ; and, for the most part, spontaneously goes off, as they ap- proach the adult state. Such subjects as are troubled, in this manner, should avoid drinking any fluid, just before going to bed, and should be particularly careful to emptyr the bladder, before they go to sleep. When the infirmity afflicts adult persons, and does not yield to the above precautions, onc-fourth of a grain of the powder of cantharides, given with milk of almonds, every evening, has been known to be of service. If this