t'-H FIRST LINES OF THE through Which the body of the viscus has descended* A here is nothing of this kind to lie felt in cases of polypi. rJ he finger, or probe, may be introduced deeply into the vagina along the side of a polypus, but not so along the side of the uterus. The root of a polypus is firm and hard ; the upper thin part of the uterus, being hollow, has a soft flabby feel. Difficult labour, the common cause of the inverted uterus, also throws light on the case. Po- typb situated either on the inside of the cervix, or at the margin of the os uteri, soon protrude into the vagina, and when large produce all the complaints above mentioned, except frequent profuse bleedings. These seldom occur, because the root of the tumour suffers no constriction in the os uteri. As such polypi descend out of the vagina, they occasion a prolapsus uteri without inversion. Uterine polypi, when once extirpated, are not so prone to be reproduced as those of the nose are. They ought never to be pulled off', as the attempt might produce a pro- lapsus uteri. A few instances occur, in which they might be conveniently twisted off. This is sometimes the case when the pedicle is very thin, or after the ligature has been applied a certain time. The ligature is the most proper means of extirpating uterine polypi, and is here much more easy of application than in the nose. That a polypus cannot be tied, while it lies in the uterus, is easily comprehensible. But, as soon as it has descend- ed into the vagina, the operation is practicable. The most convenient mode of applying the ligature is by means of two silver canulaa.* It is hardly necessary to * See Plate 2. A strong ligature is to be introduced through both canul®, so that its two ends hang out of the lower apertures of the tubes (fig. 1.) C, D, while its middle portion forms a noose between ,tl;e two upper apertures, A, B. Both the tubes are to be introduced to- gether to the root of the polypus. One is then to be kept stationary, while the other is to be conveyed round the polypus to the opposite