PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 29? like a writing pen, and the little finger of the hand is to rest steadily on the outside of the check. When the eye is still, and so turned towards the outer angle, that the inner and inferior part of the cornea can be distinctly seen, the operator is to plunge the knife into the upper ar.d outer part of (his tunic, at the distance ot a quarter of a line from the sclerotica, and a little above the transverse diameter ot the cornea. Baron Wenzel objects to making the least pressure on the eye. However, Mr. Ware has so often perceived the ill effects of leaving the eye unfixed at the time ot making the incision through the cornea, that he has successfully adopted in practice the plan ot employing pressure just at the instant when the knife is carried across the cornea, taking care to remove it before any attempt is made to di- vide this tunic downward. The first process ot the inci- sion Mr. Ware calls punctuation; the second, secl?>n ot the cornea, fie directs the operator to place the fore and middle finger of the hand, not used in holding the knife, upon the tunica conjunctiva, just below, and a little on the inside of the cornea. At the same time the assistant is to apply one, or if the eye projects sufficiently, two of his fin- gers upon the conjunctiva, a little on the inside of, and above, the cornea. The fingers of the operator and assist- ant, thus opposed to each other, will fix the eye, arid pre- vent the lids from chising. The knife is to be pushed through the cornea slowly and steadily, without the least intermis&i n. When about one-third of the blade of Mr. Ware’s knife has emerged from the inner part of the cor- nea, near its margin, the punctuation is completed. ,The broad part of the blade is now between the cornea and iris, and its edge below the pupil, so that the latter mem- brane is then, according to Mr. Ware, out of all danger of being wounded. Every degree of pressure must now be taken off the globe of the eye, and consequently the fin- gers both of the operator and his assistant are instantly to