53? PRACTICE OF SURGERY. the stability of the limb, while no crepitus is very often distinguishable. When both bones are broken, the action of the muscles of the calf, together with the weight of the limb itself, usually occasions a distortion of the leg, the heel being drawn backward, and the foot inclining towards the side, to which its own unsupported weight inclines it. In oblique fractures, the deformity is always most conspir cuous, and the sharp point of the lower end of the tibia frequently makes a considerable projection forward, threat- ening to protrude through the skin. The latter effect is entirely owing to the strong action of the muscles, on the posterior part of the leg. The same cause commonlypro- duces, at the same time, a shortness of the injured limb. Mr. Pott takes notice of a very common case, and one, which when care is not taken to relax the muscles, often proves exceedingly troublesome. This eminent practi- tioner observes, that when the tibia is forced from its just and perpendicular position on the astragalus, probably the capsular ligament, but always (hose strong ligamentous fibres, which connect the lower end of the tibia with the astragalus, and os calcis, must be lacerated. Such is the case, when the fibula breaks within two or three inches pf the malleolus externus; when the inferior end of the fracture fulls inward toward the tibia; when the malleolus fxternus is turned somewhat outward, and upward ; and the tibia, having lost its proper support, is forced off from the astragalus inwards. To this perfect fracture, and par- tial dislocation, is sometimes added a wound in the integu- ments, made by the bo e a he inner ankle. The difficulty in reducing the case, and keeping if so: the distortion of the foot upward, and outward ; are caused by the action of sue li muscles, as have tendons passing be- hind the tibia and fibula, under the os calcis, or at ached to these hones. Hence, in this instance, the utility of -■> laxing the powerful muscles, is strikingly exemplified if the limb be laid on its outside, u'ilk the knee moderately'