4<>5 FIRST LINES OF TIIE make a surgeon cut the whole, or a greater part of the same muscle through more than once ; a fault in modern prac- tice, which, as far as my judgment extends, deserves repro- bation^ as much as any proceeding which can be instanced. To say how unnecessary it is to divide any muscle more than once, is as needless as to remind the reader of its doubling the agony of a very severe operation. Having cut completely down to the bone, a piece of linen, somewhat broader than the stump, should be torn at one end, in its middle part, to the extent of about eight, or ten iches. This is called a retractor, and is applied by placing the exposed part of the bone in the slit, and draw- ing the ends of the linen upward on eacli side of the stump. Thus the retractor will evidently keep every part of the surface of the wound out of the way of the saw. I have seen the saw. do so much mischief, in consequence of neg- lecting to use the retractor, that my conscience obliges me to censure such surgeons as are in the habit of employing the saw, without defending the soft parts by this simple con- trivance. I think no one can say, that the retractor can do harm ; and I know, that many, who have been with myself eye-witnesses of the mischief frequently done by the saw in amputations, are deeply impressed with an aver- sion to the neglect of this bandage. 1 have often seen the soft parts adroitly divided ; and I have, in these same in- stances, seen the operators directly afterwards lose all the praise, which every one was ready to bestow, by their li- terally sawing through one half ot the ends of the muscles, together with the bone. But, besides defending the sur- face of the stump from the teeth of the saw, the retractor will undoubtedly enable the operator to saw the bohe higher up, than he otherwise could do. Another proceeding, which seems to be fit for reproba- tion, is the practice of scraping up the periosteum with the knife, as far as the muscles will allow. I think this plan may sometimes be the cause of exfoliations, which