PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 117 opinion with the former, that adhesion, immoveableness, ulcerations, disposition to hemorrhage, &c. are not ade- quate causes for leaving the disease to itself. Sometimes the greatest part of the polypus extends back- ward, hanging down behind the palatum molle, towards the pharynx. When only a little of the polypus is visible in the nostril, the extraction must be performed backward in the throat. This is usually accomplished by means of a pair of curved forceps, which arc to be introduced through the mouth, in order to seize and tear off the tumour as high as possible above the soft palate. Care must be taken not to irritate the epiglottis, or else a vomit- ing and coughing are excited, which disturb the opera- tion. When the polypus cannot be taken hold of pro- perly, some advise dividing the soft palate, a thing that can very rarely be necessary. As in this method the poly- pus is not twisted, but pulled away, the hemorrhage is com- monly copious. If a fragment of the tumour should remain behind, it may in general be extracted through the nose. When the polypus is situated both in the throat and the nostril, the above mode of operating might also succeed. However, as its anteriour part would often continue at- tached, and require being, after all, removed through the nostril, it is best to operate at once in this manner. An- other reason for twisting off the anteriour part of the poly- pus first, is, that the mass in the throat is often rendered so loose that it can be easily extracted. Whenever it is con- jectured that the polypus will come away in two pieces, it is always preferable first to extract the part in the nostril, and afterwards that in the throat, because the separation of the last is constantly productive of most bleeding. Some- times the following plan succeeds in detaching the whole polypus at once. Both the part in the nostril and that in the throat are to be firmly taken hold of with forceps, and drawn at first gently, and afterwards more forcibly, back- ward and forward, until the tumour gives way.