449 First lines of the expedient is unavailing, the index finger of the left hand may be introduced into the rectum, for the purpose of sup* porting the membranous part of the urethra* and guiding the extremity of the Catheter. When the prostate gland is enlarged* the diameter of the urethra does not undergo any diminution; but it turns upward very suddenly, just before its approach to the bladder. In such cases* the end of the catheter should be more bent upward, than the rest of its curvature. Mr. Hey has found, that* in withdrawing the stilet of an elastic gum catheter, the instrument becomes more curved; and he has availed himself of this information, by withdrawing the stilet (which is to be constructed of brass wire), as he is introducing the catheter beyond the arch of the pubis, by which artifice, the point of the instrument is elevated in the due direction. When such experiments fail, the surgeon should try ca- theters of various sizes, and curvatures. In the third stage of the operation, the beak of the instru- ment has to pass the prostate gland, "and neck of the blad- der. The chief impediments to its passage in this situa- tion arise from a spasmodic contraction of the neck of the bladder, and from the instrument being pushed against the prostate gland. The first obstacle may generally be ob- viated by waiting a few moments, and gently rubbing the perineum, before pushing onward the catheter. The im- pediment, caused by the prostate, is best eluded, by using an instrument, the point of which is more curved than its other part. Sometimes the surgeon himself presses the prostate towards the os pubis, by means of the finger in the rectum, and thus' prevents the passage of the catheter, by increasing the sudden curvature at this part of the ure- thra. Hence, as Richter observes, it is a very important maxim, never to introduce the finger so far into the rec- tum, as to press on the prostate gland itself. Many eminent surgeons prefer introducing the catheter,