Practice of surgery. 73 of a scton, is also an objection. Why, however, should we mention the use of a seton ? What good can possibly arise from it ? Will it promote the discharge of forciga bodies if any are present ? By occupying the external openings of the wound, will it not be more likely to pre- vent it? In fact, will it not itself act with all the inconve- niences and irritation of an extraneous substance in tire wound ? Is it a likely means of diminishing the immode- rate pain, swelling, and extensive suppuration so oflen at- tending punctured wounds ? It will undoubiedly prevent the external openings from healing too soon ; but cannot this object be effected in a better way ? If the surgeon ob- serves to insinuate a piece of lint into the sinus, and pass a probe through its track once a day, the danger of its closing too sooii will be removed. The practice of enlarging punctured wounds by inci- sions, and of introducing setons, is often forbidden bv th* particular situation of these injuries. In the firststage of a punctured wound the indication is to guard against the attack of violent inflammation. Where no considerable quantity of blood has been lost, general and topical bleeding should be practised, in short, the antiphlogistic plan is to be followed. As no man can pronounce whether such wounds will unite, or not, and as no harm can result from the attempt, the ori- fice ought to be closed with strips of adhesive plaster, anti gentle compression applied along the whole course of the puncture. Perfect quietude is to be observed. When the pain is very severe, opium is to be administered. Sometimes under this treatment the surgeon is agreeably surprised to find the consequent inflammation mild, and the wound speedily united by the first intention. More frequently, however, in cases of deep stabs, the pain is intolerable; and the inflammatory symptoms run so high, as to leave no hope ot avoiding supp iration. In this condition an emollient poultice is the best local appU-