PRACTICE OF. SURGERY. 3 successful disquisition. Galen, who attributed disease in general to certain humours fn the system, referred phleg- mon to a superabundance of the humor sanguineus. Boer- haave ascribed the proximate cause to an obstruc- tion in the small vessels, occasioned by a viscosity, or lentor of the blood. Cullen, and others of the modern school, with more reason refer it rather to an affection of the vessels, than a change of the fluids. AV ere we to sup- pose the state of the whole mass of the blood to be the cause, why should inflammation be confined to any particular situation ? In inflammation a larger quantity of blood is impelled into the part affected, than in the natural state. If an incision be made into an inflamed part, the blood would gush from the wound more profusely and vehement- ly than at another period. This circumstance cannot arise from any peculiarity in the action of the heart, an organ that drives the blood equally into the whole arterial sys- tem. The arteries are not mere mechanical tubes for the transmission of the blood to the various parts of the body ; they possess, besides their elasticity, a vital power of ac- tion, arising from their muscular structure. It is impossi- ble to explain rationally the augmented flow of blood through an inflamed part, except we regard it as the ef- fect of an increased dilatation, and a more powerful con- traction of such arteries, as lead and are distributed to the seat of the inflammation. It is this increased action oj the vessels, that is generally considered in modem times as the proximate cause in question. Further Remarks connected icith the Subject. It has been the fashion to dwell too much on the exist- ence of a spasmodic constriction of the minute extremi- ties of the vessels in phlegmonous inflammation. Does not the extravasation of lymph, contradict this hypothesis ? Is not the visible enlargement of those vessels, is not the increased current of blood through the inflamed part, con- tradictory of this opinion ? If we examine the ground, ou ,