PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 485 b ! as it is extracted : if its whole surfacebe rough, it is a pre- sumptive sign, that it is the only one ; if its outside should be smooth on one side, and rough on another, there may, very probably, be other stones. But, in every instance, the surgeon should introduce his fore finger, in order to ob- tain decisive information on this point ; tor, it would be unpardonable to put the patient to bed, while another stone remains in his bladder. Sometimes stones in the bladder cannot be grasped with the forceps, unless raised by the index and middle fingers of the left hand, introduced in the rectum. The majority of patients, who die in consequence of lithotomy, perish of peritoneal inflammation. Hence, on the least occurrence of tenderness over the abdomen, copi- ous venesection should be put in practice. At the same time, eight or ten leeches should be applied to the hypo- gastric region. The belly should be fomented, and the bowels kept open with the til. ricini. The feebleness of the pulse should not deter the practitioner from using the lan- cet ; this symptom is only fallacious ; and is attendant on all inflammation within the abdomen. Together with the above measures, the warm bath, blisters, and emollient clysters, are highly proper. I have seen several old subjects die of the irritation of a diseased, thickened state of the bladder, continuing after the stone had been extracted. They had not the acute symptoms, the inflammatory fever, the general tenderness, and tension of the abdomen, as in cases of peritoneum, they referred their uneasiness to the lower part of the pel- vis; and, instead of dying in the course of two or three days, as those usually do, who perish of peritoneal inflam- mation, they, for the most lingered, for two or three weeks after the operation. In these cases opiate clysters, and blistering the hypogastric region, are proper. In some instances of this kind, collections of matter form in the vicinity of the neck of the bladder.