187 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. imbibed the idea, that there is oftentimes a regular expan- sion of the heads of scrophulous bones. But, excepting an occasional enlargement, which arises from spicule ot osseous matter, deposited on the outside of the tibia, ulna, &c and which alteration cannot be called an expansion of those bones, I never have been an eye-witness of the head of a bone being of preternaturally large dimensions, in consequence of the disease known by the name of white swelling. I have been in the habit of frequently inspect- ing the state of the numerous diseased joints, which are an- nually amputated in St. Bartholomew’s hospital, and though I have long been attentive to this point, my searches after a really enlarged scrophulous bone have al- ways been in vain. The change, which the head of the tibia undergoes in many cases, is first a partial absorption of the phosphate of lime throughout its texture, while a soft kind of matter seems to be secreted into its substance. In a more advanced stage, and indeed in that stage which most frequently takes place before a joint is amputated, the head of the bone has deep excavations in consequence of caries, and its structure is now so softened, that when an instrument is pushed against the carious part it easily pe- netrates deeply into the bone. A cursory examination of the diseased joint, even when it is cut open, will not suffice to shew that the bones are not enlarged. I dissected one a few weeks ago, and on first looking at the parts, the swelling had every appearance of arising from an actual expansion of the bones. An intel- ligent medical friend, who was present, felt the ends of the bones after the integuments were removed, and he co- incided with me, that the feel, which was even now com- municated, seemed-to be caused by a swelling of the bones themselves. But on cleaning them, the enlargement was demonstrated to arise entirely from a thickening of the 6oft parts. The soft parts undergo a material change ; they are both