468 ' f.IRST LINES OF THE anus. The last case is termed a volvulus, or intussusceptio. When we speak of a prolapsus ani, we commonly mean the first kind of disorder. As the intestine descends, it becomes turned inside out: hence, the outside of the pro- truded part is, in fact, the inside of the gut. There are two kinds of causes, by which tlieprolapsus is produced, viz. such as weaken the sphincter, and parts, re- taining the rectum in its situation ; or such as force the in- testine downward. Those of the first description are only predisposing ones; but the latter causes often occasion a prolapsus quite independently of the others. Costiveness, and hardened faeces, which distend thereetum and sphinc- ter ani; and emollient clysters, which relax these parts; are the chief predisposing causes. The prolapsus ani is mostly seen afflicting children and aged persons ; the first, on account of the relaxation and elasticity in their sj^- tems; the latter, on account of the want of muscular power in the sphincter #ni. When the rectum has once descended, a weakness and relaxation are very apt to con- tinue afterwards, occasioning a recurrence of the complaint from the slightest causes. Among the second class of causes, we have to enumerate, long continued inclination to go to stool, kept up by hemorrhoids; ascaridps; a fistula in emo : a stone in the bladder; diarrhoea ^labour pains, &c. When the prolapsus is recent and inconsiderable, its re- duction may frequently be effected by gentle pressure with the hand. But when the protruded portion of the gut is large, and the prolapsus lias existed several hours, the re- duction very often cannot be so easily accomplished. Then the following plan is to be tried. The patient having emptied his bladder, is to place himself in a position, in which he rests upon his knees and elbows. The surgeon is now to try to reduce the prolapsus, by making alternate pressure, first on one side, then on the other, of that por- tion of the gut, which is nearest the opening, until the