158 FIRST LINES OF THE strument. The chief difficulty would be, to get a ligature under the artery ; but it might be done with the assistance of an aneurismal needle. As the artery communicates its pulsations 'o the cervical nerves in the vicinity, the oper- ator, il not aware, would be very likely to tie one of them for the artery. It might be necessary to perform one of these operations, were the axillary artery wounded ; but here the chance of success would be less, because in aneu- risms the anastomosing branches have time to enlarge in proportion as the disease obstructs the circulation through the main artery, and thus they become adequate to sup- plying the limb with blood. In the case of a wound, therefore, the surgeon should be particularly vigilant after the axillary artery, and should amputate without the least delay on the approach of mortification, for the inosculations would very probably be sufficient to nourish the stump, though not to preserve the whole limb. Diffused false aneurisms are the most dangerous of those occurring in the extremities, particularly when the arte- ries, from which they arise, are such as the femoral, brachial, or posterior tibial. The injection of an enorm- ous quantity of blood into the cellular texture proves both an impediment to the free circulation in the limb, and a frequent cause of gangrenous symptoms, in addition to the obstruction to the passage of blood through one of these large arteries in consequence of the operation. Aneurisms of the carotid artery are rare; but were a sur- geon to meet with one in an advanced state, humanity would oblige him to operate. Mr. Abernethy has tied this vessel ; but the patient had a very immense lacerated Avound of the neck, and had lost, a very large quantity of blood, so that pertiaps it is not accurate to conclude from the termination of this case, that tying the carotid would produce any fatal derangement of the brain. In order to get at the vessel, Mr. Abernethy has recom- mended making an incision on that side of it next the