FIE ST LINES OF THE 454 commended for lithotomy. An assistant is to make pres- sure on the abdomen, just above the os pubis, in order to make the prominence of the bladder more distinct to the surgeon’s finger in the rectum. A curved trocar, with its point drawn within the cannula, is to be introduced with the right hand, and conveyed upon the index finger of the left, as high as the surgeon can reach up the intestine, along the swelling, formed by the distended bladder. The instrument should be kept exactly in the central line of the front portion of the rectum, and, when conveyed suffi- ciently beyond the prostate gland, the point of the trocar is to be pushed into the bladder, through the anterior part of the intestine. This operation is so easy of accomplishment, and so very safe, that it certainly merits a general preference. The coats of the rectum and bladder, at this part, are Jn imme- diate contact, and the instrument has to penetrate no thick- ness of substance. The operation is not more painful, than venesection, and the distended bladder is so distinctly per- .ceptible to the finger, that no mistake can well be made. The only chance of doing mischief arises from the situation of the xesiculcB saninalesj but all risk is removed, when the trocar and the finger are introduced very high into the rectum, and the puncture is made exactly in the central part of the Swelling. Hence, the trocar, employed for this operation, ought to be somewhat longer than an ordinary one. The only inconvenience following the operation, is the necessity of keeping the cannula introduced, through the rectum, until the urine resumes its natural course. This circumstance is not only very troublesome, when the pa- tient walks or sits ; but is particularly so, at the time, when he goes to stool. The trouble, attendant on the evacua- tion of hardened faeces, may always be diminished by in- jecting a clyster. Whenever the patient has a motion, he is under the necessity of holding the cannula with his fin- gers, in order to prevent its .protrusion.