PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 527 the fracture is situated near the elbow joint, the ends of the bone are hardly ever displaced, and, consequently, no extension whatever is commonly requisite. When the ex- ternal or internal condyle is fractured, the muscles, arising from the part, should be relaxed; a piece of soap plaster, a figure of eight bandage, and a splint, to the side of the arm, on which the injury is situated, should be applied, and the forearm placed in a sling. The external condyle cannot be broken without the fracture communicating with the joint, and in every instance in which there is reason to suspect this event, it is necessary to move the joint occa- sionally, in order to prevent the formation of adhesions with- in the capsular ligament, and an irremediable stillness of lire articulation. In ordinary fractures of the arm, it is usual to apply two pieces of soap plaster, which together surround the limb, at the situation where the accident has happened. Extension, if necessary, being now made by an assistant, who at once draws the lower portion of the bone downward, and bends the elbow, the surgeon is to apply a roller round the limb. The external splint is to extend from the acro- mion to the outer condyle, and being lined with a soft pad the wood cannot hurt the limb by pressure. Ti>e inter- nal splint is to reach from the margin of the axilla to a lit- tle below the inner condyle, and is to be well guarded with a pad, filled with tow, or any other soft materials. Some surgeons are content with the application of two splints; but though (he two above described are those on-which we are to place the greatest reliance; yet, as the cylindri- cal form ot the arm conveniently allows us completely to incase this part of the limb, in splints, I shall alwa ys lx: an advocate tor the employment of four ; one oil the outside, one on the inside, one on the front, and another on the back ot the arm. These arc to be carefully fixed in their respective situations by tapes.