*22 FIRST LINES OF THE compressed by the uterus, it begins to grow more rapidly, and occasion far more troublesome complaints. It presses the bladder and rectum, and thus is apt to disturb the eva- cuation of the urine and faeces. But, in particular, it causes repeated and profuse hemorrhages, which weaken the patient exceedingly, and often bring her to the brink ot the grave. The root of the polypus is situated in the os uteri, and is there so compressed, that the blood in tha tumour is prevented from returning through the veins ; consequently all the vessels become turgid, and the above effusions of blood are the result. Though these generally cease spontaneously, the least circumstances cause their re- currence, even slight concussions of the body in walking, See. In the mean while a quantity of mucous and aqueous fluid is voided, by which the strength is still more reduced. The polypus, the source of this blood and mucus, is fre- quently misunderstood, and, the patient is in a perilous state. Hence the propriety of always examining per xa- ginam in cases of preternatural discharge from the uterus. After the polypus has remained some time in the vagina, it at length protrudes from it externally. Now it again ex- cites additional grievances. As it cannot descend so low without dragging the fundus uteri downward with it, and occasioning a prolapsus of that organ, a very painful sen- sation is generally experienced in the pelvis in standing, or walking. As the bladder and ureters are also forced into a deranged position, the evacuation of the urine is disturbed or impeded. The flow of the urine over the po- lypus, frictions, &c. frequently in this state cause it to inflame, become painful, and even to ulcerate. The polypus situated in the vagina, or protruding ex- ternally, may easily be mistaken for a prolapsus uteri. This serious error may as easily be avoided. The polypus is softer, and less sensible, than the uterus in the state of prolapsus. The imperfect prolapsus uteri, in which this viscus is not turned inside out, is betrayed by theostincae.