4S2 FIRST LINES OF THE muscles* and to make an opening into the membranous part of the urethra, so as to be distinctly able to feel the groove and edges of the staff with the finger. Then the operator is to accomplish a very important object* and one which is, for the most part, very much neglected ; I allude to dividing the urethra with the knife, as far as pos- sible along the groove of the staff, towards the bladder. When this is properly done, very little remains to be ef- fected by the gorget. Every operator should be particularly careful, that the beak of the gorget is accurately adapted to the groove of the staff. In my opinion, the gorget ought not to have its edge turned upward, at an angle of forty-five degrees, as Mr. Abemethy advises. By cutting in this direction, the pudendal artery is more apt to be wounded, than when the incision is made more in a transverse manner, because the rami of the ischium converge as they ascend ; and, for the same reason, by using a gorget with an edge turned so much upward, the wound can hardly be made large enough for the extraction of stones of considerable size. The cutting edge of a gorget ought, certainly, not to ex- ceed three-fourths of an inch in length. Having made a free opening into the urethra, as low down as can be conveniently done, the operator is to place the beak of the gorget in the groove of the staff, and, being sure that this is accomplished, he is to take hold of the handle of the latter instrument with his left hand, while, with his right, he holds the beak of the gorget carefully ap- plied to the groove of the staff, along which it is to glide into the bladder. But before pushing the gorget onward, a most important thing is to be observed : this is to bring forward the handle of the staff, so as to elevate the extre- mity of the instrument in the bladder, by which means the gorget may be introduced, along the groove of the stafi, in the direction of the axis of the above viscus. In fact, the gorget should be introduced nearly in a direction, coi-