FIRST LINES OF THE absurdly supposed to convert the fistulous track of a ball info an open incised wound, and thereby reliefer its nature mine h-nign. Another good effect, supposed to result rom dilating a gunshot wound, was the division of un- yielding- parts, which confined, and thus aggravated the internal swelling. More modem experience, however, shews, that the uti- i j o t lese incisions lias been overrated. The knowledge ia. gunshot wounds are of very various description! ought at once to condemn the unlimited plan of dilatino- aH of them. When the course of the ball lies in soft parts'! and has neither touched a bone, nor a considerable blood vessel, whether the wound has one or two openings, the scheme ol dilating it is productive of no good. In gun- shot wounds the apert ure in (he skin is larger than in punc- tured wounds and stabs ; for in the former there is a real loss of substance in the skin, die part of which first struck by the ball is generally driven into the wound. By (he sepa- ration of the sloughs the canal of the wound becomes still more ciliated, so that not only matter, but foreign bodies, may find an easy exit. Moreover, incision's usually soon close again, and the wound becomes, in a few days, in the same condition as if no dilatation had been made. Gunshot wounds are only to be dilated when there is seme plain and beneficial object'to be accomplished by it. Ao doubt it is right to extract, at first, as many foreign bodies as possible ; for while they continue in the wound they always exasperate the inflammatory symptoms, and sometimes create agitation of the whole nervous system. By an early extraction of them profuse suppuration may mien be prevented. Vet let it be remembered, that the search for foreign bodies is frequently attended with great in nation ot (he wound ; and that ii is frequently impossi- ble to find, and extract them immediately, w hile they lie deep, and fast in the parts. When the wound becomes widened by the separation of sloughs, the foreign bodies ge-