FIRST LINES OF THE S The lotions employed for this purpose, are commonly of -an astringent and sedative nature. As the acetite of lead possesses both these qualities, a solution of it is most fre-; quently used. A solution of ffs. of this salt in ^iv. of vine- gar, and Ifeij. of distilled water, is a very good application. When the aq. litharg. acet. is employed, 3j. to a pint of water is the due proportion. Such surgeons as are fearful of the deleterious effects, that have been known to arise from the absorption of lead, make use of a solution of 3j. of zincum vitriolatum in ifej of water. Linen, kept constantly wet with these lotions, are to be applied to the part affected. Astringent and sedative lotions are the most proper in the majority of phlegmonous inflammations. It may be questioned, whether the lead, usually contained in them, has the power of acting on the vascular structure of the part affected ? for, unless we admit this, it becomes ex- ceedingly dithcult to explain how it is beneficial in sub- duing inflammations. If we could rationally make out that astringents have the power of producing a diminution of the dilated arteries, with which they arc not actually in contact, we should then be able to account for their effica- cy. Also, were it in our power to prove, what appears highly probable, that the vessels beneath the surface of the body sympathize with that surface in which astringents do evidently produce corrugation, we might then satisfac- torily explain their modus operandi in cases of phlegmon. At present, I believe, we must rest contented with what is apparently a fact, that astringent sedative applications made to the surface of the body, do operate on the pro- cess of inflammation beneath. What renders it still more probable that astringents and sedatives affect the vascular action in inflammation, is the power which many external applications have of exciting the action of the absorbents. I have mentioned that in inflammation there is an impediment to absorption. How