PRACTICE op surgery. 443 produced by an unusual distention of the above viseus,^ whereby this is deprived of the power of contracting itselt again. The distention occurs, either in consequence of re- taining the urine too long, after an inclination to void it is first felt; or in consequence of another species of reten- , tion, which has only attained a certain degree. The paralytic retention of urine is not so dangerous as the other kinds, especially those, which arc produced by a closure of the urinary passage. Inflammation and slough- « ing of the bladder seldom result from it. As the urethra is pervious, no sooner is the bladder distended in a certain degree, than the pressure of the abdominal muscles causes a partial discharge of its contents. I he nature of tluscase is very liable to be misunderstood, on account ot as much water being evacuated in the course oi the day, as usual, and in consequence ot the patient himself being able, by an effort of the abdominal muscles, and pressing the lower part of the belly, to make the mine flow out in a stream. There ar« two indications in the treatment of thhfkind of retention of urine; the first is to draw off the fluid dis- tending the bladder; the second is to restore the natural contractile power of this viscus, in accomplishing which latter object, it is necessary to pay attention to the cause of the malady. The catheter is the most certain means of draw ing ofT the water, and its introduction should never be impru- dently delayed, w hen the com plaint has been of any dura- tion ; for the distention of the bladder, and the loss of its contractile power, ure continually increasing, and of course a radical cure is rendered more and more difficult. Only in very recent cases, is it proper to be content writh try- ing at first swell remedies, as seem calculated to re-establish the contractile power of the bladder. W ith this latter view, fifteen or twenty drops of the tinct. emit liar, may be taken once a Jay ; a blister may be applied to the sacrum, or perineum^ and cold lotions to the hypogastric region.