FIRST LINES OF THE 476 Tlic pat leaf generally experiences a constant inclination to make water; feels pain whenever pressure is made above • the os pubis ; and, on standing up, perceives a hard body fall on the bladder, compelling her to empty this recepta- cle ; but the tumour regularly falls backward again, when she lies on her back. Tins case is usually easily relieved. The practitioner should place the patient on iter back, and make pressure ■with his hand just over the os ptibis. At the same time a finger introduced to the upper part of the vagina, is to press it forward, so as to urge the os uteri forward, while the pressure of the other hand is tending to push backward the fundus. The recurrence of the accident is to be pre- vented by introducing a pessary to support the os uteri; keeping the patient on her back; and applying a com- press and bandage to the abdomen just above the pubis. In the true retroversio, theo.s- uteri is inclined towards the pubis, while its fundus is approximated to the sacrum, and descends so far between the rectum and vagina, that' it occasions a tumour at the posterior side of the latter tube. The viscus, thus situated, may render the passage of the faeces exceedingly difficult, and even impossible. As the preternatural position of the uterus necessarily displaces the bladder and urethra, retention of urine always attends the case, and this is the more troublesome, as the catheter, in such circumstances, cannot be very easily introduced. The orifice of the urethra is so drawn upward, that it is sometimes situated higher than the arch of the pubis. When the bladder is very much distended, it prevents the os uteri from being felt with the finger. The retroversio uteri commonly happens during the second, third, or fourth month of pregnancy. In the latter months, the uterus is too bulky to become situated between the vagina and rectum. The retroverted uterus should always be replaced, ns soon as possible, in its natural situation. The longer the