400 FIRST LINES OF THE low li a Hire (o approximate the, si ties of the cavity together, and they should be quite miirritating. By such simple treatment, the necessity of meddling with the rectum will often be removed. But it more frequently happens, that the intestine, although not pierced by the matter, has yet been so denuded, that the sinus will not heal, without laying the cavity of the abscess, and that of the intest ine into one. The operation consists in dividing the rectum, from the top of the hollow, in which the matter is lodged, as far as the anus. Thus the sinus is converted into an open wound. A harrow* curved, probe-pointed knife, is the proper in- strument, and if it can be guided by a director, introduced through the track of the fistula, quite as far as the intes- tine, so much the better. The surgeon’s forefinger in the rectum w ill here feel the point of the knife. Then the di- rector, if used, is to be withdrawn, and the operation is to be completed, by bringing the knife out, with its point ap- plied to the linger, which was in the intestine. In this manner, all that is between the edge of the knife and the anus, must obviously be divided. Immediately after the operation, a soft dossil of fine lint should be introduced, from the rectum, betAveen the lips of the incision. This first dressing should remain, till loosen- ed by suppuration. All the future dressings should be light, soft, and unirritating. The hardness and swelling following the operation, must not be regarded as a diseased callosity, or lead the surgeon to use pernicious escharotic applications. A T bandage is usually employed. We have now to consider fistula: in ana in the state, in which they are after having spontaneously burst. When the matter has only made its escape through ex- ternal openings, these are termed blind external fistula When the matter has only an opening in the intestine, and none in the skin, the fistula is called a blind internal one. Fistula1, inning an opening, both in the skin, and gut, are