356 FIRST LINES OF TIIE pulse, and Hie coldness of his extremities ; symptoms com- mon to acute im fla inmat ion oi the bowels, and requiring repeated venesection. Wounds of the small intestines are attended with more vehement inflammation than those of the large ones. , All flatulent, stimulating, and solid food, is to be avoided. The bowels are to be daily emptied by glysters, by which no matter will be allowed to collect in the intestinal canal, to create irritation and distention. When excrementitious matter is discharged through the external wound, it is highly necessary to clean and dress it very frequently. It is useful, also, to make gentle pres- sure with the fingers, at the circumfereifee of the wound', at every time of dressing, in order to promote the exit of any extravasated fluid. 1 he patient'should always lie in such a posture as v, ill render the external wound depending. The threads of the suture may be removed on the fifth <>r sixth day, when commonly the adhesive inflammation has so united the intestine to the vicinity of the outer wound, that there is no danger of its altering its situation. It is quite unnecessary to allow the threads to remain till no more extravasation appears in the wound, nor should the surgeon fear letting the Avound close. It the case should terminate favourably the intestine ge- nerally undergoes a diminution in its diameter at the place where the Avound was situated. When this is incon- siderable, the patient occasionally experiences colic pains at the part, especially after eating food that tends to pro- duce flatulence. As these pains usually quite go off after a time, and no inconvenience remains, it is probable that the intestine may recover its wonted capacity. A more considerable constriction of the intestines, at the situation of the Around, has sometimes been known to givc rise to a fatal miserere. Even the intestine itself has been knoAvn io burst in this situation, after its contents have accumu- lated behind the contracted part. Patients, aaIio have ,