534 FIRST LINES OF TilE would relax every muscle connected with the broken bone; a thing1 which is certainly not effected. But, I believe, that when the direction, in which the lower end of the frac- tuie is displaced, is taken into consideration, viz. upward, behind the upper portion of the os femoris ; and when the muscles, which have the greatest tendency to produce this effect, arc calculated ; it will be granted, that most of such muscles, as have the greatest influence over the fracture, are more relaxed in the bent, than they are in the straight position of (he limb. However, Mr. Pott, by the term r<- laxation, might possibly mean only a state, in which the muscles are not. ac.ually stretched, though the origins and insertions of many of them might be brought much nearer together, There is one .part of the position, advised by Mr. Pott, for which i have never heard any reason assigned; and as the adoption of it seems tome likely to be detrimental, I cannot refrain fiom delivering my sentiments on the sub- ject, how presumptuous soever they may appear. 1 al- lude to (he direction to place the leg and foot rather higher in their level, than the thigh. Whoever has had oppor- tunities of seeing many cases of broken thighs, must know, that when (he ends of the fracture have become firmly united, the toes are frequently more turned outward than is proper. Now, I conceive, that nothing has a greater tendency to promote the occurrence of this defor- mity, than twisting outward the lower portion of the broken bone, by elevating the leg and foot above the level of the thigh ; and as this inconvenience does not seem to be counterbalanced by any manifest good, why should practitioners persevere in a servile adherence tp what they do not understand ? Mr. Pott has only mentioned two splints : the generality of practitioners now employ four. After placing the pa- tient in a proper position, the necessary extension is to be made. Then the under splint, having upon it a broad