123 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. which is plainly perceptible at its lower part. In this situation the polypus may, indeed, occasionally have a de- pression, resembling the os tincae, but easy of discrimina- tion from it. A probe can be introduced deeply into the os tincae, but not into the other sort of aperture. The po- lypus resembles an inverted pear, that is, it is thickest below, and becomes gradually thinner upwards. The above species of the prolapsus uteri is thinnest below, and gradually increases in width upward. A probe may be introduced by the side of the polypus deeply to the fundus uteri. When passed by the side of the fallen uterus it is very soon stopped. It is much more easy to distinguish a polypus protruded externally, from a perfect prolapsus of the uterus without inversion. The os uteri at once characterizes the uterus, as it can here not only be felt but seen. A probe maybe passed deeply into the vagina along the side of the poly- pus, but not so by tbe side of the uterus. Besides, the figure of each kind of tumour betrays its real nature. The inversio uteri is commonly the consequence of a dif- ficult labour, and hence is in general easily discriminated from a polypus. W hile the inverted uterus lies in the vagina, its shape is broad above and narrow below ; where- as the polypus is thin above and broad below. For this reason, in cases of very large poly pi in the vagina, the os uteri is little dilated, while it is extremely distended by the incomplete descent of the inverted Uterus itself. When the inverted uterus hangs out of the vagina, its figure, like that of the polypus, is thin upward and broad downward, and, like the latter tumour, has no aperture at its lowest part. Here an erroneous opinion has often led the way to the most mischievous practice, that of ampu- tating the uterus itself, on the supposition of its being a polypus. It is to be observed, that the inverted uterus includes a circular fold at its upper part, next to the orifice of the vagina. This fold is actually the os uteri itself, 10