503 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. The first are the brocMalis iniernus, and the two short heads of the triceps; the others are, the j|>ng portion o the latter muscle, and the biceps. Hence, amputation, m this situation, is performed, in a very similar manner, .0 the same operation on the thigh, unless it be necessary o remove the limb above the insertion of the deltoid muscle. The patient may either sit on a chair, or he near the edge of a bed, and an assistant is to hold the arm in a horizontal position, if the state of the limb will allow it. The pad of the tourniquet is to be applied to the brachial artery, as high as convenient. The assistant is then to draw up the integuments, while the surgeon makes the first circular in- cision. In this operation, the skin need only be detached from the muscles to a very trivial extent, as there is no fear of not having sufficient flesh and integuments to co\er the bone. When the muscles, in front of the arm, are divided, the elbow,should, if possible, be bent by the assistant, w ho holds the arm, and, if this joint were quite moveable, the limb might be placed in a straight posture, when the divi- sion of the triceps is to be effected. It is best to divide the biceps first, and, after the retraction of this loose muscle, to cut the brachialis interims, which is fixed to the bone, by an incision sloping obliquely upward. However, the triceps may be cut through at once, by one sweep of the knife, with its edge inclined obliquely upward. The rest of the proceedings does not require de- scription, after the account already given of what is neces- sary in amputating the thigh. When it becomes indispensable to amputate the arm at a very high situation, there is no room for the application of the tourniquet. In this instance, the artery is <0 be firmly compressed, as it passes over the first rib, by an as- sistant, who can most effectually accomplish this im- portant object, by pressing a pad on the vessel with the handle of such an instrument as a key of suitable size. This may be done from above the clavicle, or, perhaps, I