PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 4SI prominent in the perineum, by keeping the handle of the instrument inclined towards the patient’s abdomen. The person who holds the Staff is to turn the groove a little to- wards the left side of the perineum, and is to raise the stratum with his left hand, in order td expose the peri- neum completely to the surgeon s view. In the majority of surgical works, Ihe operator is direct- ed to divide the bulb of the urethra, among other parts, cut by his first incision. This advice is exceedingly wrong, and the adoption of it is most likely to render the extraction of the stone exceedingly difficult. The opera- tor, for instance, begins his incision as high as the bulb of the urethra, and extends it to the usual length ; he next divides the prostate and neck of the bladder with the gor- get. Now, on attempting to take out the stone, the ex- ternal part of the wound is too high* in regard to the in- ternal portion* and the same impediment to extracting the stone arises, as if the wound were too small. I am de- cidedly of opinion, that a free, and direct opening, for the passage of the stone, ought always to be made in the opera- tion of lithotomy, and that the fatal termination of numer- ous cases, is entirely owing to the wound not being suffi- ciently ample and direct. The laceration of the bladder, which must happen under such circumstances, is too fre- quently productive of peritoneal inflammation, the most alarming consequence of the operation. Now nothing has a greater tendency to render the wound indirect, than making the incision through the skin too high up, or in other words, so high as to interest the bulb of the urethra. On the contrary, the wound should commence over the membranous part of the urethra, at the place where the operator means to make his first cut into the groove ot the staff'; and the incision is to extend about three inches obliquely downward, to the left of the rapine ot the peri- neum: Having made the necessary division of the integu- ments, Ihe next object is to divide the transzersales per inti