/2 first lines of the incision to enlarge a punctured wound- Fair, however, as it may appear, it is only superficially plausible, and a small degree of reflection soon discovers its want of real so. lidity. Under what circumstances do sinuses form ? Do they not form only where there is some cause existing to prevent the healing of an abscess? This cause may either be the indirect way, in which the abscess communicates externally, so that the pus does not readily escape; or it may be the presence of some foreign body, or carious bone; or lastly, it may be an indisposition of the inner surface of the abscess to form granulations, arising from its long du- ration, but removable by laying the cyst completely open to the influence of the air. Thus it becomes manifest that the occurrence of suppuration in punctured wounds is onlv followed by sinuses in cases where the surgeon neglects to procure a free issue for the matter after its accumulation, or where he neglects to remove any extraneous bodies. But, as dilating the wound at first can only tend to aug- ment the inflammation, and render the suppuration more extensive, it ought never to be practised in these cases, but for the direct objects, of giving free exit to matteral- ready collected, and of being able to remove extraneous bodies palpably lodged. I shall once more repeat, that it is an erroneous idea, to suppose the narrowness of punc- tured wounds so principal a cause of the bad symptoms, with which they are often attended, that the treatment ought invariably to aim at its removal. , Recent punctured wounds have absurdly had the same plan of treatment applied to them as old and callous JislulcB. Setons and stimulating injections, which in the latter cases sometimes act beneficially by exciting such in- flammation as is productive of the effusion of coagulating lymph, and of the granulating process, never prove ser- viceable where the indication is to moderate an inflamma- tion, which is too apt to rise to an improper height. The counter-opening that must be formed, in adopting the use