PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 311 Hie celebrated Prussian surgeon, Schmucker, lias treated small wounds of the pharynx, and upper part of the oeso- phagus with success. In the Memoirs of the French Aca- demy of Surgery, wounds dividing half, or even two-thirds of the tube, arc stated to have been cured. The possibility and impossibility of a cure must obviously depend on what other parts of consequence are injured. Incised wounds, which divide the front of the oesopha- gus, must derive additional danger from the simultaneous division of the whole circle of the trachea. A punctured wound, penetrating the side of the oesophagus, may not be complicated with injury of the trachea, and therefore may not be attended with so much peril. Such stabs, however, though not regularly mortal, arc always alarming cases. When the trachea is at the same time divided, the sur- geon may diminish the space between the edges of Un- wound in the oesophagus, by approximating the divided portions of the trachea. This effect must result from 1 he manner in which the posterior part ot the windpipe is con- nected with the oesophagus. But for this purpose a su- ture is only to be used, in such a state of the wounded trachea, as has been already mentioned, and, in all othei cases, a proper position of the head, and the use ot adhesive plaster to the external wound, are the means with which the surgeon must be content. In cases of wounds ot the oesophagus, it was recommend- ed as long since as the time ot Itavatou, to inject nourishment, and medicines into the stomach, through a smooth tube of a suitable size, introduced down the passage. In Desault’s journal it is shewn, that a tube of this kind may be passed through one of the nostrils, down the oesophagus, where it may be advantageously allowed to remain several days tor the above purpose. We read in the transactions of a society for the promo- tion of medical and chimrgical knowledge, that Hunter introduced down the oesophagus, with the aid of a w halebone