PRACTICE OF SURGERY. a:? at once to be tied. This incision, as Mr. Astley Cooper accurately describes, exposes the fascia, which passes off from the external oblique muscle, and covers the sac. With a pair of dissecting forceps, a portion of the fascia must next'be raised, and a small opening made in it, suffi- cient for the introduction of a director, on which instrument the surgeon is to divide the fascia, upward to within an inch of the abdominal ring, and downward to the end of the first wound. This division of the fascia exposes the creinas'er muscle, which is to be opened precisely in the same manner. The sac being now completely brought into view, the operator is to take hold of some of the cellular substance, which adheres intimately to the anterior inferior part of the sac, with a pair of dissecting forceps, and thus he is to raise the sac itself. Tiien the edge of the knife is to be turned horizontally, and in this way the surgeon is to make an opening just large enough to admit (lie blunt end of a probe, or director, upon which the sac is to be fur- ther divided upward to within an inch of the abdo- minal ring, and downward to the bottom of the tumour. The anterior and inferior part of the sac is selected as the place for making the first opening, because the intestine seldom descends so low; and whenever fluid is contained in the sac, it gravitates to this situation. Mr. Astley Cooper’s reasons for not extending the division of the sac nearer to the ring, are to avoid making the closure of the wound more difficult, and to lessen the danger of perito- neal inflammation. The next object is the division of the stricture. Mr. Cooper directs the surgeon first to introduce Ins finger into the neck of the hernial sac, for the purpose of ascertaining the exact situation of the strangulation, which lie will find either at the abdominal ring, or about one inch and a half from this aperture, in a direction upward and outward ; or, lastly, in the mouth of the heruial sac.