BOOKS PRINTED FOR R. PHILLIPS. Deputy Postmaster of British America. In one very large and elegant Volume, 4to. illustrated with Thirty Engravings from Draw ings by the Author, price 21. 15s. m boards, or 31. 5s. with the, plates coloured. Iv 11. A few Copies of the Plates prepared in colours have been clone pp in a separate Adas, price 3l. 13s. (id in boards. TRAVELS through HOLLAND and along the RHINE to MENTZ, in the Autumn of 180(i. By Sir John Carr, in 4to, illustrated with Twenty exquisite Engravings, price 21. 2s. in boards; A VOYAGE to DEMERAKY, containing circumstantial Ac- counts of that Settlement, and all the other European Settlements in Surinam. Ry H. Bolixgbroke, Esq. in Quarto, with a Map, price 11. lb's, in boards. TRAVELS from BRESCIA In ITALY to RIGA in RUSSIA, in the latter end of the Year 1806, including the Particulars-of the extraordinary Escape and Flight uf.Mrs. Spencer Smith, effected and written by the Marquis de Salvo, in one volume, small Svo. price 8s. in boards* Natural History. ANIMAL BIOGRAPHY, consisting of! authentic Anecdotes and Characteristic Facts of; the Lives, Manners, and Economy of the whole Animal Creation, collected from several hundred of the best Modern Voyages and Travels, and from expensive'and scarce works of Natural History, in various languages, aird ar- ranged According to the system of Linnaeus. By the Lev. W. Einglvy, A. B. Fellow of the Linnrean Society, and late of St. Peter’s College. Cambridge. In three volumes, Svo. the third edition, price 11. 10s. in boards. ■ T his work has been pronounced, bv various critics, to.be one of thr entertaining books in the English language, and the rapid sale of successive large editions proves the estimation in which it is help by naturalists, public teachers, and the public. The ELEMENTS of NATURAL HISTORY, according to the Linnaean arrangement, with popular and entertaining desi rptintis', in the manner of Goldsmith and Button; em- bellished with copper-plates, representing two hundred ot the most curious objects. By Dr. M avor. A new edition, price its. bound, ov with .the plates beautifully coloured, price IQs. ba,. bound. 1 Medical Science. The MEDICAL and PHYSICAL JOURNAL; published on the first day of every month, price hall a crown; containing the original correspondence of enimeiit practitioners, and the earnest information on subjects connected with Medicine, Surgeiy, Che- mistry, Pharmacy, Botany and Natural History. Conducted by Doctors Bradley, Batty, and Ahnbmam,