FIRST LINES OF THE 434 above the .smallest size, into tbe bladder, and the strictures, it vc»y iuitablc, should have this irritability previously lessened by the use of common bougies. I he bougie is armed w ith the kali purum as follows : put a small quantity ot (his caustic upon a piece of strong paper, and break it with a hammer into small pieces, about the size of large and small pin’s heads. Tims broken, it should be kept for use in a phial, closed with a ground stopper. Tlie bougie should have a proper degree of cur- vature given to it, by drawing it several times between the finger and thumb of the left hand, and it should be just large enough to enter the stricture with some degree of tightness. Then let it be passed gently into the urethra, and when its point stops at the stricture, which it almost always does, before it will enter it, make a notch with the finger nail, on the upper portion of the bougie, exactly half an inch from the extremity of the penis. When tlie bougie is withdrawn, a small hole, about tlie sixteenth part of an inch deep, should be made at the extremity of its rounded end. Some of the broken caustic should then be put upon a piece of paper, arid a bit smaller, than the smallest pin’s head is to be selected for the first application. Let this be inserted into the hole of the bougie with a pocket knife, and pushed into it with the blunt end of a pin, so as to make the caustic situated rather below the margin of the hole. To prevent the kali from coming out, the hole should then be contracted a little with the finger, and the remaining vacancy in it filled with hog’s lard. The bougie being piled, is to be passed, with the curvature upward, to the anterior part of the stricture, the situation of which has been ascertained beforehand, and the bougie marked as already explained. The instrument should rest there for a few seconds, that tlie caustic may begin to dissolve. It should then be pushed very gently forward, about one eighth of an inch, when there should be another stop fora second, or two. The bougie should