first tines of the 154 patient to live in a very abstemious manner, to avoid every fcmd of exertion, and to lose a little blood occasionally. Every thing tending to create plethora, or accelerate the circulation, must hasten the patient’s death. The most common aneurism, for which surgical skill is required, is that occurring in the ham. 'I he principle on which aneurisms are cured, consists in preventing the entrance of fresh blood into the aneurismal sac; for when this is effectually accomplished, the blood already contained in the sac is gradually absorbed, and the tumour diminishes in proportion. This object may sometimes be fulfilled by a skilful ap- plication of pressure, particularly if the aneurism be small, and the whole of its contents can be made to recede. 1 he same thing occasionally happens even in cases of very large aneurisms, which cure themselves by compressing the portion of the artery leading into the tumour, so as to render it impervious. However, though it is generally -’roper to try pressure in the early stage of the disease, it . annot be said that such practice is attended with much t.uccess. 11 the communication, between the aneurismal sac and artery, does not become obliterated in consequence of this means before the end of a fortnight, there is no great raison to expect that it will do to in a longer time. The in- stances recorded ol aneurisms being cured by along per- severance in pressure, are probably cases which would na- turally have got well without this means. I he operation for the cure of popliteal aneurisms, con- sists in exposing the femoral artery about the middle of the thigh, and putting a ligature round the vessel. It is preferable to tic the artery at this distance from the tumour, because the vessel is very frequently in a morbid state higher up than the visible swelling would lead us to conjecture. We are indebted to Mr. John Hunter for this method of operating. 1 he plan, however, has undergone consider- able improvements since his time; and of all surgeons