PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 71 wider. To have constantly in view the conversion of such injuries into simple incised wounds, was always a maxim, strongly insisted upon, and set forth as the reason of the above method of treatment. The doct l ine even occasioned the frequent dilatation of punctured wounds by the still more absurd and cruel employment of tents. Certainly, if the notion were true, that an important punctured wound, such as the stab of a bayonet, is actual- ly changed into a wound partaking of the mikl nature ot an incision, by the mere enlargement of its oriticc, the cor- responding practice would be highly commendable, how- ever painful it might be. But the fact is otherwise ; the rouah violence done to the fibres of the body by the gener- ality of stabs, is little likely to be suddenly removed by an enlargement of the wound. Nor can the distance, to which the punctured wound frequently penetrates, and the number and nature of the parts injured by it, be at all altered by such a proceeding. These, which arc the grand causes of the collections of matter that often take place in the cases under consideration, must exist, whether the mouth and canal of the wound be enlarged or not. The time when incisions arc proper is when there are foreign bodies to be removed, abscesses to be opened, or sinuses to be divided. To make painful incisions sooner than they can answer any end, is both injudicious and hurtful. They are sometimes rendered quite unnecessary by the union of the wound throughout its whole extent, without the least suppuration. It is true, making a free incision in the early stage ot these cases, seems a reasonable method of preventing the formation of sinuses, by preventing the confinement of matter, and, were sinuses an inevitable consequence ot all punctured wounds, for which no incisions had been prac- tised at the moment of their occurrence, it would undoubt- edly be unpardonable to omit them. To many this may seem a very specious, and fair pretext tor making a lree