133 FIRST lines of tile and if tins have not a timely stop put to it, the case excites violent pain, deprives the member of the power of motion, and causes inflammation and gangrenous mischief. Tiie circumscribed false aneurism arises in the following manner: when proper pressure has been made in the first instance, so as to suppress the hemorrhage, but the band- age has afterwards been removed too soon, or before tiie ar- tery lias healed, the blood passes through the unclosed wound, or that which it has burst open again, into the cel- lular substance. As this has now become agglutinated by the preceding pressure, the blood cannot diffuse itself into its cells; and, consequently, a mass of it collects in the Vicinity of the aperture of the artery, and distends the cel- lular substance into a sac. Sometimes, when the aperture of the artery is exceed- ingly small, the blood first effused coagulates, and prevents < the entrance of that which follows into the cavities of the cellulai substance, and obliges it to collect in one mass. 1 he sy mptoms of a circumscribed false aneurism do not differ very much from those of a circumscribed true one. . But, in general, the two caseS may be easily discriminat- ed. The true aneurism readily yields to pressure, and as readily recurs on its removal; the false one yields very gradually, and returns in the same way. The blood in the sac can only pass and repass slowly through the opening of the artery. Frequently also a hissing sound is very au- dible, as the blood gushes into the sac again. The pulsa- tion of the false aneurism is always more feeble, and, as the tumour enlarges, is lost sooner, than that of the true aneurism. In consequence of coagulated blood lodging in false aneurisms much sooner than in true ones, the former become hard, and incapable of disappearing on pressure, much sooner than the latter. The diffused false aneurism has little or no pulsation, except very near the aperture of the artery. . When the artery is wounded at the bend of the arm, the