first lines of the eased joints, and influenced by general opinion, I once 1*6 11 again is soon lost. In advanced cases, the knee is al- ways found in a permanent stale of flexion. , f * IenSth tbe leased joint attains an enormous size, ut the skin is not materially affected, a shining smoolh- neSS> and a few var*cose veins, being the only uncommon appearances. The skin, however, cannot now be pinched up into a told, as it could in the early stage of the disease. At last abscesses form around the joint, and their con- tents arc discharged through ulcerated apertures. These openings sometimes heal after a time, and other similar abscesses take place at a different part of the tumour. The patient’s health gradually becomes impaired by the Iqca! disease. His appetite fails ; lie cannot sleep at night; his pulse is spall and frequent ; he has profuse perspira- tions ; and his bowels are otten disordered with diarrhoea. Under such symptoms dissolution follows sooner or Tater, unless the local disease be relieved. There is another kind ot white swelling, termed rheuma- tic, and it is very different from the scrophulous just de- scribed. fn the rheumatic the pain is said never to occur without some swelling being evident., nor does the acuteness of the pain subside in proportion as the tumefaction increases. On the other hand, scrophulous white swellings are al- ways preceded with pain, which is not so acute after the swelling commences as it was before. In rheumatic cases the pain is not confined to-a particular point , but extends over the whole articulation, and the health is not so much impaired as in the other instances. I believe, also, the bones do not undergo the morbid alteration, which is pe- culiar to scrophulous affections of the joints. Rheumatic cases are more frequently cured than scrophulous ones. It is a very prevailing notion, that, in white swellings, the heads of the bones are preternaturally enlarged. I must frankly own, that, deceived by the feel of many dis-