PRACTICE OF SURGERY, 433 the urethra, as the point of the bougie, of which the caustic forms the central part, always moves in the middle line of the canal ; and indeed the quickness, with which it is con- veyed to the stricture, would also prevent any injury of the membrane* When the armed bougie is in contact with the stricture, it is to be steadily retained there, with a moderate degree Of pressure at first, which is to be afterwards diminished, as it would bend the bougie, when this becomes softened by the warmth of the urethra. The time it is to remain depends a good deal On the sensations of the patient, and the length of time the parts have been diseased ; but, on the first trial, it should be less than a minute, as it then commonly gives greater pain than at any subsequent application. Every other day appears, in general, to be as often as it is prudent to apply the caustic. Mr. Home, however, has applied it every day in obstinate cases, and I have often done the same myself. The bougie, introduced before the armed one, should be made of soft materials, that it may mould itself to the form of the passage, and communicate information* relative to the size, and position of the stricture. Mr. Whately Considers strictures of the urethra not merely as Contracted fibres, but as really diseased portion^ of the membrane lining that canal, with a continued dis- position to increased contraction. Hence, he approves of a remedy, Calculated both to remove the diseased affection, and to dilate the contracted part, without putting the pa- tient to the inconvenience of wearing a bougie. Such a remedy he thinks caustic, when it is judiciously used. But his great object is to recommend the employment of the kali purum in a particular manner, as being, according to his account, more efficacious, and less painful and ha- zardous, than bougies, armed with lunar caustic. Before the kali purum ought to be used, the urethra should be rendered sufficiently capacious to admit a bougie,