First'lines of the 820 The affected side is often, in some degree, painful. Frft* quently an induration of considerable extent is externally perceptible to the touch. The cure of this case is very imperfectly understood. The usual means, which sometimes succeed, are camphor- ated mercurial frictions on the part, even till salivation occurs; the internal exhibition of opium, together with mercurial frictions; electricity ; stimulating embrocations; the shower bath ; blisters, issues, &c. These remedies should be assisted with mechanical contrivances, for gra- dually bringing the head into a straight position. The malady sometimes originates from a contraction of the muscles on one side of the neck, quite unattended with the smallest perceptible induration. This is the sort of ease, for which an operation is advised for dividingtbe con- tracted muscular fibres. This,, however, must only be performed, when the wry neck depends entirely, or princi- pally, on a contraction of the sterno-cieido-mastoideus. When the defect is situated in the other muscles, the oper- ation is not practicable. \V lien the above muscle is alone, or chiefly concerned, the face is always turned from that side to which the head is inclined ; and, in endeavouring to put the head in a straight position, the fibres of the muscle are rendered exceedingly tense. But in (his in- stance, the operation should only be undertaken, when there is no malformation of the cervical vertebrae. Wry necks sometimes depend on paralysis of the mus- cles on one side of the neck, particularly of the steruo-cleido* mastoidcus. i lie muscles of the opposite side, in this case, draw the head out of its proper position, in consequence of not being counteracted by their paralytic antagonists. Electricity has been know n to cure a case of this descrip- tion. Th,e head should be kept in a straight position dur- ing the trial of this remedy, as paralytic muscles are more apt to recover their tone, in a tense, than in a. relaxed state. If this plan should fail, a division of the sound