241 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. plan which the practitioner can possibly follow, is to in- ject warm water into the lachrymal sac, through the lower punctum lachrymale, by means of Anel’s syringe. This is done with a view of mechanically washing away any thickened mucus, or other matter, which may obstruct the ductus nasalis. The fluid should be injected so as to make it pass, if possible, with some velocity into the nose. Some practitioners inject quicksilver by means of the tube, com- monly used by anatomists for injecting the lymphatics ; but Mr. Ware’s preference to the syringe is, I believe, per- fectly just. The lachrymal sac, and ductus nasalis, should be washed in this manner at least once every day. At'the same time the patient should employ a colhjrium, composed of five grains of zincum vitriol, dissolved in lour ounces of aq. vos. ; or he should introduce, every morning and evening, between the palpebne and eyeball, a small quantity of the ttng. hjjdrurg. nitrat. lowered ; or ot an ointment, consisting of half an ounce of liog’s lard, two drams of bole armcnic, the same quantity ot prepared tutty, and one dram of white precipitate. This is Janin’s famous ophthalmic ointment, and it must be used, at first, blended with twice or thrice its quantity of lard. These applications to the inner surface of the eyelids operate very beneficially on the disease, by correcting the morbid secretion transmitted into the lachrymal sac. Perseverance in this kind of treatment, for two or three weeks, will often effect a complete cure ; and Scarpa’s practice, whatever we may think ot his theory, is un- doubtedly commendable. When the above measures have not the desired effect, or when there is already an ulcerated aperture in the sac, Mr. Ware’s method is to be put in practice. A small puncture is to be made into the sac, if it has no external opening, or if this should be unfavourably situated. A very spear-shaped lancet is the best instrument for the pur. pose. Then a silver probe, somewhat smaller in size than R