PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 447 membranous part of the canal, situated between the bulb, and the prostate gland ; in the third, it enters this gland, and the neck of the bladder. In the first stage, little trou- ble is usually experienced; for the canal is here so sup- ported by the surrounding corpus spongiosum, that it can- not easily be pushed into the form of a pouch, in which the end of the instrument can be entangled. The operator need only observe the following circumstance. The penis should be held, by placing the corona gland is between the thumb and the index finger of the left hand : in this way the en- trance of the urethra will not be at all compressed. The penis is then to be drawn upward, with moderate forces The catheter, being well oiled, is now to be introduced, with its concavity towards the abdomen, into the urethra, directly downward, until its point reaches the bulb. As soon as this occurs, and the beak of the instrument has passed under the arch of the pubis, the surgeon must very slowly bring the handle of the catheter forwards, between the patient’s thighs, and, while this is being accomplish- ed, the beak of thy instrument becomes elevated, and glides into the bladder. In this stage of the operation, the penis must be allowed to sink down, and not be kept tense, as this would only drag the membranous part of the urclhra against the os pubis, and render the passage of the instru- ment more dilficult. The operation, however, is not al- ways successfully accomplished in this manner. The beak of the catheter may be slopped by the os pubis ; it may take a wrong direction, so as to push the membranous part of the urethra to one side or the other: or it may be stopped by a fold of the lining of the passage. The first kind oi impediment is best avoided by not depressing the handle ot the catheter too soon : that is, before the poiut has passed beyond the arch of the pubis. W hen ihe mem- branous part ot the urethra is pushed to one side, or the other, the instrument ought to be withdrawn a little, and then pushed gently on in a diflerent direction. When this