FIRST LINES OF THE effect, which all the strong muscles have a tendency to produce. \Ye may set it down as an invariable fad, that the higher a fracture is situated in the thigh bone, the greater is the difficulty in keeping the ends of the fracture in reciprocal contact. The reason of this circumstance is entirely ow- ing to the additional number of muscles, which, in this kind of case, acquire the power of drawing upward the lower portion ot the broken bone. It is obvious, that mus- cles, which have their insertion above the breach of conti- nuity, can have no effect in displacing the fracture, in re- gard to the length of Hie limb. When the neck of the os femoris is fractured, very se- vere pain is experienced at the upper part of the thigh, and especially, in the groin; and hence the limb cannot be moved without putting the patient to excruciating agony. The extremity is usually shortened ; the trochanter major., turned outward, and drawn upward upon the dorsum of the ilium. On extension being made, so as to bring down ihe end of the bone, which was displaced by the action ol the muscles, a crepitus may frequently be felt. It must ob- viously make a great difference, in regard to the degree, in •which the limb becomes shortened, whether the Iracture is situated within, or on the outside of the orbicular liga- ment. The ascent of the external end of the fracture must be greatly limited by this ligament, when the accident is situated within it, and the ligament itself is unlaccratcd. Nothing is a surer mark of the neck of the thigh bone being fractured, than the toes being turned outward, while the knee is in a moderate state ot flexion. When the fracture is within the orbicular ligament, the case is often difficult to ascertain with certainly ; pain, and inability to move the thigh, are almost the only symptoms. The knee, and toes, however, may be observed to be some- what more turned outward, than in the natural'state, in con- sequence of the action of the muscles, rotating the bone in