370 FIRST LINES OF THE operation as soon as tlie surgeon lias unsuccessfully put .into practice some of the most efficacious, and least dilur tory plans of treatment, is indicated by daily experience. 1 his is moie particularly the case, since we find it recorded in almost every writer upon the subject, that the intestine is often found in a state of mortification a very few hours after its first protrusion from the cavity of the abdomen. Hence, in selecting a method of treatment previously to the operation, it is a matter of the highest importance al- ways to be actuated with a determination to lose no time. The loss ot a single hour may launch the patient into a state from which no skill, no human power, can extricate him. Every surgeon, anxious for his own professional character, or the welfare of his patient, will be cautious to employ only such means, as at once possess the greatest efficacy, do not. tamper with an urgent disease, and create no perilous delay in recurring to a timely operation. The tcu'is, or reduction of the hernial contents by the hand, ought to form the primary object of a surgeon called to an incarcerated hernia. To perform this well in bubo- noceles is impossible, without an accurate knowledge of the precise situation of the abdominal ring; and it has often been a matter of surprise to me, that surgical authors, who have generally been tediously particular in relating the mode of performing the taxis, should never have remind- ed their readers of the great utility of attending carefully to the situation of the opening through which the hernia protrudes. The projecting point of bone, termed the an- gle of the pubis, is the chief guide to the situation of the ring. The opening lies a little above, and on the, inside of this bony prominence, which is very distinguishable in the fattest subject. The contents of a bubonocele descend through the rirnr downward and inward, the sac usually lying immediately beneath the integuments, in front of the spermatic cord. Iu attempting reduction with the hand, all our pressure