FIRST LINES OF THE £72 accustomed to do, in order to return a strangulated henna. Others recommend suddenly exposing the eye to a strong light, with a view of making them's contract with sufficient force to disengage the protruded portion, Scarpa con- demns every attempt of this sort, and maintains that, in this disease, the total loss of sight is prevented by the aque- ousJiumour being kept from continually escaping, the con- sequence of the protruded part of the iris acting like a plug, and stopping up the aperture in the cornea. How- ever, I think no one can question (he propriety of endea- vouring to replace the iris, when it is recently protruded through a wound of the cornea. .But when the prolapsus' has existed some time, we ought probably to be content with accomplishing two objects ; one is to diminish, as speedily as possible, the exquisite sensibility of the pro- truded portion of the -iris ; the other is to destroy gradu- ally the projecting part of this membrane, sufficiently to prevent the little tumour from keeping the edges of the wound, or ulcer of the cornea, so much asunder as to im- pede cicatrization. For this purpose the projecting portion of the ms is to be touched with the argentum nitratum, so as to form an eschar. The patient experiences acute pain during the operation, but it soon subsides when the eye has been bathed with warm milk. The consequent relief only lasts while the eschar remains adherent, and when this is detached two or three days afterwards, the abovementioned com- plaints are experienced again, though in a milder degree. The caustic is now to be once more applied, and even used, if necessary, a third and fourth time, until the pro- minent part of the iris is sufficiently reduced to a level with the edges of the wound, or ulcer of the cornea, to create no obstacle to cicatrization. Then the surgeon is to be con- tent with directing a vitriolic collt/rium to be used, and the ung. htjdrarg. nitrat. (lowered) to be smeared over the inner surface of the eyelids every morning and evening.