439 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. ought to be made, in order to give vent to the urine and pus. When there are sloughs, the surgeon would of course prefer puncturing dead, rather than living matter. But this consideration must not lead him to omit making the scarifications in the most depending situation. In old cases of fistula in perineo, in which the dangers, arising from the diffusion of urine, are past, the surgeon is to endeavour to make the natural passage as free as possi- ble by the use of the common, or caustic bougie ; for fre- quently the fistulous openings in the perineum heal up spontaneously, as soon as the urine finds a free passage for- ward through the urethra. When thefistulcK in perineo do not heal, on the com- plete removal of the stricture, they are to be laid open, in the same manner, as other sinuses which have no disposi- tion to heal. In doing this as little as possible of the sound part of the urethra must be opened. Hence, the surgeon must direct himself to the inner orifice of the fistulce, by means of a staff introduced (if possible) into the bladder, and a probe passed into one of the fistulous passages. Here it is essential to remark, 'that however numerous the external openings may be, fistula- in perinea never have more than one internal openiug, by which they communi- cate with the urethra. The probe should be first bent, that it may more readily follow the turns of the fistula. When it can be made to meet the staff, so much the better for then the operator can cot just what is necessary. When the fistula is so straight as to allow a director to ' be introduced, this instrument is the best. If, as Mr. Hunter observes, neither the probe, nor the director can be made to pass as far as the stall1, we must open as far as the first instrument goes, and then search for the continuation of the passage, for the purpose of opening it. Certainly, there may be cases of fistula*, in perineo, at- tended with most unyielding/Strictures ; where it might be proper to cut through these obstructions, in the way re-