53 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. danger, which would result from a profuse hemorrhage continuing during the whole of his proceedings. The arteries are either tied together with a portion of the adjacent flesh, or quite separately. Including the flesh is wrong, as it causes immense pain, and a larger part of the wound to remain disunited. The ligatures are also apt to become loose, as soon as the substance be- tween them and the arteries sloughs, or is absorbed. Some- times, the ligatures, when thus applied, form a circular furrow in the flesh surrounding the vessels, and remain a tedious time incapable of being removed. Blood-vessels partake of the same organization, as other parts. Hence the healing of a wounded artery can only take place favourably, when that part of the vessel, which is immediately contiguous to the ligature, continues to receive a due supply of blood through its vasa vasorum. As these vessels are derived from the surrounding ramifi- cations, it is obvious, that the application of a ligature to a divided artery, at some distance from where it is en- compassed by flesh, must be very disadvantageous and insecure. Thus, although it is quite improper to include much of the adjacent substance together with the artery in the ligature, it is highly judicious to make the knot as closely as possible to that part of the vessel, which lies undisturbed among its natural connexions. These obser- vations only apply to vessels above a certain size ; for, such as shrink from the surface of a wound, are not suf- ficiently visible to be tied in this manner. The method of tying an artery is as follows : the extre- mity of the vessel is first to be taken hold of with a tena- culum, or pair of forceps. The latter instrument is only used, when the vessel is large, and very visible. Then a ligature, of a size proportioned to the magnitude of the artery, is to be placed in a noose, just below the end of the instrument. The noose is then to be drawn tight by pulling each end of the ligature in opposite directions.