FIRST LINES OF THE 333 the interior of the wound, in order to ascertain that no in- durated partis left behind. If any hardness should be felt, it is proper to remove it. The surgeon should also examine the surface of every scirrhous tumour, imme- diately it is taken out, for the purpose of knowing whether any of the white bands, shooting into the surrounding fat, have been divided; for, in this case, some portions have been lett behind, and ought to be taken away. Their si- tuation may easily be known, by considering the position of the tumotfr before the operation. When the dissection of a swelling, will occupy a con- siderable time, it is always judicious practice to tie every large artery as soon as it is divided. This remark is not meant to comprehend vessels of such a diameter, that though they bleed when first cut, they do not emit blood afterwards, so as to require a ligature. It was Desault’s invariable method, in cutting out tumours, to tie every large artery before he continued the dissection. hen a tumour of the breast has been entirely detach- ed, and the hemorrhage suppressed, the stick confining the arm backward is to be removed. Then if there are any diseased glands in the axilla, it is a very excellent plan to tie the pedicles, by which they are attached on the side to- wards the axillary artery, before attempting to cut the tu- mours completely away. It would be extremely difficult, after taking off the gland, to tie the little short artery which enters the swelling, almost immediately it has quitted one of the thoracic arteries. The bleeding also, in conse- quence ol the shortness of the vessel, and vicinity of its ori- fice to the thoracic arteries, would be exceedingly profuse, seeming rather to arise from a wound of the latter vessels than of a small branch. 1 he celebrated Desault used to pursue tlie practice above recommended; and sir Charles Blicke has long been in the habit of observing the same rule, in the numerous opera- tions, which he has performed with the utmost benefit to the afflicted, and well deserved honour to himself.