444 FIRST LINES OF THE It success should not speedily attend this treatment, the bladder is to be emptied by means of the catheter. When however, the contractile power of the viscus is totally lost! the whole of the urine does not flow out, even through this instrument, particularly if the patient should be lyin'- upon his back. In this case, the evacuation must be ast sisted by pressing the lower part of the abdomen, and making the patient stand up. I he second indication is to restore the contractile power of the bladder; for, as long as this faculty remains unre- covered, the distention and fulness of the viscus recur, and exasperate the malady. Hence, any large quantity of urine must be prevented from accumulating, by the continued employment of the catheter. This must be introduced se- veral times in the course of twenty-four hours. When the patient, on account of his remoteness, cannot be visited repeatedly, it is better to leave the catheter constantly in the urethra. Insimhp^ses, a flexible catheter, made of elastic gum, simSOTways be employed, in preference to a silver one. •-£ ' It is found ^fcst advantageous not to let the urine conti- nually dribble away, through the catheter, when this is left in the passage. The writings of Desault inform us, that the bladder is longer in recovering its tone, when con- stantly relaxed, than when it is allowed to be now flaccid, and now moderately filled with urine. Hence, it is better to stop the opening of the catheter, and only allow the urine to be evacuated every three hours. The instrument is to be witbdraw’n, and cleaned, about once every six days. As these cases are often tediously long, it is very useful to teach the patient himself to introduce the catheter. Together with the continued use of this instrument, the above means, calculated to restore the contractile power of the bladder, ought to be employed. The occasional causes are, also, to be considered. When the loins are injured, topical bleeding, the saturnine lotion,