ISO FIRST LINES OF THE The diminution of the pulsation of the tumour is as- cribable to two causes: 1. The'arterial tunics lose their di- latable and elastic property in proportion as they become distended and indurated, and, consequently, the aneuris- mal sac is no longer capable of an alternate diastole and systole with the action of the heart; 2. Coagulated blood is deposited on the inner surface of the sac, particularly in Inrge aneurisms, in which some of the blood is always des- titute of motion. In true aneurisms, however, the blood does not coagulate so soon, nor so frequently, as in false ones. When there is coagulated blood present, pressure can only produce a partial disappearance of the swelling. The larger the sac becomes, the more weakly does the blood flow into the continuation of the artery below the swelling, so that the pulse in the lower, part of the limb is small and feeble, and the limb not so warm as it ought to be. On dissection, the lower portion of the artery is fre- quently found preternaturally small and contracted. The pressure made by the tumour on the veins and the adjacent parts frequently causes oedema, caries, &c. The greatest peril occurs when the aneurismal sac bursts. The event may be foreseen by the part about to give way becoming particularly tense, elevated, thin, soft, and of a dark purple colour.* Internal true aneurisms are only discoverable at first by an unusual and incessant throbbing in particular situa- tions ; but after such tumours have acquired an immense size, they protrude externally, and then their nature is easily detected. As all the arteries partake of the same structure, they are all subject to the true aneurism; but as it occurs more frequently in the large than the small arteries, it is evident * This state is followed by the formation of a little slough, and the fatal hemorrhages take place after the detachment of this, as I had an opportunity of seeing, in the case of an axillary aneurism in St. Bar- . tholomew’s hospital.