BOOKS PRINTED FOR R. PHILLIPS. A BIOGRAPHICAL, HISTORICAL* and CHRONOLO- GICAL DICTIONARY ; being a faithful account of the Lives, Actions, and Characters, of the most eminent persons of all Ages and Countries, with a recapitulation of the Revolutions of States, and tlie succession of sovereign princes 3 containing two thousand articles more than are to be found in any other Biographical Dic- tionary. By John Watkins, L.L. D. A new and greatly en- larged edition, m which are annexed the authorities of each arti- cle, price 3 6s. in boards. PUBLIC CHARACTERS of 1806—7> consisting of Biogra- phical Memoirs of eminent Living Persons, faithfully and impar- tially compiled from authentic Sources. In one large volume, Svo, price 10s. 6d, boards, *** Also new editions of the Eight preceding volumes, each at the same price, containing nearly five hundred contemporaries between 1797 and 1806. Geography and Topography. MODERN LONDON ; being the History and Present State ©f the British Metropolis, faithfully drawn up from die most au- thentic materials, and illustrated with a series of highly-finished engravings, on a plan entirely new. In ono large and elegant volume, 4to, embellished..widi fifty-four copper-plates, thirtv one of which are coloured, 31.3s. in boards. N. B. It lias been the intention of the editors of the present splendid and valuable work, to exhibit London as it is, and to furnish English- men and foreigners with a systematic, complete, and elegant perform- ance, worthy of being received as a faithful portrait of the greatest city in the world. This is, in fact, the only work of respectability and cha- racter which describes modern London, and which deserves to oc- cupy a place in a nobleman’s or gentleman's library, by the side of Mr. Pennant’s work, which it should be understood,'treats onlv of the Antiquities and former State of London. The PRESENT STATE of PERU, comprising an account of its Geography, Topography, Natural History, Mineralogy, Cc - merce, Customs and Manners, as well of its civilized . . uncivil- ized'Inhabitants, State of Literature, Philosophy, tile Arts vl The whole drawn from original and authentic documents, chiefi- written and compiled in the Peruvian Capital 3 to uh;ch L added7, an Appendix, containing the modern Travels of the ML..^ in the hitherto unexplored mountainous territories. ;,d other in- teresting particulars relative to tiie idolatrous tribes of Indians. In one large and elegant volume, 4to. illustrated oy twenty co- loured engravings, 2l. 5s. in boards. Voyages and Travels, TRAVELS in UPPER and LOWER CANADA, with Voyages on the River St. Lawrence, and the Great I • /.-<, containing a complete Account of the present State and Co ... ter tho,e im- mense and valuable Territories. By Geoege aIebiot, Esq.