FIRST LINES OF THE 432 \\>.ich filled up the end of the cannula, and made it pass more easily down to the stricture. The other end was a portcrayon, (hat contained the piece of camstic to be intro- duced through the cannula, and applied to the stricture. J he portcrayon, being guarded within the cannula, the whole was then withdrawn. As Mr. Home remarks, this method was found in prac- tice to be liable to many objections. The silver cannula could not be adapted to the flexible canal of the urethra, lienee, when the caustic Avas applied, and any degree of pressure employed, the effect of the caustic was necessarily produced upon the angle, between the stricture, and side ot the urethra, and not upon the middle of the stricture, the part intended to be destroyed. Mr. Hunter not only saw the inconveniences of the cannula, but devised a more simple and commodious method of applying caustic accu- rately to the centre of the stricture. Mr. Home explains the improved mode as follows: take a bougie, of a size that can readily be passed down to the stricture, and insert a small piece of. lunar caustic into the end of it, exposing the surface of the caustic, but sur- rounding it every where laterally by the substance of the bougie. This should be done some little time before it is used ; for the materials of which the bougie is composed, become warm and soft by being handled in inserting the caustic ; and therefore the hold which the bougie has of the caustic is rendered more secure by the instrument being allowed to cool and become hardened. This bougie is to be oiled ; but before passing it a com- mon bougie ot the same size is to be introduced down the stricture, in order to clear the canal, and to measure exactly the distance of the stricture from the external orifice. This distance .being marked upon the armed bougip, the latter is to be passed down to the stricture, as soon as the cbmmon one is withdrawn. In its passage the caustic can scarcely come into contact w'ith any part of the. lining of