first lines of the m cannot perfectly relax every muscle capable of disturbing the fracture, we place the hip and knee-joints in the mid state, between perfect flexion and extension : in the frac- ture of the patella, where we can relax every muscle which can resist the object of the surgeon, we regulate the pos- ture, without any regard to muscles, which have no influ- ence over the fracture. . 'Illc ProPer positions for particular fractures will be no- ticed in the second part of this work. Having relaxed the muscles according to the above principles, and placed the ends of the fracture into as even a situation in regard to each other as the nature of the case will allow, the next object is to keep them securely and quietly in this state, until they have become firmly united. Incapacitating the most powerful muscles by position is one great means towards this measure. But in certain constitutions almost all the muscles of the injured limb are continually acting in a violent, involuntary, and spasmodic manner. Such patients, if young and robust, should be bled, and should always take an opiate as soon alter the occurrence of the accident as convenient. But much as position facilitates the favourable union ol fractures, other means are necessary for maintaining the ends of the broken bone in their proper situation, and in a perfectly quiet state. Mechanical contrivances are em* ployed to give that degree of support to the limb, which the breach ol continuity in the bone or bones has taken away. Instruments, called splints, are applied for this pur- pose, so as to form as it were a kind of steady, unyielding case for the limb. Splints ought to be made of strong mateiials, and of a sufficient length to reach beyond tLe two joints nearest the fracture, and they ought to be adapt- ed in shape to the contour ol the limb. They are gene- rally secured by straps, or tapes. Since splints, however, are hard, and would give pain, if firmly applied to the limb without the intervention of