I f > , ✓ 242 FIRST LINES OF THE ■\yliat is commonly contained in an ordinary pocket case of surgical instruments, is to be introduced through the small puncture into the lachrymal sac, and then through the ‘ductus nasalis into the nose, so as to clear away all mecha- nical obstructions, and restore the pervious state of thena- tural channel for the tears. The ductus nasalis is to be kept from closing again by a silver style (plate 4, figs. 2 and o.) ot about the same diameter as the probe, and form- ed with a flat head, like thajtofa nail, only placed oblique- ly, in order that when the instrument is placed in the duct, the top may lie in close contact with the skin cover- ing the sac. I he style for an adult should be about an inch and a quarter, or an inch and three eighths in length. When it is judged necessary to make a small perforation in the os unguis, with a view of forming an entirely new passage from the sac into the nose, the style is also to be worn as in the preceding case. If the lining of the eye- lids be in a morbid state, Scarpa’s applications are also to be used. The style produces such little inconvenience (and one might say no deformity, as its head being blackened lias the appearance.of a small piece of court plaster) that patients are generally very careless about relinquishing its em- ployment. The only thing necessary to be observed is, to withdraw the style'two or three times a week, and in- ject warm water through the external opening down into the nose. At the end of six weeks the instrument may commonly be left off, and the aperture allowed to heal. When the os unguis is carious, it may in some instances be proper to make a larger opening into the sac, in order to endeavour to cut away any tedious exfoliations. But now that the practice of cramming the sac with tents, escha- rotics, &c. has given place to the mild methods above ex- plained, caries is found to be much more seldom in its occurrence. 'T he troublesome ulcerations, sometimes attendant on