319 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. bis whole body. Sometimes the bead can be moved, but not brought into a straight posture. In some instances, the patient with exertion can manage to keep the head straight for a short time ; biit it soon becomes again in- clined towards the shoulder. The complaint is usuaLly owing to a defect in the mus- cles, concerned in moving the head. "YV hen, however, the deformity has existed a very long time, and particu- larly yvhen it began in an early period of childhood, and has continued during the growth of the body ; the cervical vertebras either assume a preternatural formation, or be- come anchylosed, in which circumstances the case is totally incurable. This participation of the vertebrae in the dis- order does not, however, always exist, even though the de- formity may have begun at a very early period of life, and existed a considerable time. The malady may originate from a mere contraction of the integuments on one side of the neck. This cause is easily detected by the presence of a scar on the skin. Most surgeons are aware of burns, and sores in the neck, being sometimes followed by the deformity under consideration. In this kind of case the cure is not so easy to accomplish, as many might imagine. A transverse incision is made through the integuments, and the head is afterwards kept in a straight posture by some mechanical contrivance, un- til the wound is perfectly healed. It is found to be ad- vantageous to divide the skin high up in the neck, and the wound should go quite through or it will be of no ser- vice. It must be confessed, that the benefit resulting from this operation, is, for the most part, only a temporary one. The operator ought to avoid cutting the external jugular veins. After making a small wound through the skin, it is best to enlarge it to the necessary extent by means of a blunt-pointed curved bistoury. The wry neck is sometimes accompanied with an indura- tion and contraction of the muscles on one side of the neck.