FIRST LINES OF THE 344 delays the reduction of them. The natural warmth and moisture of the abdomen are far more congenial to them than any other application whatsoever. To facilitate the return of a piece of intestine, or omentum, that is pro- traded, the muscles of the abdomen should be relaxed bv posture, and the large intestines be emptied by a glyster. ie mesentery ought to be returned before the intestine • t ie intestine before the omentum ; but the last protruded portion of each of these parts ought to be the first to be reduced. It is only where the intestine and omentum are free from gangrene, and unwounded, that they are always to be re- turned into the cavity of the belly without hesitation. Ihe two index fingers are most convenient for reducing the parts ; and it is a rule to keep the portion first returned from protruding again by one finger, until it has been fol- lowed by another portion introduced by the other finger. The second portion is to be supported, in the same way,°by the finger used to return it, and so on, till the whole of the displaced parts have been put info their natural situation. The pressure should be made in a straight direction into the cavity of the abdomen ; for when it is made obliquely towards the edges of the wound, the parts are liable to suffer confusion without being reduced, and to glide be- tween the layers of the abdominal muscles. When (he wound is in the anterior part'of the belly, pressure, made in this manner, may cause the viscera to slip into the sheath of the rectus muscle. As soon as the reduction seems complete, the surgeon is to assure himself of it, by introducing his finger into the cavity ot the abdomen, to feel that the parts are all freely reduced, and do not suffer any constriction between the edge of the wound and the viscera, in the abdomen Ihe distention of the protruded intestine by the air or feces in its cavity, may. create a difficulty of reducing it. By pressing the contents towards the wound, they may he