FIFTEENTH DAY’S SALE. 88 {Duty to he paid by the Purchaser,"I LOT 29 Ditto, of another caste, somewhat larger and having the obliquity on the right and posterior part of the cranium. Presented by the same gentleman. 30 A cranium from a native of Igloolik, an island in the arctic ocean, latitude 69° 21'. Brought to Pinglandand presented by John Edwards, Esq. then Sur- geon to H. M. S. Fury, on the return of the third Arctic expedition, October 1823. 31 A cranium of an Esquimaux Indian. 32 Another cranium from the island of Igloolik. Presented by John Edwards, Esq., Surgeon, R. N. 33 A cranium of a young adult African. 34 Ditto, older. 35 Ditto. 36 Ditto. 37 A cranium of a young lady who died of an enormous osteo-chondromatous tumor of the lower jaw, commencing at the right condyloid process, and terminating at the angle on the opposite side. N.B. The cranium is genuine, but the tumor is represented by a cast in plaster of Paris, from the disease which was sold at the preceding sale, contained in a large globe in spirits, compartment H of the Gallery. 38 A very fine adult cranium, which may be considered as well formed. 39 A tray of bones of the head and face. 40 Ditto. 41 Ditto. 42 Ditto. 43 A tray containing the basis of a cranium, and some detached bones of ditto. 44 A box containing a number of specimens of sterna, ribs, and ossified cartilages. 45 A box containing sections of bones of the head and face. 46 A tray containing the crania of a monkey and a dog. 47 A tray containing the basis of a cranium, and sundry bones of the head. 48 A bisected cranium, basis of a skull, and several calvarias. 49 A tray containing sundry bones of the face. 50 A calvaria remarkable for possessing the region of the organ of venera- tion in a high degree. 51 A box containing sections of almost all the human bones, for the purpose of showing cancelli and diploe. 52 A tray of sundry bones of the head and face. 53 Ditto. 54 The cranium of a foetal lamb. 55 A cast of the external genital organs of a male patient afflicted with mal- formation of the urinary bladder (or rather of its absence), having the ureters terminating at a fungous excrescence situated at the lower part of the abdomen, from whence the urine constantly distilled guttatim. N.B. The individual died in St. James’s Infirmary. 56 A plaster mask, coloured from nature, of Williams, the presumed assassin of Williamson’s and Mars’s families. 57 A cast from a hand, of which the middle, ring, and little fingers have been am- putated, in consequence of a carious affection. N.B. By this operation the remaining members of the hand, viz. the thumb and index finger, became a tolerably useful substitute for the entire hand ^ enabling the patient, an officer in the army, to perform most functions with it as he had been pre- viou.sly accustomed to do. The operation was performed and the cast pre- sented by John Evans Riadore, Esq. 58 A cast of the trunk of a foetus between five and six months of gestation ; exhi- biting both thoracic and abdominal viscera in situ naturali 5 coloured after nature, 59 A box containing various bones from most parts of the human skeleton. 60 Ditto.