FIFTEENTH DAY’S SALE. 2 The cranium of Sharp, who assassinated the unfortunate mistress of a chand- FRIDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] Compartment F. continued, LOT 124 A fine example of tVie gall-bladder, distended by two very large and somewhat spherical biliary concretions: the ducts are preserved in this specimen. 125 A biliary concretion contained in a box. 126 Three ditto. 127 An intestinal concretion formed in the rectum (composition doubtful). 128 An interesting specimen of a vesical calculus, consisting chiefly of the phosphates. 129 A multitude of biliary concretions, contained in a box. 130 Several small ditto. 131 Two sm.all biliary concretions. 132 A box, containing five compressed mgagropili; some bisected: from the horse. 133 A very large bisected vesical calculus, which contains a nucleus of con- siderable size, consisting chiefly of lithic acid. 134 The half of an extremely large vesical calculus, consisting of lithic acid, animal matter, and some phosphates. 135 A very large and beautiful specimen of a bisected vesical calculus, con- sisting of lithic acid. 136 A tray containing many aegagropili and bezoars, some bisected j the nucleus of one of the latter is an iron nail: from the horse. 137 A cast in bronze of a very large vesical calculus, surrounded by a deep and circular groove towards one extremity. Presented by Thomas Cope- land, Esq. 138 A large oblong equine bezoar. 139 Ditto, of a triangular figure. 140 A tray of equine aegagropili and bezoars. 141 A most extraordinary (perhaps unique) specimen of a very large oblong vesical calculus, voided by a lady per urethram. Presented by Henry Hurst, Esq. 142 A vesical calculus from the male subject, of a large size (nearly the half of the ordinary magnitude of the bladder), being surrounded at its middle by a deep sulcus. 143 Two equine aegagropili and one large bezoar j the latter cut and polished. 144 A small box containing many biliary concretions. 145 A tray of equine aegagropili and bezoars. 146 A single equine bezoar. Compartment I. Containing a multitude of human crania, some from assassins, others exotic, sections of skulls, and a considerable number of comparative preparations, subjects in natural history, &c. LOT 1 A beautiful specimen of the cranium, lower jaw and teeth of Perou, a Spaniard, who, having lost his right arm, assassinated a British soldier with a fork held in his left hand, whilst festively commemorating the battle of Waterloo. Presented by J. H. Green, Esq. P. A.