TWENTY-THIRD DAY’S SALE. 121 [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.] LOT 9 A painting of the size of the last, representing a dissection and injection of the testis situated within the tunica vaginalis, with the distribution of the ramifications of the artery upon the organ, the vasa Pampineaformia and vas deferens. There is also on the same canvass another more elaborate dissec- tion of the spermatic organ, demonstrating the tubuli seminiferi. 10 A representation of the vertebral column, with a section of the sacrum and ossa coccygis ; and of other views referrible to osteogeny, viz. an os parie- tale of the fcetus, exhibiting the irradiated fibrous structure ; of a hand of ditto; and of a longitudinal section of the thigh and leg bones, showing the epiphyses and vascularity of the cancelli. 11 An exhibition of the encephalon and spinal chord, about twelve feet in length, displaying a dissection of the basis of the cerebrum and cerebellum, tuber annulare and medulla oblongata, the ramifications of the cerebral artery, the entrance of the vertebrales, the basilary artery and circulus arteriosus Willisii; the origins of the cerebral nerves, with the entire of the spinal chord; the axillary and lumbar plexuses, the dou- ble origin of all the spinal nerves, their ganglia, and conjugations. 12 A painting, about nine feet in length by six, representing a front view of all the nerves, on aground of the figure of the human subject. 13 Two views of the organ of vision on a very large scale, the one anterior, the other lateral; the former exhibits the globe of the eye, the four straight and two oblique muscles; the iris, pupil, and a part of the optic nerve. The latter represents five of the muscles surrounding the optic nerve, at their origin, with the exception of the obliquus inferior. The tendon of the obliquus superior is seen passing through its trochlea attached to the internal angular process of the os frontale, and from thence reflected to the globe of the eye, LIBRARY. 14 A representation of a young subject; showing the progress of ossification and the various epiphyses ; also a view of a parietal bone of early forma- tion. 15 A painting of the human cranium ; the sutures, harmonise, and foramina are well delineated in front, back, and lateral views. 16 A representation of the head, of gigantic size, the calvaria of which has been removed showing the contents of the cranium; on the right side of the falx major the dura mater is seen covering the subjacent hemisphere of the cerebrum, and on the other the convolutions of the cerebrum, their cortical substance, and intergyral spaces, also the diploe between the two tables of the bones. 17 Corresponds to the preceding in magnitude, and represents the vascular system, both arterial and venous, appertaining to the face and neck; affording also an excellent delineation of the pes anserinus as well as of the par vagum and nervus sympatheticus maximus. There is also a view of the larynx, trachea, thyroid gland, its isthmus, with the ramifications of the nerves and arteries appertaining thereto. 18 Is the representation of a trunk, of gigantic size, in which the thoracic and abdominal viscera are exhibited in situ naturali, 19 A representation of the heart and its vessels. The lacteals arising from the small intestines, their passage through the mesenteric glands, and ter- mination in the receptaculum chyli; the whole track of the thoracic duct, opening into the angle formed by the left subclavian and internal jugular veins. The oxygenized and carbonized parts of the system are distinguished from each other. A second view upon the same canvass exhibits the tongue, the os hyoides, the larynx, trachea, and its bifurcation into the bronchi; the oesophagus, stomach, duodenum, and part of the jejunum ; the spleen, and R