on. j^X77 ()8 ETTEi V Jl.iN 111 U2Y1 o [Duty to he'paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT 46 A morbid os femoris, and a tibia which has been fractured and re-united. 47 An os femoris which had been fractured and well re-united, although diseased at its inferior extremity ; and a tibia affected with abscess. 48 An os femoris, and two tibite incurvated. 49 A remarkably short os femoris and tibia, both incurvated. 50 A pair of femora, one having an acute exostosis arising from its surface ; the other has the patella anchylosed with its external condyle. 51 An os femoris, and tibia incurvated. 52 An os femoris, two tibim, and an os brachii in a diseased state. 53 An os femoris and a tibia, both much diseased, the latter having had an ab- scess situated at its anterior spine. 54 An os femoris, tibia and fibula, incurvated. 55 A tibia, os brachii, and upper part of the os femoris, very much diseased. 56 Choice specimens of two diseased femora, and a tibia anchylosed with its fibula, replete with exuberant spiculas and partial ossification of the liga- mentum interosseum. 57 Very interesting specimens of fracture of the lower extremity of the tibia, with partial ossification of the ligamentum patellas, and fracture of the upper part of the fibula, occurring many years previously to the death of the patient. 58 A diseased os femoris, tibia, and fibula; the two latter bones have not been separated. 59 The left os femoris, tibia and fibula, os brachii, radius and ulna of Ilyams Lazarus a Jew, executed with Levi Veal (whose skeleton is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons) for the murder of Mrs. .Hutchinson, a widow lady at Chelsea, more than half a century ago. Presented by the late Mrs. Sheldon. 60 An os femoris very much diseased. 61 A pair of femora extremely long, very much diseased. 62 Three pairs of tibiae and fibulae, very much diseased ; one tibia and fibula fractured towards the ankle, and anchylosed together. 63 A pair of morbid femora, the neck of one is much shortened by absorption, and both exhibit fine specimens of porcelanic secretion produced by the friction of the patella. 64 Ditto; the head of one is much altered from its natural figure in consequence of morbus coxarius, and exhibits a fine example of porcelanic secretion from friction on the dorsum ilei; the other having the porcelanic secretion on the superior surface of its external condyle, produced by the patellae. 65 The upper part of the os femoris, two tibiae, and an os brachii; all very much diseased. 66 The tibia and fibula incurvated, with the radius and ulna articulated : the two last being much ufi’ected with osteitis. 67 An os femoris and tibia, the former fractured very obliquely about its middle, reunited and exhibiting instances of numerous spiculae; the latter is very much enlarged. 68 A pair of femora: the head of one is distorted in consequence of morbus cox- arius having produced luxation, and from friction exhibits the appearance of extensive porcelanic secretion j the other is considerably aft'ected with osteitis towards its inferior extremity. 69 An os femoris fractured very obliquely and reunited : when the accident oc- curred, a long and acute spicula was formed, now rendered obtuse ; also a tibia enlarged from disease. 70 A pair of tibiae j one apparently fractured. 71 One os femoris, the upper portion of a second, and a tibia, all diseased ; the inferior extremity of the femur is incurvated towards its condyles.