LOT 26 ■27 28 29 SO 1 { rSi 32 33 34 35 36 f37 J 38 139 ■40 41 L42 43 44 45 f46 ^47 l48 r 49 1 i 50 L51 52 r53 154 J55 1 56 57 58 TWENTIETH DAY^S SALE. 105 [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser.'] ENTOZOA. Parasitical Animals, Worms, &c. Many Worms (Strongyli vesicales) voided per urethramby a female patient of Mr. Burnet’s in St. John-street. N.B. It is said that in the course of several years she voided an immenvse number at intervals, A Hydatid (Cysticercus globosus). A specimen of a small portion of a fossil tusk of a Narwal. Mal-formation of an Egg. A Hydatid. Ascarides vermiculares. Nidus and Ova of an insect. Ova. Ascarides. Mucus voided per anura, supposed to be the nidi of worms. Larvae of anomalous animalculae, voided per anum. Presented by Copland Hutchinson, Esq. A Hydatid. Worms in the lungs of a Frog. Larvae of anomalous animalculae, desribced by Dr. Chichester in the Bath Literary Transactions. Doubtful. Interesting specimens of Tricocephalae dispares. N.B. These Entozoa were found by Mr. Brookes in a living state upon the caecum, and others within the same intestine, which was perforated as it were by a number of pin- holes, through which the former had escaped. A considerable portion of the internal coat of the intestine was eroded. Query,—May not many cases of supposed dysentery be produced by the destructive ravages of these animals ? A Taenia Muris. Several dried animalculae found on the back of the Whale (Pycnogonum Ba- laenarum), A beautiful drawing, front and back view of a Taenia Muris. Taeniae, from the stomach of the Greenland Dove (Grylla scapularis). Three large Pycnogona Balaenarura. Several Strongyli Vulturides. Strongyli, from the stomach of a Corvorant (Phalacrocorax carbo). A remarkable example of a Hydatid, found in the diploe of the os frontale (Cysticercus cancellorum). Presented by Mr, Keats, from whose patient, a young woman in St. George’s Hospital^ this animal was obtained. Two Ascarides lumbricoides. Hytadids from a human liver (Cysticerci globosi). An uncommonly fine specimen of an enormous Worm (Strongylus Gigas), found in the kidney of a patient of the late Thomas Sheldon, Esq. Vide Cuvier. Several Hydatids. Ditto, one large and beautiful specimen, A multitude of Worms, voided per anum by a Tiger (Taeniae Tigridis). A fine specimen of a larva, found in a living state in one of the frontal sinuses of a Sheep, in which it is retained (CEstrus Ovis). Vide the interesting ac- count of Bracy Clark, Esq. on this subject in the Linn. Trans. A very interesting specimen of a Tesnia from the human subject; injected (Taenia osculis marginalibus. Hooper.) A singular example of a multitude of Bots (GEstrus Eqiii) adhering to the villous coat of the stomach. Vide Clark. P