LOT 117 118 119 ri20 121 122 1 80 THIRTEENTH DAY’S SALE. {Duty to be paid by the Purchaser^ A bladder and rectum of a foetus, dried and varnished ; the arteriae umbilicale.s are injected. A portion of the intestinum jejunum, distended with air, dried in a circular form, and varnished: the arteries and veins are injected. The trachea and bronchia of a large marine turtle. N.B. The cartilages of which are circular. Four small pieces of intestine, injected and dried. Ditto. The caput coli, appendix vermiformis, and termination of the intestinum ilium; injected, distended, dried, and varnished. 123 Ditto. 124 A portion of the mesentery and intestine of a turtle, injected and dried. 125 The rectum, distended, dried and varnished. 126 The caecum, part of the colon, termination of the intestinum ilium of a tiger: distended, dried, and varnished. 127 A very interesting preparation, of a part of the spine, the aorta, renal vessels, kidnies, spermatic arteries, the superior and inferior mesentericus exhibit- ing the large inosculation on the left side (the circulus anastomoticus me- socolicus), as well as the other ramifications of the superior and inferior me-, senteric arteries. ri28 A portion of intestine, injected, dried, and varnished. <1 129 Ditto. L130 A spleen and a kidney. 131 A very fine preparation of the liver, gall-bladder,with the biliary ducts, the vena cava abdominalis from the kidnies to its auricle, the sinus portas, and vena porta hepatica 3 also the vena umbilicalis (pervious) inosculating with the pre- ceding3 the hepatic artery and other vessels (which are in injected of various colours), being distinctly displayed : dried, and varnished. 132 A spleen inflated and dried. 133 The duodenum with the termination of the ductus communis choledochus and ductus pancreaticus preserved, into which bristles are introduced. 134 A portion of intestine, injected, distended, dried, and varnished. 135 The intestinum rectum, distended, dried, and varnished 3 the ramifications of . the internal hsemorrhoidal branch of the inferior mesenteric artery are very obvious. 136 A portion of intestine, distended, dried, and varnished. 137 The oesophagus, distended, dried, &c. with the trachea of a heron (Ardea major). 138 The caecum, appendix vermiformis, a part of the ascending portion of the colon, termination of the intestinum ilium, valvula coli, its appendix and retinacula 3 dried, distended, and varnished, with the distribution of the ramus ileo-colicus arteriae mesentericae superioris injected. 139 The uterus, connected with the vagina, bladder, and rectum, distended, dried and varnished. 140 A part of a large gall bladder and ductus cysticus, dried and varnished. 141 A handsome preparation of the liver, the gall-bladder, with the ductus cysti- cus, hepaticus, and communis choledochus, injected 5 with the termina- tion of the latter duct in the intestinum duodenum, contiguous to the ductus pancreaticus, through which a quill has been passed : the vena cava abdominalis and the vena porta hepatica are preserved : the vena umbilicalis, entering the organ above the isthmus hepatis, and the arteria hepatica below, are likewise filled with variously coloured injections. 142 The sexual organs, both internal and external, from a young female, with the bladder and rectum, distended, dried and varnished 3 all the arteries are well injected, and quills introduced into the ureters. {