116 TWENTY-SECOND DAY’S SALE. [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser,'] LOT iineations is, to exhibit the effect produced by the obliteration of a carotid artery by ligature in one painting, compared with the natural appearance of the vessels in the other. 29 A pair of crayon drawings of a pelvis; viz. an external and internal view, exhibiting specimens of a very extensive osteo-chondromatous affection. 30 An oil painting, framed and glazed, of a case of aneurism of the subclavian artery, in an adult female : from life. 31 Ditto, of varicose aneurism. f 32 A water-coloured drawing of the head and thorax of a girl, who had the mis- I fortune to have her left superior extremity (except the clavicle) entirely torn off* by the apparatus of a callendermill, in consequence of attempting j to regain her shuttlecock she had lost amidst the machinery; one j of the ropes of wliich entwining itself around her arm, suddenly and I forcibly severed it from her body. The patient, being immediately taken to the Middlesex Hospital, fell under the care of the late Dr. Clough, by whose sagacious and humane treatment she entirely recovered. This draw- ing, which was made and presented to Mr. Brookes by Dr. Clough, repre- sents the wound a few weeks previous to its entire cicatrization. 33 A highly interesting anterior and a posterior view of the extremity above alluded to; exhibiting, of the natural size, the lacerated appearance it presented immediately after the accident. 34 A drawing of a very extraordinary species of human monstrosity; injected. 35 A lupia; “ Extuberatio subter cutem mobilis, mollis, non dolens” : Cullen. Situated on the patella; very large : a chalk drawing. 36 A beautiful view of the arteries and veins of the adult human head and neck ; representing lot 58, glass case of the Saloon, formerly described. 37 Ditto; a view of an arterious and venous preparation of the head and neck of a negro, the original of which is in glass case C. of the Saloon, lot 53. In this drawing, there is an interesting example of a large anastomosis of the internal and external jugular veins of the left side. 38 A handsome drawing of the right superior extremity, injected, and represent- ing the beautiful inosculation between the ramus profundus minor and ramus anastomoticus very much enlarged, in consequence of the operation for aneurism having been performed twelve years previously, by William Lynn, Esq: Vide the preparation, lot , Glass case C. Drawn and pre- sented by Arthur Henry Devis, Esq. 39 An oil painting of a horrible case of double hare-lip and fissured palate in a male child, on whom Mr. Brookes operated about twenty years ago. Patient now presents scarcely a vestige of deformity. 40 A pair of minutely injected preparations, highly interesting to the zoologist and obstetrician; consisting of a. beautiful display of carunculae of the gravid uterus, and the corresponding cotyledones of the placenta of a sheep. Dried, varnished, framed and glazed. 41 A handsome display of the lacteals of a Turtle on the mesentery and intestine, arranged in a circular form ; having also the arteries and veins injected of different colours, and secured in elegant glass frames. 42 Ditto. 43 A correct drawing of a case of hydrocephalus. The head is enormously enlarged. 44 Ditto, exhibiting the entire subject: drawn by — Simpson, Esq. 45 A representation of an arterial and venous superior extremity. 46 A preparation of the intestine and mesentery of a turtle; the blood-vessels and lacteals are variously and appropriately injected. 47 Ditto; a larger specimen. 48 A drawing of ditto. 49 A drawing of a singularly spotted Negro child. .50 Ditto of an African youth, formerly a patient of Mr. Bvookes’s. 51 A representation of an Albiness.