92 SIXTEENTH DAY’S SALE. \JDuty to be paid by the Purchaser^ LOT 50 An inferior maxillary bone^ found in the mausoleum of the abbot of the monas- tery of St. Magnus Osyth, St. Albans. Presented by Joshua John Brookes, Esq., with the document. 51 The upper part of an os femoris, of great antiquity. Presented bv John Frost, hisq., with an authentic document. 52 A tray of cuspidati (teeth), from large Seals. 53 Teeth from small Catodons. 54 Ditto from unknown Marine animals. 55 A large tusk from a Morse (Trichechus Ilosmarus). 56 Ditto. 57 Various teeth from large Seals. 58 A very large tusk of an old Ethiopian Boar (Phascocheres Ethiopicus). 59 The tooth of a Cachalot (Physeter macrocephalus). GALLERY. A choice collection of very rare exotic Animals, chiefly Birds, stuffed and in spirits; dried skins, &c. Compartment A. Stuffed Birds in Bottles. LOT 1 An excellent specimen of theYellow-billed Tanraanac (Phibalura flavirostris)-, stuffed. 2 The Greater Tamatia (Capito macrorhynchus). 3 A Dottrel (Charadrius morinellus). 4 The common Knot (Catidris islandica). 5 Chinese Oriole (Oriolus Sinensis). 6 An exotic bird. 7 A fine specimen of a rare bird, the White-winged Crossbill (Loxia falci- rostra). 8 A superb Merion (Malurus cyaneus). 9 A scarce exotic bird. 10 An Oriental Roller (Colaris Orientalis). 11 A specimen of the extremely rare British bird the Three-toed Woodpecker (Picoides tridactylus). 12 The Troglodytes Rail (Rallus australis). 13 A Ringed Pratincole (Glareola torqiiata). 14 A Cape Rhynchsea (Rynchasa Capensis). 15 A Haw Grosbeak (Coccothraustes vulgaris). 16 A brown Flycatcher (Muscicapa fusca). 17 A pigmy Curlew (Numenius subarquatus). 18 The Barred Owl (Chouette, Ulula nebulosa). 19 The Cayenne Falcon (Cymindis Cayennensis). 20 The Honey Buzzard (Pemis apivorus). 21 A fine specimen of that scarce bird theRhaad Florikin (lloubara Rhaad). 22 A specimen of a mre British bird, viz. the Field Bustarnelle (Tetrax cam- pestris), shot in England, and purchased at Mr. Bullock’s sale. A female. 23 The Brazilian Coua (Coccyzus Giiira). Compartment B. 24 A Marsh Titmouse (Parus palustris). 2.5 The J/ittlo Plover (Charadrius minor).