FXJUKilii£.Nl 11 UAl'Jj SAl^lL. ™ [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] The bladder distended : the hj/pogastric arteries and their umbilical branches injected ; from a fcetus. 45 The uterus and vagina with the bladder and urachus distended &c.: from a slink calf. 46 The vertebral column, pelvis and inferior extremities of a foetus at eiijht 84 LOT f44 L f47 months of gestation : dried and varnished. The female organs both external and internal, the bladder and rectum dis. tended, &c.: from a fawn (Cervus Dama). 48 The uterus and its appendages,with a section of the bladder : from a slink calf. I 49 The cmcum, appendix vermiformis, and a portion of the intestinum ileum: L injected, dried, &c. 50 The uterus, its appendages, with the bladder ; from a small quadruped. 51 Ditto ; from a foetus. 52 A ligamentous preparation of the lower part of the fore-arm and hand, from the adult subject. 53 The skeleton trunk of a foetus. 54 A preparation consisting of the clavicula, scapula, and part of the osbrachii, exhibiting the ligaments of the shoulder-joint: dried, varnished, &c. 55 The lower part of the osbrachii, radius, ulna, and hand,with their ligaments; dried, &c. 56 Ligaments of the shoulder-joint and clavicula. 57 Ditto. 58 Ligaments of the whole of the superior extremity, including the clavicula and scapula. 59 Ditto of the elbow-joint, fore-arm, carpus, and phalanges digitorum ; dried, &c. 60 Ligaments of the elbow-joint. 61 The entire superior extremity, including both clavicula and scapula; having all the ligaments dissected, dried, &c. 62 A very interesting preparation of the whole of the inferior extremity, inclu- ding half of the pelvis, having all the ligaments dissected, and the fasciee of the leg preserved, &c. 63 Ditto, without either pelvis or fascim., 64 Ditto. 65 Ditto, with the fascise. 66 Ditto, with half the pelvis and its ligaments ; also the fascim of the leg. Calculi, &c. 67 A multitude of biliary concretions. 68 Ditto. 69 Ditto. 70 Ditto. 71 A fine specimen of vesical calculus, principally lithic acid. 72 Biliary concretions. 73 The gall-bladder replete wulh concretions, chiefly cholesterine, with inspis- sated bile. 74 One angular gall-stone. 75 Several small ditto. 76 One small calculus. 77 A tray of pebbles found in the stomach of a crane (Grus communis). 78 Several small biliary concretions. 79 A fine specimen of vesical calculus, consisting of the phosphates upon oxalate of lime 80 An interesting specimen of extremely minute mixed phosphates, from the urinary bladder. 81 Small biliary concretions.