17 THIRD DATS SALE. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser^ LOT 70 A very fine dried natural skeleton of a foetus between the eighth and ninth months of gestation, the right parietal bone is removed, demonstrating the injected dura mater and its various processes : in a bottle. 71 Ditto of a child soon after birth, the cranium of which appears to be somewhat hydrocephalic: in a bottle. 72 Ditto of a subject of about twelve or eighteen months old. 73 Ditto, somewhat older but not less interesting. Compartment U. Pathology, chiefly appertaining to the female sexual organs ; viz. carcinomatous tumors, cancer uteri, with numerous examples of human and comparative monstrosity. 1 Anomalous. 2 Tumor, doubtful. 3 Tumor, dissected, from the scalp. 4 Ditto. 5 Doubtful. 6 An immense congregation of verrucae covering the labia externa pudendi, which were extirpated with the disease j by Richard Simmons, Esq. 7 A steatomatous tumor. 8 Ditto, larger. 9 A specimen of morbid affection, doubtful, 10 Anomalous. 11 A steatomatous tumor. 12 Ditto. 13 Ambiguous. 14 A large ficiform tumor, extirpated from one of the labia externa. 15 Ambiguous. 16 Ditto. 17 A membrane dried and immersed in oil of turpentine,-~ambiguous. 18 A tumor of a very peculiar aspect, and of uncertain nature ? 19 Several scrofulous tumors. 20 A specimen of disease, its real nature doubtful. 21 A large steatomatous tumor. 22 Ditto. 23 A scirrhous breast, extirpated by — Brodie, lisq. 24 Two tumors connected together, being of a peninsular figure. 25 A scirrhous tumor extirpated from the breast, having that peculiar aspect re- marked by the late Dr. Adams, as though the interior consisted of cryptae replete with minute hydatides, causing cancer. 26 A diseased mamma, exhibiting the horrible ravages produced by carcinomatous ulceration. 27 A large steatomatous tumor. 28 A tumor arising from the skin, divided to show its internal structure. 29 A fine specimen of scirrhous affection of the female breast: extirpated by Sir Anthony Carlisle. D