2 FIK«T DAY’S SALE. [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser,'] LOT 16 19 20 21 /22 123 24 25 26 27 C2S < 29 L30 31 32 38 39 40 41 42 A very fine specimen of cartilage from a case of large spina ventosa (osteo-chon- drosis) of the thigh. A portion of a large tumor, apparently osteo-chondromatous. The extremity of the great toe torn off from the foot with the tendon of the ex- tensor proprius pollicis pedis. A most beautiful specimen of osteo-chondromatous secretion, being a portion of an immense tumor surrounding the os femoris. An uncommonly fine illustration of dry mortification of the foot. The condyles of the os femoris morbidly affected by a very considerable osteo- chondromatous tumor, A specimen of caries of the bodies of three dorsal vertebrae. Ditto of the bodies of five cervical vertebrae, A remarkable example of osseous tumor growing within the sinus pituitarius maxillaris dexter. The half of a morbid knee-joint exhibiting a high degree of inflammation in its interior : amputated by Mr. Pott. A fine specimen of hydro-rachitis from a subject ten or twelve years of age. A preparation of caries produced by abscess in the interior of the body of a lumbar vertebra. Several lacerated fingers torn from the hand of a young man by the bursting of a blunderbuss that he was firing in Oxford-street during the night of the rejoicings after the capture of Salamanca, which fingers were blown across the street and transfixed in the window over the door of a musical instrument maker’s shop. The remains of the mutilated hand were successfully ampu- tated at the wrist-joint by Mr. Brookes. A metacarpal bone and finger amputated by Mr. Brookes in consequence of sloughing of the tendons from a small lacerated wound produced by the frac- ture of the leg of a hare whilst skinning the animal. A thumb amputated by Mr. Brookes in consequence of an incurable disease. A most interesting specimen of caries of a part of the spine, accompanied by the entire destruction of the body of one lumbar vertebra, with a beautiful dis- section of the ligamentum longitudinale anticum. Another highly interesting example of caries, by which disease the bodies of four dorsal vertebrie have been entirely destroyed. N.B. There are two other spines hereafter to be seen, illustrative of the complete cure of a case in which the ravages of the disease have been equally extensive. A very unusual instance of caries accompanied by partial exfoliation r the os frontale, illustrative also of the application of the trephine prudently suspended. A finger amputated in consequence of sloughing of the flexor tendons. A fine case of caries of the bodies of several inferior cervical and superior dorsal vertebrae. An example of anchylosis; one lumbar, with six of the dorsal vertebrae. Complete caries of the bodies of several vertebrae, with the entire exposure of the medulla spinalis. Caries of the bodies of the three inferior lumbar vertebrae and upper part of the sacrum,.accompanied by anchylosis. Entire caries of the bodies of the four inferior dorsal vertebrae, with the sem- blance of an incipient cure. A very fine illustration of abscess in the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra hav- ing produced lumbar abscess. N.B. The lower part of the spine and sacrum of which this preparation consists, has been divided longitudinally, for the purpose of showing the contiguity of the abscess to the spinal chord. A preparation comprising the third, fourth, and fifth lumbar vertebrae, with a part of the sacrum, in which the body of the last vertebra is extensively af- fected by caries. An example of the effects of absorption, produced on the margin of the glenoid cavity of the scapula in consequence of the amputation of tne arm at the shoulder-joint. In addition to the preceding fact, this preparation demon- strates the course and distribution of the supra-scapular artery.