SEVEOTH DATS SALE. 39 \JDuty to be paid by the Purchaser^ • lot 7 A specimen of an enlarged arteria carotica communis, inverted. 8 A morbid specimen of the termination of the aorta into the two arteriae iliacse communes with the origin of the arteria media sacra. 9 A morbid specimen of the aorta thoracica, the internal coat of which is par- tially detached, showing at the same time the origins of several pairs of in- tercostals. 10 A portion of the aorta, exhibiting its origin, the valvulse semilunares, corpora sesamoidea, the origins of the coronary arteries, with a part of the sinus aortas in a morbid state. 11 A beautiful view of the valvula Eustachii, and termination of the vena coronaria cordis. 12 A portion of the aorta and pulmonary artery in a diseased s(*ate, also demon- strates the ligamentum arteriosum. 13 A part of the aorta above its bifurcation, morbidly affected, with the origin of the arteria mesenterica inferior and media sacra. 14< A portion of the aorta, including its division into the arteriae iliacae com- munes, very much ossified. fl5 The valvulae bicuspides, chordae tendiniae, and carneae columnas, beautifully I displayed. J 16 A specimen of the septum auricularum, showing the fossa ovalis, valvula \ ovalis and patent foramen ovale, with the valvula coronaria and vena coro- naria cordis, (_ 17 A portion of diseased artery. fl8 Ditto. I 19 An example of vein very much diseased. <( 20 A portion of the aorta abdominalis morbidly affected, extending from just above the superior mesenteric artery to somewhat below the inferior, show- L ing also the origin of the arterise renales and some iumbales. 21 A specimen of the splenic artery, injected. 22 A heart dried, hollow, with the arteriae coronariae and vena coronaria cordis as well as the venae innominatae injected with mercury: dried, and im- mersed in oil of turpentine. 23 A very remarkable heart of a Cyanops (foetus), the pulmonary artery of which is impervious at its origin; the right ventricle is wanting. 24? A choice illustration of a small patch of ossification on the vena poplitea. 25 An interesting preparation of the heart, dried hollow, from a minutely in- jected foetus, showing the canalis arteriosus, foramen ovale, &c. 26 An example of a part of the aorta, exhibiting the valvulae semilunares, arteria coronariae cordis, &c. {27 Ditto, much smaller. 28 A specimen of the sinus aortae with the origin of the arteria innominata and arteria carotida communis sinistra, morbidly affected. 29 A portion of diseased aorta. rSO Ditto. < 31 Ditto. L32 Ditto. 33 A fine view of the right auricle and musculi pectinati- 34? An interesting display of ossification of the aorta just above its origin, with a view of the valvulae semilunares and corpora sesamoidea. 35 An example of ananeurismal cyst of the aorta, containing a coagulum, in the common crane (Grus communis), including a portion of the lungs. N.B. The aneurism was produced by a spicula of glass passing through the gizzard into the aorta. J. B. {36 A specimen of morbid artery. 37 A coagulum from the interior of an aneurismal cyst. 38 An example (perhaps unique) of a pervious canalis arteriosus in the adult; the transverse arch of the aorta and a part of the pulmonary artery are both preserved. 39 A preparation of the sinus aortae morbidly affected.