46 EIGHTH DAY’S SALE. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser,^ GALLERY. Compartment N. Brain, &c. LOT 1 The entire encephalon, the vessels of which are well injected : in spirits. j 2 A fine preparation of the brain, the ventriculi magni tricornes are exposed, to show the different cornua and their contents ; the septum lucidum, and a part of the corpus callosum. This preparation exhibits posteriorly the nerves arising from the medulla oblongata. ' 3 Ditto, showing the corpus callosum, raphe, striae transversales, septum lu- cidum (which is still diaphanous), the fimbriae, the two ventriculi magni tri- cornes (the cavities and their contents are exposed), the glandula pine- alis, corpora quadrigemina, valvula magna Vieusinii) the fourth ventricle is laid open, exhibiting the calamus scriptorius, its crena, &c. The two lobes of the cerebellum are divided to show the arbor vitae, and a section is made of one corpus striatum exhibiting its striae 3 inferiorly the optic and other nerves are displayed, as well as the tuber annulare, the crura cerebelli, the me- dulla oblongata, the corpora pyramidalia, olivaria, foramina caeca, &c. N.B. The entire of one fimbria and the plexus choroides on the right side, with both hippocampi majores, are distinctly seen. 4 A section of the left hemisphere of the cerebrum j the external portion is re- moved, showing a part of the thalamus nervi optici, plexus choroides, and posterior cornu,—internally the labium cerebri, a part of the cerebral artery with the ramus corporis callosi, &c. j the glandula pituitaria, and infundibulum. 5 A transverse section of the hemispheres of the cerebrum, showing the ventriculi magni tricornes and the third ventricle. 6 A section of one hemisphere of the cerebrum, showing the pia mater, minutely injected. 7 A section of the brain, showing the anterior and posterior crura fornicis ; wdth the terminations of the latter in the hippocampi majores. Inferiorly the ce- rebral arteries and origins of the rami fossarum Sylvii, the tuber annulare, medulla oblongata, &c. 8 An interesting specimen of a large abscess in the substance of one hemisphere of the cerebrum. N.B. The abscess was the consequence of a blow inflicted on the head of a woman, who afterwards became nervous and dejected, com- plaining of slight pain in the head, accompanied with rigors. She was sub- sequently attacked with nausea and retching, succeeded by coma, in which state she lay for about three weeks, being nearly universally paralysed, when ' Mr. Brookes performed the operation of the trephine on one side of the supe- rior longitudinal sinus, without aftbrding the least relief. The next day the operation was repeated, but on the opposite side, which being followed by a slight elevation of the subjacent parts, induced him to divide the meninges : the removal of the bone so far relieved the patient, that she raised one of her arms, but died the following day. PATHOLOGY. Diseased Bones. 9 A specimen of an os brachii fractured and reunited just above its condyles: in a bottle. 10 Ditto, luxated, fractured, and reunited, but nevertheless remaining very much diseased. 11 A fine case of abscess in the tibia, probably originating from necrosis. 12 Ditto.