TENTH DAY’S SALE. ] FRIDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. \ [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] j SALOON.—-GLASS CASE. Compartment C. Dried vascular Preparations of Heads, superior Extremities, thoracic ' Viscera, &c. LOT 1 A fine superior extremity, the arteries of which are injected : there are four l^rge and distinct arteries to the fore-arm, viz. the radial, a super- ficial cubital, a considerable median passing to the palm of the hand, with the corresponding nerve, and an interosseous artery. N.B. The nerves and ^ muscles are preserved. 2 Ditto, the arteries are distributed in the usual manner. 3 Ditto. 4 Ditto, the arteries very large. 5 Ditto. 6 Ditto, with an uncommonly fine ramus medianus advancing into the palm of the hand (beneath the ligamentum carpi annulare anticum), and there form- ing the cubital half of a large arcus superficialis. N.B. The three ramicol- laterales are very distinct. 7 Ditto, having the radial artery arising from the middle of the brachial, and forming a large ramus superficialis volm manus, inosculating with the arcus cubitalis. N.B. Most of the muscles and nerves are preserved in this beau- tiful preparation. j 8 Is an arterial preparation of the superior extremity, having the ramus infra J scapularis arterige axillaris extremely well traced, the ramusculus com- i municans is seen passing beneath the acromion scapulae to inosculate i with the ramus suprascapularis. It also gives origin to the ramus cir- cumflexus posterior, which is traced into the substance of the musculus del- toides, the latter being much raised. The three rami collaterales arterise brachialis are also dissected, the profundus minor down to the elbow in the substance of the triceps. The arteria cubitalis forms a fine arcus superfi- cialis, and the ramus profundus is dissected beneath the flexor tendons of the fingers to its inosculation with the arcus radialis. The rami recurrentes of the three arteries of the fore-arm are also very obvious. N.B. AH the muscles, with the fascia bicipitalis and nerves, are preserved. ‘9 A beautiful arterial preparation, having the majority of the branches of the ax- illary, brachial, radial, cubital, and interosseal arteries, injected and dissected : There is likewise a large median artery in this preparation, passing be- neath the ligamentum carpi annulare subsequently forming the radial half of the arcus superficialis manus. 10 Is an arterial preparation of the fore-arm ; the three rami recurrentes are dis- 1 sected to the lower part of the os brachii; the radial artery produces a large 'j ramus superficialis volae manus, the triple termination of the radial artery in 5 the ramus magnus pollici.s, ramus indicis, and ramus profundus, is .seen, the j latter being traced through the deep-seated part of the palm of the hand J to its anastomosis with the arteria cubitalis, whose arcus superficialis is well | displayed. 1 11 Is a handsome preparation of the radial artery, arising from the brachial j above its middle) the ramus medianus arteriae interossias communis is lar®'"* ^