Ill TWENTY-FIRST DAYS SALE. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser!] LOT 17 Ditto, with all the viscera injected and preserved. N.B. These form two beautiful and interesting specimens of the anatomy of the Tortoise. 18 The skeleton of a marine Turtle (Chelonia Midas), imperfect. 19 A splendid cranium, with all the teeth, many restored, of a very large Nilotic Crocodile (Crocodilus vulgaris). 20 Ditto, the lower jaw and teeth wanting. 21 Ditto (C. longirostris), perfect and very beautiful. 22 Ditto, smaller. 23 A choice specimen of an entire cranium, with all the teeth, of a Gangetic Gavial (Leptorhynchus Gangeticus). 24 Ditto of the inferior maxillary bone, nearly a yard in length, teeth wanting, of an enormous Emydo-Saurian animal (Leptorhynchus Gangeticus). 25 A tray, with the jaws of various fishes. 26 An interesting appearance produced by an injury to a portion of the Cara- pace (upper shell) of a Tortoise. A rib of ditto, and the jaw of a fish. 27 The skeleton of the Black Viper of St. Lucie (Trigonocephalus atrox): in a bottle. N.B. This individual was killed after biting a gentleman, who died half an hour subsequent to receiving the wound. TWENTY-SECOND DAY’S SALE. TUESDAY;, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] LOT 28 The cranium of a common Wolf-fish (Anarrhicas Lupus) : in a bottle. 29 Ditto of the Narrow-nosed Crocodile (Crocodilus longirostris). 30 A handsome skeleton of the large Laughing Toad (Bufo ridibundus). Pre- sented by Honoratus Thomas, Esq.: in a bottle. 31 A choice specimen of the entire cranium and teeth of a very large Snake (Python Apollinis) : in a bottle. 32 A handsome specimen of the cranium and teeth of the Baracouta fish. 33 A humorous skeleton of a Frog : in a bottle. 34 The cranium of a Tortoise (Testudo Grseca) : in a bottle. 35 A skeleton of a Frog : in a bottle. 36 A very handsome white skeleton of a large Jersey Toad (Bufo Cesarise). This animal was presented to Mr. Brookes in a living state by — Du Homme, Esq. : in a glass case. 37 A skeleton of a Jersey Lizard (Lacerta viridis): in a glass case. 38 Ditto of a common Frog (Rana temporaria): in a glass case. 39 Ditto of a Water-newt (Triton cristatus): in a glass case. 40 Another skeleton of a Frog : in a glass case. 41 A beautiful specimen of the cranium of the Bony Pike (Lepisosteus longiro- stris) : in a bottle. 42 A scale and gynglimoid spine of the singularly constructed articulation of the first dorsal fin in an undescribed File-fish (Balistes nonscriptus). 43 The jaws of a Wolf-fish (Anarrhicas lupus): in a bottle. 44 A beautiful cranuim of a Sea-angel (Squatina spinosa): in a bottle. 45 Ditto of a common Pike (Esox luscius) : in a bottle. 46 A fine specimen of the liead of that singular fish the Lepisosteus spatula. 47 A handsome preparation of a small Testudo Grseca; the viscera are well displayed.