5 FIRST DAY’S SALE. \_Duty to be paid by the Purchaser^ LOT f 44 A transverse section of an adult os femoris injected, demonstrating the cancelli \ and membranous cryptae. 45 The musculus soleus macerated for the purpose of showing that the red colour j is not inherent in the muscular fibre: the beautiful silvery appearance of the L tendo Achillis is extremely interesting. 4G Ditto, injected, but in a state of entire disorganization from disease. 47 A perfect anatomical bijou, consisting of a bisected tibia from a young sub- ject, most minutely injected, exhibiting an interesting view of the extreme vascularity of the medullary membranous cryptae, or internal periosteum which lines the cancelli of the bone : dried and immersed in oil of turpentine. 48 A very fine example of a considerable ossification of the centrum tendinosum diaphragmatis, with a great portion of the muscle. 49 A minutely injected preparation of the bones of the arm and fore-arm divided longitudinally, exemplifying the beautiful distribution of the vessels ramifying in their interior, and destined for the secretion of marrow. r50 Ditto of the tarsus undivided. <51 The musculus semimembranosus of a crane { Grus communis), showing the ad- L mirable arrangement of the fibres of its osseous tendons. f52 The musculus soleus of a young subject, with the tendo Achillis minutely in- I jected. ^ 53 An interesting specimen of a minutely injected and recently fractured tibia di- vided longitudinally, affording a view of the increased vascularity produced in consequence of the accident: dried and immersed in oil of turpentine. 54 A choice preparation, comprising a most minutely injected os innominatum and upper part of the os femoris, the head of which is connected with the acetabu- lum by the ligamentum internum : the bones have been split for the purpose of showing the highly vascular structure of the cancelli, and the osseous nuclei of the epiphyses of the head of the os femoris. f55 A pair of musculi solei minutely injected, with their tendons j dried and im- j mersed in oil of turpentine. j 56 A very distinct specimen of ossification in the substance of the musculus semi- L tendinosus. 57 A beautiful preparation of a minutely injected musculus soleus and tendo Achillis. 58 An almost unexampled fine specimen of an extraneous body extracted during life from the knee-joint by — Blackett, Esq. Surgeon, R. N. This prepara- tion consists of an osseous substance surrounded by cartilage, bisected : it had long remained moveable in the interior of the articulation, producing dreadful torment. 59 A superlatively fine preparation of the diaphragm, with its centrum tendinosum, from a young subject, very minutely injected j dried and immersed in oil of turpentine. 60 A choice bijou, consisting of a longitudinal section of the tibia of a foetus, most successfully injected, dried and immersed in oil of turpentine. Patellae. 61 A specimen of patella from the adult subject, injected, showing the anterior, and supra-genual bursse mucosse. 62 A beautiful injected preparation of an osseous nucleus in the interior of the patella, from a subject about seven or eight years of age. 63 The patelja of a foetus anterior to the process of ossification. 64 A most minutely injected patella of a young subject, showing a small irregular osseous secretion, forming a nucleus, in its interior. 65 Ditto, the arteries being much larger, and the nucleus more considerable. f 66 An osseous nucleus, the size of half a large nutmeg, removed from its cartila- s ginous nidus in a young subject. L67 Ditto: anterior and posterior views.