GALLERY. The Collection as it now remains, embraces nearly seventeen hundred Preparations in Bottles, illustrating the most interesting subjects in Ana- tomy, in Pathology, and in the Obstetrical and Zootomical departments of Science; together with many extremely rare specimens in Natural History, &c. SALOON. This apartment is wholly occupied by glass cases, replete with dried vascular subjects of all ages, heads, trunks, visceral and evisceral, sane and morbid. Superior and inferior extremities.—Of the former there is one on which the operation for aneurism had been performed twelve years pre- viously to the patient’s death, by Wm. Lynn, Esq. Another has the cubital artery passing under the ligamentum carpi annulare anticum; besides others in which the radial arteries pursued their course anterior to the tendons of the extensors of the thumb: several have superficial cubital and their large median arteries.—Of the latter^ there are two instances, in well-injected extremities, of obliterated crural arteries: also two equally well injected, with impervious popliteal arteries. Likewise finely injected hearts, lungs, the contents of the posterior mediastinum; in fact, the whole of the thoracic viscera. And, in addition, choice preparations of herniae, placentae, &c. A series of finely-^injected gravid uteri at various periods of gestation; abdominal and pelvic viscera, ligamentous preparations of the head, vertebral column, and extremities, displayed in an interesting manner, several have the fasciae also preserved; there is likewise a multitude of calculi, com- prising renal, vesical, and cholesterine formations. One case is chiefly filled with choice skeletons of Reptilia, Amphibia, and Fishes; another contains a beautiful display’of stuffed Animals, many of which are extremely scarce, and one of them is perhaps otherwise unattainable, viz. the Caleas (Glaucopis), besides a multitude of highly desirable objects of Natural History. Of the numerous Skeletons, one is nearly seven feet in stature, and another (a ligamentous skeleton of an Ethiopian) has six lum- bar vertebrae. Some have incurvated spines, and others are variously de- formed ; independently of a score of natural skeletons of young subjects, foetuses, &c., down to the foetus of two months after conception. Among the Crania (above a hundred in number), many exhibit instances of exten- sive malignant diseases, (one specimen is unquestionably unique), or are exotics, or from assassins, or testify remarkable phrenological manifesta-