104 NINETEENTH DAY^S SALE. [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser^ I.OT 88 A small Coluber. 89 Skeletons of two Gar-fish (Bellone chlorosteus). 90 A large.dried Rattle-snake (Crotalus horridus). N.B, The poisonous fangs of this reptile are particularly obvious. 91 Three Asterias of different species. 92 An uncommonly fine Gorgon (Caput Medusae.) 93 A vertebra, said to be taken from the Craken, with a drawing and document. Presented by Mr. Bullock. 94* An uncommon fine specimen of a large Bull frog (Rana taurina.) 95 A Salmon-trout (Salmo trutta): stuffed, dried, and varnished. 96 The skin of an Echidna (Echidna spinosa). The animal was sent alive from New Holland to Mr. Brookes by the very Rev. Archdeacon Scott; but did not survive the voyage. Its interesting skeleton will be hereafter sold. 97 A Rainette of considerable magnitude (Hyla grandis). TWENTIETH DAY’S SALE FRIDAat Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] CoMPA RTMENT QL. Natural History, continued;—viz. Reptilia, Amphibia, Fishes, Mollusca, and Entozoa, in spirits. LOT 1 Specimen of a beautiful exotic Snake. 2 Ditto of a Coluber. 3 A specimen of an abdominal spinous fish : dried. '4* An interesting example of a well-stuffed grinning File-fish (Balistes ringens). 5 A handsome specimen of that extremely rare animal from Mexico, the Chi- rotes bimanum. Presented by William Bullock, Esq. 6 An Axolotl. Presented by William Bullock, Esq. This extraordinary branchiated species of amphibia is dissected particularly for the purpose of showing the absence of thoracic lungs. Phillhydrus pisciformis {Brookes). Vide Sir Everard Home’s Paper on this animal in the Phil, Trans. A very rare Snake (Dryinus nasutus). Another dissected Axolotl. Presented by W. Bullock, Esq A Flying-fish. A Coluber viridissimus. Ditto. i 12 A beautiful example of a dried flying Lizard (Draco volans). 13 An exotic Snake. 14 A Scolopendra, and two Mygales (hirsute Spiders). 15 Leptophis Indicus. A Snake. 16 A handsome specimen of an exotic Snake. 17 A Coluber viridissimus. 7 8 9 10 »11 18 Another Flying Lizard, the Draco lineatus. A stuffed specimen of a Char (Salmo alpinus). A very handsome exotic Snake. Ditto. Ditto. An Aphrodita. A Snake. 25 The head and tail of that most extraordinary monocerous fish the Sea- unicorn (Naseus unicornis). N.B. The spine just above the attachment of the tail, both above and below, is furnished with very sharp razor- shaped processes. .