ELHSVENTH DATS SALE. G7 [Duty to he'paid hy the Purchaser.'] LOT 11 Ditto, caries having attacked the cervical and dorsal vertebrae. 12 A beautiful skeleton of a young female, standing in the attitude of the Venus de Medicis. 13 The thorax of an adult subject, the bodies of four lumbar vertebrae having been destroyed by caries, are consolidated into an osseous bridge anterior to the spinal chord. N.B. The corresponding spinous processes form so considerable a knuckle or projecting angle, that the upper part of the trunk and head must have been in a horizontal position, with the face looking downward, 14 An interesting specimen of a trunk and pelvis, the vertebral column of which is extremely distorted, and the ribs correspondingly deranged. 15 A ligamentous preparation of an adult human thorax. 16 An uncommon fine specimen of the vertebral column and pelvis; the former very much incurvated. 17 Ditto. 18 Ditto. 19 Ditto, an entire thorax and spine. 20 Ditto, with the pelvis. 21 Ditto, with the sacrum only. 22 Ditto, with a preternatural conformation of the sternum (having a large hole therein, from deficient ossification). N.B. There are 13 pairs of ribs in this preparation. 23 A natural thorax and pelvis. 24 A valuable specimen of a trunk, with an entire thorax and pelvis: about I four of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae have been aftected with caries, but are restored by subsequent osseous secretion, and are now anchylosed. I The left os innominatum exhibits the remarkable phaenomenon of two i acetabula, the original being somewhat obliterated, but the newly formed I one is very distinct, and a most singular articulation is produced between the upper part of the os femoris, and the transverse branch of the os pubis, indicative of the limb being generally retained in a vertical direction, hav- ing lateral motion only, somewhat analogous in appearance to the os fe- I moris anchylosed in a similar situation in one of the morbid pelves for« I merly described in Glass-case D. which has four acetabula. 25 A trunk, with a well-articulated thorax and pelvis. 26 A lot of sane bones. |27 Ditto. 28 Ditto. 29 Ditto. 30 Ditto. 31 Ditto. 32 Ditto. 33 Ditto, 34 Ditto. 35 Ditto. 36 Ditto. 37 Ditto. 38 Ditto. 39 Ditto. 40 Ditto. 41 Ditto. Osteological Pathology. 42 An os femoris attacked with exostosis, and a tibia very extensively diseased. 43 An os femoris, tibia, and fibula, diseased. 44 The os femoris, tibia, and lower part of a tibia and fibula, diseased. 45 An os femoris and tibia very much diseased, the latter being anchylosed with the astragalus,