FOURTEENTH DAY’S SALE. THURSDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] Compartment F. continued. LOT 143 Ail interesting specimen of a gravid uterus at nine months of gestation, with its appendages ; the arteries, with the large sinus uterini, are well in- jected, the latter of a yellow colour : the placenta is attached towards the fundus, having its vessels also well injected, the vein of a blue colour : a portion of the vagina remains, is distended, and exhibits a particularly fine view of the os uteri: the bladder is preserved in situ naturali, dried and varnished. 144 A portion of intestine, minutely injected, dried and varnished, 145 A considerable part of one cornu of the gravid uterus of a sow, distended, dried and varnished ; both the arteries and veins are minutely injected. 146 The heart and lungs, with their vessels injected j the aorta, arterise subcla- viae, and carotides; also the linguales : the tongue, os hyoides, larynx, trachea, and bvonchi, with the pharynx and oesophagus preserved, dried and varnished 5 from a Pecari (Adenonotus torquatus). 147 An admirable preparation of the basis of the cranium, vertebral column and pelvis, from an adult subject, preserved with all its various ligaments. N.B. The posterior part of the os occipitale and spinous processes of the atlas and vertebra dentata are removed, for the purpose of demonstrating the liga- ments connecting the vertebree v/ith the cranium 5 those of the lower jaw are also seen. 148 Ditto, having the posterior and inferior part of the os occipitale sawn through in a circular direction, and hinged ; the spinous processes of a great part of the vertebrae dorsiare removed, that the ligamentum longitudinale posticum may be seen, as the ligamentum longitudinale anticum is in the opposite view : the tentorium and part of the theca vertebrarum are preserved. 149 The.bladder, rectum, and cloaca, of a turtle (Chelonia Midas): distended, dried and varnished. 150 A gall-bladder : injected. 151 A portion of intestine : injected, dried, and varnished. 152 A fine large preparation of the gastric organ and duodenum of a quadruped, the vessels of which are well injected. 153 An excellent preparation of the lower part of the os femoris, leg, and foot, exhibiting the various ligaments and fasciae. 154 Ditto. 155 Ditto, without fasciae, but having the arteries injected. 156 Ditto. 157 An excellent specimen of a full-sized and well-forraed femiale pelvis and li- gament, with all the lumbar vertebrae. 158 A useful section of a part of the thorax and most oi the dorsal vertebra, the sternum, cartilages of the ribs, their ligaments, &c. 159 The half of the thorax, including the scapula and clavicula, with the various ligaments appertaining to the different bones. 160 The stomach and intestines j injected, dried and varnished. 161 The left inferior extremity (distorted) : preserved for ligaments. 162 The intestinum ileum, caecum, and part of the colon of a large predacious qua- druped. M