112 TWENTY-SECOND DAY’S SALE. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT 48 The shell of a Turtle (Testudo radiata). 49 Ditto, devoid of cuticle (Testudo tessellata). 50 An interesting skeleton of a Testudo Grseca: in a gilt case glazed. N.B. The Testudo Graeca has been said to be indigenous. 51 A stuffed specimen of the Chelonura serpentina. 52 A shell of an Emys concentrica. 53 Ditto, with the plastron (sternum) hinged naturally (Terrapena clausa). f54 A shell of an Emys punctata. [55 Various bones of a Tortoise. 56 A cranium of a small Cayman (Alligator Sclerops). 57 An uncommonly fine cranium, with the lower jaw, of the Sword-fish (Xiphias gladius). Presented by Professor Bonelli. 58 A shell of the Testudo carbonaria. FLOOR OF THE SALOON. A painted muscular statue of the human subject of the adult size. A cast in plaster. A handsome painted statue of the Venus de Medicis. A cast in plaster. A gigantic model of the arterial system of the human subject. Executed and presented by — Blackett, Esq. Surgeon U. N. An ancient and rude Sarcophagus, containing an Egyptian Mummy. A fine Mummy of a Caffre boy embalmed by Mr. Brookes about fifteen years ago ; in high preservation in a glazed case, highly interesting. TABLE OF THE SALOON. LOT 1 A cranium, including the lower jaw, from Peru, having a very irregular and horrific appearance, being extensively affected with osteitis. N.B. The lower jaw is of immense thickness, and the orbits much diminished : dug up from a cemetery at Lima and presented by — Lewis, Esq. (at that time Surgeon to H. M. S. Lion,) with the written document: under a glass shade. 2 The cranium of a young English Baron (in days of yore), dug up from a mound near Lewes in Sussex : on a stand and under a glass shade. Pre- sented by — Price, Esq. 3 The head of a Russian, dug up at Spitzbergen, and mummified by congela- tion; still characterized by its original nightcap. Brought home at ex- treme risk (from the superstition of the sailors), and presented by — Row- land, Esq. Assistant-Surgeon to oneof H. M. ships employed in the Arctic expedition: on a stand, and covered by a glass shade. 4 The cranium of an Egyptian mummy : in a glass globe. 5 A cranium, brought from the island of Madeira, singularly formed or diseased, of a monk of the Franciscan order, supposed to have been one of the earliest inhabitants. Presented by Dr. Gamble, with an authentic document: in a glass globe. 6 The head of a New Zealand warrior: on a stand, and under a glass shade. 7 An interesting preparation of the cranium of a young subject. The superior part is removed, exhibiting the circulus arteriosus Willisii, and a mul- titude of ramifications of the cerebral, basilary, and vertebral arteries; on a stand, and covered by a glass shade. 8 A dissection of the cancelli of the lower jaw, affording a view of the canales mentales; a canal on one side is seen through the interstices of the cancelli, and on the other it is altogether denuded. Also a lower jaw of a Turk, (as it was said to be): on a mahogany stand, and under a glass shade. 9 A most extraordinary and very large calculus, from the urinary bladder of