33 NINTH DATS SALE. \Duty to he paid by the Purchaser,^ tot 12 The lower part of the trunk of a female subject; the aorta and vena cava are injected ; the renal, spermatic, and inferior mesenteric vessels traced to their several destinations : and both the external and internal sexual organs displayed. 13 A similar preparation to Lot 11, with the addition of the two venae cavae and their auricle being injected; the trachea and bronchi are also injected. N.B. These two preparations, viz. Lots 11 and 13, are exemplifications of that peculiar and incurable species of dysphagia, observable from infancy. Query ? Are not these cases recognizable in consequence of the pulse of the left wrist being much stronger than that of the right,, more especially during deglutition ? 14 A portion of the thorax, with the lower part of the trunk of a male sub- ject, having the corresponding portions of the aorta and vena cava in- jected of different colours, with their ramifications : the stomach is pre- served in situ naturali, stuffed, the vessels of which are beautifully seen, as well as those of the mesentery and mesocolon traced to the caecum, ascend- ing portion, and continuation of the colons The liver and gall-bladder are injected. The different bodies of the membrum virile are injected, afford- ing an admirable view of the bulb of the urethi*a, and a fine illustration of varicocele, in consequence of the veins of the spermatic chords being injected to the testes: the tunicae vaginales are dried hollow. 15 A spine, the aorta of which is injected red, the vena cava thoracica yellow, together with the venae subclaviae, the terminations of the venae jugulares internae and vena azygos. The receptaculum chyli and thoracic duct are injected with mercury ; the termination of the latter is preserved. 16 Ditto, the ductus thoracicus being less perfect. 17 Ditto, with the trachea and oesophagus, the entire of the thoracic duct, excepting just at its termination. 18 Ditto, with the thoracic duct forming several islets. 19 Ditto imperfect, but at the same time demonstrating three of the venae acces- soriae thoracis, forming a large reservoir at their union. Hernise, &c. 20 A hip-joint, the vessels of which are injected, the arteries red, and the veins yellow ; preserved for the purpose of showing an interesting specimen of merocele (femoral hernia). The relative situation of the internal epigas- .tric branch of the arteria iliaca externa on the outside of the disease, and of the spermatic chord passing through the canalis abdominalis and exter- nal abdominal ring, the crural arch, its crescentic margin, the situation of the disease on the vena femoralis communis, with the termination of the vena saphena major in the latter vessel, are all admirably displayed. 21 Ditto, with the half of the sacrum, forming a fine illustration of a case of large oscheocele (common scrotal liernia), at the bottom of which the tunica vaginalis, containing the testis, is apparent; also the remarkable but con- stant course that the internal epigastric artery pursues around the neck of the herniary sac in this disease. 22 Another preparation of the hip-joint and of hernia of more elaborate extent, illustrating a singular case of oblique bubonocele ; the bladder is distended, the vesiculae seminales, vasa deferentia, prostate gland and penis, are pre- served : the three bodies and bulb of the latter are well injected (large). The crura are also very distinct. The rectum is preserved in situ naturali, affording an illustration of the manner in which the bladder may be punctured per anum immediately behind the prostate gland and between the vasa deferentia. This preparation further elucidates the evil conse- quences likely to arise from the application of the pad of a truss to the