SECOND DAY’S SALE. {Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT <( (“24 A series of the bones of the cranium of a foetus at the period of five months I demonstrating their beautiful irradiated fibres : dried, and placed on blue ^ paper. I 25 A choice assemblage of various bones, calcined for the purpose of exhibiting the cancelli, meditullium, and diploe. 26 A portion of the basis of the cranium, with the atlas and vertebra dentata, showing the interarticular cartilage and lateral ligaments of the lower jaw, the ligamentum perpendiculare connecting the apex of the odontoid process to the anterior margin of the os occipitale; also the ligamentum j transversale and the two ligamenta lateralia. I 27 A fine example of the os sacrum and ossa coccygis from a young adult sub- t ject, illustrating the various portions of which they are composed, 28 The adult knee-joint, the ligaments of which are dissected, showing their situation and connection : in spirits. 29 Ditto, dried. 30 A stump from an amputated leg, exhibiting incipient necrosis of both bones. c31 The pelvis of a young subject, demonstrating the connection of the three bones of which the os innominatum consists, and the distinct ossifications of the sacrum. 32 A most beautiful dissection of two lumbar vertebrse, showing the interver- tebral substance unravelled, with a choice display of the extremely delicate ligamenta intervertebralia. r 33 A portion of a calvaria from the adult subject, showing the pericranium. < 34 The greater part of the inferior extremity of a young subject, the bones of L which are connected by their natural ligaments. 35 Ditto, the whole of the superior extremity of a foetus at the period of seven months, displaying the cartilaginous carpus at this period, with the epiphyses of the metacarpal bones and phalanges digitorum. 36 The vertebrae colli, having red bougies passed through the foramina cervicalia, representative of the vertebral arteries. 37 Six cervical vertebrae, from a young gentleman who died in consequence of abscess formed between the os occipitale and atlas, producing caries of the superior surface of the last bone and destruction of the ligaments con- necting it with the vertebra dentata and occipital bone, in consequence of which the head and atlas advancing forwards, the medulla spinalis became compressed, occasioning universal paralysis. A very fine specimen of abscess in the cancelli of a rib. Three claviculas from different foetuses of an early period, showing the pro- gress of ossification. A. series of ribs of foetuses at an early period. 38 ^39 ^40 { { 41 Several ribs of the adult human subject, demonstrating the pleura to be a membrane totally distinct from the subjacent periosteum. 42 A series of claviculae from young subjects of various ages, exhibiting the ad- vancement of growth. 43 A specimen of injected sternum, with the cartilages of the true ribs, showing the process of ossification in a foetus. 44 Ditto, with the addition of the two internal mammary arteries, from a young subject. 45 Ditto, from a foetus at about the period of seven months of gestation. 46 Ditto, from a subject of about a year old, beautifully injected. 47 The sternum of a subject about twelve or fourteen years of age, showing the different portions of which it is composed. 48 Ditto, from a much younger subject, with the cartilages of the true ribs. 49 A very remarkable case of fracture of the sternum of an adult subject, viz. the same to which the bones of the fore-arm No. 68 Compartment O, and scapula No. 47 Compartment P, belonged. 50 A fine example of sternum, from an aged subject, showing anchylosis of the different portions, and ossification of the cartilago xiphoides.