120 TWENTY-THIRD DAY’S SALE. [Duty to he paid hy the Purchaser.~\ LOT presumed to be the effect of the destructive ravages of the tricocephali dispares (Entozoa). 132 A representation of two adult human ribs fractured and anchylosed. 133 A drawing of the lymphatics of the spermatic chord and testis of the human subject: the vas deferens and epididymis are also represented injected with mercury. {134 Shows an inferior view of a lizard. 135 Is a drawing of another specimen of extensive inflammation and ulceration in the interior of a human intestine. 136 Represents a rich display of the lacteals filled with mercury of a part of the intestine of a skate; and the arteries and veins beautifully injected. 137 A drawing of a lymphatic, and some of the inguinal glands, injected with mercury. 138 A cast of the head of an adult patient afflicted with hydrocephalus, of an enormous size. He died of the disease about two years ago, in St. Tho- mas’s Hospital. DRAWING-ROOM and LIBRARY. A series of Anatomical Paintings in distemper, chiefly of a colossal size, representing Dissections of every part of the Human Body in appropriate colours. DRAWING-ROOM. LOT 1 A painting on canvass about 12 feet by eight, representing the heart, and its vessels both arterial and venous, the aorta and its branches ; also the two venae cavse, and their tributary branches. 2 A ditto, about 3 feet square, representing the thoracic viscera ; the termina- tion of the trachea and the ramifications of the bronchi satisfactorily deli- neated. 3 A continuation of that subject, being a view of the tongue, os hyoides, larynx, trachea and bronchi, on canvass 5 feet in length by 3 feet in breadth. N.B. The reverse side is a representation of the membrum virile of a gi- gantic size, its arteries and vena magna ipsius penis, a section of the pro - state gland, its ducts, the oculi gallinaginis, interior of the bladder and ter- minations of the ureters. 4 A part of the aorta, vena cava, the kidney, renal vessels, ureters, sperma- matic arteries, and bladder. 5 An interesting view of a section of the kidney, affording a clear display of the capsula renis, the cortical and tubulary portions, the tubuli uriniferi, pa- pillae and infundibula, with the pelvis and ureter. A companion to the preceding lot. 6 A painting of the uterus ; the mouth of which is seen in consequence of a longitudinal section of the vagina, the ligamenta rotunda and lata, and Fal- lopian tubes, their terminations at the fimbriae, one is represented at the moment of the venereal orgasm embracing an ovulum Graaffianum. The other fimbria is turned upwards, exhibiting a more extensive view of the ovarium as well as of the ovula Graaffiana. The extent of the canvass is about 5 feet by 3. 7 A ditto, about 6 feet square, presenting an outline of the liver, and exhi- biting the ramifications of the vena porta hepatica in the interior of that viscus. The vena porta abdominalis, the sinus portae with the splenic and other tributary veins: forming altogether a representation of extreme utility. 8 A view of a dissection of a gigantic hand, showing its muscles, tendons, thecae, arteries and nerves. On canvass about 6 feet in length by 3 in breadth.