FOURTH DAY’S SALE. \J)uty to be paid by the Purchaser!] LOT 61 A bicephalous snake. Presented by C. A. Tulk, Escj. 62 A bicephalous kitten. 63 An acephalous rabbit. 64 A double-bodied chicken. 65 A beautiful specimen of a foetal kitten, minutely injected, showing the thoracic and abdominal viscera in situ naturali, and the very extraordinary cestus ca- tulinus (placenta) appertaining to this animal, injected \ and an omphalo- mesenteric vessel. 66 A monstrous puppy, wanting the face. 67 A double-bodied kitten. 68 Ditto. 69 Ditto. 70 Ditto, being at the same time a monoculus. 71 A double-bodied kitten. 72 A double-bodied puppy, stuffed. 73 A double-headed kitten. 74 A double-bodied kitten. 75 A tetrapedal chicken, stuffed. 76 A double-bodied kitten. 77 A double-headed and double-tailed shark. Presented by Aitkins, Esq., Surgeon, R. N. Fliiman Monsters. LOT 78 A most extraordinary specimen of a human caudated foetus at the full period, born without inferior extremities, of which there was a cast contained in the Model-room, and a drawing to be seen in the Picture-room, No. 79 An acerebral foetus furnished with a large tumor superseding the brain. 80 A ditto, at eight months, without the tumor j the whole of the vessels of wdiich are injected, exhibiting the thoracic and extra-abdominal viscera, showing at the same time the very diminutive glandulse suprarenales so peculiar to this species of human monstrosity. 81 A most remarkable foetus at the period of nine months, having arms and legs, with its placenta attached to the lower part of the thorax j—an unique specimen. 82 An uncommonly fine example ofacyclops (a foetus at nine months) whose nose is placed above its eye and formed into a proboscis. 83 The head of a monstvous pig, having a fissured palate. Compartment V. Pathology; chiefly appertaining to the female subject, human mon- sters, some comparative preparations, &c. LOT {1 A preparation of some organ in a morbid state,^ambiguous. 2 Condylomata, a very fine specimen. ^ 3 An organ in a morbid state,—doubtful ? 4 Verrucse from the labium externum. V 5 A small tumor. {6 Ambiguous. 7 A cancerous tumor, extirpated from a lady’s breast by Mr. Brookes. 8 An injected membrane,—doubtful, f 9 Two small tumors,—doubtful. J 10 A very small twin egg from an ordinary fowl, some^vhat analogous to a case of 1 superfoetation in common parlance. L 11 Two small tumors,—doubtful. D 2