SEVENTH DAY’S SALE. 36 [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT 24 Epiplocele in a cat. 25 The cardiac half of the stomach, inverted, showing inflammation produced by the action of arsenic: from an unfortunate suicide. 26 The contents of a large hernia congenita (epiplocele) successfully extirpated by Mr. Brookes, in consequence of incarceration, in consultation with Mr. Millington. 27 The cuticular lining of the stomach and part of the gastric gland of the bustard (Otis sacculosa). 28 An interesting specimen of the effects of rabies in the interior of the stomach of a dog that died of hydrophobia. Presented by — Gillman, Esq. 29 An uncommonly fine example of a scirrhous affection of the pylorus, and also of the interior of the stomach. 30 A remarkable specimen of cancerous affection of the stomach, exhibiting a very large ulcer through that viscus, and a second pervading the sub- stance of the liver. 31 The stomach of a subject that died after an operation for incarcerated scrotal hernia of immense magnitude. The patient (attended by Mr. Cate), du- ring the period of strangulation, and subsequent to the operation (per- formed by Mr. Brookes), possessed the morbid faculty of ejecting the con- tents of the organ to a very considerable distance; a glandular appear- ance is obvious about the cardia. 32 A small adult stomach, inverted, showing distinctly its rugae. 33 The stomach of an unfortunate suicide who destroyed herself by taking arsenic. 34 A most interesting specimen of stomach digested by the action of the succus gastricus: from a young subject. Presented by Dr. Henry Davis. 35 A case of large incarcerated femoral hernia (entero-epiplocele). 36 A digested stomach from a child. 37 A most extraordinary (perhaps unique) specimen of scirrhous pylorus, pro- ducing a very large tumor; Presented by — Tipple, Esq. 38 A remarkable specimen of permanent stricture of the middle of the stomach, accompanied by considerable ulceration of the cardiac portion contiguous to the pancreas. 39 A large and splendid specimen of scirrhous pylorus, extending very far across the interior of the stomach. 40 The stomach of a dog, laid open longitudinally in the tract of its lesser curva- ture, showing the natural but very remarkable longitudinal rugas. 41 A specimen of a scirrhous and almost wholly obliterated pylorus, accompa- nied by a morbid pancreas. 42 A stomach (inverted) from a young adult male subject; the individual com- mitted suicide by swallowing about half an ounce of bichloride of mercury (as was said). Presented by — Rawlins, Esq. 43 The stomach of a girl about eleven years of age, whose cardiac extremity was digested by the action of the succus gastricus. This patient had long suf- fered under caries of the tarsus. Mr. Brookes was to have amputated the limb, but the patient died suddenly on the night previous to the intended operation. 44 A specimen of the effects of rabies; from a dog that died of hydrophobia. 45 A beautiful specimen of the pylorus contracted so as scarcely to admit a bougie through its opening : portions of the stomach and duodenum are preserved for the purpose of exemplification. 46 The inverted stomach of a young married lady said to have drank four bottles of brandy during the last three days of her existence. 47 A most extraordinary and probably unique case of carcinomatous fungi at- tacking the lower portion of the oesophagus, cardia, and stomach; from a patient, at Deal Naval Hospital, under the care of Copeland Hutchin- son, Esq., and presented by that gentleman to Mr, Brookes. 48 I’he stomach of a patient who died of gout affecting the gastric organ.