SIXTEENTH DAY’S SALE. 93 [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] OT IQ A Chinese Nuthatch (Sitta Sinensis). 17 The Little Cavy (Chloromys minutus). 18 A White-chinned Vireo (Vireo gularis.) 29 An European Calander (Calandra BufFonii). Presented by Dr. Leach. 50 A Gartered Vireo (Vireo armillaris). 51 A Canadian Pitylus (Pitylus Canadensis). 52 A common Phalarope (Phalaropus Platyrhynchus). 53 The Little Siberian Horned Owl (Scops Zorca). 54 A choice specimen of that rare bird the large spinous-tailed Swallow (Chae- tura acanthura). Presented by Capt. Langdon. 55 A Cayenne Pit-pit (Dacuis Cay ana). 56 A Hottentot Turnix (Ortygis Hottentottus). 57 A foreign Certhia. 58 The heads of the male and female Eider (Samoteria mollissima;. 59 A Yellow-bellied Curucui (Trogon viridis). 10 A Little Auk (Mergulus melanoleucus). 11 A Gilded Lampronotus (Lampronotus auratus). 12 An European Ouzel (Hydrobata Europaea). 13 A fine specimen of that rare British bird the Little Rail (Crake, Zapornia minuta). 44 A Chalybian Cassican (Barita viridis), imperfect. 45 A Flamingo (Phaenicopterus Antiquorum). 16 A beautiful specimen of the Phasianoid Touraco (Corythaix phasianoides). 47 A Fire-backed Pheasant (Phasianalector Macartneyi). 48 A common Booby (Sula hebes). Presented by Robert Brown, Esq. 49 The Moon Pheasant(Eperonni Diplectron chinquis). 50 A Mummy of a deified quadruped, viz. an ^Elurus, or Sacred Cat, venerated in a particular manner by the ancient Egyptians, who adored these animals when living as a symbol of the moon ; implying, by the contraction and re- laxation of the iris, the increase and decrease of that changeful planet. The Sacred Cats were kept in a dytaand daintily fed (with Siluri nourished in reservoirs), when dead they were preserved as mummies. Death was inflicted on those who destroyed them. Vide in Maurice’s Ruins of Baby- lon, the consecrated rites of Neomania, held annually at Bubastes. Brought from the Catacombs of Thebes, and presented by Madden, Esq. Compartment C. 51 A Spotted Moucherolle (Muscipetamaculata). 52 A Black-capped Manakin (Pipra Manacus). 53 A Garden Warbler (Dagela hortensis). 54 The saw of a moderate sized Saw-fish (Pristis Aiitiquorum). 55 Ditto much smaller, probably of a younger specimen, or of another species. 56 Ditto, very large. 57 A common White-throat (Spipola cinerea). 58 A Stormy Petrel (Thalassidroma pelagica). 59 A white-ramped Black Barbacus (Barbacus tenebrosus). 60 A Starling (Sturnus vulgaris). 61 A varied Icterus (Icterus varius). 62 An American Xanthorn (Xanthornus Americanus). 63 The Beeve Larva-eater (Buphaga apicivora). 64 A common Green Woodpecker (Picus viridis). 65 An Ash-coloured Psaris (Psaris cayana). 66 A common Sanderling (Prenaria calidris). 67 A Haemorrhoidal Bee-eater, Cat-bird (Merops hsemorrhoidalis), 68 A Wryneck (Yunx torquilla).