54 SIXTH DAY’S SALE. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser, LOT 100 The greater portion of the small intestines minutely injected. 101 A specimen of intestinum jejunum, showing ulceration of the glandule con- gregatae; many of the glandulae solitariae are enlarged: from a subject afflicted with diarrhcsa. 102 An interesting case of intus-susceptio of a very considerable portion of the colon ; laid open; exhibiting the extent of the inverted intestine. 103 An example of stricture of the rectum, the anus being much dilated for the purpose of seeing the disease. 104 A specimen of a case of fistula in ano: the bladder and rectum are both preserved, and bristles introduced into the sinuses; there are likewise some haemorrhoidal tumors at the verge of the anus. 105 A distressing case of fatal termination of intus-susceptio of the valvula coli, occurring in a child for whom Messrs. Wells were consulted. It ap- peared that the patient being feverish, and complaining to her mother, the latter hearing that antimonial wine was a good remedy for fever, administered half an ounce, which produced great irritation in the bowels, and caused the intus-susceptio and a high degree of inflammation ; the appearance of which is admirably exhibited in this uninjected preparation. 106 A considerable portion of minutely injected integuments of the leg in a state of extensive ulceration. 107 A portion of intestine laid open, showing extensive ulceration of the glan- dulae aggregatse of a patient who died of diarrhoea. 108 A case of imperforated rectum in a male subject on whom an unsuccessful operation had been performed. 109 An extraordinary case of schirrous rectum, in which the stricture has almost entirely obliterated the continuity of the canal: the bladder, &c. are also preserved. 110 A considerable portion of the colon much diseased. 111 An almost unexampled fine view of the glandulae solitariae morbidly enlarged, and of the glandulae aggregatae extensively ulcerated in a portion of the intestinum jejunum of a patient who died of diarrhoea. 112 A minutely injected hand from an adult arthritic patient, whose articulations are much enlarged in consequence of chalk stones: the cutaneous nerves at the back of the hand being somewhat minutely traced, tend to explain the cause of the extreme pain experienced in chiragra, produced by morbid extension of the nervous filaments. 113 An elaborate preparation exhibiting a specimen of bronchocele extending around both the trachea and oesophagus, which latter being completely compressed, the patient was destroyed from inanition: the os hyoides, larynx, trachea, oesophagus, and arteries of the neck are also preserved. 114 An extensive case of cancer of the rectum: the prostate gland is preserved, showing the relative situation of parts. 115 A specimen of bubonocele in the adult (enterocele). The tunica vaginalis is laid open, showing the testis &c. in situ naturali. 116 An extensive case of epiploitis 117 An elaborate specimen of epiplocele in a case of hernia congenita: from an adult subject. 118 A specimen of a considerable portion of the jejunum, showing extensive ulceration of the glandulae aggregatae, an enlargement of a few of the glandulae solitariae: from a patient who died of diarrhoea. 119 The integuments and interior of a very large phlegnionous abscess.