115 TWENTY-SECOND DATS SALE. [Duty to he paid hy the Purchaser^] LOT 11 Ditto, exhibiting a more elaborate view of the thoracic and chylopoetic viscera j the latter in consequence of the removal of the thymus gland, an- terior mediastinum, pericardium, and omentum gastro-colicum. 12 A very accurate representation of a recent elaborate dissection of the whole of the inferior extremity, and half of the pelvis; the muscles are exhibited of their natural colour, the arteries and veins variously injected ; the su- perficial absorbents appear as though filled with mercury. Painted and presented by Matthew Wyatt, Esq. sculptor to the King. 13 Ditto of the superior extremity. PaintedandpresentedbyJoshuaBriant, Esq. 14 An interesting painting of a case of hernia ventralis, occurring in a nurse at the Westminster Hospital. This patient was somewhat disposed to obesity, and having been long afflicted with the disease, which formed a large tumor in the side, on stooping to garter her stocking, it burst through the integuments, by which several feet of intestine protruded and were ex- posed (Vide former Catalogue); and, singular to relate, notwithstanding the intestines became sphacelated, she lived upwards of a week in this dis- emboweled state. The post mortem investigation proved, that the abdomen was completely closed all around the protruded viscera. Painted and presented by Joshua Briant, Esq. 15 A fine representation of the cranium of a tiger. Painted and presented by Joshua Briant, Esq. 16 A view, in oil colours, taken from a child, previously to her undergoing the operation for an imperforated hymen; performed b}' Mr. Brookes. 17 A representation of a very extraordinary case of elephantiasis of the mem- brum virile. 18 A painting in oil, of the external sexual organs of a Hottentot Venus, copied from the parts, while in Mr. Brookes’s possession. Brought from the interior of Africa by Dr. Somerville, Physician to Chelsea Hospital. 19 A representation of a singular instance of a caudated human foetus: i. e.„ the inferior extremities are altogether wanting. The individual is in Com- partment S. of the Gallery, and formerly described. 20 A beautiful chalk drawing of a large acerebral foetus, contained in Com- partment S. of the Gallery : formerly described. Drawn and presented by Arthur Henry Devis, Esq. 21 A very accurate and highly interesting chalk drawing of a dreadful case of aneurism of the thoracic aorta, having by its pressure occasioned the ab- sorption of many ribs, and formed an immense tumor posteriorly. The dried preparation is placed on a mahogany stand, covered by a glass shade, in Compartment CE of the Gallery. 22 Ditto, in a female. 23 A representation of a remarkable case of hydrorachitis, in an adult, which had burst. 24? A view of the dreadful effects produced by syphilis aflecting the head and face: taken from a patient in St. James’s Infirmary. 25 An accurate painting of a case of fungus haematodes growing on the back of the wrist; produced, as the patient informed Mr. Brookes, by an attempt to cure ganglion by percussion. Painted and presented by Arthur Henry Devis, Esq. 26 A water-colour drawing, about 9 feet in length, of the fossil remains of the head and a portion of the spine of a very large Ichthyosaurus, in the possession of Captain Hawker: in a handsome gilt frame. 27 A suite of four very interesting chalk drawings, of the size of nature, of adult crania, affected with that very extraordinary and rare disease denominated Cauliflower excrescence, the long radii of which are inimitably delineated ; a posterior and two lateral views. 28 A pair of coloured drawings, illustrative of the branches of the thoracic aorta, the arteriae subclaviae, the carotides, and their ramifications, of the size of nature; from an injected and dissected dog. The object of these de- Q 2