SIXTEENTH DAY’S SALE. 91 \jDuty to he paid by the Purchaser^ OT 22 A beautiful example of a stuffed Moon-fish (Cephalus Mola). 23 A handsome Goshawk of the first year (Astur palumbarius.) 24 An uncommonly fine example of the Cushrew Curassow (Crax pauxi). 25 A choice specimen of a Sheathbill (Cfeionis alba). N.B. This bird is the first individual introduced into Europe, being brought from New Holland by Sir Joseph Banks, on his return with the celebrated but unfortunate circum- navigator, Captain Cooke. It was presented by Sir Joseph Banks to Mr. Bullock, and purchased by Mr. Brookes at the latter gentleman’s sale. 26 The Sedge Willow Bird (Salicaria arundinaria). 27 The ash-coloured Echenilleur (Tyrannus canus). 28 The Hermit Bird (Monassa ater). 29 A very beautiful specimen of the Agami Heron (Ardea Agami). Presented by — Cate, Esq. 30 Ditto of a Courlan (Aramus scolopaceus). 31 A remarkable specimen of a stuffed Gold Pheasant (Phasianus pictus). N.B. This individual is a female, or rather an androgynous bird, assuming the plumage of the male, in consequence of preternatural conformation of the sexual organs, as proved by Mr. Yarrell.'—Vide this gentleman’s lucid dissertation published in the Linnean Transactions. 32 A fine example of a stuffed Tunny (Thynnus communis). . 33 A stuffed specimen of the Gyr Falcon (Falco sacer). An Osprey (Pandion fiu- viatilis). 34 A box containing sundry human bones, from most parts of the skeleton. 35 Ditto. 36 Ditto. 37 Ditto. 38 The penis of a large Whale, dried. 39 An interesting preparation of the heart and all its vessels, injected, dried, &c. The carotides and vena jugularis are traced to the head j the tongue, supe- rior larynx, trachea, and bronchi, with the oesophagus, are preserved. From an adult Ostrich (Struthio Camelus). 40 A beautiful specimen of the'sternum, os furciforme, claviculee and scapulae, with the tortuous and singular convolutions of the trachea, descending into the interior of the sternum, with its exit and inferior larynx: from the com- ! mon male Crane (Grus communis). j41 A finely injected preparation of the heart, its vessels, and the whole of the alimentary canal, from the mouth to the anus, of a Cassowary (Casupriiis galeatus). N.B. The intestines of this bird are remarkably short, possi- bly from being an inhabitant of places affording abundance of food. 42 The whole of the vertebral column, extending from the head to the final ter- mination of the ossa caudata : from a large Dog. 43 Part of the spine and tail of ditto. The ossa caudata of another quadruped, with the radius and ulna anchylosed : probably from a Hog. 44 The scapula and various bones, (one anomalous,) from difierent quadrupeds. 45 A tray of various comparative bones. 46 A calvaria of great antiquity and of unusual length, which with its accom- panying os brachii were discovered in a Scandinavian crypt, contiguous to the Piets Wall, by Dr. Traill 3 by whom these ancient remains were presented to Mr. Brookes, with the authentic document. 47 A cast of the head of a large Ichthyosaurus (mutilated), coloured after the ori- ginal. 48 An os femoris taken from a stone sarcophagus found in a crypt of the chapel in the ancient castle at Hastings, by R. Bellingham, Esq , and by that gen- tleman presented to Mr. Brookes, with the authentic document. 49 A pair of ossa femorum, taken out of an ancient Caledonian sepulchre Presented by John Brookes, Esq. N 2