FOURTH DAY’S SALE. 22 [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT and the liver occupies a very considerable part of the left epigastric region, the caecum caput coli and appendix vermiformis caeci, (which last organ is extremely obvious), are situated on the left side. There are also four spleens. Presented by the late Dr. Thynne. 60 An uncommonly fine and perfectly unique bicipital foetus at the full period of gestation, injected, having two hearts, which with the corresponding vessels and all the abdominal viscera were dissected and displayed by John Sheldon, Esq. P.A. A cast of this singular specimen was in the Model-room, and a very fine portrait in oil, painted by — Wheatley, Esq. R.A., as also a series of drawings of the viscera, are in the Picture-room. N.B. The mother of this extraordinary phaenomenon was delivered by Dr. Kennedy, by whose son. Colonel Kennedy, the preparation was presented to Mr. Brookes. 61 A fine hydrocephalic foetus at the full period of gestation ; the thoracic and ex- tra-abdominal viscera are injected and dissected, exhibiting at the same time a view of the sinus venosus and glandulae suprarenales. 62 A singular foetus at the full period of gestation, having an immense cere- bral tumor occupying the anterior part of its head, a proboscidiform nose, and umbilicus perfectly cicatrized, appearing never to have had any com- munication whatever with the funis umbilicalis j but a large and well- formed placenta, with a diminutive and useless funis attached thereto, ema- nates from the posterior part of the cerebral organ. N. B, This unprece- dented foetal production may possibly throw a gleam of light on that most extraordinary case detailed by the late Dr. Mason Good, who attended a fe- male in parturition, the umbilicus of whose child was perfectly corresponding to this individual, but having a placenta totally distinct from the infant. His account was read before the Medical Society in Bolt Court, but from the scepticism that prevailed among the majority of the members of the Council, the publication was negatived. 63 An uncommonly large acerebral foetus, weighing upwards of twelve pounds, the whole of the thoracic and extra-abdominal viscera of which are injected and dissected. In this gigantictuterine production the sinus venosus, con- tinued from the vena umbilicalis to the vena cava abdominalis, as well as its other communication with the vena porta, are admirably seen, as also its very diminutive glandulee suprarenales. Presented by Mrs. Briant, formerly matron of St. James’s Infirmary, where this foetus was born. Compartment W. A Miscellaneous collection of Pathological Subjects and various Organs, particularly those of Generation, both external and internal, in the female. LOT 1 Several nasal polypi : extracted by — Wheateley, Esq. 2 Ditto, much larger. 3 A small calculus from the Whartonian duct (submaxillary). 4 Four ditto. 5 Four calculi from the Riverian ducts (sublingual). 6 Three ditto from the Stenonian duct (parotid). 7 A verj'^ large nasal polypus: extracted by — Wheateley, Esq. 8 A prodigiously large nasal polypus; removed by incision by — Wheateley, Esq. in consultation with the late Mr. Ramsden: for the accomplishment of this operation Mr. Wheateley invented a bistoury cachee, having been foiled in several previous essays for the extirpation of this tumor by the forceps and additional aid of Mr. Ramsden. (Vide the case published by Mr. Wheateley). 9 A large calculus from the Stenonian duct. 10 A beautiful specimen of the parotid gland, the vessels of which are injected red,