TENTH DATS HAJ^ET- [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser. 61 LOT 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 .80 ‘81 82 S3 .84 85 86 87 88 89 A preparation of a large heart, well injected and supported on a mahogany stand. The auricles, ventricles, and vessels corroded, of the pulmonic and cor- poreal hearts. The transverse arch of the aorta, giving origin to the arteria vertebralis sinis- tra, and its other three ordinary branches; and an injected kidney with the pelvis. A ventricle. The lungs of a cat, injected by the trachea and bronchi. An aorta with the vavulae semilunares ; and an example of a considerably en- larged pelvis renis. The aorta giving origin to a left arteria vertebralis, in addition to its other or- dinary branches; having the three valvulae seminulares preserved, the trachea, and its bronchi, together with the oesophagus. The entire aorta of a nonogenarian, considerably above six feet in stature, having the left vertebral arising from its transverse arch: the other branches, the larger trunks, and the valvulae semilunares, are also preserved. There are considerable patches of ossification in various parts of this specimen. The pulmonic half of the heart corroded. A kidney dried, having all its ves- sels, pelvis and ureter, injected of various colours : and a preparation of the posterior part of the bladder, with the vesiculae seminales and vasa deferentia injected yellow. The prostate gland is preserved. '90 The transverse arches of two aortse, their vessels and valves, and the pul- 91 monary artery, with its valves. -92 ' The transverse arch of the aorta with its valves dried hollow; and two foetal hearts, one injected, the other dried hollow. A kidney, the vessels, pelvis, and ureter of which are injected of different colours; and a preparation of the cavic and pulmonic auricles, the septum auricularum, and its valvula ovalis is retained. * The trunk of a foetus injected, both arteries and veins ; the heart in situ na- 9 6 turali; the umbilical vessels, the vena porta and ductus venosus, are preserved. 97 The heart of a turtle (Chelonia Midas), injected. 98 Part of the thorax of a foetus, with a heart injected, showing the canalis arte- 99 riosus. A corroded heart of a young subject. [00 An aorta injected. lOl The heart of a turtle (Chelonia Midas), injected. “lOgThe transverse arch, sinus aortae and valves, with the pulmonary artery and valves, injected of different colours. The heart of an ass (Equus Asinus), having all its vessels injected. The heart of an otter (Lutra fluviatilis), injected. 105 A handsome preparation of an injected heart and pulmonary vessels. 106 'The thoracic viscera and liver of a foetus, injected and retained in situ naturali. 107 The trunk of a foetus, having the heart, canalis arteriosus, the umbilical ves- sels and ductus venosus, with the arterise umbilicales, &c., all injected and preserved. 108 A heart from a young subject: injected and dried. 109 Ditto, from a young lady about twenty years of age, who committed suicide by shooting herself through the thorax ; the track of the ball crossed the inferior portion of the aortic ventricle just above the apex. 110 The heart and lungs of a young subject: injected and dried. 111 The heart of an aged subject, well injected: the arteriae coronariae are very tortuous ; the venae innominatae, terminating in the cavic auricle, indepen* dently of the vena coronaria cordis, are obvious.