FIFTH DAY^S SALE. ^25 \I)uty to he paid by the Purchaser.'] lot 61 An admirable specimen of the external organs and hymen of a subject about the age of puberty. 62 The whole of the external and internal organs of a virgin at the age of ado- lescence, highly satisfactorily and admirably displayed; affording by a lateral view the interior of the vagina and uterus, with their relation to each other: further, there are obvious traces of ovula Graaffiana. 63 A choice specimen of a hymen from a subject at the period of puberty. The external and internal organs, affording an interesting view of a case of prolapsus uteri. 65 The external organs of a matron. 66 A very unusual and fine example of polypus, growing from the interior of the fundus uteri. In this remarkable case the uterus appears to be divided into two parts. 67 A most elaborate preparation, (contained in a globe,) comprising the gravid uterus at the full period of gestation, with the foetus, funis and pla- centa, all connected and very minutely injected ; as well as a considerable portion of the vagina, from which the os uteri is admirably seen. The bladder and urethra are also well injected and preserved in situ naturali. 68 An interesting specimen of the skeleton of a foetus at the full period of ' gestation, precisely in the form of a natural presentation at the time of parturition. 69 An illustration of a dreadful case of cancer uteri, in which the ravages of that dire disease have dest^oj^ed above half of the organ, and formed ex- tensive ulcerations into the rectum. 70 An extraordinary case of a considerable enlargement of a Fallopian tube, pro- bably the nidus of an ovum, with the uterus and ovarium in a morbid state. 71 Cancer uteri, of which this specimen is a most deplorable illustration. 72 A large tumor appertaining to the uterus, but somewhat obscure. 73 A very large fibrous tumor in the interior of the uterus, the cervix of which is extremely elongated, and the os uteri very obvious, with a distinct cof” pus luteum on the surface of one of the ovaria. 74? A superb specimen of a minutely injected uterus and vagina at about ten days or a fortnight post partum. The interior of the organ to which the placenta was attached, presents an interesting view of its vascular surface : bristles are introduced into the openings of the Fallopian tubes, the fimbrite are very minutely injected, and one ovarium is divided; the bladder retains its natural situation. 75 A dreadful but at the same time highly interesting specimen of inversio uteri, occasioned by violently extracting the placenta immediately after the birth of the child, and causing death from haemorrhage. 76 A section of a uterus, containing a very considerable tumor of a fibrous nature. 77 A splendid preparation of a minutely injected placenta. 78 A morbid uterus extensively affected with scrofula, and having also a large hydrops ovarii, with an interesting view of the os uteri. 79 A cast from nature of a uterus ruptured at its cervix at the full period of gestation : the whole trunk of the subject and all the abdominal viscera with the uterus, had been previously injected with great accuracy, and the sanguiferous systems distinguished by appropriate colours. In this splendid illustration, the whole of the chylopoetic viscera are removed, for the purpose of showing the lacerated uterus more advantageously, as well as the extra-abdominal viscera, with the liver and biliary system; one os innorainatum has been detached, with the intent of affording a more accu- rate display of the relative situation of the bladder, vagina, and rectum. 80 A very fine cast of the external organs of generation, moulded from a mature virgin, exhibiting the vestibulum veneris, hymen, clitoris, &c. E