TWELFTH DAY’S SALE. 70 LOT 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 JOG 101 102 103 104 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] An os brachii much diseased at the elbow-joint, having a long acute spicula i secreted from its internal spine 5 and a portion of a tibia and fibula^frac- tured below their middle j reunited and anchylosed. Two portions of femora morbidly affected. An os femoris, the cervix of which is much shortened, and the head extremely , expanded in consequence of luxation 3 two tibiae, and a fibula being like- | wise diseased. Two diseased femora. An os femoris and tibia much diseased. An interesting example of fractured os femoris just below the trochanter minor. ! An os femoris and tibia, both much incurvated. An os femoris and tibia extensively affected with osteitis. | A tibia fractured inferiorly 3 a fibula at its middle, and an example of os brachii fractured just above its condyles, and much diseased. Two ossa sacra, one being anchylosed with the last lumbar vertebra, and that is anchylosed with the fourth. The second os sacrum presents a most un- usual appearance, inasmuch as its ordinary concavity is become rather con- vex 3 also two ossa innominata from young subjects of different ages, show- ing the union of the three bones of which they consist. j A fine natural preparation of the vertebral column, pelvis, and ligaments. Ditto, articulated. Ditto, flexible. Ditto. Ditto. Crania. (Lots numbered from 26 to 111 inclusive.) Bones of the cranium connected by their sutures. The eight bones of the cranium. A cranium, a section of which has been made for the purpose of showing , the interior. 1 Ditto, a part of the face and os occipitale being removed to show the meatus nasi, the cellulae ethmoideae, &c. ' An edentulous cranium having two foramina infra-orbitalia on the left side. A cranium. Ditto of an Ethiopian 3 a section has been made to show the interior, with ^ one sinus pituitarius frontalis. A cranium. A fine cranium, with its inferior maxillary bone 3 a transverse section has been made through the os frontale above the orbit, to demonstrate the oblitera- tion of the sinus pituitarius frontalis. N.B. This cranium has a frontal suture. A fine cranium, with its inferior maxillary bone. Ditto, one os parietale having been removed. The tube roccipitale is unusu- ally large and acute. | A very fine cranium, with its inferior maxillary bone and all the teeth complete. N.B, There are two foramina infra-orbitaria bn the left side. A beautiful cranium and inferior maxilla. Ditto. Injuries of the Head.—Fractures, Fissures, Depressions, &c. 40 A cranium 3 the os frontale presents indications of considerable exfoliation having taken place : and the right os parietale of having had the trephine applied 3 nearly restored. 41 A cranium, the left os parietale of which has either been extensively absorbed, or exfoliated. The left styloid process is very long. 42 A cranium, having a disease pn the centre of the os frontale.