62 TENTH HAY'S SALE. \J)uty to be 'paid by the Purchaser. LOT 112 A finely injected heart of an adult subject. 113 An extraordinary preparation of the kidney, the pelvis of which is of an enormous size. 114 The thorax, containing its viscera, well injected and dried. A section has been made into the pericardium, which is somewhat separated from the heart, forming altogether an interesting preparation : from a young subject. A preparation of an injected heart in the adult subject, in which the venae innominatae may be seen distinctly, terminating in the cavic auricle. Ditto. Ditto. The sinus aortae and part of its transverse arch; the valvulae semilunares are distinct. A pulmonary artery, the valvulae sigmoidales of which are ob- vious, and a specimen of an injected spleen : dried. A fine illustration of hypertrophia cordis : well injected. 122 Ditto, in which the morbid enlargement is very considerable indeed : taken from a patient who died suddenly. 123 An excellent specimen of the thoracic viscera, injected and interestingly dis- played ; the lungs are fully expanded with ceraceous matter, thrown in by the trachea, producing the precise and natural appearance of the hoof of a bisulcated animal, in a posterior view. ^ 124 A kidney, the vessels of which are injected, as are also the pelvis and ureter, c 125 A specimen of the heart of a swan (Cygnus Olor): injected, with itsvessels. 126 A specimen of the heart. 127 A preparation of the cavic and pulmonic ventricles; dried, exhibiting a view of the septum auricularum and valvula ovalis. 128 The basis of the cranium ; the inferior maxillary bone is divided, showing the fauces and posterior nares. 129 The trunk of a foetus at about eight months of gestation ; having the heart, liver, and other viscera, as well as the neck, injected. 130 The cranium of a foetus at about seven months of gestation: dried, forming a neat preparation. 131 A specimen of the left kidney, showing the long renal vein which passes anterior to the aorta, for the purpose of pouring its blood into the vena cava abdominalis, a portion of which is also preserved. 132 An uncommonly fine natural skeleton of a child soon afterbirth. 133 The cranium of a foetus between eight and nine months of gestation, the ossa parietalia are removed, showing its interior, the tentorium, &c. 134 An arterial cranium, wdth part of the neck, pharynx, and larynx; from a sub- ject at the age of twelve months. 135 Ditto, somewhat older ; affording an excellent display of the teeth : the ex- ternal surface of the alveolar process, being removed from the superior and inferior maxillary bones, the situation of the deciduous and some per- sistent teeth is rendered very obvious. 136 The cranium of a subject at about the age of twelve months, in which sec- tions have been made on each side of the sagittal and frontal sutures for the purpose of obtaining a view of the interior. 137 A specimen of an aorta of the adult subject, injected. 115 116 117 ril8 J 119 L120 121