58 TENTH DAY^S SALE. [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT beautiful preparation ; the principal nerves and nearly all the muscles arc preserved. 31 A fine arterial extremity, preserved, with its muscles and nerves. 32 Ditto. 33 Ditto. 34 An extremity in which the arteries and veins are both injected, the lat- ter yellow. There is a large ramus superficialis volae, and a beautiful ar- cus superficialis. N.B. This interesting preparation was injected by Mr. Brookes about 25 years ago, with a solution of the bichloride of mercury, previous to the ceraceous matter being thrown into the arteries, and is pre- sumed to be imperishable by the ordinary atmospherical agencies. 35 An arterial and venous extremity. 36 A particularly interesting preparation of the fore-arm, in which the arteries are well injected, especially the arcus cubitalis. 37 An arterial and venous extremity. 38 An interesting preparation of the arteries and veins (the latter injected green). In this extremity the arcus superficialis is beautifully displayed. 39 A specimen of an arterial and venous extremity. 40 A vascular bijou, consisting of a superior extremity, in which the arteries and veins are injected of dift'erent colours and beautifully displayed. 41 An uncommonly fine extremity, the arteries and veins of which are well in- jected and admirably dissected. 42 An arterial and venous preparation. 43 A preparation of the arteries and veins. In this superior extremity the nerves are all dissected, even to their minute ramifications, and painted white. The veins are blue : the arcus superficialis and profundus are dis- played, and their communicating branches traced : the fascia bicipitalis is also preserved. Dissected and presented by — Stewart, Esq. 44 A useful superior extremity both arterial and venous j the fascia palmaris is preserved, the arcus superficialis picturesque, and the digital nerves traced. 45 Ditto ; the vena basilica, cephalica and mediana are large and injected green. 46 Another extremity; the veins are injected yellow, and the venae satellites arteriae radialis well seen. 47 Ditto, having a display of the veins of the fore-arm. 48 An arterial superior extremity; the radial artery of which arises from the upper part of the brachial. * 48 An uncommonly fine preparation of the head and neck, the arteries and veins of which are extremely well injected. The globe of the eye is removed from the left orbit, by which means a view is afforded of the subjacent vessels; it is retained in the right, and inflated. In this splendid specimen the nerves are also dissected. N.B. The falx major and tentorium, the sinus longitudi- nalis superior, inferior, and laterales are seen. The larynx is preserved; ossified. 49 Ditto, the veins are not numerous. In this preparation the lingual arteries are displayed. The process of the lower jaw on the left side being removed, a view is afforded of the ramifications of the internal maxillary artery; the inferior maxillary branch of which is seen passing through the canalis mentalis. The vertebral branch of the subclavian artery is traced through the foramina in the transverse processes of all the vertebrae colli. The thyroid gland is large, as is its isthmus. The Stenonian duct is injected blue, from the parotid gland to its termination in the mouth, passing through the buccinator muscle. 50 A fine arterial head and neck, with the first vertebra dorsi and ribs. The right side being injected from the arteria innominata, tfle progress of the subcla- vian artery is traced above the first rib, and the vertebral into the foramina cer- vicalia. The left subclavian is also retained, showing its passage anterior to the first rib, giving origin to its vertebral branch, which is dissected through the