50 IN 1 IN in UAX’» \_Dut.y to be paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT the ramus perforans secundus arterise femoralis profundae and the ramus articularis externus superior arterim popliteae. 15 A preparation of the arteries of the lower extremity, the muscles, &c. being also preserved. 16 Ditto, with many of the nerves. 17 Ditto. 18 A fine preparation of the inferior extremity, nearly the whole of the arteries are ossified. 19 An inferior extremity: the arteries are injected, the muscles and nerves preserved, with the bladder, vesicula3 seminales, vasa deferentia, prostate gland, membranous part of the urethra, penis, and testis ; also the sper- matic chord and its relation to the internal epigastric branch of the arteria iliaca externa, the crural arch and its crescentic margin. The pelvic portion of this preparation illustrates the parts concerned in hernia, as well as the puncture of the bladder per anum. 20 The left and corresponding inferior extremity to that of No. 14, both being from the same subject. In this remarkable limb, the whole of the arteries are injected and the muscles dissected, the arteria cruralis is entirely ligamentous for about three inches in the middle of the thigh ; a branch arises at a right angle from the artery on each side just above its oblitera- tion, and then descends to anastomose with other similar ramifications is- suing from the trunk immediately beneath, so that there are two small collateral branches for the purpose of conveying the blood, which in ordi- nary cases is transmitted by the trunk; the ramus perforans secundus arterias profundae inosculates with the ramus perforans externus arteriae popliteae, besides which there are several other large anastomoses. 21 A beautiful arterial preparation of the inferior extremity from a young subject: the muscles are preserved, the gluteus maximus is elevated and the medius removed, to show the ramus gluteus, ischiaticus, and pu- dicus internus arteriae hypogastricae : the ramus obturator in this prepara- tion arises from the internal epigastric branch of the arteria iliaca externa : not the least interesting feature in this specimen is the accurate manner in which the sartorius muscle has been preserved, showing its relation to the crural artery. 22 A young subject: the whole of the arteries are extremely well injected and dissected ; there is a high division of the left brachial artery. The dia- phragm is preserved in situ naturali; the kidneys, their pelves and ure- ters, are injected. 23 An uncommonly fine vascular young subject, having all the Veins of the throat well injected (yellow) ; on the right side there are two venae jugu- lares externae anastomosing with each other by transverse branches : Ihe veins of the larynx form an interesting display in this preparation. The heart and lungs are preserved : the two left lobes of the latter organ have their arteries and veins injected and dissected. The vena porta abdomi- nalis and hepatica are also injected and dissected. 24 A vascular preparation of a young subject, having all its veins and arteries filled with differently coloured injection : the heart and vena porta abdo- rainalis are injected and retained in situ naturali : most of the muscles and nerves are dissected and preserved : altogether it forms a splendid cabinet specimen. 25 Ditto, more elaborate than the preceding ; the gall-bladder, biliary ducts, and duodenum are preserved. The veins of the extremities have been removed from this subject. 26 Half of the pelvis and thigh: the arteries of the latter are injected. In this preparation the ramus epigastricus internus gives origin to the obturator and internal circumflex branches : the arteria femoralis communis is very short.