I SEVENTH DAY’S SALE. 41 I \_Dutyio be paid by the Purchaseri] ■LOT |74 A fine example of a large aneurism of the aorta abdominalis, which increased I anteriorly; the coats are greatly thickened, laminated, and replete with co- I agulura. N.B. The remaining part of the aorta, its vessels, the cor- I responding cava and tributary veins, one glandula supra-renalis, kidney, I and ureter, are preserved in situ naturali. 175 An excellent specimen of a large aneurism of the sinus aortse, which com- I pressed the pulmonary artery: also the heart and vessels, dried and var- I nished, in a bottle. 76 An extraordinary case of osteo-chondromatous tumor of the heart. 177 A choice specimen of aneurism of the sinus aortse, likewise the heart and i vessels: dried and varnished, in a bottle. N.B. In this case the vena cava thoracica is much compressed, although its corresponding auricle is en- larged and altered in figure. 78 A preparation of extensive carditis. 79 A beautiful example of the sinusaortae aneurisraally enlarged; also the arteria innominata and commencement of the aorta thoracica. 80 A singular case of aneurism of the sinus aortae. extensively ossified; the aneu- rismal cyst during the progress of its enlargement occasioned caries of the sternum and absorption of a considerable number of ribs at their sternal extremities and of their cartilages, forming a large tumor extending through the pectoral muscles, ultimately terminating by rupture through the integuments of the breast. N.B. The heart and many of its vessels are preserved : varnished, and under a glass shade. 81 A remarkable aneurismal enlargement of the sinus aortse at the origin of the arteria innominata, and of aneurism at the termination of the trans- verse arch, which by pressure produced ulceration of the oesophagus, where a rupture took place, and death consequently ensued. N.B. The receptaculum chyli and ductus thoracicus are preserved : dried and var- nished, in a bottle. From the collection of — Young, Esq. 82 An instance of a large aneurism at the termination of the aorta, and of two singularly formed oblong aneurismal enlargements, one of each arteria iliaca communis. The individual from whom this interesting speci- men was obtained, (through the kindness of the late John Birch, Esq. Surgeon to St. Thomas’s Hospital,) was 74- years of age, a bon vivant; and there is reason to believe the cyst burst at the time the patient was in the water-closet, in consequence of extreme costiveness. J. B. 83 An extremely fine specimen of three aneurisms of the aorta, one at the ter- mination of the transverse arch; a second at the lower part of the aorta thoracica; and the third near the commencement of the aorta abdominalis ; which last, bursting, produced death: dried, varnished, and in a bottle. 84 A beautiful preparation of the heart and its vessels, with the aorta, vena cava thoracica, vena azygos, receptaculum chyli, ductus thoracicus, lungs and oesophagus, glandulae supra-renales, kidneys, their vessels, blad- der, penis, pelvis, and upper part of the thighs, all in situ naturali ; inj ect- ed, dried, varnished, and in a bottle. N.B. The rightarteria iliaca externa bifurcates above the crural arch, consequently there is no arteria femoralis communis. 85 An interesting example of a double aneurism of the aorta, just at the origin of the arteria mesenterica superior : dried, varnished, and in a bottle. 86 An illustration of popliteal aneurism, with the whole of the crural artery : dried, varnished, and in a bottle.