72 TWJt:Ll< I hTDAY^^S «ALE. ^ [Dut^ to be paid by the Purchaseri] LOT 60 One of the most interesting, perhaps, of all the venereal crania; the disease had manifestly produced its ravages^ very extensively in the bones of the face, viz. the ossanasalia, maxillaria'superiora, palatina, and interior of the nose. The patient was unequivocally cured, as is obvious from the sane aspect of the margins of the disease. 61 Another cranium; the ossa nasalia, maxillaria superiora, and palatina, ex- tensively affected with syphilitic virus. 62 The cranium and inferior maxillary bone ; the os frontale and ossa parietalia are extensively affected with the disease. 63 Another syphilitic cranium and lower jaw, in the latter of which there has been a deep abscess: all the bones of the face are extensively affected. 64 An unique syphilitic cranium, the upper surface of wliich is universally eroded (somewhat cribriform), in many parts through both tables of the bones; the inferior maxilla was so much injured by this malignant disease, that it is separated into three distinct portions. From a patient under the care of Nathaniel Pointer, Esq., and presented by that gentleman. 65 Ditto. The dire effects of the venereal virus are seen in a multitude of large ulcerations pervading the os frontale, temporale, occij)itale, ossa pa- rietalia, &c. 66 Is a dreadful example of the phagedenic nature of the venereal virus, in the os frontale, the left os parietale and occipitale; the half of the former, and almost as much of the latter, having been entirely destroyed by this hor- rible malady. 67 Ditto, in which the whole of the upper part of the cranium, and a great portion of the inferior maxillary bone have been extensively affected by syphilitic virus, and the latter perfectly carious contiguous to its symphysis. • 68 An interesting example of a cranium generally attacked with syphilitic virus ; many of the bones are eroded in various places through both their tables. 69 A cranium, inferior maxillary bone, and four superior cervical vertebrae; the whole of the upper part of this unusually fine specimen has been affected by virus syphilitica, assuming somewhat of a cauliflower ap- pearance. N.B. The left side of the posterior arch of the atlas has been half absorbed at its superior surface, probably from deep-seated abscess of very unusual occurrence. 70 Is the most interesting, if it be not the finest specimen of all the syphi- litic crania; the whole of the anterior, posterior, lateral and superior parts has been extensively destroyed, and in many places large portions of the outer table of the bones are altogether carious, exposing the diploe ; N.B. The head was taken from a subject in the dissecting room, and mi- nutely injected (by Mr. Brookes); as the cartilages of the nose and ears fully prove, their appearance has not the least relation to the disease. There are two foramina infra-orbitalia sinistra. No external indications of disease were apparent, except a small sinus through the scalp just above the forehead. Calvarise. 71 An interesting specimen of caries pervading both tables of the right parietal bone, partially of the left, also of the os frontale, accompanied by consi- derable exfoliations. 72 An excellent specimen of osteitis of the os frontale, with considerable thick- ening and obliteration of the diploe. N.B. The disease extends through both tables into the interior of the cranium. 73 A morbid calvaria, extensively affected, probably syphilitic. 74 Ditto.