110 TWENTY-FIRST DAY’S SALE. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser. SALOON—CASE. LOT 10 A very handsome preparation of the lower part of the leg and foot of a Horse, having the arteries and veins injected ; beautifully exhibiting the theca for the tendons of the flexor sublimis perforatus and profundus perforans. 11 A diseased foot of a Horse, with part of the leg and some tendons preserved. 12 Ditto. 13 Ditto. 14? Ditto ; with a document. 15 Ditto, with an enormous wind-gall. 16 A beautiful specimen of a foot, devoid of disease ; showing the tendons and band of the foot, particularly described by Bracy Clark, Esq. 17 A part of the cranium of a Horse, with the atlas and vertebra dentata; show- ing the theca vertebrarum, the connecting ligaments of these bones, and the inter-articular cartilages of the lower jaw. CASE H. Erpetology and Iclitholoi^y. Comparative skeletons, continued. 1 The skeleton of a very large Gallipago Tortoise (Testudo elephantopus). 2 A fine skeleton of a large Angel-fish (Squatina spinosa) : on a black board. 3 A cranium of a Turtle of great size. 4 Ditto, somewhat smaller. 5 The anterior flippers of a very large marine Turtle, articulated. 6 A handsome skeleton of a Scate (Raiabatis). 7 A splendid skeleton of a very large Puft* Adder (Vipera inflata): in a hand- some glass case. 8 Ditto of a Rattle-snake, much longer (Crotalus horridus) : also in a hand- some case covered with plate-glass. 9 A head of a marine Turtle; imperfect. 10 A handsome case, glazed in front and at the ends, nearly two feet square, containing four splendid skeletons of fishes : viz.—A Plaice (Platussa communis):—A common Cod (Gadusraorrhua):—A large Carp (Cypri- nus carpio):—and a Grey Gurnard (Trigla Gurnardus). N.B. All the beautiful and intricate ossa musculorum, so difficult to be retained, are preserved in these choice specimens, the fins of which are also admirably displayed. 11 A very large case, glazed with plate-glass, containing superb skeletons of the four following fishes:—viz.—A common Cod (Gadus morrhua):—An Angler of considerable magnitude (Lophius piscatorius). N.B. The pro- cesses attached to the upper part of the cranium, used by the animal as fish- ing-rods, lines, and baits are preserved; the thoracic fins, answering the pur- pose of feet in this fish, as well as the other fins, the opercula, and gill covering rays, with those of the tail, are beautifully displayed in these mag- nificent specimens:—A large Pike (Esox luscius).—And a Ray (Raia Batis). The ossa musculorum are all preserved in these splendid subjects. 12 The scapulae and anterior extremities of a very large Tortoise (Testudo areo- lata), articulated ; the pelvis and posterior extremities of the same reptile 13 Part of the spine of a Shark: and the pelvis of a marine Turtle. 14 Ditto (the pelvis). Is it not as probable that similar specimens formed the models ofantient Cathedrae or Fauteuils, as that the Carapace of the same animal is the origin of the lyre of Apollo ? 15 The shell of a Tortoise, devoid of cuticle.—A dried double air-bladder of a fish. 16 An entire Tortoise (Testudo tessellata), the arterial system is injected: the under shell (Plasteon) is divided and hinged.