THIRTEENTH DAY’S SALE. 77 [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser!] LOT 39 A fine uterus from a subject at about the sixth month of gestation, aftbrding an excellent view of the os uteri : dried and varnished. 40 An interesting specimen of a foetus, injected, having the stomach and bladder distended, and some other viscera preserved. 41 A trunk, containing the thoracic viscera, spleen, kidneys, vena porta abdomi- nalis and cava, injected and displayed ; likewise the organ of deglutition. 42 An interesting view of the greater portion of the pelvis and upper part of the thigh, from a female at the age of adolescence, the sexual organs, both external and internal, with the bladder and rectum, the three latter dis- tended; their vessels, both arteries and veins, are injected and preserved. 43 Ditto, somewhat older ; the arteries only are injected. 44 A stomach, distended and dried, aftbrding a view of the pylorus. 45 A vascular preparation of a subject about six months old, the thoracic viscera are preserved. There are two venae cavae abdominales in this specimen. 46 A fine specimen of a gravid uterus at the full period of gestation, injected and distended, as are also the bladder and rectum. 47 The bladder of a cat distended, with the vasa deferentia injected. 48 An interesting preparation of a gall-bladder injected green; with the ductus cysticus, pori biiiarii, ductus hepaticus, ductus communis choledochus, with the termination of the ductus pancreaticus in the duodenum. 49 The female organs, bladder and rectum, distended and dried. 50 The caecum with the appendix vermiformis, valvula coli, its appendix and re- tinacula, displayed. 51 A preparation of the epiglottis, os hyoides, graniform appendages, larynx, and a part of the trachea. 52 The oesophagus and trachea of a stork (Ciconia alba). 53 A gall-bladder of very unusual magnitude, distended. ,54 A fine specimen of a gravid uterus at the seventh month of gestation, with its appendages, dried hollow; also the bladder and part of the rectum. N.B. The reflexion of the peritoneum from the cervix uteri to the poste- rior part of the bladder is well seen. 55 One os innominatum with the uterus of a matron; its internal and external appendages injected, as well as the clitoris and plexus retiformis. The bladder is filled with wax, the meatus urinarius is very obvious. 56 The preparation of a csecum with the appendix vermiformis, valvula coli, its appendix, and retinacula, injected. 57 The sexual organs of a virgin, exhibiting a fine example of hydrops ovarii, which had been mistaken for pregnancy, the bladder and rectum are both distended, and the whole injected. 58 A fine preparation of the gravid uterus at the full period of gestation, having all the arteries and large sinus uterini injected ; bougies are introduced into the tubae Fallopianse ; the os uteri, highly vascular, is extremely w^ell seen from the vagina, which last canal was lacerated by a crotchet in partu, that occasioned the death of the patient from haemorrhage. The rectum is distended and preserved, as is also the bladder, having quills passed through the ureters. Presented by - "■■■• Esq. 59 The scalp, minutely injected, dried, and varnished. 60 The whole of the external and internal female organs injected, distended, dried and varnished. In this preparation there is a fine view afforded of the clitoris, its crura and body being fully distended, as is also the plexus retiformis surrounding the ostium vaginae. The os uteri and tubae Fallo- pianae, into which quills have been introduced, are well seen. The rectum, bladder, and ureters are distended. 61 The vagina, uterus and commencement of its cornua, minutely injected, dis- tended and dried; from a sow. 62 The bladder and terminations of the ureters, the vesiculae seminales, vasa de- ferentia, with the prostate gland, injected, dried, and varnished.