40 SEVENTH DAY’S SALE. [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT 40 Ditto, to a greater extent. 41 A specimen of the origin of the aorta, showing its valves and coronary ar- teries in a diseased state. 42 An interesting injection of an haemorrhoidal tumor, and its continuity with the varicose veins of the sphincter ani. r43 The lower portion of the aorta, part of the coats are divided, showing a small j ossification. J 44 A specimen of coagulable lymph (buff) from the surface of the blood, taken ] from a patient afflicted with an inflammatory disease. 45 The origin of the aorta, showing its valves and coronary arteries much dis- eased. 46 A speck of ossification of the popliteal vein. 47 A fine example of the origin of the aorta, divided to show its valves and coro- nary arteries. 48 Ditto. 49 Ditto, somewhat diseased. 50 Ulceration of the sinus aortae producing effusion of blood into the pericar- dium,. which destroyed the patient. N.B. The pulmonary artery is pre- served, showing its valves : those of the aorta, the origin of the coronary arteries, and ligamentum arteriosum, are likewise seen. "51 A specimen of coagulable lymph (buff). 52 The origin of the aorta, showing the semilunar valves, and the origin of the . coronary arteries, (apparently four,) a part of the ventricle dissected to I demonstrate its muscular fibres, with the valvulae bicuspides and chordae tendiniee, which are seen in consequence of the removal of a great portion of the pulmonic auricle. ^53 A beautiful example of the cavic auricle divided, showing the musculi pecti- 1 nati and the two venae cavae, with the foramina Thebesia. I 54 The origin of the aorta, showing its valves somewhat diseased, and coronary V. arteries. 55 56 A unique specimen of pulmonary artery having only two valvulae sigmoidales, dried and varnished. 57 An example of the origin of the aorta, its valves, and coronary arteries. 58 A specimen of ossification of the valvulae semilunares of the aorta. 59 A singular instance of pulmonary artery, having four valves. 60 The valvulae bicuspides. 61 The spermatic artery and vein. 62 An enlarged and ossified artery, believed to be the hepatic ? J. B. dried, and in oil of turpentine. 63 A portion of the vena umbilicalis: dried. 64 A heart morbidly affected, and exhibiting a very unusual appearance. Pre- sented by Dr. Nesbit. 65 A fine specimen of carditis, in which the pericardium universally adheres to the heart. 66 An excellent illustration of aneurism of the sinus aortae. The sac is large, and, having burst into one of the bronchia, the patient died of suffocation. 67 Ditto, having a similar termination. 68 A fine preparation of the aorta with a great portion of its ventricle, the valvulae semilunares, arteriae coronariae, and valvulae bicuspides,'with the chordae tendiniae, carneae, columnae, &c., the pulmonary artery, its valves and corresponding ventricle, also the ligamentum arteriosum and pulmo- nary auricle. 69 A case of carditis with considerable thickening of the sinus aortae. 70 An interesting specimen of aneurismal enlargement of the sinus aortae. 71 Polypus concretions (coagulable lymph) from pulmonary arteries. 72 An extraordinary instance of inflammation of an artery supervening the operation for aneurism. Performed and presented by J. G. Guthrie, Esq. 73 The vena jugularis from a horse, to show valves.