TWENTY-SECOND DATS SALE. m [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser.'] { lot ^ , 1 . 52 A drawing of the entire human adult aorta, superior cava, vena? subclaviae and jugulares, coloured blue 3 with a beautiful view of the receptaculum chyli and the entire of the thoracic duct, having two terminations. 53 A representation of the adult human spine, very much incurvated. 54 An oil painting of the aorta abdominalis, a portion of the jejunum and mesen- tery, and of the lymphatics of the lower part of the trunk, the recep- taculum chyli, thoracic duct, and lacteals of the mesentery and intestine filled with chyle. N.B. This accurate representation of an injection and dissection, by the late Mr. John Sheldon, exhibits the vasa lactea, primi, secundi, et tertii generis. Presented by the late Mrs. Sheldon. 55 A painting of a case of cancer uteri. 56 A drawing of a very remarkable case of hernia diaphragmitis.N.B. This child lived only three hours 5 the left side of the thorax is nearly occupied with the intestines. 57 A painting of a nasal polypus recently extracted. 58 A view of hydatids in the liver. 59 A drawing of fracture of the ulna, upper part and head af the radius^ with the lower portion of the os brachii as discovered after amputation. 60 A very beautiful representation of the lymphatics of the arm, injected with mercury, and of a gland immediately above the internal condyle of the os brachii, with the lymphatics of the fore-arm ; the brachial artery is filled with ceraceous injection. 61 Ditto, of the inferior extremity. 62 A representation of lymphatics and their absorbent glands, filled with mer- cury. 63 A very entertaining view of a young Ourang Outang, in the act of coiling a rope on board a ship. Drawn by Arthur Henry Devis, Esq. a passenger with the animal. 64 A representation of a Hindoo fanatic, who, with a view t© the expiation of some heinous offence, had formed the desperate resolution of rendering his arms useless by retaining them in an elevated position, with the fore- arms entwined over his head. A portrait of the individual, as he was con- strained to sit on a leopard’s skin covering his couch. Drawn and pre- sented by Arthur Henry Devis, Esq. 65 A natural and a microscopic view of a large hairy spider; and a beautiful representation of the lacteals on the mesentery and intestine of a turtle. 66 A splendid representation of one lung of a turtle, rich in the multitude of its lymphatics. f67 Splendid representations of the testes of a dog, injected, and replete with j 68 absorbents. N.B. The original preparations, made and retained by Mr. ■{ Sheldon, when assistant at the anatomical theatre in Windmill-street, I excited the jealousy and occasioned the separation of that gentleman from L Dr. W. Hunter. 69 A most interesting view of extensive fungi growing in the interior of the hu- man stomach. Painted in water colours, and presented by a lady of rank. 70 A diagram of the eye. f71 A view of the lymphatics of the gall-bladder and capsule of Glisson. I 72 Ditto of the intestine and mesentery of a turtle. ] 73 A representation of a horizontal section of a tooth, burnt and polished. L From the Siis sethiopicus. ■74 A drawing exhibiting the villous appearance of the intestine, with the me- sentery; the lacteals were filled with chyle. Taken from a dog whose me- sentery had been tied, about half an hour after he had been fed with milk. A view of the lacteals on the mesentery of a horse. A very fine drawing, by the late Mr. Edwards, of the pharynx of a boy who died of hydrophobia. A representation of very large lymphatics filled with ceraceous injection. A view of the cutis, rete Malpighianum and cuticle in the Ethiopian.