3 FIRST DAY’S SALE. [Duty to be yaid by the Purchaser.'] LOT 43 Ditto, uninjected. 44 An uncommon and very singular case of fracture of the clavicle and coracoid process of the scapula; re-united. 45 A scapula affected with syphilis. 46 Ditto. 47 A scapula the inferior angle of which has been fractured and re-united. N.B. This scapula is from the same subject as No. 68. Compt. O. 48 A scapula from an individual whose arm was luxated. 49 A tibia affected with caries throughout. The tibia and fibula are much incurvated. 50 Carious tibia. 51 Exostosis of the linea aspera. 52 Diseased tibia. > 53 A most extraordinary specimen of the cannon bone of a beeve affected with' necrosis, accompanied by a very considerable osseous tumor, in which there is a large sinus leading into the interior of the bone: dredged up from the bottom of the river Thames, and presented by James Winston, Esq. 54 The lower half of a diseased tibia. 55 Ditto, with fracture of the malleolus internus. 56 Ditto, with fibula, exhibiting a fine specimen of incipient necrosis. 57 An illustration of extensive and uniform absorption of the whole of the bones of the left superior extremity from an adult female, whose corresponding arm retained its natural conformation. 58 The greater part of the adult human spine : the bodies of the vertebras are par- tially anchylosed. 59 An instance of re-united fractured spine taken from the body of an unfor- tunate cobbler, who, in a state of intoxication, fell down stairs into his cellar. In this remarkable case, about the middle of the back, the spinal chord is compressed almost to annihilation, by the posterior part of the body of a vertebra'. The hapless patient, however, lived a considerable period, as is obvious from an extensive osseous secretion at the injured part. This preparation further illustrates the exit of .several cervical and all the dorsal nerves, with an injection of one of the posterior spinal arteries, seen in consequence of the theca vertebrarum being divided; and also shows the ligaments of the spine and ribs. It appears further that the posterior part of the last cervical and spinous processes of many dorsal vertebrae are very much fractured. 60 An os femoris fractured just below its middle, accompanied by a remarkable osseous spicula, very badly reduced. 61 A multitude of ribs, much fractured and singularly re-united, from the horse. Compartment Q. Osteogeny. LOT f 1 The tip of the thumb minutely injected, dried, and immersed in oil of turpen- I tine. 2 A section of cartilage from the head of the tibia, and one of the condyles of the I os brachii minutely injected. t 3 A beautiful specimen of the interior of the knee-joint in a foetus, r 4 A most interesting view of an incipient ossific nucleus in the middle of the < epiphysis, from the head of the tibia in the foetus. L 5 Ditto, from the condyles of the os femoris. {6 An osseous nucleus in the interior of the calcaneum. 7 Ditto, in the epiphysis of the head of the tibia. C 8 Ossification of the skin covering part of the tibia. < 9 Ossification in the interior of the epiphysis forming the head of the os brachii t in a young subject. B2