TENTH DAY^ SALE. 59 [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser LOT foramen magnum terminating in the basilhry j the first tortuous inflectionj be- tween the vertebra dentata and atlas, and second,, between the atlas and os occipitale, are very distinct 5 also the linguales, and their course on the under surface of the tongue is traced to its tip. The larynx is ossified, and the trachea partially so : many of the nerves are dissected, affording a good demonstration of the pedes anserini. 51 Ditto, with the larynx and three vertebrae colli. The canalis mentalis is laid open on the right side, showing the course of the inferior maxillary artery 3 and the condyloid processes of the lower jaw are removed to. give a view of the branches of the internal maxillary. The lingual arteries are very distinct. 52 Ditto, with all the vertebrae colli and larynx. The condyles of the lower jaw are removed, exhibiting the ramifications of the internal maxillary artery. The interior of each canalis mentalis is exposed, displaying their correspond- ing arteries. The vertebrals are traced on both sides through the foramina cervicalia to their destination, 53 The head and neck of a negro j the arteries are well injected and extensively dissected. The condyloid process of the lower jaw is removed on the right side, consequently an interesting view is obtained of the tortuous course and ramifications of the internal maxillary branch of the external carotid artery, as well as the inferior maxillary ramification of the former, seen in its progress through the canalis mentalis. The left vertebral is also traced to its destination. Some of the nerves are likewise dissected in this fine I preparation. The os hyoides is preserved: the larynx and trachea, pharynx I and oesophagus are dried hollow. i 54 A splendid arterial preparation of the head. The os hyoides is retained: I the larynx and part of the trachea, pharynx and a portion of the oesophagus, I are preserved hollow. Four superior vertebrae colli, with the musculi recti i capitis postici majores, and minores, with the obliqui superiores and inferiores, I are dissected and dried, as are also the musculi digastrici, and the insertions ! of the splenii capitis. Without enumerating particular branches, it is suffi- I cient to say, that the course of the cerebrals and vertebrals, and the whole of ' the ramifications of the external carotid, are beautifully displayed. The tor- ^ tuous ramifications of the latter, with the inflexions of the former, are re- markably conspicuous. A view is also aflbrded of the velum pendulum palati, I uvula and fauces, falx major, minor, and tentorium. I 55 An excellent arterial preparation of the head and neck 3 the process of the lower jaw is removed on the left side, affording a clear view of all the ramifications of the internal maxillary artery, and especially of that which enters the foramen maxillare posticum, and passes through the ca- nalis mentalis 3 the left vertebral is traced throughout its course, and is well seen. The larynx and part of the trachea, pharynx, and a portion of the oesophagus, with many of the nerves, and the pes anserinus on the right side, are dissected and traced. 56 A perfect vascular bijou of the head and throat. All the arteries are seen. The distribution of the branches of the external carotid is highly grati- fying, especially of the left external maxillary, and its coronary rami- fications. The larynx and pharynx are preserved, The posterior part of the os occipitale is removed, showing the connection of the two vertebrales with the basilary artery, which is traced to its termination. Many of the veins are very well injected, especially the ophthalmic and their anasto- moses with the angular. 57 A fine vascular head, in which the arteries are traced, many of the veins, and some nerves. The pharynx and part of the oesophagus, the larynx and a portion of the trachea, are preserved hollow. The globes of the eyes are retained in situ naturali, and dried hollow. The parotid gland on the right side is also preserved, and the Stenonian duct injected. A portion of the 12 L