LOT 63 78 THIRTEENTH DAY’S SALE. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] A specimen of the five cartilages of the larynx, the chordae vocales, trachea, bronchi, and part of the oesophagus, well displayed. N.B. This preparation clearly illustrates the facility of performing Mr. Brookes’s operation of la- ryngotomy in cases of asphyxia, at the lip of the thyroid cartilage and im- mediately beneath the epiglottis, being just above the rimula glottidis. The instrument is to pass between the chordae vocales, which organs are parti- cularly distinct. 64 The half of the cranium of a kid, minutely injected, dried and varnished. 65 An artery and vein injected. 66 The bladder injected, with the vesiculae seminales and vasa deferentia filled with mercury, showing the union of the ducts of the latter terminating in those of the former. The prostate gland is also preserved. 67 A vascular preparation of the inferior extremity of a young subject. 68 A part of the adult spine, including the lumbar vertebrae, the aorta abdom in alls and corresponding cava, which is double, each cava receiving a renal vein, with the vessels arising from the former, and terminating in the latter. 69 A bladder injected and stuft'ed, with the vesiculae seminales and vasa deferentia filled with mercury, the union of the latter ducts terminating in those of the former. The prostate gland is also preserved. 70 .'Vn arterial preparation of the half of a thorax and superior extremity of a young subject, all the organs of which are interestingly displayed. 71 A very fine preparation of a large diverticulum ilei, well injected, stuffed, dried and varnished. 72 A ])reparation of the bladder, injected with Paris plaster, having the vesiculae .seminales and vasa deferentia injected of a yellow colour j the union of their ducts and the termination of the ureters are very obvious 3 and the prostate gland is dried. 73 A beautiful specimen of the heart of a seal (Phoca vitulina) with all the vessels injected. N.B. It may be here observed that the pulmonic auricle greatly exceeds in size the cavic, contrary to the conformation in animals solely terrestrial. 74 A dried hand, the vessels of which have been injected with mercury, but de- fective from the loss of some fingers. 75 The stomach of a pig, distended, dried and varnished. 76 An example of the complicated heart of a tortoise (Testudo Elephantopus) with its vessels preserved, of considerable length, and well injected 77 An injected heart of a dog. 8 A specimen of diverticulum ilei, injected and stuffed. 9 A section of the pelvis, containing the female organs, bladder and rectum, in- 1 jected, distended and dried, with part of the os femoris of a foetus. <( 80 The internal female organs, bladder and rectum, with an example of a fol- I licula mephitica, by the discharge of the foetid secretion of which many I predacious quadrupeds escape their pursuers : injected, dried, and distended L with air. From a badger (Meles Taxus). 81 The stomach of a large monkey, injected, dried and varnished. 82 A preparation of the four stomachs of a ruminant quadruped (an antelope), the vessels of which are all well injected: stuffed, dried and varnished, f 83 A hand of a fisher-boy, dried, unfortunately torn off with the coil of a rope I twisted around it. 84 A fine preparation of the os hyoides, five cartilages of the larynx, trachea, and I bronchi, pharynx and oesophagus, distended, dried and varnished. L85 A portion of colon, minutely injected, dried and varnished. 86 A specimen of the caecum caput coli, with an uncommonly long appendix ver- miformis, injected, stuffed and dried. 87 Another specimen of ditto, showing the valvula coli, its appendix, and orifice : distended and dried. 88 A very unusual specimen of extremely large appendix vermiformis, with the caecum and colon ; stuft'ed, dried and varnished.