FIRST DAY’S SALE. 6 \Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.^ LOT 68 A beautiful specimen of minutely injected patella from a young subject, show- ing a fine and large osseous nucleus in its interior. 69 Ditto, the subject somewhat younger. 70 Ditto, still younger, but equally splendid. 71 An adult patella minutely^injected, and subsequently immersed in diluted mu- riatic acid for the purpose of decomposing its phosphate of lime : dried and immersed in oil of turpentine. 72 A foetal patella injected and rendered transparent by being dried and immersed in oil of turpentine, in which it is scarcely possible to discern the least trace of ossification. 73 Ditto. 74 An interesting example of an injected patella, having a small irregular nucleus, surrounded by its cartilaginous nidus. 75 Ditto, in which the nucleus is of less extent. Miscellaneous. Osteology and Pathology. LOT 76 An uncommonly fine specimen of a foetal spine at the full period of utero-ges- tation, accurately dissected. 77 The os femoris and os innominatum of a young subject, showing the attach- ment of the two bones by means of the ligamentum internum, and the three portions of which the os innominatum consists. 78 Avery clear illustration of a fractured and un-united os femoris, with part of the newly formed capsular ligament, beautifully exhibiting the recent articulation in the middle of the thigh.—^From a patient of Sir Anthony Carlisle’s. 79 Ditto, at the lower part of the os brachii, in which the newly formed articula- tion communicates with the elbow-joint, exhibiting a fine specimen of porce- lanic secretion formed by the previous absorption of the coronoid process of the ulna, from the constant friction of the os brachii, exhibiting at the same time a remarkable morbid alteration of the head of the radius. 80 Ditto, consisting of an instance of fracture of the os brachii somewhat above its middle, attended with similar results, 81 A choice foetal spine, admirably dissected and extremely elegant. 82 Adult bones of the leg, minutely injected, showing the entrance of the ramus nutritius, arterise tibialis posticee, passing into the interior of the bone by means of the canalis medullaris. (A case of Mollities Ossium.) 83 A specimen of the superior extremity of a foetus, showing the epiphyses of all the bones. 84 A preparation of caries of the astragalus and os calcis. 85 An adult hand well articulated, showing the progress of the tendon of the musculus flexor carpi radialis, passing in a sulcus in the os trapezium : in a bottle. 86 Very fine examples of a pair of ossa femorum, unusually long, and morbidly af- fected throughout in a most extraordinary degree : in a bottle. 87 Ditto, shorter. 88 Ditto, one of which is bisected for the purpose of showing the morbid alteration of structure in its interior, 89 Ditto, but undivided and syphilitically affected. 90 A singular instance of fractured os femoris, shockingly reduced. 91 Ditto, of the bones of the leg, the tibia being broken interiorly, producing a very long and remarkable spicula, and the fibula superiorly.