FIFTH DAY’S SALE. 27 [Duty io be paid by the Purchaser^ LOT 15 A useful illustration of cancer uteri in its incipient state, the upper part of the vagina and os uteri being the only parts affected with this deplorable ma- lady : the bladder, however, appears to have suffered from the effects of the disease in consequence of its juxtaposition, as is very obvious by a view of its interior surface 3 one ovarium is also affected. 16 A uterus, post partum, which became ruptured during labour, as may be seen by a bougie passed through the apertures in one of its cornua : from a cat. Presented by H. Bond, Esq. 17 A uterus laid open, and exhibiting three small but very distinct polypi. 18 Ditto, having only one small but particularly distinct polypus. The penniform rug06 are admirably seen in this preparation. 19 A most interesting example of hydrops tubae Fallopianae: the uterus and one ovarium are also preserved. 21 A very fine specimen of a foetus at about the period of seven months, contained in its secundines. The amnion, chorion and decidua chorii, are all extremely well seen, as well as the vascular part of the placenta. Presented by Na- thaniel Pointer, Esq. 22 The bust of a child on whose left carotid artery a ligature was applied by Mr. Wardrop for the purpose of arresting the progress of a case of fungus hae- matodes of considerable magnitude, occupying the same side of the head and face. Presented by Mr. Wardrop. 23 The gravid uterus from a Parisian lady at the full period of gestation : in con- sequence of prseternatural presentation, it became necessary to turn the foetus, and deliver by the feet, during which operation the os uteri be- came lacerated, which was succeeded by sloughing, and ultimately death. 24 A specimen of one of the most interesting and extensive instances of cys- titis that perhaps ever occurred, arising from a case of retroversio uteri. The bladder extended above the umbilicus and contained more than two quarts of urine ; the whole of the interior of the organ is beautifully suffused with pendulous filaments of coagulable lymph: on the posterior surface of the preparation the foetus with its placenta are seen in the interior of the uterus, lined with its decidua,—minutely injected, as indeed are the whole of the vessels: one ovarium is cut through and exhibits a corpus luteum j the fimbria and ovarium of the same side presents an unusually vascular appear- ance. The vagina is divided through its whole length, showing its rugae, the os uteri projecting into its upper, and the termination of the urethra at its anterior part: the spermatic and uterine vessels are injected, red bougies introduced into the ureters, and the transverse arch of the colon preserved, showing the ascent of the bladder and the relative situation of the organs: the chorion and amnion are separated, for the purpose of ex- hibiting the foot and some other parts of the foetus. The unfortunate fe- rpale was sacrificed by the medical attendant neglecting (in consequence of a stilieidium) to pass the catheter twice per diem, according to Mr. Brookes’s advice. 25 A congeries of schirrous tumors of the breast; extirpated from a patient, with the nipple and part of the integuments. 26 The half of a very deep-seated cyst which contained almost a pint of pus, situated in the nates of a female patient, fronn whom it was removed by Thomas Wheateley, Esq. in consultation with Mr. Brookes. N.B. There are two cicatrices in the integuments, and through an immense thickness of fat, penetrating the cyst, the results of former unsuccessful operations. 27 A schirrous breast: extirpated by Mr. Brookes. 28 A section of a minutely injected gravid uterus, beautifully exhibiting the de- cidua. 29 A large tunaor situated within the uterus and extending into the vagina: one ovarium is much enlarged; the Fallopian tubes, fimbrias, and ligamenta ro- tunda are also well seen. 30 A case of riqiture of the bladder into the cellular inembrare above the os E 2