FIFTH DAY’S SALE. FRIDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] Compartment W. continued. LOT ^9 A uterus extensively affected with scrofula ; also exhibiting a very fine view of the os uteri and a portion of the vagina. 30 A portion of the gravid uterus of a quadruped. 31 A very large ficiform tumor: extirpated from one labium externum pudendi by Mr. Brookes. 32 A congeries of ossifications on the Fallopian tube. 33 A section of the ovarium, showing the ovula Graaffiana, the fimbria, and Fal- lopian tube, into which a bristle is introduced. i 34 The uterus opened by a longitudinal section. ^ 35 A tumor somewhat ambiguous ? 36 An injected preparation of the uterus and its appendages, with the bladder, ureters, and rectum of a monkey: a dried and highly interesting specimen. 37 A hymen from a young subject. 38 The uterus opened longitudinally, exhibiting a small polypus and the penni- form rugaf?. 39 The bladder, the uterus, and appendages, in a state of malformation. 40 A beautiful example of omentum, the arteries and veins of which are filled with differently coloured injections. 41 A large section of a gravid uterus, for the purpose of demonstrating the thick- ness of its parietes and strong muscular fibres, 42 A portion of the placenta of a sheep, showing its beautiful cotyledones. 43 The human placenta and membranes, minutely injected, on the funis apper- taining to which the nerves were first discovered by Sir Everard Home and Mr. Bauer in the year 1825, as certified by Sir E. Home on the covering * of the preparation.—For a description of these nerves vide Phil. Trans, of the same year. 44 A portion of the omentum majus affected with epiploitis. 45 A beautiful specimen of a membranous placenta from a quadruped, minutely injected. 46 A section of the nose of a young subject, minutely injected. f 47 A fine example of a cotyledon from the secundines of a cow, minutely in- I jected. ^48 Ditto, uninjected, f 49 Ditto, most minutely injected. L50 A caruncula appertaining to the preceding cotyledon, equally well injected. 51 The hymen and external organs of a young subject. 52 Ditto, somewhat older, with an enlarged clitoris. 53 An extremely beautiful view of the external organs and hymen, admirably seen a posteriori. 54 The external organs and hymen of a subject advancing towards puberty. 55 56 A very fine display of an injected clitoris and its crura, with the external organs. 57 The external organs of a matron. 58 The external organs of a virgin, together with the whole of the internal, affording at the same time a view of the interior of the uterus, the termi- nations of the Fallopian tubes ; the vagina is divided longitudinally, with a bougie passed through the cervix uteri: a view of the bladder, rectum, &c. 59 An uncommon fine exhibition of the hymen in the adult. 60 Ditto, from a younger subject, with all the internal organs ; exhibiting an interesting view of the os uteri, bladder, &c. &c.