TWELI^H DAY’S SAL^^ 73 [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser^ LOT f~75 An uncommonly fine example of abscess in the anterior part of the os fron- I tale, extending into the sinus pituitarius dexter. Presented by F. Smith, I Esq. I 76 A caharia with a remarkable appearance on the posterior part of the sa- ^ gittal suture. ! 77 A calvaria very much fractured and depressed with a horizontal fissure j extending through the os parietale sinistrum, and a section of a similar j bone, which had apparently a large portion separated from it by violence, seemingly insulated by a fissure. 78 A calvaria which had been fractured; a portion of the os parietale that was depressed, is removed. 79 A calvaria very much fractured in various directions, and in which the operation of the trephine had been performed unsuccessfully- N.B. The three last calvariae were obtained from patients who had died in the Mid- dlesex Hospital from injuries of the head. Presented by — Clark, Esq. 80 A calvaria in which there is a considerable aperture at the upper part of the right parietal bone, apparently the sinus of an abscess on the dura mater, that had obviously produced absorption of the vitreous table. 81 An interesting specimen of a calvaria, in which the anterior part of the os frontale has exfoliated to a considerable extent, leaving a concave sur- face. 82 A choice, perhaps unique, example of the consequences of the operation of the trephine, twelve years subsequent to its performance, on the ante- rior and inferior part of the os frontale on the right side. The margin of the present irregular aperture is very much attenuated, and not suffi- ciently large to admit the tip of the little finger. This and the following preparation are so demonstrative of the fact of cssific secretion ensuing subsequently to the operation of the trephine, that, although the pro- cess is tardy, the occurrence is hereby clearly established. Obtained from a convict who died after two years’ incarceration in the House of Correction, Cold Bath Fields, and presented by the surgeon to that es- tablishment, — Webb, Esq., who had daily intercourse with the indivi- dual. S3 Ditto on the upper and posterior part of the os occipitale; taken from a subject who underwent the operation of the trephine at a shorter period previously to death. 84< An entire cranium having a considerable depression on the upper part of the os frontale contiguous to the coronal suture. ' ^ A cranium (the bones of the face wanting), the upper part of which has been extensively affected by caries. 86 A cranium (the bones of the face wanting), having a considerable depres- sion in the anterior part of the os frontale. N.B. The outer table is re- moved for the purpose of exposing the sinus pituitarii frontales, which seem nearly obliterated. 87 An antrum case, in the cranium of a Lascar. The os maxillare superius dextrum is very much enlarged, the orbitar process of which is consider- ably elevated, and the contiguous os jugale much distorted, in conse- quence of an extensive osseous tumor secreted in the interior of the sinus. 88 A very fine cranium with its inferior maxillary bone : in both the sinus pi- tuitarii maxillares are tumors that have produced obvious elevations of their orbitar processes, very much diminishing the cavity of the orbits, and thereby materially impeding the function of the organ of vision. Presented by Dr. Lawson of Jamaica. 89 A calvaria with the greater part of the os frontale much affected with os- teitis. 90 Three calvariae, one of which exhibits a specimen of remarkably thick di- ploe; two others are singularly thin; in one, the sinus pituitarii frontales L