28 FIFTH DAY'S SALE. [Duty io he paid by the Purchnset'^ LOT pubis^ forming a very considerable tumor, and occasioning the death of the patient: the uterus and its appendages both external and internal are also preserved. 31 The gravid uterus at the full period of gestation, containing the foetus and secundines; the bladder is also preserved, supported by the urachus. 32 A section of a considerable tumor in the interior of the uterus. 33 An interesting specimen of a double foetal pig, having only one funis umbili- calis, but two distinct hearts, aortae, &c. (injected and dissected) at the full period of gestation. 34< An unusual specimen of triple placenta, injected, showing clearly the three receptacles which contained corresponding foetuses. Presented by Richard Simmons, Esq. 35 A fine preparation of a gravid uterus containing a foetus at about eight months of utero-gestation; the membranes are open, to show the foetus in a na- tural presentation ; a longitudinal section of the vagina has been made for the purpose of exhibiting an interesting view of the os uteri somewhat di- lated but occupied by the gelatinous secretion from the glandulae Nabothi. The Fallopian tubes, fimbriae, and ovaria are also well seen, the latter being divided. N.B. The whole preparation is well injected. 36 An extraordinary case of dropsy of the left Fallopian tube of great mag- nitude, containing a multitude of irregular tumors, some of immense size. The uterus, vagina, bladder, and all contiguous organs are preserved in their natural situation. 37 A case of immensely large hydrops ovarii: this extraordinary tumor con- tained several gallons of fluid, and is an example of that peculiar species where the disease is formed of only one cyst. In the interior there are several large tumors attached to various parts, somewhat resembling the carunculse of the pregnant cow. Strange as it may appear, the nature of this case was altogether mistaken. 38 The identical ruptured uterus taken from a patient who was attended by the late Dr. Blegborough,—the case was published in the Med. and Phys. Journal; the bladder, rectum, and all contiguous organs are preserved, as also the foetus with its placenta: the laceration is in the cervix uteri infe- riorly and posteriorly : on opening the abdomen Mr. Brookes found the child among the viscera. The cast (Compartment W. No. 80) was moulded from this preparation under the inspection of Mr. Brookes, who had previously injected the subject from which it was taken. 39 Another fine example of ruptured uterus occurring in the practice of Richard Simmons, Esq. and obtained from a female who had previously borne se- veral children : the laceration took place anteriorly and laterally; the pa- tient died instantly of haemorrhage. Mr. Brookes was applied to for the purpose of performing the Caesarean operation, which unfortunately proved unsuccessful. The Fallopian tubes, fimbriae, ovaria, and bladder, are all preserved in their natural situation. , -■M) A beautiful specimen of the placenta of the ass; minutely injected, the arte- ries red and the veins black. 41 A very fine and highly interesting specimen of a foetus at the full period of gestation, contained in the uterus, both of which with the placenta are minutely injected. The unfortunate young female was from peculiar cir- cumstances lying on an iron bedstead during a night in the month of Au- gust, when a dreadful thunder-storm occurred, accompanied b}^ almost continued vivid flashes of lightning by which she was literally terrified to death. This preparation was obtained through the friendship of — Webb, Esq. Cold Bath Fields. 42 A fourth case of ruptured uterus at the full period of gestation, obtained from a young married lady. In this case the laceration occurred in the cervix uteri on its left side, and somewhat anteriorly. This sinister cir-