S3 JdL UAY'i5 SAl.lL. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT 19 Ditto, having the thoracic and pelvic, but without the abdominal viscera. 20 Trunk and head of a young subject, the bronchi are dissected and preserved, the ramifications of the superior mesenteric artery and the diaphragm are retained in situ naturali. 21 A foot with its tendons, torn off by some machine. 22 An interesting specimen of the greater part of the pelvis, containing the uterus a fortnight post partum, with the vagina, bladder and rectum, distended, dried and varnished ; the termination of the aorta and the commencement of the vena cava abdominalis with the hypogastric vessels, are injected. N.B. This preparation aftbrds an example of the diminished and compressed figure of the bladder, occasioned by the pressure of the uterus during the period of gestation. 23 An entire thorax, all the intercostal muscles are removed, showing the heart, lungs, the course of the internal mammary branches of the subclavian arteries : the anterior and posterior mediastina, with their contents j an interesting view of the diaphragm preserved in its natural form ; a part of the aorta abdominalis and corresponding vena cava, with some vessels arising from the former and others terminating in the latter j the subclavian arte- ries are also preserved j the impression produced by them on the surface of the first ribs is obvious, as is also their relation to the musculi scaleni • the axillary plexus of the nerves, and one clavicula and scapula are retained. 24 An arterial preparation of the superior extremity of a young subject. 25 The thorax ot a kid (Capra Hircus), containing the heart and its vessels, with I the vena azygos and ductus thoracicus j injected. 26 The lower part of the trunk and extremities of a young female subject, in- jected : the diaphragm, liver, stomach, spleen, kidneys, sigmoid flexure of the colon are preserved with the pelvic viscera and external organs beautifully displayed. 27 A fine preparation of the stomach of an adult subject, distended j with the gall-bladder, its ducts, and a part of the diaphragm ; the aorta with the coeliac artery and its ramifications are injected j also a view of the intesti- num duodenum. 28 Ditto : the pancreas: the splenic artery and vein, with the sinus portae inject- ed and preserved. : 29 Ditto, with almost the entire of the intestinum duodenum : a part of the aorta, the coeliac artery and its branches are injected. 30 An interesting specimen of a mc<rbid stomach, stuffed j permanently con- tracted across near its middle, thus separating the cardiac portion of this viscus from the pyloric: the pylorus is extremely well seen. 31 A portion of the intestinum jejunum with its mesentery (the vessels are injected),* distended, dried in a circular form, and varnished. 32 The oesophagus, glandulae gastricse, stomach, tongue^ superior larynx, trachea, and bronchi^ distended, dried and varnished : from a stork (Ciconia alba). 33 An injected preparation of the adult human stomach, distended, dried and var- nished 3 also exhibiting a distinct view of the pylorus. 34 Female organs, both external and internal 3 the bladder and rectum ; dis- tended, dried and varnished : from a quadruped. ^ 35 The liver of a fcctas3 injected, dried, &c. 36 The female organs both external and internal: distended, dried and var- nished. 37 A portion of the intestinum ileum : injected, stuffed, &c. 38 Ditto, showing the cellular membrane between the different coats. 39 A minutely injected adult stomach 3 stuffed, &c. 40 A fine injected stomach filled with Paris plaster ; the pylorus being very distinct; from a young subject. Presented by Dr. Hooper. 41 A portion of the colon ; injected, distended, kc. 42 The cranium of a skate fish (Raia Batis). 43 The trachea and bronchi of a turtle (Chelonia Midas). M 2