71 TWELFTH DAY’S SALE. 111 Ditto, with an os Wormianum in the commencement of the sagittal suture. [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser. are unusually large, and a piece of string has been passed thro-ugh the canalis spinosus, in order to show the latent passage of the ramusculus meningeus medius e ramo maxillari interne arteriae caroticae externse, N.B. The sutures are obliterated in these two last specimens. Crania exhibitino; remarkable instances of Phrenolos^ical mariifes- tations. LOT 91 An unusually small cranium from an adult subject,—perhaps the individual was not the less intelligent. 92 A cranium remarkable for its spheroidal figure. 93 An extraordinary and very irregular cranium, which was dug up from beneath the foundation of an edifice (that had stood for four hundred years in the parish of St. Mary-le-bourne), in the presence of— Nichols, Esq., architect, by whom it was presented to Mr. Brookes. It is unusu- ally short. 94.' A cranium, remarkably long. 95 Ditto. 96 A cranium, the bones of the upper part are unusually ponderous, and are perfectly horizontal, terminating posteriorly in hemispheres. 97 A cranium singular for its extreme elevation, convexity superiorly, and curtailment posteriorly. N.B. These two extraordinary crania were ob- tained from subjects dissected and presented by — Rogers, Esq. 98 A cranium and inferior maxillary bone. The upper and posterior parts of this remarkable skull, but more especially the left parietal bone, have been affected with a disease producing innumerable cryptae, having the sem- blance of the effects of variola. Presented by T. Copland, Esq. 99 A cranium and inferior maxillary bone curious on account of its oblate figure. N.B. The teeth are very irregular. 100 Ditto in every respect. 101 A cranium and inferior maxillary bone, exhibiting a remarkable manifesta- tion of philoprogenitiveness. 102 Ditto, very large, and of an extremely spheroidal figure, with a suture pass- ing diagonally through the upper part of the os occipitale. 103 Ditto, of very large size, and the bones of which are unusually thick. Pre- sented by T. Copland, Esq. 104 A fine cranium and inferior maxillary bone, having two foramina infra-or- bitalia sinistra. 105 A cranium of a young subject, the posterior part of the sagittal and lamb- doidal sutures are replete with ossa Wormiana. N.B. There is a suture passing horizontally through the os occipitale immediately above its su- perior transverse ridge, and another in a similar direction through the os parietale dextrum ; there is also a sutura frontalis. 106 A cranium in the lambdoidal suture, of which there are two large ossa Wormiana of an oval figure. 107 A very fine cranium and inferior maxillary bone, having in the upper part of the os occipitale a very large lozenge-shaped os Wormianum. 108 A cranium, the occipital bone of which is divided into two portions, just above the tubercle, by means of a horizontal suture. 109 A cranium having a frontal suture, one os Wormianum in the coronal, and several in the lambdoidal suture. 110 A very fine cranium and inferior maxillary bone; with teeth, having a frontal suture.