FIRST DAY’S SALE. 4 [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT 10 Ossification of one of the heads of the gastrocnemius muscle. 11 Ossification found in the interior of the musculus semi-tendinosus. 12 A very interesting preparation of a fractured olecranon remaining un-united. 13 A transverse section of part of the spine of a fish, 14 The astragalus and os calcis of a young subject, showing the progress of ossification. ri5 An ossification from the interior of the biceps flexor cruris. <16 The os brachii of a foetus injected, showing the head and condyles of the bone L in a cartilaginous state. ri7 The sternum of the Gallus Morio (or negro fowl), showing its black pe- J riosteum. A 18 The radius and ulna of a foetus tinged green, whilst their cartilaginous epi- L physes retain their natural colour. The skeleton foot of a young subject, showing the cartilaginous state of the tar- sus, metatarsus, and phalanges digitorum. A beautiful view of the vessels of a finger minutely injected, immersed in oil of turpentine. An os innominatum injected, showing its three distinct portions, viz. the ilium, ischium, and pubis, united at the acetabulum. An injected knee-joint from a young subject. r'Jo Two ribs anchylosed. J 24 Ditto, but consolidated into one bone at its dorsal extremity—very remark- ] able. v25 A longitudinal section of an infantile os brachii. A bisected os femoris from a young subject, showing the large osseous nucleus occupying the centre of the epiphysis. A longitudinal section of an injected foetal os femoris, exhibiting a view of an osseous nucleus in the condyloid epiphysis. f28 A longitudinal section of an os brachii from a young subject, showing a large J osseous nucleus in both its epiphyses. ) 29 A fine example of anchylosis of the three bones forming the ankle-joint, with L the os calcis. {30 A longitudinal section of the bones of the leg in a young subject, showing large osseous nuclei in the epiphyses at each of their extremities. 31 Ditto of the os femoris in the same subject. A section of the head of a slink calf, most minutely injected, admirably show- ing the extreme vascularity of the periodontium. A beautiful specimen of a minutely injected preparation of the knee-joint affording a highly interesting view of the interior of the articulation. , ^ o“± A longitudinal section of a portion of os femoris injected, showing the cancelli I and meditullium. I 35 A most splendid example of a considerable portion of foetal os parietale most ^ minutely injected, dried, and immersed in oil of turpentine. Ditto. A longitudinal section of the condyles of an adult os femoris covered by their articular cartilages minutely injected, showing the meditullium and membra- nous cryptas. The knee-joint of a young subject injected, showing the ligamentum patellae, and crucial ligaments, as well as a very fine osseous nucleus in the centre of the patella. 39 The tibia and fibula of a foetus minutely injected, showing the epiphyses and the arteria nutritia entering the canalis medullaris tibiae. 40 The os femoris of a foetus injected, dried, and immersed in oil of turpentine. 41 A specimen of a foetal parietal bone minutely injected, and in spirits. 42 The elbow-joint of a young subject minutely injected, and immersed in oil of turpentine. 43 Ditto, having its phosphate of lime decomposed, and rendered transparent from being immersed in oil of turpentine. 18 19 20 21 22 ■23 24 5 26 27 •28 29 30 .31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38