TWENTIETH DAY’S SALE. 107 [Duty to he j)aid by the Purchaser.^ LOT 14 The cranium of a Large Flying Opossum (Petaurus macrourus). 15 The cranium and anterior extremity of the American Flying Squirrel (Sciuropterus volucella), the latter exhibiting the axillary bone support- ing thevolitant membrane. 16 The cranium of the Smaller Flying Opossum (Petaurus Taguanoides). 17 Ditto of the Ground Squirrel (Tamias striatus). 18 The cranium of the King-fisher (Alcedo ispida). 19 Ditto of the Philander Opossum (Didelphis Cayopollin). ^0 Ditto of the Indian Mangoust (Ichneumon, Herpestes mungos). Ditto of the Large Virginian Squirrel (Sciurus Virginianus^ 22 Ditto of a Fetid Shrew (Sorex araneiis). 23 The Ossa coccygis of a large Bustard (Otis sacculosa). ZOOTOMICAL ROOM, appertaining to the Gallery. Skeletons and detached Bones. 1 Detached bones of a large Horse, comprehending nearly the whole. 2 Ditto of the Mare. 3 The two anterior extremities articulated, wanting the feet; and an os femoris of a Rhinoceros. 4 A basket containing numerous bones of various animals, among which are some Rhinoceros bones. 5 A box containing sundry human bones, chiefly cylindrical. 6 Ditto. 7 Ditto. 8 Ditto. 9 Ditto. 10 Ditto. 11 The skeleton of a young Bear (Ursus Arctos) in a vertical position; well ar- ticulated, 12 Ditto of an exotic Sheep, in its ordinary position. 13 A noble skeleton of a very large Lion : the bones are well articulated and of a beautiful white color. 14 The skeleton of a Rufous Coafi (Nasua rufa). 15 A handsome skeleton of the Virginian Opossum (Didelphis Virginiana) sus- pended by its prehensile tail. 16 Ditto of a Ferret (Putorius Furo). 17 Ditto of a Kitten. 18 Ditto of a Patagonian Rabbit (Lepus giganteus). 19 Ditto of a young brown Paca (Coelogenus spadiceus) : in a glass case. 20 Ditto of the Meadow Campagnol (Arvicola arvalis) : in a glass case. 21 An interesting skeleton of the Bonnet Chiniois (Macacus Simius). Baboon. 22 An uncommonly fine skeleton of a large male Ornithorhynchus paradoxus (buccatus, Brookes). Presented by Sir Everard Home, Bart. 23 Ditto, in a glass case. 24 A highly interesting skeleton of that rare edentulous Australian quadruped , the Echidna spinosa. N.B. The skin, Lot 96 Compartment M. ap- pertains to the same animal. It is to be remarked that these Austra- lian animals are furnished Mothossa marsupialia, although they have not an abdominal pouch : the males are likewise plectrophanous, i. e. endowed with strong, curved, acute, and tubular spurs, for the purpose of retaining the females securely in coitu.