ELEVENTH DAY’S SALE. MONDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] SALOON. Compartment D. Pelves, many of which are remarkable for extreme distortion, or are otherwise very much diseased: in some, the acetabula are obliterated; and in one, there are even four acetabula. There are among them pelves from both sexes in a sane state : this Case also contains several vertebral columns, both of a natural and preternatural conformation. LOT 1 A pelvis from a patient afflicted with an immense osteo-chondromatous tumor, originating from the os sacrum, and'nearly filling the entire cavity. This extraordinary pelvis having been too long macerated (forgotten), the tumor became detached and almost entirely dissolved. Obtained through the kindness of Thomas Copland, Esq. 2 A fine specimen of a female pelvis. 3 A female pelvis with the ligaments, portions of the ossa femorum, and all the vertebrae of the loins ; the second and third have their bodies in a carious state, occasioned by lumbar abscess, the cyst of which is preserved with the remains of the psoas muscle. 4 A pelvis from a young male subject, exhibiting some trifling indications of scrofula. 5 A most extraordinary pelvis from a young female subject; the acetabula ate quite obliterated, in consequence of being extensively affected by the mor- bus coxendicis ; with faint traces of incipient formations of two new aceta- bula. N.B. In this pelvis the left os innominatum is much lower than the right, a circumstance arising probably from the left side being first affected. 6 A distorted female pelvis, taken from a subject post partum. Between the promontory of the os sacrum, and the midffle of the left os pubis, there is not one inch and a half of space, and on the opposite side an inch and three quarters only. N.B. This very interesting pelvis appertained to the unfortunate woman whose case is recorded by the late Dr. Blegbo- rough in the Med. and Phys. Journal. A rupture of the cervix uteri had taken place, through which the foetus and secundines passed into the abdomen; both are preserved in spirits in Compartment Y, Lot 38, with the identical uterus ; and the precise mode of the escape of the ovum from the lacerated uterus may be observed in an uncommonly fine painted cast of the same in the Saloon, Lot . Compartment I. 7 A well formed female pelvis, with portions of the ossa femorum ; all the liga- ments are preserved; the clitoris, and plexus retiformis, are injected and retained in situ naturali. 8 The most interesting pelvis from a female which perhaps ever was seen. In this extraordinary specimen there are four acetabula, the ossa femora having been luxated by the action of the muscles, in consequence of absorption of the margins of the original acetabula, by the depascent