TWENTY-iiECUiNJJ «ALE. " 114 [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.^ LOT 30 A human liver, partially corroded, exhibiting a pervious vena umbilicalls ex- tending from the navel into that viscus, where it joined the cavic system, of which there are two other examples, before described. These are suf- ficient instances, occurring in the pursuits of one anatomist, to induce sur- geons, in operating for exomphalos, to divide the stricture in the direction of the linea alba downwards. SI A most ingenious and highly interesting philosophical apparatus, illustrative of the circulation of the blood; exhibiting the appearance of red particles distinctly, and in rapid motion ; formed of tortuous and variously convo- luted glass tubes; connected to it there are two reservoirs, that may be considered as the auricular and ventricular portions of the heart: contained in a glass case. PICTURE-ROOM, appertaining to the Gallery of the Saloon: replete with Anatomical Paintings in oil, framed; and Drawings, glazed. LOT 1 A suite of very fine oil paintings of the adult subject, 7 in number, copied from the large and splendid myological engravings of Albinus; exhibiting the various layers of muscles, stratum super stratum, in anterior, posterior, and lateral views; framed. 2 A splendid, accurate, and minute representation of all the arteries and veins of the human body, from a subject at the age of adolescence : framed. 3 An admirable painting in oil, by—Wheateley, Esq, R. A., of a bicipital human foetus born about half a century ago. The original is in Compartment V. of the Gallery—formerly described. 4 A series of four coloured drawings, exhibiting in front angiological and splanchnological views of the preceding remarkable human monstrosity, and posteriorly the extraordinary double spinal columns, their thecae and nervous contents, terminating at the sacrum. 5 Ditto of a double monster, human. 6 Ditto of a third species of human foetal malformation. 7 An oil painting, exhibiting in natural colours a lateral view of an injected Malay subject; the chief object of which is to demonstrate a second insertion of the musculus latissimus dorsi into the tendon of the pectoralis major, passing anteriorly to the brachial vessels and nerves, the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles. 8 A portrait of a patient afflicted with an enormous scrotal hernia (oscheocele). it is an exact view of the individual, as he sat at Goutee, regaling himself with wine, &c. placed upon the tumor, and singing Ca Ira, just as the late Colonel Thornton and Joshua Briant, Esq. entered the cottage of this French paysan, in the south of France.—The second view is a re- presentation of the disease after he had been induced to exhibit himself in a state of nudity. Painted by Joshua Briant, Esq. from sketches made at the time. 9 An interesting painting, in different colours, of various views of single and double hearts, explanatory of the circulation of the blood, and of the oxygenized and carbonized portions of the system. 10 An admirable painting of the trunk of the adult subject; the vascular system of which is represented as injected of different colours, exemplifying the thoracic and all the abdominal viscera as they appear in situ naturali, on a first inspection of the subject. In this view the four ligaments connected at the navel, viz. the impervious vena umbilicalis, the two ligamenta um- bilicalia,and urachus, proceeding from the fundus vesicae, between the two last-mentioned ligaments; the anterior mediastinum and thymus gland are also obvious.