119 TWENTY-THIRD BATS SALE. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser. LOT 101 A representation of a case of large aneurism of the aorta abdominalis. 102 A drawing of the lacteals on a portion of the intestine and mesentery of a horse. 103 A. drawing of a diseased human bladder, prostate gland, and urethra, having sinuses and stricture. 104 A representation of an enormous hydatid. 105 An interesting drawing of a case of necrosis tibiae, nearly the whole of the original bone forms one sequestra. The original was in Compartment N. of the Gallery. 106 A representation of abscess of the liver. 107 A beautiful drawing of a molar tooth, cut, burnt, and polished, of an adult African elephant. 108 A preparation of the lacteals on the intestine and mesentery of a turtle. 109 A beautiful drawing of double termination of the thoracic duct, and of the venae subclaviae, jugulares internae, and vena cava thoracica. 10 Representations of absorbents, filled with mercury, on a portion of intestine of an animal. fill Ditto of lymphatics on the colon of a horse. [112 Ditto of lacteals on the mesentery and jejunum. 113 An interesting representation of the human gall-bladder, ductus cysticus, he- paticus, communis choledochus, and its termination in the duodenum j of a longitudinal section of the pancreas, exhibiting its duct, having two openings, one into the ductus communis choledochus, and the other into the duodenum: also of the vena splenica, and its junction with the sinus portae. 114 A representation of the pulmonary artery, the origin of the aorta, its trans- verse branch, valves, &c. ■ 115 A drawing of the lymphatics, injected with mercury, on the colon of the horse, 116 Ditto on the surface of the human liver. 117 Ditto of a successful injection of the lymphatics of the human kidney with mercury. The preparation is contained in Compartment O, Lot Gallery. 118 Ditto of the lymphatics of the human testis, the vas deferens and epididymis are also represented as filled with mercury. Ditto, very splendid from a preparation in which the tubuli seminiferi were injected. An interesting representation of a successful injection of the sanguiferous and lymphatic vessels of the Fallopian tube, fimbria, and ligamentum latum, of the human gravid uterus at an advanced period. A drawing of lymphatics richly distributed on a membrane. An elegant drawing of the superficial absorbents on the human lungs, forming circles, trigons, and various other figures, as noticed in a former drawing. A beautiful representation of the lacteals, injected with mercury, on the human intestinum jejunum and mesentery, terminating in a gland. A drawing of an injected spine from a young subject, showing the receptacu- lum chyli and ductus thoracicus terminating by two orifices at the angle form- ed between the right subclavian and internal jugular veins : extremely rare. Ditto of lymphatics on the surface of the human liver. Ditto of lacteals on the injected intestine and mesentery of a quadruped. An interesting view of a high degree of inflammation, and ulcerations of the colon in the human subject. A case of dysentery. Doubtful. A lateral view of an ameiva lemniscata. A drawing representing a high degree of inflammation and ulceration of the human jejunum. .A drawing of lymphatics injected wdth mercury (probably on the diaphragm). The pastern, lesser pastern, and coffin bone of a horse’s foot extensively dis- eased j admirably delineated. A drawing of a case of extreme moment, viz. of a high degree of inflamma- tion and extensive ulceration of the internal surface of the human caecum, 119 120 121 122 123 124 ri25 [126 127 ri28 ) 129 \ 130 131 132 132