71 n \jyuty to be paid by the Purchaser^ LOT 43 A case of coup de sabre on the cranium of a warrior. He received a deep incised wound on the os parietale, which carried off a portion of the scalp and bone j now partially restored. 44 A fine cranium and inferior maxilla : on the centre of the left os parietale there is an indication of a long and deep abscess having almost entirely pervaded the bone. 45 A most interesting case of fracture of the right os parietale, with loss of bone, and a fissure extending in a diagonal direction through the same, from the occipital to the spinous process, directly crossing the tract of the arteria spinosa duree matris. 46 A cranium, the right os parietale of which seems to have received a coup de sabre, having a considerable portion of bone much elevated, and a frac- ture extending across the left os jugale j now restored. 47 An example of fractured ossa nasalia, accompanied with considerable deformi- ty : reunited. 48 An illustration of fracture, with considerable depression of the right os parie- tale, through which a fissure extends to the coronal suture j the separated portions are reunited. 49 A cranium exhibiting an example of fracture of the right os parietale, at- tended with considerable depression, still existing 5 also a fissure passing* transversely from the sagittal suture through the squamous process of the os temporale down to the basis of the zygoma. Presented by the late James Brookes, Esq. of Richmond, Surry. The subject was dissected by that gentleman at Dr. Wm. Hunter’s, in Windmill Street, about eighty years ago. 50 Ditto, exhibiting an almost unexampled specimen of great depression of the anterior part of the os frontale through its vitreous table, restored by the efforts of nature alone. 51 A cranium with a remarkably large hiatus nasi, produced in consequence of an extensive polypus. 52 The cranium of an unfortunate coachman, who, in driving with great vehe- mence under a gateway, fractured the os frontale, all the bones of the face j and lower jaw, which occasioned death. Sypliilitic Affections. |he subsequent Crania exemplify the ravages of this dire malady on the bones of the head and face, which now, for the hap- piness of mankind, from improved practice, are likely rarely to recur. Therefore these monuments of this Protean disease are most probably the last and finest examples which may be offered for sale. .OT 53 A calvaria, the os frontale of which is extensively affected with caries on the right side, probably syphilitic. 54 Ditto, extensively diseased. N.B. The sinus pituitarii frontales are very capacious. 55 The basis of a cranium j the ossa maxillaria superiora, nasalia, and all the inte- rior of the nose are destroyed by the depascent syphilitic virus. 56 Ditto, with the calvaria, showing the effects on the os frontale, which is very much thickened. 57 An example of a cranium extensively affected with syphilitic virus. 58 Ditto, replete with large and irregular ulcerations through most of the bones j dreadful to contemplate ! 59 A cranium, with inferior maxillary bone, extensively affected with the syphilitic virus. The teeth are complete.