4^ EIGHTH DAY’S SALE. [Duty to he 'paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT 70 A highly interesting case of inflammation of the veins of the arm following phlebotomy. The patient died in the Westminster Hospital, having been received into that establishment with the arm in a dreadfully diseased state consequent on the operation. Presented by — Harding, Esq. 71 The aorta ossified, and inverted to show the osseous laminae of its internal coat. 72 Aneurismal enlargements of the sinus and transverse arch of the aorta, of which there are three distinct cysts, and in addition one at the basis of the arteria innominata, and another at the basis of the left subclavian artery : dried, in a bottle. 73 A case of aneurism of the arteria innominata, laid open. 74 A singular instance of double aneurism of the aorta at the commencement of the coeliac artery. 75 An example of carditis. 7 6 A most extraordinary instance of a heart the muscular parietes of which are replete with cysticerci: (from a bear). Presented by Sir Anthony Carlisle. 77 Arteries aneurismally enlarged and replete with coagulable lymph. 78 A heart dried hollow ; the cavities are laid open, for the purpose of showing the various valves in the interior of that organ : the valvulae bicuspides are ossified. 79 A singular specimen of the heart and lungs of a cyanops : unique, in as much as there is a vena cava thoracica sinistra, passing beneath the pulmonic auricle, and terminating with the right corresponding vein. The aorta and pulmonary artery both arise from the pulmonic ventricle, which is very capacious, whereas the aortic is the reverse: there is in addition a very large foramen in the upper part of the septum ventriculorum. Presented by —Wood, Esq. professor of chemistry, &c. Oxford. 80 One of those singular instances of which we frequently hear, but seldom see, —a “ broken heart.” I'his remarkable preparation was taken from the body of one of Mr. Whitbread’s draymen, wdio, in an attempt ’at moving a butt of porter, had the aortic ventricle ruptured. 81 A specimen of the transverse arch of the aorta; the coronary arteries are much ossified, as well as the ligamentum arteriosum. 82 A preparation of a heart in spirits, showing all its vessels in situ naturali, with the aortic ventricle laid open, exhibiting its interior. 83 An uncommonly fine example of the origin of the aorta : the valvulae semi- lunares, and interior of the aortic ventricle, with the valvulae bicuspides, are admirably seen, as well as the valvulae tricuspides, the interior of the pulmonic ventricle, the origin and course of the coronary arteries, and the interior of the cavic auricle. 84 A beautiful illustration of the heart, dissected to show its internal admi- rable structure, and among other interesting parts a filamentous valvula Eustachii. 85 The heart of a cyanops : the aorta arises from the septum cordis, in the upper part of which there is a large foramen; the pulmonary artery appears to be closed at its valves, but is pervious towards the lungs : the foramen ovale is likewise pervious, and the interior of both ventricles exposed. 86 A specimen of the pulmonic auricle, with a part of the aortic ventricle and valvulae bicuspides, (from the horse). 87 A dissection of the heart of a young subject, showing the valvula Eustachii, and a persistent foramen ovale, &c. 88 A splendid injection of the interior of the aortic ventricle, with the origin of the aorta, its valves and corpora sesamoidea, the valvulae bicuspides, chordae tendiniae, carneae columnae,the interior of the pulmonic ventricle, &c. 89 A specimen of the transverse arch of the aorta, having a considerable aneu- rism connected with its convex, and an aneurismal enlargement of its con- cave surface. The oesophagus is preserved, dried, and varnished : in a bottle.