FOURTH DAY’S SALE. THURSDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. £DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] Compartment U. coniinued. LOT 30 A very remarkable disease partially surrounding large blood vessels : ambi- guous. 31 An interesting specimen of scirrhous affection of the breast: extirpated by Wm. Lynn, Esq. 32 A singular scirrhous tumor extirpated, from the breast. 33 Ditto. {34 A specimen of dreadful carcinomatous ulceration of the female breast. 35 A scirrhous tumor, of the breast extirpated by Mr. Brookes. 36 Ditto : extirpated by — VVheateley, Esq. 37 Ditto : extirpated by the same gentleman. 38 An example of a scirrhous tumor of the breast; extirpated bv — White, Esq. 39 Ditto. 40 Several steatomatous tumors, having a peculiar appearance. C41 A specimen, exhibiting the dreadful ravages produced by carcinomatous ulce- i ration. ^42 A specimen of scirrhous affection of the breast. 43 A preparation of a dreadful case of cancer uteri, with the bladder attached. 44 Doubtful ? 45 A preparation exhibiting a case of cancerous affection of the uterus, to which the bladder is attached. 46 Ditto, being a very distinct specimen of cancer uteri, in which two-thirds of the organ from its orifice towards the fundus are destroyed by the depascent ulceration. In this preparation the ureters are seen very much enlarged, and injected, also one of the spermatic arteries j the ovaria, fimbriae, and Fallo- pian tubes are well displayed : the whole exhibiting a striking example of the ravages of this dreadful disease, a great portion of the bladder being also destroyed. Presented by — Uppom, Esq. 47 Another example of that dire disease cancer uteri, showing its extensive ra- vages into the rectum. N.B. In this preparation the bladder is not affected. 48 Ditto, in which the rectum is, like the preceding preparation, dreadfully ulce- rated, but not the bladder. 49 Another uncommonly fine specimen of cancer uteri. Comparative Monsters. LOT 50 A specimen of a double-bodied but monocephalous foetal puppy : stuffed, and in a bottle. 51 A tetrapedal chicken. 52 A bicipital kitten : in spirits. 53 Ditto. 54 An acephalous puppy. 55 A tetrapedal duckling. 56 A small, but most extraordinary species of acerebral monstrosity; a dried skeleton. 57 A monstrous chicken, with the egg from which it was about to be excluded. Pre- sented by P. Guichard, Esq. 58 A double-bodied chicken. 59 A chicken with two mouths and three eyes. Presented by Nathl. Pointer, Esq. 60 A double-bodied kitten, with a defective head.