ELEVENTH DAY’S SALE. 65 {I)uty to be paid by the Purchaser LOT The IcTst dorsal, and four lumbar vertebrae, with the last ribs, being the (Iiir- f teenth pair. LsO All the seven cervical vertebrae. r31 A fine specimen of anchylosis of the os innominatnm with the sacrum. I 32 The two last dorsal and three superior lumbar vertebrae. {I4 35 A specimen of anchylosis of the dorsal vertebrae with some of the ribs. 36 Interesting specimens of anchylosis of many of the dorsal and of the lumbar vertebrae. 37 A tray containing anchylosed, articulated, and individual vertebrae. 38 A most extraordinary instance of fractured and reunited tibia and fibula, with anchylosis of the three bones constituting the knee-joint>—Presented by-—Walmsley^ Esq. 39 Another uncommonly fine example of anchylosis of the knee-joint. The entire of the tibia and os femoris are preserved. Presented by Nathaniel Pointer, Esq. 40 Ditto; the halves only of the os femoris, tibia, and fibula. 41 Ditto of a younger subject, the patella wanting; remarkable on account of the elongation of the condyles of the os femoris. 42 An interesting specimen of anchylosis of the knee-joint, affording at the same time a beautiful example of necrosis of the os femoris, and disease of the whole of the tibia and fibula. I 43 A specimen of anchylosis of several lumbar and dorsal vertebra ; with one rib. ! 44 A diseased knee-joint. 45 An interesting example of anchylosis of the os brachii with the ulna. N.B. In this curious specimen the olecranon has been absorbed, in consequence of the loss of action of the triceps. 46 Ditto in this preparation the olecranon has been preserved entire. 47 Ditto ; the lower half of the os brachii. 48 Diseased ribs ; some fractured. 49 A diseased knee-joint, exhibiting a fine example of osseous efflorescence of the patella. 50 The sacrum anchylosed with the two last lumbar vertebrae, and otherwise dis- eased ; also the lower portion of a tibia: exhibiting an illustration of the osseous nodus syphiliticus, 51 A choice specimen of anchjdosed phalanges digitorum with the metacarpus, and that to the carpus ; with the lower extremities of the radius and ulna, also much diseased. 52 Ditto. 53 Ditto, less extensively affected. 54 A diseased knee-joint. 55 Ditto. 56 Ditto. 57 The foot and ankle-joint anchylosed, and otherwise in a morbid state. 58 A tray containing the lower part of the tibia anchylosed with the astragalus ; another portion of tibia also in a morbid state, and a diseased head of the os brachii. 59 A fine specimen of the morbus coxarius. 60 An adult cranium, to which the atlas is anchylosed. 61 A basis of ditto, having all the cervical vertebrae anchylosed. N.B. The foramen magnum occipitale is much diminished in this specimen, affording a contrast to the preceding lot, in which the foramen magnum is preserved entire. 62 A specimen of a case of fracture of three superior cervical vertebrae anchylosed together, and also with the os occipitale. In this very extraordinary pre- paration it seems as though there were two foramina magna occipitalia. K