FOURTH DAY^S SALE. 21 \I)uty to he paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT 35 A very large reniform steatomatous tumor; extirpated from a patient. 36 An unusual, indeed a perfectly anomalous disease of the uterus, having the semblance of a large congregation of hydatides. On the posterior surface of the organ there is a cyst that might contain a full-sized nutmeg. 37 An uncommon fine section of a breast, the tubuli galactophori of vrhich are injected with mercury. 38 An immense and very irregular tumor of a condylomatous nature, extirpated from the external organs of a female. 39 The termination of the rectum surrounded by a scirrhous tumor, with a multi- tude of carcinomatous excrescences contiguous to the anus. 40 A large tumor of an irregular and tuberculated appearance, or rather of an elephantine aspect: extirpated from the labium externum dextrum by Mr. Brookes. 41 Ditto. 42 A tumor, of a firm consistence. {43 Condylomata : extirpated by Mr, Brookes. 44 A large hydatid, from an ovarium. 45 A very fine specimen of the head of an acerebral foetus. 46 Ditto. 47 A natural skeleton of an entire acerebral foetus at about seven months of ges- tation. 48 A most extraordinary bodiless foetus, having only one inferior extremity issuing from the back of the thorax, with the placenta attached immediately beneath, 49 A singular and highly interesting specimen of foetal formation in the ovarium of an adult virgin, consisting of a large portion of a maxillary bone, con- taining many teeth of nearly their mature size, a globular steatomatous tumor (divided) about the size of a small orange, from which several locks of beautiful auburn hair are seen issuing. Further, several cysts are connected with the above, probably constituting an abortive placenta. Presented by Dr. Fergus McDonnel, physician to the forces. 50 The bust of a remarkable foetus, injected, having a very irregular and ano- malous tumor growing from its palate. 51 A fine hydrocephalic head of a young subject, the scalp of which is divided and dissected laterally, showing the extensive diastasis of the bones of the cranium and the extreme extension of their dura-materal connection : in spirits. 52 An acerebral foetus between the sixth and seventh month of gestation, injected and dissected, the glandulae suprarenales of which are scarcely obvious. 53 A most extraordinary double-bodied foetus, at about the period of seven months, having but one head: presented by Mons. Lassus. 54 A very fine specimen of a double foetus (bicipital) at about the seventh month, with labia leporina ; in many respects analogous to the Siamese youths, 55 A very remarkable foetus at about the period of six months, having one abor- tive arm not quite an inch in length issuing from the left shoulder. The thoracic viscera are exhibited in situ naturali, and the abdominal covered by the peritonaeum. 56 A unique foetal production, consisting of an individual at about the period of nine months, born without either head, arms, or thorax. The abdomen is exposed and dissected, demonstrating the continuation of the vena umbili- calis, and a paucity of intestines having neither liver, stomach, nor glandulae suprarenales, but the kidneys are very obvious and large. N. B. The mother was delivered by Dr. Boys, whose house pupil, Mr. Travis, presented this singular uterine phaenomenon to Mr. Brookes. 57 A monstrous foetus at about seven months, whose extremities are pinnated. 58 A very beautiful specimen of a foetus at the period of six months, born with a hare-lip, a tumor on the right foot, and defective toes. 59 A foetus at nine months of gestation, wdiose abdominal parietes are simply peritonseal, and having a transposition of both the thoracic and abdominal viscera. The heart, for instance, j)rojects into the right side of the thorax.