NINTH DAY’S SALE. THURSDAY^ at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] GALLERY. ; Compartment O. Absorbents, Sexual Organs, Pathology, &c. - LOT ^ 1 A preparation of the lacteals on the mesentery of a turtle, injected with mer- cury : in oil of turpentine. S Ditto of lymphatics on the surface of the lungs. 3 Ditto ditto on the liver. 4 Ditto, being an uncommonly fine specimen of the lymphatics of the kidney. 5 A very large lymphatic, with its gland injected with mercury. 6 Lacteals of the human intestine filled with mercury ; the arteries and veins are , minutely injected of different colours. j 7 Lymphatics on the heart, injected with mercury: dried and varnished, in a | bottle. 8 Lymphatics of the testis and spermatic chord, injected with mercury (a draw- . ing in a bottle). 9 A beautiful specimen of lymphatics, injected with mercury, on the surface of' the human liver. 10 Lacteals on the intestine of the turtle, filled with mercury. 11 Ditto on the mesentery. -j 12 Lymphatics on the surface of the liver. 13 Ditto on the stomach of the turtle, filled with mercury, and immersed in oil of turpentine, occupying a very large oval bottle. i Sexual Organs. , 14 The penis of a very large tortoise, injected, displaying a singular appear- - ance. 15 A case of phlegmone testis (hernia humoralis) : in spirits. 16 An inimitable preparation of the testis, in which the vas deferens, epididymis, vasa efferentia, rete testis, and tubuli seminiferi are injected with mercury. Presented by Sir Astley Cooper, Bart. ' 17 A portion of the penis, having the corpus spongiosum urethras injected with i red wax, and the corpora cavernosa inflated and dried ; a longitudinal sec- tion subsequently made of the outer surface of one of the last-named bodies ! shows the pecten, through the spaces of which the deep-seated arteries ^ of the organ anastomose. , 18 A large section of hepatized lungs : in spirits. 19 Ditto, small but elegant. 20 A beautiful specimen of a minutely injected spleen in a full-grown foetus. 21 A portion of diseased liver in which two abscesses were formed. 22 A kidney m spirits, showing the tubuli uriniferi. 23 A very remarkable larynx taken from a young woman, a patient in the Mid- dlesex Hospital; an unhappy creature who attempted to commit suicide ; by cutting her throat. The instrument passed half through the thyroid cartilage, and produced considerable haemorrbage, which being subsequently staunched she remained for several days recovering, when a coagulum, ad- hering to the posterior part of the wound, becoming detached in an effort of coughing, occasioned suffocation.