THIRTEENTH DAY’S SALE. WEDNESDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] SALOON. Compartment E. ^reparations of the blood-vessels ; of the viscera ; of uteri and their appendages; of vesicae urinariae, prostate glands, vesiculas seminales; heads, trunks, extremities, &c. E.OT 1 An uncommonly fine preparation of ascites saccatus stuffed and dried, apper- taining to which there is the uterus and its appendages, with a view of the os uteri, bladder and rectum. There are some lesser cysts connected with this specimen. 2 A very extraordinary specimen of adipocire of the inferior and exterior part of the thigh. Presented by Dr. Kidd. 3 Ditto, with the lower half of the os femoris. 4< Ditto, a part of the musculus gluteus maximus. Presented by Dr. Hooper. 5 A small specimen of adipocire. 6 Ditto. 7 A very fine arterial preparation of a superior extremity, and part of the tho- rax with the subclavian artery; all the branches of t’ne axillary, and most of the nerves are preserved. S The parietes of all the anterior part of the thorax and abdomen, showing the course, distribution, and inosculations of the internal mammary brandies of the subclavian arteries and the internal epigastric branches of the external iliac arteries, their anastomoses with each other, the intercostales, &c.—The veins are likewise preserved in this specimen. 9 A beautiful preparation of the superior quarter of a young subject; the aorta and all the arteries arising from the arch and its thoracic portion are well injected; the left vertebral almost rivals the common carotid in magnitude, and ascends to the fifth vertebra colli before it enters its foramen cervicale. The tongue, larynx, and trachea, pharynx and ccsophagus, are preserved. 10 A choice preparation of a vascular subject about one year old, very well in- jected and dissected. 11 The entire superior quarter of an adult subject, with the heart in situ natu- rali, well injected; larynx, trachea, pharynx, and oesophagus ; the con- tents of the posterior mediastinum, all the arteries of the bisected head and neck, as well as those of the extremity, which are injected and dis- sected. The muscles and nerves are likewise preserved. N.B. There are four large arteries appertaining to the fore-arm ; the ramus medianus arterise interossese communis being of considerable size, and, after passing under the ligamentum carpi annulare anticum, inosculates largely with the ramifications of the cubital artery, forming a splendid arcus superficialis manus. The fascia palmaris is preserved. 12 A fine preparation of the thorax, the vital viscera, diaphragm and liver, with their vessels ; injected. 13 A useful preparation of a bisected thorax, and superior extremity, the arteries of which are injected and dissected. The muscles and nerves are likewise preserved, 14' The uterus, vagina, ligamentum latum, and tlic cyst of a hydrops ovarii;