113 TWENTY-SECOND DAY’S SALE. \_Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT a hog, consisting of triple phosphates. Presented by — Thompson, Esq. Surgeon R. N. 10 A splendid preparation of an injected human heart; all the vessels are pre- served of extreme length, with the receptaculum chyli, and the whole of the ductus thoracicus, including its termination ; also that of the lym- phatics, on the right side of the head and neck, thorax, and arm, which 'were injected with mercury, but are now scarcely visible: on a stand, covered by a glass shade. . 11 Ditto, still more splendid, with the pulmonary vessels; on a mahogany stand, and covered by a glass shade. 12 Ditto. 13 A most splendid corroded preparation of the heart and lungs of a young subject, in which the trachea, the ramifications of the bronchi and coronary arteries are beautifully seen, 14 A most extraordinary, perhaps unique, case of transposition of the adult human heart into the right side of the thorax, produced by an enormous vomica, occupying the whole of the left lung: from a subject about twenty-three years of age, a patient of Drs. Hooper and Ager. The body was opened by Mr. Brookes, who found upwards of two gallons of pus in the abscess, the cyst of which adhered very extensively to the ribs. The patient dated the origin of this tremendous disease from the period of only three weeks previous to his dissolution, which account was corroborated by his mother. 15 'A preparation, consisting of incarceration of the inferior portion of the in- testinum ileum; produced in consequence of a volvulus (twisting) of a very long diverticulum ilei, wdiich becoming inflamed from the morbid change, adhered to the caecum, leaving a space through v/hich several con- volutions of the ileum had passed, and thus became strangulated from the distention occasioned by accumulated flatus and liquid fleces: on a ma- hogany stand, and under a glass shade. 16 An uncommonly fine preparation of a corroded liver, in which four of its systems of vessels are beautifully preserved: viz. the vena porta hepatica, the vense cavse hepatic£s terminating in the vena cava abdominalis. The arteria hepatica, and pori biliarii forming the ductus hepaticus: on a mahogany stand, and under a glass shade. 17 A splendid specimen of a corroded placenta: on a mahogany stand, and under a glass shade. 18 A corroded preparation of a kidney : on a mahogany stand, and under a glass shade. 19 Ditto: ditto. 20 Ditto, having double sets of vessels, pelves, and ureters: under a glass shade. 21 A corroded spleen : under a glass shade. 22 The liver of a sheep, and biliary system, corroded : under a glass shade. 23 The ramifications of the pulmonary artery and bronchi, also from a sheep : under a glass shade. 24 A most superbly injected and accurately dissected arterial hand: under a glass shade. 25 Ditto, foot: in a bottle. 26 Beautiful specimens of minutely injected intestinum jejunum, laid open for the purpose of showing valvulae conniventes, under a glass shade. 27 An excellent preparation of the lower jaw, tongue, fauces, pharynx, larynx, and the three pair of salivary glands, which, witl: their ducts, are injected with mercury : under a glass shade. 28 The bones of an extra-uterine foetus, extracted per anum a long period after the full period of gestation. Presented by Sir A. Carlisle. 29 A glass case, containing sections of a number of the bones of the human subject, beautifully exhibiting cancelli and diploe. Q