FIFTH DAY’S SALE. 2 9 3 A considerable scirrhous tumor dissected from the breast. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser,~\ LOT cumstance took place in the practice of Dr. Clough, and during a consul- tation with Mr. Royston. A cast of the body of the individual, showing the fcetus amidst the abdominal viscera, was made under the inspection of Mr. Brookes, and was contained in the Model-room. 43 An enormous and most extraordinary case of hydrops ovarii. Presented by James Brookes, Esq. 44 A dreadful case of complete inversion of the uterus immediately post partum, produced by the forcible extraction of the placenta, and occasioning im- mediate death by hfemorrhage. The organ itself and contiguous parts are all well injected. N.B. A very fine cast of the trunk of this subject was contained in the Model-room. 45 An immense morbid uterus to which several large tumors are attached. 46 An uncommonly fine preparation of the gravid uterus at the full period of gestation, opened on one side to show the fcetus and its membranes, and on the other the situation and attachment of the placenta. All the vessels of this fine preparation are filled with appropriately coloured injections. 47 A case of large hydrops ovarii, dried, varnished, and contained in a bottle. 48 An extra-uterine fcetus, consisting of little more than its bones, which were found in a cyst in the lower part of the abdomen, connected with one of the ovaria. The lady was attended by Dr. Sims at the period of partu- rition, but the uterine efforts proving abortive, her pregnancy was con- tinued for two years afterwards, when she died. The body being inspected by Mr. Wheateley, the fcetus was found as already described, and was pre- sented by that gentleman to Mr. Brookes. 49 A case of inversio uteri, which occurred at the first accouchement of a young married lady, from the intemperance of an accoucheuse, by which a fatal hasmorrhage was produced. Compartment CE. Anatomy and Pathology. 1 A beautiful and minutely injected preparation of the tongue, showing the papillcE maxima?, fungiformes, and villosa?, with the velum pendulum pa- lati, pharynx, and part of the oesophagus; the larynx with the ventriculi laryngis, part of the trachea and chordae vocales; the three sets of sali- vary organs, viz. parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual glands, with the lower jaw and its interarticular cartilages, are all preserved. 2 A dreadful case of laceration of the lower part of the arm ; fracture of the inferior portion of the fore-arm ; the skin, subjacent muscles, other or- gans, and the hand are very much torn, clearly exhibiting a case requir- ing immediate amputation. 3 The ganglion cervicale superius, medium, and inferius. 4 An uncommonly fine case of anthrax situated between the shoulders ; ob- tained through the kindness of — Millington, Esq. Foley Place. 6 The hand of a lady who was an inhabitant of Valenciennes when that city was besieged by the British forces under the command of H. R. H. the Duke of York; the carpus is in a carious state, in consequence of its having been struck by a fragment of an exploded bomb, and after eleven years of suffering and temporizing she very reluctantly submitted to an unavoidable amputation. 6 An adult foot dissected for the ligaments, 7 An adultJoot, from a Lascar: the leg had been amputated for caries of the metatarsal bones and phalanges digitorum ! Quere, Why not the diseased portion of the foot only between the os calcis and cnboides, (he astragalus and naviculare ? 8 An example of a large encysted tumor dissected from the back,