98 EIGHTEENTH DAY’S SALE. [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser^ Compartment M. LOT 1 A Youcatou (Setophaga psalura). 2 A Cayenne Coua (Coua Cayenna). 3 A specimen of funnel-shaped Sponge (Spongia infundibuliformis). 4 A Yellow-bellied Trogon (Trogon lurucui). 5 A Green Aracari (Pteroglossus viridis). 6 A Walking Ani (Crotophaga ambulatoria). 7 The large naked-legged auriculated Owl (Gymnopus Leschenaulti). 8 Wandering Albatross (Diomedea exulans) : a skin in a large bottle. 9 A Martin (Mustela Foina): a fine subject well preserved in a large bottle. 10 A Crested Hoazin (Opisthocamus adesmodactylus). A beautiful specimen of this rare bird, in a glass bottle. 11 The Australian Channelled-bill (Scythrops psittaceus). An uncommonly fine specimen. SURBASE OF THE GALLERY. Reptiles, Amphibia, Fishes, parts of Fishes, Mollusca, twelve glass cases of beautiful exotic Insects, many rare and some Nonde- scripts, &c. &c. LOT 1 The saw of a Sawfish (Pristis Antiquorum). • 2 Ditto, much larger. 3 A specimen of that scarce fish, the Gastro branchus caecus. 4 A preparation bottle. 5 A very fine stuffed Bonito (Thynnus sarda). {6 A trachea and larynges of the wood Caperkally (Urogallus capricalca), male : presented by — Yarrell, Esq. 7 A young Sturgeon (Strurio Accipenser). {8 A large Asterias. 9 The dried head and jaws of a Shark (Squalus —). {10 The dried head and jaws of the Wolf-fish (Anarrhicus Lupus). 11 A specimen of an Ostracion (Ostracion concatenatus). 12 The skeleton head of a Coryphena (Coryphena Hippuris). 13 A large Asterias. 14 A specimen of a large Lizard, stuffed. Ditto of a Cayman (Alligator Sclerops). 16 A preparation bottle. 17 A specimen of an Iguana. 18 Ditto, much larger. f 19 The dried foot and toes of an Emu (Dromiceius major). 1 20 Ditto of an African Ostrich (Struthio Camelus). < 21 Ditto of the Cassowary (Cassuarius galeatus). I 22 Ditto of a Crane (Grus communis). L23 Ditto of the Condor (Sarcorhamphus Condor). 24 A very large and fine dried head of a Coryphena (Coryphena hippuris). 25 A King Crab. 26 Ditto, much larger. 27 A scarce Crab, dried. 28 A particularly fine specimen of the Sawfish (Pristis cirratus). From the Southern Pacific ocean. 29 Ditto of a Trumpet-fish (Fistularia tabacaria), very large and perfect. 30 The thorny Diodon (Diodon spinosus). 31 Ditto, a different species. 32 A skin of the long-nosed Ostraciorr (Ostracion nasutus). Pr sented by Mrs. Sargeant.