60 TENTH DAY’S SALE. ^ LOT 58 59 \J)uiy to he imid by the PtD'chaaer.^ calvaria is removed, affording a view of the interior of the cranium, and the different processes of the dura mater. Is a vascular preparation of the head and neck, rich in the display of its ar- teries, and highly interesting in its veins. This choice specimen is the in- dividual from which the popular print has been taken, exhibited in the Anatomical Libraries, and Printsellers’ windows everywhere. Dissected and presented by Dr. Hooper. A fine venous head. In consequence of a portion of the calvaria being re- moved from each side, a display is presented of the veins of the dura and pia mater, of the falces and tentorium, with the venous terminations in the different sinuses. The ophthalmic veins are obvious, and many of the arteries are injected. 60 A preparation of the face and part of the head, showing the dura mater properly distended, the sinus longitudinale superior, its termination, with the course and exit of the lateral sinuses. 61 A basis of the cranium with a part of the neck; a portion of the tentorium is retained, for the purpose of showing the progress and exit of the lateral sinuses. 62 A preparation of the scalp. 63 An arterial head, exhibiting a view of the three meatus nasi: the Schnei- derian membrane is well injected, covering the ossa turbinata; a piece of wire is passed through the canalis nasalis into the meatus inferior, and a piece of tape into the tuba Eustachiana. The external part of the cranium is well injected, as is also the dura mater. 64< Ditto: the process of the lower jaw has been removed, showing the ramifi- cations of the internal maxillary artery. The pia mater is preserved in this preparation. 65 Ditto. In this specimen the coronoid process only is sawn off. 66 The head of a young subj ect, having all the muscles of the face and maxiiisB dried and preserved in situ naturali; there is also a view of the falces and tentorium. 67 A bisected arterial head. 68 Ditto : the arteries of the dura mater are finely injected, and an excellent view' presented of the fauces and pharynx. 69 Ditto, and of the septum nasi, the falces and part of the tentorium, the fauces, the Eustachian tube, and pharynx. The entrance of one vertebral artery terminating in the basilary, its ramifications, and those of the cerebral arte- ry are displayed. 70 Ditto, having the veins also injected. In this preparation the ophthalmic artery and vein are both displayed. The parotid gland andStenonian duct are preserved. There is an excellent view of the ossa turbinata and meatus nasi. The entrance of the canalis nasalis, through which a piece of wire has been passed, is demonstrable. The fauces, Eustachian tube, pha- rynx and larynx are also exhibited, likewise the termination of the ver- tebral in the basilary artery. The processes of the dura mater are pre- served, and the torcular Herophili and venous sinuses are injected yellow, in this bisected head. 71 Ditto: the arteries of the septum nasi are large and well injected, and the process of the lower jaw removed, showing the ramification of the maxillary artery. The vertebral artery is well displayed. 72 A blood-vessel cranium: the processes of the low'erjaw are removed on both sides, by which means there is a fine exhibition of the internal maxillary arteries. The canalis mentalis being laid open on the right side affords a view of the course of the inferior maxillary artery within it. The tongue, velum pendulum palati, uvula, fauces, pharynx, and epiglottis, the falces and tentorium, are all retained in situ naturali.