90 SIXTEENTHTTOY’S SALE. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser^ LOT 107 The sabot of a Hippopotamus. C108 Ditto, constituting four fine specimens. < 109 The sabot of a Rhinoceros. Luo Ditto, 111 The phalanges of the three toes of one foot of ditto. 112 The cannon bone of a Stag. 113 The lower jaws of a Gnu (Catablepas operculatus). 114 A box, containing various bones of a young Elephant (Elephas Asiaticus). SIXTEENTH DAY’S SALE. MONDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] Zoology, Comparative Anatomy, &c., chiefly stuffed Birds in Glass Cases. LOT 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 A glass case, containing a very fine specimen of a stuffed Torpedo (Torpedo macroura). A fine Mocking-bird (Orpheus polyglottis). Presented by Mr. Castang. A beautiful specimen of a Marikina (Midas rosalia. Singe, Lion) : stuffed, in a glass case. A glass case, containing sections of the egg of the Ostrich and other birds. A fine specimen of a male Ruff (Machetes carunculatus). Ditto of the Cracticus Cuvieri. A splendid specimen of the Harfang (Snowy Owl, Noctua nyctea). A fine example of that very rare inhabitant of Australia, theWattle-bird (Caleas cinerea). A handsome stuffed Marcassin (a young wild Boar, Sus Aper). An Egyptian mummy, contained in a glass case, surrounded by fasciae j also) the two inferior extremities of another, as purchased at Mr. Bullock’s sale. An excellently stuffed crested Mophnus (Mophnus ornatus). A stuffed specimen of a rare European bird, the Great Auk (Alka impennis). A choice specimen of that extremely scarce bird, the Cariama (Microdactylus cristatus), in a handsome glass case. 14 A beautiful toothed Gilthead (Sparus Raii). 1.5 A most elegant Horned Pheasant (Diceratornis Satyrus), contained in a ma- hogany veneered case, glassed all around. 16 A male Savacou (Cancroma cochlearia) : this charming specimen is fur nished with a very extensive crest, and admirably stuft’ed. ! 17 A Frigate-bird (Tachypetes Aquila) ; these singular birds are remarkable for ( having an acuminated bill, in which respect they approach the albatros j gular pouch, very long wings, a forked tail, and feet so diminutive as to be little fitted, apparently, for either terrestrial or natatorial purposes j—are frequently seen more than 1000 miles from land. A specimen of an Australian Dove (Columbamonolopha), brought from beyond the Blue Mountains, and presented by Evan Evans, Esq. surgeon, R. N.^ A fine crested and red-cheeked but short-tailed large black psittacoid bird (Microglossum pyrrhogene). The blackMaccao ; stuffed: extremely scarce. 20 A specimen of an European Stilt (Himantopus melanopterus), a rare British bird, commonly called the Long-legged Plover. 21 The Southern Insect Harrier (Entomophila australis). Presented by Paul Brookes, Esq. 18 19