26 FIFTH DAY’S SALE. [Duty to be jpaid by the Purchaser.1 Compartment X. Y. Z. LOT 1 An eye, with the membrana nictitans (a sheep). 2 A very fine specimen of extreme luxuriant growth of the nails of the foot of the human subject. 3 The bones of a foetal lamb contained in the ovarium. 4 A very fine specimen of scrofulous tumors of the ligamentum latum, with one Fallopian tube, fimbria, ovarium, and ligamentum rotundum ovarii. 5 A preparation of a young foetus (extra uterine) contained within the Fallo- pian tube (from a sheep). 6 An interesting example of uterus ten days or a fortnight post partum : from a patient who died of haemorrhage in consequence of the retention of a consi- derable portion of the placenta, which still remains adherent to the left side of the organ, the parietes at that part are much thickened. In this re- markable case the uterus appears to be contracted somewhat above its cer- vix, by which occurrence probably the practitioner was induced into error, and thus inadvertently caused the fatal catastrophe. The ovaria. Fallopian tubes, and fimbriae, are also well seen in this preparation. Presented by Thomas Wheateley, Esq. 7 A fine illustration of cancer uteri affecting the orifice and cervix of the organ, which are in an extensive fungous state. From a patient under the care of Dr. Kennedy, and presented by his son Captain Kennedy. 8 A specimen of morbid uterus, laid open posteriorly for the purpose of showing a small polypus in its interior towards the cervix j black bristles are intro- duced into the Fallopian tubes j a lateral section has been made in the blad- der, showing the termination of one ureter and the commencement of the urethra : there is a small scrofulous tumor attached to the anterior part of the fundus uteri, and other obscure traces of disease. 9 A beautiful preparation of a uterus from the adult, the interior of which is ex- posed posteriorly, showing an incipient polypus just above its cervix: the various internal appendages to the organ are well seen : both ovaria are divided, in one of which a tolerably large corpus luteum may be observed 3 there is also a view of the inner surface of a contracted bladder, with the ter- minations of the ureters and beginning of the urethra. N.B. This and the preceding preparation afford excellent illustrations of cases of polypus uteri admitting the application of ligature. 10 A fine instance of decidua uteri covering the whole of the interior of the organ, at about the third month of pregnancy. The ovaria. Fallopian tubes, «&c. are all connected to the preparation. Presented by Thos. Wheateley, Esq. 11 An extremely rare specimen of a double human uterus and vagina, with the ovaria, Fallopian tubes, and fimbriae, the nymphse, &c. Purchased at’the sale of the late Thomas Young, Esq. 12 A virgin uterus and appendages, from a subject about eighteen years of age (she committed suicide by submersion). The Fallopian tubes, fimbriae and ovaria are all well seen, with an obscure appearance of a corpus luteum on the surface of one of the latter organs: there is also an interesting view of the openings of the Fallopian tubes into the uterus with its penniform rugae, as well as the relative situation of the os uteri in the upper part of the va- gina : the rectum is retained, and the whole minutely injected. Presented by — Gilder, Esq. 13 A very fine example of the adult uterus with its appendages : bristles are intro- duced into the Fallopian tubes at their fimbriated extremities 3 a portion of the bladder remains, affording a view of the urethra. 14 An excellent preparation of morbid uterus and its appendages, affected wkh scrofulous inflammation: the interior of the organ, however, appears to be suffused with decidua: there is likewise an interesting view of the os uteri projecting into the upper part of the vagina.