SEVENTH DAY’S SALE. F 9. TUESDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] Compartment E. TJ. Consisting chiefly of Stomachs human and comparative, sane and morbid; with many cases of Hernia, some particularly interesting. LOT 1 A foetal stomach minutely injected: dried, and immersed in oil of turpentine. 2 Ditto at an earlier period. 3 The stomach of a parrot, in ;spirits.^ 4 The cuticular lining of ditto. 5 A portion of the stomach of a ruminant animal (reticulum). 6 A portion of an ulcerated stomach. Presented by Dr. Yates (Brighton). 7 The stomach of a foetus, minutely injected, and inverted to show villi and rugae. 8 A portion of intestine, showing ulceration of the glandulae aggregatae. 9 A scirrhous pylorus. 10 The stomach of a foetus, minutely injected, and inverted, exhibiting villi and rugae. 11 A portion of oesophagus from an ox, exemplifying the villous processes. 12 A beautiful preparation of the stomach of a foetus at the period of eight months, minutely injected and inverted, showing the villi. 13 The stomach of a bird (doubtful?). 14 The digested stomach of a rabbit. The individual case recorded by Dr. Adams in his erudite work on morbid poisons, wherein a history is detailed of three animals (a dog and two rabbits) being destroyed suddenly by three individuals, viz. the dog by the discharge of an immense electric battery, transmitted through his system in consequence of the attachment of one wire to the suborbital twig of the superior maxillary branch of the nervus trigeminus, the other to the ischiatic nerve on the opposite side, administered by Mr. Cuthbertson. One of the rabbits was killed by the introduction of a myrtle-bladed scalpel between the atlas and os occipitale b}' Mr. Brookes: and the subject to which this stomach belonged was killed by a poulterer in the ordinary mode. The stomachs of the first two ani- - ” mals were not at all affected. 15 A most splendid preparation of the stomach of a young subject, minutely in- jected, inverted, and filled with spirits, showing both the cardia and py- lorus, as well as the villi. 16 The stomach of a godwit [Feedoa melanura). 17 An interesting specimen of the pylorus and a part of the stomach. 18 A beautiful example of finely injected stomach from an infant, inverted for the purpose of showing both villi and rugae. 19 A fine specimen of perforation of the stomach by ulceration. 20 A most interesting preparation, exhibiting digestion of the cardiac portion of the stomach of a young subject by the action of the succus gastricus. Pre- sented by — North, Esq. 21 A very fine case of fistula in ano, accompanied by haemorrhoidal tumors. 22 A very extraordinary case of sudden formation of femoral hernia in conse- quence of the patient merely running from the middle of the road to the foot-path, to avoid being run over by a stage furiously driven. From the smallness of the hernia (epiplocele), the case was misunderstood, and in consequence the patient lost his life from the disease being treated for en- teritis. 23 An interesting case of umbilical hernia (enterocclc) in a young subject.