20 FOURTH DAY’S SALE. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.] LOT ✓ 12 A minute tumor,—doubtful. J 13 A fine view of the body of a hen, exhibiting a beautiful series of all the ova, the oviductus, calices, and one egg, the external involucrum of which being still in a membranous state, occupying the vagina. 14 Ditto, showing several calices expanded, as well as the fimbria and termination of the oviductus in the vagina, which contains an egg covered by its calca- reous shell 5 also exhibiting the cloaca expanded. pl5 The body of the celebrated parrot universally known, formerly the property of j the late Colonel O’Kelly, of which the oviductus contains a defective egg : ^ —presented by Dr. Kennedy. I 16 Two beautiful ova from the snake, contained in the oviductus, with an interest- ing view of a multitude of cryptse as yet unoccupied, r 17 Five comparative foetuses, contained within their involucra, probably from the cat. 18 The ova of a large marine turtle, minutely injected and contained within the C oviductus. rl9 A double egg, similar in appearance to a double-headed shot. J 20 Diminutive twin eggs, one deformed. |_21 The egg of a large marine turtle. r22 An egg the interior of which presents a remarkable phaenomenon, viz. it contains J another of diminutive size within its shell. )_23 The egg of a large tortoise. 24 A beautiful and minutely injected specimen of the secundines of an animal. ( 25 Two eggs of a large tortoise. J 26 A fine specimen of a minutely injected membrane appertaining to the uterine ^ system. p27 The uterus of a rabbit laid open, exhibiting a multitude of carunculse in its j interior, and in one of its Fallopian tubes a large hydatid cyst is formed J with the animal to which it appertains. N.B. The bladder is preserved in ] situ naturali, showing its strong muscular fibres. j 28 A section of the membranous uterus of an animal, showing a high degree of inflammation : probably from the sow. 29 A membrane very much inflamed and covered with coagulating lymph: pro- bably a case of epiploitis. 30 A most extraordinary case of polypus nasalis of a fibrous structure, of the mag- nitude and somewhat of the form of a large Windsor pear: extracted from a patient at the naval hospital. Deal, by Copeland Hutchinson, Esq,, by whom the tumor was presented to Mr. Brookes. 31 A very beautiful specimen of omentum highly inflamed, the arteries and veins of which are minutely injected : dried on blue paper and immersed in oil of turpentine. 32 An adult uterus, in the interior of which the penniform rugse are very distinctly seen j posteriorly, its cavity is much contracted j a portion of the vagina re- mains, showing its lateral rugas : the Fallopian tubes and fimbriee are beau- tifully displayed; bristles are introduced into the former; both the ovaria are also extremely distinct, having a very obvious corpus luteum on the surface of one of those organs. 33 A case of a morbid uterus affected in its interior and on its posterior surface, as well as both ovaria, with scrofula. 34 A beautifully injected preparation of the uterus of a subject somewhat ad- vanced in years, laid open posteriorly, showing the Fallopian tubes, into which black bristles are introduced. The fimbriee are extremely well seen ; the ovaria are also very obvious, having a crenated aspect: the vagina offers an interesting appearance of its numerous lateral rugae, by means of which this canal admits of occasional elongation. Anteriorly the ligamenta rotunda may be noticed as well as the bladder, of which a section has been made, showing the ureters having red bougies passed through them, and projecting into that organs the commencement of the urethra is likewise very distinct.