102 NINETEENTH DAY’S SALE [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser^ LOT. 56 A beautiful example of the Eunice giganteua. A Mollusca. 57 A young Angel-fish (Squatina spinosa). 58 A Python Apollinis. Snake. Skin in spirits, 59 A Coluber constrictor. 60 A Coluber viridissimus. 61 A Coluber Constrictor. Compartment IE. Subjects of Natural History, continued. 1 A magnificent specimen of a Syren lacertina: inspirits. 2 A fine example of a young Gavial, (Leptorynchus biscutatus). Presented by — Morgan, Esq.: in spirits. 3 A large Lamprey (Petrorayzon marinus) : in spirits. 4 The Greater Weaver; Trachinus lineatus: a stuffed specimen of this fish. 5 A very rare species of Cayman (Alligator hymenopleurus, Brookes ;—Alligator superciliosus, Cwwm. N.B. The whole side of the animal, from the articu- lation of the lower jaw to that of the thigh, is devoid of scuti for the space of one inch in the specimen, which is not over-stuffed ; presumed to be for the purpose of enabling this voracious Emydo-saurian reptile to ac- commodate itself to the quantity of food he may have the means or incli- nation to devour. 6 The variegated Wrasse (male) (Labrus variegatus). 7 Ditto, the female. This fine pair of fishes are preserved in spirits. 8 The Roman Gymnothorax (Gymnothorax Helena): an anguiliform fish, 9 The skin of a very large Coluber : in spirits. r 10 A transverse section of a human penis: dried and immersed in oil of turpentine ^11 Many specimens of larvae of Frogs. Tadpoles. 1.12 An individual ditto, having almost perfected its metamorphosis. rl3 A beautiful example of the moniliform ova of a Toad. 14 Small larvae of ditto, branchiated. ^ 15 A perfect animal. ^16 Very minute larvae of ditto. y 17 Ova. C 18 A small bipedal ditto. ri9 Ova of the Frog at their incipient change. J 20 Ditto, become minute branchiated larvae. 1.21 Many just commencing their metamorphosis from ova. S22 A small tetrapedal larva. 23 A small branchiated larvae of the Frog. N.B. The preceding very interest- ing specimens of batrachan amphibia were presented by Dr. Hooper. 24 A specimen of a very large Spider, f 25 A fine example of the Cimex Braziliensis. 26 Ova of a Sepia. [_27 A large bipedal larva of a Frog. r28 Ditto, tetrapedal. J 29 A Platydactylus ocellatus. Lizard. LSO Taeniae. ^31 A Scarus ferruginous; in spirits. Fish. J 32 A fish: in spirits. j 33 A very large Hydatid (Cysticercus): from a galactophorus reservoir in the L teat of a cow. 34 A Solen siliqua. Razor-shell. 35 A Stromateus fiatola. Fish. .36 Vomer Brownii; the filamentous dorsal and ventral fins are particularly beautiful. 37 The immense larva of a 38 Zeus aner. Fish.