45 EIGHTH DAY’S SALE. [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser LOT 90 An interesting preparation of the aorta at its commencement, the valvulas semilunares, and the coronary arteries ; the last are much ossified. The pulmonary artery is preserved. 91 A beautiful specimen of aneurism of the sinus aortas, laid open, and exhibiting a large circular aperture leading into the aneurismal cyst. The pulmonary artery and ligaraentum arteriosum are preserved. 92 A singular instance of aneurismal enlargement of the aortic ventricle at its apex. N.B. The entire heart is preserved, with its vessels. 93 An illustration of carditis, in which the whole of the pericardium is adherent to the heart. Presented by Dr. Nesbit. 94 An adult heart preserved in spirits, with a portion of its pericardium, showing the ligamentum arteriosum. 95 A choice specimen of aneurism of the sinus aortse, which had burst into one of the bronchi, and destroyed the patient by suffocation. N.B. This preparation affords an illustration of the thoracic duct and its termina- tion, the internal jugulars, venae subclaviae, vena azygos, and cava thoracica. 96 An instance of aneurismal enlargement of the sinus aortae, with a dissection of the muscular fibres of the ventricles and their interior, the course of the coronary arteries, the origin of the aorta, and the pulmonary artery. Part of the pericardium is preserved. 97 98 A singularly fine and large preparation of aneurism of the aorta thora- cica, a considerable aperture may be perceived in the artery; and a second aneurism of the aorta abdominalis; this opening is also very conspicuous. The whole of the aorta and its chief vessels, the vena cava thoracica and the principal veins that terminate in it, the lungs, the pulmo- nary artery, its large branches, and those of the pulmonary veins, the nervi vagi, and ductus thoracicus with its termination, are also preserved. 99 A specimen of a most formidable aneurism of the aorta thoracica, which by its pressure had produced caries of five ribs, forming subsequently an enormous tumor on the left side and back; the receptaculum chyli and ductus thoracicus with its termination are likewise preserved, together with a portion of the left subclavian vein (dried and varnished, under a glass shade). The crayon drawing N® in the Picture-room is a faithful por- trait of the patient shortly before death. 100 Another very extensive case of aneurism of the aorta thoracica, which had burst into the lungs, occasioning death by suffocation. The large vessels appertaining to the heart, one lung, several vertebra, and the contents of the posterior mediastinum, are preserved. 101 A singular case of aneurism of the popliteal artery; the tumor, replete with fibrine, is of very considerable magnitude; the artery, almost ob- literated, with its corresponding vein, are dissected, and seen anterior to the disease. This case is recorded by Mr. Pott, who amputated the limb, and is said to be the failure of one of Mr. John Hunter’s operations. 102 A most interesting case of aneurism of the termination of the aorta thora- cica, with several vertebrae the bodies of which are become carious; the large aperture in the aorta is to be perceived distinctly, the trachea, bronchi, and oesophagus are preserved. 103 The last, though not least, remarkable case of an aneurism of the sinus aortas, that by its augmentation and pressure had occasioned absorption of the sternum, through which it passed, forming a large pulsating tumor on the chest; this ultimately bursting, death ensued.