THIRTEENTH DAY’S'SALE: 76 LOT {Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] Jk from an animal. The spermatic and other arteries are extremely tortuous, and well injected with mercury. v 1 j A specimen of a bisected neck and thorax, with half of the superior extre- mity, the arteries of which are injected and dissected. 16 An interesting arterial preparation of a bisected thorax, and superior ex- C tremity, beautifully injected and dissected. .! 1 7 Ditto. 18 The uterus, ovaria, vagina, bladder, and intestinum rectum of a mare, well ■ distended, and their vessels injected. * 19 A handsome arterial preparation of the superior extremity of a young subject, g A fine injected trunk of a subject about seven years of age, with the heart = in situ naturali, liver, and vena porta abdominalis, most beautifully displayed, t including the other blood-vessels both arterial and venous, larynx, trachea, pharynx, oesophagus, &c. J 2i A part of the thorax, with the aoita, the branches arising from its transverse arch, and intercostales. ^32 The whole of the chylopoetic viscera, including the oesophagus and stomach : also the bladder well distended with cotton. The trachea and bronchi are likewise preserved, and the vessels injected. a 23 The caecum of a dog, distended, dried, and varnished. i 24 The superior extremity of a young subject, injected, dissected, dried, and var- | nished. 25 The trunk of a subject about five years of age, having the thoracic viscera, porta abdominalis, vena cava, and all the arteries and veins, injected ; like- ’ wise the arteries and veins of the neck, the organ of voice and trachea, pharynx, cesophagus and diaphragm, all preserved in situ naturali. 26 The spine of a young subject, to which is attached the heart, lungs, and kid- nies, having the two vascular systems injected of different colours: the tongue, os hyoides, larynx, trachea, thyroid gland, pharynx, and oesopha- gus, are preserved. 27 A most interesting vascular preparation of the trunk of a young subject, hav- ing also the cavic and pulmonic auricles preserved : the pulmonary vessels are injected and traced into the substance of the lungs ; to give a clear view of which several ribs of the upper part of the thorax on each side are removed. The diaphragm is preserved in situ naturali. m 28 A portion of the spine with the kidnies, the .vessels of which are injected, likewise the ureters and pelves, the aorta and arteriae spermaticae. 29 Part of the thorax, to which the heart and lungs are attached and injected, ' with all their vessels : from a fox (Canis Vulpes). ' 30 A stomach injected, stuffed, dried and varnished : from an otter (Lutra flu- viatilis.) 31 A preparation of the uterus with its appendages, from an individual who' had been a mother ; affording an excellent view of the os uteri from the i vagina, the bladder distended, the urethra, hypogastric arteries and their ramifications. 32 The inferior part of tlie spine, with the sacrum, one kidney, the aorta, vena cava, spermatic and other vessels, injected. 33 The thorax, with its contained viscera and vessels, injected and dried. ' 34 The stomach of a cat, distended, dried and varnished. / 35 The inferior part of a trunk, pelvis, and extremities of a young subject; the j arteries of which are well injected and dissected, with the lower part of tlie cava and iliac veins injected. The testes and penis are preserved. J 36 The spine of a foetus, the vessels of which are injected. ^ 37 A superior extremity of a young subject, the arteries of which are well in- ^ jected and dissected. 5 38 The thorax of an adult subject, the vital viscera are well injected, and pre- . served in situ naturali, with one clavicul.i and scapula, the arteries of the