54 NINTH DAY’S SALE. [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser. LOT neck of a herniary sac, which in this subject is obliterated, although the sac itself remains perfect on the spermatic chord, and the canalis abdomi- ualis pervious ; at the lower part of which there is an infundibuliform cavity, surrounded by the internal epigastric artery, as before mentioned in Lot 21. N.B. All the vessels are injected, and most of the muscles and nerves preserved. 23 An elaborate and highly interesting case of hernia ventro-inguinalis, or direct bubonocele. In this preparation the internal epigastric artery is also preserved, and affords an example of the situation of the disease passing on its pubic side. The spermatic vessels and chord, with the testis and tunica vaginalis are retained, the latter being distended, as is also the bladder; the vesiculse seminales and vasa deferentia are in- jected, the prostate gland and membranous portion of the urethra are pre- served. The different bodies of which the membrum virile consists, with its crura and bulb, are distinct. N.B. All the arteries are injected; and most of the muscles appertaining to the hipjoint, with the crural arch and its crescentic margin, are dried in situ naturali. This preparation and the preceding afford illustrations of the relative situation of the bladder, and the internal pudic branches of the hypogastric artery, an accurate know- ledge of which is so essential to the lithotomist. 24 Another case of hernia equally important, inasmuch as it shows hernia con- genita of considerable magnitude in the adult subject, demonstrating the progress of the internal epigastric artery around the neck of the herniary sac, giving origin to the ramusculus spermaticus ; the latter in this spe- cimen is large. The arteries are injected. 25 A case’of large hernia ventro-inguinalis, likewise showing the origin and pro- gress of the internal epigastric artery, which of course passes on the iliac side of the disease. The arteries and many of the veins appertaining to the pelvis and upper part of the thigh are injected and traced. The penis, the muscles, spermatic chord, testis, and tunica vaginalis, are preserved in situ naturali. 26 A preparation of the pelvis (from which the sacrum has been removed) the upper part of the thighs, having all the vessels injected, the arteries red, and the veins yellow. In this fine specimen the bladder, vesiculae semi- nales, and vasa deferentia, are filled with wax. The three bodies of which the membrum virile consists, are well injected, its crura and bulb are dis- tinctly seen, also the membranous portion of the urethra ; the prostate gland is shrunk from drying. Further, this subject affords an illustration of variocele affecting both the spermatic chords and testes. The terminations of the venae saphenae majores are obvious. 27 Another pelvis; the arteries are injected, the sacrum removed; the penis remains attached. The internal epigastric branch of the hypogastric artery gives origin to the obturator, the situation of which, relative to the external abdominal ring, is clearly demonstrated. The crural arch is well seen in this preparation. 28 A fine specimen of a trunk, the spine is incurvated in a most extraor unary manner. The aorta with its ramifications, and the vcnse cavre with ir.ost of the veins which terminate in them, including the vena azygos, are in- jected of different colours: the whole being retained in situ naturali. The ductus thoracicus is also injected, and its tortuous course, accom- panying the inflections of the vertebrae, is traced to its termination. All the ribs on one side are preserved, and the halves of those of the corre- sponding, with the greater part of the pelvis, the crural arch, and ligaments. 29 A specimen, consisting of the upper part of the inferior extremity with half of the pelvis, from a female subject, affording an example of oblique bubonocele, following the passage of the ligamentum rotundum uteri through the external abdominal ring, and showing the course of the inter-