FOURTH DAY’S SALE. 23 {Duty to be paid by the Purchaser,'] LOT the Stenonian duct and salivary ramifications with mercury : dried on paper, and immersed in oil of turpentine. ] 1 Ditto. 12 A large morbid tonsil gland: extirpated by ligature. 13 A polypus nasi: extracted with forceps. Presented by — Wheateley, Esq. 14 Ditto, larger. 15 Ditto. 16 A very remarkable calculus, removed from the Stenonian duct and presented by — Cooper, Esq. 17 An interesting specimen of the external ear; the parotid gland and socia pa- rotidis, the Stenonian duct and all the contiguous vessels are injected of various colours, the masseter muscle is retained, for the purpose of showing all these interesting parts in situ naturali. 18 A section of the head and face, showing the different meatuses of the nose, the Schneiderian membrane, the opening of the sinus pituitarius frontalis and that of the ductus ad nasum, as well as the tuba Eustachiana, through which a quill has been passed ; the other extremity of which is perceptible in the cavitas tympani. The interior of the several sinuses pituitarii, maxillaris, sphenoidalis, and frontalis, is also exposed to view. 19 An uncommonly beautiful display, in a longitudinal direction, of the olfactory organ, minutely injected in a rabbit; affording at the same time a distinct view of one of the dentes incudes, found only in leporine animals. 20 A very finely injected septum nasi. 21 A section of the nose from an individual afflicted with fistula lachrymalis, show- I ing the saccus lachrymalis in an inflamed state, the termination of the I ductus ad nasum, through which a black bristle is introduced, with the ! ossa turbinata covered by the Schneiderian membrane: minutely injected. I 22 Ditto, extremely beautiful. I 23 A part of an ulcerated septum nasi from a glandered horse, j 24 A septum nasi in the human subject, having a very large circular perforation through it. j 25 Ditto, very minutely injected, dried, and immersed in oil of turpentine. I 26 Ditto : in spirits. I 27 Ditto : in oil of turpentine. 28 A fine example of the whole of the internal female organs; the interior of the uterus is exposed by a longitudinal section, showing the openings of the Fallopian tubes, into which bristles are introduced, the penniform rugae are also seen, as well as the os uteri and the lateral rugae of the vagina; the ligamenta rotunda uteri, and of the ovaria, on the posterior surfaces of which last-mentioned organs there are faint traces of the ovula Graaffiana: the Fallopian tubes and fimbriae are all displayed, with a portion of the bladder, ureters, and their terminations are very obvious, also the orifice of the urethra, through which a quill is passed.