TWENTY-FIRST DAY’S SALE. MONDAY, at Half-past Six precisely, [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] LOT 25 A beautiful skeleton about 5 feet in length of the narrovv-nosed Crocodile (Crocodilus tenuirostris). Presented by — Bravo, Esq. 26 Ditto of a Cayman (Alligator Sclerops) about 2 feet in length : in a glass case. 27 Ditto about 4 feet in length, without a case. N.B. These Emydo-Saurian animals are endowed with abdominal sterna and ribs, in addition to those of the thorax, and processes analogous to ossa marsupialia. 28 A handsome cranium of a young Nilotic Crocodile. 29 The skeleton of an edible Iguana (Iguana delicatissima). 30 A very large and superb skeleton of the Iguana tuberculata. 31 A very handsome skeleton of a Java Safeguard (Uaranus Javanensis). 32 Ditto of an Amboyna Lizard (Lacerta Amboynensis). 33 A skeleton of a large Lizard. 34 A handsome skeleton of a Chameleon (Chameleo Africanus) : under a glass shade. 35 Ditto of a green Flying Lizard (Draco viridis). 36 Ditto of the Lacerta Tiligugu, (Sardinian Lizard) : in a bottle. 37 Ditto of a Slow-worm (Anguis fragilis): in a bottle. 38 Ditto of a common Snake (Natrix vulgaris), and of an indigenous Viper (Pelias Berus) : in a glass case, 39 A magnificent skeleton of the Boa Constrictor (Python Apollinis). 40 Ditto of the Hooded Serpent (Snake of incantation, the Na'ia Magorum). BIRDS. 41 An interesting skeleton of a large Albatross (Diomeda exulans). 42 Ditto of the Cape Sagittary (Gypogeranus Serpentarius). 43 Ditto of a large Ossifrage Eagle (Haliaetus pygargus). 44 Ditto of a Golden Eagle (Aquila chrysaetos). 45 Ditto of a Marail Quan (Penelope Marail). Preserved with its trachea bis- torta. 46 Ditto of the Poland fowl (Gallus cristatus). Male. 47 Ditto of the Dorking fowl (Gallus pentadactylus). 48 Ditto of the common Heron (Ardea cinerea). 49 Ditto. 50 Ditto. 51 A most interesting skeleton of double foetal Lambs conjoined by their thoraces, having eight legs ; at the full period of gestation. 52 The shell of an immense Tortoise (Testudo Indica), covered by its cuticle. 53 Dittoofa smaller size, devoid of cuticle. 54 The skeleton of the Field Bustarnelle (Tetrax campestris). 55 Ditto of the Cape Penguin (Spheniscus demersus) : imperfect. 56 An adult human skeleton. Female. ORNITHOTOMICAL ROOM. 1 A large Emu (Dromiceius major). 2 Ditto. (Dromiceius minor). 3 The American Rhea (Ostrich, Rhea tridactyla). 4 The Stanley Crane (Anthropoides Stanleyanus). 4* An American Horned Screamer (Kamichi Palamedea cornuta). 5 A black Stork (Pelargus niger). 6 A Cape Penguin (Spheniscus demersus).