w TWENTIETH DAY’S SALE. [^Duty to he paid by the Purchaser.^ LOT 59 A very fine Taenia osculis superficialibus. Hooper. This individual is one of four and a half, which were voided at an alvine evacuation, in consequence of the operation of Madame Nieufer's remedy. Obtained through the polite- ness of — Howard, Esq. R. N. 60 A Guinea Worm (Filaria Medinensis) 3 extracted from the leg (in London), and presented by — Ireland, Esq. 61 An inextricable group of large intestinal Worms (Strongyli intestinales). 62 A beautiful specimen of a congeries of Hytadids from the human uterus (Cys- ticerci uterini.) 63 Ditto, blended with a considerable portion of coagulable lymph, heretofore called decidua. 64 Ascarides vermiculares. 65 A Tsenia osculis marginalibus, that measured immediately after being voided seventeen yards in length. Presented by — Allison, Esq. 66 Another splendid congeries of Cysticerci uterini. 67 A handsome specimen of Tsenia osculis marginalibus. 68 Ditto, having all the marginal and transverse vessels injected with mercury, supposed to constitute the intestinal canal, and the middlemost arborescent vessels, presumed to be the organs of reproduction, injected in like manner, 69 A considerable specimen of Cysticerci uterini, with a great quantity of coa- gulable lymph. ' 70 A beautiful example of a Hydatid, from the epiploon of a Sheep (Cysticercus , omentalis). ‘ 71 Ditto, contained in its cyst, forming a pair of interesting subjects. 72 A choice specimen of a large and beautiful stuffed fish (Herophontis Capensis). 73 A very handsome skeleton of a Pagrus (Pagrus argenteus). Fish. 74 A fine specimen of a Saury (Scombresoces Camperius). Fish. 75 Ditto of the Piper-fish (Syngnathus typhle). Presented by Robt. Dymond, Esq. 76 Ditto of a Taenia osculis marginalibus. 77 Ditto, of a foetal sharp-headed finned Cachalot (Physeterus microps): stuffed. 78 A dried specimen of a Gadus Pollachius. Fish ; found at Melville Island. Presented by Capt. Sabine, with the authentic document. 79 A very large handsome exotic Snake. Compartment E. I. SURBASE. Comparative Crania, chiefly exotic, in Bottles. 1 A fine cranium of a Frigate-bird (Tachypetes Aquila.) Presented by — Cope- land, Esq. 2 A section of a minutely injected head of a young Goat, showing the highly vas- cular membrane which secretes the horn and lines its osseous cone 5 af- fording also a beautiful view of the membrana Schneideriana. 3 The cranium of an Ornithorhynchus, exhibiting a beautiful view of its four large dentes molares. 4 A preparation bottle. 5 A cranium of that rare bird, the African crow (Corvus albicollis). 6 Ditto of the Rook (Corvus frugilegus). 7 The head of the Tufted Pochard Duck (Fuligula cristata). 8 Ditto of a Gar-fish (Belloiie chlorosteus j. 9 Ditto of a large-crested Greebe (Podiceps cristatus). 10 The lower jaw of the Ornithorhynchus, showing the two molar teeth. 11 The cranium of a Banana-eater (Musophaga violacea). Bird. 12 The jaws and teeth of an old Ratel (Gulo mellivorus). Quadruped. 13 The cranium of a young Dog-headed Dasyurns (Peracyon Harrisii, Brookes),