THIRTEENTH DAY’S SALE. 79 [Duty to be paid by the 'Purchaser LOT 89 A portion of intestinum ilium : injected, dried and varnished. 90 A fine preparation of the termination of the intestinum ilium, the caecum, and part of the colon, injected, stuffed, dried, and varnished, of a kangaroo (Halmaturus giganteus). 91 A portion of the intestinum ilium, injected j with its mesentery, stufifed, dried, and varnished. 92 The stomach of a foetus : ditto. 93 A portion of the intestinum jejunum ; injected, distended, dried, and varnish- ed, with the mesenteric vessels. 94 The caecum of a cat, with a part of the colon, and termination of the intesti- num ilium : distended, dried, and varnished. 95 A beautiful specimen of the human stomach, duodenum, gall bladder, and bi- liary ducts with their termination j spleen, with the splenic and gastric vessels. These organs are well injected, and preserved of their natural figure and in their situation. From a subject about five years of age. 96 A well injected preparation of one cornu uteri of a sow: distended, dried, and varnished. 97 A beautiful view of the caecum, valvula coli, its appendix and retinacula : in- jected, distended, dried, and varnished. 98 The stomach of a cat: minutely injected, distended, dried, and varnished. 99 A fine preparation of a large human gall-bladder, with the ductus cysticus, hepaticus, communis choledochus and pancreaticus 3 the last terminating separately in the duodenum j all of which are distended, dried, and var- nished. 100 A specimen of a caecum caput coli, appendix vermiformis, termination of the intestinum, ilium, the valvula coli, its appendix and retinacula 3 distended, dried, and varnished. 101 An interesting specimen of the pylorus, with a portion of the stomach and intestinum duodenum, dried and varnished. 102 The caecum, termination of the ilium, and part of the colon, of a quadruped: injected, distended, dried, and varnished. 103 The tongue, ossa lingualia, larynx superior and inferior, with the trachea and ingluvies of a cockatoo (Phyctolophus Moluccensis). 104 A caecum and termination of the ilium of a quadruped, remarkable for the very minute entrance of one intestine into the other. 105 The head, neck, oesophagus, and ingluvies, with the os furciforme and trachea well injected, distended, dried, and varnished, of the silken fowl (Gallus Morio). 106 A handsome preparation of the pelvis of a young male subject, the whole of the blood-vessels are injected of different colours. 107 A portion of the intestinum ilium, injected, dried, and varnished. 108 Several portions of intestinum jejunum, injected, dried in an expanded state, and varnished. 109 A very large gall-bladder, distended, dried, and varnished. 110 A portion of the colon, stuffed, dried, and varnished, on which the appendiculie epiploicae are preserved. 111 A portion of intestine, distended, dried, and varnished. 112 A stomach and duodenum, distended, dried, and varnished. 113 Ditto, injected 5 from a quadruped. 114 A portion of the intestinum jejunum, injected, dried, and varnished. 115 The caecum and termination of the ilium, injected : from a quadruped. 116 A fine specimen of the rectum and anus, distended, dried, and varnished, on which there is an interesting display of the ramus haemorrhoidalis internus arteriae mesentericae inferioris, the ramifications extend to the anus, inosculating with the external haemorrhoidal branches of the pudic artery 5—so necessary for every surgeon to recollect when performing the operation for fistulce in ano, accompanied with extensive sinuses.