58 SEVENTH DAY^S SALE. {Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.^ LOT 66 An unusually interesting specimen of umbilical hernia (epiplocele) from the Dissecting-room. 67 A remarkably fine example of incarcerated umbilical hernia (entero-epiplo- cele) : from a patient of Mr. Millington’s, five months advanced in preg- nancy, on whom Mr. Brookes operated. The peritoneum is obviously ex- tended, forming the sac. 68 A very extensive case of umbilical hernia (entero-epiplocele) : the contents are adherent to the interior of the sac. 69 A choice example of scrotal hernia (enterocele); dried and varnished. Pre- sented by Alfred Jukes, Esq. 70 A very fine specimen of umbilical hernia : dried, and immersed in oil of tur- pentine. 71 A scirrhous affection of the pancreas, with the duodenum laid open, showing the terminations of the ductus pancreaticus and ductus communis choledo- chus. A portion of the aorta is preserved with some morbid lymphatic glands. 72 A part of the stomach with the pylorus, extensively affected with scirrhus. 73 An excellent preparation of femoral hernia; the bladder, a considerable por- tion of the parietes of the abdomen, the iliac and epigastric arteries and veins, as well as the vessels of the spermatic chords and testes, with the vesiculae seminales, the vasa deferentia, prostate gland and part of the penis, are all preserved in situ natural!: dried, under a glass shade. N.B. The arteries are injected red, and the veins yellow. 74 An interesting display of oscheocele. The tumor is laid open which contained the termination of the intestinum ilium (the part strangulated), the caecum and appendix vermiformis, forming the contents of the herniary sac, which are preserved, as well as the testis rendered obvious, in consequence of the tunica vaginalis being divided: dried, and preserved under a glass shade. N.B. The ossa pubis, part of the bladder, prostate gland, vesiculae seminales, and one vas deferens, with a portion of the penis, are all retained in situ naturali. Presented by 75 A remarkably fine illustration of femoral hernia, elaborately dissected; all the contiguous organs being preserved in situ naturali, and especially the spermatic chord with the testis. The herniary sac is divided, showing a small knuckle of intestine. 76 A very extraordinary case of femoral entero-epiplocele. 77 Ditto oscheocele. 78 A most remarkable case of complicated femoral enterocele. 79 A singular specimen of intus-susceptio of the colon. Compartment E. I. Comprising Preparations of morbid Hearts, Aneurisms, diseased and preternaturally formed Arteries, Veins, &c. LOT 1 A fine specimen of ossification of a part of the aorta, about the caeliac and superior mesenteric arteries. 5 2 A portion of the aorta, showing its laminae in a morbid state. ( 3 A portion of diseased artery through which a bougie has been introduced, f 4 A portion of morbid aorta taken from just above its bifurcation into the iliacs. I 5 A beautiful specimen of the valves of a vein, ) 6 A morbid specimen of the bifurcation of the arteria carotica communis into k the externa and interna, showing the sinus cerebralis.