SIXTH DAY’S SALE. S2 [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT 36 An Interesting specimen of schirrous affection of the valvula coli. N.B. This preparation exhibits this very rare disease most distinctly. 37 A case of schirrous affection of the rectum. 38 The rectum and anus; iha former to show its internal glandular structure the latter external haeraorrhoidal tumors. 39 An interesting but at the same time deplorable case of imperforated anus, from a female infant, in which the rectum terminates in a cul de sac two inches superior to the anus. Mr. Brookes operated in this case, by intro- ducing a hydrocele trocar from the depression at the anus towards the intes- tine, tumid with meconium : the instrument, however, passed through the vagina, occupying the concavity of the sacrum in the absence of the rec- tum ; occasioning an alarming but not fatal haemorrhage, unfortunately however without at all relieving the patient, who died a few days after- wards from rupture of the colon. (Contained in a bottle, No. 86, in the same compartment.) 40 A case of extensive schirrous affection of the transverse arch of the colon. Presented by John Andree, Esq. 41 A beautiful specimen of minutely injected intestinum ileum: dried, and im- mersed in oil of turpentine. 42 A preparation of intestine divided longitudinally. 43 A specimen of morbid intestine. 44 A beautiful specimen of morbid epiploic gland. 45 (Doubtful.) 46 A specimen of intestine divided longitudinally to show morbid glanduhe aggregates. 47 A specimen of intestine in a diseased state, demonstrating the villous coat. 48 A very fine specimen of schirrous affection of the colon. 49 A preparation of a part of the oesophagus of the ox. 50 A specimen of dysenteric intestine. 51 The penis of a drake, with the bursa Fabricii and cloaca. 52 Ossification of mesenteric glands. 53 A specimen of beautifully injected intestinum duodenum: dried, and immersed* in oil of turpentine. 54 A portion of the colon laid open to show its internal surface. 55 A preparation of a congregation of morbid mesenteric glands. 56 A tumor growing from the interior of the large intestine by a peduncle. 57 An interesting case of imperforated rectum, with the bladder and ossa pubis attached. 58 A portion of morbid colon. 59 A specimen of the transverse arch of the colon and omentum majus, injected : from a foetus. 60 A beautiful preparation of the intestinum ileum minutely injected by its veins: dried, and immersed in oil of turpentine. Cl An example of enteritis, consisting of a number of convolutions of the small intestines agglutinated, by the effusion of coagulable lymph. ‘ 62 A splendid example of very minutely injected and inverted small intestines, from a child. 63 A portion of the intestinum jejunum inflated and inverted, showing the val- vulae conniventes and the manner in which they are formed by duplicatures of the villous coat; the cellular tissue being also distended with air, demon- strates the preceding fact. 64 A fine example of minutely injected small intestine: dried, and immersed in oil of turpentine. 65 A congregation of morbid and very much enlarged lumbar lymphatic glands surrounding the aorta. 66 A beautiful specimen of small intestine tlie vessels of which are injected with mercury.