66 Eleventh DAY’S sale. ^ W \_DiUy to be paid by the Purchaser.] « LOT 63 A female pelvis, well articulated. I 64 A male ditto, with portions of the femora, three lumbar vertebrae, and all | the ligaments preserved. N.B. An abscess in the trochanter major of 1 the left os femoris extends into the acetabulum. | 65 A specimen of a well-formed female pelvis, with some of the ligaments. ] N.B. This pelvis furnishes proof of the individual having been a mother. ; 66 A male ditto, from a subject about the period of adolescence. ^ 67 A distorted pelvis, with all the lumbar vertebrae, and some of the liga- i merits, from a female who had borne children notwithstanding the defor- ‘ mity. This individual pelvis is remarkable, inasmuch as the symphysis pubis is ossified ; and further, the left sacro.iliac symphysis is apparently ossified. 68 A well-formed female pelvis connected by ligaments. N.B. The lineae ilio- pectineae are very acute. 69 A male pelvis, the two last lumbar vertebras and ligaments. 70 A female pelvis, somewhat distorted. 71 A fine female pelvis, having the four last lumbar vertebrae and ligaments, with the crural arch and its crescentic margin, preserved. There are indications of a morbid condition of both acetabula. 72 A very robust male pelvis, with four lumbar vertebrae and ligaments. N.B, The ligamenta interna acetabulorum are preserved. 73 A good specimen of the female pelvis, with ligaments. 74 A robust male pelvis, with two lumbar vertebrae. 75 An elegant pelvis, with part of one os femoris, from a female who bad borne children. 76 A well-articulated male pelvis. SALOON. I Com FARTMENT E. A glass case, containing various, sane and distorted, human Skele- tons, Crania, some showing the ultimate effects of the operation of the trephine upon the bone, others exhibiting the consequences of the S3^philitic virus, and several phagedenic maladies: many | are remarkable for great diversity of suture, and present several striking phrenological manifestations, &c. &c. This Case like- wise contains choice and possibly unique specimens of incurva- tions of the Spine, Caries, Anchyloses, &c.; besides a multitude of cylindrical bones extensively diseased; many fine vertebral columns articulated, and parcels of other bones. LOT 1 A magnificent male skeleton of the adult human subject upwards of six feet six inches in stature, with natural costal cartilages. 2 Ditto, about six feet in stature. 3 Dftto, a most extraordinary ligamentous skeleton of an Ethiopian having six lumbar vertebrae. N.B. Tlie subject of the present lot was dissected by Dr. Wallis at Dr. Marshall’s Theatre of Anatomy. 4 A skeleton of an adult male, articulated in a very simple and novel manner. 5 A fine adult male skeleton. 6 Ditto. Presented by Dr. Blegborough. 7 All extraordinary skeleton of a female subject, the pelvis and inferior extremities of which are very much distorted. 8 Ditto, tlie spine of which is considerably incurvated. N.B. This skeleton is firmly articulated and in a standing position. 9 Ditto, of less stature. 10 Ditto, the spine of which is extensively affected with caries.