SIXTH DAY’S SALE. MONDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] Compartment A. U. Containing various portions of the Intestinal Canal (many very minutely injected), with numerous Pathological Subjects. LOT rl An injected specimen of intus-susceptio. 2 A minutely injected specimen of jejunum, in oil of turpentine, h 3 A portion of intestine injected. / 4 A specimen of minutely injected intestine, the vessels of which take a zig, y zag longitudinal direction ; and a caecum (comparative), j 5 A specimen of injected intestine ? doubtful. C 6 A specimen of mesenteric glands, ossified, {7 A specimen of morbid glandulae aggregatie. 8 A remarkable specimen of the colon replete with cellulae. Doubtful, i 9 A beautiful specimen of minutely injected portions of the small intestines^ from a yonng subject: dried, and immersed in oil of turpentine. 10 A small section of minutely injected large intestine, showing the villi. 11 Ditto, somewhat larger: dried, and immersed in oil of turpentine. {12 A beautiful specimen of small intestine from a young subject, inverted, show- ing villi (uninjected). 13 A small portion of large intestine injected: in oil of turpentine. 14 A diverticulum ilei: dried, and in a bottle. 15 A most remarkable specimen of morbid arteries replete with strongili (ani- mals forming aneurisms in the ca;liac arteries of horses). {16 A beautiful specimen of minutely injected intestine: dried, and in oil of turpentine. 17 The stomach of the kingfisher (Alcedo hispida), 18 Ditto. 19 A beautiful specimen of minutely injected colon (inverted). 20 A diverticulum ilei injected ; from a young subject, 21 A portion of minutely injected intestinum ileum: dried, and immersed in oil of turpentine. 22 The small intestines of a foetus, minutely injected; inverted, and in spirits. 23 A minutely injected specimen of prolapsus ani. 24 A singular and highly interesting specimen of cancer of the transverse arch of the colon. 25 The stomach of a corvorant (^Phalacrocorax Carbo.) 26 A specimen of the colon affected with dysentery. 27 A very large diseased mesenteric gland. 28 A beautiful specimen of the colon, showing the three longitudinal muscular bands and the appendicular epiploicae. 29 A portion of the ileum and colon, with the caecum; from a dog. 30 A most extraordinary specimen of peritoneum, one inch or more in thickness, the effect of inflammation. 31 A specimen of the stomach of a dog affected with rabies. 32 Several haemorrhoidal tumors, extirpated by Mr. Brookes. 33 The stomach of a wimbrel [Phceopus communis), 34 A large ossified mesenteric gland. 35 An interesting specimen of minutely injected intestinum ileum, the valvulae of which are very much diseased.