SEVENTH DAY. Compartment E. U. Consisting chiefly of Stomachs, Human and Comparative, Sane and Morbid, with many Cases of Hernia ; some particularly interesting. Compartment E. I. Comprising Preparations of Morbid Hearts, Aneurisms Diseased and Pretematurally formed Arteries, Veins, EIGHTH DAY. GALLERY. Compartment E. O. Hearts to show Natural Conformation and Morbid Affections. Arteries, showing Structure, Aneurisms, and other Diseases. NINTH DAY. GALLERY. Compartment O. Absorbents, Sexual Organs, Pathology, &c. TENTH DAY. SALOON.—GLASS CASE C. Dried Vascular Preparations of Heads, Superior Extremities, Thoracic Viscera, &c. ELEVENTH DAY. SALOON. Compartment D. Pelves, many of which are remarkable for extreme distortion, or are otherwise very much diseased: in some the Acetabula are obliterated, and in one there are even four Acetabula. There are among them Pelves from both sexes in a sane state. This Case also contains several Vertebral Columns, both of a natural and preternatural conformation.—Compartment A. A Glass case, con- taining various sane and distorted human Skeletons ; Crania, some showing the ultimate effects of the operation of the trephine upon the bone, others exhibiting the consequences of the Syphilitic Virus, and several Phagedenic maladies; many are remarkable for great diversity of suture, and present several striking Phrenological manifestations, &c. &c. This Case likewise contains choice and possibly unique specimens of Incurvations of the Spine, Caries, Anchyloses, &c.; besides a multitude of cylindrical bones extensively diseased; many fine Verte- bral Columns articulated, and parcels of other bones. TWELFTH DAY. {Com'purtment E, continued.') Injuries of the Head, Crania, Fractures, Fissures, Depressions, &c. Syphilitic Affections. Crania exemplifying the ravages of this dire malady on the bones of the head and face, which now, for the happiness of mankind, from improved practice, are likely rarely to recur. Therefore these monuments of this Protean disease are most probably the best and finest examples which may be offered for sale. Crania exhibiting remarkable instances of Phrenological manifestations.