118 TWENTY-THIRD DAY^S SALE. \Duty to he -paid by the Purchaser.'] lot T79 A representation of ulceration of an intestine. [80 Ditto of solitary lymphatics on the mesentery of a horse, f 81 A drawing of the head of an acerebral foetus. 1 82 Ditto of the testis of a dog, the lymphatics are injected with mercury ; the arteries painted red. L83 Ditto. TWENTY-THIRD DAY’S SALE, WEDNESDAY^, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] LOT 84 A drawing of the human testis, the lymphaticsare represented as filled with mercury. 85 Ditto, beautiful, of the lymphatics of the stomach of a turtle, represented as filled with mercury, and the sanguiferous vessels with coloured injection. 86 Ditto, very splendid. 87 A drawing of an aneurism of the aorta abdominalis. 88 Ditto of a portion of intestine and mesentery of a horse, with a view of the absorbent and sanguiferous system appertaining thereto. 89 A plate of the appearance of the surface of the moon in her mean libration. Presented by Dr. Kitchener, under whose immediate inspection the draw- ing and engraving were executed. 90 A drawing of that enormous fossil animal the Megatherium. 91 A drawing of ulcerated lungs. 92 A drawing of superficial absorbents of ditto, forming the figures of tetragons, pentagons, hexagons, heptagons, &c. 93 A view of a most extraordinary case of scirrhus pylorus, depending into the duodenum, exhibiting also the termination of the ductus communis cho- ledochus. 94 A representation of a considerable enlargement of the three lobes of the prostate gland of the bladder very much thickened, and of four calculi which it contained. p95 A splendid representation of a part of the Fallopian tube, the fimbria, and a j portion of the ligamentum latum, exhibiting the enlargement of the saugui- ferous and lymphatic vessels appertaining to the human uterus at the I latter period of gestation. L96 Ditto. 97 A representation of a very successful injection of the sanguiferous and ab- sorbent vessels of the human testis and spermatic chord. r98 A drawing of a calvaria, representing anomalous ossa triqiietra. 99 Representations of lymphatics, injected with mercury, on the surfaces of two L portions of the liver. 100 An engraving of an Asiatic bicephalous child, from a drawing by A. II. Devis, Esq. The same plate likewise exhibits two other representations of the crania united by their vertices and delineated at a period of two years after birth ; the original crania may be seen in the collection of the Royal College of Surgeons.—Vide Sir Everard Home’s account of the above, in the Philosophical Transactions. The child died in consequence of a bite of the Cobra di capello, when two years old.