H 2 NINTH DATB~SATK 5T \^Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] OT 27 An arterial inferior extremity. 28 The half of the pelvis and inferior extremity, in 'which the arteries are all injected ; this preparation is very remarkable for having the popliteal artery obliterated, although those of the leg are large and -well traced. 29 Ditto, being the corresponding limb, the popliteal artery is in a similar state. 50 An inferior extremity without the pelvis : the arteries are injected. 51 A fine preparation, consisting of a considerable portion of the pelvis, with the inferior extremity, the arteries and veins are injected, the bladder, vesi- culsB seminales, vasa deferentia, prostate gland, penis and testis, with many of the nerves, are preserved in situ natiirali. 32 An inferior extremity, the arteries of which are injected, with those of the pel- vis ; remarkable, inasmuch as the arteria femoralis communis is wanting ; the iliaca externa bifurcating and giving origin on the one hand to the cruralis, from which the ramus circurafiexus cristae ilei arises, and on the other to the femoralis profunda; from this last the ramus epigastricus inter- nus takes its origin. This singular lusus naturae forms a case of great mo- ment, to be borne in mind vdien performing the operation of amputation of the thigh at the hip-joint: from a female subject: the external and internal organs, with the bladder and rectum, are preserved in situ naturali. 33 A beautiful inferior extremity, the arteries and veins are injected ; the mus- cles and nerves dissected and preserved. 34 Ditto, equally beautiful with the preceding. 35 An inferior extremity, the arteries, veins, and lymphatics are injected. This preparation exhibits a case of ventro-inguinal hernia ; the spermatic chord, testis, and tunica vaginalis are preserved, the latter distended. 36 An inferior extremity, the blood vessels are filled with ceraceous injection, the lymphatics with mercury. 37 The bust of a dog ; the arteries are injected. f 38 The anterior extremity of an ass : the arteries and veins are injected. [39 The posterior extremity of an ass : the arteries only are injected. SALOON. Compartment B. Containing dried preparations, from the adult subject, of the vas- cular system, the thoracic, abdominal, extra-abdominal, and pel- vic viscera ; the sexual organs, hernim, placentae, &c. LOT J A spine, with the aorta, vena azygos, receptaculum chyii, ductus thoracicus and its termination. 2 Ditto, but very singular ; the vena cava abdominalis supplanting the aorta by taking its station on the left side of the spine: the kidnies, their pelves, ureters and the renal vessels, are injected; also some of the venae cavae he- patica?, the vena azygos, venae jugulares internae and vena subclavia sinistra ; the os byoides, larynx, trachea and bronchi, the pharynx, cesophagus^ &c. are preserved. 3 Ditto, still more choice, inasmuch as there are two venae cavae abdomi- nales in this preparation, one on each side of the aorta. Each kidney trans- mits a distinct vena renalis into its corresponding cava ; the vena accessoria inferior dextra (vena azygos) is injected, that on the left side is seen origina- ting from the vena renalis sinistra, and communicating with the venae lum- bales. There is also an exposition of the termination of the ductus thoraci- cus, at the angle formed between the left subclavian and internal jugular