SIXTH DAY’S SALE. 3S {Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] .OT 67 A fine preparation of intus-susceptio of the small intestine. 68 A specimen of minutely injected small intestine : dried, and immersed in oil of turpentine. 69 A portion of jejunum very much diseased, and laid open for the purpose of showing the morbid state of its interior. 70 An example of dysenteric intestine. 71 A beautiful illustration of minutely injected intestinum ileum; dried, and im- mersed in oil of turpentine. 72 A portion of rectum injected and inverted, demonstrating its glandular structure. 73 A small portion of the oesophagus of a turtle. 74> A specimen of the small intestine of a young subject, minutely injected, and inverted, to show villi. 75 A preparation of the lower part of the oesophagus of the ox, with a portion of the cardia. 76 Ditto of the turtle, minutely injected. 77 A splendid anatomical bijou, consisting of a most minutely injected portion of the jejunum, admirably demonstrating its beautiful villi. 78 A fine example of intus-susceptio of the colon, injected; showing the great extent of inflammation. 79 An uncommonly fine instance of hernia congenita in the adult, accompanied by the testis. 80 An interesting specimen of scirrhous pylorus. 81 An example of the effects of dysentery on the villous coat of the colon. Presented by Anthony White, Esq. :82 A specimen of jejunum, inverted and filled with spirit, showing its villi and valvulee conniventes. v 83 An example of an extraordinary morbid affection of the appendix vermi- formis cseci, the extremity of which is replete with small spherical tumors. 84? The stomach of the spoonbill {Platalea cristata). 85 The interior of a case of scrotal enterocele, in which the several convolu- tions of small intestines adhere inter se. 86 The colon, caecum, &c. of an infant who died of imperforated anus: several apertures are produced by the fatal distension of the intestine. (Vide No. 39 supra). 87 An example of inflammation terminating in mortification, in consequence of incarcerated hernia,—seen from the interior of the sac. 88 Ditto, less inflamed. 89 An example of diverticulum ilei from the adult subject. Presented by Dr. Hawkins. 90 A remarkable instance of enteritis, consisting of numerous convolutions of the small intestines, suffused with coagulable lymph, and all adhering inter se. 91 A case of cancer of the oesophagus; the trachea and its termination in the bronchi, with many morbid bronchial glands. 92 An interesting specimen of bronchocele, in which the right lobe of the thyroid gland is very much enlarged; and in consequence compressed the ceso- phagus so as to intercept deglutition, and thus produce death by starvation. 93 A case of rupture of the intestinum jejunum. 94? An interesting and extremely rare case of schirrous affection of the transverse arch of the colon. 95 A specimen of the effects of diarrhoea on the glandulae aggregatae. 96 A portion of colon, showing the effects of dysentery on its internal surface. 97 A case of intus-susceptio of the small intestines, with some remarkable appearances. 98 A case of dysenteric colon. 99 A considerable portion of small intestine compressedby stricture, from a case of incarcerated enterocele. F