6t ELEVENTH DAY’S SALE. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser^ LOT nature of the morbus coxarius. N.B. The left os femoris is anchylosed J with its corresponding newly formed acetabulum in nearly a vertical direc- ; tion, and from its absolute inutility the os innominatum is extremely dimi- nished. The head of the right os femoris has the semblance of having been fractured across within its capsular ligament, which is preserved dry, but was opened by Sir Astley Cooper for an investigation at the instance of Mr. Brookes. The margin of its newly formed acetabulum projects half an ' inch over the greater ischiatic notch! 9 Another fine female pelvis with portions of the ossa femorum, the right os femoris was fractured within the ligamentum capsulare, and remained im- ' united at the time of the patient’s death. 10 A remarkable example of anchylosis of the ossa innominata, with the sacrum. ' 11 An unusual instance of fracture through the right os innominatum, re- || united. N.B. This pelvis was taken from the male subject the scapula; of which is to be found in Compartment P. lot 37, and sternum in Compart- ment R. lot 49, the fore-arm was in Compartment O. of the former sale : all fractured and re-united ! 12 An extraordinary case of united fracture of the os pubis, and ramus ischii ; of the left side, and of a diagonal fracture through the sacrum; in a male subject. I 13 The pelvis very much fractured, from dreadful violence, which had at the same time so much injured the contained viscera as to occasion death. 14 A specimen of the lower part of the vertebral column (incurvated) of the pelvis and right os femoris, the head of which has been altogether ab- sorbed, and its acetabulum entirely obliterated, in consequence of the mor- bus coxarius. A peculiar feature of this disease is most interestingly dis- played in the obliquity of the affected side of the pelvis. Vide Mr. Ford’s j excellent work on Diseases of the Hip-joint, in which there is a plate representing the above case. Presented by T. Copland, Esq. The con- ’ trast between the site of the morbid and sound acetabulum is particularly obvious. 15 An interesting specimen of a bisected adult spinal column well articulated. 16 The dorsal vertebrae, with many ribs, affected with syphilis. N.B. There are 13 ribs in this preparation. 17 Anchylosis of two dorsal and three lumbar vertebrae. ■ 18 A ligamentous preparation of the spine of a young subject; the bodies of some vertebrae wanting. , 19 A complete spinal column of a young subject; moveable, and interesting. ; 20 A ligamentous preparation of the cervical, dorsal, and three superior lumbar I vertebrae. N.B. The two first ribs are articulated with the transverse processes of the seventh cervical vertebra; there are only eleven dorsal ribs appertaining to this singular specimen. 21 A ligamentous preparation of the whole of the spinal column and pelvis of a young subject. 22 All the dorsal and some lumbar vertebrae of an incurvated spine. 23 Ditto, with the last cervical and two first lumbar vertebrae. j 24 Anchylosed vertebrae and infantile spines. 1. 25 Adult cervical vertebrae, having red bougies passed through the foramina cervicalia, as substitutes for the vertebral arteries; and a foetal spine, ex- hibiting the cause of hydrorachitis from the deficiency of the spinous pro- cesses of the lower lumbar vertebrae and upper part of the sacrum. 26 A specimen of anchylosis of the four last cervical with the first dorsal ver- tebra and a foetal vertebral column. ^ 27 Various specimens of anchylosed vertebrae. 28 A specimen of irregular fracture of the os innominatum through the dorsum ilei; and a specimen of anchylosis of the sacrum with the os innominatum.