SECOND DAY’S SALE. TUESDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] Compartment R. Osteogeny, Osteology, and Pathology:—in bottles. LOT l A portion of the cranium calcined, showing the diploe. f 2 A most interesting surgical specimen of a very large exfoliation of a part of \ the cranium, expedited by the application of caustic. (. 3 An epiphysis of the tibia, showing an osseous nucleus in its interior. 1“ 4 A transverse section of the arm of a foetus, showing its component parts. I 5 A beautiful preparation of a portion of morbid cranium on which an abortive application of the trephine has been made, for the purpose of facilitating ex- foliation. 6 A small portion of injected bone. 7 An extraordinary example of the fractured os femoris of a bird, singularly re» 8 An elegant illustration of the os frontale of a foetus at about the fourth month. 9 The scapula and clavicula of a foetus at its full period, showing epiphyses : in spirits. plO A specimen of the vomer : on blue paper. I 11 Ditto of a pair of ossa palatina, exhibiting different views of those far ex- ( tended and extremely irregular bones : on blue paper. 12 The cranium of a foetus at about the third or fourth month of utero-gesta- f*13 An example of the atlas and vertebra dentata, showing the ligamentum trans» I versale, by which the odontoid process of the latter is connected tothe J former : in spirits. ^ 14 A pair of ossa turbinata, exhibiting different views of these bones : on blue L15 An os lachrymale : on blue paper. 16 A portion of the os occipitale, and several of the cervical vertebras connected % their natural ligaments, for the purpose of demonstrating the ligamen- tous connection of the vertebra dentata, atlas, and os occipitale, by means of the ligamentum transversale, perpendiculare, and ligamenta lateralia. 17 A beautiful preparation of the cranium of a foetus at four months, the left os parietale being removed, for the purpose of showing the falx major, tento- f rium, and interior of the cranium i in spirits. (~18 The ossa parietalia, os occipitale, frontale, and one os temporale, from a foetus j - at the period of five months, exhibiting the progress of ossification : dried, placed on blue paper, and immersed in oil of turpentine. I 19 The pelvis of a foetus, dissected for the purpose of showing the progress of L ossification : in spirits. 20 Three ribs and a section of the corresponding spine of a pig, tinged red by feeding the animal on madder. 21 The superior extremities of a foetus at the period of four months, dissected for the purpose of showing the progress of ossification : in spirits. ;22 A section of the os femoris of a young pig, tinged red by feeding the animal nn mnHfIpr. united. tion. paper.