TWELFTH DAY’S SALE. TUESDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] Compartment E. continued. LOT 72 An extraordinary example of an os femoris dreadfully fractured towards its inferior extremity, and shockingly reunited. The tibia is much diseased at its head, with which the condyles of the os femoris are anchylosed. 73 An os femoris and tibia j both bones have been fractured and reunited, the tibia exhibits a large spicula extending towards the fibula. 74 A case of fracture of the os femoris, reunited through an extremely exube- rant osseous secretion j apparently the two portions of the fractured bone were never brought into contact. 75 An example of a fractured tibia and fibula reunited. 7b A tibia with its corresponding fibula, and a second tibia, all very much dis- eased. 77 Two tibiae, one of which has been fractured and is reunited, the other has a large and extensive exostosis, forming a spicula; probably a nodus syphi- liticus. 78 A choice example of an os femoris fractured about its middle, where there are many osseous spicula?. 79 A specimen of fractured tibia reunited, and anchylosed with the fibula. 80 A tibia and corresponding fibula, both very much diseased 81 A tibia and fibula articulated, both very much diseased, the fibula being re- plete with spiculse. 82 An instance of os femoris fractured about its middle, having several spiculae, now become obtuse j and an example of porcelanic secretion upon its in- ternal condyle. 83 An instance of diseased tibia and fibula, anchylosed nearly throughout their whole extent in consequence of ossification of the ligamentum interos- seum; there are many spiculae on the posterior surface of the tibia, and a multitude emanating from the fibula. 84f An os femoris fractured at its middle and reunited: a lower half of ditto which seems to have been broken spontaneously, from caries ; a tibia much diseased ; and a fibula fractured towards its head, 85 A tibia fractured near the ankle-joint, and a fibula fractured towards its head j both are reunited. 86 An uncommonly fine specimen of necrosis tibiae 3 the sequestra extending nearly the whole length of the bone, within which it is very moveable j there are several apertures or fenestrse, rendering the original bone very obvious j the lower portion of the tibia is anchylosed with the astragalus and fibula, also extensively diseased. N.B. There is a second sequestra situated pos- teriorly and interiorly. 87 A dreadful case of fractured tibia and fibula at their inferior extremities, both shockingly reduced, or rather remaining unreduced, but reunited. N.B. A distinct portion of the bone, upwards of three inches in length, had been broken off posteriorly, but is now firmly attached. 88 An extraordinary os femoris replete with exostoses secreted from various parts of the surface; these morbid processes apparently formed the nuclei of im- mense cartilaginous tumors, constituting the disease commonly denominated osteo-sarcoma (osteo-chondroma). 89 A tibia fractured inferiorly, and a radius broken towards the wrist 3 both are reunited ; the tibia forms a long obtuse spicula.