INn>mT i:iAY'» ^F5T iDidy to be paid by the Purchaser,^ LOT -^4i Filamentous connections between the cuticle and cutis of the calcaneum, formerly supposed to be transpiratory vessels. 55 Pneumatocele (liydrocele) from a new-born infant; tlie vessels are minutely injected. The tumor, about the size of a nutmeg, has been inflated, dried, and subsequently immersed in oil of turpentine. N.B. The testis is seen at the posterior surface of the tumor. 56 The plexus choroides and velum interpositum. 27 Ossicula auditus. 28 Ossification of the spleen ; a beautiful specimen : immersed in oil of turpen- tine. 29 A bottle, containing specimens of six biliary concretions. SO A small osseous tumor from the liver. 31 Two small biliary concretions, SALOON.—GLASS CASES. Compartment A. Dried vascular preparations. I 1 An adult vascular subject; the whole of the arteries are injected red, and the veins yellow on one side. 2 A vascular subject, about 16 years of age, having all the arteries injected red, and the Veins of one side, with those of the throat, of a yellow colour ; the heart (in situ naturali) is injected, together with the liver, the vena porta abdominalis, and penis: the diaphragm is preserved, and the tout ensemble forms an interesting display. 3 The bust of an adult subject, the whole of the blood-vessels are injected of different colours, as well as the ductus thoracicus : the eyes are retained in situ naturali. 4 A vascular preparation of a young subject; all the arteries are injected, and the veins of the trunk, with the vena porta, the heart, the pulmonic ves- sels, &c, are also injected. 5 A most elaborate preparation of a young subject; thearteries are univer- sally injected, and all the muscles dissected, and dried in situ naturali. 6 A knee-joint, the arteries of which are injected : many of the ligaments as well as the tendons are preserved. 7 A preparation of the arteries of the leg and foot, in which the arteria tibialis antica is extremely diminutive, and terminates by an inosculation with the arteria peronea communis, the ramus anterior, passing through the lower part of the ligamentum interosseum, becomes the substitute for the con- tinuation of the arteria tibialis antica, 8 The lower part of the leg and foot of an adult subject, the arteries are ^ injected, and muscles with their tendons preserved. 9 The leg and foot of an adult subject, the arteries of which are injected, and the muscles dissected and preserved. 10 Ihe whole of the arteries of the inferior extremity and pelvis, injected, from ^ a young subject: the nerves are also traced in this interesting specimen. 11 The lower extremity of an adult subject, with the arteries injected and mus- cles dissected and preserved. 12 Ditto. 13 Ditto. 14 A most extraordinary arrangement of the crural artery, which becoming nearly obliterated in the middle of the thigh, inosculates in the canalis tricipitis with the profunda : the latter artery also anastomoses freely with the arteria poplitea, formed by an enlargement of the diminutive crural artery. There are other considerable communications between rr