FOUU'rEENTH DAY’S SALE. 82 [Duty to he-paid by the Purchaser. LOT 163 The integuments of the membrum virile of the common whale (Baliena mysticetus). 164 The uterus and its appendages, including the vagina, external organs, rectum and bladder j distended dried and varnished j with the ramifications of the hypogastric artery : from a quadruped ; the Gnu probably. T65 A most interesting specimen of the os hyoides, larynx and superior portion of the trachea 3 the pharynx, bursa faucium, and upper part of the oesophagus; from a Camel. N.B. The bursa faucium is the organ which has been occa- sionally noticed to be protruded from the fauces when the animal is in a high state of excitement. IG6 The os hyoides, larynx, and upper part of the trachea of the Hippopotamus, being a very rare and beautiful preparation. 167 The head of a sturgeon (Accipenser Sturio.) Compartment G. Containing preparations of blood-vessel trunks; extremities dis- sected for ligaments ; stomachs, som.e fine specimens of the male organs; morbid subjects; calculi, both vesical and renal; cholesterine formations, &c. LOT 1 A preparation of the stomach of an ostrich (Struthio Camel us): distended, dried and varnished. 2 The stomachs of an antelope : injected, distended, dried and varnished. 3 The cornu uteri of a gravid sow at the full period of gestation : minutely injected. A portion of ditto. The heart of a turtle, injected. A portion of the gravid uterus of a sow, inflated. A specimen of the human membrum virile, injected. The os penis of a young Morse (Trichechus Rosmarus). The human membrum virile well injected. 10 Ditto from a bear (Ursus arctos). i 1 Corresponding organs from man. 12 Ditto. 13 Ditto. 14 Ditto. 15 An uncommonly interesting and minutely injected specimen of hydrops sac- catus: consisting of one large, and a multitude of small cysts : the blad- der, rectum, uterus and its appendages are preserved ; distended, dried and varnished. N.B. Mr. Brookes performed the operation of paracentesis ovarii about two months previously to the death of the patient; a young- woman twenty-four years of age : she died of hydro-thorax, the volume of the right lung was diminished to the size of an ordinary fist by a vast se- cretion of fluid in the same cavity of the chest. 16 A choice specimen of the lower part of the trunk and pelvis of a female subject; the arteries and veins are injected. This fine preparation exhibits an admi- rable view of the external and internal organs; with the bladder and rectum, distended, dried and varnished. N.B. A great portion of the right os ileum and sacrum are removed, showing the ramifications of the hypogastric vessels, their uterine branches, &c. The kidneys, clitoris, and plexus reti- formis are retained and injected. 17 An arterial preparation of the inferior extremity of a young subject. 18 The trunk of a young subject; all the viscera,with the exception of the heart, are injected, distended, dried, and varnished.