FiFoiEisrrff ra 87 [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser^ LOT ler’s shop at Kentish Town. N.B. In this cranium there is a large suture running across the os occipitale just above its superior transverse ridge, and anteriorly a frontal suture. 3 An excellent preparation of the cranium of Owen, a Cambrian assassin. He murdered the paramour of his wife, having nearly detected them inter nuptias. 4 A cranium and lower jaw, the bones of which are extremely compact and pon- derous. 5 A singular cranium and lower jaw, having a remarkably brutish aspect 5 pro- bably of a pugilist. 6 A cranium of an edentulous subject. 7 Ditto. 8 Ditto. 9 Ditto. 10 The cranium of a young adult female subject. 11 A cranium, the right os maxillare superius is partly destroyed by caries. 12 An adult cranium of a small size, having an incipient exostosis at the harmo- nia palatina longitudinalis. 13 A cranium, the left os parietale is removed, and sections have been made into the sinus pituitarii frontales, maxillaris, dexter, and the cellulae eth- moidales. 14 Ditto, having a portion of the bones of the face removed, showing the subja- cent parts. 15 The cranium of a subject at about ten or twelve years of age. 16 Ditto, somewhat younger. 17 The eight bones of the head united. 18 An edentulous cranium, the sutures of which are obliterated: thetrochlese (processus trochleares) for the passage of the tendons of the musculi obliqui superiores oculorum form acute spiculse, and the processus styloides of the temporal bones are unusually long. Exotic Crania. 39 The cranium of an ancient Dane. Presented by Sir A. Carlisle. 20 The cranium of a Swede. N.B. Many portions of the bones of this specimen are, from some unknown cause,membranous (absorbed): e. g. the squamous process of the left os temporale, the orbitar processes of the os frontale, ethmoidale, and maxillaria superiora. 21 A Royal cranium, viz. from one of the kings of Munster 5 with an authentic document. Presented by — Lambert, Esq. 22 The head of a Gaul, viz. of a knight of Napoleon’s legion of honour, having several obvious coups de Sabre on its superior surface. The individual from whom this skull was procured died of aneurism in St. George’s Hospital. Ob- tained through the kindness of — Snell, Esq. surgeon dentist. 23 The cranium of a Hindoo, found on the banks of the river Hoogle. Pre- sented by Robert Davey, Esq. N.B. The region of the organ of veneration is clearly manifested in this specimen, and said to be common to all the na- tion. 24 The cranium of a native of Otaheite. 25 The cranium of a female native of Australia (somewhat doubtful). 26 A cranium of a male native of Australia (undoubted). Brought to England by Major Morrison, and presented by Dr. Henry Davies. 27 Ditto, of a different caste, having had the two anterior incisor teeth of the upper jaw extracted for the purpose of establishing identity. 28 The cranium of a descendant of the aborigines of Peru. N.B. There is a remarkable obliquity of the left lateral and posterior part of the cranium, artificially produced by pressure from infancy, indicative of the caste. Brought to Europe, and presented by — M^'Laren, Esq. Surgeon, R. N.