57 TP:NTH DxiY’S SALE. [Duty to he paid hy the Purchaser.'] LOT and traced (beneath the ligamentiim carpi annulare anticum) into the palm of the hand, where it forms with the radial artery the arcus superficialis. 12 Is an arterial preparation of a fore-arm and hand, the lower part of the ra- dial artery passes preternaturally and anteriorly to the tendons of the ex- tensor muscles of the thumb, consequently much exposed to accidents 5 the arteria cubitalis produces an interesting arcus superficialis. All the muscles are preserved. 13 A superior extremity, having a superficial cubital artery arising from the bra- chial above its middle, and forming a handsome arcus superficialis volse. The termination of the radial is traced, as is also the arcus profundus. 14 Is a choice superior extremity, the arteries are well injected and dissected. N.B. The ramus circumflexus posterior does not arise from the axillary artery, but from the brachial, ramifying upwards to the under surface of the deltoid muscle from below the tendon of the latissimus dorsi. 15 Is an unexampled specimen of the cubital artery passing beneath the ligamen- tum carpi annulare anticum. This undoubtedly unique preparation affords also a fine illustration of the lower part of the radial artery, proceeding above the extensor tendons of the thumb, in this respect similar to Lot 12. The arcus cubitalis and profundus are beautifully displayed, as well as the rami collaterales arteriae brachialis, and the three rami recurrentes of the arteries of the fore-arm. All the muscles are preserved as well as the fascia bicipitalis. 16 A fine illustration of a high division of the brachial artery: in fact, there are two brachial arteries formed by a bifurcation of the axillary. The radial produces a large ramus superficialis volae, and by its inosculation with the arcus cubitalis exhibits a beautiful vascular display in the'palm of the hand. The ramus infra-scapularis and many other branches are also dissected. 17 An arterial preparation, the whole of the muscles are preserved. 18 Ditto, affording a beautiful view of the ramus superficialis volse arteriae radialis inosculating with the arcus cubitalis manus. 19 An injection and dissection of the arteries of a superior extremity, from a young subject. 20 An arterial extremity: the rami collaterales of the arm, and recurrentes of the fore- arm are preserved ; the arcus superficialis is beautifully displayed, and the ramus superficialis volse very obvious. 21 Ditto. 22 Ditto, the ramus superficialis volse is not quite so distinct, but the arcus super- ficialis is dissected as in all the three last preparations. 23 Ditto, with the ramus superficialis volae passing under the ligamentUm carpi annulare anticum. 24 Another highly useful extremity. 25 A preparation of the fore-arm and hand; the arteries are well injected. 26 A most interesting vascular preparation of the brachial artery on which the ope- ration for aneurism w^as performed by Mr. Lynn. In this choice speci- men the brachial artery being of course divided by the press?ue of the ligature, the fore-arm was supplied with blood by a very considerable en- largement of the ramus profundus minor, inosculating with the ramus anastomoticus, also of considerable magnitude. Presented by William Lynn, Esq. 27 An arterial extremity with a beautiful arcus superficialis; all the collateral branches are traced; the ramus circumflexus posterior arises from the brachial. 28 Ditto, the ramus circumflexus posterior having its usual origin. 29 An arterial extremity. In this preparation the ramusculiis dorsalis transmits a very considerable ramification, which inosculates with the supra-scapularis. Both the radial and cubital arches are well seen. 30 Ditto, with a rich display of branches about the scapula: it is altogether a I