122 TWENTY-THIRD DAY'S SALE. [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser^] LOT vasa brevia. The liver, and gall-bladder, the three biliary ducts, with the pancreas and its duct. 20 A representation of an adult spinal column, upwards of six feet in length. 21 Views of the pulmonic and corporeal portions of the heart, illustrative of the circulation of the blood, with the trachea and bronchi. 22 A representation of a myological dissection of the superior extremity, of a gigantic size, viz. on canvass about twelve feet in length. 23 Ditto of the leg and foot. 24 A representation of the adult human skeleton, upon a ground of the figure of the entire subject. 25 An elaborate and very interesting view of the aorta, vena cava abdominalis, the external and internal iliac vessels, the kidneys, renal vessels and ureters, of the vasa pampineaformia; the uterus, its vessels, os internum, tubas Fallopianas, their terminations surrounded by the fimbriae, the ovaria and ovula Gra- affiana; the bladder, ureters, and intestinum rectum. 62 A representation of a muscular dissection of the entire human subject, about twelve feet in stature; a front view executed with accuracy, and alto- gether a highly interesting portraiture. 27 A view of the adult figure about six feet in stature, on the surface of which all the absorbents have been traced after the accurate delineations of those vessels, by Mascagni. 28 A representation of the membrum virile, and its attachment to the rami is- chiorum, with longitudinal and transverse sections of its three bodies, viz. the' two corpora cavernosa, the corpus spongiosum urethrae; and vena magna ipsius penis. 29 A most interesting painting of a dissection of the low^erpart of the abdomen and upper part of the thighs, delineating the decussation of the tendinous fibres of the musculi obliqui descendentes, of the external abdominal rings, ' the spermatic chords and testes, the penis, the lymphatics of which are traced to the inguinal glands, and from thence beneath the crural arches. The lymphatics of the thigh, their entrance into the femoral glands, and from thence following the course of the preceding; the femoral artery, veins, &c. on cloth about 4 feet by 3. 30 A beautiful and highly interesting exposition of the anatomy of the human body represented in an injected and dissected adult subject, including the thoracic and abd(,'minal viscera : on canvass with rollers. By Mr. Gaultier. 31 Ditto, of the female. 32 Ditto similar to Lot 30. S3 Twenty anatomical drawings. 34 Twenty ditto of various diseases, many of them very rare. 35 A highly interesting representation of the stump of a recently amputated leg, published by — Alcock, Esq.; and a drawing of a leg showing a section through the soft parts ; in a frame, glazed. 36 Eleven engravings of various diseases. 37 Seven ditto. 38 Three outlines of a case of enormous hydrocephalus in a patient fifty years of age ; with the authentic document. 39 Five views of various ingenious surgical instruments, and one of the axis of vision. 40 Five engravings of the persistent and deciduous teeth, in situ naturali, and separated. 41 Ten engravings of the absorbents of every part of the body. 42 Four drawings of ditto. 43 Seventeen engravings of the anatomy of various parts of the body. 44 A representation of the Hottentot Venus; and of a dried human being, who was shut up in a vault and starved to death. The original is in the possession of the Zoological Society.