EIGHTH DAY’S SALE. 43 [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT r40 The termination of the aorta ossified : dried, and in a bottle. < 41 A section of the pulmonic ventricle (from the horse). L42 The termination of the aorta much diseased. {43 A portion'of ossified aorta. 44 A section of the aorta morbidly affected : the internal coat is detached. 45 A portion of aorta ossified: dried, and in a bottle. {46 A section of diseased aorta, its laminated coats being separated. 47 The left elbow-joint of a leopard (Felis Leopardus), the brachial artery, being injected, is seen passing through the aperture in the internal condyle of the os brachii. 48 A section of the thoracic aorta, showing the origins of the intercostal arteries. {49 The commencement of the aorta, its valves and coronary arteries. 50 The axillary and brachial arteries universally ossified. f51 A section of the aortic ventricle, also exhibiting the valvulae bicuspides, < chordae tendiniae, and carneae columnae, as well as the pulmonic auricle. L52 An interesting specimen of ossification of the coronary arteries. 53 54 An example of an injected superior extremity of a foetus, showing four arteries supplying the fore-arm, viz. the radial, ulnar, interosseous, and median. 55 The aorta injected, from the curvature of which the following arteries arise as enumerated, viz. 1st, the arteria carotica communis dextra; 2nd, the ar - teria carotica communis sinistra; 3rd, the arteria subclavia sinistra; and lastly, the arteria subclavia dextra, which passes between the oesophagus and vertebrae, from the left to the right side, to its destination. N.B. The trachea and oesophagus are preserved, dried, and in a bottle. 56 The commencement of the aorta and its sinus very much diseased; the latter is laid open for the purpose of exhibiting the morbid affection : the valves and coronary arteries are preserved. 57 A beautiful view of the interior of the aortic ventricle, exhibiting the valvulae bicuspides, carneae columnae, and chordae tendiniae; the origin of the aorta, its three valves, the sinus Valsalvae, and coronary arteries. f58 The origin of the aorta morbidly affected ; having its internal coat some- what detached. L59 An umbilical vein with only one accompanying artery : dried, and in a bottle. {60 The lower part of the aorta much ossified: dried, and in a bottle. 61 The commencement of the aorta, with its sinus morbidly affected and appa- rently ulcerated. The valves and coronary arteries are also preserved. 62 The lower half of a foetus, the arteries of which are injected. In the right ex- tremity there are two crural arteries which unite in the tricipital canal, independently of the arteria femoralis profunda. Dissected at the West- minster Hospital, and presented by — Farquhar, Esq., Surgeon to the Foot Guards. Perfectly unique! 63 A large section of the heart, exhibiting a fine specimen of carditis. 64 Ditto, minutely injected, and truly superb. 65 The heart of a young subject, injected. 66 An interesting preparation of the valvula Eustachii and coronaria, with the termination of the vena cava abdominalis, and a portion of the cavic auricle. 67 A choice example of extensive ossification of the termination of the aorta. 68 A particularly useful exhibition of the commencement of the aorta, its valves and coronary arteries ; the internal lamina of the aorta is somewhat sepa- rated. 69 A specimen of the arteria and vena spermatica, taken from a subject at the full period of gestation : the artery is extremely tortuous and filled with red injection, the vein with blue; this last vessel is full half an inch in diameter, on the surface of which there is a beautiful distribution of arte- rio'lae venarum : dried and varnished.