SEVENTH DAY’S SALE. 37 [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser LOT 49 The stomach and gastricglands of the adjutant bird {Megaloramphus Algala) laid open longitudinally, the ducts of the latter being replete with small worms {strongili). Killed in India, and presented by Dr. Spillsbury. 50 The stomach of a lady poisoned by oxalic acid. The case of this unfortu- nate individual is the first recorded of death being produced by that viru- lent chemical preparation. The history is detailed by the late William Royston, Esq. in the Med. and Phys. Journal (one of its Editors). The patient mistook the acid for Epsom salts, about half an ounce in quantity, which produced the most dreadful torture, and terminated in death in about forty minutes. The detail of this catastrophe called forth many replies, all negativing the noxious quality of oxalic acid. It may be here important to mention, that a sufficient quantity of magnesia (two ounces) mixed with about a quart of water, or, what may be more readily obtained, the same quantity of common whiting thrown into the stomach or promptly admi- nistered by any means. The stomach pump by preference will effectually neutralize and render inert this active poison. 51 The adult stomach inverted, showing the effects of gastritis produced by arsenic : from a suicide. 52 A stomach affected with extensive cancer, and ulceration through the organ, from a high dignitary of the. church, whose liver contained a number of tumors. Mr. Brookes opened the body in the presence of Dr. Kerrison and the late Dr. Kennedy; all of whom noticed an appearance similar to that of coffee-grounds suffused over the omentum majus and intestines. Quere ? Are not the morbid appearances exhibited in this preparation similar to those witnessed on inspecting the body of Napoleon Buonaparte ? 53 A fine case of hernia. 54 A case of enteritis, being the contents of an herniary sac, the intestines ad- hering inter se. 55 A specimen of hernia congenita, in which, the intestine adheres to the epidi- dirais. N.B. The spermatic veins are varicose. 56 An example of scrotal hernia ; the tunica vaginalis is divided for the pur- pose of showing its contents. 57 Enteritis of the colon, with considerable enlargement of the mesocolic glands. 58 A particularly fine specimen of hernia abdominalis and of a second (inguinalis) on the right side, both sacs are unoccupied. The ilium and the caecum caput coli with the appendix vermiformis are preserved ; the tunica vaginalis is laid open and dried. Presented by Alfred Jukes, Esq. 59 The ilium, caecum, appendix vermiformis caeci, and some mesocolic glands, morbidly affected. 60 A case of femoral hernia. 61 An uncommonly rare instance of hernia congenita saccata: obtained from a patient who died in the Middlesex Hospital, and presented by — Thorn- ton, Esq. The herniary sac and contents are retained within the tunica vaginalis, which lying in contact with the testis, rendered the surface of that organ somewhat concave. 62 A remarkable case of exomphalos in a new-born child; the protruded peri- toneum, forming the herniary sac, contains nearly the whole of the intes- tines. A cast of this case might have been seen in the Model-room, taken from the patient who lived three days under the care of Mr. Adams, by favour of whom Mr. Brookes obtained this singular congenital disease. 63 64 An example of a very considerable portion of omentum : extirpated by Mr. Brookes, in a case of incarcerated epiplocele, from a patient of the late William Royston, Esq, which terminated successfully. 65 A fine case of scrotal enterocele; the herniary sac is very much thickened and contained a great portion of the colon.