NINTH DAY^S SALE. •2 LOT [l)uhj to he paid hy the Purchaser.^ veins. The os hyoides, larynx, trachea, bronchi, pharynx, oesophagus, &c. are preserved. 4 Ditto, with the pelvis, crural arches, their crescentic margins, external abdominal rings and columnse, the cavic auricle, the termination of the vena cava abdominalis, the vena cava tboracica, the vena azygos and its communication with the latter : the vena accessoria inferior sinistra, the venfe jugulares internse, the venae subclaviae, the ductus thoracicus injected with mercury and dissected to its union with the venous system, as explained in Lot 2. N.B. There were four renal arteries on each side in this subject, now broken off with the kidnies. 5 Another preparation, having two venjEcavaeabdominales becoming considerable venae satellites to the aorta j there is also a very large pouch formed on the right side of the oesophagus (preserved in this trunk), where some extra- neous body must have remained for years, ("not found on dissection, hav- ing probably passed into the stomach in articulo mortis, from the general relaxation of the system) j the vena accessoria inferior dextra (vena azy- gos), the vena accessoria superior dextra, and vena accessoria inferior sinis- tra, are injected (blue), the trachea, bronchi, with the oesophagus, as before observed, are all preserved. 6 A highly interesting and elaborate preparation of the • ntire trunk and pelvis, in which all the thoracic, abdominal, extra-abdominal, and pelvic viscera are retained; injected in situ naturali. The sexual organs both external and internal (female), as well as the contents of the posterior mediastinum, are preserved. The pleurae and peritoneum are entire, and the sternum j the ramus mammarius internus arteriae subclavisc is seen running on each side of the bone. The lungs are injected by the trachea and bronchi j the heart is in its pericardium. The diaphragm remains in situ naturali. The stomach and intestines (stuffed with cotton) will bear handling. The omentum hepatogastricum and gastro-colicum with the liver are exhibited ; the vesica fellis is injected yellow, as is also the vesica urinaria. Therecep- taculum chyli and thoracic duct are seen a posteriori, also the spermatic ves- sels, both arteries and veins, together with the ureters, rectum, hemorrhoidal vessels, vasa media sacri, vasa intercostalia and lumbalia. The pharynx and oesophagus, larynx, trachea, are displayed ; forming altogether one of the most useful preparations that can possibly be desired. N.B. This speci- men illustrates the entire system of the venae accessoriae, c. g. the vena acces- sovia superior dextra and sinistra, the vena accessoria inferior sinistra and dextra (vena sine pari). 7 A spine, the aorta of which is injected red, the venae subclaviae and vena cava tboracica, green; with the vena accessoria superior dextra and the inferior (vena sine pari); also the vena accessoria inferior sinistra. The ductus thoracicus is injected yellow to its termination. 8 A preparation of the lower part of the trunk from a subject having only one kidney (the left). The inferior portions of the aorta and cava abdomina- lis are injected, the latter receiving the termination of the vena renalis. The vena accessoria inferior sinistra is uncommonly large. 9 A spine, having the aorta and ductus thoracicus injected; the latter yellow : the recepiaculum chyli is extremely capacious, and the thoracic duct very much convoluted. 10 The thoracic portion of the trunk, containing the aorta and its vessels, injected ; the pulmonary artery and ramifications are also injected and traced very minutely into the substance of the lungs. The venae accessoriae inferiores and ductus thoracicus are injected ; the receptaculum chyli is large. 11 A spine to which the aorta is attached and injected, the right carotid artery is the first branch arising from the transverse arch (the arteria innominata being w^anting), the left carotid the second, the left subclavian the third, and lastly, the right subclavian, wliich passes betrveen the bodies of the ver- tebrae and the oesophagus to its destination.