VUl INTRODUCTION. tin. As a rule, these tins of meat hear ample directions as to the best method of opening them, and it is important to read these directions with care before attempting the process. Next, let the dish or plate on to which the meat is to be turned be suited to the size of the tin, and let the cook be prepared with some kind of ornament for-the dish. The outside, of the tinned meat will often present a rough appearance. This is easily rectified by smoothing the outside wittT a knife or spoon. Next, attention should be paid to ornamenting it. For this purpose there is, perhaps, nothing equal to good, bright, fresh green parsley. The parsley should be placed round the pate when it is turned out. This, again, can be further ornamented with cut lemon, or a little row of parsley finely chopped up can be placed on the top ©f' the pate itself round the edge. If the cook possesses any ingenuity it will be . easy to extract, in the case of a tin which contains truflle, a small piece of black truffle, which should be carefully wiped on a cloth and cut into thin slices, so that a little star can be made in the centre of the pate on the top, the centre of the star being a little speck of green parsley; or if by chance a tongue should be in the house, ready cut, a small red centre of tongue may be used. Again, in the case of turning out a tongue, now a popular and standing dish at breakfast-time, how much better does this tongue look when surrounded by a neat paper frill than when placed on the table bare. In the case of potted meats, in the' majority of cases the meat is left in the tin itself. I would, however, suggest that it should always be placed on a small china dish. I have throughout the present work called attention to the importance of using up the remains of all these tinned and potted goods, and I have given many directions as to the best methods of using them up. When the potted meat is turned out on to a small dish, it will keep very good for two or three days, after which I would recommend that it should be used up in the ordinary course of cooking, as directed under the headings of the various potted meats I have described. Another very important branch is that of tinned fish. Probably one of the most popular forms of preserved fish in the present day is tinned lobster and salmon. Full directions will be found as to how to use both tinned salmon and tinned lobster for other purposes than the common mode of eating it cold with oil, vinegar, and pepper. There is one other class, however, to which I would call house- keepers’ attention. I would ask them to refer to preserved sardines, pilchards, and herrings; and to read carefully the directions given how these fish can be served up hot, in the shape of curry, both at breakfast, dinner, and supper. Housekeepers will know how valuable it is to have by them in the house any little something which will make a dish at a few moments’ notice in case of emergency, such as the unexpected arrival of a few guests. The tinned pilchards and sardines are admirably adapted for this purpose. In using the better classes of preserved meats, I have on most occasions called attention to the fact that these tins are admirably adapted for picnics. As, however, picnics invariably take place in hot weather, I have reminded the caterer of the importance of placing the tin in a little iced water for about half an hour before it is opened. At a good picnic ice