CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 12 ARROWROOT FOR INVALIDS.— Arrowroot can be mixed either with , milk or water. Take say a tablespoon- i fill of arrowroot and moisten it with a ! little milk or water and then pour on it some boiling milk or boiling water and keep stirring it. The arrowroot will cause the milk or water to become thick in proportion to the amount of fluid added. For invalids this must neces- sarily be a matter of taste. If you want to make arrowroot into a firm . jelly that will turn out of a mould, you \ must allow four tablespoonfuls to a quart of boiling fluid. If you want the arrowroot thin, one tablespoonful to a quart will be ample. The next question is, How should arrowroot be flavoured ? This again is a matter of taste, and also dependent on the doctor’s orders. For instance, arrowroot can be flavoured with brandy or rum. When the latter is used, by adding lemon-peel and sugar you can make an imitation punch jelly. Sherry is often used to flavour arrowroot, as well as lemon, essence of almonds, essence of vanilla, nutmeg and all kinds of spices, and sugar to taste. Young children when ill will often refuse arrowroot, regarding it in the light of a medicine; when this is the case, make the arrowroot into a jelly— i.e. four tablespoonfuls to aquart, flavour it as desired, and colour it pink with a little cochineal, whichjnust be added to the milk or water before the arrowroot is mixed. Then pour it into a well-oiled mould, and when it is cold turn it out. Before turning it out the arrowroot should be pulled from the sides gently with the fingers. The whole mass adheres together and wall not break. In this form children wall often take it, especially if told some time before- hand that they are going to have a little jelly for a treat. There is a great art in humouring young children when ill. As a case in point I would mention the case wdiere the doctor has ordered a spoonful of beef-tea to be given occasion- ally to an infant. Nurses know how the little thing rebels against it and spits it out, but it is the nurse’s fault. Nature’s food is sweet, and salt an ac- quired taste, as we learn from our old friend “ Friday.” 'When beef-tea isi given to infants use sugar instead of salt, and no difficulty will be then ex- perienced in getting the little patient to take it. When a considerable amount | of nourishment is ordered, after the arrowroot is made eggs can be added i and beaten in. When the food is for ! invalids' it is best only to add the yolks of the eggs. There are several forms of ARROWROOT PUDDING, which can be made as I have already described by pouring boiling water on to some moistened arrowroot. Eggs can then be added or not according to whether the pudding is required rich or otherwise. ! The pudding can then be poured into a mould or put in a pie-disli and baked for rather less than an hour in the oven. When it is baked some nutmeg should be grated over the top. The flavourings before mentioned in arrowroot for in- valids can be used. When lemon-peel is used, the peel can be boiled in the milk or water, or lumps of sugar can be rubbed on the outside of a lemon and the sugar used to sweeten the arrowroot. When arrowroot pudding is put in a mould and afterwards turned out on to a glass dish it can be served with jam round, which also helps to set off the appearance of the dish. Little heaps of greengage, apricot, and raspberry jam placed round the base of the dish is a great improvement. The top of the mould can sometimes be ornamented with jam, but this depends on the shape of the mould. ARROWROOT, TO THICKEN WITH.— Arrowroot is often used for thickening soups, gravies, etc. Cooks should bear in mind that although the soup or gravy may look plenty thick enough while boiling, yet when it begins to get cool it will get thinner, and therefore, especially in the case of gravy when they use arrow- root for thickening, they must make it thicker than they afterwards want it to be, or in other words they must allow for its getting thinner. For thickening soups and gravies I think cornflour superior to arrowroot. There are various dishes to be made from arrow- root, such as arrowroot blanc-mange, arrowroot cream, arrowroot drops, arrowroot fritters, arrowroot jelly, arrowroot sauce, arrowroot souffle, etc., receipts for making which will be found in Cassell’s Dictionary of Cookery. ASPARAGUS.—Asparagus is now sold in tins, and is one of the best of preserved vegetables, as it is quite equal in flavour to fresh. The best method of serving