HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 159 rather than what wo might expect in green-pea Soup when green peas them- selves had imparted their colour to the soup. But with the help of one of these little bottles of colouring matter this difficult}' can be immediately overcome, and the soup now becomes a bright green—indeed, if plenty of colouring matter be put in it surpasses the genuine article. 1 would therefore warn cooks against putting in too much, otherwise the soup will look too good to be true— indeed, there must be a little ingenuity exercised to give the imitation article the appearance of the genuine one. For instance, when clear stock is made from extract of meat, of course there is a pos- sibility of there being no fat whatever in I it. Now it is a very rare thing indeed to find soup made from meat sent to table without one or two tiny little oil specks on the surface. By taking a little piece of butter not bigger than the top of the little finger, and throwing it into the soup just before it is served, there is an air of genuineness imparted to the soup, and the little specks of butter, just one or two here and there, certainly convey the impression that meat, has been used in making it. So, too, in making green-pea soup from husks of youngpeas, it is a great mistake to overdo the colour, as it gives rise to suspicion. Therefore, colour the soup just suffi- ciently green to make it fairly passable. About ten minutes or a quarter of an hour before sending it to table, while it is boiling, throw in the peas them- selves whole. It is wonderful how very cheaply a tureen of green-pea soup can be made if this common-sense and eco- nomical process be carefully carried out. The yellow vegetable colouring matter is very useful for an infinite number of purposes. When used in making cakes it suggests the idea of great liberality in the use of eggs. So, too, in making custards. With the assistance of a little arrowroot to make it thick, one egg, say, for conscience’ sake, can be put in, and some of this yellow colouring mat- ter, and a most delicious custard can be made—at any rate, so far as appearances go—and when flavoured with vanilla really it is most excellent. It is a great satisfaction when using colouring matter to know that it is perfectly harmless, for that too often used by bakers under the general heading of ; “chrome” is very injurious. The sub- ject of making sponge-cakes and orna- ments for cakes is far too large a one to be entex-ed into hei’e, but I would remind housekeepers, and especially young lady housekeepers, what a very great variety of pretty, and at the same time perfectly harmless, sweets can be made for children with the assistance of a few bottles of these colouring matters. There is something very satisfactory in making a home-made twelfth-cake, and for the details I would recommend them to consult “ Cassell’s Dictionary of Cookery.” VENISON SOUP.—Venison soup is now to be obtained in tins, and it is a very convenient form of serving two or three persons with a little soup at a few minutes’ notice. It also mixes admi- rably with the remains of any kind of game that may be left from the pre- vious day, such as backs of gi’ouse or partridges. It has a gamey flavour, and, of course, will bear this addition, when it can be sent to table under the general name of game soup. The soup will also bear the addition of a little stock, but when stock is added it is just as well to add a tablespoonful of brown roux to make the soup a little thicker, and also a teaspoonful of extract of meat, which makes it l’icher. It is also an impi-ovement to add a tablespoonful of port wine. The soup, however, is very nice just as it is, and can be served at once by placing the tin in a saucepan of boiling water for about twenty minvxtes, when the tin can be opened and the soup served. VERMICELLI.—Vermicelli is a prepa- ration made in Italy from the finest wheat flour, and is probably the most popular form in which Italian paste is sold in this country. It is used for a variety of purposes in cooking—sweets, soups, and entries. In making vermi- celli soup the cook should i-emember that the vei-micelli should be first washed, and then boiled sepai’ately in some plain water. Vermicelli soup, which is always a popular one, is a clear soup, but if the vermicelli is added at once to the soup and boiled in it it will turn the bx-ight stock cloudy. The cook should therefore first wash the necessary quantity of vermicelli, pour away tlie water in which it has been washed, throw it into boiling water, and let it boil gently till it is tender. It