134 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S RED-CURRANT SYRUP.—See Cur- rant Syrup. REINDEER TONGUES.—See Tongues. RENNET, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of rennet is a liquid sold in bottles, and it is used for the purpose of curdling milk. Milk is sometimes curdled simply for the purpose of making curds and whey. Perhaps the best method of curdling milk is first of all to place it in a sauce- pan, and place the saucepan on the fire. The rennet is added the moment the first bubble makes its appearance, show- ing that the milk is very nearly on the point of boiling. The essence of ren- net sold in bottles is usually made of such strength that a dessert-spoonful is sufficient to curdle a pint of milk when lukewarm. Probably the greatest use of rennet is for making cheesecakes, which are made from the curds obtained by curdling the milk. There are few sweets nicer than cheesecakes when properly made, and there is no doubt that cheesecakes made from curds are far superior to any imitation. In order to make cheesecakes from curds act as follows :—Take eight ounces of curds, and see that they are sufficiently well pressed to get rid of all the fluid. This should be pounded in a mortar with six ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, the yolks of six eggs, and two ounces of crushed ratafias. This can bo flavoured either with orange-peel or lemon-peel. When flavoured with orange-peel the whole of the sugar should be rubbed on the outside of four or five clean oranges, and when flavoured with lemon-peel the sugar should be rubbed on the outside of three clean lemons. Cheesecakes can also be fla- voured with essence of vanilla and various other kinds of flavourings. All the ingredients should be thoroughly mixed till they become a soft paste, which can then be used for filling small open tarts. It is a common thing to cut thin strips of candied lemon-peel and place them on the top. These cheesecakes should be baked in the oven, and when the pastry is done the cheese- cake itself can be coloured instantly with the assistance of a salamander. Cooks should never keep these cheese- cakes in the oven longer than is neces- sary for baking the pastry, or the pastry will become hard and dried up. For the benefit of inexperienced cooks, I | will explain that a salamander is simply I a piece of red-hot iron, which is com- monly met with in all French kitchens, but not so often in English. Before using it is placed in the fire sufficiently long to make it red-hot. A very simple salamander can be made by placing the kitchen shovel in the fire until it is red- hot. The cheesecake will colour in- stantly if the salamander be held at the distance of about an eighth of an inch off. A very nice way of making cheese- cakes is to take an ordinary pie-dish, and line the edge with puff-paste in the usual way. Now fill up the dish with the mixture, as before directed, and place it in the oven. The top of the cheesecake can be coloured with a sala- mander, but the mixture itself will re- quire baking longer than an ordinary cheesecake, owing to its depth. RHUBARB, BOTTLED.—Rhubarb can now be obtained preserved in bottles, and is very useful for making rhubarb tart when rhubarb is not in season. Good spring rhubarb should look pink, and housekeepers can easily improve the appearance of pale rhubarb by the addition of a few drops of cochineal or vegetable colouring matter. (See Vege- table Colouring.) Bottled rhubarb can also be used for making open tarts. When used for this purpose it requires the addition of a very considerable quantity of sugar—about three-quarters of a pound of sugar to a bottle of rhu- barb. In making rhubarb tart from bottled rhubarb, housekeepers should bear in mind that the rhubarb is already cooked, and' as soon as the pastry is cooked the pie is ready. Rhubarb tart is far nicer cold than hot. RIBBON MACARONI. — See Maca- roni. ROGNONS DE COQ.—Rognons de coq are sold in bottles and are useful as an addition to financierc ragout, ragout a la Toulouse, and ragout a la tortue. A de- scription of ragout financierc and ragout (l la Toulouse will be found under the heading of “ Financihre Ragout.” In making ragout & la tortue the cook should proceed as follows :—Place a good-sized gravy-spoonful of white coclt’s-combs in a stewpan with some cock’s kernels, small truffles, some button mushrooms, some quinelles of forcemeat, and a few gherkins cut into