CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 84 a broken mould than one which no one will care to eat. When it is possible, in hot weather jelly should bo always kept in ice until the last moment, and turned out only just before it is sent to table. It is sometimes desirable before pouring the jelly into the mould to freeze the mould by placing it in some chopped ice mixed with salt. Then hold the mould for a few seconds only over some steam. As the temperature of the copper mould is some 30° below freezing, the steam will, of course, instantly freeze on the mould itself. The mould can be replaced in the ice, and when the jelly is nearly on the point of setting it can be poured into the mould. Owing to its being im- bedded in the ice the jelly will soon set hard. The mould should be kept in the ice until just before it is wanted. When the mould of jelly is served it should bo tolerably hard and firm, and also per- fectly cold. After the jelly has been in the room some quarter of an hour or more, if it is in its proper condition, it will begin to fall to pieces. This shows that it has been served exactly as it should be. I would remind cooks that, when a mould of jelly breaks and there is no time to have it reset, the old jelly-glasses are very convenient for serving it. LEMON JUICE.—Lemon juice can be obtained in bottles, and is very con- venient for making cooling drinks. One very popular one is known by the name of “ Lemon squash.” Lemon squash is made by sweetening a little lemon juice with some powdered sugar and adding a bottle of soda-water. The soda-water, of course, should be kept in ice, or a small piece of ice should be added. In all these cooling drinks ice is almost an essential, and 1 think that this country is gradually becoming more and more aware of the fact of how popular a small lump of ice is at all seasons of the year. In America, although the thermometer is down to zero, a lump of ice always accompanies every kind of cold drink, besides a glass of iced water being served at breakfast, dinner, luncheon, or sup- per, as a matter of course. There is something barbarous in a refreshing drink served warm. Bottled lemon juice can also be used for flavouring puddings, custards, etc. It is best when tolerably fresh, and will not keep good for a very long time. LEMON MARMALADE.—Lemon mar- malade is not so popular or so generally used as orange marmalade, but it forms an agreeable change, and is by some persons preferred to the latter. It is an excellent breakfast dish, and can also be used to surround white puddings, such as cornflour, arrowroot, etc. Lemon marmalade can also be placed side by side with some red jam, such as rasp- berry jam, and this is a very nice gar- nish to a white pudding when turned out of a mould. LEMON PEEL, ESSENCE OF.— Of course, if caution has to be taken with regard to using ordinary essence of lemon, still greater care should be taken in using essence of lemon peel. Essence of lemon peel imparts not only a lemon but a bitter flavour, and should there- fore be used with extreme caution. It j is very valuable to have a bottle at hand in cases where fresh lemons can- not be obtained. LEMON PICKLE SAUCE. — Lemon pickle sauce is a species of lemon vine- gar, and is used to impart a very agree- able relish to fish sauces. Lemon pickle sauce will be found to go very well with a little melted butter when served with boiled mackerel instead of ordinary vinegar; and, indeed, whenever vinegar is used for any kind of fish, it will as a rule be found that lemon pickle sauce is preferable. The flavour is very delicate, and of course those who are not fond of vinegar should use it with caution. LEMON SYRUP.—Lemon syrup is pro- bably the best known of all syrups, and is a most convenient form of having a cooling drink ready at any moment of the day. The most agreeable form in which to take lemon syrup is to stir up a spoonful of it in iced soda-water or plain water. I have before noticed, under the headings of “ Apricot Syrup ” and “ Red-Currant Syrup,” how im- portant a part these syrups might be made to play in assisting to decrease the tendency to take too much stimulant. There is no doubt that in the present day this subject is regarded with greater importance than it has been for very many years past. In what are gene- rally known as the good old days, drinking was generally confined to after dinner. Men who had worked hard ( or ridden hard during the day com-