HOUSEKEEPER'S O VIDE. the pudding is turned out the stars "Will of course be on the surface, and it is Sometimes desirable for the cook to have a few spare ones in order to supply the places of any that may have accidentally moved or slipped. Pudding of this kind should always be surrounded by sweet sauce. As I think I have observed in a former place, in making sweet sauce rum is superior for flavouring to any ether kind of spirit. CHERRIES IN SYRUP.—Cherries in syrup are similar to bottled cherries, only the juice in which they are pre- served is a thick syrup instead of plain water. They can be turned out into a glass dish and eaten as they are, and consequently form a very useful sweet to be added to the table quickly in cases of emergency. Cherries in syrup are very suitable for making open tarts like those met with on the Continent. When the syrup is thin, for making these tarts it is desirable to add a little gela- tine or isinglass, so that when cold the juice forms an absolute jelly. For this purpose a very small amount of isinglass will be found sufficient. When round open tarts are made filled with preserved cherries, they should always be placed close together and well covered in their own syrup. The out- side rim of the pastry should be glazed with a little syrup in which some brown colouring matter has been added, such as browning or Parisian essence. This can be brushed lightly over the pastry with a brush ; then, when it is in a sticky state, sprinkle over it a little coarse white sugar and a little finely- chopped angelica. In chopping citron, angelica, lemon-peel, etc., consider- able difficulty will often be found by the cook, as the ingredients are apt to stick on the knife. In chopping angelica, cooks should remember that, just as in chopping suet, a little flour will prevent the suet from sticking, so in chopping lemon-peel, citron, angelica, etc., a little very finely-powdered sugar will have exactly the same effect, and if added in moderate quantities will not affect the colour when they are to be used for ornamental purposes. CHERRY BRANDY.—Cherry brandy is a liqueur too much neglected in the present day. This old-fashioned re- storer after a long walk or very fatiguing work was much more popular in the days of our grandfathers than it is now. It possesses but very little intoxicating power, but is at the same time very re- viving. It will be remembered after Mr. Pickwick’s memorable breakdown in his chaise, that when he and his part}' arrived at the hospitable home of Mr. Wardle at Manor Farm, the very first act of his host, after remarking how tired his guests were, was to bring out the cherry brandy. It is rarely used for cooking purposes, but cherry brandy will make an excellent jelly. One reason why cherry brandy possesses very little intoxicating power is that good cherry brandy is made by preserving cherries in brandy and sugar, and the cherries possess the remarkable faculty of withdrawing the spirit from the brandy and absorbing it into them- selves. Were you to open a bottle of brandy cherries and place the cherries in one dish and the liquor in another, the one which contained the cherries would be found to contain three or four times the amount of alcohol contained in the dish of liquor. CHERRY JAM.—Cherry jam is of a very pretty colour, and, like most other jams, is always best when made in large quantities. It is in this respect that some of our large manufacturers have an advantage over private houses. Home-brewed ale is very pure and genuine, like home-made jam, but, owing to the quantities in which jams are made, it is as difficult for a housewife to compete with a manufacturer of jam as it would be for her to produce a cask of ale that would stand the test of com- petition with that brewed by Bass or Allsopp. Cherry jam can be used for making open tarts, tartlets, etc., and for all purposes for which jams of any kind are required. CHERRY SYRUP.—This makes a deli- cious drink when mixed with iced water, or, better still, iced soda-water. A spoonful of cherry syrup can also be added with advantage to cherry-pies made from bottled cherries. CHICKEN-AND-HAM PATES.-Chicken- and-ham patios are a very popular form of what is known as breakfast delicacies. They are preserved in small tins, and have these great advantages — they can be kept in the house, and remain good till they are wanted, and can be always produced, when required, as a