10G CBOSSE AND BLACKWELL'H thus taking a little simple nourishment the long-wished-for sleep will at last come. ARBONNE HONEY. — See Honey. NATAL ARROWROOT.—See Arrowroot. NEPAUL CAYENNE PEPPER.—See Cayenne Pepper. NOYEAU. PINK AND WHITE.— No- yeau is a very popular liqueur, which owes its flavour to an essence obtained from peach-stones. This flavour is very similar to, though more delicate than, that obtained from bitter almonds, and is very useful in cooking. Noyeau is sometimes used to be poured round sweet omelets after the noyeau has been ignited. It makes a very admirable liqueur to be handed round after dinner, as the mingled bitter and sweet act as an admirable clearance to the palate. It is, of course, a liqueur that should be taken with caution and moderation. A large quantity of noyeau, especially if mixed with any spirit, such as brandy, has a decidedly deadening effect on the nerves. Noyeau is often used in making jelly, and in this respect it ranks almost with maraschino jelly. In making noyeau jelly the noyeau should not be put in till the jelly is nearly cold and on the point of setting. For making jelly, pink noyeau is preferable to the white; but both pink and white differ very little in flavour, the only difference being that a little colouring matter has been added in the one case and not in the other. Noyeau can be used for a variety of purposes where bitter almonds or essence of almonds are used, and of course imparts a more delicate flavour. Practically, however, in cooking, essence of almonds for all purposes, such as custards, cakes, ratafias, and maca- roons, would be quite equal to noyeau. There is not one in a thousand who would detect the difference. Noyeau is often used to add to claret cup at the last moment. Next to maraschino, pro- bably noyeau is the best addition to claret cup. In either case, a small glass of good old liqueur brandy should be added as well. NOYEAU JELLY.—Noyeau jelly can now be obtained in bottles varying from a quart to half a pint. This jelly is very delicate in flavour, and is admir- ably adapted at times for invalids. It is very useful to have a bottle or two in the house in case of sickness, where in- valids are apt to be fanciful, and require every now and then a little additional zest given to the appetite. Noyeau jelly, as supplied by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, is exceedingly delicate in flavour, and very pure, and is conse- quently recommended by medical men for the use of invalids. Noyeau jelly is very suitable to be served in small moulds. A very nice dish can be made by having a quantity of little moulds of jelly, each containing only suffi- cient for one person. These moulds should be flavoured with different liqueurs, and coloured diff erently so as to distinguish them when turned out. Some capital moulds can now be ob- tained for the purpose at any first-class ironmonger’s. A small dish, composed of various jellies, such as maraschino jelly, noyeau jelly, vanilla jelly, lemon jelly, chartreuse jelly, etc., forms a very pleasing novelty for a dinner-party. The little copper moulds should be em- bedded in chopped ice and salt before being filled, and when taken from the ice should be held over a little steam for a few seconds. Owing to the copper mould being some thirty degrees below freezing-point, the steam will distantly condense on the surface of the mould and form a very minute film of ice. The jelly should not be put in till it is nearly cold and on the point of setting. Of course the intense cold, and the very small size of the moulds, will cause the jelly to set almost directly. It should then be turned out and served. It is always best not to turn out the jelly till the very last moment. Good jelly should be of such consistency that it melts in the mouth. Really first-class jelly should set in the ice, but yet should almost fall to pieces of its own accord after having been kept in a hot room for any length of time. The great charm of this jelly is its delicious coolness. This is not to be obtained unless the cook retains the jelly in the mould till a few minutes before it is served. NOYEAU, FRUITS IN.—See Fruits in Noyeau.'