HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 89 have prepared it from tinned lobster there would probably be no shell ob- tainable, therefore the cook must serve it in scallop-shells ; or should some deep oyster-shells be obtainable, they may be used to form a very pretty dish in which to serve bashawed lobster. Fill eacli shell with the lobster forcemeat, shake some bread -crumbs over the top, and cover it completely with them. Then bake them in the oven till the bread-crumbs are a nice brown colour. The bread-crumbs, before they are shaken on, must be very dry, or else they will take some time to brown over. A few bread-raspings, a bright golden brown in colour, give a tone to the dish. LOZENGES, GELATINE.—See Gela- tine. LOZENGES, MEAT.—See Meat Lozen- ges. LUCCA OIL.—See Oil. LUCKNOW CHUTNEY.—See Chutney. LUNETTES, CRYSTALLISED. — Lu- nettes, crystallised, are a species of crys- tallised fruit. See Fruits, Crystal- lised. wslj t'jylACARONI. — Macaroni is a rfcvAwl S preparation of pure wheaten firY/l F fl°ur made in Italy, where it is almost as much the staff of life as bread is in this country. In many parts of the Con- tinent, and especially in Italy itself, a course of macaroni always pre- cedes meat at dinner, somewhat in the same style that in olden days in boys’ schools pudding was served before meat in order that it might act as somewhat of a damper on the appetite. There is no doubt whatever that if macaroni was more popular in this country an enor- mous saving in the weekly butcher’s bill would be made by all families who used it. In England it is too common to hear the remark, “We can’t afford soup and fish every day.” In France, however, the tradesman com- mences his dinner every day with soup on the ground that he cannot afford to dine without it. The fish-trade in England is a subject that now calls forth the attention of all bodies, and there is no doubt that before long great efforts will be made to enable the poor to have cheap fish. For middle-class families, possessed of what may be termed middle- class incomes, who live in towns where the supply of fish is tolerably constant, there is no doubt that by far the best method of buying fish is to leave the class of fish to the fish- monger. Too often in this country when fish is wanted housekeepers will select their own fish, and will go to the fishmonger’s and give the following order:—“Oh, I want a small pair of soles,” or “ I want a slice of salmon for dinner to-day.” Now, it is possible that when the order is given the soles may be selling at the rate of half-a- crown a pound, and salmon may be per- haps two shillings a pound. It is also equally possible that on the same day fresh herrings, mackerel, plaice, etc., may be a glut in the market, and could be retailed at the price of a penny a pound. Each day the supply of fish varies, and if housekeepers were to leave the kind of fish to the discre- tion of the fishmonger it would be quite possible to ensure the supply of two pounds of fish daily at the rate of three- pence per pound. There are many fish- mongers well known in the West End of London who would willingly supply families with sixpennyworth of fish daily if the selection of the fish were left to them. It is by this method that large restaurants and hotel - keepers are enabled to retail their fish at such mode- rate prices. They make a bargain with the fishmonger or fish salesman for so many pounds of fish all the year round, and thus they have the benefit of only supplying the kind of fish which happens to be cheapest in the market. I have alluded thus to the subject of fish because in many parts of the country, especially where fish is not always obtainable, macaroni may be used as a substitute. In England we are accustomed as a rule to see it served up in one form only, and that is as macaroni cheese, and this not as a damper on the appe- tite, but as the last of a series of courses —in fact, it takes the place of cheese itself. I would very strongly recom- mend housekeepers, especially where economy is at all essential, to try the ex- periment for a few weeks of commencing dinner with macaroni. There are num- berless ways of cooking macaroni, and I will as briefly as possible refer to some