128 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell are ex- ceedingly good, rich, and dark in colour. They are, however, all the better when served with a little sweet sauce. Make the pudding hot through by placing it on the fire in boiling water, taking care that the water keeps boiling. Then take the tin out of the saucepan, open it, and turn the pudding out on to a dish. Have ready the sauce to be served, which should be made as follows:— Take a quarter of a pint of water and add sufficient butter and flour to make the sauce about as thick as gruel. If the sauce is wanted very rich, three or four times the amount of butter originally used can be dissolved in the sauce. Next add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, having dissolved in the water six or seven lumps of sugar to make the sauce thoroughly sweet. Then add a table- spoonful of mm and a tablespoonful of brandy. Brandy sauce made from a mixture of brandy and rum is far supe- rior to brandy sauce made from brandy alone. One of the lumps of sugar should, previously to being dissolved in the sauce, have been rubbed on the outside of a lemon, so as to impart the flavour of lemon-peel. Housekeepers who are liable to be taken by surprise—i.e., who are occasionally called on to provide a little something extra, owing to the arrival of unexpected guests—would do well to have one or two of these tinned plum puddings by them. They are as cheap as they are delicious, and the amount of trouble saved is very con- siderable.. It is never worth while to make plum pudding in very small quantities, and where there are only one or two persons these tinned pud- dings are a great convenience. POIS GROS.— Pois gros are, as the name implies, large peas, which can be obtained in tins. I do not myself think that large peas are equal in flavour to small, but for some purposes they are more suited. For instance, in making ragouts, hashes, and stews, in which a number of vegetables are mixed, the big peas are better than the small. The hash made from stewed neck of mutton in which is turnip, carrot, and some onions, is very greatly improved by having a tin of good-sized peas mixed in with them. These big peas also make a very nice dish when served by themselves. They should be made hot through by placing the tin for about twenty minutes in boiling water. The tin should then be opened, the water strained off, and the peas turned into a hot vegetable dish, when either a table- spoonful of white sauce or plain butter can be added, With a little chopped parsley and lemon juice. Good white sauce is far better than butter, but either will do. The peas must be served very hot, and when it is iwssible they should be surrounded by fried crofltons of bread. When, however, the peas are served with another dish, such as roast lamb, roast leg of mutton, etc., it is better to serve them plain with the ad- dition of a few fresh mint leaves, a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of sugar, and a little, pepper. This will make the peas slightly sweet, a taste which they are often very apt to lose after being preserved in tins. POIS PETITS.-The little fresh green peas are as a rule preferred to the larger kinds. An enormous quantity of these peas are now preserved in tins in France and sent over to this country, and as a rule the younger the peas are the better—indeed I have no hesitation in saying that many of these tins of peas are far superior to the majority of peas that can be obtained at any green- grocer’s or market in England, simply owing to the fact that English peas are allowed to grow too long, and that too great a length of time is allowed to elapse between the time of the peas being gathered and their being eaten. The preserving of green peas in this is an industry carried on largely in France and elsewhere. The peas are picked young and are tinned at once. These peas may be served in the English fashion with a joint, in which case they should be handed round perfectly plain. The peas are best warmed up in the tins themselves, by keeping the tin boiling for twenty minutes. The water should then be strained off and the peas turned into a vegetable dish. A few fresh mint-leaves boiled can be served with them, and also a dash of lemon-juiee, a little powdered sugar, a saltspoonful of salt, and half a saltspoonful of pepper, should be added to them? When the peas are served in the French fashion, as a dish by themselves, they require the addition of a little butter or white sauce. A couple of tablespoonfuls of