112 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL’S ONIONS, PICKLED.—Pickled onions I are always a favourite pickle, of course ' the drawback being that they affect the breath. They can be served with every kind of cold meat, such as beef I and mutton, but are very unsuited ! to be served with poultry. A very nice sauce can be made from pickled onions, to be served with mutton cut- lets for breakfast. Take sufficient onions out of the bottle to make, when chopped, a couple of tablespoonfuls. Next take about a quarter of a pint of good stock and put it in a small stew- pan. Add to this a small teaspoonful of Crosse and Blackwell’s extract of meat. This will turn the stock a deep rich brown colour. Now add the pickled onions and let them simmer. The acidity from the onions will impart a piquant flavour to the sauce. Take about a teaspoonful of arrowroot and mix it with a little of the sauce. Add the arrowroot till the sauce thickens and becomes as thick nearly as gruel. The cutlets can be grilled on a gridiron, and drained for a few seconds on a cloth, then placed on a dish, and the sauce poured in the middle of them. This is a very delicious breakfast dish and very appetising. It can of course be served at luncheon, but is not alto- gether adapted for dinner. Cayenne pepper can be added to this dish accord- ing to taste. Sometimes in the morning under certain circumstances the flavour of cayenne is very acceptable. When this is the case there are few mediums for conveying cayenne pepper to a iaded appetite better than the sauce I nave mentioned. I allude to circum- stances where after a public dinner gentlemen are apt to feel that they have taken “ too much salmon.” OPENERS.—See Knives. ORANGE BITTERS.-Orange bitters is the most popular of all bitters, its greatest rival being augostura bitters. Orange bitters is very rarely taken by itself. It is almost universally used in conjunction with some other liquid, such as brandy, sherry, gin, etc. I think the proper proportion- of orange bitters is about one quarter of bitters to three quarters of wine or brandy. This, however, is a matter of taste. I do not recollect any instance in which orange bitters is used for cooking pur- poses. On a hot day, when persons are very thirsty, a small glass of orange bitters in a bottle of iced soda-water is a very agreeable drink to be taken be- fore dinner. How far bitters in any form are advisable is a subject I will not on this occasion enter into. Of course there are some persons whose appetites would be completely destroyed by taking gin and bitters before dinner, while on the other hand there are many whose appetites would be improved by so doing. ORANGE CHIPS.—Orange chips are strips of orange peel candied. They are very nice and make an excellent garnish to be placed round a dish of biscuits or a cake. ORANGE CURACOA.—See CuitAcOA. » ‘ ORANGE, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of orange, like essence of lemon, must be used with caution. A few drops will as a rule be amply sufficient to impart the flavour of orange to a pint of fluid. It has a very agreeable bitter taste, and can be used to flavour a glass of sherry or gin as a substitute for orange bitters. Essence of orange may also be used for flavouring claret-cup and a variety of dishes, but, as I have before stated, it must be used with caution. ORANGE FLOWER WATER.—Orange flower water is very valuable for what may be termed high-class cookery. There are few scents more delicious than orange flower, so suggestive as it is of the bridal wreath. That delicately flavoured syrup, capillaire syrup, owes its excellent bouquet to the addition of orange flower water. One of the most delicious sweets is made with the help of this orange flower water. I allude to omelette souffle, a dish for which the “Freemasons’ Tavern” is so greatly noted. This establishment has always maintained its reputation by engaging the services of one of the first cooks in Europe to superintend its kitchen. At the present time M. Burlet presides, a worthy successor to the late M. Francatelli, who, in his work enti- tled “The Modern Cook,” gives the following receipt for making omelette souffle. “ Put the yolks of six eggs into a large, basin, add six ounces of pow- dered sugar, a dessert-spoonful of potato flour, two of orange flower water or any