121 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. fritters under the heading “Foie Gras,” (see Foie Gras). PATE DE FOIE D’OIE TRUFFLED.— These pates are the same, under another name, as jxttes dc foie gras, and can be used like pate de foie gras in every re- spect (see Pate de Foie Gras). PAYNE’S OSBORNE SAUCE. — See Osborne Sauce. PEACH MARMALADE.—This is a most excellent, rich, and delicious pre- serve, made from peaches. It is very nice served simply plain as a breakfast dish like ordinary marmalade. It is admirably adapted for making small open jam tarts or rather tartlets. It will also make an extremely good roly- poly pudding, and as the marmalade is’ of a very good thick consistency, the cook will have no difficulty in get- ting a considerable quantity of marma- lade into the roly-poly pudding. Peach marmalade in conjunction with peaches preserved, forms the basis of a variety of very high-class dishes. M. Franca- telli, who was for many years chef at the Freemasons’ Tavern, in his book, “The Modem Cook,” gives several re- ceipts for using it. I will mention one he calls “ Croutes aux Peches” : “ With the remains of some brioche or savarin cakes cut some oblong shapes about three inches in length, and about an inch wide; sugar them over and glaze with a heated salamader. Then spread each one with some peach marmalade, having first made a ring on them with some of the jam. Previous to dishing up these fingers one resting on another in the form of a high wreath, place on the top of them some halves of peaches in syrup made of crystallised fruit, and having filled the hollow centre of the entremet with whipped cream, stick a feather of green angelica on the summit, decorate the base of the peaches with preserved cherry, raspberry, strawberry, or currant jelly, pour some maraschino over the crust and round the base and serve.” This is evidently a very deli- cious sweet, but perhaps not altogether adapted for families with limited incomes. PEACHES, CRYSTALLISED.—Crystal- lised peaches are always a favourite form of preserved fruits, and are an essential part of any dish composed of mixed crystallised fruits, which dish should always be arranged with an eye to colour. The best contrasts will be the dark greengages or crystallised almonds. In arranging these fruits on the dish pile them up in pyramid form, and use preserved cherries to fill up the chinks. PEACHES IN JUICE.—Peaches are now sold preserved in juice as well as in syrup in tins. Those preserved in juice are admirably adapted for making peach-tart. This is a very delicious tart, but housekeepers should bear in mind that there is a considerable difference between peaches in juice and in syrup. The former require the addition of a considerable amount of sugar. The juice should be boiled and sweetened, the peaches should be piled up as high as possible in the centre of the dish, and then the sweet juice should be poured over them, and the whole covered with light puff-paste and baked in the oven. The kernels of the peach-stones, if there are any, should always be added to the pie. This pie is much nicer served cold than hot. Devonshire cream is an ex- cellent addition, or ordinary cream can be served with it, or plain custard. PEACHES IN SYRUP.—Peaches are now to be obtained in syrup. There is no doubt that those preserved in syrup are. far superior to those preserved in plain juice. Preserved peaches form an excellent dish, suitable either as a sweet or for dessert. Open the tin and pile the peaches up in the centre of a dish. Pour the syrup over them, and orna- ment the dish by sticking in the crevices between the peaches a few preserved cherries. The appearance of the dish can be still further improved by cutting up some angelica in strips and sticking them into the peaches themselves. This dish can be improved if there is time by boiling the syrup itself and adding a little gelatine, sufficient to make it very nearly a jelly when cold. This can be coloured pink with a little cochineal, and the pink syrup can be poured over the dish, which will, of course, give it a far better appearance. A still greater improvement is, first, to clarify the syrup by means of the white of an egg. A very nice sweet can be made from peaches by making the peaches into what is known as a compote, and serv- ing them in the centre of a border of rice. In fact, they can be treated in