CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 124 PICKLES, MIXED.-Plain pickles are sold not only in bottles by themselves, such as onions, beans, etc., but also in bottles mixed. This is, of course, a convenient form when no one form of pickle is preferred to another. A spoon- ful of plain mixed pickle can be chopped up and used for making pickle sauce, by being mixed with a spoonful of good brown gravy, and all warmed up to- gether. When the sauce is liked acid, the pickles and gravy may be mixed immediately the pickles are taken from the bottle. But should acidity in the flavour be objected to, take out a spoon- ful of pickles, chop them up, and place them in a frying-pan and let them warm sufficiently long for the pieces of pickle to get nearly dry. By thus evaporating the vinegar any very great acidity of flavour will be got rid of. PICKLED OX TONGUES. — See Tongues. PICNIC TONGUES.—See Tongues. PILAR AND CO.’S TOMATO CON- SERVE.—See Tomatoes. PILCHARDS IN OIL.—Pilchards in oil form a very excellent breakfast-dish, and now that so great difficulty is experienced in obtaining genuine sardines at all, it is often far better to ask for pilchards pre- served in oil, which are genuine, in pre- ference to too often getting sprats in oil under the name of sardines. Pilchards preserved in oil are very nice eaten exactly as they are. The tin should be opened, and the contents then be placed in a fancy jar (see Fancy Jars). Pil- chards are often eaten just like sardines, and are very nice with buttered toast. A little cayenne pepper and lemon juice should be served with them, as these very much assist to bring out the flavour. Another very nice dish that can be made from pilchards is that of “ Curried Pilchards.” As these tins can be kept for any length of time, this is a very convenient dish, as an extra dish, by its means, can be served at dinner or luncheon at a very few mo- ments’ notice. Open the tin, and pour the oil off from the pilchards into a fry- ing-pan, placing it over the fire. Next mix a dessert-spoonful of curry- powder, first moistening the curry-powder with a little water in a cup. Now take a small spoonful of arrowroot, and mix it with a little butter in a cup. Stir the curry-powder and oil in the frying-pan, and then gradually add the arrowroot and water. As soon as the whole mix- ture is as thick as gruel, add the pil- chards, putting the curry sauce as much as possible on to them. Make the pil- chards hot tlu-ough, and then place them in their dish, and pour the contents of the frying-pan over them. If there is time, some boiled rice should be served with them. An improvement to this curry would be the addition of a little curry-paste, as well as curry-powder. Also, if there are any bay-leaves in the house, four or five of them should be boiled in the mixture and served up with the fish whole. PINEAPPLE SYRUP. — Of all the various syrups sold I think pineapple is the most delicious. There are few syrups that make a more refreshing drink on a hot day than this, and the nicest form is to mix it with iced soda- water. It can also be taken by itself in plain water, ice being a great im provement. I have already, under the headingsof “ AprieotSyrup” and “Red- Currant Syrup,” called attention to the very great importance of these syrups being more largely used throughout the country than they are at present, as forming probably that necessary substi- tute for intoxicating liquor which is the only means of preventing habits of drinking being acquired by the rising | generation. The first essential is that \ this substitute should be as cheap as the cheapest form of intoxicating fluid. That old or middle-aged men would take to these syrups is very improbable. But it is with the young that the cure is simplest. The old saying that pre- vention is better than cure is more ap- plicable to this vice than to any other. Pineapple syrup is also sometimes used i for cooking purposes. A very delicious 1 pudding can be made from preserved pineapple, whether preserved in tins in j slices or preserved whole. This rich and high-class pudding is made exactly in the same way as ginger pudding is made from preserved ginger (see Ginger, Preserved), the only difference being that pineapple is used with the other ingredients instead of preserved ginger, and the pineapple syrup is used for making the sauce instead of the liquor in which the ginger was preserved.