82 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S The aspic jelly can be taken ont of the bottle with a marrow-spoon, and by means of two forks drawn in opposite directions it can bo minced fine, and small heaps of it piled round the dish. This forms a very pretty dish. Some- times it may be advisable, if the vege- tables are not very bright, to get a little very bright parsley and just sprinkle this lightly over the vegetables. The vegetables can be dressed m the ordinary way with a little oil or vinegar, but they will not require much vinegar, as the aspic jelly is sufficiently sharp to give the dish a slightly acid taste when eaten. These tins of birds preserved whole, stuffed with truffle, are very convenient to have in the house, and especially to those who live in the country. By this means, with the as- sistance of some bottled aspic jelly, and a tin of macedoines, a handsome supper dish can be always made at a short j notice. Housekeepers know how very convenient it is to be able to have \ constantly by them a few such dishes i in reserve when taken unawares by the ' unexpected arrival of a few guests. LAVER.—Laver is a dish not often met with, nor is it often referred to in ! cookery-books. One of the few books which refers to laver is that very com- prehensive work, “ Cassell’s Dictionary of Cookery.” According to Sir Henry j Thompson, laver is in season from Oc- S tober to March, and consists of two native marine plants—Porphyra Vulgaris I and Veva Latissima. It is generally served as an accompaniment to roast mutton, and can be dressed like spinach, j with butter and a little stock, and a ! dash of lemon-juice. One method of j serving laver is as follows :—Let it soak | in two fresh waters, boil it till quite tender, add some fresh butter, and squeeze over it some juice of a lemon or small orange. Stir it well, and serve it j in a dish over a lamp or on a hot-water | dish. The taste for laver is an acquired one. Instead of the butter a little white sauce may be added, but lemon-juice should never be omitted. Laver is now supplied in tins by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell. The best mode of W'arming it is to place the tin in boiling water for twenty minutes or more, or the laver may be turned out and warmed up in a saucepan. It should be served very hot, and a little lemon cut can be handed with it, or lemon-juice may be added just before serving. LAZENBY’S HARVEY'S SAUCE.—See Harvey’s Sauce. LEA AND PERRIN’S WORCESTER SAUCE.—See Worcester Sauce. LEMON CHIPS, CANDIED. — Candied lemon chips are very nice when served by themselves as a dish for dessert. Children are very fond of them, but they are somewhat indigestible. The best way to serve lemon chips is to use thetn as a garnish for seme other dessert dish, such as pound-cake, or they can be placed round a dish of fancy bis- cuits. LEMON CREAM.—Lemon cream can now be obtained preserved. It should be dissolved and the whole poured into a mould, and the mould when set should be turned out on to a glass or silver dish. The base can be ornamented with some pieces of cut lemon and a few green candied fruits. The appearance of the mould can be considerably improved in various ways, depending upon the shape of the mould. For instance, if the mould is surmounted by a cucumber, a small quantity, just sufficient to fill the cucumber, may be coloured a bright green with some of Breton’s vegetable colouring, or the top of the mould can be coloured a deep red with some of Breton’s carmine. Should the mould be surrounded with knobs, the knobs can be filled with a little coloured jelly. The bright coloured jelly on the top of a solid white cream has a pretty effect. LEMON, ESSENCE OF. — Essence of lemon is a very valuable essence, by which the flavour of lemon can- be imparted to a great variety of dishes, such as puddings, etc. Like all these essences, however, the cook should use essence of lemon with caution. For in- stance, I will take the case of apple-pie. Most cooks know that a few strips of lemon-peel and a few cloves are a great improvement to apple-pie. Should there, however, be a difficulty in obtain- ing lemons, a few drops of essence of lemon may be substituted. As a rule, essence of lemon should never be used for flavouring purposes unless the dish is to be eaten cold. In saying that it should not as a ride be used for any-