90 CEOSSE AND BLACKWELL’S not so well known in this country as on the Continent, where macaroni is re- arded as an article of everyday food, n Italy the most general way of serv- ing macaroni is as follows : — First, take a pound of macaroni, wash it thoroughly, and let it boil in plain water till it is tender ; a little salt should be added to the water. A still better method would be to boil the macaroni in a little greasy stock. The water that has been used for boiling a ham, a piece of pickled pork, or a piece of bacon, etc., would do very well for the purpose. When the macaroni is tender, drain off the water, and turn the macaroni into a dish. Add to it a good-sized spoonful of tomato sauce or some of the conserve of tomato. A little butter should also be added, and a little grated Parmesan cheese. Parmesan cheese, which is an Italian cheese, is best suited for the purpose; it can be obtained in bottles. There is no doubt that Parmesan cheese is superior to every other kind of cheese. Francatelli recommends a mixture of Parmesan cheese with an equal quantity of Gru- yhre. In English homes housekeepers will find macaroni a very cheap and use- ful form in which they can use up the remains of all kinds of cheese used for the table. Grated cheese is an extremely economical dish, as well as a very sim- ple one ; because if cheese is not used in this way it will be thrown away. All housekeepers know that there are times when cheese gets into a state in which it is impossible to send it to table as it is. Too often—and I fear it is owing to teither ignorance or indifference—the remains of cheese are absolutely wasted. A dish of macaroni served at the com- mencement of dinner, as I have de- scribed, will be found to be an immense saving, as after a good plate of a tempt- ing dish of this description it will be found that very much less meat is eaten. Unlike meat, macaroni increases in weight by cooking, owing to the mois- ture it absorbs. A leg of mutton, weigh- ing ten pounds uncooked, will weigh considerably less than ten pounds after being roasted or baked. A very great amount of moisture will escape in the form of steam, and a considerable amount of fat leaves the meat of course in the shape of dripping. On the other hand, macaroni which weighed a pound at the grocer’s, after cooking will be found to have very much increased in weight and bulk. I would here remind housekeepers that it can be bought at the rate of sixpence a pound. There is a very general impression that macaroni is an expensive article. It is only wheaten Hour in a very dry state, and consequently very light. When, how- ever, it is soaked and boiled in either stock, water, or milk, the weight in- creases very materially, and house- keepers will be astonished to find how much can be made out of a pound of macaroni when cooked. Probably one difficulty in the way of the receipt I have just given is the tomato sauce. Unfortunately we all know that in this country housekeepers protest against all kinds of novelties. To buy a bottle of tomato sauce seems to them an unneces- sary extravagance. I will therefore give one other method of cooking macaroni, which is not so general or so good as the previous one. Proceed as follows Boil the macaroni in water—or, still better, stock—till it is tender ; dram it, and place it in a dish. Then slice up an onion, chop it somewhat finely, and fry the chopped onion in a clean frying- pan in a little butter. The onion must be fried till it is just on the point of turning brown, when it should be taken out of the frying-pan. The frying-pan should correspond to that used for mak- ing omelets ; it must not be burnt, other- wise the butter will turn dark, and ap- pear like “nut-brown butter,” or, as it is sometimes called, “black butter.” The onions should be fried tender, but the butter should be kept the same colour as the sauce. Now pour the con- tents of the frying-pan over the maca- roni already boiled tender. Add a little pepper ana salt, and toss it lightly to- gether. Some grated Parmesan or Other cheese can then bo added to the dish according to fancy ; but this dish of ma- caroni, with only onion, pepper, salt, and butter, will be found very palatable and very satisfying, and, if served as a course by itself before meat, a great saving will be effected ; and, in the case of the majority of healthy persons, a more wholesome meal will be obtained than if they dined off meat alone. Pro- bably in England most of us every day eat more meat than is good for us, especially those who are well-to- do in the world. An Irish navvy who rises at five in the morning