39 HOUSEKEEPERS GUIDE. currant jelly, cipnamon, cloves, lemon- peel, and port wine should be thrown into a heated jar, as before directed, and the raw cutlets put into the jar with them. The jar should be tied over as before with a piece of bladder. The cutlets should be kept in till the jar is quite cold. By this means the meat itself gets impregnated with the flavour of the wine, cinnamon, etc. They can be afterwards cooked over a clear fire, i.e., grilled after being dipped in clarified butter. In the case of hare or venison being somewhat high, it will generally be found that black-currant jelly is superior to red, though the latter is more frequently used. CURRANT JELLY, RED.—Red-currant jellyis usuallyserved with roast mutton, hare, jugged hare, venison, etc. It can also be used in exactly the same manner as black-currant jelly for assisting the flavour of hare soup, venison soup, etc. Care should be taken not to make the soup too sweet. Red currant jelly is also used for making sweet sauce. One popular sauce, known as cherry sauce, is made from red-currant jelly. The currant jelly, say a small pot, should be placed in a stewpan with a dozen cloves, a stick of cinnamon, the rind of a couple of oranges, a small piece of garlic, and a large spoonful of good brown gravy should be added to it, with half a pint of burgundy. The whole should then be allowed to boil for about twenty minutes. The sauce should be strained, and the juice of a couple of oranges added to it before sending the sauce to table. This sauce is generally served with venison, red-deer, and roebuck, especially when the latter two have been marinaded. This sauce is recom- mended by M. Francatelli. Another sauce for venison can be made as fol- lows :—Take some lean ham, about a quarter of a pound, and chop it up very fine, and put it in a stewpan with a little butter, thyme, a bay-leaf, half a dozen green onions, and some parsley. Add to this a wineglassful of French vinegar. Let the whole boil on the fire till it is reduced to about half the original quantity. Then add a small ladleful of good brown gravy, about half a pint of some red wine, and a little good stock. Stir it on the fire till it boils, and care- fully skim it until it is reduced to its proper consistency. Finish by adding a spoonful of red-currant jelly and the juice of an orange. CURRANT SYRUP, BLACK.—Black- currant syrup is very nice mixed with water, and is a refreshing drink in hot weather when mixed with iced soda- water. Black-currant syrup can be used for making sweet sauce, but it has a very powerful flavour, and must be used with care. CURRANT SYRUP, RED.—Red-cur- rant syrup is preferable to black-currant syrup. Its flavour is not so strong, nor is it so sickly. In summer these syrups always form a most refreshing drink, and it is greatly to be regretted that they are not more generally sold throughout the kingdom. The great national vice of intemperance is best met by providing cheap substitutes for the intoxicating liquor now sold. The poor man has but little choice be- tween a glass of beer and a glass of cold water. There is often a craving, not necessarily for some intoxicating kind of fluid, but. for something better than water. Ginger-beer, which is one of the few English alternatives to ordinary beer, is a most unsatisfactory drink, and, as I have before observed in speak- ing on the subject, it is generally met with in a tepid state, and has a ten- dency to settle in the nose. Grocers would do well during the summer-time to sell glasses of syrup-and-water at a penny. Should this become universal the patronage of the Blue Ribbon Army alone would soon make the ex- periment a success. The cost of having a small filter of cool water always ready during the hot summer days would be quite nominal, and the occasional addi- tion of a lump of ice would be all that would be necessary. It is to be hoped that during the ensuing summer some grocers will try the experiment. Great efforts are being made in the present day by the clergy of all denominations to put a stop to excessive drinking. One great drawback to temperance in this country is that there are so few drinks sold at the same price for which a glass of beer can be obtained, namely, a penny. At hotels, although a glass of the best bitter ale is only twopence, mineral waters, so-called, namely gin- ger-beer and lemonade, are often charged at the price of sixpence, and soldom less than fourpence. To the