iso CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S possible. Trim the ear so that it will stand upright in the dish. Next take some of the stock in which the calf’s head was boiled, which, of course, should have been flavoured with the usual vegetables—onions, celery, etc. Add a brimming spoonful of mixed sweet herbs. Reduce it by boiling till three pints have been reduced to rather less than one. Strain off the mixed herbs. Thicken this with some brown roux, and add to it a small tin of button mushrooms. If you can afford it, another very great improvement is a small bottle of black truffles. Next add to this a good tablespoonful of tomato conserve and a good glass of madeira ; or, if madeira is not at hand, sherry is a very good substitute; but if possible use coloured sherry, and not thin, pale sherry, which is by no means adapted for cooking. Take care that the sauce is free from grease. The calf’s head should be boiled in the sauce till it is quite tender. Of course, the upper part of the ear, which cannot be eaten, will appear above the dish. This should be brushed over with a little colour, so as to give it a rich, bright mahogany colour. Next take a stewnan containing some very hot fat, which should be at least four inches in depth. Then break four or five eggs carefully in a cup and drop them into this smoking-hot fat. Fried eggs to be served with this dish should be sent to table resembling in appearance and colour little round brown balls. This can only be done when the eggs fry equally all round at the same time. A few fried crofttons of bread should be placed between the fried eggs. This dish, which is an extremely delicious one, and, not counting the truffles, by no means very expensive, should be ornamented now with a few little red crayfish. The dish is, of course, some- what rich. A very nice and suitable dish for an invalid is made by simply wanning up a piece of the horny part of a calf’s head in a little plain tomato sauce. This is very delicate and appe- tising. TOMATO SAUCE. — Tomato sauce differs from conserve of tomato, inas- much as certain spices, vinegar, etc., have been added to it to make it ready for use. It possesses this slight advan- tage over conserve of tomato, that when opened it will keep much longer. The drawback to conserve of tomato is that when once opened it must be finished up almost directly. It will not keep good more than one or two days at the outside. On the, other hand, tomato sauce, owing to the different ingredients that have been mixed with the tomato itself, will keep good for some time. Tomato sauce is very nice when eaten cold, simply poured out of the bottle just as it is, with a little cold meat. It can also be used for all the purposes I have mentioned under the heading of “Tomato Conserve” (seeTomato Con- serve). TOMATOES WHOLE IN TINS.—Toma- toes can now be obtained whole in tins, and in England are far superior to fresh ones, unless, owing to a very exceptional state of the weather, they can be gathered and sent to table quite ripe. Like pineapples, the ma- jority of tomatoes sent to this country are picked in an unripe state, other- wise they would all fall to pieces long before they could be retailed in our markets. Tinned tomatoes have this advantage, that they have been allowed to ripen according to nature in the sun. The fruit, if it is picked in an unripe state and allowed to ripen after, gets partially rotten at the same time that it ripens. This is particularly notice- able in the case of pineapples. Tinned tomatoes are exceedingly nice served as they are. Open the tin and take the tomatoes out as carefully as possible without breaking them up, and put them in the oven, with pepper, salt, and butter, sufficiently long to make them hot through, occasionally basting them with their own juice ; then serve them plain. A still more delicate way of cooking them is with the assist- ance of a few mushrooms, either tinned or fresh. Open first of all a tin of tomatoes whole and care- fully remove the pips from the in- side. Now take a handful of mush- rooms or a small tin. If fresh mush- rooms are used, of course they must be carefully peeled. Chop them up with a piece of onion about as big as the thumb down to the first joint, and a good brimming teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Place them in a frying-pan with sufficient scraped bacon fat, scraped from cold boiled bacon, to cook