INTRODUCTION. Xll the guidance of the cook. I believe that if success in cooking is to be attained, it is impossible to have too high a standard of excellence. I have throughout adopted the method usually pursued at that well-known place, the Freemasons’ Tavern, which is gene- rally admitted to be one of the leading establishments, not only in London, but in Europe. On several occasions when I have been in doubt I have consulted M. Burlet, and I beg here to thank him for his kind assistance. I would, however, remind housekeepers that when they have a high model of excellence placed before them, it does not necessarily follow that they are obliged to carry out the receipt in its entirety. It is obviously far easier to take away than to add. For instance, in many of the directions I have given truffles. Now, although truffles are a very great improvement to most dishes, they are by no means essential. If we were to order a vol au vent a la financiere or a vol ail vent a la Toulouse at the Freemasons’ Tavern, we should, of course, get truffles with our vol au vent. In the majority of restaurants, however, about London, the truffles would be omitted as a necessary consequence of the price charged for the dish. So again, whenever I have ordered boiling cream, most housekeepers would be fully aware that boiling milk, with a yolk of egg beaten up afterwards in it, is a very common substitute, though not equal to the cream in flavour. In conclusion, I would give a few hints as to the great number of uses to which preserved provisions can be put. Those who live in country houses some few miles away from shops will find all these goods a very great boon. Many of these preserved provisions are what may be called, to a certain extent, luxuries. Truffled woodcock, fresh green peas, French beans, ripe pineapple, etc., are undoubtedly luxuries. Yacht-owners, as far as my experience of yachting goes, do not seem to be sufficiently aware of the great benefit to be obtained from these tinned luxuries, and I would strongly urgp upon them to let the present volume find a place in every steward’s cabin. With a little fore- thought and ingenuity, a steward who understands his business can, by means of the articles here described, serve up a luncheon or a supper three days away from the nearest shore as easily as if he were within walking distance of Leadenhall or Covent Carden Market.