114 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S firm in summer. Should ice be used the jelly will consequently bear the ad- dition of a considerable amount of fluid. Indeed, a quart bottle of this admirable jelly will bear the addition of very nearly half a pint of wine, and the ad- dition of wine of course very greatly improves the jelly. I would suggest. madeira wine as tlie best, or some good golden sherry ; but a bottle of madeira at three shillings per bottle is far supe- rior to any sherry at the same price. It is far best not to turn out the jelly till just before sending the dish to table. The great beauty in eating jelly is to have it cold. If the mould is properly adjusted when it is turned out of the ice the jelly will be firm, but after it lias been kept in a hot room for half an hour it will almost begin to fall to pieces of its own accord. This shows that its consistency is perfect. Cooks too often sacrifice taste to appearances. They are so afraid that the jelly will break in turning out that they make it unneces- sarilystiff. Consequently, when the jelly is sent to table it presents a very beauti- ful appearance, but when it is eaten it has to be bitten. Perfectly-made jelly will melt the moment it enters the mouth, and unless it is in that state it is not worth eating. It would be al- most impossible to give a list of all the fruits that can bo placed in jelly, but I particularly mention bright ripe cherries and slices of pineapple, especially slices of pineapple that nave been preserved in tins. Jelly may be sent to table either on a glass or silver dish. When served on a silver dish the base should be ornamented with slices of cut lemon, and in the case of orange jelly it may be ornamented with slices of cut orange. The oranges should be cut as follows. The slices should be cut crosswise to the core. Then the slices should be cut in half, and each half cut through the peel, and the two quarters separated, so tnat they assume the shape of an hour-glass. ORAN GE MARMALADE. —Orange mar- malade is probably the most common and useful of all preserves. Indeed, the words of the well-known sentence, “ an excel- lent substitute for butter at breakfast,” are literally household words through- out the United Kingdom. There is no doubt that orange marmalade is a very cheap and very wholesome prepara- tion. Marmalade is almost universal at every breakfast-table, and can be eaten with plain bread-and-butter, or, better still, with plain dry toast. It is, however, useful for a variety of cooking purposes. Orange marmalade is undoubtedly the finest and best adapted sweet for all persons who have a tendency to biliousness or indigestion. One of the most common causes of indi- gestion is partaking of grease or fat. Orange marmalade is admirably adapted for the purpose of making sweet omelets. A couple of tablespoonfuls should be warmed for a short time, and then placed inside the omelet and served. I have before, under the heading of “Apricot Jam”—(see Apricot Jam)— explained the necessity of warming the jam before if is placed in the omelet. Of course the same directions apply equally to using marmalade of any de- scription when it is served with omelets. Marmalade is very often used as a cheap and wholesome preserve for open jam tarts. Its speciality, however, is that it is far less rich and bilious than the majority of jams, and when persons have to be careful in their living, marma- lade is an excellent substitute for almost every other kind of sweet. Indeed, there are many persons who are unable to take rich pastry, .and yet are fond of sweets, and are glad of any opportunity of legitimately gratifying their appetites without running any risks. To these persons I would strongly recommend as a sweet, orange marmalade served in a border of rice. The rice can be boiled in plain water, or milk can be used. Rice borders are very useful, both for making sweets and entrees. A full de- scription of how to make rice borders will be found under the heading of “Damsons, Bottled.” (See Damsons, Bottled.) One of these rice borders filled with orange marmalade will make a most pure and wholesome sweet, of which no invalid need be afraid to par- take. Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell have for many years been justly cele- brated for the purity of their marma- lade, which is made entirely from Seville oranges and refined sugar. Orange marmalade is very .suitable to be served with almost any kind of pudding, especially puddings made of cornflour or arrowroot. A very nice dish can be made of orange marmalade as followsMake an ordinary baked