HOUSEKEEPERS GUIDE. 13 preserved asparagus is to warm it up in i tire tin. Then when hot cut off the top | of the tin and have ready a piece of j toast in a vegetable dish. Take out the asparagus gently and avoid breaking off | the points. Lay the asparagus -with the points on the toast and the stalk part resting on the edge of the dish half one side and half another. See if any as- paragus tops have been left in the tin, and if so take them out and put them on the centre of the asparagus. Some melted butter or white sauce can be handed round with the asparagus, but should never be poured over it, as many persons prefer to eat it quite plain. Some also like butter simply oiled. One very nice way of eating asparagus is as ASPARAGUS SALAD. — Asparagus makes a capital salad, and one ex- cellent receipt for dressing it is the following : — First take some butter and oil it by placing it in a saucer in the oven. Then take it out and add to it, supposing an ounce of butter has beep oiled, a brimming tea- spoonful of English-made mustard, a dessert-spoonful of English vinegar, and some black pepper. Mix it well up with a fork, and when it begins to get thick, which it soon will do as the butter cools, dip the asparagus in the sauce. The sauce will cool round the asparagus and stick to it. This is a most delicious salad which can be pro- duced at five minutes’ notice, if house- keepers will only have the forethought to have a few tins of asparagus always in the house. ASPIC JELLY.—There are few things more useful in the way of garnishes for cold dishes than aspic jelly, yet the majority of English cooks rarely use it. The fact is that it is a decidedly trou- blesome thing to make, as unless it is as bright as sherry it is useless. It would be a good lesson to plain cooks to occa- sionally look in the shop window of some good French cook in those provi- sion shops devoted to the sale of galan- tine, game pies, fresh truffles, etc. There is a capital model in Princes Street, Soho, where the various dishes displayed in the window are rendered doubly tempting by the garnish of bright aspic jelly, yellow and pink, and deep green parsley. There are many houses where the housekeeper would never hesitate, in the case of preparing a supper-party, in ordering in a bottle* of orange jelly and another of lemon jelly, yet would probably omit to order that most useful of all, one of aspic jelly. What a difference would this one bottle make in the appearance of the various dishes. Housekeepers should bear in mind that aspic jelly can be bought in quart bottles, pint bottles, and half-pint bottles. The way to use aspic jelly depends upon the purpose yoxi require it for. Suppose you want to use it at a minute’s notice. Say you have a cold roast fowl, and, owing to some unex- pected arrival, you wish to make the dish look as nice as possible. Dip a quill pen —the feather part—in a bottle of soy, and glaze the breast and legs with it. Next open a bottle, say half a pint, of aspic jelly; scrape out the jelly with anything—a marrow-spoon, for instance. Then with two silver forks mince it up into little pieces. Pile up a little heap on the fowl—on the breast—and place a few heaps round the base with some cut lemon and nice dark-coloured double parsley. What a difference this dish has in appearance compared to a fowl sent up just as it is ! Suppose, however, that time is no object, and you want to ornament, say, a couple of roast fowls, a tongue, and a piece of galantine. Take the bottle of aspic jelly and place it in warm water, just sufficiently long to enable you to pour out the jelly. Now take two flat plates, and pour the jelly out a quarter of an inch thick, or rather deep. See that the plate stands flat, or else one part of the jelly when it is cold will be thicker than another; Then take a bottle of cochineal, and drop a few drops into one plate, and stir it up till it is the colour you wish—a bright red. Let the jelly set, and you now have two round cakes of jelly a quar- ter of an inch thick, one a bright yellow and the other a bright red. These can be cut into any shape desired, and placed round the fowls and on the tongue and galantine. Alternate transparent bands of yellow and red look very nice placed over the white galantine. It would be impossible, without a coloured diagram, to describe the way in which dishes should be ornamented. It depends on the taste of the housekeeper herself, who should never entrust this branch to a Mai'y Ann of all work. They would