HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 129 sauce can be added to the tin of peas, and the whole tossed lightly. A'small quantity of chopped parsley should be sprinkled over them, and a little lemon juice and pepper and salt added. Some cooks in serving French green peas will add nutmeg, and it is a very common thing on some parts of the Continent, especially Germany, for cooks to add mace. My own opinion is that the peas are better without either. When butter is mixed with young green peas they also require a little chopped parsley, a little lemon juice, and a little plain pepper, sugar, and salt. PONCON’S LISBON FRUITS.—Some of the finest preserved fruits imported into this country are known under the name of Poncon’s Lisbon fruits. The following are probably the best kinds. Apricots in syrup, apricots in tins, apricot marmalade in glass jars, peaches in syrup, peaches in juice. Tomatoes are also imported whole in tins, and also tomato conserve, which is really the pure pulp of tomatoes perfectly free from any kind of flavour. It is sent over in bottles. A full description of how to use all these most important articles will be found under their re- spective headings. PORK PATES,—Pork pates in tins make an agreeable variety at the break- fast table. These pork patee are some- what rich, and should be rightly de- scribed as a species of pork forcemeat. They are generally supplied in tins which require a patent opener somewhat like a key for winding up a clock. A strip of tin is cut off round the edge, and the pate can then easily be turned out whole on to a dish. “Little pieces of cut lemon can be used to ornament the pate when it is turned out. These pork pates are more suited as a little bon bouche than as a substantial dish. Like other tinned pates, the remains should be utilised by the cook for making forcemeat. Under the heading of “ Chicken-and-Ham Pattis” will be found a receipt for making rissoles and kromes- kies from the remains of pates. Pork ates before they are opened should be ept in a cool place. Pork is proverbi- ally more suited for winter than summer, and on a very hot day I do not think these pork pies are at all desirable. Should they, however, be used on such an occasion, they will be very nice if be- fore being opened the tin is immersed in a little iced water, say for half an hour. If the tin is now opened the in- side is of course deliciously cool, and the patfi will be rendered far more agree- able. After it has been kept in a hot room in summer for any length of time the pate is moist in appearance and as nasty to eat as a piece of ordinary cold pickled pork would be when exposed to heat. POTATO FLOUR.—Potato flour is a species of pure starch, and is very useful to the cook for various kinds of thicken- ing purposes. M. Francatelli recom- mends it for making omelette souffle. POTTED FISH.—Various kinds of fish can now be obtained in tins. An- chovy paste and bloater paste are both species of potted fish in then- way. There is also now potted lobster, potted salmon, and potted shrimp paste. A description of how to use these useful preserved fish will be found under their respective headings. POTTED MEATS.—A description of the different uses of various potted meats now to be obtained will be found under their respective headings— namely, potted beef, potted ham, potted ham-and-chicken, potted Stras- burg meat, potted turkey, potted turkey- and-tongue, devilled ham, potted au cliable, potted game, etc. PRAWNS, CURRIED, HALFORD’S.— See Curried Meats. PRESERVED FISH.—See VARIOUS' Headings. PRESERVED GINGER.—See Ginger. PRESERVED MEATS.—See Various Headings. PRINCE OF WALES’ SALAD SAUCE.— The Prince of Wales’ salad sauce is a very nice and useful sauce, which can be obtained in bottles. It very much resembles a first-class old-fashioned salad dressing. Of late years of course the most fashionable salad dressings have been _ a base of mayonnaise, or salad dressing composed chiefly of oil and vinegar, in which the proportion of oil very far exceeds that of the vinegar, with the addition of pepper and salt. This is the kind of salad dressing called K