08 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S ing the surface of sauce with green and red specks the cook should be careful not to overdo it. A very few will set off the appearance of the dish; too much, however, will not improve it, as we do not wish to lose too much of the white surface. Next a few green capers can be stuck in the sauce lightly at in- tervals of an inch or an inch and a half apart. Then round the base of the white mayonnaise should be placed a I trellis-work of filleted anchovies (spe An- | chovies, TO Fillet’), which will greatly [ improve the appearance of the salad. | This can be placed alternately with cut pickled French beans. The base of the salad should now be ornamented with hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters. A more expensive but very pretty gar- nish can be made by placing plovers’ eggs round the edge of the salad. In ; addition to this a few stoned olives | should always be added to every mayon- ! naise salad (see Olives, to Stone). In j England it is a very common custom to | place slices of cucumber round the bases ! of salads. In the case of salmon salad j this is certainly an agreeable addition. With all kinds of salads made with meat I think a very great improvement is to place thin slices of pickled gherkins ' round the base of the salad. This is invariably the custom abroad, but it is not so common in England. In ornamenting mayonnaise salad, when it is possible, the last addition should be a few small crayfish. A small crayfish placed on the top, and one in each cor- ner, making five in all, makes a very pretty garnish, and is especially suit- able for lobster salads of all kinds. Mayonnaise sauce is also the base of several other sauces, one of the nicest of which is known as Tartar sauce, a very excellent accompaniment to grilled sal- mon, fried eels, etc. Take two or three tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise sauce, say three tablespoonfuls, add to this a piece of shalot about the size of the thumb down to the first joint, chopped fine, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and a teaspoonful of French mustard, fla- voured with tarragon, or if that cannot be obtained, add a little ordinary mus- tard. This sauce should be kept in a cool place. When cooks wish to make what may be termed fancy salads, they should bear in mind that mayonnaise sauce is easily coloured by the addition of ordinary vegetable colouring matter. (See Vegetable Colouking.) By this means you can have yellow mayonnaise, red mayonnaise, green mayonnaise, etc. However, the plain mayonnaise sauce itself, when properly ornamented, 5s, I think, the best form of serving it up. MEAT, EXTRACT OF.—See Extbact oe Meat. MEAT LOZENGES.-—Meatlozcng es are a very convenient form of having con centrated nourishment always at hand. They will be found particularly useful to persons with somewhat delicate sto- machs who indulge in walking tours. They are also often used by invalids who are apt at times, owing to sleep- lessness at night, to feel exhausted. A few meat lozenges placed in the mouth afford great relief. MEATS, POTTED.—Potted meats and fish are extremely convenient forms of having nice-looking breakfast or lun- cheon dishes always ready at a moment’s notice. The majority of tinned meats are also very convenient for cooking purposes, as they assist the cook in making forcemeat. The following pot- ted meats and fish are supplied by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell:—An- chovy paste (which can be obtained in fancy pots, in bottles, in glass jars, and in tins), bloater paste (which is also supplied in tins, pots, jars, and fancy pots), devilled ham, French anchovy paste, potted beef, potted ham, potted tongue, potted ham and tongue, potted Sti’asburg meats, etc., also pate au diallc, potted game, potted lobster, potted salmon, potted shrimps, potted Oxford brawn, etc. A description of all these will he found under their re- spective headings. METZ FRUITS.—A very varied as- sortment of crystallised fruits are now supplied in boxes, and known as Metz fruits. These boxes contain quantities varying from a quarter of a pound to two pounds. MILK, CONDENSED.—Condensed milk is now used in very large quanti- ties in this country. Considering how great the difficulty is of obtaining really pure milk, especially in ’arge towns, condensed milk is a great boon to