THE HOUSEKEEPER’S GUIDE TO THE USE OF flrcsci'bcb bruits, Vegetables, & QTonbhncnis. BSINTHE.—Absinthe is an ex- ; tract made chiefly in Swit- zerland from wormwood. It is a greenish fluid, and when 1 mixed with water it turns it an opal colour. It is largely taken on the Continent as a stimulant. Great care should be ex- ercised in mixing absinthe and water thoroughly, and for this purpose in many foreign restaurants a small tap is kept constantly running, from which water falls drop by drop. A glass containing the quantity of the absinthe required is placed at some distance underneath, and consequently the drops of water falling from a height of over a foot ensures the two liquids being per- fectly mixed. In other restaurants small glasses are kept which fit into the top of a tumbler. In the bottom of this glass there is a small hole which allows the water to escape a drop at a time. It is as well to bear in mind these facts, as they show the importance of care in mixing absinthe. Absinthe in England is used chiefly as a tonic. It is in- tensely bitter, and a few drops mixed with sherry instead of bitters is an ex- cellent tonic before a meal. When mixed with any liquor containing alcohol it does not turn cloudy. It is often recommended for dyspepsia, but it is exceedingly hurtful when taken con- stantly and to excess, when it has a most injuiious effect on the nervous system. ALMONDS, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of almonds is perhaps one of the most use- ful of all the essences used in cooking. The most important point for cooks to bear in mind in using essence of almonds is not to use too much. Many dishes have been spoilt by ignorant persons who imagine that you cannot have too much of a good thing. In flavouring, the proper quantity should rarely ex- ceed two or three drops. For instance, suppose you wish to flavour a cornflour pudding to be made in a quart mould, three drops of essence of almonds would be ample. Essence of almonds can be used for flavouring cakes, jellies, cus- tards, etc., but more than the quantity mentioned should never be used. As an instance of the use of essence of almonds I would mention a dish known as sweet omelet with pink noyeau. Make an ordinary sweet omelet, and shake over it plenty of powdered sugar. Next take a couple of tablespoonfuls of brandy, which should be coloured pink with a few drops of cochineal. Then add to this two or three drops of essence of almonds. Set light to this by hold- ing a light under a tablespoonful of the mixture till it catches fire, and then pour it over the omelet. The remain- der caii then be poured over and the dish served. This is a most delicious dish. Essence of almonds can also be used for flavouring claret cup. Drop two drops into a tablespoon, and then fill the spoon with brandy and add to the cup. When noyeau or maraschino are not to be obtained this is a very good substitute. There are many sauces, such as Dutch sauce, melted butter, or butter sauce, white sauce for boiled B