19 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. one. Some of the liquor in which the brandy cherries are preserved (cherry brandy) should always be poured round the cherries in the dish. One curious feature about brandy cherries is that the cherries retain the brandy, or rather the spirit from the brandy, at the expense of the liquor—i.c., the cherry brandy—itself. Consequently care should be taken in giving brandy cherries to children, as too many would be certain to produce headache and nausea. Brandy cherries, in addition to being served as a sweet at dessert, are also used to assist in mak- ing high-class puddings. I will give one instance of a pudding famous in Warwickshire some years ago known as Kendal pudding. Line the bottom of a pie-dish with thin slices of sponge-cake, and on the top of this lay a layer of brandy cherries. Next on the top of the cherries lay another layer of sponge- cake that has been spread over with some rather acid jam—i.e., some sharp- tasting jam like quince. Then on this lay another layer of brandy cherries, and on that a layer of cake spread over with some sweet jam, such as raspberry, then again some cherries, etc., taking care that the sharp and sweet-flavoured jams are in alternate rows. When the dish is filled to the top pour in a rich custard, and when the cake has tho- roughly soaked up the custard, bake the dish in a somewhat slow oven at first till the whole has thoroughly set. This pudding, though somewhat expensive, is exceedingly rich and good. BRANDY, CHERRY. — See Cherry Brandy. BRAWN, OXFORD.—Oxford brawn is now sold in tins, and comes under that most useful list of preserved condiments known as breakfast delicacies. One of the chief objections to the brawn sold fresh is that it is, as a rule, made in too large a quantity. The tins of brawn are small and compact, and can be turned out whole, and surrounded with a small paper frill. This forms an agreeable change to the breakfast or lunch table; and the tinned brawn pos- sesses this great advantage, that till the tin is opened it will keep good for years. In carving brawn it is of great import- ance that it should be cut with a very sharp knife. Brawn is of course made from pig’s head, and, like other forms of cold, and, to a certain extent, pickled pork, is improved by the addition of mustard and vinegar. This is of course purely a matter of taste. Mr. Franca- telli recommends the following sauce, which he has named BRAWN SAUCE, to be used with cold brawn. Mix together one tablespoonful of moist sugar, two of French vinegar, three of salad oil, a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, some pepper and salt, and serve. Probably many persons would prefer less vinegar. This sauce, it will be seen, contains that common principle of appetising sauces, such as chutney, etc.—a mixture of the hot, the acid, and the sweet. A very useful way of using up the remains of brawn is to add it to odds and ends of meats, such as cold fowl, cold ham, mutton, beef, etc., and let it assist in making some rissoles. There are few more economical dishes than rissoles, and when they are required particularly good the addition of a small tin of mushrooms (see Mush- rooms) will always have the desired effect. Another useful purpose to which brawn can be turned to account is to make sandwiches. Brawn makes excellent sandwiches. There is a well- known luncheon-bar in Fleet Street where I have been informed more brawn sandwiches are sold than ham or beef or any other kind of sandwich. In cutting sandwiches from brawn it is important that not only the brawn, but the bread, must be cut thin. Where persons are in the habit of taking sandwiches out for the day for luncheon, brawn, like egg, forms an agreeable change from the eternal beef and mutton. A little mus- tard and pepper can be added to the sandwiches if wished, but as a rule the brawn sold in tins by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell is so well seasoned that it is best left alone. BREAKFAST DELICACIES. — Most housekeepers know the difficulty of pro- viding a variety of dishes for breakfast. Indeed, what would become of us, as a rule, at this meal were it not for the bacon and eggs of which, especially the former, we so rarely tire ? There are few dishes which in this respect can compare with plainly-fried bacon. Still a change is always desirable, as well as an addition to this staple dish, and under the general heading of “ Break-