80 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S very good butter, it is almost tasteless. Boiled lentils, mixed with a little butter, pepper, and salt, can be served with boiled bacon, pork, etc. LIMES, WEST INDIA, PICKLED.— West India limes can be obtained pickled in vinegar in bottles. They are very similar to pickled lemons, and of course are somewhat acid. They are well adapted to the taste of those per- sons who are fond of acids, and are po- pular throughout the whole of Germany. They are sometimes eaten at the com- mencement of dinner as an appetiser, in the same way as pickled gherkins, cu- cumbers, etc. LIMES IN SYRUP.—Limes when pre- served in syrup form a very delicious sweet. They are also very wholesome, especially when fresh fruit cannot be obtained. In long sea voyages they form an excellent dessert-dish, and they also possess considerable cooling pro- perties. LIME JUICE.—Lime juice is a well- known preparation, and is supplied in large quantities to ships going to sea— in fact, a captain of a vessel going on a long voyage is bound to take a certain amount of lime juice, which forms a per- fect antidote to scurvy. It is exported from the West Indies in very large quantities to this country, and is used for making citric acid, as well as being a very popular drink. Lime juice in water is a cheap, cooling drink, and it is to be regretted that it is not more often sold throughout this country in hot weather. Probably lime juice is the cheapest form of syrup sold in this country. As we have said before, it is to be greatly regretted that grocers do not introduce and retail glasses of syrup and water at a cost of a penny, or even a halfpenny. This would be a source of profit to themselves, and an inestimable boon to many. Many persons would never take to the use of intoxicants at all were it not for the fact that there is no alternative between them and water. Lime juice is exceedingly nice when mixed with a little iced soda-water. In hot weather housekeepers would find a bottle of lime juice exceedingly useful. So, too, would masters of schools, when boys come in hot and thirsty from cricket. A glass of water, flavoured with a little lime juice and sweetened, is far more wholesome than water by itself, and it will also tend very greatly to purify the blood. LIME JUICE CORDIAL. — Lime juice cordial is a preparation of lime juice very carefully prepared, the greatest caution being exercised that none but the very best kind is used. A very well-known form of lime juice is the cordial known as Montserrat Cor- dial, which can be obtained both in quart and pint bottles. This is very largely used throughout the country. Those who have never made a trial of it would do well to get a bottle, which will be found to make a very cheap and most agreeable beverage in hot weather when mixed with water. Another form' of lime juice is that known as Montserrat Aromatic Cordial. This is a prepara- tion from lime juice, with the addition of several kinds of spices. A descrip- tion of aromatic cordial will be found under the heading, ,l Aromatic Cordial” (see Aromatic Cordial). LIME SYRUP. — Lime syrup is lime juice prepared with sugar. It is rather sweeter than lime juice itself, and a small quantity in a little soda-water, or plain water, forms a very refreshing summer drink. It will be rendered still more agreeable by the addition of a lump of ice. LIQUID CAYENNE.—See Caven’XE. LOBSTER, CURRIED, HALFORD’S.— See Curried Meats. LOBSTER, POTTED.—Potted lobster is a lobster paste to which lobster butter has been added. When lobster butter cannot be obtained, potted lobster is, to a certain extent, a substitute; it also forms an agreeable addition to the breakfast-table. LOBSTER, TINNED. — Lobsters pre served in tins are perhaps one of the most favourite tinned meats that are used in this country; indeed there are many persons who prefer tinned lobster to fresh, on the ground of the former being more digestible. Tinned lobster can be used in various ways. The simplest form is to have the lobster plain with a little oil, vinegar, and pepper ; and in this way it is served for breakfast, luncheon, and supper. Ano- ther very useful form of using it is to make lobster sauce. Cooks know at