CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 140 this is a very convenient form of having sausages always ready and always fresh. The sausages are kept good in the tins, which are hermetically sealed ; and as they are surrounded with fat, of course they do not get dry. These sausages can be quickly made hot and served, or they can be eaten cold. German sausage is always a very appetising dish, and is sometimes served at the commencement of dinner by itself as an appetiser. It likewise forms an agreeable luncheon as well as breakfast dish. I would with confidence recommend these tins of sausages preserved in fat to the atten- tion of housekeepers. Ordinary German sausage is exceedingly difficult to keep good. Probably many housekeepers will know how often they have a diffi- culty either in preventing the sausages from getting mouldy on the one hand, or becoming perfectly dry and hard on the other. If the sausage is kept in a moist place it is apt to get mouldy, and if it is kept in a very dry and warm place it very soon gets so dry and hard as to be almost uneatable. Both these difficul- ties are avoided by obtaining the sau- sages in tins preserved in fat. Owing to the tins being air-tight, of course there is no chance of the sausages getting mouldy, and, owing to the presence of the fat which surrounds them, there is no chance of their becoming hard and dry. SAVORY AND MOORE’S INFANTS’ FOOD.—See Infants’ Food. SAVOURY PATES.—Savoury pates are now sold in tins, and of all the various kinds suited to the breakfast table I think these savoury pates are the nicest. The tin should be opened carefully, so that the patd will turn out whole. ‘When it is turned out the outside should be smoothed with a knife, and the dish surrounded with a little bright green parsley and some cut lemon. It is far better to turn these pates out of the tin at once than to eat them, as some do, from the tin itself. When it is eaten out of the tin it very soon gets into a “ smeary ” state, and looks very unin- viting. I would remind all good house- keepers of the importance of seeing that the remains of these savoury patds are never thrown away. Too often it will be seen that the fag ends of these little pates are abandoned by cooks as if they were of no use. They should, however, remember that the remains of them are exceedingly useful to assist in making all kinds of forcemeats—such as rissoles, lcromeskies, or rich fritters. With the assistance of a slice or two of any kind of liver—such as calves’ liver or the liver of fowls—the remains of slices of fried bacon, and the remains of one of these patds, an exceedingly delicious entric can be made for dinner. Place the liver, after slicing it up, in the frying-pan with some of the bacon, and fry with it a large slice of onion. When the liver is cooked rub the whole mixture through a wire sieve, and add to it the remains of the savoury pie. Also add about a saltspoonful of aro- matic flavouring herbs, a description of the way to make which mil be found under the heading of Gloves. These aromatic flavouring herbs can also be bought ready made under the name of “Herbaceous Mixture” (see Herba- ceous Mixture). The cook should now take a small piece of this forcemeat, formed by mixing the savoury patfi with liver and bacon, etc., about the size of a small picnic biscuit. It should be dipped into good stiff batter and thrown into some smoking-hot fat, fried, and served as a fritter. In making these fritters it will be found a great assistance to use up the fag-ends of any rich substance that may be left in the house—such as fat from pate. de foie gras, the liver of ducks, geese, turkeys, chickens, etc. When the frit- ters are liked hot with pepper, of course some cayenne should be added ; but, as a rule, in making fritters black pepper is the best. SAVOURY SALT.—See Salt. SEMOLINA.—Semolina is a very fine kind of wheat-flour, used for making light puddings. Semolina pudding is an extremely wholesome one for chil- dren, as it is very light and easy of digestion. It is also strongly recom- mended for invalids. The amount of semolina to be used varies from about two to three tablespoonfuls to a quart of milk. The pudding can be either baked or boiled, and can be unproved by the addition of eggs. A very rich pudding indeed can be made by adding three tablespoonfuls of semolina to a quart of milk, and putting in the yolks of six eggs. Another important point in mak- ing this pudding is the flavour. One of