CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 44 very fine, and the oysters, after they have been egged and breadcrumbed, should be set on one side till the egg and breadcrumbs become very dry. This is important. They should then be fried in smoking hot fat sufficiently long for the breadcrumbs to turn a nice bright golden-brown colour. The bread- crumbs when very dry will turn colour very quickly, which is what is wanted. If the oyster, after it has been covered with breadcrumbs, had been plunged into smoking hot fat in too moist a state it would require some time for the breadcrumbs to turn colour, the conse- quence being that the oyster will be hard, owing to its being exposed too long to the action of heat. When, therefore, fried oysters are served it is always best for the cook to prepare them early in the day, and to put them by to dry. Oysters should be piled up in the centre of a dish, and the curry sauce poured round, but not over them. Some fried parsley should also be mixed with the oysters, to be eaten with them, as well as to ornament them. Another very nice form of curry is curried sweet- breads. The sweetbreads should be first parboiled, and then thrown into water till they are quite cold. Next the cook should carefully remove all pieces of skin, flap, etc. One great drawback to sweetbreads carelessly prepared is the nasty pieces of skin that are so un- pleasant when unfortunately they get into the mouth. After the sweetbread has been carefully trimmed it should be dipped in well-beaten egg and some breadcrumbs thrown over it. It should then be allowed, like the oysters, to dry. Sometimes it is advisable to egg and breadcrumb the sweetbreads twice over. By this means they get covered with a richer and thicker coat. Sweetbreads should be fried in smoking hot lard, and should be allowed to cook till they are a darker colour than fried oysters. A rich mahogany-brown is the colour to be de- sired. They will not spoil by being ex- posed to heat like oysters. Sweetbreads should be piled up in the centre of the dish, ornamented with fried parsley, and curry sauce poured round the base. A small crayfish at the top of the dish is a very nice ornament. In making curry sauce, where the flavour of garlic is liked a few beads of garlic can be added to the vegetables and onions at starting, and the whole nibbed through | a wire sieve. Boiled rice should be always handed with curry, and the rice should be handed before the curry. (For boiling rice see Curried Meats, Halford’s.) When curried prawns are made from fresh prawns the cook should carefully scrape out all the soft meat from the head and add it to the curry sauce, and send it through a wire sieve, which will improve the flavour. In currying lobster from fresh lobster the whole of the soft part found in the head should also be added to the sauce and sent through the sieve. In currying lobster some cooks add a little anchovy paste or anchovy butter. This is, of course, a matter of taste. For my own part, I do not think it is a good addi- tion. Curry paste is also used for the purpose of making mulligatawny soup. Mulligatawny soup is, in fact, simply curry sauce diluted with some good stock. Boiled rice should be served with mulligatawny soup, but should not be placed in the soup itself, but handed separately. Some persons think grated Parmesan cheese an improve- ment to mulligatawny. I do not think myself that this is at all a nice addition. Mulligatawny soup is always very much improved by boiling a few bay- leaves in the soup. The bay-leaves should not be served in the soup, but removed before serving. They, how- ever, greatly improve the rich aro- matic-scented smell. Curried lobster can be made from tinned lobster. It is one of the best forms in which tinned lobster can be served. Of course, all tinned goods differ somewhat from fresh goods of a similar nature. Tinned lobster is certainly very different from fresh lobster. When, however, some good, rich, strong curry sauce is added it is very difficult to distinguish between tinned lobster and fresh, and any flavour peculiar to tinned goods is entirely re- moved if the curry sauce is made good. CURRY POWDER.—Curry powder is the most common form in which curry is sold. (For making curry see CURRY Paste.) I have already stated that curry powder should be mixed with curry paste. Good curry can, howrever, be made from curry powder alone. The addition of fried onions and vegetables, as directed under the heading Curry Paste, is essential, as well as the addi- tion of sour apples. When apples can-