142 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S some nice refreshing flavour. A glass of real iced sherbet is a formidable rival to a half-pint of beer. Persons of toler- ably good means can, of course, afford to have their drinks mixed with iced soda-water. This, however, is a luxury far beyond the reach of all the poorer classes. Sherbet, however, supplies its own effervescence ; all it wants to make it really acceptable is a lump of ice or a glass of iced water added to it. SHRIMPS, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of shrimps is a very valuable mixture, ex- ceedingly useful when fresh shrimps oannot be obtained for making shrimp sauce. Even when they can be ob- tained, the addition of a little essence of shrimps to shrimp sauce is a very great improvement, as it imparts colour as well as flavour. There are very many occasions, however, when shrimps can- not be obtained at all, and when a little shrimp sauce is required a very nice substitute can be made with the aid of essence of shrimps, to be eaten with turbot or boiled salmon or plaice. Let the cook make a very small quantity of really good butter sauce. This can only be done by being pretty generous with the butter. When a small quantity of this has been made—say, half or quarter of a pint—add a little essence of shrimps, and you have a very agreeable sauce, suitable to be served with every and any land of boiled fish. I would warn housekeepers, however, against making a larger quantity than is required. It is far better to have a little, and to have it good, than to have a whole tureen- ful of that which is too often thrown away. SHRIMP PASTE.—Shrimp paste is a very nice addition to the breakfast- table. It is very appetising and is a very nice dish to start with, when on a hot day the appetite seems to fail. Shrimp paste can also be used like anchovy paste to add an additional zest to sandwiches. Suppose you cut up sandwiches to be taken out for luncheon in the pocket. Cut up two or three hard-boiled eggs. Next cut some pieces of bread-and-butter, and then with a silver knife or ivory paper-knife spread some shrimp paste very lightly over the butter, adding a little pepper and a little salt. A steel knife should never be used for spreading paste of this de- scription. Next take the slices of eggs and place them between the bread-and- butter, press them closely together, and cut them into neat squares. In wrap- ping up sandwiches to be taken out for luncheon it is always best to have very small packets. It is far better to have three or four small packets than one large one, and clean white paper should always be used. Wrap them up together —a piece of brown paper can be used for the outside wrapper. In wrapping up sandwiches, avoid using printed paper, which will come into contact with the bread-and-butter and often imparts a nasty flavour, besides which it does not look nice when opened. Housekeepers would also do well to bear in mind, when they cannot ob- tain lobster butter, that shrimp paste, although not equal to it, supplies its place and is better than nothing. In fact it makes to a certain extent a sub- stitute. SIEGERT'S, DOCTOR, ANGOSTURA BITTERS.—See Angostura Bitters. SIR ROBERT PEEL’S SAUCE.—See Peel’s Sauce. SKINNER’S, COLONEL, CHUTNEY.— See Chutney. SKINNER’S MANGO RELISH.—See Mango Relish. SMITH’S CAMBRIAN ESSENCE.—See Cambrian Essence. SNIPE PATE', TRUFFLED.—A most delicious pat4 preserved in tins is now made from snipes with the assistance of forcemeat and truffles. These pates can be used for a variety of purposes, and are particularly valuable in summer when game itself is out of season. The pate can be opened by removing the strip of tin round the top, for which purpose patent openers are sold. The advantage of opening the tin in this way is that the pate can be turned out whole without breaking. These pates are specially suited for picnics, and when served in summer time at picnics they should always be placed for half an horn- or rather more in some iced water before they are opened. They are very nice when quite stone cold, but when they are partially heated by the sun or the warmth of a hot room they are not so good. They are very rich and go a long way. The re-