CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 118 tain. _ Next open a tin of oysters, pour the liquor from the tin into a small saucepan, and add to it the liquor from tlie fresh oysters. Then take the twelve Blue Points, throw them into the liquor, and put the saucepan on the fire. A fierce fire is the best. Watch them carefully, and the instant the liquor begins to boil take the saucepan off. The oysters are now what is known as “blanched.” Unless this is done they will be flabby when in the soup. It is of very great consequence indeed not to over-heat the oysters. When oysters are exposed to very great heat they become tough. This is the cause of tinned oysters being so indigestible. Now let the cook rub the whole of the tinned oysters with the liquor through a wire sieve. Add this liquor to a little stock and a pint of boiling milk. Of course if a little cream can be obtained it is a very great improvement. I have before called attention to the fact that an- chovy sauce possesses the property of bringing out the flavour of other mate- rials. I would strongly urge on the cook the importance of tasting the soup in its present state. We have now got the oyster liquor and the tinned oysters rubbed through a sieve, the stock, and the boiling milk or cream. Add a couple of spoonfuls of anchovy $auce. The" difference in the taste will then be something marvellous. This addition of the anchovy sauce seems to have the effect of multiplying the number of oysters used by ten. The soup should be thickened with a little butter and flour. In thicken- ing soup with butter and flour the cook should always melt the butter in the oven and mix the flour well in before it is added to the soup. When this is done the soup will never become lumpy. There is no occasion for the soup to be skimmed, as a little butter is an improvement rather than otherwise. Next place the blanched fresh oysters in a soup-tureen previously made hot, and pour the nearly-boiling soup on them and serve. Do not add the oysters to the soup in the saucepan, but add the soup to the oysters in the tureen, 'otherwise the oysters will be hard. OYSTERS, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of oysters is a sauce now sold in bottles. It is a nice accompaniment to any kind of boiled fish as a substitute for oyster sauce. A little of this essence of oysters can always be added to oyster sauce and oyster soup, but when the essence is added the cook should avoid ubing any nutmeg, as the essence of oysters is strongly flavoured with nutmeg. OYSTER SOUP. — Oyster soup can now be obtained in tins. The tin can be heated by being immersed in boiling water and kept there for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. It can then be opened and the contents served. The addition of a very little cream and also a little anchovy sauce will often be found an improvement to tinned oyster soup, as well as a little cayenne pepper. This is of course a matter of taste. ARISIAN ESSENCE FOR SOUPS.—Parisian essence is a thick fluid sold in bottles, u^fed for the purpose of colour- ing soups and gravies. Per- haps most cooks have ex- perienced occasional difficulty in know- ing the best way to colour soups. The old-fashioned and perhaps universal custom was to use burnt sugar, or what French cooks call caramel. This sub- stance, however, has one drawback, for there is no doubt that thick caramel im- parts a somewhat burnt flavour to the soup, however carefully the caramel may be made. Good caramel is made by dissolving the sugar in a frying-pan, burning it till it becomes a deep red colour, and then adding sufficient water to mix the whole together until it be- comes a thick syrup, somewhat re- sembling treacle in appearance. The great proportion of saccharine matter will have been got rid of, but a certain amount of burnt flavour remains. I have no hesitation in saying that the Parisian essence sold by Messrs. Crosse _ and Blackwell is the very best of the kind I have ever seen. It imparts a brilliant colour without affecting the flavour. Where a dark colour is. required for thick soups or gravies this preparation is really invaluable. There are many ways of colouring soup when only a light straw colour is wished for, or in which the colouring is a matter of no moment. When, however, a greater quantity is to be used it is exceedingly important that the flavour of the soup or gravy should not be affected. As I