HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 85 menccd to drink port wine after dinner. Of late years, however, the tendency has been very different, and it will now be observed that, as a rule, the greatest drinkers drink but little with their meals. The most injurious form of all drinking is the continuous succession of nips or “ pick-me-ups ” throughout the day. It will now be observed that many men who are in the habit of requiring something to drink throughout the day during hot weather find an occasional lemon squash or glass of lemon syrup equally as refreshing as a stronger drink. LEMONS, PICKLED.—Lemons can be obtained pickled in vinegar. These are better adapted perhaps to suit the Ger- man taste than the English. Persons who are fond of acids will enjoy pickled lemons, and some will eat a whole pickled lemon before dinner in the same way that others take a glass of bitters to create an appetite. In Germany men will often be seen to eat two or three pickled gherkins, crunching them up in the same way that children in this country bite into an apple. These pickled lemons are very cooling and refreshing, but are only suited to those whose tastes are inclined to acids. LENTILS.—Lentils, though for many years used on the Continent, have not been popular in this country until comparatively recent date. Lentils are commonly used on the Continent for the purpose of making soup maiyrc. Soup maiyrc is, of course, soup which contains no kind of meat whatever, but is composed of vegetables, to which may be added peas, lentils, pea-flour, or ground lentils. In making soup maiyrc almost any kind of vegetables can be used. The following, however, are al- most essential. First in importance come onions and then celery. Next in importance to these are potatoes, turnips, carrots, parsnips, etc. A very good addition to soup maiyrc is lettuce, green peas, French beans, and, at the finish, when the soup is nearly ready to bo served, a handful of sorrel chipped up and thrown in. When soup maiyrc is_ wanted very good, when it is other- wise ready some yolks of eggs may be added to it. When lentils are added they should be soaked in water over night, and any stray ones that may be seen on the surface of the water should be thrown away, as the fact of their floating shows that they are bad. The lentils should be then boiled in the soup till they are quite tender._ The soup can be served just as it is, or it can be sent up in the form of a purde by rubbing the whole through a wire sieve. Lentils can also be served whole as a vegetable. They should be boiled till they are tender, strained off, and then mixed with a piece of butter and a little pepper and salt. It will be found an improvement to add a spoonful of chopped parsley. Lentils can also be served, after being boiled, with olive oil. The dish in which they are served can also be rubbed with a bead of garlic ; chopped parsley and a little lemon- juice can be added afterwards. Lentils are supposed to contain a great amount of nourishment, but they always require the addition of a certain amount of fat in some shape or other. When lentils are served at meals at which no meat is taken they can be mixed with oil or butter in the way we have mentioned. When animal fat is not objected to, a very good plan for cooldng lentils is to boil them in a small quantity of greasy stock. The liquor in which a leg of pork or a piece of pickled pork or ham has been boiled, and which will very often, owing to its saltness, be use- less for other purposes, will be found extremely useful for boiling lentils. Where dishes do not contain any fat in themselves there is always a craving for it in some shape or other. For instance, boiled fish seems almost to ask for melted butter. It may have been observed that very often—or at least it was so many years ago, though the custom may be now discontinued— whenever a fish dinner was given it ter- minated in a course of beans and bacon. The beans and bacon closing the meal was almost a scientific method of caus- ing the food to contain all the essential properties of nourishment. There are French lentils and Egyptian lentils, but they do not differ very much either in quality or appearance. When serving lentils in oil, of course it is essential that the oil should be fresh and pure. People in this country have often a strong objection to oil in any form, but it is very much owing to the fact that a great part of the oil which they are accustomed to take has been kept too long. When oil is perfectly pure, like