14 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL’S never do it. As I have said before, the .best lesson is to look in at a shop win- dow like the one in * Princes Street. There is another set of delicious dishes —fish and meat in aspic jelly. Por this a mould is necessary. We will suppose we have got some cold boiled filleted sole, rolled up, ard which has been dipped in a mixture of oil, pepper, and Tarragon vinegar. First take a flat mould, and pour in about a wineglassful of aspic jelly. Let this get cold, then take the fillets of soles and arrange them so that they stand about an inch apart. Now pour in gently enough aspic to cover the fillets, and when the jelly is nearly set place carefully a little sprig j of bright green parsley between each ; white fillet. When the jelly is set— | which it will soon do if placed in chopped ice and salt—arrange another j layer of fillets, and proceed till the j mould is full. Keep it in the ice till it is set very firm. Have ready a dish, i Plunge the mould for a few seconds in , warm water. Wipe the mould quickly ! with a cloth, and turn it out. Surround the base with some lettuce leaves or the sliced hearts of little French lettuces, cut hard-boiled eggs, filleted anchovies, and four small red crayfish. You can ornament the mould still better if you have a few truffles. Cut a star of truffles, and place the star at the bottom of the mould after you have poured in the first wineglass, and surround the star with a few little sprigs, or rather leaves, of parsley. When the mould turns out, this black star at the top, surrounded by little bright green leaves in the bright aspic, looks very pretty. A star can be made also out of beetroot. This is not an expensive dish ; it only- wants a bottle of Crosse and Blackwell s aspic jelly, a pair of soles, and a little trouble and taste. Yet its appearance when done renders it fit to set before a cardinal on Friday. All sorts of dishes can be made this way. Cold chicken or game can be served up in aspic jelly. When this is the case, if possible orna- ment the whole of the outside of the mould -with neatly-cut slices of red tongue and black truffle. This in the bright yellow jelly has a very fine effect. There is no cheap substitute that I know of for truffle, but the black and red always look well. Red and green look fairly well together. Thin strips of red tongue and pickled French beans ; contrast well together. Pickled walnuts j are black, or nearly so ; but it is only a : makeshift after all, and I don’t think the walnuts go well with aspic jelly I when cut. Ornamenting should never be allowed to interfere with the flavour of any dish. ASSORTED SAUCES (in Wedgwood Vases).—See Wedgwood Vases for Sauces. ARBIERI'S VERMICELLI.—See Vermicelli. BARRIE’S CURRY PASTE. —See Curry Paste. BEANS, FRENCH, PICKLED. — See French Beans. BEANS, FRENCH, PRESERVED.—See Haricot Vert. BEANS,WHITE. —See Haricot Beans. BEEF, ESSENCE OF. —Essence of beef is a very useful concentrated form of soup. It is preserved insmall tins, and has to be mixed with about three or four times its own bulk of water. It is j not a hard jelly when cold, but has the 1 appearance- of a very thick glutinous clear syrfip. Its taste when heated with water resembles that of very good clear mock turtle soup, such as is made by Mons. Burlet, of the Freemasons’ Tavern. I mention this soup, as too often the so-called clear mock turtle sold in ordinary restaurants is wretched stuff, thin and tasteless. Mock turtle i soup, properly so-called, resembles real turtle in flavour, and this essence of beef has a decided flavour of its own that recalls City banquets. I would ask any one to fairly try the following receipt:— Take a small tin of Crosse and Black- well’s essence of meat, then take double the amount of water and let it boil for ten or fifteen minutes with a dessert- spoonful of mixed sweet herbs (see Herbs) and half an onion sliced up. Strain this off and press the strainer to strain out the goodness. Then add a lit- tle soluble cayenne pepper (Indian salt, see Cayenne Pepper), and add it to the contents of the tin of essence of beef. Just before serving add a tablespoonful of sherry, or, still better, madeira. If by chance you had some cold calves’- I head in the house, and could add a few