HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 49 dish. Tn making soup from pig’s-head the cook will have considerable diffi- culty in getting rid of the grease. The only way to get rid of the grease from sou]) of this description is to let the soup simmer gently by the fire and skim it, occasionally throwing in a little cold water, which will assist in throwing up the grease. In making mock turtle from pig’s-head I think two or three beads of garlic placed in the soup is a very great improvement; the sou]) itself is so rich that it will bear a strong garlic flavour. We have now described how to make, with the addition of some extract of meat, good stock or thick soups. Cooks should remember, however, that it is impossible to make really good clear soup from bones. If we want to make really good clear soup from extract of meat we shall require the assistance of a small quantity of knuckle of veal. All good cookery-books give receipts for making stews, soups, gravies, etc., but it should be remembered that many of these receipts have been handed down almost by tradition from time immemorial, and that the majority of them were written when gravy-beef could be bought at about threepence per pound. Many, therefore, of these receipts, which in themselves were admirable ones when meat was at this price, in the present day are extravagant simply on the ground of the great increase in the price of gravy-beef. Extract of meat, how- ever, supplies the deficiency. By far the best extract of meat that has yet been produced is that sold by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, under their own name. The secret of its being so good is simply due to the fact that it is made where meat is a penny or twopence per pound—namely, m Australia. To make extract of meat in this country would be simply impossible unless it were sold at six times its present cost. Now, there is a great prejudice on the part of some housekeepers and cooks against extract of meat for making soups. This pre- judice, however, is utterly unreasonable and unfounded. Soup that is made from knuckle of veal and vegetables, to which extract of meat is afterwards added, is simply soup that is made from knuckle of veal and gravy-beef, the only difference being that part of the cooking, or rather stewing down, of the meat was done in an Australian instead of in an English kitchen. To make | good clear stock from knuckle of veal and extract of meat take say about three pounds of knuckle of veal, chop it up), being careful to remove every particle of marrow from the bones, the fact being that this marrow would cause the soup) to get cloudy, and also as much as pos- sible trim away every p)article of fat. The veal should now be put in the saucep)an simply like the bones were before, and two quarts of water and the same vegetables as before mentioned should be added, and the whole allowed to boil, or rather gently simmer, for not less than six hours. By far the best fire over which to make good soup) or stock is a small gas-stove. The gas can be so regulated by simply turning a tap) that the souj) can be left to simmer and not boil. There is a considerable difference between the two. Cooks are too often heard to gpeak of letting things boil gently. The tempierature of boiling water is exactly the same, whether it boils gently or furiously—it is simply boiling water—212°. When gently sim- mering the temperature is below that of boiling water. When the stock has boiled, or rather simmered, the time we have mentioned, the cook should take a cup) or a small jug and ladle the stock out of the saueep>an till she gets out as much as she can. This will be found better than straining the whole quan- tity off, as the dregs sink to the bottom of the saucepan, and will not interfere with the brightness of the stock. This stock should now be allowed to get cold and then the fat should be removed. If the whole has simmered gently it will pirobably be clear enough for the purpose of making good clear soup) without being further clarified. The extract of meat can now be added to it, winch in itself is sufficient to give the soup) the desired colour. If, however, the soup is re- quired very bright, it can easily bo cleared as follows :—Take the white of an egg and beat it up with about a quarter of a p)int of cold water with a fork till it froths. After all the grease has been thoroughly removed from the stock, put the stock on to the fire and let it boil. When it is just beginning to boil p)our in the beaten-up) white of egg and stir it up into the stock, which, of course, will thereby be taken slightly off the boil. Stir the stock till it com- mences to boil again, and then let it boil gently for about ten minutes. Then E