CROSSE AND- BLACKWELL'S 54 mented with a little bright aspic jelly, which is now sold by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell in -bottles of all sizes, from a quart downwards—an immense boon to cooks in country houses, as it places at their command a little aspic jelly at a moment’s notice. All good cooks know how exceedingly trouble- some aspic jelly is to prepare owing to the great pains that have to be taken in clearing it. For another re- ceipt for foie gras entire 1 am indebted to M. Burlet, the distinguished chef at the Freemasons’ Tavern. Take a cir- cular mould, and cut some strips of truffle in small round pieces so that it will make a star. Place these at the bottom of the mould in a very thin layer of aspic jelly. Next put in another layer of aspic jelly, say half an inch deep, and then place on this a layer of slices of foie gras entire, cut rather thin. Then add another layer of aspic, and so on, till the mould is filled up. When the whole is set the mould can be turned out. The base of the mould can be or- namented with a little more aspic and chopped truffle. This forms a very ele- gant supper dish. This aspic jelly with the foie gras very much helps to take off the extreme richness. Foie gras entire can also be used to add to all sorts of rich game pies, such as Yorkshire pie, but 1 do not myself think such an addi- tion by any means an improvement, as game pies, when properly made, are sufficiently rich in themselves. FOIE GRAS, PATE DE. — Pate de foie gras is made from the livers of fat Strasburg geese, and is mixed with truffle and forcemeat. If any- thing it is somewhat richer than foie gras entire, and has for many years been esteemed a great delicacy. It can be served as it is at breakfast, luncheon, or supper. It can also be used with slices of cold veal or cold turkey as an entree, when aspic jelly should he served with it. Like fine gras entire, it is very rich, and a little of it will go a long way. Under some circumstances it is very useful as a medium for conveying a large quantity of bread. I remember some years back, when I had occasion to accompany Mr. Weston, the great pedestrian, on a tour around the United Kingdom, having so used it. Of course, on a long journey of this kind in some remote villages we could not always depend upon getting a supply of meat, either hot or cold, just when we wanted it. We, however, supplied ourselves with a few tins of pati dc foie gras, and one small tin was always more than ample to supply my three companions and myself with a good meal, with the assistance of a couple of loaves of bread. Pate dc foie gras can be used to assist in making various kinds of very rich forcemeat, which are made from calves’ liver mixed with aromatic spices. (See Cloves, Ground. ) One very nice dish to which a small quantity of foie gras can be added with advantage is Italian fritters. These fritters are usually made by making forcemeat from equal quantities of calves' liver and ham, whicli are fried in the frying-pan with two or three beads of garlic, a small quantity of mushrooms, and some aromatic herbs similar to those given under the head- ing of Cloves, Ground. (See Cloves, Ground.) The whole of this is then rubbed through a afire sieve, and the forcemeat put by for use. This force- meat is used for making all kinds of gan\e pies, such as Yorkshire pies. It can also be used in small quantities to assist in making lark-pie. It is by no means expensive, but extremely rich and deli- cious. It is, in fact, an imitation of pati dc foie gras. Should the cook be making this forcemeat forltalian fritters, a small quantity of genuine foie gras added to it would be a great improvement, by assisting in giving it a rich and at the same tune delicate flavour. Italian fritters are made by taking a small piece of forcemeat, flouring it, and, after dipping it into a stiff batter, throwing it into a frying-pan of smoking hot lara—similar, in fact, to making kromeskies. The Italians are famed for various kinds of fritters, one very common dish in Italy being fritto misto, which is simply a mixture of anything that may come to hand—in fact, a species of Italian resurrection pie. Genuine pate dc foie gras is known by the extreme paleness of the liver. When this is the case there is no doubt about its being genuine, as it would be quite impossible to manufacture pati de foie gras in this country owing to the exist- ence of the Royal Society for Preven- tion of Cruelty to Animals. Indeed, I do not quite like to take leave of this sub- ject without protesting against the abom- inable cruelty to which the unfortunate