113 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. other kind of essence or liqueur used for such purposes, and a very little salt. Stir these together with a wooden spoon for about ten minutes. Then whip six whites of eggs and mix them lightly with the batter. Next put two ounces of butter into an omelette pan and set it on a stove fire. As soon as the butter begins to sputter poiir the whole of the omelette batter into it and set the pan over the fire. As the batter becomes partially set round the side and bottom of the pan, toss it over and over gently, and then turn the omelette out- neatty, and as much as ppssible_ in the form of a dome, on to a silver dish pre- viously spread with butter. Put it in the oven and bake it for about twelve minutes, when it will be ready to send to table. Shake some "Sugar on the omelette and serve it immediately.” I would remind housekeepers of the im- portance of this word “immediately.” In making all kinds of souffles the great point is to lose as little time as possible between their being taken out of the oven and served in the dining-room. They will hardly realise unless they have had experience how an ome- lette will deteriorate if not served in- stantly. Very often an omelette souffle which is served in a tin, say four inches in depth, will rise to a height of two inches above the tin. If two minutes elapse between its leaving the oven and its appearance in the dining-room, the omelette will sink down to an inch below- the tin in this short space of time. Under the heading of “Parmesan Cheese” I will call attention to this subject again w-lien speaking of “ Cheese souffle.” ORANGE JELLY.—When cooks make orange jelly at home from fresh oranges, they w-ill experience very considerable difficulty in getting the jelly bright. They w-ill, however, probably find that they will impart more of the flavour of orange than is generally obtained in jelly ready bought. Bottled jelly is undoubtedly by far the most convenient form of having orange jelly. House- keepers should remember that this bought jelly can be flavoured in a va- riety of ways. They would do well to regard orange jelly in bottles as the base of various other kinds of jellies. Those persons who have been fortunate enough to enjoy a supper at the Free- masons’ Tavern will well remember how exquisitely beautiful are the moulds of jelly containing fruits, etc., which are there served. A mould of jelly contain- ing fruits is very easily made in any private house by means of a bottle of jelly. So far as my own experience oes, a bottle of jelly which is perfectly right is infinitely superior to anything that can be made at home, owing to the great difficulty of clearing the jelly made with fresh oranges. When jellies are home-made, owing to their being made in such small quantities the amount of waste is very considerable indeed. Of course bottled jellies, such as those supplied by Messrs. Crosse and Blacku-ell, are made in such large quan- tities that the clearing process is much easier. In making a mould of jelly in which fruits are placed, the housekeeper should proceed as follows. In summer a little rough ice is absolutely necessary. Place the mould in chopped ice and salt. Dissolve the jelly by placing the bottle in lukewarm water, but do not overheat it. As soon as the jelly is ready to be poured out of the bottle it is ready for use. I would here remind housekeepers that in putting a bottle of jelly into lukewarm water the jelly com- mences to melt round the outside first. By placing a small cloth dipped in boil- ing water round the neck of the bottle the jelly in the neck of the bottle w-ill melt. They can now use the jelly in its semi-liquid state—that is, there will be a solid lump of jelly in the middle of the bottle, but the outside they will be able to pour out. Pour the jelly into a mould, when, as it is only just dissolved, it will very readily set. Next take any fruit that may be at hand—say a dozen or more ripe red strawberries— place them in the jelly, and then pour a little more of the jelly on them just suffi- cient to cover them. Next, place in the jelly a row of ripe grapes, and then a layer of bunches of red and white cur- rants, putting in stalks and all, etc. The fruit, of course, is a mere question of taste, and depends upon the season of the year, the state of the garden, or the prox- imity to Covent Garden market. When the whole mould has been filled in this way it should be allow-ed to set for some time in the ice. The bottles of jelly supplied by Messrs. Crosse and Black- well are of course made for all seasons of the year, and the jelly is quite I