HO USEKEEPER'S O' UIDE. slices of what is know as the horn part, you would have as good a basin of clear mock turtle as it is possible to get. Another very good way of serving essence of beef is to add it to three or four times its bulk of water, and boil in it a short time two or three heads of garlic and a little bunch of parsley. As soon as the flavour is sufficiently ex- tracted out of the garlic and parsley, say half an hour, strain it off, and add a brimming tablespoonful of macedoines (see Macedoines). You now have a nice bright clear spring soup, enough for four persons. Essence of beef can be used, in fact, to make almost any kind of clear soup, and is particularly useful to make, in a quick, cheap way, without trouble, many of those clear thin soups that are met with at Continental tables d'Mte. Mix the tin of essence of soup with four or five times its quantity of water, boil in it three heads of garlic, and a bunch of celery-seed tied up in a piece of muslin fastened to a string. Also put in a little parsley. Taste, so as to be careful not to overdo the celery. Then thicken with a little arrowroot, and you have a clear thick soup that, thanks to the garlic, will recall Con- tinental living. Boil some sago and add to the clear soup; boil the sago in it till it is perfectly tender, but be sure and boil the sago in some plain water separate first, or it will make your soup cloudy. The same with vermicelli. Get some vermicelli, wash it, and boil it till it is nearly tender in some plain water, then add the vermicelli to the clear soap, and you have some excel- lent vermicelli soup. Italian paste of all kinds, as well as macaroni, can be treated and added exactly in the same way. Essence of beef will also be found to be an excellent substitute for gravy- beef and knuckle of veal in making soup. Suppose you have a beef-bone or mutton-bone left; put it on to stew with a carrot, a turnip, an onion with six cloves stuck in it, some trimmings of celery, and a little parsley. If the car- rot and turnip are young they can be taken out and cut up to be served in the soup. When the bone has simmered, the longer the better, five or six hours, strain it off, then add the contents of one tin of essence of beef, and you have a first-class clear soup. If possible throw a handful of fresh-picked young green peas into the soup while boiling, about a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes before you send the .soup to table. Essence of beef will also be found invaluable for making gravy in a hurry. Add twice its bulk of water flavoured with onion or garlic, celery, parsley, etc., and thicken it with a tablespoonful of brown roux (see Roux). Let it boil, or rather simmer, a, little while to throw up the butter in the roux, and then serve. The gravy, if intended for roast fowl or turkey, can have a little mushroom catsup added to it, say a dessert-spoonful. If the gravy is intended for game a teaspoonful of sherry may be added, but not more. Cooks too often spoil gravies by adding too much wine. BEEF - TEA. — Beef-tea, and good, genuine beef-tea too, can now be ob- tained in tins, and I would strongly recommend this form of beef-tea to those who doubt their own ability to manufacture the article from gravy-beef direct. There is probably no form of medicine, if it may be so called, so valu- able in the sick-room, and especially the convalescent sick-room, as beef-tea. Medical men who attend patients of the poorer classes, I fear, sometimes fail to grasp the idea of the helplessness and ignorance of even elementary cooking that too often marks the working man’s wife. The patient is ordered beef-tea, but he gets greasy ditch-water. I will take a higher case. Beef-tea is ordered ; the patient has to take nourishment, but loathes food. The gravy-beef is bought, cut up, and simmered, and after a time strained, and a breakfast-cup full of a liquid called beef-tea is brought up. It is white in colour, with a brown sedi- ment, which, if left to stand, will settle at the bottom. The popular belief is that this sediment contains the good- ness, whereas the contrary is the case. We will suppose that the beef-tea has been really well made, and that when cold it is a nice jelly. The patient takes a few spoonfuls and puts the cup down. It is left by the bedside. Alas ! what too often happens, even in good families, where every precaution is taken'! In an hour or two’s time the patient turns to the discarded cup, and makes another effort to swallow a few spoonfuls now it is cold, for often sick patients can take beef-tea cold when they cannot touch it hot, the very smell of any cook-