HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 127 which will be found under the heading of “ Foie Gras.” When the plovers are preserved whole a very nice dish can be made by first of all removing from them all the rich fat by placing them for a short time in the oven, and then glazing them. A salad can be placed in the middle of the dish, made of either plain lettuce or a German salad made from macedoines (see Macedoines). The outside of the dish should be orna- mented with aspic jelly, and the aspic jelly sold in bottles is very suitable for the purpose (see Aspic Jelly in bottles). When the plovers are preserved whole the cook will probably experience some difficulty owing to the fact that the meat lias a tendency to drop from the bones. Very great care therefore should be exercised in taking the birds out of the tins. It is also important that when the plovers are glazed the glaze should be rich and strong, When glaze is in this form it will act as a species of glue. With the assistance of a brush and a little ingenuity the cook will often be able to fit the bird together and join on any part that has fallen off. The slices of meat on each side of the breast have a great tendency to give way, but a little brush of glaze and a little patience will very soon make it adhere, and when cold of course there is no fear of the part giving way. For making dishes from whole plovers tinned I would advise the cook to act almost exactly as in using truffled larks for the same purpose (see Larks, Truffled). PLUM JAM.—Plum jam is one of the most plentiful of all jams, and probably its consumption is increasing very rapidly year by year owing to the simple fact that butter has so greatly increased in price, and consequently many families now use jam for their children simply on the ground of economy. Housekeepers, especially where there are large families of chil- dren, would do well to bear in mind the fact that good jam is far more whole- some than bad butter, and that good butter is really a very scarce article, and also that what may be termed second-class*butter is too often a hor- ribly adulterated mess which is abso- lutely injurious to health. Plum jam is now a fixed institution in almost every nursery, and children prefer jam, as a rule, to butter ; and when children are delicate it is of the utmost import- ance for them to be induced to take as much wholesome nourishment as pos- sible. Children null always probably eat more bread smeared with jam than were it spread with butter. The conse- quence is that jam in the present day is a great saving, not only in the grocer’s bill, but in the doctor’s bill, which is far more important. Plum jam is always best when made in large quantities. Perhaps most housekeepers have noticed that tne jam which is sold in pots as a rule possesses a, far better colour than home-made jam. I would also once more remind those who have charge of young children to be on their guard against having too great a prejudice against sweets. Middle-aged men and women naturally regard toffee, jam, etc., as a nasty mess, but the food that is adapted for the middle-aged is not- necessarily that which is most suited for children. We have “ milk for babes and meat for strong men,” and the milk that Nature has supplied for the child contains a very large amount of sugar. Plum jam is perfectly harmless, and is thoroughly pure and wholesome when not taken in excess—that is, when the child is not allowed to help itself, but the bread is carefully spread with the jam. It will be found far more wholesome than the majo- rity of butters now sold. Of course, plum jam can be used for any purpose for which jam is used. It makes ad- mirable roly-poly puddings, and also excellent open tarts. It is also the base of all cheap open jam tarts. The small pastrycooks who sell raspberry-and-cur- rant tarts and strawberry-jam tarts are in the habit of placing a layer of plum jam at the bottom ana then covering it over with a thin film of strawberry or raspberry, the reason being simply that plum jam is far cheaper than jam made from strawberries or raspberries, and more easily to be obtained. PLUM PUDDINGS, TINNED.—Plum puddings can now be obtained ready made in tins, and they are very useful things to have in the house. To make good plum puddings is, of course, a work of time. With the assistance of one of these tins, however, a plum pudding can be served up hot in half an hour. The plum puddings supplied by