HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. DAMSON JAM.—Damson jam is an- other form in which damsons are sold in a preserved state. It is a cheap jam, and verv similar to plum jam, but it is rather thicker in consistency, and pos- sesses a somewhat stronger flavour. It is therefore admirably adapted for making those puddings so popular with children known as roly-poly puddings. In making roly-poly puddings from very thin jam cooks often experience the difficulty of getting sufficient jam into the pudding, and they know what a tendency jam has to squeeze out at the corners when the pudding is rolled up. Damson jam, owing to its firmness, is therefore well adapted for this purpose, though, of course, in making all roly- poly puddings the greatest care should always be taken to firmly tie the cloth at both ends as well as to secure it in the middle. Damson jam, owing to its dark and beautiful colour, also forms a valuable addition in making a dish of tartlets, where as many different colours are desired as possible. It is also use- ful in making those flat, round, open tarts, ornamented with different kinds of jam of various colours. I have al- ready alluded to these tarts under the heading of Apricot Jam. Where different shades of clear red colour are desired it will be found that damson jam is a very nice contrast to raspberry or strawberry, the latter two being bright red, whereas damson is of a deep purple hue, which renders it so valuable an assistant to the cook for ornamental purposes. DEVILLED HAM.—See Ham, Devil- led. DE BARBIERE’S VERMICELLI.—See Vermicelli. DRIED HERBS.—See Herbs, Dried. DRIED TURTLE FLESH.—See Turtle Flesh, Dried. DRIOLI'S MARASCHINO.—Sec Maraschino. DURHAM MUSTARD.—See Mustard. GYPTIAN SPLIT LENTILS.- See Lentils. ELDER VINEGAR. — See Vinegar. ENGLISH MILK.—See Milk. ESCHALOT VINEGAR.—See Vine- gar. ESSENCES, VARIOUS.- Various kinds of essences are sold in bottles. They may be divided into two classes—those which contain some essential oil, and which must therefore be used in very minute quantities, and those which do not. Under the former heading we have essence of almonds, essence of cin- namon, essence of cloves, essence of celery, essence of ginger, etc. When- ever these essences are used great care should be exercised so as not to spoil the dish by carelessly putting in too much. As a rule, two or three drops of these essences are sufficient to flavour a considerable quantity of fluid, and it is always best to drop the essence into a spoon. When this is done, if too much has been poured out the mistake can be rectified. When the essence is dropped into the soup or gravy, pudding, etc., di- rect you run the risk of spoiling the dish. Under the various headings descriptions of these essences will be found. The j other kinds of essences are those which are used in large quantities, such as \ essence of beef, essence of chicken, etc. ! These are really a concentrated form of j soup, and they are prepared for use by ! simply adding to them about three or I four times their own bulk of water, j Essence of coffee is anof' essence which can be used in larg jr quantities without risk. The manner in which all these essences should be used will be found described under their respective headings. EXTRACTUM CARNIS, OR EXTRACT OF MEAT.—Extract of meat is one of the most useful of modern inventions in connection with health and the table. It was originally introduced as a valu- able form of invalid food, but its use lately has probably been more extended to the kitchen than to the sick-room. However, in both alike it is invaluable. For the simple purpose of making beef- tea a spoonful of extract of meat can be dissolved in half a pint of boiling water, and pepper and salt added to suit the taste. It can also be employed as a concentrated form of nourishment in the shape of sandwiches. The extract itself can bespread between two thin slices of bread and butter, a little pepper and