138 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S wiches should be piled up in a pyra- mid form on a dish, and the base of. the dish can be ornamented with bright green parsley. A few slices of the best part of the salmon should be put by when the tin is first opened, to be laid on the parsley at the base of the dish, so that this will denote what the sandwiches are. Potted salmon is also very useful for making salmon salad. This tinned salmon makes, too, a very excellent salad mayonnaise. Open a tin and take out the salmon, being as careful as possible to keep the fish in slices. It should also be drained from any liquor which may be in the tin. Next take a silver dish, and pile up two or three French lettuces in the middle, taking care that they are per- fectly clean, and each leaf separated from every other leaf. Let these be piled up in the shape of a dome. The salmon should then be placed round the base, and the mayonnaise sauce spread over the top. A very good instrument for spreading mayon- naise sauce, when a silver knife cannot be obtained, is an ordinary paper-knife. A steel knife should never be used, as it is apt to make the sauce taste of the knife. If the mayonnaise sauce is made at home it should be flavoured with a very little tarragon vinegar, but if it is taken from a tin it is so perfectly made that it requires no addition of any kind whatever. In or- namenting the salad, round the base outside should be placed some cold boiled eggs cut into quarters. About a couple of dozen stoned olives should also be placed round the dish, and a trellis-work can be made round the base on the sauce itself with some fillets of anchovy (see Anchovies, How to Fil- let). A few bright French capers should be dried and stuck in the sauce at inter- vals of about an inch apart, while finely- chopped chilies should be shaken over, and a few specks of lobster coral may be shaken over it as well. If no lobster coral can be obtained it is very easy to colour a few bread-crumbs pink with cochineal, and to use them instead. This is an admirable dish lor supper- parties at all times of the year. Of course, in those households in the coun- try where the housekeeper has taken the precaution to have by her one or two tins of preserved salmon and one or two tins of mayonnaise sauce, a first-class, handsome-looking dish can always be placed on the table at a few minutes’ notice. SALTS, VARIOUS.—In addition to ordinary table-salt, which is always best obtained in tins ready ground, there are now various other kinds of salt to be ob- tained, such as browning salt, celery salt, savoury salt, etc. I would strongly recommend housekeepers to make a trial of these various salts, which can now be obtained from most grocers. The celery salt imparts the additional flavour of celery. Most housekeepers know how important it is in making soups, sauces, and gravies to occa- sionally impart the flavour of celery. When celery itself cannot be obtained fresh, this salt is an excellent substitute. Browning salt is also used, not only for salting, but for rendering the sauce of a dark rich brown colour. Savoury salt imparts a rich flavour to sauces and gravies. It is quite impossible to de- scribe the exact flavour given by these salts, which can only be properly appre- ciated by giving them what they so richly deserve, a fair trial. SARDINES.—Sardines have for many years past been perhaps the most popular form of preserved fish, and are generally served at breakfast. Unfortunately, of late years they have become somewhat scarce, owing to the dishonesty of some foreign importers, who persist in obtain- ing hundreds of tons of sprats, which are placed in tins and sold instead of the delicious little fish itself. Hundreds of tons of sprats are annually exported from this country and reimported as sardines, the manufacture taking place abroad. Good judges of sardines can detect instantly a very vast difference between sardines and sprats preserved in oil. Genuine sardines can still be obtained, but the only method to pur- sue in order to ensure getting the genuine article is to purchase them of some firm of high position, and conse- quently above suspicion. Sardines are extremely nice eaten just as they are .with bread, the only additional accom- paniment required being a little lemon- juice and cayenne pepper. Sardines are now very commonly met with in restaurants and luncheon-bars served up on toast. In this form they, make a light but agreeable and digestible lun- cheon. Sardines are also extremely