c CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S moist. Now add a dessert-spoonful of anchovy sauce and a little pepper. Mix it well up and spread this mixture over the toast. Put it in the oven for a minute and serve quickly. This is a nice quick way of making Scotch wood- cock, and it does not require more than ten minutes’ notice to tne cook. The eggs should boil about ten minutes or rather less. Anchovy sauce can be used to assist in ornamenting fish when served in some thick white sauce. Suppose we have that very nice dish known as Sole a la Normandie. That is a sole served up in a thick white sauce garnished with small button mushrooms, oysters, mussels, and ci'ayfish. Take a little of the sauce, about a teas poonful, and add enough anchovy sauce to make it pink. .Tust before serving roll a piece of paper to a point and pour this pink sauce in. By holding the paper near the point the sauce can be dropped out at will. Make a little crimp border round the edge of the sole like fluting. This improves not only the appearance of the dish but the flavour. This is what cooks know as piping. I will only give one more in- stance of the uses of anchovy sauce, but the subject is almost infinite. I will describe how to make devilled eggs. Take half a dozen eggs, boil them hard, remove the outer shells, and cut them in half. Squeeze out the yolk from each white cup, and cut off the tip of the cup so that it will stand upright. Now put all the yolks into a basin and mix enough butter to it so that it makes a thick paste that can be shaped. Now add a brimming teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and a good saltspoonful of cay- enne pepper. Mix it all up well to- gether till it is smooth, and fill the little white cups—i.e., the empty whites of eggs, twelve in number. Arrange them on a dish, surround them with plenty of dark double parsley, or what makes an excellent and far cheaper substitute, some leaves of Scotch kale, now sold by all greengrocers. If you want to make the dish look very pretty, chop up fine all the tips cut off the ends of the eggs. Take half of this and put it on a saucer with two or three drops of cochineal and shake them. This will make them pink. Now place little heaps round the dish of pink and white alternately and a few pink and white specks can be sprinkled over the devilled eggs them- selves. These devilled eggs are very nice, and can be served hot or cold, but are nicest cold. This makes an excellent dish for breakfast, luncheon, or supper, but is especially suitable for the latter , meal. In using anchovy sauce, remem- ber to always snake the bottle. ANGELICA, CANDIED.—Candied an- gelica is one of the most useful of what may be termed crystallised or candied fruits for the purpose of ornamenting. It can be cut into thin strips of consi- derable length, and has an agreeable taste as well as colour. English cooks do not sufficiently value angelica as an ornament, whereas on the Continent it is in constant use. As an instance of how angelica can be used to ornament sweets, I will take the simple case of a cornflour pudding made in a mould, consisting of an oval dish—say, for in- stance, an empty Yorkshire pie-dish. Were the pudding made plain and un- gamished it would have the most unin- viting appearance ; but first suppose two or three drops of essence of almonds have been added to the pudding, and the pudding turned out on to a dish. First take some angelica and cut it into strips, and cut two of these strips an inch long, and in the shape of a spike or pyramid, half an inch broad at the base, and going to a point. Cut two more strips three-quarters of an inch long and three-eighths of an inch broad at the base, also going to a point. Then stick a preserved cherry in the centre of the mould, and make it the centre of a star, the two long strips pointing outwards longways, and the two short strips pointing outwards sideways. Round the edge of the mould, at a distance of one inch, put alternately a preserved cherry and a small star of angelica— the star consisting of two little strips half an inch long and one-eighth of an inch in width, simply laid across one another at right angles. Then thicken a little sugar-and-water with a little cornflour, add a few drops of cochineal, two drops of essence of almonds, and also if possible add a tablespoonful of rum, and pour this sweet sauce round the mould. Just contrast this dish, flavoured and ornamented, with one without either, then calculate the cost. Without the rum the flavouring and ornaments would not cost one half- penny, and yet English cooks won’t take the trouble to use this cheap and