CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 108 and add it to the salad. Mix the lettuce I well together, and the salad can be served. Some persons prefer a slight flavour of onion or garlic. For my own part I think garlic very superior to onion, but the garlic should be added with caution. Care should be taken that no solid pieces of the garlic itself get into the salad. The proper method of flavouring salad with garlic is to take a bead of garlic and to rub the salad- bowl with it before putting in the lettuce. This will be quite sufficient to impart a good strong flavour. Should rather more be required, take a small knob of crusty bread and rub upon it a bead of garlic, or two beads. The bread will absorb some of the garlic, and by simply tossing the bread about amongst the salad a very strong flavour of garlic will be impaired. Another great improvement to salad is to serve with it a few hard-boiled eggs. When hard-boiled eggs are served with salad they should not be cut up into quarters till just before the salad is wanted, as if they are cut up too early, and stand for two or three hours, the yolks will turn a sort of dirty brown colour, and look stale and withered. I would warn housekeepers when using hard-boiled eggs against fancying the eggs are not quite fresh when they cut them open. Perfectly fresh eggs when boiled hard and cut open will often emit a slight smell, the smell being simply the sul- phuretted hydrogen gas which is con- tained in all eggs. A very minute quantity will make its appearance felt immediately, but I have known cases in which many eggs have been thrown away which were to all intents and purposes perfectly wholesome and fresh. One of the most delicious salads known —namely, mayonnaise salad—is made from oil, but the beauty of the mayon- naise entirely depends on the purity of the oil itself. Mayonnaise sauce made from oil which through ignorance has been kept too long, of course would be as objectionable as melted butter made from rancid butter. Good mayonnaise sauce can only be obtained when the oil itself is perfectly fresh and pure, and the yolks of eggs used are obtained from perfectly fresh eggs. Most cooks experience considerable difficulty in making mayonnaise sauce, and a very great deal of this difficulty is owing to the misdirections given in several works on cookery on the subject, which re- commend adding pepper and salt and vinegar before the sauce is formed. When this is done the result is not so much mayonnaise sauce as salad dressing, which can be poured from a bottle, but which cannot be used to mask over the surface. I will give directions how to make a small quan- tity. To make mayonnaise sauce pro- ceed as follows :—First take a good fresh egg, break it and separate the yolk carefully from the white, and throw the yolk into a basin of tolerable size. The yolk can now be broken and the two little threads in the yolk removed. Next take some good pure olive oil of proper temperature. The oil should be cold, but not so cold as to be cloudy. Cooks will do well to remember that oil will freeze at a much higher temper- ature than water, and that in cold weather a bottle of oil will be cloudy and look like a mass of ice long before any ice has made its appearance even out of doors at night time. When the oil is in this condition it should be placed for a short time in a little tepid water, allowing it to remain till it is perfectly bright. When in this state, however, it will be perhaps too warm ; if so, place the bottle in cold water and take it out every now and then and look at it. The instant the slightest symp- toms appear of the oil turning cloudy it will be fit for use. Take tne basin in the left hand and take the fork in the right?. (I would here mention that in making mayonnaise sauce a wooden fork is far better than a silver one.) Now pour the oil drop by drop on the yolk of egg, beating it lightly with the fork. Gradually you will find that these two fluids commence to form a semi-solid substance, which is the mayonnaise sauce. Although the oil is perfectly fluid, yet, strange to say, the more oil you add the thicker the sauce becomes. When the sauce has become tolerably thick you can add half a tea- spoonful or even more of oil at a time. One yolk of egg will absorb very nearly half a pint of oil, and will make nearly (not quite) half a pint of sauce, and the sauce itself will be of the consistency of good butter in summer-time. Now add a little white pepper, salt, and a small quantity of vinegar. French vinegar is best for the purpose. In summer-time, do not add too much vinegar, because