69 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. by themselves. This is an almost in- variable proceeding abroad, and the custom might be copied in England with considerable advantage. The great fault to my mind in the English style of living is the great mixture of various kinds of meat and vegetables on the plate at once. For instance, it is a very common thing to see a person with a plate before him containing hot roast sirloin of beef, Yorkshire pudding, horseradish, mealy potatoes, and French beans. I do not deny that this is an excellent dinner, but for my own part I would much prefer to have the French beans served up on a dish to be eaten by themselves. Their flavour is deli- cate and delicious, and to mix them with hot gravy, horseradish, Yorkshire pud- ding, etc., is simply to spoil them. French beans when served by them- selves require moistening with some kind of sauce. One of the best sauces to serve with French beans is a good bechamel, but sauce supreme is better. I have described under the heading of financiere ragout the difference between bechamel sauce and sauce supreme, and I have also given receipts for making both ; when, however, these sauces can- not be obtained the French beans should be placed in a small stewpan with about half an ounce or an ounce of butter. They should be tossed lightly and wanned up for some ten minutes or a quarter of an hour. A little chopped parsley should now be added to them, and a email pinch of powdered sugar, a little pepper and salt, and a small quan- tity of lemon juice. The French beans can now be served in a vegetable dish surrounded by small fried croutons of bread (see Haricot Beans). French beans can also be served moistened with a little pure olive oil. The stewpan in which they are warmed up can be rubbed with a slice of onion, or if the flavour is not objected to, a piece of garlic. A little lemon juice should be added before serving, as well as some chopped parsley. French beans are also sometimes served as “ French beans with fine herbs.” Take the beans and strain them, and boil them in a stewpan with a small pat of butter, enough to make the beans thoroughly moist. Now add together a spoonful of finely- chopped parsley that has been previously boiled and about half a teaspoonful or rather more of finely-chopped shalots. Add a little nutmeg, some pepper and salt, and a small quantity of lemon juice. Toss the beans lightly together in a stewpan till they are very hot, and serve them surrounded by some fried crohtons of bread. French beans are generally considered an essential ac- companiment to a haunch of venison. When they are served with any kind of roast meat, such as haunch of venison or roast mutton, they should of course be served quite plain. French beans are very apt to get cold quickly. When, therefore, they are served with any kind of joint, it is always best for the cook to send them up to table in relays— that is, to send up half the beans first, and to keep the remaining half hot downstairs, to be sent up some ten minutes or a quarter of an hour after- wards. There is probably no vegetable which forms so excellent a dish served by itself as French beans, especially when warmed up with a little bechamel sauce and ornamented with fried bread. I would recommend housekeepers to try the experiment of serving various kinds of vegetables as a course by themselves. In England at present we generally serve French artichokes and spinach by themselves, but nearly every other kind of vegetable is almost invariably served with meat. I am sure, if housekeepers were to try a course of vegetables to follow meat, that very soon they would find this method of serving them preferable. Take for instance young new potatoes. How much better are these served by themselves in a little white sauce and a few fresh mint- leaves boiled with them. Take again asparagus, that most delicious vegetable. How is it possible at the same time to appreciate the flavour of the asparagus and a good joint of meat, such as a well- cookea haunch of mutton ? Again, take the case of cauliflower. This is gene- rally served w7ith the meat, and very often melted butter is served with it. Now melted butter and cauliflower surely do not suit on the same plate with roast beef and gravy, or roast mutton and some bright gravy. How far better would it be to serve the cauli- flower alone, and instead of having plain melted butter, to have some kind of good white sauce, which is easily made, if the cook will take care always to have by her a small quantity of good stock. Of course the stock used for