HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 153 tamed in bottles this caution is perhaps not so necessary; but when purchased fresh there is far too often a tendency on the part of cooks to waste them. One very convenient method of using up chips of truffle is to make a rich accom- paniment known as parte of truffle. This is simply made by placing all the truffles in a .-tewpan with a little butter, bay-leaf, thyme, and a little grated nutmeg and a bit of garlic, and adding a little brown sauce. This should be rubbed through a wire sieve and put by for use. Of course, when the flavour of garlic is not liked it should be omitted, and in any case only a small bead used. Truffles are sometimes used for ornamenting the centre of some rich entree, and when this is the case they can be cut up with a knife into various shai>es—such as round balls or leaves, arranging the small balls into a circle or scallops. These, after being allowed to simmer for a short time in a little glaze, should be placed, covered with glaze, in the centre of an entree. Of course, this is a very expensive mode of ornamenting. When truffles are used for ornamenting any kind of dish it is always desirable to call in the assistance of another garnish in the shape of a few small red crayfish. Black truffle, red crayfish, and green parsley will always enable the cook to make any dish look a handsome one. TUNNY-FISH.—Tunny-fish is a well- known and popular fish caught in the Mediterranean Sea, and can now be ob- tained in this country preserved in oil. -It. is extremely nice served up as a salad, the fish being placed in slices round the base of a lettuce salad. The salad can be finished in the ordinary way as a mayon- naise salad. (See Mayonnaise Sauce.) The fish is somewhat hard, and is by some persons thought to be indigestible. It possesses, however, a very decided rich flavour, and can be treated in any of the ways given for salmon. (See Salmon, Potted.) It is very nice eaten plain, as it is for breakfast, the only addition required being a little oil, vinegar, and pepper. Tunny-fish will also make a most delicious dish of curry. When it is curried, however, the oil in which it is preserved will not be suffi- cient to make the curry sauce. A little good curry sauce made separate can be added to it, and in making it a little ood plain salad oil can be used, erved up in this fashion it is somewhat more wholesome than when eaten plain and cold. Tunny-fish is also exceed- ingly nice served as a supper-dish sur- rounded with some thinly-sliced cucum- ber. TURKEY-AND-TONGUE, POTTED.— Turkey-and-tongue potted forms an agreeable addition to the breakfast- table. It is a slight variation on the more common dish, chicken-and-ham potted. Potted turkey-and-tongue can be used for all the various purposes re- commended under the heading of “ Chicken-and-Ham.” It only differs from it in the fact that it is slightly more substantial. Bor its vaious uses see “ Chicken-and-Ham, Potted.” It makes an admirable breakfast, lun- cheon, or supper dish. TURTLE FLESH, DRIED. —In making turtle soup from dried turtle flesh it is always well for the cook to have the very highest possible model before her eyes. The finest turtle soup made from fresh - killed turtle to be ob- tained in this country is, in my opinion, that made at the Freemasons’ Tavern. A short time back a turtle- soup contest took place in London, and soups were obtained from various quarters. The soups were simply num- bered, and some of the best judges of good cheer were called in, who were unanimous in giving their opinion that the soup obtained from the Free- masons’ Tavern, made by M. Burlet, was the best. Many years ago I pub- lished a receipt for making turtle soup from dried turtle flesh, and for some years I believe this receipt was univer- sally accepted. In this receipt I stated that it was best to soak the turtle flesh till it became partially tender. This operation took from two to three days. I also recommended that the flesh itself should be occasionally rubbed with a little salt, so as to remove any slight out- side impurities. M. Burlet, at the Freemasons’ Tavern, tried my receipt, and suggested the following improve- ment, which improvement I have tried, and fully agree with. It is not to soak the turtle flesl#at all, but, after haying thoroughly cleansed it, to put it in some stock, with some knuckle of veal, and boil it without stopping till it is tender. By this means he main-