INTRODUCTION. ix is always to be found, but it is not every one who would think of using a little of it for the purpose I have named.. , , We next come to that very important branch of preserved goods— tinned vegetables. Just as the chief point in serving tinned meats is to have them cold, so in serving tinned vegetables it is essential to have them hot: and not only to serve them hot, but to make them hot m the tin itself. It should be remembered that these tinned vegetables are already perfectly cooked, and that all that is necessary is to make theta hot through. In many cases the cook will open the tin just as it is and strain off the liquor, on the ground that it is not very clean, and then put the vegetables into some fresh boiling water, make them hot, and serve. Now, it is most important, in serving all kinds of tinned vegetables, that the vegetables should be made hot before the tin is opened. I "will try to explain why this is the case, and will illustrate what I mean by what will be familiar to every good cook—namely, the boiling of a ham. An imperfectly instructed cook will boil the ham, and probably, under the mistaken impression that nothiDg should be allowed to get cold in the saucepan, will take out the ham as soon as it is boiled, place it on a dish, and put it in the larder to get cold. All cooks know the result. The following morning the ham will be cold, and in the dish will be found a quantity of nice him j elly which has run from the ham, and which to a great extent is the goodness of the ham itself. A good cook will, however, allow the ham to get perfectly cold in the water in which it has been boiled, and consequently the whole of the jelly that is in the ham will congeal in the ham itself, and the ham will be what lovers of good living call “juicy.” Now, when the vegetables were originally placed in the tin, and there cooked, of course a good deal of the flavour of the vegetables must have got into the water in which they were boiled. If you opened the tin of vegetables and drained off the liquor, and then placed the vegetables in fresh water, there would be less flavour of the vegetables than were they warmed up in the liquor in which they were originally cooked. To a certain extent the liquor in the tin contains the juice of the vegetable, if the expression may be allowed, just as in the case of a tin of oysters there is probably more oyster flavour in the liquor than in the oysters; consequently when the vegetables are warmed up in the tin itself, far less flavour is lost than when they are opened previously and strained. As soon as the tin has been immersed in water sufficiently long to make the vegetables thoroughly hot through (and with regard to the time full directions will be given under each separate heading), the tin can be opened, the vegetables turned out in their moist state, strained off, and served at once. In the case of tins of asparagus or green peas, cooks would do well to taste the liquor that remains in the tin, and see how strongly this is impregnated with vegetable flavour. The next class of preserved provisions we have to consider is that of fruits. Here again the best course, as in the case of tinned meats, is to keep, the tins in a cool place, and the fruit generally should be served just as it is. Another very important point to be borne in mind by housekeepers is the great advantage to be derived from these tinned fruits in the way of