CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 116 termed pickle sauce is to take a good tablespoonful of pickle, cuf up the larger pieces, but do not chop the whole finely, and mix with it about double the quantity of good rich brown gravy. The brown gravy should be very thick, in fact thicker than ordinary gravy, and a very little arrowroot and cold water may be added, in order to give it the right consistency. This should be heated over the fire in a small stcwpan, and served up in the middle of a dish of cutlets or fish. Another very nice sauce can be made from Oriental pickles as follows : Take equal quantities of pickle and any good Indian chutney, such as Bengal Club chutney, or Colonel Skin- ner’s chutney. Mix the sauce in about three times its quantity of stock, and add a teaspoonful of Crosse and Blackwell’s extract of meat. This is of course a very nourishing sauce, owing to the presence of so much extract of meat, and is very appetising, owing to the combined flavour of pickle and chutney. Persons who are recom- mended nourishing food, when the ap- petite is found to flag, will find this sauce, served with a few nicely cooked mutton cutlets, an exceedingly agreeable dish. The cutlets, I need not say, should be well cooked—that is, black outside and red in. There are few tilings that test a really good cook’s ability so much as cooking a good cut- let. Captain White’s Oriental pickle is made from a very famous Indian receipt. I would strongly recommend any person who suffers from indigestion to make a trial of these pickles, which are exceed- ingly nice, not merely when eaten with cold meat, but with chops and steaks, in addition to imparting zest to hashes and stews of all kinds. OSBORNE SAUCE. — Osborne sauce, which is probably better known by the name of “ Payne’s Royal Osborne Sauce,” is an exceedingly nice sauce, manufactured by Mr. G. Payne, m.p.s., Her Majesty’s chemist on the establish- ment at Osborne. The sauce is bright in colour, and is of the same order of sauces as Reading, Harvey, etc. It is admirably adapted for all kinds of meat, fish, hashes, chops, steaks, cutlets, hot and cold meats, etc., and can be used to give an additional zest to gravies, curries, and salads. I would recom- mend those housekeepers whq, have a bottle of Royal Osborne sauce open in the house to make use of it on the first occasion on which they have a Welsh rabbit. Suppose you are making, say, a small Welsh rabbit enough for one person. Add a teaspoonful of this sauce, and stir it in with the cheese when it is in a melted state. It imparts a very agreeable relish. OUDE SAUCE.—The King of Oude’s sauce is, as its name implies, an Indian sauce, and consequently a hot one. It is prepared from a receipt that is the exclusive property of Samuel Hickson, and his name on the label of the bottle is essential to guarantee its genuineness. This sauce is well adapted for almost all purposes of ordinary use, and it can be eaten with chops, steaks, or fish. It has somewhat of a chutney flavour, and where Indian chutney itself cannot be obtained it is a very good addition to curry, especially where curry paste is not obtainable. OX-TONGUES, VARIOUS. —See Tongues. OX-CHEEK SOU?.—Ox-cheek soup is now supplied in tins. It is verj7 nourishing, and like all other tinned soup it is a very convenient form of having soup always in the house. It can be warmed up by simply immers- ing the tin in a saucepan of boiling water and keeping it there for about a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, when the tin can be opened and the contents turned out. It is exceed- ingly good as it is, but of course the flavour can be altered after the soup is warmed up. I think a little cayenne pepper is an improvement, especially for those who are fond of pepper. It can also be improved by the addition of little of Crosse and Blackwell’s ex- tract or beef, and thickened with a little brown roux {see Roux, Bkown), and when thickened a dessert-spoonful of sherry, or still better maderia, helps to give a superior tone. OX-TAIL SOUP.—Ox-tail soup is al- ways popular, and one or two tins of ox-tail soup will be found very conve- nient by housekeepers, as they will bear the addition of some more stock. When fresh ox-tail cannot be obtained a good ox-tail soup containing the meat of the tail can always be made with the assist- ance of these tins. Suppose we want