34 CROSSE AND BLA CKlliELL'S provement to that well-known invalid jelly, port-wine jelly. Three drops of essence of cinnajnon is more than suffi- cient to flavour half a pint of any liquid to which it is added. CINNAMON, GROUND.—Ground cin- namon is a most convenient form for the majority of purposes of applying this valuable spice. Ground cinnamon is used in cooking to flavour puddings, cakes, jellies, etc. The receipts for making cinnamon cakes, puddings, creams, cinnamon sauce, cinnamon ice, etc., will be found in “Cassell’s Dic- tionary of Cookery.” The flavour of cinnamon is the best for mulled claret, but when cinnamon is used for this pur- pose it is best to have it whole, and not powdered. CITRON RINGS, CANDIED.—Citron, orange, and lemon peel are sold in rings, candied, and will be found very nice as a garnish to be placed round the base of cakes, added to a few coloured crystal- lised fruits. CLOVES, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of cloves is a convenient form of impart- ing the flavour of cloves to puddings, etc. Like all other essences it must be used in moderation, three or four drops being amply, sufficient to flavour half a pint of fluid. CLOVES, GROUND.—The flavour of cloves is very valuable for a variety of cooking purposes. In making stock from fresh beef and veal it is always advisable to stick half a dozen or more cloves into an onion. Cloves are also added to apple pie, apple sauce, etc. Ground cloves form one of the chief in- gredients of that valuable mixture known as aromatic flavouring herbs. Aromatic flavouring herbs can be made in large quantities, and kept for use in stoppered bottles. A small bottleful of aromatic flavouring herbs will keep for years, and, as a little goes a long way, cooks will do well to always have some by them. Aromatic flavouring herbs possess the power of imparting a gamey flavour to various meats, or perhaps it would be better to say they bring out and assist the gamey flavour. For instance, in making a lark pudding the addition of sufficient aromatic flavouring herbs to cover a threepenny-piece makes a wonderful difference in the flavour of the pudding. So, too, in making liver forcemeat, the addition of aromatic flavouring herbs causes the forcemeat to resemble game. Aromatic flavour- ing herbs are made as follows:—Take two ounces of cloves, two ounces of white peppercorns, one ounce of mar- joram, one ounce of sweet basil, one ounce of thyme, one ounce of mace, one ounce of nutmeg, and half an ounce of dry powdered bay-leaves. See that all these herbs and spices are tho- roughly dry. Pound them well in a mortar, sift them through a fine sieve, and put them by in a glass stoppered bottle for use. f orcemeat flavoured with these herbs is always added to all kinds of rich game pies, such as York- shire pie, etc. A very good imitation Yorkshire pie can be made from rabbit, the whole of the gamey flavour imparted to the pie being due to this mixture of herbs. Take say two rabbits, boil them, remove the meat from the bones, and put on the bones with a few of the ordinary additions to common stock to stew down to make a rich half glaze. Next take half a pound of liver and half a pound of fat ham. Cut these up and place them in a fryingpan with two or three beads of garlic. Add also a small tin of mushrooms. Fry the liver with the fat ham thoroughly. When finished nib the whole mixture through a wire sieve. Next add a teaspoonful of the aromatic flavouring herbs we have mentioned and some cayenne pepper. If you now taste the forcemeat thus made it conveys the idea of the inside part of the back of grouse that has been well kept. Great care, however, must be taken in mixing, so that the aromatic flavouring herbs are well mixed up with the forcemeat. A very small quantity indeed of these herbs can be added to meat pies and meat puddings of all descriptions, but they possess such a strong flavour that when used for meat that is not game they must be used in great moderation, as their tendency is to overpower all other flavour. COCHINEAL. — Cochineal is a red colouring matter, and is used in cook- ing for a variety of purposes in which pink and red colours are desired. T will give a few instances of the uses to which cochineal can be applied which may not be generally known. In ornamenting