CEOSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 104 white. Mushroom catsup is extremely useful to assist in flavouring gravies that are intended for any kind of white poultry, such as chicken, turkey, etc. Of course, if chickens are improved by being served with mushroom sauce, when it cannot be obtained they are also improved by being served with fravy that contains mushroom flavour. ’erhaps the most general form of using catsup is to have it with fish. Nearly every kind of fish, boiled or fried, is in England accom- panied by some form of melted butter, and of all the infinite number of sauces which have been invented there are very few indeed that can compare with plain anchovy sauce or simple mush- room catsup. All lovers of good cheer, had they to choose between the alter- native of doing away with these two sauces or all others put together, would never hesitate to accept an- chovy sauce and mushroom catsup. In many parts of the country where mushrooms are obtained, mushroom catsup is often home-made. When the cook is a judge of the difference between wholesome and unwholesome mush- rooms, of course home-made catsup is very excellent; but, like many other things, catsup is far best when made in large quantities. The greatest care is exercised by experienced experts in gathering mushrooms, and as the catsup is, of course, made in enormous quantities, it possesses the advantages which are always to be obtained from skilled labour coupled with per- fect machinery. Many housekeepers are fond of trying experiments in the way of sauces. Mushroom catsup forms the basis, as I have said, of nearly every other kind of sauce. Those who are fond of a variety of sauces would do well to obtain first of all say a quart bottle of mushroom catsup, and then to exercise their fancy in transforming it into any other kind of sauce they may like. For instance, a very nice sauce can be made by stewing some pieces of garlic in a little catsup, adding to this some pulp of fresh tomatoes and some cayenne pepper. So, too, any trimmings that may be obtained from truffles can bb powdered and added to the mushroom catsup with a little cayenne pepper. A very delicious sauce indeed can be made by obtaining a tin of what are known as truffle chips, which now are imported from abroad. Some of these can be pounded in a mortar to a paste ; then add to this some mushroom catsup, cayenne, tomato pulp, etc., and an exceedingly rich and delicious sauce is made. This sauce can be put in a bottle and carefully corked down, the bottle being filled as full as possible, and the cork sealing-waxed over the top. Housekeepers should always be very careful to cork the bottle well down after the catsup has been used, otherwise after a short time a few white specks of mildew will appear on the surface. In such a case the cook has no one to blame but herself, as this is simply owing to its being imperfectly corked. The cook would also do well, when sho has a bottle of catsup in use, to occasionally shake the bottle when she goes to the cupboard for any other purpose. By this means it will be pre- served from turning bad. Various kinds of white stock that have been made from good stock- and cream, such as bechamel, will bear the addition sometimes of a small quantity of mush- room catsup. Only a small quantity should be added, as, of course, it has a tendency to render the whole sauce a bad colour. MUSHROOM POWDER.— Mushroom powder is a very convenient form of imparting the flavour of mushrooms to various dishes. In making hash of any description a spoonful of mushroom powder will be found a great improve- ment. Mushroom powder can also be used when tinned mushrooms are not obtainable for making various kinds of forcemeats, rissoles, kromeskies, etc. I would warn the cook, however, of the importance of keeping this powder in tightly-corked bottles. Cooks would do well to make a trial of mushroom powder. It is a very convenient form of having mushrooms, but they should bear in mind that this mushroom pow- der is literally the mushroom itself, which has been first of all heated, then dried, and then powdered. The best place for keeping it is on the top shelf in the kitchen, which is, as a rule, tolerably dry. MUSHROOMS, PICKLED.—Small but- ton mushrooms can now be obtained in bottles pickled in vinegar. They can be used for all sauces which are slightly