HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 145 way of treating the onion gradually causes it to impregnate the meat, and 1 must say Soyer’s direction is well worth bearing in mind. This is a very nice method of treating a good-sized fowl, but I would not recommend it in the case of delicate spring chickens. An- other of Soyer’s very simple receipts is for making ‘‘devilled toast.” He says : “ Toast a round of bread, cut quite an inch thick ; mix in the butter half a tea- spoonful of cayenne, one teaspoonful of mustard, and one of relish or sauce. Spread it over the toast and serve very hot.” I may here add that, though Soyer probably refers to his own relish and sauce, the majority of sauces sold do admirably for the purpose, and I can particularly recommend Worcester sauce. SPANISH OLIVES.—See Olives. SPARGHETTI.—Sparghetti is a well- known dish in Italy, in which country it precedes dinner, and takes the part of the suet dumpling given to schools be- fore meat in the good old days. Spar- ghetti is not much known or appreciated in this country. The ordinary pipe macaroni is generally used for making it. There is, however, a certain kind of Italian paste sold, which is perhaps more suited for making sparghetti than any other kind. In any case English housekeepers would do well to study how far it is desirable in large house- holds, especially where there are chil- dren, to have a large dish of sparghetti, or rice, cooked in the Italian fashion, known as “rissotto,” before the meat. It is to be regretted that sparghetti is not more commonly used in this country, eaten instead of fish, when fish cannot be obtained. The subject of fish as an article of every-day food is now daily becoming more and more one of interest Considering how important a part it will play in the future welfare of the country, it is to be trusted that the subject will never be allowed to drop. I would more especially speak with respect to the importance of mak- ing fresh-water fish an article of food, and bringing it generally under protective laws similar to those Which regulate salmon-fishing, etc. Sparghetti is an exceedingly cheap dish. It can, as a rule, be bought at about sixpence a pound ; and when a pound of sparghetti has been cooked, unlike meat, instead of losing in weight it weighs more. In many parts of the country, when tomatoes are ripe and plentiful, an exceedingly nice and very cheap dish can be made with the aid of sparghetti. In making a dish- of it proceed as follows f Boil the sparghetti carefully in some plain water till it is tender. Now take it out, place it on a dish,, add to it some pepper and salt, and a good brimming tablespoonful of conserve of tomato or tomato sauce, or some fresh tomatoes that have been baked in the oven with a little butter. Now shake over the whole some grated cheese. If Parmesan cheese can be obtained, all the better, but this is a very nice way of using up what are sometimes called heels of old cheese— that is, pieces next to the rind. Serve the dish thoroughly hot, and take care that the cheese is added while the maca- roni is very hot, in order that the cheese itself may melt. When tossed lightly together the melted cheese should have a sort of cobwebby appearance, and look like threads when part of the sparghetti is lifted up in the air. A dish of this description served to families before, and not after, the roast leg of mutton, will, like fish, be a very great saving indeed, and will also have a very con- siderable effect on the weekly butcher’s bill. SPICES, VARIOUS.—When ground spices are used in the kitchen, it will, I trunk, be found more economical to buy them ready ground than to grind them at home. One difficulty in getting home-ground spices is that the mill used for grinding them requires such an enormous amount of cleansing before anything else can be ground in it. Cases have been too often known when the coffee-mill has been used for grind- ing spices, the effect of which has been to give a decided taste to the coffee afterwards ground in the mill, which perhaps had been used for grinding mace or Jamaica ginger. Those who have tasted it will know what I mean. The following spices, of which a de- scription will be found under their respective headings, are now sold ready ground :—Cinnamon, nutmegs, mace, cloves, ginger, mixed spice, black and white pepper. STRASBURG PIES.—Strasburg pies can now be obtained preserved in tins, L