HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 141 the nicest flavours for this kind of light semolina pudding is to place a pod or stick of vanilla, tied up in a piece of muslin, for a certain time in the milk. This imparts a better flavour than using essence of vanilla. Essence of vanilla, however, is very good, and when kept in stoppered bottles retains its flavour for a long time. A very simple way of flavouring semolina pudding is by using lemon-peel. Take a fresh, green-look- ing lemon and rub the outside of it with half a dozen or a dozen lumps of sugar. I would remind cooks and house- keepers, in flavouring any kind of pud- ding with lemon-peel, of the very great importance of the state of the lemon which they use. The most perfect state in which a lemon can be for flavouring purposes is when it is fresh and almost green. Most housekeepers will know there is a period, when lemons come into season, when the peel is thick and moist. They have at this period a slight verbena flavour about them. They are then admirably adapted for flavouring puddings in the way I have said— namely, nibbing sugar on the peel and then putting the sugar in the pudding. There is another state, however, into which a lemon is apt to get—when it has become dry, and the peel is only a thin yellow rim, about the thickness of a sheet of brown paper. When it is in this state it is of no use whatever for flavouring purposes, and the peel is quite unfit for making any kind of forcemeat—such as veal stuffing—and the slices of lemon will be unfit to use for flavouring claret cup. When it is in this state its only use is to squeeze the juice into a tumbler to be used for making lemonade. A very nice way of sending semolina pudding to table is to bake or boil the pudding in a dish, and when it is done turn the pudding out on to a plate and ornament the top with a few spoonfuls of apricot jam, greengage jam, and some bright-red jam—such as cherry jam or preserved cherries. A little jam can also be served round the base, and if care is taken to alternate the colours a very pretty effect can be produced, and, at the same time, a cheap, wholesome, and light pudding sent to table. SCISSOR-KNIVES.—See Knives. SHALOT VINEGAR,-See Vinegar. SHERBET, PERSIAN.—The very sound of the words “ Royal Persian Sherbet ” carries the mind of most persons back to the days of their early childhood. Although probably our tastes for seed cake, coupled with Persian sherbet, has somewhat changed, still housekeepers would do well to remember how very useful this Persian sherbet is through- out the length and breadth of the land. I have on several occasions, when speak- ing of syrups and fruit essences, called attention to the great importance of supplying the poorer classes, and more especially children, with some cheap substitute for intoxicating drink. Amongst the villages in England there will perhaps be many which have never yet even heard of pineapple syrup, red- currant syrup, etc., to be obtained at most large grocers in towns ; but in every little country village there will probably be that shop, so familiar to every child in the village, where in hot weather can be obtained a glass of royal Persian sherbet for a halfpenny. There are numbers of persons in the present day who, on philanthropic grounds, are urging the people to give up intoxicating drink of every description. They would do well to bear in mind how great an ally they have in this glass of sherbet. Probably most lads at the turning-point in life, when they are half boys and half men, commence drinking beer, not because they like it for its own sake, but because others do, and they think it looks manly ; but on many occasions, if they had their choice, they would prefer a glass of syrup and water. As it is, they must either drink beer or nothing at all. The teetotaller’s best friend on every village green throughout the country would be a bottle of sherbet— or, still better, of fruit essence, if it could be sold cheap—with a glass of cold water. It is this coolness that is the great difficulty. The publican who draws his beer from some deep and cool cellar knows by experience how many extra gallons of beer he will draw in the bar in hot weather if his house is noted for having the beer cool. It is no use to tempt people away from public-houses on hot days by offering them liquid almost tepid. At cricket matches, espe- cially in country villages, and all out- door recreations where persons congre- gate in large numbers, the teetotaller’s best ally is a lump of ice, in addition to