HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 75 INDIAN TAMARINDS. — See BINDS. INFANTS’ FOOD, VARIOUS.—A va- riety of food is now sold under the general name of Infants’ Food. There is Hardjs Farinaceous Food, Savory and Moore’s Infants’ Food, and also that special one which is sold under the name of “ In- fants’ ” food. Under this heading may be included Robinson’s prepared groats and barley, Robinson’s Emden groats, and sago hour, sold in tins and packets, semolina, etc. There is of course no doubt that for very young infants the proper food is that which Nature has provided for them. When through in- ability, or, alas ! as is too often the case, the unwillingness of the mother to sup- ly her child with that food which it is er duty to give it, there are various substitutes, the chief, of course, and the best of which is milk. Next to Na- ture’s own food, perhaps, the milk of the donkey is, the best, and next to that is the milk of the goat. The farinaceous foods we have mentioned are better adapted for infants eight or nine months old than for very young children. Pa- rents would all do well to bear in mind the very great importance of, under all circumstances, when it is possible, let- ting young infants have their natural food. Very often their constitutions for life are affected, either for good or evil, by the food they receive during the first eight or nine months of their exist- ence. The foods we have mentioned are, however, exceedingly valuable at the period when children are weaned. Savory and Moore’s infants’ food is a species of very pure starch, which has been converted into a more digestible food by means of the addition of malt. Hard’s food, again, is pure starch ; sago is obtained from the pith of the sago palm-tree ; while semolina is a very light food formed from the purest wheat flour. As a rule, all these may be said to be better adapted for feeding young chil- dren than for very young infants. With regard to Robinson’s patent groats, and Emden groats, they are really ground barley, and are possessed of this very great advantage, that by means of their assistance a basin of gruel or barley- water can be made in a few minutes. When, however, time is of no object, it is well to bear in mind that barley-water made from pearl barley is far preferable to that made from ground barley or groats. In order to make barley-water properly, pearl-barley is necessary, and m making it great care should be taken to thoroughly cleanse the bar- ley from all impurities. There are pro- bably many persons who, at one period of their life, have been, owing to sick- ness, compelled to drink _ that by no , means unpleasant preparation known as barley-water, and have noticed, when it | has been poured out into a glass and I allowed to stand by the bedside, that at | the bottom of the tumbler they find a I sort of black sediment, which is simply dirt. Now when the system is in a very delicate state, and this barley is the only nourishment which patients take, this sediment is very objectionable. This sediment in barley-water is owing to the ignorance, and often to the care- lessness of the cook. In making barley- water cooks should always proceed as follows: Take some pearl-barley, and wash it well in two or three waters. Then throw it into some boiling water and let it boil for five or ten minute's. Strain it through a sieve, and throw away this first water in which it was boiled. This water, of course, contains a trifling quantity of nourishment, but it is simply from the outer coating of the pearl-barley mixed with the dirt. The barley will now be thoroughly clean. Place it in a small saucepan, with some pure water, and let it simmer gently for several hours. Then strain the pearl- ; barley off, and pour the liquor into a I jug. It should be stirred up with a ! spoon before being poured out for the | patient, as the barley will settle, and I the top will be perfectly clear while the bottom will be thick. There are a variety of ways of flavouring barley water, the best being a little sugar and some Very thin strips of the rind of a t lemon—only the yellow portion of the | lemon-peel should be used. These strips | should be cut so that there is no white at all on the inner side. Of course the modes of flavouring barley-water arc almost infinite—orange peei, cinnamon, nutmeg, wine, etc., as the doctor may order. Groats are exceedingly useful for making that well-known compound, gruel, which is probably one of the best cures for that most incurable of com- plaints—a bad cold. There is an old ; saying, and a perfectly true one, that a i cold will always cure itself. However, Tama- i