120 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S bear in mind as much as possible to pre- serve the delicate flavour of the pimento kernel, and that any other flavour added to it, unless carefully chosen, will overpower the flavour of the pistachio kernels themselves. Take say eight ounces of pistachio kernels, throw them into boiling water, and rub them so as to remove the outer skin. Then place them in cold water in order to preserve their colour. Take them out of the cold water when cold and dry them in a cloth. Now pound them in a pestle and mortar, and mix with them a spoonful of orange-flower water, till they become a bright smooth paste. Next add six ounces of white sugar, and also mix in about an ounce and a half of clarified isinglass—that is, isinglass that has been dissolved in water and clarified with white of egg. As a rule the green colour of the pimento kernel itself will not be sufficient to impart colour to the cream. The cook should therefore add a teaspooful of spinach juice, or, still better, a teaspoonful of green colouring matter, sold in bottles, such as Breton’s colouring. Now mix the whole in with a pint of well whipped cream. When thoroughly mixed place it all in an oiled mould, and embed the mould in rough ice till the cream is set. It is of course needless to say that the isinglass should have been added warm. This is indeed a delicate and delicious cream. Pistachio kernels are very often used in cooking, and are well adapted to be placed in the middle of a dish such as galantine. They are also often used in boar’s head, such as galantine of boar’s head when truffle is used, and are of very great importance, not only to the appearance but the flavour. 'The little green kernels of the pistachio nut make a nice bright contrast with the red tongue and black truffle. I cannot too often impress on the minds of all cooks how very greatly these three colours, when mixed, improve the appearance of any dish. Pistachio kernels are also used in making several delicate rich dishes, that might be called Italian dishes. Space will not allow me to enter into the various dishes that can be made with the assistance of pistachio kernels, but I would particularly men- tion Spongadadi Roma, and Spongada di Vcnezza. PLOVER PATE, TRUFFLED.—A very j delicious breakfast disli is now supplied in the shape of pates made from plover, truffle, and forcemeat. Like all other game pates preserved in tins, the mix- ture is undoubtedly rich, but at the same time very nice, and forms a very agreeable change to the breakfast table. These tinned game pates are exceedingly useful for picnics. I would recommend those who have the management of picnics to see that the tins are placed in some water and ice before being opened. As these pates are somewhat rich, of course it is important that they should be cool and the fat hard. When a pate is opened that has been kept some time in a hot room, it is far less appetising than when fresh opened after being kept in a cool place. I have on several occasions called attention to the fact that the remains or fag ends of these tinned game pies mixed with truffle, etc., are exceedingly useful to the cook in helping to make almost any kind of rich forcemeat, and I have under the heading of “ Chicken-and-Ham Patd ”— (see Chicken-and-Ham Pate)—given receipts for making rissoles and kromes- kies, and also, under the heading of “ Foie Gras” (see Foie Gras), given a receipt for making Italian fritters. Of course when tinned goods are used, when they contain game they are more suited for making Italian fritters than rissoles and kromeskies. Still, how- ever, they do very well for both pur- poses. The fat contained in these pates imparts a most rich and decided flavour to any forcemeat; indeed so valuable is the fat which is impregnated with the flavour of truffle, that the cook will do well, whenever she has the remains of any tin of this kind, to utilise the fat at once in making some such dish as I have mentioned — namely, kromeskies or Italian fritters. PLOVERS, TRUFFLED. — Truffled plovers can now be obtained in tins. They differ somewhat from the pates, being more solid, and are not so much mixed with forcemeat. The tins as a rule contain a considerable amount of rich fat, but this fat can be utilised to make forcemeat of various kinds, for such purposes as rissoles and kromeskies, receipts for making which are given under the heading ‘‘Chicken- and-Ham Patesor the fat can be used for making Italian fritters, a receipt for