139 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. nice deviiled on toast hot. When this is done place the sardines on a plate in the oven, see that they are thoroughly well covered with oil, and sprinkle them over with a little cayenne and black pepper and salt. After they have been in the oven some three or four minutes they will, of course, be hot through, but owing to the oil they will not get dry. Next take some good toast, butter it thickly on both sides, and cut it into strips suffi- ciently wide to permit the sardine to be laid on it. Place the sardines on the toast, one on each strip, and serve at once. By this means the sardine will be hot before the toast has time to dry. Too often in serving sardines on toast the cook will make the toast before putting the sardines in the oven. When this is done, of course, by the time the sardines are cooked the toast will be cold. It is always best to warm the fish first, and then make the toast, and put the two when very hot together. An exceedingly nice dish, which is very well suited for breakfast or luncheon, can be made from a box of sardines by simply having a dish of sardines curried just as they arc. To do this take a box of sardines and pour off all the oil into a small frying-pan. Add to this a dessert-spoonful of curry powder, pre- viously mixed with a little cold water. Then thicken the oil with a little plain arrowroot which has first been mixed with cold water. Add the mixed arrow- root and curry powder to the oil in the frying-pan, and as soon as the curry and oil make a sauce about as thick as food melted butter the sauce is ready. 'our this over the sardines, which should be placed on a dish and kept sufficiently long in the oven for the sar- dines to get hot through. As soon as they are not through the dish of curry can be served. It is a great improve- ment, if a few bay-leaves are to be ob- tained, to mix four or five of them in the sauce in the frying-pan. This gives a pungency and richness which no other spice will do. Should you happen to have in the house a pot of Captain White’s curry-paste, it will be as well to add rather less of the curry-powder and to put in a good brimming teaspoonful of this curry-paste. This is a great im- provement. When no curry-paste is to be had it is sometimes an improvement to mix with the curry-sauce a small quantity of some kind of chutney, such as Bengal Club chutney. This chutney must, however, be added with great caution. Half a dessert-spoonful will be quite enough to flavour the amount of curry which has been manufactured from one box of sardines. Of course, when curry is liked hot, the cook can exercise her discretion as to adding an additional quantity of cayenne. A few chilies can be added and served up whole with the fish. They would only be suitable, however, to Indian palates. Plain boiled rice should always accom- pany every kind of curry. SARDINE K1TIVES.—See Knives. SAUCES, VARIOUS.—The number of sauces now to be obtained from grocers is almost infinite. They are generally sold in quarter-pint, half-pint, pint, and quart bottles. These very small bottles of sauce are a very great convenience to households consisting of very few per- sons. I will give a list of the principal sauces now to be obtained, a description for using the most important of which will be found under their various head- ings :—Mushroom Catsup, Walnut Cat- sup, Essence of Anchovies, Chutney Sauce, Beefsteak Sauce, Curry Sauce, Essence of Shrimps, Essence of Lobster, Emperor of China Sauce, Oyster Sauce, Gloucester Sauce, John Bull Sauce, Royal Table Sauce, Sauce Piquante, Sir Robert Peel’s Sauce, Soho Sauce, To- mato Sauce, Soyer’s Relish for Ladies, Soyer’s Relish for Gentlemen, Chutney Sauce, Curry Sauce (Captain White’s), Charles Cocks’s Reading Sauce, Creasy’s Brighton Sauce, Clarence’s Cayenne Sauce, Fouracres’ Severn Sauce, Hick- son’s King of Oude Sauce, Heard’s Camp Sauce, Kalos Gensis Sauce, Lemon Pickle Sauce, Lazenby’s Harvey Sauce,' Mogul or Chetna Sauce, Prince of Wales’s Salad Sauce, Payne’s Royal Osborne Sauce, Burgess’s Essence of Anchovies, Pillar and Co.’s Tomato Conserve, Parisian Essence, Casaripe, China Soy, Athenaeum, Lea and Perrin’s Worcester Sauce, etc. SAUSAGES.—There are a great variety of sausages now to be obtained. Sau- sages that may be termed fresh, their freshness being preserved by being kept in tins, and sausages dried like German sausages, are the most familiar. With regard to sausages preserved in tins,