INTRODUCTION. THE subject of tbe preservation of food is one of great national importance, as by it an increase is made in the food-supply of the whole world. There are countries where corn is so cheap that it is used as fuel instead of coal on the ground of economy, and there are countries where fruit is so plentiful that a boat's load that would cost a small fortune in Covent Garden is freely exchanged for a moderate amount of wheaten bread. It is but lately that sheep were slaughtered by the thousand for their wool and tallow only, and the carcases thrown aside as offal, while at the same time the eyes of tens of thousands of European children would, like those of Oliver Twist, glisten even at the very sight of meat. The history of how one country can with profit to itself exchange its superfluities for the superfluities of another country is almost the history of civilisation itself. Vast changes have taken place in the domestic life of the inhabitants of these islands during the last century. Indeed, it may be said, in reference to what may be called the pleasures of the table, that in many cases the luxuries of the eighteenth century have become the necessaries of life in the nineteenth. Great changes also have taken place in English society of late years. Men in the present day work less with their muscles, but far harder with their brains. The farmhouse pie cut into two-pound slices is not adapted to the appetite of the weary merchant’s clerk any more than to that of the merchant himself. A certain variety of food is demanded, and with demand naturally supply follows. To the hard-worked man who lives by the sweat of his brain rather than his brow, a Yorkshire breakfast of the old style is simply an impossibility. It is to this enormous middle class that preserved meats, fruit, and vegetables are so acceptable. The old-fashioned prejudice against preserved goods is now almost a thing of the past. Throughout the length and breadth of the land a dish of fresh green peas, or ripe, luscious apricots, is now to be obtained at all seasons of the year. The wonder now is how our ancestors did so well without them. But the same thing may be said of railway travelling, telegrams, and gas. The chief point in which the present work differs from the majority of those which have preceded it, is that its directions are not so much as to how to make things as how to use them. In ordinary works on cookery, for instance, we have various headings of different kinds of jam, and we are told how to make the jam. How few, however, direct us as to the various uses to which jam may be put after it is once made. In the present day, probably, to every one who makes his own jam there are a thousand who buy their jam ready made. It is to these that the knowledge of the