CROSSE A ED BLACKWELL'S 70 making every kind of white sauce must not be coloured, nor should extract of meat ever be added to it. Green peas are another instance of a vegetable that is far best served by itself. When the peas are quite young they should be served plain, with no sauce whatever. When, however, they are what may be called middle-aged, they can be mixed with a little good white sauce, or a little plain butter, and in every case a few fresh mint-leaves should be boiled with them. French beans preserved in tins are exceedingly useful, as they can be used .to make a little extra dish at a few moments’ notice, and so great is the perfection to which the art of preserving vegetables has now been brought, that it is very difficult indeed to distinguish the difference between French beans preserved in tins and those fresh gathered. Indeed the tinned vegetables are preferable to all kinds of fresh ones, unless they are very young. Too often French beans are old and stringy, as well as coarse, whereas only the young and tender beans are preserved in tins. HARVEY SAUCE.—Harvey sauce is one of the best known and most popular of sauces. It is sold in bottles, and can be used for chops, steaks, fish, gravies, etc. A small addition of Harvey sauce is a great improvement to hashes and stews of every description, only care should be taken not to put in too much. Many of these sauces, when used with care, are very valuable to assist in im- proving the flavour of a dish, but when added in too large quantities they are often found to drown all other flavours. Harvey sauce is used for making what is known as white ravigotte sauce. This is made by taking say a tablespoonful of chili vinegar, another of tan-agon vinegar, and another of Harvey sauce, putting it into a small stewpan, and let- ting the whole boil away till it is reduced to rather less than half the original quantity. Then add a little good be- chamel sauce, and a tablespoonful of chopped blanched parsley. Harvey sauce is also used in making black butter, and should be added to the “nut-brown butter,” as well as a little mushroom ketchup and vinegar, and a small quantity of chopped capers. HEERING’S P. F. CHERRY BRANDY. —See Cherry Brandt. HENDERSON’S PATENT OPENERS.— See Knives. HERBACEOUS MIXTURE.—Aromatic flavouring herbs are now to be obtained ready mixed in bottles, and are a great convenience to cooks, as the home manufacture of these flavouring herbs is very troublesome. Herbaceous mixture is possessed of a strong aromatic smell, and is used for making forcemeats, and also to impart a gamey flavour to various kinds of dishes, such as lark pudding, game pie, hashed venison, etc. One very common purpose to which these herbs are applied is for making liver forcemea,t. Calves’ liver is cut up and fried, with an equal quantity of ham and a small quantity of mushrooms ; a bead or two of garlic or an onion can be fried with it, and the whole then nibbed through a wire sieve. To this is added a small quantity of herbaceous mixture. This forcemeat is admirably adapted for all kinds of game pies. A very good imitation game pie can be made by using this forcemeat with some rabbit or chicken. In making these pies it is always desirable to have some good strong stock added to it, which stock should be a hard jelly when it is cold. The stock should be poured in after the pie is baked, so that when the pie is cut there will be a jelly touching the crust. In order to do this the jelly must be poured in very gently when it is very nearly cold, and just on the point of setting. In hot weather any kind of game pie, or indeed any pie that contains jelly, should be kept in a cold place till it is required for use. In hot weather the jelly is apt to run, and this gives the pie when cut a very uninviting appearance. A very small quantity of herbaceous mixture may be added to meat puddings and meat pies, but the j cook should be careful not to put in too \ much, as it is apt to impart a peculiar | flavour suggestive of the meat having ' been kept too long if used in anything like excess. For instance, for a good- j sized meat pie, a pinch of herbaceous i mixture, about half of what would cover ' a threepenny-piece, would be ample. One important point in keeping these herbs is to see that the bottle is always very carefully corked down. I would recommend housekeepers, > when it is possible, to get a glass-stoppered bottle, and keep the herbs in this bottle, and I