HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 157 iiig dish at the breakfast-tables of all large hotels, and there seems to be a universal opinion that the flavour of ham and veal combined is better than any other mixture for the purpose of making pies. Veal-and-ham pates form a very agreeablo addition to the break- fast or luncheon-table, and of course they possess the great advantage of being always ready at a moment’s notice, and also of keeping good for years so long as the tin is not opened. In open- ing a tin of veal-and-ham pates care should be taken so .to cut the tin that the pate will turn oat whole. Of course, for this purpose it must be cut carefully round the edge, and when it has been turned out on to the dish it can be ornamented with a little green parsley or surrounded by a small paper frill. Cooks will do well to bear in mind that these veal-and-ham pates in tins are somewhat rich. The remains should never be wasted, but they should be utilised for making various kinds of forcemeat. Under the heading Chicken- and-Ham Path I have described how to make those useful and economical entries, rissoles and kromeslties. The remains of veal-and-ham pate are equally as good as the remains of chicken-and- ham pate. Also under the heading Pate de Foie Gras will be found a re- ceipt for making Italian fritters. The remains of veal-and-ham pate will be found exceedingly useful for this pur- pose. VEGETABLES, MIXED, DRIED.— Dried mixed vegetables can now be obtained, and are exceedingly useful for the purpose of making Julienne soup. Most housekeepers know how popular a soup Julienne is at all times of the year; but oftentimes the expense of obtaining the necessary vegetables is considerable. There are many seasons of the year when carrot cannot be ob- tained at all except in a form which, however carefully it may be cooked, is absolutely uneatable owing to its hardness. These dried vegetables will be found an exceedingly cheap and use- ful article for the store-closet. Of course, they -will require when used the addition of some good strong clear stock. Good clear stock may be made in the house from ordinary beef or veal, or it can be made at half an hour’s notice by using some of Crosse and Blackwell’s extract of meat (see Extract of Meat). All that is necessary is to see that the vege- tables are perfectly tender before they are served. I would here remind house- keepers that these dried mixed vege- tables cannot be served at a moment’s notice, they require soaking. When it is possible, I would always recommend housekeepers to place a sufficient quan- tity of the mixed vegetables they may require in cold water overnight. Then in the morning, after the vege- tables are soaked, the cook should place them in the stock and let them boil gently till they are perfectly ten- der. They are far better, after being soaked, boiled in the stock, as the vege- tables themselves, when treated with boiling water or stock, undoubtedly give out their flavour, which is neces- sary, especially if the soup has. been made from extract of meat. When good stock has been made from ordinary vegetables, and contains the flavour of carrot, turnip, onion, celery, etc., of course it is not of so great importance. These mixed dried vegetables, however, enable housekeepers to put a really good, genuine dish of Julienne soup on the table at all times of the year, and be perfectly independent of both gardeners and the weather. VEGETABLE COLOURING, BRETON’S. —Breton’s vegetable colourings are a most valuable assistance to cooks, and especially to those cooks who may be termed not “good plain,” but “pro- fessed.” These vegetable colourings are sold in bottles, containing carmine, red, green, yellow, etc. I would strongly re- commend all housekeepers who use colouring of any description to exercise the very greatest precaution in obtain- ing only those that are known to be harmless. There is a good old saying that “ comparisons are odious.” It is not my business so much to warn house- keepers against injurious colouring mat- ters as to be able to guarantee the colourings now sold by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell to be perfectly harmless and pure. We have often heard of danger to children from eating green-coloured ornaments on twelfth cakes, and we have, indeed, heard of danger to persons from sleeping in a room with green- tinted paper. The word “vegetable” colouring is in itself sufficient guarantee that it does not contain metallic arsenic.