HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 10!) if you require the sauce to mask over a surface, of course, by adding a consider- able quantity of vinegar, it will be made more liquid. Mayonnaise sauce can be flavoured in various ways, and when used for fish salads very often tarragon vinegar will be found preferable to ordi- nary vinegar. It can also be flavoured with chili vinegar, according to taste. There is one great purpose, however, to which oil might be applied in this country, but for which, alas ! it is rarely used in private houses. I refer to the practice of using oil for frying. This is greatly owing to the fact that cookery in this country has been handed down by tradition from mother to daughter, and the most well known of these tradi- tions is that abominable practice of keeping a cook’s grease-box. Frying, properly so called, is boiling any sub- stance in fat, but the frying that we generally meet with in ordinary houses is cooking things in a frying-pan which has been smeared over with a little fat barely sufficient to do more than prevent the meat or fish from sticking. No good frying can possibly take place unless the whole of the substance fried is totally immersed in the boiling fat. Sir Henry Thompson has lately pub- lished a book, entitled “Food and Feeding,” being a series of articles which originally appeared in “ The Nineteenth Century.” The high position occupied by the author, as well as the remarks themselves, render them well worthy of careful consideration. In this book Sir Henry Thompson proceeds thus: “ The art of frying is little under- stood, and the omelet is almost en- tirely neglected by our countrymen. The products of our frying-pan are often greasy, and therefore for many persons indigestible, the shallow form of the pan being unsuited for the process of boiling in oil, that is, at a heat of nearly five hundred degrees, that of boiling water being two hundred and twelve degrees. This high temperature pro- duces results which are equivalent in- deed to quick roasting, when the article to be cooked is immersed in the boiling fat. Frying, as generally conducted, is rather a combination of broiling, toast- ing, and scorching ; and the use of the deep pan of boiling oil or dripping, which is essential to the right perform- ance of the process, especially pre- venting greasiness, is a rare exception, and not the rule, in ordinary kitchens1 The principle on which success depends is, that at the moment of contact with the almost boiling oil a thin film of every part of the surface of the fish, or rather object to be fried, is coagulated, so that the juices with their flavour, etc., are at once locked up within and no quality can escape. The bath of oil should therefore be inquantitysuffieient, and also be hot enough to effect this result in an instant, after which, and during the few minutes requisite to cook the interior, the heat is often slightly lowered with advantage. The fish emerges when done with a surface to which a little oil adheres, but this will drain off owing to its extreme fluidity when hot if left a minute or two before the fire ; it may thus be served absolutely free from grease. The film of egg, often applied to the surface of an object to be fried, is in the same manner instantly coagulated and forms an im- permeable case; while the fine bread- crumbs adhering to it take a fine yellow colour from being slightly charred by the high temperature they are exposed to. Excellent and perfectly fresh olive oil, which need not be so perfect in tint and flavour as the choicest kinds re- served for the salad-bowl, is the best available form of fat for frying, and is sold at a moderate price by the gallon at the best Italian warehouses.” I give this quotation from Sir Henry Thomp- son’s book in order to show his opinion of the advantages of oil as a means of frying all kinds of fish and meat. It is with great diffidence that I venture to differ from so high an authority, but my own experience is that a tempera- ture of 350 degrees Fahr. is ample for ordinary purposes of frying, such as cutlets, soles, rissoles—in fact, any kind of meat covered with egg and bread- crumbs. If the article fried, which has been covered with egg and bread- crumbs, has previously been allowed by the cook to get very dry, the bread- crumbs will brown very much more quickly than if they were plunged into the boiling oil when damp. The only exception to this that I know of is in the cooking of whitebait. It is essential in cooking whitebait that the oil or fat should be very hot indeed. The general degree of temperature must exceed what is required for frying other dishes. It is also essential that the whitebait