HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 21 and stews. In using pickled cabbage for hashes, it will often be found that an objection to it is that it is too acid. When the acidity is ob- jected to, soak the pickled cabbage for a short time in boiling water ; then pile up the hash in the centre of the dish, take out the cabbage from the boiling water, which will in itself be sufficient to make the cabbage hot, press the cab- bage in a cloth, pile it on the top of the hash, and serve. It will be often found that in the houses of working men there is a great objection to warmed-up meat of every description. Too often this is owing to the, ignorance of the wife on the subject of elementary cooking. There is one very common dish to be met with—viz., boiled beef, with carrots and turnips. Pickled cabbage forms an excellent medium of warming up this, as follows : Warm the pickled cabbage as we have said in boiling water, cut the boiled beef in slices, warm it up in a little of the water in which it was boiled on the previous day. Then place the cabbage on the top of the beef and serve it with some boiled potatoes. Boiled beef, if wanned up in this manner, and not allowed to boil, mil be found quite as good on the second day as it was on the first. Pickled cabbage is often eaten with cheese, and is a favourite pickle among the poorer classes. CAGLIARI PASTE. — See Italian Paste. CALVES’-FEET JELLY.—Calves’-feet jelly is sold in bottles and in moulds, flavoured with brandy and wine, and also plain. Calves’-feet jelly is strongly recommended to invalids on account of its nourishing properties. When not flavoured with brandy or wine, any flavour can lie added to it as required —brandy, sherry, vanilla, wines of every kind, and liqueurs, such as chartreuse, maraschino, etc. One very nice form of serving calves’-feet jelly for invalids is to add to it an equal quantity of boiling milk, or half the quantity of boiling cream. In this shape it forms a species of sweet bechamel sauce. By adding more milk the jelly can be formed into a beautiful custard. Very often, in cases of dyspepsia, a mixture of beef-tea and milk is recom- mended by medical men. A bottle of calves’-feet jelly, mixed with milk, is one of the nicest forms in which this kind of nourishment can be adminis- tered. Calves’-feet jelly is also very useful, when flavoured with brandy, etc., to ornament sweets. As an in- stance, we will give the case of an arrowroot pudding (see Arrowroot). We -will take a case in which, for ex- ample, the ornament is to be the shape and colour of a cucumber, surrounded with small knobs. Take a small quan- tity of jelly, and, having melted it, fill each of the knobs in the mould with jelly by means of a spoon. Then take some of the jelly, and, with some green vegetable colouring (see Vegetable Colouring), colour suffi- cient jelly a bright green to fill the cucumber mould. Pour the arrowroot on the top, and then, when all is set, plunge the mould for a few seconds into hot water, and turn it out. The effect of the bright tops of jelly round the green cucumber on the top of a white mould is very pretty. Calves’- feet jelly, which is a pale yellow, can also be coloured pink by the addition of a little cochineal or any vegetable colouring. Care should be taken in melting jelly not to make it too hot. Calves’-feet jelly, when bought in bot- tles, will be found to be perfectly bright. If the bottle be made too hot it will cause it to become cloudy. The best method for melting jelly is to place the bottle in tepid water and to have patience to let it dissolve very gradually. By this means considerable time is saved in setting the jelly when it is wanted for that purpose, and all danger of ren- dering it cloudy is avoided. Calves’-feet jelly is often given to invalids to drink warm, but care should always be taken not to heat it beyond the point at which it is required to be drank. In summer time, when fruit is ripe and plentiful, a nice mould of jelly can be formed by placing fruits—such as strawberries, raspberries, currants, etc.—in some jelly, and then turning the mould out when set with the fruit in it. Moulds of jolly, when turned out on to glass dishes, should be ornamented with cut lemon. When turned out on to. silver dishes a piece of paper with an orna- mental edge should be placed at the bottom of the <lish. CAMBRIAN ESSENCE.—Smith's Cam- brian Essence is a sort of concentrated pickle, used for giving' the true West-