HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. i)7 lades will be found under their respec- tive headings. MAYONNAISE SAUCE.—Many cooks experience considerable difficulty in making mayonnaise sauce. Beginners in the art of cooking cannot comprehend the fact that two fluids put together— viz., oil and yolks of eggs—should, when simply mixed with a fork in a basin, be converted into almost a solid, like butter. Such, however, is the fact. In making mayonnaise sauce the oil must be poured drop by drop on the yolk of egg, and the whole beaten till it becomes thicker and thicker. By adding more oil the mayonnaise sauce finally assumes the form of butter, when it can be spread over the surface of solids, such as chickens, etc. One very convenient form of having mayonnaise sauce, which is troublesome to make, especially in hot weather, is to buy it ready-made. A really good and first-class mayonnaise sauce is now supplied by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, and housekeepers who at times require a salad in a hurry would do well to always have a bottle of mayonnaise sauce in the house. There are few dishes, especially in summer, more tempting than mayonnaise salad, which can be made with lettuce plain. It is generally accompanied with some kind of fish or meat. For instance, we can have mayonnaise salad with cold boiled salmon, or a salmon salad mayonnaise made with thin slices of smoked salmon, which forms a most delicious salad, the great art being to cut the smoked salmon as thin as possible; indeed, it should be cut so as not to be thicker than a five-pound note. Mayonnaise salad is frequently made with filleted soles and various kinds of cold fish—turbot, brill, etc. Perhaps the most convenient form of mayonnaise salad is lobster salad. This can be made from fresh lobster or tinned lobster. The general fault with lobster salads, especially those that are obtained in restaurants, is that there is an in- sufficiency of lobster. A most delicious mayonnaise salad can also be made with shrimps. The shrimps, of course, re- quire picking, and two quarts of shrimps when picked will not yield more than about a pint. One very nice but some- what expensive mayonnaise salad can be made from prawns. When a salad is made from prawns, five or six of the largest and finest should be selected to ornament the dish, and the remainder of the prawns be picked. In making salad of this kind cooks should always scrape out from the head of the prawn the little soft meat, as this very greatly assists the flavour of the salad. In addition to these fish salads there are a large num- ber of salads made from meat, one of the nicest being that of chicken. When salad is made of chicken the meat should be cut from the bone and every partide of skin and gristle removed. First-class chicken salad should con- tain only the white part of the meat. Cold turkey, especially the breast, makes an excellent mayonnaise salad. One great advantage of mayonnaise sauce is that it always makes an ex- tremely handsome dish. I will endea- vour as well as I can to describe how to ornament a mayonnaise salad of >any description, but of course no amount of written description would be equal to a lesson learned by seeing one done. Cer- tainly in this respect our French neigh- bours are far superiorto ourselves. There is a refinement of taste in French cooking which it is to be regretted English cooks do not more readily copy. I will now give a general outline of the best method of ornamenting mayonnaise salad. We will take the case of an ordinary lobster salad. First of all the lettuce should be thoroughly cleaned and dried, and placed at the bottom of the dish, and as much as possible formed into a mound in the middle. The whole meat of the lobster, or fish, or meat of any descrip- tion, is now placed on the top, and should be made as smooth as possible. Next with a silver knife or spoon the whole of the surface is masked over with the thick white creamy-looking sauce. Very often in making mayon- naise sauce at home the cook will not be able to get it sufficiently thick; in the case of preserved mayonnaise sauce, however, there is no difficulty. It is made just the right consistency, and the whole surface can be masked over. Next take a small quantity of chopped parsley, about enough to cover a six- pence. Place the chopped parsley at the end of a knife and flip it, holding the knife about a foot above the salad. Let the little green specks fall naturally over the surface of the sauce. Next take an equal quantity of lobster coral and act in like manner. In ornament- H