CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 74 pine trees, they are worthless, and unfit for human food, on account of the very strong flavour of turpentine they con- tain, which no amount of cooking can do away with. HORSERADISH, PICKLED.—Pickled horseradish is a very nice accompani- ment to cold roast beef, and indeed to cold beef of every description. One method of using it is to make it into horseradish sauce. Ordinary horse- radish sauce is made as follows : Take a stick of horseradish and grate it till the whole stick is reduced to a pulp. This is then mixed with a small quan- tity of cream, vinegar, mustard, and brown sugar. A very excellent substi- tute for cream, however, oan always be made by adding a small quantity of Swiss milk to some ordinary milk. The Swiss milk contains a large amount of sugar. When, therefore, it is used for making horseradish sauce, the sugar should be omitted altogether or only a very small quantity added. Pickled horseradish can be chopped up very fine and used instead of grated horseradish. Of course when pickled horseradish is used to make sauce/ less vinegar must be used. If the horseradish has been in pickle some time it will be found some- times that no vinegar need bo added at all. HODGE-PODGE SOUP.—Good hodge- podge soup is really very good Scotch broth, to which has been added some very young green peas. This soup can now be obtained in tins and can be served just as it is after being warmed up. The tin can be placed in boiling water and kept there for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, then opened and the contents served, or the tin can be opened at, once and its contents warmed up in a saucepan. One small tin is generally ample for two people, and it is very convenient to have a few tins in the house, as the soup can then be made ready at a few moments’ notice. HUMMEL’S STRASBOURG PIES.— See Strasbourg Pies. HUNG BEEF SAUSAGE.-See Sau- sage. MPERIAL PICKLES.-Im- perial pickles are a sort of compromise between ordi- nary English pickles and Indian pickles. The dis- tinctive feature of Indian pickles is heat — the base really being pep- per, cayenne, mustard, or chib ; and the distinctive feature of English pickles is that they are not hot, but rather acid. The imperial pickles are therefore, to a certain extent, a mix- ture of the two, and are by many pre- ferred to either. Of course tha most common use for these pickles is to be eaten with cold meat. Still they can be used for a variety of purposes. A por- tion of the contents of a bottle can be made hot in a little thick brown gravy, and served with a dish of mutton cut- lets, or grilled salmon. Grilled salmon served up in this kind of pickle is always a favourite dish at breakfast. IMPERIAL SAUCE.—Imperial sauce is a moderately warm sauce, and can be eaten with chops, steaks, or cold meat, and can be used for flavouring gravies, hashes, steaks, etc. INDIAN PICKLES. — The. distinctive feature of all Indian pickles is heat. It is a somewhat curious fact that hot cli- mates create a very great craving for hot food. We have Indian chutney, Indian curry, Indian mulligatawny, Indian pickles, etc. ; and whenever the word “Indian” is used, it is synony- mous with some hot spices or herbs. Indian pickles are very hot, and those who like hot tilings will find that a small quantity of these pickles chopped up wiH be a very nice accompaniment for a breakfast dish, such as grilled sal- mon, or indeed, any kind of grilled meat. They can also be served warmed up in a little brown gravy, with mutton cutlets, pork chops, veal cutlets, etc.; and they can also be used for flavouring | hashes of any description as well as I stews. INDIAN GINGER.—See Ginger. INDIAN LIMES.—See Limes. INDIAN MANGOES.—See Mangoes. INDIAN MANGO CHUTNEY. - Seo Chutnet.