18 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S will keep good for some time after it is opened. A capital salad can always be made out of bloater paste with some cold potatoes and a tin of macedoines. (See Macedoines.) When lettuces can- not be obtained this is a good substitute. When lettuces are in season there is no harm in mixing some lettuce with the salad. In making these salads all kinds of cold vegetables can be used up in this way. Cold French beans and green peas, or Brussels sprouts and summer cabbage, can be turned to account. When cold cabbage is used don’t use garlic; the flavours do not combine. Also when cabbage is used or any green vegetables put in extra pepper. When bloater paste is opened it should not be shut up in a sideboard with other pro- visions, as it is apt to impart its flavour. BOUILLI.—Bouilli is sold in tins, and consists of boiled beef, with a nice stock in which are carrots, celery, onions, etc., and it is a very convenient form of having a good hot meal in the house, always ready at a few minutes’ notice, all that is necessary being to place the tin in boiling water for about twenty minutes or less, when the tin can be opened and the contents turned out and taken at once, as it requires no further cooking. Bouilli is one of the nume- rous forms of tinned meats which are found so useful in the present day by those who use “bachelor apartments.” There are many who know how plea- sant it is to be able to have a nice hot supper ready at any moment, without giving trouble to servants at an unsea- sonable hour. All that is requisite is a small saucepan similar to those used for boiling eggs, and a gas-jet or a spirit- lamp. Where gas is not laid on, and where there is no fire, these small spirit- lamps will be found very useful and economical. They can be bought at one shilling each, including stand, and enable persons to make then’ tea them- selves, boil their own eggs, and also to warm up a tin of soup or bouilli at any hour. A somewhat quicker method of warming up tins of soup or meat is to open the tin and turn the con- tents into and warm it up in a sauce- pan. By keeping the tin in the boiling water, however, you retain more of the flavour and also avoid making the saucepan dirty, and those who are fated to live in cheap bachelor lodgings will appreciate the gain of this. A tin of bouilli can also be used for mak- ing a quick dish of haricot beef, especi- ally where some cold vegetables nave been left in the shape of carrots, etc., from a joint on the previous day. Take an onion, slice it, and fry it a nice brown colour in a frying-pan in a little fat or butter. Pour off the liquor from the bouilli and add it to the onion, and thicken this with a little brown roux (see Bbown Roux), or a little arrowroot or .plain flour, etc., and, if possible, when one of these two latter thicken- ings have been used, colour with a little browning, or Parisian Essence, or, still better, the West Indian Casaripe. When the gravy is suffi- ciently thick, add the meat and the remainder of the vegetables, taking care first of all to skim off as much fat as possible. Then make the meat hot through in the gravy, and serve. In warming all tinned meats care should be taken to avoid letting the meat boil, as when this is done it is apt to make it hard. This is one reason why tinned meats are best warmed up in the tins, which are placed in a sauce- pan of boiling water, thus forming a sort of lain-marie. Some fried or toasted bread can be placed round the dish. Bouilli served this way forms a nice entric, which can be got ready at a short notice, and is a convenient dish for those occasions known to house- keepers as emergencies. BOUSQUIN’S JULIENNE.—See Vege- tables, Mixed, Dried. BRANDY BITTERS.—Brandy bitters is a very excellent tonic, which can be taken before a meal, as it is productive of appetite. It is sold ready prepared in bottles, and is of the right strength to assist and not impede digestion. Too often persons in mixing bitters, such as angostura or orange, fail to hit upon the happy medium between burn- ing the coats of the stomach on the one hand, and making a nauseous draught on the other. The brandy bitters now sold ready prepared will be found an excellent stomachic. BRANDY CHERRIES.—The most ge- neral form of serving brandy cherries is as a separate dish at dessert, when it will always be found a popular