CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 30 spare or additional dish, which is so great a boon to housekeepers on the arrival of one or two unexpected guests. They are somewhat rich, hut of very delicate flavour. There is a slight re- semblance in the flavour of these pates to that well-known delicacy pate dc foie !/ras. These little tins of cnicken-and- ham pates should be carefully cut open, turned out whole, placed on a dish, and surrounded with some nice bright green parsley. It is a delicacy rather than a meal, and, being very rich, is generally taken in small quantities. Good housekeepers will perhaps be glad to know of a good means of using-up the fag-ends and remains of these delicacies. After one or two days, or possibly only one day, it will be found that there is only sufficient left to make it doubtful as to whether it can be put on the table again or not. These remnants of pates are, however, invaluable to really good cooks. Chicken-and-ham patds are really a very rich forcemeat, and with the addition of a little cold fowl, cold ham, cold tongue, or, indeed, the re- mains of almost any kind of cold meat, will very greatly assist the cook in making a nice dish of rissoles or kromeskies. We will suppose that a portion of one of these pates has been left. Chop up the remains of some cold bacon or ham and some cold fowl. Add a pinch or two of thyme, a small quantity of chopped parsley and shalot, pepper and salt. Take care that there is a sufficient quantity of fat to render the whole sufficiently moist when heated. For this purpose it is always desirable for cooks to take great care of the remains of cold boiled bacon or cold fried bacon that may come down left from the breakfast- table. These remains of bacon fat and lean when chopped finely are invaluable in making kromeskies, croquettes, or rissoles, and these enable really good economical cooks to use up the fag-ends of a variety of dishes. When this rich preparation has all been mixed together moisten with some very strong stock, which will be a hard jelly when cold, and let the whole set in a plate—say a soup-plate, an inch or rather less in depth. Cut the preparation wrhen cold into small squares, about an inch every way. Then take a piece of bacon, and with a sharp knife cut off very thin strips, if possible not thicker than a five-pound note. Wrap the squares nicely in this, and press the edges of the bacon together so as to make them adhere to the forcemeat., Lightly flour the whole, and then dip them into some good batter and throw them into some smoking hot lard. The batter will set before the inside slip of forcemeat has dissolved. The heat will quickly cook the bacon, and in a very few minuies the forcemeat itself will be in a semi-liquid state. The batter will soon turn a bright golden-brown colour, and if the fat is properly hot it will not take more than ten or twenty seconds. Now take the kromeskies carefully out of the frying-pan, put them in the oven on a hot cloth to drain for a few minutes, or on blotting paper, and serve them on a dish with some nice bright, crisp fried parsley. When the kromeskie is opened the hollow ball of batter will contain a rich fluid forcemeat, and those who do not understand the mysteries of the kitchen will wonder how it was possible to get the hot rich fluid into the batter ball. Rissoles can be made from the remains of any kind of cold meat, some tinned mushrooms being always a very great improvement. The remains of any one of these pates, known under the name of breakfast delicacies, will always form a most valuable addition. One other form of using up the remains of chicken-and-ham pates is to make them into sandwiches. The remains of the pate can be mashed up with a little butter so as to make it sufficiently moist to spread. It can then be spread very thin on the slices of bread (no butter being used), as for ordinary sandwiches. Then cut the sandwich into triangles. For supper parties, where sandwiches form a staple dish, chicken-and-ham pates will be found extremely useful, and will save the cook an immense amount of trouble. CHICKEN-AND-HAM, POTTED. — Potted chicken-and-ham is somewhat similar in flavour to chicken-and-ham pates, and can be used for almost every kind of purpose for which chicken-and- ham pat6s are used. It is not quite equal to the pates in flavour, and its consistency is not quite so thick. Like chicken-and- ham pat (is, it can be used by cooks to assist in making rissoles, kromeskies, and sandwiches, as before stated. (See Chicken-and-Ham Pates.) As potted chicken-and-ham can be bought in six-