HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 9 It is a capital preserve for the sweets known as fingers—i.c., a layer of jam spread between two thin strips of pastry. Owing to its firmness a good thick row of marmalade can be laid between the two pieces of pastry without the pre- serve running out. Now in the case of many kinds of jam, such as plum, but very little could be put in. Apricot marmalade is also suitable for very small tartlets, as the preserve, owing to its solidity, can be raised up in a heap in the centre in a sort of little mound. When tartlets are sent to table a dish should be made as much as possible to vary in colour) one or two can be filled with apricot marmalade, others with greengage jam, or strawberry or plum, etc.; also orange marmalade makes another shade of yellow. Any open tarts made from apricot marmalade can be ornamented by means of preserved | cherries, angelica in little strips or | stars, also sliced almonds, and the white I kernels of the apricots themselves, i Apricot marmalade is a very good pre- serve for serving with and ornamenting puddings. Take the plain arrowroot pudding, or cornflour pudding; when the latter is turned out cold from a mould, little heaps of api’icot marma- lade can be placed round on a glass dish, and can be eaten with it. Apricot marmalade is extremely wholesome, i and admirably adapted for the nursery. I Francatelli gives the following receipt j for apricot Charlotte h, la Francaise :— “ About a dozen not over ripe apricots cut into quarters, skinned, and the kernels taken from the stones, should | be placed in a saucepan with a pound i pot of apricot marmalade, the whole to j be tossed over a stove fire until the pieces i of apricot are just barely warmed j through ; and with this preparation fill 1 a lined Charlotte-mould—brioche being used for the purpose instead of bread. When the Charlotte is turned out on to its dish, pour some honey diluted with a liqueur called ratafia d' abricots round the base, and serve.” APRICOT SYRUP.—-Apricot syrup is a most delightful and refreshing drink on a hot day when mixed with a bottle of iced soda-water. It is very nice with plain cold water, but the effervescence is certainly a great improvement. It is , much to be regretted that these various | fruit syrups are not more generally used in England than they are. There is much said about the national vice, but what choice has a poor man on a hot day between a glass of beer and nothing? Drinking fountains are few and far between, and often in hot weather there is a craving, not necessarily for a stimu- lant, yet for something more than water. In summer ginger-beer is tepid and goes chiefly to the nose. Lemonade so called is sickly, and yet these are the only two beverages known beyond the glass of beer, which contains just sufficient salt to make the poor man quickly crave for another. Were it possible in summer time to get every grocer in England to sell iced water and syrup at one penny a glass, more would be done to stop drunkenness than all the efforts of the Blue Ribbon Army and the teetotal societies have ever yet accomplished. In France these fruit syrups are to be met with in every restaurant in every village. In still warmer climates there is the glass of sherbet always to be ob- tained. In every restaurant in New York the waiter brings you, even for breakfast, the glass of iced water as a matter of course, without being asked for it. Were syrups more universally sold, though confirmed drinkers might not take to them, the effect on the rising generation would be enormous. Pre- vention is better than cure. I remem- ber some years back noticing the fact that the lads employed in the late train- ing quarters of Count Lagrange at New- market (Jennings’s), who at Newmarket always drank beer, in Paris took groseille and water, and preferred the latter. A list of the various syrups to be obtained is given under the head- ing of Syrups, various. APRICOTS, BOTTLED.—Bottled apri- cots are used for making plain tarts, j The liquor in which they are bottled is I not sweetened, and should be added to the fruit in the pie after it has been sweetened. Bottled apricots can be mashed up, and the pulp used for a variety of purposes. The pulp will, as a rule, require sweetening. Under the heading Apricots in Syrup will be found a number of receipts in which bottled apricots can be equally well used. The question of how sweet any dish should be is purely one of taste. Many persons object to too much sugar, and some, on medical grounds, object to