132 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S often used with great success in cases of j sore throat, and is very efficacious in remedying hoarseness of speech brought j on by over-exertion in public. Pro- bably there is no remedy for that well- known complaint known as the clerical throat equal to raspberry vinegar. RASPBERRY JAM.—Raspberry jam j is extremely popular, especially with | children. Indeed, with many persons j perhaps one of their earliest recollec- j tions will be the oval raspberry jam | tart, which is in nearly every one’s j mind the first thing they can recol- j lect in connection with cooking. Rasp- j berry jam can of course be eaten alone, | and is one of the most popular jams | served at any time, either at supper j or breakfast. It can also be used for i making every kind of open tart. There is one use, however, to which raspberry jam can he put, which is not so gene- rally known, and that is for making ices. There are few ices nicer than j raspberry, and in the present day refri- i gerators or ice-making machines are so j exceedingly cheap that they are within the reach of every housekeeper. A re- ceipt for making raspberry ice from jam is well worth remembering. _ House- keepers will do well to bear in mind how very cheaply ices are now sold in the streets. It is perfectly ridiculous to regard ices as an expensive luxury, when the very fact is brought before our eyes that they are sold for a | penny and the sellers make a living out of it. In making cheap ice of course it is impossible to use cream. When cream is obtainable—and in some parts of the country it can be had cheap—it is of course far superior to any substitute. In making cream ice from raspberry jam all that is necessary is to mix up say a quarter of a pint of raspberry jam with half a pint of cream. This must be thoroughly j mixed, wrhen it simply requires freez- j ing to be converted into raspberry ice. Of course when ices are made from fresh fruit they require the addi- tion of a considerable amount of sugar. In making raspberry jam perhaps the amount of sugar to be added to fresh ripe fruit averages about three quarters of a pound of sugar to one pound of fruit. Indeed this is the proper pro- portion for making all jams from fresh fruit. Some slight allowance of course must be made for the ripeness of the fruit. When the fruit is very ripe and sweet it requires rather less sugar, but when it is somewhat doubtful as to its ripeness it requires more sugar. Jam, however, as I have before said, is far better made in large quantities. In making ices from raspberry jam it will as a rule be found that cream can- not be obtained, or that its price i;; prohibitive. However, the cook can make an excellent substitute for cream as follows: Take half a pint of milk, beat up in it the yolks of two eggs, and add to it a tablespoonful of Swiss milk and a little sugar. This should then be stirred over the fire till its consistency becomes that of good cream. This is now suited for making every kind of cream ice. If the ices are fruit ices, a quarter of a pound of fruit or jam should be added to this mixture, but when jam is used the mixture need not have the addition of any sugar whatever, as the Swiss milk will be quite sufficient to render it sweet. If cream ices are to be used the mixture itself can be flavoured with some essence of vanilla, essence of almonds, or indeed any kind of flavour, and the mixture frozen. The ice can then be served as vanilla cream ice, almond ice, etc. A tin of preserved apricots can be used for making apricot ice (see Apricots). There is perhaps one drawback to raspberry ice, and that is that it contains the pips of the rasp- berries. RASPBERRY JELLY. — Raspberry jelly is an extremely nice jelly eaten by itself. It is perhaps more suited to be served at dessert than after dinner, owing to its great sweetness. It is a preserve rather than wThat would be termed a jelly, and corresponds to the order of jellies such as damson cheese, etc. Under the heading of Raspberry Jam, I have already given directions how to make raspberry ice, and I con- cluded my receipt by stating that the drawback to the raspberry ice made from raspberries ivas that the ice con- tained pips. Raspberry jelly is better adapted for making ice than raspberry jam, owing to the fact that there are no pips in the jelly at all. A quarter of a pint of raspberry jelly can be thoroughly mixed with half a pint of cream, and the mixture frozen. When cream can- not be obtained, an excellent substitute