HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 57 FYZOOL'S CURRY PASTE. — See Curry. GAME PATES.—Game pates are sup- plied in terrines and in tins. Of these those preserved in terrines are of course superior, as it will always be found in all cases of preserved meat, game, etc., that, like wine, the larger the quantity preserved the better it is. A magnum pf port and a pint of port bot- tled at the same time would be far different in quality at the end of ten years. These game pates are exceed- ingly valuable for breakfast, lunch, and supper, or they can be used for making sandwiches, and the remains can be utilised for making rissoles or kromes- kies. I have already, under the head- ing of Chicken-and-Ham Fates, de- scribed how to make kromeskies. The remains of game pates can also be used to assist in a similar manner. As, how- ever, the flavour of game does not always mix well with other meats, the re- mains of game pates had better be used for making Italian fritters. A receipt for making Italian fritters will be found under the heading Pate de foie Gras. One very useful purpose to which game pies in tins can be turned is_ that of a nice picnic delicacy. Pic- nics often take place in the early sum- mer when game is not in season. In hot weather there is always some little risk of meat turning bad, especially after a long journey through the hot sun. Of course all meats preserved in tins are free from any danger on this account. Still, in very hot weather, those who have attended picnics well know that too often there is an un- pleasant warmth about the cold fore- quarter of iamb, etc. I would strongly recommend the trial of one or two of these game pates in terrines, and would advise the manager of the picnic to act as follows. (No picnic, we presume, would be complete without that little hamper with bottles covered with gold and silver paper caps and a large lump of ice.) Take a small pie-dish and place the terrines before they are opened in it, cover them with water, and put a lump of ice in the water. Leave them in this as long as possible, say half an hour or more; then open the tins and serve a portion of the contents quickly to each person. There is something about the rich and yet cool flavour of the game pat6 that will be particularly agreeable on a hot day. Of course these game pates should be served on these occasions after some cold meat, and not before, just as grouse is served at table after haunch of mutton, and not before it. Various other kinds of tins of meat are peculiarly adapted for picnics, owing to their being able to be cooled in the manner I have stated. When ice is easily to be obtained, as it is at most picnics, there is no excuse for having tinned meats otherwise than as cool as they can be obtained in mid-winter. In all kinds of game pies, whether in tins or fresh made, it is of very great im- portance that they should be served perfectly cold. In very hot weather a rich Yorkshire pie would be very far from appetising if, when it is cut, the jelly, which ought to be firm and hard, should be found to have melted, and the fat looking moist and flabby. When game pies are to be served at breakfast or luncheon they should be put in an ice-chest, if there is one in the house, an hour previous to serving them. If not, let them be kept in a cool larder until the last moment before they are wanted. GAME SOUP.—Game soup is now sup- plied in tins, and, like all other kinds of tinned soup, possesses the great ad- vantage of being ready at a few moments’ notice. The tin can be heated by being kept in boiling water for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, and can then be opened and the con- tents poured into a tureen, or the tin can be opened cold and its contents poured into a saucepan and warmed up over the fire. The soup can be served just as it is, but as tastes differ I will describe a few different ways in which the soup can be altered both in appear- ance and flavour. First of all it can be increased in quantity by having a little good stock added to it. It can be made thicker, and also be made richer in colour by the addition of a small quan- tity of brown roux, say a dessert-spoon- ful. This must be added to the soup, and dissolved in it, and the soup allowed to boil, as it will not thicken till after it has boiled. Whenever brown roux is added to any kind of soup cooks should bear in mind that it is made from a mixture of butter and flour, or some- times lard or dripping and flour. Con-