52 CROSSE AND into a description of how to make puff- paste, but I would strongly recommend housekeepers who live in the neighbour- hood of a good pastrycook, especially if ,the pastrycook is a French one, to always instruct the cook to order the vol-au-vent case as well as pate cases ready made. They will be found to be far cheaper and far better than it is pos- sible to make them at home. It is in filling the pate cases that the pastry- cook invariably fails, not in making the pastry. I have already explained how to make rich brown gravy to be added to financiere ragout. I wull now endea- vour to give directions how to make a bechamel sauce to be added to the ragout a. la Toulouse. Many cooks re- commend instead of bechamel sauce another sauce known as Sauce Supreme. Bechamel sauce is simply a good clear stock mixed with an equal quantity of boiling cream. Sauce supreme is made as follow's :—Take say a pint of rich clear stock and a pint of boiling cream. Instead of adding the stock as it is, it must be allow'ed to boil away on the Are till it is almost reduced to a glaze. The boiling cream is then added. Of course, sauce supreme is richer than ordinary bechamel. Whenever boiling cream is used the cook should always boil two or three bay-leaves in the cream. It is of great importance that the cream should be boiled separately and the stock not added until it has boiled by it- self. For the. sake, however, of those housekeepers w'hose incomes may be said to be limited, I wall give directions how to make very good bechamel sauce without cream. Take a pint of really good stock, and have ready a pint of good milk. The milk must be really good, because if it has been diluted the result will be a failure. Then let the cook boil away the stock till it is re- duced to about one-fourth of its original quantity, and add the boiling milk. In making ragout a la Toulouse I would recommend as follows :—Make bechamel sauce as I have described, by mixing a pint of reduced clear stock with a pint of boiling milk, and then add after- wards a small quantity of cream,. say a quarter of a pint. In making this deli- cious dish it is well worth incurring this extra expense. Ragout, whether finan- cierc or a la Toulouse, should be made hot in an enamelled saucepan, and poured into the empty vol-uu-vent case. BLACKWELL'S p The vol-au-vent case should then be placed in the oven, and as soon as the pastry gets hot through it can be served. Remember that if you were to pour the ragout into the vol-au-vent case cold the whole of the pastry would be burnt and destroyed before the ragout got hot through. Housekeepers, I dare say, wall remember the troubles and trials they have experienced in serving up savoury pies got from the pastrycook’s, through the cook being forgetful of the fact that it takes a long time to warm up a little piece of forcemeat in the centre of a quantity of pastry, and the pates have been sent to table a mass of hot pastry with a small lump of almost cold forcemeat in the middle. A vol- au-vent always looks best w'hen served up on a silver dish. Suppose wre have got a vol-au-vent say eight inches in diameter. This should be placed in the centre of the dish, and a little of the ragout, which the cook should have kept in reserve, can be poured on at the last moment, and the top or lid lightly placed on the whole. The base of the dish can be ornamented with a few' red crayfish and some fried parsley. Finan- ciere ragout can be used as a garnish to a large number of what may be termed high-class dishes. Good cookery-books will contain receipts for making salmi of partridge a la financiere, and also woodcock a. la financiere. In these very delicious dishes two or three woodcocks are larded and braised. They are then glazed and served on the dish leaning against a pyramid of fried bread known as croustard. The financiere ragout is then placed round the base. A large capon is often surmounted with finan- ciere ragout. Pheasants and chickens are also served <1 la financiere. Of course, cooks can always use their own discretion in increasing the financier) in quantity. Small pieces of the white part of rabbits or chickens can be added to the ragout as well as sweetbread. When the ragout is served separate, or used for garnishing, it is, of course, ad- visable to arrange the pieces of black truffle and white cock’s-comb so as to bring them into prominence. Some- times a bottle of financiere ragout can be used in conjunction ■with other things to make small vol-aux-vcnts. When this is done one piece of cock’s- comb and one piece of truffle should be placed in each little vol-au-vcnt, and one