CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 148 than for them to endeavour to make every grocer’s shop throughout the kingdom a rival to the public-house. Were it possible for thirsty persons to obtain at every grocer’s a glass of syrup for a penny, or even a halfpenny, which is the price at which in many places a glass of sherbet can be obtained, more would be done to check the sale of in- toxicating drink than all the bombastic talk, which too often checks the move- ment rather than advances it. SYRUP, FRUITS IN.—The following fruits are now to be obtained in syrups, and a full description of their various uses will be found under their respective headings. Apricots, peaches, pine- apples, currants, cherries, greengages, plums, pears, strawberries, raspberries, West Indian limes, mixed fruits, apri- cots in noyeau or brandy, greengages in noyeau or brandy, mixed fruits in noyeau, compote of mixed fruits in jelly, brandy cherries, and pineapples whole. ABLE SALT.—See Salt. TAMARINDS, WEST IN- DIAN. — Tamarinds are a well-known West Indian fruit, sent over to this country in large cases preserved in syrup. The flavour is slightly acid. They were probably more in vogue years ago than they are now, owing to the fact of their having so many rivals in the shape of fresh preserved fruit in tins, such as apricots, etc. Tamarinds are packed in casks, syrup is poured over them, the casks are carefully secured, and they are sent over to this country in bulk. They were a favourite sweet in schools some fifty years back. Probably middle-aged and elderly men will call to mind the jar of tamarinds in their school days more readily than boys of the present day. Tamarinds are sold in jars and bottles. A very nice and deliciously cool drink can be made by mixing some of the syrup in which they are preserved with a little cold water. This syrup is particularly refreshing in hot weather, and has often been recommended as a cooling drink in cases of colds and sore throats. TARRAGON VINEGAR. — Tarragon vinegar is really vinegar flavoured with tarragon. It would be perhaps well to warn housekeepers that tne strength of flavour of tarragon is such that it must be used with extreme caution. It is so strong as to be quite overpowering. In many cases home-made tarragon vinegar is far too strong for any purpose what- ever unless diluted with a large quantity of plain vinegar. I have known cases where cooks have pickled nearly a bottleful of tarragon leaves, and filled the bottle up with vinegar, the result being such an exceedingly powerful flavour that it could scarcely be used at all. M. Francatelli, in his cookery book, gives certain receipts, and men- tions the quantities in which vinegar, such as tarragon, are used ; but then he always refers to a certain known stan- dard of quality, namely, that sold by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, of Soho Square. In his receipt for making white ravigotte sauce he particularly refers to their tarragon vinegar in a note. Were a similar quantity of home- made vinegar used there is no knowing what the result might be. White ravi- gotte sauce is made by boiling two table- spoonfuls of chili vinegar, tarragon vinegar, and Harvey sauce in a stew- pan, and reducing them by boiling to half the quantity, or even less. A small ladleful of good bechamel sauce is then added, and the sauce is finished by mix- ing with it a little fresh butter and a tablespoonful of chopped blanched parsley. Tarragon vinegar is particu- larly suitable for most kinds of fish sauce. I am not myself partial to the flavour of tarragon with meat; perhaps an exception being that of chicken, which wo sometimes get served abroad, called ponlet Vcstrcr/on. This is simply roast fowl, sent to table with the breast covered with whole leaves of tarragon stuck on the outside. The tarragon itself is, I think, too strong to be treated this way. The flavour is best when a very small quantity of fresh tarragon can be obtained, and is used with some rich white sauce, and served with fish. A very nice use for the flavour of tarragon, however, is, if the cook will only act with moderation, in making spring soup. Four or five leaves of tarragon can be taken from the garden, washed for a minute with some warm water, and then cut into as thin strips as possible. The fresh tarra- gon thrown into the soup gives it a zest.