CROSSE AND RLA CKWELL'S 2R should not be wasted, as it contains a considerable amount of cherry flavour. In bottled cherries the cherries them- selves are sufficiently cooked, but the liquor shoidd be poured off and sweet- ened and when cold added to the pie or pudding. Bottled cherries are chiefly used for making ordinary pies and pud- dings, and wall be found very useful when mixed with bottled red currants or raspberries. Should a bottle of cherry syrup be in the house a spoonful of syrup may be added to the juice with very great advantage. Bottled cherries can be used for making open tarts like those sold in France and on the Continent, but for this purpose cherries preserved in syrup are very superior. CHERRIES, BRANDY.—See Brandy Cherries. CHERRIES, MORELLA.— Morelia cher- ries are sold in bottles, find are used for making high-class puddings, sweets, etc., and are much to be preferred to ordi- nary bottled cherries. As an instance, I will gi ve one or two methods in which they may be turned to account. I will mention a receipt given by the late M. Francatelli for brown-bread pudding, or pudding a la Gotha. “Get ready the following ingredients :—Twelve ounces of brown bread-crumbs, six ounces of powdered sugar, six eggs, half a pint of whipped cream, some grated lemon- rind. a little cinnamon-powder, one pound of Morelia cherries, and a little salt—the latter barely a pinch. Mix the bread-crumbs by stirring in the yolks of the eggs and the whipped cream, the lemon, cinnamon, and salt all together in a large basin. Then add the whipped whites of the six eggs, and set this aside. Next butter a plain mould and strew it with brown bread-crumbs. The bread- crumbs should be somewhat dry. Then spread a large spoonful of the prepara- tion on the bottom of the mould, and arrange on it a layer of cherries, with the stones left in. Cover this with some of the bread-crumbs, and place, more Morelia cherries upon it, and so on until themouldisfilled. Thepuddingmustnow be placed on a baking sheet, and placed in the oven, which should be moderately heated, to be baked for about half an hour. When done turn it out of the mould on to a dish. Four a puree of cherry sauce round the base, and serve.” In Saxony it is customary to eat this kind of pud- ding as a cake when cold. In such a case it should be entirely covered with sifted sugar mixed with a fourth part of cinnamon-powder. Morelia cherries can also be used in making Kendal pudding, instead of brandy cherries. For this receipt see Brandy Cherries. CHERRIES, CRYSTALLISED. — Crys- ; tallised cherries are a very nice form of J crystallised fruit, and are always used | with other crystallised fruits in making dishes for dessert. Being small they are j admirably adapted to fill in crevices, j and their pretty bright colour is very j useful in helping to set off the dish, j In arranging crystallised fruits for des- ; sert on the dish, it is always best to j build up the fruit in pyramid form, and j as much as possible to have the green round the base. The green may consist I of preserved greengages, or still better, preserved green almonds. CHERRIES, DRIED.—Dried cherries are perhaps among the most useful of all j fruits for the purpose of ornamenting | sweets. I have already called attention i to the uses to which they may be put in | ornamenting turned apricots (see Apri- ! cots in Syrup), and tinned peaches (see Peaches in Syrup). Being of good co- lour and easily moulded into any shape, i they are largely used, especially on the j Continent, in decorating all kinds of cakes and sweets. They possess a very rich and delicious flavour, and the chief difference between wedding-cake and rich plum oake is, that preserved cherries are used in making the former as a substitute for sultana raisins. They are also used in making cabinet pudding in ornamenting the outside. In making cabinet pudding a plain, round, common pudding basin is really far better than an ornamental mould. First, the shape of the basin allows the pudding to bo turned out without breaking. If the I shape is properly ornamented, and the plain round dome surmounted with green and red stars alternately, it really forms quite as pretty an appearance as a more elaborate shape would do, and some stars can be cut out of citron and preserved cherries. The basin should be first well buttered, and then the stars stuck in at proper intervals in the butter. Sponge-cake, citron, etc., can then be placed in the basin, and the pudding, after being filled up with custard, steamed in the ordinary way. When