HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 151 them till they are a nice pulp. A little pepper and salt may be added. Wien they are sufficiently cooked and the whole becomes a moist pulp, fill each tomato with this mixture, getting as much of it into the tomatoes as possi- ble. When the forcemeat is put in place the tomatoes in a tin with some butter in the oven, and let them' be there sufficiently long to get hot through. Owing to the forcemeat hav- ing been put in warm this will not be long. If the oven is a good one, ten minutes or a quarter of an hour will be ample time. Now take them out with a large flat spoon similar to that used for fried eggs, put them on a dish, and serve. A little rich brown gravy can be poured round tlje base, or they can be served plain as they are. This is an exceedingly delicious dish. To- matoes in tins preserved whole make most excellent salad. Remove the pips and juice and simply cut them up into small pieces. Mix them in a salad bowl in the ordinary way with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. This is a very cooling dish in hot weather. Another very delicious dish is tomato sandwiches. Cut some very thin white bread-and-butter. Sprinkle over each piece of bread a little fresh mustard and cress, pepper and salt. Now cut the tomatoes into thin slices and lay be- tween two pieces of bread-and-butter ; press them together gently, and with a very sharp knife trim off the edges and cut into small squares. At garden parties, ball suppers, etc., these sand- wiches are most delicious, especially if they are placed for an hour or so in a re- frigerator. The delicious coolness of tomatoes in conjunction with the ice makes_ it one of the most refreshing sandwiches ever served. TONGUES, VARIOUS.—Tongues may be divided into three distinct classes— those that can be obtained ready cooked preserved in tins ; the tongue just as it is, that can be taken from the pickle tub; and the dried tongue, such as reindeer tongue. With regard to the latter of these three, the great drawback to reindeer tongue is the dreadful trouble it gives you in cooking it. I am almost afraid to say how long it takes to soak reindeer tongue before it can be boiled, but as a rule it requires a week—at least such is my experience. With re- gard to the pickled tongue fresh from the pickle tub, this is a question for the butcher to decide rather than the grocer, though the latter often supplies tongues. The cooking of these tongues to a cer- tain extent depends on the length of time they have been in pickle. Like many other things, time should be the happy medium. When kept too long in pickle they are very red, very hard and indigestible. If not kept long enough in pickle, when cooked they will have a beefy rather than a tonguey look. As soon as the tongue has been kept long enough in the pickle to look red through when cut in the thick part it should be cooked immediately. This is only found out by experience. Of course the tongue should be soaked in fresh water before it is boiled. One of the most convenient forms of tinned goods is what may be termed the modern breakfast tongue. When you have ob- tained a tinned tongue, the first thing to bear in mind is the importance of tinn- ing it out neatly. As I have said under the heading ‘1 Knives,” the scissor- knife is the best for opening nearly everything. When the tin has been opened one side, the whole of which is cut off, do not be too violent in trying to turn it out. Recollect also to make some air-holes in^he other side before you turn it out, otherwise it will be apt to break. If the tin has been cut off really neatly round the edge on one side, it is sometimes a good plan to cut off the other side as well, and then push the tongue gently out. When the ton- gue has been turned out neatly it looks far best when surrounded by a paper frill. Another important thing is to brush the top of the tongue over with a little glaze. In many shops throughout the country you will see tongues pre- served in tins, and apparently fresh ones surrounded by a frill that have been glazed over. The only difference between these two is that both alike have been tinned tongues in their day, but that you have been saved a little trouble in having this one opened for you. Whether the trouble is worth the difference in price is a question for the housekeeper herself to decide. In serv- ing tongue remember that in cutting it it will require a verysharp knife. Tongue always tastes best when cut thin ; in addition to which, if you attempt to cut it with a blunt knife it will often fray,