136 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S onion itself, which will very soon turn brown, imparts a slight richness to the brown roux. The onion should be re- moved from the roux when the latter is sufficiently coloured, and the roux should be poured into pots and put by for use. Empty marmalade pots are very useful for keeping roux. As the roux settles a certain amount of clarified butter swims at the top. This will keep it good for months, and when cold it has exactly the appearance of choco- late, and is almost of the same consis- tency. This brown roux is now useful for thickening every kind of soup and gravy. Of course the soup or gravy will not thicken until it boils. When brown roux is used for thickening any kind of soup or gravy, the cook should bear in mind that the roux itself con- tains butter, and that when the soup or gravy is required perfectly free from fat, this fat requires to be removed. This can only be done by allowing it to boil, gently by the side of the fire, when the soup will throw up its grease. A great assistance to the soup in throwing up the fat is to throw in very small quanti- ties of cold water. The grease can then be removed by skimming. There is no doubt that one great cause of indiges- tion is the carelessness of the cook in not removing the fat from soups. Of course brown roux is best when made with butter, but there are many circum- stances under which butter cannot be obtained, especially in the case of long voyages or in very hot climates. Brown roux will not keep good when exposed to excessive heat such as that of the Red Sea. On board large ships very small quantities of butter are allowed every day to the cooks, who use fat for making roux instead. Cooks should remember that it is not the butter that thickens the soup, but the flour, and when they add raw flour the effect on the soup or gravy is to give it a gruelly taste, but when they add flour every minute grain of which has been fried a brown colour in butter or fat, they not only thicken the soup but impart a richness as well. Of course when the roux has been made with fat or dripping of any kind, the greatest care must be taken to remove all the fat. The Peninsular and Orien- tal Steamship Company’s ships owe a great deal of their deserved popularity to the very great care which they take ip always obtaining the best cooks possible for all their ships. It is of v course impossible for them to allow more than a certain quantity of butter to the cook in one day. When brown roux is made from fat the cook is well aware of the importance of getting rid of this fat afterwards. As soups and gravies are made in wholesale quantities on board ship, it is far easier to remove the fat than \vould be the case in making it in small kitchens. I simply mention this fact for the benefit of those who make soups in wholesale quantities, but I would caution house- keepers when making soup or gravy by the half-pint against using brown roux unless it is made with butter. It is only when used in large quantities that when made with fat tne greasiness can be perfectly removed. ROUX, WHITE. — White roux is the same as brown roux, with the simple exception of the colour. In making white roux proceed as in making brown roux, only the moment any symptoms exhibit themselves of the mixture turn- ing colour, remove the stewpan from the fire and slacken the heat. White roux is simply flour baked sufficiently long in the butter to be cooked without turning colour. It is useful for thicken- ing any kind of white sauce or white soup. White roux is used for thicken- ing bechamel sauce, sauce supreme, and every kind of soup made with milk, such as Palestine soup, cauliflower soup, celery soup, etc. ROYAL TABLE SAUCE.—Royal table sauce is an exceedingly nice sauce, which can be used for chops, steaks, hashes, stews, etc. This sauce is also exceedingly nice mixed with melted butter for any kind of fish, either fried or boiled. RUSSIAN CAVIARE.—See Caviare. RUSSIAN OX TONGUES. — See Tongues. AGE, ESSENCE OF—Essence of sage is a convenient form of imparting the flavour of sage when fresh sage leaves cannot be obtained. Like all essences, it must be used with consi- derable caution — three or four drops