HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 95 have mentioned—namely, from 350° upwards. It would probably astonish a great many “ good plain cooks ” to be told that thirty seconds is sufficient to cook the cutlets. Should they have been cut as thin as I have mentioned, and should the fat be heated to the degree named, this will be sufficient—a little over thirty seconds will cook the cutlets. When done they should be a rich, deli- cate brown colour, and the inside when exit will*be red and very hot. In the meantime the macedoines must be pre- pared. I would remind cooks that, as perhaps a minute or two will elapse between the time when the cutlets are taken from the fat and handed round in the dining-room, the cooldng process of the meat continues for a considerable period after the cutlets have been taken outof the fat. Weall kuowthat if an egg, which consists of albumen, is cracked the instant it is taken from the saucepan, the white will be slightly fluid. But if we allow the egg to remain three or four minutes before it is opened it will be, comparatively speaking, hard. The simple reason is that the cooking pro- cess goes on in the egg, which has only been exposed to a temperature of 212°, whereas the cutlets have been exposed to a temperature of nearly 400°, conse- quently when the cutlet is takerf out of tne fat the meat inside still continues to feel the effect of the heat, which causes the cooking to go on in all direc- tions equally. It is quite possible that were you to take the cutlet out of the fat, throw it on to a plate, and cut it open, it would be blue in the middle. Wait two minutes and the cutlet will cease to be blue. The tin of macedoines should be warmed-up in a small enamel- led saucepan. The macedoines may be first heated in the tin itself, and the liquor strained off, or the macedoines themselves turned into a saucepan. Then a good spoonful of white sauce should be added to them, or, still better, sauce supreme. When good white sauce cannot be obtained add a good- sized piece of butter. Toss the mace- doines lightly together, and add a little better than a teaspoonful of finely chop- ed parsley. The macedoines should e turned into a dish, and the cutlets placed round them side by side. In order to make the dish look very pretty little paper frills should be added to the cutlets. These frills can be bought ready made, and they can be fastened on to a small piece of stick which can stuck into the cutlet. When the cutlets are not previously boned the frill can be tied round the bone itself. When the flavour of garlic is not objected to,. the macedoines can be warmed up in a saucepan the bottom of which can be rubbed over with a bead of garlic pre- vious to warming the macedoines. Macedoines will be found by house- keepers extremely useful to have al- ways in the house. By then- means, as I have before said, a pretty dish can be made at a few minutes’ notice, of either .soup, hot vegetables, cold salad, etc. They can also be used for garnish- ing every kind of cold meat or cold poultry. They are already cooked, and simply require warming up if wanted hot, or can be eaten as they are if wanted cold. MACKEREL, TINNED.—Tinned mac- kerel forms an excellent dish for either breakfast or luncheon. It is best eaten cold, with a little lemon juice and cayenne pepper or a little plain black pepper and vinegar. Tinned mackerel is also very nice served with salad and dressed with oil and vinegar in the ordinary way. MADEIRA JELLY.—Madeira jelly can now be obtained in bottles containing quarts, pints, and half-pints. The jelly should be melted by being placed in some warm water. Care should be taken not to make the jelly too hot, as it is apt to get cloudy should it be heated above a certain point. As soon as the jelly is sufficiently melted it can be poured into a mould, and when set turned out in the ordinary way. In cold weather Madeira jelly will bear the addition of a little more wine, as these jellies are made so as to be firm in summer as well as winter. MALT VINEGAR.—See Vinegar. MANGO CHUTNEY.—See Chutney. MANGO RELISH.—Mango relish is a species of pickle, and is made from a famous receipt by Colonel Skinner, who is also famed for his chutney, known as “ Colonel Skinner’s Mango Chutney.” Mango relish forms a very agreeable accompaniment to cold meat of every description, as well as to hashes, stews.