77 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. bottles, grated ready for use. A small quantity of Parmesan cheese only is re- quired to be added to the soup. Italian cheese is far superior to every other kind of grated cheese. Some cookery-books recommend using up the remains or what may be called the fag ends of ordi- nary cheese, grated, to be used instead of Parmesan. For many purposes un- doubtedly this is very good. But when cheese is handed with really first-class soup I would strongly recommend all persons in possession of any palate to either take Parmesan or none. The ordinary grated English cheese will entirely destroy the delicate flavour which ought to be the characteristic of good soups. Parmesan cheese, on the other hand, slightly assists if anything, instead of destroying, the flavour. Another mistake, too, when Parmesan cheese is handed with soup is taking too large a quantity. Many seem to forget the good old maxim that it is quite pos- sible to have too much of a good thing. Only a little should be taken with good soup. Italian paste can be used for making various kinds of puddings, but I do not recommend it. It is far superior to all other pastes I know of, though several attempts have been made to compete with it. There is the French paste, a manufactory for making which exists at Grenoble, in France ; but, owing to some cause or other, there is no doubt that French paste is far inferior in quality to Italian. Whether this inferiority is owing to the poorer quality of the wheat or to ignorance in the mauufacture I am unable to say. Probably in all high-class manufactures a great deal depends on secrets that have been handed down from father to son and from mother to daughter for many generations. There are many countries where the finest grapes can be obtained, but no country has yet been able to compete with France in making claret and burgundy. So, too, there are many countries in Europe that grow the best wheat, but at present they cannot compete with Italy in making paste. One of the nicest soups to be obtained in Italy is known under the name of ravioli, which is a species of macaroni made in Genoa. Housekeepers who have not hitherto been in the habit of using Italian paste for soup would do well to make a trial. Owing to the extreme purity of the wheat it contains a very great amount of nourishment. I have avoided going into the question of price, but I know that there is a con- siderable prejudice against the use of Italian paste, and tnat some house- keepers regard it as an expensive luxury. This is entirely owing to ignorance, and I would ask all housekeepers to inquire of their grocers the price of Italian paste, and when they hear how cheaply it may be obtained, and how very superior it is as an article of nourish- ment, I venture to say that many will give it a trial. A little clear, bright stock, made from extract of meat, will form a soup as bright as sherry, and this will be an excellent medium for conveying that most nourishing sub- stance, Italian paste. AMAICA GINGER.-See Gin- gee. JAMS.—There is a good IL1 old saying that comparisons are odious, and I shall not here enter into the much-debated ques- tion as to whether home-made jam is better than manufactured jam. Perhaps much can be said on both sides. There is one great advantage in home-made jam, that people often fancy what they make them- selves. There is a satisfaction in knowing the process that the fruit has undergone, but there is no doubt that manufacturers of jam on a large scale possess enormous advantage over private individuals. There is something homely in the sound of home-brewed ale, but what housewife can compete in this respect with Messrs. Bass or Allsopp? Of course jam manufactured in limited quantities possesses many advantages, but it is far easier to mix a large quantity than a small. The chemist who mixes up a prescription of a pint will probably carry out the doctor’s instructions to the very letter. If, however, he has to manufacture one pill or ten drops, there is far greater difficulty in being accurate. The chief advantage of manufactured jam over home-made jam is that it is unvarying in taste, colour, and sweetness. Most housekeepers will know that each year their jam varies. They perhaps put in exactly the same quantity of sugar, but owing to the variation of the sweetness