80 CROSSE AND PL A CKJVELL'S There are few liqueurs that are more suited for what is known as cleansing the palate than Kirschenwasser. In some places, after turtle soup, it is usual to take a glass of punch, and in others a glass of good old madeira. Kirschen- wasser is well worth a trial, as there is no doubt that, so far as cleansing the palate goes, it is infinitely superior to the other two. Kirschenwasser is also used occasionally in cooking. There are few sweets nicer than omelette au Kindi. This is simply a small quantity of kirsch, which is heated in the ordinary way, and then poured alight over the plain sweet omelet, which has been sprinkled over with white powdered i sugar. As I have known housekeepers experience difficulty in lighting spirits such as brandy, rum, etc., to pour over puddings, I will here explain how this can be done. If the spirit is very strong it will ignite at once, but when it is weak—or rather, I should say, when it has considerable age, as should be the case with all spirits used for the table— it will not light unless it is heated. Act, therefore, as follows. Fill, say, a gravy- spoon with Kirschenwasser, and take a piece of lighted paper and hold it under j the spoon. This will, of course, have j the effect of warming the spirit. In a : very short time it will be seen that the i spirit will easily ignite, when it can at i once be poured over the omelet or pud- j ding, wlien once in flames, if the dish j is very hot, more spirit can be added to 1 the dish; it will not be necessary to heat a second quantity. In making omelette au kirsch the omelette should be well sprinkled over with powdered sugar before the lighted spirit is added. Kirschenwasser is sometimes used for flavouring biscuits. Francatelli recoin- , mends its use in making Victoria bis- | cuits. I have been informed, though I cannot vouch for the accuracy of the statement, that Kirschenwasser is one of the very best spirits that can be taken by persons who suffer from dyspepsia. KNIVES, VARIOUS.—Many years ago, in one of the comic papers, a series of pictures were published exhibiting appa- rently a desperate struggle in a railway carriage. The last picture was that of a six-bladed knife on the ground, of which every blade had been broken. At the end it was stated, “ However, Mr. Jones had only been trying to open a box of sardines.” There is no doubt that these tinned provisions are, like oysters, easily opened with proper implements. As David Copperfield remarks, a limp knife or a two-pronged fork is not a nice thing to open oysters, and the same ap- plies to tinned goods of every description. Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell have pro- vided a set of implements, which can be S obtained from all grocers, for opening | various kinds of tinned meats. Some 1 of these tins, known as Henderson’s ! tins, are made with a thin strip of tin | that goes round the edge. For these tins there are what are known as patent openers. These are something like a key with which you wind up clocks. The thin strip of tin is caught between the two blades, the key being then twisted, and by this means the top of the tin is easily taken off. This is an extremely conve- nient form, as it enables the contents of tins to be turned out whole without being ! broken. When the tin itself is to be cut, the best opener of all is known as the “scissors-knife.” This is, on a small scale, similar to the implement used by smiths for cutting lead and tin. It is very powerful, and is thick and strong in the handle, and the blades are kept open by a spring. By means of these scissors the tin can be cut in any direc- tion required. Another very convenient form of knife is known as the bull’s- head knife. This is a strong knife, made in the shape of a bull’s head, which has a spike in the top. The spike is used for striking the tin and making a hole. Underneath the head there is a blade, which is inserted in the hole. The in- j strument then forms a powerful lever, I of which the bull’s head is the fulcrum. A somewhat similar opener is Knight’s opener, the only difference being that instead of the bull’s head at the top the fulcrum is a strong square piece of steel. The most common form of tin-opener is I a small strong spike, which has a pro- j jection at the side. This projection has ! one drawback—that it is not always j made sufficiently strong. Another pro- vision knife is made in the shape of a sickle. The great art in opening all these tins is not to be impatient, and not to use unnecessary violence. It is also as well to carefully avoid trying to cut through those places in the tin which are thicker than others, owing to the lump of solder underneath where the tins are joined together.