91 ’s GUIDE. HOUSEKEPER and works throughout the day, lives chiefly on plain bread-and-butter or bread-and-dripping. How many of us are there who cannot but envy the navvy his strength and also his appetite ? Macaroni is, to all intents and purposes, the same thing as bread so far as its nourishing properties are concerned, but it is bread in a far more agreeable form than can be obtained in this country. Another very nice form of serving maca- roni is as follows :—Boil the macaroni in some plain water or some milk till it is tender, then add a good spoonful of food white sauce or some good melted- utter. Toss the whole lightly together with a couple of forks; add to it a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley and the juice of half a lemon. Grated cheese can now be added as before. Macaroni, after being boiled tender in water, can be served up -with a little cream or milk, but cream is far superior to milk. When cream is used it is usual to surround the dish of macaroni with some small pieces of pastry, cut out in the shape of flowers. When the cheese is added it is generally best to toss the macaroni lightly together in the stewpan over the fire till the cheese approaches melting, so that when the macaroni is separated stick from stick the cheese is seen to hang in the form of threads like cobwebs. In all cases of serving macaroni I would re- mind housekeepers of the importance of cutting it up into pieces ; the limit of length should not be more than three inches. Those who have been in Italy and have seen the poor men eat then- dish of macaroni will remember that it has a tendency to hang from the mouth, and has to be shovelled in, in a sort of continuous stream, from the plate to the mouth without any cessation. The most common form of serving macaroni in this country is that of macaroni cheese. The macaroni should be first boiled tender in water—or, still better, in milk. It is then placed in a small tin and grated cheese added to it, and a small piece of butter. When it is piled up sufficiently high, and the whole sur- mounted with a dome of bread-crumbs, the dish must be placed in the oven till it is browned over. This is a com- mon form, but I would remind house- keepers that when macaroni is dressed in this fashion a considerable amount of heat is necessary to brown the bread- crumbs. Consequently, while the bread- crumbs are browning, the butter that has been added to the macaroni is “ oiled,” and so gives the macaroni cheese an oily taste. I would therefore recommend when making macaroni cheese which is to be covered with bread-crumbs that the bread-crumbs should be very dry ; then they brown much more quickly than when somewhat moist. A far better method of browning macaroni is to brown the top with a “ salamander.” For the benefit of those who do not know what a salamander is I would explain that on the Continent this ex- tremely useful piece of iron is used for a variety of purposes—for browning over portions of joints, dishes, etc., that have not acquired a good colour. It is simply a thick piece of iron put into the fire till it is red-hot. This is then held over the part that has not acquired a good colour. In a very few seconds the colour is obtained. In England, where salamanders are, comparatively speak- ing, unknown, the cook will find an excellent substitute in the kitchen shovel. This can be ' thrust into the hot ashes, and when red-hot forms as good a salamander as any which can be obtained; but the tendency is to wear out the shovel prematurely. When macaroni is served with tomato sauce and Parmesan grated cheese, it forms that very well-known dish called “ sparghetti.” A particular kind of macaroni is specially sold for making sparghetti (see Spakghetti). Next to macaroni cheese, probably the most common form of eating macaroni in this country is that of macaroni soup. I re- member, many years ago, when at school, that the boys designated the soup in question as “ gas-pipes.” Maca- roni soup is simply macaroni served in some good clear stock. Cooks must, however, bear in mind that the outside of macaroni contains a certain amount of flour, and therefore they should boil the macaroni in some plain water before it is added to the soup. Were they to add macaroni to the stock direct, how- ever bright it was originally, the fresh macaroni would instantly make it cloudy. In serving macaroni soup I would always recommend the cook to cut it into pieces not longer than an inch, because when macaroni is served in long pieces it has a tendency to slip over the side of the spoon, and will prove a severe trial to bashful persons.