152 CROSSE AND and when it frays it looks very unin- viting. Tongues, after being surrounded by a paper frilj, can also be ornamented with a little parsley and a little aspic jolly. TOUS LES MOIS.—See Arrowroot. TRAPPISTINE.—Trappistine is a well- known and delicate liqueur very much resembling chartreuse both in colour and appearance. Like chartreuse, there is green and yellow trappistine. Trap- pistine is popular served by itself. It can also be used for making jelly. In making trappistine jelly, proceed ex- actly as in making chartreuse jelly (see Chartreuse). TRUFFLED PATES. — Directions for using the'following truffled pates will be found under their respective headings: Larks truffled, woodcocks truffled, snipe truffled, quails truffled, partridges truf- fled, plovers truffled, etc. TRUFFLED BIRDS.—A description of the following birds preserved in tins with truffles will be found under the several headings : Woodcocks truffled, larks truffled, snipes truffled, plovers truffled, partridges truffled, quails truffled. TRUFFLED SAUSAGE.—Truffled sau- sage varies from thi» ordinary kind of chicken-and-ham sausage usually sold, owing to the fact that it contains a cer- tain amount of truffle. It is somewhat rich, has an agreeable taste, and is consequently a great delicacy at the breakfast-table. TRUFFLES.—Truffles are literally a species of underground mushrooms. The taste for them is said to be an acquired one, but I think as a rule it will be found that the taste has already been pretty generally acquired. Truf- fles, like mushrooms, are used to impart a rich and peculiar flavour to various kinds of disnes and forcemeats. The drawback to them is that they are ex- tremely expensive. Their fine colour renders them a handsome garnish to various kinds of dishes. Truffles can now be bought in small bottles, called quarter-bottles, half-bottles, and full bottles. Fortunately a small quantity of truffles will go a great way, and in ornamenting various kinds of dishes a good cook will know how very great an extent of surface may be ornamented BLACKWELL'S with a single good-sized truffle, owing to its being able to be cut up into thin slices. The black truffle is extremely useful in ornamenting in conjunction with red ham on a white surface. For. instance, suppose we take the case of an ordinary boiled turkey which has been stuffed with truffle forcemeat, a very nice garnish can be made as follows : A rich white bechamel sauce should be poured over the breast, and some small black specks of truffle scattered upon it, with some finely-chopped pieces of red tongue and a little chopped green parsley. Round the base of the tur- key, on the dish, should be placed a garnish made as follows : Take a dozen cock’s-combs, and having boiled them tender, if they are not bottled, mask them over with white bechamel sauce and place them round the base of the turkey alternately with some slices of red boiled tongue cut out the same shape as the eock’s-comb. Some black truffle can be placed at the base of each cock’s-comb, and some small specks of black truffle placed round the edge, so as to form a sort of eye to the frill. This forms a very handsome garnish. Truffles are the base of all sauces and flavours known under the name of “ Perigueux.” One of the most highly- appreciated sauces known is Perigueux sauce. M. Francatelli, who was for- merly chef at the Reform Club and Freemasons’ Tavern, states in his receipt that the best truffles are to be obtained in bottles, and recommends the follow- ing method of making it:—Chop six or eight truffles extremely fine ; put them in a stewpan with two glasses of white wine, a little lean ham and some thyme, and a bay-leaf. Set them to boil gently on a stove fire for a few minutes, then add a little brown sauce and a little consomme, and stir the sauce on the fire till it boils. Then set it by the side to clear itself. Skim it well, take out the ham, bay-leaf, and thyme, and, after reducing it to the proper consistency, pour it into a bain-vutric for use. Just before dinner-time add a small piece of butter to soften the flavour. The pre- sence of truffle is essential for all those delicious dishes which come under the titles of a la Fincmciirc or a la Toulouse (see Fixanciere Ragout). It is need- less almost to remind housekeepers of the importance of saving all the fag- ends of truffles. When truffles are ob-