HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. glazed they can bo ornamented on their breasts with a little piping. Another nice dish can be made from these quails by using some rich forcemeat. Fill some paper cases with the forcemeat, and the quail itself should be placed on the top of the paper case, and the whole made hot in the oven. Of course both the forcemeat and the quails should be warmed before being placed in the paper cases. QUINCE MARMALADE.—Quince mar malade is a very nice preserve. It is sent over to this country generally in glass jars; the marmalade itself is made in Portugal. It is slightly acid in flavour, and is very useful for making a variety of rich puddings, in addition to which it can of course be eaten by itself, but it forms a very agreeable sweet, and may be used for all purposes for which ordinary marmalade is used. Under the heading of Brandy Cherries I have given a receipt for making a pudding known as “ Kendal pudding.” Quince marmalade would form one of the best jams for making this pudding in al- ternate layers with either strawberry or raspberry jam, its slightly acid flavour contrasting well with the sweeter taste of the jam. (w-^ijABBIT, CURRIED, HAL- K PS? FORD’S.—See Curried RADISH, HORSE-, PICKLED.—See Horseradish. RAGOUT, FINANCIERE. —See Finan- ciers Ragout. RASPBERRIES AND CURRANTS, BOTTLED.—See CURRANTS AND Rasp- berries. RASPBERRIES, BOTTLED. — Rasp- berries can now be obtained in bottles, and are useful for making a variety of dishes. They are as a rule far better when mixed with some other kind of fruit, especially currants. In making raspberry tarts from bottled raspberries the cook should first of all strain off the juice, boil it, and dissolve somo sugar in it so as to sweeten it, as bottled rasp- berries are not sweet. This should be allowed to get cold and the raspberries added to it. Place them in a pie-disli and cover with a puff paste. As soon as the pastry is cooked the pie is done. The cook should remember that these raspberries are already cooked, and she should endeavour as much as possible not to break them up. Otherwise the tart will consist of a species of moist pulp in which pips will appear to pre- dominate. RASPBERRIES, CRYSTALLISED.— Crystallised raspberries are a very deli- cious fruit, and form a very nice addi- tion to a dish of mixed crystallised fruits. They can be used like cherries to fill up the chinks in a dish of fruits, which fruits should always be piled up in a pyramid form, green being the pre- dominant colour round the base. For this purpose crystallised greengages or crystallised almonds will be found best. RASPBERRIES IN SYRUP. — Rasp- berries in syrup will make an excellent raspberry tart, and they do not require the addition of any sugar. They can be piled up in a pie-dish, covered with puff paste, and baked at once. Raspber- ries in syrup form a very nice dish by themselves. The bottles simply require to be opened and the raspberries turned out on to a dish. Devonshire cream is a very nice addition. Over the dish can be placed some whipped cream when cream can be obtained. When the disli of raspberries in syrup is covered with whipped cream it can be ornamented by adding a little pink sugar. Pinlc sugar is made by taking some rather coarsely pounded sugar and placing it in a saucer with a little cochineal or any red vegetable colouring. The sugar should be as much as possible of one size. It may be first of all shaken through a coarse sieve and then sifted in a finer sieve. The sugar can be sprinkled on the top of the whipped cream, but not until the last moment, as it has a tendency to break through the cream and destroy its consistency. RASPBERRY VINEGAR.—Raspberry vinegar is probably the oldest of all syrups (if it may be so called) known. It forms a most delicious drink on a hot day, mixed with a bottle of iced soda-water, or it can be mixed with plain water, ice of course being always an improvement. Raspberry vinegar, owing to its slight acidity, forms, in addition to being a delicious drink, a most valuable medicine. It is