BLACKWELL'S 02 CHOSSE AND . Macaroni makes a most nutritious and delicious pudding, and it can be strongly recommended for families - where the children require light but nourishing food. Take a pound of macaroni, wash it, and boil it in milk till tender. As fal- as possible, so regulate the quantity of milk that the macaroni, when boiled, will nearly absorb the whole of it. Next take a pie-dish, and, although it is not necessary, it is a great improvement to the appearance of the dish to surround the edge with puff paste. Next put the macaroni in the middle with some sugar; add two or three eggs, according as the dish is required very rich ; take a little of the milk from the macaroni and beat the eggs up thoroughly, adding hot milk to the eggs, and then mix the whole well together. With regard to flavour, pud- dings of this kind may be flavoured in a variety of ways. For instance, I will mention essence of vanilla or lemon- peel. When the pudding is flavoured i with lemon-peel the best plan is to take a dozen or half a dozen lumps of sugar, rub them on the outside skin of the lemon, and then simply add the sugar which is thus flavoured with lemon-peel to the pudding, taking care that the sugar is thoroughly dissolved and mixed witli the whole, otherwise one part will be more flavoured than another, and those parts most flavoured will be very bitter owing to the lemon- peel being concentrated. A very great improvement when lemon-peel is added in this way is to flavour the pudding with a small quantity of rum. Two tablespoonfuls of nun added to a maca- roni pudding will give it a vei-y rich and delicious flavour. The rum, lemon-peel, sugar, and egg together supply a cheap but most delicious dish. A little nut- meg should then be grated over the top, but avoid using too much. Macaroni pudding can also be flavoured with ginger, mace, or cinnamon; but mace is very inferior to nutmeg. Orange-peel can also be used instead of lemon-peel. The sugar should be rubbed on the out- side of the orange, but avoid using the juice of the orange or the juice of the lemon, as it will be apt to curdle the milk. When the pudding is properly flavoured let it be baked in the oven till the edges of the pastry are done. By this means the whole pudding will set, according to the quantity of eggs put in, more or less firmly, and it will some what resemble baked custard pudding, with the macaroni in the middle. This pudding is extremely nourishing. An- other form is as follows The macaroni must be boiled in milk or water, sweet- ened and flavoured. An ordinary pud- ding-basin can now be lined with suet- paste, and the interior of the pudding filled with sweet-flavoured macaroni, exactly as if it were cun-ants and rasp- berries, and the pudding tied up in a cloth and boiled in the ordinary way. Macaroni is sometimes used as an orna- ment for making a small dish of mince. Take, say, a cup or a very small basin. Suppose we have before us a rich dish of mince made from chicken or veal, -with mushrooms, etc. First butter the basin i somewhat thickly ; take a little maca- roni, parboil it, and take it out of the water when it is sufficiently moist to be cut but still is somewhat hard. Now take the pipe macaroni and cut it into I little pieces about an eighth of an inch in length. This will make, of course, some minute rings. Stick these little rings in the butter as close together as possible, beginning at the bottom of the basin till the whole of the inside of the basin is covered. Now put in the mince and make the whole hot in the oven. Place a plate over it and turn it out. The mince will now present a very pretty appearance. It is entirely covered over with little white rings of macaroni. This makes a very pretty dish, and the cook can render it still prettier by sprinkling a little chopped parsley over the mould when it is turned out. The ways of dressing macaroni are too nume- rous to be given in the present work, but I would recommend those who would like to know how a very great variety can be made to see the receipts in “Cassell’s Dictionary of Cookery.” Macaroni can be served with mush- rt>oms; this is a very common form of serving macaroni in Italy. MACE.—Mace is a well-know spice, largely used in cooking. It is used not only for flavoux-ing sweets, but also soups and sauces. Francatelli i-ecom- mends, in making nearly every kind of soup in large quantities, to add a blade or two of mace, according to the quan- tity. I would, however, warn cooks against using too much mace. Those persons who have ever bought slabs of that mottled substance sola as mock-