BLACKWELL'S 32 • CROSSE AND will be found in his book, “ Francatelli’s Modern Cook.” CHICKEN SOUP. —Chicken soup is sold in tins, and can be served quickly by simply placing the tin in a small saucepan of boiling water, which should be kept boiling for twenty minutes, when the tin can be opened and the soup poured into a basin and served. This is a convenient method of obtain- ing a hot supper for those who are doomed to live in bachelor apartments, as the soup can be easily warmed up over a spirit lamp or gas jet. Chicken soup in tins can also be turned into white soup with the addition of a small amount *of boiling milk and a little white roux. Chicken Soup is also used for making that popular Scotch soup known as “ Cocky-Leeky.” The broth, or soup, should be poured off, and a few leeks, after they have been very care- fully washed, should be sliced up and boiled in the broth till they are tender. The fowl, which is already sufficiently cooked, should now be added, and the bones removed, and it should not be allowed to remain on the fire with the meat in it any longer than is sufficient to make the meat hot through. CHILI VINEGAR.—Chili vinegar is vinegar flavoured with ehilies, and in some respects resembling cayenne vine- gar. It is often used in mixing salads, and is particularly adapted for German salads. Chili vinegar is also used for making a variety of sauces, such as ravigote sauce, which is made by placing two table-spoonfuls of chili vinegar, two of taragon vinegar, and two of Harvey’s sauce in a stew-pan, and allowing the whole to boil away till it is reduced to rather less than half the original quantity. Then a good-sized ladleful of white bechamel sauce is added, and a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley. Ravigote sauce is sometimes made by adding butter sauce instead of bechamel, and a teaspoonful of chopped taragon instead of chopped parsley. Another nice sauce which can be made with the assistance of chili vinegar is cold poivrade sauce. This is made as follows : Put a good spoonful of brown sauce into a round-bottomed basin ; add to it four tablespoonfuls of salad oil and one of chili vinegar, a little taragon vinegar, and pepper and salt. Work all ■well together with a whisk, then add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley and a j little shalot. This sauce is recom- mended, among other things, for brawn, but when used for brawn a little sugar should be added. CHLLIES, DRIED.—Dried ehilies are used for a variety of purposes, and generally for making home-made chili vinegar. A number of dried ehilies are put into a bottle with a little vinegar and allowed to soak. This flavours the vinegar. In addition to this dried ehilies are often used for ornamenting purposes. CHILIES, LONG RED, PICKLED.— Pickled ehilies are a great assistance to the cook for ornamental purposes. They are also often added to curries when they are liked very hot. The red skin of pickled ehilies has a very bright colour, and is exceedingly useful for a variety of purposes, especially for orna- menting fish. We will take a common case of filleted sole, boiled. We wall suppose the sole to be filleted, and that the cook has put on the bones to stew for some time, with a slice of onion and a little parsley. This must then be thickened with a little white roux. The curled-up fillets of sole, after being boiled, are placed upright on a silver dish, and the thick white sauce poured over them. Next take a green pickled gherkin, and two or three red ehilies. Slice the gherkin into slices about the size of a sixpence, split open the ehilies, and cut the skin of them into round pieces the same size. On the top of the filleted sole place alternate slices of green gherkin and a piece of the red skin of the chili. A little of the skin of the chili can also be chopped fine with a little parsley. These can be shaken lightly over the sauce. The addition of the green gherkin and red chili is a wonderful improvement to the appearance of the dish, the red, green, and white contrasting well, and the whole has a most inviting appearance. CHINA GINGER, PRESERVED.—Seo Ginger. CHINA SOY.—See Soy. CHOLLET’S JULIENNE.—See Vege- tables, Mixed, Dried. CHOW - CHOW, PICKLED. — Chow- chow is a hot pickle very much resem- bling Piccalilli both in appearance and