CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 62 stuck into the tongue. Three or four bay-leaves, which should previously be washed and rubbed over with a little oil, should be added to the flower. Oil- ing a bay-leaf produces a striking re- semblance to the leaf of a camellia. Glaze is also used for ham. On “great occasions, ” such as that of a child’s birthday, a very pretty device can be formed on the ham by means of a little melted clarified butter, such as “ Many happy returns of the day.” House- keepers would themselves do well to try this very simple inexpensive form of ornament. It is so easy, as I have said, to practice on a tea-tray without lvaste, and there is a satisfaction in sending a dish to table that looks really nice. Sometimes at Christmas hams are ornamented with the usual devices, such as “ A Happy Christmas,” or later on, “A Happy New Year.” A pretty addition to the piping is to colour a small quantity of clarified butter pink with a little cochineal. Say, for in- stance, we have got a ham which has been glazed. The edges are surrounded with a border of white piping like the outside edge of a piece of lace. Colour a very little clarified butter pink, place it in a paper funnel, and drop little pink dots on each point of the border. This has a very pretty effect. Sets of tins are sold for the purpose of pip- ing and icing. A complete set, how- ever, is rather expensive. In glazing chickens and turkeys, when the glaze has got cold, a great improvement to the appearance of the dish will be found by filling in the hollow parts, such as by the wings and the spaces between the legs and breast, with deep dark-coloured green double parsley, and some stars of aspic jelly can be placed on the breast, and the base of the dish surrounded with aspic jelly, parsley, cut lemons, etc. A still higher-class ornamental base for cold fowl, cold game, etc., can be made by the addition of plovers’ eggs, some crayfish and truffles. Of course a garnish of tins kind is very ex- pensive. GOLD-WATER, DANTZIC. — This liqueur is famed not only for its delicious flavour, but also for its elegant appear- ance. The little tiny pieces of gold-leaf floating in it always have a very pretty effect. Gold-water can of course be drunk as an ordinary liqueur, but it will also make a very pretty mould of jelly. In making a mould of jelly from gold- water, the cook must first have a small quantity of jelly that will bear the addition of an equal bulk of liqueur, but the jelly must be perfectly bright. The essential feature of the mould of jelly is that the little pieces of gold-leaf should show in the jelly. The gold- water should not be added till the jelly itself is on the point of setting. The liqueur and the jelly should be well mixed, and poured into the mould when it is embedded in ice. It would be as well in making this pretty dish to take the precaution to turn out the mould of jelly as we recommended under the heading “Chartreuse, Yellow” (see Chartreuse, Yellow). In ornament- ing a mould of jelly made from gold- water a very pretty border can be placed round the dish in which the jelly is placed as follows: Get a few artificial gilt flowers, rather small, and place them round the mould of jelly alter- nately with some crystallised green- gages. The gilt flowers match well with the gold-leaf in the jelly, and the dark green will set both off to great advantage. Crystallised almonds will do as well as greengages. GOOSEBERRIES, BOTTLED.—Bottled gooseberries are very useful for making pies, puddings, etc. When fresh goose- berries are not in season, bottled goose- berries can also be used for jnaking fooseberry sauce and gooseberry fool. n malting these, or puddings, from bottled gooseberries, the cook should pour off the liquor, which is not sweet ened. It should first be sweetened, and it will sometimes be found best to boil it with the sugar. Let it get cold, and when it is cold add the gooseberries, cover them over with puff paste, and as soon as the pastry is done the pie is ready. Gooseberry pie can be served hot or cold, but it is far nicer cold. A little cream or custard should be served with it. When cream cannot be ob- tained a very excellent substitute to be served with sweets can be made by adding a dessert-spoonful of Swiss mill: to half a pint of ordinary milk. The Swiss milk will dissolve as well in cold milk as it will in hot. In making goose- berry sauce the gooseberries should be mashed up with a wooden spoon, and then the ivhole should be rubbed through