133 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. can be made by mixing up half a pint of milk with the yolks of two eggs and a tablespoonful of Swiss milk. This mix- ture should be stirred over the fire till it is as thick as ordinary cream ; the cream can be added to the jelly, and the whole frozen. Great care should be taken to mix the whole thoroughly together. The jelly sold by manufacturers is, as a rule, of a very good colour. This is owing to the addition of red-currant juice. I merely mention the fact as there are many housekeepers in the country who make home-made jelly who are unaware that raspberry jelly requires the addition of red-currant juice in order togive it a thoroughly good, brilliant colour. Baspberry ice, whether made with jam or jelly or fresh fruit, can be very greatly improved in colour by the addition of a little of the car- mine vegetable colouring manufactured by Breton and sold in bottles (see Vege- table Colouring, Breton’s). BASPBERRY SYRUP. — Baspberry syrup makes a very delicious drink on a hot day. It is nicest when mixed with a bottle of iced soda-water, or with plain water to which a lump of ice has been added. Baspberry syrup is also very useful to be used as a sauce for all kinds of puddings. For instance, cus- tard pudding, baked in an ordinary pie- dish, can be turned out whole, and a little raspberry syrup mixed with a little water poured over it. When raspberry syrup is used as a sauce for any land of dish, it is sometimes an improvement to add a small quantity of water and lemon juice, which gives it a slight tone. Baspberry syrup is also a very nice accompaniment to cold boiled rice. When any rice which has been boiled to serve with curry or mulligatawny soup, etc., is left, it can be served up cold, and it makes a very suitable dish for children’s tea when mixed with any kind of syrup, such as raspberry syrup. RATAFIA, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of ratafia resembles very much both es- sence of almonds and essence of mara- schino. It is rather more delicate in flavour than essence of almonds, and is used for a variety of purposes, such as flavouring puddings, cakes, etc. Essence of ratafia can be used for making rata- fias, and it is also very useful for impart- ing additional flavour to claret cup when noyeau cannot be obtained. Three or four drops of the essence should be poured into a tablespoon, and the spoon then filled up with brandy and well stirred. This should then be added to the claret cup. Like other essences, it must be used with extreme caution, as it is very strong, and its flavour is apt to overpower all other flavour. The essence of ratafia sold by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell is guaranteed to be free from prussic acid. READING SAUCE.—Beading sauce is one of the oldest sauces in existence. It is a clear sauce, with a delicious flavour, and is free from heat. It is used with chops, steaks, hashes, stews, and is also exceedingly nice with every kind of fried fish. It can also be mixed with melted butter to make sauce for any kind of fish, either boiled or fried. Bead- ing sauce was the cause of an old- fashioned standing joke at the Universi- ties of Oxford and Cambridge for many years. When any young freshman arrived it was a common thing for him to be taken by an older and wiser com- panion to the grocer’s and prompted to purchase a bottle of Beading sauce, on the ground that it would assist him in reading, and the sauce was of course supplied, to the great delight of the lookers-on. RED BIRD-PEPPER, PICKLED.—This is a species of small pickle. It is very hot, and suited to those who are pos- sessed of what may be termed Indian tastes. It is also well suited to be used as a garnish, when the pepper can be served whole. The “ un-Indian ” palate should partake of this with care, espe- cially the yellow pips. RED CABBAGE, PICKLED.—See Cab- bage, Bed. RED VEGETABLE COLOURING.—See Vegetable Colouring. RED-CURRANT JAM.—See Currant Jam. RED-CURRANT JELLY.—See Cur- rant Jelly. RED CURRANTS AND RASPBER- RIES.—See Currants and Baspber- ries. RED CURRANTS, BOTTLED. — See Currants.