INTRODUCTION. -d ■which may be called stock sauces. But many housekeepers ■would probably try an occasional bottle of sauce if they had some idea of its nature previous to buying it apart from the almost universal direction that it is useful for chops,' steaks, cold meats, gravy, hashes, etc. In the ensuing pages will be found a description of every sauce that is now supplied by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell. Of course there are com- ments on their uses, and, I may also say, their abuses. Too often the sauce fs in itself admirable, but the dish may by using the sauce be spoiled. It is the cook who is to blame, not the sauce. There is, unfortunately, a very strong feeling, especially among inexperienced women cooks, that it is impossible to have too much of a good thing. There are many cases in our daily life where this idea causes infinite mischief. Our medical men know the extreme danger of ordering medicine or stimulants where an excess of quantity would be dangerous. We often find cases in which a teaspoonful is directed to be given every three or four hours. The first spoonful does the child good. The mother instantly, without waiting or obeying the directions of the doctor, gives the child another spoonful, and possibly another, and the result is disastrous. So, too, with the cook. I will take a simple case. I have given directions for making oyster soup from tinned oysters, and I have called especial attention to the fact of how wonderfully a spoonful or more of anchovy sauce will improve the flavour of the soup, and have directed the cook to taste the soup before the anchovy sauce is added, and afterwards, and have explained how it is that this addition of a small quantity of sauce conveys the idea that a much, larger number of oysters had been used than would have been antici- pated from the original tasting of the soup. Alas ! however, for human weakness, I fear that in too many instances I may have spoiled many a tureenful of soup. I can imagine well the soup, the cook with a spoon in one hand and a bottle of apehovy sauce in the other. She adds, say, the desired quantity, and stirs it up and tastes. Her impression is this : “ Oh, this is an improvement! ” But what follows ? Again the spoon is filled. “We must have some more of this! ” is the impression that instantly flashes across her mind. She proceeds, and what is the result ? She sends up to table in a very short time soup in which no vestige of the flavour of oysters remains, and the unhappy guests have to eat, as best they may, what may be called very weak, thin, anchovy sauce. Another point with regard to sauces which I would impress on the minds of all cooks is the extreme danger of using them to flavour soups; indeed I do not know any one soup whatever which requires the addition of sauce. Of course, in making rich brown gravies, which are stronger than soups, the case is different. But here again the tendency is to jeopardise the sauce by adding too much rather than too little. So, too, in using Worcestershire sauce, for almost any purpose. Worcester- shire sauce, of all, possesses perhaps the most pungent and marked flavour, and, when used in moderation, few sauces are more valuable. But how many dishes have been absolutely ruined by the injudicious use of this popular condiment! I have repeatedly throughout the present work given receipts, and have endeavoured, as a rule, to place as high a model as possible for