144 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL’S the soup, and she will soon discover whether a little additional pepper is re- quired or not. This, of course, depends on the tastes of those persons for whom she daily cooks. The following soups are now to be obtained in tins, and of nearly all the principal ones descriptions of the best way to use them will be found under their respective headings:—Real turtle soup, game soup, grouse soup, hare soup, thick soup, hodge-podge, kidney soup, mulligatawny soup, mock turtle soup, ox-cheek soup, ox-tail soup, chicken soup, tomato soup, venison soup, Cressy soup, gravy soup, green- pea soup, julienne soup, mutton broth, Palestine soup, vegetable soup, vermi- celli soup, etc. SOY.—Soy is a sauce which I think it is to be regretted is not more often used in this country. It is a very thick, rich fluid, somewhat resembling treacle in appearance, and is made from a bean which grows in Japan. Soy is also very useful to be used as a temporary glaze. For instance, in sending up a dish of fish to table, such as sole au gratin, a few of the best mushrooms should be kept out for ornamenting the dish, and by brushing over these mushrooms with a little soy it instantly gives them that nice appearance resembling a freshly-polished mahogany table. I am aware that many persons object to the flavour of soy. I would, however, re- commend those who have not tried it, to give soy a trial. So far as my own ex- perience goes, I think it exceedingly nice, especially when mixed with a little melted butter, mushroom catsup, and cayenne pepper. SOYER’S AROMATIC MUSTARD.— See Mustard. SOYER’S RELISH, SOYER’S SAUCE FOR GENTLEMEN, SOYER’S SAUCE FOR LADIES,, SOYER’S SULTANA SAUCE.—Soyer ’was a famous cook, and he has given his name to a variety of dishes, not the least important of which are the celebrated sauces bearing his name, sold in bottles. These sauces can now be obtained under the various headings given above ; and as M. Soyer is probably the best judge of the method of using his own sauces, I will give his directions. In his book on cookery, in the Introduction to “Sauces,” he quotes a remark made by Talleyrand, that the English nation, though they had 120 different religions, had only one sauce, and that was melted butter. Soyer then proceeds to describe how the so- called melted butter might be made the base of a vast variety of other sauces. His so-called Soyer’s relish, which can be obtained in bottles, he recommends should be added to some melted butter, which will then form a very nice sauce to be served with various kinds of fish, etc. The same may be said of liis sauce for ladies and gentlemen, the probable difference being that gentlemen are sup- posed to be capable of talcing a rather larger amount of cayenne pepper than the other sex. In using Soyer’s sauce for gentlemen it will perhaps be best to give his own directions, which are printed on the label of the bottle, under the heading, “ How to use Soyer’s Sauce to the best advantage.” He states : “For any kind of cold meat, game, and poul- try, use it in moderation as it is. For mutton, lamb, pork, and steaks, when properly boiled and seasoned, pour one tablespoonful or more, according to the quantity of meat, which you turn over in the dish with a fork several times, then you will have a most excellent gravy. In any sort of hash it is a very great improvement. For made dishes or entrees put four tablespoonfuls of brown sauce to six of broth, and when quite hot add two tablespoonfuls of Soyer’s sauce ; just broil it, and pour over your entrees. For general pur- poses put eight tablespoonfuls of water into a stewpan ; when boiling, add four ditto of the sauce, half an ounce of fresh butter mixed with a quarter of an ounce of flour, stir quickly on the fire, add if required a little salt, boil one minute, and pour over your dish of meat, game, or poultry.” M. Soyer, who holds such a high place in cookery, has given some admirable directions how to make things taste nice. I remember very many years ago his telling me what a great improvement it was, in roasting a good- sized fowl, to proceed as follows : Take a large onion, cover it with butter, sprinkle it with cayenne pepper and salt, as well as a little black pepper. Place this onion inside the fowl, and if the fowl is cut, sew up the opening. Now roast the fowl in the ordinary way. As the fowl roasts the butter melts, and gets impregnated with the flavour of the onion, as well as with pepper, etc. This