41 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. generally somewhat mild. Thus those persons who prefer curry very hot can add curry powder, curry paste, cayenne pepper, whole chilies, etc. Halford s curries are sold in tins—namely, curried fowl, curried rabbit, curried lobster, and curried prawns, besides which curry sauce made by Halford is sold in tins by itself. This latter will be found an exceedingly useful dish to the cook, as it enables her to serve a dish of curry from the remains of any cold meat at a few minutes’ notice. One great im- provement to all curries is to warm up a few bay-leaves in the curry and send them to table whole. Another great essential to curry is some good plain boiled rice. Boiling rice for curry is not so simple a thing as many cooks would imagine. The great art of boil- ing rice is to send it to table so that each grain is separate, and yet cooked through. When the grains of rice stick together it shows that it has been badly boiled. In England the rice is generally preferred cooked through. In the East, as in Egypt and Turkey, rice is always served in a state resembling an Irish potato— namely, it has an “eye” in it. The outside of the rice is soft, but there is a small hard spot in the middle. Pro- bably in countries where rice is almost the staff of life, in this condition a greater amount can be eaten, and it is jjossible that it possesses more nourish- ing powers. The best way to boil rice for curry is as follows :—First of all wash the rice very thoroughly in several waters, and continue to wash it till the water in which it is washed does not become cloudy or change colour. Throw the rice into sufficient boiling water to more than cover it. Let it boil for about ten minutes, then take it off the fire, strain it, and place the saucepan in which it has been boiled in a very hot place by the side of the fire, and not over the fire, or the rice would bum. Allow the rice to steam and swell gradually. It should be occa- sionally stirred with a fork or spoon. The rice will now gradually dry, and when dry the grains will not adhere to one another. This is the usual way in which rice is boiled on board the Penin- sular and Oriental Company’s steamers. I remember, however, some years ago seeing a curry cook on board the Mir- zapore boil the rice as follows. He first boiled it for about eight or ten minutes, and then strained it in a sieve, and washed it again with cold water for some time. The rice was then replaced in the saucepan, and the saucepan put by the side of the fire for the rice to gradually heat and swell and become dry. The result was certainly most satisfactory. Which of these two methods is preferable had better be left to the cook, who can try each receipt. Of course, a good deal depends on the rice. When the rice is very large rather more time should be allowed than when it is small. Halford’s curries are a most convenient form of having a dish ready at a few moments’ notice, the only thing necessary being that the tin should be immersed in boiling water, and the water allowed to boil for about twenty minutes. The tin can then be opened and the contents turned out on to a dish. The rice should always be served separate, and not on the same dish as the curry. In handing round curry and rice the servant should be instructed to hand the rice before the curry, the proper plan being to place a spoonful of rice in the plate, and to form it into a •sort of well. The curry is then taken and placed in the centre, surrounded by the white rim. There are various ways in which a tin of Halford’s curry can be altered in flavour according to the taste of the eater. For instance, many per- sons have a great objection to the flavour of garlic, while with others garlic is most popular. Those who are very fond of the flavour of onion and garlic would do well to add a little of this to the curry. A few beads of garlic can be placed in the curry sauce for a time, and then taken out, or, what is still better, an onion or a couple of onions can be sliced and fried a nice dark-brown colour in the frying-pan. Some of the curry sauce should then be added to it, and the whole allowed to boil for a few minutes ; then rub the lot through a wire siete. When this is done it will be best to rub the whole of the sauce through the sieve, and as Hal- ford’s curry contains a certain quantity of carrot, the carrot had better be rubbed through the sieve with the onion. Another way of heating curry is to boil some long red chilies in the sauce. Real Indian curry owes its heat to what is known as chili paste, and when the chilies themselves are boiled in curry