100 CROSSE AND made in small quantities. The great drawback, to my mind, in making mince-pies is that too often the cook will not put in the pie sufficient mince- meat. A good mmce-pie should be crammed full of mincemeat, and the pie itself should be sufficiently hot to burn the mouth. There is, perhaps, no sweet for which heat is so essential as mince-pie. Mincemeat can, however, be used for other purposes than making mince-pies. One very delicious dish can be made as follows :—Take some slices of bread, thickly buttered—stale bread can be used for the purpose ; place the slices in a pie-dish and spread them with some mincemeat. Now fill up the dish with ordinary custard and bake in an oven. This bread-and-butter pudding with mincemeat is extremely good. A still richer dish can be made as fol- lows :—Take some stale sponge-cake or any pound-cake ; cut it in slices ; spread each slice with a layer of mincemeat, and place the whole in a pie-dish. Fill it up with custard and bake till the custard is set. This can be eaten either hot or cold. Perhaps on the whole it is nicer hot. It is, however, exceedingly rich and very delicious, and, to my mind, a nicer way of serving mincemeat than mince-pie. MIRABELLES. — Mirabelles are a species of small plum, which can be had either crystallised or glacee. They form a nice addition to a, dish of crystallised fruits. MINT, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of mint is a very useful form of quickly impart- ing the flavour of mint when such flavour is required. Like other essences, it must be used with caution. Three or four drops of essence are amply sufficient to flavour a considerable quantity of fluid. In using any kind of essence I would advise the cook always to drop the essence into a spoon first, so that if accidentally too large a quantity is poured out the mistake can be rectified without spoiling the whole quantity. MIXED FRUITS IN JELLY. — See Fruits. MIXED FRUITS IN SYRUP. —See Fruits. MIXED FRUITS IN NOYEAU OR BRANDY.—See Fruits. BLACKWELL'S MIXED SPICES.—See Spices. MIXED PICKLES.-See Pickles. MOCK-TURTLE SOUP.—Mock-turtle soup is probably one of the most popular soups in tills country. Certainly good mock-turtle soup forms a very agreeable luncheon or supper, especially in cold weather. As mock-turtlesoup can now be obtained in tins, this is a very con- venient form of having it always ready hi the house, as the tin can be wanned up late at night, without giving trouble to servants, by placing it for twenty minutes in a saucepan of boiling water ; the saucepan can be boiled over a spirit- lamp or gas-jet. The mock-turtle soup sold in tins can be altered in flavour after the tin is opened. Cooks, therefore, who know their masters’ taste oan flavour the soup after the tin is opened. The tin of mock-turtle soup will bear the addition of a little stock. Should the flavour of herbs be. desired, a des- sert-spoonful of mixed flavouring herbs may be boiled for about twenty minutes in some stock, which can then be added to the soup. Then add a dessert-spoon- ful of brown thickening. Dissolve this in the soup and let the soup boil. When tinned soup has this addition made to it it will require a little more wine. A tablespoonful of good old sherry—or, better still, madeira—is the best for this purpose. Should the soup be required very rich and nourishing, a good brimming teaspoonful of extract of meat should be added. Another im- provement to mock-turtle soup is a few egg-balls. Take a couple of yolks of hard-boiled eggs — the egg having been boiled sufficiently long to make the yolks crumble to powder when opened; add to these powdered yolks a small quantity of chopped parsley and a little pepper and salt. Nowjadd a raw yolk, and mix the whole together till it becomes a stiffish paste; then roll it up into small balls, the size of a toy marble, and throw them into boiling water. The boiling water will of course cause the balls to set, and they can then be added to the soup. When mock-turtle soup is served at table it is always advisable to hand round with it a little cut lemon and cayenne pepper. MOGUL OR CHUTNEY SAUCE.—Mo- gul or chutney sauce is a warm sauce sold in bottles, and forms an agreeable