HO USEKEEPHR'S G UIDE. Fillet the anchovies—each anchovy will make two fillets only for anchovies on toast. Melt enough butter in the dish to cover the anchovies, and make the anchovies hot in the butter in the oven. How often the anchovies on toast are dry. Then make your buttered toast, cut it after being well buttered on both sides into thin strips, and take the fillet of anchovy out of the hot butter and put it on the strip of toast. Half a minute in the oven and the dish is ready. If you wish to get anchovies on toast to perfection, like what you would get at the Freemasons’ Tavern, this is the method to pursue. Some few years back the great chef dc cuisine was the late Mr. Charles Dime Francatelli, formerly clicf to Her Majesty the Queen. In his book on cooking, entitled ‘ ‘ The Modem Cook,” he gives the following receipt for— ANCHOVY SANDWICHES, prefacing his receipt with the statement that “the. finest Gorgona anchovies are imported by Crosse and Blackwell, Soho Square.” The receipt is as follows : Order a dozen very small round rolls, rasp them all over, cut off the top, remove all the crumb, place them on a dish, and set them aside. Next chop four hard- boiled eggs very fine and put them into a small basin with a tablespoonful of chopped burnet, tarragon, chervil, and chives ; season with four tablespoonfuls of salad oil, one of French vinegar, and a little pepper and salt. Mix the whole well together, and use this preparation for filling the rolls with ; then place some small fillets of anchovies (pre- viously prepared) over the sandwiches at about one-eighth of an inch distant from each other, and place another row of fillets across these at a similar dis- tance. Dish the sandwiches up on a napkin, in the form of a pyramid, and serve. It is, however, possible to have an anchovy sandwich in a more simple form, so I will give a receipt for— ANCHOVY SANDWICHES ANOTHER WAY.—Make some toast and butter it and cut it into small squares. Get some hard-boiled eggs, and cut them into slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Lay a slice of egg on each piece of toast and a fillet of anchovy curled round on the slice of egg. These sand- wiches can be served either hot or cold, and a little black or cayenne pepper added according to taste. Another nice form of serving filleted anchovies is— ANCHOVY SALAD.—There are various ways of serving and dressing anchovy salad. One way is to take a French lettuce, and place it in a small salad bowl with about half a dozen anchovies filleted, say twenty-four fillets. Add a few young spring onionB, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a slice or two of lemon cut thin. Then dress it with salad oil, lemon juice, and a little pepper. A more common form of serving anchovy salad is to send up the filleted anchovies in a plate, in the shape of a trellis-worlc over some chop- ped hard-boiled eggs, chopped parsley, and chopped capers. By chopping the white separate from the yellow four colours can be obtained, the white, yellow, and two shades of green, while the fillets of anchovies cross each other over the top. With a little ingenuity and taste a very pretty dish can be formed by this means, though perhaps properly speaking it should be called an— ANCHOVY APPETISER.—There are various forms of anchovy appetisers, one very nice one being to fill a stoned olive with a fillet of anchovy and to place this on a piece of fried bread shaped round. The olive can be stuck on to the bread by means of a little dab of mayonnaise sauce. Another little dab of mayonnaise sauce can be placed on the top of the olive. These little appetisers are very good at the com- mencement of a dinner as a substitute for oysters. One very useful purpose which anchovies filleted may be used for is— ANCHOVIES FILLETED TO ORNA- MENT SALADS.—Filleted anchovies are particularly useful in decorating salads, especially mayonnaise salads. Thin fillets of anchovies should be placed round the base of a mayonnaise salad of lobster, salmon, smoked salmon—in fact, any mayonnaise. The fillets should be cut as thin as possible, and laid across each other like diamond panes of glass. The anchovies filleted not only form an excellent additional garnish, but also are an essential part of the salad itself so far as the flavouring is