143 HOUSEKEEPERS GUIDE. mains of these pates should never bo thrown away on any account, as the cook will find them exceedingly valuable to assist her in making any kind of forcemeat. Under the heading of “ Chicken-and-Ham Pate ” I have al- ready given descriptions how to make rissoles and kromeslcies. In making either of these dishes the cook will find that the remains of snipe pate truffled will be particularly valuable to increase the delicacy of flavour of the forcemeat; indeed all kinds of these truffled pates are very useful, as they impart a de- cided truffle flavour to the forcemeat, and are of course very much cheaper than having to purchase a bottle of truffles themselves. Another very use- ful account to which the remains of these patds can be turned is for mak- ing Italian fritters. A full receipt of how to make Italian fritters will be found under the heading Foie Gras. In every kind of savoury pate when game is used the remains of the pates are perhaps more suited for making Italian fritters than for mixing with ordinary meat. When, however, ris- soles or kromeskies are made from the remains' of chicken-and-ham the addi- tion of game is very good. SNIPES, TRUFFLED.—Snipes are now sold whole in tins stuffed with truffles. They are very nice eaten just as they are, cold, when they form a very agreeable breakfast-dish. In summer, when game is out of season, a very deli- cious entree can be made from snipes truffled, or they can be served up as a course by themselves instead of game. Part of the forcemeat can be placed in little paper cups, and portions of the snipe itself can be placed on the top. Another very nice form of serving snipes truffled, when they are preserved whole, is to take the birds out of the fat by which they are surrounded, bearing in mind that this fat is very valuable for assisting the cook to make any kind of rich forcemeat. Then the birds should be placed in a circle on a silver dish and flazed over the entire of their surface. f the birds are inclined to fall to pieces this glaze will often enable the cook to keep them together, as it acts as a species of glue. Any kind of salad can now be placed in the centre of the dish, such as German salad made from a tin of macedoines, and the birds themselves can be surrounded on the outside with aspic jelly. This makes a very rich and excellent dish suitable to be served at ball suppers. Of course the birds can be further decorated by a little piping on the breast of each. SOHO SAUCE.—Soho sauce is a very nice and delicious sauce, sold in bottles containing half-pints, pints, and quarts. It is very nice when eaten as a relish to cold meat, but it is better adapted to be served with hot meats, such as chops and steaks. It is also very useful for giving a tone to stews and hashes. The cook, of course, will exercise her discretion, and not put in too much. Soho sauce is also served with fish, both fried and boiled. With fried fish it is very nice served plain by itself, and with boiled fish a little added to the melted butter gives it an agreeable relish. SOISSON’S HARICOT BEANS. — See Haricot Beans. SOLUBLE CAYENNE PEPPER.—See Cayenne Pepper. SOUPS, VARIOUS. —A very large number of soups are now sold ready made in tins. Housekeepers should re- member that palates are apt to differ, and that the majority of ready-made soups possess one good quality—namely, no one flavour particularly predomi- nates. I would, however, remind them that with a little ingenuity any one flavour that is liked can be imparted to these tinned soups after they have been opened. For instance, the majority of thick soups will bear the addition of a little extract of meat, a little brown roux or brown thickening, and half a glass of wine. On the other hand, nearly all clear soups will bear the addi- tion of a little of Crosse and Blackwell’s extract of meat, but wine should be added to clear soup \yith considerable caution. Should the soup be clear and nearly devoid of colour, a little sherry or madeira can be put in, but when the clear soup is of the nature of julienne no wine whatever should be added. An- other improvement to all these soups is, of course, the addition of a little pepper. Pepper is easily added, but it is impos- sible to be extracted. The majority of these soups are consequently easily adapted to suit the tastes of all indivi- duals. The cook should, however, taste