BLACKWELL'S 146 CROSSE AND or rather terrines. These pies are very rich and very nice, and a little goes a long way. They have for very many years been considered a great delicacy, though, of course, their distinctive flavour is owing to the peculiar treat- ment to which the unfortunate geese are subjected during the latter part of their unhappy lives. These tins should not be opened till they are wanted. They are admirable for occasions such as picnics, etc. It will always be best before opening them to place them for half an hour in a little water in which a large lump of ice has been placed. By this means the rich fat by which the pie is surrounded is made harder and more eatable. When the pie has been exposed open to the heat of the sun, or even in a hot room, it becomes far less appetising than when in a cool state. Cooks would do very well to bear in mind how very important it is to guard against any of the remains of these pies being wasted, because these will assist them very considerably in making almost every kind of rich forcemeat. Under the heading of “ Chick e n-and -Ham Pate ” I have already given directions as to how to make kromeskies and ris- soles, and under the heading of “ Pate de Foie Gras” I have given descrip- tions of the way to make Italian fritters, a very nice and at the same time very cheap dish. These Strasburg pies are equally useful to assist in making any of these three dishes. Of course, as they contain truffle, they are far more suited to be mixed with the meat and chicken or any kind of poultry than with beef or mutton. A most delicious forcemeat can be made from the re- mains of these Strasburg pies, with the assistance of scraps of cold roast fowl, and some pieces of ham. Of course a few mushrooms would be a still greater improvement. STRAWBERRIES, CRYSTALLISED.— Crystallised strawberries are one of the most delicious forms of crystallised fruits. Owing to their beautiful taste and colour they are an admirable addition to any kind of dish of crys- tallised fruits, and owing to their size they are very useful in decorating the. dish, as they will fit into holes and cor- ners between the piled-up fruit of larger size. In serving a dish of crystallised fruits it is generally best for the colour green to predominate, and to be placed round the base. STRAWBERRIES IN SYRUP.—Straw- berries can now be obtained preserved in syrup, and make an extremely nice dish when served by themselves. The bottle has simply to be opened and the strawberries carefully placed in a dish with the syrup, taking as much care as possible not to break up the fruit in turning it out. A very nice addition to this dish is to cover the top with some whipped cream. When the dish of fruit has been covered with cream the cream itself can be orna- mented by sprinkling over the top a little coloured sugar or a spoonful of those well-known sweets called by chil- dren hundreds and thousands. But it should not be put on the top of the whipped cream till just before the dish is sent to table. The sugar and sweet- meats have, of course, a tendency to sink into the cream, and thus give the whipped cream the appearance rather of lialf-melted snow than the clear white froth which it should be. Devon- shire cream, which can now be obtained in many towns preserved in small jars, is also exceedingly nice with straw- berries in syrup. In this case I think as a rule it is better to hand the cream in the jar itself than to turn I it out on to the dish. Where cream itself cannot be obtained a very nice substitute can be made by dissolving sufficient Swiss milk in ordinary milk to make the whole of the consistency of cream, and as the Swiss milk is sweet no sugar need be added. STRAWBERRY JAM. — Strawberry jam is perhaps one of the most popular of all jams. Unfortunately, it cannot always be obtained. When there is a good year in the strawberry-grounds jam is generally made in sufficient quantities to last the country till strawberries come again. But in many years it is found that little or no jam can be made, owing to the scarcity of the straw- berries. It can be used for almost every purpose for which jams generally are used. It can, of course, be used for making open tarts, either large or small. Strawberry jam is also very good for making various kinds of puddings, such as bread-and-butter pudding, in which the jam is smeared upon the slices of bread-and-butter and the dish then