HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. spread on bread. An open tart made with greengage jam is always very pretty. It is of good consistency, and in making tartlets can be piled up high, like gooseberry jam and damson jam. Indeed, a set of tartlets filled with these three jams, owing to the way in which the jam can be piled up into a dome, form a very pretty dish, especially if the cook is sufficiently skilled in making pastry to ornament the jam by placing little threads of pastry over it, like trellis-work, not thicker than pieces of vermicelli. GREENGAGES IN NOYEAU AND BRANDY. — Greengages are preserved in noyeau and brand}7, and thus pre- served they form a most delicious sweet for dessert. I think housekeepers will find that, as a rule, a dish of this de- scription is very popular. True hos- pitality consists in giving our guests what will be eaten, and not simply in providing a table with some ornamental sweets that we know perfectly well beforehand will not be eaten. I would recommend housekeepers, should they supply for dessert a dish of greengages preserved in noyeau or brandy, to have another dish in reserve. They will pro- bably find that the fruit will rapidly dis- appear, till but one greengage is left, not because it is not liked, but from feelings of delicacy and politeness. If they doubt this, let them bring out another dish, which will probably share a simi- lar fate to the first one. It is of course possible to use greengages preserved in noyeau or brandy in making high-class pudding, such as cabinet pudding, but they are so exceedingly delicious in themselves that it is a pity to use them for purposes of cooking. Those who have never tried this delicious sweet would do well to make the experiment. GREENGAGES IN SYRUP. — Green- gages preserved in syrup form a very useful dish, as they can be served at once just as they are. One very nice way of serving greengages preserved in syrup, is simply to turn the greengages and syrup into a glass dish ; then cover the dish with some whipped cream, which can be ornamented with a little pink sugar, or a few hundreds and thousands sprinkled over the top. In making pink sugar, which is so very useful for ornamental purposes, cooks should take some ordinary powdered sugar and sift it; all the little lumps that will not go through the sifter can be thrown into a plate, and a few drops of some red colouring matter can be poured on the plate, and the sugar simply shaken over it. The sugar should not be added to the cream until the last moment, as it is apt to sink into the cream and destroy its frothiness. Greengages in syrup are admirably adapted for the purpose of making open fruit tarts; the syrup can be rendered thick by the addition of a little gelatine or isinglass. The greengages can bo piled up in the syrup and ornamented in the usual way. When Devonshire cream can be obtained, it will be found to go very well in flavour with the greengages. GREEN PEAS, TINNED.—See PEAS. GROS POIS.—See Pois. GROUND SPICES, VARIOUS. — See Cinnamon, Nutmegs, Mace, Cloves, Ginger, Spices Mixed, Pepper, etc. GROUSE SOUP. — Grouse soup can now be obtained in tins. The soup can be warmed up by simply placing the tin in boiling water for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, when it can be opened and the soup served just as it is. Of course, as in all other soups, it is impossible to make any one soup that will suit all palates. When, therefore, the cook knows the taste of the person for whom the soup is intended, it is best to open the tin and turn its contents into a small saucepan ; the soup can then be tasted and altered in flavour ; it can also be increased in quantity by the addition of some good strong stock, and can be improved in richness by the addition of a teaspoonful of Crosse and Blackwell’s extract of meat. When more stock is added, I would recommend the cook to add also a small pinch (about as much as would cover a three enny-piece) of aromatic flavouring erbs—a description of how to make these most important herbs will be found under the heading of “ Ground Cloves ” (see Cloves, Ground)—or add some Herbaceous Mixture. The sou]) can also be made thicker by the addition of a dessert-spoonful of brown roux. (See Roux, Brown.) When brown roux is added, the cook must let the soup, after F