CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 42 sauce a better flavour is produced than simply by adding curry powder. Cur- ried prawns form a most delicious dish, and are best served at breakfast. In the case of curried prawns and curried shrimps the rice is best served in the same dish. The boiled rice should be placed on the dish first, a well made in the rice, and the contents of the tin of curry poured into it. In rising Hal- ford’s curry sauce for fresh shrimps the shrimps should be picked. Two quarts of shrimps will yield nearly a pint of picked shrimps. When the shrimps have not been too much salted it will be found a very great improvement to put all the heads into a pestle and mortar or thick basin with a little stock, and pound them as much as possible so as to mix up in the stock that little dark part in the head of the shrimp which corre- sponds to the soft meat in the back of a crab and the green soft part in the head of a lobster, and contains by far the most delicious flavour of the shrimp. It can then be added to the curry sauce, which should be made hot. The picked shrimps should then be thrown into the hot sauce, and the whole kept on the fire only just sufficiently long to make the shrimps hot through ; they should not be allowed to boil. In serv- ing curried lobster also the rice should be placed on a small dish with the curry. Should the cook have in the house that very valuable compound known as lobster butter, a small quan- tity added to the curry will be found a decided improvement. I cannot too strongly impress on cooks the great importance of keeping all the red coral from the lobster, making it into lobster butter, and putting it by for use. Lobster butter is made as fol- lows :—The red coral should be pounded with about an equal quantity of butter. The coral should be first washed and all the soft part of the meat of the lobster removed before it „is pounded. Some cayenne pepper should be added, say a saltspoonful of cayenne to three table- spoonfuls of lobster butter. This will prevent the lobster butter from going bad. It is a bright red colour, and very much resembles red lead in appearance. Lobster butter is invaluable, and is essential for making good shrimp sauce, lobster sauce, and bisque soup. By adding the cayenne in sufficient quan- tity lobster butter may be made so that it will keep good for months. It im- parts a bright red colour to the sauce which cannot be matched. When cooks attempt to colour lobster sauce or shrimp sauce with cochineal the result must be an inevitable failure. Tins of Halford’s curries are exceedingly useful to those who live in bachelor apart- ments, who by this means can always ensure a nice hot supper at any hour without giving trouble to servants. The tin can be warmed up over the fire or over a gas-jet or spirit lamp. There are very ingenious little stands now sold at one shilling each which will fix on to any gas-jet, and on this the saucepan can be placed. There are many persons who would gladly welcome a nice dish of hot curry on a cold winter’s night, and the only reason they do not have one is that they have not taken the pre- caution to always have on hand one or two of these convenient tins. CURRY PASTE.—There are various kinds of curry paste sold, and these vary somewhat in flavour and quality, but of all the curry pastes I think by far the best is that of Captain White. Captain White’s curry paste is also recommended by thewell-known and distinguished chef at the Freemasons’ Tavern. Curry paste is generally best used in conjunction with curry powder. The best way of making curry is as follows :—Take four good-sized onions, slice them up, and fry them in the frying-pan a nice brown colour. Take also some carrot and the trimmings of a head of celery. Fry all these till they are sufficiently tender in some butter, and till the onion is a nice brown colour without being burnt black. Then take a large sour apple, peel it, cut out the core, slice it up, and add it to the vegetables in the frying-pan. To this add a pint of good brown gravy. Let the whole boil for a few minutes, and then rub it all through a wire sieve into a basin. It is essential that the whole of the onion, the carrot, the head of celery, and the apple should be sent through the sieve. Good curry cannot be made unless the cook has sufficient patience to send the whole through. Then add to this a tablespoonful of Captain White’s curry paste and a tablespoonful of curry powder. The curry sauce is now formed, and can be added to any kind of meat that may be required. One great reason why Indian