103 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. with the sauce. Serve it in the tin itself, which should be placed in a dish The sole can now be ornamented with the few mushrooms that are picked out from the tin. These should be glazed over quickly. A convenient form of glazing them is to brush them over with a little soy. This gives them a rich, bright, dark, mahogany-coloured ap- pearance. The biggest can be placed in the oentre of the sole and the re- mainder round its sides. On great occa- sions, also a little fried parsley, as well as a couple of crayfish, one in each comer, may be added. Many persons add a little grated Parmesan cheese. I believe that really good judges of cook- ing think this an improvement. Por my own personal taste, however, I prefer the sole without the cheese. I will now give another dish which is chiefly de- pendent upon mushrooms for its deli- cious flavour—namely, tomatoes au (jratin. Take some large, red, ripe tomatoes. It is no use attempting to cook tomatoes this way when they are half green. Out off the piece by the stalk and give the tomato a squeeze, so as to entirely get rid of all the pips. Take, say, half a dozen tomatoes, and when you have squeezed out the pips put them in a dish for use. Next take a tin of mushrooms, open them, chop them up very fine with a piece of onion the size of the thumb down to the first joint, a brimming teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a saltspoonful of lemon thyme, pepper and salt. Next take about an ounce of raw ham, chop it up very fine, and fry all this in a frying-pan, with some scraped bacon fat, adding sufficient fat to make the whole when cooked the consistency of an ordinary puree. Now fill the six tomatoes with this force- meat, so that the tomatoes resume their original shape. Shake some bread- raspings over the top, then moisten a stewpan with a little oil an eighth of an inch deep, and put the tomatoes in the stewpan. Put on the lid and keep it tightly fastened down by putting a weight on the top. Now stew the toma- toes gently over the fire till they are done, taking care not to overcook them, as if they are overcooked they are apt to burst. Twenty minutes will perhaps be sufficient, and the heat should not be too great. Take them carefully out, place them in the dish, and pour a little rich brown- gravy round the base. This is a very nice entrie. Mushrooms au (jratin can be made from fresh mushrooms exactly in the same way, only you must for this purpose obtain some good cup-mush- rooms, whose diameter should be about a little over three inches. Peel the mushrooms, cut off the stalks, and scrape out the cup till it is quite hol- low. Now chop up all the trimmings that have been removed and proceed exactly as before. Fill the cups with the forcemeat after it has been cooked, shake some bread-raspings over them, and stew them in oil, or they can be placed in a tin in the oven, with a little butter, but they are best cooked the other way. When I mention lemon *thyme as seasoning I suppose it to be dried in bottle ; if fresh thyme is used, a saltspoonful will be far too much. Mushrooms are also' used for making rissoles and kromeskies, a receipt for making which will be found under the heading, Chicken-and-Ham Pates. Mushrooms are also used for making oyster pates from tinned oysters, a re- ceipt for which will be found under the heading of Oystebs, Tinned. Mush- rooms are also essential for making finaneiere ragout, vol-au-vent a la Tou- louse, and a number of other dishes which our present space renders it im- possible to enumerate. MUSHROOM CATSUP. — Mushroom catsup is by far the most useful of all sauces ; indeed, it is the base of nearly every kind of sauce which is made. Mushroom catsup is used for flavouring a very great number of sauces and dishes, but I would here give one word of warning to cooks who are too fond of using it to flavour soups. I have no hesitation in saying that no soup whatever is improved by the addi- tion of mushroom catsup. The essen- tial qualities of good soup are—first, that we should taste the flavour of the meat, and, secondly, that we should get as much nourishment out of the meat as possible. By adding catsup t<« soups you entirely destroy, or, at any rate, obliterate, the flavour of the meat. Catsup can, however, be added to gravy. A little catsup is an improvement to every kind of rich brown gravy, and every kind of white sauce can be im- proved by the addition of a little essence of mushroom when the essence is