63 housekeeper's guide. a hair sieve. This gooseberry sauce, or, in other words, plain gooseberry pulp, is sometimes served with boiled mack- erel, and also with various kinds of white meat, such as veal, pork, etc. In Germany, and especially in Eastern Germany, gooseberries whole, as well as gooseberry sauce, are served with various kinds of meat, and seem to take the place of apple-sauce in this country. Gooseberry fool is a mixture of gooseberries, sugar, and cream, which has been sent through a hair sieve. This process of sending the gooseberries through a hair sieve, or, to use a more professional term, passing them through a “tammy,” is an important process, as by this means all those objectionable little pips are got lid of. Cream is really so expensive and so scarce, that very often it cannot be obtained. In making gooseberry fool, the substitute for cream I have mentioned — the mixture of Swiss milk and ordinary milk — will do very well. Bottled gooseberries can also be used for mak- ing open tarts. When used for this purpose they should be kept whole, and some of the liquor in which they are preserved should be strained off and sweetened with sugar, and reduced by boiling. It should then have a little gelatine added to it, so that when cold it will be very nearly but not quite a jelly. A few drops of cochineal will colour it pink, or it can be made a bright green with some .of Breton’s colouring. This, when nearly cold, should be poured into the open tart, and the gooseberries themselves stuck upright in it, close together. Some coloured sugar can be shaken over the top, and the border of the pastry ornamented by being brushed over with some syrup coloured brown with a little browning or Parisian essence; then some coarse white sugar and chopped angelica sprinkled on it when in a w et state. GOOSBERRY JAM.—Goosberrv jam is a very favourite jam with children. The jam sold by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell possesses a remarkably fine colour ; indeed all their jams are noted for their particularly good colour. Probably this is owing to the jam being made in such very large quantities. As I have before said, it is in this respect that manufacturers have an advantage over cooks in private families In making things intended to be eaten, it will always be found that the larger the quantity made the better the result. Take the huge pieces of beef met with at large hotels, weighing twenty or thirty pounds. How far superior is a joint of this kind to the single rib met with in families consisting of two per- sons ! So too in brewing beer, what chance has an ordinary farmer’s wife, who brews probably in the copper, in competing with Bass or Allsopp, whose vats would more than contain the wdiole farmhouse itself? Gooseberry jam is very nice for making tipsy cake. Tipsy cake is a very economical as well as a nice way of using up the remains of stale cakes, such as pound cake, sponge cake, etc. When sponge cakes become dry they are not worth eating. Proceed therefore as follows : Cut the cake into slices, and spread each slice with a layer of gooseberry jam. Almost any other kind of jam, however, will do equally well. Pile the sponge cakes up in a glass dish into such a shape as cir- cumstances will permit. Then soak them in any kind of wine. The wine, if very dry, should be first sweetened with a little sugar. Sherry is a very good wine for this purpose, but for ordinary occasions, and espe- cially when the tipsy cake is in- tended for children, it is equally nice, and far more economical, to use a “children’s” wine, such as rich raisin wine, or still better, cowslip wine—in- deed cowslip wine is quite as good as sherry for making tipsy cake. 1 would ask those who have not tried it to make the experiment. Now pour some custard over the whole, then take some almonds and blanch them (see Almonds, to Blanch), cut them into thin strips, and stick these strips all over the cake, so as to make it resemble a hedgehog or porcupine. Tipsy cake is always a very popular dish with young children, and a very nice plain imitation tipsy cake can be made as follows : Take some stale bread and smear it over with gooseberry jam, or any other kind of jam ; pile it up in a dish, and soak it with some cowslip wine or raisin wine sweetened with a little sugar. Then pour a custard over the whole. A very cheap custard can be made by using half a pint of milk, an egg, a little arrowroot or cornflour, to render it the necessary thickness, and a few drops of