CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 16 ing being sufficient to set them against it. On turning to the cup, what meets the eye ? The beef-tea has settled and cooled, and on the top four or five large wafers of white fat appear floating. It is a trifle, perhaps, but life is made up of trifles. It is quite enough. The very idea of grease at such a time is horrible, and the poor weak patient turns away once more disgusted. Of course, beef- tea can be made at home from fresh gravy-beef, and the fat properly re- moved, every speck of fat, but how often is it really done? A tin of beef-tea contains the pure jelly only—-no dregs, no fat. One tin in a sick-room is in- valuable. It contains all the nourish- ment. It can be eaten cold as a jelly, and a little can be warmed up at a time as it is wanted. A capital thing in which to warm up preserved beef-tea is a china saucepan inside another one. They are so clean and so handy, and it is impos- sible as a rule to depend upon ordinary saucepans being really properly cleaned. In trying to tempt patients to take beef- tea I would strongly advise you to act as follows :—First—say the patient fancies it cold—get a clean plate, a small one. Take a little out of the tin at a time and put it on a plate—not more than a tablespoonful. Put two or three little sprigs of parsley round it. Don’t let the patient see the tin, or see any quantity. Even in good rude health appearances go a long way. No one would really enjoy the best turtle-soup if he ate it out of a huge cauldron. Pile up a little heap of this nice bright beef-tea, which is a jelly when cold, on a plate, and often when the'patient has eaten and finished what was offered more will be asked for. So, too, in serving the beef-tea hot. Don’t give “ a nice large basinful.” It is easy to come again, and when the appetite is very delicate a thin little china coffee- cupful will tempt where the big basin- ful would have exactly the contrary effect. The tins of beef-tea provided by Crosse and Blackwell contain a nice clear wholesome jelly, free from fat and sediment. One or two tins in the house in case of accidents, especially with persons who live in the country, should always be kept as a wise precaution. With regard to serving toasted bread with beef-tea, take care that the bread is brown and crisp, and not black and i sodden. There is a great art in making toast, the art being common sense. 1 Some bread that is moist inside and a dirty black outside is most unappetising. What is wanted, as I have said, is com- mon sense coupled with a clear fire and a little patience. Beef-tea can, of course, be turned to many other accounts than that of being used for the sick room, or for being eaten quite by itself. Beef-tea is simply the pure juice of good gravy-beef, from which all fat and all scum and sediment have been removed. When a tin happens to be in the house, and essence of beef not handy, these tins of beef-tea can be quickly turned into good soup by the addition of the flavourings recommended to be added to essence of beef—viz., onion, celery, parsley, garlic, etc., and vegetables added afterwards, or vermicelli, maca- roni, sago, Italian paste, etc. When you want to use beef-tea for this pur- pose see the directions given for making soup from essence of beef, only remem- ber that tho tins of beef-tea are not so concentrated as the essence of beef, and that, therefore, if you wish to have the soup really good you must not add any water, but you can boil the vegetables, such as onion, garlic, etc., in the beef- tea itself. Beef-tea flavoured as if for soup will make a first-rate white sauce if mixed with a little boiled cream. The cream must be boiled first separate. It also makes an excellent white sauce if mixed with milk boiled separate—equal quantities. The white sauce should then be thickened with a little white roux. (See Roux, White.) In making white sauce or white soup with either milk or cream it is always an ’improve- ment to boil a bayleaf in the milk or cream. If no bayleaf can be had the “ cork ” of a bottle of essence of almonds can be used, but do not go beyond the “cork.” (See Essence! of Almonds.) When beef-tea is ordered for infants, as it is sometimes, remember that young children cannot take salt, and therefore make the beef-tea sweet with sugar. When this is done the poor little things will often suck it down greedily, whereas without the sugar they will spit it out, and try in their tiny way to push away the spoon or bottle. BENGAL CLUB CHUTNEY. — See Chutney. BERMUDA ARROWROOT.—See Ak- ROWKOOT.