22 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S phalian or smoked-wood flavour to all kinds of meat, whether hams, tongues, bacon, beef, or fish. It is generally ad- mitted that this wood-smoked flavour is the most essential part of the process of curing hams. Thousands and thousands of sides of bacon are salted in America, but are sent over to Belfast to have that peculiar flavour imparted to them which makes Irish bacon so popular. This essence must be used in addition to the salt. It contributes to preserve articles from decay, and it further has the ad- vantage of preventing their liability to become rusty or to lose in weight, as they do when cured by the ordinary method. The essence may be applied in two ways. If the mode of curing be on the wet principle it should be cau- tiously added according to' taste, or about two tablespoonfuls of pickle for a moderate-sized ham. Tongues require a little more, in proportion to the size. If the dry mode of curing is adopted the essence should be poured on or brushed over the surface of the meat after the salting is finished. Two or three Such applications will be found sufficient to impart the requisite flavour. Hams and tongues and fish, especially those which are intended to be kept some time, should be once or twice care- fully brashed over the surface with this essence before hanging them to dry. This will preserve them from flies, and also preserve the flavour of well-smoked meat. In all cases meat intended to be kept should be hung up to dry for one or two months at least. When this is done it will be found to improve by keeping. CANDIED FRUITS. — See Fruits, Candied. CAPERS.—Capers are an extremely useful pickle, much used in cookery. They differ somewhat both in kind and price. The French nonpareil capers are usually considered to be the best. The most common form in which capers are used is that of caper sauce for boiled mutton, though many persons, with boiled mutton, prefer capers whole. This latter is the most economical form of serving them with meat, as a few can be turned into a small dish with a little of the vinegar, and those not eaten can be put back. Caper sauce is a mixture of chopped capers and melted butter. It will be too often found that when cooks make melted butter they make a very much larger quantity than is required. A common mistake with English cooks is to imagine that melted butter is simply milk thickened with a little butter and flour. Real butter sauce, as it should properly be called, is a far nicer and at the same time a more expensive dish. The proper method of making good butter sauce is to take, say a quarter of a pound of butter, and divide this into six equal parts. Take one of these parts, and mix it with an equal weight of flour. Melt this in the oven, and mix it in thoroughly with the flour. Add to this a quarter of a pint of water, and stir the whole over the fire till it becomes slightly thick. Then gradually add and dissolve in this the remaining five pieces of the buttei. Should the butter sauce show any tendency to curdle, it can be instantly brought back into its proper state by the addition of a small quantity of cold water, or, better still, a small lump of ice. Caper sauce is sim- ply capers chopped fine and added to the butter sauce as we have mentioned. When the butter sauce is made with plenty of butter, water will be found far better than milk ; when the caper sauce is made rich in the way wre have described, half a ladleful, or a little more, is ample for each person. House- keepers would do well to notice the quantity of melted butter usually made by ordinary cooks. They will find as a rule as much is made for four persons as would suffice for twelve. One very use- ful method of using capers is to make— CAPER SAUCE PIQUANTE.— It will be found that in the majority of cookery books the quantity of vine- gar given is very excessive. To make sauce piquante, chop up a couple of shalots, a couple of green gherkins, and a dessert-spoonful of French capers. Place these in a small stewpan, with two tablespoonfuls of French vinegar. Allow' these to simmer gently over the fire till the whole of the vinegar is nearly boiled awray. Then add a quarter of a, pint of good brown gravy, previously thickened. By allowing the vinegar to evaporate in the stew'pan the acidity which too fre- quently accompanies sauce piquante is avoided. One other very useful purpose for which capers can be used is to make—