162 CROSSE AND WEST INDIAN LIMES, PICKLED.—See Limes. WEST INDIAN LIMES IN SYRUP.-See Limes. WHITE ONIONS, PICKLED. — See •Onions. WHITE'S, CAPTAIN, CURRY PASTE. —See Curry Paste. WHITE’S, CAPTAIN, ORIENTAL PICKLES.—See Oriental Pickles. WEST INDIAN PICKLES.—West In- dian pickles are a very hot pickle, sold in bottles. They are well adapted to be eaten with every kind of cold meat, but are far better with beef or mutton than with any land of poultry. West India pickle makes an agreeable sauce by warming up a spoonful of pickle in a little brown gravy. Take, say a table- spoonful of pickles, cut them up rather fine, but do not mince them. Add this to about twice its cpiantity of good brown gravy, and, if necessary, thicken it with a little arrowroot. This is a very .suitable sauce to bo served for breakfast with cutlets or grilled salmon, etc. WEST INDIAN PRESERVED GINGER. —See Ginger, Preserved. WEST INDIAN TAMARINDS.—See Tamarinds. WOODCOCK PATE, TRUFFLED.—The woodcock has for many years ranked king among birds, at any rate in the opi- nion of epicures. The very idea sug- gested by the combination of the flavour of woodcock and truffles is sufficient to make the mouth water. I would strongly recommend a trial of these delicious pates. When game is not in season they form a most admirable dish at picnics in summer, before game has come into season. They can be served as a little bonne louche after the invari- able cold lamb and mint sauce. But I would remind housekeepers that they are always best first placed for a short time in a little iced water. I have, under the heading of “ Chicken-and- Ha m Pate,” and also under the heading of “ Pate de Foie Gras,” explained how the remains of these delicious pates can be utilised for various kinds of force- meat. The same observations apply with equal force to woodcock pate. I# cannot say that I have ever tried it my- self, owing to my experience being that BLACKWELL’S these pat us are so delicious that I have never been present on any occasion when any has been left at all. WOODCOCKS, TRUFFLED. — Wood- cocks can now be obtained preserved in tins in conjunction with truffles. They form an exceedingly agreeable dish eaten just as they are. When, however, the birds can be removed from the tin whole, a very delicate dish suited for ball suppers can be made from them by glazing the woodcocks and serving them up with a salad made with macedoines, and surrounding the dish with some aspic jelly. A full description of how to make this very pretty dish will be found under the heading Larks, Truffled. WORCESTER SAUCE. — Worcester sauce has for many years been most de- servedly popular, and though it comes last in our list of sauces, it certainly does not rank least. Worcester 6auce con- tains a considerable amount of heat— that is, pepper heat. It is also exceed- ingly rich in flavour. With sauces con- taining this marked flavour cooks would do well to bear in mind that just in pro- portion as they are valuable for some urposes they are unsuited for others, have known instances of young and inexperienced cooks who have laboured under the delusion that soup is all the better for a variety of compounds, and Worcester sauce has been absolutely used for the purpose of imparting flavour to clear soup. It is needless to say it is extremely unsuited for this purpose. On the other hand, there are many tilings which are very considerably im- proved by the addition of Worcester sauce. In making various kinds of rich “ devil ” sauces, for instance. Worcester sauce is exceedingly valuable. It is sometimes used for making that simple but extremely nice dish known as devilled toast. Devilled toast will often tempt persons to take a slight luncheon or to commence breakfast when nothing else will. Make an ordinary slice of toast, toast it on both sides, and have ready the following mixture with which to spread it:—Some butter, soft, but not oiled, some mus- tard, a little cayenne pepper, and about a teaspoonful of Worcester sauce poured ouf of the bottle after the bottle has ■5 been shaken. Worcester sauce is also exceedingly nice as a fish sauce in con-