25 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. Cayenne pepper, like many other good things, must be used with moderation : and when so used is a most useful flavouring. It will, I think, as a rule, be found a good plan to use a little cayenne pepper in flavouring soups in preference to a large quantity of ordinary pepper. Indeed, the best of all is to use a little of both in modera- tion, as I have said. The ordinary form in which cayenne pepper is made is that of a bright-red powder, which is to a certain extent insoluble. When, there- fore, cayenne pepper has been used for the purpose of flavouring any kind of clear soup, the cook should be careful, in pouring off the soup, to first of all let it settle. A white basin is the best for soup to settle in. Then, when the soup is poured off carefully, the last few spoonfuls will be found to contain a certain species of dregs consisting chiefly of the grains of black pepper and red pepper, which should be re- tained and not added to the soup. There are various kinds of cayenne pepper. One very useful form is that of soluble cayenne, sometimes called Indian salt. In using this soluble cayenne pepper it should be borne in mind that it is salt as well as hot; and when much pepper is used no salt .should be added to the soup except that which is mixed with the pepper. One great advantage in using soluble cayenne pepper is that there are no dregs, and that therefore there is no occasion for the soup in which it is used to be poured off or strained. Cayenne pepper is the active principle of what may be called “ devils ” — such as devilled bones, devilled turkey, devilled sardines, devilled whitebait, etc. In devilling bones—such as legs of turkey or fowl— it is always host to mix cayenne pepper with some French mustard; or should there be none obtainable, some butter. The meat on the bones should be sliced down to the bone in stripes, and the mixture of cayenne pepper, mustard, butter, etc., be inserted in the stripes thus made. By this means the flavour of cayenne and mustard will be tho- roughly got into the meat. Too often, when bones are grilled or devilled, it will be found that the hot devil, which forms such an agreeable part of the dish, is merely superficial, and fre- quently falls off in the plate in the shape of black scales. When, however, | the mustard is well mixed into the meat [ in the way we have said the full flavour is tasted in the meat itself. In order to insert the mixture into the meat, I have found that a blunt knife—such as an ivory paper-knife—is more convenient than one that is sharper. In making devils of all kinds many persons prefer a mixture with the flavour of anchovies combined with that of cayenne ; conse- quently it will often be found advisable j to mix some anchovy butter with some cayenne pepper, using anchovy butter j instead of French mustard (see An- chovy butter). This is, of course, a matter of taste. Cayenne pepper, with \ some cut lemon, should always be served with sardines, pilchards, whitebait, wild duck, and various other dishes. In the 1 case of wild duck, it is very common j for the carver to dip a cut lemon into cayenne pepper and to slice the breast of the wild duck, and then to squeeze I the lemon-juice and cayenne pepper into the cuts thus made. When this is done very great care should be taken in squeezing the lemon that a squirt of the juice does not go into the eye, as I once witnessed, the agony caused thereby being really intense. Cayenne pepper can also be added to all sorts of “ after- | dinner” dishes—such as anchovy on j toast (see Anchovy on Toast) caviare | on toast (see Caviare), devilled sar- dines (see Sardines, Devilled). Cay- j enne pepper is also sold in a liquid form, and can be used to add to gravies, chops, steaks, etc. It is very hot, and should be used with great care. CAYENNE SAUCE (CLARENCE’S).— Cayenne sauce is a very hot sauce, and is a favourite addition with many per- sons, by whom cayenne is liked, to cold meats, chops, steaks, soups, gravies, etc. It is sold in bottles. We would recommend those whose tastes are some- what Indian to give it a trial. CAYENNE VINEGAR.—Cayenne vine- gar is a pure vinegar strongly impreg- nated with the flavour of cayenne. It is particularly adapted for salads of the German description. German salads | can be made from a tin of macedoines. A receipt for German salad will be found under the heading “Bloater I Paste ” (see Bloater Paste). In mix- ing this salad with oil and vinegar it will be found to be a great improvement to add cayenne vinegar instead of