CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 78 or acidity of the fruit itself in different years, one yeax-’s jam will vary consider- ably from another. The fauit of course j is not the cook’s, who will have put in exactly the same quantity of sugar, j We all know that we can obtain from Messrs. Bass or Allsopp a cask of ale ; which year after year will not vary in the slightest degree in flavour. We get absolutely the saxne. So, too, with Crosse and Blackwell’s jams. The great advantage is that we can thoroughly depend on getting exactly j the same article year by year. It will j I also be noticed how very much these ; jams excel those of every other manu- i facturer in flavour and in colour. 1 J cannot enter into the seci’ets of the manufacture of these jams, but I am under the impression that this perfection of colour is simply owing to its being made in such huge quantities. Where sugar is added by the ton, a degree of ^ certainty can be obtained that cannot be approached when it is added by the ! tablespoonful. It will also be found that the jam supplied by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, owing to the per- fection to which it has been brought by boiling, etc., possesses the very valuable quality of keeping longer than home- i made jam. Should any housekeepers doubt this, let them get a pot of Crosse and Blackwell’s jam and place it side by side with one of their own, and let the two stand ; as a rule it will be found that Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell’s will a long way outlast the other in, so to speak, staying power. Of the various jams which are supplied by them, if it be not invidious to speak of one kiixd, I think the best is api’icot. This apricot jam is undoubtedly entitled to rank as a king amongst sweets. It is specially valuable for the purpose of making sweet omelets or to be placed round white puddings, such as cornflour. In addition to this beautiful aixd delicious jam, they supply peach, cherry, pine- apple, raspberry, strawberry, red- currant, damson, black-currant, green- gage, blackberry, plum, and gooseberry jams. These jams are supplied in fluted pots containing a pound, glasses con- taining two pounds, jars containing three and four pounds, and it is also sold by the hundredweight. In addi- tion to these they supply what is known as household jam, which is a mixture of fresh fruits preserved with sugar. Tills household jam is supplied in two- pound glasses, three and four-pound tins, four-pound jax-s, and seven and fourteen-pound tins or jars, as well as by the hundredweight, thus suiting the requirements of all classes. The latter is probably the most economical way of purchasing jams, and is suited for hotel- keepers, clubs, or very large households. As I befoi-e remarked, there is no doubt that all kinds of fruit are much better when bottled or preserved in large quan- tities than in small; just as the magnum of port will beat the pint, so will the fourteen-pound jar beat the ordinary jam-pot. JARS, FANCY, FOR TINNED MEATS.— Many housekeepers have, perhaps, ex- perienced difficulty in deciding as to the best method of serving tinned meats. Take for instance the case of sardines. Sometimes the tin is opened and brought to the table on a plate, which, owing to the possibility of a little of the oil being spilled, is essential; but this is, to say trie least, an inartistic method. So with a small quantity of preserved meat, housekeepers will bi-ing it on to the table in a plate. I would recommend those who liave any difficulty in this respect to go to their grocers and ask for some of the fancy jars supplied by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell for the purpose of serving tinned meats. A sight of the jars themselves will be far better than any written description. JELLIES. — See various • headings :-r- I Apple, Orange, Lemon, Red-Cur- rant, Aspic, Champagne, Calves’- feet, Noteau, Madeira, Punch, Port, Vanilla, etc. JOHN BULL SAUCE.—John Bull sauce is a clear bright sauce, somewhat similar to Harvey sauce. It is intended to be used with steaks, chops, game, hashes, made dishes, etc. It also imparts zest to roast fowl, fricasseed rabbit, and fish of all kinds. It is distinctly acid in flavour, and would be very popular with those who are fond of English pickles. Those persons, however, who liappen to be fond of Indian pickle would not be so well satisfied. JULIENNE, DRIED. — See Vegeta- bles, Dried, Mixed. JULIENNE SOUP.—Julienne soup is one of the many soups that now can be