120 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S fast or luncheon. Most housekeepers know the inconvenience of introducing novelties into the ordinary run of Eng- lish breakfasts. One or two tins of pates—such as partridge, woodcock, etc.—in the house always enable house- keepers to give a little variety to the xneal. The tins containing these pates are generally secured by a patent fasten- ing which requires a peculiar kind of opener, somewhat similar to a clock- key. By its means a strip of tin is taken off round the edge of the patd, and the whole pate can then be turned out of the tin. When the patd is turned out of the tin whole it can be orna- mented very nicely as follows :—Place a small, deep row of double green parsley round the base of the dish itself; now pick a few small, bright parsley - leaves, sufficient to make a wreath round the edge of the patd on the top. A small piece of parsley should be stuck in the centre of the pate. A little cut lemon can also be used for orna- menting the dish. When lemon is used for this purpose it should be cut cross- ways, the slice cut into half. Each half should then be divided in the centre, but the two pieces should not be pulled apart, but be held together by the little white core in the centre. The shape of the pieces of lemon should resemble that of an hour-glass. These game patds are so exceedingly rich and good that housekeepers should be careful that not a single portion is really lost; and they should bear in mind that the remains of these patds are extremely useful to assist the cook in making various kinds of forcemeat suitable for rissoles, kromeskies, Italian fritters, etc. For making rissoles and kromes- kies receipts will be found under the heading of “ Chicken and Ham Patds” (see Chicken and Ham Pates), and a receipt for making Italian fritters will be found under the heading of “Foie Gras” (see Foie Gkas). When pates are made from chicken and ham, tongue, turkey, etc., they are best suited for making rissoles and kromeskies. When, however, the patds are made from game, such as partridge, woodcock, snipe, quails, larks, plovers, etc., I think that, with the addition of a little liver force- meat (see Cloves, Gkound), they are more suited for making that extremely nice and also very cheap dish known as Italian fritters. A little of this rich forcemeat can be made as follows':— Take some paper cases, which are sold at the pastrycook’s for the purpose. Add a little finely-chopped ham to the forcemeat, and half fill the cases with it. Next take a lark and open it, and fill the lark with some of the forcemeat. Make the lark and forcemeat hot in the oven, and then serve in the paper cases, the lark being placed on the top. When the flavour of garlic is not ob- jected to, two or three beads of garlic should be chopped up and mixed with the forcemeat. This gives it, of course, a very foreign taste. PASTE, ITALIAN. See Italian Paste. PASTILLES BE LEGUMES.—These are small round black-looking balls some- what resembling children’s sweetmeats. •They are composed of various kinds of burnt vegetables, and are used for colouring soups and gravies. When only a light colour is required for soups, one of these pastilles will be found very useful. They will keep for any length of time without getting bad, and are especially convenient for country houses. I would, however, warn cooks against putting in too many, as, unlike the Pari- sian essence in bottles, they undoubtedly impart flavour to the soup if used in any excessive quantity. PATf DE FOIE GRAS.—See Foie Gkas. PATE DE FOIE DE CANARD.—These patds very much resemble pate de foie f/ras itself, the chief difference between them being, as the name implies, that they are made from the livers of ducks instead of geese. When opened, the pate will be found to contain a piece of liver of slightly darker colour than ordinary pate dc foie pras. It is an exceedingly rich and delicious dish for breakfast or luncheon, and is also an excellent medium for conveying a large quantity of bread. The remains of these pates can be used, like pates dc foie f/rits, to assist the cook in making forcemeat of any description. These forcemeats are used for making rissoles, kromeskies, Italian fritters, etc. A receipt for making rissoles and kromeskies will be found under the heading “ Chicken-and- Ham Pates,” and for making Italian