93 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S gravies, etc. Mango relish is also very nice with broiled fish of all kinds. MANGOES, PICKLED.—Mangoes can be obtained pickled in oil and vinegar. They are a very popular pickle with per- sons who are fond of somewhat acid pickles. Each mango in the pickle has been opened, and contains a small quan- tity of chilies and capers, these having been added before it was pickled. MARASCHINO.—Maraschino is gene: rally esteemed as one of the most deli- cately flavoured liqueurs. In addition to its being drank as a liqueur, one well- known use to which it is turned is that of making a most delicious sweet—viz., maraschino jelly. In making mara- schino jelly it is best first of all to make a jelly of a pint of clarified syrup and isinglass, to which can be added the juice of two lemons. When this is nearly cold maraschino should be added. The quantity of maraschino to be added to this is about a gill and a half. The jelly can be slightly coloured sufficient to give it a certain tone, as otherwise it will be pale and unappetising. The cook should be careful not to add the maraschino till the jelly is very nearly cold, as otherwise the delicate flavour of the maraschino will escape. Care should also be taken to see that the jelly will turn out (see Chartreuse Jelly). Maraschino is used for making a variety of sweets. For instance, one very well- known delicious sweet is maraschino Bavarian cream, to make which M. Francatelli recommends as follows :— Whip a pint of double cream until it presents somewhat the appearance of snow, taking care not to overdo it, as it would then produce butter. When the cream is whipped add one ounce and a half of clarified isinglass and a gill and a half of genuine maraschino, the juice of a lemon, and four ounces of powdered sugar. Mix these well together and pour the cream into a mould, previously very slightly oiled inside with oil of sweet almonds. Set the cream in rough ice, and when it has become firm turn it out on to its dish. The mould having been oiled prevents the necessity of dipping this delicate cream into warm water previous to turning it out. This kind of cream may also be flavoured with all kinds of liqueurs, and also with essence of oranges, lemon and orange- flower, vanilla, roses, and bitter al- monds. Maraschino is a very excellent liqueur for flavouring claret cup. For this purpose I think it surpasses any other liqueur. The next best liqueur for this purpose is undoubtedly noyeau. In flavouring claret cup witl'i maraschino housekeepers should be careful not to use too large a quantity. Suppose a claret cup is made from a quart bottle of claret, two or three slices of lemon, one bottle of soda-water, a little syj-up, and a strip of cucumber peel, the amount of maraschino added should be barely more than a teaspoonful. This will be suffi- cient to give the claret cup a tone with- out doing away witli the flavour of the claret. Should the claret cup be made from very inferior claret indeed, it would be as well to add a little more maraschino ; but good claret cup cannot be made from bad claret. MARASCHINO, ESSENCE OF. — Es- sence of maraschino is a cheap and quick form of imparting the flavour of maraschino to puddings, cakes, etc. Like essence of almonds, it is very strong, and a few drops will be amply sufficient to flavour a considerable quan- tity of fluid. Essence of maraschino can be used for flavouring claret cup. In usipg this essence it is always de- sirable to drop it into a spoon, when, should an accidental shake of the hand cause too much to come from the bot- tle, the mistake can be rectified without spoiling the whole quanity. MARJORAM, ESSENCE OF. — The | flavour of marjoram is very useful for i soups, sausages, etc. A quick way of i imparting the flavour of marjoram is by means of the essence. It should be used with caution, a few drops only being as a rule sufficient to flavour a considerable quantity. When essence of marjoram is used for flavouring any solid substance it should be carefully mixed with a small quantity of fluid or butter, otherwise one part will be found to contain more of the flavour of mar- joram than another. MARMALADE.—There are various kinds of marmalade, the best known, of course, being orange marmalade. In addition to orange marmalade, there is lemon marmalade, peach marmalade, apricot marmalade, quince marmalade, etc. A description of all these marma-