66 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S the roux has dissolved, simmer gently for some little time, and constantly skim it while simmering, in order to get riel of the fat or butter that was con- tained in the roux. When, after the brown roux, the flavouring herbs and tho extract of meat have been added, it will be found a very great improvement to add a dessert-spoonful of port wine. Port wine is extremely useful to add to almost all kinds of dark game soup, such as grouse, hare, venison, eta. In tapping port wine, housekeepers should always carefully decant it, and make a rule of leaving the last half glass of wine in the bottle. This should be now poured into another bottle, labelled “Cooking Bottle,” and this cooking bottle should be kept under lock and key, otherwise, though you may be continually adding to it, the result will be that the bottle will be found to possess qualities exactly the converse of the widow’s cruse. When a little cold game of any kind, especially, of course, cold grouse, is left, one tin of grouse soup will be found extremely convenient to add to an equal quantity of stock with the remains of the cold game. These remains should be boiled in the stock till the bones come out perfectly bare and white, and the whole of the meat should be removed from the bones and sent with the soup through a wire sieve, and flavoured in the way we have already mentioned. It is a very com- mon mistake with many cooks in mak- ing hare soup, or grouse soup, to make it too thick. They should remember that hare soup, as well as grouse soup, is not a thick soup. If a proper amount of game is added, and rubbed through a sieve, very little thickening is neces- sary. GUAVA JELLY.—Guava jelly is a very rich but somewhat sickly preserve. Like damson cheese, it is usually served as a dessert dish. It is also recom- mended to be taken for the purpose of soothing irritated throats. It is very rich, and possesses considerable nou- rishing power, but owing to its great sweetness it can only be taken in small quantities. ALFORD’S CURRIED MEATS. —See Curried Meats. HALFORD’S CURRY SAUCE.—See Curry Sauce. HAM - AND - CHICKEN PATE. — See Ciiicken-and-Ham. HAM-AND-VEAL PATE.—See VEAL- axd-Ham. HAM, DEVILLED.—Devilled ham is a species of potted ham, only very hot. It is an excellent dish to be served at breakfast, lunch, or supper, and it is also often used to make sandwiches. There are many restaurants now open in London, especially those known as the Bodega, where a variety of sand- wiches are served for luncheon. Of all the sandwiches thus met with, devilled ham are the most popular. The devilled ham is simply spread between two thin slices of bread, or the sandwiches can be made with thin toast. As a ride it is sufficiently rich in itself not to require the addition of butter, but a very slight layer of butter over the bread is still a decided improvement. Devilled ham can also be served hot on toast after dinner, as a substitute for anchovy on toast, or caviare on toast. When it is served this way the devilled ham should first be heated by being placed in the oven for a short time, and the toast should not be buttered too thickly, as the ham itself is somewhat rich. The hot mixture should be spread on the toast, which must then be cut into “fingers,” about three inches long and an inch wide. Devilled ham is sold in pots, and will keep good for a long time, even after the pot has been opened, owing to the spices and pepper which it contains. HAM, POTTED.—Potted ham is one of the most popular of all potted meats, and it is a standing dish for both break- fast and luncheon. Potted ham, like devilled ham, makes excellent sand- wiches, and can be spread between two thin layers of bread, or the bread may be slightly buttered. Cooks will often find potted ham exceedingly _ useful when they are making rissoles, if there is no ham in the house. For instance, suppose the larder contains the remains of a cold roast fowl; a very nice and