105 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. acid. In Germany, and also in Italy, pickled mushrooms are served at the commencement of dinner as an appe- tiser, in connection with many other things of a similar description, such as pickled gherkins, etc. MUSTARD, VARIOUS.—Mustard should be rightly divided into two dis- tinct classes. Tlie first and most gene- ral being English mustard, sold in the form of a bright yellow powder, and the second French mustard, sold in jars in a mixed state, flavoured with a variety of different herbs, etc. As to which is the best, English or French, this is necessarily a matter of taste. The or- dinary English palate, however, will, of course, prefer, as a rule, English mus- tard. It certainly seems to me very barbarous to take a spoonful of French mustard with a nice rump-steak or sir- loin of beef. Of course the universal form of taking mustard is mixed with a little water. It is best to mix the mus- tard with boiling water and let it get cold, and not to put it into the mus- tard-pot until it is cold. It should be mixed in a cup with a spoon, and the mustard worked till the whole is perfectly smooth, for mustard should never be lumpy. We all know the dread- fid mustard-pot which is half full at the bottom while at the top it presents a dirty brown appearance, most unappe- tising. There is so little trouble in mixing mustard that housekeepers should insist on its being mixed in moderate quantities, so that it is not allowed to get stale. Indeed, if mustard be kept too long after it is made it becomes absolutely offensive. Another point housekeepers would do well to remember is to insist on having the mustard-pot always thoroughly cleansed before fresh mustard is put into it. In some houses servants have a very slovenly habit of mixing some fresh mustard and putting it into the mus- tard-pot on the top of the stale, which ought to be first removed. Mustard is not very largely used in cooking, but is generally served by itself. One use to which it can be put is to make mustard sauce, which is very nice, and is gene- rally served with fresh herrings. It is made as follows Make a little good melted butter, or, as it should be called, butter sauce. Add to it two or three spoonfuls of fresh-made mustard, taking care that the mustard is made perfectly smooth. This is handed round with the herrings. Mustard is also used in making Tartar sauce. This is made from mayonnaise sauce, a receipt for which will be found under the heading Mayonnaise Sauce. For the purpose of making Tartar sauce, I think pro- bably French mustard is the best. There is a very great variety of French mustards sold. Of these I may mention Soyer’s aromatic French mustard, and Maille’s French mustard. - Frencli mus- tard is sometimes flavoured with tarra- gon, sometimes with capers, and some- times with fine herbs. One of the most useful forms of using French mustard is in devilling legs of fowls and turkeys. For this purpose the French mustard should be mixed with a considerable quantity of cayenne pepper. The legs snould be cut into strips right down to the bones, parallel, and then this mix- ture of French mustard and cayenne inserted in the slits with a blunt knife. A very nice knife for the purpose is an ordinary ivory paper-knife. The leg should also be smothered over with the mixture, and then grilled over a fierce fire. By this means only can the “ devilling matter,” so to speak, be really introduced into the meat. MUTTON BROTH.—Mutton broth can be obtained in tins. The best way of serving it is to warm the contents of the tin by immersing it in some boiling water, which should be kept boiling for about twenty minutes, when the tin should be opened and the contents turned out. Two or three tins of mut- ton broth should always be kept in country houses which have the disad- vantage of being a long way from the butcher’s. There are often cases in which slight indisposition is cured by a little speedy nourishment. A tin of mutton broth is one of the nicest invalid dishes known. There are often times when invalids feel they loathe any kind of rich soup or high-flavoured sauce. It is just then that a plain and simple basin of mutton broth is so agreeable. There are many invalids, too, who suffer from debility, which is very often ac- companied by sleeplessness. By means of a spirit-lamp and a tin of mutton broth a little meal can be prepared and taken in the middle of the night, and very often it will be found that by