36 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S it will often be found that the rhubarb is pale in colour. Fresh spring rhubarb is always a bright red, and when so it has a more inviting appearance. When rhubarb does not possess this colour a few drops of cochineal will have the effect of causing it to look like early spring rhubarb. A few drops of cochi- neal can also be used with bottled rhubarb, should the colour not be alto- gether that which could be desired. Cochineal is used for colouring jelly. Two apparently different moulds of jelly can be obtained from one bottle by colouring half the bottle a bright pink with cochineal, and adding some addi- tional flavouring, s.uch as vanilla or essence of almonds. The sugar used for ornamenting cakes, when pink, is made by adding a little cochineal to some white of egg and powdered sugar, and mixing it to a thick paste. This can then be dropped on the cake through a small piece of paper done up in the shape of a funnel. The pink icing can then be allowed to fall as desired. In ornamenting hams with clarified butter sometimes part of the butter is coloured pink with cochineal, and it can be used as ordinary piping. Cochi- neal is also used by cooks to tint the edges of flowers cut from turnips. When the white flower is cut from turnip and the edges tinted with cochineal it causes it to resemble very closely a fresh blown camellia. Sometimes when beetroot cannot be obtained slices of turnip or potato raw are coloured red with cochi- neal and substituted. As a rule, how- ever, nothing should be used for oma mental purposes which is not intended to be eaten. Some coolcs use cochineal to improve the colour of lobster sauce and shrimp sauce. This, however, is wrong. The shade of colour produced by cochineal is entirely different to that of lobster butter. As a rule it will be found that cochineal for colouring pur- poses is only adapted for sweets. Vegetable colouring is sold which will assist the colour of lobster and shrimp sauce, but cochineal is not adapted for that purpose. COCKS’-COMBS, — Cocks’-combs are prepared in bottles. When cut from the head of the cock they are, of course, a deep red colour, but they are after- wards blanched, and when bottled are of a pure white colour. They are universally esteemed as a great deli- cacy, and are used for making financierc ragout. They are also extremely valu- able to good cooks for garnishing pur- poses. We will take the simple case of a boiled capon. When it has been covered with a rich thick cream becha- mel sauce, the base of the dish can be ornamented as follows :—Take some cocks’-combs and mask them with b4chamel sauce. Have ready some slices of red tongue cut by means of a stamp or by hand exactly in the same shape as the cocks’-combs. Place the cocks’-combs and red tongue alter- nately round the dish, and place some black spots of truffle on each pro- jection. A few red specks of tongue, green parsley, and black truffle can be lightly shaken over the breast of the capon. A cut flower can also be stuck in the end of the breast. In ornament- ing dishes it will always be found that. red, black, and green on a pure white surface have a very pretty effect. COCKS’ KIDNEYS.—See Rognons DE Coq. COCK’S READING SAUCE. — S(?e Reading Sauce. COFFEE, ESSENCE OF.—In no coun- try, perhaps, is essence of coffee better ap- preciated than in England, where the art of making coffee direct seems to be un- known. One great advantage of essence of coffee is that a cup of clear bright coffee can always be obtained at a few minutes’ notice. It is also very usdful for making coffee for invalids, as boiling milk can be substituted instead of boil- ing water, and by this means an admir- able cup of coffee is obtained, and at the same time a great deal of nourish- ment can be given. Whenever milk is used for making coffee the milk should always be boiled separately. After it has boiled up it should be taken off the fire, and the essence of coffee added. In boiling milk I would give cooks a hint as follows :—Very often in boiling milk an enamelled saucepan is used. An enamelled saucepan, it is well known, retains the heat. Cooks will often take a saucepan off the fire when the milk boils and pour out the milk immediately, and then set the saucepan down, the result being this : The dregs of the milk which are in the bottom of the saucepan—which retains its heat