HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 93 turtle soup at ham - and - beef shops, which is made from pig’s-head instead of calves’-head, will know how very highly-spiced the compound is, and how very largely the soup made from these slabs tastes of spice. This spicy flavour is entirely owing to the large quantity of mace which is added. This flavour of mace is very good, but the common mistake made is ex- cess of quantity. In making mulled ; claret a small quantity of mace and cinnamon forms the best flavouring. [ When this flavouring is required for mulled claret it is always best to put the mace and cinnamon into a little plain water in a saucepan and let it boil gently by itself for some time. When sufficient flavour has been extracted add the sugar. If the sugar were added before, the whole would boil over, owing to the presence of the sugar. When the sugar is dissolved, add the claret. Do not heat the claret beyond the tem- perature required for drinking. The moment it is over-heated the whole of j the spirit evaporates, and the mixture j is apt to turn acid. If possible, a wine- j glass of good old brandy should be ; added. When mace is used for flavour- i ing puddings, sweets, etc., the most j convenient form is to buy it ready ground. The flavour of mace is, of course, very similar to that of nutmeg ; indeed mace is simply the outer shell of the nutmeg itself. MACE, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of ! mace is a very convenient form of im- | parting the flavour of mace to various I kinds of puddings and sweets. Like all other essences, it must be used with extreme caution. Three or four drops I of the essence are amply sufficient to flavour a pint of fluid. When more are used the dish will probably be spoiled. All these essences are very useful, if only the cook will bear in mind the necessity of caution in using them. MACEDOINES.—There is probably no j form of tinned vegetables so useful to the cook as macedoines. The better the cook the more useful will they be found. Macedoines are simply, as the word im- plies, a mixture of different kinds of vegetables, the ingredients being car- rot, turnip, green peas, etc. Perhaps the most useful form of using mace- doines is to make soup at a few moments’ notice. A tin of macedoines added to some good, bright, clear stock trans- forms the stock into spring soup. _ The macedoines simply require warming up in the stock, which can then bo served. Under the heading of Extract of Meat, I have already given directions how to make stock at a few minutes’ notice. With the assistance of some of Crosse and Blackwell’s extract of meat and a tin of macedoines the cook can always send up a nice tureenful of good, bright, clear, rich soup, at a quarter of an hour’s notice. Another very useful form in which macedoines can be served is that of German salad. Take a tin of macedoines, open them, turn them out, and dry them in a cloth. Then (although this is not necessary) the cook can slice Up the remains of any cold potatoes that may be in the house— and there are few houses in which pota- toes are not left cold in the larder. Next add a little chopped parsley, and dress the salad in the ordinary method —namely, add first of all the oil, toss the salad well together in it, as every particle of vegetable should be slightly oiled over before any vinegar is added. Pepper and salt may be mixed up in a spoon with the oil. Then add one-third of the quantity of vinegar to the oil, and again toss it lightly together. By adding the oil first, and well mixing up the salad, you avoid the vegetables soaking up the vinegar and thus becom- ing more acid in one part than in another. A salad of this description may be im- proved by spreading a thin film of bloater paste or anchovy paste on these slices of potato, which can then be cut up into the same size as the macedoines, and all tossed together and dressed. Mace- doines form an excellent salad also that can be served with a variety of cold dishes. For instance, take the case of a tin of larks (larks stuffed with truffles are now sold in tins). Take the larks out of the tin, and remove as much as possi- ble of the fat which surrounds them by placing them for a few minutes in the oven. The larks can now be glazed a bright colour and placed round side by side in a silver dish. The centre can be filled up with a tin of macedoines piled up, and the exterior can be ornamented with aspic jelly (see Larks, Truffled). Aspic jelly is now sold in bottles of various sizes. No good housekeeper who values appearances should ever be with- out a bottle of aspic jelly in the store