HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 107 NUTMEGS, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of nutmegs is a quick and easy method of imparting the flavour of nutmegs to various kinds of puddings, custards, etc. Where the flavour of nutmeg is wanted, and the presence of nutmeg itself is an attraction—as in the case of nutmegs grated over the top of custards, etc.—pure nutmeg itself is far the best. The drawback, however, to nutmeg is that it is very insoluble. When the flavour of nutmeg is added to any dish its presence will show itself in the form of very thin, fine chips or powder. The flavour of nutmeg can be imparted to anything by means of essence of nut- megs, and no sign, of course, of the nut- meg will appear. Like all other essences* however, it must be used with extreme caution. A few drops are amply suffi- cient to flavour half a pint of fluid. NUTMEGS, GROUND.—Most kitchens are provided with that well-known im- plement called a “ nutmeg -grater.” Cooks, however, will do well at times to have by them some nutmegs ready ground. They will know that in using nutmeg with a nutmeg-grater the pow- der is very apt to be coarse, and for many purposes this is an objection; but in the case of using nutmeg for sweets, such as mincemeat, etc., it is de- sirable to have the nutmegs ground as finely as possible. When nutmeg is wanted very fine it is far best to buy it ready ground. ILS, SALAD. — There is no doubt that there is a general prejudice in England against the use of oil in almost any form whatever. Some twenty or thirty years ago English people almost universally dressed their salads in the following fashion :—They had a little cream, to which was added some English mustard; then two or three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and sometimes a little anchovy sauce was put in, and pepper and salt; last of all came the oil. But the oil was added to the salad in a few drops, some- thing like a chemist making up a dose of laudanum. Happily, I think, in the present day, we have got more civilised. The much greater facility of communi- cation with the Continent has gradually taught us that oil, when it is fresh and pure, can be used with as natch facility as very first-class butter. Oil resembles butter in one respect. Really good oil, like really first-class fresh butter, is simply a means of conveying fat to the system, and both should be absolutely tasteless. I firmly believe that the oi-igin of the prejudice against oil is simply owing to the fact that many years ago oil was always bought in small quantities, and being kept for a long time in small bottles, it, of course, got rancid. So great was the ignorance of English people on the sub- ject that they believed in consequence that all oil was rancid. If a house- keeper were to buy a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and keep it in the house for a couple of months, and then at- tempt to eat it spread upon bread, she would find the bread-and-butter in question was utterly uneatable. So, too, with oil. When perfectly pure and fresh, oil is an exceedingly cheap and wholesome form of nourishment, and in summer-time should be used in tolera- bly large quantities for the purpose of dressing salads. I will here give a sim- ple method of dressing salads which is adopted by all waiters on the Continent and by the majority of waiters in this country at all good restaurants. Take, say, two or three nice fresh cabbage lettuces, which should be washed and carefully dried and then thrown into the salad-bowl. If possible get three or four fresh tarragon leaves, chop them up finely, and sprinkle them over the salad. Then take a brimming saltspoonful of salt and half a one of black pepper ; place them in the bowl of a tablespoon; fill the spoon with oil, and mix them in the oil with a fork, and pour it over the lettuce. Now add two or three more tablespoonfuls of oil, tossing the lettuce about lightly with a spoon and fork, that the whole of the outside of the lettuce leaves may be oiled over. The reason for putting in the oil before the vinegar is this—the oil will not soak into the vegetable, but the vinegar will; and when you add vinegar before oil to any salad it is very apt to soak into the leaves, the conse- quence being that after the salad is mixed some of the leaves are very acid, while some will have, comparatively speaking, no vinegar at all. Now take a tablespoonful of ordinary vinegar,