HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 155 turtle soup for a party of friends, but probably It is better adapted for the purposes of invalid cooking. With the addition of one or two tins of essence of beef, a very fine, clear turtle soup can be sent to table at a very few minutes’ notice in any house by pro- ceeding as follows:—Open first of all the essence of meat—say, two tins of essence of beef. Next take a little stock—or even water if no stock is to be obtained. Place in it some of the herbs mentioned under the heading of soup made from dried turtle flesh (see Turtle Flesh, Dried). This should be strained off and added to the soup, as a precaution that too much flavour has not been added. The turtle meat should now be added to this soup. If there is time a couple of onions should be sliced up and boiled in the essence of beef before the turtle flesh is added. Strain off the onion, put in the meat, and add a good-sized claret-glass of madeira or brown sherry. The essence of beef known as “ Gillon’s Essence of Beef ” is admirably adapted for this purpose. This would make some turtle soup very rich indeed. Of course, it can be diluted with a little water—or, still better, by the addition of stock. When there is time—and half an hour would be ample —I would recommend an onion to be sliced up and boiled in the essence of beef, with a head of celery and a good handful of parsley. I think turtle soup made from this essence of beef and turtle meat in the way I have stated will be superior to ordinary tinned turtle soup itself. There are occasions when to be able to send to table a small quantity of real turtle soup might be very important. For instance, at hotels, on the sudden arrival of some great celebrity. The most ordinary form of serving turtle meat in tins is simply to add to it some good, rich, clear stock, when it forms an admirable invalid’s dish. When served with very rich stock and wine it is more suited for the ordinary purposes of the table. TURTLE SOUP, MOCK.—See Mock Turtle Soup. TURTLE SOUP, REAL, TINNED.— Real turtle soup is now sold in tins, but by far the greater proportion of these tins contain what is known as “ Invalid Turtle.” This soup is a very delicate form of nourishment, and has been universally approved by medical men as suited to the most delicate constitutions. Indeed this tinned soup is so admirably adapted for invalids, that it is a positive cruelty to convert it into soup suitable for tal ile purposes. In serving turtle soup for invalids, immerse the tin in boiling water for about twenty minutes; then take out the tin, dry it, open it, and pour the soup into a soup-plate. In the case of the invalid having that terrible loathing of food which is _ so often one of the most distressing symptoms of illness, it is far best to serve only a small portion at a time. It may sometimes perhaps require the addition of a pinch of salt and a teaspoonful of madeira or sherry, but this of course is purely a matter of taste. ANILLA, ESSENCE OF.—Es- sence of vanilla is one of the most useful of all essences sold for flavouring sweets of almost every description. It is sold in small bottles, but this essence should always be kept in glass- stoppered bottles—indeed, so greatly does it deteriorate if exposed to the air, that, if it were possible, I would recommend housekeepers to have cap- ped stoppered bottles, somewhat similar to those in which chemists keep ether and chloroform. In private houses where the cook has small bottles of vanilla in ordinary bottles corked up, she would do well to bear in mind that the amount of essence to be used will vary very considerably, ac- cording to the time the bottles have been in the house. I will take the sim- ple case of a pint of good custard. If the essence of vanilla is really good and fresh, a saltspoonful of essence would be amply sufficient to impart a vanilla flavour to the custard. Should, however, the essence have been kept in the house for several months, with the probability of its having been carelessly corked, it is difficult to say how much would have to be put in it to impart the required flavour. Possibly as much as two teaspoonfuls. This may possibly be slightly exaggerated, but it only tends to prove the importance of having the essence very carefully corked. Essence of vanilla may be used for flavouring almost every kind of pudding that may be termed milky, and almost