HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. ' 07 exoellent dish of rissoles can be made as follows : First of all scrape all the meat from the bones, chop up the bones, and put them on in a little stock to stew for as long a time as possiblo, with an onion sliced up and a bunch of pars- ley. As a very Tittle will be required, the stock may be allowed to boil away. This stock when cold will be a very hard jelly. Next take the mea,t from the fowl, add to it a little piece of onion, a little chopped parsley, and a pinch of thyme, and send the whole through a sausage machine, or press the mixture through a wire sieve with. a wooden spoon. Next add to it half its quantity of potted ham, mix all well up, and then add some warm stock till the whole is almost fluid. Let this mixture get cool and set in a plate so that it is about an inch thick. Next, when it is nearly cold, the cook should take and roll it into balls about the size of a small walnut. They should now be allowed to get cold, and when cold the balls will of course be a hard jelly. When thej' are quite cold take these balls and roll them in flour, dip them into some egg that has been well beaten up, cover them with tine bread- crumbs and put them by in the larder to get dry. After they are thoroughly dried take them out and once more dip them into egg and add more bread- crumbs. These little rissoles will now be covered w'ith a double-coating of egg and breadcrumbs. Next take some smoking hot fat, sufficiently deep to entirely cover the balls when they are thrown into the frying-pan. Remove them carefully by means of a wire basket from the smoking hot fat. This hot fat will instantly set the egg before the inside has time to melt. As soon as the little rissoles are fried a nice brown colour, they should be taken out of the fat and allowed to drain for a short time on a cloth, or, better still, on a piece of blotting paper. They can be served then with a little fried parsley. They are exceedingly delicious owing to their being thoroughly moist inside when cut open. Rissoles are never nice when they are solid ; when they are cut open a sort of rich fluid, or nearly fluid, runs into the plate. This deli- cious little entree is really exceedingly cheap, all that is required is for the cook to take a little trouble. Potted ham can also be used to assist in making all sorts of forcemeats where ham is required, and very often will be found mush more convenient than buying ham on purpose. Cooks do not sufficiently consider how much time and trouble will be saved by always making a prac- tice of having one or two tins of potted ham in the house, which can be used at a moment’s notice for the purposes we have described. HAM, TONGUE, AND CHICKEN SAUSAGE.—See Sausage. HARD’S FARINACEOUS FOOD.—See Infants’ Food. HARICOT BEANS. — White haricot beans are generally in this country used in the dried state. On the Continent they are a very'favourite article of food, and are cooked fresh. It is to be re- gretted that this very cheap food is not more generally used in this country. They are very nice served with meat, and make an excellent garnish for a variety of dishes, or they can be served by themselves, and make a very sub- stantial and satisfying dish on occasions when meat is not eaten. To cook hari- cot beans proceed as follows:—Take say a pint of beans, and put them to soak for about twelve hours in some cold water in which a little tiny piece of soda has been dissolved. Indeed, it will always be best when haricot beans are to be used to put them to soak over- night. In the morning they should be drained off, but the cook should first see if any of the beans are floating on the surface. The bulk of the beans will of course sink, but occasionally two or three may be seen to float on the sur- face, which shows they are bad. The reason they float is that there is a little hollow space inside, which is pro- bably mildewed, and contains air. These beans, therefore, should be thrown away. Next take the bulk of the beans and boil them for about an hour, or till they are quite tender. If the beans are required for occasions on which persons do not take meat, they should be boiled in plain water, but should they be required for ordinary occasions, it is far best to boil them in some kind of coarse stock—as, for in- stance, water that has been used for boiling a piece of bacon or ham, or a leg of pork, or a piece of pickled pork, which is admirably adapted for boiling