2-1 CROSSE' AND BLACKWELL’S can also be added to salmi of pigeon or to stewed pigeons, and as there is some- thing in its flavour slightly suggestive of stock made from turkey-bones, it will be found a useful addition to hash made from turkey. It is prepared from a plant that grows in the Bermudas, and is of a rich golden colour. Too often cooks are apt to colour their gravies, soups, etc., with burnt sugar— or what French cooks know under the name of caramel. When this is used there is always a slight flavour of burnt sugar to be detected in the soup, and in the case of clear soup this flavour is very objectionable. For the purposes we have mentioned casaripe will be found an invaluable substitute, as there is no taste of sugar about it. It cannot, however, like some colourings, be used for sweets in any form. Casaripe should always be used to assist in colouring or flavouring hashed venison, jugged hare, and all kinds of hash made from poultry or game. The addition of a little port wine and red-currant jelly is also an improvement. CATSUP, MUSHROOM.—See Mush- room. CATSUP, WALNUT.—See Walnut. CAULIFLOWER, PICKLED.—Pickled cauliflower is a popular form of pickle, and it will be found in most private households that where jars of mixed pickles are used the cauliflower will generally be selected in preference to the gherkins, which are usually left be- hind and too often wasted. When house- keepers see this to be the case they would do well to obtain a bottle of cauliflower pickled by itself. Pickled cauliflower, of course, is used as pickle, plain, with all kinds of cold meat, etc. It can also be used in ornamenting various kinds of dishes, especially breakfast dishes. For instance, grilled salmon is often served for breakfast with pickles. When this is the case, a pretty dish can be formed as follows : Place the grilled slices of salmon in a circle, and then put some pickled cauliflower with the whiter part outside in the centre. Now take a few red chillies, and, having split them and taken out the pips—which are, as a rule, too hot to eat—place the red chillies across one another over the white cauli- flower. A little rich gravy is sometimes poured round the base of the dish, but in ornamenting the dish care should be taken that none of the gravy is poured on the white cauliflower. Where the flavour of strong acid is not liked the cauliflower can be soaked for a short time in boiling water. By this means it is not only made hot, but some of the vinegar is extracted from it. CAVIARE.—Caviare is made from the roe of the sturgeon. The best caviare comes from Russia. It lias the appear- ance of seeds preserved in a kind of black oil, and in taste is thought by some to resemble oysters. It is one of those things the taste for which may be said to be an acquired one. It is very often served at the commencement of dinner as an appetiser. Cut lemon and cay- enne pepper should be served with it. In many parts of London caviare is now sold in the form of sandwiches, which are made by simply laying thin layers of caviare between twro slices of brown bread-and-butter. Sometimes cayenne and lemon-juice are added to the sand- wiches, when they are labelled, “ Ca- viare sandwiches, devilled.” Owing to its dark colour, caviare makes an agree- able contrast in a dish of appetisers mixed, in which form it is often served at the commencement of dinner. A small heap of black caviare can be sur- rounded with chopped white of egg and filleted anchovies, or with chopped capers, stoned olives, etc. Another very nice form of serving caviare is hot on toast, after dinner, in the place of anchovies on toast. When this is the case the caviare should be first made warm in the oven in a saucer, as the toast is always best when served fresh made. The toast should be first of all slightly buttered, the caviare spread on the top, and a little sprinkle of cayenne pepper and some lemon-juice should be added. The toast should then be cut into inch squares, the whole placed in the oven for about a minute, and served hot. Many persons consider this very superior to anchovies on toast. CAYENNE PEPPER.—There is an old saying that if you wish to have good soup you must lock up the pepper-box. Certainly many cooks fall into tne great fault of putting too much pepper into soups, sauces, and gravies. This will be particularly noticeable with those who have lived in Indian families.