HOUSEKEEPERS GUIDE. 71 to place over the stopper an indiarubber cap. By this means the herbaceous mixture will retain its flavour for years. If, however, it is kept in a bottle with an ordinary cork, and especially if the bottle be carelessly corked, it will gra- dually get weaker and weaker, and after a long time be almost useless. When the mixture haB been kept in a bottle with an ordinary cork, after some time cooks will find that they will have to add more, owing to a good deal of the strength having evaporated. The bottle should always be so corked down that when you smell the bottle outside you cannot detect any aroma. If you can detect any aroma it is a sure sign the herbaceous mixture is gradually getting weaker and weaker. HERBS, DRIED.—Dried herbs of all kinds can now be obtained in bottles. In large families, or where there is a good deal of cooking, it is generally best to have the herbs separate. The follow- ing herbs I would recommend to be always kept in the house :—Marjoram, basil, lemon' thyme, mint, tarragon, parsley, and savoury. For small house- holds the most convenient form of keep- ing dried herbs is to have a bottle of what is known as mixed sweet herbs. These mixed herbs generally consist of marjoram, basil, parsley, and a little lemon thyme. They are used for vari- ous purposes, the most common being that of making what is known as veal- stuffing, and for flavouring mock turtle and turtle soup. A very good veal-stuffing can be made as follows:—Chop up a quarter of a pound of suet, a couple of ounces of lean ham, and a good brim- ming teaspoonful of parsley, add a dessert-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, and a very slight quantity of cayenne pepper and nutmeg, as well as say five ounces of bread-crumbs and a couple of eggs. In addition to this many cooks add a small quantity of lemon-peel. Various directions will be found in cookery-books for the addition of lemon- peel to veal-stuffing. These directions vary considerably from the quantity I have named—from the rind of half a lemon down to some thin strips of lemon-peel, which is of course a matter of taste, but I would warn cooks against adding too much lemon. There is no doubt that the general mistake made is in putting in too much rather than too little lemon - peel. When chopped, lemon-peel is used as a flavour for force- meat. I dare say many persons can re- call how, after dining off a joint of veal with stuffing, or roast turkey, or boiled turkey with veal - stuffing, for many hours after their dinner they have still tasted the stuffing; indeed, in somecascs, I have known persons who complained of tasting the stuffing on the following day. When this is the case it is obvious that something is not as it should be. I think the fault will be found in the fact that too much lemon has been added to the stuffing. When persons are sensitive as to the flavour of lemon, it is best to make the stuffing without lemon-peel, and the lemon-peel, when it is used, must be chopped very fine. Cooks, when they chop suet, know the advantage of having a little flour, which prevents the suet from sticking to the knife. In chopping lemon-peel for making stuffing it is desirable to add a little salt, which will enable the cook to chop it fine with much greater facility, or the peel can be grated on a grater. It is also best when making veal-stuffing to mince or chop the lemon-peel by itself, and not to let it take its chance of being chopped with the other ingre- dients. I may here add thafy when lemon-peel is chopped for the purpose of making sweets, some powdered sugar can be used instead of salt to facilitate the chopping. In giving this receipt for making veal-stuffing I have men- tioned a dessert-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs. Probably were the herbs quite fresh bottled this would be rather ex- cessive, but practically cooks will find that as the herbs are kept longer they must allow rather more. When these mixed herbs are used for that very use- ful purpose of flavouring mock-turtle or real turtle soup, it is very important that the cook should put in enough, and at the same time not too much. This en- tails considerable difficulty if the herbs are simply boiled in the soup in the ordinary way, and the soup then strained off. It is often impossible for the cook to tell exactly what state the herbs are in. If they have been freshly bottled they are very much stronger than if they have been kept corked up for a long time. In flavouring any kind of turtle soup, whether from fresh meat or dried meat, the cook should act as follows :—Take a good quantity of fla-