HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 147 filled up with custard and baked in the oven till the custard is set. Strawberry jam is also very good for making both tipsy-cake and trifle. In the case of making trifle the jam can be spread over slices of stale sponge-cake, or, better still, brioche-cake. One very nice pur- pose indeed for which strawberry jam can be used is that of making ices when some rough ice can be obtained. Now that freezing-machines are sold so extremely cheap, ices are by no means an expensive luxury. We ought to remember that the penny ices as sold in the streets in hot weather are by no means bad, and yet the men can affoi'd to make and sell them at this price, getting a living out of the profit. When persons in country places j are possessed of gardens, and are conse- quently able to obtain fresh fruit, it is to be regretted that these very deli- cious additions to every-day comfort in the way of food are not more often used. When fresh fruit is not in season, almost equally good ices can be made from jam. Take, say a quarter of a pound of jam, and mix it well with half a pint of cream. Of course the jam contains sufficient sugar to obviate the necessity of any more being added. When the whole has been well mixed together, all it requires is to be frozen, and the ice is then ready to be served. Unfortunately, cream is an expensive luxury, and in many cases cannot be ob- tained at all. When this is the case an excellent substitute can be made by mixing, say half a pint of milk, two yolks of eggs, and a tablespoonful of Swiss milk. When this mixture is used for making vanilla ice, by adding the flavour of vanilla, it will require a little more sugar. When, however, it is used for making cream-ice or any kind of fruit or jam-ice, no sugar need be added. A distinction must be made between making ice from jam and pre- served fruit. Strawberry jam contains about three-quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. In making ice from apricots preserved in tins there will be a far less amount of sugar used. Consequently, the cook must taste the mixture before freezing, and add sugar accordingly. STRAWBERRY SYRUP.—Strawberry syrup forms a most refreshing drink on a hot day. It is best when mixed with a little iced soda-water or iced water of any kind. It is perhaps somewhat sickly, and it does not do to mix the syrup too strong. Strawberry syrup is also very nice, when mixed with a little water, served up on a dish with some cold rice. This dish is especially suited for children, and housekeepers should always use up each day the remains of any cold rice that may have been served with curry or mulligatawny soup. A little syrup or juice forms a wholesome and cheap dish which can be served up for children’s tea. SWISS ABSINTHE.—See Absinthe. SWISS KIRSCHENWASSER. — See Kirschenwassek. SWISS MILK.—See Milk. SYRUPS, VARIOUS.—Under their re- spective headings will be found full descriptions of the various uses of the following syrups : Lemon Syrup, Apri- cot Syrup, Black-Currant Syrup, Cherry Syrup, Capillaire Syrup, Gooseberry Syrup, Lime Syrup, Grange Syrup, Pineapple Syrup, Raspberry Syrup, Red-Currant Syrup, Strawberry Syrup. These syrups are undoubtedly coming daily more into demand. Perhaps one great cause is that they, of late years, have been sold as a precaution against the undue consumption of intoxicating liquor. There is no doubt that a great deal of the evil in this country springs from excess in taking stimulants. The remedy is I believe to be found not so much in interfering with those whose habits are confirmed as to prevent it spreading to the rising generation. There can be no doubt that hundreds and thousands of persons, especially among the poor, have gradually fallen into the habit of drinking intoxicants, simply because they have had no other choice. What is wanted chiefly is to supply not only a nice but a cheap sub- stitute for the ordinary pint of beer. Lemonade and soda-water, and even ginger beer, are, as a rule, especially in public-houses as well as good hotels, sold at a price which places them beyond the reach of the poor man. How many lads are there who would infinitely’ prefer a glass of pineapple syrup and water to half a pint of ale, if they could only get it ? Should the various teetotal bodies wish to succeed in their endea- vours I do not know of any better course