1G1 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. vinegar is to my thinking the best. Then there is French white wine vinegar, which has these objections to it. First of all, it is rarely to be ob- tained perfectly pure, and too often its extreme acidity renders it almost unfit for use, except for very rare dishes. Very acid vinegar, indeed, such as white wine vinegar, may be used cau- tiously, mixed with mayonnaise sauce. When we want vinegar for ordinary purposes there is no doubt that pure malt vinegar is very far superior indeed to the white wine vinegar. So, too, for the purposes of making every land of pickles. All English pickles should be made with pure English vinegar. The idea of making pickles with that sharp vinegar which is met with on the Con- tinent is almost too horrible to contem- plate. Many a young person travelling abroad for the first time has been led into serious difficulty in mistaking white wine vinegar for the good old home- made genuine vinegar. I do not like to speak at random, but going by the taste only, I should say that the vinegar met with on the Continent owes its great acidity to some substance far more acid than sour wine. Indeed, we heard a few days back of some sauteme which was tested in some place abroad, the result of the analysis showing that no grape juice existed in it whatever. Its place, however, was supplied by sul- phuric acid. What this would be like when it got sour and was made into vinegar there is no saying. In addition to ordinary malt vinegar there are various kinds of vinegar which have been fla- voured with other substances sold in bottles. For instance, there is chili vine- gar, cayenne vinegar, elder vinegar, gar- lic vinegar, etc. The names of these vinegars almost explain themselves. In mixing salads, when a slight flavour of chili, cayenne, or garlic is required, these vinegars are very convenient forms of imparting the flavour. HALNUT CATSUP. —Walnutcat- sup, though perhaps not so generally used as mushroom catsup, is still a favourite preparation with many peo- ple. Indeed, there are some who prefer the flavour of walnut catsup to that of mushroom catsup. This is, of course, purely a matter of taste. When the flavour is liked, however, walnut catsup can be used for very nearly all the purposes for which mush- room catsup is employed. Walnut cat- sup has also an admirable flavour in making those rich sauces which contain very high seasonings. For instance, any sauce which contained a large quantity of garlic would bear the addi- tion of walnut catsup. Walnut catsup possesses one advantage, namely,, it is somewhat cheaper as a rule than mush- room catsup. In large households, such as schools, etc., walnut catsup will be found an admirable sauce for imparting a rich and agreeable flavour to hashes and stews. It also makes very excellent fish sauce, best adapted to be eaten with fried fish of all kinds when catsup is mixed with a little melted butter. One occasion on which I would recommend walnut catsup not to be used as a sub- stitute for mushroom catsup is when it is employed with any kind of white meat, such as chicken. There is a pecu- liar flavour about mushrooms which harmonises with white meat, such as poultry, which I do not think will be found the case with walnut catsup, at any rate to the same degree. WALNUTS, PICKLED.—Pickled wal- nuts are always favourites, but they do. not mix with other pickles. Walnuts are extremely difficult to pickle at home. The exact point between pick- ing the walnuts too young or too old requires the opinion of an expert. When walnuts are pickled too young they break to pieces, and when pickled too old the outside becomes soft, but the inside too hard to be eaten. The walnuts that are bought in bottles can always be depended upon. They are admirably adapted to be served with every kind of cold meat, but I do not recommend them to be used for making sauce. Some, however, who are partial to the flavour of pickled walnuts will make sauce from them in the ordinary way by mashing up two or three pickled wal- nuts, and putting them in a saucepan with about twice the quantity of brown gravy. I do not think pickled walnuts harmonise vdth fish, but this sauce can be served with mutton cutlets. I think a considerable quantity of cayenne- pepper will be found an improvement. WEST INDIAN ARROWROOT.—Sec Arrowroot. K