HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. .83 thing hot, I can give one exception. Essence of lemon is very useful for fla- vouring hot drinks, such as hot rum-and- water, and a few drops of it has a marked effect in making a bowl of punch. When lemons cannot be ob- tained, essence of lemon will be found very valuable. Essence of lemon is also used for flavouring custards. In making lemon custards I woidd strongly recom- mend the cook never to drop the essence into the mixture direct, but to drop it first into a spoon. By this means, should accidentally too great a quantity fall, the error can be easily rectified. Essence of lemon assists in making a very agreeable refreshment for a hot day, and it is also a capital medium for conveying a valuable medicine, which in summer is often recommended by medi- cal men. A very nice refreshing drink, suitable for persons suffering from fever- ish cold, accompanied by sore throat, can be made as follows : A few drops of essence of lemon, a little sugar, and a few drops of dilute sulphuric acid. I wish to avoid as much as possible in the present work interfering with medicine or receipts. The amount of sulphuric acid that should be added must depend on the doctor’s orders, and not on the fancy of the person who mixes the drink. LEMON JELLY.—Lemon jelly, when purchased in bottles, is always bright. Cooks know what great difficulty they experience in getting jelly perfectly bright when home-made. Undoubt- edly the most convenient form of obtaining jelly is bottled, and it is to be regretted that housekeepers do not more often avail themselves of this bottled jelly instead of having the jelly home-made. Of course, when jelly is made in large quantities, the difficulty of getting it bright is infinitely less than when it is made in small quantities. The usual difficulty in brightening home-made jelly is so great, that although the cost may be small, a large quantity is wasted in clarifying, and it is therefore far more economical to buy a bottle of jelly al- ready brightened than to make it in the house; thus a good deal of expense, as well as much time and trouble, will be avoided. The best way to use a bottle of jelly is to plunge the bottle into warm water, but not too warm. First, there is the danger of cracking the bottle; and, secondly, if the jelly is heated be- yond a certain point, it is apt sometimes to get clouded. The cook should place the bottle in water sufficiently warm to dissolve the jelly, so as to enable her to pour it out of the bottle. The jelly can then be used for any purpose required. It can be piled up in glasses or it can be poured into a mould of any shape. It may also be altered in flavour as well as colour. The addition of a little colour- ing and flavouring will enable the cook to produce two moulds of jelly out of one bottle. For instance, suppose she has two small moulds. Half of the jelly can be served just as it is, or it can be flavoured by the addition of lemon-juice, essence of lemon, or any other flavour- ing. It must be remembered that all this is purely a matter of taste. In all preserved goods it is important that the manufacturer should never go to ex- tremes ; consequently, when a bottle is opened, the cook who knows her master’s palate should act accordingly. Then the other half of the bottle can be flavoured altogether differently by the addition of, say, a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, and the jelly altered in colour by the addition of a little of Breton’s colouring or a small quantity of cochineal. When the party is small, and it is known beforehand that not many persons will sit down to dinner, it is far better to have two small moulds of jelly, differing both in appearance and flavour, than to have one large one. Another point with regard to bottled jellies is that they are suitable for use either in summer or winter. Of course, the consistency of the jelly on a cold winter’s day at Christmas-time would be very different to that on a hot day in August. Cooks should therefore exer- cise their own discretion in adding to jelly according to the weather. Wnen the cook has the advantage of ice she can always improve the jelly by adding a, little more wine. So, too, in winter a little wine can always be added. Jelly, to be perfect, should be almost on the point of falling to pieces. Cooks should remember that it is never right to sacri- fice taste to appearances. Jelly should never come to table in such a state that it has to be bitten, but, on the other hand, in such a condition that it may easily melt in the mouth. Of course, there is the danger of the mould break- ing, but it is far better to hand round