HOUSEKEEPER'Si GUIDE. 149 Even these few leaves, if boiled in the soup for any length of time, would cause the flavour of tarragon to pre- dominate over every other flavour. Tarragon vinegar is used to flavour that well-known sauce called Sauce Hol- landaise. It is also used in making Venetian sauce. Indeed, Venetian sauce contains a very strong flavour of tarragon, and is made as follows A spoonful of tarragon leaves are cut into diamond shape and blanched green— that is, thrown into boiling water in order to preserve their colour. A bit of butter, a little nutmeg, a spoonful of tarragon vinegar, are thrown into some good strong Dutch sauce, and the sauce is served as soon as it is hot. Tarragon vinegar is also useful in flavouring what may be called cold sauce, such as the well-known sauce called Cambridge Sauce, and another called Remoulade Sauce, and also Tartar Sauce. All these sauces are served either with cold meat, such as chicken or turkey, or with hot grilled fish, such as grilled salmon, fried eels, etc. The flavour of tarragon is always an improvement, and fresh tarragon leaves, chopped fine, are used to finish off an ordinary salad d la Franraisc. A good Drench salad is made by simply first rubbing the salad bowl with a bead of gax-lic, then throw- ing in some dried fresh lettuce-leaves, and sprinkling a little chopped tarragon over the whole, dressing the salad with plenty of oil, a little vinegar, pepper, and salt. There is one more sauce 1 will mention in which tarragon vinegar is used, namely, cold poivrade sauce. Put a good spoonful of ordinary brown sauce into a basin, add to it four table- spoonfuls of salad oil, one of chili vinegar, and a little taiTagon vinegar, pepper, and salt. Work the whole together with a whisk, and then add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley and a little chalot. This sauce is good with boiled artichokes, and is also served with brawn. When served with brawn a little sugar is often added to it. The most common use of tarragon vinegar in this country in many households is to use it instead of ordinary vinegar in dressing salads. This imparts the fla- vour of tarragon when fresh tarragon- leaves cannot be obtained. THYME, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of thyme is very useful for imparting the flavour of thyme when fresh thyme can- not be obtained. Like all other essences, it must be used with very great caution, three or four drops being, as a rale, suffi- cient to flavour a pint of fluid. When the flavour of thyme is wanted to be added to any semi-solid substance the essence should be first well mixed with a little butter or fluid, otherwise the effect will be that one part will be more strongly flavoured than another. TIRRHOOT CHUTNEY.—See Chut- ney. TOMATO CONSERVE.—Tomato con- serve is probably the most useful form in which tomatoes can be obtained. It is simply the pure pulp of tomatoes, without the addition of any other fla- vour whatever. Of course, the most common purpose for which tomato con- serve is used is to make ordinary tomato sauce. This is made by boiling some of the conserve of tomato in a stewpan, with a little raw ham cut into small pieces, one or two chilies, a couple of bay-leaves, and a little thyme. These should first be fried with a little butter till brown, and then the tomato con- serve is added to them, and the whole rubbed through a wire sieve. This sauce can be slightly diluted by adding good white sauce or a little white veal stock, or, in fact, any kind of uncoloured stock. Care should be taken in using thyme not to put in too much. When fresh thyme is used still greater pre- caution must be taken. The sauce when made should be allowed to stand by the fire and simmer gently for a shox-t time in order that it may clear itself from fat. Tomato sauce is a genex-al favourite, and can be served with chops, steaks, cutlets, etc. Indeed, its uses are so well knowxx, and its wholesomeness so universally admitted, that it is scarcely necessary Sor me to refer to every dish which is improved by the addition of it. There is One per- haps that deserves particular attention, and that is turtle sauce. A very nice and popular dish is known as tete da vcau en tortue—or, in other words, calf’s head dx’essed turtle fashion. In pi’ivate houses this is a vei'y common dish to follow the second day to plain boiled calf’s head. With a sharp knife cut off all of what may be known as the horixy part round the ear, keep- ing as much of the horn round the ear as