64 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S yellow vegetable colouring matter. This will cause the custard to appear as if it had been made from at least four eggs. This is an admirable and cheap dish for children. Goose- berry jam can also be used for putting in open tarts and tartlets. It is of very good consistency, and can be piled up in a way which few other jams will permit. Like damson jam, it is well adapted for making roly-poly pudding. GOOSEBERRY SYRUP. — Gooseberry syrup is one of the most generally- used of all syrups on the Continent, where, under the name of “ Groseille,” it is to be met with in every restaurant, and is probably one of the causes of the crime of intoxication being far less known in France than it is in England. I have before, under the headings of Apricot Syrup and Red - Currant Syrup, called attention to this most important subject. Gooseberry syrup can be drunk mixed with cold water, but it is still nicer when mixed with iced soda-water. In very hot weather it is a great luxury to have a bottle of syrup like gooseberry syrup and some soda-water in a syphon. The syphon should be kept in a small tub of water in which there is some ice. A small glass of syrup and iced soda-water, which can be drawn at a moment’s notice, in large or small quantities, is wonderfully refreshing. Those who feel themselves exposed to the tempta- tion in hot weather of indulging too frequently in that certainly very nice drink, an iced soda and brandy, would find that a syphon kept in ice, with a little syrup, especially pineapple syrup, would tend very greatly to keep them out of temptation. GORGONA ANCHOVIES. — See An- chovies. GREEN COLOURING.—See Vegetable Colouring. GREENGAGES, BOTTLED. — Bottled greengages make a most delicious fruit tart, and, thanks to bottling, this tart can be had at all times of the year, when greengages are not in season. In making greengage tart cooks generally simply place the greengages in a dish, add the juice and sugar, and then cover it with puff paste. I would, however, recommend as follows:—Take the green gages and remove the stones, and then with some nut-crackers crack all the stones and take out the kernels. Pile up all these stoned greengages in the centre of the dish as high as possible, in the shape of a dome. Mix them with the whole of the kernels from the stones and add plenty of sugar to the liquor in which the greengages were bottled. Now cover with some puff paste and bake the pie in the oven. When the crust is done the pie is done, as the greengages are already cooked. Let the pie get cold, and serve it, if pos- sible, with some Devonshire cream, or plain cream or custard. To make fruit pies really good, the endeavour should be to get as much fruit in the pie as possible. By stoning the green- gages, considerably more fruit can be got into the pie. The addition of the kernels to the fruit very materially improves the flavour. To make an or- dinary pie, enough for five or six per- sons, two bottles of fruit will be re- quired. GREENGAGES, CRYSTALLISED. — Crystallised greengages are an important element in all dishes composed of crys- tallised fruits. Owing to their dark- green colour they are generally placed round the base. Crystallised fruits al- ways form a popular dessert dish. They should be piled up in pyramid shape, and the fruits arranged with due regard to colour, and the crevices can be filled in with crystallised cherries. GREENGAGE JAM.—Greengage jam is one of the most useful of all jams made. There are a variety of jams that are red, or pi(im-colour, and so also are there a variety of yellow jams, but greengage jam is the only jam made of a green colour—that colour which is so useful in making all kinds of sweets. In making ornamental open tarts, greengage jam will always enable the cook to vary the colour, so that in mak- ing a dish of tartlets, when a variety of colours are desirable, greengage jam enables the cook to make the dish look pretty. This jam can of course be used for all the purposes in which jam of any description is required ; but owing to its beautiful emerald-green colour, it is chiefly used to contrast with other jams. It can also be eaten by itself,