BLACKWELL'S CROSSE AND 68 ' haricot beans. The fact is that these beans require some kind of fat, and if animal fat be objected to they should be moistened with a piece of butter or a little oil. When the beans are quite tender strain them off, and mix with them either a spoonful of good white sauce, such as bechamel sauce, or, better still, a spoonful of satire supreme. Add a brimming teaspoonful of finely- chopped parsley. Mix the whole well together, and serve. As a substitute for white sauce a small piece of butter should be used, in which case the beans should be mixed in the butter and chopped parsley added, as well as the juice of half a lemon and a little pepper and salt. A little lemon juice, though not so much as half a lemon, may also be added when the beans are served with white sauce. One very nice way of serving white beans for those who do not object to Italian cooldng, is to mix them up with about a quar- ter of a pint of good olive oil. Before warming up the beans in oil rub the bottom of the stewpan thoroughly with one or two beads of garlic, then add some chopped parsley and some black pepper. However, of course, many English persons would strongly object both to the oil and the garlic. These beans contain a great deal of nourish- ment, and are probably cheaper than bread. They are very satisfying, and I cannot too strongly recommend them in the cases I have mentioned—namely, those meals at which, for various rea- sons, persons do not take meat. One other very nice way of cooking haricot beans is to boil them with a piece of pickled pork or a piece of bacon in the same water. When the beans are tho- roughly tender they should be taken out and mashed, and after they are mashed a little piece of butter should be added to them, and just a suspi- cion of the flavour of nutmeg, as well as a little chopped parsley. They can be now pressed into a mouid and served with the pickled pork or bacon, some- what similar to peas-pudding. When the beans are served with white sauce, or in oil, or on occasions when they have to be eaten by themselves and not with some kind of meat, the dish should always be ornamented with a few fried crofttons of bread. Cooks do not suffi- ciently value this very cheap rform of garnishing. They have simply'to get a little fat, which must of course be deep enough to entirely cover the bread. Very often stale pieces of bread are wasted in households, though some- times where economy is considered they are reserved for making bread-pudding. But one very useful form indeed in which they can be turned to account is that of making fried crofttons, to be ; served with other dishes, such as hashed meats. The cook should exercise her ingenuity in cutting the stale bread into some fanciful shapes, such as hearts, stars, etc. The odd pieces of bread can be cut up and used for making bread- crumbs, or can be put by for bread- puddings. Take a small deep stewpan —the smaller the better—and fill it to within an inch of the top with lard or dripping, and see that this is really smoking hot. Then throw in the pieces of bread, which in a minute or even less will turn a beautiful bright golden- brown colour. These are far superior to that miserable garnish known to English cooks by the name of “ toasted sippets.” The same fat can be used for the purpose over and over again. It only requires to be occasionally clarified, which is done by mixing it with some boiling water, when all the impurities will sink to the bottom of the pan, and when the fat is cold it can be taken off, and the bottom scraped. The fat is now as good as ever, and will keep good for months. Fried crofttons of bread should always be placed round any kind of vegetable when it is served by itself. HARICOT VERT.—French beans are an exceedingly popular vegetable, but when fresh they are apt to be very expensive. Indeed in many of the London restaurants a shilling is charged for a portion of French beans, as many know to their cost who are fond of haunch of venison, and are too good judges of good living to have veni- son without that necessary accompani- ment, French beans. French beans are now preserved in tins. The beans can be warmed in the tins by simply im- mersing the tin in boiling water for about twenty minutes. Then open the tin and turn out the contents, serving at once, or the tin can be opened as it is and the contents turned into a saucepan and wanned up. The nicest way, how- ever, of serving French beans un- doubtedly is to serve them as a course