154 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S tains that more flavour is retained in the flesh itself. Naturally, the difficulty in making real turtle soup from dried turtle flesh is that the dried flesh cannot compete in flavour with fresh turtle. It is therefore important that as much flavour as possible should be kept in it. The next point for consideration in making turtlesoup from dried flesh,when we get our meat perfectly tender, is to make the soup. A very considerable amount of the gelatinous properties of the flesh will of course be dissolved into the stock. Of course, it is needless to say that the stock should be as good as pos- sible in making turtle soup. The next point is, what herbs should be used for flavouring the soup. Those used should be three parts sweet basil, two parts marjoram, aud the other one part should consist of ecpial quantities of thyme and lemon-thyme. Some persons use a very little pennyroyal, but this is not essen- tial. These herbs should be placed in a sufficient quantity—about half a pint— of stock in a stewpan, and the lid kept closely fitted. After the herbs have stewed for a considerable time, take the stewpan off the fire and let the contents get nearly cold; then strain them through a strainer, pressing the herbs as much as possible to extract all the flavour. Then take this essence of herbs and add it gradually to the soup till the right amount of herb-flavour has been obtained. In the vast majority of cases the herbs used for flavouring soups are dried herbs. These herbs differ very considerably in strength, and this de- ends on the length of time they have een kept. Were I to give you an exact quantity I should run the risk in the one case of making it too strong, and in the other of making it too weak, owing to the impossibility of knowing the state of the herbs. When turtle soup is wished clear it must be cleared in the ordinary way after the flesh has been removed. When the soup is wished thick a sufficient quantity of brown roux must be added, only avoid making it too thick. When brown roux is added great care must be taken to let the soup simmer by the side of the fire to throw up all i^ fat, which must be removed by skimming. Next add to the soup before sending it to table either some madeira or sherry. Sup- pose you have a quart of soup ; this will bear the addition of a claret-glass of madeira. If you can afford to have turtle soup at all it is well worth ex- pending three shillings in buying a bottle of madeira, winch wine is far more suited to the purpose than sherry. A bottle of madeira at three shillings is better than a bottle of sherry at the same price, especially for cooking pur- poses. It is also customary to put in a little lemon juice before sending the soup to table, in addition to which some cut-lemon and cayenne pepper should be handed round with the soup. Turtle soup is, of course, best made in large quantities, and in this respect tinned Soups have a slight advantage over turtle soup made in private houses in small quantities. At the Freemasons’ Tavern turtle soup made from fresh- killed turtle is a speciality, as it supplies not merely that establishment itself, but several others in London the property of the same owners. House- keepers would do well to remember that at certain seasons of the year turtle soup made from the dried turtle flesh is absolutely cheaper than mock turtle. I allude to the period about Christmas, when, owing to some cause w'hicli I am unacquainted with, calves’ heads have been known to fetch as much as a guinea each. A pound of turtle flesh will be amply sufficient to make soup for a dozen per- i sons. Housekeepers will also remember | that when they buy flesh that is in a dry state, when it has been soaked or boiled ; hi soup it will swell to four or five times its original thickness. The flesh should | not be cup up into small pieces, as too often is the case abroad, but should be : kept in good-sized pieces, about three inches long by two wide. Many years ago it was customary to serve small forcemeat balls with turtle soup, but I think this has now gone somewiiat out of fashion. When M. Bullet was chef at the Reform Club, he used the above receipt for dressing dried turtle flesh. He was informed by members that they could not tell the difference between the soup made from it and from the fresh turtle. TURTLE MEAT.—Turtle meat is now to be obtained preserved in tins. This turtle meat is the tinned meat of fresh turtle, and is exceedingly suitable to make fresh soup for invalids. Of course, turtle meat can be used for making