HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 123 PICCALILLI.—Piccalilli is one of the most popular forms of pickle sold in this country. It consists of a variety of vegetables—including gherkins or cucumbers, cauliflower, onions, French beans, etc.—which are surrounded with a yellow pickle containing a consider- able quantity of mustard and vinegar. Though piccalilli is decidedly hot, yet it is not of that peculiar character of hot pickle known as “ Indian ” or “ Oriental Pickle.” It seems, however, to be a universal favourite. Indeed, a bottle of Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell’s sickle will probably be found in every lotel coffee-room throughout the king- dom ; and not only is this the case in this country, but it seems to be equaby popular abroad—on the continent of Europe, and in America. Its chief use, of course, is to be eaten plain with cold meat. Piccalilli is very useful for making pickle sauce hot—not only with mustard, but with fire—to be served with cutlets, grilled fish, etc. Take a brimming tablespoonful of pickle out of the jar, and cut up the larger pieces of pickle rather small. Next add an equal quantity of good rich, brown gravy, and make the whole hot over the fire. This can now be served in the centre of some mutton cutlets grilled, or some grilled salmon, and it forms a very appetising sauce for breakfast. Another very nice sauce may be made from picca- lilli by chopping a little of it up with a little of the liquor rather fine, and mixing it with about an equal quantity of mayonnaise sauce. The whole should be well stirred together. This sauce, which somewhat resembles Tartar sauce, can be served with fried eels—or, in- deed, any fish with which Tartar sauce w'ould be served. There is probably no pickle in the world so universally ad- mired _ as piccalilli. Bottles of this favourite pickle will be found hi almost every ship that crosses the sea. Its chief virtues are that it produces appe- tite arid assists in enabling those per- sons with but little appetite to eat cold meat. On long voyages especially there are often times when passengers are in that transition state between either eat- ing a good meal or rushing on deck. It is at such moments that there is a loathing of anything hot, and especially of anything that contains grease. All those who have had much experience of sea travelling will know that the best euro for sea sickness is a full stomach, and not an empty one. Indeed, Lord Byron’s old remedy of a beefsteak has never yet been beaten. There is per- haps nothing so tempting at such a time as a nice large piece of juicy roast beef, and sometimes a spoonful of this hot pickle will enable a start to be made ; and a start once made, all goes well. In most of the Oriental pickles there is a certain richness which does not always commend itself to the English palate. Piccalilli is essentially English in all its characteristics — English vegetables, English vinegar, English mustard, and all well harmonised with a piece of genuine English roast beef. Un- doubtedly it is a true saying that com- parisons are odious, and to compare piccalilly with any other kind of pickle —such as Oriental pickle—may seem invidious. Still, all things have their seasons. Now under the circumstances to which I allude—that is, when there is in the stomach a certain craving for food and yet a feeling of nausea—there is no doubt that piccalilli will be very far superior to any other sort of pickle in inducing persons to eat. Oriental pickles are extremely delicious, and bave their seasons, but most of them contain mangoes. Now it is well known that the flavour of mango is rich and delicious, though undoubtedly at times sickly; but there is, so to speak, a purity in the flavour of piccalilli which is almost matchless. When house- keepers are unable to have more than one bottle of pickle in the house at one time I would strongly urge them to fix their choice upon a bottle of Crosse and Blackwell’s piccalilli. PICKLES.—Pickles are sold in bottles containing half-pints, pints, and quarts, as well as by the gallon in jars. A de- scription of the following pickles, sup- plied by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, will be found under their respective headings :—Cauliflower, chow-chow, cu- cumber, mangoes, French beans,, gher- kins, mixed pickles, piccalilli, red cab- bage, walnuts, onions, Captain White’s Oriental pickle, imperial pickles, West Indian pickle, Indian mangoes, West Indian limes, Colonel Skinner’s mango relish, pickled lemons, pickled mush- rooms, prepared horse-radish, pickled long red chilies, and pickled red bird- pepper.