CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S S3 make allowance for the pudding swell- ing in the process of steaming. The basin should therefore not be quite full. When liqueur is used for soaking the sponge-cake and macaroons the same liqueur should be used to flavour the sweet sauce to pour over the pudding after it is turned out of the mould. CRYSTALLISED GINGER.—See Gin- ger. CUCUMBER MANGOES PICKLED.— See Mangoes. CURACOA, ORANGE.—Orange curacoa is a liqueur which can be drank either before or after dinner, as it is one of the few liqueurs that may be said to pos- sess appetising properties. This is, of course, owing to the strong flavour of orange-peel. Curagoa is often drank with coffee, and is sometimes used to flavour claret-cup. However, in flavouring claret-cup I think there is no liqueur to compare with maraschino if it is good, and next to maraschino noyeau. When neither of these liqueurs is obtainable a small glass of curacoa is an undoubted improvement. Curagoa is also used for making Italian cream. For making Italian cream Francatelli recommends as follows :—Put eight yolks of eggs into a stewpan with four ounces of ratafias, eight ounces of sugar, the grated rind of an orange, a small stick of cinnamon, a wineglassful of curagoa, and a pint of cream. Stir this over a slow fire in order to set the yolks of eggs in it, and then send it through a tammy into a basin. Add thereto half a pint of whipped cream and one ounce and a half of clarified isinglass, and after having well mixed the whole together, pour it into a mould ready imbedded in rough ice to receive it. CURRANT JAM, BLACK. — Black- currant jam is always popular with children. It is used for all purposes to which most jams can be applied, and is recommended to be taken in cases of sore throat. Various nice puddings can be made from black-currant jam, and among them may be mentioned that known as “ roly-poly.” CURRANT JAM, RED.—Red-currant jam can be used for all sorts of pur- poses, such as making open jam tarts, tartlets, “ roly-poly ” pudding, etc. (See -Jams.) CURRANT JELLY, BLACK.—Black- currant jelly is used in cooking for the same purposes for which rea-currant jelly is employed. It is a question of taste which is the best. Many persons prefer black-currant jelly on the ground of its having a more pronounced flavour. Black-currant jelly sauce for venison is made as follows Take a stick of cinna- mon and a dozen cloves and put them to simmer in a little water with one or two ounces of sugar. Peel a lemon, which should be peeled very thin, so that none of the white portion or pulp is used. Add to this a quarter of a pint of port wine, and let it simmer gently on the fire for about a quarter of an hour, taking care that the lid of the saucepan is kept closely on. Then strain off the port wine, which is now flavoured with cin- namon, cloves, and lemon, into a small stewpan containing a small pot of black- currant jelly. The saucepan must be kept sufficiently long on the fire for the jelly to melt. Black currant jelly can also be used for a variety of forms of sweets, tartlets, etc. It is sometimes served instead of red-currant jelly with roast mutton, roast venison, and roast hare. Black currant jelly is very useful in assisting to flavour jugged hare, and especially in cases where the hare is somewhat high. To make jugged hare flavoured with black-currant jelly pro- ceed as follows :—Cut up the raw hare into joints, next take a large stone jar and place the empty jar in the oven till it becomes very not. Then take some sticks of cinnamon, a dozen cloves, four or five strips of thin lemon-peel, and bruise these in a pestle and mortar. Take a good-sized tablespoonful of black-currant jelly and a claret-glass full of port wine. Throw these into the hot jar, and place in the joints of hare. Tie the jar over with a piece of bladder fastened with a piece of string. The heat of the jar will melt the jelly, and the fumes of the wine and jelly will be absorbed by the joints of the hare, which will become impregnated with the flavour. Let the jar stand until it is cold. Then add «some good stock, and let the hare stew gently for two or three hours, taking care that the liquid does not boil. Venison cutlets may be prepared in a very similar manner. The cutlets should be cut off a neck of venison and trimmed, leaving on as much fat as possible. Some black-