4 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S concerned. Another very useful com- pound made from filleted anchovies is— ANCHOVY BUTTER.—This is made by pounding the fillets of anchovies with a little butter, just sufficient to make a smooth paste. Then add a little cay- enne pepper, and put the anchovy butter by for use. When made in any quan- tity it is always best to rub the anchovy butter through a hair sieve; this ensures getting rid of all the little bones, some of which, especially those small ones in the fins, may have been overlooked in the process of filleting. Anchovy butter is used for a variety of purposes, and as the cayenne pepper enables the butter to be kept for some time, it is always useful to have some ready made. An- chovy butter is used for flavouring sauces, such as devil sauce, etc. It is also used for steaks. The well-known steak sold at the various restaurants under the management of Messrs. Spiers and Pond, known as “ Rump Steak a la S. and P.,” is a plain grilled steak, which, after it is grilled, is rubbed over with anchovy butter, made, as I have said, from Gorgona anchovies. Anchovy butter is also used in making Scotch woodcock, which is a compound of the flavour of egg and anchovy, or cream and anchovy, so blended as to resemble the delicious flavour of the inside of game that has been kept long enough, but not too long. Por a receipt for this delicious dish see Anchovy Paste. ANCHOVIES IN OIL.—Anchovies, after pickling, are boned and preserved in oil. A bottle or so of ready-boned ancho- vies in oil is extremely convenient, as when anchovies are required in a hurry for a salad or any other purpose, it is a great savin" of time to have them ready to hand. Inexperienced cooks, who feel themselves not up to the process of boning without breaking, will find this form of anchovy very acceptable. They can be used for all the purposes men- tioned above, and before being used should be dried on a cloth. When an- chovies in oil are used for anchovies on toast, they can be made hot in a little of the oil, and then placed on toast. Cooks, especially where there is only one, will at once see the advantage of having a bottle of anchovies ready fil- leted in oil in the house. Suppose, after dinner, the order comes down, “ Send up a few anchovies on toast directly.” It is a mere question of making a little hot toast. The delay of opening a bottle in brine, then washing and filleting, is done away with. Still, anchovies in oil do not possess quite the flavour of those in brine, and are a trifle harder. ANCHOVIES IN VINEGAR. — Ancho- vies, after being pickled in brine, are sometimes preserved in vinegar. This imparts to the anchovies a slightly acid taste—very slight, but perceptible. For appetisers, anchovy sandwich, anchovies on toast, salads, and mayonnaise salads, anchovies in vinegar are perhaps pre- ferable to those in brine. This is, how- ever, purely a matter of taste. By those who possess the German love for acids, anchovies in vinegar would of course be preferred. In making an- chovy butter lor sauces or Scotch woodcock, anchovies preserved in brine are the best. ANCHOVY PASTE.—Anchovy paste is one of the cheapest and perhaps the most useful forms of the various prepa- rations of anchovies, and is the cheapest preserved food in existence. It is so useful for a variety of purposes and a little goes such a long way. Indeed, few persons are aware to what a variety of purposes anchovy paste can be turned. I will take an everyday case, and appeal to housekeepers. Suppose the common case that your husband takes with him every day to his business a packet of sandwiches for lunch. Sup- pose, too, he takes occasionally that very nice sandwich known as egg sandwich. Suppose, again, that you wish you could get him to take a little more nourish- ment than he now does; you know it would be better for him. Act as fol- low's Buy a sixpenny pot of anchovy paste. Cut him just double the quan- tity of egg sandwiches that you usually do. When you have cut the bread-and- butter, then with a silver knife, or, better still, an ivory paper-knife, just smear over a very, very little of the anchovy paste over the hutter. Don't overdo it or it will be too salt. Make the surface a light pink. Don't add any salt at all. Shake a little white or black pepper over the paste. Put on the pieces of egg as usual, and cut up the sandwiches. I will undertake to