INTRODUCTION. V numerous Avays of using jam will be most useful. Again, in the case of potted meats, home-made potted meat is comparatively rare; and, when home-made, is too often a makeshift for using up the remains of a piece of boiled beef, or, still more often, the almost bare bone of a ham that has got too rusty to be placed on the table. Between the home- made article and the potted meat made by the Avholesale manufacturer what a contrast exists ! Thanks to capital and machinery, potted meats su ch as potted ham is there made by the ton, and the same extraordinary advantage of capital combined with skilled labour is shoAvn as in the case of the cotton goods we buy in America. The greatest amount of saving—and by Avhich saving the whole food- supply of the world itself is increased—exists chiefly in the fact of many of the goods being made and preserved in the country Avhere the raw material is plentiful. Take one simple instance. There are few modem inventions connected with eating and drinking more valuable than extract of meat, now so univ ersally recommended by medical practitioners of every mode of thinking. This extract of meat is simply the pure juice of the meat itself reduced to a concentrated form. Thanks to this invention, Ave in England reap the benefit almost in full of those fruitful countries Avhere land and grass are so plentiful that beef and mutton can be obtained at three-halfpence per pound. Were extract of meat made in this country, its price would necessarily be prohibitive. The fact of its being manufactured Avhere meat is almost a drug in the market, and then sent over in a preserved state, enables cooks in the present day to almost do Avithout gravy beef in making soup, and to make the soup at a far more reasonable rate than it could possibly be made did not extract of meat exist. Of course one great advantage gained by cooking all lands of provisions on a wholesale scale is that of economy. Every cook knows that it Avould be possible to supply an excellent dinner for fifty persons at five shillings a head, but it Avould be impossible to supply the same dinner to one person for five shillings. In manufacturing soups on a large scale, the wholesale manufacturer has an enormous advantage over a private kitchen. Any good cook will know hoAV valuable is an old ham bone in making stock for soup. In a manufactory like that of Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, thousands and thousands of ham bones are left in the course of a year—not the rusty ham bone of the private house, but the fresh ham bones from Avhich the meat has been cut but a few minutes; and these ham bones are used in addition to other materials in making stock for the various soups. There are certain general principles Avhich govern the method of dealing with all kinds of preserved goods, Avhich may be divided into four classes—meats and soups, fruits, vegetables, and sauces. Before going into this matter in detail, I would give a short explanation as to the method pursued in preserving all lands of goods in tins. Take any tin of preserved meat, fruit, or vegetables, and open it. It is not an uncommon thing to hear the remark, “Ah! there is the air escaping.” The sudden rush of air is indeed heard, but the Avord “ escape ” is most unscientific. The fact is, the rush of air is into the tin and not out of it. The secret of the preservation of all kinds of meat in tins is that the air