HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 37 —will burn, and sometimes the cook j will have to expend half an hour in scrubbing out the saucepan with silver sand or ashes. When the milk boils take the saucepan off the fire and let it stand half a minute or so. By taking this precaution the bottom of the sauce- pan is sufficiently cooled not to burn the milk, and the saucepan then simply requires rinsing with hot water for half a minute, and it will be as clean as ever. Essence of coffee is also well adapted for making coffee ice—that well-known and delicious ice which is said to be a favourite with Her Majesty the Queen. In making good coffee ice, cream is an essential. Essence of coffee is also used for making iced souffle au cafe. This is made as follows:—One pint of clarified syrup, the yolks of twelve eggs, two whole eggs, and a large wineglassful of essence of coffee. Mix all the ingredients in a large earthen basin. Then pour the prepa- ration into an egg-bowl that has been previously warmed with hot water and willed dry Whisk the souffle briskly, the egg-bowl being placed on a stove containing hot ashes until it resembles a well-prepared firm sponge-cake batter. Next fill a souffle dish lining with the whisked preparation to an inch or two above the rim, a band of stout paper having been secured round the case with a pin or string to prevent the pre- paration from flowing over. The souffle must now be placed in a circular tin box with a tight-fitting lid, and the box immersed in pounded ice mixed with salt and half a pound of saltpetre mixed, a wet cloth being placed over the top. It should be allowed to remain thus in ice for about three hours before it is served. Previously to sending to table the band of paper must be removed, and some sifted macaroni powder or grated chocolate shook over the surface in order to give it the appearance of a baked souffle. This receipt is given by M. Erancatelli. COLONEL SKINNER’S CHUTNEY.— See Chutney. , COLONEL SKINNER’S MANGO RELISH. —See Mango. COLOURING.—See Vegetable Co- louring. COMPOTES OF FRUITS IN JELLY.— See Fruits. CONDENSED MILK.—See Milk. CORDIAL, AROMATIC—See Aro- matic. CRANBERRIES, BOTTLED.—Bottled cranberries make an excellent fruit tart, and are particularly useful when ordi- nary fruit is out of season. Cranberry tart is always best served cold. A considerable amount of sugar should always be added to the Cranberries in the pie before it is baked, and moist sugar handed round with it, as the fruit is decidedly acid. CREMES, CHOCOLATE.—See Choco- late Cremes. CRESSY SOUP.—Cressy soup is sold in tins, and it is really puree of carrot. Like all tinned soups, it has the great advantage of being always ready, as it simply requires warming up and serv- ing. The tinned cressy soup is usually very thick and will well bear the addi- tion of a little water or stock. In warming up cressy soup it will be found that a slice of raw ham boiled in it will greatly improve its flavour. CRYSTALLISED FRUITS, VARIOUS.— Nearly every kind of fruit is now sold in a crystallised form, and the following kinds can be obtained—namely, crystallised apricots, crystallised citron, crystallised lemons, crystallised cherries, crystallised chinois, or small oranges (gold and green), crystallised figs, crystallised ginger, crystallised pears (white and rose colour), crystallised greengages, crystallised apples, raspberries, straw- berries, etc., etc. Crystallised fruits make a very pretty and popular dish for dessert. They can also be utilised for making high-class cabinet puddings. In making cabinet pudding from crys- tallised fruit care should be taken to arrange the colours, such as apricots, reengages, and cherries, alternately. The mould should be first spread with butter, and then the fruits stuck in the butter after they have been cut into some neat shapes, such as stars. The basin can then be partially filled with macaroons and sponge-cakes, which should be soaked in a small quantity of different kinds of liqueur. The basin should then be filled up with rich custard, and the whole put in a saucepan and steamed for several hours. In making cabinet puddings cooks should always