HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 73 sauce. I have before had occasion to remind cooks that the too common fault in making butter sauce is making an excessively large quantity, and at the same time necessarily making it very poor. A quarter of a pint of butter sauce would be ample for a tin of her- rings. And it would be best before making it to measure out this quantity in a glass. Really good butter sauce is of course an expensive luxury when made from butter at its present price. In making butter sauce only just suffi- cient flour should be added to slightly thicken the water, whiclr is generally better for the purpose than milk. Then the butter should be added, piece by piece, gradually, and dissolved in the sauce. HERRINGS, KIPPERED.—It is per- haps a too common mistake to imagine that kippered herrings, as well as bloaters, will keep for an indefinitely long period. Probably few persons are aware of the fact that to obtain either a bloater or kippered herring in perfec- tion it should be eaten the same day that it is cured. Such, however, is the case. Those who cannot obtain kippered herrings fresh-cured would do well to try those preserved in tins. Kippered herrings, if kept long in the ordinary way, undergo to a certain extent a slight putrefaction. Many will know that kippered herrings or bloaters have a very strong, rank smell, and that sometimes the bloater gets into that state which may be described as doubt- ful. Of course, the kippered herrings preserved in tins have all the advantages of meat preserved in tins. The process of putrefaction is at once instantly stopped owing to the exclusion of the air. Kippered herrings preserved in tins are of course tinned directly they are cured, consequently when the tin is opened they possess all the advantages that would be found in herrings which had been cured the same morning. In cooking kippered herrings, they are un- doubtedly best done on a gridiron, and as soon as they are hot through they are sufficiently cooked. Cooks should, however, always moisten the surface with a small piece of butter. HICKSON’S KING OF OUDE SAUCE. —See Code Sauce. HONEY.—Honey is generally a very popular sweet with children. It dif- fers considerably and varies very much according to the locality in which it is made by the bees. Perhaps the most favourite is that known as the Narbonne honey, which has a very peculiar, rich, scented flavour, owing to the flowers which grow in the neigh- bourhood of Narbonne. This honey, which is sold in pound jars and glasses, is rather more expensive than the ordi- nary kinds. In buying honey care should be taken to purchase it of some well-known firm. There are various kinds of honey sold which are decidedly injurious, although perfectly genuine In certain neighbourhoods, in which unhealthy and poisonous flowers grow, the honey made by the bees is at times absolutely poisonous. Honey is not often used very much in cookery. The only receipt that I can call to mind in a cookery book in which honey is used is in making sauce for apricot charlotte, a receipt for which will be found under Apricot. A very delicious “liqueur” can be made with the assistance of some honey, known as “ Athol brose.” There is a well-known hotel in Scotland, at Blair Athol, where visitors are generally entertained with a small glass of this “ liqueur.” I believe I am right in say- ing that Her Majesty the Queen, when in the Highlands, accepted of what I think most persons must call a very nice mixture. It is made as follows : Take equal parts of Scotch whisky, honey, and cream, and mix them well together. The receipt is a very simple one, and a cook of comparatively no experience would have no difficulty in carrying out the directions here given. In buying honey, one very good test of its genuineness is the smell. When honey is made in any district sur- rounded by pine forests it will nearly always be found to contain an ingre- dient which is virtually turpentine, which the bees have extracted from the pines. A similar instance of the way in which pine forests affect the flavour of animals living in their neighbourhood is the case of the Norwegian grouse or ptarmigan. The birds that feed in the open grounds will be found quite equal in flavour to an English grouse. When, however, they, come from the neigh- bourhood of pine forests, owing to the birds having picked the buds off the