G1 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. the saucepan from the fire and work the mixture quite smooth. Put the stew- pan back on the fire, which must be a •slow one, and let it remain there for a short time, say about half an hour. This is generally sufficiently long to cook the rice. It must now be removed from the fire, and the preserved ginger, previously cut into very small, dice-like shapes, added to it, as well as the essence of ginger and six yolks of eggs. Stir the whole over a rather quick fire, until the eggs and the rice are set firmly; then finish the fritters as follows :—Cut them into oblong shapes, dip them into •a light batter, and fry them until they are crisp. Then glaze them with some cinnamon-sugar, and dish them up piled in pyramid form on a napkin. GLAZE. — Glaze is supplied ready- made in tins, or by the pound. In large kitchens, such as those attached to hotels and restaurants, of course a great quantity of the remains of meat, joints, bones, etc., enables the cooks to make home-made glaze ; but in private houses and families, where there is, compara- tively speaking, but little cooking, it will be found far cheaper to buy glaze ready-made. This also saves a great deal of trouble. Glaze is used for masking over all kinds of cold joints, such as ham, turkey, ducks, fowls, pressed beef, etc. As an illustration of the way in which glaze should be used, I will try to describe' how to glaze a tongue. We will suppose the cook has already taken the precaution, after boiling the tongue, to let it get cold in the orthodox shape. This is done by skewering down the tip of the tongue a little way from the end on a board by means of a fork, and fastening the thick cud so that the tongue gets cold in a shape somewhat resembling that of a lady’s boot. When the tongue is quite cold, the skewers, etc., should be re- moved, and the rough parts of the tongue should be trimmed off with a knife, and the tongue placed on a dish for glazing. First dissolve the glaze by placing it in a small cup and standing the cup in boiling water. Next take a brush and simply paint the tongue all oyer with the glaze, to make it look a rich dark mahogany - brown colour. When the glaze is cold, a great deal can be done in the way of ornamenting the tongue afterwards. First round the thick end of the tongue should be placed a frill of paper, either white or coloured. These frills are easily made at home out of a large sheet of foolscap paper, or they can be bought ready- made for the purpose. The surface of the tongue can now be ornamented with a little clarified butter. This process is called piping. The clarified butter should be dissolved and poured into a funnel. The cook should hold the fun- nel by the point, and it should be so constructed that a small or large quan- tity of butter can be allowed to run out at will. Some cooks are extremely skilful in piping, and I would recom- mend those who wish to get on to prac- tice piping when they have nothing else to do. Take, for instance, a small tea- tray, and get a sheet of note-paper and roll it up into the shape of a funnel. The paper should be of rather good quality, a sheet of French note-paper ! would not act. Pour a little melted clarified butter, or oiled butter, into ! this, and now practice on the tea-tray, [ making an ornamental border, or letters, i or writing. At first you will find this j very difficult, but with practice it will I soon become easy. Of course this clari- j fied butter can be used over and over | again by simply scraping it off the tray, i Perhaps the best lesson in piping is to j look at the production of some high- class French cook. There is a shop in Prince’s Street, Soho, which is well worthy of a visit from a cook who wishes to have a lesson in ornamenting dishes I with truffles, aspic jelly, piping, etc. | A tongue can also be ornamented after | being glazed with aspic jelly. Half the ; jelly can be coloured pink with the ; aid of a little cochineal. I have already | described how to ornament with aspic ; jelly under the heading “ Aspic Jelly.” (See Aspic Jelly.) Bright green pars- ley is another nice decoration to be placed round the base of the tongue, in conjunction with aspic jelly and cut lemon. Aspic jelly can also be placed over the tongue itself in alternate bars i of pink and yellow. A very pretty garnish for glazed tongue is simply a flower cut from a turnip, the edges of which have been coloured pink deli- j cately with cochineal so as to resemble • a fresh-blown camellia. This is stuck on to a small stick of wood—the end of an ordinary lucifer match is often used for the purpose—and the other end