CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 58 sequently, after the soup has turned thick, a certain amount of grease in the shape of cither fat or butter will float to the top. The soup will, therefore, require skimming. This is best done when it is simmering by the side of the fire. By simmering 1 mean when it is in that state in which a few bubbles rise occasionally ; it is no use skimming soup when it is boiling furiously. Should you wish to give the soup a still stronger gamey flavour, I would recommend you to add a small pinch of aromatic flavour- ing herbs, a description of the way to make which was given under the head- ing of Clovbs, Ground. A small pinch of these herbs, barely sufficient to cover a threepenny-piece, will be found suffi- cient to bring out the flavour of game in the soup to a very remarkable extent. Another great improvement to game soup is the addition of a small quantity of port wine. All kinds of game are improved by the flavour of port wine— such as roast hare, hare soup, jugged hare, venison, hashed venison, venison soup, etc. As a rule, when port wine is used red-currant jelly can be used with it. Some cooks add a little red- currant jelly to game soup. If the soup is made from hare or venison, un- doubtedly red-currant jelly is a great improvement, but if the game soup is made from grouse, partridge, or phea- sant, I am not sure that the addition of red-currant jelly is desirable. As a rule tinned soups do not contain sufficient pepper. This is as it should be, cayenne pepper not being liked by all. It is easily added, but it is impossible to subtract it. Cooks, therefore, who know the tastes of their masters, should add pep- per accordingly. Cayenne pepper is by far the best to be added to all kinds of game soup. When stock is added to the soup, if the stock be somewhat poor add a small teaspoonful of extract of meat, which will greatly improve the soup both in richness and flavour. GENOA MACARONI.—See Macaroni. GHERKINS, PICKLED.—Pickled gher- kins are very largely used for cooking purposes—far more frequently than as a pickle by themselves. Pickled gherkins are used in making sauce piquant, which is made by chopping up pickled gherkins and French capers, and placing them in a stewpan with a little vinegar, which vinegar is allowed to evaporate before the sauce is added. A receipt for making sauce piquant will be found under the heading of Capers. Another form of usinggherkins is to make gher- kin sauce. This is made by cutting up some gherkins into very thin slices, boiling them in a stewpan with a little vinegar and a little pepper, and allowing them to simmer gently for a short time on the fire. Should the sauce not be liked acid they should be kept simmering on the fire until nearly all the vinegar has evaporated. As gherkins them- selves are acid, as a rule this will be found the best plan. Should the sauce be liked acid, of course they should not be allowed to simmer so long. After they have simmered a small quantity of good brown gravy or a little good strong veal stock should be added, and the whole boiled for some little time over the fire. The sauce should be allowed to simmer for some time, and skimmed, when it can be put by for use. This sauce is to be served hot. Gherkins are used in making what is called Flemish sauce, which is a mixture of butter and flour, onions, parsley, shredded carrot, and a little thyme and mace boiled in i some cream mixed with some good strong stock and a small quantity of Tarragon vinegar. Some gherkins are cut up and put into this sauce. One very useful purpose to which gherkins can be applied is for ornamenting fish, such as filleted soles. Green gherkins will contrast very prettily with some pieces of the skin of red chilies cut the same size. Gherkins cut in thin slices are also a very great improvement to almost all kinds of mayonnaise salads, especially lobster salad and shrimp salad, very often fresh slices of cucum- ber areused for ornamenting mayonnaise salads. Gherkins, cut into very thin slices, produce quite as good an effect so far as ornamenting goes, and to my mind impart a far better flavour, the acid mixing well with the lobster and ren- dering it all the more appetising. Pickled gherkins are also sometimes served whole as appetisers. Some foreigners, and especially Italians, will eat them whole like children in this country eat apples. GERMAN SAUSAGE—See SAUSAGE. GIBLET SOUP.—Giblet soup is sup- plied preserved in tins. The soup cap