55 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. geese arc subjected in order to gratify the tastes of a few wealthy epicures. FOREIGN HONEY.—See Honey. FOREIGN LIQUEURS. — Foreign liqueurs of all kinds are imported by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, and a description of each will be found under the following headings Angostura Bitters (Dr. Siegert’s),” “ Chartreuse, Green,” ‘‘Chartreuse, Yellow,” “Cherry Brandy,” “ Curacoa, Orange,” “Ab- sinthe (Swiss),” “Gold Water (Dant- zic),” “ Krischenwasser (Swiss),” “Ma- raschino,” “Noyeau, Pink and White,” “ Trappistine, Green,” “ Trappistine, Yellow,” “Milk Punch,” “Orange Bitters,” “ Brandy Bitters,” etc. FOWL, CURRIED, HALFORD'S.—See Curry. FRENCH EEANS, PICKLED—French beans are always a favourite pickle, as will be seen by placing a bottle of mixed pickle before an ordinary person, who will generally be found to fish into the pickle bottle till he brings up a long French bean and a piece of cauliflower. They are very useful in bottles by them- selves, and cooks will find them ex- tremely valuable for many kinds of garnishing. Long pickled French beans make an admirable contrast with red pickled chilies. I will take for instance a very common dish, mayonnaise salad, made with filleted sole or cold boiled salmon, or, indeed, any kind of fish. Take some French pickled beans and some red chilies, cut them in halves, and remove the pips of the chilies, which as a rale are too hot for ordinary persons. Then make a trellis-work of red and green round the base of the salad, over the thick creamy-looking white sauce. The salad can also be further ornamented by sprinkling a little chopped parsley and a little finely cut-up pieces of the skin of the chilies over the top of the salad. I have often before called attention to the pretty effect produced by these little specks of red and green scattered on a white sur- face. The salad can also be ornamented round the base with hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters, stoned olives, and filleted anchovies. The green pickled beans go very well with any cold dish, and can also be used for ornamenting various kinds of hashes, especially hashed venison. When used for this purpose it is best to soak them first in boiling water for five or ten minutes. By this means they are made hot, and, in addition, a good deal of the vinegar is extracted from them. Before putting the beans in the hash they should be squeezed dry on a cloth. Red chilies can, of course, be mixed with them, as a great many persons eat chilies with almost every kind of food, and espe- cially -those persons who have lived in very hot climates. I would, however, again remind the cook that for ordinary persons it is best to remove the seeds of the chiMes, which contain the greater part of the heat. French beans are also a very nice accompaniment to cold venison, especially cold venison pasty. FRENCH BEANS, PRESERVED.—See Haricot Vert. FRENCH GOODS, VARIOUS.—A variety of French goods are now im- ported by Messrs. Crosse and Black- well, such as asparagus in tins, dried mixed vegetables, which are used for making julienne soup, etc. ; cocks’- combs preserved in bottles; foie gras entire; Strasburg pie ; mushrooms; pastilles des legumes ; ragout Jinancidre ; rognons de coq; vegetable colouring, red, green, yellow, etc. Great care is taken in the selection of these goods, the very best of each being chosen. FRENCH LENTILS.—See Lentils. FRENCH OLIVES.—See Olives. FRESH HERRINGS, TINNED.—See Herrings. FRUIT SYRUPS.—I have already, under the headings of Apricot Syrup and Red-Currant Syrup, called atten- tion to the importance of making fruit syrups a cheap substitute for the various forms of intoxicating drinks now sold. In summer-time they are very cool and refreshing, as well as wholesome, and can be mixed with plain water or soda- water, of course ice being a great im- provement. A description of the various syrups will be found under the respec- j tive headings of “ Lemon Syrup,”