PREFACE. —♦— The present work has no pretensions to be a cookery book; but though no directions will be found in it for baking, boiling, roasting, etc., still it is confidently hoped that it will supply a want long felt both by housekeepers and cooks. The enormous increase of late years in the number and variety of Preserved Meats, Fruits, Vegetables, and Condi- ments has for some time past rendered a guide to them, explaining their properties and uses, almost an essential to every housekeeper who wishes to combine economy with comfort. In thanking the public and the press for the kind way in which they have received my book entitled “ Choice Dishes at Small Cost,” I would add that, to a certain extent, the present work may be considered a sequel to it. While engaged in writing the former book I repeatedly felt the impossibility of keeping pace with the numerous useful additions that were constantly being brought before the public in the shape of preserved provisions of all kinds, and I was often confronted with difficulties that could not be overcome without special help. Thanks to the assistance and co-operation of Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, I have been enabled to overcome these difficulties. The whole of their establishment has been open to me, and I have been enabled to taste and experiment at will. Indeed I have learnt so much myself in writing the present book, that I bring it with the greater confidence before the public. I have endeavoured throughout to adapt the suggestions to the requirements of small households as well as large, and I would beg of housekeepers to read carefully the general principles that apply to all preserved goods before going into details. Though this is not a cookery book, the subject treated of in its pages is one of the most important in connection with the art of cooker}-, namely, the preservation of food — a subject of such vast national importance, especially to the inhabitants of these isles, that I trust it may prove not merely a guide to housekeepers only, but in some slight degree a benefit to the whole British public. THE AUTHOR OE “CHOICE DISHES AT SMALL COST.’