26 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S ordinary vinegar. Cayenne vinegar can be used for dressing all kinds of salads, but it is far more suitable as a dressing for German salads. By German salads I intend to convey the idea of all salads made from cooked vegetables. It is not so good for dressing salads mayonnaise, or those made with lettuces. CELERY, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of celery, like essence of bitter almonds, must be used with caution. In using many of these essences there is great difficulty in impressing upon the minds of English cooks—and by English cooks I mean women-coolcs who have had but moderate training—the importance of using a few drops only. A few drops of essence of celery added to any good stock will give the flavour of celery, and when celery cannot be obtained it is of great service, as cooks know well how important an element celery is in flavouring all soujis. If, however, an excessive quantity is put in the whole flavour is destroyed, and the soup is virtually spoiled. In adding essence of celery to soups, I would always advise cooks to drop the essence into a spoon, and not into the soup itself. Even ex- perienced druggists know how difficult it is to give three drops, and three drops only. Should too much be poured into the spoon the error can be at once recti- fied ; but if, through haste or careless- ness, cooks drop essence of celery into the stock itself, a slight shake of the hand may possibly be the cause of the whole of the soup being spoiled. Es- sence of celery can also be used with advantage in flavouring various kinds of white sauces. White sauces are a mixture of good stock and boiled milk or boiled cream. When the milk and cream are used mixed with stock, a little extra essence of celery is not so objectionable. In making celery sauce from fresh celery, I have know many cooks uBe essence of celery in addition to the celery itself. When, however, fresh celery can be obtained, I think it is best to leave well alone and not to use the essence. CELERY, SALT OF.—See Salt. CELERY SEED, IN BOTTLES.—Celery seed is another form of conveying the flavour of celery when celery itself can- not be obtained, or when the price of celery is such a? to make it almost pro- hibitive. The same precaution must be taken in using celery seed as I have already given in using the essence of celery. The flavour from celery seed if exceedingly strong, and far more power- ful than from celery itself. The flavour extracted from fresh garden celery, is used in excess, will rarely spoil the soup, as the flavour is universally liked. Such, however, is not the case with celery seed, and consequently cautious house- keepers should insist on their cooks using celery seed sparingly. Should the cook put in a larger quantity than necessary the flavour of celery seed so predominates that nothing else can be tasted in the soup, while the essence of good cookery is not to destroy but assist the original flavour of the soup. Act, therefore, as follows: Take a small piece of muslin, put a small teaspoonful of the seed in the muslin, and tie it up with a piece of string. Throw the muslin bag into the soup saucepan, and let the string be tied to the handle or hung outside. After the soup has boiled for a few minutes, let the cook take off the lid and taste the soup. Should the flavour of celery seed be now clearly discernible, take out the muslin bag, which can be hung up or put away for use on another occasion. By this means there is no danger of spoiling the whole of the soup, as, should the cook be under the impression that she has put in too much seed at random, it is almost contrary to human nature to expect her to strain the whole lot off on purpose to extract the seeds. CHAMPAGNE JELLY. — Champagne jelly is sold in bottles containing quarts, pints, and half-pints. It is a very deli- cate form of nourishment for invalids. Though the flavour of the champagne is not so strong as some might ex- pect, its name renders it very at- tractive. When the jelly is melted to be poured into the mould, care should be taken to melt it very gradually. The bouquet of champagne is proverbially delicate ; and, should the jelly be really heated, the delicate bouquet will be destroyed. When the jelly is dissolved sufficiently to admit of its being poured into the mould, a small wineglassful of good old liqueur brandy will be found to improve its flavour. Before pouring the jelly into the mould it is sometimes desirable to hold the mould over some