HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. "CAPER” BLACK BUTTER—As in sauce piquante, so too in black butter, it will be often found that this delicious accompaniment to fish is spoiled by being made too acid. To make black butter, therefore, proceed as follows : Take a small quantity of butter—say two ounces—and melt it in a frying-pan till it turns a rich, dark, brown-mahogany colour. Then remove it from the fire and wait a few seconds till the tempera- ture is reduced, so that it is not above that of boiling water, and add to it a dessert-spoonful of chopped capers, half a dessert-spoonful of vinegar in which the capers have been preserved, a des- sert-spoonful of Harvey’ssauce, adessert- spoonful of mushroom catsup, and a little black pepper. This sauce is usually served with skate. On the Continent capers are used to make— CAPER SAUCE FOR FISH.—This is simply done by adding the capers whole, just as they are, to some kind of plain melted butter or white sauce. When capers are used in this form the larger they are the better. CAPERS FOR MAYONNAISE.—One common form in which they are used is to ornament mayonnaise salads. The mayonnaise sauce should be made suffi- ciently thick to enable it to be spread with a knife like butter. Pile up the salad in the centre of the dish in a pyra- mid form, and mask the whole of the upper surface with the thick white sauce. Now take some capers, throw them on to a cloth to drain them from the vinegar, and place them as lightly as possible on the sauce, at distances of about an inch. Should the mayonnaise salad be a lobster one, a little of the coral of the lobster, powdered, can be shaken lightly over the sauce, as well as a little finely-chopped parsley; the small red and green specks on the rich white sauce have a very good orna- mental effect. The base of the salad should be surrounded with hard-boiled eggs, cut in quarters, stoned olives (see Olives), and filleted anchovies (see Anchovies, to Fillet). Capers can also be used for making— "CAPER” TARTAR SAUCE.-Take some ordinary mayonnaise sauce, add to it, say, a quarter of a pint of sauce, a big teaspoonful of ancnovy sauce, a dessert - spoonful of made mustard, rather less than a teaspoonful of chopped ickled onion, a dessert-spoonful of very nely-chopped capers, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and a little black pepper. This cold sauce is served with grilled salmon, fried eels, etc. CAPERS FOR SAUCES.—Capers are also used in making a large variety of sauces—such as sauce a la gasconnc, which is made by frying French capers and truffles, chopped finely in a little oil. A receipt for this will be found in Francatelli’s “ Modem Cook.” CAPILLAIRE SYRUP. — Capillaire syrup is a scented syrup flavoured with orange flowers. It forms a very agree- able drink on a hot day when mixed with iced soda-water. Owing to its peculiar scented property, a small quan- tity is occasionally used to mix with hot punch, and is supposed to greatly im prove its flavour. CAPTAIN WHITE’S CURRY PASTE. —See Curry Paste. CAPTAIN WHITE’S ORIENTAL PICKLE.—See Oriental Pickles. CARMINE COLOURING.—See Vege- table Colouring. CARNIS EXTRACTUM.—See Extract of Meat. CARRAWAYS, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of carraways is a cheap and quick form of adding the flavour of- carraways to all sorts of preparations in which the flavour of carraways is required—such as cakes, puddings, etc. It possesses somewhat stomachic qualities, and where carraway seeds are objected to on the ground of their being difficult of digestion, the essence of carraways will be found a very valuable substitute. CASARIPE.—Casaripe is a species of browning somewhat resembling soy, only not having so pronounced a flavour. It is used for colouring all kinds of soups, gravies, etc. In addition to its being simply a colouring, it possesses consider- able flavouring properties. It has a rich aromatic smell, and tends to impart a gamey flavour to the soups, gravies, etc., to which it may be added. Conse- quently it is very useful for flavouring and colouring all kinds of salmi of game, as well as any kind of game soup, such as hare soup, grouse soup, etc. It