20 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S fast Delicacies ” I would call attention to a number of preserved condiments now sold in tins—such as game pat£s, ham-and-chickcn pat^s, veal-and-ham paf&, pork pates, savoury pat^s, Oxford brawn, etc. A description of the par- ticular properties of each of these real delicacies will be found under their re- spective headings, but it should be borne in mind by all housekeepers that, in addition to these convenient tins—so handy in emei’gencies, being adapted for breakfast just as they are—their re- mains are of considerable assistance to the cook afterwards. Housekeepers know how often the remains of these tins are not turned to account at all. There comes a stage when what is left is too small to be put on the table, and the consequence is that the fag end is either finished at the kitchen eleven o’clock lunch, or, stiil worse, thrown away. The remains of some of these tins, especially the chicken-and-ham, veal-and-ham, and savoury pates, are just what the cook often wants to give a “tone” to such dishes as rissoles, kromeskies, croquettes, etc. Indeed, in making a dish of kromeskies from the remains of cold fowl, ham, and a small tin of mushrooms, it is often well worth whilo opening a tin of these savoury patds on purpose to complete the dish. It is far quicker and cheaper than making an elaborate forcemeat, entail- ing the trouble of rubbing the meats through a wire sieve. Cooks, when in a hurry, would do well to bear this in mind. BREAKFAST TONGUES.—See Tongues. BRETON’S COLOURING.—See Vege- table Colouring. BROTH, MUTTON. — See Mutton Broth. BROWN GRAVY SALT.—See Salt. BROWNING.—Browning is nowsold in bottles, and will be found cheaper and more economical in this form than when made at home, unless it is made in very large quantities. The common fault with cooks in using browning is to add too much, especially in colouring soups. They are too often apt to think that the darker a soup is in colour the stronger and the richer it will be thought. Good judges of cooking, however, know that generally the finest clear soup is of a delicate pale-straw colour. When too much browning is added it is apt to im- part a flavour of its own to the soup, and the perfection of good soup iij that it should taste as much as possible—or rather lose as little as possible—of the flavour of the meat. In colouring thick soups and gravies this is not so im- ortant; still, moderation should always e used. Browning can be used for a variety of purposes. I will mention one, though I do not recommend it for general use. We all know how long a way imagination goes. A former pupil of mine was head cook at a well-known place of public entertainment in the North of England, and on one occasion had to arrange a dinner and tea for a school treat of twelve hundred children at an exceedingly small cost per head. The tea especially was a success— sweet and, to the astonishment of all, strong. Those present in command won- dered how it could have been done for the money. The manager of the build- ing made inquiries, fearing some dread- ful extravagance had been perpetrated. The explanation was simple. The tea had been made by boiling old tea-leaves for some time. A small quantity of fresh tea was thrown into the boiling liquid, and the boiling stopped. Then sufficient blackjack (browning) was added to give it an air of respectability so far as appearance went. The whole was sweetened, and milk added. The re- sult was a great success. Browning can also be used to colour syrup to glaze cakes such as sponge-cakes. When they arc in a nice stick}-, brown state, sprinkle them with chopped angelica and coarse lump-sugar, sifted—too big to go through a fine sieve, and small enough to go through a coarse sieve. Blanched almonds, cut in halves, can also be used to decorate these cakes, which are sometimes soaked in sweet- ened rum. BRUNSWICK SAUSAGE.—See Saus- age. BULL’S HEAD KNIVES. —See Knives. BURNT ONIONS.—See Onions. ABBAGE: RED, PICKLED.— Pickled cabbage is sold in bottles and in jars. _ It is usually eaten plain with cold meat, but can be used for otlier purposes, especially qs an additjon to ornamental dishes, hashes,