115 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. custard pudding, semolina pudding, or vermicelli pudding. Let the pudding get cold, and then turn it out of the aish in which it was baked. I am sup- posing the pudding has been baked in an ordinary pie-dish. Now surround the pudding with a border of orange marmalade, and ornament the top as follows :—Take a little candied angelica, or, better still, slice up a preserved crystallised almond. These are of _ a very dark green colour, and are admir- ably adapted for all purposes of orna- menting. Cut this into small strips, so that the strips will form a star. Of course the strips which are pointing lengthways on the pudding should lie somewhat longer than those which point crossways on the top of the pud- ding, which is oval. Place in the middle of this little star a preserved cherry, and place round the top of the pudding some preserved cherries and little stars of angelica. This pudding now is really very handsome, the orna- mental stars on the top and the bright marmalade round the base tending . greatly to set it off. The marmalade with the pudding itself is also a great improvement. Marmalade can also be used formiaking bread-and-butter pud- ding, and when children are delicate, It is an admirable dish for them. I would recommend the bread-and-butter pud- ding to be made as follows :—Cut some thin slices of bread. (Remember this is an admirable opportunity for using up pieces of stale bread.) Spread the bread very slightly with butter, and then put on a layer of marmalade on each slice. Pile up the slices on the top of one another in the pie-dish, and then fill up the dish with custard. Let it stand long enough for the bread to soak up the custard. The pudding should now be baked in the oven suffi- ciently long for the custard to set. This pudding is light, digestible, and ex- tremely nice, without being rich. In- deed, if the pudding is required for persons who are bound to abstain from everything that is rich the butter can be omitted altogether, and the marmalade simply spread on slices of dry bread. Of course a still superior pudding can be made by using up slices of stale sponge-cake, or, better still, what is known as brioche cake, instead of ordi- nary bread. ORANGE SYRUP. — Orange syrup makes a-very delicious drink ki hot weather. The nicest form of having it is by mixing a small quantity with a bottle of iced soda-water. It can, of course, be drank with plain water, to which a lump of ice will be a great im- provement. Orange syrup can also be used for several purposes in cooking. One of the nicest is to serve it. as an accompaniment to boiled rice. I think it will be found that orange syrup, when served with cold boiled rice, is far nicer than when served hot. Housekeepers would do well to bear in mind that boiled rice can always be served up cold. Very often, after a course of mulligatawny soup or curry, there is a small quantity of boiled rice left. This will make an admirable little additional dish, especially where there are children, and it can be served up with their tea. A little orange syrup added to the cold rice renders the rice a most delicious dish. OREGON SALMON.—See Salmon. ORIENTAL PICKLES (CAPTAIN WHITE’S).—Pickles may generally be divided into two classes—the hot and the acid. Were the question asked of me what pickles I think the best, I should unhesitatingly reply “ Captain White’s Oriental Pickles.” Tastes, however, differ, and probably there are many who would say they preferred piccalilli. Very often people have a positive objection to what may be termed the “ Indian ” flavour produced by the chilies, spices, etc., wrnch are mixed with Oriental pickles. These Oriental pickles are admirably adapted to be eaten with any kind of cold meat, and, owing to the spices, etc., which they contain, they undoubtedly act as a slight stimulant to the digestion. Many persons who have lived in India are noted for suffering from derangement of the liver. Probably the hot oondiments, such as Indian sauce, Indian pickle, Indian curry, Indian chutney, etc., tend greatly to assist in stimulating those organs which have been deranged by excessive heat or other causes. Cap- tain White’s Oriental pickje is by far the best I know for serving up hot with all kinds of dishes, such as cutlets, grilled salmon, etc., these dishes being peculiarly suited for breakfast. The best plan of serving up what may be