72 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S vouring herbs, more than she knows will be necessary, tie these up in a piece of muslin and tie a string to it. The herbs can then be boiled in the soup. The cook should then exercise her sense of taste and smell, and when she believes that sufficient of the flavouring herbs has got into the soup she should take out the muslin bag. Another very ood method of flavouring soup with avouring herbs, a method that is prac- tised when soups are made in large quantities, is to take say a pint of the soup and add to it a large quantity of these herbs. The herbs are boiled In this quantity of soup in a small stewpan, the lid of which fits very tight, as the flavour is apt to evaporate with the steam. After the herbs have been boiled thoroughly for a considerable time the cook should take the soup off the fire and allow it to get nearly cold. Were it to get quite cold it would pro- bably be a jelly. Then strain through a sieve, pressing the herbs so as to ex- tract all the liquid possible. This liquid can now be added to the soup gradually, and the cook should taste the soup to see when it has had sufficient flavour imparted to it. By this means the exact amount of flavour required is easily obtained. Those who have been fortunate enough to taste real turtle soup made by Mons. Burlet, of the Freemasons’ Tavern, will remember ■with what absolute perfection the various flavours are blended in his un- equalled soup. He practises the latter method I have named for flavouring his soup. Flavouring, of course, depends a great deal upon the refined sense of taste as well as considerable patience in mak- ing the soup. When cooks mix their own herbs, either for flavouring soups or making veal-stuffing, at least one- third of the whole quantity should con- sist of sweet basil. When, however, they are mixing herbs for veal-stuffing or pork sausages, marjoram should rather predominate. Care also should be taken in adding both lemon thyme and ordinary thyme not to put in too much of these herbs, or they will en- tirely overthrow the flavour of all the rest. Some cooks, in mixing herbs for flavouring turtle soup, or for making a rich sauce for calves’ head en tortue, add a small quantity of the herb called pennyroyal. The flavour of pennyroyal is somewhat similar to peppermint, and of course when it is added it must only be added in small quantities. Half a teaspoonful of dried pennyroyal would be quite enough for half a gallon of soup. The late M. Francatelli recommended the use of pennyroyal, but I do not think the majority of cooks as a rule use it. In any case it must be used ■with extreme caution. HERRINGS A LA SARDINES.—Her- rings can now be obtained, preserved in oil, in tins, like sardines, and those who are fond of fish preserved in oil would do well to make a trial of these herrings. Herrings preserved in oil can be eaten as they are, and form a very excellent breakfast-dish. A little lemon-juice and cayenne pepper added to them will be found a great improvement. The her- rings can also be quickly served hot as a curry when preserved in oil. To do this, open the tin and pour out all the oil into a frying-pan, then take a dessert-spoon- ful or less of Crosse and Blackwell’s curry-powder, mix it with a little water, and add it to the oil in the frying-pan. Next take a small quantity of cornflour or arrowroot and mix this also with a little water and some oil. Add gradually, spoonful by spoonful, some of the mix- ture of cornflour and water. When the mixture gets sufficiently thick the curry sauce is made, and the herrings can be warmed up in this curry sauce, and when they are hot through they can be served. If possible, warm up also in the sauce four or five bay-leaves, whole. Herrings preserved in oil curried in this way form an excellent breakfast-dish, and of course boiled rice should accom- pany them. The rice should be put in the dish first, and in it a sort of well formed, in which the herrings should be placed and the sauce poured over them. HERRINGS, FRESH.—Fresh herrings are now to be obtained preserved in tins. There are various ways of serving them. First, they can be served in a little vine- gar and water, in which should be placed a few peppercorns. In this form they make a very nice dish for breakfast or luncheon. When preserved whole they can be warmed up and served with mustard sauce. Mustard sauce is very simply made by adding two or three good-sized spoonfuls of made mustard to a small quantity of melted butter—or, as it should be called, butter