CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S is always best, ton, in making vermicelli soui), to break the vermicelli up into reasonable lengths. Most persons have experienced the difficulty of eating ver- micelli soup when at the moment of putting it into the mouth the vermi- celli slips over the edge of the spoon and chves back into the plate. This is the cook’s fault. Another very pretty use to which vermicelli can be put is for ornamenting rissoles. Suppose you have the broken remains of a small tin of vermicelli. They are scarcely adapted for making soup, being broken. Do not, however, throw them away, but the next time you make that useful and economical dish known as rissoles—-a receipt for which is given under the heading “ Ohicken-ana-Ham Pate ”— act as follows :—Do not trouble about making any bread-crumbs, but when you have got the rissoles ready, dip them in the beaten-up egg, and roll them in the little broken pieces of vermicelli. Now throw them into the smoking-hot lard, and the little round balls will come out from the frying-pan surrounded by a sort of trellis-work of vermicelli on the brown surface, reminding one of those carved wooden balls imported from Japan and China. Vermicelli makes a light and delicious pudding. The ver- micelli should be first washed perfectly clean, and then placed for a short time in boiling water, when it should be re- moved and boiled, till quite tender, in some milk. The pudding, of course, should be sweetened with sugar, and can be flavoured with almost any kind of essence, such as essence of vanilla, or it can be flavoured by rubbing lumps of sugar on the outside of a fresh lemon. If the pudding is wished very rich, two or more eggs can now be added, or if it is intended for an invalid the yolks only of the eggs need be added. After the yolks have been thoroughly well beaten-up in a little hot milk the whole should be put into the pudding and well mixed up. The pudding can be baked in the oven in a pie-dish, or if it is wished boiled, it can be placed in a basin tied over with a cloth, and steamed for a couple of hours. In either case, owing to the presence of eggs, the pud- ding will set, and can be turned out on to a dish. In the case of the pudding being boiled in a basin, the basin can be first buttered, and the outside of the pudding ornamented with a few stars cut out of preserved cherries or green angelica, similar to that of cabiiiet pud- ding. When, however, the pudding is turned out, the stars are apt to slip, and will often require to be put back. In the case of using a pie-dish the pudding can be turned out and the top orna- mented with some small heaps of apricot and raspberry jams placed alternately. Jam can also be placed round the base. When vermicelli pudding is made for invalids a very nice plan of ornamenting it is to place little balls of orange mar- malade round the base. It is best to warm the orange marmalade first in the oven, but do not make it too hot. A very delicious sweet can be made from vermicelli, called vermicelli cake, a re- ceipt for which will be found in “ Fran- catelli’s Modern Cook.” VERMICELLI SOUP.—Vermicelli soup can now be purchased ready made in tins. The soup can be heated by placing the tin in a saucepan of boiling water and keep- ing it there for about twenty minutes, when the tin can be opened and the con- tents served. This is a very convenient soup to have in the house, as it is espe- cially adapted for invalids. It is alight soup, and easy of digestion. Should more nourishment be required than is generally put in the soup, I -would re- commend the addition of a little ex- tract of meat. VINCENT’S ARROWROOT. —See Arrowroot. VINEGARS, VARIOUS.—Vinegar is a very important preparation exten- sively used in all kitchens. It is largely used in all households, and housekeepers would do well to bear in mind how important it is to obtain the best, and to see that it is per- fectly pure. As a rule, everything is better made in large quantities than in small, and I have no hesitation in say- ing that good vinegar cannot be made in very small quantities. Many years ago it was customary in various parts of the country to see housekeepers making their own vinegar by the primitive method of placing some sour beer in a large jar, tying the top over with a piece of muslin, and placing it in the garden in hot weather to see now sour it would get. Pure vinegar is best obtained from large manufacturers. There are various kinds of vinegar sold, but the pure malt