27 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. steam. The steam condenses on the cold mould, and thus forms an almost infinitely thin film of water between the mould and the jelly. Wine jellies are very delicate, and consequently great care has to be exercised in turning them out, as, when the mould is plunged into hot water, unless great care is taken they are apt to run, and the sharp form of the mould will then be destroyed. The thin coating which is formed by the condensed steam tends greatly to pre- vent the jelly from sticking. CHARTREUSE, GREEN.—Green char- treuse has for many years been re- garded as the king among liqueurs ; and it says much for the good sense of the present French Government, that when the religious orders were banished from France, that particular order was ex- empted which manufactured green and yellow chartreuse. Green chartreuse is manufactured from herbs and shrubs which grow in the neighbourhood of Grenoble, one of the herbs resembling in flavour that known in this country as penny-royal. Green chartreuse possesses considerable strength, and can be used in making high-class jellies, in addition to its ordinary use as a recherche liqueur to be handed round after dinner. When you make chartreuse jelly, the chief point to be borne in mind is not to lose the flavour of the chartreuse. Of course, when any spirit is heated, the strength evaporates; consequently, in making chartreuse jelly, the jelly must be made first, and the chartreuse must not be added till the very last moment—that is, just when the jelly is on the point of setting. By this means the whole of the flavour of the chartreuse will be retained. In making chartreuse jelly, which is of course an expensive luxury, it is always advisable to have some ice, and the mould in which the jelly is to be made should be placed in some of the ice, which must be chopped up, and mixed with a little salt, which will reduce the temperature to about thirty degrees be- low freezing point. When the mould has been cooled to this extent, take it out and hold it over a little steam for about a second, and replace it in the ice. The mould now contains a thin film of ice. Now pour in the chartreuse jelly, which, as it is already on the point of setting, will very soon get firm owing to the intense cold to which it is exposed. When the jelly is well set, take the mould out of tile ice and place it in a room of moderate temperature for about half an hour; place over it a plate or glass dish, and turn it out. If the pre- cautions we have mentioned have been taken, plunging the mould into hot water will not be necessary. The little film of ice which separated the jelly from the mould will already have melted of its own accord owing to the tempera- ture in which it has been placed. By this means the shape and lines of the mould will be perfectly preserved. CHARTREUSE, YELLOW. — Yellow chartreuse resembles green chartreuse in flavour. It is not, however, so strong, and by many is preferred in con- sequence. Indeed, a deep sip of green chartreuse is very apt to bum the throat. Yellow chartreuse can be used for all the purposes already mentioned in Green Chartreuse for making jellies, etc. Both, however, can be used on great occasions in making high-class trifle. Trifle is generally made from sponge-cakes, macaroons, and ratafias, soaked in sherry and brandy, and spread over with layers of jam. A thick solid custard is then poured on the top, and the whole surmounted with a dome of whipped cream. What may be called high-class trifle is made by soaking sponge-cake, macaroons, ratafias, etc., in different lands of liqueur, such as chartreuse (green and yellow), maras- chino, kirsch, noyeau, etc. This is the receipt given for making trifle as it appears when served on occasions such as high-class public balls. M. Franca- telli recommends the use of liqueurs, and I believe used them during the period in which he had the honour to be chef to Her Majesty the Queen. Of course the use of liqueurs renders trifle very expensive, but it is worth mention- ing, as there may be occasions on which the remains of liqueurs have been left, and housekeepers may be glad of an opportunity of using up the remains of a bottle, and at the same time making a dish worthy the attention of the greatest lovers of good cheer. CHEESE.—See Parmesan, Gruyere, Gorgonzola, etc. CHERRIES, BOTTLED.—Cherries are sold in bottles. The liquor in which they are bottled contains no sugar, but