x INTRODUCTION. making an extra dish for dinner at short notice. I refer chiefly to' tinned peaches and apricots. These, when turned out on to a glass dish will of course at any moment make a very excellent sweet. With a very little ingenuity, however, a very superior-looking dish can be obtained I allude to the system of piling up the fruit into pyramid shape, and then ornamenting it -with preserved cherries and cut green angelica For a full description of this see the heading *• Apricots, tinned/’ etc! These preserved fruits can also be turned to various other uses, such as- making ices. Another important heading in the following work is that of Jellies. Most housekeepers are probably aware how useful a bottle of jelly is to have in the house in an emergency. Probably not all housekeepers are aware that one bottle of jelly can be utilised tc make two, or even more, moulds of jelly, with a little ingenuity and a little extra flavour. The ordinary orange or lemon jelly supplied by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell forms an admirable base for various jellies. For instance, a bottle of lemon jelly may be poured into two separate basius. One can now be coloured a bright red with the assistance of a little cochineal or vegetable colouring matter. Full directions will be found in this book for using the various colouring matters supplied. The flavour of the jelly can now be altered by the addition of a little of one of the various essences, such as vanilla or essence of almonds. The one bottle can now be poured into two separate moulds, and two separate jellies can be sent to table, essentially different both in colour and flavour. One most useful class of provisions that should not be forgotten, in the present book is that of Soups. The different kinds of soup that can now be bought in tins are very numerous, and in the whole- sale manufacture of these soups an important point has always been observed—namely, to make the soup to suit all tastes, and to avoid any one flavour predominating. This is as it should be when catering for the general public, whose tastes are unknown. In the present work, however, will be found full directions how to alter the flavour of tinned soups, and make them richer, or hotter, or thicker, according to the known tastes of those who take them. For instance, we will take the case of a tin of mock turtle soup. The original soup consists of the Dlain mock turtle as obtained from the calf’s head. I have described how, by means of brown roux, a spoonful or more of extract of meat, and a little additional wine, this soup can be varied both in flavour and appearance. Under the heading of Savoury Herbs will also be found directions how to increase the flavour of soups without risking the spoiling of the whole. Housekeepers will also find how wonderfully useful these soups are in making a nice little dish at a few minutes’' notice. A tin of soup can be warmed up at any hour over the gas lamp, or over a spirit lamp, and in many cases where a person from any cause has to return home late, especially in cold weather, by means of one of these tins o& soup a hot supper is always obtainable, without any trouble to servants whatever. The last class to which I shall call attention is that very large one of Sauces. Here, again, one great difficulty which is often to be met with is the variety of sauces from which to choose. There are three or four-