CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 2 turkey or fowl, bechamel sauce, etc., which are improved by having a “ suspicion ” of the flavour of almonds. To give this, turn the bottle of essence of almonds upside down on to the cork. Then take out the cork and touch a spoon with the moist cork, and stir up the sauce with the spoon. This is ample for the purpose. The essence of almonds supplied by Crosse and Black- well is guaranteed free from prussic acid. ALMONDS, CRYSTALLISED. — Al- monds are preserved green and then crystallised, in which form they make a nice fruit for dessert. The almonds are preserved green in the outer shell when young, just as walnuts are pickled in their outer shells. When preserved the inside part of the almond is a syrup, while the outer part is a thick green covering, somewhat similar to citron in flavour, only of a far darker colour. Sliced pre- served green almonds are sometimes used for ornamenting sweets instead of angelica, as often almonds possess a darker green colour. (See Angelica.) In all boxes of mixed fruits, or assorted fruits, crystallised almonds form a part. AMERICAN OYSTERS.—See Oysters. ANCHOVIES, GORGONA.—The an- chovy is a small fish caught in the Mediterranean Sea, the headquarters of the fishery being the little island of (iorgona. The fish has delicate silver scales, and its most useful form is when pickled in brine. It was formerly artifi- cially coloured red, but this has of late years been discontinued. In addition to this it is sometimes afterwards pre- served in oil and vinegar. There is probably no fish so extensively used in cooking as the anchovy, and no flavour- ing,not even excepting mushroom, which ■would be more missed by the skilled chef. It would be quite impossible to give a detailed list of all the uses to which an- chovies and the sauce made from them can be turned, but a few of the chief ones are well worthy of careful atten- tion. First there is some little art in filleting anchovies, and by filleting I mean removing the bone. 1 will accord- ingly begin with the receipt of— ANCHOVIES, HOW TO FILLET.— Take the number required out of the bottle carefully so as not to break them. To do this it will often be found advis- able to turn out the whole jar of an- chovies into a basin, letting the ancho- vies slide out of their own accord. When cooks stick a fork into the fish and pull them out, they are apt to break, and when they are required to be cut into thin strips, which is often necessary, this entails waste. After selecting the number required, the remainder can be replaced in the jar, the whole of the brine poured back, and the bottle re- placed, after seeing that the brine covers the fish, as otherwise they would soon get bad and have to be thrown away. Next take the fish and wash them care- fully in fresh water. Do not rub off the silver scales more than you can help, but wash away all the brine, the lumps of salt, and also the soft pappy part, which is not nice. You will find near the breast of the fish some soft part something like the soft row of herrings ; this should all be washed away; also use. several waters. Then take the fish and dry them on a cloth, and open them up along the bone, using the fingers, so that they lie open from head to tail. Some- ' times you will want a knife, but as a rule the fingers are best. Then take the. bone at the tail end with the fin of the tail sticking to it, and with the fingers or a blunt knife pull away the flesh from the bone, which must be thrown away. Remember also to remove the little fins. Each anchovy will always make two fillets, and these fillets can, until care and a sharp knife, be again cut in two and sometimes three thin strips, according to what they are in- tended for. Some cooks wash the fillets after boning the anchovy, but this is a mistake. It tends to lose the flavour. Having now filleted the an- chovies I will describe a few of the many purposes for which they may be used, and one of the most common is that known as— ANCHOVIES ON TOAST.—The ordi- dary receipt is to make some hot- buttered toast, cut it into strips, put the fillets on the strips, put it in the oven till the anchovy gets hot, and then send it to table. There is, however, a far better method than this. Hot buttered toast is never so good as when fresh made. Also the anchovy in the oven is apt to get dry. Act accordingly as follows : Get a little pie-dish—a very small one will do, or even a saucer.