BE CAREFUL WHAT YOU EAT. "DOTlWlCTv’S is the EATvIXG- POWBEIl rccommondoil by -L) Dr. Ilassall (Analyst to the Lancet, Author of “Adulterations De- tected,’’ etc.) It was tlie ./?)•*<, and is the best JlaVinf; Powder—otten imi- tated, but never equalled. Its merits are too well known to require any puffing by the Proprietor. AVarranted free from alum, found in most of the worthless imitations. Try it once, and you will never use the trash made from inexpensive materials, and recommended by unprincijded shopkeeiters, because they realize a larger profit by the sale. As you value your health, insist upon having Bobwick’s Baking Powder only. Sold retail by most Druggists, Grocers, and Oilmen, in Id., 2d., 4d., and Od. packets, and Is. boxes. Wholesale by G. Boirw’iCK, 21, Little Moor- lields, E. C. LIFE FOR THE CONSUMPTIVE. ANE T.-iblespoonful of the PATENT OZONIZED COD ^ LIA’Ell OIL, three times a day, conveys artilicially to the lungs of the Consumptive and delicate, the vital properties of Oxygen without the etlbrt ol inhalation, and has the wonderful eSect of reducing the pulse while it strengthens the system. The highest Medical authorities pronounce it the nearest approach to a specific for Consumption }'ct discovered—in fact, it will restoi’e to health when all other remedies fail. See Ln:i~ff, March t)t!i, 18G1. Sold by allChemists, in2s. Od., 4s. 9d.,and 9s. bottler. Wliolesalc l>y C. Bobwick, Sole Licensee, 21, Little Moorlields, Loudon. FRAMPTON’S PILL OF HEALTH. THIS excellent FAMILY PILL is a IMcdicino of ionu-f rie l A ctficae.v for purifyin(f the blood, and corroctintr all Disorder? < C iiie aad Bowels. Two or uirce doses will convince the afflicted of its sahuory e b'el>. Ti:.; stomach will speedily regain its strength; ahealthy action of the li^er. i. v.r ls. smI kidne.vs will rapidly take place ; and renewed health will be the qnitk result of i iKiii;; this inedieine, according to the directions accompanying each box. I’KUSO.NSOF A FULL llAfllT. who are subject to bc.adacbe. giddiness, drowsiness, and singing in the oars, arising from too great a flow of blood to the head, s)\e f'1; er be witliout lliein, as many dangerous symptoms will be entirely carried oo- py t’aeir timely use ; and for elderly people, where an occasional aperient is required, noUiing can be better adajited. For FE.MAhKS these Pills arc truly excellent, removing all obstructions, the dis- tressing Headache so prev.atcnt with the sex, depression of spirits, dulness of siifhf, nervoiij alfections, blotches, pin.p'cs, and sallowness of the skin, aud give a healtby juvenile bloom to the complexion. Sold by .all medicine vendors. Observe the name of “Thomas Pbout, 229, Strand, London,” on the (jovcrniiient Stamp. Price Is. lid. and 2» Ud. per box. BLAIR’S GOUT AND RHEUMATIC PILLS. Price Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. per box. Tins preparation is one of tlic benefits wliieli the Scienee A of modern Chemistry has conferred upon mankind; for duringtho first twenty vear.t of the present century to speak of a cure for the Gout was eonsidered .a romaucc ; hut now the clticaey and safety of this Sledicinc is so fully deinoiistratcd, by unsoli- cited testimonials from persons in every rank of life, that public opinion proclaims this as one of tlie most important discoveries of the present age. These i’ills icqiiire no restraint of diet or confinement, during their use, and are certain to prevent tlic disease attacking .any vital p.art. Sold b> all medicine vendors. Observe “Tbomas Peoct, 229, Strand, London,' on the Goverumciit Stamp.