TO THE FACULTY. J. & J. COLMAN’S GENUINE MUSTAED. The Lancet, by its resumed inquiries upon the subject of adulterations^ has again called attention of the Public to a variety of articles of dailj use. To Mustard great prominence has been given, from the fact that thirty* three samples were examined. The Keport states that fou.r only were found to be genuine : of which, two samples were of the manufacture of J. and J. CoLMAN, being respectively “Colman’s Genuine London Mustard, "Warranted Pure,” and Colman’s Brown Mustard, Warranted Pure.” We also learn that manufactured Mustard extends from the pure and genuine to the injurious combination exposed in The Lancet (see 27th Sam- ple examined) ; to vrhich disclosure the attention of Medical Men is in- vited (whether practising privately or in Hospitals and Infirmaries) when prescribing Mustard as a remedial agent. The fact is also equally im- portant to the Vendor and his customer, the Public. And further, as to quality—The Lancet, in substance, reports that genuine Mustard will be as varied in strength, pungency, and flavour, as are the known differences between the finest and most inferior qualities of seed; it results, then, that genuine does not necessarily impljt. high quality. J. and J. CoLMAN submit, that in their Pure Mustards notMng that known skill and improved machinery can obtain from finest seed remains unsecured, and, whether for prompt and specific medical eifects, or as a table condiment, these Mustards are equally valuable. J. and J. CoLMAN offer to the Public not only “Genuine” and “Pure” Mustard in the highest perfection, but also their other varieties of Mustard Condiments, known as “ Double Superfine,” “ Superfine,” “ Pine,” etc., in which delicacy, flavour, and strength will be found in agreeable combination. These Mustards may be obtained of any Grocer, Chemist, or Italian Ware- houseman in the kingdom; and when sold in tins or packets, J. and J. Coi.man’s trade mark, “Bull’s Head,” is a guarantee upon which the Publio may rely. J. & J. COLMAN, 26, Cannon Street, London, E.€;