CONSUMPTION IN ALL ITS STAGES, Coughs, Whooping Cough, Asthma, Bronchitis, Fever, Ague, Diphtheria, Hysteria, Eheumatism, Diarrhoea, Spasms, Colic, Renal and Uterine Diseases, are imme- diately relieved by a dose of CHLORODYNE. (Trade Marie.) Discovered and named by DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE, M.R.C.S.L., Ex-Army Medical Staff. The question asked by invalids, families, and households is, MTiat is the best medicine to give in the above diseases, and what to have always ready ? Medical testimony, the reply of thousands of sufferers and invalids, is confir- matory of the invaluable relief afforded by this remedy above all others. CHLORODYNE is a liquid taken in drops according to age. It in- variably relieves pain of whatever kind; creates a calm, refreshing sleep ; allays irritation of the nervous system when all other remedies fail; leaving no bad effects, like opium or laudanum, and can be taken when none other cun be tolerated. Its value in saving hfe in infancy is not easily esti- mated; a few drops will suhdue the irritation of Teething, prevent and arrest Convulsions, cure Whooping Cough, Spasms, and Flatus at once. Among invalids it allays the pain of Neuralgia, Rheumatism, Gout, etc. It soothes the weary achings of Consumption, relieves the Soreness of the Chest, Coimh, and Expectoration; and cures all Chest Affections, such as Asthma, Bronchitis, Palpitation, etc. It checks Diarrhoea, Alvino Discharges, or Spasms, and Colics of the Intestines, etc. The extensive demand for this remedy, known as Dr. J. Collis Bbownb’s Chlobodynb, by the Medical Profession, Hospitals, Dispen- saries—Civil, Military, and Naval—and Families especially, guarantees that this statement of its extreme importance and value is a boiia fide one, and worthy the attention of aU. EXTRACTS OF MEDICAL OPINIONS. From AV. Vesalius Pettigbew, M.D.—“ I have no hesitation in stat- ing that I have never met with any medicine so efficacious as an anti-spas- modic and sedative. I have used it in Consumption, Asthma, Diarrhoea, and other diseases, and am most perfectly satisfied with the results.” From Db. M'Milman, of New Galloway, Scotland,—“ I consider it tho most valuable medicine known.” G. Uaywabd, Esq., Surgeon, Stow-on-ye-Wold.—“ I am now using Dr. J. Collis Browne’s Chlorodyne with marvellous good effects in allaying in- veterate sickness in pregnancy.” Db. M'Gbigoe Cboet, late Army Staff, says:—“It is a most valuable medicine.” J. C. Bakes, Esq., M.D., Bideford.—“It is without doubt the most valuable and certain anodyne we have.” Db. GinnoY, Army Medical Staff, Calcutta.—“ Two doses completely cured me of Diarrhoea.” Proin G. V. Ridotjt, Esq., Surgeon, Egham.—“ As an astringent in severe Diarrhoea, and an anti-spasmodic in Colic, with Cramps in the Ab- domen, the relief is instantaneous. As a sedative in Neuralgia and Tic- Doloreux its effects were very remarkable. In Uterine Affections I have found it extremely valuable.” CAUTION.—Beware of Spurious Compounds or Imitations of “ Chloro- dyne.” Dr. Browne placed the Recipe for making “Chlorodyne” in the hands of Mr. Davenport ONLY; consequently, there can be no other Manufacturer, The genuine bears the words, “ Dr. J. Collis Browne’s Chlorodyne,” on the Government Stamp of each Bottle.—Sold only in Bottles at 2«. 9<f., and 4». Gd,, by the Solo Agent and Manufacturer, J. T. DAVENPORT, S3, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE, LONDON.