i o ORNA MENTA L CONFE CTIONER Y. in trying to break down the diffidence that others display in relation to this subject. Royal icing is used generally for covering and ornamenting bride cakes, christening, birthday, twelfth-night, and other cakes. After your cake is iced it is necessary to have at hand a variety of icing tubes, a selection of which will be seen in the illustrations (Plate No. II.), or I would advise a pupil to get some paper cones (see Plate No. XII.) made in the shape of a funnel, and cut at the ends in a variety of designs. Half fill them with good tough lard, and practise with it till you think you are able to work in icing. A pupil will find that he needs to have some knowledge of drawing, and some acquaintance with the laws of harmony and: perspective, as well as to study colours and their effects, besides a tolerable amount of actual practice, to make him proficienf in the art; but do not let that deter him from trying to do his best, remembering that a strong will, with industry and per- severance, will overcome many obstacles. The variety of flowers which a pupil may imitate is some- what restricted owing to the icing material being of a soft nature, so that it will not bear any complication of design. The flowers easiest to imitate with success are daisies, violets, pinks, heartsease, marigolds, roses, pansies, and the like. Orna- ments of a purely fanciful style are easiest of execution, from the fact that more or less precision in the details is not so strikingly perceptible, but this is not the case with regard to architectural and monumental designs. There the strictest regularity is a matter of the first moment, for unless such structures will bear the closest scrutiny from a practised eye what you have attempted to execute may prove a complete failure. And let me impress on a beginner that before he attempts to work out a design, or set of designs, for a cake, he should first sketch out a plan of the design he intends to execute, taking