35 AGRICULTURE, FARMING, GARDENING, etc. Dye-Wares and Colours, THE MANUAL OF COLOURS AND DYE-WARES : Their Properties, Applications, Valuation, Impurities, and Sophistications. For the use of Dyers, Printers, Drysalters, Brokers, &c. By J. W. Slater. Second Edition, Revised and greatly Enlarged. Crown 8vo, ys. 6d. cloth. “A complete encyclopaedia of the materia tinctoria. The information given respecting each article is full and precise, and the methods of determining the value of articles such as these, so liable to sophistication, are given with clearness, and are practical as well as valuable.”—Chemist and Druggist. “ There is no other work which covers precisely the same ground. To students preparing for examinations in dyeing and printing it will prove exceedingly useful.”—Chemical News. Pigments. THE ARTIST'S MANUAL OF PIGMENTS. Showing their Composition, Conditions of Permanency, Non-Permanency, and Adul- terations; Effects in Combination with Each Other and with Vehicles ; and the most Reliable Tests of Purity. Together with the Science and Arts Department’s Examination Questions on Painting. By H. C. Standage. Second Edition, Revised. Small crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. cloth. “ This work is indeed multum-in-parvo, and we can, with good conscience, recommend it to all who come in contact with pigments, whether as makers, dealers or users.”—Chemical Review. ‘ ‘ This manual cannot fail to be a very valuable aid to all painters who wish their work to endure and be of a sound character ; it is complete and comprehensive.”—Spectator. “ The author supplies a great deal of very valuable information and memoranda as to the chemical qualities and artistic effect of the principal pigments used by painters.”—Builder. Gauging, Tables and Pules for Pevenue Officers, A POCKET BOOK OF MENSURATION AND GAUGING : Containing Tables, Rules and Memoranda for Revenue Officers, Brewers, Spirit Merchants, &c. By J. B. Mant (Inland Revenue). Oblong i8mo, 4s. leather, with elastic band. “ This handy and useful book is adapted to the requirements of the Inland Revenue Depart- ment, and will be a favourite book of reference. The range of subjects is comprehensive, and the arrangement simple and clear .''—Civilian. “ A most useful book. It should be in the hands of every practical brewer "—Brewers' journal. AGRICULTURE, FARMING, GARDENING, etc. Agricultural Facts and Figures, NOTE-BOOK OF AGRICULTURAL FACTS AND FIGURES FOR FARMERS AND FARM STUDENTS. By Primrose McConnell, Fellow of the Highland and Agricultural Society ; late Professor of Agricul- ture, Glasgow Veterinary College. Third Edition. Royal 321110, full roan, gilt edges, with elastic band, 4s. “ The most complete and comprehensive Note-book for Farmers and Farm Students that we have seen. It literally teems with information, and we can cordially recommend it to all connected with agrcuilture."—North British Agriculturist. Youatt and Burn’s Complete Grazier, THE COMPLETE GRAZIER, and FARMER'S and CATTLE- BREEDER'S ASSISTANT. A Compendium of Husbandry; especially in the departments connected with the Breeding, Rearing, Feeding, and General Management of Stock; the Management of the Dairy, &c. With Directions for the Culture and Management of Grass Land, of Grain and Root Crops, the Arrangement of Farm Offices, the use of Implements and Machines, and on Draining, Irrigation, Warping, &c.; and the Application and Relative Value of Manures. By William Youatt, Esq., V.S. Twelfth Edition, En- larged by Robert Scott Burn, Author of “ Outlines of Modern Farming,” “ Systematic Small Farming,” &c. One large 8vo volume, 860 pp., with 244 Illustrations, £1 is. half-bound. “ The standard and text-book with the farmer and grazier.”—Farmer's Magazine. “A treatise which will remain a standard work on the subject as long as British agriculture endures.”—Mark Lane Express (First Notice). “ The book deals with all departments of agriculture, and contains an immense amount of valuable information. It is, in fact, an encyclopaedia of agriculture put into readable form, and it is the only work equally comprehensive brought down to present date. It is excellently printed on thick paper, and strongly bound, and deserves a place in the library of every agriculturist.”—Mark Lane Fzc-bress (Second Notice). “ This esteemed work is well worthy of a place in the libraries of agriculturists.”—North British Agriculturist.