22 CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON’S CATALOGUE. MINING AND MINING INDUSTRIES. Metalliferous Mining, BRITISH MINING : A Treatise on the History .Discovery, Practical Development, and Future Prospects of Metalliferous Mines in the United King- dom. By Robert Hunt, F.R.S., Keeper of Mining Records; Editor of “ Ure’s Dictionary of Arts, Manufactures, and Mines,” &c. Upwards of 950 pp., with 230 Illustrations. Second Edition, Revised. Super-royal 8vo, £2 2s. cloth. “ One of the most valuable works of reference of modern times. Mr. Hunt, as keeper of mining records of the United Kingdom, has had opportunities for such a task not enjoyed by anyone else, and has evidently made the most of them. . . . The language and style adopted are good, and the treatment of the various subjects laborious, conscientious, and scientific.”—Engineering-. “The book is, in fact, a treasure-house of statistical information on mining subjects, and we know of no other work embodying so great a mass of matter of this kind. Were this the only merit of Mr. Hunts volume, it would be sufficient to render it indispensable in the library of everyone interested in the development of the mining and metallurgical industries of the country.” —A thenceum. "A mass of information not elsewhere available, and of the greatest value to those who may be interested in our great mineral industries.”—Engineer. “ A sound, business-like collection of interesting facts. . . . The amount of information Mr. Hunt has brought together is enormous. . . . The volume appears likely to convey more instruction upon the subject than any work hitherto published.”—Mining Journal. “The work will be for the mining industry what Dr. Percy’s celebrated treatise has been for the metallurgical—a book that cannot with advantage be omitted from the library.”—Iron and Coal Trades Review. “ The volume is massive and exhaustive, and the high intellectual powers and patient, persist- ent application which characterise the author have evidently been brought into play in its produc- tion. Its contents are invaluable.”—Colliery Guardian. Coal and Iron, THE COAL AND IRON INDUSTRIES OF THE UNITED KINGDOM. Comprising a Description of the Coal Fields, with Returns ot their Produce and its Distribution, and Analyses of Special Varieties. Also an Account of the occurrence of Iron Ores in Veins or Seams; Analyses of each Variety; and a History of the Rise and Progress of Pig Iron Manufacture since the year 1740. By Richard Meade, Assistant Keeper of Mining Records. With Maps of the Coal Fields and Ironstone Deposits of the United Kingdom, 8vo, £1 8s. cloth. "The book is one which must find a place on the shelves of all interested in coal and iron production, and in the iron, steel, and other metallurgical industries.”—Engineer. “ Of this book we may unreservedly say that it is the best of its class which we have ever met. ... A book of reference which no one engaged in the iron or coal trades should omit from his library.”—Iron and Coal Trades Review. “An exhaustive treatise and a valuable work of reference.”—Mining Journal. Prospecting for Gold and other Metals, THE PROSPECTOR’S HANDBOOK: A Guide for the Pro- spector and Traveller in Search of Metal-Bearing or other Valuable Minerals. By J. W. Anderson, M.A. (Camb.), F.R.G.S., Author of “Fiji and New Caledonia.” Fourth Edition, thoroughly Revised and Enlarged. Small crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. [Just published. "Will supply a much felt want, especially among Colonists, in whose way are so often thrown many mineralogical specimens the value of which it is difficult for anyone, not a specialist, to determine. The author has placed his instructions before his readers in the plainest possible terms, and his book is the best of its kind.”—Engineer. “Howto find commercial minerals, and how to identify them when they are found, are the eading points to which attention is directed. The author has managed to pack as much practical detail into his pages as would supply material for a book three times its size."—Mining Journal. " Those toilers who explore the trodden or untrodden tracks on the face of the globe will find much that is useful to them in this book.”—Athenceum. Mining Notes and Formulce, NOTES AND FORMULAE FOR MINING STUDENTS. By John Herman Merivale, M.A., Certificated Colliery Manager, Professor of Mining in the Durham College of Science, Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Second Edition, carefully Revised. Small crown 8vo, cloth, price 2s. 6d. “ Invaluable to anyone who is working up for an examination on mining subjects.”—Coal and Iroti Trades Review. “ The author has done his work in an exceedingly creditable manner, and has produced a book that will be of service to students, and those who are practically engaged in mining operations.”— Engineer " A vast amount of technical matter of the utmost value to mining engineers, and of consider- able interest to students.”—Schoolmaster.