28 CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON'S CATALOGUE. DR. LARDNER’S MUSEUM OF SCIENCE AND ART. THE MUSEUM OF SCIENCE AND ART. Edited by Dionysius Lardner, D.C.L., formerly Professor of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy in University College, London. With upwards of 1,200 Engrav- ings on Wood. In 6 Double Volumes, £1 is., in a new and elegant cloth bind- ing ; or handsomely bound in half-morocco, 31s. 6d. Contents: The Planets: Are they Inhabited Worlds f— Weather Prognostics — Popular Fallacies in Questions of Physical Science—Latitudes and Longitudes — Lunar Influences — Meteoric Stones and Shooting Stars—Railway Accidents —Light—Common Things : Air—Locomotion in the United States—Cometary Influences— Common Things: Water—The Potter's Art— Common Things: Fire — Locomotion and Transport, their Influence and Progress—The Moon—Common Things: The Earth —The Electric Telegraph —Terrestrial Heat —The Sun—Earthquakes and Volcanoes—Barometer, Safety Lamp, and Whitworth’s Micrometric Apparatus—Steam—The Steam Engine—The Eye — The Atmosphere — Time — Common Things: Pumps—Common Things: Spectacles, the Kaleidoscope — Clocks and Watches — Microscopic Drawing and Engraving—Loco- *** Opinions 0 motive — Thermometer — New Planets: Le- verrier and Adams’s Planet—Magnitude and Minuteness—Common Things: The Almanack —Optical Images—How to observe the Heavens — Common Things : The Looking-glass — Stellar Universe—The Tidee-x-Colour—Com- mon Things: Man—Magnifying Glasses—In- stinct and Intelligence—The Solar Microscope —The Camera Lucida—The Magic Lantern— The Camera Obscura—The Microscope—The White Ants : Their Manners and Habits—The Surface of the Earth, or First Notions of Geography—Science and Poetry—The Bee- Steam Navigation — Electro-Motive Power — Thunder, Lightning, and the Aurora Borealis —The Printing Press—The Crust of the Earth —Comets—The Stereoscope—The Pre-Adam- ite Earth—Eclipses—Sound. f the Press, "This series, besides affording popular but sound instruction on scientific subjects, with which the humblest man in the country ought to be acquainted, also undertakes that teaching of ‘Com- mon Things ’ which every well-wisher of his kind is anxious to promote. Many thousand copies of this serviceable publication have been printed, in the belief and hope that the desire for instruction and improvement widely prevails ; and we have no fear that such enlightened faith will meet with disappointment.”—Times. “ A cheap and interesting publication, alike informing and attractive. The papers combine subjects of importance and great scientific knowledge, considerable inductive powers, and a popular style of treatment.”—Spectator. “The * Museum of Science and Art’ is the most valuable contribution that has ever been made to the Scientific Instruction of every class of society.”—Sir DAVID BREWSTER, in the North British Review. “ Whether we consider the liberality and beauty of the illustrations, the charm of the writing, or the durable interest of the matter, we must express our belief that there is hardly to be found among the new books one that would be welcomed by people of so many ages and classes as a valuable present.”—Examiner. *** Separate books formed from the above, suitable for Workmen's Libraries, Science Classes, etc. Common Things Explained. Containing Air, Earth, Fire, Water, Time, Man, the Eye, Locomotion, Colour, Clocks and Watches, &c. 233 Illus- trations, cloth gilt, 5$. The Microscope. Containing Optical Images, Magnifying Glasses, Origin and Description of the Microscope, Microscopic Objects, the Solar Micro- scope, Microscopic Drawing and Engraving, &c. 147 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 25. Popular Geology. Containing Earthquakes and Volcanoes, the Crust of the Earth, &c. 201 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. Popular Physics. Containing Magnitude and Minuteness, the Atmo- sphere, Meteoric Stones, Popular Fallacies, Weather Prognostics, the Thermometer, the Barometer, Sound, &c. 85 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. Steam and its Uses. Including the Steam Engine, the Locomotive, and Steam Navigation. 89 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 2s. Popxdar Astronomy. Containing How to observe the Heavens—The Earth, Sun, Moon, Planets, Light, Comets, Eclipses, Astronomical Influ- ences, &c. 182 Illustrations, 4s. 6d. The Bee and White Ants: Their Manners and Habits. With Illustra- tions of Animal Instinct and Intelligence. 135 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 2s. The Electric Telegraph Popularized. To render intelligible to all who can Read, ii respective of any previous Scientific Acquirements, the various forms of Telegraphy in Actual Operation. 100 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 15. 6d.