24 CROSBY LOCKWOOD &> SON'S CATALOGUE. Underground Pumping Machinery. MINE DRAINAGE. Being a Complete and Practical Treatise on Direct-Acting Underground Steam Pumping Machinery, with a Descrip- tion of a large number of the best known Engines, their General Utility and the Special Sphere of their Action, the Mode of their Application, and their merits compared with other forms of Pumping Machinery. By Stephen Michell. 8vo, 15s. cloth. “ tVill be highly esteemed by colliery owners and lessees, mining engineers, and students generally who require to be acquainted with the best means of securing the drainage of mines. , It is a most valuable work, and stands almost alone in the literature of steam pumping machinery.”— Colliery Guardian. “ Much valuable information is given, so that the book is thoroughly worthy of an extensive circulation amongst practical men and purchasers of machinery. ’—Mining Journal. Mining Tools. A MANUAL OF MINING TOOLS. For the Use of Mine Managers, Agents, Students, &c. By William Morgans, Lecturer on Prac- tical Mining at the Bristol School of Mines. i2mo, 2s. 6d. cloth limp. ATLAS OF ENGRAVINGS to Illustrate the above, contain- ing 235 Illustrations of Mining Tools, drawn to scale. 4to, 4s. 6d. cloth. “ Students in the science of mining, and overmen, captains, managers, and viewers may gain r r-cticai knowledge and useful hints by the study of Mr. Morgans’ manual.”—Colliery Guardian. “A valuable work, which will tend materially to improve our mining literature.”—Mining Journal. Coal Mining. COAL AND COAL MINING: A Rudimentary Treatise on. By Sir Warington W. Smvth, M.A., F.R.S., &c., Chief Inspector of the Mines of the Crown. New Edition, Revised and Corrected. With numerous Illus- trations. i2mo, 4s. cloth boards. “ As an outline is given of every known coal-field in this and other countries, as well as of the principal methods of working, the book will doubtless interest a very large number of readers.”— Mining Journal. Granite Quarrying. GRANITES AND OUR GRANITE INDUSTRIES. By George F. Harris, F.G.S., Membre de la Societe Beige de Geologte, Lec- turer on Economic Geology at the Birkbeck Institution, &c. With Illustra- tions. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. cloth. “ A clearly and well-wri.ten manual for persons engaged or interested in the granite industry." —Scotsman. “ An interesting work, whi:h will be deservedly esteemed. We advise the author to write agui 1.”—Colliery Guardian. “ An exceedingly interesting and valuable monograph, on a subject which has hitherto received unaccountably little attention in the shape of systematic literary treatment.”—Sc ottish Leader. NATURAL AND APPLIED SCIENCE. Text Book of Electricity. THE STUDENT’S TEXT-BOOK OF ELECTRICITY. By Henry M. Noad, Ph.D., F.R.S., F.C.S. New Edition, carefully Revised. With an Introduction and Additional Chapters, by W. H. Preece, M.I.C.E., Vice-President of the Society of Telegraph Engineers, &c. With 470 Illustra- tions. Crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “The original plan of this book has been carefully adhered to so as to make it a reflex of the existing state of electrical science, adapted for students. . . . Discovery seems to have pro- gressed with marvellous strides ; nevertheless it has now apparently ceased, and practical applica- tions have commenced their career; and it is to give a faithful account of these that this fresh edition of Dr. Noad’s valuable text-book is launched forth.”—Extract from Introduction by IV. H. Preece. Esq. _ “ AVe can recommend Dr. Noad’s book for clear style, great range of subject, a good index and a plethora of woodcuts. Such collections as the present are indispensable.”—Athenceum. “An admirable text book for every stude t — beginner or advanced — of electricity.”— Engineering. Electricity. A MANUAL OF ELECTRICITY: Including Galvanism, Mag- netism, Dia-Magnetism, Electro-Dynamics, Magno-Electricity, and the Electric Telegraph. By Henry M. Noad, Ph.D., F.R.S., F.C.S. Fourth Edition. With 500 Woodcuts. 8vo, £1 4s. cloth. “It is worthy of a place in the library of every public institution.”—Mining Journal.