23 MINING AND MINING INDUSTRIES. Gold, Metallurgy of, THE METALLURGY OF GOLD: A Practical Treatise on the Metallurgical Treatment of Gold-bearing Ores. Including the Processes of Concentration and Chlorination, and the Assaying, Melting and Refining of Gold, By M. Eissler, Mining Engineer and Metallurgical Chemist, formerly Assistant Assayer of the U. S. Mint, San Francisco. Second Edition, Revised and much Enlarged. With 132 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 9s. cloth. [Just published. “ This book thoroughly deserves its title of a ‘ Practical Treatise.’ The whole process of gold milling, from the breaking of the quartz to the assay of the bullion, is described in clear and orderly narrative and with much, but not too much, fulness of detail.’’—Saturday Revie7u. “ The work is a storehouse of information and valuable data, and we strongly recommend it to all professional men engaged in the gold-mining industry.”—Mining Journal. “ Anyone who wishes to have an intelligent acquaintance with the characteristics of gold and gold ores, the methods of extracting the metal, concentrating and chlorinating it, and further on of refining and assaying it, will find all he wants in Mr. Eissler’s book.”—Financial News. Silver, Metallurgy of. THE METALLURGY OF SILVER : A Practical Treatise on the Amalgamation, Roasting and Lixiviation of Silver Ores. Including the Assaying, Melting and Refining of Silver Bullion. By M. Eissler, Author of “The Metallurgy of Gold ’’ With 124 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d. cloth. [Just published. “ A practical treatise, and a technical work which we are convinced will supply a long felt want amongst practical men, and at the same time be of value to students and others indirectly connected with the industries.”—Mining Journal. “ From first to last the book is thoroughly sound and reliable.”—Colliery Guardian. “ For chemists, practical miners, assayers and investors alike, we do not know of any work on the subject so handy and yet so comprehensive.”— Glasgow Herald. Mineral Surveying and Valuing. THE MINERAL SURVEYOR AND VALUER'S COMPLETE GUIDE, comprising a Treatise on Improved Mining Surveying and the Valua- tion of Mining Properties, with New Traverse Tables. By Wm. Lintern, Mining and Civil Engineer. Third Edition, with an Appendix on “ Magnetic and Angular Surveying,’’ With Four Plates. i2mo, 4s. cloth. “ An enormous fund of information of great value.”—Mining Journal. “ Mr. Lintern’s book forms a valuable and thoroughly trustworthy guide.”—Iron and Coal Trades Review. “ This new edition must be of the highest value to colliery surveyors, proprietors and mana- gers.”—CoAh'ery Guardian. Metalliferous Minerals and Mining. TREATISE ON METALLIFEROUS MINERALS AND MINING. By D. C. Davies, F.G.S., Mining Engineer, &c., Author of “A Treatise on Slate and Slate Quarrying.” Illustrated with numerous Wood Engravings. Fourth Edition, carefully Revised. Crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “Neither the practical miner nor the general reader interested in mines can have a better book or his companion and his guide.”—Mining Journal. “The volume is one which no student of mineralogy should be without.”—Colliery Guardian, “ A book that will not only be useful to the geologist, the practical miner, and the metallurgist, but also very interesting to the general public.”—Iron. “ As a history of the present state of mining throughout the world this book has a real v?lu e, and it supplies an actual want, for no such information has hitherto been brought together within such limited space."—Athenceum. Earthy Minerals and Mining. TREATISE ON EARTHY AND OTHER MINERALS AND MINING. By D. C. Davies, F.G.S. Uniform with, and forming a Com- panion Volume to, the same Author’s “ Metalliferous Minerals and Mining.” With 76 Wood Engravings. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “ It is essentially a practical work, intended primarily for the use of practical men. ... We do not remember to have met with any English work on mining matters that contains the same amount of information packed in equally convenient form.”—Academy. “ The book is clearly the result of many years’ careful work and thought, and we should be inclined to rank it as among the very best of the handy technical and trades manuals which have recently appeared.”—British Quarterly Review. “ The volume contains a great mass of practical information carefully methodised and pre- sented in a very intelligible shape.”—Scotsman. “The subject matter of the volume will be found of high value by all—and they are a numer- ous class—who trade in earthy minerals.”—A thence um.