INDUSTRIAL AND USEFUL ARTS. 3i INDUSTRIAL AND USEFUL ARTS. Soap-making. THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING: A Practical Handbook of the Manufacture of Hard and Soft Soaps, Toilet Soaps, etc. Including many New Processes, and a Chapter on the Recovery of Glycerine from Waste Leys. By Alexander Watt, Author of “ Electro-Metallurgy Practically Treated,” &c. With numerous Illustrations. Third Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. cloth. “The work will prove very useful, not merely to the technological student, but to the practical soap-boiler who wishes to understand the theory of his art.”—Chemical News. “Really an excellent example of a technical manual, entering, as it does, thoroughly and exhaustively both into the theory and practice of soap manufacture. The book is well and honestly done, and deserves the considerable circulation with which it will doubtless meet.’’—Knowledge. “Mr. Watt’s book is a thoroughly practical treatise on an art which has almost no literature in our language. We congratulate the author on the success of his endeavour to fill a void in English technical literature.”—Nature. Paper Making. THE ART OF PAPER MANUFACTURE: A Practical Hand- book of the Manufacture of Paper from Rags, Esparto, Wood and other Fibres. By Alexander Watt, Author of “The Art of Soap-Making,” “The Art of Leather Manufacture,” &c. With numerous Illustrations. Cr. 8vo. [In the press. Leather Manufacture. THE ART OF LEATHER MANUFACTURE. Being a Practical Handbook, in which the Operations ot Tanning, Currying, and Leather Dressing are fully Described, and the Principles of Tanning Ex- plained, and many Recent Processes introduced; as also Methods for the Estimation of Tannin, and a Description of the Arts of Glue Boiling, Gut Dressing, &c. By Alexander Watt, Author of “ Soap-Making,” “ Electro- Metallurgy,” &c, With numerous Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, qs. cloth. ‘ ‘ A sound, comprehensive treatise on tanning and its accessories. . . An eminently valuable production, which redounds to the credit of both author and publishers.”—Chemical Review. “This volume is technical without being tedious, comprehensive and complete without being prosy, and it bears on every page the impress of a master hand. We have never come across a better trade treatise, nor one that so thoroughly supplied an absolute want.”—Shoe and Leather Trades' • Chronicle. Boot and Shoe Making. THE ART OF BOOT AND SHOE-MAKING. A Practical Handbook, including Measurement, Last-Fitting, Cutting-Out, Closing and Making, with a Description of the most approved Machinery employed. By John B. Leno, late Editor of St. Crispin, and The Boot and Shoe-Maker. With numerous Illustrations. Third Edition. i2mo, 2s. Cloth limp. “This excellent treatise is by far the best work ever written on the subject. A new work, embracing all modern improvements, was much wanted. This want is now satisfied. The chapter on clicking, which shows how waste may be prevented, will save fifty times the price of the book.” —Scottish Leather Trader. “ This volume is replete with matter well worthy the perusal of boot and shoe manufacturers and experienced craftsmen, and instructive and valuable in the highest degree to all young beginners and craftsmen in the trade of which it treats.”—Leather Trades' Circular. Dentistry. MECHANICAL DENTISTRY : A Practical Treatise on the Construction of the various kinds of Artificial Dentures. Comprising also Use- ful Formulae, Tables and Receipts for Gold Plate, Clasps, Solders, &c. &c. By Charles Hunter. Third Edition, Revised. With upwards of 100 Wood Engravings. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “ The work is very practical.”— Monthly Review of Dental Surgery. “ We can strongly recommend Mr. Hunter’s treatise to all students preparing for the profession of dentistry, as well as to every mechanical dentist.”—Dublin Journal of Medical Science. “ A work in a concise form that few could read without gaining information from.”—British Journal of Dental Science. Wood Engraving. A PRACTICAL MANUAL OF WOOD ENGRAVING. With a Brief Account of the History of the Art. By William Norman Brown. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vof 2s. cloth. “ The author deals with the subject in a thoroughly practical and easy series of representative lessons.”—Paper and Printing Trades Journal. “ The book is clear and complete, and will be useful to anyone wanting to understand the first elements of the beautiful art of wood engraving.”—Graphic.