26 CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON’S CATALOGUE. Temp er aments. OUR TEMPERAMENTS, THEIR STUDY AND THEIR TEACHING. A Popular Outline. By Alexander Stewart, F.R.C.S. Edin. In one large 8vo volume, with 30 Illustrations,.including A Selection from Lodge’s “ Historical Portraits,” showing the Chief Forms of Faces. Price 15s. cloth, gilt top. “The book is exceedingly interesting, even for those who are not systematic students of an- thropology. . . . To those who think the proper study of mankind is man, it will be full of attrac- tion.”—Daily Telegraph. “ The author’s object is to enable a student to read a man’s temperament in his aspect. The work is well adapted to its end. It is worthy of the attention of students of human nature.”— Scotsman. “ The volume is heavy to hold, but light to read. Though the author has treated his subject exhaustively, he writes in a popular and pleasant manner that renders it attractive to the general reader.”—Punch. Antiseptic Nursing. ANTISEPTICS: A Handbook for Nurses. Being an Epitome of Antiseptic Treatment. With Notes on Antiseptic Substances, Disinfection, Monthly Nursing, &c. By Mrs. Annie Hewer, late Hospital Sister, Diplomee Obs. Soc. Lond. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. cloth. [Just published. “ This excellent little work ... is very readable and contains much information. We can strongly recommend it to those who are undergoing training at the various hospitals, and also to those who are engaged in the practice of nursing, as they cannot fail to obtain practical hints from its perusal.”—Lancet. “ The student or the busy practitioner would do well to look through its pages, offering as they do a suggestive and faithful picture of antiseptic methods.”—Hospital Gazette. “A clear, concise, and excellent little handbook.”—The Hospital. Pneumatics and Acoustics. PNEUMATICS: including Acoustics and the Phenomena of Wind Currents, for the Use of Beginners. By Charles Tomlinson, F.R.S., F.C.S., &c. Fourth Edition, Enlarged. With numerous Illustrations. i2mo, is. 6d. cloth. “ Beginners in the study of this important application of science could not have a better manual." —.Scotsman. “ A valuable and suitable text-book for students of Acoustics and the Phenomena of Wind Currents.”—Schoolmaster. Conchology. A MANUAL OF THE MOLLUSCA : Being a Treatise on Recent and Fossil Shells. By S. P. Woodward, A.L.S., F.G.S., late Assistant Paleontologist in the British Museum. Fifth Edition. With an Appendix on Recent and Fossil Conchological Discoveries, by Ralph Tate, A.L.S., F.G.S. Illustrated by A. N. Waterhouse and Joseph Wilson Lowry. With 23 Plates and upwards of 300 Woodcuts. Crown 8vo, ys. 6d. cloth boards. “ A most valuable storehouse of conchological and geological information."—Science Gossip. Geology. RUDIMENTARY TREATISE ON GEOLOGY, PHYSICAL AND HISTORICAL. Consisting of “Physical Geology," which sets forth the leading Principles of the Science; and “ Historical Geology,” which treats of the Mineral and Organic Conditions of the Earth at each successive epoch, especial reference being made to the British Series of Rocks. By Ralph Tate, A.L.S., F.G.S., &c., &c. With 250 Illustrations. i2mo, 5s. cloth boards. “ The fulness of the matter has elevated the book into a manual. Its information is exhaustive and well arranged.”—School Board Chronicle. Geology and Genesis. THE TWIN RECORDS OF CREATION; or, Geology and Genesis: their Perfect Harmony and Wonderful Concord. By George W. Victor le Vaux. Numerous Illustrations. Fcap. 8vo, 5s. cloth. “ A valuable contribution to the evidences of Revelation, and disposes very conclusively of the arguments of those who would set God’s Works against God’s Word. No real difficulty is shirked, and no sophistry is left unexposed.”—The Rock. “ The remarkable peculiarity of this author is that he combines an unbounded admiration of science with an unbounded admiration of the Written record. The two impulses are balanced to a nicety ; and the consequence is that difficulties, which to minds less evenly poised would be seri- ous, find immediate solutions of the happiest kinds.”—London Review.