INDUSTRIAL AND USEFUL ARTS. Electrolysis of Gold, Silver, Copper, etc, ELECTRO-DEPOSITION : A Practical Treatise on the Electrolysis of Gold, Silver, Copper, Nickel, and other Metals and Alloys. With descrip- tions of Voltaic Batteries, Magneto and Dynamo Electric Machines, Ther- mopiles, and oi the Materials and Processes used in every Department of the Art, and several Chapters on Electro-Metallurgy. Sy Alexander Watt, Author of “Electro-Metallurgy,” &c. With numerous Illustrations. Third Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Crown 8vo, 9s. cloth. ■‘Eminently a book for the practical worker in electro-deposition. It contains minute and practical descriptions of methods, processes and materials as actually pursued and used in the workshop. Mr. Watt’s book recommends itself to all interested in its subjects.’’—Engineer, Electro-Metallurgy. ELECTRO-METALLURGY; Practically Treated. By Alexander Watt, Author of “ Electro Deposition,” &c. Ninth Edition, including the most recent Processes. i2mo, 4s. cloth boards. “From this book both amateur and artisan may learn everything necessary for the successful prosecution of electroplating.”—Iron. Electroplating. ELECTROPLATING: A Practical Handbook on the Deposi- tion of Copper, Silver, Nickel, Gold, Aluminium, Brass, Platinum, &c. &c. With Descriptions of the Chemicals, Materials, Batteries and Dynamo Machines used in the Art. By J. W. Urquhart, C.E., Author of “ Electric Light,” &c. Second Edition, Revised, with Additions. Numerous Illustra- tions. Crown 8vo, 5s. cloth. “ An excellent practical manual ."—Engineering, “ This book will show any person how to become an expert in electro-deposition.”—Builder. “An excellent work, giving the newest information.”—Horological Journal. Electrotyping. ELECTROTYPING : The Reproduction and Multiplication of Print- ing Surfaces and Works of Art by the Electro-deposition of Metals. By J. W. Urquhart, C.E. Crown 8vo, 5s. cloth. “The book is thoroughly practical. The reader is, therefore, conducted through the leading laws of electricity, then through the metals used by electrotypers, the apparatus, and the depositing processes, up to the final preparation of the work.”—Art Journal. Goldsmiths’ Work. THE GOLDSMITH'S HANDBOOK. By George E. Gee, Jeweller, &c. Third Edition, considerably Enlarged. i2mo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “A good, sound, technical educator, and will be generally accepted as an authority..”—Horo- logical Journal. “A standard book which few will care to be without.”—Jeweller and Metalworker. Silversmiths’ Work. THE SILVERSMITH'S HANDBOOK. By George E. Gee, Jeweller, &c. Second Edition, Revised, with Illustrations. i2mo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “The chief merit of the work is its practical character. . . . The workers in the trade will speedily discover its merits when they sit down to study it ."—English Mechanic. *** The above two works together, strongly half-bound, price ys. Bread and Biscuit Baking. THE BREAD AND BISCUIT BAKER'S AND SUGAR- BOILER’S ASSISTANT. Including a large variety of Modern Recipes. With Remarks on the Art of Bread-making. By Robert Wells, Practical Baker. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. [Just published. “ A large number of wrinkles for the ordinary cook, as well as the baker.”—Saturday Review. “ A book of instruction for learners and for daily reference in the bakehouse.”—Baker's Times. Confectionery. THE PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. For Hotels, Restaurants and the Trade in general, adapted also for Family Use. By Robert Wells, Author of “The Bread and Biscuit Baker’s and Sugar Boiler’s Assistant.” Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. [Just published. “ We cannot speak too highly of this really excellent work. In these days of keen competition our readers cannot do better than purchase this book.”—Baker’s Times. “ Will be found as serviceable by private families as by restaurant chefs and victuallers in general.”—Miller. Laundry Work. A HANDBOOK OF LAUNDRY MANAGEMENT. For Use in Steam and Hand-Power Laundries and Private Houses. By the Editor of The Laundry Journal. Crown 8vo, zs, 6d. cloth. [Just published