CROSBY LOCKWOOD <S- SON’S CATALOGUE. Handbook, for Works’ Managers. THE WORKS’ MANAGER’S HANDBOOK OF MODERN RULES, TABLES, AND DATA. For Engineers, Millwrights, and Boiler Makers; Tool Makers, Machinists, and Metal Workers; Iron and Brass Founders, &c. By W. S. Hutton, Civil and Mechanical Engineer, Author of “The Practical Engineer’s Handbook.” Third Edition, carefully Revised, with Additions. In One handsome Vol., medium 8vo price 15s. strongly bound. IS” The Author having compiled Rules and Data for his own use in a great variety of modern engineering work, and having found his notes extremely useful, decided to publish them—revised to date—believing that a practical work, suited to the daily requirements of modern engineers, would be favourably received. In the Third Edition, the following among other additions have been made, viz.: Rules for the Proportions of Riveted Joints in Soft Steel Plates, the Results of Experi- ments by Professor Kennedy for the Institution of Mechanical Engineers—Rules for the Proportions of Turbines—Rules for the Strength of Hollow Shafts of Whit- .worth's Compressed Steel, &c. *** Opinions of the Press. “The author treats every subject from the point of view of one who has collected workshop litotes for application in workshop practice, rather than from the theoretical or literary aspect. The volume contains a great deal of that kind of information which is gained only by practical experi- ence, and is seldom written in books.”—Engineer. “The volume is an exceedingly useful one, brimful with engineers’ notes, memoranda, and rules, and well worthy of being on every mechanical engineer’s bookshelf.”—Mechanical World. “A formidable mass of facts and figures, readily accessible through an elaborate index .... Such a volume will be found absolutely necessary as a book of reference in all sorts of ‘works ’ connected with the metal trades.”—Ryland's iron Trades Circular. “ Brimful of useful information, stated in a concise form, Mr. Hutton’s books have met a press- ing want among engineers. The book must prove extremely useful to every practiced man . possessing a copy.”—Practical Engineer. 46 The Modernised Templeton THE PRACTICAL MECHANIC'S WORKSHOP COM- PANION. Comprising a great variety of the most useful Rules and Formulas in Mechanical Science, with numerous Tables of Practical Data and Calcu- lated Results for Facilitating Mechanical Operations. By William Temple- ton, Author of “The Engineer’s Practical Assistant,” &c. &c. Fifteenth Edition, Revised, Modernised, and considerably Enlarged by Walter S. Hutton, C.E., Author of “The Works’ Manager’s Handbook,” “The Practical Engineer’s Handbook,” &c. Fcap. 8vo, nearly 500 pp., with Eight Plates and upwards of 250 Illustrative Diagrams, 6s., strongly bound for workshop or pocket wear and tear. Templeton’s “ Mechanic’s Workshop Companion ” has been for more than a quarter of a century deservedly popular, and, as the well-worn and thumb- marked vade mecum of several generations of intelligent and aspiring workmen, it has had the reputation of having been the means of raising many of them in their position in life. In consequence of the lapse of time since the Author's death, and the great advances in Mechanical Science, the Publishers have thought it advisable to have it entirely Reconstructed and Modernised; and in its present greatly Enlarged and Improved form, they are sure that it will commend itself to the English workmen oj the present day all the world over, and become, like its predecessors, their indispens- able friend and referee. A smaller type having been adopted, and the page increased in size, while the number of pages has advanced from about 330 to nearly 500, the book practically con- tains double the amount of matter that was comprised in the original work. *** Opinions of the Press. “ In its modernised form Hutton’s ‘ Templeton ’ should have a wide sale, for it contains much valuable information which the mechanic will often find of use, and not a few tables and notes which he might look for in vain in other works. This modernised edition will be appreciated by all who have learned to value the original editions of ‘ Templeton.’ "—English Mechanic. <« it has met with great success in the engineering workshop, as we can testify; and there are a great many men who, in a great measure, owe their rise in life to this little book.’'—BuildingNews. 8 “ This familiar text-book—well known to all mechanics and engineers—is of essential service to the everyday requirements of engineers, millwrights, and the various trades connected with engineering and building. The new modernised edition is worth its weight in gold.’’—Building ^^‘\h^pub&heK wfsely entrusted the task of revision of this popular, valuable and useful book to Mr, Hutton, than whom a more competent man they could not have found.”—Iron.