ib CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON'S CATALOGUE. Geometry for the Architect, Engineer, etc, PRACTICAL GEOMETRY, /or the Architect, Engineer and Mechanic. Giving Rules for the Delineation and Application ol various Geometrical Lines, Figures and Curves. By E. W. Tarn, M.A., Architect, Author of “The Science of Building,” &c. Second Edition. With Appen- dices on Diagrams of Strains and Isometrical Projection. With 172 Illus- trations, demy 8vo, 9s. cloth. " No book with the same objects in view has ever been published in which the clearness of the rules laid down and the illustrative diagrams have been so satisfactory.’’—Scotsman. "This is a manual for the practical man, whether architect, engineer, or mechanic. . . .The object of the author being to avoid all abstruse formulae or complicated methods, and to enable persons with but a moderate knowledge of geometry to work out the problems required.”—English Mechanic. The Science of Geometry, THE GEOMETRY OF COMPASSES; or, Problems Resolved by the mere Description of Circles, and the use of Coloured Diagrams and Symbols. By Oliver Byrne. Coloured Plates. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “ The treatise is a good one, and remarkable—like all Mr. Byrne’s contributions to the science of geometry—for the lucid character of its teaching."—Building News. DECORATIVE ARTS, etc. Woods and 3Iarbles (Imitation of), SCHOOL OF PAINTING FOR THE IMITATION OF WOODS AND MARBLES, as Taught and Practised by A. R. Van der Burg and P. Van der Burg, Directors of the Rotterdam Painting Institution. Royal folio, 185 by i2^ in., Illustrated with 24 full-size Coloured Plates; also 12 plain Plates, comprising 154 Figures. Second and Cheaper Edition. Price £1 11s. 6d. List of Plates. 1. Various Tools required for Wood Painting —2, 3. Walnut: Preliminary Stages of Graining and Finished Specimen — 4. Tools used for Marble Painting and Method of Manipulation— 5, 6. St. Remi Marble: Earlier Operations and finished Specimen—7. Methods of Sketching different Grains, Knots, &c.—8, 9. Ash: Pre- liminary Stages and Finished Specimen —10. Methods of Sketching Marble Grains—n, 12. Breche Marble: Preliminary Stages of Working and Finished Specimen—13. Maple: Methods of Producing the different Grains—14,15. Bird’s- eye Maple: Preliminary Stages and Finished Specimen—16. Methods of Sketching the dif- ferent Species of White Marble—17, 18. White Marble: Preliminary Stages of Process and *** Opinions Finished Specimen—ig. Mahogany: Specimens of various Grains and Methods of Manipulation —20, 21. Mahogany: Earlier Stages and Finished Specimen—22,23, 24- Sienna Marble: Varieties of Grain, Preliminary Stages and Finished Specimen—25, 26, 27. Juniper Wood: Methods of producing Grain. &c.: Preliminary Stages and Finished Specimen—28, 29, 30. Vert de Mer Marble: Varieties of Grain and Methods of Working Unfinished and Finished Speci- mens—31. 32. 33. Oak : Varieties of Grain, Tools Employed, and Methods of Manipulation, Pre- liminary Stages and Finished Specimen—34, 35, 36. Waulsort Marbie: Varieties of Grain, Un- finished and Finished Specimens. f the Press. “ Those who desire to attain skill in the art of painting woods and marbles will find advantage In consulting this book. . . . Some of the Working Men’s Clubs should give their young men the opportunity to study it ."—Builder. “ A comprehensive guide to the art. The explanations of the processes, the manipulation and management of the colours, and the beautifully executed plates will not be the least valuable to the student who aims at making his work a faithful transcript of nature.”—Building News. " Students and novices are fortunate who are able to become the possessors of so noble a •work."—A rchitect. House Decoration, ELEMENTARY DECORATION. A Guide to the Simpler Forms of Everyday Art, as applied to the Interior and Exterior Decoration of Dwelling Houses, &c. By James W. Facey, Jun. With 68 Cuts. i2mo, 2s. cloth limp. "Asa technical guide-book to the decorative painter it will be found reliable.”—Building News. PRACTICAL HOUSE DECORATION : A Guide to the Art of Ornamental Painting, the Arrangement of Colours in Apartments, and the principles of Decorative Design. With some Remarks upon the Nature and Properties of Pigments. By James William Facey, Author of “ Elementary Decoration,” &c. With numerous Illustrations. i2mo, 2s. 6d. cloth limp. N B.—The above Two Works together in One Vol., strongly half-bound, 5$.