36 CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON’S CATALOGUE. Flour Manufacture, Milling, etc. FLOUR MANUFACTURE: A Treatise on Milling Science and Practice. By Friedrich Kick, Imperial Regierungsrath, Professor of Mechanical Technology in the Imperial German Polytechnic Institute, Prague. Translated from the Second Enlarged and Revised Edition with Supplement, By H. H. P. Powles, A.M.I.C.E. Nearly 400 pp. Illustrated with 28 Folding Plates, and 167 Woodcuts. Royal 8vo, 25s. cloth. “This valuable work is, and will remain, the standard authority on the science of milling-. . . The miller who has read and digested this work will have laid the foundation, so to speak, of a suc- cessful career ; he will have acquired a number of general principles which he can proceed to apply. In this handsome volume we at last have the accepted text-book of modern milling in good sound English, which has little, if any, trace of the German idiom.”—The Milter. “ The appeaiance of this celebrated work in English is very opportune, and British millers will, we are sure, not be slow in availing themselves of its pages.”— Millers' Gazette. Small Farming, SYSTEMATIC SMALL FARMING; or, The Lessons of my Farm. Being an Introduction to Modern Farm Practice for Small Farmers. By Robert Scott Burn, Author of “ Outlines of Modern Farming.” With numerous Illustrations, crown 8vo, 6s. cloth. “This is the completest book of its class we have seen, and one which every amateur farmer will read with pleasure and accept as a guide.”—Field. “The volume contains a vast amount of useful information. No branch of farming is left untouched, from the labour to be done to the results achieved. It may be safely recommended to who think they will be in paradise when they buy or rent a three-acre farm.”— Glasgow Herald. Modern Farming, OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. By R. Scott Burn. Soils, Manures, and Crops—Farming and Farming Economy—Cattle, Sheep, and Horses — Management of Dairy, Pigs and Poultry — Utilisation of Town-Sewage, Irrigat on, &c. Sixth Edition. In One Vol., 1,250 pp., half- bound, profusely Illustrated, 12s. “ The aim of the author has been to make his work at once comprehensive and trustworthy, and in this aim he has succeeded to a degree which entitles him to much credit.”—Morning Advertiser. “ No farmer shculd be without this book.”—Banbury Guardian. Agricultural Engineering, FARM ENGINEERING, THE COMPLETE TEXT-BOOK OF. Comprising Draining and Embanking; Irrigation and Water Supply; Farm Roads, Fences, and Gates; Farm Buildings, their Arrangement and Con- struction, with Plans and Estimates; Barn Implements and Machines; Field Implements and Machines; Agricultural Surveying, Levelling, &c. By Prof. John Scott, Professor of Agriculture at the Royal Agricultural College, Cirencester, &c. In One Vol., 1,150 pages, half-bound, 6co Illustrations, 12s. “Written with great care, as well as with knowledge and ability. The author has done his work well; we have found him a very trustworthy guide wherever we have tested his statements. The volume will be of great value to agricultural students.”—Mark Lane Express. “For a young agriculturist we know of no handy volume so likely to be more usefully studied.” ~Bell’s Weekly Messenger. English Agriculture. THE FIELDS OF GREAT BRITAIN : A Text-Book of Agriculture, adapted to the Syllabus of the Science and Art Department. For Elementary and Advanced Students. By Hugh Clements (Board of Trade). Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. i8mo, 2s. 6d. cloth. “A most comprehensive volume, giving a mass of information.”—Agricultural Economist. “It is a long time since we have seen a book which has pleased us more, or which contains such a vast and useful fund of knowledge.”—Educational Times. Netv Pocket Book for Farmers, TABLES, MEMORANDA, AND CALCULATED RESULTS for Farmers, Graziers, Agricultural Students, Surveyors, Land Agents Auc- tioneers, etc. With a New System of Farm Book-keeping. Selected and Arranged by Sidney Francis. Second Edition, Revised. 272 pp., waist- coat-]- r - ’ : ze, is. 6d., limp leather. [Just published. “ Wcigning less than 1 oz , and occupying no more space than a match box, it contains a mass of facts and calculations which has never before, in such handy form, been obtainable. Every operation on the farm is dealt with. The work may be taken as thoroughly accurate, having been revised by Dr. Fream. We cordially recommend it ."—Bell's Weekly Messenger. “ A marvellous little book. . . . The agriculturist who possesses himself of it will not be disappointed with his investment.”— The Farm.