7, Stationers' Hall Court, London, ££,C October, 1889, A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS INCLUDING MANY NEW AND STANDARD WORKS IN ENGINEERING, MECHANICS, ARCHITECTURE, NATURAL AND APPLIED SCIENCE, INDUSTRIAL ARTS, TRADE AND COMMERCE, AGRICULTURE, GARDENING, LAND MANAGEMENT, LAW, tie, PUBLISHED BY CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON. MECHANICS, MECHANICAL ENGINEERING, etc. New Manual for Practical Engineers, THE PRACTICAL ENGINEER’S HAND-BOOK. Comprising a Treatise on Modern Engines and Boilers!: Marine, Locomotive and Sta- tionary. And containing a large collection of Rules and Practical Data relating to recent Practice in Designing and Constructing all kinds of Engines, Boilers, and other Engineering work. The whole constituting a comprehensive Key to the Board of Trade and other Examinations for Certi- ficates of Competency in Modern Mechanical Engineering. By Walter S. Hutton, Civil and Mechanical Engineer, Author of “The Works’ Manager’s Handbook for Engineers,” &c. With upwards of 370 Illustrations. Third Edition, Revised, with Additions. Medium 8vo, nearly 500 pp., price 18s. Strongly bound. [Just published. IS” This work is designed as a companion to the Author's “Works’ Manager’s Hand-book.” It possesses many new and original features, and con- tains, like its predecessor, a quantity of matter not originally intended for publica- tion, but collected by the author for his own use in the construction of a great variety of modern engineering work. The information is given in a condensed and concise form, and is illustrated by upwards of 370 Woodcuts; and comprises a quantity of tabulated matter of great value to all engaged in designing, constructing, or estimating for Engines, Boilers and other Engineering Work. *** Opinions of the Press. “ We have kept it at hand for several weeks, referring to it as occasion arose, and we have not on a single occasion consulted its pages without finding the information of which we were in quest.” —Athenceum. “ A>thoroughly good practical handbook, which no engineer can go through without learning Something that will be of service to him.”—Marine Engineer. “ An excellent book of reference for engineers, and a valuable text-book for students of engineering. ”—Scotsman. “ This valuable manual embodies the results and experience of the leading authorities on mechanical engineering.”—Building News. “ The author has collected together a surprising quantity of rules and practical data, and has shown much judgment in the selections he has made. . . . There is no doubt that this book is one of t ha most useful of its kind published, and will be a very popular compendium.”—Engineer. “ A mass of information, set down in simple language, and in such a form that it can be easily referred to at any time. The matter is uniformly good and well chosen, and is greatly elucidated by the illustrations. The book will find its way on to most engineers’ shelves, where it will rank as one of the most useful books of reference.”—Practical Engiiieer. “ Full of useful information, and should be found on the office shelf of all practical engineers.” —English Mechanic.