30 CROSBY LOCKWOOD 6- S0N}S CATALOGUE. Calculator for Numbers and Weights Combined. THE NUMBER AND WEIGHT CALCULATOR. Contain- ing upwards of 250,000 Separate Calculations, showing at a glance the value at 421 different rates, ranging from of a Penny to 20s. each, or per cwt., and £20 per ton, of any number of articles consecutively, from 1 to 470.— Any number of cwts., qrs., and lbs., from 1 cwt. to 470 cwts.—Any number ot tons, cwts., qrs., and lbs., from 1 to 23^ tons. By William Chadwick, Public Accountant. Second Edition, Revised and Improved, and specially adapted for the Apportionment of Mileage Charges for Railway Traffic. 8vo, price 18s., strongly bound for Office wear and tear. [ Just published. i3sf This comprehensive and entirely unique and original Calculator is adapted for the use of Accountants and Auditors, Railway Companies, Canal Companies, Shippers, Shipping Agents, General Carriers, etc. Ironfounders, Brass founders, Metal Merchants, Iron Manufacturers, Ironmongers, Engineers, Machinists, Boiler Makers, Millwrights, Roofing, Bridge and Girder Makers, Colliery Proprietors, etc. Timber Merchants, Builders, Contractors, Architects, Surveyors, Auctioneers, Valuers, Brokers, Mill Owners and Manufacturers, Mill Furnishers, Merchants and General Wholesale Tradesmen. *** Opinions of the Press. The book contains the answers to questions, and not simply a set of ingenious puzzle methods of arriving at results. It is as easy of reference for any answer or any number of answers as a dictionary, and the references are even more quickly made. For making up accounts or esti- mates, the book must prove invaluable to all who have any considerable quantity of calculations involving price and measure in any combination to do .''—Engineer. “ The most complete and practical ready reckoner which it has been our fortune yet to see. It is difficult to imagine a trade or occupation in which it could not be of the greatest use, either in saving human labour or in checking work. The Publishers have placed within the reach of every commercial man an invaluable and unfailing assistant.”—The Miller. “ The most perfect work of the kind yet prepared.”—Glasgow Herald. Comprehensive Weight Calculator. THE WEIGHT CALCULATOR. Being a Series of Tables upon a New and Comprehensive Plan, exhibiting at One Reference the exact Value of any Weight from 1 lb. to 15 tons, at 300 Progressive Rates, from id. to 168s. per cwt., and containing 186,000 Direct Answers, which, with their Combinations, consisting of a single addition (mostly to be performed at sight), will afford an aggregate of 10,266,000 Answers; the whole being calcu- lated and designed to ensure correctness and promote despatch. By Henry Harben, Accountant. Fourth Edition, carefully Corrected. Royal 8vo, strongly half-bound, £1 5s. “ A practical and useful work of reference for men of business generally ; it is the best of the kind we have scenl'-Ironmojiger. “ Of priceless value to business men. It is a necessary book in all mercantile offices.”—Shef- field hidependent. Comprehensive Discount Guide. THE DISCOUNT GUIDE. Comprising several Series of Tables for the use of Merchants, Manufacturers, Ironmongers, and others, by which may be ascertained the exact Profit arising from any mode of using Discounts, either in the Purchase or Sale of Goods, and the method of either Altering a Rate of Discount or Advancing a Price, so as to produce, by one operation, a sum that will realise any required profit after allowing one or more Discounts: to which are added Tables of Profit or Advance from ij to go per cent., Tables of Discount from ii to g8f per cent., and Tables of Com- mission, &c., from | to 10 per cent. By Henry Harben, Accountant, Author of “ The Weight Calculator.” New Edition, carefully Revised and Corrected. Demy 8vo, 544 pp. half-bound, £1 5s. “ A book such as this can only be appreciated by business men, to whom the saving of time means saving of money. We have the high authority of Professor J. R. Young that the tables throughout the work are constructed upon strictly accurate principles. The work is a model of typographical clearness, and must prove of great value to merchants, manufacturers, and general traders.”—British Trade Journal. Iron Shipbuilders9 and Merchants9 Weight Tables. IRON-PLATE WEIGHT TABLES: For Iroti Shipbuilders, Engineers and Iron Merchants. Containing the Calculated Weights of up- wards of 150,000 different sizes of Iron Plates, from 1 foot by 6 in. by £ in. to 10 feet by 5 feet by 1 in. Worked out on the basis of 40 lbs. to the square foot of Iron of 1 inch in thickness. Carefully compiled and thoroughly Re- vised by H. Burlinson and W. H. Simpson. Oblong 4to, 25s. halt-bound. “This work will be found of great utility. The authors have had much practical experience of what is wanting in making estimates; and the use of the book will save much time ill making elaborate calculations. —English Mechanic.