19 CARPENTRY, TIMBER, etc. CARPENTRY, TIMBER, etc. Tredgold’s Carpentry, Enlarged by Tarn. THE ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLES OF CARPENTRY. A Treatise on the Pressure and Equilibrium of Timber Framing, the Resist- ance of Timber, and the Construction of Floors, Arches, Bridges, Roofs, Uniting Iron and Stone with Timber, &c. To which is added an Essay on the Nature and Properties of Timber, &c., with Descriptions of the kinds of Wood used in Building; also numerous Tables of the Scantlings of Tim- ber for different purposes, the Specific Gravities of Materials, &c. By Thomas Tredgold, C.E. With an Appendix of Specimens of Various Roofs of Iron and Stone, Illustrated. Seventh Edition, thoroughly revised and considerably enlarged by E. Wyndham Tarn, M.A., Author of “The Science of Build- ing,” &c. With 61 Plates, Portrait of the Author, and several Woodcuts. In one large vcl., 4*0, price £1 5s. cloth. "Ought to be in every architect’s and every builder’s library.”—Builder. “ A work whose monumental excellence must commend it wherever skilful carpentry is con- cerned. The author’s principles are rather confirmed than impaired by time. The additional plates are of great intrinsic value.”—Building- News. Woodworking Machinery. WOODWORKING MACHINERY : Its Rise, Progress, and Con- struction. With Hints on the Management of Saw Mills and the Economical Conversion of Timber. Illustrated with Examples ot Recent Designs by leading English, French, and American Engineers. By M. Powis Bale, A.M.Inst.C.E.jM.I.M.E. Large crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “ Mr. Bale is evidently an expert on the subject and he has collected so much information that his book is all-sufficient for builders and others engaged in the conversion of timber ."—Architect. ‘‘The most comprehensive compendium of wood-working machinery we have seen. The author is a thorough master of his subject.”—Building News. “The appearance of this book at the present time will, we should think, give a considerable Impetus to the onward march of the machinist engaged in the designing and manufacture of wood-working machines. It should be in the office of every wood-working factory.”—English Mechanic. Saw Mills. SAW MILLS: Their Arrangement and Management, and the Economical Conversion of Timber. (A Companion Volume to “ Woodworking Machinery.”) By M. Powis Bale. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d. cloth. “ The administration of a large sawing establishment is discussed, and the subject examined from a financial standpoint. Hence the size, shape, order, and disposition of saw-mills and the like are gone into in detail, and the course of the timber is traced from its reception to its delivery in its converted state. We could not desire a more complete or practical treatise.”— Builder. “ We highly recommend Mr. Bale’s work to the attention and perusal of all those who are en- gaged in the art of wood conversion, or who are about building or remodelling saw-mills on im- proved principles.”—Building News. Carpentering. THE CARPENTER'S NEW G UIDE ; or, Book of Lines for Car- penters ; comprising all the Elementary Principles essential for acquiring a knowledge of Carpentry. Founded on the late Peter Nicholson’s Standard Work. A New Edition, Revised by Arthur Ashpitel, F.S.A. Together with Practical Rules on Drawing, by George Pyne. With 74 Plates, 4to, £1 is. cloth. Handrailing, A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON HANDRAILING : Showing N ew and Simple Methods for Finding the Pitch of the Plank, Drawing the Moulds, Bevelling, Jointing-up, and Squaring the Wreath. By George Collings. Illustrated with Plates and Diagrams. i2mo, is. 6d. cloth limp. ‘‘Will be found of practical utility in the execution of this difficult branch of joinery.”—Builder. “ Almost every difficult phase of this somewhat intricate branch of joinery is elucidated by the aid of plates and explanatory letterpress.”—Furniture Gazette. Circular Work, CIRCULAR WORK IN CARPENTRY AND JOINERY: A Practical Treatise on Circular Work of Single and Double Curvature. By George Collings, Author of “ A Practical Treatise on Handrailing.” Illus- trated with numerous Diagrams. i2mo, 2s. 6d. cloth limp. “ An excellent example of what a bbok of this kind should be. Cheap in price, clear in defini- tion and practical in the examples selected.”— Btiilder.