MECHANICS, MECHANICAL ENGINEERING, etc. 5 Steam Engine. TEXT-BOOK ON THE STEAM ENGINE. With a Sup- plement on Gas Engines. By T. M. Goodeve, M.A., Barrister-at-Law, Author of “The Elements of Mechanism,” &c. Tenth Edition, Enlarged. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 6s. cloth. [J-ust published. ■“Professor Goodeve has given us a treatise on the steam engine which will bear comparison with anything written by Huxley or Maxwell, and we can award it no higher praise.”—Engineer. “ Professor Goodeve's book is ably and clearly written. It is a sound work."—Athenaum. “ Mr. Goodeve’s text-book is a work of which every young engineer should possess himself.” —Mining Journal. “ Essentially practical in ts aim. The manner of exposition leaves nothing to be desired."— Scotsman. Gas Engines. ON GAS-ENGINES. Being a Reprint, with some Additions, of the Supplement to the Text-book on the S earn Engine, by T. M. Goodeve, M.A. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. cloth. [Just published. “ Like all Mr. Goodeve’s writings, the presenti s no exception in point of general excellence, ft is a valuable little volume.’’—Meehanical World. “ This little book will be useful to those who desire to understand how the gas-engine works.’ —English Mechanic. Steam, THE SAFE USE OF STEAM. Containing Rules for Un- professional Steam-users. By an Engineer. Sixth Edition. Sewed, 6d. “ If steam-users would but iearn this little book by heart boiler explosions would become sensations by their rarity.”—English Mechanic. Coal and Speed Tables. A POCKET BOOK OF COAL AND SPEED TABLES, f r Engineers and, Steam-users. By Nelson Foley, Author of “ Boiler Con- struction.” Pocket-size, 3s. 6d. cloth ; 4s. leather. “This is a very useful book, containing very useful tables. The results given are well chosen, and the volume contains evidence that the author really understands his subject. We can recom- mend the work with pleasure.”—Mechanical Worli. “ These tables are designed to meet the requirements of every-day use ; they are of sufficient scope for most practical purposes, and may be commended to engineers and users of steam.”— Iron. “ This pocket-book well merits the attention of the practical engineer. Mr. Foley has com- piled a very useful set of tables, the information contained in which is frequently required by engineers, coal consumers and users of steam.”—Iron and Coal Trades Review. Eire Engineering. FIRES, FIRE-ENGINES, AND FIRE-BRIGADES. With a History of Fire-Engines, their Construction, Use, and Management; Re- marks on Fire-Proof Buildings, and the Preservation of Life from Fire ; Statistics of the Fire Appliances in English Towns; Foreign Fire Systems ; Hints on Fire Brigades &c. &c. By Charles F. T. Young, C.E. With numerous Illustrations, 544 pp., demy 8vo, £1 4s. cloth. “ To such of our readers as are interested in the subject of fires and fire apparatus, we can most heartily commend this book. It is really the only English work we now have upon the subject.”— Engineering. “It displays much evidence of careful research; and Mr. Young has put his facts neatly together. It is evident enough that his acquaintance with the practical details of the construction of steam fire engines, old and new, and the conditions with which it is necessary they should comply, Is accurate and full.”—Engineer. Gas Lighting, COMMON SENSE FOR GAS-USERS: A Catechism of Gas- Lighting for Householders, Gasfitters, MMourners, Architects, Engineers, etc. By Robert Wilson, C.E., Author of “A Treatise on Steam Boilers.” Second Edition, with Folding Plates and Wood Engravings. Crown 8vo, price is. in wrapper. “ All gas-users will decidedly benefit, both in pocket and comfort, if they will avail themselves of Mr. Wilson’s counsels.”—Engineering. Dynamo Construction. HO W TO MAKE A D YN AMO : A Practical Treatise for Amateurs. Containing numerous Illustrations and Detailed Instructions for Construct- ing a Small Dynamo, to Produce the Electric Light. By Alfred Crofts. Second Edition. Revised and Enlarged. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. [Just published. “The instructions given in this unpretentious little book are suffi iently clear and explicit to -enable any amateur m ichanic possess *d of average skill and the usual tools to be found in an amateur’s workshop, to build a practical dynamo ^na dime.Electrician.