15 ARCHITECTURE, BUILDING, etc. Designing, Measuring, and Valuing. THE STUDENTS GUIDE to the PRACTICE of MEASUR- ING AND VALUING ARTIFICERS' WORKS. Containing Directions for taking Dimensions, Abstracting the same, and bringing the Quantities into Bill, with Tables of Constants for Valuation of Labour, and for the Calcula- tion^ Areas and Solidities. Originally edited by Edward Dobson, Architect. Revised, with considerable Additions on Mensuration and Construction, and a New Chapter on Dilapidations, Repairs, and Contracts, by E. Wyndham Tarn, M.A. Sixth Edition, including a Complete Form of a Bill of Quantities. With 8 Plates and 63 Woodcuts. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. clo [Just published. “ Well fulfils the promise of its title-page, and we can thoroughly recommend it to the class for whose use it has been compiled. Mr. Tarn’s additions and revisions have much increased the usefulness of the work, and have especially augmented its value to students.”—Engineering. “ This edition will be found the most complete treatise on the principles of measuring and valuing artificers’ work that has yet been published.”—Building News. Docket Estimator and Technical Guide. THE POCKET TECHNICAL GUIDE, MEASURER AND ESTIMATOR FOR BUILDERS AND SURVEYORS. Containing Tech- nical Directions for Measuring Work in all the Building Trades, with a Treatise on the Measurement of Timber and Complete Specifications for Houses, Roads, and Drains, and an easy Method of Estimating the various parts of a Building collectively. By A. C. Beaton, Author of “ Quantities and Measurements,” &c. Fifth Edition, carefully Revised and Priced according to the Present Value of Materials and Labour, with 53 Woodcuts, leather, waistcoat-pocket size, is. 6d. gilt edges. [Just published. “ No builder, architect, surveyor, or valuer should be without his ‘ Beaton.”'— Building News. “Contains an extraordinary amount of information in daily requisition in measuring and estimating. Its presence in the pocket will save valuable time and trouble.”—Building World. Donaldson on Specifications. THE HANDBOOK OF SPECIFICATIONS; or, Practical Guide to the Architect, Engineer, Surveyor, and Builder, in drawing up Specifications and Contracts for Works and Constructions. Illustrated by Precedents of Buildings actually executed by eminent Architects and En- gineers. By Professor T. L. Donaldson, P.R.I.B.A., &c. New Edition, in One large Vol., 8vo, with upwards of 1,000 pages of Text, and 33 Plates, £1 ns. 6d. cloth “ In this work forty-four specifications of executed works are given, including the specifica- tions for parts of the new Houses of Parliament, by Sir Charles Barry, and for the new Royal Exchange, by Mr. Tite, M.P. The latter, in particular, is a very complete and remarkable document. It embodies, to a great extent, as Mr. Donaldson mentions, ‘the bill of quantities with the description of the works.’ ... It is valuable as a record, and more valuable still as a book of precedents. . . . Suffice it to say that Donaldson's ‘Handbook of Specifications’ must be bought by all architects.”—Builder. Bartholomew and Bogers9 Specifications. SPECIFICATIONS FOR PRACTICAL ARCHITECTURE. A Guide to the Architect, Engineer, Surveyor, and Builder. With an Essay on the Structure and Science of Modern Buildings. Upon the Basis of the Work by Alfred Bartholomew, thoroughly Revised, Corrected, and greatly added to by Frederick Rogers, Architect. Second Edition, Revised, with Additions. With numerous Illustrations, medium 8vo, 15s. cloth. “ The collection of specifications prepared by Mr. Rogers on the basis of Bartholomew’s work Is too well known to need any recommendation from us. It is one of the books with which every young architect must be equipped ; for time has shown that the specifications cannot be set aside through any defect in them.”—Architect. “ Good forms for specifications are of considerable value, and it was an excellent Idea to com- pile a work on the subject upon the basis of the late Alfred Bartholomew’s valuable work. The second edition of Mr. Rogers’s book is evidence of the want of a book dealing with modem re- quirements and materials.”—Building News. Building ; Civil and Ecclesiastical. A BOOK ON BUILDING, Civil and Ecclesiastical, including Church Restoration ; with the Theory of Domes and the Great Pyramid, &c. By Sir Edmund Beckett, Bart., LL.D., F.R.A.S., Author of “Clock sand Watches, and Bells,” &c. Second Edition, Enlarged. Fcap. 8vo, 5s. cloth. “A book which is always amusing and nearly always instructive. The style throughout is in the highest degree condensed and epigrammatic.”—Times.