MECHANICS, MECHANICAL ENGINEERING, etc. 3 Stone-worhing Machinery. STONE-WORKING MACHINERY, and the Rapid and Economic cal Conversion of Stone. With Hints on the Arrangement and Management of Stone Works. By M. Powis Bale, M.I.M.E. Crown 8vo, 9s. “ Should be in the hands of every mason or student of stone-work.”—Colliery Guardian. "It is in every sense of the word a standard.work upon a subject which the author is fully competent to deal exhaustively with.”—Builder's Weekly Reporter. "A capital handbook for all who manipulate stone for building- or ornamental purposes.”— Machinery Market. I*ump Construction and Management. RUMPS AND PUMPING : A Handbook for Pump Users. Being Notes on Selection, Construction and Management. By M. Powis Bale, M.I.M.E., Author of “ Woodworking Machinery,” “ Saw Mills,” &c. Crown 8vo, 2S. 6d. cloth. [Just published. " The matter is set forth as concisely as possible. In fact, condensation rather than diffuseness lias been the author’s aim throughout; yet he does not seem to have omitted anything likely to be of use.”—jfournal of Gas Lighting. “ Thoroughly practical and simply and clearly written.”—Glasgow Herald. Turning. LATHE-WORK : A Practical Treatise on the Tools, Appliances, and Processes employed in the Art of Turning. By Paul N. Hasluck. Third Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Crown 8vo, 5s. cloth. “ Written by a man who knows, not only how work ought to be done, but who also knows how to do it, and how to convey his knowledge to others. To all turners this book would be valuable.” —Engineering-. “ We can safely recommend the work to young engineers. To the amateur it will simply be invaluable. To the student it will convey a great deal of useful information.”—Engineer. “A compact succinct, and handy guide to lathe-work did not exist in our language until Mr. Hasluck, by the publication of this treatise, gave the turner atru ^vade-mecum.''—House Decorator. Screw-Cutting. SCREW THREADS : And Methods of Producing Them. With Numerous Tables, and complete directions for using Screw-Cutting Lathes. By Paul N. Hasluck, Author of “ Lathe-Work,” &c. With Fifty Illustra- tions. Second Edition. Waistcoat-pocket size, price is. cloth. “ Full of useful information, hints and practical criticism. Taps, dies and screwing-tools gene- rally are illustrated and their action described.”—Mechanical World. Smith’s Tables for Mechanics, etc. TABLES, MEMORANDA, AND CALCULATED RESULTS, FOR MECHANICS, ENGINEERS, ARCHITECTS, BUILDERS, etc. Selected and Arranged by Francis Smith. Fourth Edition, Revised and En- larged, 250 pp., waistcoat-pocket size, is. 6d. limp leather. “ It would, perhaps, be as difficult to make a small pocket-book selection of notes and formulae to suit ALL engineers as it would be to make a universal medicine; but Mr. Smith’s waistcoat- pocket collection may be looked upon as a successful attempt.”—Engineer. “The best example we have ever seen of 250 pages of useful matter packed into the dimen- sions Of a card-case.”—Building News. “A veritable pocket treasury of knowledge.”—Iron. Engineer’s and Machinist’s Assistant. THE ENGINEER'S, MILLWRIGHT'S, and MACHINIST'S PRACTICAL ASSISTANT. A collection of Useful Tables, Rules and Data. By William Templeton. 7th Edition, with Additions. i8mo, 2s. 6d. cloth. “ Occupies a foremost place among books of this kind. A more suitable present to an appren tice to any of the mechanical trades could not possibly be made.”—Building News. “A deservedly popular.work.it should be in the ‘drawer’ of every mechanic.”—English Mechanic. Iron and Steel. “ IRON AND STEEL A Work for the Forge, Foundry, Factory, and Office. Containing ready, useful, and trustworthy Information for Iron- masters and their Stock-takers; Managers of Bar, Rail, Plate, and Sheet Rolling Mills: Iron and Metal Founders; Iron Ship and Bridge Builders ; Mechanical, Mining, and Consulting Engineers ; Architects,Builders, and Draughtsmen. By Charles Hoare, Author of “ The Slide Rule,” &c. Eighth Edition, Revised and considerably Enlarged. 32010, 6s. leather. One of the best of the pocket books.”—English Mechanic. “ We cordially recommend this book to those engaged in considering the details of all kinds of iron and steel works.”—Naval Science.