CROSBY LOCKWOOD S- SON'S CATALOGUE. IO Statics, Graphic and Analytic, GRAPHIC AND ANALYTIC STATICS, in their Practical Applu cation to the Treatment cf Stresses in Roofs, Solid Girders, Lattice, Bowstring and Suspension Bridges, Braced Iron Arches and Piers, and other Frameworks. By R. Hudson Graham, C.E. Containing Diagrams and Plates to Scale. With numerous Examples, many taken from existing Structures. Specially arranged for Class-work in Colleges and Universities. Second Edition, Re- vised and Enlarged. 8vo, 16s. cloth. “Mr. Graham’s book will find a place wherever graphic and analytic statics are used or studied.” —Engineer. “ The work is excellent from a practical point of view, and has evidently been prepared with much care. The directions for working are ample, and are illustrated by an abundance of well- selected examples. It is an excellent text-book for the practical draughtsman.”—Athenceum. Student’s Text-Book on Surveying, PRACTICAL SURVEYING : A Text-Book for Students pre- paring for Examination or for Survey-work in the Colonies. By George W. Usill, A.M.I.C.E., Author of “The Statistics of the Water Supply of Great Britain.” With Four Lithographic Plates and upwards of 330 Illustra- tions. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. cloth. [Just published. “ The best forms of instruments are described as to their construction, uses and modes of employment, and there are innumerable hints on work and equipment such as the author, in his experience as surveyor, draughtsman and teacher, has found necessary, and which the student in his inexperience will find most serviceable.”—Engineer. “We have no hesitation in saying that the student will find this treatise a better guide than any of its predecessors. ... It deserves to be recognised as the first book which should be put in the hands of a pupil of Civil Engineering, and every gentleman of education who sets out for the Colonies would find it well to have a copy.”—Architect. “ A very useful, practical handbook on field practice. Clear, accurate and not too con- densed.”—Journal of Education. Survey Practice, AID TO SURVEY PRACTICE, for Reference in Surveying, Level- ling, Setting-out and in Route Surveys of Travellers by Land and Sea. With Tables, Illustrations, and Records. By Lowis D’A. Jackson, A.M.I.C.E., Author of “ Hydraulic Manual,” “ Modern Metrology,” &c. Second Edition, Enlarged. Large crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “ Mr. Jackson has produced a valuable vade-memm. for the surveyor. We can recommend this book as containing an admirable supplement to the teaching of the accomplished surveyor,”— Athenceum. “ As a text-book we should advise all surveyors to place it in their libraries, and study well the matured instructions afforded in its pages.”—Colliery Guardian. “ The author brings to his work a fortunate union of theory and practical experience which, aided by a clear and lucid style of writing, renders the book a very useful on z."—Builder. Surveying, Land and Marine, LAND AND MARINE SURVEYING, in Reference to the Pre- paration of Plans for Roads and Railways; Canals, Rivers, Towns’ Water Supplies; Docks and Harbours. With Description and Use of Surveying Instruments. By W. D. Haskoll, C.E., Author of “ Bridge and Viaduct Con- struction,’’ &c. Second Edition, with Additions. Large crown 8vo, 9s. cloth. “ This book must prove of great value to the student. We have no hesitation in recommend- ing it, feeling assured that it will more than repay a careful study.”—Mechanical World. “ We can strongly recommend it as a carefully-written and valuable text-book. It enjoys a well- deserved repute among surveyors.”—Bttilder. “ This volume cannot fail to prove of the utmost practical utility. It may be safely recommended to all students who aspire to become clean and expert surveyors.”—Mining Journal. Tunnelling, PRACTICAL TUNNELLING. Explaining in detail the Setting- out of the works, Shaft-sinking and Heading-driving, Ranging the Lines and Levelling underground, Sub-Excavating, Timbering, and the Construction of the Brickwork of Tunnels, with the amount of Labour required for, and the Cost of, the various portions of the work. By Frederick W. Simms, F.G.S., M.Inst.C.E. Third Edition, Revised and Extended by D. Kinnear Clark, M.Inst. C.E. ; Imperial 8vo, with 21 Folding Plates and numerous Wood Engravings, 30s. cloth. “The estimation in which Mr. Simms's book on tunnelling has been held for over thirty years cannot be more truly expressed than in the words of the late Prof. Rankine:—‘ The best source of in- formation on the subject of tunnels is Mr.F. W. Simms’s work on Practical Tunnelling.’ ”—Architect. “ It has been regarded from the first as a text book of the subject. . . . Mr. Clarke has added immensely to the value of the book.”—Engineer.