CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON'S CATALOGUE. 6 THE POPULAR WORKS OF MICHAEL REYNOLDS (“The Engine Driver’s Friend’’). Locomotive-Engine Driving. LOCOMOTIVE-ENGINE DRIVING : A Practical Manual for Engineers in charge of Locomotive Engines. By Michael Reynolds, Member of the Society of Engineers, formerly Locomotive Inspector L. B. and S. C. R. Eighth Edition. Including a Key to the Locomotive Engine. With Illus- trations and Portrait of Author. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. cloth. “ Mr. Reynolds has supplied a want, and has supplied it well. We can confidently recommend the book, not only to the practical driver, but to everyone who takes an interest in the performance of locomotive engines.”—The Engineer. “ Mr. Reynolds has opened a new chapter in the literature of the day. This admirable practical treatise, of the practical utility of which we have to speak in terms of warm commendation.”— Atheneeum. “ Evidently the work of one who knows his subject thoroughly.”— Railway Service Gazette. “Were the cautions and rules given in the book to become part of the every-day working of our engine-drivers, we might have fewer distressing accidents to deplore.”—Scotsman. Stationary Engine Driving. STATIONARY ENGINE DRIVING : A Practical Manual for Engineers in charge of Stationary Engines. By Michael Reynolds. Third Edition, Enlarged. With Plates and Woodcuts. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. cloth. “The author is thoroughly acquainted with his subjects, and his advice on the various points treated is clear and practical. ... He has produced a manual which is an exceedingly useful one for the class for whom it is specially intended.”—Engineering. “ Our author leaves no stone unturned. He is determined that his readers shall not only know something about the stationary engine, but all about it."—Efigineer. “An engineman who has mastered the contents of Mr.Reynolds’s bookwiH require but little actual experience with boilers and engines before he can be trusted to look after them.”—EnglishMechanic. The Engineer, Fireman, and Engine-Boy. THE MODEL LOCOMOTIVE ENGINEER, FIREMAN, and ENGINE-BOY. Comprising a Historical Notice of the Pioneer Locomotive Engines and their Inventors. By Michael Reynolds. With numerous Illus- trations and a fine Portrait of George Stephenson. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. cloth. “ From the technical knowledge of the author it will appeal to the railway man of to-day more forcibly than anything written by Dr. Smiles. . . . The volume contains information of a tech- nical kind, and facts that every driver should be familiar with.”—English Mechanic. “We should be glad to see this book in the possession of everyone in the kingdom who has ever laid, or is to lay, hands on a locomotive engine.”—Iron. Continuous Railivay Brakes. CONTINUOUS RAILWAY BRAKES: A Practical Treatise on the several Systems in Use in the United Kingdom; their Construction and Performance. With copious Illustrations and numerous Tables. By Michael Reynolds, Large crown 8vo, gs. cloth. “ A popular explanation of the different brakes. It will be of great assistance in forming public opinion, and will be studied with benefit by those who take an interest in the brake.”—English Mechanic. “Written with sufficient technical detail to enable the principle and relative connection of the various parts of each particular brake to be readily grasped.”—Mechanical World. Engine-Driving Life. ENGINE-DRIVING LIFE : Stirring Adventures and Incidents in the Lives of Locomotive-Engine Drivers. By Michael Reynolds. Second Edition, with Additional Chapters. Crown 8vo. 2s. cloth. [Just published. “From first to last perfectly fascinating. Wilkie Collins's most thrilling conceptions are thrown Into the shade by true incidents, endless in their variety, related in every page.”—North British Mail. “Anyone who wishes to get a real insight into railway life cannot do better than read ‘ Engine- Driving Life ’ for himself; and if he once take it up he will find that the author’s enthusiasm and real love of the engine-driving profession will carry him on till he has read every page.”—Saturday Review. Docket Companion for Enginemen. THE ENGINEMAN’S POCKET COMPANION AND PRAC- TICAL EDUCATOR FOR ENGINEMEN, BOILER ATTENDANTS, AND MECHANICS. By Michael Reynolds. With Forty-five Illustra- tions and numerous Diagrams. Second Edition, Revised. Royal i8mo, 3s. 6d., strongly bound for pocket wear. “ This admirable work is well suited to accomplish its object, being the honest workmanship of a competent engineer.”—Glasgow Herald. “ A most meritorious work, giving in a succinct and practical form all the information an engine- minder desirous of mastering the scientific principles of his da:ly calling would require.”—Miller. “ A boon to those who are striving to become efficient mechanics.”—Daily Chronicle.