NATURAL AND APPLIED SCIENCE. 27 DR. LARDNER’S HANDBOOKS OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY. THE HANDBOOK OF MECHANICS. Enlarged and almost re- written by Benjamin Loewy, F.R.A.S. With 378 Illustrations. Post 8vo, 6s. cloth. “The perspicuity of the original has been retained, and chapters which had become obsolete have been replaced by others of more modern character. The explanations throughout are studiously popular, and care has been taken to show the application of the various branches of physics to the industrial arts, and to the practical business of life.”—Mining Journal. “Mr. Loewy has carefully revised the book, and brought it up to modern requirements.”— Nature. “ Natural philosophy has had few exponents more able or better skilled in the art of popu- larising the subject than Dr. Lardner ; and Mr. Loewy is doing good service in fitting this treatise, and the others of the series, for use at the present time.”—Scotsman. THE HANDBOOK OF HYDROSTATICS AND PNEUMATICS. New Edition, Revised and Enlarged, by Benjamin Loewy, F.R.A.S. With 236 Illustrations. Post 8vo, 5s. cloth. “For those ‘who desire to attain an accurate knowledge of physical science without the pro- found methods of mathematical investigation,’ this work is not merely intended, but well adapted.-’ —Chemical News. , “ The volume before us has been carefully edited, augmented to nearly twice the bulk of the former edition, and all the most recent matter has been added. . . . It is a valuable text-book.” —Nature. “ Candidates for pass examinations will find it, we think, specially suited to their requirements.' English Mechanic. THE HANDBOOK OF HEAT. Edited and almost entirely re- written by Benjamin Loewy, F.R.A.S., &c. 117 Illustrations. Post 8vo, 6s. cloth. “The style is always clear and precise, and conveys instruction without leaving any cloudiness or lurking doubts behind.”—Engineering. “A most exhaustive book on the subject on which it treats, and is so arranged that it can be understood by all who desire to attain an accurate knowledge of physical science Mr. Loewy has included all the latest discoveries in the varied laws and effects of heat.”—Standard. “A complete and handy text-book for the use of students and general readers.”—English Mechanic. THE HANDBOOK OF OPTICS. By Dionysius Lardner,D.C.L., formerly Professor of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy in University College, London. New Edition. Edited byT. Olver Harding, B.A. Lond., of University College, London. With 298 Illustrations. Small 8vo, 448 pages, 5s. cloth. “Written by one of the ablest English scientific writers, beautifully and elaborately illustrated. Mechanics Magazine. THE HANDBOOK OF ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, AND A CO USTICS. By Dr. Lardner. Ninth Thousand. Edit, by George Carey Foster, B.A., F.C.S. With 400 Illustrations. Small 8vo, 5s. cloth. “ The book could not have been entrusted to anyone better calculated to preserve the terse and lucid style of Lardner, while correcting his errors and bringing up his work to the present state of scientific knowledge.”—Popular Science Review. \* The above Five Volumes, though each is Complete in itself, form A Com- plete Course of Natural Philosophy. Dr. Lardner’s Handbook of Astronomy. THE HANDBOOK OF ASTRONOMY. Forming a Companion to the “ Handbook of Natural Philosophy.’’ By Dionysius Lardner, D.C.L., formerly Professor of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy in University College, London. Fourth Edition. Revised and Edited by Edwin Dunkin, F.R.A.S., Royal Observatory, Greenwich. With 38 Plates and upwards of 100 Woodcuts. In One Vol., small 8vo, 550 pages, 9s. 6d. cloth. “ Probably no other book contains the same amount of information in so compendious and well- arranged a form—certainly none at the price at which this is offered to the public.”—Athenceum. “We can do no other than pronounce this work a most valuable manual of astronomy, and we strongly recommend it to all who wish to acquire a general—but at the same time correct—acquaint- ance with this sublime science.”—Quarterly Journal of Science. “One of the most deservedly popular books on the subject . . . We would recommend not only the student of the elementary principles of the science, but he who aims at mastering the higher and mathematical branches of astronomy, not to be without this work beside him.”—Practi- cal Magazine.