CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON'S CATALOGUE. 34 Horology. A TREATISE ON MODERN HOROLOGY, in Theory and Prac- tice. Translated from the French of Claudius Saunier, ex-Director of the School ot Horology at Macon, by Julien Tripplin, F.R.A.S., Besancon, Watch Manufacturer, and Edward Rigg, M.A., Assayer in the Royal Mint. With Seventy-eight Woodcuts and Twenty-two Coloured Copper Plates. Second Edition. Super-royal 8vo, £2 2s. cloth ; £2 10s. half-calf. “ There is no horological work in the English language at all to be compared to this produc- tion of M. Saunier’s for clearness and completeness. It is alike good as a guide for the student and as a reference for the experienced liorologist and skilled workman.’’—Horological Journal. “ The latest, the most complete, and the most reliable of those literary productions to which continental watchmakers are indebted for the mechanical superiority over their English brethren —in fact, the Book of Books, is M. Saunier’s ‘ Treatise.’Watchmaker, Jeweller and Silversmith. Watchmaking. THE WA TCHMAKER'S HANDBOO K. Translated from the French of Claudius Saunier, and considerably Enlarged by Julien Tripp- lin, F.R.A.S., Vice-President of the Horological Institute, and Edward Rigg, M.A., Assayer in the Royal Mint. With Numerous Woodcuts and Fourteen Copper Plates. Second Edition, Revised.With Appendix. Cr. 8vo, 9s. cloth. “ Each part is truly a treatise in itself. The arrangement is good and the language is clear and concise. It is an admirable guide for the young watchmaker ."—Engineering. “ It is impossible to speak too highly of its excellence. It fulfils every requirement in a hand- book intended for the use of a workman. Should be found in every workshop.”— Watch and Clochmaker. ... j 7, CHEMICAL MANUFACTURES & COMMERCE. Alkali Trade, Manufacture of Sulphuric Acid, etc, A MANUAL OF THE ALKALI TRADE, including the Manufacture of Sulphuric Acid, Sulphate of Soda, and Bleaching Powder. By John Lomas, Alkali Manufacturer, Newcastle-upon-Tyne and London. With 232 Illustrations and Working Drawings, and containing 390 pages of Text. Second Edition, with Additions. Super-royal 8vo, £1 10s. cloth. “This book is written by a manufacturer for manufacturers. The working details of the most approved forms of apparatus are given, and these are accompanied by no less than 232 wood en- gravings, all of which may be used for the purposes of construction. Every step in the manufac ture is very fully described in this manual, and each improvement explained.”—Athenceum. “ We find here not merely a sound and luminous explanation of the chemical ririnciples of the trade, but a notice of numerous matters which have a most important bearing )pn the successfu conduct of alkali works, but which are generally overlooked by even experienced technologica authors.”—Chemical Review. Tirewing. A HANDBOOK FOR YOUNG BREWERS. By Herbert Edwards Wright, B.A. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “ This little volume, containing such a large amount of good sense in so small a compass, ought to recommend itself to every brewery pupil, and many who have passed that ;stage.”—Breviers Guardian. “ The book is very clearly written, and the author has successfully-brought his scientific know- ledge to bear upon the various processes and details of brewing.”—Brewer. Commercial Chemical Analysis. THE COMMERCIAL HANDBOOK OF CHEMICAL ANA- LYSIS; or, Practical Instructions tor the determination ot the Intrinsic or Commercial Value of Substances used in Manufactures, in Trades, and in the Arts. By A. Normandy, Editor of Rose’s “Treatise on Chemical Analysis.” New Edition, to a great extent Re-written by Henry M. Noad, Ph.D., F.R.S. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “We strongly recommend this book to our readers as a guide, alike indispensable to the house- wife as to the pharmaceutical practitioner.”—Medical Times. ‘ ‘ Essential to the analysts appointed under the new Act. The most recent results are given, and the work is well edited and carefully written.”—Nature. Explosives. A HANDBOOK OF MODERN EXPLOSIVES. Being a Practical Treatise on the Manufacture and Application of Dynamite, Gun- Cotton, Nitro-Glycerine, and other Explpsive Compounds. By M. Eissler, Mining Engineer , Author of “ The Metallurgy of Gold,” “ The Metallurgy of Silver,” &c. With about 100 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. [In the press*