149 THE PLASTIC SURCERY OF THE FACE. jaw through the flap and back again at a different spot, so that when tied it brings the deep surface of the flap in contact with the structures under- neath. Two or three of these stitches, in addition to the marginal sutures, will ensure the satisfactory application of the flap. At the end of four weeks, the base of the flap over the masseter is cut across, the free portion turned forward like a door on its hinges and stitched into the front part of the defect, so that the epithelial surface is made to look into the mouth and replace the lost mucous membrane. By means of a Hap from the skin over the jaw and neck, as already described, the outer raw surface of the flap can be covered and the defect entirely made good. Even where there is a hole in the cheek this plan can be carried out unless the defect be very far back. 3. A large defect with no sound skin and complete closure of the jaws.—These are most difficult cases, as sufficient material for the deep flap cannot be obtained from the cheek. The flap must therefore be pro- vided either from the back part of the neck or from the forehead. The first thing is to divide the cicatricial tissue fixing the jaw, so as to allow the mouth to be freely opened. A boxwood wedge is then inserted between the jaws on the sound side and simultaneously an attempt is made to close the opening by two superposed flaps. The margins of the defect are first pared (except at the upper part) and a flap, marked out as before, is turned down from the forehead. If there be cicatricial tissue inside the internal pterygoid this must be removed and the flap should then have a prolongation posteriorly which will cover this up. The flap is taken from the corresponding side of the forehead, the incision being carried along the line of the junction of the hair and forehead, and curved back- wards around the outer edge of the orbit. The flap of skin and sub- cutaneous fat is turned down and the eyebrow and the skin of the upper eyelid are also displaced downwards, the incisions being continued suffi- ciently low to allow the flap to be attached to the lower and posterior margins of the gap, and stitched to the mucous membrane with its cutaneous surface inwards. The prolongation destined to cover the raw surface over the internal pterygoid is fixed in position either by catgut stitches or by sutures running through the whole thickness of the cheek, as above described. It is not necessary to pare the upper edge of the gap at this stage, because no union can occur there and paring it would only entail additional subsequent contraction. The superficial flap is then formed by carrying an incision downwards from the anterior part of the gap into the neck, curving it backwards, and dis- secting up a skin-flap. This leaves the mucous membrane and buccinator muscle over it attached to the deep flap, to the raw surface of which the superficial flap can be applied. The latter is stitched to the margin of the opening in front and behind, and also to the deep flap itself. If these flaps unite well, the pedicle of the deeper one may be cut through in about a fortnight and the portion remaining adherent to the gap made to