THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. '53 new nose is obtained from the forehead—the Indian method; in the other it is obtained from the arm—the Italian or Tagliacotian method; neither gives a really satisfactory result. It is possible that a better result might be obtained in the Indian method if the flaps, instead of only containing periosteum, were provided with a thin layer of bone chipped off from the frontal. We ourselves have not tried this, but we should be inclined to adopt it in any future case. The defect in the nose is prepared for the reception of the forehead flap. Instead of paring the actual edges of the gap, a double flap may be made by carrying the incision round about a quarter of an inch outside its margin and turning in small flaps with their skin surface directed towards the nasal cavity and the raw surface outwards, ready for the fore- head flap to be superimposed. An extra long flap may with advantage be taken above, when skin is present over the remains of the nasal bones, and turned down so as to fill up a considerable part of the gap. The upper surface of these flaps adheres to the under surface of the forehead flap and diminishes the amount of subsequent contraction. Fie;. 55.—The Indian Method of Rhinoplasty. Full details of the operation are given in the text. The flap is planned obliquely on the forehead for the reasons given. In the figure iL is shaped so as to form two nasal apertures when in position (£). In practice it is better to cut it with a depression in place of the projection destined to be the columella; this gives a single large nasal aperture, and is much better. The Indian method.—Before the operation, a model of suitable size and shape is cut from a piece of thin gutta-percha ; this is now flattened out, laid on the forehead and used as a guide for the formation of the flap ; the incision should run about a quarter of an inch outside the pattern all round so as to allow for shrinking. The flap should be made some- what to one side, the base of the flap being to the left of the root of the nose. By planning the flap somewhat obliquely there is less twisting of the base in adjusting it in position and consequently less risk of sloughing. At the same time, if it be cut too obliquely the eyebrow and upper eyelid may be drawn up by the contraction of the scar. The incision on the side on which), the base of the flap lies should be prolonged further down towards the root of the nose than the other. The flap is supplied by one, or if possible