404 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. heals soundly and all discharge ceases, the perforation in the drum may close, and the hearing power be almost completely restored. In a few cases a sinus persists behind the ear, or may re-open after apparent healing, or the discharge from the ear may continue. The case then becomes one of chronic mastoid abscess. When complicating chronic suppuration of the middle ear.—In these circum- stances symptoms of mastoid involvement are of much more serious import. If the patient urgently desires to postpone an operation and the symptoms be not severe, the treatment just prescribed for mastoiditis in acute suppurative otitis may be first tried, but in the majority of cases it fails. The only treat- ment which really offers a chance of success is operation, and if severe symptoms be present this should never be delayed. In the majority of these chronic cases extensive changes occur in the antrum, in the attic and the deeper parts of the ear, involving the mucous membrane and the bone. Large cholesteatomatous masses may be present, the antrum may be filled with polypoid mucous membrane, there may be extensive caries or necrosis of the temporal bone, the dura mater or lateral sinus may be exposed without any definite symptoms to indicate the extent of the mischief. These con- siderations show the necessity for immediate operation, and also that it is essential to open and explore not only the antrum but the whole of the tympanum, attic, and aditus so as to thoroughly inspect those parts. This is called the radical or complete post-aural operation. Operation. —The patient must be prepared in the usual manner; all hair for a space of at least three inches round the ear must be removed by shaving and the parts purified in the usual way (see Part I., p. 161). The external meatus should also be cleansed as far as possible by repeated syringing with boracic acid or a weak solution (1-5000) of perchloride of mercury. The instruments required are the ordinary dissecting instruments, some small chisels and gouges, small sharp spoons, and one or two pairs of slender forceps. The gouges should be used with a mallet, and they should be square-ended and sharpened from the concave side, so that the back of the instrument is straight. Long, narrow strips of gauze should be prepared for drying the deeper parts of the wound when the bone has been opened up. The patient's head should be turned over to the opposite side and supported upon a firm sandbag. A good light is essential, and for those accustomed to work with it, a light reflected by means of an ordinary frontal mirror is very useful when completing the operation. The incision.—A curved incision should be made over the mastoid process about a quarter of an inch behind the ear, extending upwards from the tip of the mastoid process parallel with the attachment of the auricle until it is vertically above the external auditory meatus. This incision should be carried at once down to the bone and the periosteum freely divided. With the periosteum detacher or with the handle of the knife the anterior flap carrying the auricle with it is now turned forward until the posterior and superior walls of the osseous meatus come into view, the cartilaginous and soft parts lining