THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 260 the trachea. At the second operation the Hahn's cannula1 (see Fig. 80) is inserted into the tracheal opening with a tube attached to it through which the chloroform may be administered without the anaesthetist getting in the way of the operator (see Fig. 81, p. 239). Thyrotomy.—This operation is only suited for very early cases, but it may be followed by extremely good results, both with regard to the question of non-recurrence and also with regard to that of articulation, the patient retaining a perfectly satisfactory though somewhat hoarse voice. In most cases of intrinsic cancer of the larynx, the operation should com- mence with a thyrotomy whenever it is considered that the disease is quite local. This allows adequate inspection of the interior and the surgeon is able to determine the best course to pursue. Before it is undertaken, however, the position of affairs must be explained to the patient and the surgeon should have leave to do whatever is necessary. We have in several cases been agreeably disappointed in finding after thyrotomy that the disease was more local than indications had seemed to point to. This was notably the case on one occasion in which the larynx seemed to be entirely filled with growth, but in which, on perform- ing thyrotomy merely as a matter of routine and not in the hope of finding the disease localised, it turned out to be a pedunculated mass in the neighbourhood of the arytenoids which could be completely removed by clipping through its pedicle. A median vertical incision is made in the middle line, commencing at the upper border of the hyoid bone and continued down to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage; this incision is carried right down to the cartilages. The tissues are dissected off the thyroid cartilage for about half an inch on either side of the middle line and the flaps held aside. A small superficial transverse incision is then made in the thyroid cartilage about its centre so as to indicate the proper position for re-uniting the two halves at the end of the operation, and the cartilage is split in the middle line. Should this structure be partially ossified, the crico-thyroid membrane is opened, and the car- tilage is split vertically by introducing one blade of a strong pair of straight scissors beneath it in the middle line. The two halves are then retracted firmly with sharp hooks, and the interior of the larynx is exposed; should the exposure be insufficient, short transverse incisions may be made in the crico-thyroid and thyro-hyoid membranes. A small piece of sponge firmly fastened to a stout thread may now be introduced into the upper end of the trachea above the Hahn's tube to make still more certain that blood does not get into the trachea, and the further steps of the operation 1 This may be prepared as follows: The tube is first boiled, and then a piece of firm flat sponge, which has lain for some days in a 1-20 carbolic lotion, is squeezed dry, dipped in a 10% ethereal solution of iodoform, and wrapped firmly around the tubing. The opposed surfaces are then stitched together and a piece of sterilised tape is finally wound tightly round the sponge so as to compress it. The whole is then dried. The tape is removed before the tube is introduced dry into the trachea.