AFFECTIONS OF THE SCALP. 9 wound allowed to close. In the case of these large wounds it is well to keep the patient in bed for three or four days and in the first instance to administer a purge and restrict the diet. But, if no adverse symptoms arise by the end of the fourth clay, these restrictions may be removed and the case may be looked on as in a fair way to recovery. ERYSIPELAS OF THE SCALP. Erysipelas of the scalp was formerly a very common complication of scalp wounds, but nowadays, when greater care is taken in disinfection, it has become less frequent. It may also arise as an extension from erysipelas of the face or neck, or in connection with a boil or other septic affection of the skin. Erysipelas of the scalp presents the ordinary features of erysi- pelas which have been already described in Part L, p. 216. Its gravity in this region is owing to the great tendency of the inflammation to .spread to the skull and lead to septic meningitis or septic thrombosis. Treatment.—The treatment of erysipelas of the scalp is practically the same as that of erysipelas elsewhere. It is well to shave the head and thoroughly disinfect the skin, and then to carry out treatment on the lines laid down in Part I., p. 218. ACUTE CELLULITIS OF THE SCALP. Acute cellulitis of the scalp is also a common result of scalp wounds that have become infected, and it sometimes also occurs in combination with erysipelas. It is a very grave condition, because in the first place the pus tends to spread beneath the fascia over a large area of the head, and in the second place it is extremely liable to lead to sinus thrombosis with pyaemia or septic lepto-meningitis. Treatment.—The treatment of this condition has already been described in speaking of diffuse cellulitis in Part I.; when this affection occurs in the scalp, the treatment must be even more energetic than elsewhere, owing to the rapid manner in which the inflammation may spread over the vertex, and owing to the tendency to the formation of independent collections of pus. Free incisions must be made through the occipito- frontalis aponeurosis, usually in a vertical direction, and they must extend well below the inflammatory area. Boracic fomentations should be applied after the scalp has been shaved, or in bad cases irrigation may be employed, the head and neck being surrounded by a mackintosh in such a way as to carry off the fluid without soiling the bed. In employing irrigation in cases in which there is any tendency to meningitis, the water may be cold, so as to effect not only irrigation of the wound but diminution in congestion owing to the use of cold. When the inflamma- tion has become limited, the irrigation may be given up and an antiseptic ointment, such as boracic, may be substituted.