TRIGEMINAL NEURALGIA. 133 the muscle. The artery, it it lias not been tied at a previous operation, should now be sought for, and divided between a double ligature; by this means hemorrhage, which might be troublesome during the later steps of the operation, will be avoided. The inferior dental and gustatory nerves under normal circumstances pass downwards from under the lower border of the external pterygoid muscle ; but if they have been previously removed, their assistance in guiding the surgeon to the foramen ovale is not available. The external pterygoid muscle is next detached from the great wing of the sphenoid and from the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate by scraping it from the bone with suitable raspatories from above downward. The knife should be used as sparingly as possible, and the strands of muscular tissue are best picked and cut away with dissecting forceps and a fine pair of blunt-pointed scissors. By this means the under surface of the great wing of the sphenoid is exposed, as well as the outer pterygoid plate. Fig. 38.—Exposure of the Foramen Ovale. The thick black elliptical line is the trephine groove. A silk thread has been passed through the third division of the fifth nerve. (Hose.) "The foramen ovale is now to be brought into view, a matter often of some difficulty, and the occasional reference to a dry skull held by an assistant will be a considerable help in indicating its position in relation to the neighbouring landmarks. It is usually on a level with the eminentia articularis, but occasionally lies a little behind it. In fact, the portion of bone which one first reaches in this deep part of the operation is well in front of the foramen, and one is apt to get too far forward, so that the pterygo-maxillary fissure is mistaken for it. " Opening the base of the skill/.— Having exposed the foramen ovale and traced to it either the trunk of the undivided lingual and dental nerves, or the stump left from former operations, the base of the skull is now to be opened by means of the trephine. My intention in Cases II., III. and IV., was to remove a disc of bone having the foramen ovale for its centre, and for this purpose I employed a trephine with a handle set on a stem long enough to clear the cheek, and with a reversible centre-pin, one end of which was pointed as usual, the other blunt. The size of the trephine was such that it should remove a $-inch disc of bone ; the crown was serrated obliquely on the outer side for a distance of a quarter of an inch in order that the trephine might clear itself of debris, and not get jammed in the bone. " The smooth-ended centre-pin was projected as far as possible, and passed into the foramen