INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES. 341 discovered. The treatment of each sinus presents such different problems that it will be considered separately. (a) Of chronic suppuration in the maxillary antrum.—In the first instance mild measures should always be tried. The cavity should be opened by a simple puncture, as described below, and its contents washed out by irrigation: this serves to complete the diagnosis and may affect a cure. Simple puncture and irrigation.—The particular method of puncturing and the site to be adopted depend on various circumstances, which may be briefly considered. (1) Through the alveolus.—If carious teeth be present, they should be extracted and the antrum perforated through a socket with a small antrum drill (see Fig. 121). This little operation can be easily done under gas. The first molar is the site of election, as its roots are separated by a very thin plate of bone from the floor of the antrum, and sometimes even pro- trude into the cavity, which is here reached at its lowest point. Should the first molar be healthy it is quite easy to reach the antrum through Fig. 121.—Antrum Drill. the socket of the second molar or of either of the bicuspid teeth. If the site of the first molar be selected, the drill should be inserted into the inner root socket and pushed in an upward and slightly inward direction towards the inner canthus of the corresponding eye. If the second molar or the bicuspids be selected the drill should in addition be inclined slightly forwards or backwards respectively. In the case of the bicuspids especially great care must be taken to keep the drill in the exact direction aimed at, as the floor of the antrum anteriorly is often very narrow and may be easily missed. Care must be exercised to prevent the drill slipping when the teeth have been long removed, as the alveolar border tends to become dense and very narrow. The antrum may be missed in the few very rare cases in which it is very small (see Fig. 94), and the drill may perforate the inferior meatus of the nose. Having established an opening, the nozzle of an antrum syringe is inserted and the cavity washed out with a solution of boracic acid, boiled salt solution or other unirritating fluid, bending the patient's head well forward so that the solution may flow out by the nose. After cleansing the cavity, a small tube of silver or gold is inserted, and this is best fixed by a dentist to a neighbouring tooth. The tube should be about \-\ inch long, so as just to reach above the floor of the antrum, should exactly fit the perforation, and should be provided with a small projecting rim, so that it cannot slip up into the antrum, as frequently happens with ill-