128 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. far as the posterior wall of the antrum, when the nerve will hang free in the cavity and can be traced up to its point of emergence from the foramen rotundum ; at the same time Meckel's ganglion is defined if possible by means of a probe, the aperture in the posterior wall of the antrum being enlarged if necessary. The nerve is now grasped with long-handled forceps and pulled as far out from the base of the skull as possible and cut off flush by curved scissors together with the ganglion attached to it. The portion thus removed should measure at least an inch and three-quarters in length. If preferred, the nerve may be seized by powerful forceps close up to the foramen rotundum and pulled on forcibly until it is torn away from the skull. In any case, before being divided it should be pulled upon so that the cut end will retract inside the foramen, because a very common cause of the neuralgia is a thickening about the periosteum in the foramina at the base of the skull with pressure upon the nerve trunk as it passes through. The oozing at this stage of the operation is usually very profuse and some time may be required for its arrest; it can generally -be stopped by sponge pressure. Should it continue, a fine horsehair drain may be inserted through the wound and into the cavity of the antrum for a few days; otherwise no drain need be employed. Of neuralgia of the third division.—When the third division is affected, the pain may be referred to one branch alone, and of these the most commonly attacked is the inferior dental, much less frequently the gustatory, and still more rarely the auriculotemporal. When this is the case, it is well to see in the first instance what is the result of dividing the particular branch attacked rather than to undertake the very serious operation of exposing and dividing the third division at its exit from the skull. Neurecto??iy of the inferior dental fierve.—This is done as follows : The patient is anaesthetised and placed in a good light, with the head propped up and the mouth fully opened with a gag. The cheek on the affected side is firmly retracted by a broad copper spatula, and the tongue is held over to the opposite side out of the way either with tongue forceps or better by silk threads passed through its substance. The surgeon first feels for the inferior dental spine with the forefinger of his left hand. This is situated immediately above the commencement of the inferior dental canal, and has inserted into it the internal lateral ligament of the jaw. The mucous membrane is now incised vertically for about an inch just internal to the anterior border of the ascending ramus, and the mucous membrane is detached for a short distance with a small periosteum detacher. The surgeon then introduces the finger through the incision and feels for the inferior dental spine, which must be very carefully defined and the internal ligament attached to it divided with fine blunt-pointed scissors. Immediately behind lies the inferior dental nerve, which can then generally be brought up into the wound with a small blunt hook. The nerve lies in close proximity to the inferior dental vessels as it enters the foramen, but is separated from them by a somewhat larger interval a little higher up. The nerve should not be mistaken for other structures in its vicinity, if proper care has been taken to define and divide