455 ORGANIC LARYNGEAL PARALYSIS. (see p. 248) should be performed. The patient may be able to breathe for the greater part of the day with the tube plugged, but he usually prefers to breathe through the cannula at night. The inner tube should therefore be worn with a plug in it which can be easily removed at any time should dyspnoea occur. When bilateral abductor paralysis arises from pressure upon the recur- rent nerves it must be remembered that complete paralysis will probably supervene, and then, as the cords will be in the cadaveric position, the necessity for tracheotomy will be passed. Therefore, sometimes when com- plete paralyses seems supervening on abductor, tracheotomy may often be advantageously postponed in the absence of severe symptoms. In tabetic cases the tube is usually permanently required as adductor paralysis rarely follows. In the diphtheritic cases, tracheotomy is also commonly required, but the tube can be dispensed with when recovery ensues. 2. In bilateral remrrent paralysis other difficulties arise. As the patient cannot close the glottis he is unable to prevent food, especially liquids, entering the air passages during swallowing. In these cases the means of feeding already described must be adopted (see p. 449). If the paralysis be incomplete on one side, the patient should attempt to swallow while lying on that side, but in the most severe cases he must be fed with the stomach tube. In spite of this, saliva, etc., is sure to enter the air passages, and, as the cough is rendered ineffectual from imperfect closure of the glottis, septic bronchitis and pneumonia are sure to supervene. SPASM OF THE TENSOR MUSCLES OF THE VOCAL CORDS. This affection is met with amongst those who habitually overuse the voice, and is probably due to a faulty method of voice-production. It is a spasm of the tensors and occasionally of the other laryngeal muscles, and is probably of the nature of a trade-spasm. Symptoms.—The voice first becomes a little muffled, then is often partially intercepted as if the patient were straining, and finally cannot be produced at all. After a short interval the voice again becomes clear but soon relapses. Treatment.—The first essential is absolute rest to the voice. This may be combined with the administration of tonics and the local applica tion of a mild galvanic current. Subsequently the patient should be taught elocution, and any fault in the method of production must be remedied. Under this treatment the patient will readily improve, but relapse is almost certain to take place if overuse of the voice be again permitted. SPASM OF THE GLOTTIS IN INFANTS. LARYNGISMUS STRIDULUS.—This affection occurs especially in the second and third years of life. The infants almost invariably suffer