THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. 364 been left hanging by a small thread of mucous membrane, and directly the patient comes out of the anaesthetic this will set up violent coughing and retching; it must always be sought for and can be easily removed with a pair of forceps, aided if necessary with the scissors. The bleeding is usually free for a second or so but rapidly ceases and requires no special treatment. The operation under chloroform.—This operation should be performed with the patient lying down, either on a flat table or with a small pillow beneath the head. The position with the head hanging well down over the end of the table, although commonly adopted and strongly recom- mended, has no advantages; it is much more difficult and takes more time to thoroughly remove the growths in this position ; moreover, the chief immediate danger of the operation—asphyxia from entrance of blood into the upper air passages—is probably greater, as the veins in the neck are •congested and the haemorrhage is thereby increased. Also in this position the throat is much narrowed, its capacity for holding blood is less and it is more difficult to introduce the finger. With the patient lying flat, the ■operation can be performed easily and quickly, and upon this its safety really depends. Should any trouble arise from obstructed breathing— which will only occur when the anaesthesia has been pushed too far—the patient should be immediately rolled over on to his face, when the blood •will run out of the mouth and throat and the breathing will be at once relieved. The surgeon must stand facing and on the right-hand side of the patient, and it is well to operate' upon a low couch or table so that the surgeon stands well over the patient. The left forefinger is introduced into the post-nasal space and the palate hooked well forward. The forceps are introduced closed, widely opened when in position, and the growth pressed between the blades with the finger tip. The forceps being closed, the growth is partly cut and partly pulled away, the left forefinger being pressed against the mucous membrane so as to prevent it from being torn. Piece after piece of the growth should be removed, special care being taken to clear Rosenmuller's fossae, the Eustachian tubes and the upper part of the septum. Damage to the two latter structures must be sedulously avoided. Having removed the greater part of the growth it is well to introduce the curette and to remove all soft projecting pieces from the back of the pharynx, as by this plan a quicker and more perfect result can be obtained than by using the forceps alone. Should the growths in Rosenmuller's fossa? be very tough or difficult to get at, their removal can often be •effected by means of Meyer's original ring-knife passed through the nose, ■or its handle may be bent so as to allow it to be introduced through the mouth. This may be used as an ordinary curette; the cutting blade being sharp, it is a very effective instrument. The adenoids being removed, the posterior ends of the inferior turbinates