178 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. to its margin, commencing in front near the apex and running backwards to the junction of the hard and soft palates. The extremities of this incision should be carried transversely inward as far as the free margin of the cleft. With a raspatory the small flap thus formed is separated from the bone, the base of the flap being formed by the tissues covering the edge of the cleft. There is thus no actual paring of the edges in this operation. The smaller flap is now turned inwards upon its base so that its raw surface looks downwards into the mouth ; it is fixed to the mucous membrane on the opposite side of the cleft by two or three catgut sutures.1 The large triangular flap is then carried across the cleft and its apex is attached by a few silkworm-gut sutures to the mucous membrane at the outer edge of the raw surface made by turning in the small flap (see Fig. 72, B). These sutures are intro- duced by fine fully curved needles. The effect of this is to partially close the cleft in the hard palate with a double thickness of soft parts and thus the vitality of the flaps is less likely to suffer and union is more likely to occur owing to the two vascular surfaces being thus brought into apposition. The opposed surfaces of the flaps may with advantage be Fig. 72.—Davies Colley's Operation for Cleft Palate. A shows the incisions for the Haps, the large one on the right-hand side of the gap having its base just beyond the junction of the hard with the soft palate. The base of the smaller or reflected flap on the left-hand side is along the margin of the cleft. In B the smaller flap is turned back across the cleft and sutured to its opposite edge, while the large flap is raised and applied to the raw under surface of it, its apex being sutured as shown. Two sutures are also shown penetrating the whole thickness of the two flaps so as to keep them together. These stitches are best introduced through the reflected flap before the larger one is placed over it; the ends are then brought through the latter and tied. secured together by one or two fine horsehair or silk sutures passed either through the edges or, better, through the whole thickness of the two flaps ; if the latter plan be adopted, fine straight needles and a fine needle-holder will be required. This operation generally only succeeds in closing a portion of the cleft, a small triangular gap being almost invariably left anteriorly; this can be closed later. The soft palate may be united at the same time if the surgeon so desires, but it is perhaps preferable to postpone that to a later occasion. In this operation there is comparatively little haemorrhage, there is no loss of soft parts, no tension after the operation, and no likelihood of the flap sloughing, as the pressure of the tongue upon the flaps, which in the ordinary operation is so likely to cause separation, is here actually beneficial and serves to press them together. As the bridge of union thus formed consists of a double flap, it is much more likely to unite and therefore the operation may be performed at a much earlier age than the ordinary one. 'We have found it a useful plan to turn back the narrow strip of mucous membrane at the edge of the cleft left after cutting the larger triangular flap in a manner similar to that employed for the smaller reflected flap. It can generally be done without any fresh incisions ; if necessary two small cuts may be carried outward into the cleft above and below.