CHAPTER XIII. HARE-LIP AND CLEFT PALATE. It is well to consider these two deformities together, as they, are commonly associated, and the treatment of the one condition is often merely preliminary to the treatment of the other. HARE-LIP. Hare-lip is a gap or cleft of congenital origin left in the lip as the result of want of proper union between its component parts. It nearly always occurs in the upper lip ; it is usually unilateral, and then generally on the left side, although in some rare cases it is present on the right side. It may also be bilateral, and it may or may not be accompanied by cleft palate. The defect in the lip varies in extent from a mere notch in the red line of the lip to a wide cleft extending into the nostril. In the latter case there is generally also a cleft of the alveolar margin, of the palate, or of both, and in addition the nostril on the affected side is unduly widened. When the cleft only affects the red line, the rest of the lip may be normal, but even then the nostril on that side is often broader than on the other. When the gap is wide and there is an extensive cleft in the palate, the edge of the cleft in the lip on one or both sides is bound down to the alveolus by a fairly broad fold of mucous membrane. When the cleft is bilateral, the intervening portion of the lip, which is called the prolabium, lies over the pre-maxillary bone, which is separated from the maxillary bones on each side, and is of variable size. The central portion of the lip may be quite small, and the columella may be more or less absent, so that the pre-maxillary bone is tilted forward and may be merely attached to the columna nasi. In other cases the prolabium is larger, and the pre-maxillary bone is attached to the septum nasi. Treatment.—The first question which arises in the treatment of hare-lip, whether alone or in conjunction with cleft palate, is the age at which the opera- tion should be performed. It may be said that the sooner the operation for hare-lip alone is performed the better is the result both from the point of view pt. v. l