HERNIA CEREliRI. 73 of brain substance protruded is in reality very much smaller than might be supposed. Suppuration generally occurs on the surface of the hernia and in some cases, especially when the swelling continues to increase, a collection of pus will be found in its interior or even extending into the skull and forming a superficial cerebral abscess. These secondary hernia? vary in size and are generally somewhat mushroom-shaped, for they expand after emerging through the opening in the skull. They are usually very vascular and they have a more or less constricted pedicle corresponding to the opening in the dura mater. They are covered with granulations which discharge pus freely and are often gangrenous in patches. Too great pressure over these hernias—as well as over the primary forms—may lead to convulsions. A spontaneous cure sometimes results either from gradual cicatrisation of the whole mass or from gangrene of the herniated portion and cicatrisation of the pedicle. As a rule, however, the condition is followed by septic inflam- mation of the deeper parts of the brain, by cerebral abscess, lepto- meningitis or pyaemia. Treatment.—The treatment is directed first to attempts to render the hernia aseptic and subsequently to reduce it within the cranial cavity. In the first instance, the surface of the protrusion should be thoroughly scraped with a sharp spoon; although the whole protrusion need not be scraped away, there need be no hesitation in removing a considerable portion, seeing that it contains very little healthy cerebral substance. The surface is next thoroughly swabbed with undiluted carbolic acid after the bleeding has been arrested by pressure and before adhesions are separated; this is important, as it avoids carrying septic material into the deeper structures. All this can usually be done without an anaesthetic because the protruded mass is insensitive. The surface may then be powdered with iodoform, and Lister's protective applied over it, outside which a large gauze dressing, overlapping the protective widely in all directions, is applied. A piece of block-tin may be incorporated with the dressings and additional pressure applied by means of an elastic bandage. If the sepsis has been got rid of in this way and if there be no intra-cranial inflammatory mischief going on, such as an abscess underneath, the surface of the herniated portion will often granulate and the protrusion may not recur; as granulation goes on, the hernia gradually shrinks and disappears. As soon as it is found that the wound is aseptic, an attempt should be made to cover in the hernia; either the edges of the wound may be freed for some distance so as to allow them to be stitched together, or, if there be much tension, a flap of skin may be turned in over the hernia and the space left skin-grafted as before described. Occasionally the inflammation is not limited in this way but is accom- panied by intra-cranial trouble, especially suppuration in the brain beneath. These cases are usually very hopeless; not only should the surface be scraped away, but forceps should be introduced into the brain beneath