THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX. Treatment.—The treatment is that of hysteria in general, no local measures having any effect. ORGANIC LARYNGEAL PARALYSIS. Laryngeal paralysis may be caused— 1. By disease of the cortical centres for abduction or adduction, by disease of the nuclei of the vagi or spinal accessory nerves, or of the intervening nerve tracts. The most important of these paralyses is that occurring in tabes dorsalis, which usually results in bilateral abductor paralysis, although one side may be first attacked. This symptom may occur at the beginning of tabes or even precede the other symptoms. 2. By disease or injury of the spinal accessory, vagi and recurrent laryn- geal fierves in any part of their course, the left recurrent being especially liable to be affected. Among the most common causes are aortic aneurysm and malignant disease in the mediastinum, the oesophagus, the thyroid gland, etc. The first result of pressure upon these nerves is to produce abductor paralysis; later, when the entire nerve becomes disorganised, adduc- tor paralysis is superadded. 3. By peripheral neuritis.—The toxins of diphtheria, influenza and rarely of other exanthemata may involve the laryngeal nerves either by direct absorption or through their constitutional effects. Other poisons such as lead, arsenic, and alcohol may produce similar results. These conditions generally lead to abductor paralysis, but occasionally may result in adductor paralysis alone. Treatment.—The first point is to ascertain the cause and to adopt appropriate treatment. Cases due to diphtheria and influenza should be given strychnine (Liq. strych. \\ v.—viij. ter die), a general tonic treatment, and later, if necessary, change of air. In obstinate cases, the Faradic current should be used, at first externally and subsequently intra-laryngeally if necessary. The diphtheritic cases usually get well, but permanent bilateral abductor paralysis has occasionally resulted. Cases due to influenza almost invariably recover after a few weeks or months. In paralysis due to lead, arsenic, etc., the first point is to remove the cause, and the second to adopt means to eliminate the poison from the system. The subsequent treatment is that just described—strychnine in- ternally, and electricity locally —and this is usually followed by recovery. The treatment of the numerous other causal conditions cannot be gone into here; the large majority of them are incurable. As a rule the local paralysis gives rise to few and unimportant symptoms, but two conditions occur in which grave symptoms arise, and therefore they must be specially considered. 1. Bilateral abductor paralysis.—Patients with this affection are liable to severe suffocative attacks occurring spontaneously or on slight exertion, or there may be persistent dyspnoea. Under these circumstances tracheotomy