MALIGNANT DISEASE OF THE AURICLE. IS3 malignant glands in the substance of the parotid with preservation of the branches of the facial nerve will be followed almost inevitably by recurrence. W hen the disease is confined to the interior of the meatus, the removal of the external auditory meatus is not a particularly difficult operation, and when the auricle is healthy it may be left and subsequently stitched back into position. An incision is carried round the posterior margin of the external auditory meatus dividing the cartilage of the ear, and a second is made in front of it including the tragus in the elliptical incision. The soft parts on the posterior surface of the cartilage are left intact, and are pushed backwards along with the auricle. The incision is deepened behind down to the bony meatus, while in front the incision is carried down close to the outer edge of the meatus until the parotid is reached, when, the capsule being divided, the gland can be pushed forwards along with the vessels and nerves which it contains, and the cartilaginous por- tion of the meatus freely exposed. If the disease extends beyond the region of the cartilaginous portion but not actually on to the tympanic membrane, the former should be cleared all round with a blunt dissector until the bony meatus is fully exposed. It is usually advisable to extend the incision upwards above the ear to facilitate the pulling forwards of the parotid. The bony meatus is now cut through with a chisel or gouge, and the portion removed along with the cartilaginous meatus. The wound is brought together above and below, leaving a central space at the bottom of which lies the tympanic membrane. Skin-grafts may be placed along the sides of this hole to promote immediate healing, and to ensure a passage leading to the membrana tympani. The auricle is then stitched back into position and the ordinary dressings applied. When the disease has penetrated through the cartilaginous meatus and extends into the tissues around, more especially into the parotid, the patient is best left alone in the majority of cases. If operation be undertaken— and it is of very doubtful utility—it is advisable to deliberately excise the parotid gland without attempting to remove the diseased portions alone or to pick out the infected glands. Unless the entire parotid be removed, the disease is certain to recur almost immediately. 6 Fig 73.—Plastic Operations upon the Auricle. The lines abc show the incisions for reducing the vertical dimen- sions of the ear while deyfg represent those necessary to reduce its transverse measure- ment.