FRACTURE OF THE LOWER JAW. 195 FRACTURE OF THE LOWER JAW. CAUSES.—Fracture of the lower jaw generally results from direct violence, the bone being fractured opposite the point struck, but it is not uncommon also to have fractures from indirect violence, the bone being struck at one point and fracture occurring on the opposite side of the mandible. For example, where the angles of the jaw are pressed forcibly together, the fracture occurs in the vicinity of the symphysis. This form of fracture is almost entirely confined to adult life. VARIETIES.—The most common seat of fracture of the ramus is in the neighbourhood of the canine teeth, and the fracture may be unilateral or bilateral; when bilateral, it is most common to find the fracture on the one side opposite the canine tooth and on the other just in front of the masseter; in some cases the fracture occurs opposite the canine tooth on both sides so that the central portion of the jaw is separated. Fracture through the symphysis itself is of great rarity. Fracture about the angle of the jaw is fairly common and is generally due to indirect violence; here the fracture is generally behind the last molar tooth. Fracture of the condyle is very rare and is only produced either by direct violence, such as gun-shot wounds, etc., or by severe blows upon the chin driving it upwards and backwards so that the condyle is driven against the base of the skull and fracture occurs through its neck; the condyle may even be driven through the base of the skull and fractured. Fracture of tlie coronoid process is still more rare owing to its protected position; it usually only occurs in military surgery. Fractures of the lower jaw as a rule are compound, as there is practically always laceration of the mucous membrane over the bones; this is practically invariably the case when the bone is broken in its anterior half. Where fracture occurs behind the last molar tooth however it is not necessarily compound. DISPLACEMENT.—The displacement of the fragments varies accord- ing to the situation of the fracture. When the fracture is through the body of the bone on one side only there is very slight displacement of the larger fragment, but it may be drawn somewhat inwards; the posterior frag- ment is drawn a little inwards towards the middle line, and may also be tilted upwards in front. When the fracture is bilateral in the usual situation, the middle fragment is pulled downwards and backwards by the muscles passing from the lower jaw to the hyoid bone, while the posterior fragments on the two sides are displaced inwards and tilted upwards. When the fracture occurs through the angle of the jaiv there is generally only slight displacement, the posterior fragment being usually drawn some- what inwards by the action of the pterygoid muscles. COMPLICATIONS.—The chief complications of fracture of the lower jaw are 1. Abscess, which is perhaps the commonest complication met with in these fractures. A very large number of cases are complicated with