264 THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. this are brought together by a vertical layer of stitches and the skin is then sutured closely over the wound, except below where the oesophagus is pushed back from the trachea by a blunt dissector and the trachea is drawn sufficiently forward for the cut orifice to lie on a level with the skin. It is usually well to continue the skin incision downwards for a little, so as to stitch it to the margin of the trachea all round with strong catgut. The rest of the skin incision should be closed with silk worm-gut stitches. The Hahn's tube should now be removed and an ordinary tube in- serted into the open end of the trachea. Gauze dressings are then applied so as to exercise a certain amount of pressure on the skin flaps above the opening into the trachea and thus to keep them in contact with the deeper parts, and it is well to insert a small drainage tube on each side running up towards but not touching the line of suture in the pharynx, so that, should the opening in the pharynx give way, the discharge can escape. Rectal feeding must be employed at first, but, if the union holds, feeding by the mouth may be begun in about a week. This operation is extremely successful when it is not necessary to remove portions of the pharyngeal wall. The mortality is very slight and the functional result is good. The patient can swallow well and breathes freely through the trachea. Of course the great objection to it is the complete loss of voice, but it is found that the patient can learn after a time to whisper a few words at a time sufficiently to make himself under- stood. The great safety of the operation compared with the other com- pensates for this loss of voice. In the other operation the trachea is not brought forwards to the skin and the opening in the pharynx is left open and the entire wound is packed with gauze, the case being treated in much the same way as we have already described for unilateral laryngectomy (see p. 261). In these cases an oesophageal tube may be passed from a very early period. When the pharyngeal wall is extensively affected, the results are not nearly so good. Attempts have been made to rid the patient of the disease by excision of the pharynx and the larynx, but that involves feeding through an cesophagostomy opening as well as breathing through a tracheotomy opening, and in most cases recurrence has also taken place. Under these circumstances the condition of the patient for the remainder of his life is by no means a happy one; indeed very few will submit to it if the case be thoroughly put before them, as it always should be. This question will be referred to again in Part VI.