256 THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. Cellulitis of the neck may sometimes occur from infection of the wound from the tracheotomy opening. This condition is of course most serious and must be treated on the ordinary principles, namely, free incisions followed by large boracic fomentations frequently repeated. The great risk is that the affection may spread into the anterior mediastinum and end fatally. Emphysema is rare when a tube is employed. Tracheotomy may be called for to relieve urgent dyspnoea in diphtheria, acute laryngitis, oedema or stenosis of the glottis, etc. We may add here some remarks with regard to certain points in the operation when it is done for diphtheria. Tracheotomy for diphtheria.—Chloroform is the best anaesthetic to use. Some surgeons hold that an anaesthetic had better .not be employed, but we are of opinion that it is of great advantage so long as there is entry of air through the larynx. It is mainly needed for the skin incision and it prevents struggling and therefore further embarrassment of the respiration and consequently less troublesome haemorrhage. Should it be deemed advisable to operate without an anaesthetic, the child should be rolled up in a large towel or sheet so as to confine the arms to the sides, the legs should be fastened to the foot of the table, and an assistant, whose duty it is to retract the wound, etc., should sit at the head of the table and fix the patient's head immovably between his elbows and fore- arms as he holds the retractors. As soon as the trachea is opened, the patient generally gives a violent cough, and large quantities of mucus and membrane may be expelled. The operator and his assistants must remember the risk of infection under these circumstances, and must not therefore be bending over the patient when the trachea is opened. A piece of moist gauze should always be ready to throw over the wound as soon as the opening is made. It is important not to introduce the tube directly the opening is made into the trachea, but to hold the edges of the latter aside with sharp hooks or a tracheal dilator, so as to allow free respiration and expulsion of as much diphtheritic membrane and mucus as possible. Indeed, if the child is quiet, it may be advisable to employ a tracheal dilator, such as Golding Bird's (see Fig. 82) in preference to a tracheotomy tube for as long as 24 hours. When the membrane has extended below the tube, it is a good plan to spray alkaline solutions, such as bicarbonate of soda (10-15 grains to the oz.), or a saturated solution of biborate of soda, through it every hour or two in order to soften the tenacious mucus and allow the trachea to be more easily cleared. At the present day however, since the introduction of antitoxin, not only is tracheotomy much less frequently called for in this affection but there is not the same trouble in getting rid of the membrane.