370 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. and when the air is rarified it is sucked outwards. The presence and extent of adhesions between the membrane and the ossicles and the inner wall of the tympanum are thus determined. The presence and extent of thin cica- trices in the drum are also shown by the undue flaccidity of the parts. Examination of the Eustachian tubes.—The pharyngeal end of the tubes and the adjacent parts must be examined by illumination as in posterior rhinoscopy (seep. 279) and their patency ascertained Fig. 133.—Siecle's Speculum. by inflation. The chief methods of doing this are as follows: 1. Valsalva's method.—The patient is directed to close the anterior nares by grasping the nose tightly with the finger and thumb and then to blow forcibly into the nose. If the Eustachian tubes be patent, air will be felt to enter and distend the tympanum. In some cases a better result is obtained if the patient, having filled the nose with air, performs the act of swallowing. The surgeon can confirm this result, either by watching the membrane, which can be seen to move, or by the use of the otoscope. The latter instrument consists of a long india-rubber tube with vulcanite or ivory ear-pieces, one of which is introduced into the ear of the patient and the other into that of the surgeon. Care must be taken that the tube hangs freely and is not pressed upon or bent at a sharp angle. By its means the air entering the tympanum may be heard to impinge upon the membrane. This experiment, and indeed any method of inflating the ear, must not be repeated too frequently or the membrane is apt to become unduly flaccid. 2. Politzer's method.—In this method air is forcibly blown into the the naso-pharynx by means of a large air-bag, while the naso-pharynx is shut off from the pharynx by raising the patient's palate. The nozzle of the bag is fitted into one nostril and the other is closed by compression. The patient is now told to take a sip of water and slowly swallow it. At the instant of swallowing, while the palate is raised, the air-bag is suddenly compressed and thus air is forcibly driven into the Eustachian tubes. A simpler method of raising the patient's palate is to ask him to close the mouth and forcibly distend the cheeks with air. Or again the patient may be told to whistle loudly. This is the most valuable of all means of in- flating the ear both for purposes of diagnosis and treatment, and it may be used with success even in cases in which acute catarrh is present. 3. The Eustachian catheter.—This is a silver tube about four and a half inches in length with a curve at its distal extremity. At the outer end of the catheter a ring is attached to indicate the direction of the curve when the instrument is introduced. The air is blown through it by means of a small india-rubber bag with a nozzle fitting into the funnel-shaped end