153 THE PI.AST IC SURGERY OF THE FACE. After-treatment.—A piece of boracic lint clipped in boracic lotion is applied until the bleeding has stopped, and then the line of the incision is covered with a little salicylic wool fixed on with collodion. The stitches pulling up the lower eyelid should be retained for a few days but, to prevent the accumulation of discharge, it is well to syringe gently beneath the eyelids with equal parts of warm boracic lotion and water three times a day. In some cases the after-treatment is complicated by a pre-existing ulceration of the cornea from exposure of the eye, and the purulent dis- charge escaping on to the line of the incision may interfere with the union. It is important to improve this condition as much as possible before doing a plastic operation, but it is not always easy to cure it be- cause it is dependent on the exposure of the cornea. DEFORMITIES OF THE NOSE. Apart from the lateral deviations of the nose, which have been already described in connection with fractures of the nasal bones, a number of nasal defects may occur from injury or disease. We may classify the chief of these under the following headings : 1. Sinking-in of the bridge.—This is a common and very important deformity. It may result from badly treated fractures or from necrosis after fracture, but it is most common as the result of syphilitic necrosis. It also occurs from imperfect development of the bones in congenital syphilis. When the nasal bones have been lost or depressed at an early period of life, a very typical deformity is produced. Instead of the pro- minent bridge there is a depression into which the cartilaginous portion of the nose sinks. During the contraction in healing a sort of pivot movement occurs, so that the tip of the nose is much higher than normal and the nostrils look forwards instead of downwards, producing a very unsightly deformity. 2. Loss of the cartilaginous portion.—The cartilaginous portion of the nose may be lost while the bony structures and the skin over them are healthy. Such deformities are caused by wounds, such as sword-cuts, or diseases, such as lupus or syphilis. More rarely, the deformity may have to be produced by the surgeon in removing malignant disease of the tip of the nose. 3. Small partial losses.—Smaller partial deformities from injury or local disease, such as the loss of the tip of the nose, or of a portion of one ala, are frequently seen. The loss of the tip of the nose is not uncommon as the result of gangrene after debilitating diseases, such as typhoid fever or cholera. 4. Total destruction of the nose.—This is usually the result of syphilis, most frequently of the congenital variety. In place of the nose there is merely a mass of cicatricial tissue with either one or two oval