142 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. to the gum. When these flaps have been fully loosened, they can be made to slide in so that the. sides of the V-shaped incision meet in the middle line and can be stitched together. The mucous membrane is then stitched to the skin to form the free border of the newly-made lower lip, and then the rest of the wound is closed by sutures (see Fig. 42, B), the skin on the outer side of the incisions being undermined so as to allow it to be brought into position more easily. In some ways this operation is better than the preceding one. The lip has less tendency to drop and there is a better supply of mucous membrane. The chief dis- advantages are the division of the branches of the facial nerve going to the flap, the large scar on the cheek and the less perfect blood-supply. If, however, the base of the flap be made sufficiently broad, the blood- supply is usually quite satisfactory. The choice between the two methods will depend very much on the circumstances of the case and on the shape of the patient's face; perhaps the second method will be the one more often chosen. A B Fig. 43.—Operation for Ectropion of the Lower Lip. The lip is liberated by the incision ai, and is then kept in place by raising flaos by means of the incisions cd and ce. These flaps are shown in position in B. ECTROPION OF THE LIPS—Sometimes, as the result of injury or disease, there is ectropion of one of the lips, that is to say, eversion of the red line and the mucous surface. Where the lower Up is affected, the condition is remedied in the following manner (see Fig. 43). An incision is carried along the lower edge of the everted red line and the parts separated sufficiently to allow the mucous surface to be brought into its proper position. By carrying a vertical incision downwards from the middle of the transverse incision and curving it away to each side when it reaches the chin, flaps of skin and fat on each side can be detached and brought up so as to lengthen the cutaneous surface of the lower lip and thus to keep the mucous membrane in position. In other cases, especially when the condition is on one side of the lip only, the elliptical gap left after freeing the mucous membrane may be filled by a flap turned in from the cheek very much as for ectropion of the lower eyelid (see p. 152).