66 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD. that the adjacent surfaces of the dura mater and the bone can be examined and any diseased areas in the latter carefully cut or scraped away with a small gouge or sharp spoon. The semicircular canals must be strictly avoided. When there is pus in this situation, a strip of gauze should be packed between the dura and the bone at the end of the operation in order to maintain efficient drainage. 5. Treatment of lepto-meningitis.—The treatment of suppurative lepto- meningitis is extremely unsatisfactory and it is very seldom indeed that it is Fig. 17.—Hokslev's Dura Mater Separator. successful. Attempts may be made to wash out the pus by making two or three trephine holes and opening the dura mater at the base of the skull, but it is very doubtful whether anything more than mere temporary relief can be obtained by them. By opening the skull low down in the occipital region and lifting the cerebellum up from the medulla oblongata so as to allow the escape of fluid from the fourth ventricle, very considerable, but usually only temporary, relief may be obtained. The fluid that escapes is not necessarily purulent, and its escape should be facilitated by the insertion of drainage tubes beneath the cerebellum (see p. 75). 6. Treatment of abscess of the brain.—As has been already said, it is difficult in many cases to localise these abscesses. When the roof of the attic is carious, the probability is that the abscess is in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe which should be first explored; failing the discovery of the abscess there, the cerebellum should be examined before the operation is concluded. When, on the other hand, suppuration occurs along the sigmoid groove, the abscess is probably in the cerebellum, which should therefore be explored first. It some- times happens that a communication is found passing directly from an extra-dural abscess into a superficial abscess of the brain above it. Any such opening should be enlarged, the abscess washed out and treated in the manner to be described immediately without further removal of bone. When the lateral sinus has been previously exposed (vide supra), and when the symptoms, instead of subsiding, lead to the suspicion of an abscess in the brain, the simplest plan is to enlarge the opening in the bone over the sinus sufficiently to enable both the temporo-sphenoidal lobe and the cere- bellum to be explored if necessary. All that is necessary is to cut awaj bone above and below the sinus, the limits of which are easily known by the deep colour of its contents, and then to puncture the dura above